backoff window exponentially and perform a retransmission until the retry times come to a certain limit. In 
four-way handshaking scheme, the sender host transmits a Request-To-Send (RTS) packet first. If the 
receiver host hears RTS, it replies with a Clear-To-Send (CTS) packet. After receiving the CTS, the sender 
transmits the data packet. When successfully receiving the packet, the receiver replies with an ACK packet. 
 
2.   802.11 PHY 
The IEEE 802.11 standards[ 1][ 2] on PHYsical Layer (PHY) support multiple transmission rates by 
employing different Modulation and Coding Schemes (MCS). For example, IEEE 802.11b PHY employs 4 
uncoded modulations, Differential Binary Phase Shift Keying (DBPSK), Differential Quadrature Phase Shift 
Keying (DQPSK), Complementary Code Keying 5.5 (CCK 5.5), and CCK 11 to provide the rate of 1, 2, 5.5, 
and 11 Mbps respectively at the 2.4GHz band. IEEE 802.11g further provides more data rates, including 6, 9, 
12, 18, 24, 36, 48, and 54 Mbps. Because the radio channel condition changes rapidly, rate adaptation to 
dynamically select the physical layer (PHY) transmission parameters becomes an essential link adaptation 
technique to improve the throughput performance of the IEEE 802.11 WLANs. For example, the IEEE 
802.11a/g WLAN provides eight PHY modes with data rate ranged from 6Mbps to 54Mbps.The transmitting 
station will select one from multiple MCSs available which provides a reliable link quality and highest 
throughput as possible (referred to as link adaptation). Thus the system performance of IEEE 802.11 
WLANs will depend on the applied MAC channel access protocols, the experienced PHY channel 
conditions and the used data rates determined by the employed Link Adaptation (LA) scheme. Fig. 1 shows 
the BER vs. SNR of the 4 802.11b PHY modes provided empirically with Intersil WLAN product called 
HFA3861B in AWGN environments [ 3]. It is shown that to a given level SNR, the BER associated with a 
high data rate will be worse. This implies that there is a tradeoff between transmission reliability and data 
rates. Fig. 2 presents the results of throughput vs. SNR when the packet size is equal to 1500 bytes. It is 
shown that when SNR is higher, the used data rate which provides the highest throughput is higher. Thus the 
data rate should be adaptive to the experienced channel condition in order to maximize the throughput 
performance. 
 
 
 
 
 
                      Fig.1 IEEE 802.11b BER vs. SNR 
changes in signal amplitude and phase according to small changes of the transmitter - receiver separation 
distance. In wireless communication systems which consist of multiple nodes, each node would suffer from 
various large-scale and small-scale fading. Thus heterogeneous channel conditions exist under the 
circumstances. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.3 Large-scale fading and small-scale fading. 
 
4.   Performance anomaly 
If a host experiences worse channel conditions, it may degrade its data rates to achieve a more reliable 
transmission. However, when Distributed Coordination Function (DCF), 802.11 Medium Access Control 
(MAC) protocol, essentially provides equal transmission opportunities to each transmitting host, throughput 
of hosts with high data rates will be restricted within the lowest rate used by a host. Such the phenomenon is 
so called “performance anomaly” [ 4] and can therefore leads to the degradation of system throughput. This 
problem can be extremely severe to the WLAN which provides large-scale PHY rates, e.g. 802.11g [ 5] 
supporting rates ranging from 1 Mbps up to 54 Mbps. 
 
In our previous work we provided numerical analyses to study the phenomenon of “performance 
anomaly” and its impact on system throughput of 802.11 WLANs. Consider that one host transmits at a 
lower data rate (1, 2, 5.5, or 11 Mbps) fixedly, whereas all the others transmit at the highest rate of 11 Mbps. 
Assume all the hosts are under ideal channel conditions (the probability of packet corruption is 
approximately 0). The system parameters used are presented in Table 1. The saturated throughput of a host 
received and missed acknowledge frames. The Receiver Based Auto Rate (RBAR) [ 8] improves throughput 
by letting the receiver measure the channel quality based on request-to-send (RTS) reception and feed back 
the transmission rate to the sender. Based on the observation that the coherence intervals are on the order of 
multiple packet transmission times, the Opportunistic Auto Rate (OAR) [ 9] transmits multiple packets (by 
treating them as fragments) when channel condition permits higher data rates. Medium Access Diversity 
(MAD) scheme [ 10] improves network throughput by aggressively exploiting multiuser diversity. MAD 
obtains instantaneous channel condition information from multiple receivers and selectively transmits data to 
a receiver that improves the overall throughput of the network, thus achieving the highest throughput among 
the four. Haratcherev et al. propose a hybrid rate control scheme to achieve faster response [ 11]. Basically, 
OAR and MAD provide the same transmission time to senders as if they are transmitting at the base rates. 
For example, if the base rate is 1 Mbps and the sender uses the rate of 11 Mbps, its channel access time will 
be granted to send 11 packets. In this sense, OAR and MAD provide temporal fairness for hosts at different 
rates by allocating the channel access time in a deterministic manner. Here we briefly introduce existing or 
proposed LA scheme for 802.11 WLANs. 
 
5.1   AutoRate Fallback (ARF) [ 7] 
AutoRate Fallback (ARF) is a simple and heuristic LA algorithm which has been adopted by most 
commercial 802.11 WLAN products. It dynamically selects a PHY rate by monitoring the number of 
received and missed acknowledge frames. With ARF, the PHY mode to be used is determined with the 
number of received and missed acknowledge frames. If m successive Acks cannot be received correctly by 
the sender, the transmission rate is then degraded to the lower rate. If the sender successfully receives n 
consecutive Acks, it will raise the current rate to the higher order for the subsequent transmissions. The 
typical value of m and n is 2 and 10 respectively adopted by Lucent Technologies’ WaveLAN-II products. 
 
4.2   Receiver Based Auto Rate (RBAR) [ 8] 
The core idea of Receiver Based Auto Rate (RBAR) is for receivers to control the sender's transmission 
rate. In IEEE 802.11 WLANs, all RTS/CTS messages must be sent at the base rate to ensure that all stations 
are able to receive these messages error free. RBAR uses physical-layer analysis of the received RTS 
message to determine the maximum possible transmission rate for a particular bit error rate. The receiver 
inserts this rate into a special field of the CTS message to inform the sender and other overhearing nodes of 
the potentially modified rate. This message is termed reservation-sub-header (RSH) and is inserted 
preceding data transfer as illustrated in Fig. 5. With the RSH message, overhearing nodes can modify their 
NAV values to the new potentially decreased transmission time. In this way, RBAR quickly adapts to 
channel variations and extracts significant throughput gains as compared to ARF. 
 
 
5.4  Medium Access Diversity (MAD)[ 10] 
Medium Access Diversity (MAD) actively exploits time and space varying channels at the MAC layer. 
In a wireless LAN environment, the instantaneous channel conditions from a sender to multiple receivers are 
time varying and are not correlated due to mobility, interference and other factors. This effect is referred to 
as multiuser diversity in the context of cellular networks but is observable in mobile wireless environments 
in general. With multiuser diversity, a node can aggressively assess the instantaneous channel condition to 
each of the multiple receivers and select the receiver whose channel condition is near its peak. By thus 
leveraging the space-time heterogeneity of channels, this scheme can further exploit the benefits of any 
rate-adaptation scheme.  
 
Fig. 7 demonstrates how the MAD framework exploits Packet Concatenation (PAC) for data 
transmissions. The key mechanism of PAC is to transmit a sequence of physical data frames to the same 
receiver back-to-back after MAD has chosen that receiver for data transmission. Once a receiver is selected 
after channel probing, PAC will transmit a Super Frame (SF) control frame, immediately followed by a 
chain of data packet frames. After the reception of the string of frames, the receiver will wait for SIFS 
duration and reply with an ACK to selectively acknowledge the received data packets. The maximum 
number of packets in a single transmission cannot exceed the ratio between the current feasible data rate and 
the base rate, so PAC has the same temporal fairness characteristics as OAR (and single rate 802.11 MAC). 
Similar to OAR, PAC also takes advantage of the fact that channel coherence time typically exceeds 
multiple packet transmission times. In contrast to OAR (see Fig. 6), PAC can eliminate many ACKs and 
SIFS, which potentially will improve channel utilization. MAD with PAC for data transmissions can achieve 
the highest throughput among the four. 
 
 
 
 
Fig.7 Illustration of Medium Access Diversity using PAC 
 
5.5  Hybrid Rate Control [ 11] 
Link adaptation schemes based on gathering statistics would adapt rather slowly to changes in wireless 
channel conditions. This hybrid automatic rate control algorithm uses the signal-to-noise-ratio (SNR) 
information to achieve faster response. The core of this algorithm is a traditional statistics-based controller. 
Moreover, SNR is adopted as a safeguard limiting the range of feasible settings to choose from. Fig. 8 shows 
the complete structure of the hybrid rate controller. 
二、 研究目的 
The exponentially growth of the WLANs drives the need of development of advanced link adaptation 
techniques to improve the throughput and energy efficiency for WLANs. In this project we investigate the 
performance of system throughput in IEEE 802.11 Wireless Local Area Networks (WLAN) with multiple 
nodes. Therefore we propose practical schemes for performance improvement, and evaluate the performance 
of the proposed methods by comparison with the existing LA schemes. We illustrate our work as two parts: 
 
1． Develop an adaptive LA scheme for IEEE 802.11 WLANs in heterogeneous error-prone channel conditions, 
and derive analytical model for the performance of the proposed scheme 
We will develop a theoretical model to analyze throughput performance of IEEE 802.11 WLAN with 
multiple hosts. From the analyses we evaluate the performance of 802.11 WLAN with the LA scheme of 
ARF. Therefore, we will develop an adaptive ARF scheme which improves the system performance by 
adapting to dynamic WLAN environment contexts such like the amount of stations and channel conditions. 
We will also deeply survey the existing LA schemes in previous work and investigate the related problems. 
 
This part of work focuses on: 
z Derive analytical model of IEEE 802.11 WLANs under heterogeneous error-prone channel 
conditions 
z Develop an adaptive ARF scheme which adapts to heterogeneous error-prone channel conditions 
z Evaluate the performance of the proposed adaptive ARF scheme 
 
2． Develop a cross-layer LA scheme for optimizing 802.11 throughput 
Recently cross-layer design is a technique trend applied in wireless networks for the joint adaptability of 
resources allocation across the various layers of the OSI stack, e.g. physical (PHY) layer, Medium Access 
Control (MAC) layer, and Application (APP) layer. Since wireless spectrum is scarce and wireless channel 
is time-varying, a cross-layer adaptation strategy or scheme is necessary to optimize the overall system 
performance. For example, if MAC layer has knowledge of instantaneous channel condition from PHY layer 
associated with each user, therefore, a simple schedule policy at MAC layer could be designed to transmit 
data to a user whose channel is in the good condition to improve the throughput efficiency. 
 
In legacy 802.11 WLANs, if one 802.11 host uses lower data rates to achieve better link qualities, 
system throughput can be degraded significantly since DCF presents equal transmission opportunities for 
each host. An effective strategy for this problem is to provide equal transmission time for the sender hosts of 
different rates [ 10][ 12]. 
三、 文獻探討 
Rate adaptation algorithm can be classified into three ways [ 6]: transmitter-based or receiver-based; 
statistics-based or SNR-based; window-based or frame-based. In the following, we would introduce some 
well-known rate adaptation algorithms. 
A. ARF, AARF, and AMRR 
Automatic Rate Fallback (ARF) [ 7] is the most well-known rate adaptation algorithm, which is used in 
Lucent Technologies WaveLAN-II networking devices. ARF uses consecutive ACKs, consecutive frame 
losses, or timeout to switch to different rates. Adaptive ARF (AARF) [ 13], an extension of ARF, doubles 
the threshold of the consecutively successful ACKs. AARF can achieve a better performance in a stable 
environment. AARF reduces trials for a higher rate while may degrade the system performance. ARF and 
AARF use consecutive ACKs to raise the rate, but consecutive ACKs are not easy to achieve. Therefore 
those algorithms tend to choose MCSs with lower transmission rates. Besides, consecutive ACKs have less 
and less correlation with regard to the channel conditions in a multi-station environment. AMRR is an 
implementation of Adaptive ARF in MADWiFi [ 21]. 
 
B.  CARA 
Collision-Aware Rate Adaptation (CARA) [ 15], another extension of ARF, adopts RTS/CTS to 
effectively avoid collisions. If the first ACK is missed, RTS is enabled at the next frame. If the next 
transmission is still failed, the station will decrease the current rate; otherwise, the station will continue the 
current rate and disable RTS. The other operations of CARA are just like ARF. 
 
C.  RRAA 
Robust Rate Adaptation Algorithm (RRAA) [ 14], proposed by Wong et al., sets two loss ratios to 
determine rates and an adaptive RTS filter is used. First, RRAA calculates two loss ratio thresholds, 
Maximum Tolerable Loss threshold (MTL) and Opportunistic Rate Increase threshold (ORI), for each rate 
according to the ratio of the transmission time between adjacent rates. Then RRAA sets the estimation 
window size for each rate. The station switches the rate in terms of the loss ratio in the window based on the 
transmission statistics of the window size. If the ratio is larger than MTL, the station decreases the rate. If 
the ratio is less than ORI, the station increases the rate. Otherwise, the rate remains the same. An estimation 
window is renewed if the timer expires because RRAA wants to keep the newest statistics in the record. In 
addition, the adaptive RTS is used to avoid collisions. The concept is similar to CARA, but RRAA designs 
an RTS filter to turn on RTS filter. It can prevent from the drawback of RTS oscillation, which means RTS 
alternates between on and off.  
 
C.  SampleRate 
SampleRate [ 16] is introduced by Bicket in his master thesis at MIT. SampleRate calculates the 
average transmission time of a packet for each rate, and switches the rate by choosing the rate with the 
minimum average time. SampleRate counts the transmission time in the packet level according to the retries. 
四、 研究方法 
We propose a machine-learning-based rate adaptive algorithm. According to the literature [ 22], 
wireless channels exhibit the characteristics of high correlation. Our algorithm takes this crucial behavior 
into consideration to design a dependency-model estimator. The goal of our design is to achieve the 
maximum throughput. The throughput is defined as the amount of error-free information that is delivered to 
the upper-layer. Not only PHY layer but also MAC layer has an important effect on the throughput. 
Therefore the cross-layer correlation on the throughput between MAC and PHY layers should be considered 
to calculate the transmission cost as described in Sec. III. To achieve the maximum throughput, our 
algorithm is devised to have the following characteristics: 1) to be responsive to changeable wireless 
channels; 2) to avoid improperly adjusting the transmission rate. Additionally, to be compatible with IEEE 
802.11 standard, our algorithm is designed as a sender-based approach.  
 
Our algorithm can be denoted by Rm(C1,C2, ...,Cn) where Rm is the chosen transmission rate, Ci denotes 
the estimated transmission predictor of the transmission rate i. In this paper, Frame Error Rate (FER) is 
produced by the proposed dependency-model estimator utilizing the maximum likelihood technique. 
  
Assume the sequence ”1111100000111110000011 ” is the packet transmission results using a certain 
transmission rate. ”1” and ”0” denote a success and failure packet transmission respectively. ”−” denotes the 
next packet which is going to be delivered using the same transmission rate. The outcome of the next 
transmission is either a success (”1”) or a failure (”0”). The purpose of the estimator is to estimate the 
likelihood of the success transmission. If we assume the correlation between the successive packet 
transmission is independent, one simple estimator could report the success probability of 12/22 for the next 
packet to be delivered using the same transmission rate. However if we assume the correlation between the 
successive packet transmission is dependent (due to the channel fading characteristics), the probability 
of ”1” for the next packet to deliver is 18/22. The proposed model is described in details in the next section. 
 
A.  Maximum Likelihood Estimator with Dependency-Model 
Let Si,j denote the packet transmission result with date rate i in the time stamp j, which represents the 
past j-th frame. Si,j = ”1” denotes a successful transmission, ”0” denotes a failed transmission. We consider a 
transmitted packet sequence (Si,1, Si,2,...,Si,n) by the data rate i as random variables which take on values of 1 
(success) and 0 (failure) as in Bernoulli trials. Assume pi and qi are the success and failure probabilities 
respectively. That is 
P(Si,j = 1) = pi = 1 − P(Si,j =  0) = 1 − qi, j = 1, 2, .., n                 (8) 
 
Since the wireless channel exhibits the high correlation [ 22] for the successive packet transmission, we use 
the symbol _i to denote the conditional packet success probability provided that the previous transmitted 
packet is successful. 
P(Si,j = 1|Si,j−1 = 1) = _i, j = 2, 3, ..., n                             (9) 
when the previous frame is failed where the calculation of   is the same as the above. In this way, if the 
previous frame is failed, we would use the estimator     to estimate the frame error probability. 
 
 
 
B.  A simple experiment 
To evaluate the performance of the proposed model, we perform a simple experiment. We use the 
network simulator QualNet [ 20] to collect a transmission sequence that the frame is recorded as a success (1) 
or failure (0). We do our experiments under three conditions, 350m with 2Mbps, 340m with 5.5Mbps, and 
280m with 11Mbps, so we have three sample sequences. All of these three conditions are under Rayleigh 
fading channels. We use past transmitted 100 frames to predict the next one frame, which would be 
successful or failed. Because there only are two outcomes, namely 1 and 0, the prediction is a probability 
which value is from 0 to 1. So, we let 0.5 be a threshold, and if the prediction is larger than 0.5, it would be 1, 
otherwise, it would be 0. 
We compare the performance of the proposed model with an independent estimator. The results are 
shown in Table II. From the results, we can easily see the effectiveness of the proposed model. 
 
C.  Algorithm Description 
We divide our algorithm into three phases: the training phase, the decision phases, and the collision- 
avoidance phase. First, the proposed MLE estimator is used to predict the conditional probability    or    , 
which is dependent on the success or failure of the previous transmitted frame, of the next frame to be 
transmitted. After MLE estimator predicts the conditional probability, our policy tries to find the most 
appropriate rate with the best performance. Second is the decision phase, the proposed algorithm decides the 
transmission data rate in this stage. 
From Fig.1, the cost of the next packet to be transmitted using different data rates can be obtained. The 
date rate with the minimum transmission time will be chosen. 
Since the goal of the algorithm is designed to achieve the maximum throughput, our policy is to estimate the 
transmission cost Tx_timei  for the next frame to be transmitted based on the conditional estimator   or   . 
From Fig.1, which considers the joint cross-layer effect of PHY and MAC, the cost of the next packet to be 
transmitted using different data rates can be obtained. The data rate with the minimum transmission time will 
be chosen. Our strategy to choose rate m is 
 
                   (18) 
The final stage is the collision-avoidance phase. We know a failed transmission is due to either the 
corruption or the collision. We want to know the corruption or the collision makes the frame failed. Once the 
frame is failed, we turn on RTS/CTS mechanism. If the next frame is a success with RTS/CTS, then we 
五、 結果與討論 
We evaluate the proposed algorithm via the computer simulation first. The computer simulation uses 
QualNet 4.0, which provides many wireless protocols and channel models [ 20]. We implement several 
well-known algorithms, such as AARF [ 13], CARA[ 15], RRAA [ 14], SampleRate [ 16], SLA [ 17], and 
SARA [ 18]. We take 802.11b as MAC protocol. For reality, several time-varying wireless channel models 
are considered. We use the two-ray ground reflection model as the large scale fading model and Rayleigh 
and Ricean fading model (with Ricean factor of 3) as the small scale fading model. We set the traffic CBR in 
a greedy mode, which means a station always has the data to send, at a duration of 100 sec and the payload 
size is 1500 bytes. In the computer simulation, we design four scenarios to exploit the characteristics of the 
rate adaptive algorithms: 1) single transmission link with the fixed distance; 2) single transmission link with 
different distances; 3) several transmission links with the same distance in an infrastructure mode; 4) 
multiple mobile stations in an infrastructure mode. 
 
A. Single Transmission Link with the Fixed Distance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.9  The percentage of rates chosen by different algorithms without small scale fading. 
 
In this scenario, two stations are placed with the distance of 280 meters. In this situation, the rate of 5.5 
Mbps is the best choice. In this experiment, we want to investigate the rates chosen by different algorithms 
when only the large scale fading, without the small scale fading, is used. Fig.9 shows the results of the 
percentage of chosen MCSs. It can be observed that the proposed algorithm and SampleRate can select 5.5 
Mbps above 90%, and the proposed algorithm is even a little higher than SampleRate. SARA and SLA use 
stochastic automata, so both of them rarely choose 2Mbps and 1Mbps. One thing worth mentioning is that the 
rate chosen by RRAA would oscillate between 5.5 Mbps and 11 Mbps because of its static threshold strategy. 
This is the reason why RRAA has large percentage of choosing 11 Mbps. This phenomenon is consistent with  
 
Rayleigh small-scale fading model is assumed. Fig.12 demonstrates the throughput performance. In general, 
the throughput of every rate adaptive algorithm decreases as the distance increases . Among existing 
algorithms, RRAA performs the best. Similar observations have been reported [ 14]. We observe that the 
proposed algorithm performs almost the same as RRAA does in this scenario, better than SampleRate does. 
Because Rayleigh fading is a violent dynamic model, the timely and robust statistics is necessary in order to 
make the decision of choosing the appropriate MCS promptly in such channel conditions. The proposed 
algorithm exhibits such a characteristic and this is why it always produces better performance than others 
when the distance is below 330m. The performances of AARF and CARA are little higher than the proposed 
algorithm and RRAA when the distance is longer than 330m. When the distance is longer than 330m, 1 
Mbps would become the only possible choice to make a successful transmission. AARF and CARA choose 
the rate of 1 Mbps because they require consecutive successful transmissions in order to jump to the higher 
data rate. This behavior causes the throughput of AARF and CARA exceed other algorithms while the 
distance is getting longer. However, other algorithms would try to use other rates which would cause failed 
transmissions. So the throughput of AARF and CARA would exceed others only in this condition. 
 
C.  Multiple Static Stations in an Infrastructure Mode 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 12  Number of nodes vs. throughput with Ricean fading channels at the distance = 200m. 
 
In the experiment, we study the performance of different rate adaptive algorithms in an extensive 
contention environment with error-prone fading channels. Access Point (AP) stays statically in the center 
and we place a number of contending hosts around AP with the same distance. Experiments are performed 
with two distances (200m and 300m) and different fading channels. Fig.3 presents the aggregate throughput 
performances with respect to different numbers of hosts at the distance of 200m with the small-scale Ricean 
fading model with K factor equal to 3. It should be noticed that the best MCS should be 11Mbps at this 
distance. It can be observed that the proposed algorithm, RRAA, and SampleRate produce comparable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.15 The percentage of rates chosen in an environment of 15 contending stations in Fig.6 
 (1) is with no small scale fading and (2) is with Rayleigh fading channels. 
 
this distance, the best MCS should be 5Mbps. The percentage results of the chosen rates for both large-scale 
fading channels and Rayleigh channels are plotted in Fig. 15 
 
D.  Multiple Mobile Stations in an Infrastructure Mode 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.16 The aggregate throughputs for different rate adaptation algorithms. 
 
 
 
 
  
參考資料 
[ 1] IEEE 802.11a/b, Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications, Standard, IEEE, 
Aug. 1999. 
[ 2] IEEE 802.11g Part 11, Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications: Further 
higher data rate extension in the 2.4 GHz band,” IEEE, 2003. 
[ 3] Jd. P. Pavon and S. Chio, “Link adaptation strategy for IEEE 802.11 WLAN via received signal strength measurement,” in 
Proc. of IEEE ICC 2003, Volume 2, Page(s): 1108 –1113. 
[ 4] M. Heusse, F. Rousseau, G. Berger-Sabbatel, and A. Duda, “Performance anomaly of 802.11b,” in Proc. of IEEE INFOCOM 
2003, Volume 2, Page(s): 836–843. 
[ 5] IEEE 802.11g Part 11, Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications: Further 
higher data rate extension in the 2.4 GHz band,” IEEE, 2003. 
[ 6] X. Chen, P. Gangwal, and D. Qiao, “Practical rate adaptation in mobile environments,” in Proc. IEEE PerCom, pp. 1 –10, 
2009. 
[ 7] A. Kamerman and L. Monteban, “Wavelan-ii: a high-performance wireless lan for the unlicensed band,” Bell Labs Technical 
Journal, vol. 2, no. 3, pp. 118–133, 1997. 
[ 8] G. Holland, N. H. Vaidya, and P. Bahl, “A Rate-Adaptive MAC Protocol for Multi-Hop Wireless Networks,” in Proc. of ACM 
MOBICOM 2001. 
[ 9] B. Sadeghi, V. Kanodia, A. Sabharwal, and E. Knightly, “Opportunistic media access for multirate Ad Hoc Networks,” in 
Proc. of ACM MOBICOM 2002, pp. 24-35. 
[ 10] Z. Ji, Y. Yang, J. Zhou, M. Takai, and R. Bagrodia, “Exploting medium access diversity in rate adaptive wireless LANs,” in 
Proc. of ACM MOBICOM 2004. 
[ 11] I. Haratcherev, K. Langendoen, R. Lagendijk, H. Sips, “Hybrid Rate Control for IEEE 802.11,” MobiWac’04, October 1, 
2004, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA. 
[ 12] D. Pong and T. Moors, “Fairness and capacity trade-off in IEEE 802.11 WLANs,” in Proc. of IEEE Local Computer 
Networks 2004, Page(s):310-317. 
[ 13] M. Lacage, M. Mathieu, and T. Turletti, “IEEE 802.11 rate adaptation: a practical approach,” in Proc. ACM MSWiM, 2004. 
[ 14] S. Wong, H. Yang, S. Lu, and V. Bharghavan, “Robust rate adaptation for 802.11 wireless networks,” in Proc. ACM 
MobiCom, 2006. 
[ 15] J. Kim, S. Kim, S. Choi, and D. Qiao, “CARA: Collision-aware rate adaptation for IEEE 802.11 WLANs,” in Proc. IEEE 
INFOCOM, 2006. 
[ 16] J. Bicket, “Bit-rate selection in wireless networks,” Master’s thesis, Department of EECS, MIT, 2005. 
[ 17] M. Haleem and R. Chandramouli, “Adaptive downlink scheduling and rate selection: a cross-layer design,” IEEE Journal 
onSelected Areas in Communications, vol. 23, no. 6, pp. 1287–1297, 2005. 
[ 18] T. Joshi, D. Ahuja, D. Singh, and D. P. Agrawal, “SARA: Stochastic automata rate adaptation for IEEE 802.11 networks,” 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
2009 於 Hawaii (Globecom 209)發表會議論文時， 代表中國電機工程學會
(CIEE)與 IEEE 
COMSOC President Doug Zuckerman 簽訂姐妹會合約。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
