low on the film with the 40% oxygen flow, whereas it is much
higher on the film with 10% oxygen flow. Because the film with
40% oxygen flow also contains fewer reduced Ti ions, the popula-
tion of conductive channels and the concentration of reduced Ti ions
are evidently correlated. It is possible that some of the reduced Ti
ions are electrically conductive clusters, such that their connection
through the film results in the conductive channel.
For cell fabrication, an 80 nm Pt top electrode was sputter de-
posited on a TiO2−x/Pt film stack at RT through a shadow mask
packed with circular holes 100 m in diameter. The electrical char-
acterization was carried out at RT using Keithley 236 source-
measure units. Cells made on the crystalline films appear with two
different initial states, initially on and initially off. The former has a
cell resistance of around 10  before the switching operation, while
the latter has a cell resistance on the order of gigaohms. Their oc-
currence was found to vary with the oxygen flow ratio used in the
film deposition. Figure 2b shows the occurrence probability of ini-
tially on cells among 20 cells made on the same film, which was
prepared in different oxygen flow ratios labeled as HT in the fig-
ure. As shown, initially on cells were mainly found on the films
with low oxygen flow ratios, and their occurrence tends to rapidly
drop by increasing the oxygen flow ratio. Because the low resistance
of initially on cells is apparently caused by the conductive channels
intercepting the cell, the trend is legitimate considering that the
population of conductive channels also decreases with the oxygen
flow ratio, as suggested by the CAFM images. In addition to the
crystalline TiO2 films, the figure also includes the initially on statis-
tics of devices made on the amorphous films labeled as RT that
show the same trend. Because the deposition of amorphous and
crystalline films differs only in the substrate temperature, the con-
ductive channels existing in the amorphous films are likely com-
posed of the same reduced Ti ions, such as Ti3+, Ti2+, and Ti0.
Both initially on and initially off cells are switchable. Figure 3a
and b shows the first three switching I-V curves of these two cells,
respectively. The switching I-V was derived with the positive dc
voltage sweep applied on the Pt top electrode using the same source-
measure units. In the figure, the “set” and “forming” curves denote
the switching of the cell from the HRS to the LRS. In this work, the
current compliance used to set the LRS was 10 mA. The forming
process normally requires a high switching voltage and is specifi-
cally referred to the first switch action of the cell if it is a set
operation. Likewise, the “reset” curves present the reverse switch-
ing, i.e., from LRS to HRS. As shown in Fig. 3a, the first switching
of the initially on cells is a reset operation, while it is a forming
process for the initially off cells, which requires a voltage of about
4.2 V. Otherwise, the subsequent switching characteristics including
the set and reset processes are much the same for both types of cells.
For example, the set and reset voltages required to turn on and off
both cells are typically around 0.7  0.2 and 2.0  0.7 V. The re-
sults seem to suggest that the switching mechanisms for both ini-
tially on and initially off cells are identical and attributable to the
rupture and recovery of conductive channels. Figure 3c and d shows
the resistance switching with the dc sweep in the first 40 cycles for
the initially on and initially off cells, respectively. Both cells show a
stable LRS 20  during the switching, but the HRS is less
Figure 1. Color online a X-ray diffraction curves of films deposited at RT
and 325°C HT in different oxygen flow ratios. b XPS of crystalline TiO2
films prepared with oxygen flow ratios of 10, 20, and 40%, and single-
crystalline TiO2. c Raman spectra from the same crystalline TiO2 films of
b.
Figure 2. Color online a The CAFM images of crystalline TiO2 films
prepared with the oxygen flow ratios of 10 and 40%, respectively, wherein
the bright spots qualitatively denote the conductive channels through the
film. b The occurrence probability of initially on cells on crystalline HT
and amorphous RT films prepared with various oxygen flow ratios.
G32 Electrochemical and Solid-State Letters, 12 7 G31-G33 2009
Downloaded 25 May 2009 to 140.113.179.160. Redistribution subject to ECS license or copyright; see http://www.ecsdl.org/terms_use.jsp
