 2
一、緣由與目的 
從 1770 年第一輛蒸汽車問世以來，汽車工業已經歷經數百年的發展，隨著
科技進步，智慧車輛也應運而生[1]。其中關於車輛動態控制和安全車輛方面，
至今仍是汽車製造者關切的基本問題，而車輛動態分析與研究的相關文獻很多，
大多都是依安全性考量而做的研究。根據統計資料顯示，單一車輛意外事故約有
50％肇因於翻覆(rollover)[2]，並且車輛翻覆會較其他事故造成更嚴重的傷亡，此
計劃前兩年的目標主要就是在設計出一種重心轉移的機構系統，使車體的重心能
隨著車輛的運動而改變，增加車體操控性，使車體的運動更加靈活及縮小轉彎時
的迴轉半徑，以降低車輛翻覆的可能性已提升汽車駕駛時的安全性。另外隨著時
代的進步，汽車不單單只是一個用於交通運輸的＂機器＂而已，對於現代人來
說，汽車被賦予越來越多個性化的特徵，還有越來越多美學上的展現，汽車可以
說是個人品味上的一個延伸，因此汽車的外型也成為消費者在購車時的一個考量
的重點，因此汽車的外型設計對於汽車製造者來說也是越來越重要的一環。  
二、概念性車殼外型設計 
2.1 車殼設計理念 
  這個部份車殼外型的設計理念，是期望能設計出一個能夠兼具前衛與美感的
車殼外型，以傳達本計劃「先進智慧車輛」的理念。在我們的設計過程中，也參
考了部份國外著名車廠與頂尖學術單位對於他們的概念車在外型設計上的一些
構想與巧思，如圖一為美國麻省理工學院(MIT)專門為都市空間所設計的概念運
輸工具[3]，圖二為日本日產汽車公司於東京車展所推出的駕駛座可旋轉的都市
概念車[4]，圖三為法國寶獅汽車公司於日內瓦車展所推出的都市行動載具[5]。  
 
 
圖一 MIT Smart City Car 概念車 
 4
度與衝擊強度與金屬材質如鋁、鐵相比仍相當優越 (3)優秀的耐熱耐寒性，因FRP
所使用的是熱硬性樹脂，所以它具有高溫不軟化，低溫不脆化的特性 (4)透光性
佳 (5)尺寸精準度高，其成型後縮水率幾乎為零 等諸多優良的特性[6]，同時 FRP
也是仿間常用於車輛外殼改裝的材料之一，因此我們是採用 FRP 做為我們此部
分車殼的材料。 
 
圖四 第一版本概念車外型 
 
 
圖五 第二版本概念車外型 
 6
 
圖八 下半部車殼(底盤部份)，由單一區塊所構成 
 
  而車殼分成三個區塊製作的原因，可分成上半部車身與下半部底盤兩個方面
來討論，由於三片車殼的重量加起來約超過三百公斤重，若將上半部車身部分的
車殼作成單一區塊 FRP 模的話，則此單一塊的 FRP 車殼的重量將會相當的重，
於是將車身部分的車殼分割為兩個區塊製作，以減輕車身單一車殼的重量；就製
造方面的考量來說，若要開一個如我們所設計的具有複雜曲面且一體成型的車身
模具，是有相對的難度，所以將上半部車身分為兩個區塊開模可以簡化製作的複
雜度；而下半部車體盤製作成單一區塊的原因，主要是以車輛在行駛時的安全性
為考量，因為將車底盤製作成一體成型的形態可使模具具有較大的剛性，所以當
受到相同的外力作用時，其發生的變形量較小，因此當受到外力撞擊時可承受較
大的衝擊力，可增降低受撞擊時的傷害。 
3.2 車體骨架的修改 
  製作完成的車殼在進行組裝測試的過程中，發現原有的車體骨架結構只有四
個固定鎖孔的位置，無法提供我們新製作的車底盤足夠的強度以固定在車架上，
如圖九圓圈處。 
  而我們的解決辦法是在車骨架的前、中、後三段的地方，分別焊上三塊ㄇ字
型鐵條，每一塊鐵條可以在上方提供兩個鎖孔位置與兩側各提共一個鎖孔位置，
如圖十，因此三塊新焊上的鐵條可提供十二個鎖孔位置，可較原本的鎖孔點多出
三倍，因而可提高固定時的強度。 
  由於三片車殼加起來的總重量約超過三百公斤，加上操作者在駕駛時的乘坐
的位置在車輛的重心的後方，所以車輛整體的重心(含駕駛者)位置也會偏向後
方，所以會導致車體會有往後傾斜的趨勢，這樣車輛在行駛期間會時常發生車輪
摩擦到車殼的情形，如圖十一，我們解決的辦法是將原始車輛的後避震器更換成
具有更高組尼係數的避震器，以防止車身後傾的現象。 
 
 8
3.3 車體外型的塗裝 
  待車殼製作完成後，最後一項工作便是進行車殼外觀的塗裝，在車殼的正前
方的車頭部份，貼上代表清華大學的校徽，如圖十二；在車尾的部份，則貼上動
機系的英文縮寫標語，以及分別將參予這項計畫的各實驗室中英文名稱貼在車尾
的兩側，如圖十三，圖十四為整車的前側視圖與後側視圖。 
 
 
圖十二 車身前視圖 
 
圖十三 車身後視圖 
 10
四、新機構概念設計 
4.1 新設計構想 
根據先前所做的模擬與實驗結果，可進行其他更適合的機構設計。由實際實
驗的結果發現，平移機構使用線性滑軌的摩擦力很大。原因是在低負載（體重小
於 100kgf）下，線性滑軌的摩擦力很大，雖然已經選擇無預壓的型號，但還是不
利滑動。因此新的設計採用連桿形式，希望能改善摩擦力大的缺點。 
如錯誤! 找不到參照來源。所示。長度 150mm 的 D 桿件直接安裝在車體骨
架上，兩邊長 70mm 的 A、C 桿件為側邊桿，人所坐的坐墊則與 B 桿件相接。
其中定義 A 桿件偏離平衡位置往低側移動的角度為 i 角。在平衡位置 i=0 度。 
 
 
圖十五 四連桿機構設計圖 
 
 
4.2 ADAMS 模擬 
將此四連桿機構以 ADAMS 模擬其機構的幾何位置，結果如圖十六。設定 A
桿件的 i 角（input angle）在 30± °間，追蹤 B 桿件中心點（即座椅處、可移動重
心的質量塊）的相對地面高度（vertical displ. of m）、及側向位移量（lateral disp. 
of m）。在圖中並且標示出連桿位置以便對照。 
 12
將修正後的結果與實驗結果疊合，可得錯誤! 找不到參照來源。： 
三種設計的比較
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
10 20 30 40 50 60
時速(km/hr)
迴
轉
半
徑
(m
)
新機構設計
重心不移動的測試結
果
原設計重心移動的測
試結果
 
圖十八 原有設計與新四連桿機構之迴轉半徑最小值比較 
 
4.4 結論 
新的機構設計能使重心平移量增加，並且在現有骨架的限制下，也能使重心
有些微的下降，由此能使迴轉半徑縮小。並且也達成減少機構在移動時的摩擦力
的目標。 
 
 
 
參考文獻 
[1] http://www.atc168.com/culture/wh2-x.asp?id=423, (2005.10.10) 
[2] R. Kazemi and K. Soltani, "The Effects of Important Parameters on Vehicle 
Rollover with Sensitivity Analysis," SAE, 2003. 
[3] http://blogs.zdnet.com/emergingtech/index.php?p=119 
[4] http://www.ubergizmo.com/15/archives/2005/10/nissan_pivo_cou.html 
[5] http://www.automobilemag.com/auto_shows/frankfurt/0509_peugeot_moovie/ 
[6] http://www.center-frp.com.tw/CT-02/CT02-P01.htm 
 2
 
POSITIONING ERROR OF THE WORM-GEAR-SET UNDER 
SUDDENLY IMPLIED HIGH TORQUE  
Dein Shaw  
(Dept. of Power Mechanical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsin Chu) 
Abstract: The influence of frictional force between gear teeth and elastic deformation of gear teeth can not be neglected when a precision worm and 
worm gear set under high torsion. These influences will make the system error large enough for system which request accurate rotational orientation.  
The goal of this study is to set up a mathematic model to analyze the dynamic of worm gear set. To prove that correctness of the analysis, a testing 
device was set up. The results compare with the results of experiment. Finally, the effect of stiffness of the gear teeth, friction coefficient and inertial 
mass of the driven shaft are studied. The comparison of rigid tooth and elastic tooth found that the rigidity do effect the oscillating of the worm and 
worm gear set. 
Key words: worm  worm gear  dynamics   positioning error 
 
0  INTRODUCTION 
When the design of transmission mechanism is limited by the space and weight and unable to plan a bigger and stronger 
mechanism, the worm and worm gear set is a good choice because of its small volume and high reduction ratio. Generally speaking, 
how to make accurate positioning is an important subject in a transmission system. If it can not be achieved by a strong design, the 
servo control mechanism may be required to achieve the goal. The manufacturing tolerance, static and dynamic frictional 
characteristics and gear tooth deformation will all contribute the overall systematic error. Especially during the process of 
reciprocating angle corrections, the motor’s acceleration power and inertia load will result in the whole mechanism vibrating and thus 
seriously affect the system’s precision. For example, when tracking an aircraft in radar, if the aircraft make a sharp maneuver, the 
radar may not be able to lock on the target due to minute oscillation of the antenna and may even cause system failure.) 
Yeh and Wu [1]established a dynamically stable platform with electrical motor and worm gear set. Because frictional force can't 
be neglected, the system’s equivalent inertia and momentum of loading become a function of friction coefficient. It makes the 
platform system’s motion formula parameter indeterminate. Reference[2]discussed servo orientation control been affected by surge of 
both maximum static friction force and dynamic friction force. They reported the occurrence of stable positioning error or limiting 
loop which may result in stopping or stoke during tracking toward the turning point. Low-speed tracking in one direction, due to the 
frictional force to velocity curve appeared to be negative slope, plus influences of striction force, presents stick-slip phenomenon. It 
also presents the same phenomenon at high-speed tracking due to lubrication oil. Doupont[3] proposed frictional force model with 
negative slopes. The Oguri’s design handbook[4] included empirical charts and calculation formulae of friction confection vs. gliding 
velocity, the allowance error of manufacturing, recommended value for the gaps between two teeth, and the allowable contact 
pressure. Wu [5] discussed using the worm and worm gear for reduction mechanism for a stabilizing platform and proceed to analyze 
pressure loading, static and dynamic characteristics and motion equations in order to establish the effects of friction force on the 
system. In his model, the equivalent moment of inertia and moment of the loading are function of the friction coefficient. Hence, the 
systematic equation of motion became non-linear.  
Previous research works on gears and gear sets focused on the limiting loading, pressure distribution and allowable pressure 
loading of gears, the relationship between friction coefficient and sliding velocity in order to investigate the transmission phenomena 
and positioning precision under rigid body assumption. This paper focuses the effects of the elastic deformation of gear tooth and non-
linear behavior of friction coefficient on system positioning accuracy. The research includes establishment of mathematical models of 
worm and worm gear set and non-linear behavior during transmission. 
 
1 THE WORM AND WORM GEAR DYNAMIC EQUATION 
The worm and worm gear tooth are treated as elastic body. Basic assumptions are list as follows: 
(1) Worms and worm gear teeth are elastic; 
(2) Worm is simplified as a rod and could be modeled by a simple elasticity constant; 
(3) The worm gear is considered a rigid body except for the teeth; 
(4) The elasticity of worm gear plus its axis can be considered as a simple constant; 
(5) Worm and worm gear are perpendicular to each other and form error is negligible; 
(6) The gap between teeth is ignored; 
(7) No error on the gear tooth geometry;. 
(8) The rigidity of the bearing is high. 
Components of axial forces are obtained by projection of contact force, orthogonal to the contact area of two teeth, onto respective axes. These 
axial forces are the forces acting on respective axis for the moment of torsion in the dynamic equation of motion. Let 
nW  be the orthogonal force at 
the contact area; 
fW  be the frictional force at the contact area; nφ  be the pressure angle and λ  be the worm’s helix angle[6]. The frictional force 
on the contact area can be expressed by 
nf WW μ= , where μ  is the non-linear frictional coefficient, v  as worm sectional line velocity. Referring 
to reference[4]for the formula between frictional coefficient and sliding velocity.  
The configuration of the worm and worm gear is presented in Figure 1. As shown in Figure 1, worm and worm gear are perpendicular to each 
other where the 1θ  is the input for the rotational angle, wJ  is the moment of inertia of the worm as a elastic body elastic body, wK  is the 
 4
  
2  DTERMINE THE SPRING CONSTANT OF THE TEETH 
In equation (7), the spring constant of the teeth is not formulated. It is found that the tooth contacting position is moving back and forth along 
the tooth surface.  Therefore, the spring constant of the tooth is also varied. Let d1 and d2 be the ranges of contact position, the curves of spring 
constants are shown in Figure 3 could be obtained by dividing the amount of deformation by the contact force.  
 
Figure 2 Coordinate of teeth deforming in y axis direction 
     
The curves of spring constant of worm’s helix angle are shown in Figure 4. The curves could be obtained by dividing the amount of deformation to 
the contact force. In Figure 3 and 4, gear modulus of 1,2,3,4 and 5 are denoted by M1, M2, M3, M4 and M5.  
 
 
M1-M5 Wormgear Spring-Coefficient
M1-CgKg
M1-CgKg
M1-CgKg
M2-CgKg
M2-CgKg
M2-CgKg
M3-CgKg
M3-CgKg
M3-CgKg
M4-CgKg
M4-CgKg
M4-CgKg
M5-CgKg
M5-CgKg
M5-CgKg
1
6
11
16
75%(d1) 100%(0) 125%(d2)
radius
Nx10^8
/radius
 
Figure 3. Curves of spring constant of worm gear tooth 
M1~M5-Spring-Coefficient
M1-CwKw
M1-CwKw
M1-CwKwM2-CwKw
M2-CwKw
M2-CwKw
M3-CwKw
M3-CwKw
M3-CwKw
M4-CwKw
M4-CwKw
M4-CwKw
M5-CwKw
M5-CwKw
M5-CwKw
1
3
5
7
9
11
13
15
17
19
21
23
75%(a1) 100%(0) 125%(a2)
radius
Nx10 8^
/radius
 
  Figure 4. Curves of spring constant of worm’s helix tooth  
 
Curve fitting method was employed to obtain one unified best-fit polynomial equation, Eqn. 13, for all the curves in Figure 4. 
2
3
11
3
108 1061092.1101588.2106494.2 θθ ××−××−×=gg kc                (8) 
By the same approach, Eqn. 14 represents the unified best-fit polynomial equation for the curves of elastic coefficient of worm’s helix tooth in 
Figure 5. 
2
2
8
2
88 1047551.61032083.6106267.3 θθ ××+××+×=wwkc           (9) 
3  RESULTS AND DISCUSSION OF EXPERIMENTS AND NUMERICAL SIMULATION 
3.1 Experimental Measurement 
 6
 
Figure 7  Curves of numerical stimulation and experimental measurement of 2θ  and 4θ  
 
4  CONCLUSIONS 
In this paper, the rigidity of tooth was implemented in deriving the dynamic equations of worm gear set. The simulated results with elastic tooth 
were closed to the measured data. The comparison of rigid tooth and elastic tooth found that the rigidity do effect the oscillating of the worm and 
worm gear set.  
 
 
    Figure 8 Comparisons between experiment and stimulated results  
 
 
Figure 9 Simulated 2θ  curves  
 
