 II 
中文摘要 
 
本研究子計畫的主要目的是建構一個以支撐向量機(SVM)為基礎的混合式模糊知識萃取計算模型，並將
其應用在複雜的時間序列證券市場預測及醫學知識分析與萃取等問題上，驗證此模型之效能。98年度
的主要進度是核心計算模型的建構，已完成的工作項目，包括：(1)探討及證明 SVM 與模糊系統的等價
性；(2)探討如何有效地從 SVM所萃取的眾多模糊規則中，帥選較具代表性的規則，提升系統的透通性
(interpretability)；(3)模型最佳化的問題；(4)將前述的演算法及流程撰寫成獨立的 Matlab 模組，
便於發展不同的應用；(5)將所發展完成的模組應用在小型問題上，結果證明，效能確實優於其他架構。
另外，針對複雜的時間序列證券市場預測應用問題，我們也探討如何有效利用 a priori (或是 
background)知識，產生額外的 white-box 規則，與先前的 black-box計算模型整合，成為 multi-stage
的 fuzzy model，期能建構出精準且具動態性的證劵市場預測模型。 
 
關鍵詞：計算智慧、支撐向量機、模糊塑模、知識萃取。 
 
Abstract 
 
The main purpose of this research project is to develop a hybrid computational model, SVM-based fuzzy 
modeling, for knowledge discovery, and applied for financial market prediction and medical data and signal 
analysis. In the first year, we have completed a list of tasks for the development of a SVM-based fuzzy 
modeling. These include: (1) The relationship between support vector machines (SVMs) and fuzzy systems is 
first investigated. (2) Then, it is argued that the essential difference between SVMs and fuzzy systems is the 
interpretability, which enables fuzzy systems to be easily comprehensible. Based on the discussions on their 
relationships, a complete framework for extracting interpretable fuzzy rules from trained SVMs is proposed. 
(3) Besides, methods for deriving optimal parameters of kernel functions are also given. (4) A Matlab module 
has also been developed. And (5) simulation results for some well-known problems reveal that the proposed 
SVM-based Fuzzy Model outperforms other methods in terms of RMSE, interpretability, and complexity. In 
the next two years of this project, the proposed computational model will be applied to financial market 
prediction and medical data and signal analysis for further evaluation of the proposed model.  
 
Keywords: Computational Intelligence; Fuzzy Modeling; Support Vector Machine; Knowledge Discovery. 
 - 2 - 
 
     在核心計算模型的建構上，我們先理論探討 SVM 與模糊系統的等價性。在等價性證明
的過程中，可以看出如何將 SVM 學習的結果轉換成模糊規則。接著，我們會分析
interpretable 模糊系統的條件，並根據這些條件發展一個能從 SVM 萃取模糊規則，並能
兼顧模糊系統之 interpretability 的演算法。並將此方法初步應用在一些較小的典型問題
上，評量其有效性。 
        為了更進一步驗證我們方法的實用性及補強其理論架構，必須將其應用於現實世界中 
   較大且複雜的問題。在證劵市場的應用上，如果能事先預知股價未來方向，就可將股票投 
   資『低買高賣』之獲利最高準則發揮得淋漓盡致。因此，我們的工作重點，是在諸多影響 
         因             因素中找出最重要的變因，以及其相互之間的關係。在方法上，我們嘗試將 Independent 
   Component Analysis、Self-Organizing Map(SOM)、以及 Entropy-based Feature Selection 
等技術，整合進 SVM-based fuzzy inference system 中，以期能建構出更具動態性的證劵 
市場預測模型。 
3. 文獻探討 
Computational Intelligence (CI)的主軸是以多元的計算模型(Computational 
Model)來模擬人類的智慧及解題架構，主要範疇包括：模糊計算(Fuzzy Computing)、類神
經網路(Neurocomputing)、以及演化計算(Evolutionary Computing)等方法[1],[23]。常
用的模糊計算模型有 Mamdani type[14]以及 Sugeno type[18],[19]兩種。Mamdani 類型的
模糊系統由於 IF-THEN命題的假設部分與結論部分都是使用 linguistic terms來表示變數
值的大小，在設計上比較容易將 humanistic knowledge 轉換成模糊規則，但是在計算速度
上，則比不上 Sugeno類型的模糊系統。另外，Sugeno 類型的模糊系統則因為其規則之結
論部分採用線性函數，使其較為容易支援數學分析、支援與傳統控制方法搭配的混合設計、
以及整合類神經網路進行最佳化[10]等工作。目前，兩種模糊計算模型，皆廣泛應用於財
務分析[17]、以及醫學診斷[22]等領域。類神經網路的基本概念則是嘗試模仿人類的神經
系統，由許多非線性的運算單元及其間的眾多連結所組成，以平行且分散的方式來進行運
算。傳統以多層神經元為主的類神經網路架構，在設計上常會遇到兩難：也就是，單層的
網路設計簡單且有快速的學習演算法，但是在一般化的能力(generalization power)上，
只能學習輸入空間(input space)中的線性函數;另一方面，多層的網路雖然可以表示非線
性函數，但由於有大量的權值(weights)要調整，常導致學習速度緩慢、local minimum、
以及 over-fitting等問題[3]。相對而言，支撐向量機(support vector machine, SVM)
提供一種更新的學習演算架構，且有不錯的一般化能力足以表示複雜且非線性的函數。SVM
採用 structure risk minimization 的手法來建構模型[21]，與傳統的類神經網路比較起
 - 4 - 
另外，雖然 SVM與模糊系統具有等價性，但是從 SVM 推導出來的模糊系統欠缺
Interpretability的特性。因為由上圖可發現，模糊規則的數量將與 Support Vector(SV)
的個數相同；而且，SVs 的個數亦隨著模型精確度的提升而增加。因此，為了提升系統的
interpretability及降低 complexity，我們必須發展更佳的演算法，避免萃取多餘的
(redundant)模糊規則。 
4.2 Interpretability之條件 
在模糊系統中，Interpretability之條件可歸納如下： 
 模糊規則的完整性：模糊系統是利用模糊規則來定義輸出入變數之關係，每一條規則僅描
述其涵蓋區域的行為(local behavior)。所謂模糊規則必須具備完整性，就是保證孙集合
中每個點都有模糊規則將其覆蓋。 
 模糊規則的獨立性：一組好的模糊規則是每條規則都有其獨立性。也就是說，不同的模糊
規則之相似性不可過高。相鄰之模糊集合之相似度(similarity)可用下列公式來定義： 
SAi,Aj 
MAi  Aj
MAi MAj MAi  Aj
 
(1) 
其中 m(A)定義為 
MA  
xX
Axdx.
 
(2) 
                     
 模糊規則的一致性：模糊規則必須與 background knowledge 相吻合，不同的模糊規則之
間也不能產生矛盾的情形。所謂矛盾的情形，可用下列方式來檢定。假設兩條規則之假設
部分(premise part)模糊集合為 A1 及 A2，結論部分(consequent part)之模糊集合為 B1
及 B2，如果 
SA1 ,A2  SB1 ,B2,
 
(3) 
    則這兩條規則有幾近相同的假設，但是結論卻不同。如此則可判定其為不一致的情形。 
 模糊系統的緊緻性：模糊系統的結構必須盡可能緊緻(compact)，亦即變數的個數及模糊
集合的個數都應該有所限制。為了有效地選取具代表性的變數，我們可利用特徵選取
(feature selection)的演算法來選定適當的輸入變數。 
以上所列的模糊系統具有 interpretability 之條件，常在知識萃取的過程中喪失。 
所以，重點是探討如何利用 SVM從 raw data萃取模糊規則的過程中，亦能保持系統的
 - 6 - 
5. 結果與討論 
我們將前述的演算法及流程撰寫成獨立的 Matlab 模組，並且將其應用在一些較小型
的問題上，驗證所發展的 SVM-based Fuzzy Model 之效能。 
5.1 非線性函數配適問題(nonlinear function-fitting problem) 
在此例中我們考慮以下之函數： 





 .
0 if1
0 if
)(
)sin(
x
x
x x
x
sinc  (5) 
x  的範圍從 3 到 3 。 
利用所提出的方法，可以得到表 1的模糊規則： 
表 1：非線性函數配適模型的模糊規則 
 
此六條模糊規則之模擬結果如圖 3(a)，其相對應的模糊集合如圖 3(b)。 
 
 
圖 3：(a)萃取出之模糊規則的模擬結果；(b)相對應的模糊集合。 
 
從表 1所得到的六條模糊規則做模擬，RMSE為 0.0085。若是以傳統的 SVM-fuzzy modeling 
 - 8 - 
5.3 Lorenz動態系統 
Lorenz動態系統可用下列微分方程組來描述： 
 
,bzxy
dt
dz
yxxz
dt
dy
yx
dt
dx





 (7) 
其中 ,  , 及b 的值分別為 10 , 28 , 及 3/8b 。在我們的模擬實驗中，將利 
用 x(t-1),y(t-1),z(t-1)來預測 x(t),y(t),及 z(t)的值。利用此方程組，產生 2000 
筆資料。1000 筆用做訓練資料，其餘做為測試之用。利用所提出的方法得到的模糊規則 
如表 3。 
表 3：Lorenz動態系統的模糊規則 
 
此八條模糊規則之模擬結果如圖 5(a)，其相對應的模糊集合如圖 5(b)、(c)、(d)。 
以表 3所得到的八條模糊規則做模擬，RMSE為 0.3052。若是以傳統的 SVM-fuzzy modeling， 
則需要 422條以上的模糊規則才能達到相同的效果。由以上這些實驗可以看出我們所提出的 
方法在非線性問題、時間序列預測、以及動態系統預測等問題上均有不錯的效果。這對於財 
務及醫學等現實問題亦應能達到預期的效果。 
     我們已將上述成果整理成期刊論文投稿[11]，另外也發表兩篇相關的期刊論文
[12],[13]。目前，則正在探討如何能夠有效地分析 data-driven所建構的 black-box模型
的 semantic properties，以便利於與 a priori 或 background knowledge所產出之
white-box 規則進一步整合，提升模型的效能。 
 
 - 10 - 
2007. 
[9] Holland, J. H. (1975), Adaptation in Natural and Artificial Systems, Ann Arbor, MI: The 
University of Michigan Press. 
[10] Jang, J.-S. R., ―ANFIS: Adaptive-network-based fuzzy inference system,‖ IEEE Trans. Syst., 
Man, Cybern., vol. 23, pp. 665–685, May/June 1993. 
[11] Lai, K. Robert and Yi-Yuan Chiang, ―Extracting Interpretable Fuzzy Rules from Support Vector 
Machimes,‖ submitted for possible publication, 2010. 
[12] Lai, K. Robert, Menq-Wen Lin and Ting-Jung Yu, ―Learning opponent's beliefs via fuzzy 
constraint-directed approach to make effective agent negotiation,‖ Applied Intelligence, Vol. 33, 
pp. 232-246, 2010. 
[13] Lan, Chung Hsien, Sabine Graf, K. Robert Lai*, and Kinshuk, ―Enrichment of Peer Assessment 
with Agent Negotiation,‖ accepted and to appear in IEEE Trans. on Learning Technologies, .Vol. 
3, No. 4, 2010. 
[14] Mamdani, E. H. and Assilian, S. (1975). Experiment in linguistic synthesis with a fuzzy logic 
controller. International Journal of Man-Machine Studies, 7(1):1-13. 
[15] Quinlan, J. R. C4.5: Programs for Machine Learning. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 1993. 
[16] Schank, Roger, Dynamic Memory: A Theory of Learning in Computers and People New York: 
Cambridge University Press, 1982. 
[17] Sheen, J.N., “Fuzzy financial decision-making: load management programs case study,” IEEE 
Trans. on Power Sys., vol. 20, no. 4, 1808 – 1817, 2005. 
[18] Sugeno, M., Industrial Applications of Fuzzy Control. North-Holland, 1985. 
[19] Sugeno, M. and Yasukawa, T. ―Fuzzy-logic-based approach to qualitative modeling,‖ IEEE 
Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, 1(1):7-31, 1993. 
[20] Tarakanov, A.O. et al, Immunocomputing: Principles and Applications, Springer, 2003. 
[21] Vapnik, V.N., ―An overview of statistical learning theory,‖ IEEE Trans. On Neural Networks, 
1999. 
[22] Ying, H. et al., ―A Self-Learning Fuzzy Discrete Event System for HIV/AIDS Treatment 
Regimen Selection,‖ IEEE Trans. on Sys., Man, and Cyber. Part B, vol. 37, 4, 966 – 979, 2007. 
[23] Zurada, J.M. et al.(eds.), Computational Intelligence, Imitating Life. IEEE Computer Society 
Press, 1994. 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                  日期： 99 年 5 月 5 日 
 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
     此次參與的會議是在資訊網路與應用相關領域中，由 IEEE Computer Society 內的 TCDP 
所贊助，蠻有歷史的國際會議。AINA 早期由日本 Seikei University 的 Prof. Takizawa 發起，最近 
幾次會議則由亞太的國家輪流主辦。今年(2010)的會議，在西澳洲伯斯(Perth)的 Convention Center 
舉行，從 4 月 20 日至 23 日，共計有接近百場的 parallel technical sessions 及 8 場 keynote or invited  
speeches，瞭解目前在先進資訊網路中研究發展的方向，並於一場 technical session 中發表研究的 
論文。此外，也在此次的與會中與會後認識多位外國與本國學者與研究生，共同談論彼此的研究 
領域，算是一場非常成功且令人印象深刻的會議。 
二、與會心得 
     此次會議是在西澳洲的首府伯斯(Perth)舉辦，西澳洲是一個科技先進、交通便利與環境乾 
淨的省分，具有豐富的農、漁產及鐵礦，每位與會的外國人都很喜歡這個會議場所，尤其是 swan  
river 沿岸的環境。在與會中挑選較有興趣的 session 參與，其內容如下： 
 第一天(4/20)參與的主題有Vehicular Ad-hoc Networks的 speech，還有兩個 technical sessions。 
計畫編號 NSC 98－ 2221 － E － 155－ 019－ 
計畫名稱 智慧型計算於知識萃取之整合研究-子計畫二：以 SVM為基之模糊塑
模及其在財務與醫學知識萃取之應用 
出國人員
姓名 
賴國華 
服務機構及
職稱 
元智大學資工系教授 
會議時間 
99年 4月 20日
至 
99年 4月 23日 
會議地點 
澳洲伯斯(Perth, Aus.) 
會議名稱 
(     42   (英文)  24th IEEE International Conference on Advanced 
 Information Networking & Applications (AINA-2010 
發表論文
題目 
(英文) Density Control-based Algorithms for Dynamic Maintenance 
in Sensor Networks with Limited Mobility 
Density Control-based Algorithms for Dynamic Maintenance in Sensor Networks 
with Limited Mobility 
 
Wei-Jhih Lin, Kuen-Ding Lin, and K. Robert Lai 
Department of Computer Science & Engineering 
Yuan Ze University, Taiwan, 32026 
s978305@mail.yzu.edu.tw, s976035@mail.yzu.edu.tw, and krlai@cs.yzu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract--- This paper proposes a fully distributed, 
density-control, and multi-hop dynamic maintenance 
algorithm (DCMA) to repair the coverage holes in 
wireless sensor networks. Decision and movement of the 
nodes are autonomous and involve only limited distance 
to maintain the connectivity. While maintaining the 
coverage and connectivity, the proposed algorithm aims 
at minimizing average moving distance and energy 
consumption of sensor nodes. Further, it takes the 
density measures into consideration when deciding 
which node to move and to what direction and distance 
to improve the non-uniform distribution of sensor nodes. 
Simulation results reveal that the proposed algorithm 
performs better than other maintenance algorithms in 
terms of coverage, convergence, energy consumption, 
uniformity, and sensitivity of communication range. 
 
Keywords: Wireless Sensor Network, Coverage Hole, 
Dynamic Maintenance, Density Control. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Wireless sensor network (WSN) is composed of 
inexpensive and battery-powered sensing devices having 
ability of collecting, storing, processing, and 
communicating data with each other [1], [3], [10], [18]. 
These tiny sensing devices are often deployed in the target 
field in large numbers and then collaborate to form a 
wireless ad-hoc network capable of reporting the data, 
phenomenon, or event to a remote data collection point, 
namely sink or base station. Popular and successful 
applications of wireless sensor networks can be seen in 
such domains as object tracking, surveillance, 
environmental and structural monitoring, health related 
monitoring, traffic control, factory automation and 
inventory management etc. 
But these myriad of applications also present various 
challenges for the task of designing scalable, 
self-organizing, and energy-efficient sensor networks. The 
task becomes even more demanding if we consider  the 
distribution of sensor nodes in a wireless sensor network 
are usually far from being uniform due to random aerial 
deployment, terrain variation, presence of obstructions, 
position changing, and node failures caused by power 
depletion or external forces. That is, the real sensor 
networks often have coverage holes which could have great 
impacts on the effectiveness of sensor networks. To heal 
the holes, depending on the environment of applications it 
can be done either by the deployment of additional nodes or 
by the use of some sensor nodes with limited mobility, 
which can move to the correct places to repair the coverage 
holes. 
On redeploying mobile sensors, a centralized approach 
is easier to develop. But, in many application environments, 
a centralized control may not be available. Additionally, 
centralized approaches introduce a single point of failure as 
well. Thus, in recent years, a number of distributed 
algorithms have been developed for autonomous 
redeployment of mobile sensor nodes. In [7], the authors 
present a distributed algorithm for the coordinated coverage 
fidelity maintenance in a mobile sensor network. The dying 
node notifies its neighbors and one of his neighbors then 
moves to recover the lost coverage. But this method is not 
practical when the sensors could be lost due to program 
failure and accidental death. In [9], a cost effective 
approach based a concept of potential field force is 
proposed for the self-deployment of mobile sensor 
networks. In [15] and [16], the authors propose one-hop 
dynamic maintenance algorithms to decide which 
neighbors to move and to what direction and distance. In 
[21] and [22], an energy efficient maintenance algorithm is 
proposed to repair the coverage holes based on grid 
information associated with each sensor node. In [19], the 
authors compute a Voronoi polygon for each sensor node 
of which is used to compare against its sensing disk to 
estimate any local coverage holes. Then, a set of multi-hop 
maintenance algorithms are proposed for redeploying 
mobile sensors iteratively to heal the holes.  
In this paper, a fully distributed, density-control, and 
multi-hop dynamic maintenance algorithm (DCMA) is 
proposed to repair the coverage holes in wireless sensor 
networks. Decision and movement of the nodes are 
autonomous and involve only limited distance to maintain 
the connectivity. While maintaining the coverage and 
connectivity, the proposed algorithm aims at minimizing 
average moving distance of the nodes and energy 
consumption due to mobility. Further, the proposed 
algorithm also takes the density measures into 
consideration when deciding which nodes to move and to 
what direction and distance to improve the distribution of 
sensor nodes and prolong the life cycle of the whole 
can compute a Target Point, denoted by TP, as the 
destination for the redeployment of the sensor node. 
III. DENSITY CONTROL-BASED DYNAMIC 
MAINTENANCE 
A. Proposed Algorithm 
The proposed algorithm, Density Control-based 
Dynamic Maintenance Algorithm (DCMA), runs iteratively 
until it reaches at a quiescent state autonomously or arrives 
at a pre-specified round.  Further, each iteration in DCMA 
is composed of two phases: (1) Construction Phase and (2) 
Moving Phase. 
z Construction Phase 
At the start of each round, each sensor broadcasts its 
location to and collects mono-covered arcs and overlapping 
information from the neighboring nodes. Based on the 
obtained information, the set of middle points and 
MC-Endpoints for each sensor node can be determined and 
its DC-Polygon can then be constructed thereafter. 
Figure 2 illustrates how an MC-Endpoint is obtained in 
DCMA. For sensor node S1, other than having overlapping 
neighbors S2, S3, and S4, it also has a mono-covered chord 
starting from P1 and ending at P2.  To estimate an 
MC-Endpoint which has to be situated at the outside of the 
sensing disk of sensor node S1, we use the mono-covered 
chord (i.e., P1P2) as a diameter to draw a circle which also 
is centered at the bisectional point (i.e., P5) of this 
mono-covered chord. Then, a line (L1) starting at the 
location of sensor node S1 and passing through P5 can be 
drawn and extending into the outside of mono-covered arc. 
Then, the MC-Endpoint P4 is situated at the place where the 
line L1 crosses over the circle. After MC-Endpoint 
Estimation along with the Middle Points obtained per 
Definition 4, a DC-Polygon for sensor node S1 is 
constructed as shown in Figure 3. 
z Moving Phase 
To decide the moving direction and distance for each 
sensor node, a target point is needed within the 
DC-polygon to guide the movement of each sensor node. 
The goals of which are (1) to have target point near the 
sparser region of DC-Polygon such that the sensor will be 
moving from denser region toward sparser region; (2) while 
moving to heal the coverage holes, to maintain the 
connectivity; and (3) to balance the density measure as 
much as possible when deciding a target point.  
Other than those MC-Endpoints which indicate the 
existence of coverage holes for some regions, it can be 
observed that the number of Middle Points and their 
location within a sensing disk could imply the distribution 
of overlapping neighbors. That is, the geometric shape of 
any DC-Polygon actually could represent a density 
distribution over the sensing disk. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2:  Estimation of MC-Endpoint P4 for a 
mono-covered arc that belongs to the sensor node S1. 
 
 
 
Figure 3:  Construction of a DC-Polygon to guide the 
movement of sensor node S1. 
 
Thus, to take this into consideration, we adapt a concept 
of smallest enclosing disk in [13] [17] [20] to determine a 
target point for arbitrary DC-Polygon. In DCMA, a 
smallest disk is a circle that can cover the DC-Polygon with 
a minimum radius, and the target point is at the center of 
this circle. 
For each iteration in DCMA, each sensor goes through 
both construction and moving phases, and then is 
redeployed to the target point autonomously until it has 
arrived at certain criteria for termination. Figure 4 gives a 
high-level structure of the proposed DCMA algorithm for a 
sensor node Si. 
B. Oscillation Control 
Oscillation occurs when sensor moves forward and 
back several times. In [8], once the occurrences of 
oscillation reach certain number, the sensor will move to 
the center position of those oscillation points. But it means 
that each sensor has to record the number of oscillation has 
occurred. 
In this work, we implement a simple oscillation control 
as given in Figure 5.  Each sensor records its position of 
last round. Sensor is not allowed to move backward to the 
proximate direction of its position of previous round. In 
addition, an island sensor is not allowed to move, because 
there are no other sensors within its communication range 
and, consequently, no DC-Polygon can be formed as well. 
D. Convergence 
Figure 7 displays the coverage percentage over the 
course of maintenance to illustrate the convergence speed 
of DCMA, VM, and GB algorithms, when the number of 
sensors is fixed at 80. It can be observed that the coverage 
of DCMA increases very rapidly in the initial several 
rounds. This is mainly because, in DCMA, sensors move 
not only to heal the coverage holes, but also to balance the 
density measures between different regions. In contrast, 
both VM and GB take much longer time for coverage to 
come near 100%.  
 
Figure 7:   Coverage percentage of each maintenance 
round, when the number of sensor nodes is fixed at 80. 
E. Energy Consumption 
For dynamic maintenance in wireless sensor networks, 
it is essential to save the energy consumption due to the 
mobility of sensor nodes. Figures 8 and 9 display the 
number of moving nodes and their average moving distance 
for DCMA, VM, and GB algorithms. In terms of the 
number of moving nodes, as shown in Figure 8, the DCMA 
is slightly lower than the VM, although the VM seems to 
move fewer nodes than the DCMA does in a sparse 
topology. On the other hand, the GB has a much higher 
number of moving nodes and, consequently, the GB, as 
displayed in Figure 9, has much lower average moving 
distance for each mobile sensor node. In Figure 9, it can 
also be noted that the DCMA generally has lower average 
moving distance than the VM. This is largely because the 
polygon constructed in DCMA is generally more accurate 
than the one constructed in VM. Further, as illustrated in 
Figure 10, the GB also has the lowest average energy 
consumption per sensor node, while the DCMA comes in 
second. But one thing to be noted is that, in GB, the energy 
consumption of sensor nodes is distributed unevenly and 
concentrated mostly for the sensors at the boundary of 
coverage holes.  
F. Density Measures 
Since sensors generally consume energy more evenly in 
a uniform topology, Figure 11 displays the effectiveness of 
the density control scheme that is implemented purposely 
in DCMA to improve the non-uniform distribution of 
sensor nodes. Here, uniformity is meant to be the average 
local standard deviation of the density of each sensor 
deployed in the topology. It can be observed that DCMA 
indeed performs much better than VM and GB in terms of 
uniformity for an average over 30 instances. 
 
Figure 8:  The number of moving nodes for different 
number of sensor nodes. 
 
Figure 9:  Average moving distance of each sensor for 
different number of sensor nodes. 
 
Figure 10:  Average energy consumption for different 
number of nodes. 
 
Figure 11:  Uniformity for different number of nodes. 
 
 
Figure 12:  Termination for different number of nodes. 
G. Termination 
By increasing the number of sensor nodes in any 
topology, the number of rounds needed for dynamic 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
