 
本產學合作計畫研發成果及績效達成情形自評表  
成果項目 本產學合作計畫預估研究成果及績效指標 （作為本計畫後續管考之參據） 計畫達成情形 
技術移轉 預計技轉授權  1 項  完成技轉授權  0 項 
國內 預估 2 件 提出申請 1 件，獲得   件
專利 
國外 預估    件 提出申請    件，獲得   件
博士 1 人，畢業任職於業界   人 
博士 1 人，畢業任職於業
界  1 人  
(楊仲傑 博士) 
碩士 1 人，畢業任職於業界   人 
碩士 1 人，畢業任職於業
界  人 （林春敏-替代役） 
人才培育 
其他   人，畢業任職於業界   人 
其他   人，畢業任職於業
界    人 
期刊論文    件 發表期刊論文    件 
研討會論文  2  件 發表研討會論文 2  件 
(OPT 2008) 
SCI論文    件 發表SCI論文    件 
專書    件 完成專書    件 
國內 
技術報告    件 完成技術報告    件 
期刊論文    件 發表期刊論文    件 
學術論文    件 發表學術論文    件 
研討會論文  1 件 發表研討會論文 1 件 
SCI/ SSCI論文 2  件 發表SCI/ SSCI論文  2 件 
專書    件 完成專書    件 
論文著作 
國外 
技術報告    件 完成技術報告    件 
其他協助產業發
展之具體績效 新公司或衍生公司      家 
設立新公司或衍生公司 (名
稱)：           
其他 
國際研討會論文： 
C.-F. Lin, C.-M. Lin, C.-C. Yang, “Fabricated the deep cone-shaped structure of 
InGaN-based light-emitting diodes by using the laser shaping process”, The 5th 
International Congress on Laser Advanced Materials, Kobe, Japan on June 29 - July 
2, 2009. 
SCI 論文發表： 
Chia-Feng Lin*, Chun-Min Lin, Chung-Chieh Yang, Wei-Kai Wang, Yu-Chieh 
Huang, Jien-An Chen, and Ray-Hua Horng, “InGaN-Based Light-Emitting Diodes 
with a Cone-Shaped Sidewall Structure Fabricated Through a Crystallographic Wet 
Etching Process”, Electrochem. Solid-State Lett., Volume 12, Issue 7, pp. 
H233-H237, (2009). 
Chia-Feng Lin*, Chun-Min Lin, Kuei-Ting Chen, Wan-Chun Huang, Ming-Shiou 
Lin, Jing-Jie Dai, Ren-Hao Jiang, and Yu-Chieh Huang, “Blue Light-Emitting 
Diodes with a Roughened Backside Fabricated by Wet Etching”, accepted for Appl. 
Phys. Lett. 2009.10.21. 
註：其他實際完成之研究成果及績效請於「其他」欄內補充填寫。 
 
表 C012A-4                                                             
 
(三)報告內容：請包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含結論
與建議）…等。若該計畫已有論文發表者，可以 A4 紙影印，作為成果報告內容或
附錄，並請註明發表刊物名稱、卷期及出版日期。若有與執行本計畫相關之著作、
專利、技轉具體績效、技術報告、或學術論文等，請在參考文獻內註明之，俾可
供進一步查考。 
 
1. InGaN-based Light-Emitting Diodes with a Cone-Shaped Sidewall Structure fabricated 
through a Crystallographic Wet Etching Process  
 
INTRODUCTION 
Gallium nitride materials have attracted considerable interest in the development of 
optoelectronic devices such as light-emitting diodes (LEDs) and laser diodes.  Consequently, 
bright blue LED's require an increase in their internal and external quantum efficiencies.  The 
lower external quantum efficiency of the InGaN-based LEDs is due to a larger refractive index 
difference between the GaN layer and the surrounding air (Δn~1.5).  Techniques used to 
increase light extraction have included light output coupling through surface plasmons, 
corrugated Bragg gratings, and random surface texturing,1,2,3,4,5 to convert waveguided modes 
into free-space modes.  Bottom pattern Al2O3 substrates6, top p-type GaN:Mg surface rough 
processes7,8 , the forming of photonic crystal structures9,10,11,12, the periodic deflector embedded 
structures13, and selective oxidization on the mesa sidewall14 through a photoelectrochemical 
(PEC) wet oxidation process have been used to increase light extraction efficiency in 
InGaN-based LEDs on Al2O3 substrates.  Fujii et al.15 reported that a laser-lift-off technique 
followed by an anisotropic etching process to roughen the surface - an n-side-up GaN-based LED 
with a hexagonal ‘‘conelike’’ surface - has been fabricated to increase the extraction efficiency.  
In addition, research efforts have integrated ZnO nano-structures on GaN light emitting diodes 
for enhanced emission efficiency.16,17,18  Both, the AlInGaP-based LED with the truncated 
inverted pyramid (TIP) structures and the GaN-based LEDs with the ATON technique on the SiC 
substrate19 for the substrate shaping process, can enhance light extraction efficiency.  Lee et al. 
20  reported that experimental results, including photoluminescence and near- and far-field 
patterns, indicate that the proposed sidewall-deflector-integrated (SDI) LED structure enhances 
the overall surface emission intensity via the proposed mechanism by up to 3.1 times for a 
sidewall angle of 30o.  Kim et. al.21 has reported that GaN-based light-emitting diodes with 
peripheral microhole arrays (PMA-LEDs) have been grown, and fabricated, on SiO2 hexagonal 
pattern masks using selective metal–organic chemical vapor deposition. The light output intensity 
of the PMA-LED was 30% higher than that of conventional LEDs.  The processes attempted on 
the selective PEC etching process22, the controlled wet chemical etching on the AlInN layer23, the 
wet band gap-selective photoelectrochemical etching process for the lift-off process24, and the 
oxidizing process25,26 on the GaN materials can also affect the optical properties of Nitride-based 
devices.  The crystallographic wet chemical etchings of the p-GaN have (0001), { 0110 }, and 
{ 1210 } stable planes27 and the wet chemical etchings of the n-GaN have (0001), { 0110 }, { 1110 }, 
{ 1210 } and { 1310 } stable planes.28  
In this paper, a description is given on how the continuous cone-shaped-sidewall LED 
(CSS-LED) structures have been fabricated through a laser scribing process and a selective wet 
process in hot phosphoric acid (H3PO4, 170oC for 20 min).  This fabrication process consisted of 
a lateral wet etching process on an AlN buffer layer and a crystallographic etching process on an 
N-face GaN layer.  By forming a stable cone-shaped-sidewall structure close to the laser 
scribing lines of the LED chips, the light extraction efficiency of the CSS-LED structure was 
increased to have a higher light output power and to change the far-field radiation patterns.  The 
relationship between the cone-shaped-sidewall structure and the light extraction efficiency was 
analyzed in detail. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL 
InGaN-based LED structures were grown on a polished optical-grade C-face (0001) 
In Fig. 2, the light output power and the operation voltage as functions of the DC injection 
current were measured.  The light output power of the CSS-LED had a 12% enhancement 
compared with the ST-LED at a 20mA operating current.  The operation voltages of the both 
LED samples were almost the same at the value of 3.3V at 20mA.  This is because the treated 
region after the laser scribing and lateral wet etching processes was far from the mesa region and 
the metal contact regions of the CSS-LED structure.     
At 20mA, the far-field radiation patterns and the light enhanced ratio of both LED samples 
were measured from the normal direction (θ=0°) to the back-side direction (θ=180°) as seen in 
Fig. 3(a) and Fig. 3(b).  The emission wavelengths of both LEDs were measured at 475nm with 
a 25nm line-width for the integrated intensity analysis.  The radiation pattern for the ST-LED is 
nearly the same as the Lambertian emission pattern at the front side of an LED chip.  The 
radiation pattern of the CSS-LED is different from the ST-LED in that the light emission intensity 
was higher in the front-side and was lower in one part of the back-side.  The light output power 
at the front-side of the LED chip was calculated by summing up the light emission intensity from 
0o to 90o detected angles.  The enhanced ratio of light output power at the front-side (from θ=0° 
to 90°) and the back-side (from θ=90° to 180°) were calculated as values of 1.28 and 0.92 times 
compared to the ST-LED.  The total light enhanced ratio of the CSS-LED was 1.1 times higher 
compared to the ST-LED when summing up the light emission intensity from all directions (0o to 
180o detected angles).  
The light enhanced ratios as a function of the detected angles are defined as the values of 
the light emission intensity of the CSS-LED divided by the ST-LED at each detected angle, as 
shown in Fig. 3(b).  The light enhanced ratio of the CSS-LED has its highest value (1.84) at the 
lateral direction (about 86°), but its light emission intensity is lower than the normal direction 
(θ=0°).  At the front-side of the LED chip, the higher enhanced ratio (about 1.28 times) was 
observed at the detected range of angles between 0o to 22o and the lowest enhanced ratio (about 
1.16 times) was observed at 46o.  At the back-side of the LED chip, the lower light emission 
intensity and lower enhanced ratio (below 1.0 times) were observed at the range of angles 
between 90o to 136o that might be caused by the total internal reflection that occurs at the inclined 
{ 1210 } stable planes of the CSS-LED structures.  Part of the light emitted from the InGaN/GaN 
MQW active layer was reflected by the inclined { 1210 } planes to enhance the higher light 
emission intensity at the front-side of the CSS-LED chip.  The CSS-LED structure has stable 
inclined { 1210 } planes and cone-shaped sidewall structures resulting in a higher light extraction 
efficiency at the range of angles between 152o to 180o.  This is because the light emission cones 
from the active layer and the light extraction cones on the inclined { 1210 } planes have a higher 
overlapping ratio that increases the light extraction efficiency.  The included angle of the 
inclined { 1210 } GaN planes and top GaN (0001) plane is 40.3o.  Strauss et al. 30 mention that 
the optimized chip side walls have vertical angles of 60o and a 55% higher percentage of light 
extraction in an ATON structure. This CSS-LED structure consists of inclined { 1210 } stable 
planes that can increase the light extraction efficiency in a similar way to the results on a 
GaN-based LED ATON structure through an SiC shaping substrate process.31  Chang et al.32 
reported that the ICP-etched wavelike side walls mainly enhance the light output at the horizontal 
directions.  The cone-shaped sidewall structure has a larger sidewall surface and a better light 
extraction angle on the chip sidewall that permit higher light extraction efficiency.  The light 
output power of CSS-LED increased at the front-side (1.28 times) and decreased at the back-side 
(0.92 times) of the chips.  After the chip-sidewall shaping process, a higher light extraction 
efficiency was observed in the CSS-LED structure that increased the external quantum efficiency.  
 The light intensity profiles of both LED samples at a 20mA operation current were 
measured by a beam profiler shown in Fig. 4.  The top-view and 45o bird-view of the light 
intensity patterns of both LED samples are shown in Fig. 4(a),(b) and Fig. 4(c),(d).  In the 
ST-LED structure, a higher light intensity was observed around the chip edge caused by the light 
scattering process from the laser scribing lines.  In the CSS-LED structure, a much higher light 
intensity was observed around the LED chip that has a larger light scattering process that occurs 
at the cone-shaped sidewall structure close to the laser scribing lines.  In both LED structures, 
the light intensity in the mesa regions on the ITO layer was almost the same.  A lower light 
intensity region on the ST-LED was observed in the ICP-etched n-type GaN:Si layer.  
Figure 1 The CSS-LED structures are observed in the SEM micrographs. (a). The laser scribing 
lines between each CSS-LED chip after the wet etching process. (b). The laser cutting 
width and depth are about 6.8μm and 21.6μm, respectively. (c). The cone-shaped sidewall 
structure of the LED is measured at the values of 4.57μm in height and 5.35μm in width.  
The stable crystallographic etching planes formed at the inclined GaN { 1210 } planes and 
the top GaN (0001) plane that are both included in the 40.3° angle. (d). The continuous 
cone-shaped sidewall structure close to the laser scribing lines is observed in the 
CSS-LED structure.
Figure 2 The light output power and operation voltage as functions of the DC injection current are 
measured at 20mA.  The light output power of the CSS-LED has a 12% enhancement 
compared with a ST-LED.  The operation voltages are almost the same at 3.3V. 
Figure 5 (a). The schematic diagram of the cone-shaped-sidewall InGaN-based LED structure is 
shown in this figure.  The regions of the LED structure are labeled as the TCL region 
(A), the mesa region without an ITO layer (B), the mesa sidewall (C), the ICP-etched 
GaN:Si layer (D), the chip sidewall (E), and the laser scribing lines (F).  (b).The light 
intensity profiles across the whole LED structures (along the x-axis direction) are 
measured to analyze the light emission properties of both LED structures. 
adding the laser decomposition process, the laser scribing process, and the crystallographic wet 
etching process was then defined as a roughened patterned backside LED (RPB-LED).  The 
chosen ST-LED and RPB-LED were both located at the 2” LED wafer center near the cleaved 
line to allow for analysis of the optical and electrical properties in more similar material 
properties.  The geometric morphology of these LED structures was observed through an optical 
microscopy and a scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and the optical properties of the samples 
were measured on micro-photoluminescence (μ-PL) spectra, with a 5μm-diameter laser spot size, 
using a 30mW, 325 nm He–Cd laser as the excited source. The μ-PL spectra, electroluminescence 
(EL) spectra, and light-output power were characterized by an optical spectrum analyzer 
(Ando-6315A) and a precision semiconductor parameter analyzer (Agilent 4156C). The 
light-intensity profiles that went across the whole LED sample were measured by a beam profiler 
(Spiricon: number of effective pixels: 1600×1200 pixels). 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The schematic of the RPB-LED structure and the process steps are shown in Fig. 1(a). The 
fabrication steps consisted of a backside laser decomposition process, a front-side laser scribing 
process, and a lateral crystallographic wet etching process that formed an inverted pyramidal 
structure at the grid line region close to the GaN/Al2O3 interface. From the cross-section SEM 
micrographs shown in Fig. 1(b) and (c), the inverted pyramidal-shaped structures were observed 
at the laser decomposition grid line after the crystallographic wet etching process. The GaN 
buffer layer decomposed as Ga metal and N2 gas through the laser decomposition process. After 
the laser scribing process at the chip cutting line that provided the wet etching channel, the laser 
decomposition line was etched as a grid channel structure and a roughened N-face GaN surface 
was achieved through the crystallographic wet etching process in a hot KOH solution. The 
inverted pyramidal structure didn’t have any contact with the bottom sapphire substrate at the 
grid line channel region of the roughened patterned backside on the N-face GaN surface at the 
GaN/Al2O3 interface.  
The highest chemical activity of the ( 1000 ) lattice plane was on the N-face GaN:Mg layer. 
The bottom-up etching process occurred on the N-face GaN:Mg layer vertically along the [0001] 
direction. However, because the { 1110 } face group of the GaN:Mg layer has the most stable 
lattice planes with the lowest surface energy,44,45 anisotropic etching occurs with a continuous 
consumption of the ( 1000 ) N-face and the gradual exposure of the non-etched stable { 1110 } 
terminal faces of the GaN:Mg layer. The stable crystallographic planes were formed as GaN 
{ 1110 } planes and included on an angle with the top GaN (0001) plane calculated at 58o. 
The optical microscopy images of the ST-LED and the RPB-LED are shown in Fig. 2(a)(b). 
After the crystallographic wet etching process, the treated grid lines that went across the LED 
chip were observed as a lightly-colored region that was caused by a high light-scattering 
phenomenon that occurred on the roughened patterned backside surface at the GaN/Al2O3 
interface. The grid line width was measured at 20µm with a roughened backside surface. The 
GaN buffer layer acted as the sacrificial layer for the laser decomposition process and the lateral 
wet etching process with a 26 μm/min etching rate. The light-intensity profiles of both LED 
samples at a 20mA operation current were measured by a beam profiler shown in Fig. 2(c)(d). In 
the ST-LED structure, light intensity is distributed uniformly on the whole LED mesa region. In 
both LED structures, the light intensity was almost the same in the mesa regions on the ITO layer 
without the backside crystallographic wet etching process. In the RPB-LED structure, a higher 
light-intensity was observed at the grid line regions, and at the gridline regions, a larger 
light-scattering process occurred on the roughened patterned backside N-face GaN surface.    
To analyze the optical properties of the RPB-LED structure, a laser beam was focused on 
the mesa region with (at the grid line region) and without (at the square center) a roughened 
backside surface to excite the InGaN active layer for a µ-PL measurement where the top ITO 
TCL layer was removed in order to have the same laser excitation power density.  The laser spot 
size (5μm-diameter) and the excitation power density (153 kW/cm2 ) were the µ-PL measuring 
conditions. In Fig. 3(a), the peak wavelength and the relative emission-intensity of the µ-PL 
spectra were measured at 458.6nm (84.6 nW), 457.6nm (63.5 nW), and 460.6nm (46.2 nW) for 
the RPB-LED with the roughened patterned backside surface, the RPB-LED without the 
roughened patterned backside surface, and the ST-LED, respectively. The PL emission-light 
Fig. 1. (a) The schematic diagram of the RPB-LED structure with the roughened patterned backside 
on the N-face GaN surface is shown here. (b)(c) The cross-sectional SEM micrographs of the 
RPB-LED are observed at a 45-degree tilted angle. The grid lateral etching channel and the 
inverted pyramidal structure are observed at the bottom of the LED structure close to the 
GaN/Al2O3 interface. 
Fig. 2. The optical microscopy images of the (a) ST-LED and (b) RPB-LED are shown in these 
figures where the grid-line pattern close to GaN/Al2O3 interface is observed in the RPB-LED 
structure. The light-intensity profiles of the (c) ST-LED and (d) the RPB-LED at a 20mA 
operation current are measured by a beam profiler. 
 
研究成果發表： 
 
國際研討會論文： 
C.-F. Lin, C.-M. Lin, C.-C. Yang, “Fabricated the deep cone-shaped structure of InGaN-based 
light-emitting diodes by using the laser shaping process”, The 5th International Congress on 
Laser Advanced Materials, Kobe, Japan on June 29 - July 2, 2009. 
SCI 論文發表： 
Chia-Feng Lin*, Chun-Min Lin, Chung-Chieh Yang, Wei-Kai Wang, Yu-Chieh Huang, 
Jien-An Chen, and Ray-Hua Horng, “InGaN-Based Light-Emitting Diodes with a Cone-Shaped 
Sidewall Structure Fabricated Through a Crystallographic Wet Etching Process”, Electrochem. 
Solid-State Lett., Volume 12, Issue 7, pp. H233-H237, (2009). 
Chia-Feng Lin*, Chun-Min Lin, Kuei-Ting Chen, Wan-Chun Huang, Ming-Shiou Lin, Jing-Jie 
Dai, Ren-Hao Jiang, and Yu-Chieh Huang, “Blue Light-Emitting Diodes with a Roughened 
Backside Fabricated by Wet Etching”, accepted for Appl. Phys. Lett. 2009.10.21.


  
Accepted for Appl. Phys. Lett. 2009.10.21 
 
  
