行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
新世代生醫腦-機電-界面用奈米碳管-多電極陣列晶片之研
發 
 
計畫類別：□個別型計畫   整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2627-E-007-002 
執行期間： 96  年 8 月 1  日至 99  年 7 月  31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立清華大學生命科學系 
 
計畫主持人：張兗君 
共同主持人：游萃蓉、陳新 
計畫參與人員：葉世榮、方維倫、饒達仁、傅建中、盧向成、
馬席彬 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  完
整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
英文摘要 
    This project aims to fabricate multielectrode arrays with the following features: (1) 
stability for long-term implantation into human cortex, (2) high biocompatibility and 
low or no cell toxicity to brain tissues, (3) durable capability of recording neural 
activities and delivering electric stimuli to neural tissues, (4) built-in 
stimulation/recording selection switch and pre-amplifier IC units, and (5) 
miniaturization the electrodes and accessories in size. These aims will be achieved by 
integration of the technologies encompassing neural electrophysiology, IC design and 
fabrication, MEMS technology, electrochemistry and materials science. Since the 
biocompatibility and sensitivity durability will be improved by incorporating carbon 
nanotubes (CNT) on the electrode surface, the multielectrode arrays designed and 
fabricated by us are named as CNT-coupled multielectrode arrays, or cMEA in short. 
    During the grant year period, we have accomplished the following work items: 
(1) Establishment of rat brain activity recording system. This system has been used 
along with the already developed crayfish nerve cord recording system in testing 
the performance of the neural probe developed by the team. 
(2) Development of silicon-based and glass-based 3-dimensional cMEA probes.  
(3) Development of chips containing the 16 channel pre-amplifier and stimulation 
circuits and the multiplexer circuit. The performance of these chips has also been 
tested in the biological activity platforms. 
(4) Development of the connection between the neural probes and the 
pre-amplifier/stimulation chips. 
(5) The hardware and software for controlling the pre-amplifier/stimulation chips and 
data acquisition/analysis. 
Since each of the abovementioned parts have already been tested individually, we have 
already started working on the assembly of these parts into cMEA unit and the test for 
the performance of the assembled units. 
 
 
中文摘要 
本計畫目標於製成具下列特徵之多電極陣列:(一)能長期穩定植入於人類大
腦；(二)具高度生物相容性與低細胞毒性；(三)能長期記錄神經活動並能對神經
組織施予刺激；(四)具內建式刺激記錄選擇器與前放大器線路；(五)電極與相關
機具體積小。上述目標利用結合神經電生理、IC設計製成、MEMS技術、電化學以
及材料科學等領域知識科技達成。由於電極表面均以奈米碳管包覆以增進其生物
1. BACKGROUND AND SPECIFIC AIMS 
A brain could be considered as a very complex network consisting of large 
numbers (10
12
-10
14
) neurons which are interconnected to each other at a subcellular 
specialization called synapse. Neurons employ the voltage differences (from several to 
nearly 100 mV) between the inside and outside of their membrane to transmit signals 
not only between different regions within a single neuron but also between different 
neurons. As a result, electrodes of different configurations and made from various 
materials have been used as one of the major tools for studying the brain function. 
Electric stimulation has long been known as an effective way to affect brain function, 
such as inducing muscle twitches, behaviors, memory retrieval and changes in mood 
and social behaviors, and as an effective therapeutic technique in physical 
rehabilitation, such as the Deep Brain Stimulation used for treating various brain 
disorders. By coupling the techniques employing electrodes (also called 
electrophysiology) with other molecular and imaging means, neuroscientists have 
made great advances in our understanding over our brain at the molecular and cellular 
level in the past decades. 
Many studies have indicated that the brain functions, such as that direct the 
voluntary movement of skeletal muscles, are encoded as distinct temporal activity 
patterns of ensembles of neurons in the brain. Therefore, to understand how a 
physiological function is encoded and decoded by our brain, one would have to look at 
the activity patterns of a large number of neurons in a free-moving and un-anesthetized 
subject, in order to identify the signature pattern related to this particular function. This 
has thus prompted the design and production of a number of multi-electrode recording 
systems that are capable of recording the activities of a large number of neurons 
simultaneously. By using these systems, we have gained great insights about how the 
brain functions, such as the function of NMDA receptors in place cells in rat 
hippocampus. As the neuroscience research has gradually advanced into the “systems” 
level from the molecular and cellular levels, multi-electrode systems (or arrays) will 
become an indispensable tool for neural scientists not only in academics but also in 
pharmaceutical industry.  
In addition to the demand for neuroscience research, a clinically oriented field of 
neuroscience, the development of Brain-Machine-Interface, also needs 
high-performance multi-electrode units. It has long been envisioned that if one could 
decode and extract the signature signals from brain activity for different physiological 
functions, brain activity could then be used as a means to drive exogenous machines, 
such as robot limbs through a computer, or elicit physiological functions by sending 
stimuli back to the brain. This kind of devices has been generally named as 
Brain-Machine-Interface (BMI). Since the patterns of ensembles of neurons are 
2. RESULTS 
 
1. Improving the biocompatibility and durability of electrode by coating with nano 
carbotubes 
a. Nano carbotubes are excellent material for interfacing metal electrode surface 
and nervous tissues. 
 
b. Methodology for coating metal electrode surface with CNT at low temperatures 
2. Fabrication of electrodes with varied geometries and with different materials and 
validation of electrodes’ capability of detecting neural signals 
a. Si-based multiple electrodes 
 
b. 3-D Si-and glass-based electrodes 
a. Overall design of the chip containing 16-channel recording, stimulating and 
control circuitries. 
 
b. Chip layout 
 
 e. Recording trace of crayfish by a glass probe via an amplifier chip. 
 
f. Using the above-mentioned electrode/chip platform to record neural activities 
h. Recording trace of neural activities by using a Si probe via an amplifier chip. 
 
  
    In the grant period of three years, this team has published a total of 10 papers in 
well respected journals. At least three papers has already submitted to journals and 
under review at present. A total of six patents have been filed with one already been 
granted. Publications and patents are listed as following. Members of this team have 
reported our results in a total 24 international conferences with reports appearing in 
different proceedings. 
(Sorrento, Italy, 25-29 Jan 2009) pp 200-3 
2. Lin C-M, Lee Y-T, Yeh S-R and Fang W 2009 Flexible carbon nanotubes electrode 
for neural recording IEEE Transducers 2009 (Denver, USA, 21-25 Jun 2009) pp 
2266-29 
3. Lee Y-T, Lin C-W, Lin C-M, Yeh S-R, Chang Y-C, Fu C-C and Fang W 2009 A 3D 
glass microprobe array with embedded silicon for alignment and electrical 
connection IEEE Transducers 2009 (Denver, USA, 21-25 Jun 2009) pp 2262-65 
4. Chen, Y.C., Lee, Y.T., Yeh, S.R., and Chen, H.*, “A Bidirectional, Flexible 
Neuro-electronic Interface Employing Localised Stimulation to Reduce Artifacts”, 
The 4
th
 Inter. Conf. on Neural Eng.,2009 
6. Huan-Chieh Su, Chang-Hsiao Chen, Yung-Chan Chen, Da-Jeng Yao, and Tri-Rung 
Yew (2009) Low Temperature Synthesis of Multi-walled Carbon Nanotubes and 
Hydrophilic Enhancement by Plasma Treatment Joint symposium on material 
science and engineering for the 21st century, 2009/9/17~2009/9/20 
6. Shiang-Jie  Yen,  Huan-Chieh  Su,  Wei-Lun  Hsu,  Hsin  Chen,  Wei-Leun 
Fang, Shih-Rung Yeh, Yen-Chung Chang, and Tri-Rung Yew (2009) Biocompatible 
CNTs as Electrodes for Neural Sensing. 2009 MRS spring meeting, 
2009/4/13-2009/4/17. 
7. H. C. Su, H. C., N. Y. Wu, Y. Y Chen, H. Chen
, 
W. Fang, S. R. Yeh, Y. C. Chang, P. 
Chang, and T. R. Yew*, A Novel Carbon Nanotube Nano-probe, accepted for oral 
presentation by Materials Research Society Symposium, Spring (2007) 
8. H. C. Su, C. H. Chen, Y. C. Chen, D. J. Yao, and T. R, Yew*, Temperature Synthesis of 
Multi-walled Carbon Nanotubes and Hydrophilic Enhancement by Plasma Treatment, 
NT08, Ninth International Conference on the Science and Application of Nanotubes, 
Le Corum, Montpellier, France, June 29 - July 4 (2008).  
9. Chang-Hsiao Chen, Shih-Chang Chuang, Yu-Tao Lee, Shih-Rung Yeh, and Da-Jeng 
Yao, “3D Flexible Microprobe for Recording the Neural Signal”, IEEE 3rd Annual 
International Conference Nano/Molecular Medicine Engineering (IEEE Nanomed), 
Tainan, Taiwan, Oct. 18-21, 2009. 
10. C.H. Chen, H.C. Su, S.C. Chuang, S.J. Yen, Y.C. Chen, Y.T. Lee, T.R. Yew, H. 
Chen, S.R. Yeh, Y.C. Chang, and Da-Jeng Yao, “Hydrophilic modification of 
multi-walled carbon nanotubes based neural microelectrode array”, IEEE 
Transducer09, Denver, USA, Jun. 22-26, 2009. 
11. (Invited) Da-Jeng Yao, “Silicon based multi-electrode array for neural signal 
measurement”, International Workshop on Neuromorphic Systems and Neural 
Prostheses, National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan, May 20-21, 2009. 
12. C.H. Chen, H.C. Su, S.C. Chuang, S.J. Yen, Y.C. Chen, Y.T. Lee, T.R. Yew, H. 
Chen, S.R. Yeh, Y.C. Chang, and Da-Jeng Yao, “Hydrophilic modification of 
multi-walled carbon nanotubes based neural microelectrode array”, IEEE 
Transducer09, Denver, USA, Jun. 22-26, 2009. 
13, Huan-Chieh Su, Chang-Hsiao Chen, Yung-Chan Chen, Da-Jeng Yao, and Tri-Rung 
Yew, “Low Temperature Synthesis of Multi-walled Carbon Nanotubes and 
Hydrophilic Enhancement by Plasma Treatment,” Ninth International Conference 
on the Science and Application of Nanotubes, Le Corum, Montpellier, France, 
June 29 - July 4, 2008 
1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內研究生出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                               98 年 12  月 22  日 
報告人姓名  
蘇煥傑 
 
就讀校院 
（科系所） 
清華大學材料科學與工程□博士班研究生 
 
                     □碩士班研究生 
   時間 
   會議 
   地點 
2009/11/30~2009/12/04    
波士頓  (美國 ) 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC-98-2922-I-007-319 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2009 年材料研究學會秋季會議 
 (英文) 2009 MRS Fall Meeting 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)奈米碳管探針應用於神經細胞訊號記錄 
 (英文) Carbon Nanotube Nano-probe for Neural Recording 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
    2009 年舉辦於波士頓的 Material Research Society 秋季研討會，會議時間從 11/30-12/4 一共五
天，內容包含半導體電子材料、奈米科學與技術、能源和環境、奈微材料、生醫材料等等，共 51 種
不同領域的研究議題。會議分白天不同類型的 invited talk 與各領域的 oral presentation，晚上則是排
定不同領域的海報展示與討論，為研究材料科學與工程最大盛會。 
 
二、與會心得 
學生很榮幸能參與 2009 年舉辦於波士頓的 Material Research Society 秋季研討會，symposium 
SS: “Biosurfaces and Biointerfaces”內容是有關於先端電子材料運用於生醫物介面，我則是於該議題
中發表我們團隊的研究成果，其題目為“奈米碳管探針應用於神經細胞訊號記錄”，由於奈米碳管其
優異特性，如奈米尺度、生物相容性高、極佳之電導性等，而引起廣泛討論，更是從與會者的建議，
吸取諸多寶貴意見及未來應用，以下並介紹其他運用於生物介面的國外研究團隊報告。 
    Symposium SS 議題包括:生物電子、生物偵測技術、lipid、DNA、cell、proteins、bacteria 等生
物對生物電子的介面探討，Prof. Andreas Offenhaeusser 指出優越的生物電子元件必頇具備低雜訊的
生物訊號記錄能力，具有刺激生物細胞的能力，並且能有效地在生物系統(cellular system)和電子元
件間聯結(coupling) 。 
Prof. Cristian Staii 則是提出利用 AFM 在 PEG/Au 表面上定義圖案，然後利用物理吸附方式沉
積 protein (ex. Poly-D-lysine、laminin)，來引導 cortical neurons 的成長，結果顯示此種技術可以有
效定位和聯結神經細胞，對於神經網路工程及神經元件有顯著貢獻。 
Dr. Erkin Seker 則是成功製作出低阻抗奈米孔洞金電極陣列，因為阻抗和探針表面積成反比，
所以在同樣的 footprint 之下，探針的表面奈米化，將有助於大幅下降界面阻抗，提高訊號對雜訊比
值 (signal to noise ratio)，結果顯示在生物量測訊號 1 kHz 之下，相對於傳統金電極的 900 k，奈
米孔洞金電極可以下降至 65 k。 
3 
 
 
5 
 
 
7 
 
 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 
 
Biosensors 是生醫感測器領域非常重要的會議，每兩年舉辦一次，是由此領域最重要的期刊
Biosensors and Bioelectronics 主辦，今年是第十屆，歷經共二十個年頭。上一屆在中國的上海，下
一屆將移至墨西哥的 Cancun 舉辦。我是第一次參加此會議，主要在於我從事 biosensor 研究已有三
年，雖然之前所參與研討會皆有相關議題，但尚未參加過全是以 biosensor 為主題的會議。我的背
景在於電機，作的是與 biosensor 有關的硬體，因此十分想看看在此會議上不同面向的研究，相信
會對於我未來研究的走向有所助益及靈感上的啟發。我在會議的前一天早上抵達 Glasgow，之前發
生一段小插曲：由於英國航空臨時罷工，旅行社好不容易臨時找到替代航班才讓一切行程都進行圓
滿順利。開會會場是 Scotish exhibition and conference center，離我所住旅館走路約五分鐘。雖然此
時是英國的夏天，由於其緯度較高，溫度上感覺是台灣的冬天。 
三天會議的早上都是由兩場 keynote speech 開始，集中在最大的會議場地，之後就分為四個同
時進行的會議，會議參加者就有許多選擇，但可能同時都想聽的演講必頇其中擇一。較有趣的演講
可能吸引較多觀眾，但規定會場中為了安全起見不能站著聽演講，所以坐滿了便不能進去，這倒是
我參加研討會以來首次聽聞。第一天第一場 keynote 是由 Prof. Patricia Connolly 主講 Minimum 
invasive monitoring，提到 glucose 感測仍是市場 85%的主力，主要公司如 Medtronic, Dextom, Abbot
等。Glucose 感測最早是由 Leland Clark 所發明的 oxygen electrode 來進行，一般仍頇抽血來進行。
由非侵入式、所謂 transdermal 來進行一直是研究上的興趣，過去曾有用所謂的 Glucowatch、經由
gel electrode 來量測 dc current、以決定血醣之濃度，但穩定性一直是一個問題。Prof. Connolly 最後
提到一些方式、像是 ultrasound (sonophoresis), microneedle 來作 transdermal 量測，她花了一些時間
著墨較多的是以 impedance 方式所做的量測，其有一些先期結果，但穩定性如何仍有待觀察。第二
場 keynote 蠻精彩，主講人是 Cornell Univ.的 Prof. Craighead，相信作奈微機電領域的學者都知道他，
常在 Science 或 Nature 寫文章，還是美國國家工程院士，我很高興第一次在此會議看到他，聽他講
述關於 single molecule 感測的研究。他的演講重點放在以光學式、所謂 zero-mode waveguide 作 DNA 
sequencing，這是他所著名的研究。之後他有提到用 cantilever 及 graphene 材料的 cantilever 作感測，
我眼睛忽然又隨之一亮。Graphene（石墨）是單一原子層，是繼奈米探管後學術界有興趣的新材料，
我最近還在與所上邱博文教授提到相關的合作。Prof. Craighead 提到的是用 graphene cantilever 作
molecule binding 後的質量變化感測，事實上我們有興趣作 graphene transistor，利用離子感測效應
來作感測，這一部份我也有在會場看到日本團隊作 pH 的應用感測。Keynote speech 之後我選擇
13 
 
semiconductor 利用 65 nm 製程，製作出 65536 個二維陣列電容式感測電極，單一電極尺寸只有 130 
nm，應用在 single molecule detection。雖然他們目前僅以 polystyrene bead 作測試，所得到的感測
解析度達 0.05 aF，是非常好的感測表現。 
 
這是我第一次參加 Biosensors 每兩年舉辦的研討會，感覺收穫十分豐碩，學習到 bio 的研究學
者是如何規劃進行研究，不同於我們作硬體的，以量測到訊號為主要，他們常需要作量測訊號的比
對驗證，甚至在更複雜的環境量測以確立感測的專一性。當然會場也有許多作硬體感測器的論文，
感受得到目前研究的走向，也確定我們所做的研究是世界一流，毫不遜色的。期待未來有更多的電
機系參與此跨領域研究的盛會，兩年後在墨西哥見！ 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張兗君 計畫編號：98-2627-E-007-001- 
計畫名稱：新世代生醫腦-機電-界面用奈米碳管-多電極陣列晶片之研發(3/3) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 10 12 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 24 24 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 5 5 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 19 19 100%  
博士生 12 12 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
