英文摘要
A modified scheme in probabilistic packet marking (PPM) for IP traceback against
distributed denial-of-service attack is presented. This method, ID-based PPM, is proposed
to improve the original PPM’s complexity of fragments combination through clustering 
these fragments in advance. Furthermore, by reducing the time of fragments combination,
the attacking path reconstruction and attack response time can also be speeded up.
Keyword: Network Security, DDoS, PPM, IP traceback
中文摘要
分散式阻斷服務攻擊(DDoS)對於現今的網際網路是最嚴重的安全威脅之ㄧ，攻
擊者經由耗盡主機或網路資源，來達到阻絕或降低合法使用者應有的服務。此種攻擊
因易於施行、難於預防及追蹤，因此，最近幾年來，已成為網路攻擊方式之大宗。目
前，針對解決或減緩 DDoS 攻擊已有多種機制被提出，如:攻擊路徑追蹤(IP traceback)。
本計劃著重在攻擊路徑追蹤(IP traceback)之研究，以期許找出攻擊來源，達到治
本的方法。目前相關研究論文中，以機率式封包標記法(PPM)為較優秀的方法，因為
該方法能實現事後追蹤、不需耗用額外網路頻寬、不佔用路由器的儲存空間，且也不
會增加所傳送封包的大小。
然 PPM 亦存在四個有待改善之議題，本計劃針對其中一個問題─PPM 強健度
(Robustness)來改善，亦即改良現有 PPM 路徑重建運算負荷和增加 PPM 的強健度。
我們提出一個具有身分識別功能的機率式封包標記法(ID-based PPM，IDPPM)，使所
蒐集到的攻擊路徑片段能更快速地被分群並重組，事先分群的作為，能減低於 DDoS
攻擊下原 PPM 因使用暴力法重組攻擊路徑片段時易產生的誤判狀況(false positive)，
此誤判將導致 PPM 建出錯誤攻擊路徑。故本研究藉由降低誤判狀況來強健 PPM，使
得 PPM 追蹤能更快建出攻擊路徑，而其他議題也期望在未來逐一改善。透過改良
PPM，也將能更完善地防制分散式阻斷服務攻擊。
關鍵詞：分散式阻斷服務攻擊、攻擊路徑追蹤、網路安全、機率式封包標記
(本研究成果發表於
2006 International Conference on Innovative Computing, Information and Control)
The original PPM can not perform very well under 
DDoS attacks [3], because the victim re-organizes 
fragments only according to the distance field. Under 
DDoS attacks, there may be many routers at the same 
distance, so PPM has to try to combine fragments in a 
bruce-force manner resulting in enormous computing 
overhead. The reconstruction procedure is 
demonstrated in Fig.2 [2] [3]. 
 
 
Fig.2: The reconstruction procedure 
 
Hence, the huge computing overhead will delay the 
reconstruction procedure and the response to DDoS 
attacks. Moreover, the rate of false positive , a path 
that does not take part in an attack but it is 
reconstructed by a traceback mechanism, will increase 
under DDoS attacks as well, because tremendous 
marked packets may come from different routers in the 
same distance, and one hash value may be correctly 
verified in a wrong combination situation. It's the 
inherent problem of the hash collision. Considering 
these problems mentioned above, an improved PPM 
will be proposed. 
This proposed method can embed the same 
identification code into 8 marked packets produced 
from the same router, and the identification code can 
be used to link all the fragments among the same edge 
information at the same distance. Since they have the 
same identification code, this will help the 
reconstruction procedure cluster fragments, and makes 
the reconstruction of edges from the fragments 
efficient. The same identification code is also helpful 
to avoid the wrong combinations resulting in the false 
positive.  
Therefore, this paper will promote the victim's 
grouping/clustering ability in order to improve the 
response time to DDoS attacks and reconstruct more 
precise attack paths for advancing the PPM's 
robustness. 
 
2. Probabilistic Packet Marking 
 
In this section, the basic operation of PPM is 
described and some symbols are defined as well. 
Let X _ IPaddr denote the IP address of router X. 
Because the router’s IP address is divided into 8 
fragments, the value of every fragment is denoted as 
X_ IPaddri, where i is a index ranged from 1 to 8. The 
IP address of router X can also be written as follows: 
X_IPaddr=[X_IPaddr1, X_IPaddr2, …X_IPaddr8]    (1) 
The hash value of edge information, used to verify 
the integrity of the reconstructed edge, is shown as 
follows: 
X_IPhash= f (X_IPaddr) =  
[X_IPhash1, X_IPhash2, …, X_IPhash8]             (2) 
, where f is a certain selected hash function. The 
relative hash value is divided into 8 fragments, too. 
However, the hash verification is utilized after the 
reconstruction, thus the hash value can not help the 
victim cluster fragments. Then, we utilize Fig.3 to 
define and describe other symbols.  
If router R1 determines to mark a packet, it inserts 
certain fragment data into ID field of this selected 
packet. According to Fig.2, the content of fragment 
contains: fragment of IP address, relative hash value 
fragment, offset/index of the fragment, and the 
distance from the victim. The distance is initialized as 
zero. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.3: A simplified attack path 
 
Let R1_fragi denote the 8-bits fragment, and R1_IDi 
denote the mark value inserted into the selected packet 
by router R1: 
R1_IDi= [offset, distance, R1_fragi ] 
= [i , 0 ,  R1_IPaddri R☉ 1_IPhashi ]               (3) 
Here, the notation ⊙  is used as the interleaving 
operator and denotes the interleaving operation 
between IP address fragment value and hash fragment 
value. 
When marked packet from router R1 flows through 
router R2, if router R2 does not re-mark this packet, 
