developed knowledge objects are associated with 
conceptual elements defined within the ontology of 
the knowledge portal. The practice platform we chose 
to generate the Site-And-Concept (SAC) map was a 
locally developed knowledge portal, dubbed Open 
Computational Problem Solving (OpenCPS, 
http://www.opencps.org). Nevertheless, the knowledge 
relations inside the OpenCPS were recorded by other 
hard-coded objects according to rigorous mathematical 
proofs. Development of the SAC map generator is thus 
comparatively easy and may limit the practice value 
in general. In this project, we successfully realized 
the goal to develop concept map supported e-learning 
environments on knowledge portals. We firstly 
developed a new map generator that can construct the 
group knowledge concept map automatically on basis of 
common referenced bibliography and web content over 
the Internet； therefore, the application value for 
use can be extended to various research domains. 
Sequentially, we used this map generator as a mediate 
tool to produce SCORM-compliant course packages with 
supports of sequencing and navigation. By doing this, 
the course assets can be well organized and 
the ’cognitive disconnection problem’ in the 
integration of knowledge management and e-learning 
processes can be properly settled. 
英文關鍵詞： knowledge portal, group knowledge, sitemap, concept 
map, knowledge management, e-learning 
 
2TABLE I
INTEGRATION OF CONCEPT MAPS AND WEB TECHNOLOGIES:
THE CATEGORY MATRIX REFLECTS KNOWLEDGE PRESENTATION AND CONCEPT MAP ROLES.
Knowledge Presentation
User-Orient Content-Orient
Roles of Con-
cept Maps
Using Existing
Concept Maps
Sharing Cognitive Space
for Group Learning [33]
Developing an Online Help
Interface by a Given Con-
ceptual Framework [14]
To Construct
Concept Maps
Extracting Expert Knowl-
edge [2], [8]
Displaying the Fromation
of Group Knowledge [37]
Fig. 1. Concept map example. The knowledge domain covers the research
topics around “Protein Structure” and “NMR Backbone Resonance Assign-
ment.”
developed knowledge portal, called Open Computational Prob-
lem Solving (OpenCPS, http://www.opencps.org) Knowledge
Portal.
III. BACKGROUND AND EXPERIMENTAL PLATFORM
We plan to develop an automatic concept map generator
to visualize the formation of group knowledge. According
to the generated maps, users can build and organize the
leaning assets following the axiom ontology of the knowledge
portal. The concept map generator is therefore the kernel to
build an efficient portal-based learning system. Herein, we
review previous research on integrating concept maps and Web
technologies, then introduce our system’s practice platform,
the OpenCPS knowledge portal.
A. Previous Research
Joseph Novak of Cornell University is credited with using
David Ausubel’s theories on the psychology of learning to
invent concept maps for organizing and representing knowl-
edge [25], [26]. Concept maps are collections of concepts or
propositions represented by circles or boxes and relationships
represented by lines connecting concepts or propositions [23].
As visual presentations of relationships among connected
concepts and propositions, concept maps are considered useful
learning and teaching tools [16], [39]. Figure 1 presents an
example of a concept map representing domain knowledge in
TABLE II
PORTAL SYSTEMS AND UNDERLYING WEB AND DATABASE
CONSTRUCTION PROCEDURES.
Platform,
Web Server,
Database
Portal (Content
Management
System, CMS)
Official Site
PHP, Apache, Atutor http://atutor.ca/
MySQL CMS Made http://www.
Simple cmsmadesimple.org/
Drupal http://drupal.org
Joomla! http://www.joomla.org
Moodle http://moodle.org
XOOPS http://www.xoops.org
Java, Tomcat, Liferay http://www.liferay.com/
MySQL Alfresco http://www.alfresco-
brighton.co.uk/
Python, Zope, Plone http://plone.org/
ZODB
C#, IIS, mojoPortal http://www.mojoportal
SQL/MySQL .com/
the area of bioinformatics. Propositions surrounding the “NMR
Backbone Resonance Assignment” allow learners to quickly
recognize research topic purposes and currently proposed
solutions.
Besides the traditional application on learning and education
processes, concept maps are now commonly integrated into
Web technologies. We categorize the integration research
activities as in Table I according to a matrix of knowledge
presentation and concept map roles. Existing concept maps can
be used to share cognitive space for group learning [33] and
to develop online help interfaces within specific conceptual
frameworks [14]. Additionally, a number of researchers are
looking into ways of extracting expert knowledge for use
in concept map construction [2], [8]. The last quadrant of
Table II presents the primary research of our work, i.e.,
to generate Site-And-Concept (SAC) maps for knowledge
portals. We have ever worked on displaying the sitemap of
the OpenCPS portal and thus to observe the concept map
of group knowledge. However, our previous work [21] was
comparatively easy because we hard-coded the relations be-
tween knowledge objects in the early version of the OpenCPS
portal. In this research, we plan to develop a map generator to
construct the SAC maps automatically on the basis of common
references. Although we still use the OpenCPS as the platform
for current experiments, the SAC map generator is potentially
useful in other research scopes because it gets rid of hard-
4Fig. 3. Design issues for an automatic SAC map generator. (a) Citation
network hierarchy structure, (b) four design issues to generate a map on the
basis of comment references.
main references to specific knowledge objects, (2) how to
extend reference lists according to assigned main references,
(3) how to assess knowledge relations and display links, and
(4) how to extend knowledge relation maps based on newly
discovered and added information.
The back-end search engine for our proposed map gener-
ator consists of a bibliography database of published papers
and their citation hierarchy structure. The database, which is
periodically updated using the CiteSeer library archive file, can
also be expanded via automatic Web searches using knowledge
object keywords. Users can select multiple bibliographic items
provided by the search engine database to assign references
to the “related publications” attribute of a knowledge object.
If the target reference cannot be found in the database,
users can immediately add new items to the attribute; the
new items are automatically inserted into the database. Our
proposed generator uses each knowledge object’s reference
list to determine group knowledge relationships, where the
reference list includes assigned main references and their
referenced papers – in other words, papers directly cited
by a main reference are also added to the reference list.
Using the hierarchy structure in Figure 3(a) as an example,
assigning paper D as a main reference automatically adds
associated references B and C; assigning main reference
E automatically adds associated references A, C and D,
but excludes B. When the reference list is extended, only
directly cited papers are considered – a criterion that reflects
the six degrees of freedom concept used to discuss social
networks [24], [17]. Avoiding a recursive association process
prevents over-association problems and maintains distinctions
among knowledge relations. Still, users are not blocked from
promoting associated references to primary papers by editing
the knowledge object’s attributes.
Object relationships are assessed based on “reference lists”
for each knowledge object. Two criteria with thresholds Tw
and Tp can be selected for determining the existence of
knowledge relationships. For criterion (a), the map generator
presents links between two knowledge objects M and N if
the number of references shared by M and N is not less than
the given threshold Tw. Criterion (b) requires the calculation
of probabilities p(N,M) and p(M,N), which respectively
represent the number of times the same reference appears on
the N and M reference lists. Next, the map generator indicates
a link between the two objects if max(p(N,M), p(M,N)) ≥
Tp. Knowledge objects can be viewed as goods in a store
and common references as transactions. From the data mining
perspective, criterion (b) is an approach to deriving an asso-
ciation rule from customer transaction behaviors [11], [15]. If
criterion (b) is selected, the default direction of a knowledge
relationship is from nodes with higher priorities to nodes with
lower priorities. Knowledge links can be further edited by
assigning labels, arrow direction, or other attributes.
Two meanings are provided for extending SAC maps based
on currently discovered maps. Users can right-click one object
node and select the “k-NN” function to insert the k nearest
neighbors of a target object into the existing map. Alter-
natively, users can utilize checkboxes for building what we
refer to as “transitive closure” – for example, if object L
is related to M and object M is related to object N , then
object L is perceived as being related to object N . Enabling
transitive closure means that additional object nodes cannot be
inserted into a map, but it also results in displays of additional
relationship links whose properties can be edited by users.
B. Map Generator Development
Our proposed SAC map generator combines the back-end
search engine and the front-end map monitor. We configure
the search engine as a special portal member and run it in the
background as an agent process; it can thereby query inner-
portal attributes (e.g., object names and keywords) to maintain
the underlying citation database, and then create another
object with bibliographic items for assigning main references
to knowledge objects. The agent process also provides an
application programming interface (API) for the front-end map
monitor for retrieving search results and link properties (e.g.,
directions and labels).
The front-end monitor is implemented by Java language;
therefore, it can be incorporated into any browser-enabled
environment. For example, the OpenCPS website was built
with Plone/Zope open source products [40] that support the
Python language for developing plug-in packages. We took
advantage of its easy-to-use plug-in property to insert a Data
Type Define (DTD) file to embed the SAC map monitor into
the OpenCPS view port (Fig. 4). The system snapshot shown in
Figure 5 contains five modules: content hierarchy of selected
objects, compound search panel, drawing panel, a full list,
and a set of control options. Module (a) in Figure 5 displays
the content hierarchy of involved objects. The first branches
connected to the workspace are problem categories, on which
knowledge objects and reference lists are layered. Module (b)
is a compound search panel that provides an efficient method
for selecting target problems. The panel supports searches
using keywords and predefined keyword categories. Users can
add search results that appear in another multiselect list to
the drawing panel-module (c). Drawing panel nodes can be
manually dragged to any space on the map as long as the
layout clearly presents the knowledge connection topology.
Clicking on these nodes opens related webpages. Right-clicks
on nodes trigger the “hide” and “k-NN” functions; right-clicks
on links provide user access to common references (Fig. 6) and
6Fig. 5. SAC map generator snapshot. The user interface is divided into five modules: (a) Content hierarchy of involved objects, (b) compound search panel,
(c) drawing panel, (d) a full list, (e) a set of control options.
Fig. 6. Right-clicking on any link gives users access to common references and to the link properties. This figure shows only the shared papers. Additionally,
users can use the link property editing functions to change the direction, label, state, and comments concerning the target relation link.
8Fig. 8. Complete map of current problem objects. We did not apply filtering or layout processes so that the figure could simulate an image of human
cognition without concept map supports. Under this messy situation, users can hardly make out any of the concept relations, much less to examine or learn
from this knowledge portal. In comparison, the SAC map generator is enormously promising to enhance the performance of a knowledge portal.
and Technology has published a Dictionary of Algorithms
and Data Structures [41] that formally defines over 1,000
computational problems. However, in the same manner as
other existing knowledge portals, both projects lack adequate
knowledge structures to display well-organized concept maps.
The OpenCPS knowledge portal structure described in this
research shows promise for arranging member-contributed
content. On the one hand, it applies a rigid workflow control
procedure [18] through which knowledge objects must be
accepted by a reviewer before being disseminated. These
knowledge management measures are designed to ensure
the “correctness” of group knowledge. On the other hand,
the proposed SAC map generator is an efficient method for
directing group knowledge towards “completeness”. The SAC
map makes the OpenCPS portal both useful for education and
expandable based on user feedback.
VI. KNOWLEDGE-PORTAL-BASED E-LEARNING SYSTEM
WITH CONCEPT MAP SUPPORT
The SAC map generator allows the members to exam-
ine the current knowledge formation by visualization. The
learner-mode and expert-mode operations have demonstrated
that the group knowledge of knowledge portals can serve
as an aggregation of content for learning purposes and get
enhanced from users’ feedback respectively. Furthermore in
this work, we even attempt to develop a modern manner for
integrating the concept map generator into knowledge-portal-
based e-learning systems. Figure 9 shows the basic idea, where
we follow the SCORM (Sharable Content Object Reference
Model) standard to convert a generated concept map to a
course package including the sharable content objects (SCOs)
and the properties for sequencing and navigation. To suggest
users an appropriate learning sequence, we take account of
near optimal solution algorithms to the ATSP (Asymmetric
Traveling salesman problems) such as the shortest-edge-first
algorithm accompanying with the 2-opt advancement.
Restated, the concept maps are generated automatically by
assessing the knowledge relationships based on the probability
of “shared referenced papers”. Assuming that two knowledge
objects (i.e., portal pages and nodes of the maps) M and
N have Q(M) and Q(N) referenced papers in the citation
database respectively and the number of shared referenced
papers is Q(M,N) = Q(N,M), we define the cross-reference
probabilities p(M,N) = Q(M,N)/Q(N) and p(N,M) =
Q(N,M)/Q(M). The map generator thereby indicates a link
between the two objects if max(p(N,M), p(M,N)) ≥ Tp,
where Tp is a threshold for mining this association rule.
Notably, the default arrow direction on the concept map is
from N to M if p(M,N) > p(N,M) and vice versa. The
probability is now also concerned to count the edge weight,
i.e., cost(M,N) = 1/p(M,N), for use in this work. Accord-
ingly, we approximate the solution for the ATSP corresponding
to the given concept map, and then figure out some learning
sequences of the learning package.
On converting a concept map to a course package, OpenCPS
switches to an edit form, as shown in Fig 10(a), for the user to
input the SCO names, select the SCORM version, and modify
the suggested learning sequence if necessary. For each SCO,
the user can also click “learning object metadata (lom)” tab
next to the “edit” tab on the same page to input the metadata.
Figure 10(b) shows that the sub-page within the “lom” tab
has deeper tabs binding to “general”, “lifecycle”, “technical”,
“rights”, and “educational” categories, for which the user can
fill out all the associated metadata. This work adopts the
SCORM standard, because SCORM clearly defines the format
of content object metadata and content aggregation manifest
files, and can therefore facilitate us in creating new content
types with relevant data columns. Content types following the
10
data. Data Min. Knowl. Discov., 9(2):147–170, 2004.
[12] D. Dicheva, C. Dichev, and D. Wang. Visualizing topic maps for e-
learning. In Proc. 5th IEEE International Conference on Advanced
Learning Technologies, pages 950–951, 2005.
[13] J. S. Edwards, D. Shaw, and P. M. Collier. Knowledge management
systems: finding a way with technology. Journal of Knowledge Man-
agement, 9:113 – 125, 2005.
[14] B. R. Gaines and M. L. G. Shaw. Web map: Concept mapping on the
Web. In Proc. 4th International World Wide Web Conference, pages
171–184, 1995.
[15] J. L. Herlocker, J. A. Konstan, L. G. Terveen, and J. T. Riedl. Evaluating
collaborative filtering recommender systems. ACM Trans. Inf. Syst.,
22(1):5–53, 2004.
[16] G.-J. Hwang. A conceptual map model for developing intelligent
tutoring systems. Computer & Education, 40(3):217–235, 2003.
[17] D. E. Johnson, P. Willemsen, and E. Cohen. Six degree-of-freedom hap-
tic rendering using spatialized normal cone search. IEEE Transactions
on Visualization and Computer Graphics, 11(6):661–670, 2005.
[18] D. T. Lee, G. C. Lee, and Y. W. Huang. Knowledge management for
computational problem solving. Journal of Universal Computer Science,
9(6):563–570, 2003.
[19] D. E. Leidner and M. Fulle. Improving student learning of conceptual
information: Gss supported collaborative learning vs. individual con-
structive learning. Decision Support Systems, 20(2):149–163, 1997.
[20] T. Ley, S. N. Lindstaedt, and D. Albert. Integration of e–learning and
knowledge management – barriers, solutions and future issues. Lecture
Notes in Artificial Intelligence, 3782:189–202, 2005.
[21] Y. L. Lin, J. D. Wei, G. C. Lee, and D. T. Lee. A visualization
tool for the sitemap of a knowledge portal and the concept map of
group knowledge. In Proc. 5rd International Conference on Knowledge
Management, pages 179–186. 2005.
[22] M. Mase, S. Yamada, and K. Nitta. Semiautomatic extraction of
topic maps from web pages using clustering with web contents and
structure. In Proc. 2007 IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference
on Web Intelligence and International Conference on Intelligent Agent
Technology, pages 208–211, 2007.
[23] R. McAleese. The knowledge arena as an extension to the concept map:
Reflection in action. Interactive Learning Environments, 6(3):251–272,
1998.
[24] W. A. McNeely, K. D. Puterbaugh, and J. J. Troy. Six degree-of-
freedom haptic rendering using voxel sampling. In SIGGRAPH ’05:
ACM SIGGRAPH 2005 Courses, pages A42–A49, 2005.
[25] J. D. Novak. The theory underlying concept maps and to construct them.
http://cmap.coginst.uwf.edu/info/printer.html, 2000.
[26] J. D. Novak and D. B. Gowin. Learning How to Learn. Cornell
University Press, 1984.
[27] S. Y. Okita and D. L. Schwartz. When observation beats doing: learning
by teaching. In Proc. 7th international conference on Learning sciences,
pages 509–515, 2006.
[28] V. V. Phoha. An interactive dynamic model for integrating knowledge
management methods and knowledge sharing technology in a traditional
classroom. In Proc. 32th SIGCSE technical symposium on Computer
Science Education, pages 144–148, 2001.
[29] M. Pollock. Basic mechanics: learning by teaching - an increase
in student motivation (a small scale study with technology education
students). In Proc. 35th Annual Frontiers in Education, pages T2F/12–
17, 2005.
[30] E. Ras, M. Memmel, and S. Weibelzahl. Integration of e–learning and
knowledge management – barriers, solutions and future issues. Lecture
Notes in Artificial Intelligence, 3782:155–164, 2005.
[31] N. H. J. Razzouki. Perception of e-learning and knowledge management:
a trend toward integration. In Proc. 2004 International Conference on
Information and Communication Technologies, pages 97–98. 2004.
[32] A. Schmidt. Bridging the gap between knowledge management and
e–learning with context–aware corporate learning. Lecture Notes in
Artificial Intelligence, 3782:203–213, 2005.
[33] L. C. Sing. Shared cognitive space: An enabling tool for conceptual
frameworks. In Proc. the International Conference on Computers in
Education, pages 813–817, 2002.
[34] K. Steiner, W. Essmayr, and R. Wagner. Topic maps - an enabling
technology for knowledge management. In Proc. 12th International
Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications, pages 472–
476, 2001.
[35] M. Ueberall and O. Drobnik. On topic map templates and traceability.
In Proc. 2nd International Conference on Topic Maps Research and
Applications, pages 8–19, 2006.
[36] A. van Hoff, S. Shaio, and O. Starbuck. Hooked on JAVA. Addison
Wesley, 1996.
[37] J.-D. Wei, T.-Y. Chen, T.-Y. Tung, and D. T. Lee. A visualization tool
to construct the reference-based relation map for group knowledge of a
knowledge portal. 2007 IEEE International Conference on Information
Reuse and Integration, pages 304–310, 2007.
[38] J.-D. Wei, T.-Y. Tung, T.-Y. Chen, and D. T. Lee. Integration of
knowledge management and e-learning – an implementation towards
learning by teaching. In Proc. 2007 International Conference on
Information and Knowledge Engineering, pages 414–420, 2007.
[39] C. L. Willis and S. L. Miertschin. Mind maps as active learning tools.
Journal of Computing Sciences in Colleges, 21(4):266–272, 2006.
[40] http://www.plone.org/.
[41] Dictionary of Algorithms and Data Structures. http://www.nist.gov/dads.
Figure 1. Showcases of the Site-And-Concept map. (a) Right-click k-NN function; (b) Aggressive
learners can display k nearest neighbors of a target object; (c) Expert users may be interested in
verifying the completeness of group knowledge.
edge for easy access, sharing and manipulation. Research
of education [3, 14] has developed several manners to con-
vert knowledge objects into learning assets and to facilitate
packaging of content aggregation. These methods are con-
venient to implement and have proved practical; however,
there still exist performance issues that deserve further re-
search. For example, we may suffer the cognitive discon-
nection problem [5] if we create e-learning content types
on a portal system immediately. The e-learning function
may has limited performance because the isolated learn-
ing content cannot cooperate with the underlying knowl-
edge ontology smoothly. In this paper, we present our pre-
vious developed Site-And-Concept (SAC) map generator,
which automatically constructs concept map linking knowl-
edge objects and thus helps users visualize the formation
of group knowledge. Then, we use this map generator as
a mediate tool to produce SCORM-compliant course pack-
ages with supports of sequencing and navigation. As for the
practice platform of this work, we choose a locally devel-
oped knowledge portal, called Open Computational Prob-
lem Solving (OpenCPS, http://www.opencps.org) Knowl-
edge Portal.
2 Map Generator to Visualize the Formation
of Group Knowledge
In comparison with conventional websites, knowledge
portals have three features: (1) The contents are contributed
by all the portal members, not just by the web design com-
munity. Accordingly, the contents of a knowledge portal
can be regarded as group knowledge, which aggregates all
the intelligent assets from the userbase; (2) Apart from an
axiom ontology given by the portal designer, no detailed
sitemaps or blueprints are prepared to outline the contents
in advance, i.e., the contents of the website grow in an
unplanned and unpredictable manner; (3) The developed
knowledge objects are associated with conceptual elements
defined within the ontology of the knowledge portal. Con-
sequently, we can construct the sitemap of the portal site by
adopting the notion of a concept map. In consideration of
the above three aspects, we developed a visualization tool
in our previous work [6, 13] for constructing a Site-And-
Concept map to improve the quality of a knowledge portal.
Figure 1 shows the experimental results conducted on
our OpenCPS website. The typical operations of the SAC
map generator can be categorized into three classes, i.e., the
basic, learner-mode, and expert-mode operations. To sim-
plify the demonstration, the knowledge objects only include
the problem objects inside the OpenCPS portal. The re-
lations are labeled as “reduced-to”, “equivalent”, “variant”
and so on.
1. Basic operation: The basic search operation is to use
keywords to search the target objects. For example,
users may type “map labeling” as the keyword and thus
draw a SAC map as shown in Fig. 1 except parts (b)
and (c). They can also right-click the relation links
to look up and edit the property of the relationship of
interests.
2. Learner-mode operation: For an aggressive learner,
to show the knowledge objects associated with given
keywords is not enough. For example, the 3-SAT and
2-SAT problems cannot be found when we search for
keyword “map labeling”, but these two problems are
important for a student to get a thorough understanding
357
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chang Gung University. Downloaded on December 30, 2009 at 14:33 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
Figure 4. SCORM-Compliant Content Objects
converted from a given concept map. (a)
a “SharableContentObject" (SCO) on open-
ing the “edit" tab and the list of SCOs col-
lected from the corresponding concept map;
(b) editing the SCO’s metadata.
Figure 2 is the complete map of the knowledge concepts
captured when we do not apply any filtering or layout pro-
cesses. This picture simulates the image of human cognition
without concept map supports. This shows a rather messy
situation. We can hardly make out any of the concept rela-
tions, much less to examine or learn from this knowledge
portal. Therefore, we believe the map generator can prop-
erly enhance the performance of a knowledge portal.
3 Knowledge-Portal-Based E-learning Sys-
tem with Concept Map Support
Figure 3 shows the architecture for integrating the
concept map generator into a knowledge-portal-based e-
learning system. In this work, we follow the SCORM
(Sharable Content Object Reference Model) standard to
convert a generated concept map to a course package in-
cluding the sharable content objects (SCOs) and the prop-
erties for sequencing and navigation. To suggest users an
appropriate learning sequence, we take account of near op-
timal solution algorithms to the ATSP (Asymmetric Travel-
ing salesman problems) such as the shortest-edge-first algo-
rithm accompanying with the 2-opt advancement.
In our design, the concept maps are generated automat-
ically by assessing the knowledge relationships based on
the probability of “shared referenced papers”. Assuming
that two knowledge objects (i.e., portal pages, nodes of
the maps) M and N have Q(M) and Q(N) referenced
papers in the citation database respectively and the num-
ber of shared referenced papers is Q(M,N) = Q(N,M),
we define the cross-reference probabilities p(M,N) =
Q(M,N)/Q(N) and p(N,M) = Q(N,M)/Q(M). The
map generator thereby indicates a link between the two
objects if max(p(N,M), p(M,N)) ≥ Tp, where Tp is a
threshold for mining this association rule. Notably, the de-
fault arrow direction on the concept map is from N to M
if p(M,N) > p(N,M) and vice versa. The probabil-
ity is now also concerned to count the edge weight, i.e.,
cost = 1−max(p(N,M), p(M,N)), for use in this work.
Accordingly, we approximate the solution for the ATSP cor-
responding to the given concept map, and then figure out
some learning sequences of the learning package.
On converting a concept map to a course package,
OpenCPS switches to an edit form, as shown in Fig 4(a),
for the user to input the SCO names, select the SCORM
version, and modify the suggested learning sequence if nec-
essary. For each SCO, the user can also click “learning ob-
ject metadata (lom)” tab next to the “edit” tab on the same
page to input the metadata. Figure 4(b) shows that the sub-
page within the “lom” tab has deeper tabs binding to “gen-
eral”, “lifecycle”, “technical”, “rights”, and “educational”
categories, for which the user can fill out all the associated
metadata. This work adopts the SCORM standard, because
SCORM clearly defines the format of content object meta-
data and content aggregation manifest files, and can there-
fore facilitate us in creating new content types with relevant
data columns. Content types following the SCORM stan-
dard also inherit its benefits, i.e., they can be accessible,
adaptable, affordable, durable, interoperable, and reusable.
4 Conclusion
For integration of knowledge management and e-
learning, Ley et al. [5] addressed that a typical workplace
must link a work space, a learning space, and a knowledge
space. In this case, the first problem that developers may en-
counter is the “cognitive disconnection”, namely, “each of
the spaces has an inherent structure which mirrors to some
extent mental model of the people who are using it” and it
might be hard to connect available KM model to learning
activities. In this paper, we develop a mechanism that gen-
erates a local concept map and then converts the knowledge
359
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chang Gung University. Downloaded on December 30, 2009 at 14:33 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/11/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 知識入口網站之群體知識概念圖產生器及其在數位學習上的應用
計畫主持人: 魏志達
計畫編號: 99-2628-E-182-051- 學門領域: WEB 技術
無研發成果推廣資料
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
