 2 
1. Effective services/products info. from enterprises is 
needed to support consumer decision making. The 
information should be structured and comprehensible. 
Also, it should be comparative for any desired attributes 
of these services/products to aid on the analysis and 
decision making by consumers.    
2. To make services/products info. useful for consumers, 
referencing truly valuable consumer knowledge [11] to 
capture what consumers really need must be supported 
for enterprises. In general, capturing truly valuable 
knowledge from consumers (i.e., residing in themselves) 
is trust-sensitive, and hence should be served by some 
independent and reliable agents or organizations (i.e., 
consumer knowledge agents).  
3. Consumers usually make requests for their needs by 
issuing desired tasks (e.g., buying or selling or renting 
services/products) in accordance with their knowledge or 
characteristics. These tasks lead to their awareness of 
desired service/product attributes which in turn results in 
the search, recognition, and comparisons of available 
services/products that exhibit those attributes. To aid on 
such desired tasks, some task-centered services are 
required to act as an intermediary between enterprises 
and consumers. For enterprises, these services help to 
capture truly valuable knowledge from consumers (in the 
context of their desired tasks) to provide services/ 
products information useful for these consumers. For 
consumers, these services help to collect, structure, and 
evaluate task-desired services/products information from 
various enterprises, and then present to them for their 
possible recognition and comparisons. As in above, for 
reliability, such services should be provided by some 
independent and reliable marketplaces or organizations 
(i.e., task service providers).  
4. Consumer communities [26-28] are helpful for 
consumers to share or co-learn information about their 
desired tasks. It is therefore usually organizing 
consumers into various communities by their common 
interests or personal characteristics. Each community 
relates consumers to their desired tasks for sharing or 
exchanging information among each other. In addition, 
each community could provide them with such services 
as identification and recommendation around cooperative 
task service providers, and negotiation and cooperation 
with those service providers selected by them to process 
their task requests (i.e., return evaluated services/ 
products information relevant to these requests). In 
general, communities are the last intermediary between 
consumers and the outside world, and thus are usually 
supported by some independent/ reliable marketplaces or 
organizations.  
 
To address these issues, the following specifics about CSS 
can then be identified:  
 
1. Consumers may enroll into communities where they are 
able to share or co-learn information about their desired 
tasks for services/products.  
 
2. Such shared or co-learned information can then be 
re-structured by some consumer knowledge agents into 
appropriate styles of consumer knowledge which will 
be captured by enterprises (via task service providers) 
to provide services/products info useful for these 
consumers.   
3. Through identification and recommendation by 
communities, consumers select task service providers to 
which their task requests are issued; communities then 
negotiate and cooperate with these providers to 
accomplish these issued task requests.   
4. Based upon requests received, task service providers 
help to collect, structure, and evaluate information 
about task-desired services/products from various 
enterprises, and then present (via communities) to 
consumers for their possible recognition and 
comparisons. Since task requests lead consumers to be 
aware of desired service/product attributes, the 
structured and evaluated services/products information 
makes them be able to recognize and compare available 
services/products that exhibit those attributes. 
 
As a result, CSS has the characteristics to be possessed as 
follows.  
1. It is structured into a 4-layer architecture of collaborative 
mechanisms (i.e., five architectural components as shown 
in Figure 1) where consumers are no longer interacting 
directly with enterprises, but via three intermediaries: 
communities, consumer knowledge agents, and task 
service providers.   
2. It emphasizes on truly valuable customer info. by 
collecting knowledge from customers (i.e., residing in 
themselves) to help enterprises catch their needs.  
3. It addresses on delivering structured services/products 
info. from multiple enterprises to help customers make 
recognition and comparisons.   
4. Each of its five architectural components plays a 
designated role independently from others such that the 
addition or modification of new components can be 
easily accomplished for maintenance purposes.  
 
Based on these characteristics and relevant specifics about 
CSS mentioned above, CSS is designed as shown in the 
UML package diagram in Figure 1 to address them by the 
interactions between consumers and enterprises through 
three intermediaries. The following presents how these 
five components play their roles for participating in CSS.  
 
(1) Consumers 
 
In CSS, consumers may make requests for their needs by 
issuing desired tasks (e.g., buying, selling, or renting services 
/products) in accordance with their knowledge or 
characteristics. To enhance their knowledge about these tasks, 
they may enroll into various communities through which to 
share or co-learn information among each other. With such 
shared or co-learned information, consumers may get more 
awareness of desired service/product attributes relevant to 
their tasks. After issuing task requests (via communities), 
consumers expect to receive services/products information  
 
 4 
 
In summary, these characteristics need to be possessed as the 
following two requirements for the Consumer Knowledge 
Agents component:  
 
1. process consumer info. – identify the style(s) of 
knowledge (i.e., the five styles of knowledge defined in 
[11] - ‘prosumerism’, ‘team-based co-learning’, ‘mutual 
innovation’, ‘communities of creation’, and ‘joint 
intellectual property’) into which consumer info. is 
categorized to capture truly valuable knowledge from 
consumers (i.e., residing in themselves)   
2. make five styles of consumer knowledge - re-structure 
consumer information into appropriate style(s) of 
knowledge 
 
Based on the two requirements, as shown in Figure 2, six 
constituents are imposed to realize these requirements. In 
particular, each of the lower five constituents is imposed to 
access a style-specific knowledge file to make the 
corresponding style of consumer knowledge based on the 
received shared/co-learned consumer information. 
 
(4) Task Service Providers 
 
Task service providers are an important intermediary between 
enterprises and consumers. For enterprises, they receive re- 
structured consumer knowledge from communities and, based 
 
on the task-relevant extent, forward the task-relevant part of 
that knowledge to the participant enterprises that utilize it to 
provide services/products information useful for consumers. 
For consumers, based on the task requests received 
 
from communities, they identify and cooperate with those 
participant enterprises that may provide services/products 
information desired by these task requests. Furthermore, with 
the information about task-desired services/products, they 
also help to structure and evaluate it in a comprehensive and 
comparative model that is presented to consumers (via 
communities) to aid on their analysis and decision making.  
 
Thus, these characteristics need to be possessed as the 
following requirements for the Task Service Providers:  
1. process consumer knowledge - receive re-structured 
consumer knowledge from communities and forward the 
task-relevant part of the knowledge to participant 
enterprises  
2. process task request - receive task requests from and 
return evaluated task-desired services/products info. to 
communities  
3. determine participant enterprise – identify and select 
participant enterprises that may provide services/products 
information desired by task requests   
4. cooperate with participant enterprise - negotiate and 
cooperate with those selected enterprises to actually 
provide desired task-relevant services/ products info.  
 6 
 
Based upon the book writing and organizing request, the book 
publishing service provider helps to collect, structure and 
evaluate information about book writing and organizing from 
the book publisher that is then presented (via the education 
community) to the teacher for his/her recognition and 
comparisons. Since the book writing and organizing request 
can lead the teacher to be aware of desired book publishing 
attributes (e.g., authoring chapters, structuring contents, and 
status tracking of the publishing process), the structured and 
evaluated information about book publishing makes him/her 
be able to recognize and compare available book publishing 
services by the book publisher that exhibit those attributes.  
 
As a result, CSS for book publishing has the following 
characteristics to be possessed.  
1. It is structured into a 4-layer of collaborative mechanisms 
(i.e., five architectural components) where a teacher is no 
longer interacting directly with a book publisher, but 
through such intermediaries as an education community, a 
teacher knowledge agent, and a book publishing service 
provider.  
2. It emphasizes on collecting experiences/thoughts about 
book writing and organizing by helping teachers to share or 
co-learn them among each other and then re-structuring 
them into certain style(s) of knowledge for the book 
publisher to catch the teacher’s needs.  
 
 
 
3. It addresses on delivering structured information about 
book publishing from the book publisher to help the 
teacher to make possible recognition and comparisons.  
 
Based on these characteristics and relevant specifics 
mentioned above, CSS for book publishing is thus designed as 
shown in Figure 4 to support interactions between the teacher 
and the book publisher via three intermediaries.  
 
3.2 The CSS Architecture for Book Publishing 
 
In CSS for book publishing, a teacher issues a book publishing 
request via an education community to acquire from a book 
publisher information about book publishing that is collected 
and evaluated by his/ her selected book publishing service 
provider. In particular, bi-directional information flows 
between the teacher and the book publisher where (1) 
experiences/thoughts shared or co-learned among the teacher 
and other colleagues in the community is re-structured into 
various styles of teacher knowledge to be collected by the 
book publisher (via the book publishing service provider), and 
(2) along the reversed way, information about book publishing 
from the book publisher is structured and evaluated by the 
book publishing service provider for possible recognition and 
comparisons (via the community) by the teacher. Therefore, 
based on the generic CSS architecture in Figure 1, the CSS 
architecture for book publishing has the same five constituents 
as those in Figure 2). 
 8 
As my future work, I will continue to explore the real 
application of my method on the book publishing domain. I 
will also study its application on other kinds of CSS 
including for instance services-oriented systems that provide 
customers with value-added services after their decision 
making. As one may conceive, while developing these 
systems, experiences about the application can be 
correspondingly collected for validating the usefulness and 
effectiveness of my method. In fact, with the top-down 
fashion steps for precisely identifying and realizing desired 
features, the quality of these systems for customers can be 
expected. Thereafter, in addition to CSS, I will look also 
forward to the practical use of my work in other application 
domains like executive information systems; the usability of 
my incremental steps in modeling such decision support 
systems will be carefully experienced.  
 
Acknowledgments   
 
The material presented in this report is based on work 
supported by the National Science Council in Taiwan under 
Grant NSC 97-2221-E-130-007. The author is grateful to 
Zoe You for her help in proof reading of this report. 
 
References 
 
[1] S. Ba, et al., “Using client-broker-server architecture for 
Intranet decision support,” Decision Support Systems, vol. 
19, 1997, pp. 171-192. 
[2] M. Baker, “Creating An Alliance between Employees and 
Customers,” Knowledge Management Review, vol. 3, no. 
5, 2000, pp. 10-11. 
[3] J. Galbreath and T. Rogers, “Customer Relationship 
Leadership: A Leadership and Motivation Model for the 
21th Century Business,” The TQM Magazine, vol. 11, no. 
3, 1999, pp. 161-171. 
[4] J. Lin and M. Lee, “An OO Analysis Method for CRM 
Information System,” Journal of Information and 
Software Technology, vol. 46, 2004, pp. 433-443. 
[5] R. O’Keefe and T. Mceachern, “Web-based Customer 
Decision Support Systems,” CACM, 1998, pp. 71-78. 
[6] R. Woodruff, “Customer Value: The Next Source for 
Competitive Advantage,” Journal of The Academy of 
Marketing Science, vol. 25, no. 2, pp. 139-153. 
[7] A. Bueren, et al., “CKM – Improving Performance of 
Customer Relationship Management with Knowledge 
Management,” 37th IEE Int’l Conf. on System Sciences, 
2004, pp. 1-10.  
[8] T. Davenport and P. Klahr, “Managing Customer 
Knowledge,” California Management Review, 40, 3, 1998, 
pp. 195-208.  
[9] M. Garcia-Murillo and H. Annabi, “Customer Knowledge 
Management,” Journal of the Operational Research 
Society, vol. 53, 2002, pp. 875-884.   
[10] J. Lin, “An OO Development Method for Customer 
Knowledge Management Information Systems,” Journal 
of Knowledge-Based Systems, vol. 20, 2007, pp. 17-36.  
[11] B. Mobasher, et al., “Five Styles of Customer Knowledge 
Management, and How Smart Companies Use Them To 
Create Value”, European Management Journal, Vol. 20. 
No. 5, October 2002, pp. 459-469.  
[12] S. Thomke and E. Hippel, “Customers as Innovators,” 
Harvard Business Review, April 2002, pp. 5-11.  
[13] S. Wilkestrom, “The Customer as Co-Producer,” The 
European Journal of Marketing, vol. 30, no. 4, pp. 6-19. 
[14] M. O’Mahoney, et al., “Collaborative Recommendation : 
A Robustness Analysis,” ACM Transactions on Internet 
Technology, vol. 44, no. 11, 2004, pp. 344-377.  
[15] C. Wagner and E. Turban, “Are Intelligent e-Commerce 
Agents Partners or Predators?,” CACM, vol. 45, no. 5, 
2002, pp. 84-90. 
[16] L. Orman, “Consumer Support Systems,” Comm. of the 
ACM, vol. 50, no. 4, pp. 49-54.  
[17] M. Abdelhakim and S. Shirmohammadi, “A Web-Based 
Group Decision Support System for the Selection and 
Evaluation of Educational Multimedia,” Proc. of the 
International Workshop on Educational Multimedia and 
Multimedia Education, 2007, pp. 27-36.    
[18] S. Divakar, et al., “A Multi-channel, Multi-region Sales 
Forecasting Model and Decision Support System for 
Consumer Packaged Goods,” Marketing Science, vol. 24, 
no. 3, 2005, pp. 334-350.  
[19] T. Matsuo, et al., “An E-learning Support System Based 
on Qualitative Simulations for Assisting Consumers' 
Decision Making,” Proc. of 17th Int’l Conf. on 
Innovations in applied artificial intelligence, LNCS, 2004, 
pp. 867-875.  
[20] E. Natividade-Jesus, et al., “A Multi-criteria Decision 
Support System for Housing Evaluation,” Decision 
Support Systems, vol. 43, no. 3, 2007, pp. 779-790.  
[21] J. Song, et al., “The Effects of Incorporating 
Compensatory Choice Strategies in Web-based Consumer 
Decision Support Systems,” Decision Support Systems, 
vol. 43, no. 2, 2007, pp. 359-374.  
[22] S. Westerman, et al., “Consumer Decision Support 
Systems: Internet Versus In-Store Application,” 
Computers in Human Behavior, vol. 23, no. 6, 2007, pp. 
2928-2944.  
[23] C. Yu, “A Web-Based Consumer-Oriented Intelligent 
Decision Support System for Personalized E-Services,” 
Proc. of Sixth Int’l Conf. on EC, 2004, pp. 429- 437. 
[24] J. Rumbaugh, et al., The Unified Modeling Language 
Reference Manual, 2nd Ed., Addison Wesley, 2004.  
[25] G. Booch, I. Jacobson, J. Rumbaugh, The Unified 
Modeling Language User Guide, 2nd Ed., Addison 
Wesley, 2005.  
[26] A. Armstrong and J. Hagel, “The Real Value of Online 
Communities,” Harvard Business Review, 1996, pp. 
134-141. 
[27] C. Hoadley and P. Kilner, “Using technology to transform 
communities of practice into knowledge-building 
communities,” ACM SIGGROUP Bulletin, vol. 25, no. 1, 
pp.31-40.  
[28] B. Krieger and P. Müller, “Making internet communities 
work: reflections on an unusual business model,” ACM 
SIGMIS Database, vol. 34, No. 2, pp. 50-59.  
[29] J. Lin, “A Consumer Support Architecture for Enhancing 
Customer Relationships,” in the WSEAS Transactions on 
Information Science and Applications, vol. 6, no. 3, 
March 2009, pp. 384-396. 
[30] J. Lin, “An O-O Development Method for Consumer 
Support Systems,” the International Journal of Software 
Engineering and Knowledge Engineering, Nov. 2009.  
