 前言:  
此一計畫是要利用蛋白質動力素分子馬達（protein kinesin motors）來開發能夠檢測到濃
度極低的疾病訊息分子。我們初步的成果顯示計畫的分子工程的構想是可行的；我們正在
克服後端如何將動力素與微管束（microtubules）分子整併到微流道晶片的技術問題，迨問
題克服後，我們將發表 3-4篇論文於重要國際學術期刊。 
由於此計畫的構想可以解決諸多現行運用動力素分子馬達建構奈米分子載具（nano 
molecular shuttles）的瓶頸，具有專利性，因此我們此刻將不公開我們的初步成果。 
另外，在這個研究過程中，我們利用細菌來生產動力素分子馬達，我們發現細菌的培養
密度會影響所得到的有效蛋白質的產量。為了監控細菌的培養狀況，我們發展了一個新的
方法來量測細菌的生長速率。此一方法已經被國際學術期刊 Applied & Environmental 
Microbiology (IF 4.8，領域排名前 19%)所接受。下面是我們的文稿。 
 
  
Abstract 
 To solve the problems of measuring the growth rates of micro organisms from optical 
density (OD)-growth time plots, we use relative density (RD) plots. The relation of OD and RD is 
built from the diluted grown cultures. This method is satisfactorily applied to study the growth of 
Escherichia coli and cyanobacteria Anabaena spiroides.   
 
Main Text 
In spite for its popularity, the direct use of optical density (OD) records of liquid cultures of 
micro organisms to study their growth kinetics may yield problematic results. For example, for a 
same culture of Escherichia coli (E. coli) we found that the OD measurements with light of 
different wavelengths gave inconsistent growth parameters (Figure 1A). Here we report an 
approach to overcome the above drawbacks (Figure 1B inset). Briefly, the OD of the liquid cell 
culture is frequently recorded throughout the growth period. At or close to the end of cultivation, 
the cell density of the culture is arbitrarily defined as 1.0 relative density (RD), and aliquots of 
the culture are diluted to prepare reference samples of various RD values. For example, a 
reference sample of 0.3 RD is prepared by diluting 0.3 ml grown cell culture with 0.7 ml fresh 
growth media. The ODs of reference samples are also determined and plotted against the RD 
values to construct an OD-RD calibration curve by using the equation of OD = m×RD/(n+RD), 
where m and n are empirical constants (Figure 1B). The recorded ODs of the cell culture are 
converted into RD values, and the growth rate (expressed as cell doubling time) of the cells is 
determined from the RD-growth time plot (Figure 1C). With this method, we have determined the 
growth rates of bacteria E. coli and cyanobacteria Anabaena spiroides (Figure 2). We found that a 
common laboratory E. coli, the E. coli BL21(DE3) doubled every 31±3 min (Figure 1C), 
irrespective of light wavelengths, consistent with the rates of increments of absolute densities 
(AD, 32±4 min ) of E. coli cells (Figure 1C). We also studied the growth of another common 
laboratory E. coli, the E. coli DH5α, which doubled every 46±2 min (data not shown). For 
Anabaena spiroides, the cells doubled every 18.5±1.5 hr, agreeing with 17.6±0.8 hr obtained 
from the increment rate of absolute cell density. Again, the results were not affected by the 
wavelengths of light used for OD measurements.  
1B). On the other hand, the cells of photosynthetic cyanobacteria Anabaena spiroides algae are 
pigment-rich, large (~3 μm ×~5 μm), and filament-forming. The visible-light spectrum of the 
algae culture is similar to that of the purified phytochromes of the algae (data not shown), 
suggesting that the light absorption is the major cause for the OD activity of the algae culture. 
Moreover, in the OD-RD calibration curves of the A. spiroides algae (Figure 2A), at a given RD, 
the OD reading did not decrease as the light wavelength increased, again indicating that light 
scattering was not the main cause of OD activity. For both organisms, the growth rates obtained 
from the RD-time plots and the AD-time plots were very close, and the results were independent 
of light wavelengths, as predicted by the theory (see the supplement). 
 Finally, for routine culture of a same micro organism (e.g., the E. coli DH5α) we noticed 
that it is not necessary to prepare the OD-RD calibration curves each time. The OD records of 
new cultures can be converted to RD by using the RD-OD calibration curves of previous cultures, 
as long as the same spectrometer is used for OD recording (see the supplement). This would 
eliminate the needs of dilution work. The reason for this short-cut is discussed in the supplement. 
OD700, respectively). The differences among the growth rates obtained from the OD-time plots of 
the used wavelengths were also significant (ANOVA P vale 0.006). KaleidaGraph (v4.0, Synergy 
Software) was used for curve fitting. The details of E. coli strains and cultures are given in the 
supplement. 
References 
1. Baranyi, J., and C. Pin. 1999. Estimating bacterial growth parameters by means of 
detection times. Appl Environ Microbiol 65:732-6. 
2. Dalgaard, P., and K. Koutsoumanis. 2001. Comparison of maximum specific growth 
rates and lag times estimated from absorbance and viable count data by different 
mathematical models. J Microbiol Methods 43:183-96. 
3. Eisenberg, D., and D. Crothers. 1979. Physical chemistry with applications to the life 
sciences, vol. Benjamin/Cummings, Menlo Park, CA 94025. 
4. Lawrence, J. V., and S. Maier. 1977. Correction for the inherent error in optical density 
readings. Applied and Environmental Microbiology 33:3. 
5. Lindqvist, R. 2006. Estimation of Staphylococcus aureus growth parameters from 
turbidity data: characterization of strain variation and comparison of methods. Appl 
Environ Microbiol 72:4862-70. 
6. Tinoco, I. J., K. Sauer, and J. C. Wang. 1995. Physical Chemistry - Principles and 
applications in biological sciences, vol. Prentice Hall, Upper Saddle River, NJ 07458. 
 
 
or absorption, are like the interactions of ligands and receptors. The OD would increase with cell 
density, however, at extremely high cell density, all input lights were scattered or absorbed and 
the OD would platoon. We tested fitting the OD-RD data with other equations (such as the 
exponential rise, or polynomials), and almost identical growth rates were obtained (data not 
shown). Once the values of m and n are obtained, the RDt can be inferred from ODt by using the 
following equation, 
 RDt = n×ODt/(m - ODt) ……………………………………….. S4 
 
In the next paragraphs, we will show that at the logarithmic growth phase, the growth rates 
of micro organisms can be determined from the RD-time plots.  
 ADt = AD0 × exp(k × t) …………………………………………. S5 
where AD0 is the absolute cell density at the beginning of cell culture, and k is the specific growth 
rate. 
By dividing both sides with the quantity ADe, we have 
 RDt = ADt/ADe = AD0/ADe × exp(k × t) …………………… S6a 
Or  
 RDt = RD0 × exp(k × t) ……………………………………….. S6b 
where RD0 = AD0/ ADe 
Thus, ln(RDt) = ln(RD0) + k × t …………………………………….. S7 
That is, by plotting the RD in the logarithmic scale as a function of growth time, the slope of the 
RD increments is the specific growth rate, and the y-axis intercept is the inverse of cellular 
amplification magnitude. The doubling time of the cells is 0.693/k. Notice that the quantity of RD 
is not affected by the factors (mainly, cellular sizes and compositions, and specifications of the 
used spectrophotometer) which affect OD readings. 
 One of the practical questions about using this RD-time method is the choice of a proper 
growth time to define the 1.0 RD. In the main text, since we are interested to obtain the doubling 
time of cells at the logarithmic growth phase, we set the ending culture time (~ 2 hr since the 
inoculation of E. coli) close to the end of that phase which corresponds to ~1.3 OD600 for E. coli, 
and 1.4 OD720 for A. spiroides. We usually do not grow our E. coli (the BL21 and DH5α strains 
by using the same spectrophotometer, it is not necessary to dilute the grown cultures to prepare 
in-situ OD-RD calibration curves for each new culture task. We found that the previously 
established OD-RD calibration curves (termed as cross-reference calibration curves) could be 
satisfactorily used (Figure S2). Our explanation is that for the same spectrophotometer, a given 
AD of same micro organisms in same media of different culture batches has same OD readings. 
Thus, the use of the OD-RD calibration curve of previous culture batches to construct the 
RD-time plots of new cultures is similar to the selection of different time to set 1.0 RD, as 
discussed above. RD-time plots with parallel growth curves will be obtained to yield the same 
growth rates. However, the curves have different y-intercepts. This practice would save the time 
and efforts in the preparation of reference samples. 
  
Part III. The details of E. coli and Anabaena spiroides strains and cultures used in the present 
study 
 Strains. Kanamycin-resistant E. coli BL21-pET28-KHCDB and E. coli DH5α- 
pET28-KHCDB were obtained by transforming the corresponding competent cells with the 
plasmid pET28-KHCDB which contained a Kanamycin resistant gene and a 1.8 kb cDNA insert. 
The original competent cells were purchased from Ecos Inc. (Taipei, Taiwan). For simplicity, we 
just refer the E. coli BL21-pET28-KHCDB and E. coli DH5α- pET28-KHCDB as E. coli 
BL21(DE3) and E. coli DH5α, respectively, or simply the E. coli. Cyanobacteria algae Anabaena 
spiroides is a gift of Dr. Jiunn-Tzong Wu (Institute of Biodiversity, Academia Sinica, Taipei 
Taiwan).  
 
 Experimental procedures. For experiments with E. coli, Lauria Broth (LB) containing 
Kanamycin (50 μg/ml) was used, and unless otherwise indicated, bacteria were grown at 37 °C in 
25 or 30 ml LB in 125-ml flasks shaken at 220 rpm. The OD of cultures was measured at the 
indicated light wavelength (e.g., OD600 for the measurements at 600 nm wavelength) by using a 
Beckman UV640 spectrophotometer. Before the experiments, E. coli BL21(DE3) (or E. coli 
DH5α) was pre-grown at 22 °C for 14-16 hr to OD600nm of about 0.15. To initiate the experiments, 
5.0 ml of the pre-grown culture was added into a 25-ml LB which had been pre-warmed to 37° C. 
 Determination of growth rates. The ODs of cell cultures were converted into RDs by 
interpolating the ODs into the established calibration curves. The growth kinetics was obtained 
by plotting the logarithmic values of RDs against growth time, t. The specific growth rate, μ, was 
determined by fitting the data with the exponential equation of RD = C •exp(k×t), where C is an 
empirical constants. Instead of using the k, we used the growth doubling time (Td), where Td = 
0.693/k, to report growth rates. Each growth experiment was repeated thee or four times. 
 Figure S2. Growth kinetics of an E coli culture obtained by using in-situ and cross-reference 
OD-RD calibration curves. The ODs of an E coli culture at various growth time points were 
converted into RDs by using OD-RD calibration curves derived from reference samples which 
were originated from the same culture (in-situ) or previous culture (cross-reference). A 600-nm 
wavelength light was used for this experiment. 
 
