 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
粒子偏析機制之微觀研究 
The Investigation of the Segregation Mechanisms of Particles 
 
計劃編號 : NSC 94 - 2214 - E - 182 - 007 - 
執行期限 : 2005 年 8 月 1 日至 2006 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：郭修伯 助理教授 
研究生：鄭清和 
執行機構 : 長庚大學化工與材料工程學系 
一、中文摘要 
本計畫以實驗方式研究高於 50%體積填
充率之滾動鼓在床體內部之軸向與徑向共形
成之偏析。不同於以往之軸向帶狀偏析、徑向
成核偏析，實驗發現新型態的十字(cross)、帶-
核 -核 (band-core-in-core)與其他幾何形狀偏
析。這些新發現的偏析圖形，受鼓填充率與轉
速的影響。由影像分析，此新型態的偏析是由
於高填充率、粒子表面流所誘發之新型態偏
析。我們並提出了虛擬鼓模型以解釋其發生之
機構。 
 
關鍵詞：偏析、滾動鼓、軸向與徑向共形成之
偏析型態 
 
二、英文摘要 (Abstract) 
Axial segregation and radial segregation 
within the granular bed in a rotating drum with 
fill level greater than 50% were experimentally 
investigated. The axial segregated patterns and 
the radial segregated patterns were coupled 
within the bed, resulting the observation of new 
segregated patterns at the plane along the 
rotational shaft. The segregated patterns are 
different from the previous axial band and radial 
core patterns and show coupled new patterns, 
include the “cross” patterns, the 
“band-core-in-core” patterns, and other 
geometric patterns. The new segregation patterns 
are strong functions of the fill level and the 
rotational speed of the drum. The formation of 
the axial-radial coupled patterns was attributed to 
the fill level, the free flowing surface of the bed. 
A virtual drum hypothesis is proposed to explain 
the formation of the complex segregated 
patterns. 
 
Keyword: Segregation, rotating drum, 
axial-radial coupled segregation patterns 
三、本文 
Introduction 
Particulate materials exist widely in nature 
and industrial products. The mixing of particles 
with different properties is frequently 
encountered in nature and is an important 
process in many industries, for example, in the 
manufacture of pharmaceuticals, polymers, food, 
and consumer products. In a mixing process, 
particles are usually placed in a vessel and the 
vessel experiences rotation, vibration, 
fluidization, mechanical stirring or other 
operations to mix the particles. However, 
Williams and Khan1 reported that particles of 
different sizes, densities, shapes, roughness, and 
elasticity performed segregation when they are 
mixed. When mixing particles of two different 
sizes, the particulate mixture segregates 
according to particle sizes, for example, when 
pouring to form a heap, spontaneous 
stratification occurs2-3; when vibrating in a box, 
segregated layers (or, the so-called "Brazil nut 
effect") are observed4-5; when rotating in a long 
cylindrical drum, axial bands6-7 and radial cores8 
are observed. The latter case has been 
extensively studied due to the popularity of the 
rotating drum mixers in industries. Therefore, we 
focus on segregation in rotating drums in current 
work. radial segregation core. The core is formed 
rather quickly, usually within the first few 
revolutions9 and is usually not visible from the 
bed surface. Rapid radial segregation is followed 
by slower axial segregation. The individual 
species segregates into alternating bands of 
relatively pure single concentrations along the 
rotational axis9. The band array is dynamic and 
exhibits a reasonably well-defined and 
quasistable emergent wave-length λ10. 
 4
particles in the drum was set to match the 
specified experimental filling condition. Two 
initial conditions were applied: fine particles on 
top of the coarse particles and coarse particles on 
top of the fine particle. Each experiment run for 
1 or 2 hour. The experimental environment was 
controlled at 60 – 70% relative humidity. At the 
end of each run, transparent agar liquid was 
carefully poured into the drum through the 
injection hole without damaging the bed 
structure. The agar liquid was gelled at room 
temperature and bed structure was “frozen”. 
Similar solidification method has been applied in 
previous work. For example, a series of 
experiments was conducted by Muzzio's group at 
Rutgers University, who used low viscosity 
epoxy resin to solidified the granular bed24-25. 
After removing the outer-rings and shells, the 
bed was cut through the plane along the 
rotational axis. The segregation patterns on the 
plane along the rotational axis were recorded by 
a CCD camera. At each experimental condition, 
at least three times of experiments were 
performed to verify the reproducibility. Table 1 
shows the experimental conditions. The results 
of cases A and B exam the initial condition effect; 
the results of cases A and C evaluate the drum 
geometry effect and the results of cases A and D 
show the segregation time effect. 
 
Results and Discussion 
The segregation patterns at the plane of 
observation for cases A, B, C and D are shown in 
Figs 1, 2, 3 and 4, respectively. In all 
experimental cases at 60% fill, segregation is 
observed in which perpendicular radial and axial 
segregation patterns appear; we term this “cross” 
segregated pattern.. One/two band(s) in the axial 
direction and a core in the radial direction form a 
cross/double-cross at the plane of observation. 
When the fill is less than 50%, the core usually 
means a tube of overturning and constantly 
deforming (smaller) grains, whereas for the fill 
greater than 50%, the static and unmoving 
tube-like core exists only at an initial transient. 
After the initial transient, the tube shape is 
gradually destroyed and a more complicated 
structure core is formed. The plane views of the 
complicated structure core at the plane of 
observation are shown in Figs. 1, 2, 3 and 4. 
Therefore, we emphasize here that although the 
“core” term is applied in the paper, the 
terminology of tube-like core is not applicable to 
fills greater than 50%. In the radial direction, the 
size of the core reduces as the rotational speed 
increases in the long drum in cases A, B and D 
and remains approximately constant in the short 
drum in case C. In the axial direction, the 
number of the bands decreases as the rotational 
speed increases in the long drum. At 60% fill, the 
segregation pattern at the plane of observation is 
simply the addition of the axial band(s) and the 
radial core. The formation of such a “cross” 
pattern is the result of the independent axial 
segregation and radial segregation. The major 
difference between current observation and 
previous reports at 60% fill is the size of the core. 
In previous reports26, the core threads the entire 
tube. 
At 70% fills, a red core are developed 
within the white core (i.e., core-in-core), causing 
a band-core-in-core segregation pattern at the 
plane of observation in all cases with rotational 
speeds 10 rpm and 20 rpm, although the red 
cores are different in different cases. At 30 rpm, 
the red core within the white core is not observed. 
Observations suggest that at 30 rpm, the red 
coarse particles experience greater centrifugal 
forces compared to the situations at 10 rpm and 
20 rpm. Therefore, the red particles move 
towards the cylindrical wall and the red core 
disappears. In the long drum, the red core threads 
the entire drum within the white core in case B; 
while in cases A and D, the red core within the 
white core is blocked by white fine particles and 
is not able to thread the entire drum. In the 
experiment, the red coarse particles were 
wrapped within the white fine particles in the 
first few revolutions in case B and the 
core-in-core structure was formed rather rapidly. 
It is the initial packing condition (or, the 
direction of rotation) causes the different red 
core sizes within the white cores in cases A, B 
and D. We illustrate the formation of the 
core-in-core pattern in more detail below. The 
observation of the core-in-core structure implies 
that the previous core study16 via the bulk 
visualisation technique might not faithfully 
present the correct core structure. 
4 
 70% 
1 
 
3 3
1 
 80% 
3 
 
3 3
1
 90% 3 
2
 
3
Figure 2. The segregation patterns observed at the plane of observation in the long drum different 
operating conditions after 1 hour run for case B. The numbers in the "No" column represent the 
observation times in three repeat runs. 
 
 
 10 rpm 20 rpm 30 rpm 
60% 
70% 
 6
1 
 
1
 90% 
2 
 
2
 
3
Figure 4. The segregation patterns observed at the plane of observation in the long drum different 
operating conditions after 2 hour run for case D. The numbers in the "No" column represent the 
observation times in three repeat runs 
 
 
(a) (e) 
(b) (f) 
(c) (g) 
(d) (h) 
Figure 5. The formation of the core-in-core structure via the repeating wrapping process. a, initial 
condition; b, the red coarse beads avalanche down the surface-flow layer and wrap the white fine 
beads; c, the white fine beads avalanche down the surface-flow layer and wrap the red coarse beads; 
d&e, the repeating wrapping processes continue; f, part of the red coarse beads are completely 
wrapped by the white fine beads, resulting the core-in-core structure at the plane of observation; g, the 
shrinking of the core-in-core structure; h, the core-in-core structure gradually diminishing at the end 
view. 
 8
 10
white core. Currently, there is no theory that can 
satisfactory explain such phenomena. We 
propose a hypothesis: the solid-body rotating 
white core can be regarded as a virtual drum 
rotating within the granular bed. When the bands 
are formed within the virtual white drum, the red 
core with in the white drum is blocked by the 
white bands at 70% fill and 80% fill in cases A 
and D and segregation patterns observed at 80% 
fill, 20 rpm in case C. In the virtual drum, the 
two end bands are coarse particle rich red bands, 
which consist with previous reports6-7. 
 
Conclusions 
The segregation of the granular mixtures in 
a rotating drum has long been studied and many 
previous models have been proposed to analyze 
such a system. However, these models have been 
based on the segregated bands and cores 
observed at the bed surface and most of them 
discuss axial and radial segregation 
independently. Here we show the evidence that 
the simple band-core segregation structure (i.e., 
the "cross" pattern) exists only at 60% fill levels. 
However, when the level of fill is equal or 
greater than 70%, the segregation patterns within 
the bed are much more complicated, including 
the “cross” patterns, the “band-core-in-core” 
patterns, and other geometric patterns. The 
present work demonstrates conclusively that 
there are convective currents within the core that 
strongly affect segregation, even at large fills 
(whereas current dogma says that the core, once 
formed, is static) and even after a long transient 
period. The new segregation patterns are strong 
functions of the fill level and the rotational speed 
of the drum. The complicated patterns are related 
to, at least, the fill levels and the surface-flow 
layer. We qualitatively explain the formation of 
the core-in-core pattern and proposed the virtual 
drum hypothesis. The challenge for the future 
will be to provide a fundamental understanding 
the connection between the micro- and 
macro-granular dynamics to obtain 
improvements in granular processing. 
 
References 
1. Williams JC, Khan MI. The mixing and 
segregation of particulate solids of different 
particle size. Chem. Engr.. 1973;Jan:19-25. 
2. Makse HA, Havlin S, King PR, Stanley HE. 
Spontaneous stratification in granular 
mixtures. Nature. 1997;386:379-382. 
3. Baxter J, Tüzün U, Heyes D, Hayati I, 
Fredlund, P. Stratification in poured granular 
heaps. Nature. 1998;391:136-136. 
4. Burtally N, King PJ, Swift, MR. Spontaneous 
air-driven separation in vertically vibrated 
fine granular mixtures. Science. 
2002;295:1877-1879. 
5. Rosato AD, Blackmore DL, Zhang N, Lan Y. 
A perspective on vibration-induced size 
segregation of granular materials. Chem. Eng. 
Sci.. 2002;57:265-275. 
6. Gupta SD, Khakhar DV, Bhatia SK. Axial 
segregation of particles in a horizontal 
rotating cylinder. Chem. Eng. Sci.. 1991;46: 
1513-1525. 
7. Kuo HP, Hsu RC, Hsiao YC. Investigation of 
axial segregation in a rotating drum. Powder 
Technol.. 2005;153:196-203. 
8. Zik O, Levine D, Lipson SG, Shtrikman S, 
Stavans J. Rotationally induced segregation 
of granular materials. Phys. Rev. Lett.. 
1994;73:644-647. 
9. Hill KM, Caprihan A, Kakalios J. Axial 
segregation of granular media rotated in a 
drum mixer: Pattern evolution. Phys. Rev. E. 
1997;56:4386-4393. 
10. Choo K, Molteno TCA, Morris SW. 
Traveling granular segregation patterns in a 
long drum mixer. Phys. Rev. E. 
1998;58:6115-6123. 
11. Oyama Y. Bull. Inst. Phys. Chem Res. 
(Tokyo), Rep. 5. 1939;18:600. (Oyama's 
work was reported by Weidenbaum SS in 
Advances in Chemical Engineering, Vol. 2, 
p.211,edited by Drew TB and Hoopes JW. 
New York: Academic, 1958. 
12. Donald MB, Roseman B. Mixing and 
de-mixing of solid particles: Part I. 
mechanisms in a horizontal drum mixer. Br. 
Chem. Eng.. 1962;7:749-753. 
13. Fan LT, Shin, SH. Stochastic diffusion model 
of non-ideal mixing in a horizontal drum 
mixer. Chem. Eng. Sci.. 1979;34:811-820. 
14. Hill KM, Kakalios J. Reversible axial 
segregation of rotating granular media. Phys. 
Rev. E. 1995;52:4393-4400. 
15. Ristow GH, Nakagawa M. Shape dynamics 
of interfacial front in rotating cylinders. Phys. 
Rev. E. 1999;59:2044-2048. 
