1 
 
（一）中文摘要 
關鍵詞：行為量測、影像處理、LabVIEW 
本計畫的目的是發展出一套完整的原生生物行為測量系統，能夠同時追蹤三個數目以下的原生
生物目標。此系統能接收來自數位顯微鏡的動態影像，利用圖控程式 LabVIEW 為核心發展出一套
追蹤演算法，並且此系統亦具有偵錯的能力，能避免人為上的操作失誤，使得研究資源和時間能充
分發揮出最大的效益。 本計畫成功開發出一套完整的追蹤量測系統，藉由本研究的成功我們將得
以快速大量累積影像處理及行為量測的技術，進而在將來滿足生物、醫學等各方面所遭遇的問題，
並且在調整影像處理參數後便能應用在不同的原生生物追蹤量測。  
（二）英文摘要 
Keywords：Behavior Measurement, Image Processing, LabVIEW 
The purpose of this project developed a comprehensive protozoa behavior measurement system 
which tracks three or less than three targets simultaneously. By exploiting the graphic control program in 
LabVIEW, a monitoring algorithm has developed to study protozoa’s dynamic locomotive images 
received from digital microscope of the system. Further, it provides error detecting ability that prohibits 
mistakes caused by operators. Therefore the proposed system effectively utilizes the resources and time 
by avoiding unnecessary wastes. This project has successfully developed a protozoa behavior 
measurement system which provides essential technologies for speedy processing of massive amount of 
images through the tracking algorithm. Further, it has the ability to adapt to other applications by 
adjusting related parameters for the monitor of different kinds of protozoa targets. Therefore, it is not only 
a comprehensive solution but also a useful and efficient tool for the medical and biological researches.  
（三）前言 
近年來許多文獻[1-2]針對原生動物的趨藥性、趨電性、趨地性、趨溫性等行為量測都有非常深
入的探討研究。但是這些文獻通常都只能針對單一的實驗目標進行追蹤，而這些研究中的實驗卻都
需要大量的量測數據來進行統計分析。再加上在萃取實驗生物時很難準確地去控制目標的數量，如
此一來實驗過程中常常需要大量的人力、設備、資金以及寶貝的時間在觀察和記錄上，且只能記錄
到其中之一的追蹤目標喪失了許多原有分析價值的行為量測數據。 
另外，也有一篇研究是針對多個實驗目標進行追蹤[3]它利用了無限迴圈的方式分析追蹤所要
追蹤的目標以及數量；這將使得系統負荷量非常重也無法提供即時性的數據回傳以供分析，更會有
分析時造成系統速度緩慢的問題，而且這篇文章所分析的影像必須是預先錄製的。倘若我們能利用
條件選擇結構(case structure)先判別目標物的數量，再選擇適當的追蹤演算法；就能使得系統在追
蹤上的效率上大為提升。 
（四）研究目的 
現今在生物感測器活體實驗部分所遇到最大的瓶頸便是無法及時快速地分析多個追蹤目標，因
此如何節省寶貴的時間以及充分地發揮我們自有的研究設備的功用，便是本計畫的目的。在本研究
中，所選擇使用的生物感測活體是草履蟲。草履蟲屬於原生動物門，纖毛蟲綱。它只有一個細胞；
構造簡單卻會選擇它所喜歡的環境聚集而遠離它所不喜歡的環境。例如不喜歡在壓力高的地方、喜
愛空氣流通處、會向電源負極移動等。在此本計畫依據上述兩段所提到的問題。將追蹤目標的演算
法修改為條件選擇結構(case structure)的寫法這使得系統負荷量大幅下降讓分析的速度加快進而能
3 
 
 
圖一:USB 顯微鏡 
在影像處理及追蹤演算法部分所採用的 Personal Computer(BM5342 Q8400，ASUSTeK 
Computer Inc.，Taiwan R.O.C.) 的 CPU 型號為:Intel®Core™Q8400 2.66GHz、RAM 為:DDR3 1333 
3.5GB。撰寫影像處理與追蹤演算法的軟體為LabVIEW8.6( Laboratory Virtual Instrument Engineering 
Workbench，National Instruments Corporation.，United States)。在結果輸出部分所採用的螢幕
(VH242，ASUSTeK Computer Inc.，Taiwan R.O.C.)為一般常見的液晶螢幕。圖二是本系統設計的
方塊示意圖，在圖中可以看到我們利用 USB 顯微鏡和 PC 系統以及 LabVIEW 所發展出的追蹤量測
系統。由圖二可以看到本研究所發展的影像追蹤系統是先由 USB 顯微鏡擷取即時影像交給
LabVIEW 來執行草履蟲的影像處理和定位的演算法，並將量測到的資料彙集成軌跡圖與追蹤數據
表，做為資料分析以及後續處理之用。最後，再將其追蹤結果輸出至螢幕顯示。 
 
圖二、本系統之系統方塊圖 
2.影像處理 
從圖三中可以看到影像處理的部分，首先使用局部閥值(Local Threshold)將所擷取的影像二值
化使目標物與背景分離，接著利用直方圖(Histogram)分析影像中灰度的機率函數，再用直方圖分析
出的結果做均化處理，使雜訊量降低。最後用影像處理中形態學的侵蝕方法將雜訊粒子剃除後，便
能以限定目標物影像面積之範圍值的方式，將目標物分離出來。 
5 
 
 
圖五、目標物移動距離計算示意圖 
4.追蹤環境的基礎條件 
接著介紹本研究中所使用的追蹤演算法，首先是判斷經由影像處理後所擷取到的目標物影像的
數量，再進行下一步的分析。我們利用目標物中心點座標定位比較法的方式，比較兩個連續影像中
所有目標物的座標。由於兩張連續影像的時間間隔甚短，所以我們判斷在兩個影像中座標所在位置
最接近的兩個目標物即是同一個追蹤目標，進而加以定位。最後再將所定位到的目標之移動座標以
及移動軌跡於以記錄追蹤。每兩張影像間隔抓取時間的快慢將會影響追蹤的正確性與否，圖六中可
以看到當兩個草履蟲的移動方向相對時，變有可能出現誤判的情形。圖中有兩個目標物草履蟲 a
及草履蟲 b，a 向下移動至 a’位置，b 則向上移動至 b’位置，如圖所示目標物 a 所移動的正確距離
應該為 Da, 目標物 b 所移動的正確距離應該為 Db,，但因其移動方向相對且移動起始點和另一草履
蟲的移動終點位置相近，導致追蹤系統誤判為 a 草履蟲向左移動至 b’位置，b 草履蟲向左移動至 a’
位置。 
 
圖六、取樣速度錯誤造成誤判之示意圖 
7 
 
 
圖八、追蹤演算法流程圖 
Step1.  
其流程如下圖九，判別影像中有幾個目標物，若目標物數量不等於 0，則開始執行追蹤演算法。
若目標物數量等於 0，則將計數器 P 加一後判斷計數器 P 是否大於所設定的數值（系統預設 300）。
若計數器 P 未大於所設定數值，則回到程式開端重新判別目標物數量。若計數器 P 大於所設定值，
則結束程式。 
Step2.  
其流程如下圖十，判別目標物數量是否等於 1，若不等於 1，則執行 step3。若目標物數量等於
1，則(Xa,Ya)=( X1,Y1)。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖九:追蹤演算法 Step1。                  圖十:追蹤演算法 Step2。 
9 
 
若 D2a2 大於 D2c2 則(Xa,Ya)=( X3,Y3)、(Xb,Yb)=( X1,Y1) 、(Xc,Yc)=( X2,Y2)。 
若 D2a2 小於 D2c2 則(Xa,Ya)=( X2,Y2)、(Xb,Yb)=( X1,Y1) 、(Xc,Yc)=( X3,Y3)。 
Step4.3. 
其流程如下圖十四，判斷 D2b2 是否大於 D2c2 若 D2b2 是大於 D2c2 則(Xa,Ya)=( X1,Y1)、
(Xb,Yb)=( X3,Y3) 、(Xc,Yc)=( X2,Y2)。若 D2b2 是小於 D2c2 則(Xa,Ya)=( X1,Y1)、
(Xb,Yb)=( X2,Y2) 、(Xc,Yc)=( X3,Y3)。 
 
, 
 
 
 
 
 
圖十三:追蹤演算法 Step4.2。                   圖十四:追蹤演算法 Step4.3。 
6.實驗驗證 
為了驗證本追蹤系統的正確性，我們利用 Macromedia Flash MX 設計了三段 AVI 影片，用於
驗證追蹤演算法的正確性。我們調整 USB 數位顯微鏡，使其直接攝取驗證的影片，直接輸入本系
統中作為影像訊號的來源。其三段影片的規格都是 640x480 pixels、30 frames/sec。用於驗證的影片
其長度分別是一分鐘、三分鐘和六分鐘。 在長一分鐘的驗證影片中，我們將其移動路徑設計為三
個重疊在一起的英文字母(圖十二)，分別為：I、S、U。 
 
圖十二：一分鐘影片的移動路徑示意圖 
11 
 
 
圖十八：六分鐘影片的移動路徑示意圖 
影片中三個目標物以相同的速度同時出發，沿著設計的軌跡前進，而為了不使 8 字型、X 字母
出現斷開的情形所以設計的路徑會有部分重疊，但這並不影響結果的正確性。最後藉由已將 8 字
型、漩渦、X 字母分離顯示出來的路徑設計圖(圖十九)和本系統追蹤的結果圖(圖二十)對照，可以
驗證出，三個目標的追蹤結果是正確的。 
 
 
  
圖十九：六分鐘影片路徑分離顯示示意圖                 圖二十: 六分鐘影片追蹤結果圖 
（七）結果與討論 
本系統可以對一個平面上的三隻草履蟲之行為變化進行量測的工作。我們期望能利用此套系統
滿足生物、醫學、農業界以及環境檢測各方面的草履蟲行為實驗需求。本系統並具備可規劃性，可
以依照實驗的需要，去改變系統的演算法與功能。例如本系統也可以在修改追蹤條件參數後，改為
追蹤其他的原生生物。本研究的主要目標在於研製一套高整合性、節省資源以及具有可攜性的三目
標草履蟲追蹤系統，此系統能因應不同的實驗環境需求即時規劃具有各種不同功能的分析演算法，
並藉此應用到生物鑑定的各種範圍。事實上，相信本研究所提出的只是一個開始，將是一系列相關
研究的開端，我們希望藉著本研究的成功，得以大量累積對影像訊號處理與追蹤演算法的技術，將
本生物行為量測系統的功能充分發揮。並希望利用本系統為基礎，來解決生物、醫學、農業界以及
環境檢測等各種領域，所可能遇到的各種問題，且本系統除了可以追蹤三隻草履蟲並進行行為分析
外，也可以應用來追蹤三隻原生動物，因此本系統的應用將會非常寬廣。 
（八）參考文獻 
[1] Akitoshi Itoh, Motion Control of Protozoa for Bio MEMS,IEEE/ASME TRANSACTIONS ON 
MECHATRONICS,2000 June,Vol. 5,pp. 181 
[2] Akitoshi Itoh and Hideki Toida,Control of Bioconvection and Its Mechanical Application,2001 
IEEE/ASME International Conference on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics Proceedings 8-12 July 
2001 ‧Como,Italy 
13 
 
Apr. 2004, pp. 1646–1651. 
[23] Naoko Ogawa,Hiromasa Oku,Koichi Hasdimoto and Masatoshi Ishikawa, “Single-Cell Level 
Continuous Observation of Microorganism Galvanotaxis Using High-Speed Vision ”, Graduate 
School of Information Science and Technology, Japan Science and Technology Agency 4–1–8 
Honcho Kawaguchi, Saitama,  Japan, 2000. 
[24] J.P. Armitage, T.P. Pitta, M.S. Vigeant, Packer H.I., and Ford R.M., “Transformation in flagellar 
structure of Rhodobacter sphaeroides and possible relationship to changes in swimming speed”, 
Journal of Bacteriology, vo1.181, No.16, pp.4825-2813, May 1999. 
[25] Taboada B, Poggio S, Camarena L, Corkidi G.,“AUTOMATIC TRACKING AND ANALYSIS 
SYSTEM FOR FREE –SWIMMING BACTERIA”, proceeding of the 25th Annual International 
Conference of the IEEE EMBS, September 17-21, 2003 
[26] N. Ogawa, H. Oku, K. Hashimoto and Masatoshi Ishikawa, “Micorrobotic Visual Control of Motile 
Cells Using High-Speed Tracking Syatem”, IEEE Transaction on Robotics, Vol.21, NO.3, June, 
2005. 
[27] H. Oku, N. Ogawa, K. Hashimoto, “Two-dimensional tracking a motile micro-organism allowing 
high-resolution observation with various imaging techniques , Review of scientific instruments, 
American Institute of Physics, Vol.76, 034301, 2005. 
[28] H. Oku, I. Ishii, M. Ishikawa “Tracking a protozoon using high-speed visual feedback” in Proc.1st 
Ann. Int. IEEE-EMBS Special Topic Conf. Microtechnologies in Medicine & Biology. Oct.2000, pp. 
156-159. 
[29] M. Ishikawa, k. Ogawa, T. Komuro, I. Ishii “A CMOS vision chip with SIMD processing  element 
array for 1ms image processing” in Dig. Tech. Papers of 1999 IEEE Int. Solid-State Circuit Conf. 
(ISSCC’99). 1999, pp.206-027 
[30] H. Oku, N. Ogawa, M. Ishikawa, K. Hashimoto “Two-dimensional tracking of a motile 
micro-organism allowing high-resolution observation with various imaging techniques” Review of 
Scientific 
（九）計畫成果自評 
目前系統量測上，本系統能夠作到即時量測三個目標，並且不需對生物進行加工。在這裡所指
的量測，是將物體所在的位置的中心點量測出來。我們有了各物體的中心點位置之後，就可以利用
統計物體之間的距離，讓使用者透過物體距離所佔的頻率，來判讀生物之間的關係。另外也可以分
析它們移動的軌跡及方式，亦可判讀他們行為。透過不同的方式來使用這套系統，就可以達到量測
行為的目的。 
附錄 B 發表之論文 
A.期刊論文 
1. Yu-Sing Yeh, Ke-Nung Huang, Sun-Lon Jen, Yan-Chay Li, Ming-Shing Young, "Development of a 
multitarget tracking system for paramecia", American Institute of Physics, Rev. Sci. Instrum., vol. 81, 
no. 7, pp. 074302-8, 2010.07(SCI) 
B.研討會論文 
1. 黃克穠、 陳弘軒、 葉郁欣、 任善隆、 李彥杰、 李謨中， "多目標草履蟲追蹤系統之開發"，
第 18 屆三軍官校基礎學術研討會高雄岡山，2010.10 
2. 江宸菘、陳裕仁、葉郁欣、楊明興、任善隆、黃克穠、李彥杰，"可攜式數位顯微鏡之設計與
應用"，2010 空軍官校航空電子學術研討會，高雄岡山，2010.10 
3. 黃克穠、 陳弘軒、 葉郁欣、 吳哲豪、 任善隆、 李彥杰、 黃譯興， "原生動物追蹤方法的
開發"，2011 電子工程技術研討會 高雄 2011/06 
4. Ke-Nung Huang, Hung-Hsuan Chen, Yu-Sing Yeh，”Development of Multi-Target Tracking System 
for Paramecia”，4th International Conference on BioMedical Engineering and Informatics 上海 
2011/10 
國科會補助專家學者出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 10 月 18 日 
一、參加會議經過 
The 4th International Congress on Image and Signal Processing (CISP 2011) and the 
4th International Conference on BioMedical Engineering and Informatics (BMEI 
2011)此次會議由上海東華大學和 IEEE 的 EMBS 共同舉辦之國際學術會議，參
加的學者專家分別是來自美國、加拿大、英國、澳大利亞、日本、韓國、印度、
新加坡、菲律賓、台灣、香港和中國等 20 個國家，約有 700 多人參加，發表的
論文共計有 519 篇，發表的場次共有 Oral 26 場和 Poster 2 場。 
第一天邀請的 keynote speaker 皆為 IEEE fellow，分別為 Thanos Stouraitis 現任的
president of IEEE circuits and systems society、 Seong-Whan Lee 、Metin Akay、
Yuan-Ting Zhang，其中以韓國的學者 Seong-Whan Lee 主講的”Human Brain 
Decoding: State of the Art and Future Challenges” 讓我覺得收獲最多，他們團隊利
用 functional MRI 的影像資料來對人腦的影像進行分析，得知人的行為，目前影
補助編號 NSC 99－2221－ E －214－015－ 
計畫名稱 多目標草履蟲追蹤系統之開發 
出國人員
姓名 黃克穠 
服務機構
及職稱 義守大學電子工程學系副教授 
會議時間 
100年 10月 15日
至 
100年 10月 17日 
會議地點 Shanghai, China 
會議名稱 
(中文)第四次圖像與信號處理國際會議及第四次生物醫學與信息學會
(CISP'11-BMEI'11) 
(英文) The 4th International Congress on Image and Signal Processing (CISP 2011) 
and the 4th International Conference on BioMedical Engineering and Informatics 
(BMEI 2011) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)多目標草履蟲追蹤系統之開發 
(英文) Development of a Multi-Target Tracking System for Paramecia. 
攜回的資料有 BMEI 的論文集一本、會議議程一本及光碟一片。 
六、其他 
    無 
2and Payment Confirmation by clicking "Upload Final Paper" at the conference submission system. In addition, 
please click "Edit Submission" at the conference submission system to ensure that all paper information are 
accurate, including the paper title and all author names, emails, and affiliations. This step is very important, since 
the same author and paper information will appear in the proceedings and indexing. 
3. Please download IEEE Copyright Form at the conference website, complete the form, sign it, and upload a 
scanned form to us. In the Copyright Form, you will need to enter the conference name. Please note that your 
paper above is accepted in BMEI'11, not CISP'11. If you have more than one paper accepted, each paper may be 
accepted by a different conference. In addition, some papers were originally submitted to one of the two 
conferences (i.e., CISP'11 and BMEI'11), but were later transferred to the other conference by the Program 
Committee for better matches in topics.  
4. Each paper must have 1 dedicated registration with full payment received by 8 September 2011 for the paper to 
be included in the proceedings. The registration fee is US$400 or RMB 2600 for each paper of maximum 5 pages. 
These payments must also be received by 8 September 2011 for the paper to be included in the proceedings. 
5. You may pay with a credit card through the secure link provided by Paypal.com available at the conference 
website registration page. 
You may also pay by telegraphic transfer to the following bank account: 
For authors outside of China's mainland: 
Details of Beneficiary's Bank: BANK OF CHINA SHANGHAI CHANG NING SUB-BRANCH  
Address of Beneficiary's Bank: 2067 YAN'AN ROAD (WEST) SHANGHAI 
Swift Code: BKCHCNBJ300 
Beneficiary's Name: DONG HUA UNIVERSITY 
Beneficiary's A/C No: 044175-8300-04360818091001 
  
For authors within China's mainland (内地作者银行信息): 
收款单位： 东华大学 
开户行 工行上海市松江支行 
账号 1001739619000026626 
地址 上海市松江区人民北路 2999 号东华大学信息科学与技术学院 
邮编: 201620 
您也可以从邮局汇款： 
汇款地址：上海市松江区人民北路 2999 号 东华大学信息科学与技术学院 
收款人：刘肖燕 
邮政编码：201620 
请注意，如果通过银行或者邮局汇款，请您在银行转账或者邮局汇款单据的备注栏填写 BMEI'11 和
所录用的论文编号 P****（未填则无法确认该论文已交费）。汇出注册费后，请把转账或者汇款单
据扫描后上传到最终稿系统。如果没有收到扫描的单据，我们将视为没有收到注册费。 
6. We would greatly appreciate it if you could complete the Registration Form (download at conference 
registration website) and upload it to us latest by 8 September 2011, together with a scanned copy of the bank 
                                 978-1-4244-9350-0/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE                                 265
2011 4th International Conference on Biomedical Engineering and Informatics (BMEI)                       
Development of a Multi-Target Tracking System for Paramecia 
Ke-Nung Huang, Hung-Hsuan Chen  
Department of Electronic Engineering 
I-Shou University 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
e-mail: kenungn@isu.edu.tw 
Yu-Sing Yeh  
Department of Electrical Engineering 
National Cheng Kung University 
Tainan, Taiwan 
 
 
Abstract— This investigation develops a multi-target tracking 
system for the motile protozoa, paramecium. The system can 
recognize, track and record the orbit of swimming paramecia 
within a 4 mm diameter of a circular experimental pool. The 
proposed system is implemented using an optical microscope, a 
CCD camera and a software tool, Laboratory Virtual 
Instrumentation Engineering Workbench (LabVIEW). An 
algorithm for processing the images and analyzing the traces of 
the paramecia is developed in LabVIEW. It focuses on extracting 
meaningful data in an experiment and recording them to 
elucidate the behavior of paramecia. The algorithm can also 
continue to track paramecia even if they are transposed or collide 
with each other. The experiment demonstrates that this multi-
target tracking design can really track more than five paramecia 
and simultaneously yield meaningful data from the moving 
paramecia at a maximum speed of 1.7 mm/s. 
Keywords- multi-target tracking; paramecia; transpose; collide  
I.  INTRODUCTION 
Various investigations of galvanotaxis1-3 and chemotaxis 4-6 
were used to examine the characteristics of microorganism, 
especially paramecia in the fields of medical science, 
electrophysiology, biomedical science and toxicology. In some 
research, the investigators have attempted to develop methods 
for tracking microorganisms. Paramecium can reproduce by 
splitting, and is easily bred in any laboratory for observation 
and experimentation. Experiments on paramecia are frequently 
conducted in a narrow experimental pool for their behavior. 
Recent investigations have involved the observation and 
measurement of the paramecium to study locomotor behavior 
and morphological abnormalities in the detection of pollution. 
Researchers have also developed various effective methods 
such as the self-window algorithm 7-10 for tracking 
paramecium. However, they always depend on some special 
and expensive instruments. A system that can accurately 
measure the behavior of paramecia is essential. It should be 
simple, user-friendly and widely adopted in bioassays11,12. 
Related studies have developed algorithms to track and to 
analyze the behavior of only one paramecium even when 
various paramecia are also in the field of the observed pool. If a 
system could be developed to track numerous targets 
simultaneously, then experiments would take less time, require 
less human effort and fewer other resources, such as 
microorganism being and medicinal resources. 
II. METHODS 
A. The multi-target tracking system 
In this study, a multi-target tracking system for paramecia 
was developed. It includes the following subsystems:  
1. For observing a panoramic view of the paramecia 
completely, an ingenious circular experimental pool 
with 4mm-dimater is self-made on a microscope slide 
by a puncher and cutting sheet.  
2. A FINDER SMK-1600T (Finder Optics International 
Ltd., Taiwan) trinocular biological microscope with a 
4X target lens which is used to magnify the paramecia 
images and enable the paramecia to be observed by the 
naked eye.  
3. An AVT Guppy F-146C (ALLIED Vision Technologies 
GMBH, Germany) CCD camera with an IEEE 1394 
interface which is used to record the video images of 
paramecia.  
4. A computerized video tracking system which was 
designed to help observe and record the track of each 
paramecium.  
5. A man-machine interface which was programmed using 
LabVIEW software to enable the multi-target tracking 
system be used to locate and track the paramecia.  
6. An image processing procedures which includes color 
space transformation, spatial domain, background 
subtraction, and morphology.  
7. A multi-target positioning algorithm which can track N 
paramecia.  
The block diagram of the multi-target tracking system is shown 
in Fig. 1. 
B. Image processing 
In feature extraction, digital image processing is adopted 
to recognize the shape of the paramecia. The image is 
analyzed by a software developed in LabVIEW8.6 (National 
Instruments, USA), a graphical programming development 
tool, which can be used to transform, analyze, and compress 
an image. In this study, the system is divided into the two parts 
that are shown in Fig.1 pre-processing, and image analysis. In 
the pre-processing stage, the system processes images that 
record the behavior of the paramecia as an Audio Video 
Interleave (AVI) file in LabVIEW. The measured region is 
indicated as a ROI to prevent the capturing of unwanted 
images, increasing the effectiveness of data processing, 
reducing the required human resources and time. 
 
                                                                                                                                          267
 
method first numbered the targets, then combined positioning 
algorithm to solve the problem of transpositions of paramecia. 
To numbering the targets, we use the concepts from linear 
scanning, therefore, the (Xi=1,Yi=1) represents the nearest point, 
the (Xi=2,Yi=2) is the second closest point, …, and the 
(Xi=N,Yi=N) is the farthest point from the origin in the previous 
coordinates, respectively. The present coordinates are 
represented as the same way but with subscript j, so (Xj=1,Yj=1) 
is the closest point, (Xj=2,Yj=2) is the second closest point, 
…and (Xj=N,Yj=N) is the farthest point from the origin in the 
present coordinates. To prevent tracking errors caused by 
exchanging positions of the paramecia when they are moving 
or collide, the distances Dij have to be calculated first as 
follows, 
( ) ( )22= jijiij YYXXD −+−                                   (1) 
The subscript i can vary from 1 to N and denote how close to 
the origin, 1 represents the closest and N represents the 
farthest in the previous coordinates. Extending the same idea 
to represent the present coordinates, just use subscript j instead 
of i. Hence, all the distances Dij are compared to identify the 
paramecium which travelled the smallest distance from the 
previous coordinates (Xi,Yi). For example, if D13 has the 
smallest distance among D1j (D11, D12, D14,…, D1N ). In other 
word, the (Xj=3,Yj=3) in the present frame has the smallest 
distance to the (Xi=1,Yi=1) in the present frame, comparing to 
different j ( j=1,2,4,5,...,N ). 
The comparison is executed with the comparative 
algorithm shown as follows, 
min (D11, D12, …, D1N) = D1j ;                     (2) 
(D1j is the smallest displacement from the present frame to the 
previous frame.) Figure 3 presents a flow chart that combines 
the above proposed formulas for paramecia positioning. 
 
III. EXPERIMENT AND RESULTS 
To confirm that the developed system can track 
paramecia accurately using the above-mentioned positioning 
algorithm, Macromedia Flash (Adobe Systems Incorporated, 
USA) was adopted to simulate the shape, direction, trajectory 
and speed of a moving paramecium. Each frame with 1000 × 
1000 pixels was designed to cover the image of a circular 
experimental pool with 4mm-dimater on the slide. Because the 
shape of paramecium is approximately elliptic , the simulated 
targets for tracking were designed to be elliptic with a size of 
46 (length) × 14 (width) pixels. These simulated targets are 
tracked to verify the effectiveness of the algorithm designed 
by the following three procedures: 
1. Positioning algorithm verification. 
2. Image processing for collision verification. 
3. Maximum tracking speed determined. 
The related experiment is designed to determine the 
effectiveness of the program in the transposition of targets. 
And the determined average error in XY coordinates is 0 
pixel, and the mean absolute percentage error in the 
displacement per frame is 0. 
 
 
Figure 3.  Flow chart of the proposed formulas of paramecia transposition. 
Figure 4 presents the proposed man-machine interface, 
which was developed using LabVIEW software. Through 
thisinterface, the major radius and the minor radius adopted to 
detect paramecia can be set. Figure 4 presents five display 
windows as shown in the following.  
1. Morphology and Pattern Match (image) Display 
Window: This window presents the results of image 
processing. 
2. Shift (Table) Display Window: This system locates 
paramecia in X-Y coordinates and plots numerous 
points in the X-Y axes figure.  
3. Track Display Windows: Figure 4 presents five track 
display windows, each of them display a particular 
tracking record. The most important purpose of these 
windows is to display the loci and behavior of the 
paramecia.  
The left window in Fig. 4 presents an original ROI frame in 
a video of five paramecia, which contains rice straws and other 
impurities. The upper window shown in Fig. 4 presents the 
images, XY coordinates and track of these five paramecia after 
processing by the multi-target tracking system. The right-hand 
window in Fig. 4 presents the processed image of five 
paramecia in the morphology and pattern match display 
window. The paramecia are assigned numbers from 1 to 5 by 
an image processing program that displays the tracked orbits in 
Track 1 to Track 5 windows, respectively. The average frame 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 多目標草履蟲追蹤系統之開發
計畫主持人: 黃克穠
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-214-015- 學門領域: 醫用電子 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 多目標草履蟲追蹤系統之開發
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
義守大學 發明人
(創作人)
黃克穠,任善隆
技術說明
(中文) 本計畫的目的是發展出一套完整的原生生物行為測量系統，能夠同時追蹤三個數
目以下的原生生物目標。此系統能接收來自數位顯微鏡的動態影像，利用圖控程
式LabVIEW為核心發展出一套追蹤演算法，並且此系統亦具有偵錯的能力，能避
免人為上的操作失誤，使得研究資源和時間能充分發揮出最大的效益。 本計畫
成功開發出一套完整的追蹤量測系統，藉由本研究的成功我們將得以快速大量累
積影像處理及行為量測的技術，進而在將來滿足生物、醫學等各方面所遭遇的問
題，並且在調整影像處理參數後便能應用在不同的原生生物追蹤量測。
(英文) The purpose of this project developed a comprehensive protozoa behavior measurement 
system which tracks three or less than three targets simultaneously. By exploiting the 
graphic control program in LabVIEW, a monitoring algorithm has developed to study 
protozoa’s dynamic locomotive images received from digital microscope of the system. 
Further, it provides error detecting ability that prohibits mistakes caused by operators. 
Therefore the proposed system effectively utilizes the resources and time by avoiding 
unnecessary wastes. This project has successfully developed a protozoa behavior 
measurement system which provides essential technologies for speedy processing of 
massive amount of images through the tracking algorithm.
產業別 其他專業、科學及技術服務業；顧問服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 解決生物、醫學、農業界以及環境檢測等各種領域
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
可將此一微生物行為追蹤系統的功能充分發揮並擴充，以此系統為基礎，來解決生物、
醫學、農業界以及環境檢測等各種領域，所可能遇到的各種問題，本系統除可用來同時
追蹤多隻草履蟲並進行分析，也可應用來追蹤多隻原生動物，因此本系統的應用將會非
常寬廣。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
system for 
paramecia’’’’, 
American Institute of 
Physics, Rev. Sci. 
Instrum., vol. 81, no. 7, 
pp. 074302-8, 2010.07(SCI)
研究報告/技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
Ke-Nung Huang, Hung-Hsuan 
Chen, Yu-Sing Yeh ， ’
Development of Multi-Target 
Tracking System for 
Paramecia ’ ， 4th 
International Conference on 
BioMedical Engineering and 
Informatics 上海 2011/10 
 
Hung-Hsuan Chen, Ke-Nung 
Huang , Yu-Sing Yeh , 
Sun-Lon Jen , Yan-Chay Li , 
Je-Hau Wu ，’ A METHOD OF 
PROTOZOA BEHAVIOR 
MEASUREMENT ’，9th Asian 
Conference on Chemical 
Sensors 台北 2011/11 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達
之成果如辦理學術
活動、獲得獎項、
重要國際合作、研
究成果國際影響力
及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益
事項等，請以文字
敘述填列。) 
本計畫成功開發出一套完整的追蹤量測系統，本系統能夠作到即時量測三個目標，
並且不需對生物進行加工。藉由本研究的成功我們將得以快速大量累積影像處理及
行為量測的技術，進而在將來滿足生物、醫學等各方面所遭遇的問題，並且在調整
影像處理參數後便能應用在不同的原生生物追蹤量測。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
