 2
完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart原型車設計之
介面與系統整合研究，第二年度完成小型
競賽車輛Go-Kart原型車各系統之介面與
系統整合研究，第三年度完成小型競賽車
輛Go-Kart原型車全車之組裝、測試與改善
之介面與系統整合研究。 
關鍵詞：Go-Kart、自行設計、製造、系統
整合 
  
Abstract 
This subproject will study the system 
interface problem of racing Go-kart design 
manufacturing and tests including styling and 
human factor consideration of  the drag、
numerical modeling and experimental testing 
of the drag，analysis, design and fabrication 
of the frame structure ，the optimum design 
of the powertrain system ，on the vehicle 
handling dynamics and performance，safety 
performance in collision etc. In this 
subproject, racing Go-kart will be treated as 
a mission system, and it is convenient to be 
isolated from its surrounding by a boundary 
for the purpose of study its internal behavior 
and interaction with its surrounding. The 
mission system and its subsystem must meet 
the design constraints of International 
Karting Commission/Federation 
Internationale de l'Automobile (CIA-FIA). 
And the objective of this subproject is to 
study the system integration of the 
development of a conceptual Go-kart, from 
conception to prototype manufacturing, 
which involved different design /engineering 
areas of knowledge and those related to the 
conceptual design, materials selection and 
manufacturing of the chassis/body work 
(cockpit),which correspond to the grey zone 
have been studied details. 
Keywords: Go-Kart、Disigh by Oneself、
Manufacturing、System 
Intergration 
 
二、緣由與目的 
在經濟部工業局的主導與推動之下，
由於國內車輛競賽產業潛在的運動人口已
然存在，綜觀英國、日本等賽車先進國家
之產業發展就可一窺究竟，以英國為例，
產值高達780 億台幣的賽車產業儼然已經
成為該國經濟的一大命脈。英國政府亦樂
觀其成，常藉由全國各地在週休假日舉辦
各種型態的競輪賽事吸引歐洲鄰近國家的
賽車隊伍及賽車迷到場參賽及觀戰，不僅
直接刺激觀光產業的消費人口成長；更提
振所有相關車輛產業的消耗性零組件的消
費。車輛競賽產業的推動已是大勢所趨，
它也必然帶動車輛產業品質及研發技術之
提昇，加上賽車活動在國內逐漸萌芽成長
以及漸獲業者的重視。相信在未來的政策
方向制定後，必然可帶動小型競賽車輛行
銷，品牌信譽及國家知名度提昇等綜合性
的效益之建立。並間接創造公共工程、觀
光旅遊休閒商業、媒體報導市場等就業人
口及商業機會之發展，對國內經濟振興具
有正面積極的意義。因此如何儘速建立小
型競賽車輛之設計製造能力實為推動車輛
競賽產業的重要課題，亦為本計畫之主要
目的。 
由於汽車設計開發涉及許多專業，「介
面與系統整合」是設計開發中最困難的工
作。目前受制於國外母廠，在我國無法發
展轎車全車設計之情況下，以「小型競賽
車輛」為研究平台，一方面發展出經濟價
值之產品，另一方面則可蓄積研發能力，
培養整車整合人才。雖然我國裕隆公司過
去曾證明我國具有整車車身設計開發能
力，但因市場有限，難以發展。本子計畫
即以小型競賽車輛為研究平台，過程中所
需專業不亞於小客車，但因規模較小，較
具發展性，且可累積汽車設計發展最關鍵
之系統整合與介面協調能力，應極具意義。 
國內小型競賽車輛Go-kart 發展瓶頸
主要是消費額度高及缺乏經濟規模的經
營，此乃因國內小型競賽車輛沒有自行設
計及製造能量，且零組件均全部仰賴國外
進口，國內沒有自行生產，無法達到真正
的經濟效益，因此真正解決的辦法仍須國
 4
競賽車底盤之設計。1998 年Thompson 
等[4]利用Winston Cup 競賽車之懸吊
系統，探討承載車身質量（spring mass）
及非承載車身質量（unspring mass）
與車架勁度關係，並藉由添加構件來增
加車架勁度，以達到車架勁度之適度
化。1998 年Thompson 等[5]設計一個
扭轉設備，以量測Winston Cup 競賽車
底盤之扭轉勁度，扭轉設備為兩個液壓
缸底座及兩個固定架所構成，兩前輪由
液壓缸所支撐，兩後輪由固定架固定
住，將一邊液壓缸作動，底盤就有扭轉
之效果，藉此設備更方便量測底盤之扭
轉勁度。1998 年Melvin 等[6]以印第
安納型式之競賽車（Indy car）為研究
對象，研究競賽車在前、側撞時，駕駛
者於胸部之加速度判據，評估人體損傷
情形。1999 年Wilcoxon 等[7]針對小
型競賽車輛之娛樂型車架來作研究對
象，探討娛樂型整體設計之碰撞安全
性，以速度25～40mph 來作前撞測試，
觀察駕駛者繫安全帶於前撞時之動態
反應，預期降低碰撞傷害，以保護駕駛
者為目的。2000 年Deakin等[8]以大學
方程式競賽車SAE car 來作研究，探討
競賽車車架勁度與操控性能之影響，利
用ADAMS 軟體來分析競賽車之操控性，
以達到穩定轉向。2001 年Baudille 等
[9]先對小型競賽車輛車架進行靜態分
析，計算出扭轉勁度，再利用FEM 方法
計算小型競賽車輛動態行為，使用
ADAMS分析轉向機構的運動學並以質量
分佈的方式來計算，最後用NASTRAN軟
體求得結構最佳化，使小型競賽車輛之
車架於競賽時可輔助過彎，操控 
安全性更能提升。2002 年Pezuti 
等[10]利用多體力學技術分析小型競
賽車輛，先以CAD 建立小型競賽車輛及
人偶，以FEM 分析小型競賽車輛運動以
計算人偶頭部或頸部負荷，以供人體防
範來減少損傷。2002 年Solazzi等[11]
分析小型競賽車輛的車架結構，探討小
型競賽車輛幾何尺寸修改的影響，利用
最原始的車架來修改成10 種不同幾何
外型的車架，藉由10 種不同車架以FEM 
計算其扭轉勁度，得知被修改車架扭轉
勁度之增量值；修改車架材料以探討鋼
材與鋁、鈦金屬之扭轉勁度改變；最後
探討改變車架幾何外型彎曲部分之距
離，此距離會影響車架的扭轉勁度及振
動頻率，探討以上性質可供製造者參
考。2002 年M.E.Biancolini 等[12]利
用運動學來分析小型競賽車輛，再以車
架、輪胎、轉向系統等分析，車架則配
合靜、動態分析與實驗作比對，以符合
真實之情形。 
2004年國內梁卓中等[13]以小型
賽車競賽型車架為研究對象，探討藉由
車架之添加桿件及寬度改變來改善其
扭轉勁度，並以Solazzi車架為參考母
型，建立14種不同的小型賽車車架構
型，尋求能滿足CIK/FIA尺寸規範下較
適的車架構型。可供未來國內自行設計
Karting之參考。 
2006年國內葉建志等[14]以小型
賽車競賽型車架為研究對象，採用有限
元素軟體ANSYS作車架疲勞壽命分析，
使用等效平衡結構應力法找出焊接處
的 真 實 結 構 應 力 ， 且 利 用
Manson-Coffin應變與疲勞壽命之關係
式，計算出車架疲勞壽命[15]，試改善
缺點並嘗試研發出性能較佳之車架，延
續車架本身的耐久度，及讓駕駛員能感
到更舒適。 
3.2 研究方法 
由於小型競賽車輛包括造型與人因設
計、風阻之數值模擬與實驗測試、車架結
構之分析與設計製作、動力傳動系統之匹
配及最佳化、動態操控性能及碰撞安全性
能等之研究，各子計畫之相關性與整合程
 6
劃亦獲中華賽車會會長楊光榮醫生在
事務上的支持。 
(2)未來製造完成後試車場地及實車測試
駕駛者人選問題此部分應可經協同經
濟部工業局、技術處、車測中心及工研
院機械所等協助解決試車場問題，經由
中華賽車會推薦正式之車手來擔任試
車。 
(3)另缺乏國際級之臨場賽車經驗以為設
計與研製之參考除收集相關競賽錄影
帶及國內賽車近況外，並將赴國外競賽
現場觀摩以獲得實際參賽之實務經
驗，以利設計工作之進行。 
g、執行進度 
本計畫分三年進行，各年之執行進度
規劃如表一、表二、表三，進度之驗核點
如表四所示。 
3.3 結果與討論 
完成之工作項目及成果、展望及建議如下 
1、完成之工作項目及成果 
第一年：小型競賽車輛原型車設計之介
面與系統整合研究 
(1) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 概念設
計階段之造型與人因設計介面與系
統整合 
(2) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 概念設
計階段之風阻數值模擬造型介面協
調 
(3) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 概念設
計階段之車架數值分析與測試及介
面協調 
(4) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 概念設
計階段之動力傳動系統之介面協調 
(5) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 概念設
計階段之操控制性能之數值模擬與
試驗規劃 
(6) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 概念設
計階段之碰撞模擬分析 
第二年：小型競賽車輛Go-kart 原型車
各系統之介面與系統整合研究 
(1) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 原型車
之造型及人因設計介面與系統整合 
(2) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 原型車
之風阻實驗測試介面與系統整合 
(3) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 原型車
之金屬車架製作介面與系統整合 
(4) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 原型車
之傳動系統零件之製作介面與系統
整合 
(5) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 原型車
之操控性能之整車路跑操控模擬及
介面與系統整合 
(6) 完成小型競賽車輛Go-Kart 原型車
之結構安全防護設計與數值模擬分
析及介面與系統整合 
第三年：小型競賽車輛Go-kart 原型車
全車之組裝、測試與改善之介面與系統
整合研究 
(1) 完成小型競賽車輛 Go-Kart 之造型
改善及介面系統整合 
(2) 完成小型競賽車輛 Go-Kart 之風阻
試驗與改善及介面與系統整合 
(3) 完成小型競賽車輛 Go-Kart 之金屬
車架全車組裝、測試及改善介面與
系統整合 
(4) 完成小型競賽車輛 Go-Kart 之傳動
系統匹配之改善介面與系統整合 
(5) 完成小型競賽車輛 Go-Kart 之整車
操控性能測試與改善介面與系統整
合 
(6) 完成小型競賽車輛 Go-Kart 之碰撞
試驗與防護結構之改善介面與系統
整合 
2、展望與建議 
(1) 目前受制於國海外母廠，在我國無
法發展轎車全車設計之情況下，以
「小型競賽車輛」為研究平台，一
方面發展出經濟價值之產品，另一
方面則可蓄積研發能力，培養整車
整合人才。 
國家科學委員會，專題研究計畫成果報告編寫須
知，民國
 8
 
[15] “2007車輛結構耐久測試與壽命評估
技術研討會＂，財團法人車輛研究測
試中心（ARTC）編著。 
[14] 葉建志，＂等校平衡結構應力法用於
小型競賽車架之疲勞壽命分析＂，大
葉大學機械工程研究所碩士班畢業論
文，2006。 
[13] 梁卓中、鄧作樑、游家華、吳佳璟，＂
單人座小型賽車（Go-Kart）車架之扭
轉勁度分析＂，第28屆全國力學會議 
pp.1160~1166，2004。 
[12] M.E.Biancolini, R.Baudille , C.Brutti, 
L.Reccia,”Integrated multi-body/FEM 
analysisof vehicle dynamic behaviour”, 
Fisita Congress, giugno 2002. 
sviluppi strutturali di un telaio per kart 
da competizione”,AIAS 2002, settembre 
2002. 
圖一、小型競賽車（Go-Kart）之系統組成 
 
 
 
\ 
 
 
 圖三、小型競賽車輛Go-kart 各系統之介面性與系統整合 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
 表一、子計劃(一)『系統整合之研究』第一年度之預定進度表 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12
 
 
 
 
 14
 
表三、子計劃(一)『系統整合之研究』第三年度之預定進度表 
 
 16
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※
※                        ※ 
※         小型競賽車輛之自行設計與研製：         ※ 
※     子計畫（一）系統整合之研究      ※ 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
 
計畫類別：□個別型計畫  ■整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 93-2745-E-212-002-URD 
執行期間：93 年 08 月 01 日至 96 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：梁卓中   大葉大學機械與自動化工程學系 
計畫參與人員：游家華、吳佳璟、張瑞宏、游朝宇1
              大葉大學機械與自動化工程學系1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
 
執行單位：大葉大學機械與自動化工程學系 
 
 
中 華 民 國 96 年 10 月 15 日 
- 1 -
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
96 年 5 月 16 日
報告人姓名 梁 卓 中 服務機構
及職稱
大葉大學機械與自動化工程系
教授 兼 副校長
時間
會議
地點
96 年 5 月 7-9 日
美國加州洛杉磯
本會核定
補助文號
NSC-95-2745-E-212-002-URD
會議名稱 (中文) 第 10 屆工程最佳化設計國際研討會
(英文) Tenth International Conference on Optimal Design in
Engineering –OPTI 2007
發表
論文題目
(中文) 小型競賽車 Go-Kart 車架扭轉勁度之探討
(英文) A Study on torsional stiffness of the competition Go-Kart
frame
報告內容包括：
一. 參加會議經過：
1. 於 2007 年 5 月 7 日上午八點至研討會舉辦地點：Hilton Myrtle Beach(美國加
州長堤)報到，參加之各界學者專家十分踴躍，本次(第十屆) 工程最佳化設計國
際 研 討 會 （ Tenth International Conference on Optimal Design in
Engineering-OPTI 2007）於 5 月 7-9 日在美國加州長堤舉行，本次會議由 Wessex
Institute 與 University of La Coruna, Span 合辦，並由 WIT Transactions on the
Built Environment 贊助；特別邀請工程設計相關之研究人員與學者參加，與會
者約 200 餘人，大多為歐美人士，亞洲學者人數較少。
2. 本次會議之主題包括：最佳化之演算法、形狀最佳化、構造工程應用、結構最
佳化之未來研究、機械與航空之最佳化應用，會議分成 3 天舉行，每場次報告
及討論之時間為 25 分鐘，各場次均十分踴躍。
二. 與會心得：
本會議為國際最佳化工程設計極為知名且重要之研討會，本會議約有二百餘位
國際知名之人士參加，大多為歐美人士，亞洲以日本及中國大陸學者次之，由於主
辦單位有多年的研討會承辦經驗，在工作協調上均十分順暢；本次會議申請人發表
小型競賽車 Go-Kart 之研究成果，並於此次研討會中展現大葉大學在此方面之研究
能量，與歐美及日本相關學者利用會議時間及茶會時間充分溝通與討論，獲益良多；
本次會議許多學者們均帶領博碩士班研究生參與，本校如經費許可亦應積極鼓勵研
究生參與國際會議之發表。
三. 考察參觀活動： (本次未參加舉辦單位安排之考察活動)
四. 建議：
本次會議許多論文均為研究生代表報告，與過去均為教授報告有所不同，以亞
洲之日本及中國大陸的研究生而言，用英語發表論文之能力較過去進步良多，台灣
- 3 -
A Study on Torsional Stiffness of the Competition Go-kart
Frame
Cho-Chung Liang*, Chia-Hua Yu, Chia-Chin Wu
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering, Da-Yeh University,
112 Shan-Jiau Rd, Da-Tsuen, Chang-Hua, Taiwan 51505, R.O.C.
Abstract
The construction of the competition Go-kart must satisfy the philosophy of extreme simplicity, i.e.
no redundant part is equipped on Go-kart, and the frame of Go-kart is like the chassis of a sedan, so the
design of each part on the kart has to contribute it to race. Due to the absence of differential gear and
any kind of suspension system, the frame must be responsible for offering proper rigidity and torsional
stiffness to the kart and producing load transfers during cornering. Therefore, how to build a good
kart frame is very important on Go-kart designing. In this paper, the torsional stiffness of Go-kart is
studied in detail by using non-linear, explicit dynamic code LS-DYNA 3D. The kart frame presented
by Solazzi is adopted to be the parent model, and two design concepts are investigated to improve the
torsional stiffness of the kart frame. The first one is arrange extra members at suitable position on the
frame, and 9 different types of frame are studied. The second one is increase the horizontal width
between two kingpins, and 4 different types of frame are studied. The torsional stiffness of each type
of frame is determined and compared with each other. The result shows that the torsional stiffness of
the frames with larger widths between two kingpins is better than that with extra members. In which,
the one with the width of 828mm is the best type of frame, and the torsional stiffness is 31.03% higher
than the original. Besides, among the frames with extra members, the one with a right-inclined
member which is arranged in front of the center member is the best type of this kind of frame, and the
torsional stiffness is 20.18% higher than the original. It is believed that the presented design concepts
and the obtained results will be useful for the design and manufacture of an optimum Go-kart frame in
the future.
Keywords: Go-kart, Torsional stiffness, LS-DYNA 3D
1. Introduction
Most of the fans of vehicle racing understand that Go-kart (also called karting) is the simplest
formula racing in the world, and most of the F1 drivers begin their careers from taking part in karting
competition.
*Corresponding author: Cho-Chung Liang
Tel: 886-4-8511888 ext. 2000
Fax: 886-4-8511200
E-mail: ccliang@mail.dyu.edu.tw
- 5 -
presented an integrated tool for simulating the track analysis of competition Go-kart. In which,
aerodynamic penetration, engine performance, vehicle dynamic behavior, and a track model were taken
into account to perform the lap time analysis. Also in 2004, Ponzo et al. [10] presented a method for
analyzing Go-kart dynamics by using the commercial software Working Model. In which, the kart
was modeled using a lumped parameters model consisting of three rigid body linked by two elastic
elements which represent the frame torsional stiffness. Thus, the static and dynamic load transfers
can be evaluated.
In this paper, a design study of improving the torsional stiffness for the Go-kart frame by using
commercial code LS-DYNA 3D [11] is presented. Solazzi’s kart frame model is used to be the parent
model to study how to design a frame with good stiffness by adapting two design concepts, including
arranging extra members at suitable positions on the frame and increasing the horizontal distance
between two kingpins of the frame. It is believed that the presented concepts will be able to offer
tuning method for the frame to racing technicians as reference.
2. Configuration of the Go-kart Frame
The general configuration of the Go-kart frame is shown in Fig. 2. The CIK-FIA technical
regulations [12] published the general design of competition Go-kart in every respect, and clearly
classify competition Go-kart into several classes according to the displacements and some special
regulations. The technical specifications of a kart are shown in Table 1. The frame is the central and
supporting part of the whole kart. It must be sufficiently resistant to absorb the charges produced
when the kart is in motion. The frame must be magnetized steel tubular construction with a
cylindrical section, and it should be one piece with welded parts that cannot be dismounted. In order
to keep the flexibility of the frame, the stress caused by the dynamic loads should not exceed the elastic
limits. Tubes which are welded together to form the structure of the frame are made of magnetic
structural steel or structural steel alloy. The frame can be tuned to adapt to the track by adjusting the
middle, rear, and longitudinal part to achieve the suitable stiffness. Extra members on both sides of
the seat can change the torsional stiffness of the frame. Since the karts will suffer from fatigue at high
speed cornering, the working life of a frame is about 1 to 2 years. However, drivers of competition
Go-kart would rather use a new frame every 2 or 3 races to assure the handling performance being in
the optimal conditions.
Since differential gear and suspension system are forbidden in Go-kart competition, the frame
of a kart significantly influences the handling performance. Although there is no suspension system
on Go-kart, the frame must absorb the induced dynamic loads and keep in the elastic region during
racing. Besides, the torsional stiffness of the frame can transfer dynamic loads during cornering to
compensate the defect of no differential gear. Therefore, the elastic characteristic of the frame is an
important factor affecting the handling performance of a kart. The torsional stiffness of a kart frame
can directly influence the handling performance and the driver’s comfort, but it seems that higher
torsional stiffness can result in better handling behavior. Although the frame tunings significantly
- 7 -
center of gravity of the kart (i.e., 0 CGM ), one obtains
     02/2/  fyfiyfofzfifzfo hFFtFtF (4a)
or
f
f
yzfizfo t
h
FFF 2 (4b)
with
yfiyfoy FFF  (4c)
where Fzfo and Fzfi are the vertical forces on outer and inner front wheels, respectively, while Fyfo and
Fyfi are the lateral (horizontal) forces on outer and inner front wheels, respectively, and Fy is the total
lateral force on the two front wheels. Besides, tf is the distance between the two front wheels (front
track) and hf is the average height of the front axle. The vertical forces and horizontal forces of the
rear wheels on the outer and inner are obtained in the same procedure mentioned above.
3.1.3 Vertical Forces on the Four Wheels
Since the gravity force on the front wheels (Wf) is balanced by the forces on the inner and outer
front wheels, one has
zfozfif FFW  (5)
from equations (4b) and (5), one obtains
2
f
f
f
yzfo
W
t
h
FF  (6)
according to Newton’s second law, one has
R
V
g
W
F CGy
2
 (7)
where g is the gravitational acceleration, V is the moving velocity of the kart, R is the radius of
curvature of the kart frame.
The substitution of Eq. (7) into Eq. (6) gives
2
1 2 f
ff
f
zfo
W
Rg
V
hW
t
F 


 (8)
Furthermore, substituting equation (8) into (5) yields
2
1 2 f
ff
f
zfi
W
Rg
V
hW
t
F 


 (9)
Similarly, one may obtain the vertical forces on the outer and inner rear wheels, Fzro and Fzri by using
the same procedures, the results are
2
1 2 r
rr
r
zro
W
Rg
V
hW
t
F 


 (10)
2
1 2 r
rr
r
zri
W
Rg
V
hW
t
F 


 (11)
where Wr is the gravity force on the two rear wheels, and hr is the average height of the rear axle.
- 9 -
value of the torsional stiffness can be obtained. The simulation of the twisting test mentioned
hereafter in this paper is like the conditions mentioned in this section.
5. Validation
5.1 General Description
The kart frame model built in this paper is investigated with the one by Solazzi [6]. The
dimensions of the frame model are shown in Fig. 8. The material of the frame is high tensile steel,
and the properties are shown in Table 2. The weight of the frame is 10.39kg. The boundary
conditions for the twisting test presented by Solazzi are fix-support at two points (points D and E) at
the rear end of the frame, and pin-support at the center point (point C) of the front part of the frame.
The angle of twist (Δθ) is obtained after measuring the vertical displacements (Δy) of the both
kingpins, and then the torsional stiffness of the frame can be obtained by using the torsional moment
and the angle of twist (Eq.(12)).
5.2 Finite Element Model
The frame model used in this paper is built by using the Lagrangian beam elements in the
pre-processing (FEMB) of LS-DYNA 3D, which is consisted of 149 nodes, 147 elements, as shown in
Fig. 9. The dimensions, materials, and boundary conditions are the same as the static test done by
Solazzi, and the test of the torsional stiffness is mentioned above.
5.3 Analysis of Vertical Forces on Four Wheels in Roll Motion
The condition of the motion of the kart in this paper is similar to a real kart cornering right with
constant speed 60km/hr. In order to evaluate the vertical forces on four wheels, the software MatLab
is used. Substituting the speed of Go-kart, 60km/hr (16.7m/s), and the geometric parameters shown in
Table 3 into equations (8), (9), (10), and (11), one will obtain the vertical forces on the four wheels.
Fig. 10 shows the relationship between the vertical forces on the four wheels and the kart speed. It is
seen that the load on the rear wheels are larger than that on the front wheels, this is because the center
of gravity of Go-kart frame is at the rear part of the frame. Besides, the forces on front and rear inner
wheels would be transferred to the outer wheels when the velocity of the kart increases. The vertical
force (F=Fzfo) on the front outer wheel at the speed 60km/hr (≒16.7m/s) when the kart cornering right
is 384N, and this value is used in the static test of the torsional stiffness.
5.4 Validation of Torsional Stiffness of the Go-kart Frame
The torsional stiffness of the frame is obtained by substituting the vertical force F , the distance
between one kingpin and centerline of the kart frame r , and the vertical displacement y into
equations (12) to (15).
When a force F = Fzfo = 384N is applied on one kingpin, the total vertical displacement (Δy) on
both kingpins is found to be 6.84mm, and the corresponding torsional stiffness of the kart frame is
- 11 -
applied on the right kingpin. Actually, the results are nearly the same.
(5) Model (e) is arranged with a horizontal member at the main members. It has the weight of
10.74kg. The torsional stiffness is 19.86% higher than the original while the force is applied on
the left kingpin, and the torsional stiffness is 19.9% higher than the original while the force is
applied on the right kingpin. Actually, the results are nearly the same.
(6) Model (f) is arranged with an inclined member in front of the rear cross member. It has the
weight of 10.91kg. The torsional stiffness is 6.4% higher than the original while the force is
applied on the left kingpin, and the torsional stiffness is 7.6% higher than the original while the
force is applied on the right kingpin.
(7) Model (g) is arranged with a right-inclined member in front of the center member. It has the
weight of 11.01kg. The torsional stiffness is 20.18% higher than the original while the force is
applied on the left kingpin, and the torsional stiffness is 15.5% higher than the original while the
force is applied on the right kingpin.
(8) Model (h) is arranged with a left-inclined member in front of the center member. It has the
weight of 11.01kg. The torsional stiffness is 14.89% higher than the original while the force is
applied on the left kingpin, and the torsional stiffness is 19.9% higher than the original while the
force is applied on the right kingpin.
(9) Model (i) is arranged with a right-inclined member at the main members. It has the weight of
10.95kg. The torsional stiffness is 19.33% higher than the original while the force is applied on
the left kingpin, and the torsional stiffness is 14.03% higher than the original while the force is
applied on the right kingpin.
(10) Model (j) is arranged with a left-inclined member at the main members. It has the weight of
10.95kg. The torsional stiffness is 13.33% higher than the original while the force is applied on
the left kingpin, and the torsional stiffness is 18.88% higher than the original while the force is
applied on the right kingpin.
6.2 Different Frames with Width Increased
Table 5 shows the 5 different types of frame, 4 of them are with their width between the two
kingpins increased. Model (a) is the original model built by Solazzi, and Table 6 and Table 7 show
the torsional stiffness of the models described as follows:
The increment of the width from model (k) to model (n) is 50mm, so the widths of the four
models are 678mm, 728mm, 778mm, and 828mm, respectively, and the weight of the four models are
10.55kg, 10.90kg, 11.25kg, and 11.61kg, respectively. The torsional stiffnesses of the four models are
7.20%, 14.82%, 22.76%, and 31.03% higher than the original model while the force is applied on the
left kingpin, and the torsional stiffnesses are 7.11%, 14.61%, 22.35%, and 30.45% higher than the
original model while the force is applied on the right kingpin. One can realize the increasing
percentage of the torsional stiffness is about 7% when the width is 50mm increased.
6.3 Comparison of Torsional Stiffness of Twisting Test
- 13 -
presented.
7. Conclusions
The torsional stiffness of a Go-kart frame must be enough to compensate the defect of no
differential gear by producing load transfers during cornering. It is one of the important factors
influencing the handling performance of a kart. According to the foregoing studies, the following
conclusions are drawn:
(1) Among the frame models with extra members arranged, the frames which are arranged with
horizontal members can help improving the handling performance the most, the frames which are
arranged with longitudinal members can only help improving the handling performance a little,
and the frames which are arranged with inclined members can help improving the handling
performance depend on the kart is cornering right of left.
(2) Increasing the width between two kingpins can more effectively enhance the torsional stiffness
than arranging extra members, but the weight and the materials of the frame will be increased.
Furthermore, the maximum width between the two kingpins of the kart frame is 1400mm
according to the CIK-FIA technical regulations [12].
The study of improving the torsional stiffness of Go-kart frame with two conceptual designs has
been presented in this paper. Since Go-kart is a very popular recreation, the working life of the kart
frame is also an important subject. Usually, the kart frame will harden after few races, so the fatigue
strength of Go-kart frame is also an important subject. Besides, the driver’s safety and the collisi  on
strength of Go-kart are also important factors in this sport, so the collision strength of Go-kart with
suitable dummy involved may be meaningful for studying. The kart impacting with bumpers attached
to the frame, and how to design bumpers which can effectively absorb the energy during impacting are
also worth studying in the future.
8. Acknowledgement
The authors would like to thank the National Science Council of the Republic of China for
financially supporting this research under contract No. NSC 93-2745-E-212 -001–URD, and No. NSC
93-2745-E-212 -001–URD, and thank Da-Yeh University, Taiwan, for extra financially supporting this
research under contract No. A-DME-9349.
9. References
[1] Website http://www.gokartracing.com
[2] Website http://www.vintagekarts.com
[3] Lonny L. Thompson, Srikanth Raju and E. Harry Law, “Design of a Winston Cup Chassis
for Torsional Stiffness”, SAE Paper, No.983053, pp.2571~ 2583, 1998.
[4] Andrew Deakin, David Crolla, Juan Pablo Ramirez and Ray Hanley,“The Effect of Chassis
- 15 -
Fig.1 The construction of a competition Go-kart
Fig.2 Illustration of the each member of Go-kart Frame
Front member
Position of the rear axle
Main member
Center member
Rear cross member
Position of the front cross
mebmer
- 17 -
Fig.5 The free-body diagram for the front view of the Go-kart
Fig.6 The illustration of determining the torsional stiffness of the Go-kart frame by using twisting test
Fzfi Fzfo
WCG
z
y
tf
Fyfi
hf
Fyfo
Fy
B
D
E
A
C
F
(Ux=Uy=Uz=0 ,θx=θy=θz=0)
(θz=0）
Pin-support at the front.
r
Fix-support at the rear end.
x
y
z
- 19 -
Fig.9 Finite element model of Solazzi’s frame
Fig.10 The distributions of the vertical forces on four wheels in roll motion
- 21 -
Table 4 Different types of frame with extra members mounted
Model (a) Model (b) Model (c) Model (d)
Model (e) Model (f) Model (g) Model (h)
Model (i) Model (j) Note: : The dashed circles show the
position of the extra
members on the frame.
