2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期末報告
地中壁及扶壁減少開挖引致地盤位移之成效研究
The performance of cross walls and buttress walls reducing exca-
vation-induced ground movements
計畫編號： NSC 96-2221-E-146 -001
執行期限：96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 10 月 31 日
主持人：謝百鈎 華夏技術學院資產與物業管理系
Abstract
This paper presents the performance of
an excavation with the installation of cross
walls and buttress walls based on field ob-
servations and numerical analysis results.
Results indicate that wall deflection can be
effectively reduced by the installation of
cross walls as long as the slime between the
cross wall and diaphragm wall can be fully
cleaned. The ground movement and wall de-
flection near the diaphragm wall corner or
cross wall were relatively small, compared
with those far away from the corner. The
diaphragm wall still has some deflection at
the section where a cross wall was installed.
It is justified that the elastic compression due
to the lateral earth pressure acting on the
cross wall was responsible for such a defor-
mation. Buttress walls also have some effects,
but much less than cross walls, in reducing
wall deflection or ground movements. If the
diaphragm wall expects to have a large de-
flection, use of the buttress wall will moder-
ately reduce the wall deflection. Conversely,
for those heavily affected by the diaphragm
wall corner or adjacent cross wall, side fric-
tional resistance of the buttress wall is mildly
mobilized because the wall deflection is al-
ready small. The buttress wall thus provides
little contribution in reducing the wall deflec-
tion.
Keywords: Deep excavation; wall deflection;
cross wall; buttress wall
摘要
本文對座落於台北盆地之實際開挖案
例的監測資料進行研究，並配合數值分析
結果的比較，以探討地中壁及扶壁抑制深
開挖引致之地盤位移的成效。研究結果顯
示，若地中壁和連續壁間之淤泥可清除乾
淨，設置地中壁能提供相當好的地盤位移
抑制效果；靠近連續壁或地中壁角隅處之
斷面的地盤位移較周圍小，地中壁提供的
角隅效應類似連續壁；在開挖面底下，地
中壁設置處之連續壁仍會有小量的側向位
移，其主要是因地中壁承受軸向壓力所產
生之彈性變形。設置扶壁亦可減少地盤位
移，但明顯的較地中壁差；若連續壁預期
會有較大的位移，設置扶壁能減小連續壁
位移，相反的，在受連續壁或地中壁角隅
影響，而位移較時小，由於位移量小，無
法有效驅動扶壁的摩擦抵抗，在減少連續
壁位移的效果上，扶壁僅可提供很少的貢
獻。
關鍵詞：深開挖、擋土壁變形、地中壁、
扶壁
INTRODUCTION
Wall deflection and ground movement
normally occur as a result of excavation. Ex-
cessive ground movement frequently dam-
ages adjacent properties in urban areas. The
integrity of adjacent buildings can be pro-
tected by underpinning. Nevertheless, it is
not practical to underpin a large number of
target buildings, either from a financial or
political point of view. Therefore, reducing
excavation induced movements to a tolerable
amount by auxiliary measures is a viable al-
ternative. Strengthening the bracing system
and/or increasing the passive resistance by
soil improvement techniques are two com-
monly adopted auxiliary measures in engi-
neering practice. Case histories with varying
degrees of success have been reported (Wong,
et al. 1987, Gaba 1990, Hsieh et al. 2003, Ou
4The UPIB Building is a 30-story struc-
ture with a seven-level basement. The base-
ment is used mainly for parking. As shown in
Figure 3, UPIB occupies a plan area of about
6,974 m2, and is situated in the Sinyi district
of the Taipei city. Excavation depth of the
UPIB basement was 32.5 m. The design used
a cast-in-place slurry diaphragm wall with
seven levels of concrete slab as the excava-
tion retaining system. The diaphragm wall
was 1.5 m in thickness, and extended from
ground surface down to a depth of 57.5 m,
about 6.5 m penetrating into the gravel for-
mation.
To protect the adjacent property, three
cross walls, 1.0 m in thickness and 45 m in
depth, and ten buttress walls, 1.0 m in thick-
ness and 55 m in depth, were constructed
prior to excavation (Figure 3). To ensure the
cross walls with high compressive strength,
they were constructed in the same way as
diaphragm walls. Soft slime, as shown in
Figure 4, is often generated between the cross
wall and the main diaphragm wall, which
will affect the efficacy of cross walls. Cau-
tion should be taken in the construction of
joints between main diaphragm walls and the
cross walls (Hsieh et al., 2008).
Figure 5 shows details of the construc-
tion of joints between diaphragm walls and
cross walls in this case history. The steps
used in the construction of joints are de-
scribed as follows:
Step 1: Excavate the diaphragm wall trench.
Step 2: Weld a steel plate at the diaphragm
panel. Then lower reinforcing steel cages
into the trench.
Step 3: Place the Tremie concrete to com-
plete the diaphragm panel wall construc-
tion.
Step 4: Excavate a cross wall trench perpen-
dicular to the diaphragm wall.
Step 5: Clean the soft slime at the connec-
tions between the cross walls and dia-
phragm walls.
Step 6: Place the Tremie concrete to the
trench.
Step 7: Excavate another panel trench and
place the Tremie concrete to complete the
cross wall construction, exactly the same
as the diaphragm wall construction.
6Table 2 Maximum lateral wall deflection and ground settlement at the final stage
No. SO-1 SI-2 SI-3 SI-4 SI-5 SI-6 SI-7 SI-8 SI-9 SI-10 SI-11 SI-12
hm
(mm)
47.4 52.6 72.6 44.7 68.4 50.4 39.6 26.1 74.4 54.8 27.2 36.4
SET. SET1 SET2 SET3 SET4 - - SET7 SET8 SET9 SET10 - SET12
vm
(mm)
-13.4 -17.9 -25.8 -16.0 - - -14.0 -12.0 -30.4 -27.3 - -13.0
than the excavations in Taipei city (Ou et al.,
1993), also much less than those in other
excavations (Clough and O'Rourke 1990).
The maximum settlement was 27.3 mm,
much small in comparison to other excava-
tion projects of similar depth in Taipei. The
settlements at the end of excavation were
obviously within acceptable limits.
NUMERICAL ANALYSIS
Numerical analyses were conducted to
assess the effect of installation of cross walls
and buttress walls in reducing diaphragm
wall deflection and ground movement. A
two dimensional finite difference program,
FLAC (1993), was adopted for such a pur-
pose. Analyses can be conduced with ad-
vanced model such as MIT E3 model (Ha-
shash and Whittle 1996), MIT S1 model
(Pestana and Whittle 1999) or other models
(e.g., Stallebrass and Taylor 1997). However,
for practical purposes, all soils were mod-
eled as simple linear elastic, perfectly plastic
isotropic materials obeying Mohr-Coulomb
yield criterion. In the analysis, the
sandy/gravelly and clayey soils were as-
sumed to behave in the drained and
undrained states, respectively. The shear
strength parameters and unit weight of soils
were deduced from conventional laboratory
test results while the Young’s moduli(E)
were determined by a back-calculation
process. Finite difference analyses were car-
ried out to fit the wall deflections and
ground movements by adjusting Young’s 
moduli on a trial and error basis. On the
other hand, Poisson’s ratio () for the clayey
soils and the sandy/gravelly soil were sepa-
rately taken as 0.49 and 0.3.
The TNEC case history, a well docu-
mented and high quality excavation case
history (Ou et al, 1998), is used as a baseline
case history for back analysis. The TNEC
and UPIB projects are similar in a number of
major aspects, including construction
method, soil characteristics, etc., except that
the TNEC did not have cross walls and but-
tress walls installed. These soil parameters
represent not only the engineering properties
of in situ soils, but also the effects of con-
struction workmanship (Clough and Mana
1976). Table 1 lists the parameters for the
soils determined by back-calculation process
and laboratory tests.
The response of the diaphragm wall and
floor slabs were assumed to be linear-elastic.
The stiffness of floor slabs can be calculated
from the equation EA/L, where E is Young’s
modulus of the concrete, A is the cross sec-
tional area per unit length and L can be taken
as the half of the excavation width because
the excavation is assumed to be symmetric.
According to ACI code, Young’s modulus 
(E) for the concrete wall can be calculated
8the observed maximum wall deflection and
its distance to the diaphragm wall corners
for various inclinometers displayed in Figure
3. For comparison, the maximum wall de-
flections in the directions of S-N and E-W,
analyzed from the same excavation, con-
struction procedure, without any auxiliary
measures, and under the plane strain condi-
tion from the numerical analysis, are also
indicated in the figure. As for the section af-
fected by the corner, i.e., non-plane strain
condition, the wall deflection related to its
distance to the corner is evaluated according
to Eq. (1) and Figure 10. Similarly, Figure
11(b) shows the relation of the observed
maximum ground settlement and its distance
to the diaphragm wall corners for the section
profiles displayed in Figure 3. The analyzed
maximum ground settlement for the same
excavation under the plane strain condition
but without auxiliary measures and those af-
fected by the diaphragm wall corners are
also shown in the figure.
Effect of cross walls
As shown in Figure 7, the wall deflec-
tion at SI-8 and its corresponding ground
settlement at the cross wall installed were
considerably reduced, compared with those
without cross walls because the movements
were directly restrained by the high axial
stiffness of the cross wall. The maximum
wall deflection ( hm ) and ground settlement
( vm ) at SI-8 and SET 8 was reduced by 81%
and 86%, respectively. Since SI-8 was not
very far away from the diaphragm wall cor-
ner, the wall deflection might be affected by
the diaphragm wall corner. If the corner ef-
fect was considered, the maximum wall de-
flection ( hm ) at SI-8 and ground settlement
( vm ) at SET 8 were reduced by 79% and
84%, respectively, as indicated in Figure 11.
Besides, SI-11 and SI-12 was also located
at/near the place of the cross wall installed.
The wall deflection at these inclinometers
and its corresponding settlement were simi-
lar to those at SI-8.
Since the cross wall existed prior to
excavation, the diaphragm wall at a place
where the cross wall was installed had no
chance to deform during excavation. As long
as the slime between the diaphragm wall and
cross wall can be fully cleaned, the dia-
phragm wall and ground settlement can be
reduced to a very small amount. For the
UPIB excavation, where the slime in the
joint was believed to be removed fully, the
maximum wall deflection and ground set-
tlement at the place where the cross wall was
installed was significantly reduced.
Effect of buttress walls
As displayed in Figure 3, SI-2 was 9 m
away from the cross wall and 4 m from the
buttress wall while SI-6 was 9 m away from
the cross wall but without buttress walls
nearby. The wall deflection at both SI-2 and
SI-6 should be heavily affected by the cross
wall. As shown in Figure 11, the wall de-
flection at SI-2 was very close to that at SI-6.
The existence of the buttress wall seemed to
have no additional restraining effect in re-
ducing wall movement. This may be attrib-
uted to the fact that comparatively small
movement of the wall, due to proximity to
the cross wall, mobilized little frictional re-
sistance between the buttress wall and the
adjacent soils, which therefore caused the
10
As shown in Figure 3, SI-3 was 19 m
away from the cross wall and right at the
buttress wall while SO-1 was 13 m away
from the cross wall and also right at the but-
tress wall. Figure 11(a) indicates that the
wall deflection at SI-3 was larger than that at
SO-1. The longer distance to the cross wall,
the more wall deflection obtained. The
ground settlement at these sections also ex-
hibited a similar trend, as shown in Figure
11(b).
Moreover, SI-9 was 29 m away from
the diaphragm wall corner and 1.0 m from
the buttress wall. Compared with the wall
deflections at SI-4 and SI-10, the wall at
SI-9 deflected more than that at SI-10 or
SI-4. It is certainly due to the fact that SI-9
was with larger distance to the diaphragm
wall corner than SI-10 and SI-4 though the
wall at SI-9 also was with the shorter dis-
tance to the buttress wall than those at SI-10
and SI-4.
As mentioned previously, the cross wall
in this case was constructed starting from the
ground surface and down to the bottom of
the diaphragm wall. It also functions as the
diaphragm wall corner, causing the wall de-
flection or ground settlement near the corner
be reduced considerably.
The wall deflection at SI-2, SI-8, SI-11,
SI-12 and SI-6, excluding the influence of
diaphragm wall corner and buttress wall,
was plotted with the distance to the cross
wall, as shown in Figure 12. The wall de-
flection certainly decreases with the increase
of the distance to the cross wall. This figure
can be used as a first approximation in de-
termining the space between cross walls in
excavations.
INVESTIGATION OF WALL MOVE-
MENT AT CROSS WALLS
Since the cross wall, produced by the
diaphragm wall construction technique, was
of very high compressive strength, the de-
flection of the diaphragm wall at the place
where the cross wall was installed should be
very small. However, as display in Figure 7
and Table 1, the wall at SI-8 still exhibited a
26.1 mm of maximum wall deflection. The
deflection may come out with the elastic
compression of the cross wall or movement
of the slime between the diaphragm wall and
cross wall.
To investigate the cause of the move-
ment, analysis of the diaphragm wall, with
consideration of the cross wall, in the S-N
direction under the plane strain condition, is
undertaken. In the analysis, the cross wall is
simulated with springs. However, for plane
strain analysis, the spring constant should be
transformed to the value per unit width, i.e.,
the spring constant for the cross wall should
be divided by the distance between two
cross walls, as shown in Figure 13. These
springs above the final excavation depth
should be removed stage by stage due to the
simulation of dismantling of the cross wall
during excavation.
Figure 14(a) displays the comparison of
the measured wall deflection at SI-8 with
that analyzed using the method mentioned
above. The analyzed wall deflection is
slightly larger than the measured, especially
12
ground settlement increased with the in-
creasing distance from the cross wall.
Such behavior was similar to the three
dimensional behavior of the diaphragm
wall near the corner in an excavation.
Space between cross walls should be de-
signed to ensure the whole area or spe-
cific area of wall deflection or ground
settlement within a tolerable range. The
design can be resorted to three dimen-
sional numerical analysis or empirical
formula with the consideration of the
diaphragm wall corner effect. Besides,
the relationship between the wall deflec-
tion and distance to the cross wall estab-
lished for the UPIB excavation can be
used as a first approximation for estima-
tion.
3. The buttress wall may function as a
T-beam in the reinforced concrete, for
which the section modulus of the dia-
phragm wall is increased considerably.
Besides, the side frictional resistance
may provide an additional support. Since
the buttress wall in this case history was
not formed a whole unit the main dia-
phragm wall, the buttress wall was not
capable of providing much moment re-
sistance.
4. If the diaphragm wall expects to have a
large deflection, the buttress wall with
longer length, resulting in the consider-
able mobilization of the side frictional
resistance, will moderately reduce the
wall deflection. Conversely, for those
already heavily affected by the dia-
phragm wall corner or adjacent cross
wall, side frictional resistance of the but-
tress wall is mildly mobilized because
the wall deflection is already small. The
buttress wall thus provides little contri-
bution in reducing the wall deflection.
REFERENCES
Clough, G.W. and Mana, A.I. (1976), Les-
sons learned in finite element analysis of
temporary excavation in soft clay, Nu-
merical Method in Geomechanics, Edited
by C. S. Desai, Blacksburg VA.,
pp.496-510.
Clough, G. W. and O'Rourke, T. D. (1990),
Construction-induced movements of
in-situ walls, Proceedings, Design and
Performance of Earth Retaining Structure,
ASCE Special Conference, Ithaca, New
York, pp. 439-470.
Gaba, A.R. (1990). Jet grouting at Newton
station, Proceedings of the 10th Southeast
Asia Geotechnical Conference, April,
Taipei, pp. 77-79.
Hashash, Y. M. A. and Whittle, A. J. (1996),
Ground movement prediction for deep
excavations in soft clay. Journal of Geo-
technical Engineering, ASCE, Vol. 122,
No. 6, pp. 474–486.
Hsieh, H. S., Lu, Y. C., Lin, T. M., (2008),
Joint details that affect the behavior of
cross walls in a deep excavation, Journal
of GeoEngineering, TGS, Vol. 3, No. 2.
Hsieh, H.S., Wang, C.C. and Ou, C.Y.
(2003), Use of jet grouting to limit dia-
phragm wall displacement of a deep ex-
cavation, Journal of Geotechnical and
Geoenvironmental Engineering, ASCE,
Vol. 129, No. 2, pp. 146-157 (2003).
Ou, C.Y., Chiou, D.C. and Wu, T.S. (1996a),
Three-dimensional finite element analysis
of deep excavations, Journal of Geotech-
nical Engineering, ASCE, Vol. 122, No. 5,
pp. 337-345.
Ou, C. Y., Lin, Y. L., and Hsieh, P. G.
(2006), A case record of an excavation
with cross walls and buttress walls, Jour-
nal of GeoEngineering, Vol. 1. No. 2,
pp.579-86.
Ou, C.Y., Hsieh, P.G. and Chiou, D.C.
(1993), Characteristics of Ground Surface
Setlement during Excavation,” Canadian 
Geotechnical Journal, Vol. 30, pp.
758-767.
Ou, C.Y., Liao, J.T. and Lin, H.D. (1998),
Performance of a top-down basement
construction, Journal of Geotechnical and
Geoenvironmental Engineering, ASCE,
Vol. 124, No. 9, pp. 798-808.
Ou, C.Y., Wu, T.S. and Hsieh, H.S. (1996b),
Analysis of deep excavation with column
type of ground improvement in soft clay,
Journal of Geotechnical Engineering,
ASCE, Vol. 122, No. 9, pp.709-716.
Pestana J. M. and Whittle A. J. (1999), For-
14
附件一
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 96-2221-E-146-001-
計畫名稱 地中壁及扶壁減少開挖引致地盤位移之成效研究
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
謝百鈎
華夏技術學院資產與物業管理系教授
會議時間地點 2008 年 10 月 16 日至 18 日在中國天津市
會議名稱 全國基坑工程學術討論會
發表論文題目 深開挖鄰產保護之探討
一、參加會議經過
由中國建築學會建築施工學術委員會基坑工程專業委員會和天津市建築學
會地基基礎學術委員會共同主辦，由天津大學主承辦的中國第五屆全國基坑工程
學術討論會於 2008年 10月 16日至 18日在中國天津市天宇大酒店召開。本次會議邀
請了中國、香港、台灣等地的著名專家學者就中國、香港、台灣深開挖工程之發
展與動態及工程經驗做學術專題報告，並就近年來深開挖工程的技術發展進行廣
泛、深入的交流與討論
本次研討會共有 7 場”Keynote lecture”，以及來自中國、香港、台灣等地的
論文 136 篇，本次研討會與會的人員共 300 多人，包括中國、香港、台灣等地的
專家學者及業界代表，論文主要是針對以下議題進行技術及意見的交換與討論：
1. 理論研究與數值分析
2. 設計方法研究
3. 開挖工程中的地下水問題
4. 軟弱土壤及其他特殊土壤的開挖
5. 試驗與工程監測
6. 施工工法及技術
7. 工程實例與事故案例分析
16
經由這樣的過程，也提供了許多後續研究的一些思維。
最後能參加本次研討會，聽了許多台灣、中國、香港等地從事深開挖工程研
究的學者專家演講，以及針對其最近的研究成果進行報告，除了解目前兩岸三地
有關深開挖實務及研究的最近發展外，並獲得許多新的觀念及知識，對於後續進
行深開挖工程的研究及發展皆有更進一步的認識，相信對後續研究工作絶對會有
相對多的助益。
18
20
22
24
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 96-2221-E-146-001- 
計畫名稱 地中壁及扶壁減少開挖引致地盤位移之成效研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
謝百鈎 
華夏技術學院資產與物業管理系教授 
會議時間地點 2008 年 10 月 16 日至 18 日在中國天津市 
會議名稱 全國基坑工程學術討論會 
發表論文題目 深開挖鄰產保護之探討 
 
一、參加會議經過 
由中國建築學會建築施工學術委員會基坑工程專業委員會和天津市建築學
會地基基礎學術委員會共同主辦，由天津大學主承辦的中國第五屆全國基坑工
程學術討論會於 2008年 10月 16日至 18日在中國天津市天宇大酒店召開。本次會
議邀請了中國、香港、台灣等地的著名專家學者就中國、香港、台灣深開挖工
程之發展與動態及工程經驗做學術專題報告，並就近年來深開挖工程的技術發
展進行廣泛、深入的交流與討論  
本次研討會共有 7 場 ”Keynote lecture”，以及來自中國、香港、台灣等地的
論文 136 篇，本次研討會與會的人員共 300 多人，包括中國、香港、台灣等地
的專家學者及業界代表，論文主要是針對以下議題進行技術及意見的交換與討
論：  
1. 理論研究與數值分析  
2. 設計方法研究  
3. 開挖工程中的地下水問題  
4. 軟弱土壤及其他特殊土壤的開挖  
5. 試驗與工程監測  
6. 施工工法及技術  
7. 工程實例與事故案例分析  
8. 環境影響與風險評估  
最後能參加本次研討會，聽了許多台灣、中國、香港等地從事深開挖工程
研究的學者專家演講，以及針對其最近的研究成果進行報告，除了解目前兩岸
三地有關深開挖實務及研究的最近發展外，並獲得許多新的觀念及知識，對於
後續進行深開挖工程的研究及發展皆有更進一步的認識，相信對後續研究工作
絶對會有相對多的助益。  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
