 1
Abstract 
Due to the temperature raising of the cold cathode fluorescence lamp (CCFL) in a backlight module of 
a LCD under long-term lighting state, the micro-optic-structure will deform and results an uneven 
luminance phenomenon. The main purpose of the proposed proposal is to study the luminance variation by 
using both experimental method and numerical simulation, and the expected results will be utilized to make 
the optimization design of backlight module. This is the second year’s mid-term report of a three years 
project. The purpose of this year is to study the effects of heat source from CCFL on luminance in the BLM 
of a 7-inch LCD. The temperature distributions were measured by using thermal couple and the luminance 
variations of the BLM were measured by using luminance meters and CCD camera. The results show that 
the luminance distribution is more even because of the heat source from CCFL in BLM. 
Keywords: Liquid Crystal Display (LCD), Backlight Module (BLM), Thermal Deformation, Luminance 
摘要 
由於背光模組內的冷陰極螢光燈管(CCFL)於長時間點燈狀態下，其燈管本身所產生的溫度將會影響背光
模組內的微光學結構產生微變形，進而導致輝度不均的現象，故本計畫主要研究目的即為量測及模擬液晶顯
示器背光模組各層之微光學結構處於長時間點燈的狀態下，因溫度導致微光學結構之變形進而對其輝度影響
之探討。本計畫將利用輝度量測實驗去偵測輝度實際變化的結果，進而採用光學模擬軟體分析，探討熱變形
對背光模組的輝度變化影響之程度，並將利用實驗結果做出最佳化的模組設計。此報告為為三年期計畫的之
第二年期中報告。本年度之主要目的即實際去點燈 7 吋背光模組，以熱電偶測量溫度分佈，並以輝度計和
CCD camera作輝度的量測，研究輝度受燈管溫度影響實際變化的結果。結果顯示熱變形並不一定會導致輝
度分佈更不均勻。 
關鍵字：液晶顯示器、背光模組、熱變形、輝度 
 
1. Introduction 
Backlight module (BLM) is one of the key 
components of the liquid crystal display (LCD). 
Because liquid crystals do not emit lights by 
themselves, a light source should be needed to 
provide good brightness uniformity and high 
luminance in order to process viewable images 
on a LCD. The light source is usually called 
backlight module because the light source, which 
is cold cathode fluorescent lamps (CCFLs), is 
placed behind the panel of the LCD. Generally, 
BLM may be classified into two categories in 
terms of the location of the light source inside the 
LCD module, i.e. edge lighting and direct lighting.  
 
Tagaya et al. and Okumura et al. simulated 
scattering characteristics of particles by using 
Mie scattering theory in LGP, and got better 
luminance and uniformity compared with 
conventional LGP [1-3]. Ide et al. utilized 
molecular-dynamics to design dot patterns 
irregularly and thus to improve the distribution of 
dots [4]. Kim et al. studied diffusion plate with 
PET/PC/PBT copolymer and PMMA diffusion 
plate modified with glass fibers in a direct-lit BLM 
of a LCD, and both of them have better 
thermo-physical properties and water absorption 
compared with conventional PMMA [5,6]. Chu et 
al. set up a systematic analysis by using finite 
element analysis (FEA), computational fluid 
dynamics (CFD), and structure-heat transfer, to 
simulate warpage due to heat source from 
CCFLs in the backlight module of a TFT-LCD TV 
 3
levels of an image analyzed can be digitized 
from 0 to 255. The higher the value is, the higher 
the luminance is.  
 
3. Results and Discussions 
3.1 Results of temperature measurements 
Fig. 3 shows the temperature versus lighting time 
curves of each pre-selected point under the 
drives of the inverter A and the inverter B, 
respectively. It can be seen that the temperature 
variation will become stable after the BLM was 
on for 30 minutes. The raises of temperature, 
after 30 minutes of BLM is on, of all pre-selected 
points under the drives of the inverter A and the 
inverter B, respectively, are shown in Table 1. In 
the Table 1, the ∆T＝T30 minutes  － Tenvironmental. It 
can be concluded from the Table 1 that the 
thermal deformations of the BLM driven by 
converter B are serious than thermal 
deformations of the BLM driven by converter A. 
 
Fig. 3  The temperature versus lighting time 
curves of each pre-selected point under the 
drives of the inverter A and the inverter B, 
respectively 
 
Table 1. The raises of temperature, after 30 
minutes of BLM is on, of all pre-selected points 
under the drives of the inverter A and the inverter 
B, respectively   (unit：oC，±0.1 oC) 
 
 
        Inverter
No. of points 
A B 
No.1 ∆T ＝ 33.0 ∆T ＝ 40.8 
No.2 ∆T ＝ 30.8 ∆T ＝ 39.6 
No.3 ∆T ＝ 35.0 ∆T ＝ 45.0 
No.4 ∆T ＝ 22.0 ∆T ＝ 33.8 
No.5 ∆T ＝ 10.4 ∆T ＝ 15.3 
No.6 ∆T ＝ 4.9 ∆T ＝ 7.2 
No.7 ∆T ＝ 3.2 ∆T ＝ 5.0 
No.8 ∆T ＝ 5.3 ∆T ＝ 7.7 
No.9 ∆T ＝ 18.0 ∆T ＝ 26.3 
No.10 ∆T ＝ 37.0 ∆T ＝ 53.6 
No.11 ∆T ＝ 33.0 ∆T ＝ 41.5 
No.12 ∆T ＝ 31.0 ∆T ＝ 39.0 
 
3.2 Results of luminance measurements 
In order to measuring luminance of a BLM, the 
BLM must be lit first and waiting until the BLM 
reached its warm-up time. The warm-up time 
purposes to avoid abrupt temperature change 
during measuring, and in order to stabilize the 
luminance. From literatures reviewed, it can be 
concluded that luminance reached its stability 
after the BLM was lit 3 minutes. However, in this 
study, the warm-up time was chosen as 5 
minutes for the purpose of conservative. 
 
There are two purposes in this study. The first 
purpose is to study the effect of the thermal 
deformations caused by temperature raised of a 
BLM on its luminance. It is noted that luminance 
will become stable after a BLM was lit 5 minutes 
and the temperature variation will become stable 
after the BLM was on for 30 minutes. Therefore, 
the luminance of the BLM corresponded to 5 
minutes and 30 minutes, respectively, after the 
BLM was lit were recorded and compared with 
 5
BLM-3. The image of luminous surface of a BLM 
at any specific time was captured by CCD 
camera and then loaded the collected data into 
the gray level analysis program to get the values 
of the gray levels of the full luminous surface. 
The gray levels of an image analyzed can be 
digitized from 0 to 255. The greater the value of 
the gray level, the brighter the corresponding 
luminance. 
 
In order to study the variations of luminance of 
the full luminous surface caused by thermal 
deformations, the gray levels corresponded to 
full luminous surface at 5 minutes after a BLM 
was lit were subtracted from the gray levels 
corresponded to full luminous surface at 30 
minutes after a BLM was lit. The results are 
shown in Fig. 7. In Fig. 7, a red spot means the 
subtracted result is positive, i.e., the 
corresponding luminance increases, and a blue 
spot means the subtracted result is negative, i.e., 
the corresponding luminance decreases. Under 
the same drive of the inverter A, the overall 
luminous surfaces of BLM-1, BLM-2, and BLM-3 
are all red. On the other hand, under the same 
drive of the inverter B, some areas of BLM-1, 
BLM-2, and BLM-3 are red, but some of them are 
blue. Therefore, one can conclude that thermal 
deformations of a BLM do affect the strength of 
its corresponding luminance. However, thermal 
deformations would not definitely causes the 
strength of luminance getting worse, thermal 
deformations may cause luminance increases. 
 
(a) BLM-1 
 
(b) BLM-2 
 
(c) BLM-3 
Fig. 7 The difference of gray levels corresponded 
to full luminous surface at 5 minutes and 30 
minutes, respective, after a BLM was lit. The 
figures at left hand side corresponded to the BLM 
under the drive of the inverter A, and the figures 
at right hand side corresponded to the BLM 
under the drive of the inverter B.  
 
Finally, the effects of thermal deformations on the 
luminance uniformity will be discussed. Usually, 
luminance uniformity is obtained from the 
luminance of 9 pre-selected points (refer to Fig. 4) 
and is calculated as Luniformity = Lmin/Lmax×100%, 
where Lmax and Lmin are the maximum and 
minimum values, respectively, of luminance of 
the 9 pre-selected points. However, one can not 
guarantee that the luminance distribution of a 
luminous surface with luminance uniformity of 
75% is actually more even than a luminous 
surface with luminance uniformity of 74% since 
those luminance uniformities were calculated 
based on the data of 9 pre-selected points only. 
Therefore, in this experiment, a full luminous 
surface was divided into eighty-one blocks and 
the luminance uniformity of each block was 
examined and compared. 
Firstly, gray level distribution of the luminous 
surface of each BLM of all 3 BLM specimens at 
30 minutes after the BLM specimens were driven 
 7
calculated by using the values of gray level and 
compared. The results show that thermal 
deformations of a BLM do affect the strength and 
the luminance uniformity of its corresponding 
luminance. However, thermal deformations 
would not definitely causes the strength and 
uniformity of luminance getting worse, thermal 
deformations may cause luminance increases or 
make luminance distribution more even. 
The results are accepted to present at the 2007 
SEM Annual Conference & Exposition, June 
03-06, 2007, Springfield, Massachusetts, USA. 
 
References 
[1] Tagaya, A. and Koike, Y., “Highly scattering 
optical transmission polymers for bright 
display,” Macromolecular Symposia, Vol.154, 
No.1, pp.73-82, 2000 
[2] Tagaya, A., Nagai, M., Koike, Y. and 
Yokoyama, K., “Thin liquid-crystal display 
backlight system with highly scattering 
optical transmission polymers,” Applied 
Optics, Vol.40, No.34, pp.6274-6280, 2001 
[3] Okumura, T., Tagaya, A., Koike, Y., Horiguchi, 
M. and Suzuki, H., “Highly-efficient backlight 
for liquid crystal display having no optical 
films,” Applied Physics Letters, Vol.83, No.13, 
pp.2515-2517, 2003 
[4] Ide, T., Mizuta, H., Numata, H., Taira, Y., 
Suzuki, M., Noguchi, M. and Katsu, Y., “Dot 
pattern generation technique using 
molecular dynamics,” Journal of the Optical 
Society of America A, Vol.20, No.2, 
pp.248-255, 2003 
[5] Kim, G. H., Kim, W. J., Kim, S. M. and Son, J. 
G., “Analysis of thermo-physical and optical 
properties of a diffuser using PET/PC/PBT 
copolymer in LCD backlight units,” Displays, 
Vol.26, NO.1, pp.37-43, 2005 
[6] Kim, G. H., “A PMMA composite as an optical 
diffuser in a liquid crystal display backlighting 
unit (BLU) ,” European Polymer Journal, 
Vol.41, No.8, pp.1729-1737, 2005 
[7] Chu, C. Y., Pan, M. C. and Ho, J., “Thermal 
analysis and experimental validation on 
TFT-LCD panels for image quality concerns,” 
IEEE 2005 Electronics Packaging Technology 
Conference, Vol.2, pp.543-548, 2005 
 2 Copyright © 2007 by ASME 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
        「2007年美國機械工程師學會壓力容器與管路研討會」由美國機械工程師學
會（ASME）舉辦，會議在美國 San Antonio, Texas市中心 HYATT飯店舉行。美
國機械工程師學會成立於 1941 年，為全世界大規模之壓力容器與管路研究方面
的研討學會之一。除透過出版（ASME Journal of Pressure Vessel Technology）
外，另以年會及講座等方式促進跨國的學者之間交流以及溝通。 
本人此次出國參加學術研討會，於台灣時間七月二十日下午 13:05自高雄小港
國際機場啟程，經桃園中正機場轉機，至美國 Houston, Texas，再轉機前往會議所
在地，於當地時間七月二十日夜間 23：48抵達會議所在城市──美國 San Antonio, 
Texas，飛行及等機時間合計約二十四個小時。 
因本人為洗腎病患，每星期需進行三次洗腎，故於七月二十一日下午先赴當地
洗腎中心進行洗腎。於七月月二十二日下午赴會場 HYATT註冊，接著於下午參加
了主題為 Communicating Engineering Solutions and the Concept of Risk to the Public
之一場 Special Tutorial。 
七月二十三日上午之專題演講者為Westinghouse Electric Company之 Senior 
Vice President Dr. Regis A. Matzie，講題為 Challenges to Pressure Vessel Technologies 
Presented by High Temperature Gas Cooled Reactors。當日上午參加之 session主題為
Nanotechnology Panel，下午參加之二 session主題分別為 Computational Methods for 
Elastic-Plastic FEA與 Nondestructive Inspection for Creep Damage。 
七月二十四日上午先赴當地洗腎中心進行洗腎，中午參加 PVPD Materials & 
Fabrication Technical Committee，並領取 2006年本人與博士班研究生陳俊宏投至美
國機械工程師學會壓力容器與管路研討會之傑出論文獎，得獎之論文題目為 Using 
Statistic Method to Calculating and Monitoring the Corrosion Rate of Petroleum Process 
Piping。下午參加主題為 Statistical Design of Experiments and Uncertainty/Risk 
Analysis for Material Properties Testing，並於會中發表本人投稿之論文，題目為 A 
Management Study of Pressure Relief Valves，於會中引起廣泛討論，並獲得一些頗
具建設性之建議。 
七月二十五日上午參加之二 session主題分別為為 Qualification & Testing, 
Pumps & Valves, Materials & Components與 Computational Applications in Fatigue, 
Fracture and Damage Mechanics，下午大會未做安排，為自由活動。七月二十六日
為大會會期之最後一天，當日參加之三 session主題分別為為 Active and Passive 
Damping Control，Blast and Extreme Loadings與 Failure Assessment and Design 
Improvement of Pressure Components. 
 4 Copyright © 2007 by ASME 
 
Proceedings of PVP 2007 
2007 ASME Pressure Vessels and Piping Division Conference 
July 22-26, 2007, San Antonio, Texas 
                       PVP2007-26226 
A MANAGEMENT STUDY OF PRESSURE RELIEF VALVES  
 
 
Chi-Hui Chien 
Professor in the Department of 
Mechanical and Electro-Mechanical 
Engineering 
National Sun Yat-Sen University 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
Phone : 886-7-5254223 
Fax : 886-7-5254299 
E-mail : chchien@mail.nsysu.edu.tw 
Chun-Hung Chen 
Graduate student in the Department 
of Mechanical and Electro-
Mechanical Engineering 
National Sun Yat-Sen University 
Kaohsiung,Taiwan 
Senior inspection engineer in  
CPC Shell Lubricants CO., Ltd. 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan. 
Phone : 886-7-3649366 ext. 312 
Fax : 886-7-5873081 
E-mail : chen4799@ms28.hinet.net 
Yih-Shen Lin 
Inspector in the Department of 
 Occupational Safety Office  
Labor Affairs Bureau  
Kaohsiung City Government, Taiwan.
Phone : 886-7-8125162 ext. 145 
Fax : 886-7-8124548 
E-mail : p1024510@kcg.gov.tw 
 
ABSTRACT  
As a safety concern, pressure relief valves play important 
roles in protecting a pressure vessel or pressurized system. The 
conditions of the pressure relief valves deteriorate day after day 
which depend on the operating conditions of process train such 
as variation of pressure and temperature, containment and 
frequency of relieving during operation. If the deteriorative 
relief valves failure to operate normally as required, a 
catastrophic event may occur while no other protective means 
provided. So, to prepare a plan of inspection and maintenance 
with suitable intervals based on the knowledge of the relations 
between the conditions of pressure relief valves and plant 
operation parameters, is a safety strategy to plant owner.  
With practical inspection and maintenance works of 
pressure relief valves performed in a process train, this paper 
collects the as-received pressure relief valves test results from 
current inspection intervals and presents the relationships 
between as-received test data and operation parameters based 
on analysis of variation (ANOVA) and analysis of correlation. 
With these analyses, one can get the relationships between the 
decay conditions of the pressure relieve valves and their 
operating parameters. A site survey of as-received test results 
will be used as a case study and the weighting factors 
corresponding to the operation parameters are also presented.  
 
INTRODUCTION  
For the past decade, according to the regulations of 
Council of Labor Affairs, Taiwan, the shut down inspection 
interval on pressure vessel is 2 years for general service and 3 
years for gas service. During the shut down inspection period, 
the pressure relief valves of the pressure system must be tested 
in order to make sure these valves can perform normally 
subjected to the required criteria according to the jurisdiction 
requirements. Based on the concerns of pressure system safety, 
such a short time-based maintenance strategy to all pressure 
relief valves maybe conservative for the protection of pressure 
vessels or pressurized system. From the viewpoint of risk-
based consideration, the inspection interval of some high-risk 
pressure relief valves which with high probability of failure on 
demand may need to choose less than 2 years, while the others 
may take longer inspection interval.  
In recent years, the Council of Labor Affairs in Taiwan 
allows the plant owner or user to extend the shut down 
inspection interval of the pressure vessels or pressure systems 
under certain conditions which include the damage mechanism 
evaluations and life assessments together with Risk Based 
Inspection (RBI) [1,2] of each pressure vessel or pressure 
system. But with the extension of inspection interval, the plant 
owner or user seldom get notice and the knowledge about the 
performance of pressure relief valves while the damage 
mechanism continues to influence the pressure relief valves 
together with the pressure vessels or pressurized system. 
According to the American Petroleum Institute (API) Code 510 
 6 Copyright © 2007 by ASME 
plant owner or user should assess these parameters in which 
some parameters may have significant influences and some 
parameters may have little or no influence on the PSVs aging 
conditions. In this way, the high-risk population of the PSVs in 
this process train can be verified and located. In this paper, the 
analysis of variation (ANOVA) will be used to identify the 
operating parameters with non-significant influences on the 
aging conditions of PSVs.  
In statistics, analysis of variance (ANOVA) is a collection 
of statistical models and their associated procedures, which 
compare means by splitting the overall observed variance into 
different parts. So, one can use this statistical method to 
identify the parameters which do not have influence on the 
aging conditions of PSVs by applying the EXCEL data analysis 
function performed on these as-received test data without 
additional complex analytical work during turnaround. With the 
purpose to simplify the analysis process, one can use the 
method of single-factor ANOVA under the assumption that no 
interactions existed between these operating parameters of 
PSVs, which required by normal operation.  
 
Analysis flowchart used in this case study  
When considering the aging conditions of PSVs, the as-
received test data usually play an important role to represent 
the health conditions of PSVs in process train. In normal 
inspection and maintenance work steps of PSVs during 
turnaround, in order to monitor the health conditions of PSVs, 
the PSVs are usually removed from the static equipments and 
perform the as-received tests before starting PSVs disassembly 
and inspection works. Typically, without considering the 
service type and fluid categories, test pressure was usually not 
increased beyond 150% and decreased below 90% (Leak test is 
required when the resetting work is completed) of each PSV’s 
set pressure as its required performance under normal 
condition. Follow conventional inspection and maintenance 
procedures described in API 576 recommendation practice, if 
the required performance does not meet the requirement of 
jurisdiction or process train requests, a thorough damage 
investigation such as deposits and cokes stuck should be 
performed and record the root causes in a relative report to 
each PSV. In this paper, in order to identify the high-risk 
population of PSVs, besides conventional procedures were 
followed in this analysis, the reference Figures and Tables 
obtained through ANOVA were also used to identify the 
operating parameters with significant influence and the 
operating parameters with non-significant influence. The 
analysis flowchart used in this case study is shown in Figure 1.  
 
 
 
Figure 1 Analysis flowchart used in this case study  
 
A CASE STUDY OF SITE SURVEY USING THE AS-
RECEIVED TEST RESULTS IN A LUBRICANT 
PROCESS TRAIN 
Background  
In Taiwan, when a lubricant plant owner tries to apply for 
extending of the shut down inspection interval from 2 years to 
3 years, the safety problem of the PSVs in the process train is 
always a major concern to the auditors from the occupational 
safety office. During the audit of this application, owing to lack 
of powerful evidences and records such as the as-received test 
data or systematic aging trend of PSVs in order to persuade the 
auditors about the reliability of PSVs, even though the shut 
down period for the static equipments of the process train can 
be extended to 3 years without any safety problems, the plant 
owner still have to follow the jurisdiction regulations to shut 
down the whole plant for about 6-days PSVs checking and 
inspection works performed on these PSVs which belong to 
protect the 2-years service pressure vessels at the end of the 
second year. Then, a 30-days turnaround inspection works 
should be executed at the end of the third year in order to 
perform a further investigation about the PSVs together with all 
static equipments in this pressure system suggested by the 
Parameters 
significant influence 
Parameters not 
significant influence 
Turnaround start 
Perform the as-received test 
Remove PSVs from the static equipments 
Record and delete the data sets corresponding to rust and 
debris, insect nests, galling parts, sticking due to process 
deposits, and mechanical damages 
ANOVA 
Check high aging trend PSVs data 
by scatter plot 
Correlation performed on these 
parameters 
Verify the service type by checking 
relative data 
Verify and discuss these parameters 
influence in this process train 
High-risk population needed to be 
monitored carefully 
Verify high-risk population needed 
to be monitored in this process 
 8 Copyright © 2007 by ASME 
Analysis of variance (ANOVA) results of operating 
parameters  
Following the analysis flowchart listed in the Figure 1, the 
single-factor ANOVA analysis for each parameter and the 
criteria values of each parameter are listed in Table 2 as 
follows:  
 
Table 2 ANOVA results of operating parameters  
ANOVA: Single Factor  
Operating Parameters F-Value F crit 
Fluid category 0.9333 1.4501 
Service Duration 0.0008 3.8620 
OP/SP 23.0440 4.4940 
Operating Temperature 1.6704 4.4139 
PSV Inlet Size 5.1088 4.4940 
Process Unit  3.7792 1.9228 
 
In Table 2, the ANOVA results show that the F-Values of 
some parameters were below their critical values Fcrit. This 
definitely shows that these operating parameters have less 
significant influences on the aging conditions of the PSVs. So, 
with the aid of ANOVA results, one can find that the 
parameters such as OP/SP, PSV inlet size (represents a 
capacity-required in process train) and different PSV location 
in the process units do have significant influences on the aging 
conditions of PSVs.  
Following the flowchart shown as in Figure 1, correlation 
should be performed on these parameters with significant 
influences on the aging conditions of the PSVs in order to 
verify and discuss the influence of these parameters in this 
process train. Meanwhile, the inspection and maintenance 
strategy of high-risk PSVs population can be adjusted 
according to these analysis results.  
 
DISCUSSIONS  
Operating parameters with non-significant influences 
on the aging conditions  
According to the ANOVA results, the fluid category, 
service duration and operating temperature did not have 
significant influences on the aging conditions of PSVs. Even 
though it looks like that the aging conditions do not change 
while changing these 3 operating parameters, a further 
discussion and verification should be performed to located the 
high risk population which hidden in the scatter plot.  
 
Influence of Fluid Category  
The distributions of the TP/SP ratios versus different fluids 
are shown in Figure 4. In actual process unit, one can 
differentiate the abnormal operating conditions of process by 
watching the readings shown on the control panels, which are 
transferred from instruments on site. However, by using Figure 
4, one can observe that what kind of fluid will cause the 
occurrence of abnormal process and aging conditions of PSVs 
instead of readings analysis from instruments.  
Between these 44 kinds of fluid category, one can find that 
the variation is not so significant with a primary overview 
shown in Figure 4. This observation matches with the ANOVA 
results shown in Table 2 and it is also concluded that the 
change of the fluid categories will not cause significant 
influence on the aging conditions of PSVs. So, by focusing on 
the majority of the PSVs, the operating parameter of fluid 
category can be neglected in the process train when consider 
the influences on the aging conditions of PSVs.  
 
 
Figure 4 The distributions of the TP/SP ratios of 229 
as-received tested results vs. different 
fluids  
 
However, it can be seen from Figure 4 that there is a high 
aging trend corresponds to the fluid abscissa named I.D. 20 
(water), and the corresponding valves were served as thermal 
expansion PSVs corresponded to the P&ID. With a primary 
overview of the whole process and the aging conditions of 
PSVs, it is noted that the PSVs corresponding to water service 
were operated more frequently than the PSVs corresponding to 
other fluids in this case study. Therefore, it can be concluded 
that the high aging trend of the PSVs corresponding to water 
service was due to spring fatigue. So, based on the analysis of 
Figure 4, a hidden high-risk population of PSVs, which are 
thermal expansion PSVs especially corresponded to water 
services, needs to be monitored carefully in the inspection and 
maintenance plan even though the fluid category seems to have 
no significant influence on the aging conditions of PSVs.  
 
Influence of Service Duration  
During the 6-days totally process shutdown for inspection 
and maintenance works of the PSVs, which belongs to a two-
year service, one obtains the 1-year-operated and 3-years-
operated time frame data during the 30-days turnaround 
periods. With a clear understanding of the as-received test data 
belong to the 1-year-operated and 3-years-operated PSVs, the 
corresponding data moments are listed in Table 3.  
 
High Aging Trend due to 
thermal expansion service 
 10 Copyright © 2007 by ASME 
  
Figure 6 The distributions of the TP/SP ratios of 229 
as-received tested results vs. operating 
temperatures  
 
Table 4 Correlated results between operating 
temperature and TP/SP 
 TP/SP max 
TP/SP 
min 
TP/SP 
mean 
Operating 
temperature
TP/SP max 1.0000 -0.3525 0.3746 -0.0975 
TP/SP min -0.3525 1.0000 0.5255 -0.0446 
TP/SP mean 0.3746 0.5255 1.0000  -0.2719 
Operating 
temperature -0.0975 -0.0446 -0.2719  1.0000  
 
Correlations of the operating parameters with 
significant influences on the aging conditions  
In probability theory and statistics, correlation, also called 
correlation coefficient, indicates the strength and direction of a 
linear relationship between two random variables. In general 
statistical usage, correlation or co-relation refers to the 
departure of two variables from independence, although 
correlation does not imply causation. In this broad sense there 
are several coefficients, measuring the degree of correlation, 
adapted to the nature of data.  
According to the ANOVA results shown in Table 2, the 
operating parameters which include OP/SP, PSVs’ inlet size 
and process unit difference do make significant influences on 
the aging conditions of PSVs. Even though one obtains these 
significant influence parameters from statistical analysis 
results, one should verify and discuss these parameters together 
with the characteristic of the process train in order to identify 
the high risk population of PSVs.  
Below are the correlated results and discussions of each 
significant influence parameter, where the as-received test data 
of each parameter were grouped to reasonable interval width in 
order to trace the trend between the operating parameters and 
aging conditions of PSVs.  
 
Influence of OP/SP  
Qualitatively, when the normal operating pressure of a 
PSV is near its setting pressure, there exists a trend to reach the 
setting pressure more easily than operating pressure is far 
below the set pressure especially under the operating condition 
of the process train is near the maximum design capacity. 
Under such circumference, the aging condition of a PSV with 
high OP/SP ratio maybe aging quicker than low OP/SP ratio. In 
this case study, the operating condition of the process train is 
almost reaching the maximum design capacity, so the OP/SP 
ratio may have significant influence on the aging conditions of 
PSVs. According to the ANOVA results listed in Table 2, it can 
be concluded in this case study that OP/SP ratio shows 
significant influence on the aging conditions of PSVs which 
matches with the operating characteristic in this process train.  
After the calculation of a reasonable interval width of the 
as-received test data, a clear understanding of this trend can be 
obtained by applying linear regressions on the maximum TP/SP 
values and minimum TP/SP values, separately, of each as-
received test data group as shown in Figure 7. In Figure 7, it 
shows that an increase of the OP/SP value of each group data 
will cause an increasing variation of aging conditions of PSVs 
which matched with the process characteristic of near the 
maximum operating design capacity of the process train.  Also, 
the correlated results and the aging trends between maximum 
values and minimum values of each group data can be 
considered as a weighting factor contributes to the aging 
conditions of PSVs.  
 
 
Figure 7 The distributions of the TP/SP ratios of 229 
as-received tested results vs. OP/SP ratios  
 
Table 5 shows the correlated results between the OP/SP 
and the aging conditions of PSVs. The numerical values in 
Table 5 were obtained by applying the EXCEL correlating 
function on the as-received test data group and the result is a 
symmetrical matrix. Form the calculated results shown in this 
table, one can find that whether the trend of the relationships 
between the OP/SP and the maximum value, minimum value, 
or mean of the TP/SP of each group data is increasing or 
decreasing. Take first column in Table 5 as an example, a minus 
value of correlated coefficient is shown in the second row, this 
means that the minimum values of each as-received test data 
group are in a descendent trend when the value of OP/SP is 
increased.  
 
Abnormal of high aging conditions
