2.1 Camera Calibration
The pattern bears strong similarity with a vasculature — both are patterns
of lines crossing at random angles. This property allows us to register our
target images using feature-based methods in the literature. The features for
registration are the centerline points and cross-overs of the dark lines [1, 10].
The transformation model is affine that allows left-right or top-bottom flipping,
and significant rotation.
Estimation of transformation Θ follows the method in [7], with some modi-
fications, for full automation. The process consists of 2 steps:
Initialization: To avoid convergence to an incorrect alignment, we need a good
initialization scheme to place the transformation in the right domain of
convergence. We adopt invariant indexing to automate the process. In
particular, for each image, a set of landmark (cross-over) pairs is generated
and each pair is associated with a signature vector that is only invariant to
similarity transformation, which is the initial transformation model. The
algorithm generates a list of hypothesized correspondence pairs, ordered
by the similarity of the invariant features. Each hypothesis provides an
initial transformation.
Refinement: The refinement technique is a robust form of ICP (Iterative
Closest Points) algorithm which minimizes the sum of point-to-line dis-
tances using an M-estimator. It alternates between closest centerline point
matching using the current transformation, and transformation estima-
tion using the set of matches. The transformation model for refinement is
affine.
The algorithm refines the initial transformations one by one until it reaches one
that converges to a good alignment. In practice, we only need to try the very
first few.
2.2 Elimination of Embryo Movement
The embryo may move between the time two images are acquired with different
hardware configurations. In practice, the movement is limited to translation and
rotation. To eliminate the movement, the signal images of the embryo must be
aligned with the mixture. Due to the complex optical properties of the QTM, it
is hard to directly relate the signal images to the mixture images. To overcome
this problem, we perform the registration using synthesized images, instead of
the original raw images.
Let Mi, be image i of the mixture after camera calibration (i.e. the im-
age mapped to the coordinate system of the first camera). Similarly, Ri is
for reference and Si for signal. The formula for the synthesized image Is is∑4
i=1 (Mi −Ri)/4. A very similar image Ia can be generated from Si using the
formula
∑4
i=1 Si/4.
Ia is registered to Is, which is in the same space as the first image of the
mixture. Fig. 1 shows examples of Ia and Is from the same set of images. The
2
We tested the algorithm for elimination of embryo movement on a set of
20 mouse embryos containing various cell numbers between 8 and 26. Some
samples were stationary, while others were fairly mobile. The success rate is
100% thus far, with an average alignment accuracy of 0.09 pixel, corresponding
to 639 - 675 nanometers. The accuracy is measured in terms of weighted average
distance error using the matches generated in the refinement stage. Fig. 3 is the
registration result of the two images in Fig. 1. All results were verified manually
by visual inspection of the checker-board mosaics.
With registration of QTM images in place, the next step is to apply the
technique to synthesis of better amplitude and phase images, which are easily
corrupted by embryo movement. Inter-modal registration of QTM phase images
with DIC images, for applications such as cell counting, is also simplified by
using the registered raw data (mixture and signal images) instead. This work
was submitted to the conference of ”Medical Image Computing and Computer-
Assisted Intervention”, 2005. The reference of the paper is [11].
References
[1] A. Can, H. Shen, J. N. Turner, H. L. Tanenbaum, and B. Roysam. Rapid
automated tracing and feature extraction from live high-resolution retinal
fundus images using direct exploratory algorithms. IEEE Transactions on
Information Technology in Biomedicine, 3(2):125–138, 1999.
[2] J. Gerris, D. De Neubourg, K. Mangelschots, E. Van Royen, M. Ver-
cruyssen, J. Barudy-Vasquez, M. Valkenburg, and G. Ryckaert. Elective
single day 3 embryo transfer halves the twinning rate without decrease in
the ongoing pregnancy rate of an ivf/icsi programme. Human Reproduction,
pages 2626–2631, 2002.
[3] C. Harris and M. Stephens. A combined corner and edge detector. pages
147–151.
[4] D. Hogenboom, C. DiMarzio, T. Gaudette, A. Devaney, and S. Lindberg.
Three-dimensional images generated by quadrature interferometry. Optics
Letters, 23:783–785, 1998.
[5] D. G. Lowe. Distinctive image features from scale-invariant keypoints.
International Journal of Computer Vision, 60(2):91–110, November 2004.
[6] J. Martin and M. Park. Trends in twin and triplet births: 1980-1997. Natl.
Vital Stat. Rep., 24(1-16), 1999.
[7] C. Stewart, C.-L. Tsai, and B. Roysam. The dual-bootstrap iterative clos-
est point algorithm with application to retinal image registration. IEEE
Transactions on Medical Imaging, 22(11):1379–1394, 2003.
[8] C. V. Stewart, Y.-L. Lee, and C.-L. Tsai. An uncertainty-driven hybrid of
intensity-based and feature-based registration with application to retinal
4
