a hybrid array, which can conduct beamforming using 
digital weights and phase shifters, to solve the 
problem. We also evaluate the performance of an IEEE 
802.15.3c SDMA system with analog and hybrid 
beamforming. 
英文關鍵詞： 60GHz, OFDM, beamforming, hybrid beamforming 
 
 2
Additionally, it can support high data rate at least 1 Gbps 
applications such as the high speed internet access or video 
streaming.  
This specification defines two modulation schemes, single-
carrier and multicarrier. The multicarrier scheme exploits the 
orthogonal frequency division multiplexing (OFDM). The 
OFDM has been shown to be a promising technique and has 
been used in several wideband digital communication systems, 
such as the IEEE 802.11 wireless local area network (WLAN), 
the IEEE 802.16e Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave 
Access (WiMAX) Wireless MANs and terrestrial digital video 
broadcasting (DVB-T). The most important advantage of 
OFDM is that it has the ability to convert the multi-path 
frequency-selective fading channel into a band of flat fading 
sub-channels. The receiver can then easily conduct signal 
recovery with a simple equalization method. Also, OFDM 
symbols can also be generated by the efficient Fast Fourier 
transform (FFT) algorithm facilitating its real-world in 
implementation. 
As mentioned, the propagation loss in 60GHz environments 
is severe. As a result, the antenna array, which can conduct 
transmit/receive beamforming, is usually equipped in a 
transceiver. In the IEEE802.15.3c, a PAN is defined in which 
a user can only communicate with another. With multiple 
antennas in the transmitter/receiver, however, we can have 
more advanced applications, e.g, the spatial division multiple 
access (SDMA). In SDMA, a user can communicate with 
multiple users simultaneously. In other words, a transmitter/ 
receiver can form multiple beams pointing to multiple 
directions. As long as the interference between these beams 
can be controlled under a level, reliable communication 
between the links can be achieved. 
In this project, we first design an OFDM transceiver for the 
IEEE802.15.3c system. Then, we propose a SDMA system for 
IEEE802.15.3c WPAN. For beamforming, a planar antenna 
arrays with phase shifters for each antenna element is 
commonly used. Since the phase shift can only adjust the 
phase of the input signal analog, it cannot conduct interference 
cancellation. Recently, a hybrid array, which can conduct 
beamforming using digital weights and phase shifters, was 
proposed [7]. With the architecture, interference cancellation 
becomes possible. We will evaluate the performance of an 
IEEE 802.15.3c SDMA system with analog and hybrid 
beamforming. Since multiple bit streams are transmitted/ 
received simultaneously in a SDMA system, it can be modeled 
as a multi-input multi-output (MIMO) system which is also 
referred to as a multiuser MIMO system. We will use a simple 
method to provide the modeling. In the end, we show the 
simulation result and draw conclusions. 
II. IEEE 802.15.3C SPECIFICATION OVERVIEW  
IEEE 802.15.3c is a physical layer specification for high 
rate wireless personal area networks (WPANs). We will focus 
on High Speed Interface mode of mmWave PHY (HSI PHY). 
It is designed for devices with low-latency, bi-directional 
high-speed data and orthogonal frequency domain 
multiplexing (OFDM) is used as the modulation scheme. HSI 
PHY supports a variety of modulation and coding schemes 
(MCSs) using different frequency-domain spreading factors, 
modulations, and low density parity check (LDPC) block 
codes. Fig.1 shows the transmitter block diagram given in the 
specification. 
 
Fig. 1 The transmitter block diagram of 802.15.3c HSI PHY 
Ⅲ. IEEE 802.15.3C RECEIVER DESIGN 
An OFDM receiver consists of an inner and outer receiver. 
The inner receiver conducts synchronization related 
operations while the outer receiver conducts FEC decoding. 
The block diagram of the inner receiver is shown in Fig.2. 
Details the operations of the inner receiver including frame 
 4
 
And the corresponding parameters are defined as 
 
where E0 is a constant, W and L are width and length per 
single antenna element, dx and dy are the distance in the x and 
y directions of the adjacent patch antenna, and we set dx = dy. 
The parameter k = 2π/dx = 2π/dy . 
For a general M × N array, the array pattern of the digital 
beamforming is defined as [7] 
 
For analog beamforming, the effective weight for an 
antenna will be  
 
where βx and βy denotes the phase shifts along the x-axis and 
y-axis, respectively. If the main beam in the section has been 
steered to θd and φd , it can be express as the following 
equations 
 
Now we consider hybrid beamforming with the planar 
antenna arrays shown in Fig.5. In this case, the overall array 
pattern is obtained with the multiplication of the analog and 
digital beamforming patterns. We partition the planar antenna 
arrays into four analog parts, part A, part B, part C and part D. 
Each of them has its own weight to form the digital 
beamforming pattern. According to this configuration, we can 
the antenna pattern as 
  4 sin sin4 sin cos1 2 3
4 sin sin4 sin cos
4
, yx
yx
jk djk d
jk djk d
DB w w e w e
w e e
  
  
    

 
where wn for n = 1, 2, 3, 4 is corresponding to digital weight, 
and 4dx and 4dy denote the distance in the x and y directions 
of the adjacent analog parts. And the analog beamforming 
pattern of each part can be written multiplying two linear 
array factors along x-axis and y-axis, and present as 
 
 
Fig. 5 Initial structure of planar antenna arrays 
B. MIMO modeling for SDMA system 
The SDMA system with the planar antenna arrays can be 
modeled as a MIMO system. For a two-user beamforming 
system, we have from two beams pointing to two desired 
directions. When considering one user, the signal for the other 
use will be viewed as interference. Two examples of the 
beamforming pattern with two users are shown below. 
1. Configuration 1 
 
Fig. 6 Beamforming pattern with two users (2 weights) between π/2 
 6
modulation scheme is used at the transmitter and the MIMO 
detector is used at the receiver. 
 
Fig. 10 Performance of SDMA system with analog beamforming 
using ML detector (IEEE802.15.3c) 
 
The power gains corresponding to different pointing angles 
using digital beamforming are listed below: 
 
Table.2 Power gain with different angles using Hybrid beamforming 
 
Fig.11 shows the performance with hybrid beamforming in 
using ML detector. Note that in hybrid beamforming. From 
the figures, We see that for a two-user system, if the 
separation of the pointing directions is larger than 15 degrees, 
satisfactory performance can be obtained. Although the hybrid 
beamformer can completely null the interference, its 
attenuation in the main beam is also large. As a result, its 
performance is worse than that of analog beamforming. Note 
that the impairment in analogy beamforming has not taken 
into consideration. We expect that the performance of analog 
beamforming will be degraded once impairments such as 
quantization and mismatch are considered.  
 
Fig. 11 Performance of SDMA system with hybrid beamforming 
using ML detector (IEEE802.15.3c) 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
Over Gbps wireless transmission in unlicensed 60GHz band 
has drawn considerably attention recently. In this project, we 
first design an OFDM receiver for the IEEE802.15.3c system. 
Specifically, we focus on the inner receiver which includes 
frame detection, carrier frequency offset estimation/ 
compensation, channel estimation, and residual phase error 
tracking/compensation. Simulations show that the proposed 
receiver can meet the requirements defined in IEEE802.15.3c 
specifications. Since the system operated in the 60GHz band 
endures a severe propagation loss. 
In real-world implementation, a planar antenna array 
conducting beamforming is usually adopted to compensate for 
the loss. We consider two beamforming techniques, analog 
and hybrid, and propose a SDMA system for IEEE802.15.3c 
WPAN. The hybrid beamformer, which is developed recently, 
has the capability to null the interference from other users, but 
its implementation cost is higher. We then modeled the 
SDMA system as MIMO system, and design the 
corresponding detector. Simulations show that for a two-user 
system, if the separation of the pointing directions is larger 
than 15 degrees, satisfactory performance can be obtained. 
Although the hybrid beamformer can completely null the 
interference, its attenuation in the main beam is also large. It 
turns out that its performance is worse than that of analog 
beamforming. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/03/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 總計畫：60GHz寬頻無線網路關鍵技術之研發(1/3)
計畫主持人: 吳文榕
計畫編號: 100-2219-E-009-009- 學門領域: 接取技術(網通國家型)
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
