 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
嵌入式 DVB-H 接收系統之開發 - 子計畫二： 
DVB-H 網路與傳輸層軟體之開發（1/2） 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2220-E-027-003 
執行期間：98 年 8 月 1 日 至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：吳和庭    國立台北科技大學 軟體發展研究中心 
共同主持人：柯開維    國立台北科技大學 軟體發展研究中心 
計畫參與人員：林裕強、周楷傑、尹培鑫 
Email: htwu@csie.ntut.edu.tw 
 
一、 摘要 
本研究計畫為兩年期 DVB-H 整合型計畫
中的子計畫之一。本子計畫執行嵌入式
DVB-H 接收系統內 IP Datacast 規格中的網路
與傳輸層軟體之開發，並利用軟體工程技術與
CMMI 程序與總計畫與各子計畫之開發成果
進行實際與持續整合，最終目標將實現一個嵌
入式基於 Android 平台下完整的 DVB-H 接
收系統。本年度執行此整合型計畫第一年，目
標在 PC 上的 Linux 作業系統 Android SDK 平
台上，實現 DVB-H 接收系統 IPDC 相關網路
層與傳輸層模組軟體之開發。本子計畫在本年
度結束時預計將完成的工作項目包含：(1)實現
解譯 FLUTE/ALC/LCT 封包; (2)實現前向糾錯
演算法：Compact No-Code scheme，並且將編
碼符號解碼成原始資料; (3)解譯 ESG 資訊並
傳輸至應用層模組做進一步的詮釋; (4)解譯會
話描述協定; (5)解譯 LCT 延伸標頭，包含認證
資訊、檔案描述表格、FEC物件傳輸資訊等; (6) 
解譯 RTP/RTCP 封包並將其傳至影像與語音
模組。 
關鍵詞：IP 數據廣播、單向非及時性檔案內容
傳輸、電子服務指引、嵌入式系統、
Android 平台、DVB-H 接收系統。 
 
  Abstract – This project belongs to a 
subproject of a two-year joint project. In this 
project, we aim to implement the software 
modules of both network and transport layers 
specified by the IP Datacast Protocols. The 
software engineering techniques and CMMI 
procedures are enforced in the course of the 
project execution as well as the integration 
with the overall joint project. The final goal of 
this joint project is to implement an Android 
based embedded DVB-H reception system. We 
carry out the 1st year project now and expect to 
complete the following items at the end of the 
current year: (1) Decapsulation of 
FULTE/ACT/LCT packets; (2) Realization of 
the Forward Error Control (FEC) mechanism 
with Compact No-Code scheme; (3) Parsing 
the Electronic Service Guide (ESG) data for 
the further processing in the corresponding 
application layers; (4) Parsing the Session 
Description Protocol (SDP) data; (5) Decoding 
the LCT extension field, which includes the 
authentication data, FDT instance header 
(EXT_FDT) and FEC object transmission 
information (EXT_FTI); (6) Decapsulation of 
RTP/RTCP packets for the further decoding in 
the corresponding video and audio modules. 
 Keywords: IP Datacast 、 FLUTE 、 ESG 、
Embedded System 、 Android 
 4
  圖 1 IPDC 之服務網路簡圖 
IPDC 定義了 service provider 以及使用者
終端(Terminal)間傳遞訓令(reference points)及
服務所需的訊息交換過程如圖 2 所示。
Reference point 為一邏輯上的訓令集合，而真
正執行訓令的共有七個實體訓令，定義為
Convergence of Broadcast and Mobile 
Services(CBMS-1 到 CBMS-7)，這七個 CBMS
訓令將 IPDC 的各個區塊連結起來。因為 IPDC
的工作內容繁複，所以每個 CBMS 本身也執
行好幾個不同網路層的任務，亦即攜帶各種任
務所需的資料。 
   圖 2 IPDC 架構之方塊圖 
在 一 般 行動 通 訊 中， 基 地 台 (Base 
Station，BS)可以完全了解其訊號涵蓋範圍內
每一個使用者(Mobile Station，MS)當下的連線
品質，來做傳輸率的調整；但在 DVB-H 中因
為以廣播方式傳輸資料，所以傳輸端無法知道
在其訊號涵蓋範圍內之使用者數目、個別的 IP
位址、連線品質，以及所訂閱的服務為何，而
IPDC 本身亦只負責廣播的任務。所以當使用
者從手持端的螢幕上顯示電子服務指引
(Electronic Service Guide，ESG)訊息中選取需
要的服務後，手持端必須仰賴該服務在 ESG
中 所 對 應 的 接 收 會 話 敘 述 協 定 (Session 
Description Protocol，SDP)以得知當下最適合
之傳輸率及其所對應的通道通訊埠編號(port 
number)，以打開該通道，開始接收資訊。
DVB-IPDC 藉由接收端限定其通訊埠來隔離
其他不需要的服務，以完成單向群播的目標。
ESG 的訊息如圖 3 所示，可作為 Service 
provider 提供之服務表單。ESG 為一 XML 格
式之樹狀資訊串列，依照節目類型由上往下細
分 。 若 在 具 有 雙 向 互 動 網 路 (Interactive 
Network，如 UMTS 網路)的環境下，接收端使
用者更可以在接收 ESG 後挑選其中所想要的
服務並藉由上傳訂閱訊息。在這個互動網路
中，IPDC 可以提供各項的商業服務，諸如訂
閱電子報、股市基金下單系統、線上刷卡及訂
票、甚至是視訊會議等，更加貼近消費者的生
活需求。在 DVB-IPDC Phase 1 中，互動網路
的存在僅為選擇性，並不要求一定要建置。 
         圖 3 ESG 之範例 
因為 DVB-H 係以單向播放多媒體檔案
為主要目的，所以在 IPDC 中使用 UDP (User 
Datagram Protocol)做為傳輸層之解決方案。
IPDC 傳送兩大類的資料：即時串流內容
(real-time streaming content)以及檔案內容(file 
content) [5]，如圖 4 所示。即時串流內容包括
行動電視(mobile TV)以及廣播，這些需要一個
可靠的傳輸機制(reliable transport)以及時間稽
核點(time reference)來提供接收端(receiver)執
行連續的錄放效果。IPDC 的接收端必須判斷
所收到的資料是否為即時串流內容，如果是即
時串流內容則解譯 (parse)其即時傳輸協議
(Real-time Transport Protocol，RTP)封包，再解
碼還原原始串流資料；反之則使用 FLUTE 
(File Delivery over Unidirectional Transport)][6]
 6
 
圖 6 IPDC 系統架構 
系統架構: 
本子系統架構主要分為四個模組，如圖 6
所示，其功能分述如下: 
(1) IPDC_Handler: 
用來控制整個系統的介面，並與外部介
面函式溝通。本模組在接收從底層傳來的封包
時，先做好基礎的解析和過濾，再將封包傳至
其他模組做進一步處理，並將處理好的封包傳
送至外部相對應的應用層子系統。 
(2) RTP Parser: 
將 RTP 封包解譯並將資料傳回至
IPDC_Handler 作管理。 
(3) RTCP Parser: 
將 RTCP 封包解譯並將資料傳回至
IPDC_Handler 作管理。 
(4) FLUTE Parser: 
將 FLUTE 封包解譯並且根據標頭內容
做對應的 FEC 解碼，產生上層所需要的檔案
資訊傳送至上層做處理。 
系統操作流程: 
本子系統主要操作流程，分述如下： 
(1) Bootstrap(如圖 7): 
     DVB-H 接收系統開機時上層需要知道
有哪些節目的資訊可供選擇。由於系統初啟動
無法得知目前所需資訊的確切 IP 位址與 Port 
號碼，本系統則在系統初啟動時提供一個
Bootstrap 的外部介面(已固定一開始系統所需
資訊之 IP 位址與 Port 號碼)，並向下層(LINK)
要求所需資訊(IP Datagram)，以指定的 IP 跟
Port 及預設的 FLUTE Object ID = 0 來執行
FLUTE Parser，過濾出所需的資訊，提供給上
層應用程式使用。 
IPDC_Handler
BootStrap(IP,Port)
GetFLUTEPacket(IP,PORT,TOI = 0)
LINK
GetIPdatagram(IP,PORT)
Process(unsigned *entry)
Parser_FLUTE
RebuildPAYLOAD(TYPE = FLUTE)
Return FLUTE Packet Pointer
Return IP DataStream
Return  File Pointer
 
圖 7 Sequence diagram for (Bootstrap) 
(2) Get ESG/SDP Information(如圖 8) : 
    在系統初始化後，應用程式需要更新節目
清單時，將多次呼叫本系統提供相關的
SDP/ESG 檔案。這些檔案將提供影音串流之
相關資訊以供上層解碼與下層擷取資料使
用。本系統在這些檔案傳輸大致流程與
Bootstarp 相同，相異之處為 Object ID 由上層
指定，並無預設為 0。 
 
圖 8 Sequence diagram for (Get ESG/SDP) 
(3) Play Stream(如圖 9)： 
    上層應用系統透過 IPDC 之 FLUTE 封包
解析取得相關節目資訊後，將其對應的 IP 與
Port 資訊傳送至下層(LINK)以擷取對應的串
流 IP Datagram。本子系統將透過 RTP/RTCP 
Parser 模組解析相關封包，產生 RTP/RTCP 封
包與檔頭資訊傳送至上層(Video/Audio)子系
統做解碼與播放工作。 
 8
我們將優化本年度所研發的軟體系統，使其
能順利移植到基於 Android 平台下的嵌入式
系統，並達到優異的效能。此外，我們亦預
計執行部分接收端系統的可選擇性(Optional)
實作，使接收端系統具有回饋機制等功能，
以提供更完整且具互動式的服務。我們預計
利用通用移動通訊系統 (Universal Mobile 
Telecommunications System，UMTS)技術使
得接收端系統擁有回饋模組，提供以下功能： 
A. RTCP 回饋機制：在本年度的計畫中，我
們解譯了 RTP/RTCP 封包的時間戳記、
封包序號的工作，這部份工作的完成使
得上層模組得以進行資料流的同步。在
未來計畫中加入了 UMTS 技術後，接收
端系統將會實現反饋 RTCP 統計資料封
包的功能。當傳送端收到接收端的 RTCP
報告後，傳送端可以調整其傳輸速率，
再以 SDP 格式告知接收端最新的會話速
度等參數，因此接收端系統可根據最新
的會話參數做動態的壅塞控制。 
B. 錯誤資料區段重傳要求：當接收端系統
在收到錯誤的資料區段，並且無法透過
FEC 編碼做恢復的動作時，接收端可透
過 UMTS 主動地跟修復伺服器提出要求
重傳封包，如此可使接收端不必花費太
多時間等待傳送端的下一輪傳輸，即可
快速地將資料恢復。 
C. 互動式服務：由於增加了回饋機制，此
系統將可以提供更多互動式應用以提高
服務的多樣性。比如使用者可以選擇喜
好的節目(Video on Demand，VOD)、線
上購物、查詢附近商店等等功能。 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] M. Kornfeld and G. May, “DVB-H and IP 
Datacast － Broadcast to Handheld 
Devices,” IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON 
BROADCASTING,VOL.53,NO.1, 
MARCH, 2007. 
[2] ETSI TR 102 469: “Digital Video 
Broadcasting (DVB); IP Datacast over 
DVB-H: Architecture”. 
[3] ETSI TS 102 468: "Digital Video 
Broadcasting (DVB); IP Datacast over 
DVB-H: Set of Specifications for Phase 
1". 
[4] User guide of Nokia N77-1. 
[5] ETSI TS 102 472: “Digital Viseo 
Broadcasting (DVB); IP Datacast over 
DVB-H: Content Delivery Protocols”. 
[6] IETF RFC 3926: “FLUTE – File delivery 
over Unidirectional transport”. 
[7] IETF RFC 3450: “Asynchronous Layered 
Coding (ALC) Protocol Instantiation”. 
[8] IETF RFC 3451: “Layered Coding 
Transport (LCT) Building Block”. 
 10
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
DVB-H 無線通訊產業之相關產品與系統設計 
技術特點 
1. 功能性強 
2. 簡潔、效率高 
推廣及運用的價值 
近年來以 IP 為基礎的無線通訊技術快速演進，消費者能以高速的
頻寬享受高畫質影音和行動上網的服務，進而提升到隨時隨地都可
以看電視的需求。我們實現了歐洲數位視訊廣播技術發展組織提出
DVB-Handheld 技術，提供手持式裝置觀賞數位影音服務的能力，
以加速無線寬頻產業技術的提升。 
 
一、參加會議經過 
    筆者於 3 月 26 日深夜搭乘華航 CI 61 班機從桃園國際機場起飛，經 10 餘小時
之飛行，於當地時間 3 月 27 日清晨飛抵德國法蘭克福國際機場，接著轉乘德國國
鐵，大約 40 分鐘即到達本次會議之所在地—曼哈姆。 
    此會議的主要會議議程安排在 3 月 30 日至 4 月 1 日三天舉行，而在 3 月 29 日
與 4 月 2 日兩天，分別平行舉辦了共 14 場次的附屬 Workshops。筆者在 3 月 29 日
分別聆聽 IQ2S2010 與 PerSeNS2010 幾場論文發表，對於無所不在計算與通訊在服
務品質的需求與感測網路之應用，有進一層的認識。3 月 30 日起展開為期三天的主
要會議，除了 keynote Speeches 與 Panel Session 及 11 場次的口頭論文主要以單一
會議方式發表外，也包含了 Demo, Work-in-Process, 及 PhD Forum Posters 等幾場以
平行方式的發表場次。筆者於 3 月 30 日下午在 Work-in-Process 場次中發表上述論
文，也與數位專家學者所提出的問題交換研究心得與意見。在此會議期間內，筆者
除參與 opening and keynote speeches 外，也分別到其他會議場次聆聽許多論文發
表，獲得許多寶貴新知。4 月 2 日，筆者也聆聽數場 Workshops 的論文發表，對於
行動 P2P 計算與無所不在無線網路應用，有較深刻的體會。 
    在本次會議開會前與結束之後的短暫幾天，筆者也進行一些當地附近的文化參
訪活動，對於德國的高效率行事風格與井然有序的社會，留下深刻的印象。筆者於
4 月 4 日上午搭乘華航 CI 62 班機從法蘭克福機場起飛，在 4 月 5 日清晨回到台北。
 
二、與會觀察與心得 
    非常榮幸獲得國科會補助，得以參與此次會議並發表論文。參與此一國際學術
盛會，不僅讓本人參與國際學術交流的機會，也吸收了許多先進的無所不在計算與
通訊的技術與觀念，對於個人未來研究及教學方向，產生許多積極正面之影響。 
    此外，此次 Percom2010 國際研討會為第八屆舉辦，在 IEEE 相關的網路及通訊
研討會中，歷史不算太久，規模也不算太大，可歸類成一個中型會議。然而由於主
辦單位的用心、論文審查制度的嚴謹，整體會議議程與場地服務的妥善規劃，幾年
來已成為此領域頗負盛名的會議，吸引不少國際學者專家的重視，願意在此會議中
投稿並發表論文，參加會議的人數也相當踴躍。以筆者的觀察，此會議能夠在短短
幾年內迅速的獲得廣泛的支持與肯定，包括以下原因：(1)主辦單位的一致性：雖
然實際開會的地點每年都改變，但是此會議的核心組織並無很大的差異，所以對於
本會議品質與審稿的嚴謹度多年來都有一致的標準與要求，不致於因為每年實際執
行單位的差異而參差不齊；(2)議程安排的妥適性：本會議的主要會議的口頭論文
發表大多為單一會議(single track)而非平行進行(parallel session)，每位演講
者也有充裕的時間(大約有 30 分鐘)來發表論文與回答問題，所以參與的聽眾數量
感覺上比較踴躍也較能充分了解論文的內容，增加了聆聽論文發表的意願與收穫。
此外，為了彰顯本會議內容的多樣性，在主要會議的議程中也特別增加了以平行進
行方式的實作展示(demo)與博士班學生論壇(PhD Forum Poster)，並且為了表示對
這些以平行方式發表成果的重視性，在實際平行展示前，在大會場上提供每位發表
者以 1~2 分鐘方式，輪流以簡要方式向大家說明發表成果來鼓勵聽眾進一步至展示
及海報發表地點做深入的交流；(3)會議日期的安排適宜：因本會議舉辦了博士班
學生論壇而且會議日期又特別選在復活節的春假假期，所以吸引了許多在歐洲就學
的博士班學生參與此次盛會，不僅可擴大參與本會議的人數，也因為許多博士班學
生正在尋找博士論文研究主題，所以會場中的討論相當踴躍，達到實質的學術交流
目的；(4)多樣化主題的 Workshops:在本主要會議的前後各一天，分別以平行進行
方式，舉辦了共 14 場次的附屬 Workshops。其主題大多環繞在無所不在計算與通訊
的應用面，如此可擴大參與本會議的人數，並且展現無所不在計算與通訊廣泛的應
用範圍，同時仍不減主要會議的嚴謹性與論文品質。 
 
 
  
  
 Abstract—Two mechanisms are proposed in this paper to be 
incorporated with IEEE 802.11e EDCA MAC protocol for 
providing the QoS provisioning capability of such network. First, 
the call admission control function, which considers the inherent 
contention access feature of 802.11 MAC, aims to satisfy the QoS 
requirement of established higher priority connections, while 
protecting the minimum reserved bandwidth of traffic flows with 
lower priority at the same time. In addition, the proposed 
adaptive contention window adjustment mechanism dynamically 
adjusts the maximum and minimum contention window size 
based upon the equivalent established connection number 
observed by each individual access category. Such approach 
reduces the channel contention probability and packet access 
delay effectively. Performance results via simulations have shown 
the advantages achieved by employing these two mechanisms. 
  Keywords— IEEE 802.11e, call admission control, contention 
window adjustment 
I. INTRODUCTION 
With the ever growth of the multimedia applications, the 
capability to support QoS has become an important issue in the 
wireless network environment. Since the Distributed 
Coordination Function (DCF) of the legacy IEEE 802.11 
standard can only support best effort traffic, the IEEE 802.11 
task group E thus proposes a new contention-based channel 
access scheme called Enhanced Distributed Channel Access 
(EDCA) mechanism in the IEEE 802.11e standard [1,2].  
The EDCA scheme of IEEE 802.11e provides prioritized 
services. In EDCA, four access categories (AC) are defined. 
(They are Background (AC_BK=AC[0]), Best-Effort 
(AC_BE=AC[1]), Video (AC_VI = AC[2]) and Voice 
(AC_VO=AC[3]), respectively). Each AC inherits the 
contention-based access method with its own specific 
parameters, such as CWmin[AC], CWmax[AC], AIFS[AC], 
AIFSN[AC] and TXOPLimit[AC]. By choosing different 
values of these parameters properly, the AC with a higher level 
enjoys a higher priority to access wireless channel than the AC 
with a lower level. Prioritized service can thus be achieved.  
The MAC access operation in EDCA is described briefly as 
follows. Each AC contends for the channel access chance. Any 
AC with queued packets for transmission must defer for an 
AIFS[AC] period, and then, upon finding busy channel, start 
the backoff counter to delay for a random period according to a 
selected contention window (CW). Once the backoff counter 
decreases to zero, the AC sends as many frames as possible 
within a TXOP[AC] time limit.  
However, the IEEE802.11e EDCA scheme cannot provide 
the satisfied QoS for real time applications under the heavily 
loaded situation due to its contention based property [3-5]. In 
 
. 
this paper, enhanced mechanisms are proposed to be 
incorporated with EDCA scheme. The proposed mechanisms 
consist of both call admission control (CAC) scheme and 
adaptive contention window adjustment (ACA) algorithm. By 
using the proposed CAC, the QoS access point (QAP) is able to 
calculate the proper amount of AC connections that could be 
established for all QoS stations (QSTA) without overloading 
the system. Furthermore, the ACA scheme adjusts the 
contention window size of each AC dynamically according to 
the number of corresponding existing AC connections. The 
packet access delay and collision probability are thus reduced 
significantly.  
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. The related 
works are described briefly in Section II. The proposed CAC 
algorithm is then presented in Section III, followed by the 
description of proposed ACA mechanism in Section IV. 
Simulation results are presented and discussed in Section V. 
Finally, conclusions are drawn in Section VI. 
II. RELATED WORKS 
The DAC mechanism proposed in [6] aims to protect the 
higher priority streams by incorporating the transmission 
budget for each AC. However, the mechanism functions poorly 
if the network is heavily loaded. Nor can it satisfy the QoS 
requirement for different applications. [7] and [8] use the 
virtual concept to simulate the network performance with 
virtual packets. An admission control algorithm is then 
executed based upon obtained simulated collision probability. 
This method may reduce bandwidth wastage but may take 
excessive processing time to complete the call admission 
algorithm. [9] defines thresholds for transmission by simply 
estimating the real traffic experienced by the QSTA. However, 
the authors do not provide the exact criteria to define these 
thresholds. The mechanism in [10] aims to adjust the channel 
quality parameters dynamically in order to guarantee the 
minimum bandwidth of AC_BE without the detailed 
description. [11] uses a Markov Chain Model to predict the 
system performance if a new call is accepted. The QSTA then 
executes the call admission algorithm accordingly. However, 
the proposed mechanism does not take the virtual collision case 
into account. 
III. PROPOSED ADMISSION CONTROL MECHANISM 
In the IEEE 802.11e EDCA MAC access scheme, the QSTA 
which intends to activate a new AC call needs to transmit to 
QAP the ADDTS frame first. The ADDTS frame contains the 
necessary information to establish the new call as well as the 
TSPEC field, which contains the bandwidth requirements of 
this new traffic stream. However, it is not mandatory for QAP 
to implement the call admission control (CAC) mechanism in 
The Design of QoS Provisioning Mechanisms for Wireless Networks 
Ho-Ting Wu, Min-Hua Yang, Kai-Wei Ke
Dept. of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
National Taipei University of Technology 
htwu@csie.ntut.edu.tw, s3598015@ntut.edu.tw, kwk@csie.ntut.edu.tw  
756978-1-4244-5328-3/10/$26.00 ©2010 IEEE
  
distribution with mean of 5sec. After the ON duration, each AC 
closes the connection and enters the OFF state for an 
exponential duration with mean of 1/λ seconds before 
activating another connection request. Therefore, the larger λ , 
the heavier offered load.  
Three evaluation metrics are used to measure the system 
performance: the connection delay, the call blocking 
probability, and the packet delay. The connection delay 
represents the time duration of the new call from its generation 
to being accepted by QAP. The call blocking probability is the 
average rejection probability of a new call. The packet delay 
contains both the queueing delay and the channel access 
delay. The simulation parameters are listed in Table 1. In Fig. 
1, the connection delays of AC_VO are revealed, while those of 
AC_VI, AC_BE and AC_BK are omitted since they show the 
similar trends. The connection delay increases when the offered 
load or λ increases, since significant collisions occur due to 
more flows contending for setting up connections with QAP. In 
addition, the smaller α makes connection delay longer since 
the lower available system capacity causes a new call more 
difficult to be accepted by QAP. Fig. 2 and 3 show call 
blocking probability for AC_BE and AC_BK, respectively. 
These call blocking probability increases as the offered load 
or λ increases. It also shows that the smaller α, the higher call 
blocking probability. No noticeable blocking probability is 
experienced by AC_VO and AC_VI. Their performance 
results are thus not shown here. In Figs. 4 and 5, the 
following three implementation scenarios of AC_VO and 
AC_VI packet delay are revealed: (1) neither CAC nor ACA. 
(2) CAC only. (3) both CAC and ACA (CACACA). In 
general, the packet delay increases as λ increases. For the 
same λ, a smaller α allows fewer admitted connection flows 
inside QAP, therefore the packet delay is lower because less 
channel contention is observed. Comparing with the ACA 
case for the same α and λ, the packet delay is significantly 
lower when CACACA is incorporated. Therefore, 
implementing ACA algorithm can effectively reduce the packet 
delay of multimedia traffic. In Fig. 6, with CACACA 
implementation, the CW value is depicted versus simulation 
time, where we choose a large λ during 75~250 seconds and 
then decrease λ afterward. The simulation results reveal that 
the CW indeed increases during the period of high system 
loading due to adapted CW adjustment effects. This 
demonstrates the dynamic capability of ACA to respond to 
the system loading properly. 
VI. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, we have proposed two mechanisms to enhance 
the QoS provisioning capability of the IEEE 802.11e wireless 
networks. The CAC algorithm is first proposed as a 
contention-based admission control scheme. The ACA 
algorithm is then proposed to adjust contention window 
dynamically. We observed that a large α parameter of CAC can 
achieve both low connection delay as well as call blocking 
probability, while simultaneously increasing the packet delay 
significantly. The incorporated ACA algorithm can then 
employed to reduce the packet delay successfully through the 
load-aware adaptive window adjustment scheme.  In the future, 
we plan to work on the enhanced ACA scheme which takes 
actual channel congestion status as an input parameter to 
further boost the system performances. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This research work was supported by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan, R.O.C., under the grant number: NSC 
98-2220-E-027-003. 
REFERENCES   
[1] IEEE Standard for Wireless LAN Medium Access Control (MAC) and 
Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications, ISO/IEC 8802-11: 1999(E). Aug. 
1999. 
[2] “IEEE Standard for Information technology–Telecommunications and 
information exchange between systems–Local and metropolitan area 
networks–Specific requirements Part 11: Wireless LAN Medium Access 
Control (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) specifications Amendment 8: 
Medium Access Control (MAC) Quality of Service Enhancements, 
”IEEE 802.11e std-2005 (Amendment to IEEE 802.11, 1999 Edition) 
[3] Qiang Ni, Lamia Romdhani and Thierry Turletti, “A Survey of QoS 
Enhancements for IEEE 802.11 Wireless LAN,” Journal of Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing, Wiley. 2004: Volume 4, Issue 
5: pp. 547-566 
[4] Deyun Gao, Jianfei Cai, and King Ngi Ngan, “Admission Control in 
IEEE 802.11e Wireless LANs,” IEEE Network Mag. Volume 19, Issue 4, 
July-Aug. 2005 Page(s):6–13 
[5] Y. Xiao and H. Li, “Evaluation of Distribution Admission Control for the 
IEEE 802.11e EDCA,” IEEE Commun. Mag., Vol. 42, No. 9, 2004, pp 
S20-24. 
[6] Y. Xiao, H. Li, and S. Choi, “Protection and Guarantee for Voice and 
Video Traffic in IEEE 802.11e Wireless LANs,” Proc. IEEE 
INFOCOM’04, vol. 3, Hong Kong, Mar. 2004, pp. 2152–62. 
[7] M. Barry, A. T. Campbell, and A. Veres, “Distributed Control 
Algorithms for Service Differentiation in Wireless Packet Networks,” 
Proc. IEEE INFOCOM ’01, vol. 1, Anchorage, AK, 2001, pp. 582–90. 
[8] A. Veres et al., “Supporting Service Differentiation in Wireless Packet 
Networks Using Distributed Control,” IEEE JSAC, vol. 19, no. 10, 2001, 
pp. 2081–93. 
[9] D. Gu and J. Zhang, “A New Measurement-based Admission Control 
Method for IEEE 802.11 Wireless Local Area Networks,” Mitsubishi 
Elec. Research Lab. Tech. rep. TR-2003-122, Oct. 2003. 
[10] L. Zhang and S. Zeadally, “HARMONICA: Enhanced QoS Support with 
Admission Control for IEEE 802.11 Contention-based Access,” Proc. 
IEEE RTAS ’04, Toronto, Canada, May 2004, pp. 64–71. 
[11] D. Pong and T. Moors, “Call Admission Control for IEEE 802.11 
Contention Access Mechanism,” Proc. Globecom 2003, pp. 174-8, Dec. 
1-5, 2003 
[12] Y. C. Tay and K. C. Chua, “A capacity analysis for the IEEE 802.11 
MAC protocol,” ACM/Baltzer Wireless Networks, Volume 7, 2001 
pp.159-171 
 
TABLE I.  SIMULATION PARAMETERS 
 
 AC_VO AC_VI AC_BE AC_BK 
AIFSN  2 2 3 7 
CWmin 7 15 31 31 
CWmax 15 31 1023 1023 
Packet Size 
(bytes) 
160  660  1280  1600 
Packet Int. 20 ms 18 ms 16 ms 12.5 ms 
758
