2/31 
在第三年的研究計畫中，所討論的主題乃是利用改變介
質共振器之形狀，如插入一個空氣間隙、挖一溝槽、或
是鑽出一個隧狀空腔，以增加傳輸頻寬或調整頻率。當
形狀改變時，若空氣與介質的介面與共振模態的電場分
布垂直，則電場強度會增強而提高輻射效率；若改變形
狀僅是輕微擾動原本電場分布，則亦會因結構之不連續
而降低共振器之品質因子，使頻寬增加。其中 TEy111
與 TEy113 在 H 平面上具有寬波束垂直極化的輻射場
形，利用改變介質共振器之形狀調整兩模態的共振頻
率，以設計所需之雙寬頻天線。最後天線之設計頻寬涵
蓋 3.375-3.93 GHz (15%)與 5.08-5.415 GHz (6%)，可應用
在 WiMAX 與 WLAN 之相關無線產品。在使用上，可將
天線貼附在牆上，則在正前方有垂直極化的寬波束場形 
(broadside radiation pattern)。另外，在車流理論的研究
上，提出了一個雙維度的高斯混合模組以便於瞭解在高
速公路上，車流的空間與時間的關係式。其他的資料表
達，即可利用這些模式進行線性組合的機制，以達到比
較精確的預測效果。所發展出來的模式，已經測試於 33
天長度的車流資料，以進而評估所獲得結果的準確性，
以各種車流狀況的表示完整性。 
關鍵字:  
先進安全智慧車、無線通訊技術、車行安全資訊、駕駛
資訊通訊協定、駕駛輔助系統、多群組感測器、整數線
性規劃、最佳化選取、角形天線、車流理論、空間時間
資料模式。 
Abstract 
In the first year, this research project studies the integration 
of wireless communication techniques and driving safety 
information for designing intelligent transportation 
communication protocol. The architecture of an automated 
highway system and the control architecture of AHS are 
first discussed. The control tasks in an AHS are the 
execution of the combination of different maneuvers. All 
the maneuvers can be decomposed into some elementary 
maneuvers such as merge, split, and lane change. Different 
controllers decided need different information (or different 
communication requirements). In order to discuss the 
problem about different controllers needing different 
communication requirements, tables of organized papers 
about the different vehicle controllers including longitudinal 
controllers and lateral controllers are presented. A new 
communication architecture is established to satisfy these 
elementary maneuvers. This new architecture describes the 
maneuver based on different controllers needing different 
communication requirements. Furthermore, a 
communication flow chart based on the new communication 
architecture and execution maneuver is shown. According 
to the communication flow chart, the processes of executing 
a maneuver can be observed. Furthermore, one type of the 
joining maneuver is taken as an example to discuss. 
According to the new communication architecture, the 
communication flow chart can be also established by the 
process of the joining maneuver. Moreover, in order to 
observe the situations of executing joining maneuver and 
confirm whether any maneuver can follow the new 
communication architecture, a simulator is programmed in 
this study. Finally, we will summarize the results of a 
dedicated short-range communication (DSRC) system 
which is designed in the 2.43 GHz ISM band, a range 
detection system using frequency-modulated 
continuous-wave radar which is designed at 2.45 GHz, and 
a bifilar helical antenna with shaped conical radiation 
patterns for GPS applications in 1~2 GHz. All these 
components are critical to the smart safe vehicle 
applications. 
In the second year, this research project studies a current 
driver assistance systems consist of functionally isolated 
sensors to observe the environment around vehicle. It is an 
important issue to choose necessary object-detecting sensors 
in different driving conditions. In this report, we present a 
new future driver assistance system based on current driver 
assistance systems including sensor types and the 
applications for different driving conditions implemented in 
a multi-sensor fusion architecture. A multi-sensor selection 
algorithm for driver assistance systems is developed and a 
driving simulation interface is built in the Borland C++ 
Builder software. The multi-sensor selection problem for 
the new future driver assistance system is formulated in 
terms of integer linear program and optimization theory. To 
consider system performance, there are two types of issues: 
static (off-line multi-sensor selection problem) and dynamic 
(on-line driving condition transformation problem). We 
propose an objective to determine the optimal selection of 
sensors off-line and on-line for guaranteeing coverage, 
energy, bandwidth and reliability of sensors. The 
performance of the proposed strategies is illustrated through 
extensive simulations. In the hardware implementation, a 
horn antenna operating in 5.15-5.35 GHz band is proposed. 
It is fed by a rectilinear dielectric resonator (DR), two 
triangular DRs are loaded on the horn aperture to induce 
another resonant frequency and to match the input 
impedance. The Eθ  component dominates over the Eφ  
component in this band. 
In the third year, this research project studies 
A dual-band dielectric resonator antenna (DRA) is designed 
by splitting a rectilinear DR and carving notches off the DR. 
It is observed that notches engraved at different positions 
affect different modes. Removal of dielectric material from 
where the electric field is strong incurs a significant 
increase in resonant frequency. The abrupt change of 
normal electric field across the discontinuities reduces the 
Q-factor and increases the impedance bandwidth. Both the 
TEy111 and TEy113 modes incur broadside radiation 
patterns on the xy-plane. The proposed DRA can cover both 
the WiMAX (3.4-3.7 GHz) and the WLAN (5.15-5.35 GHz) 
bands. On the other hand, traffic flow prediction is very 
important for real time information of travelers and dynamic 
route guidance system. In the past, various methodologies 
have been developed for traffic flow prediction. However, 
most of existing studies for the formulation of traffic flow 
4/31 
 
Figure 3: Multi platoons communication architecture of 
AHS. 
For solving the problem, some communication 
algorithms are proposed such as inter-vehicle 
communication algorithm which uses inter-platoon 
communication and intra-platoon communication to 
decrease the complexity of communication transmission. 
Multiple-platoon architecture of AHS is used to find an 
easier way to solve the difficult and complex communication 
problem and coordination problem. 
Figure 3 shows the more information exchanging in 
multiple-platoon architecture of AHS. In Figure 3, it is 
almost similar to Type 2, but there are a large number of 
vehicles in AHS. Hence, there are more and more complex 
communications architecture between vehicles and vehicles. 
Next, the communication algorithm to solve the 
communication problem is discussed. 
 
2. Communication Requirements for 
Controller 
2.1 Classification of communication issues 
The controllers in a fully automated highway system are 
used. All the controllers use one kind of dynamic equation 
and assuming that all needed information can be obtained 
easily for controller. However, the information transmission 
by communication is needed to be discussed. There are some 
issues in communication, including the instantaneous 
transmission and in the accuracy of transferring data. The 
communication issues including two parts, namely, real-time, 
and correctness. Real-time means a data needs to be 
transmitted in real time. Correctness means the data 
transmission should be accurate. 
In view of the AHS control architecture, the 
coordination layer manages the transmission of systematic 
information and decides one or more maneuvers to execute. 
The layer controller initiates a structured exchanging of 
messages – a communication protocol – with neighboring 
vehicles. In recent years, there are some studies about the 
communication protocols proposed to execute maneuver 
safely. An example of communication algorithm proposed in 
[1] is summarized as follows. The communication algorithm 
named inter-vehicle communication algorithm and the 
detailed discussion about the inter-vehicle communication 
algorithm are discussed as follows. The inter-vehicle 
communication algorithm is discussed the problem about 
communication bandwidth, so the algorithm belongs to real 
time issue. 
 
2.2 nter-vehicle communication algorithm 
Figure 4 shows the system architecture of the 
inter-vehicle communication algorithm. The double dot-dash 
line means the inter-platoon communication, and a solid line 
means the intra-platoon communication. 
The inter-vehicle communication algorithm proposed in 
[1] is divided into a vehicle-to-vehicle communication in a 
platoon (intra-platoon communication) and a 
platoon-platoon communication (inter-platoon 
communication). The intra-platoon communication is the 
communication between vehicles in the same platoon. The 
inter-platoon communication is the communication between 
the lead vehicles of different platoons. 
If a vehicle in AHS wants to get information from 
others, the communication link established intuitively for 
every two vehicles can be utilized, but the communication 
bandwidth might not be enough to establish such a 
connection. For the inter-vehicle communication algorithm, 
the authors propose an inter-platoon communication to 
reduce the number of channels. The communication between 
platoons is substituted by the communication between the 
lead vehicles in each platoon. 
When a platoon consisted of n vehicles merging into 
another platoon consisting of m vehicles, at most 2m*n 
channels are needed for the inter-vehicle communication 
when every two vehicles establish one communication link 
except itself. When the maneuver algorithm previously 
described is applied to execute between platoons, two 
channels are enough in the inter-platoon communication. So, 
by utilizing this communication algorithm, the 
communication bandwidth for the data transmission can be 
reduced, and the data can transmit in real time. 
  
Figure 4: Inter-vehicle Communication system. 
 
3. Analysis and Design of communication 
Architecture 
In this section, communication architecture is 
established according to discussion of different 
communication requirements for different controllers. Then, 
according to each of three elementary maneuvers and 
following the communication architecture established, the 
communication flow chart is built up for executing each 
maneuver. Finally, a case study, i.e., joining maneuver, is 
discussed and related communication architecture and 
communication flow chart are presented. 
 
3.1 Two-level Communication Architecture 
6/31 
 
Figure 6: Definition of signs. 
3.3 A Case Study: Joining Maneuver 
In this section, an example of a joining maneuver is 
studied in detail. The joining maneuver means one vehicle or 
platoon wants to run with other platoon in different lane. In 
Figure 7, the joining maneuver may combine lane change, 
split, and merge maneuvers according to the processes of 
executing maneuvers. Figure 7 shows three types of joining 
maneuver; and the detail descriptions are listed as follows. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 7: Three types of joining maneuvers. 
(a) Car A joins in front of the platoon, and Car A 
becomes the leader. 
(b) Car A joins in the middle of the platoon, and Car A 
is a follower 
(c) Car A joins from the back of the platoon, and Car A 
is a follower 
 
4 Case Study – Joining Maneuver 
In this section, a simulator is programmed by the 
Borland C++ Builder (BCB) based on the two-level 
communication architecture. The simulator is used to 
simulate the executing conditions of the example of the 
joining maneuver. 
 
4.1 Description for simulating communication 
architecture for AHS 
In order to simulate the situation of communication 
transmission of AHS, a local network architecture is used to 
implement. A server is used as a monitor for displaying the 
status of AHS. Each computer represents one vehicle in 
AHS and has a specific IP (Internet Protocol) address in the 
local network architecture that makes vehicles can easily 
exchange information from others. In a real highway system, 
the AHS maybe not have the server. A server is set up for 
monitoring all the states of executing AHS-related 
maneuvers. In this case study, four computers are used: One 
is a server, and the others are vehicles. 
 
4.2 Simulator and development environment 
The simulator is an operating interface of vehicles and a 
monitoring interface of AHS. The simulator provides a 
virtual environment of AHS. By operating the simulator in 
different computer simulates a real automated highway 
system. The user can test other maneuver protocols by 
programming the controller algorithm into the vehicle 
dynamic model, including longitudinal controllers and 
lateral controllers. 
 
Figure 8: Environment information and systemic 
messages in the simulator. 
Figure 8 shows the processes of running the simulator. 
The above of Figure 8 shows the road situations. There are 
seven vehicles including vehicle A, vehicle B, and vehicle C. 
The memo in left-down of Figure 8 shows the information 
according to the data format discussed before. 
 
4.3 The variation of trajectory 
In this section, in order to give an easy visualization of 
the variation of trajectory, the data generated by the 
simulator are shown via Matlab. The variation of trajectory 
includes the longitudinal trajectory and lateral trajectory 
shown in Figure 9 and Figure 10. 
According to Figure 9 and Figure 10, the processes of 
executing joining maneuver can be easily observed. Figure 9 
shows that the vehicle A traces the longitudinal position of 
the preceding platoon (vehicle B). After forty-five time slots, 
the vehicle A achieves the goal. The vehicle A has a short 
space with vehicle B (about thirty units). Figure 10 shows 
that the vehicle A traces the lateral position of the preceding 
platoon (vehicle B). After twenty time slots, the vehicle A 
achieves the goal. Vehicle A and vehicle B run in the same 
8/31 
 
Figure 15: Injection-locking oscillator. 
 
The simulated and measured S parameters of LNA are 
shown in Figure 16. The power gain is about 16 dB and the 
return loss is about -30 dB. The simulated IIP3 and OIP3 are 
6.0928 dB and 21.7147 dB, respectively, the measured IIP3 
and OIP3 are 4.5931 dB and 20.2642 dB, respectively. 
Simulation results of conversion loss and return loss are 
shown in Figure 17. At 2.43 GHz, the conversion loss is 7.4 
dB, and return loss is 21.7 dB. The measured conversion loss 
is 10 dB and the measured RF return loss is 12 dB. The 
isolation between RF and LO is 15 dB. 
Figure 18 shows the measured ILO signal. Its output 
power is 8.5 dBm and its phase noise is -101 dBc/Hz at 100 
KHz offset. 
          
(a) 
                                                     
(b) 
Figure 16: S parameter of LNA, (a) input return loss, (b) 
power Gain, -- : simulated, - : measurement. 
 
Finally, LNA, mixer and ILO are integrated into a single 
circuit board. A 2.431 GHz RF signal is mixed with the LO 
signal to generate an IF signal. IF amplifier and bandpass 
filter are designed to get the desired frequency at 1 MHz. 
The measured spectrum is shown in Figure 19. 
In summary, key components of a typical RF front-end 
were designed and integrated to build a prototype of 
dedicated short-range communication (DSRC) transceiver. 
IF amplifier and filter were also designed to improve the IF 
signal. The RF front-end is designed in the ISM band at 
2.431GHz and render 1 MHz IF signal. Injection-locking 
oscillator is used to stabilize the LO signal with PLL and 
crystal oscillator, respectively, as reference signal source. 
 
Figure 17: Simulated conversion loss and return loss of 
diode mixer, --: S11, -: S21 
 
Figure 18: Measured spectrum of ILO with PLL injection. 
 
Figure 19: Measured IF spectrum after IF amplifier and 
bandpass filter. 
 
 
Figure 20: Range detection system using FMCW. 
10/31 
 
Figure 24. IF spectrum in the architecture in Figure 21, 
determined by Hamming window and Welch periodogram, 
-:target at 6 m, --:target at 12 m, -x-:target at 18 m, -o-:target 
at 30 m. 
 
Hamming window and Welch periodogram is applied in 
the spectral analysis algorithm. The samples are divided into 
four data segments, each with 8,000 samples. The overlap 
between adjacent segments is one-fourth a period, namely, 
2,000 samples. Figure 25 shows the spectrum of the IF 
signal with the targets at 6m, 12m, 18m, and 30m, 
respectively. The peak of IF spectrum is proportional to the 
distance to the target. 
 
Figure 25: IF spectrum in the architecture in Figure 22. 
determined by Hamming window and Welch periodogram, 
-:target at 6 m, --:target at 12 m, -x-:target at 18 m, -o-:target 
at 30 m. 
In summary, a frequency-modulated continuous-wave 
(FMCW) radar is used in range detection, which has the 
advantage of low power and high resolution. Three different 
systems are proposed to improve conventional FMCW 
systems. The phase noise of the local oscillator is -100 
dBc/Hz at 100 kHz offset. This ensures the sensitivity of the 
range detection system. 
Specified periodogram algorithm with pseudo ensemble 
averaging technique is used to analyze the echoed IF signal 
to determine the target range. The data segments are 
overlapped to improve the stability of the spectrum. The 
systems are simulated using Matlab to verify the 
performance. The results match well with theoretical 
prediction. 
 
7. Bifilar Helical Antenna 
In satellite personal communications network (SPCN), 
the shape of radiation pattern is designed according to the 
satellite's orbit characteristics, including minimum elevation 
angle, diversity, space loss. The required pattern should have 
the elevational directivity to compensate for propagation loss 
experienced at different elevation angles. Omnidirectional 
pattern in the azimuthal plane and circular polarization are 
also required.  
Figure 26 shows a bifilar helical antenna. The bifilar 
helical antenna is consisted of two helices, rat-race hybrid, 
and transmission line transformer. 
 
Figure 26: (a) Bifilar helical antenna, (b) rat-race hybrid. 
 
Figure 27 shows the input impedance of the BHA. It is 
observed that traveling-wave characteristics becomes more 
obvious when the frequency is higher than 1.2GHz. The 
input resistance is approximately 300Ω and the input 
reactance is about 50Ω.  When the frequency is below 
1.2GHz, the BHA behaves like a resonant type antenna. The 
bandwidth of input impedance is much wider than that of the 
radiation pattern. The input reactance can be neglected when 
designing the feeding network. 
Figure 26(b) shows a rat-race hybrid as the feeding 
network for BHA. Ports 2 and 3 are signal ports with a 180° 
phase difference. In order to achieve broadband impedance 
matching, a test port is defined over the two terminates 
connected to ports 2 and 3, respectively. 
Figure 28 shows the operational range of split-beam 
BHAs which is obtained by simulation. In the simulation, 
the frequency is chosen to be 2 GHz when mode b emerges. 
 
Figure 27: Input impedance of BHA. 
 
The BHA enters the radiation region at frequency above 
2 GHz. First, use the equation Cλ=cosα/(1+sinα) to obtain 
the helix radius at a specific pitch angle. For example, a 
BHA with pitch angle of 50° has r=8.7 mm. Simulation han 
been conducted for frequency from 1.5 GHz to the 
frequency at which the main beam scans to the broadside. 
Split beam occurs when gainα  becomes larger than zero. 
The shaded region in Figure 28 indicates the region with 
αgain > 0, and θG,max <90°. This region is bounded by the 
four curves. Curve (1) is the lower limit, Cλ=cosα/(1+sinα), 
derived from the  k-β diagram. The simulation results are in 
12/31 
 
Figure1: Driver Assistance Systems development diagram. 
In order for different driving conditions, six kinds of 
scenarios are considered in detail, including drive straight, 
drive back, follow a car, overtake a car, change lane and turn 
corner. These six scenarios are shown in Figure 2. Figure 2 
shows the schematic diagram of different driving scenarios. 
Furthermore, to react emergency and to warn the driver in 
time, driving security transformation is considered. 
Straight Back Follow
Overtake Lane change 
(right)
Turn corner
(right)
 
Figure 2: A schematic diagram of different driving scenarios. 
Horn antennas have been widely used as feed elements 
for reflector antennas [1], or standard antennas for 
calibration and measurement [2]. Low-permittivity dielectric 
materials have been paved on the walls of horn to adjust the 
phase and power distribution across the horn aperture to 
achieve narrower beamwidth [3]-[6], low sidelobe [4]-[7], or 
low cross- polarization [11]-[13]. 
The directivity of a horn antenna is related to the 
aperture efficiency η which is defined as the ratio of the 
actual gain to that of a uniformly illuminated aperture. One 
way to increase the aperture efficiency is to load a dielectric 
on the side wall of the horn [3]. However, dielectric with 
higher permittivity tends to reduce the bandwidth of 
frequency response. A wedge-shaped dielectric lined on the 
side wall of a horn renders a narrow beam at the expense of 
sidelobe-level increase or presence of new sidelobes [4]. In 
[5], a multi-layered dielectric is loaded on the horn walls to 
increase the aperture efficiency, reduce sidelobe or cross 
polarization. In [6], dielectric is loaded on the walls of a 
biconical horn with circular polarization to increase its 
directivity and gain. 
A low-permittivity triangular dielectric is loaded at the 
aperture of an E-plane sectoral horn as a lens to obtain a 
tapered power distribution at the aperture so that  the phase 
irregularity near the edge becomes less critical [7]. Hence, a 
much lower sidelobe level is obtained than that of the 
unloaded horn. Modified triangular lens and 
triangular-frustum lens have also been proposed to alleviate 
the over-corrected phase problem caused by longer lens. 
A dielectric slab can also be placed on the E-plane 
wall of a rectangular horn to reduce the sidelobe levels on 
the E-plane [8]. In [9], a thin dielectric band is loaded in 
conical horns to excite TE11 mode and radiate a rotationally 
symmetric beam with extremely low sidelobe over a wide 
bandwidth. In [10], low-loss material is coated on the horn 
wall to shape the radiation pattern. Since lossy material 
incurs ohmic loss and reduces the antenna gain, the choice of 
lossy material to achieve HE11 mode is more critical for 
smaller horn antennas because the electric field tends to 
penetrate into lossy material. In [11], a magnetical dielectric 
with proper flare angle is coated on a horn wall to achieve 
low sidelobe and low cross polarization. 
In [12], a dielectric core is inserted in a horn to adjust 
the radiation pattern by modifying the dominant HE11 mode 
and higher-order modes ( EH11 and HE12 ) at the aperture. 
The horn profile and the gap between the dielectric core and 
the wall can be designed to adjust the power distribution of 
these modes to reduce the cross-polarization level. In [13], a 
rectangular dielectric core is inserted into a horn to provide 
high cross-polarization isolation over a wide bandwidth 
when operated in either dual linear or dual circular 
polarization. In [14], a corrugated circular waveguide 
partially filled with dielectric rod is proposed, which 
operates in dual bands. The ratio of the two operating 
frequencies and the beamwidth can be controlled 
independently.  
In this work, we propose a horn antenna fed by a 
dielectric resonator and lined with dielectric material on the 
sidewalls. The electric field distribution in the driving DR is 
similar to that of the TE10 waveguide mode. Two triangular 
DRs are loaded on the horn aperture to provide additional 
resonant frequency and can to match the input impedance. 
The horn antenna radiates effectively in the WLAN band 
(5.15-5.35 GHz). 
2. Design Of Multi-Sensor Selection System 
2.1. Multi-sensor selection problem 
The problem discussed in this project is to choose 
necessary object-detecting sensors based on future DASs 
under different driving conditions. Two issues related are 
multiple object-detecting sensors and different driving 
conditions. According to the current DASs, similar types of 
object-detecting sensors are chosen for assembling on the 
vehicle. There are six types of object-detecting sensors: long 
range radar, short range radar, side lane radar, laser scanner, 
long range camera and short range camera. The placement of 
these object-detecting sensors is shown in Figure 3. The 
14/31 
selection system which is designed and discussed in this 
thesis. The emphasis of the multi-sensor selection problem is 
focused on the exteroceptive sensors which are 
object-detecting sensors regardless the proprioceptive 
sensors. So, the multi-sensor selection problem is discussed 
in this thesis in meaning selecting the object-detecting 
sensors. 
 
Figure 5: The multi-sensor selection system architecture. 
3. Analysis Of Multi-Sensor Selection System 
3.1. Multi-sensor Selection System Performance 
The performance of multi-sensor selection system is 
considered into two aspects: (1) the static aspect which is 
off-line multi-sensor selection problem, (2) the dynamic 
aspect which is on-line driving condition transformation 
problem. The static aspect is discussed from the off-line 
calculating the multi-sensor selection results. In this static 
aspect, the all combinations of multi-sensor selection are 
calculated off-line and chosen the optimal solutions for 
different situations. The dynamic aspect is discussed from 
the on-line diving situations changing with time or driver 
commands changing with driving security transformation. In 
this dynamic aspect, there are two main topics for effecting 
the driving condition transformation. These topics are driver 
commands and driving security transformation which is the 
safety identified for the driving vehicle. In the following, 
these two aspects are discussed in detail. 
3.1.1. Off-line multi-sensor selection problem 
In order to decide which set of sensors should be 
chosen, an optimal multi-sensor selection problem could be 
treated off-line considering the five main viewpoints. These 
viewpoints are effective coverage area, overlapping area, 
bandwidth requirement, sensor reliability and energy 
consumption.  For this off-line multi-sensor selection 
problem, an optimal multi-sensor selection function is 
designed to solve the problem which is discussed in this 
thesis. An optimal multi-sensor selection function is 
presented. It is a cost function which is designed for driving 
safety and driver assistance. By integrating the ideas of 
driving safety and driver assistance, a similar driving 
reliability cost function is designed. In the following, this 
optimal multi-sensor selection function is presented in detail. 
Optimal multi-sensor selection function is shown in Eq. (1) 
[20]. 
{ }
( ) ( , )
, , , , , 1
( , )
j
L S SL L S
N
j j i
j R R R L C C i
OMSS Max j i Aρ
∈ =
⎧ ⎫⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞⎪ ⎪
= ⎢ ⎥⎜ ⎟⎨ ⎬⎜ ⎟⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎪⎝ ⎠⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭
∪ ∪ (1) 
The constraints for this optimal multi-sensor selection 
function are shown in Eqs. (2)-(4). 
[ ]{ }
{ }
a b
1
1
( , )
  :
, :   - ,  -  
(S ) (S ) ,
:
L U
a b
M M
a M
b a M
k
k j i
Overlapping Area
S S the a th b th sensor
Area
=
= +
∈
•
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟Ω ≤ ∈Χ ∩ ∈Χ ≤ Ω⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
Χ Φ
"
"
∪
∪
(2) 
{ }
( )
, , , , , 1
  :
( , )
j
L S SL L S
N
j
j R R R L C C i
Bandwidth requirement
j i D B
∈ =
•
⎛ ⎞
⋅ ≤⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠∑ ∑
  (3) 
{ }
( )
, , , , , 1
  :
0 ( , )
j
L S SL L S
N
j
j R R R L C C i
Energy Consumption
j i E G
∈ =
•
⎛ ⎞
< ⋅ ≤⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠∑ ∑
    (4) 
Eq. (1) is a similar driving reliability which is 
composed by the coverage area of each sensor turned on and 
the reliability of each sensor turned on. Eq. (1) is expected to 
reach a maximum value which meaning the maximum 
driving reliability. Eq. (1) is the optimal multi-sensor 
selection cost function, and Eqs. (2)-(4) are the constraints 
for solving this optimal multi-sensor selection cost function. 
The following notions which are shown in Table 2 are used 
to describe this optimal multi-sensor selection function and 
constraints. The notions of these constraints and optimal 
multi-sensor selection function are integrated in Table 2. 
 
Table 2:  The notions of optimal multi-sensor selection function and 
constraints 
{ }
{ }
{ }
( , )
( , )
, , , , , ,
1 ,
( , ) :        
1,       .( , ) 0,1 ,
0,      .
:           
:    
L S SL L S
j
j i
j i
j R R R L C C
i N
j i the sensor i of sensor type j
if the sensor is onj i
if the sensor is off
A Coverage area of the sensor i of sensor type j
set of
∈
∈
⎧⎪ ⎧⎪
∈⎨ ⎨⎩⎪⎪⎩
Φ
"
{ }( , )
( )
( )
      ,
: ,
:       .
:       .
:         /  .
:  
k
k j i
j
j
the sensor i of sensor type j
E energy consumed for sensor j is on
G energy Supply available at the sensor network
D the data rate of sensor j can transmit and or receive
B the usab
∈
Χ Φ∪
( )
     .
:     .
:            .
:         
L
U
j
M
M
le bandwidth of the sensor network
the reliability of sensor j
the lower boundary of the overlapping area parameter of Driving Mode M
the upper boundary of the overlapping area parameter
ρ
Ω
Ω    .of Driving Mode M
RS RS
RL
RSRS
RS
RS
RS
RS
RSLRSL
LL
LL
CS
CS
CS
CL
 
A symbol j belongs to a set of{ }, , , , ,L S SL L SR R R L C C , 
the six components are the six types of sensors. A symbol i  
belongs to a set of {1... }jN , jN  is the number of the j  
type of object-detecting sensors. So, the symbol i  means 
16/31 
The decision making platform contains four blocks 
which are diving mode decision block, driving security 
transformation block, optimal sensor selection calculation 
block and multi-sensor selection block. In driving mode 
decision block, the main task is to decide which 
combinations of driving mode should be used. In driving 
security transformation block, the main task is to determine 
which security level in real time and this block is the 
dynamic topic. In optimal sensor selection calculation block, 
the main task is to calculate the optimal solutions and this 
block is the static topic. In multi-sensor selection block, the 
main task is to analyze the optimal solutions calculated from 
optimal sensor selection calculation block and to choose the 
optimal sensor set.  
 
Figure 7 : The multi-sensor selection algorithm flow chart. 
The multi-sensor selection algorithm is composed by 
these platforms and blocks. When the vehicle body starts up, 
the initial sensors detection block is to start using. And the 
initial sensors detect the environment around the vehicle 
body, there is number of sensing data sent to the sensor 
detecting data block. In the sensor detecting data block, the 
sensing data is fused and analyzed. By these fused 
information, the driving mode decision block is used to 
choose which the driving mode should be applied. The 
driving mode decision block combines not only the fused 
information but also the security level determines in time 
from the driving security transformation block and the 
different driver commands in time from the driver 
commands block. By these three block including sensor 
detecting data block, driving security transformation block 
and driver commands block, these information is integrated 
with the driving mode decision block and sent to optimal 
sensors selection calculation block. In optimal sensors 
selection calculation block, the optimal sensors selection 
solutions are computed and sent to multi-sensor selection 
block for choosing the sensor set of the optimal sensors 
selection solutions. The results of sensor set selection are 
sent to sensor network to redistribute which set of sensors 
should be turned on and off. The choosing sensors detect the 
environment around the vehicle body and these sensing data 
are fused and sent to driving mode decision block. By 
combining the sensing data, security levels determine from 
driving security transformation block and different driver 
commands decide from driver commands block, the driving 
mode decision block could be recombined. And do the 
multi-sensor selection again. 
4. Simulation Study 
4.1. Simulation Setup 
The simulator is an operating interface of different 
vehicles and a monitoring interface of multi-sensor selection 
algorithm running steps. The simulator provides a virtual 
environment of multi-sensor selection for future DASs under 
dynamic driving conditions. The user can test the other 
different driving scenarios by programming the driving 
controller algorithm into the vehicle dynamic driving model, 
including longitudinal driving controllers and lateral driving 
controllers. The Borland C++ Builder 6.0 (BCB) based 
open-source development environment in Windows XP is 
utilized to program the simulator algorithm codes. The 
simulation program for simulating the multi-sensor selection 
for future Driver Assistance Systems under dynamic driving 
conditions is written by using Borland C++ Builder 6.0 
software.  
Figure 8 shows the simulation interface for this 
multi-sensor selection problem. The simulation window 
includes seven main parts which are main operating menu 
includes the driver commands for lane changing, virtual 
driving segment, multi-sensor network on vehicle body 
segment, driving condition segment includes driving mode 
and security level, virtual sensing segment, optimal sensor 
selection result segment and multi-sensor selection 
algorithm segment. In the following, these segments are 
introduced in detail.  
 
Figure 8 :The simulation window for the multi-sensor selection problem. 
The main operating menu includes the driver 
commands for lane changing is shown in Figure 9 (a) which 
contains the main operations and lane change commands. 
The virtual driving segment is shown in Figure 9 (b) which 
includes the three line lanes and there are three different 
vehicles on each lane. The multi-sensor network on vehicle 
body segment is shown in Figure 9 (c) which shows the 
sensors turned on or off in real time .The driving condition 
segment includes driving mode and security level is shown 
in Figure 9 (d) which contains four driving modes and shows 
three security levels in time. The virtual sensing segment is 
18/31 
also the relationship of each vehicle. 
There is a main parameter must be designed for 
solving this optimal multi-sensor selection problem. The 
main parameter is MΩ , it is the boundary of the 
overlapping area in different driving modes. This parameter 
is divided into two boundaries which are upper and lower 
boundaries. Through a simple simulation program for 
designing this parameter, the distribution of these 
overlapping percentages is divided into three parts: the 
overlapping percentage < 10%, the overlapping percentage 
in 10% ~ 40% and the overlapping percentage > 40 %. 
According to the results of overlapping area parameter 
design, the simulations for these two scenarios have different 
results. The selection results for straight driving and change 
lane driving simulations depended on the different security 
levels are shown in Figure 12. It is obvious seen that the 
distribution of these selection results has lower coverage 
area and higher overlapping area percentage. It is because 
that the requirement of the sensing date repetition is very 
important in dangerous driving condition. The higher 
overlapping area is to enhance the result of the environment 
perception in terms of the coverage of the same area by 
different object-detecting sensors. The objectives of the 
overlapping area are the better accuracy, more precision and 
correctness, reduction of the false, missing detecting rate and 
higher confidence level in dangerous driving condition. And 
the requirement of the coverage area is not very important in 
dangerous driving condition. 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2
2.2
x 104 Security transformation
Overlapping percentage %
Co
ve
ra
ge
 
Ar
ea
 p
ix
e
l
safe
warning
dangerous
 
Figure 12: The selection results for these two simulations depended on the 
three level securities.  
6. Antenna Configuration 
Fig. 13 shows the configuration of the DR-loaded horn  
fed by a rectilinear DR, which is coupled by a microstrip 
line through an  aperture. The dimension of the horn 
aperture is h × (Wg+2 p), and the dimension of the loaded 
DRs is h× p × s. The horn is attached to the inside wall of 
the rectangular waveguide of dimension h × Wg, which is fed 
by a rectilinear DR of dimension a× b× d. The feeding 
aperture has dimension of Wa × La, and the microstrip line 
extends over the feeding aperture by Ls. 
The feeding DR is located at the center of the 
waveguide. Since the electric field distribution of the 
y
111TE  mode of the DR is similar to that of the TE10 mode 
in the waveguide, the input power can be effectively coupled 
into the waveguide mode.  
Horn antennas are generally operated at the dominant 
TE10 mode, which has a half-wavelength sinusoidal 
distribution at the cross section. Due to the loaded triangular 
DR, the electric field distribution at the aperture is modified. 
The loaded DRs can be shaped to match the input impedance. 
Moreover, they also contribute additional resonant 
frequency. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 13: DR-fed dielectric-loaded horn antenna, (a) schematic, (b) 
photograph. 
 
7. Results and Discussions 
The operating frequency bands of the DR-loaded horn 
antenna are mainly determined by the width of the horn Wg 
and the dimension of the rectilinear DR. The bands near 
their resonant frequencies can be merged by proper design. 
The dimension and position of the driving DR affect the 
input impedance significantly. Over all, the input impedance 
is well tuned by proper choice of the length of extending 
microstrip line Ls, the size of the triangular DR p× s × d, the 
distance between DR and the coupling aperture ds2, and the 
distance between DR and the end of waveguide ds.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
(b) 
4 5 6 7
-30
-20
-10
0
Frequency (GHz)
R
et
u
rn
 
Lo
ss
 
(dB
)
20/31 
ohmic loss and surface wave, in addition to compact size, 
light weight, and low cost. 
Many efforts have been devoted to developing multi-band 
or wideband DRAs [2]-[15]. For example, make the feeding 
aperture radiate like a slot antenna to incur another band 
[2]-[4], induce parasitic effects with attached metal strips 
[5]-[7].  
In [8], specific higher-order modes with the electric field 
distribution on the top surface of the DR similar to that of 
the fundamental mode are intentionally excited. In [9], [10], 
higher-order modes of truncated conical or tetrahedral DR 
are excited to obtain wide impedance bandwidth.  
DRs of different sizes have been placed vertically to form 
a stacked DRA, or at close proximity to form a 
multi-element DRA, to attain wideband or dual-band 
features [12]-[15].  
In this work, a dual-band DR antenna is proposed by 
splitting a rectilinear DR evenly. The electric field over the 
gap in between is significantly enhanced, hence reducing the 
Q-factor. Two notches are also engraved in each piece to 
tune the resonant frequencies and increase the impedance 
bandwidth as well. The effect of the gap and notches on the 
resonant frequencies are carefully studied, and the resonant 
bands associated with the TEy111 and TEy113 modes can be 
adjusted to cover the WiMAX (3.3-3.7 GHz) and the WLAN 
(5.15-5.35 GHz) bands.   
II. ANTENNA CONFIGURATION 
Fig. 1 shows the configuration of the DRA, which is 
composed of two identical rectangular DRs of dimension 
a×b×d, separated by a gap p. Each DR is engraved with two 
notches at its bottom and side edge, with dimensions s1×b× 
d1 and s2×b×d2, respectively. The DRs are placed on a 
ground plane of size Wg×Lg on an FR4 substrate of thickness 
t and permittivity 4.4. A microstrip line is used to feed the 
DRs through an aperture of size La×Wa, The microstrip line 
is extended over the aperture by Ls. The offset between the 
aperture and the DR is ds. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 12 Configuration of DR with a horizontal tunnel, (a) 
panoramic view, (b) layout of feeding structure.  
 
The resonant frequency is mainly determined by the DR 
dimensions a, b, d and permittivity ε0εr. The carved notches 
change the electric field distribution in the original DRs, 
hence the resonant frequencies. Since the gap is 
perpendicular to the electric field of the TEy111 mode of the 
otherwise intact DR, the electric field is enhanced within the 
gap. Thus, the resonant frequency of the TEy111 mode and 
the input impedance are significantly affected. The input 
impedance can be fine tuned by adjusting the DR offset ds, 
the length of the extended microstrip line, and the aperture 
length La. 
III.  PREDICTION OF RESONANT FREQUENCY SHIFT 
The electric field 0E and the magnetic field 0H  in a 
dielectric resonator taking the space V satisfy the Maxwell's 
equations  
 
 
 
 
 
where 0ω  is the resonant frequency. When the shape of 
dielectric resonator is modified by engraving gap, tunnel, or 
notch, the dielectric constant in the space V becomes a 
function of location ( )' rε , the field distributions and the 
resonant frequency become E , H , and ω , respectively, 
satisfying the Maxwell's equations as well. Applying the 
reaction operation between the original field and the 
perturbed field [16], the resonant frequency of the modified 
DR can be expressed as  
 
 
 
 
 
 
where 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
which indicates that the resonant frequency is affected by 
the reaction between the field distributions of the original 
and the modified DR structures. It also implies that the 
resonant frequency can be more accurately predicted if the 
perturbed field can be approximated with reasonable 
accuracy. For example, if a small gap is carved off a DR, the 
electric field normal to the air-dielectric interface will be 
significantly enhanced, which can be observed by 
simulation. 
( )0 0
0 (3)m eb s
m ea m ea
j H E H E ds
W W
W W W W
ω ω
∗ ∗× + × ⋅
+
= −
+ +
∫∫ 
   
w
0
0
0
( )
m
V
ea
V
eb
V
W H Hdv
W r E E dv
W E Edv
μ
ε
ε
∗
∗
∗
= ⋅
′= ⋅
= ⋅
∫∫∫
∫∫∫
∫∫∫



0 0 0
0 0 0
(1)
(2)
E j H
H j E
ω μ
ω ε
−∇× =
∇× =
w
a
L
a
L
s
w
m
a
Lg
Wg
d
s
p
b
Footprint
of DR
yˆxˆ
zˆ
t
Wg
Lg
d2
s1 d1
a
s2
b
d
p
Aperture
Microstrip
line
yˆ
xˆ
zˆ
(a) (b) 
(c) 
22/31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 (a) DRs on a ground plane with gap in between, (b) 
panoramic view of the equivalent problem. 
Fig. 5 shows the effect of gap width p on the return loss. It 
is observed that the resonant frequency of the TEy111 mode 
increases significantly, while those of the TEy112 and TEy113 
modes are slightly affected. Note that the band associated 
with the TEy111 mode merges with that of the TEy112 mode. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 Effect of gap width p on return loss, a=28 mm, b=9 
mm, d=10 mm, εr=20, wa=2 mm, La=10 mm, Ls=8 mm, 
ds=7 mm, Wg=Lg=70 mm, t = 0.6 mm, wm = 1.15 mm, －: 
p=0 mm, - - -: p=0.2 mm, -。-: p=0.4 mm, -×-: p=0.5 mm. 
 
By image theory, the structure in Fig. 4(a) is equivalent to 
that in Fig. 4(b) if the ground plane is of infinite extent. The 
two DRs with a separating gap can be regarded as an 
inhomogeneous DR with permittivity ( )' rε . The gap width p 
is assumed much smaller than a, hence the field distribution 
inside the single inhomogeneous DR is almost the same as 
that without the gap,  except the normal electric field Ez 
inside the gap is enhanced to satisfy the air-dielectric 
continuity condition. Thus, the fields of the TEy111 and 
TEy113 modes in the air gap can be approximated as 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note that the Ez component is enhanced by a factor m1. 
For the TEy111 mode, m1 approaches εr as the gap width is 
very small. For the TEy113 mode, it is observed that the Ez 
component is only slightly enhanced, incurring a small m1 of 
about 2 to 3. Hence, the resonant frequency of the TEy113 
mode is slightly increased. In contrast, the fields of the 
TEy112 modes in the air gap are approximately 
 
Substituting (4), (8) with kz=3π/a and kz=3π/a, 
respectively, into (3), the resonant frequencies of the TEy111 
and TEy113 modes can be estimated. Substituting (7), (9) with 
kz=2π/a into (3), the resonant frequency of the TEy113 mode 
can be estimated. The theoretical prediction and simulated 
results are summarized in Table I. The resonant frequency of 
the DR is also affected by the feeding position, resulting in a 
deviation between simulation and prediction. Note that the 
increments of resonant frequency listed in the parentheses 
match reasonably well. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The radiation patterns can be determined from the 
tangential electric fields on the DR surfaces. Since the 
electric field distribution of the TEy112 mode, 
( )sin 2 /zE z aπ∝ , has opposite directions on different portions 
of the DR top surface, a null in the Eθ  pattern occurs in 
the x-direction. The resonant frequencies of the TEy111 and 
TEy112 modes move closer as p is increased, and the two 
bands are merged at p = 0.5 mm. However, due to the 
difference of radiation pattern, it is preferred to separate the 
band associated with the TEy112 mode from that with the 
TEy111 mode. 
B. Effect of an Air Tunnel 
Based on (3), the resonant frequency of the TEy112 mode 
can be shifted away from that of the TEy111 mode if an air 
tunnel is engraved at where the electric field of the TEy112 
mode is strong while that of the TEy111 mode is negligible. 
As shown in Fig. 6 (a), an air tunnel is engraved at the center 
bottom of the DR with the dimensions of d1 ×b ×2s1. The 
effect of the tunnel half-width s1 is shown in Fig. 7. The 
resonant frequency of the TEy112 mode is increased as s1 and 
d1 increase, while those of the TEy111 and TEy113 modes are 
almost unaffected since their electric field at the tunnel is 
weak.  
a
b
p
2d
xy
z
z
x
p
a
d
2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5−40
−30
−20
−10
0
Frequency (GHz)
R
et
ur
n 
Lo
ss
 (d
B)
TE111
y
TE112
y
TE113
y
( ) ( ) ( )1
x y
0
sin cos cos (8)2
= 0
z x x y z
pE m k A k x k y k
E E
H H
=
=

(a) 
(b) 
24/31 
By image theory, the grounded DR with two notches is 
equivalent to an isolated DR with four notches on its edges. 
First consider only one notch of dimensions d2×b×s2 
engraved off a DR in free space, as shown in Fig. 8(b). The 
electric field within the notch is more complicated since both 
Ex and Ez components exist. The simulation show that the Ex 
component is stronger than the Ez component. The Ex 
component normal to the dielectric-air interface of the notch 
is enhanced to satisfy the continuity condition, and can be 
approximated as 
 
 
for 
TEy111 and TEy113 modes 
 
 
for 
TEy1
12 mode 
With d2=4 mm, m2 is about 1.5. Substituting (4) and (11) 
into (3), the resonant frequencies of the DR with notches is 
obtained. The predicted and the simulated results are 
summaried in Table III. The prediction for the TEy113 mode 
is less accurate, but the increasing trend is consistent. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
V. DESIGN WITH COMBINATION 
The design begins with a rectangular DR of dimension 10 
mm × 9 mm × 29 mm, ds=7 mm, Ls=8 mm, wa=2 mm, and 
La=10 mm. The resonant frequencies of the TEy111, TEy112, 
and TEy113 modes are 2.92 GHz, 3.58 GHz, and 4.62 GHz, 
respectively. In order to tune the resonant frequencies of the 
TEy111 and TEy113 modes to cover the WiMax (3.4-3.7 GHz) 
and the WLAN (5.15-5.35 GHz) bands, the DR is modified 
to the shape as shown in Fig. 1(a), with p=1 mm, d1=d2=4 
mm, and s1=s2=2 mm. The resonant frequencies of the three 
modes are shifted to 3.58 GHz, 4.3 GHz, and 5 GHz, 
respectively. By adjusting the offset ds, the extended length 
of microstrip line Ls, and the length of the aperture La, the 
DR can be matched to 50 Ω microstrip line feed, with the 
resonant frequencies slightly affected by the feeding 
structure. Fig. 10 shows the measured and simulated return 
loss.  There are three bands over 3.375-3.93 GHz (15%), 
4.6-4.79 GHz (4%), and 5.08-5.415 GHz (6%), associated 
with the TEy111, TEy112, and TEy113 modes, respectively. The 
first band covers the WiMax (3.4-3.7 GHz), and the third 
band covers the WLAN (5.15-5.35 GHz). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10 Return loss, a=28 mm, b=9 mm, d=10 mm, p=1 mm, 
d1=4 mm, s1=2 mm, d2=4 mm, s2=2 mm, εr=20, h=4 mm, wa=2 
mm, La=10 mm, Ls=2.5 mm, ds=4 mm, Wg=Lg=70 mm, t = 
0.6 mm, wm=1.15 mm, ---: measurement, - - -: simulation. 
Fig. 11 shows the electric field distributions over the first 
and the third bands, respectively. The third resonant band 
around f=5.265 GHz is associated with the TEy113 mode. 
The split DRs can be viewed as two radiators placed closely 
along the z-direction.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 11 Electric field distribution at (a) 3.45 GHz, (b) 5.26 
GHz. 
 
Figs. 12 and 13 shows the measured and simulated 
radiation patterns at f = 3.45 GHz and f = 3.6 GHz, 
respectively. On the xy-plane, the Eθ  component is 
stronger than the Eφ  component by about 10 dB over 
-60o≦φ≦ 60o, the maximum gain is 5.6 dBi at f = 3.45 and 
3 dBi at f =3.6 GHz. The gain at 3.6 GHz is lower because 
the main beam of the Eθ  pattern is slightly tilted on the 
xz-plane.  
On the xz-plane, the Eθ  component is stronger than the 
Eφ  component by 10 dB over -90
 o≦θ≦ 90o, the maximum 
gain is 6.5 dBi at f = 3.45 GHz and 6 dBi at f = 3.6 GHz. The 
front-to-back ratio is about 10 dB. 
Fig. 14 shows the measured and simulated radiation 
patterns at f = 5.265 GHz. On the xy-plane, the Eθ  
component is stronger than the Eφ  component by about 10 
dB over -75 o ≦φ ≦ 75o, the front-to-back ratio is about 12 
dB. The antenna gain is 7.22 dBi, which is higher than that 
at f=3.45 and 3.6 GHz because the beam of the Eθ  pattern 
on the xz-plane is narrower and is slightly tilted to θ=85o. 
The gain at the beam direction is 8.4 dBi. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
( ) ( ) ( )2 1cos cos sin (11)x z x y zE m k A k d k y k z= −
( ) ( ) ( )2 1cos cos cos (12)x z x y zE m k B k d k y k z=
3 3.5 4 4.5 5 5.5 6
−30
−20
−10
0
Frequency (GHz)
R
et
ur
n 
Lo
ss
 (d
B)
TE111
y
TE112
y TE113
y
(a) (b) 
26/31 
group of vehicles such as traffic volume, density, and 
vehicle’s mean velocity. A first-order model of traffic flow 
is first  proposed by the Lighthill, Whitham and Richard  
(LWR) [1: Lighthill and Whitham 1955], [2: Richard 1956] 
and another second-order continuum traffic flow model is 
introduced in [3: Whitham 1974],[4: Zang 1999]. On the 
other hand, microscopic traffic flow models, i.e., 
car-following models proposed in [5: Raza and Ioannou 
1996], [6: Shladover et al. 1991], [7: Hedrick et al. 1994] 
can be used to characterize the behavior of each vehicle as 
particles motion and formulate in term of the vehicle length 
and vehicle headway. The main idea of microscopic traffic 
flow model can be used in lateral and longitudinal vehicle 
control of individual vehicle. Previous models have highly 
nonlinear and sophisticated property of traffic flow 
dynamics and need a proper choice of traffic flow model 
parameters. They depend on the real traffic situations at all 
times and lack a universal traffic flow model.  
Statistical models can be characterized as data-driven 
approaches such as linear regression models [8: Sun et al. 
2003], [9: Zhang and Rice 2001], ARIMA models [10: Lee, 
and Fambro 1999], [11: Moorthy and Ratcliffe], fuzzy 
neural approaches [12: Quek et al. 2006], [13: Yin et al. 
2002] and pattern recognition approaches [14: Weijermars 
and Berkum 2005],[15: Wild 1997]. Linear regression 
models and ARIMA are common time series techniques for 
modeling traffic flow. The precise prediction of traffic flow 
depends on completely traffic flow data and the processing 
techniques of missing traffic data will influenced to the 
performance of prediction of traffic flow.  Fuzzy neural 
approaches have better ability of precise prediction of traffic 
flow than others, but have common problems encountered in 
design of fuzzy rule-based systems and complex training 
procedure. For pattern recognition approaches, [14: 
Weijermars and Berkum 2005], [15: Wild 1997] have 
accurate in prediction of traffic flow, but just concerning 
clustering temporal traffic flow on one location site. They 
have not integrated the traffic flow of all adjacent location 
on one traveling path or some managerial paths for real time 
prediction and control. They should take into 
temporal-spatial flow relationship account for applying to 
implementation of realistic prediction of traffic flow.   
The drawback of the existing methods mentioned above is 
that the lack of traffic flow continuity in the direction of 
temporal and spatial simultaneously. Hence, in this paper, 
the modeling of temporal-spatial traffic flow is studies. The 
model is used to determine the traffic condition in next 
timing horizon control for drivers or traffic management 
system. A 2-D GMM approach is proposed. This approach 
can both calculate a continuous mixture Gaussian function 
from traffic flow data in the direction of temporal and spatial 
simultaneously, and present a mathematical formulation for 
analyzing the distribution of peak traffic flow in 
temporal-spatial flow dataset. Experimental results show that 
this modeling approach is suitable for traffic flow modeling 
of temporal-spatial flow dataset.  
This paper focuses on the modeling problem of 
temporal-spatial traffic flow using GMM, and provides a 
reference input to the driver for receding horizon control on 
future traffic flow. Traffic count data analyzed in this paper 
are obtained from the a 12.55 km-long section (Sijhih-Wugu 
section) of the No.1 Taiwan Freeway, In this section, there 
are twenty five detectors located at about 0.5 km interval 
along a 12.04 km-long link. In the following, the modeling 
approach for historical traffic flow is proposed in Section II. 
Section III presents the model performance of real traffic 
flow. Finally, Section IV presents some conclusions and 
future works. 
Modeling Approach 
Model-based clustering  
Clustering analysis is a popular and useful technique in 
pattern recognitions. The purpose of clustering is to identify 
data structure in an unlabeled data set by categorizing data 
into groups which have similar characteristics. These 
clustered groups can be furthered studied and analyzed from 
homogenous characteristics in each group [16: Liao 2005]. 
In this paper, traffic flow data can be thought as a time series 
data of a traffic feature comprise vehicle counts changed 
with time. Clustering of unlabeled traffic flow attempts to 
find groups of similar time series. The clustered traffic flow 
groups can be furthered analyzed and interpreted in detail 
from common traffic characteristic in each group.  
Several clustering technique of time series have been 
proposed in the literature such as in [16: Liao 2005], [17: 
Kamber 2001], [18: Jain et al. 2000]. Five of the best known 
approaches for clustering techniques [16: Liao 2005] are 
partitioning methods, hierarchical methods, density-based 
methods, grid-based methods and model-based methods.  
There is also extensive work on classified clustering 
methods [17: Kamber 2001] developed for various time 
series data into three major categories: raw-data-based 
approaches, feature-based approaches and model-based 
approaches.  
In this paper, the traffic flow data is obtained daily from 
the loop detectors on the highway and certain temporal and 
spatial features can be observed from data sets. Fig. 1 shows 
the traffic flow distribution in the analyzed section. In Fig.1, 
the temporal-axis shows time of day and each time slot is 5 
minutes. The spatial-axis shows loop detectors location 
which distance between adjacent loop detectors is 0.5 
kilometers. The flow-axis shows the number of vehicles in 5 
min interval.  
 
 
Fig.1. The distribution of traffic flow. 
28/31 
the daily temporal-spatial flow data is then mapped onto a 
temporal-spatial plane using the 2-D histogram projection 
approach. High traffic flow in daily temporal-spatial flow 
will maps high density points onto temporal-spatial plane. 
The result of 2-D histogram projection for the daily 
temporal-spatial flow is shown in Fig. 3. 
 
50 100 150 200 250
0
100
200
300
400
500
flo
w
Time 
 
(a) A daily flow profile at one location. 
50 100 150 200 250
0
100
200
300
400
500
flo
w
Time 
 
          (b) The training result of GMM.  
Fig. 2. The training result of 1-D traffic flow modeling. 
 
The 2-D GMM approach is a powerful tool for fitting a 
2-D sampling data and widely applied in several industrial 
applications. Hence we can put the 2-D projection flow into 
the 2-D GMM and choose proper number k of Gaussian 
mixture functions by training repeatedly with performance 
evaluation in term of root mean square error (RSME). Let 
iy~ be the estimate of daily temporal-spatial flow iy , the 
RSME can be expressed as 
 
                              
RSME =                  .               (6) 
 
 
Fig. 4 shows the result of GMM training for number k=3 
of Gaussian mixture functions, The top-left plot shows the 
number of iteration for optimizing fitting model, the 
top-right  
shows the scatter plot of 2-D projection flow, bottom-left 
plot shows the estimating model of daily temporal-spatial 
flow, and the bottom-right shows the contour of the 
estimating model. Fig 4 represents a 2-D projection flow 
reconstruct a 3-D flow map using 2-D GMM training 
approach.  
 
 
 
                                     2-D 
histogram projection 
 
 
Fig. 3. The result of 2-D histogram projection for the daily 
temporal-spatial flow. 
 
 
Fig. 4. The result of GMM training for number k=3 of 
Gaussian mixture functions. 
 
By training repeatedly, then we will find out the optimal 
fitting model for the daily temporal-spatial flow. The results 
of different GMM training (k=8, 10, 12, 15) are shown in 
Fig. 5. In Fig.5, different selection of number k training out 
different appearance of the daily temporal-spatial flow. For 
the k=8 and 10, show under-training phenomenon. For the 
k=15, shows the over-training phenomenon. The k=10 is 
best choice of number of Gaussian mixture functions for 
training fitting models.     
The training performance with RSME is shown in Fig. 6. 
In Fig. 6, we can find out the number k of Gaussian mixture 
∑
=
−
n
i i
ii
y
yy
n 1
~1
30/31 
[9] T. Satoh, “Dielectric-loaded horn antenna,” IEEE Trans. Antennas 
Propagat., vol. 20, no. 3, pp. 199-201, Mar. 1972.  
[10] K. Liu, C. A. Balanis, and G. C. Barber, “Low-loss material coating 
for horn antenna beam shaping,” IEEE Antennas Propagat. Int. Symp., 
vol. 3, pp. 1664-1667, June 1991.  
[11] J. J. H. Wang, V. K. Tripp, and R. P. Zimmer, “Magnetically coated 
horn for low sidelobes and low cross-polarisation,” IEE Microw. 
Antennas Propagat., vol. 136, pp. 132-138, Apr. 1989. 
[12] B. Philips and A. D. Olver, “Design and performance of profiled 
dielectric loaded horns,” IEE Proc. Microw. Antennas Propagat., vol. 
141, no. 5, pp. 337-341, Oct. 1994.  
[13] E. Lier and C. Stoffels, “Propagation and radiation characteristics of 
rectangular dielectric-loaded hybrid mode horn,” IEE Proc. Microw. 
Antennas Propagat., vol. 138, no. 5, pp. 407-411, Oct. 1991.  
[14] M. S. Narasimhan and M. S. Sheshadri, “Propagation and radiation 
characteristics of dielectric loaded corrugated dual-frequency circular 
waveguide horn feeds,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 27, no. 
6, pp. 858-860, Nov. 1979. 
[15] Leohold, J. and Schmidt, C., “Communication requirements of future 
driver assistance systems in automobiles,”  in proceeding of IEEE 
International Workshop on Factory Communication System, pp. 
167-174, vol. 22-24, Sep., 2004. 
[16] Tanaka, J., Ishida, S., Kawagoe, H. and Kondo, S., “Workload of using 
a driver assistance system,” in proceedings of IEEE Intelligent 
Transportation Systems, pp. 382-386, vol. 1-3, Oct., 2000. 
[17] http://www.prevent-ip.org/en a European automotive industry activity 
[18] Torkkola, K., Venkatesan, S. and Huan Liu, "Sensor selection for 
maneuver classification," in proceedings of IEEE Intelligent 
Transportation Systems, pp. 636-641, vol. 3-6, Oct., 2004 
[19] Siegwart, R. and Nourbakhsh, I.R., Introduction to Autonomous 
Mobile Robots, First Edition, MIT Press, 2004. 
[20] Pedregal, P., Introduction to Optimization, First Edition, Springer, 
2004. 
 
Third Year: 
S. A. Long, M. W. McAllister, and L. C. Shen, “The resonant cylindrical 
dielectric cavity antenna,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 31, no. 
3, pp. 406-412, May 1983. 
[2] T. A. Denidni, Q. Rao, and A. R. Sebak, “Multi-eccentric ring slot-fed 
dielectric resonator antennas for multi-frequency operations,” IEEE 
APS Int. Symp., vol. 2, pp. 1379-1382, June 2004.  
[3] T. A. Denidni and Q. Rao, “Hybrid dielectric resonator antennas with 
radiating slot for dual-frequency operation,” IEEE Antennas Wireless 
Propagat. Lett., vol. 3, pp. 321-323, 2004.  
[4] A. Buerkle, K. Sarabandi, and H. Mosallaei, “Compact slot and 
dielectric resonator antenna with dual-resonance, broadband 
characteristics,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 53, no. 3, pp. 
1020-1027, Mar. 2005.  
[5] T. W. Li and J. S. Sun, “Dual-frequency dielectric resonator antenna 
with inverse T-shape parasitic strip,” IEEE/ACES Int. Conf., pp. 
384-387, Apr. 2005.  
[6] L. T. Wei and S. J. Shiun, “Wideband dielectric resonator antenna with 
parasitic strip,” IEEE/ACES Int. Conf., pp. 376-379, Apr. 2005. 
[7] B. Li and K. W. Leung, “Strip-fed rectangular dielectric resonator 
antennas with/without a parasitic patch,” IEEE Trans. Antennas 
Propagat., vol. 53, no. 7, pp. 2200-2207, July 2005.  
[8] C. S. D. Young and S. A. Long, “Investigation of dual mode wideband 
rectangular and cylindrical dielectric resonator antennas,” IEEE APS Int. 
Symp., vol. 4, pp. 210-213, Jul. 2005.  
[9] A. A. Kishk, “Wide-band truncated tetrahedron dielectric resonator 
antenna excited by a coaxial probe,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., 
vol. 51, no. 10, pp. 2913-2917, Oct. 2003.  
[10] A. A. Kishk, Y. Yin, and A. W. Glisson, “Conical dielectric resonator 
antennas for wide-band applications,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propagat., 
vol. 50, no. 5, pp. 469-474, Apr. 2002.  
[11] J. I. Moon and S. O. Park, “Dielectric resonator antenna for dual-band 
PCS/IMT-2000, Electron. Lett., vol. 36, pp. 1002-1003, June 2000.  
[12] Z. Fan and Y. M. M. Antar, “Experimental investigation of 
multi-element dielectric resonator antennas,” IEEE APS Int. Symp., vol. 
3, pp. 2034-2037, July 1996.  
[13] Z. Fan and Y. M. M. Antar, “Slot-coupled DR antenna for 
dual-frequency operation,” IEEE Trans. Antenna Propagat., vol.45, pp. 
306-308, Feb. 1997. 
[14] A. A. Kishk, B. Ahn, and D. Kajfez, “Broadband stacked dielectric 
resonator antenna,” Electron. Lett., vol. 25, no. 18, pp. 1232-1233, Aug. 
1989. 
[15] K. Pliakostathis and D. Mirshekar-Syahkal, “Stepped dielectric 
resonator antennas for wideband applications,” IEEE APS Int. Symp., 
vol. 2, pp. 1367-1370, June 2004.  
[16] R. F. Harrington, Time-Harmonic Electromagnetic Fields, 
McGraw-Hill, International Editions, 1961.  
[17] H. Y. Yee, “Natural resonant frequencies of microwave dielectric 
resonators,” IEEE Trans. Microwave Theroy Tech., vol. 13, pp. 
256-256, Mar. 1965.  
[18] A. K. Okaya and L. F. Barash, “The dielectric microwave resonator,” 
Proc. IRE, vol. 50, pp. 2081-2092, Oct. 1962.  
[19] T. Itoh and C. Chang, “Resonant characteristics of dielectric resonators 
for millimeter-wave integrated circuits,” IEEE MTT-S Int. Symp., vol. 
78, pp. 121-122, Jun. 1978. 
[20] R. K. Mongia, “Theoretical and experimental resonant frequencies of 
rectangular dielectric resonators,” IEE Proc. Microwaves, Antennas 
Propagat., vol. 139, no. 1, pp. 98-104, Feb. 1992. 
[21] R. K. Mongia and A. Ittipiboon, “Theoretical and experimental 
investigations on rectangular dielectric resonator antennas,” IEEE 
Trans. Antennas Propagat., vol. 45, no. 9, pp. 1348-1356, Sept. 1997. 
[22] Y. M. M. Antar, D. Cheng, G. Seguin, B. Henry, and M. G. Keller, 
“Modified waveguide model (MWGM) for rectangular resonator 
antenna (DRA),” Microwave Opt. Tech. Lett., vol. 19, no. 2pp. 158-160, 
Oct. 1998 
 
[1] M.J. Lighthill and J.B. Whitham, “On kinematic waves II: a theory of 
traffic flow on long crowded roads,” in Proceedings of the Royal 
Society, 1955, vol. A299, pp. 317-345. 
[2] Paul I. Richard, “Shock wave on the highway,” Operation Research, 
vol. 4, pp.42-51, 1956. 
[3] G.B. Whitham, Linear and Nonlinear Waves, John Wiley and Sons Inc, 
New York, NY, 1974. 
[4] H.M.  Zang, “Analyses of the stability and wave properties of 
a new continuum traffic theory,” Transp. Res. Part B, vol 33, 
no.6, pp. 399-415, 1999. 
[5] H. Raza and P. Ioannou, “Vehicle following control design for 
automated highway systems,” IEEE Control Systems Magazine, pp. 
43-60, December issue, 1996. 
[6] S.E. Shladover, et al., “Automatic vechicle control development in the 
PATH program,” IEEE Trans. Vehicular Technology, vol. 40, no. 1, pp. 
114-130, 1991. 
[7] J.K. Hedrick, M.Tomizuka, and P. Varaiya, “Control issues in 
automatic highway systems,” IEEE Control Systems Magazine, 
pp 21-32, December issue, 1994. 
[8] H. Sun, H. Liu, and B. Ran, “Sort term traffic forecasting 
using the local linear regression model,” presented at the 82nd 
Annual Meeting of the Transp. Res. Board, Washington, DC, 
Jan. 2003. 
[9] X. Zhang and J. A. Rice, “Short-term travel time prediction 
using a time-varying coefficient linear model,” Tech. Rep. 
Dept. Statistics, Univ. California, Berkeley, Mar. 2001. 
[10] S. Lee, and D. B. Fambro, “Application of Subsets Autoregressive 
integrated moving average model for short-term freeway traffic 
volume forecasting,” Transp. Res. Rec. no. 1678, pp.179-188, 1999. 
[11] C.K. Moorthy, and B. G. Ratcliffe, “Short term traffic forecasting 
using time series methods,” Transp. Plan. Technol., vol. 12, no. 1,
 pp. 45-56,1988. 
[12] C. Quek, M. Pasquier, and B. B. S. Lim, “POP-traffic: a novel fuzzy 
neural approach to road traffic analysis and prediction,” IEEE Trans. 
Intell. Transp. Syst., vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 133-146, Jun. 2006. 
[13] H. B. Yin, S. C. Wong, J. M. Xu, and C. K. Wong, “Urban traffic flow 
prediction using a fuzzy-neural approach,” Transp. Res., Part C 
Emerg. Technol., vol. 10, no. 2, pp.85-98, Apr. 2002. 
[14] W. Weijermars and E. V. Berkum, “Analyzing highway flow patterns 
using cluster analysis,” in Proc. IEEE 8th Int.Conf. Intelligent 
Transportation Systems, Austria, 2005, pp.831-836. 
[15] D. Wild, “Short-term forecasting based on a transformation and 
classification of traffic volume time series,” Int. J. of  Forecasting, 
pp. 63-72, 1997. 
[16] T. W. Liao, “Clustering of time series data-a survey,” Pattern 
Recognition, vol. 38, pp.1857-1874, 2005. 
[17] J. Han, M. Kamber, Data Mining: Concepts and Techniques, Morgan 
Kaufmann, San Francisco, 2001 pp.346-389. 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
96 年 10 月 5 日 
報 告 人 
姓 名 
連豊力 服務機構
及 職 稱
台灣大學電機系 
助理教授 
會 議 時間 地點 
96 年 10 月 1 日至 10 月 3 日 
新加坡 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC 95-2218-E-002-031- 
會 議 名 稱 (中文) 2007 IEEE 控制應用國際會議 (英文) 2007 IEEE Conference on Control Applications 
發表論文題
目 
一、(中文)利用相位平面圖分析 TCP 擁塞控制法則設計 
(英文)Phase Plane Analysis and Design for TCP Congestion Control  
二、(中文)基於物體運動性建立 3D 視覺重建 
(英文) Object-Based Rate Control for 3D Vision Reconstruction 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
二、與會心得 
 
三、考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
 
四、建議 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
Feedback Control of Discrete-Time Networked Systems 以及 Prof. Yang 所報告的 H_infty 
Controller Design of State Feedback Networked Control Systems with Long Delay and 
Packet Dropout。本場次的報告情境如下圖所示。我報告時的照片為大會的工作人員所拍
攝的。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
第二天的兩場專題演講，大會亦邀請了兩位國際學者，分別為：Professor Xi Ren Cao 
(HKUST, China)，演講的課題為 Event-Based Optimization - a Strategy That Depends on the 
Future!，另一個場次為：2007 Industry Award for Excellence in Translational Control 
Research。 
除此之外，本人並且參與下列三個課題的論文發表場次：09:30-11:30 TuA03 
Coordination and Cooperative Control，13:30-15:30 Session TuB03 Control of Autonomous 
Systems，以及 15:45-17:45 Session TuC07 Agents and Cooperative Control。 
 
第三天的一場專題演講為：Prof. Pedro Albertos (Polytechnic Univ of Valencia, Spain) 
所報告的 New Control Challenges in the Design of Embedded Control Systems。 
 
本次大會的晚宴安排在第二天的晚上，在會場的宴會聽舉行，主要由大會主席報告
整個大會的籌備過程，以及所有參與此項盛會的學者國家區域分佈等相關資訊。值得一
提的，本次的接受率為 53%，這是一次接受率相當低的一次國際會議。晚宴中，依照慣
例都會安排舉辦國家或地區的表演節目，因此，大會安排的新加坡主要民族的舞蹈。 
 
四、建議 
無。 
 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
2007 IEEE Conference on Control Applications Final Program and Book of Abstracts, 
CD-ROM Conference Proceeding, Call for Paper of 2008 MSC, 2008 IFAC 
 
 
六、其他 
感謝國科會贊助此次參與國際會議之旅費與此項研究計畫之研究經費。 
所發表的兩篇論文的資料如附件。 
  
TCP algorithm. In Fig. 1, the sender sends four packets 
without any acknowledgements received until the fifth 
transmission. At this time, the current window size is 
determined to be four, i.e., the number of outstanding packets 
in the network that have been transmitted but have not been 
acknowledged. 
 
Figure 1: Illustrative example of window size 
TCP-Tahoe, TCP-Reno, and TCP-Vegas are the most 
three significant versions in the TCP design evolution. Both 
TCP-Tahoe and TCP-Reno adjust their window sizes by 
self-generated congestion. However, TCP-Vegas uses the 
round-trip-time (RTT) information to vary the adjustment. 
TCP-Vegas employs three techniques to produce a higher 
throughput but lower losses than TCP-Reno. These 
modifications are summarized as follows [4: Brakmo & 
Peterson 1995]:  
1. New Retransmission Mechanism—Use more accurate RTT 
estimation to decide to retransmit a dropped segment. 
2. Congestion Avoidance Mechanism—Give an idea to 
measure and control the amount of extra data this 
connection has in transit, then adjust its transmission rate 
accordingly. 
3. Modified Slow-Start Mechanism—Modify TCP’s 
slow-start to avoid packet losses while trying to find the 
available bandwidth during the initial use of slow-start. 
Besides investigating the congestion control on senders, 
choosing a proper queueing method for routers is also an open 
issue. The methods have been proposed, which can be 
classified in two aspects: queue scheduling and queue 
management.  
Queue scheduling determines the packet which should 
be sent to the output link next. FIFO (First-In First-Out) is the 
most wildly used one which means the packet come into the 
router first will be served and sent first as well. The queue 
management manages the queue length by dropping packets 
under a certain situation. In this regard, the Drop-Tail 
mechanism which drops the incoming packet only when buffer 
is full is used in the past but has been proven the lack of 
efficiency. Because the Drop-Tail mechanism is too passive, it 
cannot prevent the traffic from congestion but only reduces the 
congestion degree after a packet loss occurs. Therefore, a 
method is proposed: A mechanism should be designed to drop 
the packet in advance such that forcing the sender to decrease 
its sending rate to avoid the further congestion. This active 
method is called AQM (Active Queue Management).  
Recent years many researches on TCP/AQM have been 
discussed to either analyze the performance or propose a new 
algorithm based on some well-known TCP protocols, e.g., 
Reno or Vegas. Low et al. described an optimization-based 
framework that provides an interpretation of various flow 
control mechanisms, in particular, the utility being optimized 
by the protocol’s equilibrium structure [1: Low et al. 2002]. 
Misra et al. exploited the fluid modeling to present a general 
methodology for the analysis of a network of routers 
supporting active queue management with TCP flows [6: 
Misra et al. 2000]. They used a Poisson-driven stochastic 
differential equation to model the data traffic and also derived 
a set of differential equations that describe the AQM policy.  
For stability analysis, Ohsaki et al. formed a mathematical 
model of TCP-Vegas in nonlinear difference equation and also 
found the equilibrium points and a stability condition [7: 
Ohsaki et al. 1999]. Hollot and Chait used a nonlinear stability 
analysis for a class of TCP/AQM networks to claim that the 
system is asymptotically stable when using TCP-Reno with 
AQM which the marking probability is proportional to the 
instantaneous queue length in a case of delay-free marking [8: 
Hollot & Chait 2001]. In the more realistic case of delayed 
feedback, they also established a local asymptotic stability and 
quantify a region of attraction. Fan et al. designed an adaptive 
controller to achieve asymptotic convergence to a desired 
equilibrium point, and they proved their results through 
Lyapunov stability analysis [9: Fan et al. 2004]. 
On designing new algorithms, Hasegawa et al. proposed 
TCP-Vegas+ to tackle the unfairness issue in TCP-Vegas [10: 
Hasegawa et al. 2000]. It has two modes. One is called 
moderate mode which uses TCP-Vegas as usual and the other 
one is called the aggressive mode, which behaves identically 
to TCP-Reno when it detects the presence of competing 
TCP-Reno traffic. Differing from other modifications by 
giving the window-based threshold, Chen et al. proposed 
another idea that uses the measured RTT directly to control the 
window size adjustment.  In [11: Chen et al. 2000], [12: Maor 
& Mansour 2003] and [13: Srijith et al. 2005], the design 
objective is to dynamically adjust the predefined values . and 
, and then make TCP-Vegas be more adaptive. The former, 
called AdaVegas, makes the parameters be history dependent, 
while the latter, called TCP Vegas-A, uses the throughput 
variation to give a change. For example, the window size stops 
changing in TCP-Vegas when deltaα β< < , where delta is 
the performance index. However, as long as the current 
throughput is higher than before, it implies the network has not 
been fully utilized, so TCP Vegas-A still increases window 
size, and the thresholds . and  are also increased by one 
accordingly. 
Recently, a fluid-flow analysis both on the equilibrium and 
dynamical behavior is introduced for a newly developed TCP, 
namely TCP Westwood (TCPW) [14: Chen et al. 2006]. In 
TCPW, the sender use the information of acknowledgement 
arrival times and the increment of data delivered to the 
destination to estimate connection rate. Hence, the new 
window size is set based on the estimated connection rate and 
the minimum round-trip time. Overall speaking, the TCPW 
behavior is described by a averaged nonlinear differential 
MoA02.4
54
  
minimum round trip times, and ( ),α β are two threshold 
constants used to specify desired network connection 
condition. Based on these dynamics, the phase planes of these 
dynamics are shown in Fig. 3, where w  and 
[ 1] [ ]Dw w k w k= + −
 are the two axes used to characterize 
these trajectories. Two different types of trajectories 
representing the CA and FR modes of the Tahoe and Reno 
protocols are shown in Fig. 3(a) and Fig. 3(b), and three 
different types of trajectories for the CA mode in the Vegas are 
shown in Fig. 3(c). For the Vegas protocol, the FR mode is not 
shown because the window size adjustment is designed mainly 
in the CA mode. For the TCP-Tahoe and TCP-Reno protocols, 
the increasing rate of the window size in the CA mode is 
exponentially decaying and that in the FR mode is linearly 
increasing. 
 
 
(a) (b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 3: The phase planes of the TCP congestion avoidance algorithms 
of Tahoe (a), Reno (b), Vegas (c). The horizontal axis is [ ]w k  and the 
vertical axis is [ 1] [ ]Dw w k w k= + − . For demonstration purpose, 
the actual value in negative direction of the vertical axis in (a) and (b) 
should be multiplied by 10, i.e., the value of ‘-1’ shown in the plot 
denotes its actual values of ‘-10’. 
Therefore, based on these phase planes, several typical 
dynamical changing of the window sizes can be illustrated as 
shown in Fig. 4. Based on the TCP-Tahoe protocol, three 
cycles of CA-FR algorithms are shown in Fig. 4(a). These 
three cycles all start from the initial state, i.e., (1,1), and go 
through the exponential decaying curve in the CA mode, jump 
to the FR mode on the (red) dash line and go back to the initial 
state. In the example, the transition points shown in Fig. 4(a) 
are as follows: (1,1) (7.8, 0.1), (7.8, -6.8), (1, 1), (17.4, 0.1), 
(17.4, -16.4), (1, 1), (24.5, 0.1), (24.5, -23.5), (1, 1). Similar 
transition behavior can be observed for the TCP-Reno 
protocol. However, the transition curves in TCP-Reno only 
return to the half of the current window size, other than the (1, 
1) state in TCP-Tahoe. Hence, the transition points shown in 
Fig. 4(b) are as follows:   (1, 1), (12, 0.1), (12, -6), (6, 0.2), 
(20.9, 0.1), (20.9, -10.4), (10.4, 0.1), (27.7, 0.1), (27.7, -13.9), 
(13.9, 0.1). For the TCP-Vegas protocol, the transition is 
among 1, -1, and 0 and, hence, the example shown in Fig. 4(c) 
demonstrates the behavior of converging to one steady state 
(13, 0). And the steady state is determined based on the current 
network traffic condition indicated by the variable [ ]d k  
which depends on the minimal round-trip time in the past and 
the current round-trip time. The example shown in Fig. 4(c) 
has the following transition points: (1, 1), (24, 1), (24, -1), (8, 
-1), (8, 1), (19, 1), (19, -1), (11, -1), (11, 1), (16, 1), (16, -1), 
(13, -1), (13, 0). 
 
 
(a) (b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 4: Several typical dynamical trajectories of the window size 
changing in the TCP congestion avoidance algorithms of Tahoe (a), Reno 
(b), Vegas (c). 
In addition to the behavior of the system can be expressed 
in terms of these phase planes, more information about 
window size can still be obtained without losing its 
characteristics. For example, the following three phenomena 
in a phase portrait can be observed: (1) the trajectories 
converging to a single equilibrium point (w*, 0); (2) the shape 
of the trajectories in the phase plnae; (3) the convergence rate 
of the window size approaching to the equilibrium point. From 
the phase planes, the TCP-Vegas algorithm shows its benefits 
in terms of these features. However, some problems inherently 
exist in the TCP-Vegas algorithm. For example, the unfairness 
of TCP-Vegas is that the route keeps unchanged once it has 
been established. In TCP-Vegas, the increment of window size 
is only one of the alternatives, 1, 0, and -1. When applying this 
algorithm to different network scenarios, only three fixed 
increments are too weak to make the window size approach a 
steady-state value efficiently all the time. That is, using this 
kind of strategy may cause a conservative or aggressive 
behavior under different network situations. Therefore, in next 
section, two novel design methods extending the dynamical 
behavior in TCP-Vegas will be discussed. These designs 
modify the switching dynamics in terms of the number of 
switching dynamics and the increment rate. 
IV. DESIGN AND ANALYSIS OF VEGAS-LIKE ALGORITHMS 
Two types of Vegas-like mechanisms are discussed in the 
section. These two types inherit the main idea used in 
TCP-Vegas and implement some modifications in the 
congestion avoidance phase. Since the convergence property 
only exists in TCP-Vegas rather than in TCP-Reno, the design 
concept in this protocol inherits the main idea used in 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
-3
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
w
Dw
TCP-Tahoe
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
-3
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
w
Dw
TCP-Vegas
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
-3
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
w
Dw
TCP-Reno
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
-3
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
w
Dw
TCP-Tahoe
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
-3
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
w
Dw
TCP-Vegas
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
-3
-2.5
-2
-1.5
-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
w
D
w
TCP-Reno
MoA02.4
56
  
V. SIMULATION RESULTS 
A comparison among Type I, Type II, and TCP-Vegas is 
demonstrated by simulations. The simulations are performed 
in the Network Simulator – ns-2 [16: NS2]. The results of 
TCP-Vegas are simulated in ns-2 based on the standard Vegas 
protocol. The results of Type I and Type II are simulated in 
ns-2 using newly defined protocols as in Eq. 8 and Eq. 9. Two 
cases of simulation results are shown in Fig. 7 and Fig. 8. In 
Fig. 7, the α β−  pair in Type II and Vegas are set as (6, 8), 
and Type I chooses four threshold values as follows: 6, 6.5, 7.5, 
and 8. It can be seen from the figure, TCP-Vegas performs 
worse in arriving the steady-state owing to a narrow range 
between α  and β . So, if the range is widened to (13, 18), a 
shorter settling time of TCP-Vegas can be achieved and close 
to that of Type II as shown in Fig. 8. 
From above discussion, a conclusion can be deduced that 
Type I has a better performance over those two in settling time. 
The pick of the range ( , )α β deeply influence the behaviors of 
the convergence of window size. 
VI. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, the phase-plane analysis is introduced for the 
study of the switching dynamics of the flow control 
mechanism in TCP. Two types of approaches, Vegas-like 
Type I and Type II, are proposed for the TCP congestion 
control, based on the model of original TCP-Vegas. Type I is 
designed intuitively by replacing the number of switching 
dynamics in TCP-Vegas. The window size adjustment 
strategies of Vegas are 1, -1, and 0, while those in Type I are 
designed to be multiple switching dynamics, for example, ± 1, 
± 0.5, and 0. In Type II, the same thresholds (., ) as Vegas is 
set but a different adjustment law is used in window size 
changing. In summary, the paper proposed a novel design 
concept from control analysis tool applied to communication 
network to improve the performance of congestion avoidance 
mechanism in TCP. Future work includes specifying a good 
measure of bandwidth utilization along the transmission path. 
The bandwidth estimation can be used as a congestion 
measure and for controlling the window size increment. Based 
on the measure, the equilibrium point can be identified and the 
window size can approach it in a round-trip time of the data 
transmission. 
REFERENCES 
[1: Low et al. 2002] S. H. Low, F. Paganini, and J. C. Doyle, “Internet 
Congestion Control,” IEEE Control Systems Magazine, Vol. 22, No. 1, 
pp. 28-43, Feb. 2002 
[2: Jacobson 1988] V. Jacobson, “Congestion Avoidance and Control,” in 
Proceedings of ACM SIGCOMM, pp. 314-329, Stanford, CA, USA, Aug. 
1988 
[3: Jacobson 1990] V. Jacobson, “Berkeley TCP Evolution from 4.3-Tahoe to 
4.3-TCP-Reno,” in Proceedings of the 18th Internet Engineering Task 
Force, Vancouver, BC, Canada, Aug. 1990 
[4: Brakmo & Perterson 1995] L. S. Brakmo and L. L. Peterson, “TCP Vegas: 
end to end congestion avoidance on a global Internet,”IEEE Journal on 
Selected Areas in Communications, Vol. 13, No. 8, pp. 1465-1480, Oct. 
1995 
[5: Floyd & Jacobson 1993] S. Floyd and V. Jacobson, “Random Early 
Detection Gateways for Congestion avoidance,” IEEE /ACM 
Transactions on Networking, Vol. 1, No. 4, pp. 397-413, Aug. 1993  
[6: Misra et al. 2000] V. Misra, W. Gong, and D. Towsley, “A Fluid-based 
Analysis of a Network of AQM Routers Supporting TCP Flows with an 
Application to RED,” in Proceedings of ACM SIGCOMM, Vol. 30, No. 
4, pp. 151-160, Stockholm, Sweden, Sep. 2000 
[7: Ohsaki et al. 1999] H. Ohsaki, M. Murata, T. Ushio, and H. Miyahara, 
“Stability Analysis of Window-Based Flow Control Mechanism in 
TCP/IP Networks,” in Proceedings of the 1999 IEEE International 
Conference on Control Application, Vol. 2, pp. 1603-1606, Hawaii, 
USA, Aug. 1999 
[8: Hollot & Chait 2001] C. V. Hollot and Y. Chait, “Nonlinear Stability 
Analysis for a Class of TCP/AQM Networks,” IEEE Conference on 
Decision and Control, Vol.3, pp. 2309-2314, Orlando, FL, USA, Dec. 
2001 
[9: Fan et al. 2004] Y. Fan, Z. P. Jiang, and S. S. Panwar, “An Adaptive 
Control Scheme for Stabilizing TCP,” in Proceedings of 5th World 
Congress on Intelligent Control and Automation, Vol. 2, pp. 1410-1414, 
Hangzhou, P. R. China, Jun. 2004 
[10: Hasegawa et al. 2000] G. Hasegawa, K. Kurata, and M. Murata, 
“Analysis and Improvement of Fairness between TCP TCP-Reno and 
Vegas for Deployment of TCP Vegas to the Internet,” in Proceedings of 
the 2000 IEEE International Conference on Network Protocols, 
pp.177-186, Osaka, Japan, Nov. 2000 
[11: Chen et al. 2000] J. R. Chen, Y. C. Chen, and C. L. Lee, “An End-to-End 
Flow Control Approach Based on Round Trip Time,”Computer 
Communications, Vol. 23, No. 16, pp. 1537-1547, Sep. 2000 
 [12: Maor & Mansour 2003] A. Maor and Y. Mansour, “AdaVegas: 
Adaptive Control for TCP Vegas,”in Proceedings of the IEEE 
GLOBECOM'03, Vol. 7, pp. 3647-3651, San Francisco, CA, USA, Dec. 
2003 
[13: Srijith et al. 2005] K. N. Srijith, L. Jacob, and A. L. Ananda, “TCP 
Vegas-A: Improving the Performance of TCP Vegas,”Computer 
Communications, Vol. 28, No. 4, pp. 429-440, Mar. 2005 
[14: Chen et al. 2006] J. Chen, F. Paganini, M.Y. Sanadidi, R. Wang, 
“Fluid-Flow Analysis of TCP Westwood with RED,”Computer 
Networks, Vol. 50, No. 9, pp. 1302-1326, Jun. 2006 
[15: Slotine & Li 1991] J.-J. E. Slotine and W. Li, “Applied Nonlinear 
Control,” Prentice-Hall, Inc. 1991 
[16: NS-2] The Network Simulator - ns-2, http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns/ 
 
Figure 7: Type I, II, and Vegas comparison with 6α =  and 8β =  
 
 
Figure 8: Type I, II, and Vegas comparison with 13α =   and 18β =  
 
MoA02.4
58
  
rate based on the results of image analysis and the estimation 
of the object states. 
Image Acquisition Image Processing Image Analysis Estimation of 3-D object location
Rate Control
 
Figure 2: Fundamental components of 3-D positioning. 
 
In this paper, two methods of controlling the image 
acquisition rates are designed. With a suitable method for 
adjusting the image acquisition rate, the ultimate goal is to 
reduce the computational load of 3-D positioning, the memory 
cost, and the communication bandwidth for the captured 
images. The first method is to adjust the image acquisition rate 
by analyzing the object states in the physical coordinate. The 
second one considers the adjustment by analyzing the object 
states in the image coordinate. The proposed methodologies 
have been experimentally tested using a two-camera setup 
within the MATLAB programming environment. 
Performance of using the proposed methods has been 
compared with that of using fixed-rate methods. Experimental 
results show that the proposed approaches achieve satisfactory 
performance and reduce computational load and data storage. 
II. RELATED RESEARCH WORKS 
In this paper, the key 3D vision application for controlling 
the image acquisition rate is the 3D positioning of mobile balls. 
Similar methodology can be applied to other objects or 
scenarios. A general framework of 3D positioning system is 
shown in Figure 3. The performance of image acquisition 
depends mainly on camera control. Different camera control 
methods can decide the information contained from the 
captured images for further image analysis. After the image 
acquisition, the captured images can be analyzed by the 3D 
positioning methods for extracting the object states contained 
in these images. Once the image analysis of the object states is 
obtained, the analyzed result is stored in the database and 
further visualization interface is used to generate a 3D 
animation. Related research works on these issues are 
surveyed in detail in the following. 
Ball Extraction Estimation of3-D position
Database 
Analysis
Visualization
Interface
Image 
Acquisition
Camera Control 3-D ballpositioning steps
Object 
Extraction
Object
 
Figure 3: The general framework of 3-D image reconstruction system. 
A. Camera Control 
Images captured by cameras are used for further analysis in 
the 3D reconstruction of scenes or the 3D positioning of 
objects. Hence, the information obtained from the captured 
images is directly related to the issues on the location and the 
number to allocate these cameras. An example of the 3D 
reconstruction from constrained views is using three cameras 
placed in the orthogonal directions discussed in [3: Shin and 
Shin 1998].  
Generally speaking, the amount of information in the 
captured images is influenced by the temporal and spatial 
factor. Hence, the information can be related to the image 
acquisition rate of cameras. If the image acquisition rate is 
high, more information can be obtained through the captured 
images. However, using a high acquisition rate takes much 
computational time for data processing and consumes a large 
amount of memory. Hence, properly controlling the image 
acquisition rate is a method that can reduce the computational 
load. 
For the zoom and focus control of cameras, the main goal 
is to maintain the required information of the captured images 
in the spatial resolution. The input for the zoom and focus 
control method is often regarded as the percentage of the 
target shown in the image search region. For example, in [5: 
Shah and Morrell 2004], the camera zoom is adjusted by the 
target position shown in the captured images. An adaptive 
zoom algorithm for tracking target is used to guarantee that a 
given percentage of particles can fall onto the camera image 
plane. 
On the other hand, the pan-tilt motion control of camera 
deals with the issues of guaranteeing enough spatial and the 
temporal resolutions in the captured images. The camera is 
commanded to track the target and the target is required to be 
appeared in a specific region of the captured images. The input 
for the pan-tilt motion control is often regarded as the 
percentage of target appeared in the search region and the 
velocity of camera motion to track the target in order to 
guarantee real-time performance. In [6: Wang et al. 2004], a 
real-time pan-tilt visual tracking system is designed to control 
the camera motion where the target is shown in the center area 
of the captured images. 
B. 3D Ball Extraction Methods 
Commonly used methods to extract moving balls in the 
captured images can be classified based on the color 
information, geometric features of the balls, and the frame 
differencing technique.  
First of all, a ball detection method based on the colors of 
ball is studied in [7: Theobalt et al. 2004]. The motion for a 
variety of baseball pitches is captured in an experimental 
environment where the floor and walls are covered with black 
carpet and cloth. Foreground object segmentation is facilitated 
by assigning the background with the same color. In order to 
record the rotation and spin of the ball along its trajectory, the 
entire surface of the ball is assigned with different markers. 
Similar idea used to track a ball by its color is also shown in [8: 
Andrade et al. 2005] and [9: Ren et al. 2004].  
Secondly, the ball extraction can also be achieved by 
related geometric features of a ball. In [10: Yu et al. 2004] and 
[11: Yu et al. 2003], several trajectory-based algorithms for 
ball tracking are proposed. By recorded image sequences, the 
candidates of possible ball trajectory are extracted. These 
trajectory candidates are detected by matching all the ball 
features such as circularity, size, and isolation. In [12: Orazio 
et al. 2002], a ball detection algorithm based on the circle 
WeC04.5
1499
  
moving objects can be extracted from the images. After the 
objects are extracted, every region occupied by the objects in a 
captured image is stored in a new gray-scale image. These 
gray-scale images can be further transformed into binary 
images by a specific threshold value. Finally, by the 
triangulation approach on the images obtained from multiple 
cameras, a set of the 3D information about the objects in the 
physical coordinate can be computed. The image acquisition 
rate for the next frame can be then adjusted based on the 
information computed.  
In this case (named as Case A), the key feature of 
controlling the image acquisition rate is to analyze the object 
states in the physical coordinate. Assume that there are N 
levels of image acquisition rates, and each level only 
represents a specific range of values for the object states. 
Hence, by analyzing these object states, a corresponding 
image acquisition rate can be determined. Figure 4 shows an 
example of the mapping between the ball velocity (i.e., the 
object state) and the set of image acquisition rates. V0, V1, 
V2,…, VN are the values of ball velocity in the physical 
coordinate. Rate 1, Rate2,…, Rate N, are different levels of 
image acquisition rates arranged from the lowest value to the 
highest value. By analyzing the ball velocity, the 
corresponding image acquisition rate can be determined. That 
is, if the ball velocity is between Vi-1 and Vi, the corresponding 
image acquisition rate is set as Rate i. 
…………………………………
Ball Velocity
(Slowest ) (Fastest)
Rate 2 Rate 3 Rate N
V1 V2 V3 VN-1 VN
……
V0
Rate 1
 
Figure 4: An example of mapping different image acquisition rates by the ball 
velocity (object state). 
The cases with more levels of image acquisition rates can 
be easily extended. Also, all the cameras are designed to adjust 
their image acquisition rate at the same time. For generating a 
complete replay, the object positions in the physical 
coordinate that are not calculated in the 3D positioning can be 
predicted by using interpolation, extrapolation, or data fitting. 
When the objects are far away from the cameras and move 
in a similar direction, the objects shown in the corresponding 
image coordinate are almost stationary. That is, the objects 
may move fast in the physical coordinate, but the information 
shown in the corresponding image coordinate does not reveal 
the fact. Therefore, the 3D positioning result may not reveal 
the correct object states in the physical coordinate. The failure 
is due to that little image information is used for the 3D 
positioning. Hence, the control method should be modified to 
reflect the richness of image information for each individual 
camera. The amount of image information should be regarded 
as the decision factor for controlling the acquisition rate. The 
modified control methods are discussed in the following 
sections. 
B. Control Method Based on Object States in the Image 
Coordinate (Case B) 
In Case A, the method for controlling the image acquisition 
rate is based on the object states in the physical coordinate. In 
this section, novel methods to control the image acquisition 
rate directly based on the object states in the image coordinate 
are proposed. The reason of using the object states in the 
image coordinate is that the acquisition rates can be effectively 
adjusted based on the actual available information instead of 
the predicted information in the physical coordinate. 
In Case B, each camera is designed to control its image 
acquisition rate independently based on the information in the 
image coordinate. The object states are first analyzed 
independently in the image coordinate of each camera and 
then each camera adjusts the acquisition rate based on the 
significance of the analyzed image. The significance can be 
defined as the mobility or the geometric feature of the object. 
Since all the cameras do not capture image simultaneously, the 
numbers of captured images are neither the same nor 
synchronized. Hence, during the 3D reconstruction, the 
images from some cameras may be missed. To overcome this 
drawback, an interpolation or extrapolation method should be 
applied for those missing images. The advantage of only 
capturing the most significant images is to reduce the 
computational load of reconstructing useless images in the 
physical coordinate, and/or the transmission bandwidth. Cases 
with more levels of image acquisition rates can be easily 
extended. 
However, in some scenarios, if the reconstruction by 
interpolation or extrapolation generates unacceptable errors, it 
is advised to increase the acquisition rates of some cameras in 
a cooperative way. The cooperation increases the acquisition 
rates of some cameras and hence improves the reconstruction 
performance. However, the total number of captured images is 
still smaller than that in Case A. Therefore, the computational 
cost is still reduced. The cooperation mechanism is discussed 
in next section. A preliminary comparison of the three control 
algorithms is listed in Table 1. 
Table 1: The comparison of control algorithms designed in this study. 
 Case A Case B 
The time to carry out the algorithm long short 
Are captured images always in pairs? Yes No 
In addition to the synchronization effect and reconstruction 
performance, other factors can also be considered when 
selecting a suitable algorithm for controlling the image 
acquisition rate. The most important concept is that the 
adjustment of the acquisition rate should depend on the image 
quality captured by each camera. In order to characterize the 
outcome of the proposed control methods, a performance 
criterion is discussed in the next section. 
C. Criterion for Characterizing Image Acquisition 
These methods proposed for controlling the image 
acquisition rate could reduce computational cost and memory 
space for the captured images. For the 3D positioning, the 
object position, for example, in the physical coordinate can be 
estimated based on the information of analyzing the captured 
images. In order to compare the performance of different 
control methods, the following criterion is designed: 
s dR W s W d= × − ×                      (1) 
where s  is the saving percentage of image quantity, d is a  
reference value representing the percentage of image 
distortion, and ,s dW W are two weighting factors. 
WeC04.5
1501
