 2 
CNFs grown out of the AAO template with Co catalysts 
electrodeposited for various times.  For samples with 
Co catalysts deposited for 45 and 60 sec (Figs. 1(a) and 
(b)), CNFs had irregular shapes with a sparse tube 
density and a diameter smaller than the AAO pore size.  
On the other hand, as the catalyst deposition time 
increased to 75 and 90 sec (Figs. 1(c) and (d)), well 
aligned CNFs were grown out over the AAO surface 
with a tube diameter close to the AAO pore size.  From 
Figs 1(a) and (b), a residual deposit can be clearly seen 
to cover a large area of the AAO surface.  Raman 
spectra (not shown) showed that a significant amount of 
-carbon was deposited on the AAO template during the 
CNF growth.  The -carbon was heavily deposited 
around CNFs, but became scarce away from the CNFs.  
This suggests that the CNF growth was accompanied by 
concurrent -carbon deposition in the AAO pore 
channel.  
Figure 2 shows the cross-sectional SEM images of 
CNFs grown in the AAO template.  CNFs grown with 
a smaller Co particle size were seriously distorted in 
shape and some were buried in the AAO pore channels 
(marked by circles) as shown in Fig. 2(a) for the Co 
catalyst deposited for 60 sec.  Many CNFs extending 
out of the AAO pores had a gradual decrease in the tube 
diameter along the tube shaft.  It can be clearly seen 
that CNF shafts inside the pore channels were embedded 
by lumps of precipitate (marked by arrows).  On the 
other hand, according to Fig. 2(b), CNFs grown with the 
Co catalyst deposited for 90 sec had the growth direction 
in the AAO template much more compliant with the 
pore channel, and became highly aligned after extending 
out of the pore.  Figure 2(c) shows the SEM image of 
the AAO template treated with the same CNF deposition 
condition but without the Co catalyst.  The pore wall 
was very smooth and the top portion of the AAO 
exhibited a clean but jagged feature.  This suggested 
that the surface region was subject to plasma etch during 
the PACVD process. It have been reported that CNFs 
could be grown in the AAO template without metallic 
catalysts [7,8].  However, no CNF growth was 
observed in the study.  The observation implied that the 
Co particle played a major role not only catalyzing the 
CNF growth but also facilitating deposition of the 
-carbon residue.   
The TEM image of an FIB prepared sample with 
the Co catalyst deposited for 90 sec is shown in Fig. 3(a).  
It can be clearly seen that cone-shaped catalyst particles 
were present at the tip of the CNFs, indicating that the 
CNF growth in the AAO template was via the 
tip-growth mode.  Co particle fragments were also 
observed inside the CNF shaft.  Figure 3b shows the 
TEM image of CNFs grown with the Co catalyst 
deposited for 90 sec.  Some Co particles were stuck to 
the root of the CNFs.  They were likely those originally 
left at the AAO pore bottom during the CNF growth.  
The inset is a high-resolution TEM (HRTEM) image for 
the area near the tip of a CNF grown.  A disordered 
amorphous layer was present on the tube surface.  The 
CNF was ~55 nm in diameter and had 61 well-ordered 
graphitic layers, which had the interlayer distance of 
~3.7 Å , near the bottom of the catalyst particle.  For 
comparison, CNFs grown with Co deposited for 60 and 
75 sec had ~34 and ~53 graphene layers, respectively.   
The vapor-liquid-solid model is a commonly 
accepted CNT/CNF growth mechanism, which suggests 
that carbon diffusion in the liquefied metal catalyst is a 
required step for CNF growth.  The cone-shaped 
catalyst and the segmentation of Co particles shown in 
the TEM images is an implication of Co liquefaction 
during the CNF growth in the AAO template.  It has 
been proposed that a temperature gradient can be 
developed in the catalyst particle as the concentration 
distribution of the dissolved carbon is nonuniform in the 
particle [9].  The catalyst has a higher temperature in 
the region supersaturated with carbon, and graphene 
sheets grow from the region with a smaller carbon 
concentration.  We thus propose that the particle 
segmentation probably resulted from the temperature 
gradient developing in the Co particle [10].  Because 
Co has a reasonable wetting strength with aluminum 
oxide [11,12], it was likely that capillary force might 
initially assist lifting the liquefied Co particle, and thus 
allow developing an open space for carbon precipitation 
for graphitic sheet formation.  As the liquefied Co 
particle moved upward with the growing CNF shaft, the 
particle was eventually separated leaving the unliquefied 
part at the bottom of the AAO pore channel.   
As discussed above, CNF growth on the AAO 
template was accompanied by deposition of -carbon, 
and more -carbon was deposited for a smaller Co 
particle.  The -carbon accumulation on the pore wall 
surface could hinder the motion of the liquefied catalyst 
particle in the pore channel, thereby changing the 
moving direction and geometric shape of the catalyst 
during the CNF growth.  This can explain why most 
CNFs grown under a condition of heavy -carbon 
deposition showed a twisted feature inside the pore 
channels and had a fiber diameter smaller than the AAO 
pore size.  In addition, from Fig. 3b, many nanosized 
particles, probably Co, adhered to the tube surface of the 
CNFs.  It is likely that the rough wall surface of the 
AAO pore channel, due to the -carbon deposition, 
disturbed the movement of the liquefied Co particle with 
the growing CNF, thereby chipping off the surface layer 
of the Co catalyst particle.  The chipped off 
nanoparticles could then adhere to the surface of the 
growing CNFs and moved upward accordingly.  
The growth mechanism of CNFs in AAO pore 
channels is schematically illustrated in Fig. 4.  Because 
the AAO pore channels not only limit the flow direction 
and flux of the plasma species toward the Co catalyst 
but also define the exposing area of the Co particle, the 
 4 
FIG. 1. SEM images of CNFs grown for 35 min on 
the AAO template with different Co catalyst sizes: 
(a) 45 sec; (b) 60 sec; (c) 75 sec; and (d) 90 sec. 
 
FIG. 2. (a) Side view SEM image of CNFs grown 
for 35 min in the AAO template with Co catalyst 
deposited for 60 sec.  CNFs capped by the surface 
-carbon layer were marked by circles, and 
-carbon deposits embedding CNFs were marked 
by arrows; (b) and (c) are cross sectional SEM 
images for CNF grown for 35 min on the AAO 
template with Co catalyst deposited for 90 sec and 
without the Co catalyst, respectively.  
 
 
FIG. 3. TEM images of CNFs grown with the Co 
catalyst deposited for 90 sec: (a) an FIB prepared 
sample of which CNFs were inside the AAO pore 
channels; (b) CNFs separated from AAO pore 
channels by ultrasonic agitation. The inset is the 
high resolution TEM image of the area near the tip 
of a CNF. 
 
FIG. 4. Schematic illustration of CNF growth 
mechanism in the AAO pore channel: (a) CNF 
growth with a large Co catalyst; (b) CNF growth 
with a small Co catalyst.  The dots stand for 
carbon dissolved in the Co particle, and the number 
and size of the dots denote the amount of carbon 
dissolved.  Detailed description about the growth 
mechanism is given in the text. 
附件:論文摘要 
Growth and photoresponse characteristics of PdO nanostructures on SiO2 by reactive sputter 
deposition  
Chien-Jung Huang, I-Chin Chang and Fu-Ming Pan 
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Chiao-Tung University, Hsinchu, 
30010 Taiwan, R.O.C.  
Palladium oxide (PdO) is a p-type semiconductor and thermally stable up to ~800oC.  The oxide is 
of great importance in many technological applications because of various special chemical, optical 
and electrical properties. Although PdO plays an important role in many photodriven applications 
under visible light illumination, study on photoresponse behavior of PdO is scarce.  This is 
probably due to that synthesis of nanostructured forms of the p-type semiconductor oxide have not 
been explored as extensively as the n-type counterparts, such as TiO2 and ZnO.  The study 
prepared PdO nanostructures on the SiO2 substrate by reactive sputter deposition and examined 
photoresponse characteristics of the thin film.  The PdO thin film deposited at temperatures below 
250oC is composed of interconnected bowed nanoflakes standing on the SiO2 substrate, which are 
in single-crystal form after thermal anneal at 400oC. The nanoflake has a width of ~15-20 nm, a 
length of ~180-225 nm and a height of ~200 nm after thermal anneal at 400oC. On the other hand, 
polycrystalline PdO nanorods with a rod diameter of ~7 nm and a height of ~25 nm are grown on 
SiO2 at 400oC.  The bandgap energy of the 400oC-annealed PdO nanoflake thin films is ~2.06 eV 
according to diffuse reflection absorption spectroscopy.  The photoresponse performance greatly 
depends on the crystallinity of the PdO thin films.  The single-crystalline 400oC-annealed 
nanoflake thin film has a very sensitive photoresponse upon the UV (365 nm) illumination, while 
the polycrystalline nanorod thin film exhibits apparent transient photoresponse.  For the 
400oC-annealed PdO thin film, the photocurrent density promptly reaches the maximum value of 
145 µA/cm2 upon the UV illumination.  The high photoresponse sensitivity of the 400oC-annealed 
nanoflake thin film is ascribed to a lower density of recombination centers and traps due to the well 
crystallinity of nanoflakes and the high carrier extraction efficiency due to a low electrical 
resistivity and the high surface-to-volume ratio.  A very slight decrease in the photocurrent density 
before a steady state is reached under the UV illumination is ascribed to adsorption of O2- anion on 
the 400oC-annealed nanoflake.  When measured in the air ambient, the photocurrent signal of the 
400oC-deposited nanorod thin film shows vigorous noises, but, when measured in vacuum, the 
noise can be effectively removed.  The noise probably results from water adsorption in the dense 
nanorods. 
 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
該研究計畫成果曾與華映公司進行場發射顯示器開發之合作研究。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
