□期中進度報告 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■期末報告 
 
視訊在視覺均勻色彩空間中表示之研究 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC   100－2221－E－2155－090－ 
執行期間： 100 年 8 月 1 日至 101 年 9 月 30 日 
 
執行機構及系所：元智大學/光電工程學系（所） 
 
計畫主持人：溫盛發 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：馬柏弘、 林韋呈 
 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國報告： 
□赴國外移地研究心得報告 
□赴大陸地區移地研究心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，■一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  101  年 12  月 28  日 
 
 II
 
中文摘要 
 
    我們提出一種基於 CIE u’v’ 做視訊與影像的新編碼方法。信號格式包含一個亮度成分，以及一個
色度成分。一個例子表明，使用 27 位元的信號可以讓符合超高解析度電視機(UHDTV)規格的顯示器，
得以在任何亮度適應下，重現沒有不連續的瑕疵的畫面。這種使用色彩座標系統表示視訊與影像信號
的方法有三項優點。(1)相較於傳統 RGB 信號所表示的色彩是與顯示設備色彩特性有關的特性，我們所
提出的視訊與影像信號與顯示設備色彩特性無關，因此可以忠實表示影像色彩。(2)我們所提出的視訊
與影像信號本質上是適合於高對比度顯示器，而且在任何亮度下都可以避免色彩不連續的瑕疵。(3)
節省信號位元數，這特別是對解析度越來越高的未來顯示器而言，可以降低信號傳輸與儲存成本。 
 
關鍵詞：視訊格式，恰可辨別色差 
 1
1. Introduction 
A high quality display should be able to reproduce smooth picture without any false contour under any 
condition. It was shown that the use of 36-bit RGB signal (12 bits per channel) can avoid any false contour [1]. 
The false contour is also called the color banding. However, the signal bit rate of 36-bit RGB video signal is 
increased by 50% to compare with that of the traditional 24-bit case. It requires about total signal bit rate of 
3Gbit/s for the display with HDTV(1080p) resolution, 60 Hz frame rate and 24-bit RGB signal. With 36-bit 
RGB signal, the total signal bit rate is increased to about 4.5 Gbit/s. Furthermore, the total signal bit rate is 
tremendously increased to about 72 Gbit/s for the case with the new 8K UHDTV (4320p) resolution and 
36-bit RGB. There require methods to reduce the signal bit rate. 
Video signals are usually coded in RGB color space, in which a signal is represented with a vector (R, G, 
B). The coordinates (components) R, G and B relate to red, green, and blue primaries, respectively. It is called 
a color space because a signal vector corresponds to a color in the display color gamut that can be produced 
with three primaries. The use of RGB color space has the advantage of simple color space conversion for 
driving the primaries. Because the signal vector represents a color that depends on primaries, the RGB color 
space is a device-dependent color space [2]. Although TV standards have specified the chromaticity 
characteristics of primaries, primaries of consumer displays do not meet the standard in practice. Therefore, 
the color represented with a signal vector is ambiguous. In addition, the RGB color space is not perceptually 
uniform. A uniform color space has two characteristics [3]. Firstly, the perceived color difference between two 
color points is proportional to their Euclidean distance in the color space. Secondly, the perceived colors along a 
straight line originated from a white point are of the same hue. The non-uniform characteristics of RGB color 
space also result in the less efficient utilization of signal bit depth and the difficult of accurate color 
adjustment. 
Color resolution of a display depends on the color difference between the neighboring palette colors in 
RGB color space. The resolution increases with signal bit depth but decreases with the size of display color 
gamut. Large color difference between neighboring palette colors may result in color banding. Reference [1] 
defined an image quality evaluation index called the color distribution index (CDI). The display color gamut in 
Lu’v’ color space is divided by luminance just noticed difference (JND) and chromaticity JND, in which L is the 
absolute luminance in unit of cd/m2 and u’v’ are the chromaticity coordinates of CIE u’v’ [3]. More specifically, 
the display color gamut is divided by CDI cells. A CDI cell is a cuboid with length Δu’, width Δv’ and height ΔL. 
The chromaticity coordinate differences Δu’ and Δv’ were chosen to be the chromaticity JND and Δu’= Δv’= 
0.001. The luminance difference ΔL satisfies the luminance JND, which requires the ratio ΔL/L= 0.01 and L is 
the luminance of the CDI cell in the display color gamut. It was experimentally verified that the colors in a CDI 
cell are visually indistinguishable under the conditions of visual adaptation to the luminance levels from 0.5 
cd/m2 to 100 cd/m2 [1]. The CDI is defined as the ratio of the number of CDI cells that includes one or more 
reproducible colors and the number of all CDI cells in the display color gamut. For a display with 100% CDI, it 
is able to reproduce visually smooth gradation colors from low luminance level to high luminance level. The 
required 36-bit RGB signal is derived from the 100% CDI requirement. This is the reason that the xvYCC 
signal [4] and the next generation TV standard ITU-R BT.2020 (UHDTV) support 36-bit RGB signal [5]. 
This paper proposes a method to reduce the required 36-bit signal bit depth by encoding the signal based 
on Lu’v’ color space. The use of such a coding method has two advantages.  (1) A CDI cell may include more 
than one reproducible colors, which means some RGB signals are redundant. The use of signal encoded in Lu’v’ 
 3
2. Weber Fraction 
Figure 1 shows the Weber fraction, which characterizes the JND between a target luminance and the 
background luminance that is visually adapted [3]. In Fig.1, L can be either the target luminance or background 
luminance; ΔL is the luminance JND between the target luminance and the background luminance. Both L and 
ΔL are in units of cd/m2. The rods and cones in human retina are mainly responsible for the luminance L less 
than about 5×10-3 cd/m2 and larger than about 10 cd/m2, respectively. Between the luminance levels, both rods 
and cones are responsible. 
If the luminance difference between two palette colors in RGB color space is larger than the luminance 
JND, the two colors could be visually distinguished. Taking gray colors as examples, the luminance difference 
ratio between two RGB signals, in which (R, G, B)= (D, D, D) and (D+1, D+1, D+1), with respect to the 
normalized digital count 
2 1Nb
Dα = −                  (1) 
for the bit depth of a signal component Nb= 8, 10 and 12. The electro-optical transfer function (EOTF) 
following UHDTV is assumed in Fig.2. Figure 2 also shows the corresponding Weber fraction under various 
white point luminance Lw of the display for comparison. From Fig.2, we can see that two neighboring gray 
colors could be visually distinguished when the values of α are less than 0.65 (D = 166) and 0.103 (D = 106) 
for Nb= 8 and 10, respectively, for the case with 500 cd/m2 white luminance. Thus, the gray ramp of less 
digital count will not show smooth gradation. 
 
3. Proposed Signal Coding Method 
In this section, the coding methods of luminance component and chromaticity components are introduced. 
The luminance component is represented with an integer index i corresponding to the normalized luminance Yi= 
Li/Lw, in which Li is the i-th luminance value. We take the same criteria for visually indistinguishable luminance 
difference ratio, i.e. ΔL/L= κ is a constant and κ= 0.01. The i-th normalized luminance is defined by 
(1 )iiY κ= −                  (2) 
such that (Yi- Yi+1)/ Yi =κ, where i=0, 1, 2…. It is noticed that Y0 =1 and Y1=0.99, i.e., the value of Yi decreases as 
i increases. For a given display contrast ratio ρ, the minimum required number of normalized luminance levels 
can be derived as 
11 logM κ ρ−= − ,                (3) 
such the value of YM-1 is just less than 1/ρ. The use of number of levels larger than the value of M calculated 
from Eq.(3) is not necessary because the corresponding luminance is not reproducible for the display. The 
normalized luminance of white point and black point levels can be set to be Y0 and YM-1, respectively. 
 The coordinates of CIE u’v’ were defined by [3] 
4
15 3
Xu
X Y Z
′ = + + ,                (4a) 
 5
 
Figure 3. The relation of the minimum required number of normalized luminance levels M versus the contrast ratio 
ρ. 
 
Figure 4. The relations of normalized luminance Yi and the normalized luminance index βi for several 
contrast ratios ρ. The UHDTV EOTF is also shown for comparison. 
 
Figure 5. The chromaticity triangles of HDTV and UHDTV in the uv coordinates defined by Eqs. (6a) and (6b). 
 7
RGB signal following the EOTF of UHDTV. In the followings, the use of 10-bit luminance component is 
assumed. 
The chromaticity triangles of HDTV and UHDTV in the uv coordinates defined by Eqs. (6a) and (6b) are 
shown in Fig.5. We can see the chromaticity triangle of UHDTV includes that of HDTV. The saturation index j 
and the hue angle index k defined in Eqs. (7) and (8), respectively, represent a color point on the uv coordinate 
plane. The maximum saturation smax= 0.311 and 0.362 for HDTV and UHDTV, respectively. The number of 
sampled saturation values Ns = 312 and 363 for HDTV and UHDTV, respectively, because λ= 0.001. Nine bits 
are required for representing the saturation component. 
Figure 6 shows the hue angle difference Δhj and the number of sampled hue angles Nhj on the hue circle of 
saturation sj calculated from Eq.(9). We can see that Nhj almost linearly increases with sj. For HDTV and 
UHDTV, Nhj at the maximum sj are 1,961 and 2,275, respectively. There require 10 bits and 11 bits for 
representing the hue angle component for HDTV and UHDTV, respectively. 
In summary, the required numbers of bits for representing the IHS signals of HDTV and UHDTV are 29 
and 30, respectively. 
 
Figure 7. The accumulated number of sampled color points from s= 0 to s= smax calculated from Eq.(11). The 
corresponding bit depth calculated from Eq.(12) is also shown. 
 
4.2 ICHS Signal 
The chromaticity components independently represented by the saturation component sj and the hue 
component hjk have the advantages of easy coding and decoding. However, bit depth of hue angle component 
is wasted because the number of sampled hue angles at low saturation is much less than that at high 
saturation. For saving bit depth, we may use a composite component representing both saturation and hue 
angle components, i.e., the CHS component. The accumulated number of sampled color points from s= 0 to 
s= smax is 
1
0
Ns
sh hj
j
N N
−
=
= ∑ ,                  (11) 
which is shown in Fig. 7. This number can be regarded as the total number of sampled color points within a 
 9
constant hue angle cross section at h= 150° and 330°. Figure 8(b) shows the constant luminance cross section 
at Y= 0.3. The chromaticity triangle of UHDTV shown in Fig. 5 can be regarded as the constant luminance 
cross section at lower value of Y. From Figs. 5 and 8, we can see that the area of constant luminance cross 
section reduces as the value of luminance increases. This characteristic could be utilized for further saving bit 
depth by the use of an integer index that specifies every color points within the three dimensional color gamut of 
the display. The integer index is the CIHS signal. The total numbers of color points within the three 
dimensional color gamut of HDTV and UHDTV are 56,960,083 and 99,025,813, respectively. This shows that 
the number of color points of UHDTV three dimensional color gamut is about 74% larger than that of HDTV 
three dimensional color gamut. The required numbers of bits for representing the CIHS signal are 26 bits and 
27 bits for HDTV and UHDTV, respectively. Compared with the IGCHS signal, the use of CIHS signal does 
not save bit depth. The coding/decoding of a CIHS signal also can be implemented with LUTs. However, the 
cost of required LUTs for coding/decoding will be too high to be practical. 
 
5. Conclusions 
A method is proposed for coding the signal based on CIE u’v’ color space. The proposed video signal 
format comprises a luminance component and a chromaticity component. The luminance component is defined 
so that the luminance difference ratio of neighboring levels is lower than the Weber fraction. The chromaticity 
component is defined so that two neighboring colors on the u’v’ coordinate plane are visually indistinguishable. 
With the proposed signal format, a high quality display should be able to reproduce smooth picture without 
color banding under any luminance adaptation. An example for the UHDTV shows that the required bit depth 
is 27. This example includes a 10-bit luminance component and a 17-bit chromaticity component that 
representing the color points within the chromaticity triangle of the UHDTV. By the use of this signal format, 
25% bit depth can be saved in comparison with 36-bit RGB signal. Furthermore, the contrast ratio with such a 
signal format is up to 29,040, while the contrast ratio with 36-bit RGB signal is 18,428. There are three 
advantages for the proposed method. (1) The proposed signal is independent of the device chromaticity 
characteristics in comparison with the traditional device-dependent RGB signal. Color fidelity can be 
achieved by the use of the proposed device-independent signal. (2) The proposed video and image is suitable 
for high contrast displays in essential. Under any luminance level, the color banding flaw can be avoided. (3) 
Signal bit depth can be saved with the proposed signal format. The signal transmission and storage cost can be 
reduced, especially for the future displays with higher and higher resolution. The drawback of this signal 
format is that look-up-tables may be required for coding and decoding. Fortunately, the cost of the LUTs 
could be affordable. 
 
6. References 
[1] T. Fujine, T. Kanda, Y. Yoshida, M. Sugino, M. Teragawa, Y. Yamamoto, N. Ohta,” Bit depth needed for 
high image quality TV-evaluation using color distribution index,” IEEE J. Disp. Technol., vol. 4, pp. 
340-347, 2008. 
[2] S. Wen,” Color Management for Future Video Systems,” Proc. IEEE, to appear in the January issue, 2013. 
[3] G. Wyszecki and W. S. Stiles, Color Science, 7th ed. (John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1982). 
[4] International Electrotechnical Commission, Multimedia systems and equipment – Colour measurement 
1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助團隊參與國際學術組織會議報告 
                                      101 年6 月 18日 
 
報告人姓名 
 
溫盛發 
 
服務機
構 
 
元智大學 
 
職稱 
 
教授 
中文：資訊顯示器學會 2012 國際學術會議  
會議正式名稱 
英文：Society for Information Display (SID) 2012 International 
Symposium 
會議時間 自 101 年 6 月 3 日至
101 年 6 月 8 日 
地點（國、州、城
市） 
 
美國，麻州，波士
頓 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
 
二、 與會心得 
 
三、 考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
 
四、 建議事項 
 
五、 其他 
 
 
3 
 
於(1) CIE 色差公式之樣品是非發光體(表面色)，與(2)測量方法不同。這個實驗結果的重要
性在於需要另行發展一套色差公式，以適用於自發光(如顯示器)的場合，甚至統一表面色與
自發光色的色差計算方法。本人論文並提出一個建立新色差公式的可能方法。預期若這個
方法能為各方接受，未來將是翻修 CIE 色差公式的一個起始點。另一篇對 CIE 現行色彩系
統提出問題的論文來自 Samsung，作者 Dr. Choi 實驗發現 CIE 色彩匹配函數(Color Matching 
Function)中的藍色函數需要做修正。 
一般學術會議的口頭報告，報告人當場能回答問題的時間很有限。SID 有一特別的安排
以彌補這缺陷。論文發表當天的議程結束後，大會提供大型場地，舉行一個小時的 Author 
Interview。每位報告人一個攤位，使報告人與聽眾能直接面對面討論問題。另外，有些報告
人在口頭報告中沒時間展示的軟硬體，便在其攤位上展示給觀眾看。不管是壁報論文展示或
口頭報告的 Author Interview 都可看到有若干作者在其攤位上安排硬體展示，供與會人士實際
參觀與現場討論其研究成果。特別是關於 3D Display 的論文在口頭報告時，不能讓觀眾目視
其效果，因此在 Author Interview 時展示。 
 
二、與會心得 
1. 日本已整合其國內主要平面顯示器公司，成立 Japan Display 以抗韓。由這幾年參與 SID
會議的觀察，五、六年前各國的顯示器公司還仍在 SID 的論文發表與展覽會上呈現百家爭
鳴的競爭態勢。但現在各國的顯示器公司表現消長很明顯，韓國已確立其霸主地位。產業
現實上，台灣公司淪為代工公司，日本公司則在掙扎中，希望能另闢生存之道。假設十年
後產業只剩三家瓜分市場，其中兩家應有 Samsung 與 LG，台灣的廠商大概除了選擇聯日
抗韓以外，沒有其他出路。問題是這第三家是日本公司？台灣公司？還是台日合資公司？
若這第三家是有份量的第三家，則應是台日合資公司。 
 
2. 十年前，韓國顯示器產業遠不如台灣，更不必說與日本相比，現今回首不禁令人噓唏。
一般批評韓國顯示器產業有國家支持，才有此成就。LG 在 Kodak 的 OLED 專利技術基礎
上，短時間內即超越競爭對手，並預計 5年後其 OLED 顯示器成本可以低於 LCD。由此
可見，不只是有韓國政府的支持與品牌效應而能致之。在當代自由貿易與保護智慧財產
的世界，注重研發才是王道。 
 
3. CIE 現行色彩系統的發展一直是受惠於表面色相關產業的支持，現今顯示器革命的浪潮
下，應重新檢視 CIE 現行色彩系統在顯示器應用上的缺失與侷限性。並期望能在顯示器產
業的支持下，發展一套新的系統(包括色差公式)，以適用於自發光(如顯示器)的應用場
合，甚至統一表面色與自發光色等應用。Samsung 已跨出這一步了。 
 
三、建議事項 
1. 鑑於上述與會心得，放眼未來，除非台日能夠整合足以與韓商匹敵的公司，否則台日的顯
示器產業恐怕終將被淘汰。但跨公司整合的難度本來不易，要再加上跨國跨公司整合，難
度極高。因此台日的顯示器產業難逃如 DRAM 一樣的潰敗。建議政府再主動出資建立長
 
 
Investigation of Chromaticity Discrimination Ellipses for Displays 
Senfar Wen and He-Jen Ma 
Department of Photonics Engineering, Yuan Ze University, Taiwan, ROC 
Abstract 
Chromaticity discrimination ellipses are measured by the 
use of an LCD. Measured ellipses agree with MacAdam 
ellipses but significantly differ from that predicted by the color 
difference formula CIEDE2000 for red and blue colors. We 
show that it is possible to develop a new color difference 
formula of high accuracy for displays. 
Keywords 
Chromaticity discrimination ellipse; Color difference formula 
1. Introduction 
Because CIE color coordinate system is a non-uniform 
color space, the metric for measuring the color difference 
between two colors is an important issue. The metric is called 
the color difference formula, which is a basic tool for color 
science and technology. In digital color processing, it is 
frequently required to calculate the difference between two 
colors. The problem of bit depth required for avoiding color 
banding also relates to color difference formula [1]. CIE has 
published three versions of color difference formulas in 1976, 
1995 (CIE94), and 2001 (CIEDE2000) [2-4]. The derivation 
of color difference formula is mainly based on color 
difference ellipses measured from psychophysical 
experiments [5]. For a given color center, a group of 
observers judged the color difference between a number of 
color pairs. From the data collected from the psychophysical 
experiment, the color difference ellipse at the given color 
center can be calculated. The color difference formula 
CIEDE2000 includes the empirical results of different 
psychophysical experiments [5]. 
It is a trend to develop flat-panel displays of wide color 
gamut. Figure 1 shows the chromaticity triangles of HDTV [6], 
NTSC and UHDTV [7]. Nowadays wide-color-gamut 
displays claim to include NTSC color gamut. The color gamut 
of UHDTV, which is the proposed as a next generation TV 
standard, is even larger than that of NTSC. However, the color 
pairs used in the developments of CIE color difference 
formulas are surface colors [5]. The pigments of the color 
pairs are not fluorescent and not highly saturated. Figure 1 
shows the real world surface color gamut measured by Pointer 
[8], in which the gamut boundaries of different values of 
lightness are shown. We can see that the color gamut of 
wide-color-gamut displays is beyond Pointer’s color gamut. 
Color difference formulas are empirical results derived from 
their collected data sets. CIE color difference formulas may 
not be suitable for calculating the color difference between 
two high saturation colors that can be shown by 
wide-color-gamut displays. On the other hand, it was shown 
that visual color difference depends on texture effect [9, 10]. 
The display color is self-luminous and its characteristics of 
color difference may be different from surface color. 
Therefore, it is time to examine the applicability of CIE color 
difference formulas for (wide- color-gamut) displays. 
 
Figure 1: Chromaticity triangles of HDTV, NTSC, and UHDTV. Pointer’s 
color gamut and MacAdam ellipses are also shown. The axes of MacAdam 
ellipses are 10 times their actual lengths. 
There are two methods for measuring color difference 
ellipses. The first is matching method, in which an observer 
decides whether or not two colors match [2]. From the 
matching method, color discrimination ellipses can be 
measured. The second is gray scale method, in which an 
observer rates the observed difference in terms of some 
reference gray scale. The gray scale method was applied to 
suprathreshold color difference measurement and was 
adopted in the developments of CIE94 and CIEDE2000 [5]. 
An accurate measurement requires color pairs of 
suprathreshold color difference as well as sub-threshold 
color difference. However, it is difficulty in the preparation 
of surface colors of sub-threshold color difference. A 
cathode-ray tube displays can be used as the experimental 
apparatus for displaying colors of sub-threshold color 
difference with dithering method in psychophysical 
experiments [11]. In this paper, we use a liquid crystal 
display with dithering method for measuring chromaticity 
discrimination ellipses with matching method. The measured 
ellipses are compared with the ellipses predicted by color 
difference formulas CIEDE2000 and CIE94. It is found that 
the measured ellipses significantly differ from that predicted 
by the color difference formulas for red and blue colors. We 
calculated an empirical formula of chromaticity discrimination 
54.2 / S. Wen
SID 2012 DIGEST  •  725ISSN 0097-966X/12/4302-0725-$1.00 © 2012 SID
 
 
CIEDE2000 and CIE94 with unit color difference are also 
shown, which are called the CIEDE2000 and CIE94 
ellipses, respectively. We can see that the measured axis 
lengths are longer than that of the CIEDE2000 and CIE94 
ellipses except for red color. The measured ratios of long 
axis length a and short axis length b agree with that of 
CIEDE2000 and CIE94 ellipses except for gray color. The 
most significant difference between measured ellipses and 
CIEDE2000 (CIE94) ellipses is the orientation angles θ of 
the ellipses, which are defined as the directions of long 
axes. The orientation angles of measured ellipses 
significantly differ from that of CIEDE2000 and CIE94 
ellipses for red and blue colors. Figure 4 also shows the 
corresponding MacAdam ellipses. We can see that both the 
measured ratios of axis lengths and orientation angles well 
agree with that of MacAdam ellipses for all four colors. 
 
Figure 5: MacAdam ellipses in CIELAB and the corresponding ellipses 
predicted by fitting the axis lengths and orientation angles of 25 MacAdam 
ellipses, in which the ellipse axes are 10 times their actual lengths. 
Corresponding ellipses predicted by CIEDE2000 and CIE94 with unit color 
difference are also shown, in which the ellipse axes are 3 times their actual 
lengths. 
The axis lengths depend on the parametric effects of the 
psychophysical experiment and the calculation method. 
Usually, the ellipses measured from different experiments 
are normalized to the same area to partially compensate for 
these affecting factors [12]. Our measured ellipses are about 
the same as their corresponding MacAdam ellipses if they 
are normalized to be the same areas. It is found that more 
than 90% observers are not able to discriminate the color 
inside a normalized ellipse and the color center of the ellipse. 
Therefore, MacAdam ellipses can be taken as the strict 
discrimination ellipses that most observers cannot 
discriminate the color inside ellipse from the color center. 
CIE94 assumes that the orientations of ellipses point 
toward the origin of CIELAB (neutral color). CIEDE2000 is 
an improved version of CIE94. One of the major 
modifications is to improve the ellipse orientations in blue 
region. Figure 5 shows the 25 MacAdam ellipses and the 
corresponding CIEDE2000 and CIE94 ellipses, in which the 
axes of MacAdam ellipses are 10 times their actual lengths; 
the axes of CIEDE2000 and CIE94 ellipses are 3 times their 
actual lengths. From Figure 5, we can see that the 
orientations of MacAdam ellipses significantly differ from 
that of CIEDE2000 and CIE94 ellipses in red and blue 
regions as the measured ellipses shown in Figure 4. It is 
noticed that the orientations of MacAdam ellipses in red and 
blue regions do not point toward neutral color and some of 
the orientation angles may even about 90o differ from the 
orientation angles of CIEDE2000 and CIE94 ellipses. 
CIE94 further assumes that both chroma tolerances and 
hue tolerances are independent of hue angle. That is the 
color difference contributed from the same difference in 
chroma or hue angle is assumed to be independent of hue 
angle. From the MacAdam ellipses shown in Figure 5, we 
can also see that both chroma tolerances and hue tolerances 
strongly depend on hue angle. 
From the results shown above, we can see that 
CIEDE2000 and CIE94 are not accurate for predicting our 
experimental results. Here we demonstrate that it is possible 
to develop a color difference formula with accurate 
prediction of chromaticity ellipses. The development of a 
color difference formula requires a data set with a large 
number of properly sampled chromaticity discrimination 
ellipses. Figure 1 shows the 25 MacAdam ellipses in CIE xy 
coordinates, in which the axes of MacAdam ellipses are 10 
times their actual lengths. We can see that the MacAdam 
ellipses distribute over most area of the UHDTV 
chromaticity triangle except for yellow and yellowish green 
regions and UHDTV primaries. We take the data set 
comprising the 25 MacAdam ellipses as an example though 
its data are not enough to sample the color gamut of 
UHDTV. 
In CIELAB, a chromaticity discrimination ellipse on 
a*b* plane can be described as 
2 2 2
11 11 12( * * ) ( * * ) 2 ( * * )( * * )c c c cg a a g b b g a a b b d      
         , (1) 
where (a*c, b*c) is the coordinates of a color center, d is a 
scale factor that is set to be unit in this paper, and the 
coefficients 
2 2
11 2 2
cos sing
a b
   ,     (2a). 
2 2
22 2 2
sin cosg
a b
   ,     (2b). 
12 2 2
1 1 sin cosg
a b
       ,    (2c). 
In Eqs.(2), the axis lengths, a and b, and orientation angle, θ, 
are functions of chroma C* and hue angle h* defined in 
54.2 / S. Wen
SID 2012 DIGEST  •  727
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/12/28
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 視訊在視覺均勻色彩空間中表示之研究
計畫主持人: 溫盛發
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-155-090- 學門領域: 顯示技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
