2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
超寬頻傳輸系統之同步與通道估測技術
Preparation of NSC Project Reports
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-218-021
執行期限：95 年 8月 1日至 96 年 7月 31 日
主持人：林瑞源 南台科技大學電子工程系暨研究所
計畫參與人員：陳瑞琦 南台科技大學電子工程研究所
Abstract—The OFDM system is proposed for its
efficiency on eliminating the effects of multipath
fading and impulse noise. To reconstruct the original
information data, it needs the knowledge of channel
transfer function to reconstruct the received signal.
However, the wideband mobile channel is usually
presented as frequency selective and time-varying.
Therefore, it is crucial to estimate the channel transfer
function for the receiver to enhance the system
performance. In this paper, we propose a channel
estimation algorithm for the OFDM system which is
based on the reliable symbols. The reliable symbol
is detected by the received signal and their check sum
signal. From the simulation results, it shows that the
proposed method has superior performance in the
time-varying fading channel.
Keywords: OFDM, Channel Estimation, SVD
I. INTRODUCTION
The Orthogonal Frequency Division
Multiplexing (OFDM) system has gained interest in
the past for its superior performance in the wireless
communication over the multipath channel. Its
applications include broadcasting systems (e.g., the
DAB and DVB, etc) and wireless network system
(e.g., the 802.11 a/g and 802.16, etc). Although the
OFDM system has inherently capability of combating
the effect of multipath fading, it still needs the
knowledge of channel transfer function to reconstruct
the original transmitted data. For wideband mobile
communications, the radio channel usually appears as
frequency selective and time-varying [1]. Therefore,
dynamic channel estimation is necessary for the
OFDM receiver, which is usually blind or
pilot-assistant.
Blind channel estimation techniques is proposed
to estimate the channel transfer function without any
knowledge of the signal, and gain advantage in saving
the training overhead. However, they are only effect
when a large amount of data can be correlated. In the
case of wideband mobile channel, this is clearly a
disadvantage because the time-varying channel would
preclude accumulation of a large amount of data.
Therefore, the required training data for estimating
channel response in wideband mobile channel is
crucial.
In OFDM transmission systems, most channel
estimation methods have been developed under
assumption of a slow fading channel, i.e., the channel
transfer function is assumed to be stationary within
one OFDM symbol. In addition, it is also assumed that
the channel transfer function for the previous OFDM
symbol is used as the transfer function for the present
symbol. Under this assumption, some pilot-assistant
channel estimations have been proven a feasible
method [2]. Based on this, some papers have been
investigated and designed the arrangement of pilots to
improve the systems performance [3, 4]. In practice,
the transfer function of a wideband mobile channel
may have significant changes within one OFDM
symbol. Therefore, it is preferable to estimate the
channel transfer function for individual OFDM
symbol. Among the various channel estimation
schemes, the pilot-aided schemes show good
performance with low-complexity, the fixed number
of pilot tones is used to estimate the channel response
for the conventional pilot-aided channel estimation
schemes, including maximum likelihood (ML)
estimation [5] and minimum mean square error
(MMSE) estimation methods [6-8].
In the pilot-assisted channel estimation
algorithms, the more number of pilots is employed the
more correctly estimated channel response is obtained.
However, the increased number of pilot tones
decreases the number of data to transmit, resulting low
bandwidth efficiency. To utilize the channel
bandwidth efficiently, Park [5] proposed a new
channel estimation scheme with minimum number of
pilots. Their solution is based the reliable
decision-feedback symbols to estimate channel, with
which is like the double ML method, quasi-pilot
symbols. Their concept is based on to assumption that
the reliable decision-feedback symbol are located at
the subcarrier region whose channel gain is greater a
certain threshold. From this concept, this scheme has
better performance than the conventional schemes,
e.g., the ML or double ML methods.
This paper is organized as follows. First, the
OFDM system is described in section II. Then, the
proposed channel estimation method is presents in
section III. Section IV presents the simulation results.
The conclusion of this paper is shown in section V.
II. SYSTEM DESCRIPTION
The block diagram of an OFDM system is
shown in Fig.1. The binary information data are
4interpolation.
In the reliable channel estimation, a training
symbol must be transmitted at the beginning of packet.
This training symbol is used to obtain the first channel
response, and this channel response is used to
reconstruct the following information data. To check
errors in the transmitted symbol, some subcarrier is
use to transmit check sum value of one OFDM symbol.
The receiver can use this check sum value to operate
the error detection. For the reliable channel estimation,
the following process is operated:
─Step 1.
The transmitter transmits a training symbol at
the beginning of each packet. Based on this training
symbol, the channel transfer function is estimated by
using the MMSE channel estimation. Then, the
estimated channel transfer function is stored for next
OFDM symbol.
─Step 2.
The channel distortion is reconstructed by
previous estimates channel transfer function, and then
the symbol detection process is operated.
─Step 3.
After the symbol is detected, the error detection
process is operated.
─Step 4.
If no error found, the current channel transfer
function is estimated by using the MMSE method, and
updated by the new estimated channel transfer
function for next received symbol.
─Step 5.
If error found, the previous channel transfer
function is remained and go to step 2.
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS
To demonstrate the proposed channel estimation
system, the computer simulation is adopted. In the
computer simulation model, modulation scheme is
selected as 16-QAM with 20MHz bandwidth at
central frequency equal to 2.4GHz. The total
subcarrier is 64 in which 61 subcarriers are used to
transmit the information data and 3 subcarriers are the
check sum information of 61 subcarriers. The
time-varying channel model is choosen as Jakes’ 
model. We also suppose that the guard interval is
longer than the maximum path delay of the multpath
channel, i.e., there is no ISI in the received symbols.
For performance comparison, two channel
estimation methods are simulated and compared,
which are MMSE estimation of pilot with linear
interpolation and the reliable symbol MMSE
estimation method. The number of pilots in the linear
interpolation methods is 16 of 64 subcarriers. To
illustrate tracking results of the channel estimation, we
define the normalized mean square error (MSE) of the
estimated channel as




1
0
2ˆ1MSE
N
k
kk HHN
(11)
Fig.2 shows the normalized MSE results over
with 400 symbol time at vehicle speed 160 km/hr. It
shows that the normalized MSE of reliable symbol
method is smaller than the linear interpolation method
over the whole period. Fig. 2 also illustrates that the
reliable symbol method will decrease the normalized
MSE when the received information data is correct.
The simulations are also carried out for different
noise and vehicular speeds, and the results are shown
in Fig.3 and 4. In Fig.3 and 4, proposed method shows
it has lower normalized MSE than the linear
interpolation method compared with vehicular speed
and noise. Fig.5 shows the comparisons of BER
performance in different vehicle speeds and SNR. It
also can be seen that the BER of the proposed method
is lower than the linear interpolation method.
V. CONCLUSION
In OFDM system, the requirements of channel
estimation are accuracy, high data rate, and low
complexity. The proposed reliable symbol channel
estimation method has higher data rata with minimum
overhead. From simulation results, the reliable symbol
channel estimation method is better than the linear
interpolation method in both normalized MSE and
BER performance. To reduce the computation
complexity, we use MMSE channel estimation
method to estimate the channel response with the
reliable symbol.
REFERENCES
R. Steele, Mobil Radio Communications, London, England, Pentech
Press Limited, 1992.
F. Tufvesson and T. Maseng, “Pilot assisted channel estimation for 
OFDM in mobile celular systems,” in Proc. IEEE 47th
Vehicular Technology Conference, Pheonix, USA, May 1997,
pp. 1639-1643.
Meng-Han Hsieh and Che-Ho Wei, “Channel Estimation for OFDM 
System Based on Comb-type Pilot Arrangement in Frequency
Selective Fading Channels,” IEEE Transactions on Consumer
Electronics, Vol.44, No.1, pp.217-225, Feb.1998.
M.J. Fernandez-Getino Garcia, S. Zazo, and J.M. Paez-Borrallo,
“Pilot Paterns for Channel estimation in OFDM,” Electronics
Letters, Vol. 36, No. 12, pp. 1049-1050, June 2000.
J.-H. Park, M.-k. Oh, and D.-J. Park, “New Channel estimation 
exploiting Reliable decision-feedback Symbols for OFDM
Systems,” in Proc, ICC, 2006, pp. 3046-3051.
O. Edfors, M. sandell, J.-J. van de Beek, S. K. Wilson, and P. O.
Börjesson, “OFDM channel estimation by singular value 
decomposition,” in Proc. IEEE 46th Vehicular Technology
Conference, Atlanta, GA, USA, Apr. 1996, pp.923-927.
J.-J. van de Beek, O. Edfors, M. sandell, S. K. Wilson and P. O.
Borjesson, “On channel estimation in OFDM systems,” in 
Proc. IEEE 45th Vehicular Technology conference, Chicago,
IL, USA, Jul. 1995, pp. 815-819.
Y. Zhao and A. Huang, “A novel channel estimation Method for 
OFDM mobile communication systems based on pilot signals
and transform-domain processing,” in Proc. IEEE 47th
Vehicular Technology Conference, Phoenix, USA, May 1997,
pp. 2089-2093.
