extent. Since larger retinal surface area requires a 
smaller trigger current, the current output required 
to trigger retinal responses is thus reduced.  
In subretinal prosthesis, retinal ganglion cells 
(RGCs) are activated through electrical stimulation 
of the retinal neural network. Although our past 
study demonstrated that monkey electroretinography 
(ERG) can be triggered and rabbit RGC responses can 
be successfully evoked by electrical currents 
generated from the silicon-based solar cells 
(microphotodiode array, MPA) when activated by a 
point laser light source, it is not known if a 
patterned light array can drive patterned responses 
of RGCs with a silicon-based MPA. This study is aimed 
to evaluate the biological efficacy of the solar 
cells in evoking retinal responses by using the 
Digital Light Processing (DLP) as a light source. 
Using a design that includes a circumvented ground 
electrode, we successfully evoked spiking responses 
by the ON and OFF alpha RGCs in an isolated rabbit 
retina using low light power to activate the 
microphotodiode array (equivalent to 39 μC/cm2). The 
charge density dependent response and the frequency 
dependent pair-pulse suppression were characterized. 
The spike latency of the RGC responses triggered by 
electrical stimulation was equivalent to the latency 
of its light response, which supports the hypothesis 
that the activation is mediated by the retinal neural 
network. 
The reliable activation of RGCs by electrical 
stimulation in vitro using a microphotodiode array 
demonstrates the feasibility of developing solar cell 
based subretinal prostheses, which potentially could 
be developed into a power free device able to restore 
vision. 
英文關鍵詞： retinal prosthesis, transparent electrodes, retinal 
ganglion cells 
 
 2
期末成果報告 
植入於視網膜下腔之人工視網膜晶片系統， 其視網膜神經節細胞（RGC）之激發，是經由視網膜
神經網路之電刺激完成。我們在先前的研究中已可運用雷射點光源，成功激發矽基太陽能單元（亦即
微光電二極體陣列，MPA），使其產生電流，進而記錄到台灣獼猴的視網膜電生理圖（ERG），與兔
子之視網膜神經節細胞反應。然而我們還未能確認，如果運用一種構型化的可見光源陣列，是否足以
驅動此種矽基微光電二極體陣列，使之激發視網膜神經節細胞，而產生構型化之反應。本研究專注於
檢測評估運用DLP（digital light processing，數位光線處理）為光源，驅動此種太陽能單元，進而激發
視網膜電生理反應之生物效應。 
整個計畫的核心是我們所提出的人工視網膜植入系統，其示意圖繪於圖1。系統中主要包含兩個部
份: 眼外影像擷取與投射裝置與眼內植入晶片。眼外影像擷取與投射裝置的目的是當外界環境昏暗不
足以產生足夠的電刺激時，增強影像亮度與清晰度；它利用攝影機擷取外界影像，並增強影像，再透
過影投射裝置將增強後的影像投射進入眼內。眼內的晶片內具備有太陽能感光陣列(Photo-sensing 
array)，可將投射進入眼內的影像轉換為電信號，電信號再經由晶片上直接接觸視網膜組織的微電極
(Microelectrode)產生刺激，以替代壞死之感光細胞產生視覺。 
首先我們使用兔子視網膜，體外檢測此種下視網膜人工視網膜系統，其激發神經節細胞而產生尖
波的效益。將把離體視網膜（神經節細胞側朝上方）置於光電二極體之上，因此感光細胞側可以直接
受到電流刺激，而個別神經節細胞便可以經由電極，持續性的監測之。神經節細胞的空間與時間解析
度，將會被系統姓的解析與特徵化。此種可植入式之微陣列晶片，其短期的安全性與可靠性，亦被細
密的監控檢測。 
體內測試則是以數種不同的微陣列晶片，個別植入兔子眼內。手術方法為玻璃體切除與人工製造
視網膜剝離，進而植入微陣列晶片於視網膜下腔。經過數週之休養平復，便可進行視網膜電生理圖測
試。視網膜病理檢查亦將進行，以評估此系統之安全性與生物相容性。 
本計劃原為整合型三年計畫之子計畫，目前第一年已完成生物體外之測試部分，證實晶片與生物
細胞之相容性，接著將進行生物體內視網膜生理反應測試。在邁入未來人體實驗之下視網膜人工視網
膜系統研發過程中，成功的動物體外與體內測試，將具有關鍵性的地位。 
 
Overall Goal 
With subretinal prostheses, retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are activated by electrical stimulation of the retinal 
neural network. The aim of this study was an evaluation of the efficacy of silicon-based solar cells in evoking RGC 
responses by electrically stimulating the photoreceptor side of an isolated retina. 
 
Experimental setup: Retinal preparation 
This study will use retinal tissues from adult New Zealand White rabbits (1-2 kg). The animal will be 
anesthetized with an intramuscular injection of 1:1 mixture of ketamine (100 mg/ml) and xylazine (20 mg/ml). 
A local anesthetic (proparacaine hydrocholoride; 2-3 drops) will be applied to the eye before intraocular 
injection of 4’, 6-diamidino-2-phenylindole (DAPI, 2µg; Sigma, St. Louis, MO). The animal will be allowed 
to recover. One day after DAPI injection, the animal will be dark-adapted for at least one hour before 
dissection. The animal will be deeply anesthetized again for isolating the retina. Each eye will be removed and 
hemisected in oxygenated (95% O2 and 5% CO2) Ames’ medium. The retina will be dissected out from the 
sclera and carefully peeled off the pigment epithelium. A small piece of the ventral retina (5×8 mm) will be 
 4
 
 
Figure 1. Experimental setup. Schematic diagram of the cross-section of retinal-silicon chip assembly. A 
piece of retina is attached to the silicon retina, the photoreceptor layer (PL) down. The laser/DLP or CRT light 
source positioned on top of the microscope (through the camera ports) will be used to project light to the 
silicon chip. During electrical or light stimulation, spikes will be recorded with a glass electrode from 
ganglion cell body individually. GCL, ganglion cell layer. 
 
 
Figure 2 A microscope setup for simultaneous light stimulation and laser activation of the RGC with the 
silicon-based microphotodiode array. 
Laser or DLP 
Probe station   
Silicon electrode 
40x 
GCL
PL
Extracellular 
recording 
 6
visual response (see below). A total of 17 alpha RGCs were recorded and the majority (ON cells, 6/7; OFF 
cells, 8/10) showed multiple bursts of spikes when activating by the MPDA.  
 
Table 1 Burst patterns of alpha RGCs upon electrical stimulation  
ON α GC  OFF α GC  
Burst 1  Burst 2  Burst 3 Burst 4 Burst 1 Burst 2  Burst 3 Burst 4 
Frequency of burst 
occurrence  
100%  
(7/7)  
86%  
(6/7)  
29%  
(2/7)  
14%  
(1/7)  
100% 
(10/10) 
80%  
(8/10)  
50%  
(5/10) 
20%  
(2/10) 
First spike latency in each 
burst (ms)  
47.9  
±1.5  
163.9 
±6.0  
297.3 
±10.15 
360.9 
±1.2  
93.3  
±4.6  
153.8  
±7  
244.0 
±21.5 
345.3 
±61.4 
Spike/burst  2.1±0.2  1.3±0.1 1±0.0 1±0.0 3.8±0.5 1.6±0.2  1.8±0.3 1.4±0.4 
 
 
These bursts of spikes are indicative of oscillatory responses in the retinal network, although their origin 
is currently not known.  
 
Responses of alpha RGCs evoked by visual and electrical stimulations are different 
In previous retinal prosthesis studies, it is rare that the responses of the RGCs to visual stimulation and to 
electrical stimulation were compared for the same cell. Using the normal rabbit retina, we attempted to 
examine the spiking responses ofmorphologically identified RGCs using visual stimulation before 
photoreceptor bleaching and using subretinal electrical stimulation after the light response was abolished. The 
first spike latencies of both the ON and OFF alpha RGCs upon electrical stimulation were, on average, 8.8% 
and 13% shorter than those for visual stimulation, respectively, although these differences were not 
statistically different (ON cells, p=0.3; OFF cells, p=0.19).  
 
Table 2 Average response of alpha RGCs to light and electrical stimulation.  
ON α GC  OFF α GC  
Light  
(n=6)  
Electrical  
(n=7)  
Light  
(n=11)  
Electrical  
(n=10)  
First spike latency (ms)  52.5±5.0  47.9±1.5  107.3±10.7 93.3±4.6  
Spike/burst  5.0±2.1  2.1±0.2  6.2±1.4  3.8±0.5  
 
 
The spike rates of the ON and OFF alpha RGCs upon electrical stimulation were also less than when 
they were visuallystimulated (ON cells, p=0.54; OFF cells, p=0.34). Furthermore, most alpha RGCs showed 
multiple bursts of spikes upon electrical stimulation (Table 1), but only a single burst of spikes upon visual 
stimulation (data not shown). Taken together, these results suggest that response of the same alpha RGC cell 
on visual stimulation is different from the response on electrical stimulation.  
 
Characterization of the alpha RGC responses to a single pulse of electrical stimulation 
To determine the threshold of the alpha RGC response on electrical stimulation of the MPDA, single 
 8
both the ON and OFF cells increased initially at moderate electrical current levels as the current was increased, 
but this response was muted by further increases in electrical stimulation at higher current levels. The 
numbers in parentheses indicate the number of cells examined. Error bars indicate mean ± SEM. 
 
This indicates that the threshold of the alpha RGCs on electrical stimulation is much lower than in most 
previous studies(see Supplementary Table 1) and also suggests that the silicon-based MPDA is capable of 
generating enough electrical current to stimulate the retina from the photoreceptor side. This result is 
consistent with previous findingthat direct activation of the retina by a subretinal MPDA implant induces 
activity in the superior colliculus of RCS rats.  
To further characterize the alpha RGC response to a single pulse of electrical stimulation, the spiking 
patterns of the cells stimulated with different electrical currents were analyzed. The first spike latencies of 
both the ON and OFF alpha RGCs were slightly decreased as the electrical stimulation increased (Fig. 4B). In 
contrast, the spike rates of both the ON and OFF cells increased initially with moderate electrical current 
increases, but the response was reduced as the electrical stimulation increased further (Fig. 4C). These results 
indicate that the alpha RGC response is relatively insensitive to the strength of the suprathreshold electrical 
stimulation, which implies that a minimal electrical current that is just above the threshold may be the optimal 
stimulation strength for a subretinal prosthesis. However, this also suggests that the electrically evoked RGC 
response does not have a large dynamic range that would allow variation in stimulation strength to be encoded. 
This implies in turn thatmodulating the pulse frequency rather than the pulse intensity might be a key 
component in 
 
Responses of alpha RGCs to a series of electrical stimulations 
To examine the effect of repetitive electrical stimulation on alpha RGCs, ten repeated stimulus pulses at 
different intervals were used. The spiking responses of an alpha RGC to 5 and 20 Hz stimulation revealed that 
repetitive electrical stimulation had a suppressive effect (Fig. 5A).  
 
 
 10
showed a lower level of frequency dependency compared to OFF cells where the normalized average response 
was significantly decreased at temporal frequencies of the repetitive stimulation above 5 Hz (Fig. 6C). Taken 
together, these results suggest that response of alpha RGCs to repetitive electrical stimulation is significantly 
reduced at high temporal frequencieThis also implies that modulating the pulse frequency in a subretinal 
prosthesis will be limited to low frequency. However, the fact that ON and OFF alpha RGCs showeddistinct 
responses to repetitive electrical stimulation suggests that selectively activating the ON pathway in the retina 
with a higher temporal frequency may be possible. 
 
Conclusions 
The reliable activation of RGCs by electrical stimulation in vitro using a microphotodiode array 
demonstrates the feasibility of developing solar cell based subretinal prostheses, which potentially could be 
developed into a power free device able to restore vision. 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林伯剛 計畫編號：99-2221-E-010-015- 
計畫名稱：下視網膜植入式人工視網膜系統之體外與體內生物效應之研究(I) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 2 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
