Contents of the Research Report
1 Introduction
As the advance of electronic technology, positioning device, e.g. GPS (Global Position System),
becomes cheaper and more popular. Hence, it is feasible for every mobile device to equip with
a positioning device. With such capability, we may use the location information to enhance the
performance of the wireless network, especially for the mobile ad hoc network (MANET).
MANET is a network consisting of mobile hosts without base stations and fixed topology.
Since battery is the only source to support mobile hosts’ operations, how to conserve battery energy
is a critical issue for MANETs. With the location information, we may design a more efficient
power saving (PS) protocol for MANETs.
Several power saving protocols for MANETs have been proposed before [1], [2], [3], [4], [5],
[6], [7]. IEEE 802.11’s PS protocol [1] required each host to be synchronous. However, clock
synchronization in a large scale MANET is difficult. To solve the synchronization problem, asyn-
chronous PS protocols have been proposed in [2], [3], [4]. Although asynchronous PS protocols
can conquer the clock synchronization problem, hosts adopting asynchronous PS protocol need
to keep awake for some extra time to discover asynchronous neighbors. Besides, the broadcasting
cost is high, because it takes several transmissions for a host to wake up all its asynchronous neigh-
bors. To conquer these deficiencies, a cluster-based semi-asynchronous PS protocol is proposed
in [5].
Some works [6], [7] are focus on the designing of wakeup and sleep patterns of mobile hosts.
The SPAN protocol [6] tries to establish a connected dominating set among hosts. Only hosts that
are coordinators (which are chosen according to their remaining battery energies and numbers of
1
Research results are presented in Section 5. Section 6 concludes this report.
2 Research Purposes
Power saving (PS) is a critical issue for mobile devices. Nowadays, it is feasible for every mobile
device to equip with a positioning device. With such capability, mobile hosts may use the location
information to conserve more energy. Existing power-saving protocols with location information
usually partition the network area into grids. In each grid, only one mobile host needs to be active
so as to forward messages. The other mobile hosts in the same grid may switch to PS mode.
However, the covered area of a grid is much smaller than that of a communication disk, hence it is
not necessary for every grid to be active to support routing. Besides, when the host density is low,
there may be less than one mobile host in a grid. Hence, almost all the hosts need to be active all
the time. To solve this problem, we propose a novel location-aware PS protocol, which combines
the ideas of cell, cluster, and semi-asynchronous PS protocol and is adaptive to the host density
and requirement.
3 Reviews of Related Works
In this section, we start with a review on the PS protocols of IEEE 802.11, followed by the reviews
of other PS protocols.
3.1 Power-Saving Protocols of IEEE 802.11
IEEE 802.11 [1] supports two power modes: active and power-saving (PS). Under an ad hoc
network, PS hosts wake up periodically. The short interval that PS hosts wake up is called the ATIM
window. It is assumed that hosts are fully connected and all synchronized, so the ATIM windows
of all PS hosts will start at about the same time. In the beginning of each ATIM window, each
mobile host will contend to send a beacon frame. Any successful beacon serves as the purpose
of synchronizing mobile hosts’ clocks. This beacon also inhibits other hosts from sending their
beacons. To avoid collisions among beacons, a host should wait a random number of slots between
3
as follows:
• More Beacons: To prevent the inaccurate-neighbor problem, a mobile host in PS mode
should insist more on sending beacons. This will allow others to be aware of its existence.
• Overlapping Awake Intervals: The wake-up patterns of two PS hosts must overlap with each
other no matter how much time their clocks drift away.
• Wake-up Prediction: When a host hears another PS host’s beacon, it should be able to derive
that PS host’s wake-up pattern based on their time difference. This will allow the former to
send buffered packets to the later in the future.
Based on the above guidelines, three power-saving protocols, namely dominating-awake-interval,
periodically-fully-awake-interval, and quorum-based protocols, each with a different wake-up pat-
tern for PS hosts, are proposed in [2]. These protocols need not to synchronize any host and are
shown to be energy efficient with reasonable route establishment probability. With a similar idea,
an asynchronous PS protocol for multi-hop ad hoc networks is proposed in [3]. It formulates the
problem of generating wakeup schedules as a block design problem in combinatorics, so that it
can derive the theoretical bound for wakeup schedule problem. To improve the work in [2], sev-
eral efficient asynchronous quorum-based PS protocols are proposed in [4]. This paper correlates
the asynchronous PS problem to the concept of quorum systems and identifies a rotation closure
property for quorum systems. It is shown that any quorum system satisfying this property can be
translated to an asynchronous PS protocol for MANETs. This paper identifies a group of quorum
systems that are optimal or near optimal in terms of quorum sizes (the grid quorum system, the
torus quorum system, the cyclic quorum system, and the finite projective plane quorum system),
which can be translated to efficient asynchronous PS protocols. A new e-torus quorum system,
which can be translated to an adaptive protocol, allows designers to trade hosts’ neighbor sensibil-
ity for power efficiency. A host can dynamically adjust its beacon rate according to its mobility.
Although asynchronous PS protocols can conquer the clock synchronization problem, they may
have some performance concerns. In order to discover asynchronous neighbors, hosts need to keep
5
r
r
d
d
(a) (b)
Figure 1: (a)a side length of the grid is set as r/2√2 (b)a side length of the cell is set as r/√13.
Since the cluster leader should be able to communicate with any of its members directly, a side
length (denoted as d) of a cell is set as r/√13, where r is the communication radius of the mobile
host, as shown in Fig. 1(b). We may also partition the network area into grids, such that each
cluster is formed by 9 neighboring grids and a side length of a grid is set as r/2
√
2 as shown in
Fig. 1(a). The areas covered by a cell and a grid are 3√3r2/26 and r2/8, respectively. Since a grid
covers a smaller area than a cell does, the grid approach will cause higher ratio of hosts to become
cluster leaders and gateways, and thus the grid approach is less efficient than the cell approach.
Therefore, the cell approach is adopted in the proposed PS protocol.
Since each host is equipped with a positioning device, a host can easily realize which cell and
cluster it belongs to according to its own location. At the beginning of each round, the hosts within
the same cluster would get neighboring hosts’ location information and residual battery power by
exchanging beacon frames. After collected neighboring hosts’ information, each host may decide
it should become a cluster leader, a cell leader, or not. A host may play any of the following three
roles in the cluster:
• cell leader: a host whose residual battery power is the greatest among all the hosts within
the same cell will become the cell leader. The cell leader play as a gateway in the cluster. It
is responsible for relaying packets between neighboring clusters. At the beginning of each
round, the cell leaders are reelected. The round length is a parameter, which is set as the
multiple of a beacon interval.
• cluster leader: a cell leader which is closet to the center of the cluster will become the cluster
leader. It play as a coordinator in its cluster, such that it will synchronize, relay packets,
7
tocol [2] in turn to serve as gateways, monitor neighboring clusters and record the clock
difference, so that it can transmit packets to neighboring clusters by predicting their awake
intervals. As for the cluster leader, it may switch to PS mode.
• the host density is lower than a certain threshold and transmission efficiency is the major con-
cern: the cluster leader collects the connectivity information and then schedules its cluster
members’ power mode according to their connectivity relations with neighboring clusters.
The cluster leader adopts a greedy strategy to dispatch the gateway, which shall keep active
to relay packets. Assuming the set of cluster members is denoted as CM . The cluster leader
first dispatches a host a, which can connect to the greatest numbers of neighboring clusters,
from CM . And then host a is removed from CM . The rest gateways are dispatched accord-
ing to their extra numbers of connective neighboring clusters. The hosts those can connect
to the greatest extra numbers of neighboring clusters are dispatched as the gateways. The
dispatch continues until all the neighboring clusters can be connected through the dispatched
gateways or CM = ∅. The removed hosts will not be added back to set CM until CM = ∅.
When CM = ∅, the hosts currently not dispatched as gateways shall be added back to set
CM . For example in Fig. 3, there are only 4 cluster members, e.g. hosts a, b, c, and d, in
cluster C4. The connectivity relations of cluster C4 are shown in Table 1. In the first round, if
the cluster leader of C4 first dispatches host a as the gateway. The extra numbers of connec-
tive neighboring clusters for hosts b, c, and d are 2, 3, and 2, respectively. Hence, the cluster
leader of C4 will dispatch host c as the gateway. After hosts a and c have been dispatched
as gateways, all the neighboring clusters have been connected and the cluster leader of C4
will stop dispatch gateways. Similarly, the cluster leader of C4 will dispatch hosts b and d
as gateways in the second round. This greedy scheduling strategy can also be adopted in a
higher density network.
• the host density is lower than a certain threshold and power saving is the major concern: the
cluster leader adopts the same greedy strategy to dispatch gateways. However, the dispatched
9
Table 1: The connectivity relations of cluster C4.
Host id connected clusters
a C1, C2, C3
b C1, C3, C6
c C5, C6, C7
d C2, C5, C7
• cell leader: when the cell leader is going to leave the cell, it will give up to be a cell leader
by notifying its cell members and then a new cluster leader is elected.
• normal host: if a normal host is going to leave the cluster, it shall notify its cluster leader.
If the normal host can not receive the beacon frame sent by its cluster leader (maybe there
is no host in the central cell), it shall keep active to collect information. If it can receive
the beacon frame sent by the neighboring cluster leader, it shall join the neighboring cluster.
Otherwise, it can form a new cluster.
4.5 Routing Protocols for the Proposed Power-Saving Protocol
If the location of the destination is known in advance, we may adopt a ZRP(Zone-based Routing
Protocol) [8] or GRID [9] like protocol to discover the route. However, if we do not have the
location information of the destination, we may adopt an AODV [10] like protocol to discover the
route. In our protocol, the route request packet is broadcasted along the backbone, which consists
of cluster leaders and gateways. When the route request packet has reached the destination, unicast
can be used to send the route reply packets. When PS hosts in the chosen route receive the route
reply packet, it can go to the active mode. Note that, when the host receives the route reply packet,
instead of the sender’s id, the host records the sender’s cell id as its next hop in the route. As long
as there is any host in the designated cell, the route will not be broken. Even there is no host in the
designated cell, the route can be easily repaired by broadcasting route repair packet to the cluster
where the designated cell is located. This way, the route established by our protocol will be more
stable than traditional routes.
When broadcasting the route request packet to the PS host in the same cluster, we can adopt
11
• route establishment delay: the time from the source host initiating the route request packet
to the time the destination host receiving the packet and the time the reply is sent from the
destination to the source.
In the following subsections, we compare the performance of the proposed power-saving pro-
tocols (denoted as HLPS) with GAF [7].
5.1 Impact of host density
In this subsection, we fix the network size and vary the total number of hosts between 50 ∼ 250.
First, we show its impact on active ratio. With the ratio of active hosts, we can estimate the total
amount of power that can be conserved in the MANET. The lower the ratio is, the longer the
network lifetime is. For the ease of analysis, assume that the area size of the network is A, the
number of hosts in the network is N , the transmission radius is r, the length of beacon interval
is BI , the length of ATIM window is AW, the Periodically-Fully-Awake-Interval PS protocol’s
period length is P , discovery time of GAF is Td, sleeping time of GAF is Ts, and there is no data
packets being transmitted. The analysis of active ratio for the PS protocols are shown as follows:
• HLPS with transmission efficiency as the major concern (denoted as HLPS(T)): there are
total 26A
3
√
3r2
cells in the network. 4
7
of the cell leaders shall active all the time. The other
hosts shall active only during the ATIM window, and may switch to PS mode in the rest of
the time. If N ≥ 4
7
× 26A
3
√
3r2
, the active ratio is (4
7
× 26A
3
√
3r2
+ (N − 4
7
× 26A
3
√
3r2
) × AW
BI
)/N .
Otherwise, the active ratio is 100%.
• HLPS with power saving as the major concern (denoted as HLPS(P)): similar to previous
analysis, except that 4
7
of the cell leaders shall run the Periodically-Fully-Awake-Interval PS
protocol. Therefore, If N ≥ 4
7
× 26A
3
√
3r2
, the active ratio is (4
7
× 26A
3
√
3r2
× ( 1
P
+ P−1
P
× AW
BI
) +
(N − 4
7
× 26A
3
√
3r2
)× AW
BI
)/N . Otherwise, the active ratio is ( 1
P
+ P−1
P
× AW
BI
).
• GAF: there are total A
5r2
cells in the network. The grid leaders shall active all the time. The
other hosts shall active only during the discovery state, and may switch to sleeping state in
13
Figure 4: Route establishment delay vs. host density. (beacon interval = 200 ms, moving speed =
5 m/sec, traffic load = 1 route/sec)
Figure 5: Route establishment probability vs. host density. (beacon interval = 200 ms, moving
speed = 5 m/sec, traffic load = 1 route/sec)
15
Table 3: Traffic load vs. Active Ratio. (A = 4r × 4r, N=150, r=250m, BI=200ms, AW=20ms,
h=3.5, Tt=20ms, P=5)
Route generated rate 1 2 3 4 5
HLPS(T) 37.6% 37.6% 37.6% 37.6% 37.6%
HLPS(P) 18.7% 23.1% 27.5% 32% 36.4%
GAF 58% 58% 58% 58% 58%
Figure 6: Route establishment probability vs. traffic load. (beacon interval = 200 ms, moving
speed = 5 m/sec, 150 hosts)
the traffic load becomes higher, the route establishment probability becomes lower because heav-
ier traffic will cause more collisions and congestions. Among the three PS protocols, GAF and
HLPS(T) perform better than HLPS(P) because HLPS(P) takes higher cost to establish routes.
6 Conclusions and Discussions
In this project, we have proposed a novel location-aware PS protocol, which combines the ideas
of cell, cluster, and semi-asynchronous PS protocol, and is adaptive to the host density and re-
quirement. The proposed PS protocol (HLPS) decreases the number of active hosts to support
routing and thus is more energy efficient than GAF. Analysis and simulation results have shown
that HLPS(P) is energy efficient but not efficient for data transmission, while GAF is efficient for
data transmission but not energy efficient. HLPS(T) is not only efficient for data transmission but
also more energy efficient than GAF. When the traffic load is high, HLPS(T) performs the best in
terms of transmission and energy efficiencies.
17
[9] W.-H. Liao, Y.-C. Tseng, and J.-P. Sheu, “Grid: A fully location-aware routing protocol for
mobile ad hoc networks,” Telecommunication Systems, vol. 18, pp. 61–84, 2001.
[10] C. E. Perkins and E. M. Royer, “Ad-hoc on-demand distance vector routing,” IEEE Workshop
on Mobile Computing Systems and Applications, pp. 90–100, 1999.
19
