-1-
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
摩擦攪拌焊接製程之有限元素模擬
An FEM simulation on during Friction Stir Welding
計畫編號：NSC 94-2212-E-041-001
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 10 月 31 日
主持人：徐宏修 嘉南藥理科技大學醫療資訊管理研究所
共同主持人：黃永茂 中山大學機械與機電工程學系(所)
計畫參與人員：康宗瑋周培家 中山大學機械與機電工程學所
一、中文摘要
摩擦攪拌焊接中銲道上的熱傳及機械特性的
變化是由於工具頭在工件上移動所產生的，而熱傳
及機械性質的變化相當複雜。本文利用一個三維的
熱機械模式，使用有限元素分析來模擬摩擦攪拌中
溫度與應力之變化。焊接的熱源來自於工具頭及肩
部在工件上的摩擦，及工件本身受到工具旋轉所產
生的塑性變形功率。本研究利用套裝軟體有限元素
Deform 3D 來做有限元素模擬，研究範圍包含摩擦
攪拌的熱傳分佈歷程及溫度變化對攪拌旋轉過程
中材料機械性質之影響，研究結果可提供使用者被
加工板材在製程中之機械性質變化、熱機性質變
化、溫度歷程及應力變化及應變分布。在實驗方
面，以立式銑床、萬能試驗機，實行 FSW 實驗，
並一一探討工具頭轉速，前進速度，加工溫度與產
品之關係，做為未來實施 FSW 最佳化設計參考依
據
關鍵詞：FSW, HAZ, TMAZ, FEM
Abstract
The heat transfer and mechanical characteristics
on the welding line of a workpiece sheet due to the
tool pin moving are quite complicated. In this paper, a
thermal-mechanical model for friction stir welding
(FSW) along with three dimensional finite element
analyses is proposed. The heat generated from the tool
pin and shoulder is considered as the heat source in the
friction stir welding process. A software package –
DEFORM 3D is used to simulate the temperature,
strain and stress distributions of the sheet in FSW. The
simulation results can provide a useful knowledge for
designing the FSW process.
The numerical simulation is preformed by
Deform 3D, the research scope includes the effect of
heat conduction and temperature change upon the
mechanical properties of stirred material during FSW.
The mechanical properties, thermo-mechanical
properties, heat history and stress and strain
distribution of sheet are discussed in detail. The
experiments is carried by using milling machine to
investigate the effect of forming parameters such as
rotating speed of pin, advance speed. The result can
offers a useful knowledge for optimal designing the
friction stir process.
Keywords: FSW, HAZ, TMAZ, FEM
二、前言
摩擦攪拌焊接可應用在飛機機身骨架之接合
與製造。在汽車工業中，鋁擠形車體骨架可減少車
體骨架的零組件數，且精確鋁合金製的車體骨架可
經由 FSW 的接合。FSW 也可用於建築物外觀壁
板的接合與窗戶骨架的接合、管路的組建、在造橋
所運用到的鋁合金之接合、鋁合金擠製物的接合與
熱交換器和空調系統等。，摩擦攪拌焊接中最大的
特徵就是焊道外觀有洋蔥環出現。在摩擦攪拌焊接
後，使得不同晶粒大小的三維片狀橢圓面間隔的出
現在攪拌區。焊道區的微觀組織可分為熱機械影響
區 (Thermo-mechanical affected zone)，熱影響區
(Heat affected zone)，礦塊(Weldingnugget)等。
Rhode 等人[3]將工具頭旋轉插入 7075 鋁合
金，隨即拔出並急速冷卻，以探討在 FSW 過程中
微細晶粒結構的演變。在鋁合金焊道攪拌區中所得
的細晶粒，是重覆變形所產生的成核逐漸成長而
來，非原先存在的次晶粒旋轉所形成[3]。
摩擦攪拌製程(FSP)為美國的 Mishra 教授研究
團隊所提出[4,5]，並應用於母材的改質、金屬基複
合材料的製作、以改變母材材質使具備超塑性變形
等。因此摩擦攪拌製程用於創造均勻的材料微觀組
織及延性，常用於金屬基複合材料的製造，具有使
材料晶粒細化能力，已逐漸成為新興的晶粒細化技
術。
Kwon 等[6,7]在 1050 鋁合金、Su[8]在 7075 鋁
合金與 Charit[9]在 2024 鋁合金以摩擦攪拌製程研
究時，皆能在攪拌區形成良好的晶粒細化結果至 10
μm 以下，甚至可達奈米尺度。
以摩擦攪拌製造微細晶粒材料的優點有：
(a)在單次製程中可得到高晶角界奈米晶粒，達到晶
粒細化目的。
(b)改變製程參數與冷卻速率來控制最終微結構組
織。
(c)無需複雜機器設備、低消耗能量、操作簡單。
(d)提供製造大尺寸奈米結構金屬或合金之工業材
-3-
圖 3 表示等溫線分布圖, 為 6061 鋁板材 FEM
模擬之結果。 Step 478 的溫度分布如圖 3c 所示，
等溫線以 Pin 為中心呈同心圓狀分布。
圖 3a 頂面等溫線分布圖 (step 478)
圖 3b 前斷面等溫線分布圖 (step 478)
圖 3c 側斷面等溫線分布圖 (step 478)
圖 4 表示等效應變分布圖。如圖 4 b 所示，等
溫線以 Pin 為中心呈對稱分布。
圖 4a 前斷面等效應變分布圖 (step 478, x=5)
圖 4b 側斷面等效應變分布圖 (step 478, x=5)
圖 5 表示等效應變率分布圖。如圖 5b 所示，
等溫線以 Pin 為中心呈對稱分布。
圖 5a 前斷面等效應變率分布圖(step 478, x=5)
圖 5b 側斷面等效應變率分布圖 (step 478, x=5)
圖 6 表示 Damage 分布圖。如圖 6b 所示，等
溫線以 Pin 為中心呈對稱分布。
圖 6a 前斷面等 Damage 分布圖(step 478, x=5)
圖 6b 側斷面 Damage 分布圖(step 478, y=80)
圖 7 表示頂面 Flow net 分布圖。如圖 6b 所
示，大部分塑性流動來自於中央焊道及其鄰近周圍
材料。
圖 7 頂面 Flow net 分布圖
-5-
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
95 年 10 月 10 日
報告人姓名 徐宏修
服務機構
及職稱
嘉南藥理科技大學
會議時間
地點
9 月 25 日~9 月 29 日
日本名古屋
本會核定
補助文號
NSC94-2212-E041-001
會議
名稱
(中文)第八屆亞太塑性工程暨應用學術研討會
(英文)The 8th Asia-Pacific Symposium on Engineering Plasticity and Its
Applications
發表論文
題目
(中文)鎂合金板 AZ31 的摩擦旋轉製程之研究
(英文)A Study on Friction Stir Process of Magnesium Alloy AZ31 Sheet
一、參加會議經過
本人自 9 月 24 日上午搭華航班機赴日本名古屋，行程達 3 小時。當地氣候非常溫
和。名古屋為中部大城，新幹線與地下鐵以名古屋車站為中心向外延伸到市區和其它大
都市，有許多國內外游客選擇名古屋為觀光據點。抵達名古屋之後，經一夜的休息，9
月 25 日下午抵達會場－日本國立名古屋大學。在現場註冊後得知，許多學者選擇 26 日
以後註冊，只能與少數學者交換研心得。值得一提的是看到許多大陸學者與會，並且有
年輕化和內陸化趨勢，近年來中國大陸逐漸推廣高等教育，績極參與國際會議，國內主
管單位多多推動與鼓勵。
二、與會心得
選擇Tuesday, September 26, 13:30-15:00, TS 1F, Welds場次，Chair: H. Kimura。所觀
察發表之論文，首篇由Osaka Prefecture University的Kenji Higashi報告Superplastic
Properties and Microstructure of Friction Stir Welded Joints Zn-22wt.%Al Alloy，內容為鋁鋅
合金的Friction Stir Welded之熔接處的超塑性特性與微觀結構。Kenji Higashi表示，熔接
處的伸長量及抗拉強度在室溫下比母材要來得更低，熔接處的會產生更多的細晶粒及等
軸晶粒。
其次為 Tokyo Metropolitan College of Technology 的 Shigeru Aoki 發表 Reduction of
Residual Stress of Welded Joint using Local Plasticity Caused by Ultrasonic Vibration, 為在
Welding 時利用超音波達到 Welds 局部塑性，以降低殘留應力的方法。Shigeru Aokiu 以
數值模擬方式來探討殘留應力降低的比例，作為以超音波輔助設計 Welding 的參考依據。
第三位為本人所報告的 A Study on Friction Stir Process of Magnesium Alloy AZ31
Sheet, 以 Deform 3D 來探討鎂合金板 AZ31 的摩擦旋轉製程之研究，分析其溫度、應變
率、應力等之分佈，以了解 Friction Stir Welding 塑性流動之概況及 TAZ,TMAZ,HAZ 與
Nugget 分佈。
第四位為 Technology Research Institute of Osaka Prefecture 的 T. Hirata 發表的
Formability of Friction Stir Welded and Arc Welded 5083 Aluminum Alloy Sheets。探討鋁
5083 合金板的 Friction Stir Welded 與 Arc Welded 後之板材的機械性質，包含伸長量、
抗拉強度，以及熱生成量對上述機械性質之影響。結論指出經 Friction Stir Welded 後，
板的延性增加，改善了鋁 5083 合金板的成形性。
附
件
三
-7-
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
Final Program and Abstracts, AEPA2006, The 8th ASIA-PACIFIC Symposium on
Engineerign Plasticity and Its Applications.
六、其他
無
-9-
Song[7] proposed a three dimensional heat transfer model for FSW by using a moving coordinate.
A non uniform grid mesh is generated for calculating the temperature distribution. Fratini[8]
determine the average grain size due to continuous dynamic recrystallization phenomena in friction
stir welding of AA6082 T6 aluminum alloys. The gain size can be obtained by taking into account
the local effects of strain, strain rate and temperature. Fratini used an inverse identification approach
based on a linear regression procedure to develop the material properties.
Chang[9] investigated the grin size refinement in AZ31 magnesium alloy by friction stir
processing. The dimension of AZ31 sheet is 10 85 100mm  . Chang illustrated the grain size
refinement is effective means of dynamic recrystallization. The relationship between the resulting
grain size and the working strain rate and temperature for the friction stir processing in AZ31
magnesium need to be examined. Chang determined the relationship of grain size and the
Zener-Hollomen parameter.
In above papers[2-8], due to reduce the difficulty during establishing FEM model, heat flux input
from the friction between tool and sheet material are assumed. It is not reasonable for analysis the
FSW procedure in detail and entirely. In this paper, a FE analysis on friction stir welding of
magnesium AZ31 sheet is developed with software package-Deform 3D. Without estimating heat
flux equation, it calculates the generated heat flux input from the friction caused by rotating motion
during FSW.
In this paper, three dimensional thermal mechanical FE analysis used to investigate FSP of
magnesium alloy AZ31. The plastic deformation of material around the tool pin can be simulated,
the temperature distribution, the strain and stress field can be obtained through the entire FSP
process.
Numerical Model
The Bessel function is often used to determine the possibility of modeling the temperature
distribution around the FSP tool. It includes the advantage that temperature of sheet can be
investigated theoretical without numerical technology. But it use single heat source to replace the
generated heat source due to the friction between the tool and workpiece. Several different
simplified generated heat equations are employed as the amount of single heat source and the
temperature distribution fields of the workpiece can be calculated.
The FSP of magnesium steel is investigated by a three dimensional thermal mechanical model.
This model is established by sing commercial code Deform 3D[10]. In this paper, the welding
phenomenon of FSP is neglected and it assumes the tool pin is moving along the central line of
whole sheet. Furthermore only one single sheet is used as the workpiece in FSP simulation without
welding behavior.
Fig. 1 shows the schematic drawing of friction stir welding. It is isometric drawing, i.e., it is three
dimensional drawing. For a three dimensional numerical simulation, the geometric shape drawing of
workpiece for FEM meshed is shown in the Fig. 2 The FSP is considered in two main motions, first
the rotation behavior of tool pin and shoulder. Second, the magnesium alloy sheet moves at a fixed
speed.
-11-
Calculation Results and Discussion
The magnesium AZ31 is fixed on the table of machine. The tool pin is forced downward with a
constant rotating angular speed 800rpm . After the shoulder touch the top surface of workpiece, the
magnesium AZ31 moves on the Y-axis of sheet with a fixed speed, 1.5 /V mm s . This paper
includes 45 seconds for the entire simulation for AZ31 friction stir process.
Fig. 3 shows the line contour of calculated temperature of workpiece ( 24.75s ). The high
temperature is around the tool. The higher temperature is near the center of tool pin and the
temperature gradient is steeper at front side of tool. The higher temperature is concentrated on the
interface between the tool and workpiece. It is because that the shear deformation of workpiece is
larger on the sheet. The material is easily yielded due to the shear deformation of workpiece. Fig. 4
shows the line contour of effective stress of workpiece ( 25.43s ). The effective stress near the tool
pin is larger than that near the shoulder. Due to the material of workpiece is constrained by the
material around the tool, the plastic flow near the pin needs larger effective stress to be yielded.
Figure 3 Line contour of calculated temperature
of workpiece.
Figure 4 Line contour of effective stress
of workpiece.
Fig. 5 shows the line contour of calculated effective strain of workpiece ( 24.75s ). The effective
stress gradient near tool is similar the nugget and the temperature distribution under the shoulder.
The effective stress near the pin is larger than that of base material of workpiece. The plastic flow
near the pin is easily drugged due to the interface friction of tool/workpiece. Fig. 6 shows the line
contour of calculated effective strain rate of workpiece ( 24.75s ). Those illustrate the strain rate
distribution are like those in Fig. 5. The strain rate gradient is concentrated on the tool pin. It is
because the shear deformation of workpiece is more obviously due to friction between
tool/workpiece.
-13-
The Z-direction value are 1mm in T1, T2 and T3 but 8mm in T4. Fig. 10 shows the temperature
history diagram of T1, T2, T3 and T4. Because the temperature gradient near the pin tool is steeper,
the peak temperature of each curve is occurs when the tool pin pass by the temperature point. The
maximum temperature is located at T4 when the FSP is finished.
Figure 9 Position of temperature points of
T1, T2, T3 and T4.
Figure 10 Temperature history diagram of T1,
T2, T3 and T4.
Conclusion
A numerical study on the thermal mechanical model of FSW in a three dimensional coordinate and
meshed by rigid-plastic elements has been developed by using a commercial code Deform 3D in this
paper. The workpiece of magnesium AZ31 is the simulated results offer knowledge of the heat
transfer process for the workpiece in the friction stir welding process. It provides useful data for
designing the friction stir welding process. Several conclusions can be obtained as followings:
(1) This thermal mechanical model of FEM is useful for simulating the heat transfer process in
FSW. The distribution of temperature, strain, strain rate and damage around the tool pin during
FSW has been obtained. It can help design the FSW process and prevent the workpiece from being
damaged during FSW.
(2) The temperature distribution fields, strain and stress fields obtained at each step are
significantly useful for estimating the TMAZ and TAZ of workpiece under the tool pin. These
numerical simulation results can provide a useful knowledge of designing the tool dimension in a
FSW process.
In the future, the three dimensional FEM analysis of FSW with the material properties such as
grain size model will be investigated. The microstructure model due to strain, strain rate and
temperature needs to be included in a three dimensional FEM simulation to determine the grain size
of workpiece in FSW
Acknowledgements
The authors want to present their thanks to the National Science Council of the Republic of China
for the advice and financial support under the grant number: NSC 94-2212-E-041-001.
References
[1]W. M. Thomas, E. D. Nicholas, J. C. Needham, M. G. Murch, P. Templesmith, C.J. Dawes,
“Friction stir butt welding”international pattern application no. PCT/GB92/02203 and GB
patent application no. 9125978.8, 6 December 1991
