1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
均質進氣壓燃引擎之約束控制 
Constrained Control of Homogeneous Charge Compression Ignition 
(HCCI) Engines  
計 畫 編 號：NSC 97-2221-E-011-072 
執 行 期 限：97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：姜嘉瑞   國立台灣科技大學機械工程系 
計畫參與人員：楊景龍、黃俊筌、卓文彬、陳建霖 
 
中文摘要 
均質進氣壓燃引擎極有可能為新一代的
車輛或發電系統提供經濟、高效率且低污染的
動力來源。事實上，均質進氣壓燃引擎結合了
一般汽油引擎及柴油引擎的優點：有著如柴油
引擎般的高效率及遠較汽油引擎來得更低的
有害氣體 NOx 排放。然而，均質進氣壓燃引擎
的控制卻是非常的困難，因為其點火時間是無
法直接控制的。一般汽油引擎及柴油引擎的點
火時間可由火星塞點火時間及噴油時間來決
定，但均質進氣壓燃引擎的點火則需將汽缸內
油氣混合物控制到自燃的狀態來達成。另外，
為實現均質進氣壓燃，系統中一些限制條件亦
須被列入考慮。首先，燃燒速率或汽缸內壓力
增加率應受限制以防止類似爆震的情形發
生。因此，必須使用約束控制來決定供油量及
排氣回吸的程度。其次，各驅動器可使用的範
圍亦須列入考量，例如閥門開啟的大小。為了
發展以模型為基礎的控制器，我們將以一現有
的均質進氣壓燃引擎模型為基礎，並進一步擴
展此一模型。有了此一以物理為基礎的模型，
再加上種種須考慮的限制及多組驅動器，使得
最佳化的模型預測控制器成了最佳的選擇。模
型將被用來預測未來一段時間內系統的變
化，而最佳化的法則則確保了在滿足種種限制
條件下達到最佳的性能。 
關鍵詞：均質進氣壓燃引擎、離散時間、模型
預測控制 
Abstract 
Homogeneous Charge Compression 
Ignition (HCCI) engines provide a possible 
solution for affordable, efficient and 
clean-burning power sources for either 
stationary power generator or advanced vehicles. 
In fact, HCCI engines integrate the advantages 
of both the spark ignition (SI) and compression 
ignition (CI) engines: (i) high fuel efficiency 
resulting from high compression ratio and rapid 
heat release and (ii) low NOx and low 
particulate matter (PM) emissions due to low 
cylinder peak temperature. Control of the HCCI 
engine, however, is difficult since its ignition 
cannot be directly actuated. The autoignition 
timing of HCCI combustion is determined by 
the cylinder charge conditions, rather than the 
spark timing or the fuel injection timing that are 
used to initiate combustion in SI and CI engines, 
respectively. Instead, controlled autoignition 
requires regulation of the charge properties, 
especially charge temperature, as demonstrated 
by many experimental results. Moreover, in 
order to realize the HCCI technology, several 
3 
the exhaust gas heat, which can increase the 
charge temperature for the next cycle and thus 
determine the ignition and the exhaust 
temperature of the subsequent cycle [7], [8]. 
Control synthesis and design for such an 
engine thus requires a model that can capture the 
effects of the valve actuators on the charge 
conditions and the HCCI combustion 
characteristics. Moreover, in order to realize the 
HCCI technology, several constraints in the 
system need to be considered. First, the 
combustion rate or cylinder pressure gradient 
should be constrained to avoid knocking. Since 
point-wise in time constraints in the combustion 
rate is needed constrained control will be 
necessary for the fuel and rebreathing lift 
commands. Second, the actuator constrains such 
as the limit range of the valve lift should also be 
explicitly take into account. For the purpose of 
model-based control development, a HCCI 
engine model is developed in section 2 by 
extending a single cylinder HCCI engine model 
in [7], [9]. The existence of a physics-based 
engine model, pointwise-in-time constraints and 
multiple actuators motivate the application of 
model-based optimization-control approaches 
such as Model Predictive Control (MPC). The 
model is used to predict the behavior of the 
system over a future horizon and an 
optimization-based methodology ensures 
optimal performance and satisfaction of 
constraints. 
A brief introduction of the engine model is 
included in section 2; development of the Model 
Predictive Control (MPC) strategy is presented 
in section 3; followed by the simulation results 
in section 4 and conclusions in section 5. 
 
2. Model  
The model we use in this control study is 
modified from the mean value model (MVM) in 
[7], [9] where the cylinder is modeled as a pump 
based on cycle-average cylinder flows. Fig. 2 
shows the schematic diagram associated with 
the engine model. This engine model includes 
three relevant volumes: (i) the intake manifold 
denoted with subscript 1, (ii) the exhaust 
manifold denoted with subscript 2, and (iii) the 
cylinder denoted with subscript c. The 
atmospheric conditions are denoted with 
subscript 0. For each volume, volumes are 
denoted with V, pressures with p, temperatures 
with T, and masses with m. The rate of the flow 
from volume x to volume y is denoted as Wxy 
and is calculated based on the orifice flow 
equation ([13], Appendix C). A heat exchanger 
(HEX) maintains the intake manifold at 
isothermal conditions, T1=90oC (363oK). 
 
Fig. 2 Schematic diagram and notation for the 
mean value model  
 
In order to apply Model Predictive Control 
technique, the unit delay representing the 
effective average mass flow from the cylinder to 
the exhaust manifold Wc2 in the original model 
in [7], [9] is replaced with three unit delays from 
the inputs to avoid direct feed-through from 
inputs to outputs.  
 
 
( ) ( )( )
( ) ( )( )
( ) ( )( )tFuelftW
pptRBLftW
pptEGRftW
f
cc
=+
=+
=+
τ
τ
τ
22
1221
,,
,,
     (1) 
5 
)|( kiku +∆  are the predicted control 
increments over the control horizon Hu, and 
refyδ  is the reference value. Note that in order 
to reduce the complexity of the finite horizon 
optimization problem, the horizons are chosen 
as Hu < Hp and the control signal is assumed to 
be constant after Hu cycles. Thus the number of 
decision variables in the optimization problem 
increases with Hu and is independent of Hp. The 
matrices 0≥Q  and 0>R  are weighting 
matrices, which are assumed to be constant over 
the prediction horizon. Only the current control 
signal )(kuδ  computed by the control 
increment )|( kku∆  is applied to the process. 
The remaining samples )|( kiku +∆  are 
discarded, and a new optimization problem 
based on )1( +kyδ  is solved at the next 
sampling step. Thus )1( +kuδ  is then 
calculated using the receding horizon concept. 
In this report, the MATLAB MPC toolbox is 
used to facilitate design of the MPC controller. 
Integral control is used together with state 
feedback to reduce the steady-state error of the 
control input. 
  
4. Simulation Results  
In this section, the designed MPC 
controller along with Kalman estimator is 
applied to the full-order nonlinear model in 
section 2 and the closed-loop performance is 
evaluated via simulation. Close-loop results with 
LQR controller are also shown for comparison. 
The control gains in both MPC and LQR are 
tuned for optimal performance. By assuming 
first perfect measurement, the close-loop 
performance in regulating combustion timing 
CA50 and AFR during fuel step changes 
(9-10-9-8-9 mg/cycle) is demonstrated in Fig. 3. 
When fuel steps up(down), both MPC and LQR 
decreases(increases) RBL and EGR to regulate 
combustion timing CA50 and AFR 
simultaneously. The MPC controller achieves 
better performance during transient via finite 
horizon optimization. In Fig. 4, the controllers 
with the same control gains in the weighting 
matrices are further tested with larger fuel step 
changes(9-10-9-7-9 mg/cycle). The MPC 
controller again performs better than LQR 
during transient. Moreover, even though both 
controllers are able to regulate combustion 
timing CA50 and AFR at steady state, the 
actuator signals commanded by LQR exceed the 
hardware constraints at some points. 
Specifically, the RBL commanded by LQR 
exceeds the maximum valve lift (4 mm) when 
fueling level changes to 7 mg/cycle. The EGR 
commanded by LQR drops to negative valve 
opening areas during transient when fuel steps 
up from 7 to 9 mg/cycle. The MPC controller, 
on the other hand, is able to regulate combustion 
timing CA50 and AFR without violating the 
actuator constraints.  
 
Fig. 3 Controlled responses with MPC and LQR 
during fuel steps 9-10-9-8-9 mg/cycle (without 
measurement noise)  
 
7 
satisfaction of constraints. Simulation results 
show that the MPC controller, designed based 
on finite horizon optimization, achieves better 
performance than a LQR controller during 
transient. Moreover, the MPC controller 
achieves more effective constraint handling than 
LQR as the control action can be chosen such 
that the constraints are not violated in the future. 
 
6. Acknowledgements 
This work is funded by National Science 
Council under grant NSC-97-2221-E-011-072. 
 
7. References  
[1] J. O. Olsson, P. Tunestal, B. Johansson, S. 
Fiveland, R. Agama, M. Willi, and D. 
Assanis, “Compression ratio influence on 
maximum load of a natural gas fueled HCCI 
engine,” SAE paper 2002-01-0111. 
[2] D. S. Stanglmaier and E. Roberts, 
“Homogenous charge compression ignition 
(HCCI): Benefits, compromises, and future 
engine applications,” SAE paper 
1999-01-3682. 
[3] R. H. Thring, “Homogeneous-charge 
compression-ignition (HCCI) engines,” SAE 
paper 892068. 
[4] P. Najt and D. Foster, “Compression-ignited 
homogeneous charge combustion,” SAE 
paper 830264. 
[5] C. J. Chiang and A. G. Stefanopoulou, 
“Sensitivity analysis of combustion timing 
and duration of homogeneous charge 
compression ignition (HCCI) engines,” in 
Proc. of the American Control Conf., 2006, 
pp. 1857-1862. 
[6] Martinez-Frias, J., Aceves, S.M., Flowers, D., 
Smith, J.R., Dibble, R., “HCCI Control by 
Thermal Management”, SAE paper 
2000-01-2869.  
[7] Rausen, D.J., Stefanopoulou A.G., Kang, 
J-M., Eng, J.A., Kuo, T.W.: “A Mean-Value 
Model for Control of Homogeneous Charge 
Compression Ignition (HCCI) Engines”, 
ASME Journal of Dynamic Systems, 
Measurement, and Control, vol. 127, no. 3, 
pp. 355-362 (2005).  
[8] Shaver, G.M., Gerdes, J.C., Jain, P., Caton, 
P.A., Edwards, C.F.: “Dynamic Modeling of 
HCCI Engines utilizing Variable Valve 
Actuation”, ASME Journal of Dynamic 
Systems, Measurement, and Control, vol. 
127, no. 3, pp. 374-381 (2005). 
[9] C. J. Chiang, “Modeling and control of 
homogeneous charge compression ignition 
engines with high dilution,” C. J. Chiang's 
Ph.D. Dissertation. 
[10] J. M. Maciejowski, “Predictive Control 
with Constraints,” Prentice Hall, Essex, 
England  2002. 
[11] C. R. D. Mayne, J. Rawlings and P. 
Scokaert, “Constrained model predictive 
control: Stability and optimality,” 
Automatica, vol. 36, pp. 789-814, 2000. 
[12] T. J. P. Tondel and A. Bemporad, “An 
algorithm for multi-parametric quadratic 
programming and explicit MPC solutions,” 
Automatica, vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 489.497, 
March 2003. 
[13] F. Borrelli, “Constrained Optimal Control 
of Linear and Hybrid Systems,” Number 290 
in Lecture Notes in Control and Information 
Sciences, Springer-Verlag, 2003. 
 
 
 
 
 
