II 
目錄 
封面……………………………………………………………………………………………..Ⅰ 
目錄……………………………………………………………………………………………..Ⅱ 
中、英文摘要、關鍵字………………………………………………………………………..Ⅲ 
報告內容………………………………………………………………………………………..1 
計畫成果自評…………………………………………………………………………………..9 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表…………………………………………………………………..10 
 
1 
報告內容 
 
Introduction 
 
In recent years the development and evolution in Digital Game Industry or in the Interactive Interface of Virtual 
Reality are heading into a diversified environment. Large number of tangible interface are developed and presented 
in the market. The most significant one is the Wii Operation handle, which is the hottest item in last year. These 
signaled that the reduced cost of detective electronic parts and popular of related techniques will enable the 
meaningful or potentially developed traditional data to be developed into digitized interactive form. One of the 
examples is the research and development of Tangible Interface of Puppet Show [3]. In this research, it is intended to 
turn and present the Budaixi (Taiwan Puppet Show), one of the forms of Taiwan traditional entertainment that well 
received by the public on a 3D Stage in computer screen. With the digital analysis of control and manipulation of 
puppets, it is expected to develop tangible interface at the lowest possible cost, so that any one interested in this type 
of show can learn the operation of Budaixi through this system, so that the Taiwan unique Budaixi can be more 
popular, and become international. 
 
Budaixi was first known in Ming Dynasty of China, and was brought into Taiwan from Fujian at the later part of 
Ching Dynasty. It was then prosperous for almost 20 years. In few decades ago, the TV’s Budai Show further joined 
audio and video, as well as laser technologies plus the movie shooting approach into the show with bizarre and 
complicate stories to replace the traditional show that teaches moral teachings. It had successfully attracted audience 
who are seeking for change all the time. The subordinated comic books, novels and figures followed. They are not 
only favored widely by the public in Taiwan, but also in USA and in part of European countries, they enjoy 
popularity to noticeable level. 
 
The puppet of Budaixi is controlled, and operated by palm. After fitting palm into the hollow part of puppet, the 
thumb and middle finger are employed to control the arms of puppet while the index finger is used to control the 
head of puppet, show in Fig 1. In order to fit with the control of palm and fingers, the puppet has generally with 
height of 30 cm approximately. The basic elements are skeleton, dress and helmet. Skeleton can be further divided 
into head, body (fabric), hands, legs (fabric) and shoes. (Fig 2) 
 
 
Figure 1 Relation between Puppet and the palm of the hand 
 
3 
characterized into Sheng, Dan, Jing, Cho and Tsa. Their differences are basically displayed by the difference of their 
head, which may be size, appearance, hair, mustache, designs and colors on face. 
 
 
Figure 4 Category of character  
 
When divided by the dresses and helmet, their occupation may be told: The one with robe of python is the emperor, 
and it may be the dress of civil or military official. The upper part of the dress is embroidered with python (dragon) 
and the lower half is embroidered into sea waves in yellow, brown, green, blue, white and black to tell the rank and 
among them, golden yellow is for emperor. 
 
2.2 The Body Motions of Puppet 
The inside dress of puppets is made of clothes which make them look like cloth bags, so in the translation of literal 
meaning it could be “The show of Cloth-Bag Puppet.” The basic operation is as follows: 
 
Figure 5 Python (dragon) dress 
 
z Open the palm, stick your index finger up; 
z If you want to make puppet turning their head, you have to attach the bottom of your thumb to the bottom of 
the neck of puppets to tightly hold and control the head of puppets. (Fig 6) In addition, if you want to make the 
puppets nod or look down, you have to bend only the second knuckle of your index finger so that puppets will 
not become hunchbacks. (Fig 7) 
z Use the top of your middle finger and thumb to control the right and left arms of puppets. 
z When you want to make puppets walk, you should act like you are patting a ball, but you have to move your 
wrists too up and down. 
 
5 
The motion is to use either your thumb or middle finger to touch the index finger, so the fingers should bend to the 
same degree, and do the motion repeatedly. 
 
 
Figure 8 Action of finger in “Cheerful” 
 
Let us see the disassembled drawing of this motion from the front (Fig. 9). The actual degree of freedom of the 
fingers is two dimensions. In other words, the motion “knock gently with one finger” is activated by bending the 
thumb and the middle finger about X-axis and at the mean time revolving fingers by taking Y-axis as a center. But in 
order to reduce the degree of freedom, we only take the bending and angles which having X-axis as center line again 
let us take another two motion combinations for example, “Furious,” and “Modest.” The first motion, “Furious,” is 
consistent in the aspect from X-axis, but based on the aspect from Y-axis, it is not. As a result, we have to decide how 
to deal with it according to the following motion. The second motion looks the same from both axes. The former 
bends at seventy to eighty degrees while the latter bends at thirty to fifty degrees. And there is another difference 
between them. When the former makes the second motion, it shakes repeatedly, but the latter will stop at forty to five 
degrees about 0.5 to 1 second, and then it will bend to eighty degrees, and shake repeatedly as the former one does, 
like Fig. 10. 
 
 
Figure 9 The action has two rotations with x and y axis  
7 
University and this research is in the study of puppet motion and the improvement of control point [4]. From the 
previous section we see that in the current stage of study we have successfully disassembled those important 
“animation” of puppet into single degree of freedom finger motions. The mission followed is to have the data of 
finger motion read by system to enable the 3D character to perform the required action through the 
action-assembling rules as described in section 1. 
 
In the following from Fig. 11 through 12 is the testing prototype of this system which is the same as illustrated by 
two animations of “angry” and “modest”. The single dimension information is obtained through 5DT Glove which 
shall be read by the system to determine what animation shall be performed by a character, and at the mean time the 
facial expression of puppet is introduced for supporting.  
 
 
Figure 11 “Angry” show in VR platform 
 
Figure 12 “Modest” show in VR platform 
 
5.  Conclusion and Expectation in the Future 
 
Currently the research is in progress as stated in Section 4. We have successfully to enable the puppet to possess the 
correct animation by detecting the single dimension finer motion. A break through on the most complicate and 
delicate part in the whole field of puppet show has been made. The remaining parts are the shifting and rotation of 
hand. The techniques for these parts can be easily achieved by employing low cost electronic products. It is believed 
that one year later the integration of an overall virtual stage needed for puppet show can be achieved, and expectedly 
the culture of Taiwan puppet show can be propagated farther through internet. 
 
References 
 
[1] Wai-Chung Ho, Music and cultural politics in Taiwan, International Journal of Cultural Studies 2007, 10; 
463-483 
 
[2] Y.-B. Zhu, C.-J. Li, I. F. Shen, K.-L. Ma, A. Stompel, A new form of traditional art: visualsimulation of Chinese 
shadow play, Proceedings of the SIGGRAPH 2003 conference on Sketches & applications, San Diego, California, 
9 
計畫成果自評 
 
項目 自評 說明 
研究內容與原計畫相符程度 是 研究內容一致 
達成預期目標情況 是(80%) 實體界面系統因在研究過程中發現更佳之
解決方案，因此，在第二年計劃中將完成。
研究成果之學術或應用價值 是 學術價格以及應用發展之基礎 
是否適合在學術期刊發表或申
請專利 
是 學術期刊(投稿待審中) 
主要發現或其他有關價值 有 除原本之研究外，也發現可深入研究之相關
課題。將於 99 年度研究案提出。 
 
ANALYSIS OF CHARACTER ANIMATION CONTROL IN VIRTUAL 
TAIWAN-PUPPET SHOW 
 
Yang Wang 
Takming University of Science and Technology, Department of Multimedia Design 
56, Sec. 1, Huanshan Rd., Neihu, Taipei 11551 
Taiwan (R.O.C) 
yangwang@takming.edu.tw 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Taiwan Puppet Show (Budaixi) [1] is a unique and mini 
theater of Taiwan. In the recent 20 Years, many scholars in 
folk culture converted puppet show, stage and script into 
digital data, but they are nothing more than the purpose of 
collection [2]. Even the world renowned troupe, Pili 
Budaixi (Puppet Show) who introduced the computer 
special effect into drama, but there is no researcher who 
turns Budaixi into 3D characters to play on Virtual stage. 
The purpose of this plan is to convert the hand manipulated 
Budaixi into virtual show and to seek for most simplified 
and most cost effective Tangible Interface. In order to 
achieve this goal, we need to make in-depth research of the 
moves of puppet. The moves of puppets are completely 
controlled by changes in the motions of palm and fingers. 
Hence, it is necessary to find out a protocol to reduce the 
degree of freedom of operation. This study is expected to 
extend a hand to the skill heritage and culture transition, 
and when it is successfully applied in the entertainment 
world, it could well build another popular culture. 
 
KEY WORDS 
Visualization and computer graphics, taiwan puppet show, 
budaixi , tangible interface, character animation 
 
 
1.  Introduction 
 
In recent years the development and evolution in Digital 
Game Industry or in the Interactive Interface of Virtual 
Reality are heading into a diversified environment. Large 
number of tangible interface are developed and presented in 
the market. The most significant one is the Wii Operation 
handle, which is the hottest item in last year. These signaled 
that the reduced cost of detective electronic parts and 
popular of related techniques will enable the meaningful or 
potentially developed traditional data to be developed into 
digitized interactive form. One of the examples is the 
research and development of Tangible Interface of Puppet 
Show [3]. In this research, it is intended to turn and present 
the Budaixi (Taiwan Puppet Show), one of the forms of 
Taiwan traditional entertainment that well received by the 
public on a 3D Stage in computer screen. With the digital 
analysis of control and manipulation of puppets, it is 
expected to develop tangible interface at the lowest possible 
cost, so that any one interested in this type of show can 
learn the operation of Budaixi through this system, so that 
the Taiwan unique Budaixi can be more popular, and 
become international. 
 
Budaixi was first known in Ming Dynasty of China, and 
was brought into Taiwan from Fujian at the later part of 
Ching Dynasty. It was then prosperous for almost 20 years. 
In few decades ago, the TV’s Budai Show further joined 
audio and video, as well as laser technologies plus the 
movie shooting approach into the show with bizarre and 
complicate stories to replace the traditional show that 
teaches moral teachings. It had successfully attracted 
audience who are seeking for change all the time. The 
subordinated comic books, novels and figures followed. 
They are not only favored widely by the public in Taiwan, 
but also in USA and in part of European countries, they 
enjoy popularity to noticeable level. 
 
The puppet of Budaixi is controlled, and operated by palm. 
After fitting palm into the hollow part of puppet, the thumb 
and middle finger are employed to control the arms of 
puppet while the index finger is used to control the head of 
puppet, show in Fig 1. In order to fit with the control of 
palm and fingers, the puppet has generally with height of 30 
cm approximately. The basic elements are skeleton, dress 
and helmet. Skeleton can be further divided into head, body 
(fabric), hands, legs (fabric) and shoes. (Fig 2). 
 
646-048 182
2.2  The Body Motions of Puppet 
 
The inside dress of puppets is made of clothes which make 
them look like cloth bags, so in the translation of literal 
meaning it could be “The show of Cloth-Bag Puppet.” The 
basic operation is as follows: 
 
Figure 5 Python (dragon) dress 
 
z Open the palm, stick your index finger up; 
z If you want to make puppet turning their head, you 
have to attach the bottom of your thumb to the bottom 
of the neck of puppets to tightly hold and control the 
head of puppets. (Fig 6) In addition, if you want to 
make the puppets nod or look down, you have to bend 
only the second knuckle of your index finger so that 
puppets will not become hunchbacks. (Fig 7) 
z Use the top of your middle finger and thumb to 
control the right and left arms of puppets. 
z When you want to make puppets walk, you should act 
like you are patting a ball, but you have to move your 
wrists too up and down. 
 
 
Figure 6 How to turning Puppet’s head 
 
In general, traditional puppets, mostly made of wood, 
cannot have expressions except for very few puppets which 
have movable lips and eyes; therefore, there are a lot of 
motion combinations are employed to express and 
emphasize the emotions of puppets. On the other hand, 
many scenes require certain successive motions as an 
opening, ending, or the presentation of the plot. There are 
different types of dramas in the world have the similar skills 
Ballet is one example. 
 
 
Figure 7 Puppets nod 
 
 
3.  Analysis of Degree of Freedom 
 
In the section we will observe from different angles on the 
focus of the emotional motions, and base on the common 
points and motions to discuss the reduction of degree of 
freedom. In section 2.2 it is mentioned that the expression 
of emotions is shown through particular motion 
combinations. 
 
Table 1 Parts of emotions and movements 
Emotion Motion 1 Motion  2 Motion 3 
Angry   Shake head 
once heavily 
Open arms Bulge chest and 
belly 
Furious Put down hands 
straight 
Shake head Shake and lift 
body backward 
Think 
(ponder) 
Head down a 
little bit 
Knock gently 
with one hand 
Body still 
Modest Put hands on 
belly 
Bend waist a 
little bit 
Nod repeatedly 
 
In the Table shown above, among those three motions, we 
can omit the feet motion and turning around motion; then 
remove the non-finger motion at first. Consequently, we can 
easily find some features from the rest of the motions. 
There are also some similar points, in fact. Some simple 
examples are shown in Table 2 below; we then turn the 
motions (Furious and Modest) into finger motions and list 
them in Table 3. Now let us examine how the motions are 
simplified. In the first row, the first motion of “think 
(ponder)” is to “nod the head down a little bit,” which is a 
motion that bends your index finger about thirty degrees. 
The successive motion is to “knock gently with one hand.” 
The motion is to use either your thumb or middle finger to 
touch the index finger, so the fingers should bend to the 
same degree, and do the motion repeatedly. 
 
184
4.  The Development of the Tangible Interface  
    and System 
 
Nanyang Technological University in Singapore has 
developed an automatic electro-mechanical system for 
operating a puppet by utilizing the study of puppet 
operation and control including fine string connection and 
principle of mechanical kinematics to enable the motion of 
puppet much more close to a real man. This is a good 
example of combination of traditional arts and modern 
technology. The similarity of the research of Nanyang 
Technological University and this research is in the study of 
puppet motion and the improvement of control point [4]. 
From the previous section we see that in the current stage of 
study we have successfully disassembled those important 
“animation” of puppet into single degree of freedom finger 
motions. The mission followed is to have the data of finger 
motion read by system to enable the 3D character to 
perform the required action through the action-assembling 
rules as described in section 1. 
 
In the following from Fig. 11 through 12 is the testing 
prototype of this system which is the same as illustrated by 
two animations of “angry” and “modest”. The single 
dimension information is obtained through 5DT Glove 
which shall be read by the system to determine what 
animation shall be performed by a character, and at the 
mean time the facial expression of puppet is introduced for 
supporting.  
 
 
Figure 11 “Angry” show in VR platform 
 
Figure 12 “Modest” show in VR platform 
 
 
5.  Conclusion and Expectation in the Future 
 
Currently the research is in progress as stated in Section 4. 
We have successfully to enable the puppet to possess the 
correct animation by detecting the single dimension finer 
motion. A break through on the most complicate and 
delicate part in the whole field of puppet show has been 
made. The remaining parts are the shifting and rotation of 
hand. The techniques for these parts can be easily achieved 
by employing low cost electronic products. It is believed 
that one year later the integration of an overall virtual stage 
needed for puppet show can be achieved, and expectedly 
the culture of Taiwan puppet show can be propagated 
farther through internet. 
 
 
Acknowledgement 
 
This research was supported by the National Science 
Council of Taiwan under the grant NSC97-2221-E-147-006.  
 
 
References 
 
[1] Wai-Chung Ho, Music and cultural politics in Taiwan, 
International Journal of Cultural Studies 2007, 10; 463-483 
 
[2] Y.-B. Zhu, C.-J. Li, I. F. Shen, K.-L. Ma, A. Stompel, A 
new form of traditional art: visualsimulation of Chinese 
shadow play, Proceedings of the SIGGRAPH 2003 
conference on Sketches & applications, San Diego, 
California, USA, 2003 
 
[3] Ali Mazalek, Michael Nitsche, Tangible Interfaces for 
Real-Time 3D Virtual Environments, ACE’07, Salzburg, 
Austria, 2007, 155-162 
 
[4] I-Ming Chen, Raymond Tay, Shusong Xing and 
Song Huat Yeo, Marionette: From Traditional Manipulation 
to Robotic Manipulation, International Symposium on 
History of Machines and Mechanisms, Springer 
Netherlands, 2004, 119-133. 
 
186
 
ACSE 2009 FOREWORD 
 
This year, ACSE 2009 is continuing the IASTED’s tradition to bring together international researchers 
and practitioners working at the cutting edge of scientific computing, computational biology and 
medicine, and bioinformatics, in order to promote the growth of interdisciplinary computer science, 
engineering, and technology research,  ACSE 2009 proudly serves as forum to strengthen our 
community especially in this emerging region of the world.  
 
This year, IASTED ACSE 2009 is convening amid the first major world financial crisis of this century. 
For majority of us, we must deal with the aftershock of these past excesses of others. This makes many 
of us wondering whether we have ways and means to analyse, predict, monitor, or even prevent the 
crisis from happening. 
 
As it has frequently happened in the history, there are always opportunities amid the crises. This 
unprecedented crisis alerts us and raises our awareness of the needs for better and more effective 
monitoring tools for financial sector. And for some of us, one of the new thrusts of research for the next 
few years will be the creation of methods or techniques for analysis, predictions, monitoring, controlling, 
and prevention of such a catastrophic event. And I personally believe that our ACSE community has a 
great deal to offer in this regard. 
 
Finally, IASTED ACSE 2009 wishes all the participants a productive conference and a pleasant and 
memorable stay in Thailand. 
 
Voratas Kachitvichyanukul, Conference Chair 
ACSE 2009 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Relation between Puppet and the palm of the 
hand 
 
This research is supported by National Science Council 
with funds, and the project is divided into two phases for 
execution. The first phase is collection and analysis of the 
moves of puppet. The basic operation of puppet includes 
locations and bending of 3 fingers, the rotation of palm 
(with arm as the axis) and the shifting of palm. The most 
complicate and delicate part is in fingers. So, we first 
exclude the rotation and shifting of palm which has lowest 
technical cost. Thereafter, the number of operation sensor 
needs be reduced are those corresponding to fingers. This is 
the most important part for reducing cost of future products. 
The key points of this research are to analyze the moves of 
puppet and transfer the results to the corresponding 3D 
Character Animation. The second phase is to incorporate 
the result of research in the first phase, i.e. low degree of 
freedom operation and prototype of character motion, into 
stage system and actually produce the tangible interface for 
Virtual Taiwan Puppet Show. 
  
Figure 2 Character of Taiwan Puppet Show 
 
 
Figure 3 Method of Puppet’s operation 
 
 
2.  Budai Puppet Operations 
 
Following the above research assumption, we will make 
simplification against thumb, index finger and middle 
fingers, and find out the difference and continuity of their 
motion, so that we may be able to apply control over the 
virtual puppet (i.e. character). At beginning, we need to 
have an understanding of the traditional scripts and the 
puppet control to a certain level. 
 
2.1  Character of Puppet 
 
Puppet is the focus of audience in a Budai Show and their 
existence is where the essence of drama is emitted 
substantially. The styling of puppet is not far from the 
real-men play. They can be old or young, villain or decent 
character, they can be active or passive and they can be of 
any age, status or personality. The characters are generally 
characterized into Sheng, Dan, Jing, Cho and Tsa. Their 
differences are basically displayed by the difference of their 
head, which may be size, appearance, hair, mustache, 
designs and colors on face. 
 
 
Figure 4 Category of character  
 
When divided by the dresses and helmet, their occupation 
may be told: The one with robe of python is the emperor, 
and it may be the dress of civil or military official. The 
upper part of the dress is embroidered with python (dragon) 
and the lower half is embroidered into sea waves in yellow, 
brown, green, blue, white and black to tell the rank and 
among them, golden yellow is for emperor. 
 
183
 Figure 8 Action of finger in “Cheerful” 
 
Let us see the disassembled drawing of this motion from the 
front (Fig. 9). The actual degree of freedom of the fingers is 
two dimensions. In other words, the motion “knock gently 
with one finger” is activated by bending the thumb and the 
middle finger about X-axis and at the mean time revolving 
fingers by taking Y-axis as a center. But in order to reduce 
the degree of freedom, we only take the bending and angles 
which having X-axis as center line again let us take another 
two motion combinations for example, “Furious,” and 
“Modest.” The first motion, “Furious,” is consistent in the 
aspect from X-axis, but based on the aspect from Y-axis, it 
is not. As a result, we have to decide how to deal with it 
according to the following motion. The second motion 
looks the same from both axes. The former bends at seventy 
to eighty degrees while the latter bends at thirty to fifty 
degrees. And there is another difference between them. 
When the former makes the second motion, it shakes 
repeatedly, but the latter will stop at forty to five degrees 
about 0.5 to 1 second, and then it will bend to eighty 
degrees, and shake repeatedly as the former one does, like 
Fig. 10. 
 
 
Figure 9 The action has two rotations with x and y axis  
 
 
Figure 10 Comparisons between “Angry” and “Modest” 
 
Table 2 Part of emotion and animation after electing 
Emotion  Motion 1  Motion 2  Motion 3 
Thinking Hang head a 
little  
Knocking with 1 
hand  
 
Furious  Hold down with 
2 hands 
Head shivering a 
little  
 
Modest  hold abdomen 
with hands  
Bending waist a 
little  
Nod continually  
 
Table 3 Relationship between finger animation and 
angle after decreasing the degree of freedom  
Emotion Action 1  Action 2  Action 3 
Furious Bending middle 
finger and thumb 
to almost 180 
degrees 
Bending and stretch 
out forefinger 
between  repeatedly 
between 0~20 
degree 
 
Modest Bending 
forefinger and 
thumb to 180 
degree 
approximately 
Bending forefinger 
to 45 degree  
Bending –stretch 
out forefinger to 
30~50 degree 
repeatedly and 
slightly. 
 
 
 
 
185
