摘   要 
許多傳統木構造在九二一地震後遭到嚴重的破壞，過去分析結果顯示部分接點在柱材內有斷
開的狀況與屋頂重量太大皆是造成這些嚴重損壞的主因。因此如何針對傳統穿鬬式木構架接
點提出有效的補強策略成為我們現在的當務之急。在討論國際規章的規範後，我們可以理
解，未來的補強策略應該是可回復的，而且最好利用同樣或接近的材料來補強；基於此，利
用木拴補強成為本研究案的研究內容。 
本研究案利用足尺實驗探討不同木栓尺寸與接點邊界條件下木拴補強的效率。在足尺進行實
驗後，本研究案修正歐洲降服理論（European Yield Model）中的若干係數，使之適合本土
材料，並針對補強後的接點彎矩-旋轉行為進行分析，建立理論力學模型以評估整體的行為。
最後在簡化理論模型後，將提出簡易的評估公式，供作未來業界使用。並針對如何最佳化木
拴補強做一探討。 
 
關鍵字：穿鬪式木構造、補強、集集地震 
 
Abstract 
Many traditional timber structures were destroyed during the 921 Chi-Chi earthquake on 1999. 
The analyses afterward indicated that the weaknesses of the traditional timber structures include 
discontinuity of beam elements in the column and the heavy roof weight. Since then, how to 
reinforce or enhance the structural performance of timber joints becomes an urgent need in Taiwan. 
The reinforcement strategy should be reversible and make use of similar material if possible. 
Therefore, the objective of this research is to explore the possibility for reinforcing the timber 
joints by using wooden peg. 
To discuss the efficiency of the reinforcing timber joints by using wooden peg, the factors 
discussed include the edge distance, the end distance as well as peg diameters. The European Yield 
Model will be modified based on domestic materials, and theoretical model will be established to 
estimate the   relationship of timber joints after reinforcement. The theoretical model will be 
further simplified to make the model applicable for practice. Lastly, how to optimize the wooden 
peg reinforcement will be discussed in this project. 
 
Keywords: Chuan-Dou timber structures, Reinforcement, Chi-Chi earthquake
 
圖二  九二一地震中穿鬬式木構造破壞情形 
 
木構接點另一個結構特色在於接點的初始滑移部分。由於傳統木構造多為匠師利用手工
製作，由於施工本身誤差導致梁與柱接點之間必定存在縫隙，而現場調查發現這樣的縫隙鮮
少利用木製的楔子予以補強以避免接點的初始滑移。因此在經過實驗後可以發現木接點的彎
矩-旋轉角如圖三所示，剛開始時因為梁與柱之間有縫隙，因此必定會有一個階段沒有辦法
抵抗彎矩，而整個接點行為如同鉸接（Hinge）一般，在縫隙因為旋轉而消失，即梁與柱開
始產生接觸後，才逐漸有彎矩的抵抗力[2]。因此如何避免產生初始滑移，使得木構造在最
初的階段即有能力抵抗水平側向力亦是相當重要的議題。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖三  標準木造接點的彎矩-旋轉關係圖 
 
綜上所述我們可以瞭解，不論是斷開對接或是燕尾榫搭接的接點，其在構造力學上的缺
點是相當明顯的，包括：（1）旋轉勁度與極限彎矩下降與（2）容易產生初始滑移。因此如
何針對這樣的接點缺陷進行補強便成為相當重要的議題。另外，所提出的補強措施，亦應依
照國際上所認可的『歷史木造建築保存原則』（Principles for the Preservation of 
Historic Timber Buildings）對於新工法修復的明確規定：『…若是在技術上可能的話，使
揮最大的效果。 
 
 
 
圖四 接點經過木栓補強，並受到外力達 1/10 旋轉角時狀況 
 
 
 
表二 各系列實驗結果 
編號 平均旋轉進度（kg-m/rad） 標準差（kg-m/rad） 
H12-ED-10 319.3 37.2 
H12-ED-25 347.1 53.7 
H12-ED-50 287.7 33.1 
H18-ED-10 374.8 62.9 
H18-ED-20 416.5 59.8 
H18-ED-25 345.6 44.7 
 
同樣的，我們比較 H18 系列的實驗結果亦可以發現相同的現象。H18-ED-20 系列的旋轉
進度最高，因其末端距離與邊界距離皆滿足最小距離的要求，使得木栓的功能得以發揮。對
於 ED-10 的試體亦可以發現邊界距離不足，而 ED-25 則是末端距離不足，因此皆無法使木栓
得到最大的效果。 
另外，在比較 H12-ED-25 系列與 H18-ED-20 系列實驗結果可以發現，利用 18mm 木栓補
強的效果顯著較 12mm 木栓補強結果還要來的好，整個接點的旋轉勁度大約提升 20%左右。 
 
 
Research efforts being devoted to traditional 
Chuan-Dou timber structures after Chi-Chi 
earthquake in Taiwan 
Min-Fu Hsu and Wen-Shao Chang 
Department of Architecture, National Cheng-Kung University, Taiwan 
Abstract 
The Chi-Chi earthquake of 1999 stroke many traditional timber structures, which 
resulted in irreversible disaster to cultural heritage in Taiwan. Since then, many 
efforts had been devoted to investigation on the structural behaviour of these 
historic buildings. This paper addresses the efforts being invested to studies on 
the issue aforementioned. Timber is one of the materials that frequently used in 
historic buildings in Taiwan. A five-year research project was initiated to explore 
the structural behaviour of traditional Chuan-Dou timber structures. The project 
involved explorations on the mechanical behaviour of structural components in 
the beginning, followed by studies on behaviour of the entire structure, which we 
call bottom-up approach.   
In the first stage, an extensive field survey was conducted from central to 
southern Taiwan to collect the necessary information for experimental designs 
and tectonic analyses of traditional Chuan-Dou timber structures. Later, studies 
concerning the mechanical performances of their timber connections and timber 
shear walls were carried out by experiments and analytical approaches. Tests 
were also conducted on traditional mud shear walls to obtain the strength within 
various types of bamboo lath of these mud shear walls. After mechanical 
performance of these structural components were obtained, full-scale 
experiments on traditional timber frames were then carried out to study the 
global behaviour in contrast to those of structural components. The five-year 
project in Taiwan demonstrates that the structural behaviour of these traditional 
timber structures can be studied by bottom-up process and obtain good results.   
 
Keywords:  Traditional timber structures, Heritage conservation, Taiwan 
附錄  國外研討會發表文章 
Tainan
Chiayi
Changhua
Kaohsiung
Nantou
 
Figure 2. Field survey locations in Taiwan 
 
3.   The investigation procedure 
After the field survey has been conducted, a series of experiments on structural 
components, such as timber connections, timber shear walls and much shear 
walls, was designed according to the results of the field survey. To compare the 
behaviour of components and entire structure and establish a seismic evaluation 
method, the experiments on full-scale traditional Chuan-Dou timber frames with 
two different types were also carried out under cyclic loading. 
 
 
3.1.  Experiments on timber connections 
The results of field and dismantled survey show that there exists three various 
types of joints in beam-to-column connections, they are continuous type, butted 
type and dovetail connected type as shown in Figure 3. The results also show 
that two various types of connections are used to connect the frames that are 
mutually perpendicular, which are Go-Dou connection and Stepped dovetail 
connections as illustrated in Figure 4. A series of experiments was designed to 
study the rotational stiffness of these timber connections via full-scale 
experiments.  
Butted connection 
fricfricemresfricemtotal LfLfMMM ⋅+⋅=+= )()()( θθθ                                                 (4) 
in which Mem and Mfric stands for moment resistance induced by embedment of 
wood and friction between wooden components. The components of Equation (4) 
can be calculated as follows: 
θθθβθθ
δφθθ 2
2
cossin)(
)cos1(sin
)sin(
2
1)( ⋅⋅⋅⋅⋅⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
+⋅
−−+⋅⋅= ⊥
Bd
EBBdLf wres
                                   (5) 
[ ] ( )
)cos1(sin3
1coscos2)sin()cos()(
2
θθ
θθδφθφθθ +⋅⋅
−+⋅⋅−−+⋅−+⋅= BdLLLem                             (6) 
)()( θμθ resfric ff ⋅=                                                                  (7) 
δ+= BdLfric                                                                                                          (8) 
2
2
2
1 ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛+= CwBdL , and 
Cw
Bd
⋅=
−
2
1tan
1φ                                                                 (9) 
where Cw, Bw, Bd, δ , ⊥E  and μ respectively represent the column width, 
beam width, beam depth, gap between beam and slot on the column, modulus of 
elasticity of beam component perpendicular to the grain and friction coefficient 
between wood that the grain direction is mutually perpendicular and is assumed 
as constant 0.6. 
 
Dovetail connections 
By statistical approach, the rotational stiffness and moment-rotation relationship 
of dovetail connection can be written as [1]: 
61.290223.6, −××= ⊥EBwK DCi                                                                         (10) 
)1()1887.43943.0( 835.16 θ×−⊥ −⋅−⋅×= eEBwM DC                                                 (11) 
 
 
3.1.2.  The inter-frames connections 
The inter-frame connections consist of two different types, which are Go-Dou 
connection and stepped dovetail connections as illustrated in Figure 4. In our 
previous report [6], the initial rotational stiffness and ultimate moment resistance 
of these two connections can be expressed as:  
 
For Go-Dou connections 
163.317352.2306.7 2 +××+×= DHWKi                              (12) 
WMu ×−= 459.12629.19                                          (13) 
 
For Stepped dovetail connections 
WHKi ××+= 79.8384.43                                                                                (14) 
DHWM u ××−×−−= 273.0885.0801.18 2                          (15) 
 
The characteristic observed from the hysteretic loops of these inter-frame 
connections obtained from the experiments is that these connections can only 
tb
bt
EBd
EBd
,
,
⊥
⊥
⋅
⋅=ξ                                                                                                    (18) 
where nu, nb, Tb, tE ,⊥ , bE ,⊥ , Wb, Hb, Bdt and Bdb represent number of plank unit, 
number of bamboo nails used in the plank unit, plank thickness, modulus of 
elasticity perpendicular to the grain in top beam, modulus of elasticity 
perpendicular to the grain in bottom beam, plank width, plank height, top beam 
depth and bottom beam depth, respectively.  
The comparison of results obtained from experiment and that calculated from 
theoretical model proposed in this study is given in Figure 7. The Figure shows 
good agreement between results obtained from two different ways 
aforementioned. 
Figure 6. Experimental apparatus for wooden shear 
wall 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Comparison of results obtained from 
theoretical calculation and experiment.  
 
0
4
8
12
16
0 0.05 0.1 0.15
Rotation (rad.)
La
te
ra
l f
or
ce
 (k
N
)
Experimental A-1
Analytical A-1
Stiffness
Yield strength
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9. Comparison of prediction with 
experimental results. 
 
4. Conclusions and future works 
In addition to an extensive field survey, a series of experiments on structural 
components were conducted. Several models have been proposed to estimate the 
structural performance of these structural components and also verified by the 
results of experiment on full-scale timber frames with acceptable agreement. 
Focusing on the mud shear wall and propose a model to estimate the horizontal 
resistance will be our future works prior to the final report on global introduction 
to the Chuan-Dou traditional timber frames. 
 
5. Acknowledgement 
This paper was supported by from both Architectural and Building Research 
Institute and National Science Council (                  ) of Taiwan. The authors 
would like to appreciate these supports.  
 
References: 
[1] Chang, W.-S. On rotational performance of traditional Chuan-Dou timber 
joints in Taiwan. PhD dissertation, Department of Architecture of National 
Cheng Kung University, Taiwan. 2005.  
[2] Hsu, M.-F., F. Y. C. Lin, and W. S. Chang. Investigation and Analysis for 
Characteristics of Structures and Joints of Chuan-Dou Timber Frames. 
Final Report of Architecture and Building Research Institute. Taipei: 
Ministry of Interior. 2003. 
[3] Chang, W.-S., Chen, C.-J. and Hsu, M.-F.. Application of Stress Wave 
Velocity as an NDT Strategy to Examine the Typologies of Timber Joints of 
-200
-100
0
100
200
300
-0.08 -0.04 0 0.04 0.08
Story drift
M
om
en
t (
kM
-m
)
 1
「Tenth International Conference on Structural Studies, Repairs and 
Maintenance of Heritage Architecture （Stremah 2007）」（第十屆遺產建築結
構研究、修理與維護國際研討會） 
 
本國際研討會是由英國 Wessex Institute of Technology 於 1989 年發起，而於
義大利佛羅倫斯舉行，當時即設定該研討會會每兩年選擇某個歐洲國家舉辦
一次，望藉由此研討會，來提供世界各地的學者與專業者能共聚一堂，交換
彼此在遺產建築（Heritage Architecture）研究與實務上之成果與心得。今年
為第十屆，之所以選擇於布拉格舉行，乃該國擁有不少文化遺產，包括許多
已列為世界文化遺產與捷克遺產等。 
   
  本次研討會，依據會議議程資料，已註冊之參加者共計七十五人。依國別，
共計 25 國，其中以義大利之參加者最多（19 位）、英國次之（7 位）、台灣
（6 位）、美國（5 位），再者則為日本、西班牙、德國（各 4 位），荷蘭、希
臘（各 3 位），葡萄牙、土耳其、克羅埃西亞（各 2 位），其餘 14 國（法國、
比利時、香港、加拿大、捷克、墨西哥、以色列、波蘭、墨西哥、丹麥、斯
洛拉夫、紐西蘭、斯脫維亞、奈及利亞及塞維亞）皆僅一位。 
 
  本次研討會於 7 月 4 日上午 09：00 於布拉格之 Corinthia Towers Hotel 開幕，
由英國 Wessex Institute of Technology 的 Prof. C.A. Brebbia 主持。接著，其整
體之會議議程如下表所示。其中本人於 7 月 4 日下午 16:00 至 16:20 受邀進
行專題演講，題為 ”Research efforts being devoted to traditional Chuan-Dou 
timber structures after Chi-chi earthquake in Taiwan＂；並於 7 月 5 日上午 11：
00 至 12:20 受邀主持 Session 5a: Simulation and modeling (II)。 
   
  本次研討會與上次（2005 年）於 Malta 舉行之第九屆一樣，在會議舉辦時已
將所有註冊之論文編輯成書出版。此次書名為「Structural Studies, Repairs and 
Maintenance of Heritage Architecture（X）」，編者為 C.A. Brebbia，由 WIT Press
於 2007 年出版，集錄 65 篇論文，包括 section 1: Heritage architecture and 
historic aspects（13 篇），section 2: Regional architecture（6 篇），section 3: 
Non-Destructive Evaluation of Historic Masonry Structures（3 篇），section 4: 
Material characterisation（5 篇），section 5: Repair and maintenance（4 篇），
section 6: Preservation and prevention（4 篇），section 7: Structural issues（10
篇），section 8: Simulation and modelling（10 篇），section 9: Seismic 
vulnerability analysis of historic sites（2 篇），和 section 10: Seismic behaviour 
and vibration Case studies（8 篇）。 
 
 整體而言，經由此次研討會，我們參與者可以接觸到世界上各國針對遺產建
