 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  Schematic view of surface acoustic wave 
processed alignment for curing of polyimide 
film. 1- specimen coated with polyimide film, 
2- glass waveguide with wedge tip, 3- 
interdigitated transducer, 4- planar heater, 5- 
lift jack. 
surface acoustic waves generated from the SAW 
device attached on the glass waveguide can be 
amplified if the acoustic waves transmit through the 
wedge tip. A lift jack is used to sustain the incline 
of the glass waveguide. 
In experiment, an interdigitated transducer (IDT) 
made on a 128-deg-rotated Y-cut lithium niobate 
wafer was used to launch surface acoustic waves 
propagating along the X direction. The surface 
acoustic waves were launched by a 16 MHz IDT. A 
standing wave orientated along the X direction was 
formed by the combination of forward and reflected 
surface acoustic waves. The pressure gradient 
induced among the wave crests and troughs can 
cause long chained molecules, such as polyamic 
acid, polyimide, etc., aligned in the direction 
parallel to the nodal lines if a large number of 
acoustic waves are used to drive the alignment. 
The specimens were made of the PIA-5370-33C 
solvent coating on surface polished calcium fluoride 
substrates. The spin-coated polyimide specimen 
was 25.4×25 mm. The PIA-5370-33C solvent 
comprises 5 wt % polyamic acid, 30 wt % N-
methy-2-pyrrolidone, 35 wt % Butyl cellosolve, and 
30 wt % γ-Butyrolactone. Two kinds of specimens 
were made. The first sets of specimens were spin 
coated with a single layer. The second ones were 
coated with two layers. The first layer had been 
heated up to 200oC such that the polyamic acid was 
transferred into polyimide. The second layer was 
then coated with solvent for later curing. The first 
cured polyimide films were used to provide 
anchoring forces to the molecules in the second 
polyimide films.  
The molecular orientation of polyimide films is 
of difficult to be measured by common equipment 
because of its very thin thickness. Polarized IR 
absorption spectroscopy is an effective method for 
determining the anisotropic property of polyimide 
films via polarization angle dependence. The IR 
light polarized parallel to the polarization direction 
of an IR active vibration is absorbed. According to 
the polarization angle dependence at normal 
incidence, the distribution of molecular orientation 
in a film can be determined.  
1
2
3
4
5
III. RESULTS 
Fig. 2 shows the absorption spectra of the 
unrubbed and SAW processed polyimide films at 
curing temperatures of 200oC and 250oC. Each 
absorbance curve has four significant bands, 
including the C-O-C asymmetric stretching 
vibration at 1,246 1cm− , the C-N stretching 
vibration of the (OC)2NC bond at 1,375 , the 
phenyl C-C stretching vibration at 1,500 , and 
the C = O asymmetric stretching vibration at 1,724 
, respectively. The first three vibration modes 
are polarized parallel to the monomer chain. The 
higher curing temperature certainly induces better 
absorbance. The evidence indicates that SAW 
processed polyimide films significantly achieve 
higher absorbance than the unrubbed ones at either 
200oC or 250oC curing temperature. 
1cm−
1cm−
1cm−
The polarized IR absorbance of single layered 
specimens processed by SAW was below noise level. 
There was no evidence that molecular orientation of 
polyimide films was aligned by SAW. However, the 
double layered specimens had very clear anisotropic 
IR absorbance. The first layer of well-cured 
polyimide provided enough anchoring force to one 
end of each molecule such that the acoustic pressure 
gradient among wave crests and troughs can align 
the remaining part of the molecule before the liquid 
solvent evaporated. In the latter experiment, we only 
used the double layered specimens for comparing 
anisotropic infrared absorbance. 
Fig. 3 shows the polarization angle dependence 
of the 1,500  band at normal incidence. The 
1,500  band is assigned to the phenyl C-C 
stretching vibration. As mentioned before, it is 
polarized parallel to the monomer chain. The solid 
circles indicate the data points for unrubbed, rubbed 
and surface acoustic wave processed polyimide 
films. For the rubbed film, the anisotropy shown in 
Fig. 3(b) indicates that the monomer chains of 
polyimide are parallel to the rubbing direction. 
However, the monomer chains of polyimide film are 
perpendicular to the direction of acoustic wave 
propagation. In other words, the monomer chains 
become parallel to the nodal lines of the standing 
wave. The molecular reorientation is caused by 
pressure gradient among the wave crests and troughs.  
1cm−
1cm−
 2
temperature than usual by using the SAW mediated 
alignment process on the polyimide films. The 
alignment is feasible for large area flexible 
substrates. Further studies are needed although the 
present method is possible to provide good liquid 
crystal properties and mechanical stability for the 
flexible liquid crystal displays. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors would like to thank Prof. H.-M. 
Chen of Department of Photonics at NCTU for 
helpful discussions. 
REFERENCES 
[1] M. Inoue, H. Moritake, and K. Toda, “Periodic 
property of domain in nematic liquid crystal 
induced by elastic wave,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys, 
Vol. 39, pp. 3125-3129, 2000. 
[2] K. Toda, M. Inoue, H. Mokitake, and K. 
Yoshino, “Analysis of acoustic streaming in 
nematic liquid-crystal cell,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., 
Vol. 44, pp. 316-323, 2005. 
[3] J. V. Selinger, M. S Greanya, B. T. Weslowski, 
D. K. Shenoy, and R. Shashidhar, “Acoustic 
realignment of nematic liquid crystals,” Phys. 
Rev. E, Vol. 66, 051708, 2002. 
[4] V. A. Greanya, M. S. Spector, J. V. Selinger, B. 
T. Weslowski, and R. Shashidhar, “Acousto-
optic response of nematic liquid crystals,” J. 
Appl. Phys., Vol. 94, No. 12, pp. 7571-7575, 
2003. 
[5] A. P. Malanoski, V. A. Greanya, B. T. 
Weslowski, M. S. Spector, J. V. Selinger, and R. 
Shashidhar, “Theory of the acoustic 
realignment of nematic liquid crystals,” Phys. 
Rev. E, Vol. 69, 021705, 2004. 
[6] K. Sakamoto, R. Arafune, N, Ito, S. Ushioda, Y. 
Suzuki, and S. Morokawa, “Molecular 
orientation of rubbed and unrubbed polyimide 
films determined by polarized infared 
absorption,” Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 33, pp. 
1323-1326, 1994. 
[7] K. Sakamoto, R. Arafune, N. Ito, S. Ushioda, Y. 
Suzuki, and S. Morokawa, “Determination of 
molecular orientation of very thin rubbed and 
unrubbed polyimide films,” J. Appl. Phys., Vol. 
80, pp. 431-439, 1996. 
[8] L. Xuan, T. Tohyama, T. Miyashita, and T. 
Uchida, “Order parameters of the liquid crystal 
interface layer at a rubbed polymer surface,” J. 
Appl. Phys., Vol. 96, pp. 1953-1958, 2004. 
[9] S. Oberti, A. Neild, and J. Dual, “Manipulation 
of micrometer sized particles within a 
micromachined fluidic device to form two 
dimensional pattern using ultrasound,” J. 
Acoust. Soc. Am., Vo. 121, pp. 778-785, 2007. 
[10] A. Qi, L. Y. Yeo, and J. R. Friend, 
“Interfacial destabi-lization and atomization 
driven by surface acoustic waves,” Phys. Fluids, 
Vol. 20, 074103, 2008.  
[11] R. P. Hodgson, M. Tan, L. Yeo, and J. 
Friend, “Transmitting high power rf acoustic 
radiation via fluid couplants into superstrates 
for microfluidics,” Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 94, 
024102, 2009. 
[12] C. I. Cano, M. L. Clark, T. Kyu, R. B. Pipes, 
“Modeling particle inflation from poly(amic 
acid) powdered precursors. III. Experimental 
determination of kinetic parameters,” Polym. 
Eng. Sci., pp. 617-626, 2008. 
 
 4
 2
洗淨、烘乾，增加成本。聚亞醯胺的強度高，無法直接塗佈於面板表面，一般是將其前驅
物聚醯胺酸(polyamic acid)溶液塗佈於試片表面，再加熱烘烤至 200-250oC，使其去水、環
化，轉化成聚亞醯胺。本研究採用氟化鈣作為配向膜的基材，於聚醯胺酸的加熱過程中，
將表面聲波以玻璃波導傳送至試片，與邊緣反射波干涉形成駐波，聲波的壓力分佈(acoustic 
radiateon)會造成鍊狀高分子平行於波前排列。表面聲波也會產生聲流(acoustic streaming)，
造成聚醯胺酸溶液流動，因此，本文大膽採用雙層配向膜設計，先塗佈、烘烤第一層聚亞
醯胺薄膜，以氫鍵吸附第二層的聚醯胺酸分子，類似插秧的方式固著分子，再以表面聲波
使其排列方向整齊平行於波前，大幅改進配向的效果。該篇報告獲得與會者的高度興趣與
迴響。 
 
 
二、與會心得與建議 
 
IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium 會議開始的第一天，都會先舉辦數場 Tutorials 
and Short Courses，課程名稱如下： 
1. Film Bulk Acoustic Resonator (FBAR) 
2. Materials for Acoustic Wave Devices 
3. Microwave Acoustic Sensors 
4. Therapeutic Ultrasound 
5. Ultrasonic NDE and Industrial Process 
Diagnostics at High Temperatures 
6. Estimation and Imaging of Blood Flow 
Velocity 
7. SAW Modeling Techniques 
8. Piezoelectric Ultrasound Transducer 
Fundamentals – Materials, Structure, 
Behavior, and Analysis 
9. Quantitative Acoustic Microscopy – 
Fundamentals and New Applications 
from Cells to Airplanes 
10. Ultrasound Imaging Systems: from 
Principles to Implementation 
11. Passive UHF RFID Tags, Systems, and 
Applications 
12. Ultrasonic Signal Processing for 
Detection, Estimation, and Imaging 
13. Time Reversal Acoustics 
14. Ultrasound Contrast Agents: Theory and 
Experiment 
15. Zooming into the Near Field 
16. CMUTs: Theory, Technology, and 
Applications 
17. Guided SH-SAW Devices for 
Liquid-Phase Biochemical Sensors 
18. Elasticity Imaging: Dynamic Approaches 
 
個人以為這種課程對於新興的研究題目或是轉型研究者的幫助很大。國內各項學術會
議的舉辦都是為發表論文而設計，由於國內交通便利，與會學者來去匆匆，很少為剛要起
步的莘莘學子著想，倘若能勻出一些時段，邀請學有專精或各研究領域的先行者進行深入
的講解，有別於 Keynote Speakers 蜻蜓點水般的演講，相信可以吸引剛投入研究的學生或
轉型研究者，有助於國內學術研究的未來發展。 
2010 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium 將於美國加州聖地牙哥市舉行。IEEE 
IUS 的論文接受率低，水準很高，這次會議來自台灣的論文有二十六篇，顯示國內相關領
域研究蓬勃，水準很高。台灣大學電資學院李百祺教授(Pai-Chi Li)已爭取到 2014 年 IEEE 
IUS 在台灣舉辦。 
 
IEEE COPYRIGHT AND CONSENT FORM
                                            
To ensure uniformity of treatment among all contributors, other forms may not be substituted for this form, nor may any wording of the form be 
changed. This form is intended for original material submitted to the IEEE and must accompany any such material in order to be published by the 
IEEE.Please read the form carefully and keep a copy for your files.
 
TITLE OF PAPER/ARTICLE/REPORT, INCLUDING ALL CONTENT IN ANY FORM, FORMAT, OR MEDIA (hereinafter, "The
Work"):Effect of surface acoustic waves on curing of polyimide films 
 
COMPLETE LIST OF AUTHORS:Ching-Chung Yin,I-Han Chang,Kang-Che Huang 
 
IEEE PUBLICATION TITLE (Journal, Magazine, Conference, Book):2009 IEEE Ultrasonics Symposium
 
COPYRIGHT TRANSFER
1. The undersigned hereby assigns to The Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Incorporated (the  IEEE ) all rights under copyright that
may exist in and to: (a) the above Work, including any revised or expanded derivative works submitted to the IEEE by the undersigned based on the
Work; and (b) any associated written or multimedia components or other enhancements accompanying the Work. 
                  
See Retained Rights ,below.
 
CONSENT AND RELEASE
2. In the event the undersigned makes a presentation based upon the Work at a conference hosted or sponsored in whole or in part by the IEEE, the
undersigned, in consideration for his/her participation in the conference, hereby grants the IEEE the unlimited, worldwide, irrevocable permission to
use, distribute, publish, license, exhibit, record, digitize, broadcast, reproduce and archive, in any format or medium, whether now known or hereafter
developed: (a) his/her presentation and comments at the conference; (b) any written materials or multimedia files used in connection with his/her
presentation; and (c) any recorded interviews of him/her (collectively, the  Presentation ). The permission granted includes the transcription and
reproduction of the Presentation for inclusion in products sold or distributed by IEEE and live or recorded broadcast of the Presentation during or
after the conference. 
3. In connection with the permission granted in Section 2, the undersigned hereby grants IEEE the unlimited, worldwide, irrevocable right to use
his/her name, picture, likeness, voice and biographical information as part of the advertisement, distribution and sale of products incorporating the
Work or Presentation, and releases IEEE from any claim based on right of privacy or publicity. 
4. The undersigned hereby warrants that the Work and Presentation (collectively, the  Materials ) are original and that he/she is the author of the
Materials. To the extent the Materials incorporate text passages, figures, data or other material from the works of others, the undersigned has obtained
any necessary permissions. Where necessary, the undersigned has obtained all third party permissions and consents to grant the license above and has
provided copies of such permissions and consents to IEEE. 
                                
[ ] Please check this box if you do not wish to have video/audio recordings made of your conference presentation.
AUTHOR RESPONSIBILITIES
                                                
The IEEE distributes its technical publications throughout the world and wants to ensure that the material submitted to its publications is properly
available to the readership of those publications. Authors must ensure that their Work meets the requirements as stated in section 8.2.1 of the IEEE
PSPB Operations Manual, including provisions covering originality, authorship, author responsibilities and author misconduct. More information on
IEEE's publishing policies may be found at http://www.ieee.org/web/publications/pubtoolsandpolicyinfo/index.html. Authors are advised especially 
of IEEE PSPB Operations Manual section 8.2.1.B12: "It is the responsibility of the authors, not the IEEE, to determine whether disclosure of their 
material requires the prior consent of other parties and, if so, to obtain it." Authors are also advised of IEEE PSPB Operations Manual section 
8.1.1B: "Statements and opinions given in work published by the IEEE are the expression of the authors."
                                                    
 
RETAINED RIGHTS/TERMS AND CONDITIONS
                              
 
THIS FORM MUST ACCOMPANY THE SUBMISSION OF THE AUTHOR'S MANUSCRIPT. 
Questions about the submission of the form or manuscript must be sent to the publication's editor. 
Please direct all questions about IEEE copyright policy to: 
IEEE Intellectual Property Rights Office, copyrights@ieee.org, +1-732-562-3966 (telephone)
   
                                                                                                                                                         
rev. 062802
having a wedge tip of 15o apex angle at one end contacts the 
top surface of the specimen with 30o inclined angle. The 
displacement amplitude of surface acoustic waves generated 
from the SAW device attached on the glass waveguide can be 
amplified if the acoustic waves transmit through the wedge tip. 
A lift jack is used to sustain the incline of the glass waveguide. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 In experiment, an interdigitated transducer (IDT) made on 
a 128-deg-rotated Y-cut lithium niobate wafer was used to 
launch surface acoustic waves propagating along the X 
direction. The surface acoustic waves were launched by a 16 
MHz IDT. A standing wave orientated along the X direction 
was formed by the combination of forward and reflected 
surface acoustic waves. The pressure gradient induced among 
the wave crests and troughs can cause long chained molecules, 
such as polyamic acid, polyimide, etc., aligned in the direction 
parallel to the nodal lines if a large number of acoustic waves 
are used to drive the alignment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The specimens were made of the PIA-5370-33C solvent 
coating on surface polished calcium fluoride substrates. The 
spin-coated polyimide specimen was 25.4×25 mm. The PIA-
5370-33C solvent comprises 5 wt % polyamic acid, 30 wt % 
N-methy-2-pyrrolidone, 35 wt % Butyl cellosolve, and 30 wt 
% γ-Butyrolactone. Two kinds of specimens were made. The 
first sets of specimens were spin coated with a single layer. 
The second ones were coated with two layers. The first layer 
had been heated up to 200oC such that the polyamic acid was 
transferred into polyimide. The second layer was then coated 
with solvent for later curing. The first cured polyimide films 
were used to provide anchoring forces to the molecules in the 
second polyimide films.  
 
2000 1600 1200 800 400
λ−1 (1/cm)
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
A
bs
or
ba
nc
e
250oC SAW processed
250oC unrubbed
200oC SAW processed
200oC unrubbed
The molecular orientation of polyimide films is of difficult 
to be measured by common equipment because of its very 
thin thickness. Polarized IR absorption spectroscopy is an 
effective method for determining the anisotropic property of 
polyimide films via polarization angle dependence. The IR 
light polarized parallel to the polarization direction of an IR 
active vibration is absorbed. According to the polarization 
angle dependence at normal incidence, the distribution of 
molecular orientation in a film can be determined.  
III. RESULTS 
Figure 2.  FTIR spectra of unrubbed and SAW processed polyimide films 
under curing temperatures up to 200oC and 250oC. 
The polarized IR absorbance of single layered specimens 
processed by SAW was below noise level. There was no 
evidence that molecular orientation of polyimide films was 
aligned by SAW. However, the double layered specimens had 
very clear anisotropic IR absorbance. The first layer of well-
cured polyimide provided enough anchoring force to one end 
of each molecule such that the acoustic pressure gradient 
among wave crests and troughs can align the remaining part of 
the molecule before the liquid solvent evaporated. In the latter 
experiment, we only used the double layered specimens for 
comparing anisotropic infrared absorbance. 
Fig. 3 shows the polarization angle dependence of the 
1,500  band at normal incidence. The 1,500  band 
is assigned to the phenyl C-C stretching vibration. As 
mentioned before, it is polarized parallel to the monomer chain. 
The solid circles indicate the data points for unrubbed, rubbed 
and surface acoustic wave processed polyimide films. For the 
rubbed film, the anisotropy shown in Fig. 3(b) indicates that 
the monomer chains of polyimide are parallel to the rubbing 
direction. However, the monomer chains of polyimide film are 
perpendicular to the direction of acoustic wave propagation. In 
other words, the monomer chains become parallel to the nodal 
lines of the standing wave. The molecular reorientation is 
caused by pressure gradient among the wave crests and 
troughs. 
1cm− 1cm−
Fig. 2 shows the absorption spectra of the unrubbed and 
SAW processed polyimide films at curing temperatures of 
200oC and 250oC. Each absorbance curve has four significant 
bands, including the C-O-C asymmetric stretching vibration at 
1,246 , the C-N stretching vibration of the (OC)2NC 
bond at 1,375 , the phenyl C-C stretching vibration at 
1,500 , and the C = O asymmetric stretching vibration at 
1,724 , respectively. The first three vibration modes are 
polarized parallel to the monomer chain. The higher curing 
temperature certainly induces better absorbance. The evidence 
indicates that SAW processed polyimide films significantly 
achieve higher absorbance than the unrubbed ones at either 
200oC or 250oC curing temperature. 
1cm−
1cm−
1cm−
1cm− IV. DISCUSSION 
The order parameter [6] is used to evaluate the anisotropic 
property of polyimide layer. It is in the form 
⊥
⊥
+
−=
AA
AAS
2//
//          (1) 
in which //A  and ⊥  are defined as the IR absorbance 
measured when the polarization of an incident light parallel or  
A
 
 
