> FS-04 2
Fig.1. Comparison of signal producing ability of MPIO and
NPIO under 1.5 Tesla MRI. NPIO containing test tube
exhibited marked signal intensity drop in the whole test tube,
while MPIO containing test tube just produced signal intensity
loss at the bottom of the test tube, where some of the MPIO is
precipitated.
In order to check the magnetic properties of both magnetic
fluids, magnetic hysteresis measurements M(H) at room
temperature were carried out by using a Quantum Design
MPMS SQUID magnetometer with the applied magnetic field
up to 3 tesla. The mass magnetization per Fe MFe for MPIO and
NPIO magnetic particles are shown collectively in Fig. 2. Low
coercive field Hc were found for both MPIO and NPIO particles.
Larger saturation magnetization Ms of 80 emu/g per Fe was
observed for NPIO particles with the average diameter of ~60
nm due to near single-domain characteristics. This result
indicates that larger Ms value corresponds to the signal intensity
loss in MRI data.
-3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
T = 300 K
M
F
e
(e
m
u/
g
pe
r
F
e
w
ei
gh
t)
Applied magnetic field H (T)
NPIO
MPIO
Fig. 2 Room temperature mass magnetization per Fe MFe for
MPIO and NPIO magnetic fluids as a function of applied
magnetic field. Low coercive field Hc were found for both
MPIO and NPIO particles. In addition, NPIO exhibits better
saturation magnetization than MPIO.
B. Efficiency of cell labeling
The cell labeling efficiency of MPIO and NPIO was
determined by flow cytometry. We chose macrophage cell line
Raw 264.7 as our testing target because it is a well accepted
model for evaluating particle uptake at the range from
nanometer to micrometer[4]. The cells were treated with either
NPIO or MPIO at the concentration of 0, 1, 10, or 100μg Fe/ml
for 24 hours, harvested, and evaluated under flow cytometry.
Ten thousands of cells were scanned with laser beams and the
intensity of cells’side scattering (SSC) beams were recorded by
photo multiplier tube. Increased side scattering beam is
regarded as increased cellular granules. We found that there is
increased granularity in both NPIO and MPIO treated cells,
which is evidenced by right SSC shift of these measured cells.
The right SSC shift of the MPIO treated cells are more
prominent than cells treated with NPIO, which suggested the
labeling efficiency of MPIO is better. Both MPIO and NPIO
treated cells showed dose response manner in the aspect of
increased cellular granularity. (Fig. 3)
Fig. 3. Comparison of cellular granularity after MPIO or NPIO
labeling by flow cytometry. Macrophages were scanned by laser
beams and the side scattering of each cell was recorded and
regarded as the index of cellular granularity. Both MPIO and
NPIO treated cells showed dose-responsive manner of
increased cellular granularity. Besides, the degree of granularity
increase is more prominent in MPIO treated cells. The finding
suggests that MPIO is more efficient in cell labeling, causing
granularity increase in these cells.
For determination of exact location of MPIO and NPIO after
cell labeling, macrophages treated either with MPIO or NPIO
were visualized under light microscope (Nikon Eclipse TS100,
Tokyo, Japan) at the magnification of 200X before and after
Prussian blue staining, a method for staining ferric iron. Briefly,
cells were incubated with either NPIO or MPIO for 24 hours at
the concentration of 10 g Fe/ml. Then these cells were fixed
with 10% formaldehyde and treated with 10% potassium
ferrocyanide and 20% hydrochloric acid for 20 minutes. Then
the cells were washed and visualized under microscope.
Before staining, NPIO labeled cells showed shining granules
inside the cytoplasm with sparing the cell nucleus, whereas
MPIO labeled cells revealed dark brown granules in the
cytoplasm. After Prussian blue staining, both MPIO and NPIO
