 
 
 2
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
█  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 █未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
The success of any Bayesian particle filtering based tracker relies heavily on the ability of the 
likelihood function to discriminate between the states. While most existing algorithms are able 
to track objects well in controlled environments, they usually fail in the presence of significant 
variation of the object’s appearance or surrounding illumination. One reason for such failures is 
that many algorithms employ fixed appearance models of the target. Such models are trained 
using only appearance data available before tracking begins, which in practice limits the range 
of appearances that are modeled, and ignores the large volume of information that becomes 
available during tracking. Numerous experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed 
tracking algorithm in environments where the target objects is occluded and undergo large 
changes in pose, scale, and illumination. 
 
 
 4
II. RELATED WORK ON VISUAL TRACKING 
  Tracking is properly thought of as an inference problem. The key technical difficulty is maintaining an 
accurate representation of the posterior on object state given measurement and doing so efficiently.  
 
A. Bayesian Tracking 
Bayesian estimation is used to recursively estimate a time evolving posterior distribution that describes the 
object state in visual tracking problems. It requires two models. The first one is a dynamic model that 
describes the evolution of the state {xk, k∈Ñ} of the object at the ith frame given by  
                           xk=fk(xk-1, vk-1) (1) 
where  is a possibly nonlinear function of the state xxvx nnnkf ℜ→ℜ×ℜ: k-1, { vk-1, k∈Ñ }is an independent 
and identically distributed (iid) process noise sequence, nx and ny, are dimensions of the state and process noise 
vectors, respectively, and Ñ is the set of natural numbers. The second model is an observation model, which 
maps the state space into the observed space and is given by  
zk=hk(I(xk-1), nk-1) (2) 
where  is a possibly nonlinear function, { vxvx nnnkh ℜ→ℜ×ℜ: k-1, k∈Ñ }is an independent and identically 
distributed (iid) process noise sequence, nx and ny, are dimensions of the state and process noise vectors, 
respectively. The observation zk may include the image intensity and other features. From statistical inference 
perspective, the tracking problem can be solved by recursively calculate some degree of belief in the object 
state xk at time k given the data z1:k={zi, i=1,…, k} . Thus, it is required to construct the probability density 
function (pdf) p(xk|z1:k). It is assumed that the initial pdf p(x0|z0)= p(x0) of the state vector, which is also known 
as the prior, is available. The probability density function p(xk|z1:k) may be obtained, recursively, in two stages: 
prediction and correction.  
  The prediction stage involves using the system model (1) and )( 1:11 −− kkp zx  to obtain the prior pdf of the 
state at time k through the Chapman-Kolmogorov equation 
 11:1111:1 )()()( −−−−− ∫= kkkkkkk dppp xzxxxzx  (3) 
The probabilistic model of the state evolution p(xk|xk-1) is defined by the system equation (1) and the known 
statistics of vk-1. In the update stage, Bayes’ rule is used obtain the required posterior density of the current 
state 
)(
)()(
)(
1:1
1:1
:1
−
−=
kk
kkkk
kk p
pp
p
zz
zxxz
zx  (4) 
where the likelihood function p(zk|xk) is defined by the measurement model (2) and the know statistics nk-1. 
and  
kkkkkkk dppp xzxxzzz ∫ −− = )()()( 1:11:1  (5) 
  This recursive propagation of the posterior density is only a conceptual solution in that in general, it cannot 
be determined analytically. Solutions do exist in a restrictive set of cases, particle filters approximate the 
optimal Bayesian solution.  
 
B. Particle filter 
The Bayesian estimation is usually achieved by Monte Carlo (MC) simulations or particle filtering or the 
condensation algorithm [12]. The particle filter is a means to approximate the posterior distribution p(xk|z1:k) 
 
 
 6
the neighborhood. Since the distance function is smooth, the minimization procedure uses gradient information 
which is provided by the mean shift vector. In this procedure, the kernel is recursively moved from the current 
location y0 to the new location y1 according to the relation 
∑
∑
=
=
−
−
=
n
i
i
i
n
i
i
ii
h
xy
gw
h
xy
gwx
y
1
2
0
1
2
0
1
)(
)(
 
[ ]ub
yp
q
w Ti
m
u u
u
i −=∑
=
)(
)(1 0
xδ  
Where g(x)=-k’(x), assuming that the derivative of k(x) exists for all , except for a finite set of points. and 
is characterized by the pdf q(x). So we can get the new position and width and height of the state. Finally, we 
model image observations using a probabilistic interpretation of principal component analysis [9], [31].  
          ))(1)(,;(),;())(1)(()()( 2 xIIxXIXIXI dUUuNIUUuNdppp Tt
T
tttdttdtt wt
−∑+=−= −ε  
 
Algorithm 1 Particle Filter Algorithm 
 Initialize : the particles at time-step 0, 0S = ccording to prior 
distribution p(x
},...,2,1|1,{ 00 Miw
i ==x ,  a
0|z0) 
For k=1, 2,  
calculate the cumulative probability as 
                         Mi
wcc
c
i
k
i
k
i
k
k ,...,2,1
0
1
1
11
0
1 =+=
=
−
−
−−
−
   to obtain  },...,2,1|,,{ 1111 MicwS
i
k
i
k
i
kk == −−−− x
  For i=1, 2, …, M 
Resample : 1. generate a random number r∈[0,1], uniformly distributed 
              2. find The smallest j for which   rc jk ≥−1
              3. obtain the new state is ik
i
k 11 −− = xx  
    Predict  : the new state may be generated by using the dynamic model  
xk=fk(xk-1, vk-1) 
 
 
 8
condition, pose and scale change, and furthermore the target is occluded, our algorithm is able to track the 
target well.  
 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
This paper proposed an ensembles particle filter that incrementally particle for robust object tracking 
while the target undergo pose, illumination and appearance changes. When tracking object is occluded by 
other thing, the dynamic model of particle filter tracking algorithm often can not product appropriate object 
state. The probabilistic interpretation of PCA can not compute the distance from the front frame. So tracking 
algorithm can not select suitable tracking region. The tracking region often includes the image of other object 
that cover target. It make that other object is also regarded as tracking target. If tracking algorithm learns these 
images and decide the state of tracking target for the next frame, a tracking failure can occur. For tracking 
region only have the image of tracking target, our algorithm use kernel density estimate represent tracking 
target and compute the distance from the front frame. It adjust the width and height of tracking region and 
select suitable tracking region. So tracking algorithm only learn the tracking region only has tracking target. So 
tracking failure will not occur. Our method can automatically select and learn the tracking region only has 
tracking target, so tracking failure will not occur in tracking target is occluded.  
Whereas most algorithms operate on the premise that the object appearance or ambient environment 
lighting conditions do not change as time progresses, our method adapts the model representation to reflect 
appearance variation of the target, thereby facilitating the tracking task. Our experiments demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the proposed tracker in difference environments where the target objects under go large pose 
and lighting changes.  
 
REFERENCES 
[1] X. Xu and B. Li, “Adaptive Rao–Blackwellized Particle Filter and Its Evaluation for Tracking in 
Surveillance,” IEEE Trans. Image Process., vol. 16, no. 3, pp. 838-849, March 2007.  
[2] R. Howarth and H. Buxton, “Visual Surveillance Monitoring and Watching,” Proc. European Conf. 
Computer Vision, vol. 2, pp. 321–334, 1996. 
[3] G. N. DeSouza and A. C. Kak, “Vision for mobile robot navigation: a survey,” IEEE Trans. Pattern 
Analysis and Machine Intelligence, vol. 24, no. 2, pp. 237-267, February 2002.  
[4] S. Hutchinson, G.D. Hager, and P. Corke, “A Tutorial Introduction to Visual Servo Control,” IEEE Trans. 
Robotics and Automation, vol. 12, no. 5, pp. 651-670, 1996. 
[5] N. Papanikolopoulos, P. Khosla, and T. Kanade, “Visual Tracking of a Moving Target by a Camera 
Mounted on a Robot: A Combination of Control and Vision,” IEEE Trans. Robotics and Automation, vol. 9, 
no. 1, pp. 14-35, 1993. 
[6] J. C. McCall and M. M. Trivedi, “Video-Based Lane Estimation and Tracking for Driver Assistance: 
Survey, System, and Evaluation,” IEEE Trans. Intelligent Transportation Systems, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 20-37, 
March 2006.  
[7] S. W. Shih and J. Liu, “A novel approach to 3-D gaze tracking using stereo cameras,” IEEE Trans. Syst., 
Man, Cybern. Pt B, vol. 34, no. 1, Feb. 2004. 
[8] T. Darrell, B. Moghaddam, and A. Pentland, “Active Face Tracking and Pose Estimation in an Interactive 
Room,” Proc. IEEE Conf. Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pp. 67–72, 1996. 
[9] A.F. Bobick and A.D. Wilson, “A State-Based Technique for the Summarization of Recognition of 
Gesture,” Proc. Int’l Conf. Computer Vision, pp. 382–388, 1995. 
[10] E. Bardinet, L. Cohen, and N. Ayache, “Tracking Medical 3D Data With a Deformable Parametric 
Model,” Proc. European Conf. Computer Vision, vol. 1, pp. 317–328, 1996. 
[11] P. Shi, G. Robinson, T. Constable, A. Sinusas, and J. Duncan, “A Model-Based Integrated Approach to 
Track Myocardial Deformation Using Displacement and Velocity Constraints,” Proc. Int’l Conf. Computer 
Vision, pp. 687–692, 1995. 
 
 
 10
 
 
 
Figure 1.  
 
 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
