2 
 
中文摘要 
在本計劃中，我們在更新拉氏架構(updated Lagrangian formulation)下建立了一項細胞在
固體界面上移動的一維連續力學模式，其中假設細胞為黏彈材料，其運動與變形除滿足巨
觀的動量守恆外，並包含三項微觀機制，分別為細胞前沿伸出偽足所需的肌動蛋白聚合作
用(actin polymerization)、肌凝蛋白(myosin II)運動所產生的收縮應力(contractile stress)、及
細胞膜與固體界面上受器(integrin and ligand)結合所產生的阻力。藉由此一模式，我們可了
解更詳細的細胞移動行為，而對生醫科技的發展有所貢獻。對收縮應力，我們建立了兩種
以微機電技術為主的實驗裝置，並對魚鱗細胞完成了實驗量測。另對細胞的整體移動，我
們亦進行了初步實驗，其速率約為 0.83 µm/s，此結果與我們由模式計算所得相符。 
 
關鍵詞：細胞移動，理論模式，收縮應力，實驗量測。 
 
Abstract 
A one-dimensional continuum model for cell motility based on updated Lagrangian 
formulation is proposed in the present study. The cell is treated as a viscoelastic material and its 
motion follows the balance equations in continuum mechanics, together with three models for 
microscopic mechanisms, including the actin polymerization for the protrusion of lamellipodium, 
the crawling of mosyins II on actin filaments for generating contractile stress, and the drag 
associated with the binding of integrins on membrane and the ligands on substrate. The model 
can be applied to understand the details of cell motility, and is beneficial to bioengineering. Two 
experimental devices based on MEMS techniques were fabricated for measuring contractile stress 
during cell motion, and experiments were carried out for fish keratocytes. Preliminary 
measurements were also conducted for cell motility. The cell speed is approximately 0.83 µm/s, 
which agrees with the calculation based on our proposed model. 
 
Key words: cell motility, theoretical model, contractile stress, experiments. 
   
(I) Introduction 
 
Cell motility is an essential process in the development and maintenance of cells, tissues and 
organs (Chicurel, 2002). A mechanical model containing the essential physics and chemistry for a 
cell crawling on a substrate is required for understanding the details of cell motility, and is 
beneficial to further manipulation of cell motion and other bioengineering application. According 
to current literatures (Alberts et al. 2002, Bray 2001, Boal 2002, Chicurel, 2002 及 Howard 
2001), cells can sense both the magnitudes and direction of extracellular signals (Fukui, 2002), 
and move up or down the gradient of signal (a process called taxis). Movement of cells involves 
at least four stages (Gracheva and Othmer, 2004): protrusion, attachment to the substrate, 
translocation of the cell body, and detachment of the rear. Protrusion of pseudopodium is a result 
of actin polymerization. Attachment and detachment to the substrate are related to the binding of 
integrins on the membrane and the ligands on the substrate. Translocation of the cell body needs 
the contractile stress generated by the crawling of mosyins II on actin filaments within the cells. 
Finally, the cytoplasm of the cell can be approximated as a viscoelastic material with its 
properties depends on their constitution, mainly the local actin density. Various mechanisms are 
depicted conceptually in Figure 1.     
There exists various degree of complexity of cell motility models in literatures. 
Lauffenburger (1989) studied the problem by separating the cell into three parts, the lamellipod, 
the cell body and the uropod. Dimilla et al. (1991) proposed a one-dimensional discrete model to 
describe how the receptors transporting in cell membrane and the effect of the force driving 
detachment. Fukui (2002) employed a pneumatic mechanics of cytoplasm to explain the cell 
protrusion. Karripa and Mogilner (2006) adopted a gel model to analyze the actin transportation 
in cytoplasm. Gracheva and Othmer (2004) developed a continuum model of motility in ameboid 
cells, which includes essential components of motility. It consists of a viscoelastic cytoskeleton 
4 
 
where ( ) ( ) ( )L t L t L τ∆ = − and ( ) ( ) ( )T t T t T τ∆ = − are the relative displacement of the leading 
and trailing edges. The term on the right hand side of Eq. (3a) is the protrusion force associated 
with actin polymerization, which is assumed to be proportional to the increase of the cell length 
in the time interval t - τ, with spk  the proportional constant. A same amount of force (the right 
hand side of Eq. (3b)) is transmitted to the trailing edge of the cell through the membrane. Note 
that Eqs. (1), (3a) and (3b) are applied to the cytoplasm, not including the membrane. Several 
constitutive relations are also required, they are empirically expressed as 
 
[ ]
0
0
( ) ( , ),                                                                                   (4a)
( ) ( , ) ( , ) ,                                                            (4b)
av b
b b
E x E E A x
C x C M x M x
τ τ
τ τ τ
τ
τ τ τ
β
= +
= − − ∆
0( ) ( , ),                                                                                             (4c)bx R xτ τβ τ=
 
which relates the Young modulus E  to the density of the binding actin bA , the contractile stress 
C  to the density of binding Moysin II bM , and the drag coefficient β  to the density of the 
binding integrin receptor. The unknowns L(t), T(t), bA , bM  and bR  are evaluated as follows.  
Due to the polymerization at the leading edge, conservation of mass implies that  
  
( ( ), ) .fAb f
x L
A
A L t t dx D dt
x =
∂= − ∂  
 
The protrusion speed due to actin polymerization at the leading edge is 
  
( )
.                                                (5)
( ( ), )
A
f f
p
b x L t
D AdxV
dt A L t t x =
∂≡ = ∂
 
The total speed at the leading edge is the sum of the speed due to the viscoelastic extension and 
that due to polymerization, which is 
 
( ) ( ( ), ) ( ).                                                    (6a)P
dL t d u L t V t
dt dt
τ∆= +
 
Similarly, the total speed at the trailing edge is  
 
( ) ( ( ), ) ( ( ), )( ) .                       (6b)
( ( ), )
A
f f
T
b x T
D AdT t d u T t d u T tV t
dt dt dt A T t t x
τ τ
=
∂∆ ∆= − = − ∂
 
The velocity within the cell may be approximately linearly as 
                    
( , ) ( , )
( , ) ( , ) ( ).                                          (7)f ff f
v L t v T t
v x t v T t x T
L T
−= + −−
 
Transportation of the molecules follows the convective diffusion equations and is discussed as 
follows. 
1. Free actin monomers  
  
( , ) ( , )
[ ( , ) ] ( , ) ( , ),               (8)f d a
f fA A A
f f b f
A x t A x t
v A x t D k A x t k A x t
t x x
∂ ∂∂= − + + −∂ ∂ ∂
with 
6 
 
( , )
( , ) ,                                                                                    (12b)f fM f T
x T
M x t
D M T t V
x =
∂ =∂  
6. Binding myosin II  
 
( , ) ( , ) ( , )( , ) ( , ) ( , ) ( , ),     (13)b d a
M M Mb b
b b f b
M x t d u x t M x tM x t D k M x t k M x t A x t
t x dt x
τ∂ ∂ ∆ ∂⎡ ⎤= − + − +⎢ ⎥∂ ∂ ∂⎣ ⎦
with 
( , ) ( , ) ,                                                                                             (13a)bM b b p
x L
M x tD M L t V
x =
∂− =∂
and 
( , ) ( , ) .                                                                                             (13b)bM b b T
x T
M x tD M T t V
x =
∂ =∂
 
(III) Numerical Method 
 
 The procedures are as follows. (1) Implicit finite difference method is employed to solve Eq. 
(1) in the reference frame (xτ). (2) Equations (2a) and (2b) are then solved explicitly to obtain the 
extent of the new domain (new reference frame x). (3) The velocity between two frames at τ and t 
can be obtained by differentiate the displacement field, Δu. The linear interpolation is utilized to 
estimate the values described in Eulerian frame between two neighborhood reference frames. (4) 
Solve Eqs. (8) – (13) for the densities of various macromolecules using iteration procedures. The 
time step adopted here is 0.01 sec and 100 grids are used to discretize the cell domain.  
 
(IV) Experiments 
 
(i) Cell culture and observation 
 Use tweezers to draw a scale of oreochromis hybrids (吳郭魚) and put it in the petri dish for 
30 min to make the scale attach to he dish surface. Then add the F12 culture medium into the dish 
and store in the room temperature over night to let the keratocyte crawl to the dish surface. When 
the cells are dense enough, add trypsin EDTA to let the cells detach from the dish surface and 
then put the sample into a centrifuge to separate the cell from medium. Suck the bottom of the 
sample with high cell density using a micropipette and then inject the sample into the micro-chip. 
Add the culture medium into chip and wait for hours to make sure cells are well adhered. Finally, 
put the chip under a microscope with CCD camera and observe and record the cell motion.  
   
(ii) Measurement of contractile stress 
Two methods using MEMS techniques available in literatures are employed here to measure 
the contractile stress: the soft PDMS method and the micro pillars method, and are discussed as 
follows 
 
(a) Soft PDMS method  
A cell is placed on a very soft and large substrate with patterns fabricated by MEMS 
techniques or built-in random marker points. As the cell crawls, it exerted a traction force on the 
substrate and deforms it. The displacements of the characteristic points of the patterns or the 
marker points are measured and the contractile stress can be calculated via an inverse calculation 
with known displacement of selected points. Details of the solution procedures can be found from 
Bulter et al. (2002). PDMS is employed as the materials for the substrate in the present study as 
its Young’s modulus (elastic constant) can be adjusted easily by choosing different ratios of the 
8 
 
7. The pattern is built inside a very soft PDMS substrate with mixing ratio 80. The keratocyte is 
placed on the substrate and crawls freely. As the cell moves, it induces a displacement field which 
is marked by the spot pattern as shown in Figure 8. Such a displacement field is employed to 
calculate the traction force using the inversion calculation procedures reported in Bulter et al. 
(2002). The resulting contractile stress is 2~3kPa, which agrees with the data in literatures. 
(b) Contractile stress measurement using micro pillar array 
The 2µm width and 2µm gap micro-pillar pattern with 20µm in height is fabricated and used 
to measure the traction force of keratocyte (Fig. 9). The retraction force is calculated as 10 nN 
through the Euler beam theory and the effective stress is calculated as 318 Pa. The value is of one 
order smaller than measurement using soft PDMS probably because of less error in optical 
diffraction.  
(c) Observation and measurement of cell motility 
Parallel rails with width 60µm, spacing 60µm and height 20µm are fabricated on a substrate 
using MEMS techniques. Several keratocytes are placed on the substrate, and it is observed that 
the cells tend to climb up the rails and crawl along them (Figure 10). The motion of the cell is 
recorded through a CCD camera and analyzed. The displacement of the cell as a function of time 
is plotted in Figure 10. The result shows that the variation is almost linear, and the slope, i.e., the 
velocity is found to be approximately 50 µm/min, or 0.83 µm/s, which lies between the numerical 
result at large time in Figure 5 (from 0.35 – 1.7 µm/s). 
    
(V) Conclusion 
  
A one-dimensional continuum model incorporated with the transport of macromolecules is 
developed successfully for predicting cell motility on substrate in the present project. The model 
treats the cell as a viscoelastic material and takes into account the actin polymerization for the 
protrusion of lamellipodium, the crawling of mosyins II on actin filaments for generating 
contractile stress, and the drag associated with the binding of integrins on membrane and the 
ligands on substrate. As the model contains all the essential mechanisms, the extension to two- 
and three-dimensional cell is straight forward. Two experimental devices based on MEMS 
techniques were fabricated successfully for measuring contractile stress during cell motion. 
Preliminary measurement for cell motility shows that the cell speed of keratocyte is 
approximately 0.83 µm/s, which agrees with the calculation based on our proposed model. 
 
References 
(1) Aberts, B., A. Johnson, J. Lewis, M. Raff, K., Roberts and P. Walter, “Molecular biology of 
the cell,” 4th ed., Garland, New York, 2002. 
(2) Bathe, K. J., E. Ramm and E. L. Wilson, “Finite element formulations for large deformation 
dynamic analysis,” International Journal Numerical Methods in Engineering, 9, 353-386 
1975. 
(3) Bathe, K. J., “Finite element procedures,” Prentice Hall, 1996. 
(4) Boal, D., “Mechanics of the cell,” Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 2002. 
(5) Bray, D., “Cell movements – from molecules to motility,” 2nd ed., Garland Pub., New York, 
2001. 
(6) Bulter, J. P., I. M. Tolic-Norrelykke, B. Fabry and J. J. Fredberge, “Traction fields, moments, 
and strain energy that cell exert on their surroundings”, AJP cell physiol, 282, 595-605, 2002.  
(7) Chen, C. S., X. Jiang and G. M. Whitesides, “Microengineering the environment of 
mammalian cells in culture,” MRS Bulletin, 30, 194-201, 2005. 
(8) Chicurel, M., “Cell migration research is on the move,” Science, 295, 606-609, 2002. 
(9) Dimilla, P. A., K. Barbee and D. A. Lauffesburger, “Mathematical model for the effects of 
adhesion and mechanics on cell migration speed,” Biophysical Journal, 60, 15-37, 1991. 
(10) Fukui, Y. “Mechanistics of amoeboid locomotion: signal to Force,” Cell Biology 
10 
 
Table I: Nomenclatures 
x Spatial coordinate (Eulerian description) 
Xτ Reference frame for updated Lagrangian Method  
X Material coordinate (Lagrangian description) 
Δu(Xτ,t) Displacement field in the updated Lagrangian frame 
Af Free actin density (normalized) 
Ab Binding actin density (normalized) 
Mf Free myosin II density (normalized) 
Mb Binding myosin II density(normalized) 
ΔMb Binding myosin density between neighborhood reference frames  
Rf Free integrin receptor density (normalized) 
Rb Binding integrin receptor density (normalized) 
xu Trajectory of the material point of the viscoelastic structure 
xAb Trajectory of binding actin 
xAf Trajectory of free actin 
xRb Trajectory of binding integrin receptor 
xRf Trajectory of free integrin receptor 
xMb Trajectory of binding myosin II 
xMf Trajectory of free myosin II 
β Drag coefficient due to the binding of receptor and ligand = β0Rb(x,t), β0= 1410 .
µ Viscosity of the structure (cytoplasm), 410 Pa-sec [Ref. 15] 
E Young’s modulus of viscoelastic structure E= Eav+E0Ab
E0 = 410 Pa [Ref. 15, 17] 
Eav Intrinsic Young’s modulus of structure Eav = 410 Pa 
C Internal contractile force from the binding myosin 0( ) ( , )bC x C M xτ τ τ= ∆  
C0= 210 ~ 310 Pa [Ref. 15] 
L The leading edge of the cell (initially at 10 um)  L0 = 10µm 
T The tailing edge of the cell (initially at 0 µm) 
lo The length of the actin monomer = 5 nm [Ref. 17] 
ksp Cell membrane resistance constant = 810 Pa/m 
vf Velocity of cytoplasma 
kpa The association rate of polymerized process at boundaries = 610− m-sec-1 
kpd The dissociation rate of polymerized process at boundaries = 610−  m-sec-1 
kAd The dissociation rate of binding-free actin reaction = 0.02 sec-1  
kAa The association rate of binding-free actin reaction =0.02 sec-1 [Ref. 17] 
kRd The dissociation rate of binding-free receptor reaction = 0.1 sec-1 
kRa The association rate of binding-free receptor reaction = 0.1 sec-1 
kMa The dissociation rate of binding-free myosin reaction = 0.01 sec-1  [Ref. 15] 
kMd The association rate of binding-free myosin reaction = 0.01 sec-1  [Ref. 15] 
I Surfactant ligand density (normalized) 
DAf Diffusion coefficient of free actin = 1110− m2/sec [Ref. 17] 
DAb Diffusion coefficient of binding actin = 1210− m2/sec DAb<< DAf 
DRf Diffusion coefficient of free receptor = 1310− - 1610− m2/sec [Ref. 9] 
DRb Diffusion coefficient of binding receptor = 1210− m2/sec  DRb<< DRf 
DMf Diffusion coefficient of free myosin = 1010− m2/sec 
DMb Diffusion coefficient of binding myosin = 1210− m2/sec  DMb<< DMf 
Vp ,Vd Propagation speed at the head and tail 
12 
 
  
(a)                                        (b) 
 
  
(c)                                        (d) 
 
  
                 (e)                                         (f) 
 
Figure 4: The time evolution of the density distribution of actin, integrin receptors and myosin. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 
 
 
                              (a) 
  
                               (b)                                      
 
                              (c) 
Figure 6: Effect of (a) different ratios of ALB/ATB, (b) different ratios of RLB/RTB, and (c) the 
ligand density on the substrate, I.  
16 
 
 
 
Figure 8: The deformation of the pattern, the measured displacement field, and the traction force 
(based on the calculation of a inverse problem) associated with the movement of a keratocyte on 
a soft PDMS substrate. 
18 
 
 
 
                             (a) 
y = 49.707x - 1.431
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
time (min)
po
sit
ion
 (u
m)
 
                           (b) 
 
Figure 10: Cell moves straight in a dele with  
Movement of The measured position as a function of time and its linear regression is exhibited. 
 
 
                   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
