I. Introduction 
 Recently, the trend of optical fiber communications has shifted from trunk lines 
to subscriber loops and local area networks. Systems for applications of these 
networks require low-cost and small-sized optical modules. Planar-waveguide-based 
optical modules are considered the most promising components for applications in 
optical access network systems, such as fiber to the home. The fabrication of these 
modules follows several steps, from optical design and device fabrication to 
packaging. Packaging has become a dominant issue in evaluating the 
manufacturability and reliability of the modules, especially in multiport integrated 
optical circuits. Of all the processes involved in packaging, precision alignment of 
waveguide devices to single mode fibers (SMF) is the most important one, yet is also 
the most difficult to achieve. Efficient optical coupling of waveguides and SMF can 
be realized utilizing either active or passive alignment techniques. It takes a long time 
to obtain high coupling efficiency between the two optical components when using 
active alignment [1], and therefore makes the systems expensive. On the other hand, 
passive alignment [2, 3] is one of the most effective solutions for low-cost packaging 
suitable for mass production. 
 In the cases of integrated devices on silicon substrates, several approaches [4-6] 
based on passive alignment technique were proposed using V-grooves for precision 
fiber positioning. Among these approaches, single-lithographic procedure [5] was 
used to effectively minimize accumulation of misalignment during lithographic 
processes since the waveguides and the V-groove structures were simultaneously 
defined. In this letter, buried sol-gel/SiON waveguide structure is proposed for 
efficient fiber-chip coupling by single-lithographic passive alignment technique. The 
advantage over conventional organic waveguide structures for passive alignment is 
the fact that patterning the sol-gel cores of the waveguides can be performed after 
(Zr(OBu)4) was then added to the pre-hydrolyzed MPTEMS solution. The mixture 
was stirred at 65 oC for 3 hours to complete the hydrolysis and condensation processes. 
The refractive index of the films can be adjusted by varying the MPTEMS/Zr(OBu)4 
ratio of the mixture. The final solutions were obtained by adding photo-initiator 
(isopropyl thioxanethone) to the mixtures and filtering them through a Teflon filter. 
 The buried sol-gel/SiON waveguides were fabricated by first etching 5 μm deep 
and 5 μm wide trenches on the SiON cladding. The SiON cladding was prepared by 
plasma enhanced chemical vapor deposition from 5% SiH4/N2 and N2O. No NH3 was 
added in the precursor during the processes. The refractive index of the SiON 
cladding is 1.495. The waveguiding cores of the buried waveguides were formed by 
coating the sol-gel core material (MPTEMS/Zr(OBu)4 = 2) onto the etched SiON 
cladding at spin speeds of 500 rpm for 10 seconds and 1100 rpm for 30 seconds. After 
UV exposure, the un-exposed regions of the gel are etched away using mixture of 
toluene and propylene glycol methyl ether acetate. The sol-gel top cladding 
(MPTEMS/Zr(OBu)4 = 5) with a thickness of 1 μm was then coated onto the samples. 
Finally, the films were baked in air at both 120 oC and 150 oC for 30 min to reflow 
and to further harden the gel. The refractive indices of the sol-gel core and top 
cladding are 1.516 and 1.506. 
 The sol-gel materials are very suitable for forming the waveguiding cores of the 
buried waveguides near highly nonplanar topographies, such as deep grooves. After 
photo curing and reflow, good film uniformity can be obtained if the waveguides are 
fabricated at a proper distance from the deep grooves. The sol-gel films around the 
proximity of V-grooves are non-uniform but are etched away by the following 
developing processes due to negative image property of the gel. This property makes 
the proposed waveguide structure unique because coating the sol-gel cores of the 
waveguides can be performed after etching the V-groove structures. This is especially 
a 5 μm thick thermal oxide and a 12 μm thick SiON cladding. The waveguiding core 
and the V-groove areas were formed simultaneously by etching two 5 μm deep 
trenches into the SiON cladding (Fig. 3a). This was accomplished using both the 
reactive ion etching (RIE) and the inductive coupled plasma (ICP) etching with 
C4F8/O2 mixtures. The etching rate at an operation pressure of 10 mtorr, a RIE power 
of 120 W and an ICP power of 2 kW is 0.45 μm/min. Cr layers deposited by the e-gun 
system were used as the etch mask. The alignment accuracy in the lateral direction is 
guaranteed since the cores and the V-groove areas for fiber alignment are fabricated in 
one photomask. 
 
 
Fig. 3. The overviews of the process for interconnecting the buried waveguide and 
SMF on silicon substrate. 
 The V-groove structures were formed by first etching away the SiON cladding (7 
μm) left in the groove areas and the underlying SiO2 layer (5 μm) by RIE/ICP to 
expose the silicon substrate (Fig. 3b). A thin Ni/Cr alloy prepared by sputtering was 
Buried 
waveguide 
SiO2SiON 
(c) 
Inclined Si surfaces
Sol-gel 
Top cladding
Buried 
waveguide
SiO2 SiON
(d)
V-groove 
U-groove
V-groove 
trench 
5 μm 
133 μm 
SiON 
(a) 
Waveguide 
trench 
(b) 
Waveguide
trench
Si substrate 
133 μm
SiO2
5 μm
NiCr/etch mask
thickness was deposited onto the SiON cladding to prevent chipping during cutting. 
Only a length of 4 μm of the SiON cladding was left uncut at the junction to avoid 
roughing the sol-gel facets if all the SiON cladding was removed. Great care must be 
taken to minimize facet scattering losses on SiON cladding by sawing. The SEM 
photo of the structure with SMF in position is shown in Fig. 4.  
 
Fig. 4. The SEM photo of the structure with SMF in position. 
IV. Results and Discussion 
 To evaluate the coupling loss between the buried waveguide and the SMF, we 
saw cut one of the two V-groove structures away to expose the waveguide facet. The 
facet was then polished and pigtailed by active alignment. The components included 
in measuring the insertion loss consist of an active-aligned SMF, a 1-cm-long buried 
waveguide, and a passive-aligned SMF. The measured insertion loss ranges from 5.0 
to 5.3 dB for 10 samples obtained from the same wafer. Taking into account the 
modal-mismatch loss of 2.0 dB per facet, the waveguide loss of 0.5 dB, and the small 
scattering loss at the saw-cut facet, we estimate the displacement loss of SMF to be 
around 0.6 dB. Large insertion loss is primarily caused by modal mismatch between 
