 1 
 
報告內容 
1. Introduction 
Although the improvement of modern civilization and technology presented many new 
benefits to society, it also caused a change in social value that resulted in increased utilitarianism. 
This in turn led some people to seek increased wealth through fraudulent activities. There are 
several ways to use recent developments in media and communication networks to deceive others 
in order to increase one’s wealth; most commonly, this fraud is committed by forging certificates 
or using deceitful tools like dummy accounts and dummy phones to lure victims at financial 
institutions and ATMs into transferring their money into dummy accounts. There are many 
different names for this type of fraud, including SMS (Short Message Service), lottery, tax refund, 
web shopping, kidnapping, fiduciary loan, health insurance refund, etc.. In addition, the 
perpetrators of these frauds also use telecommunications technology, financial transfers and 
withdrawals, open dummy accounts and dummy phones to conceal their true identity and venue, 
in order to remain untraceable to the police.  
Although the government and public all see the importance and severity of these crimes, law 
enforcement institutions must still continuously advocate and address new prevention and 
restorative strategies. Even after these additional measures though, frauds are still bound to occur 
at some point. According to the newest NPA (National Police Agency) statistics, there were 
40,705 frauds from January to December 2007 (NPA, 2008). Telephone frauds were the most 
common; generally, these frauds involve the receipt of money through ATM machines. This 
signifies that there is a bottleneck in the detection and precautionary measures taken in regards to 
these frauds.  
There is a limited amount of past research related to ATM transfer frauds that exist in 
academia today. In those that do exist, researchers most commonly focus on statistical data 
relating to fraud, the criminals that commit fraud, or the between the fraud crimes committed and 
the law. Only seldom do researchers actually use the transaction detailed data to analyze the 
patterns of fraudulent accounts.  
This research attempts to use data mining to assist the bank in discovering patterns of ATM 
fraudulent accounts from the vast transaction detail database, and induce the regulations as the 
reference materials for fraudulent accounts in order to develop a set of precautionary policies that 
can be put in place to prevent future fraud.   
Base on the motives above, the research has the ability to achieve the following objectives: 
(1) Find patterns of ATM fraudulent accounts. 
(2) Provide reference materials to detect fraudulent ATM accounts in financial institutions. 
(3) Decrease the probability of ATM frauds, and reduce the losses associated with future frauds 
that cannot be prevented. 
 
2. Related Research 
 
Data Mining and Fraud Detection 
Academic research studies that use data mining are diverse and include a broad range of 
applications, for example, customer analysis management, marketing and knowledge 
management, etc.; we can obtain business intelligence through data mining (Berry and Linoff, 
1997; Song et al., 2001; Shaw et al., 2001).  There is previous research on fraudulent detection 
using a data mining approach, and the research of credit card frauds was the major portion of this 
financial sector.  
Leonard used a regulation-based expert system to construct a fraud prediction model. This 
research took authorization information during November 1991 to January 1992 as training data 
 3 
 
(1) Data Gathering and Pretreatment: this is where the actual data exploration takes place. The 
data exploration in this research focused on one domestic bank’s deposit accounts and 
transaction details. 
(2) Data Preprocessing: use COBOL to develop the program and collect the data needed 
from the bank’s mainframe.  Since it is difficult to find useful information from a huge 
database, COBOL needs to reduce data volume in a timely fashion.  We can also use 
data cleaning mechanisms to reduce variables or data. 
(3) Data Mining Analysis: the Naïve Bayes Classifier is one practical classification method, 
the effect of which is even better than the neural network or decision tree in some 
application fields (Mitchell, 1997).  Association rules are used to explore the 
association between separate data fields within a huge mass of data.  These rules show 
the conditions under which the attribute-values appear intensively and frequently at one 
time.  This research will integrate the two algorithms of data exploration, to induce 
transaction features of ATM fraudulent accounts. 
(4) Results Verification: compare the results with transaction data to verify the reliability of 
the featured regulations. 
(5) Conclusions and Recommendations: address conclusions and related recommendations. 
 
4. Experiments and Analysis 
Data Gathering and Pretreatment 
This research used actual data from a bank in Taiwan, and the specific data sets used in this 
research include customer accounts master files, customer files and customer transaction detailed 
data files. 
The transaction data for the training set consisted of a sample of the transactions during 
March to October 2007. Following the Ghosh & Reilly’s research, the original set of transactions 
was sampled in such a way that all fraud transactions were included, while a sample of the good 
transactions was chosen so as to have a ratio of roughly 30 good accounts for each fraudulent 
account in the training set (Ghosh & Reilly, 1994).  
 
Data Processing 
Since the dummy accounts commonly used in bank frauds are personal accounts, the 
research only selected personal accounts for sampling purposes.  Furthermore, they removed 
salary transfer accounts and stock transfer accounts from the sample, because of their open 
account limitations.  In total, the research generated a large number of customer account master 
files: 9,889 normal accounts and 327 fraudulent accounts.     
According to the customer account file, researchers picked customer transaction detail files 
and separated these into a deposit transaction detail file (htrmr_credit) and a withdrawal 
transaction detail file (htrmr_debit), based on the nature of each transaction. We received 22,602 
normal deposit accounts, 1,333 fraud deposit accounts, 28,628 normal withdrawal accounts, and 
2,280 fraud withdrawal accounts.  
The relationship between the deposit and withdrawal files was quite important, because 
overall, all of a bank’s transactions can be divided into either the deposit type or withdrawal type.  
This research used the transaction detail files to calculate the passage of time and difference in 
dollar amounts between deposit and withdrawal transactions in order to generate a transaction 
detail file showing the total difference between the deposit and withdrawal files (htrjoin).  We 
received 9,272 normal accounts and 734 fraud accounts. 
 5 
 
Cobkno=0 (self-clearing transaction) 21177 0.652  0.899  
Cobkno=1 (inter-bank transaction) 2758 0.348  0.101  
Dscpt=XM (redepositing operation) 9655 0.000  0.427  
Dscpt=C  (cash transaction) 2930 0.213  0.117  
Dscpt=MX (inter-bank transfer ) 2097 0.347  0.072  
Dscpt=MZ04 (salary transfer ) 1656 0.000  0.073  
Txtime=0 (outside banking hours) 14766 0.270  0.637  
Txtime=2 (afternoon banking hours) 5160 0.480  0.200  
Txtime=1 (morning banking hours) 4009 0.250  0.163  
Txtype=M (transfer transaction) 16027 0.368  0.687  
Txtype=C (cash transaction) 3073 0.253  0.121  
Txtype=A (ATM TRANSACTION) 2365 0.355  0.084  
Txtype=B (BATCH TRANSACTION) 1280 0.000  0.057  
 
We further analyzed each attribute through the visualized effect (Table2) of the deposit 
transaction detail probability distribution: 
(1)Cobkno (inter-bank transaction mark): a Cobkno value equal to 1 signifies an inter-bank 
transaction, and a Cobkno value equal to 0 signifies a self-clearing transaction.  A 
significant number of deposit transactions in fraudulent accounts are in the form of 
inter-bank transactions. Adversely, deposit transactions in normal accounts are almost all 
self-clearing transactions with inter-bank transactions accounting for only a small 
percentage of the total deposit transactions. 
◆Observation 3: A significant number of deposit transactions in fraudulent accounts are in 
the form of inter-bank transactions. 
(2)Dscpt (transaction abstract): based on the transaction abstract, deposited money of 
fraudulent accounts mainly comes from cash deposits and inter-bank transfer deposits.  
Adversely, though deposited money into normal accounts also comes from cash deposits 
and inter-bank transfer deposits, normal accounts also have additional bank prearranged 
redeposit transactions (deposit receipt, interest, loan disbursement, etc.) and salary transfer 
deposits, which fraudulent accounts do not have. Accordingly, we can use this feature as a 
transaction segmentation rule of fraudulent accounts and normal accounts. 
◆Observation4: deposits into fraudulent accounts mainly consist of cash deposits and 
inter-bank transfer deposits. 
★Rule 1: fraudulent accounts have no prearranged redeposit transactions. 
★Rule 2: fraudulent accounts have no salary transfer deposit transactions. 
(3)Txtime (transaction time): In contrast to normal accounts, transactions in fraudulent 
accounts usually occur in the afternoon banking hours and after the bank closes at 3:30 p.m., 
because no further verification can be taken after the victims remit their money.  In terms 
of normal accounts, the prearranged redeposit transfers and salary transfers, as mentioned 
above, are both batch operations performed in banks during the night hours.   Also, 
although most transaction times are centralized outside banking hours, there are some 
transactions that occur during regular banking hours, and the ratio between morning and 
afternoon is fairly even.  
◆Observation 5: the deposit transaction time of fraudulent accounts is centralized in the 
afternoon banking hours and during hours outside the normal banking hours. 
(4)Txtype (transaction type): in terms of transaction type, it is clear that there are a very high 
percentage of deposits into fraudulent accounts that are made through ATM transactions.  
Observation3 
Observation4 
 
Rule1 
 
Rule2 
 
Observation5 
 
Observation6 
 7 
 
★Rule 3: fraudulent accounts have no sign the ―fee and charge Collect‖ contract. 
(3)Txamt (transaction amount): in terms of the withdrawal transaction amount, due to the small 
difference between fraudulent normal accounts, we cannot determine any differences. 
◆Observation 9: the withdrawal amount of fraudulent accounts is the same as that of 
normal accounts. 
(4)Txtime (transaction time): the times during which transactions in fraudulent accounts are 
performed usually occur in the afternoon banking hours, or after it has closed in the evening. 
This ratio is similar to the one mined in the above exploration of deposit transaction times, 
so we can therefore conclude that there is some relationship between the deposit and 
withdrawal actions in fraudulent accounts.  In order to avoid having their fraudulent 
accounts frozen by suspicious financial institutions, perpetrators usually withdraw fraud 
money quickly after having succeeded in enticing their victims to remit money.  On the 
other hand, in terms normal accounts, withdrawals are similar to deposits, in that they 
usually occur outside bank hours, and are evenly distributed between the morning and 
afternoon bank business hours. 
◆Observation 10: the withdrawal transaction time of fraudulent accounts is centralized in 
the afternoon banking hours and after the normal business hours of a bank. 
(5) Txtype (transaction type): in terms of transaction type, the mode by which withdrawals are 
transacted in fraudulent accounts is through ATM transactions. On the contrary, there are 
multiple transaction modes in normal accounts; unlike fraudulent accounts, it is common 
that in addition to ATM transactions, normal account transactions also are commonly 
included in batch operations during nonbanking hours and on-line banking transactions 
(using Internet account). Due to this difference, transaction type can be incorporated into 
the transaction rules for segmenting fraudulent accounts. 
◆Observation 11: the withdrawal transaction mode of fraudulent accounts is simply 
through ATMs. 
★Rule 4: fraudulent accounts have no batch operation during nonbanking hours. 
★Rule 5: fraudulent accounts have no on-line banking transactions. 
 
Finally by observing the association rule table that shows the differences between deposit and 
withdrawal transactions, the following prominent rule can be determined: the gap between the 
deposits and withdrawals in a fraudulent account is within NT 10,000, and the time gap is within 
60 minutes.  This condition applies to most fraudulent accounts, so it can be applied as a rule for 
segmenting fraudulent accounts. 
★Rule 6: fraudulent accounts can be identified as accounts that have a deposit and withdrawal 
gap that is within NT 10,000 and a time gap within 60 minutes. 
 
From the above data mining analysis of fraudulent accounts, a total of 11 observations and 6 rules 
are collected, which can be used as a reference for the subsequent detection of fraudulent 
accounts.  The analysis results are arranged a shown in the table 4. 
 
Table 4. Data mining analysis result arrangement 
Project Result Description  
Observation1 
The majority of perpetrators that open fraudulent accounts fall into the age range of 21 to 40 years 
old. 
Observation2 Contact telephone numbers are commonly included in both fraudulent and normal accounts. 
Observation3 
A significant number of deposit transactions in fraudulent accounts are in the form of inter-bank 
transactions.  
Observation4 Deposits into fraudulent accounts mainly consist of cash deposits and inter-bank transfer deposits. 
 9 
 
 
Fig. 2. The Process and Schema of a Fraudulent Account Detecting System. 
 
Financial institutions can use the above regulations combined with COBOL and WFL to 
develop a fraudulent account detecting system, which can be executed by financial institutions to 
detect suspicious accounts.  
Following the process of fraudulent account detecting, there are 5067 suspected fraudulent 
accounts are be detected. In order to verify the detect rate, we compare the actual fraud accounts 
notified by FSC (Financial Supervisory Commission). The experiment results is shown in Table 
5. 
 
Table 5. The Statistical Experiment Results 
Date 
Detected Suspected 
Fraud Accounts 
Actual Fraud Accounts 
(notified by FSC) 
Ratio 
11/01 659 
11/5  notify 2 fraud accounts 
11/7  notify 1 fraud account 
11/8  notify 1 fraud account 
0.00607 
11/02 613 
11/2  notify 1 fraud account 
11/5  notify 1 fraud account 
11/7  notify 1 fraud account 
11/8  notify 1 fraud account 
0.00653 
11/05 1196 
11/5  notify 1 fraud account 
11/7  notify 1 fraud account 
0.00167 
11/06 745 11/8  notify 1 fraud account 0.00134 
11/07 623 
11/7  notify 2 fraud accounts 
11/8  notify 1 fraud account 
11/9  notify 1 fraud account 
0.00642 
11/08 542 
11/8  notify 1 fraud account 
11/9  notify 2 fraud accounts 
0.00554 
11/09 689 
11/9  notify 1 fraud account 
11/12  notify 2 fraud accounts 
0.00435 
TOTAL 5067 21 0.00414 
Pick account data of current deposit 
accounts from deposit master files: 
• Banish salary transfer account  
• Banish company accounts  
Obtain transaction detail data in the business 
day from current deposit accounts: 
• Banish accounts without transactions in 
current business day. 
Inquire current details of the above 
account for prior month: 
• Rule out the accounts have 
prearranged redeposit transactions 
(Rule1) 
• Rule out the accounts have salary 
transfers transactions, (Rule2)  
• Rule out the accounts have 
collections and payments 
transactions (Rule3)  
• Rule out the accounts have batch 
operations transactions (Rule4)  
• Rule out the accounts have on-line 
banking transactions (Rule5)  
 
 
 
Generate 
suspected 
fraudulent 
accounts 
and provide 
them to the 
bank 
Calculate the time 
differences between 
deposit and withdrawal 
transactions and the 
difference between deposit 
and withdrawal 
transaction amounts: 
• Reserve the accounts 
that have a deposit and 
withdrawal gap that is 
within NT 10,000 and a 
time gap within 60 
minutes (Rule6) 
 11 
 
has become our top priority to filter abnormal suspicious fraud causes out of the daily 
transactions of financial institutions.  This research applies daily transaction details as its object.  
Since fraud in financial institutions has no systemized rules and many uncertain and ambiguous 
factors, this research method of data exploration is applicable. 
 
This research integrates the Bayes Classifier and association method to analyze transaction 
features of fraudulent accounts in financial institutions, convert these features into detection rules, 
establish a fraudulent account detection system, and test the results by the use of a practical case 
study.  We find that the application of the structure proposed in this research is effective and can 
greatly help financial institutions quickly detect fraudulent accounts and reduce the clients’ 
financial loss and risk, further maintaining social stability and order. 
 
 13 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
本研究依照申請計畫書之規劃進度執行相關研究內容，所達到的目標包含： 
 過去資訊科技安全控制與監督偏重在法規的制定、作業流程的設計，較少有實務上的
表現，本研究透過理論與實務的結合，加強此方面的研究。 
 資料採礦技術過去多用於發掘一般性的法則，較少應用於發掘異常的狀況，本研究則
兩者兼具，可以做為資料採礦的另一層面應用。 
 部落格將成為網路環境的新趨勢，強調主體在於使用者；本研究則運用此概念，將資
訊系統看做為使用者，由資訊系統將其每日的稽核軌跡自動轉入適當的討論區並建立
關係，此舉改變過去稽核人員主動去蒐集的作法，改為各系統主動提供。 
 電腦稽核相關的知識本體論目前尚未建立，透過此一研究計畫將可完成此一部份。 
 本研究透過系統實證，確定其可行性，有助國內軟體廠商遵循此機制建立商業化的軟
體。 
 本研究使用個案方法進行系統可用性與有效性驗證，協助先導企業進行相關的資訊科
技安全控制與監督工作，改善企業的資訊品質，進而降低其營運成本，提高企業競爭
力。 
 
與預期之結果相符，目前已經將相關研究投稿於研討會與期刊中，如下表所示： 
 
級別 姓名 畢業
否 
畢業日期 論文題目 
95 級
EMBA 
王強 畢業 
97.07 資料探勘技術應用於詐騙交易帳戶行為之研究 
期刊論文(發表) 李興漢、王強, "資料採礦技術應用於詐騙交易帳戶行為
之研究," 研究与發展管理, July, 2008 CSSCI(研討會轉收
錄期刊) 
會議論文(發表) 李興漢、王強, "資料採礦技術應用於詐騙交易帳戶行為
之研究," IFSAM 第九屆世界管理大會, July, 2008 
期刊論文 
(投稿中) 
Shing-Han Li, David Yen, and Chiang Wang, "The Detection 
of Dummy Bank Accounts in Frauds – A Data Mining 
Approach,"  
95 級 
MIS 
羅智淵 畢業 
98.01 利用部落格方式追蹤資訊系統紀錄 
會議論文(發表) 李興漢、羅智淵, "利用部落格技術建立資訊系統軌跡追
蹤機制," 2008 International Conference on Accounting and 
Information Technology, Aug. 2008 
