報告內容 
 
1. 研究目的 
 
With numerous multimedia and internet connectivity facilities for passengers, multimedia 
services have become extremely popular and its use grows exponentially in cars. People in cars 
want to navigate not only location-cognizant data such as location-based tourist guides while 
driving, but also want to use on-car streaming service such as live traffic camera view and videos 
over Internet. Vehicular Ad-Hoc Network (VANET) is introduced to support large numbers of 
vehicle communications. A Vehicular Ad-Hoc Network provides communications among nearby 
vehicles and between vehicles and nearby fixed equipment, e.g., road-side unit (RSU). People can 
access streaming services through road-side unit (access points, APs) that provide Internet 
connections in VANETs.  
For applications, such as Internet audio and video streaming, overload the media 
transmission over vehicle communication networks. To alleviate the communication problem, 
peer-to-peer sharing systems are often deployed in networks to support large numbers of users. 
However, there are still a lot of problems for supporting multimedia streaming on peer-to-peer 
sharing systems over the VANETs. Peer-to-peer networks have not been used effectively for 
adaptive streaming services in cars; passengers can't access multimedia steaming services at 
anytime, anywhere with different devices in cars over VANETs. The lack of a dynamic 
multimedia sharing, locating, and adapting architecture for streaming objects makes it becomes a 
critical issue in providing multimedia streaming services over VANETs. In order to deal with 
such a problem, we develop a mesh-based peer-to-peer system for video streaming to against the 
aforementioned deficiencies.  
A tree-based peer-to-peer system cannot effectively utilize the outgoing bandwidth of 
participating peers. In contrast, mesh-based content delivery mechanisms can effectively utilize 
the outgoing bandwidth of most participating peers. We propose a mesh-based peer-to-peer 
system that considers the video streaming sharing among vehicles and peers over Internet, which 
can maximize delivered quality with minimum buffer requirement at each peer. Multiple 
description coding (MDC) is a coding scheme that partitions a single media stream into n 
substreams (n ≥ 2) referred to as descriptions. MDC can provide error resilience for multimedia 
streaming in best-effort networks such as Internet. The Multiple Description Coding (MDC) 
allows for performing on-the-fly rate adjustment of data transmission. By equipping Multiple 
Description Coding (MDC) for video streaming objects, the peer-to-peer system can enhance the 
utilization of media transmission, and can satisfy the requirement of adaptive multimedia 
descriptions of a stream without paying attention to the bandwidth limitations of different clients. 
Receivers that can't sustain the data rate only subscribe to a subset of descriptions, thus freeing 
the content provider from sending additional streams at lower data rates [1].  
3. 研究方法及系統架構 
The connectivity structure of every P2P network can be represented by an undirected graph, 
in which nodes of the P2P network form the vertices of the graph and connections between nodes 
are the edges of the graph. Hereafter, the terms graph and network are used interchangeably; the 
terms node and vertex are used equivalently, and so are the terms edges and connections. Let G = 
(V, E) be an undirected graph, where V = { V1, ..., Vn} is the set of nodes and E = { E1, ..., Em} is 
the set of edges in the graph G. A description delivery tree DDTi is a finite set of nodes such that: 
(i) there is a specially designated node called the root which is the source provider of multimedia 
streams; (ii) the remaining nodes are partitioned into disjoint sets, where each of these sets is 
called the subtree of the root. 
We design a simple P2P sharing scheme that can distribute MDC coded streams to 
heterogeneous mobile devices on vehicles over VANET. Considering a set S = {S1, ..., Sz} of z 
video streams being shared by a network G= (V, E), let video stream Si be a shared stream in S, 
where i is the stream identifier. In a VANET, a vehicle u is said to share steam Si (that u holds) if 
u declares that stream Si can be shared and retrieved. In our architecture, a video stream can be 
further divided into n MDC coded substreams (n ≥ 2) referred to as descriptions. Each description 
is further divided into description chunk (DC) of every Δ t second. When a vehicle is out of 
transmission range of an access point (AP), other vehicles will be used to relay the data traffic in 
the project. Whenever a vehicle sends or relays a packet to the Internet, it piggybacks its current 
location and mobility information, and the corresponding timestamp in the packet. In this way, a 
bootstrap server can obtain location and mobility information of all vehicles in the area. Each 
node x ∈  V corresponds to a vehicle and there is an undirected link e = (x, y) between nodes x ∈  
Vand y ∈  V if either x or y corresponds to a vehicle and dist(x, y) ≤ R and there is LOS between 
nodes x and y, where R denotes the transmission range, dist(·) returns the corresponding 
Euclidean distance. 
Let m be the identifier of a description out of 0 to M - 1, where m = 0 is the description 0, m 
= 1 identifies the description 1. In the proposed scheme, a MDC coded stream can be delivered 
through a set of description delivery trees 0iDDT , ..., 
m
iDDT , where 0m  . Each description 
delivery tree miDDT  delivers different description 
m
iS  associated with the video stream Si.  
Let ,
m
i jS  denote a shared description chunk (DC) of a MDC coded stream, where i is the video 
stream identifier, m is the identifier of different description of the same video stream Si, and j is 
the identifier of different description chunk (DC). We define the cost of communication by a 
function c: V
2
  R. For any two nodes u and v in V, c(u,v) is the cost of transmitting a 
its parent in the corresponding description deliver tree m
iDDT . For each description deliver tree 
m
iDDT , the new joining vehicle u sends a packet to each candidate parent for obtaining the 
candidate parent's current location, mobile information, and the network condition, e.g., latitude , 
longitude, velocity direction, the available uplink bandwidth, the network distance from the root 
of content deliver tree liDDT to the candidate parent in terms of logical hops, and the end-to-end 
transmission delay from the root of content deliver tree miDDT  to the candidate parent. The 
information is used to determine the best peer to serve as its parent. A vehicle x is selected as 
parent in a way to minimize the end-to-end delay time from the stream source of content deliver 
tree miDDT  to vehicle u. For minimizing the end-to-end transmission delay, the round trip time 
(RTT) and distance of vehicle location are employed as a measure of delay and the end-to-end 
packet deliver time from the stream source of content deliver tree miDDT  through vehicle x is 
considered. Firstly, the new joining vehicle u checks whether the vehicle x has enough available 
uplink bandwidth for delivering MDC coded stream or not. If the vehicle x does not have enough 
available uplink bandwidth, vehicle u checks other randomly selected peers. If the vehicle x has 
enough available uplink bandwidth, vehicle u then measures the end-to-end packet deliver time 
from the stream source of description deliver tree miDDT  through vehicle x to vehicle u. After 
all the RTT values of randomly selected vehicles are measured, vehicle u selects the best vehicle 
with minimal RTT value and minimal distance, i.e., , , ( , )src x x uRTT RTT dist x u  , to serve as its 
parent. A joining vehicle u can also directly send connection request to the source stream 
provider of description deliver tree miDDT  if the source stream provider has available uplink 
bandwidth and the ,src uRTT  is minimal than other RTT values of randomly selected vehicles. 
Once the candidate parent x of a vehicle deliver tree miDDT  is selected, the joining vehicle u 
establishes a connection with the parent x and then starts in participating with the description 
delivery. Figure 1 shows the proposed vehicle-based P2P sharing architecture. In Figure 1, Peer 2 
joins into two description deliver tree 1iDDT  and 
2
iDDT . Peer 2 receives description D1 from 
1
iDDT  and then will receive description D2 from 
2
iDDT through Peer 3.  
throughout the period from the current time tcurrent to the end of the monitoring period tcurrent +Δt, 
the peer switching algorithm identifies the missing packets of current requesting MDC-coded 
descriptions from its packet buffer map and then requests the packets that can be delivered and 
play out before their display time using the connections in each description deliver tree miDDT . 
The peer switching algorithm requests all of these missing packets in an ordered list from one of 
its parents in each description deliver tree miDDT . Let 
n
iR  denote the bit rate of a MDC coded 
substream, where n is the identifier of a MDC coded substream. The peer switching algorithm 
determines a maximum value k that satisfies 
0
k
n
i in
n
R BW

 , every Δt second, where BWin is the 
total available bandwidth of the input link of vehicle u. Initially, the peer switching algorithm 
calculates the current download speed of its parents in each description delivery tree miDDT . If 
the available bandwidth is enough for delivering the next MDC-coded substream miS , the vehicle 
contact the bootstrap server to find the most suitable description deliver tree miDDT  of the 
joining vehicle u such that  
0
l
n
i i
n
R Q

 . The bootstrap server then provides with q subsets of 
randomly selected nearby vehicles that participate in each description deliver tree miDDT  
according to u’s current location and mobility information. After all the RTT values of randomly 
selected vehicles are measured, vehicle u selects the best vehicle with minimal RTT value and 
minimal distance to serve as its parent.  The peer switching algorithm repeats the above 
operations as many times as necessary to retrieve different MDC-coded substream kiS  as more 
as possible until the maximum value k is reached or there does not have enough incoming 
bandwidth for advanced stream delivery. 
5.  結果與討論 
In this project, we propose a mesh-based peer-to-peer system for video streaming over 
VANETs. We devise a peer switching adaptation scheme to transmit multimedia streaming 
objects according to vehicles’ location and mobile information with Multiple description coding 
(MDC). By equipping Multiple description coding (MDC) for video streaming objects according 
to vehicles’ location and mobile information, the proposed vehicle based P2P streaming system 
can enhance the utilization of media transmission, and can satisfy the requirement of adaptive 
multimedia presentations over VANET.  
參考文獻 
[1] “Multiple description coding,” http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Multiple_description_coding,  
2009. 
[2] D. Sormani et al., “Towards lightweight information dissemination in inter-vehicular 
networks,”  Proceedings of ACM VANET’2006, pp. 20–29. 
計畫成果自評 
 
多描述編碼技術(Multiple description coding, MDC)可用來加強視訊封包在網路上傳輸
的容錯能力(Error Resilience)。多描述編碼技術的概念是將視訊串流(Video Stream)編碼為彼
此獨立的多個描述(Descriptions)，接收端會根據接收到的 Descriptors 來還原資料，每一個
單獨的描述(Description)都可以用來重建原始資料，並能保障基本的品質，任何附加的描述
(Descriptions)則可以用來進一步提昇重建資料的品質，因此當接收到越多同一資料串流的
描述(Descriptions)，視訊資料失真就會越低。在本計劃中，每個父節點會動態地向它的子
節點群報告它新收到的視訊描述(Descriptions)資料封包並傳送描述(Descriptions)資料。同
時，每個子節點也會週期式排程，並向父節點送出一個所需要的視訊資料封包清單，要求
資料傳送。在本計劃中，我們使用整合 IVC 及 RVC 通訊架構來進行串流資料傳輸。計劃成
果為提出：(1) 針對車戴隨意行動網路 (VANET)環境特性設計以網狀結構為基礎
(Mesh-based)的車戴隨意行動網路視訊串流傳輸架構，(2) 發展車戴隨意行動網路下具有調
適性的多來源端媒體串流傳輸協定(Multiple Source Audio/Video Adaptive Transmission 
Protocol)。 
 
多描述編碼技術(Multiple description coding, MDC)與車戴隨意行動網路(VANET)同儕運算
協同合作具理論上的研討，適合學術論文之發表。此外，本計劃所發表之以網狀結構為基
礎的車戴隨意行動網路視訊串流傳輸架構，其設計分析後的系統架構及相關參考成果，可
供業界發展車戴隨意行動網路(VANET)應用上之重要依據，並可協助開發車戴隨意行動網
路(VANET)同儕運算網路的多描述編碼技術(Multiple description coding, MDC)多媒體串流
能力，提升產業界競爭力。 
 
計劃論文發表成果 
1. Tz-Heng Hsu, You-Sheng Liang, and Meng-Shu Chian, "A BitTorrent-based Dynamic 
Bandwidth Adaptation Algorithm for Video Streaming," Proceedings of the 2010 
International Conference Ubiquitous Computing and Multimedia Applications 
(UCMA2010), pp. 51-62, Miyazaki, Japan, June 23-25, 2010. (最佳論文獎) 
 
文為”A BitTorrent-based Dynamic Bandwidth Adaptation Algorithm for Video Streaming”，
很榮幸獲得大會選為最佳論文，對本人所進行的研究是一大激勵。最後，感謝國科會
補助，可以參加 UCMA2010 這樣的國際學術會議，透過交換研究心得，獲益良多。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
UCMA 2010 Conference 論文集一份 
四、論文發表資料 
五、Tz-Heng Hsu, You-Sheng Liang, and Meng-Shu Chian, "A BitTorrent-based Dynamic 
Bandwidth Adaptation Algorithm for Video Streaming," Proceedings of the 2010 
International Conference Ubiquitous Computing and Multimedia Applications 
(UCMA2010), pp. 51-62, Miyazaki, Japan, June 23-25, 2010. 
 
五、會議相關影像 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：許子衡 計畫編號：98-2221-E-218-032- 
計畫名稱：以網狀結構為基礎的車戴隨意行動網路視訊串流傳輸架構之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
