 2
Growth of AlN Thin Films for Air Pressure Sensor Applications 
 
Kok-Wan Taya*, Teng-Yi Huangb, and Yen-Pei Fuc 
a Department of Electrical Engineering, Wu-Feng Institute of Technology, Chiayi 621, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
b Graduate School of OptoMechatronics and Materials, Wu-Feng Institute of Technology, Chiayi 621, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
c Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Dong-Hwa University, Hualien 974, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
Abstract 
 
The main target of thesis is to investigate the highly c-axis oriented aluminum nitride (AlN) thin films for air 
pressure sensor which could be possibly integrated with semiconductors. Basically, the air pressure sensor structure 
is the combination techniques of film buck acoustic resonator (FBAR) and surface acoustic wave (SAW). In this 
study, the AlN thin films were deposited on Si3N4/Si substrates by RF magnetron sputtering technique. It has been 
found that the correlated sputtering parameters, include substrate temperature and N2 flow rate ratio, affects the 
intensity degree of c-axis orientation and the texture of the AlN thin films, and hence its electroacoustic properties. 
The experimental results shown that the AlN films prepared at higher temperature of 300  and N℃ 2 flow rate ratios of 
75% are shown to have preferred orientation toward the c-axis and with very smooth top surface in order to have a 
highest coupling factor. An air pressure sensor devices based on these thin AlN films has shown a phase shift 
response of different air pressure and provides an innovative structure of tire pressure sensor devices.   
Keywords：Sputtering、AlN、Sensors、Surface pressure 
*Corresponding author.  
E-mail address: kwtay@ms26.hinet.net 
Tel.: +886-5-2773095; Fax: +886-5-2716518 
 
1. Introduction 
Today, monitoring the pressure inside a vehicle tires 
is becoming increasingly important for automotive 
research groups. The aim is to prevent accidents caused 
by a tire burst and to provide an economical advantage 
through a reduction of high price fuel consumption, and 
a longer tire lifetime. The measurement of the actual 
tire pressure is mostly based on the application of a 
wireless sensor system. In general, there are three 
different technologies may be used for wireless 
information transmission [1]: inductive transmission, 
radio transmission including an active sensor unit, and 
radio transmission by reflection (passive transponder). 
Currently, mostly wireless sensor systems consisting of 
an active battery- powered sensor unit inside each 
wheel and a central receiver unit have been realized 
[2-3]. The main problem of these microcontroller-based 
systems is required of lithium battery, which limits the 
lifetime of the sensor unit due to battery would have to 
be changed regularly and caused the vehicle 
unreliability and unsafely at any time. 
This paper describes the design of a tire pressure 
measurement system using the combination techniques 
of film buck acoustic resonator (FBAR) and surface 
acoustic wave (SAW). And also study the effect of 
highly c-axis oriented fine polycrystalline AlN thin 
films by using the reactive RF magnetron sputtering 
method. Wireless passive SAW sensors for several 
physical quantities have been developed over the last 
decade [4-5] and are implemented as passive 
transponders on radio transmission. The main 
outstanding features of SAW sensor systems are a large  
 
 
readout distance and an energy supply of the sensor 
only by the electromagnetic RF field of the transceiver 
unit. Consequently, in the case of tire pressure 
measurement, a high inquiry rate does not decrease the 
lifetime of the sensor unit and enables the detection of 
any sudden pressure decrease inside the tire. 
SAW exploits the piezoelectric effect to convert 
electrical energy into mechanical energy, and vice versa. 
Such a wave propagating along AlN film surface can be 
generated, detected, and influenced by means of an 
interdigital transducer (IDT). The principle of air 
pressure sensor is as follows: a high-frequency 
electromagnetic signal is picked up by the antenna of 
the passive SAW device. An IDT connected to the 
antenna converts the received signal into a SAW via the 
converse piezoelectric effect. The SAW propagates 
from the IDT in the direction of reflectors arranged in a 
characteristic barcode-type pattern and is partially 
reflected at each reflector. The acoustic wave signals 
returning to the IDT are reconverted into electrical 
signals and transmitted to the receiver by the antenna 
[6-12].  
When the air pressure varies will cause the cavity 
sensor detected area of AlN thin film membrane 
deformable, eventually cause the phase shift of SAW 
due to acoustic path deformation  along AlN film 
surface[13-17]. Generally, a change in the 
environmental air pressure results in a variation of the 
acoustic path length and a variation of the SAW phase 
shift. This response contains information about the air 
pressure as well as the propagation and reflection 
nitride membrane was fabricated as shown in Fig. 1.                                                                   Figure 3 showed XRD patterns of AlN film deposited
on Si3N4 with various substrate temperature of 150℃、
200℃、and 250℃ with a power of 300W, Ar:N2 flow 
rate ratio of 3:9 and a sputtering pressure was set at 
5.7mTorr. From Fig.3, it is readily observed that the 
intensity of the (002) different peak increases when the 
substrate temperature is rise up to 250℃. As the 
substrate temperature increases, the mobility of 
particles deposited in the thin film also increases and 
structural properties such as preferred orientation, grain 
size, and the growth rate change. For our experiments, a 
substrate temperature of 250℃, (002) peak was the 
strongest. Thus, the preferred orientation of the 
polycrystalline film was with the c-axis of the 
hexagonal AlN perpendicular to the substrate surface 
and has better piezoelectric characteristics.  
The crystalline structure and crystallographic 
orientation of each AlN film were analyzed by X-ray 
diffraction (XRD; RIGAKU D/max 2.B) performed at 
an accelerating voltage of 25 kV and 30 mA with (002) 
diffraction angles (θ-2θ) between 30° and 60°. The 
cross-sectional of the various AlN film grain structures 
were observed using a scanning electron microscope 
(SEM PHILIPS XL-40FEG). The thickness of the 
various films was determined using a stylus 
profilometer (Veeco DEKTAK). Finally, the S21 
parameters of the fabricated air pressure sensor 
performance were measured using a network analyzer 
(Agilent N5230A). 
 
3. Results and discussion 
In order to study the effects of the Ar:N2 flow rate 
ratio on the crystallographic orientation of the AlN 
films. Figure 2 shows the corresponding XRD results of 
the AlN films deposited on Si3N4 membrane at Ar:N2 
flow rate ratios of 6:6 sccm、5:7 sccm、4:8 sccm and 3:9 
sccm with a power of 300W and a sputtering pressure 
of 5.7mTorr. It is evident that the crystalline structures 
of these films are all c-axis oriented and the appearance 
of strong (002) peak near 2θ=36°, except 6:6 sccm flow 
rate ratios. Furthermore, increasing the N2 flow rate 
ratio to 75% shown in Figure 2(d) causes the AlN film 
to develop a stronger preference for the preferred (002) 
orientation, since atomic bombardment of the film 
surface causes an increase in the film density. Under 
bombardment, the kinetic energy of the surface atoms 
is increased and is sufficient for some of these atoms to 
rearrange themselves to achieve thermal equilibrium 
conditions, hence reducing the voided regions within 
the microstructure. The flux of the bombarding 
particles increases as the nitrogen flow rate ratio 
increases. Therefore, the adatomic mobility at the film 
surface is also improved as a result of the increase in 
energy transfer taking place at the film surface. 
Consequently, an elevated nitrogen flow rate ratios are 
beneficial in developing AlN films with the desired 
normal orientation and hence to manifest enhanced 
piezoelectric qualities.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. XRD patterns of AlN film deposited on Si3N4 by 
various substrate temperature: (a)150℃、(b)200℃, and 
(c)250℃ 
 
AlN films must be grown orientated in the (002) 
direction to achieve high piezoelectric coupling to the 
required extensional mode. Therefore, columnar AlN 
grains whose c-axes are perpendicular to the substrate 
are needed. Figure 4(a) shows top view SEM 
photographs of the AlN film prepared under the 
optimum conditions mentioned above. Figure 4(b) 
shows the SEM image of a cross-sectional view of the 
c-axis oriented AlN thin film, lie on a low-stress Si3N4 
support membrane on silicon. The cross-sectional view 
of the thin film shows an AlN film with a highly 
aligned columnar structure was formed.   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. XRD patterns of AlN film deposited on Si3N4 at 
various Ar:N2 flow rate ratio:(a)6:6 sccm, (b)5:7 sccm, 
(c) 4:8 sccm, and (d) 3:9 sccm 
Fig.4.The corresponding SEM micrographs 
of sputtered AlN film: (a) top view, and (b) 
cross-sectional view 
 
The silicon etching is one of the most 
important steps in fabrication of pressure 
detect cavity of air pressure sensor. Figure 5 
show the cavity sensing area of air pressure 
sensor etched by KOH. Figure 5(a) shows the SEM 
image of a cross-sectional view of pressure detect 
cavity with a thin low-stress Si3N4 support membrane. 
 4
 6
reading system,” in Proc. IEEE Ultrasonics Symp., 
(1987), pp. 583–585. 
[10] L. Reindl, F. Müller, C. Ruppel,W.-E. Bulst, and F. 
Seifert, “Passive surface wave sensors which can 
be wirelessly interrogated,” International Patent 
WO 93/13, (1993), 495. 
[11] F. Schmidt, O. Sczesny, L. Reindl, and V. Magori, 
“Remote sensing of physical parameters by means 
of passive surface acoustic wave devices (ID 
TAG),” in Proc. IEEE Ultrasonics Symp., (1994), 
pp. 589–592. 
[12] L. Reindl, G. Scholl, T. Ostertag, H. Scherr, U. 
Wolff, and F. Schmidt, “Theory and application of 
passive SAW radio transponders as sensors,” 
IEEE Trans. Ultrason., Ferroelect., Freq. Contr., 
vol. 45, (Sept. 1998), pp. 1281–1291. 
[13] R.M.Taziev, E.A.Jolosovsky and A.S.KoZlov: 
“Deformation-Sensitive for Surface Acoustic 
Waves in-Quartz”, Proc. 1993 IEEE International 
Frequency Control Symposium, (1993), 
pp.660-664. 
[14] H.Scherr et al: “Quartz Pressure Sensor Based on 
SAW Reflective Delay Line”, Proc. 1996 
Ultrasonics Symposium, (1996), pp.347-350. 
[15] G.K.Montress et al: “A Miniature Hybrid Circuit 
SAW Oscillator Using An All Quartz Packaged 
Resonator”, Proc. 1985 Ultrasonics Symposium, 
(1985), pp.277-282. 
[16] P.Hartemann: “Surface Acoustic Wave Pressure 
Gauge”, US Patent 4,317,372, (1982). 
[17] H.Skeie: “Surface Acoustic Wave Passive 
Transponder Having Amplitude and 
Phase-Modifying Surface Pads”, US Patent 
4,625,207, (1986). 
 
 
 
