2 
disposal robots are used for outdoor principally, 
the size is relative large and unsuitable for 
airplane on board bomb-removal. In addition, 
this project will combine reconnaissance 
function with the bomb disposal robot. So the 
robot is needed not only to walk on the ground 
but also to climb on the vertical plane for 
monitoring outside the airplane. 
According to above characteristics, this 
project prepares to develop a novel bomb 
disposal robot. The initial task is to review 
existed techniques and improve them further. 
The stable motion mechanism of the robot is 
designed to fit in with the narrow passage 
inside the airplane and stick on the outside 
surface of the airplane. 
 
II. Paper Review 
 
A large amount of overseas factories and 
companies already invest a lot of resource in 
the field of robot to carry relative design and 
development out. Many important techniques 
have been proposed by means of patents and 
papers. So in the beginning of this project, 
paper review is a very significant step. 
Vanguard company [1] produced 
「Vanguard™ MK1」robot, Figure 2.1. This 
robot is very light and agile, and can be used 
both indoor and outdoor. Vanguard™ MK1 has 
the capability to respond to bomb threats, to 
perform hazardous materials handling and 
tactical and surveillance tasks. However the 
weight of Vanguard™ MK1 (440mm) is too 
large to fit the passage inside the airplane. 
 
Figure 2.1 Vanguard™ MK1 robot [1] 
 
Foster Miller company [2] produced a 
small robot 「SOLEM」, Figure 2.2. SOLEM is 
a lightweight, portable robotic rover designed 
to perform inspection tasks. It is a very 
dexterous platform able to operate in all 
weather conditions, day and night and endowed 
with amphibious capabilities. SOLEM 
dimensions are about 500×355×203 mm and its 
mass is 15 kg. 
 
Figure 2.2 SOLEM (courtesy Foster Miller) robot [2] 
 
Foster Miller company [3] produced a 
bomb disposal robot 「TALON」, Figure 2.3. 
TALON military robots are powerful, durable 
and lightweight tracked vehicles that are 
widely used for explosive ordnance disposal, 
reconnaissance, communications, hazmat, 
security, defense and rescue. They have 
all-weather, day/night and amphibious 
capabilities and can navigate virtually any 
terrain. TALON has the high payload capacity 
and its mass is 45 kg. 
 
Figure 2.3 TALON (courtesy Foster Miller) robot [3] 
 
J. Xiao、A. Sadegh、M. Elliott、A. Calle、
A. Persad and H. M. Chiu [4] developed novel 
robots which can achieve quick motion on 
various wall surfaces and smooth wall-to-wall 
transitions, Figure 2.4. The adhesion 
mechanism is based on vortex attraction 
technique in that the interior air pressure is 
much lower than the ambient air pressure, and 
therefore a resultant attraction force is 
generated. DSP based control system is also 
used to enable the robot operating manually 
4 
 
A. Design Specification 
The bomb disposal robot that this project 
develops will be used to search and collect 
information on the airplane surface and in the 
passenger compartment for a state of 
emergency. Therefore the robot must climb 
from the airplane side to the airplane top or any 
points to go on a risk task. So the robot must be 
mobile. Figure 3.1 shows the sizes chart of 
airplane Boeing 747. Figure 3.2 shows the 
section of a medium airplane with four seats in 
line. 
 
Figure 3.1 the sizes chart of airplane Boeing 747 
 
 
 
Figure 3.2 a typical cross-section of a plane [1] 
 
In the first stage of this project, the purpose 
is the design and manufacturing of the mobile 
system in the bomb disposal robot. In order to 
make the robot walk in the passenger 
compartment, the weight of the chassis is 
designed to be smaller than the weight of the 
passage. In the aspect of reconnaissance, the 
robot is set to climb on the vertical and smooth 
surface, not on the curved surface of airplanes. 
And the robot must be small and light to promise 
the concealment and mobile as performing a 
task. 
 
B. Concept Design 
With the development of modern 
techniques, the movement modes of robots 
involve many types, including wheel, track, 
feet, combination, etc. So the environments and 
routes of the robot have to be determined 
before investigating the mechanism. And the 
concept designs of the movement mechanism 
will be brought out. 
By the requirements, this project brings 
out two concept designs of bomb disposal 
robots. 
The first design, bomb disposal robot, 
must carry out some different tasks as take 
away a suspicious box. A robotic system is 
composed of a mobile platform and a dexterous 
arm, Figure 3.3. Figure 3.4 shows two work 
conditions: under the seats and inside the 
hatboxes. 
 
 
 
Figure 3.3 The first concept design: bomb disposal robot 
 
 
Figure 3.4 the robot work conditions 
6 
motors is drove. 
The stability of the robot is required 
mainly in order to avoid strong vibration or 
overturn occurring when moving fast. Because 
of the high rotational speed of the power 
motors (15000 rpm) is unsuitable, the gear box 
is used to reduce the output rotational speed. 
The gear box is composed of 5 different pure 
gears. Figure 3.10 shows the arrangement of 
the gear train and individual tooth number. And 
the speed reduction ratio is 
2.110
12
40
14
36
14
36
8
42 =⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛−×⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛−×⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛−×⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛−=×××= GHEFCDAB VRVRVRVRTV
Therefore the output rotational speed is about 
136 rpm. 
 
Figure 3.10 the arrangement of the gear train 
 
Pure gears which have the same 
specifications, N=38 and m=0.868, are used as 
parts of the gear drive mechanism. Nine gears 
are assembled equally on right and left sides, 
shown as Figure 3.11. So wheels on both sides 
can run simultaneously. 
 
E. Vacuum sucker 
The vacuum sucker is composed of an 
exhaust and a vacuum chamber seal. The 
exhaust composing two axial fans is located at 
the center of the whole. The air would be 
drawn out along the direction of the fan axis, 
Figure 3.12. The shape of the chassis is 
designed curvy to guide the air flow smoothly. 
In order for most aerodynamic attraction 
devices to maintain that attraction force due to 
a pressure difference, the low pressure zone 
where the aerodynamic forces act need to be 
enclosed by a vacuum chamber. The interior air 
pressure is much lower than the ambient air 
pressure, and therefore a resultant attraction 
force is generated. This vacuum sucker allow 
the robot to travel on various smooth surfaces. 
 
Figure 3.11 the arrangement of the gear drive mechanism 
 
 
 
Figure 3.12 Vacuum suckers 
 
F. Control system 
Control system is one portion in whole 
project. In the system, climbing robot is 
controllable with rechargeable batteries, signal 
transmitters, control card and etc. All 
assemblages are integrated together. In this 
way, robot can be controlled through CCD 
camera, wireless transmitter and wireless 
receiver. The environment around robot will be 
detected and transmitted to the monitor through 
wireless mode. By the pictures on monitor, 
robot will get new orders from user. The 
advantages are without terrain restriction and 
far distance. 
Whole system is integrated as Figure 3.13. 
The order from remote controller to command 
interpreter is translated to machine code, 
making DC servo motor work. Therefore, the 
fans start to attract the chamber and wheels are 
drove. Meanwhile, environment around robot is 
changing. The pictures caught by CCD camera 
are transmitted by wireless transmitter through 
wireless receiver to mobile surveillance which 
translating analog signals to digital signals. 
Then pictures are observed on the monitor. 
In this project, making robot with vision is 
8 
 
(b) flow guides assemblage 
 
(c) components assemblage (d) packaging 
 
Figure 4.1 the prototype of the robot 
 
CAD model Manufactured components 
 
 
Figure 4.2 internal side frames 
 
CAD model Manufactured components 
 
 
Figure 4.3 external side frames 
 
The main parts are manufactured in 
accordance with completed CAD models, 
including internal side frames, external side 
frames and flow guides. Because of 
considerations of minimal weight and low 
purchase price, above parts are produced by 
CAD design models and CNC computer aided 
manufacturing, as Figure 4.2, Figure 4.3 and 
Figure 4.4. 
 
 
CAD model Manufactured components 
 
Figure 4.4 flow guides 
 
To make prototype manufacturing more 
efficient, some parts would be obtained from 
commercial products, including gears, fans, 
motors, etc. The rubber wheels are used to 
increase friction between the robot and the 
contact plane. Then all parts are packaged and 
the robot is drove by a 6V battery. For the 
prototype robot, dimensions are about 252×152
×73 mm and its mass is 590g. 
 
V. Prototype Test 
 
The prototype of the robot has been 
successfully designed, manufactured and tested. 
Experiments were conducted to evaluate the 
design concepts, shown as Figure 5.1. The 
robot is able to move on ground with stable 
speed 27m/min and climb on various wall 
surfaces, such as white board, glass wall, 
concrete wall, marble wall, tile wall and 
airplane plane. The test results show that the 
robot performs well on ground and smooth 
walls and is able to stick on a ceiling. 
 
  
Smooth floor Airplane wing 
(a) move test 
  
white board airplane plane 
10 
適用於飛機上排爆機器人之設計與研發 
(Design and Development of a Bomb 
Disposal Robot for Airplanes) 
中文摘要 
本計畫的目的為設計與研發適用於飛機
上之排爆機器人。首先規劃排爆機器人於飛
機內執行任務的程序，並評估一般市面上現
有的排爆機器人，以訂定適用於飛機上排除
爆裂物的機器人之規格。接下來提出與本計
畫相關之數個機器人的概念設計；排爆機器
人主要的零組件包括底盤、輪子、機械操控
手臂、夾持裝置、傳動單元、電力單元、偵
測單元及操作員控制單元等。並且在模擬飛
機機內狀況之虛擬 3D 環境下，模擬爆裂物排
除之操作過程。在操控單元方面，發展操作
介面，並且將來自馬達、感測器和攝影機的
訊號整合至操作介面中，使在飛機內及飛機
外之有限空間下，機器人能夠被偵測與操
控。最後製作一個機器人的初型，並測試機
器人在機腔內之行走能力及在飛機外之爬行
能力。本年之計畫是三年計畫的第一年，第
一年之任務是進行機器人的概念設計，並且
做出機器人的移動系統，包括底盤、輪子、
傳動機構和移動控制單元等。 
 
關鍵字：排爆機器人、移動機器人、爬牆機
器人、飛航安全任務 
 
