Introduction
A shape design or synthesis process of a shape involves several aspects of
consideration, such as its intended location, geometry, and dimension. In the design
of keys and their respective key slots, appropriate shape and sizes and specified
tolerance are essential. Increased competition and market demand meant that
designs have become more sophisticated and have to be produced quickly and cost
effectively.
Until recently, complicated shapes are designed from expertise gained through
experience and trials. Some details on designing are summarized in mathematic area
or CAD pre-drawing. Nowadays, pairing holes and keys are preferred because of
their speed, simplicity, and economical price. Because the design process is only
obtained from experience and several trials, correction is still tedious and expensive.
A process to ease the pre-design and analysis of holes and keys for such
situations by recognizing the topology could be a solution. Actually, the design
process requires two interrelated activities and a methodology to recognize various
topologies from the tentative concepts proposed by the designer, and it is based on the
recognized data of topology, the generation of rules, and design procedures for detail
design. The first phase could be done by using a recognition procedure to recognize
the topology and their locations from the related data. The second phase may
involve evaluation of geometry data, shape, profile, and size using some modeling
tools. This paper presents a feature pairing methodology to fulfill the first phase.
The second phase of geometry design will be explained elsewhere.
Several applications of feature pairing have been applied in the area of pairing
locks and keys[1], shape design of dies, or some puzzle toys[2]. But from the
available literature, it appears that no effort has been made for feature pairing in the
area of holes and keys. This paper attempts to present a feature pairing methodology
for solid as well as hollow components, which could be applied to the pre-design and
analysis of pairing the holes with the related keys. The graph and formula are used
for this purpose. Firstly, the meaning of holes and keys is defined, and the method
that is used for presenting holes and keys is also proposed. Then, illustrative
examples about plug and socket for the performance of the proposed method would
be analyzed. Finally, the contributions of this paper are drawn.
Definitions and Assumptions
account for feature pairing, which can help the processes of pre-design or
pre-recognition of pairing design for the holes and keys. Then the pairing
information between holes and keys, especially the branches that signify the
connectivity, can be identified.
Assumption
The following assumptions are made for the development of the proposed
methodology as well as studying the relationship between a hole and a key.
1. Assume the size and shape of holes and keys are matched. Then according to the
definition, a key can be inserted into the hole if the size and keys are matched.
2. The breadth of a hole and the branches are specified. The obstruction that causes
by the breadth of the hole is assumed to be ignored.
3. The width of the stem and branches of a key are specified and can be paired with a
hole. It also means that the problem about the size has assumed to be ignored
here.
4. The extension of the key can be fit in with the hole, which leads to the rotated
movement of insertion without any obstruction.
For further applications, an approach for representing and analyzing the topology
is proposed.
Methodology
Selecting a main axis properly according to the topology and collocation of a hole
and a key will help the representation. This is not only convenient for formularizing
the topology of holes and keys but also helps the arrangement for pairing them.
Analysis procedures
Feature pairing involves the topology and geometry characterization, and unique
identification of various features. Steps involve in the proposed recognition
methodology are given in Fig. 3, and each step of the procedure is discussed in the
following.
Step 1. Ignoring the size
The size may effect the pairing of holes and keys. So the size of holes and
keys is assumed to be ignored, as shown in Fig. 2(a1)-(a2).
Step 2. Ignoring the geometry unit
The feature parameter, such as line, arc, and angle, and the characteristics of
between these branches, then a virtual axis can be served as a reference. The
remaining steps (steps4-6) for completing the coordinate system are the same as steps
4 to 6 from the hole with real main axis.
The direction of inserting the key is defined as Z axis and the stem width as X axis,
the coordinate system of a key is completed according to the hole.
Graph representation
Regardless of planar or space holes and keys, the difficulties for analyzing more
branches and complicated distribution would be increased. A proper main axis
should be chosen, and the use of vertices and lines can simplify the distribution and
also the feature can be exhibited clearly. Expressing by graph can also help to
differentiate the collocation of holes and keys easily.
Graph representation is a basic mathematic tool for expression. It not only can
show the topology of an object but also can express the relationships between
elements, including the relationship between holes and keys.
A hole can be divided into main axis and branches. The existence of the
branches is ignored first in order to reduce the complication of the hole, and then the
topology of the hole is obtained according to the distribution.
Holes can be classified into planar holes and space holes. In general, the
representation of a planar hole is easier than a space one. When a main axis of a
hole has been defined, it can also be represented by a vertex and serve as the basis.
Then, the other branches can be extended from this vertex.
For a space hole, the branches cross on planes that adjacent. The main axis of
the hole can be represented by dual-line vertices, and then virtual main axes can be
represented by dual-line hollow vertices, and the number of these vertices represent
the main axes, whether the real or virtual one is equal to the number of the planes.
The dual-line (hollow) vertices stand for the main axes, they can reveal the trace of
the hole on different planes and can be connected by a dotted line to represent the
relationship. Just like a revolute joint of a mechanism, labeled as R, can be rotated
straight as locating on the same plane. The dual-line vertices connect with the
section on the adjacent planes, then they can also be shrunk as one. And this step is
the extension design of the key, and the rotated motion for inserting the key can be
completed. But if the main axes of the holes cross on adjacent planes without any
connection, it means the dual-line vertices representing the main axis with regard to
the location of the main axis do not have any connection, and they also exit without
also expresses the number of the branches exactly.
If a hole crosses more than one plane, then it can be decomposed and expressed
by the feature according to the planes that a hole collocated, and they can be
integrated respectively. As shown in Fig. 4(b),
)1()]([ ZYXYH 
where H represents the formula of a hole, and X, Y, Z represent the positive
directions (along the X-axis, Y-axis, and Z-axis, respectively) of the main axis and
branches, X ,Y , Z represent the negative directions (along the X-axis, Y-axis, and
Z-axis, respectively).
This formula expresses the hole that crosses two planes and can be decomposed
into two parts, )]([ YXY and Z(1). The first part, )]([ YXY , with a main axis in Y
direction, can be denoted as Y out of the parenthesis. And in the parenthesis, there is
a 2-stepped branch extended from main axis of Y to –X (described by X ) that is
followed by Y direction. The other part, Z(1), is on the plane with main axis on the
Z shaft without any branch. But the main axis of Z direction can be connected to the
main axis that Y is denoted on plane X-Y. That shows the main axis of the hole
crossed from plane X-Y to plane X-Z, and can also be expressed as ZY R to
show the relationship. Such a revolute joint can be rotated and spread on the same
plane. According to the relationship, the formula can be rewritten as,
]1)([)1()]([)1()]([  YXYYYXYZYXYH
where H stands for the formula of a hole, and X, Y, Z represent the positive
directions (along the X-axis, Y-axis, and Z-axis, respectively) of the main axis and
branches and X ,Y , Z represent the negative directions (along the X-axis, Y-axis,
and Z-axis, respectively).
Moreover, the representation of Z(1) means the direction of the main axis Z, and
1 in the parenthesis means the element of exist blank. This expression tries to reveal
the existence of main axis without connecting with any branches. After rotating the
main axis on plane X-Z, the main axis of direction Z can then be replaced by direction
Y, and the expression can be shrunk as ]1)([ YXY , a 2-stepped hole.
In the expression of shrinking the hole, it can be fit in with the motion just like
rotating the corresponded key for insertion. Thereby, the relationship between a hole
and a key has been represented with regard to the method proposed, it can also be
Fig. 5(c) is a foldable plug. The main axis can be represented by two dual-line
vertices connected by a dotted line that can be taken as a revolute joint, denoted
as R. And the two branches connect with the main axis by lines.
Representing by the graph is helpful when determining the topology so as to see
if the plug and the socket are in the same topology that can be considered as a
pair.
Expressing by formula can also simplify the topology representations. Such as
the socket, the virtual axis can be denoted as Xi, and the expression can be,
H= Xi•(Y+Y)=Xi•2Y，
The expression of the general plug can be,
H=Z•(Z+Z)=Z•2Z 
The expression of the folding plug can be,
H=Z•(Z+Z)+Y=Z•(2Z+1) 
Step 5. Confirm the correspondences
Fig. 5(b) is a general socket represented by a vertex as the main axis, denoted as
Z axis.
Fig. 5(c) is a folding plug. The main axis, denoted as Z, comprises two
vertices without any branches. Thus the topology of the plug can be shrunk to
a vertex.
From the graph, the topology of the socket and the plug are identical. For this
reason, the topology can be determined as the same and can be mated without
considering the shape and the size.
From the formula, the number“1”in the parenthesis ofZ•(2Z+1)represents the
blank element to show the existence of the main axis. Therefore, from the
homologous representation of the graph and the formula, both the topology of
general plug and the folding plug are the same and can be paired with the hole
of the socket.
Step 6. Follow-up design with recognition of geometry
According to the topology, the design is considered with regard to recognition
geometry.
Example 2: The triple-hole socket and the plug
Besides the dual-hole socket, the usage of the triple-hole sockets is also popular.
The design of the triple-hole socket provides protect device of disconnection system.
But the main axis of the socket actually does not really exist; the parts that the
plug can be inserted are only the branches.
Step 6. Follow-up design with recognition of geometry
According to the topology, the design is considered with regard to recognition
geometry.
Result and Discussion
The recognition methodology focuses on the holes without any sub-feature. The
expression is simple, and easy to use and understand. As mentioned in the first
example, the formula expression contains a blank that shows that the extension main
axis does not have any branches. In the second example, the expression H=
Xi•(2Y+ Y ) and K=Z•3Z doesn’t seem to be corresponded. But counting the
coefficients in the parenthesis, it shows that the number of branches is the same.
Besides, the representations of the graphs are also identified.
Conclusion
The proposed method is simple and can be used in the preliminary analysis.
Applying simplified configuration of holes and keys from the original ones to simple
topology is helpful to the relationship between holes and keys. The method also
has the following characteristics:
1. Expressible. The graph can be used for expressing the collocation and direction
of holes and keys.
2. Predictable. The graph can be used for showing the relation and the insertion of
holes and keys.
3. Calculable. The formula can be used to tell the number of the branches clearly.
Owing to the relationship between holes and keys that are represented directionally, it
also has the following characteristics:
4. Sequential. The expression provides the characteristics of sequence. The first
alphabet expresses the direction of the main axis of holes and keys, and the
following alphabet and number are used to represent the direction and number of
the branches respectively.
5. Expandable. From the expression of original design, the new design can also be
extended according to the original expression that the holes (keys) pairing with.
The complicated relationship between the holes and keys can be represented by
Feature Pairing by Topology Analysis of Keys and Key Slots
Figure Legends
Fig. 1 Steps of the branches of the hole
Fig. 2 Types of feature of holes
Fig. 3 Procedures for pre-designing or analyzing the pairing feature
Fig. 4 Differences between the holes located on different places
Fig. 5 Dual plugs and socket
Fig. 6 Triple plugs and socket
(a1) (a2)
(a) feature of a hole without sub-feature
(b1) (b2) (b3)
(b) feature of a hole with sub-feature
Fig.2 Types of feature of holes
(a) Planar hole
(b) Space hole
Fig. 4 Differences between the holes located on different places
XZ
Y
主軸
主軸
H=X(Y+Z)
H= Y[ X (Y)]+Z(1)
= Y[ X (Y) +1]
(a) Triple socket
(b) Triple plug
Fig. 6 Triple plug and socket
Virtual axis
Y
X
Z
X
Z
Y
表 Y04 
Beside the conference, around the hotel which the conference held is really free 
access for the disabled, that’s why other conference also held at that hotel at the same 
time.   
As I check the status of the paper which I have submitted, I get the result of the 
proceeding as follows: 
 
Number of Papers Included in these Proceedings per Country 
(The country of the first author was the one taken into account for these statistics) 
Country # Papers % 
TOTAL 255 100 
United States  55 21.57 
Japan  22 8.63 
Germany  20 7.84 
Taiwan  18 7.06 
South Korea  12 4.71 
China  9 3.53 
Canada  8 3.14 
Poland  8 3.14 
Brazil  7 2.75 
Czech Republic  7 2.75 
Spain  6 2.35 
France  5 1.96 
Mexico  5 1.96 
Slovakia  5 1.96 
Turkey  5 1.96 
United Kingdom  5 1.96 
Australia  4 1.57 
Italy  4 1.57 
Romania  4 1.57 
Thailand  4 1.57 
Croatia  3 1.18 
Egypt  3 1.18 
India  3 1.18 
Lithuania  3 1.18 
Russian Federation  3 1.18 
Switzerland  3 1.18 
Finland  2 0.78 
Pakistan  2 0.78 
South Africa  2 0.78 
Sweden  2 0.78 
Austria  1 0.39 
Barbados  1 0.39 
Belgium  1 0.39 
Colombia  1 0.39 
