-2-
neutron flux with the B-10 concentration and
the dose conversion factor. In which the
thermal neutron flux was common measured
using the gold foil with and without the
cadmium cover based on assumed the neutron
spectrum is Maxwellian distribution in the
thermal range. This always results in
uncertainty errors due to the thermal neutron
energy spectrum is no more Maxwellian
distribution in the body.
In this article, we will study the potential
of determining the B-10 dose by using a single
LiF-TLD.
II. MATERIALS AND METHODS
Observing the absorption cross section of
B-10 and Li-6 in figure 1, it can be found that
the trend of the B-10 absorption cross section
is similar to the Li-6 one from the thermal
neutron range to about 10keV. Such that, the
B-10 dose in BNCT can be determined by
using single LiF-TLD if the reaction of the
thermal neutron with Li-6 dominates the TLD
response. In order to study the feasibility of
LiF-TLD used for B-10 dose determination in
BNCT, MCNP will be used to simulate the
energy deposition in various LiF-TLD (Ref.
1).
Fig. 1. Comparing the absorption cross section
of B-10 and Li-6
II.A. Beam and Phantom
Figure 2 shows the diagram of a
neutron beam incident into a tissue equivalent
phantom. This is the simplified model of the
BNCT neutron beam at the Tsing Hua
Open-pool Reactor (Ref.2). The beam aperture
is 14cm in diameter and the phantom is
located just adjacent to the beam exit. The
external dimensions of this phantom are 20cm
x 20cm x 20cm. The elemental compositions
are: H of 10.34%, C of 23.79%, N of 2.69%,
and O of 63.18% by weight and the physical
density is 1.04 g/cc. In order to calculate the
B-10 dose, the B-10 concentration was
assumed 30 ppm uniformly distributed
throughout the phantom and the KERMA
factors in table 1 was adopted for B-10
reactions (Ref. 3).
Three types of commercial LiF-TLD
chip were used for simulation in this study,
including TLD-600, TLD-100, and TLD-700.
The individually 6LiF contents in these TLDs
are 95.62%, 7.5%, and 0.007% by weight. The
dimensions of the TLD chip are 3.2mm x
3.2mm x 0.9mm. To obtain the energy
deposition on these TLDs, they were modeled
in different depths at the central line inside the
phantom.
Fig. 2. Simulation model of the neutron beam
and phantom
-4-
Fig. 4. The relative ratio of the thermal neutron
fluxes with TLD to the results without TLD in
the phantom for various LiF-TLDs.
Since the incident neutron of different
energies will result in different neutron
distributions and neutron spectrums in the
phantom, we would like to know the inference
on the energy deposition for such a condition.
Take TLD-100 as an example, three neutron
energies (1MeV, 1keV, and 1eV) were chosen
to represent the fast neutron, epithermal
neutron, and thermal neutron individually in
this study. Figure 5 shows the simulation
results. All the data were the ratio of the TLD
energy deposition to the B-10 dose and
normalized to the data at the depth of 1cm
inside the phantom. It shows a very good
agreement for different neutron energies along
the depth inside the phantom except for about
5% discrepancy at the depth of 15cm, which
result from the statistical error of MCNP
simulation.
Fig. 5. The relative ratio of energy deposition
on TLD-100 to B-10 dose for different
incident neutron energies.
III. CONCLUSIONS
In this article, LiF-TLD has been
evaluated for B-10 dose determination in a
neutron beam for BNCT. Since the energy
deposition on the LiF-TLD is strongly depends
on the reaction of Li-6 with thermal neutron,
more the high 6LiF content in the TLD is,
more energy deposition on the TLD. In order
to minimize the percentage of the energy
deposition from the gamma radiation, high
6LiF content in the TLD is necessary for
B-dose measurement by using single LiF-TLD.
Another consideration is the neutron
perturbation induced by the existence of the
LiF-TLD. It is due to the very high absorption
cross-section of Li-6 with thermal neutron, and
then provides a very obvious self-shielding
effect. In order to avoid the neutron
distribution perturbed by the LiF-TLD, the
6LiF content in the TLD should be controlled
at a reasonable value.
Considering the three types of
commercial LiF-TLDs, TLD-100 was
recommended as B-10 dosemeter due to its
suitable 6LiF content in the TLD (7.5%). For
different incident neutron energies, it shows a
very good agreement along the depth of the
phantom between the B-10 dose and the
energy deposition on TLD.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research was supported by Grant No.
NSC-96-2221-E-007-063 from the National
Science Council of Taiwan, R.O.C.
REFERENCES
1. Word’s Equation Editor, Microsoft Word.
2. M. P. BROWN and K. AUSTIN, Title of
Book, pp. 25–30, J. SMITH, Ed., Publisher
Name, Publisher City, Publisher State
(2004).
3. R.G. Zamenhof, S.D. Clement, O.K.
