 2
 中文摘要及關鍵詞： 
 
在過去幾年人們對於應用生物系統的機能及原理於工程問題的解決引起很大的興趣，有大量的論
文發表。在類神經網路，遺傳演算法，類免疫演算法及螞蟻系統等領域。類免疫演算法具備多種功能
包括辨識，自適應學習，記憶，多樣性，抗雜訊，分散式偵測等的特質，這些特質也是最佳化設計搜
尋過程中所用的演算法所應具備的特性，因此將生物的部分機能轉換為最佳化搜尋的演算法是非常合
適的。當類免疫演算法於不同的工程最佳化問題時，輕重鍵的定義常常造成困擾。本研究是以研發新
的泛用型輕重鍵的定義及機制，建構一個整合電腦輔助分析軟體及自行開發的泛用型輕重鍵的類免疫
演算法，進行工程設計最佳化。先以測試函式驗證程式架構及正確性，再以不同的實際的工程最佳化
的例子，用以證實泛用型輕重鍵類免疫演算法的實際應用的效能及其應用的泛用性。 
關鍵詞：類免疫演算法、泛用型輕重鍵、工程最佳化 
 
英文摘要及關鍵詞： 
 
In last few years there is a great increase of interest in learning biologically inspired systems.  There are 
some biologically inspired algorithms, artificial neural network, genetic algorithms, artificial immune 
algorithm and ant colony system emphasized in many published papers. The artificial immune algorithm 
specially has capability of performing several tasks including adaptive learning, memory acquisition, 
generation of diversity, noise tolerance, distributed detection.  Those characteristics are also the system 
feature of optimization algorithms and it is useful to transform the biological system into searching algorithm 
for design optimization.  But the definition of light/heavy chain will cause trouble when applying artificial 
immune algorithm in different engineering optimization problems.  A new general purpose light/heavy 
chain definition and mechanism will be studied for artificial immune algorithm.  The CAE software will be 
integrated with new general purpose light/heavy chain artificial immune algorithm for engineering 
optimization.  Some test functions are used first to verify the correctness and performance of developed 
system.  Some single objective and multi-objective engineering optimization topics will be used to verify 
and prove the performance and diversity of applications of new general purpose light/heavy chain artificial 
immune algorithm. 
Keyword : immune algorithm、general purpose light/heavy chain、engineering optimization 
 
研究計畫之前言、研究目的、文獻探討及參考文獻： 
 
工程最佳化能應用的範圍很廣，以電子相關產品為例，由於產品朝向輕、薄、小的趨勢，加上系
統複雜度及整合的要求也越來越高，導致設計時需要在更嚴格的空間、品質及成本要求下，進行更精
密且複雜的設計。因此設計能力的提升，對台灣的產業而言越來越重要，不論精密結構設計、精密模
具或平面顯示器，業界所面臨的競爭壓力越來越大。尤其大陸或東南亞的人工便宜，許多製造業在成
本競爭壓力下為求生存而移往大陸或東南亞已成事實。台灣廠家必須以創新高利潤產品、有效的軟硬
體工具的使用及良好的系統整合，才能在競爭了環境中保持競爭優勢。工程最佳化在較嚴格的成本、
品質、複雜度及精密度的要求下，能發揮實際的效用，協助產品順利的開發。 
最佳化設計可以將工程問題化為數學模型，以設計目標為數學模型的目標函數，設計的規格作為
 4
計。目前很少研究是針對類免疫演算法的泛用型輕重鍵機制，本研究的結果除了對類免疫演算法有學
術上的貢獻外，將讓類免疫演算法在不同工程問題的最佳化設計上的應用更容易。 
 
參考文獻： 
1. 王聖予、陳建和譯，＂免疫學＂ ，藝軒圖書，2000 
2. L.N.Castro、F.J.V.Zuben，＂Artificial Immune Systems : Part I – Basic Theory and Applications＂ ，
Technical Report，TR-DCA 01/99，State University of Campinas, Brazil，1999 
3. L.N.Castro、F.J.V.Zuben，＂Artificial Immune Systems : Part II – A Survey of Applications＂ ，
Technical Report，DCA-RT 02/00，State University of Campinas, Brazil，2000 
4. D. Dasgupta，＂Artificial Immune Systems and Their Applications＂ ，Springer-Verlag, 1999 
5. R.R.Joshi，＂Immune Network Momory:An Inventory Approach＂ ，Computers Ops Res，Vol. 22 No. 6, 
pp. 575-591, 1995 
6. J.E. Hunt，D.E.Cooke, “Learning Using An Artificial Immune System＂, Journal of Network and 
Computer Applications, Vol. 19, pp. 189-212, 1996 
7. S. Forrest S.S. Hofmeyr A. Somayaji,”Computer Immmunology”, Communications of ACM, 1996 
8. S.H. Kleinstein P.E. Seiden, “Simulating The Immune System”, Computer Simulations, July, 2000 
9. S.A. Hofmeyr S. Forrest, “Architecture for an Artificial Immune System”, Journal of Evolutionary 
Computation, 2000 
10. L.N. Castro  F.J.V. Zuben, “The Clonal Selection Algorithm with Engineering Applications”, Workshop 
Proceedings on GECCO, July 2000 
11. J Parkin  B. Cohen, “An Overview of the Immune System”, Immunology, Vol 357, 2001 
12. R. King  S.H. Russ  A.B. Lambert  D.S. Reese, “An Artificial Immune System Model for Intelligent 
Agents”, Futre Generation Computer Systems, Vol. 17, pp 335-343, 2001 
13. J.S. Chun H.Y. Hung S.Y.Hahn, “A Study on Comparison of Optimization Performances Between Immune 
Algorithm and Other Heuristic Algorithms”, IEEE Transactions on Magnetics, Vo. 34, No. 5, Sep. 1998 
14. K. Mori, M. Tsukiyama T. Fukuda, “Applications of an Immune Algorithm to Multi-Optimization 
Problems”, Electric Engineering in Japan, Vol. 122, No.2, 1998 
15. P. Hajela J. Yoo J. Lee, “GA Based Simulation of Immune Networks Applications in Structural 
Optimization”, Engineering Optimization, Vol. 33. Pp. 131-149, 1997 
16. X. Cui M. Li T. Fang, “Study of population diversity of multiobjective evolutionary algorithm based on 
immune and entropy principles”, Evolutionary Computation,Vol. 2, pp. 1316-1321, 2001 
17. 廖子銘, “類免疫演算法於多目標最佳化問題之研究與應用＂, 碩士論文, 大同大學, 六月, 2001 
18. S. Huang, “Enhancement of Thermal Unit Commitment Using Immune Algorithms Based Optimization 
Approaches”, Electric Power and Energy Systems, Vol. 21, pp. 245-252, 1999 
19. S. Huang, “An Immune-Based Optimization Method to Capatictor Placement in a Radial Distribution 
System”, IEEE Transsactions on Power Delivery, Vol. 15, No. 2, 2000 
20. J. Timmis  M. Neal  J. Hunt, “An Artificial Immune System for Data Analysis”, BioSystem, Vol. 55, pp. 
143-150, 2000 
21. De Castro, L.N and Von Zuben, F., ”aiNet: An Artificial Immune Network for Data Analysis”, in Data 
Mining：A heuristic Approach. Abbas, H, Sarker, R and Newton, C(Eds).  Idea Group Publishing, 2001. 
22. De Castro, L.N and Timmis, J., ” An Artificial Immune Network for Multimodal Function Optimization”, 
 6
記憶細胞會對特定的抗原產生免疫性記憶，此種記憶細胞可對特定病原體產生持久性的免疫。類免疫
演算法中，所運用之免疫反應成員細胞，與生物之免疫系統做一簡易之對照，其對照如下表一所示。 
 
表一 類免疫系統與生物免疫系統之對照表 
生物之免疫系統 類免疫演化系統 
抗原 演化問題之目標 
抗體 演化問題之可能解 
記憶細胞 演化問題之多值域解 
抗原呈現作用 對每一演化問題之可能解進行評比 
B 細胞株落選擇 對目前演化之最佳解進行微調改進動作 
 
在類免疫演算法中，抗原即代表了一個待解的問題；而適合解決此一問題的可能解答則視作抗體。
其中在整個抗體族群中，抗體以〝0〞或〝1〞的字串編碼方式表示其抗體之基因組合；每一抗體又代
表了一組設計參數或問題之可能解，而其中每一個設計參數或問題變數，則為一抗體字串中之某一特
定之片段切割。在每一代的演化過程中，將針對抗原目標作搜尋，並把每一代較佳之抗體設計選出進
行篩選，然後存入記憶細胞區成為記憶細胞的一員，接著再從記憶細胞庫中，選取期望值較高之記憶
細胞進行株落選擇，產生一部份數量之下一代抗體族群；而另一部份之下一代抗體族群則依據上一代
抗體族群之期望值，進行基因重組與突變產生。整個演化流程會持續進行至符合終止條件為止。 
 當有外來的微生物侵入生物體時，生物的免疫系統為了保護生物體，用以對抗外來入侵之微生物
所產生的一連串連鎖反應。在免疫系統中，外來侵入的微生物稱為抗原(antigen)，當抗原進入生物體
內時，會針對此抗原誘發免疫反應而產生對應的抗體(antibody)與之抗衡，如圖三所示。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖三 生物免疫反應示意圖 
 
其中抗體為 B 細胞所製造的免疫球蛋白，此種細胞具有製造抗體蛋白的基因。生物體可以針對不同的
抗原製造出可與之結合的抗體；其主要構造是由四條 polypeptides 所組成，分別為兩條重鍵(heavy 
chain)及兩條輕鍵(light chain) ，如圖四所示；而兩條輕鍵的部分可與抗原結合，且其具有一種特
定的形狀，恰好與重鍵和輕鍵之間形成的缺口結合。然而就單一輕鍵或重鍵的結構而言，又可再區分
為變異區(Variable region)和固定區(constant region)，其中變異區的胺基酸排列變異較大，固定
區的胺基酸排列順序則較固定。輕鍵與重鍵的變異區皆由基因片段 V 和基因片段 J 所構成，但重鍵比
輕鍵另外多了一個多樣性的基因片段 D。如此抗體便可藉由免疫反應中的株落選擇(clonal selection)
對輕重鍵中變異區的基因片段 V、D和 J，進行體細胞重組(somatic recombination)、基因轉換(gene 
conversion)和體細胞突變(somatic hypermutation)等產生變異的機制，來調控抗體本身的多樣性，
進而產生和抗原具有一定親和度(affinity)的抗體與之結合。當抗體的變異區與抗原相結合後，抗體
的固定區便會暴露在外，此時巨噬細胞會辨認出抗體的固定區且其上的受體會與之結合，然後吞噬被
 8
的相同的 0/1 資料及不相同的 0/1 資料，將相同的 0/1 資料看成重鍵，不相同的 0/1 資料看
成輕鍵。重鍵用比較小的突變率，輕鍵用比較大的突變率進行株落選則機制。 
(6) 計算株落選則機制後抗體的親合度，並將株落選則的抗體加上原來的 pareto set 重新尋找新
的 pareto set 的解，然後進行 crowding distance 計算及疏鬆機制。 
(7) 若 pareto set 的解已經連續數代都沒有改變或是演化達到最大代數，則結束程式執行。 
(8) 如果 pareto set 解的數量大過預設的演化抗體數量，則進行重複 crowding distance 計算及
疏鬆機制直到預設的演化抗體數量停止，並將這些解作為下一代演化的抗體。如果 pareto set
的解的數量小於演化抗體數量，除將所有的 pareto set 選做下一代演化的抗體，不足的部份
由步驟(6)中亂數選取非 pareto set 的解作為下一代演化的抗體。 
(9) 到步驟(5)重新執行下一次演化。 
 
結果與討論： 
 
實際的工程設計問題大多是多個設計目標，因此多目標最佳化很重要。對於多目標最佳化的問題，
因為每個目標的性質往往不同，甚至會互相矛盾，例如要結構的重量最輕，同時又要求結構有最小的
位移量，這是在工程上往往不能同時達成的目標，所以通常沒有單一解來滿足所有的目標。往往會產
生一群解，讓設計者來權衡考量。 
為了保持多目標的搜尋廣度，當 pareto set 上的個體多過系統的設定值時，利用 crowding distance
的理論於疏鬆 pareto set 上的抗體數目。由圖五中的五個多目標的測試函數結果來看，ZDT1 是一個
convex 的多目標最佳化的問題，ZDT2 是一個 non-convex 的多目標最佳化的問題，泛用輕重鍵的方法
都可以和真實的 pareto front 取得不錯的貼合，證明此方法可以適用於 convex 或 non-convex 類的多目
標最佳化問題。ZDT3 為不連續的多目標最佳化的問題，pareto set 解找得相當完整，不受 pareto front 連
續與否的影響。ZDT4 是有多個 local pareto set 的多目標最佳化的問題，所開發的方法也能擺脫 local 
pareto set，而找到真正的 global pareto set。ZDT6 是有 nonlinear 多目標最佳化的問題，泛用輕重鍵的方
法都可以和真實的 pareto front 取得不錯的貼合，證明此方法不受 nonlinear 特性的影響。先用一些不同
性質的多目標測試函數了解可能的泛用輕重鍵機制及其效能後，再用到工程問題的最佳化設計上會較
為實際。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           ZDT1        ZDT2 
 10
 
結論與建議： 
 
由研究的結果可以到下面幾項結論： 
(1) 本研究所發展的泛用型輕重鍵架構，利用分族群找共同特徵及非共同特徵以定義輕重鍵進行類免疫
演算法演化，同一架構能夠同時使用於參數式最佳化(測試函數)及非參數式最佳化(結構拓樸最佳化
設計)。除了簡單與泛用外，並且在不同的最佳化問題有不錯的最佳解的搜尋效能。 
(2) 在已有文獻中有部份的研究利用類免疫演算法於結構拓樸最佳化，使用應力資料作為輕重鍵的定義
來操作侏落選則，藉此取得高度的演化的執行效能。然而以應力為基礎來區隔抗體基因碼中的輕鍵
和重鍵，將導致其應用於不同領域的最佳化題時的困難，因為得先找尋出在其應用領域中如應力相
對應於結構的物理量，才能定義出輕重鍵進行最佳化搜尋，也才能將此類方法應用到多重物理問題
的多目標最佳化的問題上。但是本研究的泛用輕重鍵的機制，可以輕易用到不同問題的單目標及多
目標多重物理工程最佳化問題上。 
(3) 在多目標最佳化的執行上，常常產生出大量的 pareto set 的解，雖然有助於描繪出 pareto front 的真
實輪廓(有助於提升相關測試函數的最佳化搜尋效能)，但過多的 pareto set 的解不但會增加演算法中
選擇機制執行的難度，也會造成設計者在選用最後設計時的困擾。本研究提出一個改良的機制，利
用計算 crowding distance 及疏鬆機制來解決此一問題，且從結果上看來，本架構除了能夠有效抑制
產生過多的 pareto solution 外，同時能夠維持不錯的搜尋廣度及最佳化搜尋效能。 
 
 
 12
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、參加會議經過 
5 月 27 日由台北飛廣州，再由廣州轉機到黃山。5 月 28 日到 5 月 31 日參加會議及
聽演講與論文發表，5 月 31 日發表論文後，搭機由黃山往廣州，在廣州過境旅館呆一
晚後，6月 1 日由廣州搭機返回台北。 
 
二、與會心得 
此會議主要由美國 IEEE 計算機協會所辦的年度會議，在這次會議所發表的文章主要
是利用二進位的微分演化演算法進行工程最佳化設計。微分演化演算法是一個簡單且效
能不錯的全域搜尋演算法，且已被廣泛的使用於不同的最佳化問題，一般而言效能比遺
傳演算法好，但是較適用於實數的參數式最佳化問題，雖然有學者研究函數轉換法及邏
輯運算法將實數連續空間轉換為二進未空間，但是函數轉換法只能單向轉換無法逆向，
計畫編號 NSC98－2221－E－036－015－ 
計畫名稱 使用新輕重鍵之類免疫演算法於單目標及多目標工程最佳化 
出國人員
姓名 吳俊瑩 
服務機構
及職稱 大同大學機械系所副教授 
會議時間 99年 5月 28日至 99 年 5 月 31 日 會議地點 中國安徽黃山 
會議名稱 
(中文)第三屆計算科學及最佳化國際會議 
(英文) The third international joint conference on computational sciences 
and optimization 
發表論文
題目 
(中文):工程最佳化使用修正的二進位微分演化演算法 
(英文) Engineering optimization using modified binary differential 
evolution 
Engineering Optimization Using Modified Binary Differential Evolution Algorithm 
 
Chun-Yin Wu 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Tatung University 
Taipei, Taiwan 
cywu@ttu.edu.tw 
Ko-Ying Tseng 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Tatung University 
Taipei, Taiwan 
billyt@seed.net.tw
 
 
Abstract—Differential evolution (DE) is a heuristic 
optimization method used to solve many optimization 
problems in real-valued search space. It has the advantage of 
incorporating a relatively simple and efficient form of 
mutation and crossover. However, the operator of DE is 
primarily based on floating-point representation only and is 
difficult to apply to binary-based optimization problems. In 
this paper, a modified binary differential evolution with a 
simple and new binary mutation mechanism based on a logical 
operation is proposed. The developed binary mutation strategy 
is suitable for dealing with discrete and parametric engineering 
optimization problems. Two different types of engineering 
problems consisting of optimal shape design of heat bonder 
and topology optimization of structure are used to illustrate 
the high viability of the proposed algorithm in engineering 
optimization.  
Keywords-modified binary differential evolution; binary 
mutation; heat bonding; topology optimization of structures; 
optimal shape design 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
Differential evolution (DE), invented by Stron and Price 
[1,2] in 1995, is one of the evolutionary algorithms (EAs) 
used to solve optimization problems in continuous space. It  
has been recognized as a powerful population-based 
optimization method and has been successfully applied in 
many fields pertaining to engineering problems [3-5]. 
However, like other optimization methods based on real-
valued space, it is not easy to apply DE to solve binary-based 
optimization problem. Thus, new strategies for DE 
algorithms have been proposed to evolve solutions for 
binary-valued optimization problems. Pampará et al. [6] 
proposed a binary DE that used the trigonometric function to 
transfer the design variables from continuous-space into 
binary-space. Although this method can be used to solve the 
optimization problems based on binary-space, the process 
cannot be reversed by transforming binary data back into real 
value data. Xingshi et al. [7] developed a binary DE based on 
an artificial immune system using a logical operator. The 
idea of using logical operation is to transfer subtraction, 
multiplication and addition of mutation operator to XOR, 
AND, and OR operators. However, this method has higher 
probability to product code “1” in the evolution process by 
using OR operator, it will restrict the diversity in searching 
the optimum solution. 
This paper presents a modified binary differential 
evolution (MBDE) created to tackle parametric and 
nonparametric engineering optimization problems. The cases 
of heat bonder design and topology optimization of structure 
are used to show that the proposed MBDE algorithm is 
suitable for finding the optimal design of topology structures, 
and also works on parametric engineering optimization 
problems. 
 
II. DIFFERENTIAL EVOLUTION 
Differential evolution (DE) [1,2] is developed as a 
population-based global optimization algorithm for real-
valued optimization problems. The initial population is 
randomly generated by a uniform random number between 
the lower and upper bounds of each of the design variables. 
The objective function values for all individuals are  
calculated for three main iterative steps of DE, mutation, 
crossover, and selection. 
 
A.  Mutation operator 
For each individuals’ vectors xi,G in the population, DE 
uses a mutation operation to generate new mutated vectors 
according to the following equation: 
vi,G+1 = xbest,G + F (xr1,G – xr2,G), i=1,2,3......NP              (1) 
The index G is used as an index of the current iteration. In 
Eq. (1), r1 and r2 are generated between 1 and NP. Two 
random target vectors, xr1,G and xr2,G, are chosen in the 
population of the current generation G. The vectors xbest,G and 
vi,G+1 are the best target vector and the mutated vector of the 
current generation, respectively. Scaling factor F is a real 
value between zero and one. It will be used to scale the 
differential variation between the two random selected 
vectors.  
 
B. Crossover operator 
In the crossover operator, the trial vector ui,G+1 is 
generated by a combination of the mutated vector, vi,G+1, and 
the target vector, xi,G as shown in Eq. (2). The CR parameter 
used in Eq. (2) represents the crossover probability, where j 
is the variable index. If the random number R is smaller 
than the CR value, or component j is not the same as i, the 
2010 Third International Joint Conference on Computational Science and Optimization
978-0-7695-4030-6/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/CSO.2010.185
501
B. Binary crossover operator 
The binary crossover operator is used to build a trial 
solution ui,G+1 from the mutated solution vi,G and the original 
solution xi,G. The underlying concept behind the binary 
crossover mechanism of MBDE is the same as crossover 
mechanism of the original DE. The difference between 
MBDE and DE concerns the component data type. In MBDE, 
the bit string data of trial solution ui,G+1 is chosen from the 
mutated solution vi,G if the random number is larger than the 
crossover rate.  
IV. NUMERICAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION  
There are two cases – one for parametric optimization and 
one for nonparametric optimization, used in this section to 
demonstrate the application of proposed algorithm in terms 
of engineering optimization. 
A. Topology optimization of structures using MBDE 
1) Topology optimization of structures. 
Topology optimization is useful for concept design 
during development of an innovative product. When using 
the finite element method to analyze structure, each element 
without constraints can be eliminated or retained in the 
design domain. This freedom of choice may enable the 
creation of entirely new designs out of the experience and 
professional knowledge of designers. 
The two-dimensional continuous structure, a design domain 
of topology optimization, is subdivided into elements for the 
finite element model. A binary string is used to store the 
shape information for each design variable. The code “1” in 
the string refers to the corresponding solid element of the 
structure in the finite element model, while the code “0” in 
the string represents the corresponding void element of the 
structure. The string can be mapped into a two-dimensional 
design domain as shown in Fig. 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2.  The translation of binary code to topology structure. 
Discontinuous structure may occur when the topologic 
representation of the structure is changed due to mutation or 
a crossover operation during the search process. It is 
necessary to develop an algorithm to transform 
discontinuous structures into continuous structures, since 
only continuous structures can be analyzed by the finite 
element method. The definition of the criterion for the 
continuity condition is that any element of structure must 
share at least one common edge with any other element in 
the finite element model, as shown in Fig. 3. If one of 
elements in the structure has no common edge connected 
with other elements, this structure will be defined as a 
discontinuous structure. 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)                           (b) 
Figure 3.   (a) Continuous structure (b) Discontinuous structure. 
 
2) Topology optimization of structures using MBDE 
The case involves finding a suitable topology structure for 
minimum weight that satisfies the stress constraints. The 
geometric dimensions of the cantilever structure are 0.16m in 
width, 0.1m in height and 0.001m in thickness. The design 
domain is divided into 32×20 quadrilateral elements for 
finite element analysis. It is subjected to a 1000N load F at 
the top on the right side, and the allowable stress is 200 MPa. 
The Young’s modulus E is 200 GPa and the Poisson’s ratio ν 
is 0.3. The nodes at the top and bottom on the left hand side 
are fixed, as shown in Fig. 4(a). The optimum solution is 
shown in Fig. 4(b).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)                                               (b) 
Figure 4.  Cantilever structure model and results of optimal structural 
topology 
The optimized result obtained using MBDE with a new 
mutation mechanism is a truss-like structure with members 
of constant cross-sectional area and large voids between 
members. 
 
B. Uniformatity optimization of heat bonder using MBDE 
1) The design model of the heat bonder. 
 
The uniformity requirements, flatness and uniform 
temperature, are high precision design constraints in terms 
of optimization in designing a heat bonder for flat panel 
display manufacturing. The geometric shape and the heat 
source setting are main factors in designing heat bonder. 
Seven design variables are used to define the cross-sectional 
area of heat bonders, as shown in Fig. 5. Six temperature 
variables are used to set the heat pipe temperature of the 
heat sources.  
In this study, the commercial software ANSYS is used for 
the structural and thermal analyses. The cross-sectional area 
and three-dimensional model are shown in Fig. 5. The 
model is assembled in two parts – the heater and the heat 
bonder – and the material properties are shown in Table I. 
There are six heat pipes used as heaters in this study and the 
material properties for heat pipes are assumed to be the 
same as those for heaters. 
 
503
the nodal temperature distribution of the contact surface. 
The optimized result of temperature distribution range for 
the contact surface is from 525.7±k to 522.7±k, and the 
average temperature is 524.4±k. The maximum difference 
between the temperature requirement and the nodal 
temperature is only 2.55±k. 
The optimized result of the off-plane displacement is 
shown in Fig. 9. The histogram of nodal flatness is shown in 
Fig. 10. The x-axis represents the nodal off-plane 
displacement of the contact surface, while the y-axis shows 
the number of nodes with off-plane displacement that 
correspond to the range of distributions of the x-axis value. 
The dotted line again shows the average value of the off-
plane displacement distribution on the contact surface, 
which is 4.21e-04m. It is clear that deviations of all nodal 
off-plane displacements from average value of the contact 
surface are lower than the flatness requirement ≤10mm, and 
most of the nodal flatness is less than ≤4mm. These results 
prove that MBDE can approach the optimized solution that 
satisfies the uniformity design requirements including 
surface flatness and temperature distribution of the heat 
bonder. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7.  Temperature distribution of optimized heat bonder 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8.  Historgram of  nodal temperature distribution 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9.  Nodal off-plane displacement of optimized heat bonder 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10.  Histogram of off-plane displacement distributon 
V. CONCLUSION 
In this study, a modified binary differential evolution 
(MBDE) is successfully applied to parametric and 
nonparametric engineering optimization problems. The new  
binary mutation operator is simple and effective for solving 
discrete and parametric optimization problems. For topology 
structure optimization, MBDE provides a good solution in 
terms of minimum weight without constraint violations. For 
uniform optimization of the heat bonder, numerical results 
show that an optimal solution in terms of the shape of heat 
bonder and the temperature setting for each heat pipe in the 
heat source can be obtained using MBDE. Judging from the 
results of these two cases that consider different 
optimization types, MBDE has high viability for 
engineering optimization within discrete or parametric 
design problems. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] R. Storn and K. Price, “Differential Evolution––A simple and 
efficient adaptive scheme for global optimization over continuous 
space,” Technical Report TR-95-012, 1995. 
[2] R. Storn and K. Price, “Differential evolution—A simple and efficient 
heuristic for global optimization over continuous spaces,” Journal of 
Global Optimization, vol. 11, 1997, pp. 341–359. 
[3] C. C. Cheng, T. D. Tsai, D. W. Lin and C. C. Chiu, “Design and 
Analysis of Shock-Absorbing Structure for Flat Panel Display,” IEEE 
transactions on advanced packaging, vol. 31, 2008, pp.135–142. 
[4] B. Qian, L. Wang, D. X. Huang and X. Wang, “Scheduling multi-
objective job shops using a memetic algorithm based on differential 
evolution,” International Journal of Advanced Manufacturing 
Technology, vol. 35, 2008, pp. 1014–1027.  
[5] Y. Gao and J. Liu, “A modified differential evolution algorithm and 
its application in the training of BP neural network,” IEEE/ASME 
International Conference on Advanced Intelligent Mechatronics, 
Xi’an, China, July 2008, pp. 1373-1377. 
[6] G. Pampará, A. P. Engelbrecht, and N. Franken, “Binary Differential 
Evolution,” IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, Sheraton 
Vancouver Wall Centre, Vancouver, BC, Canada, 2006, pp. 1873–
1879. 
[7] H. Xingshi and H. Lin, “A novel binary differential evolution 
algorithm based on artificial immune system,” IEEE Congress on 
Evolutionary Computation, Singapore, September 2007, pp. 2267–
2272.  
505
 2
邏輯運算法用 OR 運算造成演算法缺乏真正的突變運算，所以得用其他演算法補正。二
者都有嚴重問題，並不適用於一般二進位問題。我們所提的修正二進位微分演化演算
法，除了保持簡單的原則外，同時適用於參數式最佳化及二進位最佳化的問題，算是一
個新的且較為泛用的二進位的微分演化演算法，執行效能也不錯。在文章中利用測試函
數、工程參數式最佳化問題及二進位結構拓樸最佳化問題驗證所提的演算法。 
這次的會議在最佳化方面的文章，應用性較多，理論突破的較少。由於是計算科
學及最佳化的國際會議，在會議當中有不少的文章在探討高速運算架構及其運用，包
括 cluster、GRID 及 cloud 等，並且有一些大行計算的應用，例如地震的模擬計算。
同時對三者的差別、強弱做一些探討，讓人更了解雲端計算及其限制與弱點。在高速
運算的需求下，已經有一些大的計算資源中心在進行整合與分享，以創造更大更強的
電腦運算能力。雖然仍有一些問題，但從發表的文章資料可以了解，趨勢似乎是很明
顯的。參加會議的心得 
(1) 在大計算量的研究上，學校缺乏相關資源及整合，發展不易，不過仍然需要去了解，
或做一些環境能支援的條件下的研究。 
(2) 大陸的研究生不論是碩士或是博士很多學校都有要求一定要發表才能畢業，所以這
次國際會議中大陸學校除了博士生外，也有碩士生參與。進一步了解，原來大部分
的碩士生因為有發表的要求，都是三年才畢業，這點要求比國內情況嚴。出來發表
的學生都有經費的支助，註冊費即需 600 美元，顯示大陸的大學在經費上似乎很充
裕。 
(3) 幾年前因為旅遊有到過黃山，這次因開會再次造訪，發現在硬體建設方面改變很多，
進步很大，大陸這幾年的經濟發展，確實明顯該變了硬體，但是在軟體上仍有一段
路要走。 
 
三、建議 
多鼓勵研究生在學期間除了研究外，多下功夫在英語上，以提升英語能力。補助參
加英語檢定考試的費用可以是一個基本的鼓勵方式。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容：會議論文集。 
variable of mutation vector, vi,G+1 ,will be chosen as the 
variable of the trial vector. Otherwise, the variable of the 
target vector is selected as the variable of the trial vector.  
ui,G+1  =  vi,G+1 , if  R ≤ Cr   or  j ≠ i 
ui,G+1  =  xi,G ,    if  R > Cr   or  j = i                         (2)   
 
C. Selection operator 
After the mutation and crossover operations, all trial 
vectors ui,G+1 are identified as candidates for selection 
operations. The trial vector ui,G+1 is then compared with the 
target vector xi,G to select individuals for the next generation. 
The selection operator is as follows: 
xi,G+1 = ui,G+1  , if  f(ui,G+1)  >  f(xi,G)   
xi,G+1=xi,G    , if  f(ui,G+1)  ≤  f(xi,G)   , i=1,2,3......NP             (3) 
 
If the objective function value of the trial vector is better than 
the value of the target vector, the trial vector will be chosen 
as the new target vector xi,G+1 for the next generation. 
Otherwise, the original target vector xi,G will become the new 
target vector xi,G+1 . There are two stop criteria used in this 
study. The first criterion is the maximum number of 
generations. The second criterion is the maximum number of 
consecutive generations in which no better solution is found 
within the evolution process. The loop of the DE algorithm is 
repeated until the one of stop criteria is met. 
 
III. MODIFIED BINARY DIFFERENTIAL EVOLUTIONHE  
A new modified binary differential evolution (MBDE) is 
proposed in this study using a bit string to represent each 
individual within the population. The evolutionary procedure 
of the MBDE is identical to that of origin differential 
evolution. The initial population of the MBDE is randomly 
generated for a value of 0 or 1. The three main steps of 
binary DE – mutation, crossover, and selection – are iterated 
until the convergence state is satisfied. 
 
A. Binary mutation operator 
The development of the binary mutation operator is based 
on a bit-string framework to solve discrete optimization 
problems. Xingshi et al. [7] proposed a logical mutation 
method for binary mutation mechanisms in 2007. The logical 
operation was used to replace the vector operations of the 
mutation mechanism in the original differential evolution. 
The subtraction of two random selected vectors was 
represented by the logical operation XOR and the 
multiplication factor F was replaced by the AND operator. 
The OR operator was applied to replace the operation for the 
addition of two randomly selected vectors. In binary DE, the 
mutation mechanism in continuous space was transformed 
into binary-valued space by using these logical operations. 
However, the OR operator used in the binary mutation 
mechanism proposed by Xingshi et al. [7] had a higher 
probability of production of bit 1 in the evolution process. 
This disproportionate probability may restrict the search 
diversity of the optimum solution. 
In order to overcome this problem, a new binary mutation 
mechanism for MBDE is proposed in this study. The new 
binary mutation equation is illustrated in equations (4) and 
(5). Eq. (4) represents the rand-to-best/1/exp mutation 
mechanism, while Eq. (5) expresses the best/1/exp mutation 
mechanism of continuous DE. The concept of using the 
relative position between randomly selected or best 
individuals for search direction in the original DE is also 
used in proposed new binary mutation mechanism for 
MBDE. Equations (4) and (5) describe the new binary 
mutation approach of common bits and different bits among 
xi,G , xr1,G and xbest,G individuals. The objective of these 
equations is to discover search directions for the xi,G 
individual corresponding to the relative position of the best 
or randomly selected individuals in the binary representation. 
 
vi,G+1=F1(xi,G ⊕ xr1,G)+F2 !(xi,G ⊕ xr1,G), i=1,2,3...NP       (4)  
vi,G+1=F1(xbest,G ⊕ x1,G)+F2 !( xbest,G ⊕ xi,G), i=1,2,3...NP  (5)  
 
The underlying idea regarding this new binary mutation 
mechanism is that it finds the pattern of common features 
between two individuals. In Eq. (4), the difference bits and 
the common bits between the xi,G and xr1,G solutions are 
determined using the XOR operation. The difference bits of 
xi,G are mutated from 0 to 1 or 1 to 0 at mutation rate F1. 
Similarly, the common bits of xi,G are mutated at mutation 
rate F2. Generally, the mutation rate F1 for the difference 
bits is higher than the mutation rate F2 for the common bits, 
because there is a higher probability that the common bits 
may become the feature pattern of the final solution. A flow 
chart of proposed binary mutation mechanism is shown in 
Fig. 1.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1.  The new MBDE binary mutation mechanism. 
502
The objective of optimization is to maximize the 
uniformity of off-plane displacement and temperature 
distribution. The geometric parameters of the head of the 
heat bonder are shown in Fig. 6(a), and the ranges of design 
variables are defined in Table II. The variables t1,t2,t3,t4,t5 
and t6 are design variables of the heat pipe temperature for 
the heaters, as shown in Fig. 6(b). There are two insulation 
surfaces on the surface of the heat bonder as shown in Fig. 
6(c) The environment temperature is set at 303.15±k. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       (a)                                                       (b) 
Figure 5.  Heat bonder (a) cross-sectional area (b) three-dimensional 
model 
TABLE I.  MATERIAL PROPERTIES OF HEATER AND HEAT BONDER. 
 Heater Heat bonder 
Elastic module 1.9e+11 N/m2 2.1e+11 N/m2 
Density 8000 Kgm/m3 7700 Kgm/m3 
Thermal conductivity 16.4 1/Kevin 20 1/Kevin 
Thermal expansion coefficient 1.78e-5 1/Kevin 1.1e-5 1/Kevin 
Poisson’s ratio 0.29 0.28 
Specific heat 498.59 460.23 
 
TABLE II.  THE RANGE OF DESIGN VARIABLES OF HEAT BONDER 
OPTIMIZATION. 
 Minimum Maximum  Minimum Maximum 
w 0.025m 0.05m t1 450.0±k 600.0±k 
l 0.01m 0.033m t2 450.0±k 600.0±k 
p 0.034m 0.053m t3 450.0±k 600.0±k 
h 0.005m 0.02m t4 450.0±k 600.0±k 
R1 0.001m 0.01m t5 450.0±k 600.0±k 
R2 0.001m 0.01m t6 450.0±k 600.0±k 
x 0.01m 0.04m    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)                                     (b)                                  (c) 
Figure 6.  The diagram of geometry variables of(a) heat bonder (b) heater 
with six heat pipes (c) insulation surfaces 
The definition of the objective function refers to the 
combination the standard deviation of the surface 
temperature and the off-place displacement of the contact 
surface as shown in Eq. (6).  
 
 
dstd and tstd are the standard deviations of the off-place 
displacement and the temperature of the contact surface, 
respectively. The requirements for the flatness and 
temperature uniformity of the contact surface are ≤10mm 
and 250±c, respectively. The goal of investigation is to 
achieve the uniformity of flatness and the temperature 
distribution at the contact surface of heat bonder by 
minimizing the standard deviations dstd and tstd values. 
 
2) Optimized result of using MBDE 
The modified binary differential evolution algorithm is 
integrated with ANSYS for tackling heat bonder 
optimization problem. The optimized design variable values 
are listed in Table III and a summary of the results for the 
optimized heat bonder is shown in Table IV. 
TABLE III.  LIST OF DESIGN VARIABLES FOR THE OPTIMIZED HEAT 
BONDER. 
 Optimized value  Optimized value 
W 0.041090 t1 529.848372 
L 0.023774 t2 519.510205 
P 0.043661 t3 524.194552 
H 0.012645 t4 518.733015 
R1 0.003820 t5 531.245862 
R2 0.004513 t6 523.962218 
X 0.034386   
TABLE IV.  SUMMARY OF RESULTS FOR THE OPTIMIZED HEAT BONDER 
Table Head 
The flatness of the optimized heat bonder 
Requirement Maximum Minimum 
Temperature 523.15 ±k 522.7 ±k 525.7 ±k 
Flatness ≤10.0 mm -4.5 mm 10 mm 
 
The temperature distribution of the optimized heat bonder 
is shown in Fig. 7. All nodal temperatures on the contact 
surface of heat bonder are close to the required temperature. 
The two ends emit the lowest temperature of all contact 
surface positions, because the phenomenon of heat 
convection appears at the ends of the two sides. The 
histogram of nodal temperature distribution is shown in Fig. 
8. The x-axis represents the nodal temperature of contact 
surface, and the y-axis shows the number of nodes with 
temperatures corresponding to the range of distribution of x-
axis values. The dotted line points out the average value of 
stdstd
stdstd tc
c
dm
mtdf
+°
°
+
+×
×
=
−
−
 0.250
0.250
 105
105),(
6
6
(6)
504
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
已投稿 SCI 期刊 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
