mechanism is designed to handle that decrease the 
great number of storage space employed in our system. 
The main contribution of our research is that 
proposes a complete HDR/LDR system. In our plan, this 
HDR/LDR scheme deals with the problem of HDR/LDR 
displaying and drop the great information quantity 
and noise to suit the HDR deposition and 
transmission. 
英文關鍵詞： High Dynamic Range, Low Dynamic Range, human vision 
perception, tone-mapping, texture compression (TC) 
 
 2
1. 研究目的 
In this plan, a contrast enhancement algorithm is proposed to increase the detail of edge  region and to 
remove those annoying blocking artifact. The shifted blocks are classified to smooth and edge blocks 
according to the numbers of DCT coefficients. In smooth block, the enhancement scheme is focused on 
removing the blocking artifacts to save computation complexity. The contrast enhancement algorithm is 
applied to edge blocks to enhance the details of texture. For removing the discontinuous edges, a weighting 
matrix is defined to keep off the influence of blocking artifact in our scheme. The simulations show that image 
qualities obviously improve. The reminder of this paper is organized as follow. Section 2 describe in details. 
The simulation results in section 3 show that our algorithm efficiently reduces the blocking effect in both 
smooth and edge-texture regions. Section 4 provides the conclusions and discussions. 
An efficient contrast enhancement algorithm is proposed in DCT compressed domain. This method uses 
adaptive enhancement factors that are determined by each region feature. A shifted block is adapted to instead 
of JPEG block for reducing computation complexity. Two block types, smoothness and edge, are classified to 
each shifted block. In smooth regions, alleviating the inherent noise is replaced with contrast enhancement. 
The adaptive contrast enhancement is applied to edge regions. The simulation results show that the proposed 
approach improves the contrast impression and strengthen the perception quality. In comparative analysis, the 
proposed method outperforms to other contrast enhancement algorithms in both subjective and objective 
criterion. 
 
2. 文獻探討 
Image enhancement processes the quality of image to make it suitable for perceptual results of end viewers. 
Contrast enhancement is an important aspect of image enhancement. The major idea of contrast enhancement 
is to amplify tiny features that might be removed by compression schemes due to transmitting and treasuring. 
The previous work [1] induced by J. Tang et al. enhances the JPEG compressed images by establishing a 
contrast measure in DCT domain. However, the blocking artifacts would be more and more serious as 
enhancement factor increasing. 
Various contrast enhancement schemes [2-5] in frequency domain have been proposed to reduce the 
increasing blocking artifacts that are induced by Ref. [1]. Consequently, those algorithms adjust the 
 4
starts with removing the blocking and then enhancing those finer textures in a shifted block. 
 
Fig. 1 Flow chart of the proposed algorithm 
 
Fig. 2 The diagram of a shifted block 
  In order to reducing the computation, a shifted block is classified into smooth and edge types according the 
characteristic of its texture distribution. A shifted block containing rare high-frequency DCT coefficients is 
belonged to smooth region. In smooth-type block, applying keen enhancing procedure would not introduce 
noticeable improvement but result in a violent tragedy. An edge-type block involves huge quantities of DCT 
coefficients that implies stronger feature signal than noise signal. An intense scheme is performed on 
edge-type blocks to increase the perception quality of a debased image. However, heaving both feature and 
 6
Table 1 lists the quantitative results in terms of Q-index, MSSIM, and JPEG Score, respectively. MSSIM and 
Q-index can be view as the subjective perception quality measured by observers. It can be seen that the 
enhancement results made by proposed method, MSSIM and Q-index are substantially better than that of Tang 
[1], Zeng [5], and An [3]. Higher JPEG Score represents the less blurring and blocking artifacts and the 
proposed results get highest score among the algorithms. It is observed that the proposed results are 
significantly improving subjective quality in both blurring and blocking noises. 
In this work, a efficient enhancement scheme is proposed based on the contrast measure in DCT domain.  In 
smooth feature regions, the proposed method reduces the blocking artifact instead of enhance the contrast 
measure. In edge feature block, the enhancement factor is selected by DCT coefficients that are dependent on 
each block feature. The blocking artifact alleviating processing is applied to those edge blocks before contrast 
enhancing scheme. Removing artifact noise in advance would reduce the probabilities of enlarging those noise 
signals by mistake but might be damaged the tiny features. Both subjective and objective tests perfume on 
various images validate the proposed activity based contrast enhancement. 
Table 1 MSSIM values for the proposed algorithm, Ref. [1], Ref. [5], and Ref. [3] at various bit rates for 
test images. 
Image bpp Ref. [1] Ref. [5] Ref. [3] Proposed 
Wd 0.23 0.75 0.81 0.79 0.83 
Goldhill 0.25 0.49 0.56 0.54 0.57 
Lena 0.30 0.57 0.64 0.63 0.66 
Pepper 0.35 0.57 0.63 0.62 0.65 
Boat 0.35 0.57 0.65 0.63 0.67 
F16 0.35 0.65 0.70 0.70 0.71 
Boots 0.40 0.51 0.55 0.56 0.56 
7sisters 0.40 0.56 0.69 0.65 0.73 
Barbara 0.44 0.51 0.57 0.56 0.61 
 
 
 
 
 
 8
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本計畫的主要貢獻在提出一個完整高動態視訊技術之系統架構，更考慮影像
中特有的雜訊與資訊量過大的問題，並配合目前網路上常見的串流傳輸方式。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                  日期： 100  年 7  月 31  日 
一、參加會議經過 
2011 年國際電子、資訊、通信工程技術研討會為全世界研究超音波訊號處理與通訊技術的學者们
一年一度的盛會，本次大會收集全世界電子、資訊、通信工程技術相關領域數百篇論文，水準非常整
齊，對於人類科技與學術發展貢獻卓著。 
本人參加會議的過程，除了發表自己的研究成果外，也與許多不同國籍卻有相同研究領域的學者
交換研究心得。大會在三天中安排數百口頭報告論文張貼論文，將相同領域的專家巧妙安排在一起，
彼此針對相似研究主題充分討論，幾天下來得到許多在研究領域上獨到的見解與全新的創意。本人經
過這次參與 2011 年國際電子、資訊、通信工程技術研討會的寶貴經驗與觀摩，相信可以有更新的研
究成果在未來發表。 
最後也謝謝國科會補助本次出席國際學術會議經費。 
二、與會心得 
歐美與日本先進國家對於學術發表非常重視，會議中常看到指導教授帶著多位研究生共同發表，
並且與其他相同研究領域發表者熱烈討論，即使在語言上有些許困難，仍然不減其追求知識的熱 忱。 
另外，會議進行中對與會者在餐飲與交通方面有許多貼心細膩的服務，加上會場中的人力編配充
足，讓與會者能夠輕鬆愉快的參與會議，這點非常值得我們借鏡，未來在國內舉辦國際學術研討會時
計畫編號 NSC   99-2221-E-235 -008－ 
計畫名稱 高動態數位影像之標準影像處理演算法程式庫之研究 
出國人員
姓名 
陳  彥  佑 
服務機構
及職稱 
中州科技大學資管系教授 
會議時間 
100年 7月 27日
至 
100年 7月 29日 
會議地點 法國巴黎 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2011年國際電子、資訊、通信工程技術研討會 
(英文)  International Conference on Electronics, Information and 
Communication Engineering( ICEICE 2011) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 以離散餘旋轉換為基礎之影像壓縮與增強濾波器設計 
(英文)  Design of a DCT-based Image Compression with Efficient 
Enhancement Filter 
寄件者:WASET <info@waset.org>;  
收件者:miscyy@tcts1.seed.net.tw;  
日期:Fri May 06 02:40:27 CST 2011 
主旨:Re: Paris July 2011 International Conference on Electronics, Information and Communication Engineering 
Paper ID Code: FR79000 (Please accept our apologies for any inconveniences caused & double entries received) 
Letter of Acceptance 
Paris, France 
July 27-29, 2011 
  
Dear Author, 
  
Herewith, This is kindly to inform you that the peer- reviewed draft paper (see below abstract) has been accepted for oral 
presentation at Conference to be held in Paris, France during July 27-29, 2011. The high-impact conference papers are 
also considered for possible special journal publication [p-ISSN 2010-376X, e-ISSN 2010-3778] at 
http://www.waset.org/journals/waset/ 
  
Conference Registration and Writing Formatted Paper: 
  
1. Registration Form File should be Downloaded at http://www.waset.org/downloads/parisreg.doc 
2. Copyright Transfer Form File should be Downloaded at http://www.waset.org/downloads/copyright.doc 
3. Word Template File should be Downloaded at http://www.waset.org/downloads/template.doc 
4. Latex Style File should be Downloaded at  http://www.waset.org/downloads/latex.zip 
  
Letter of Invitation and Visa Requirements: 
If you need an invitation letter to get an entrance Visa, Please fill in the online form to get a letter of invitation at 
http://www.waset.org/invitation.php 
  
Online Conference Registration Form:  
The Conference Program and  Certificate of Presentation will be composed using the data entered through the online 
author registration form. All the conference registration files should be zipped (.zip) or rarred (.rar) and submitted via 
online form at: http://www.waset.org/author.php 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 高動態數位影像之標準影像處理演算法程式庫之研究
計畫主持人: 陳彥佑
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-235-008- 學門領域: 影像處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
