1Anti-Collision Algorithm for RFID Flexible Manufacture System
Chuen-Ching Wang
Dept. of Electrical Engineering
NCUE
Changhua City, Taiwan
ccwang@cc.ncue.edu.tw
Te-Yuan Wang
Dept. of Electrical Engineering
NCUE
Changhua City, Taiwan
bv4jr@ms46.hinet.net
Tien-Hao Lien
Dept. of Electrical Engineering
NCUE
Changhua City, Taiwan
lientienhao1021@hotmail.com
Rong-Ming Su
Dept. of Electrical Engineering
NCUE
Changhua City, Taiwan
kentso777@hotmail.com
Abstract—Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) has recently
played an important role in wireless sensing network. However,
if multiple passive tags are simultaneously transmitted to the
reader, the reader is unable to identify the tags. This will reduce
the efficiency of a RFID flexible manufacture system (FMS). To
solve this problem, we propose a modified anti-collision
algorithm based on ALOHA protocol to improve the
performance in a RFID system. Simulation results show that the
proposed algorithm is better than that of traditional method.
Keywords- RFID, anti-collision, FMS, ALOHA, reader
I. INTRODUCTION
RFID [1][2] is a very wide application in the daily life
because it is a rapid and automatic identification method.
Currently RFID technology is used in different systems such
as: transportation, distribution, retail and consumer packaging,
security and access control, monitoring and sensing, library
system, health care, and baggage and passenger tracing at the
airports. Via a single wireless channel, the readers and tags
exchange information to achieve a mutually communications.
Because the tag is limited computing capability and the basic
wireless protocol for interrogation, only one tag may be in the
interrogation zone at a time to communicate with reader.
While more advanced applications have been equipped with RFID
devices, sensing multiple passive tags simultaneously becomes
especially important. This limits the development of RFID
system.
At the beginning, reader will broadcast messages to the
tags, if the there are many tags response at the same time it
will result in a collisions. Caused by collision, tags convey the
message out will become meaningless and readers can not get
information from a pile of collisions message. On the contrary,
with a time if there is only one tag to respond, reader will be
able to identify with the tag of the message. There are two
kinds of tag, the active tag must be provide power to supply
tag to compute and transmit message and passive tags get
energy by receiving electromagnetic waves from reader. By
this way the power of the passive tag obtained is very low, so
the design of passive tag must be simple and reduce
consuming of power as far as possible. Such we can
effectively reduce the cost of passive tags. If the cost of
passive tag is cheaper the wider application can be realize and
it will accelerate the popularity of RFID system.
As above, the transmission of tag will cause collision.
Once the collision happen, many messages will be mixed and
be received by reader. But reader can not identify the
meanings of these mixed messages and it is the same to active
tags. However the power of active tag is provided by battery
and so it has enough power to detect each other between tags
to avoid collision. But the passive tags can not detect each
other between tags to avoid collision. Therefore, the
communication between passive tag and reader need a
mechanism to restrain the collision problem. In this paper we
propose an ALOHA based method to restrain the tag collision
and deal with the current collision when it happened. We hope
the proposed anti-collision algorithm can be applied to the
RFID flexible manufacture system.
The paper is organized as follows. In section 2, we briefly
survey the prominent protocols proposed for collision
problem. Also, the RFID flexible manufacture system is
described in this section. In section 3, we describe our
approach. In section 4 we report the results of simulation and
conclusions is made in Section 5.
II. GENERAL DESCRIPTION
A. RFID Anti-Collision Method
In RFID system, the reader identifies items through the
wireless communication between the tag and reader. This
action must be complete as fast as possible. Therefore, the
communication protocol between reader and tags is a very
important part. At the beginning of identification, the reader
broadcast to the tags in its range and the tags return the
message to the reader. It could be three cases. The first case
there is only one tag to respond reader and in this case the
reader can identify the tag. The second case if at the same
time have more than one tag to respond to the reader that will
result collision. It make the reader can not recognize the
message from many tags. The third case, after reader’s 
broadcasting no tag responds. The anti-collision protocol
primarily solves the second case. In other words it primarily
solves the collision of message that many tags respond to
reader at the same time.
The FSA (Framed Slotted ALOHA)[3-5] protocol is
proposed to solve collision problem. The reader broadcast a
frame size to tags, and all tags select a random number it must
be less than frame size. By this way tags have their own
random number, and if slot equal to the number, the tag will
transmit message to reader. With this approach the time tags
transmit to reader will be staggered and it can avoid collision
caused by tag. But the number of every tag is selected
randomly so it maybe the same among the tags. It means that
there is the probability of collision. When collision occur, the
reader will skip the collision tags until next cycle the reader
broadcast again and the collision tags will select random
number and transmit again. After the above-mentioned has
been to repeat this step until all the tags are identified by the
reader. Fig.1 shows the tag identification of FSA. The number
3In the operation procedure, different components, for
example spare part, has different manufacture procedures.
That is, each kind of article has different transporting routes.
When the component enters to the proposed system, RFID
system will distinguish its Tag ID to obtain a manufacture
procedure for the flexible operation mechanism. By means of
the path information generated by the flexible operation
mechanism, the object or material thus can be automatically
transported to the corresponding manufacture site. Fig. 6
shows the structure of the proposed RFID flexible
manufacture system. Like a GPS, via some inputs to the GPS,
the proposed system can indicate the exact route for the driver
to the exact destination. Fig. 7 is the automatic navigation
concept for the RFID flexible manufacture system.
Fig. 5 The flexible operation mechanism for the proposed system.
Fig. 6 The structure of the proposed RFID flexible manufacture system
Fig. 7 The concept of automatic navigation system.
III. THE PROPOSED METHOD
In this paper, the proposed method based on ALOHA. It
primarily solves the collision immediately when the collisions
occur. If the collisions occur, system will start another
identification process. The collision tags will be estimated and
broadcast a new frame size to these tags. Tags will generate
random number again and transmit message. If the collision
occurs again in the new cycle, the step will be operated until
completed. This could reduce collision tag to collide again in
next round to make the more collisions. When the first
collision slot is dealt, the reader broadcasts a new frame size
to other tags which are not identified. The tags will generate
random number and transmit again and do not stop until all
tags are identified. Similarly, if collide again in the new cycle,
the above steps will be taken to repeat.
We assume that n passive tags which have unique ID in
our experiment and the reader does not know the number of
tags but it can estimate. We presume that the frame size at the
beginning is “Ni”. When the reader broadcasts the frame size
Ni to tags, each tag will generate a number between 1 and Ni.
The tags transmit message to reader at its own slot. If
collision does not occur, the reader could identify the tag. As
above, it is the same as ALOHA. If the collision occurs, the
reader will restart a new cycle and abandon previous cycle.
This part is our assumption and we assume that the reader and
tags can accomplish the operation actually. We refer the
method of estimation in [14] [15] to estimate the number of
colision tag and get the number “nc”. The reader use nc to
differentiate the frame size Nc and broadcast to tags. Tags will
generate the number between 1 and Nc. The process is
preceded repeatedly until no collision. Fig.4 is the flowchart
of the proposed method. As above, in the figure 4, the reader
broadcast the Ni at beginning. When the collision occurs, it
will be dealt immediately. The remaining tags will be
recognized after the first group of collision tags is completed.
5The “ct” is the valuedefined to limit the collision tags to
respond to the reader. When the tags receive the command
“throw_away” the value is added one. If the value of ad
equals the value of ct the tags will transmit the message to the
reader. After transmitting, the tags will let the value of ct
become to zero. The step means that the tags which value of
ct is zero could not transmit again until the tags receive the
command “throw_away” again.
Fig. 7 The example of the worst case of the proposed method
The Fig.7 means the worst case of the proposed method.
We think that if the first slot is the collision slot it will make
the other success slots be abandon. If the situation occurs
frequently, the efficiency will be degraded. Owing to that we
also analyze the probability of the situation. The Fig.8 and
Fig.9 are the probability of the worst case. It is found that
when the number of tags is large, the probability of the worst
case is very small. The result means if the number of tags is
very large the worst case may occur scarcely. The purpose of
the proposed method is to reduce the cost of the slot used to
identify, especially when the number of tags is larger.
Nevertheless, the result of the simulation is random for
ALOHA based protocol. So, we calculate the average value of
several simulations to be the effective value of the whole
process.
5 10 15 20 25 30
10
-3
10
-2
10
-1
Number of tags
P
ro
b
ab
il
it
y
0.35
0.02
Fig. 8 The probability of worst case
(Number of tags is between 3 and 32)
10 20 30 40 50 60
10
-6
10
-5
10
-4
10
-3
10
-2
10
-1
Number of tags
N
u
m
b
er
o
f
sl
o
t
Fig. 9 The probability of worst case
(Number of tags is between 3 and 64)
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS
We adopt our proposed method to simulate and observe
the results. The collision occurs because of the transmission
of many tags, so we assume the number of tags start from 10
to 300 tags. Fig.10 is the result of simulation. It shows that
our proposed method cost fewer slot than DFSA and the
difference is obvious when the number of tags is big. It shows
that compare with DFSA, proposed method saves many slots.
In the simulation, the initial frame size Ni is 16 and this
size close the number of tags at beginning of simulation. It
will cause better efficiency and as the relationship between
the number of tags and frame size mentioned on section 3.
We change the initial frame size Ni of simulation and
observe the influence. The result is showed in Fig. 11. In Fig.
11, we can know that if the initial frame size is changed to 64,
it does not impact on the result when the number of tags is
more. But when the number of tags is fewer, the big frame
size will make the chance of collision lower. It causes the
more empty slots and the efficiency become lower. If Ni is
128, it shows that the efficiency is lower than before case.
This result indicates that if the Ni is set 16, it can be applied to
a wide range of the number of tags.
Therefore, we set Ni is 16 and increase the number of tags.
The result of simulation is showed as Fig. 12.
It is the result that we increase the number of tags to 1000
and simulate. We can find that proposed method cost fewer
slots than DFSA when the number of tags gets more. The
results are not much difference when the number of tags is
small. But the overall effect of proposed method is
authentically better than DFSA and cost fewer slots.
success slotcollision slot
abandon
7RFID Passive Tags,”The 9th International Conference on Advanced
Communication Technology, Volume 1, 12-14 Feb. 2007 Page(s):94 –
97.
[17] Qingsong Peng, Ming Zhang, Weimin Wu,“Variant Enhanced Dynamic
Frame Slotted ALOHA Algorithm for Fast Object Identification in RFID
System,”2007 IEEE International Workshop on Anti-counterfeiting,
Security, Identification, 16-18 April 2007 Page(s):88–91.
[18] Su-Ryun Lee, Sung-Don Joo, Chae-Woo Lee, “An enhanced dynamic
framed slotted ALOHA algorithm for RFID tag identification,”Mobile
and Ubiquitous Systems: The Second Annual International Conference
on Networking and Services, 2005. MobiQuitous 2005, 17-21 July 2005
Page(s):166–172.
[19] C.P.Wong, Quanyuan Feng, “Grouping based bit-slot ALOHA protocol
for tag anti-collision in RFID systems,”IEEE Communications Letters,
Volume 11, Issue 12, December 2007 Page(s):946–948.
[20] Leian Liu, Shengli Lai, “ALOHA-Based Anti-Collision Algorithms
Used in RFID System,”2006. WiCOM 2006. International Conference
on Wireless Communications, Networking and Mobile Computing, 22-24
Sept. 2006 Page(s):1–4.
[21] Jae-Ryong Cha, Jae-Hyun Kim, “Dynamic framed slotted ALOHA
algorithms using fast tag estimation method for RFID system,” 2006.
CCNC 2006. 2006 3rd IEEE Consumer Communications and
Networking Conference, Volume 2, 8-10 Jan. 2006 Page(s):768–772.
[22] Wen-Tzu Chen, Guan-Hung Lin “An Efficient Anti-Collision Method
for Tag Identification in a RFID System,”IEICE Transactions on
Communications, Volume E89-B,Dec. 2006.
2本論文發表時間為Session 6: Watermarking and Document Processing 7月1日下午
16h00-17h30
題目：A subsampling and interpolation technique for reversible histogram shift data
hiding
4‧ Tone recognition of isolated mandarin syllables, Zhaoqiang Xie, Zhenjiang
Miao
‧ Multi-objective genetic algorithm optimization for image watermarking based
on singular value decomposition and lifting wavelet transform, Khaled
Loukhaoukha, Jean-Yves Chouinard and Mohamed Haj Taieb
‧ A semantic proximity based system of arabic text indexation, Taher Zaki,
Driss Mammass, Abdellatif Ennaji
‧ Image hiding by using genetic algorithm and lsb substitution, Masoumeh
Khodaei , Karim Faez
‧ Classification of multi-structured documents: a comparison based on media
image, Ali Idarrou, Driss Mammass, Chantal Soulé Dupuy, Nathalie
Valles-Parlangeau
會議中同時遇到來自國內大學教授－銘傳大學謝朝和教授所率領的團隊以
及來自國外之相關學者專家，大家彼此交換心得，分享經驗，以凝聚未來之研究
能量和方向。此外另有多位來自國外之學者專家以及大陸師生對個人之研究－本
篇論文應用於文件之機密隱藏的可能性感到興趣，並詢問將來進一步應用於
video sequence的可行性等相關技術。由於此次之分享與腦力激盪,本人將致力於
更高階之H264/AVC之具有後壓縮及偵錯能力之Reversible Watermarking 的研究.
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
