1 
 
遠離平衡態下軟物質的結構形成與其時間依賴的動態學之研究 
Structural formation far from equilibrium and time-dependent dynamics 
in jammed soft matters 
 
一、中文摘要 
有關高分子物理凝膠結構的形成無疑是複雜的。因為它不但包含了多種相變的耦合，同時
也涉及了微觀結構的形成（指高分子鏈間微結晶的形成，高分子溶液的相分離）與巨觀物
理狀態的改變（包括 percolation 現象與凝膠彈性）。而在這兩種尺度之間，又牽涉到自組織
結構（self-assembling processes）的形成與演化的複雜行為。我們利用 TRSALS 技術完整的
紀錄下整個凝膠結構形成過程。對於此一嶄新的凝膠化行為，我們建立了一個基於現象學
概念的結構模型，並提出”Nucleation Gel”這一個概念。我們認為所謂的 Nucleation Gel 是系
統遠離平衡態下（far from equilibrium）所形成的結構，進而提出非平衡凝膠(Non-equilibrium 
gel)之嶄新思維，試從軟物質物理(Soft matter physics)之學理上區別平衡凝膠與非平衡凝膠
的差異。 
關鍵字: 物理凝膠、非平衡凝膠、小角度光散射 
 
二、英文摘要 
Using scattering technique to achieve an exact reconstruction or description of the 
complicated structure is one of the more intriguing issues. In this paper, we propose a 
methodological framework for scattering modelling that accurately reconstructs the entire course 
of physical gelation on the basic of elastic scattering theory. The focus of the present work is on 
command of the interaction relations between scattering factors and on understanding of how and 
to what extant interaction of the parameters ࢇ૙ሺ࢚ሻ, ࢇ࢚ሺ࢚ሻ, ࢼ, ࣘࢊ, ࣘࢉ, ࣆ࢓૚, and ∆ࣆ࢓૚ in the 
scattering modelling obtains information of aspects of a complex event in gelation. The result of 
scattering modelling provides a much more detailed and direct examination on the quantitative 
structure-evolution relationship, and differentiates the gelation process into three evolved regimes 
in which the kinetic evolution is predicted by either the growth or the coarsening theory. The 
results reported in this paper have demonstrated that the scattering modelling can be practically 
implemented, provide valuable results, and serve as the basis for a study of temporal and spatial 
complexity of soft matter on a mesoscopic length scale.   
Keywords: Physical gels, Non-equilibrium gels, Small-angle light scattering 
 
 
  
dynamic evolution of a mesostructure from very different
physical phenomena (i.e., growth and form of spherulites,
physical gelation, and colloidal aggregation). To our knowledge,
these issues are under-researched and under-discussed, not to
mention a paucity of literature. We believe that findings will
have broad implications in the recent advance in soft matter
science.28–30
Experimental Section
Materials. The crystalline polymer used in this study was
poly(vinylidene fluoride) (PVDF) powder (Mw ) 2.75 × 105 and
Mw/Mn ) 2.57, Aldrich Chemical Co.). The solvent was a mixture
of tetra(ethylene glycol) dimethyl ether (TG) and LiCF3SO3 salt.
The salt was added to give an O:Li ratio (oxygen atoms in TG:
lithium atoms in the salt) of 12:1. The polymer gel electrolytes
were prepared by quenching homogeneous PVDF solution from
433 K to the gelation temperature.
Time-Resolved SALS Apparatus. The optical arrangement of
the time-resolved SALS apparatus has been described previously.8
A 5 mW polarized He-Ne laser was used as the incident source,
and the polarization direction of the beam was adjusted by a half-
wave plate. The beam was then spatially filtered, expended, and
shined onto the sample. The sample cell was placed on THMS 600
heating and freezing stage (Linkam Scientific Co.), and the scattered
light intensity was directly imaged through a Fourier lens and an
analyzer onto the CCD camera (Apogee Instruments Inc., Alta
U2000 CCD camera). The digitized images were transferred the
real-time processing to a personal computer. In the present study
the reliable data are about θ ) 0.8°-22.5°, corresponding to q )
0.2-5.56 µm-1 [q ) (4πm1/λ) sin(θ/2), where q is the scattering
vector, λ is the wavelength of incident light, and m1 is the refractive
index of an isotropic medium].
Results and Discussion
From the Meeten-Navard theory (MN theory), the light
scattered by a birefringent sphere is described by26
IHV )
I0
k2r0
2|S2 - S1|2sin2 2 (1)
and
IVV )
I0
k2r0
2|S1 sin2 + S2 cos2 |2 (2)
where I0 is the incident light intensity, k is the wavenumber
2π/λ, r0 is the distance between detector and scatterer, and  is
the azimuthal angle. The expressions for S1 and S2 in the
Rayleigh-Gans-Debye light scattering approximation are26
S1 )
2ik3a3
3x3
{3(µ- 1)(sin x- x cos x)+
∆µ[x cos x- 4 sin x+ 3 Si(x)]} (3)
and
S2 )
2ik3a3
3x3
{3(µ- 1)(sin x- x cos x)cos θ-
∆µ[1+ cos2(θ/2)][x cos x- 4 sin x Si(x)]} (4)
where a is the spherical radius, x is defined by x ) qa, µ is the
relative mean refractive index of the sphere, ∆µ is the
birefringence index, and Si(x) is the sin integral defined by
Si(x))∫0x sin uu du (5)
If the birefringent sphere is surrounded by an isotropic medium
of refractive index m1, then µ is defined by µ ) (mr + 2mt)/
3m1 and ∆µ is defined by ∆µ ) (mr - mt)/m1, where mr and mt
are the radial and the tangential refractive indices of the sphere,
respectively. Generally, the appropriate size distribution could
aid us to compare the discrepancy between the experimental
and the theoretical scattering patterns. Assuming no correlation
between the spheres, the scattered intensity can be regarded as
the sum of the intensities scattered by individual spheres; thus31
I)∫0∞ N(a) I(a) da (6)
where N(a) is a size distribution function of the sphere. As the
simplest example we assumed a Gaussian distribution function
N(a)) exp[- 12(a- a0 )2] (7)
where a0 is average radius of the spheres in the distribution
and  is the half-width of the distribution.
In Figure 1, we show how the birefringence of the sphere
affects the scattering patterns. A series of the HV and the VV
patterns calculated from eqs 1–5 are shown in Figure 1a,c by
taking a0 ) 2 µm, µ ) 0.991, and m1 ) 1.433. For the sake of
qualitative discussion, the scattering intensity distributions of
the calculated patterns were shown by arbitrary units. The top
patterns (∆µ ) 0.5) are for a polymeric spherulite and are in
Figure 1. Calculated scattering patterns for a birefringent sphere as a
function of the relative birefringence ∆µ. The sphere radius is 2 µm,
µ ) 0.991, m1 ) 1.433, and θ ) 0°-25°. (a) HV scattering; (b) HV
scattering with a size distribution for  ) 0.25; (c) VV scattering.
6148 Chou and Hong Macromolecules, Vol. 41, No. 16, 2008
growing new phase is the function of time. In order to obtain a
universal feature, the time evolution of the scaled form factor
should be reduced with the invariant Q. For HV scattering, the
scaled form factor P˜ HV(x) is defined by
P˜ HV(x)) IHV
45°(x, t)qmd (t)/Q (11)
where d is the growth dimension and qm is the scattering vector
at peak position. The invariant Q is defined by
Q)∫0∞ IHV45°(q)q2 dq (12)
On the basis of the MN theory, the invariant in the HV scattering
is ascribed to both mean-square optical anisotropy 〈δ2〉 and the
mean-square density fluctuation 〈η2〉. A problem now arises:
due to the excess scattering intensity of which arises from 〈η2〉,
IHV45°(q)q2 shows a divergent behavior in high-q regime, and the
value of Q does not converge to a constant. To avoid this
problem, we may expediently neglect the isotropic term in eqs
3 and 4 to calculate the equivalent invariant Qan and21
Qan∝ 〈δ2 〉 ) φs∆µ2 (13)
where φs is the volume fraction of the birefringent sphere. Thus,
we can clarify the relative contribution of the volume fraction
of the growing new phase on the scaled form factor.
To test the validity of the scaled form factor, we show the
calculated form factor for strongly and weakly birefringent
sphere in Figure 2. Figure 2a shows a universal behavior for
all x range, confirming the validity of P˜ HV(x) given by eq 11. In
addition, at x > 10, P˜ HV(x) shows the characteristic of Porod’s
law (q-4 behavior).35 It is clear that P˜ HV(x) can be ubiquitously
observed in growth of polymeric spherulites from the melt. On
the other hand, for the weakly birefringent sphere (Figure 2b),
P˜ HV(x) is not universal with a0 due seemingly to the contribution
of the excess scattering intensity in high-q regime; moreover,
P˜ HV(x) has diverse features at all x the range. However, we
assumed a homogeneous sphere and used constant ∆µ, µ, and
m1 to calculate the form factor only as convenient descriptions
of the common behavior (the ideal two-phase system or the
growth of spherulite in the melt). The result in Figure 2b seems
to contradict the general supposition. In the absence of
experimental evidence, no definite conclusion can be drawn.
Actually, in contrast with the polymeric spherulites, the structure
of the birefringent sphere may have a morphological diversity
and may concern a complex formation process, e.g., the PVDF
microgels.
To test the generality of the scaled form factor, we analyze
the time evolution of the P˜ HV(x) for the PVDF microgels in
nucleation and growth stage, as shown in Figure 3. We also fit
the scattering profile for t ) 1805 s to obtain the optimum values
of a0, µ, ∆µ, m1, and ; the fitting result is shown by the sold
line in Figure 3. While not in perfect agreement, the result
captures the overall characteristics of the PVDF microgels. As
we have seen, the existence of a single master curve certifies
that P˜ HV(x) holds in the growth of the birefringent sphere in the
solution. This behavior is reminiscent of spinodal decomposition
in binary mixtures; however, to our knowledge, theoretical
predictions or experimental evidence for P˜ HV(x) did not exist.
The experiment has highlighted several interesting possibilities:
because the concentration of the solute in surroundings decreases
as the nuclei grows, the values of ∆µ, µ, and m1 are the functions
of the nuclei size; thus, the structure of the PVDF microgels
may have a self-similar characteristic. To understand these
behaviors, we would begin our discussion by reviewing two
recent experimental results. In studying PVDF aggregate in the
dilute concentration state, Park et al.37 found that the PVDF
chains aggregate to form a core-shell structure with unexpect-
edly high RH/RG ratio (RH/RG ∼1.45 and RH ∼ 300 nm, where
RH/RG ) 1.291 for hard sphere) even in good solvents. On the
other hand, in studying protein crystallization from solutions,
Vekilov et al.38,39 have indicated that the structure fluctuation
(to form an order structure) follows and is superimposed upon
the density fluctuation (to form a dense liquid phase) during
the nucleation process. From Vekilov’s angle, the dense liquid
core formed by PVDF chains aggregate may transform into an
ordered crystalline nucleus through the structure fluctuation. This
means the existence of crystalline microcolloids dispersed in
the solution. To put the argument more concretely, we may
conclude the PVDF microgel as a spherical cluster formed by
the aggregation of the crystalline microcolloids belongs to the
category 2 birefringent sphere. However, it is not to say that
the structure and the structural formation of the PVDF microgels
have the characteristic of fractal aggregation kinetics. In fact,
this problem may be excluded by considering the qm3 behavior
in P˜ HV(x), which depends on the dimension of growth and
corresponds to the three-dimensional cluster growth, and the
feature of P˜ HV(x) at 4 < x < 10, which is relevant to the global
structure of scatterer and is consistent with the calculated form
factor. Although lacking definite information, we assume that
the aggregation of crystalline microcolloids is essentially
corresponding to the classical picture of nucleation phenomenon.
At x < 4, the experimental P˜ HV(x) shows a significant
departure from the calculated one. If the asymptotic behavior
of x4 reflects the characteristic of a sphere, the x2 behavior seems
to imply the feature of the Ornstein-Zernike form [SOZ(q) ∼
1/(1 + q2	2), where 	 is the correlation length].35 However,
the Ornstein-Zernike equation is often used to analyze the
concentration fluctuation in single-phase region. This seems to
contradict the present system. Moritani et al. have given a
general treatment of scattering from a random distribution of
spherical domain structure.40 Discussing the long-range cor-
relation of the dispersed spheres is irrelevant to the main subject
of this paper. This point may well be left to our future work.
Figure 4 shows the phase-contrast microscopy of a common
representative of PVDF gels. It is clear that the PVDF gel
exhibits spheroidal morphology and the spheres are connected
with each other to form a three-dimensional network structure.
Such morphology has been observed in the majority of PVDF
gels or membranes.41–43 From the phenomenological point of
view, in contrast with the traditional viewpoint,1–6 the nucleation
gel usually accompanies a complicated aging effect (the
Figure 3. Scaled form factor in the nucleation and growth stage for
PVDF/TG-LiCF3SO3 solution (φ ) 0.04) at 293 K. The solid line is
the best theoretical fit for the experimental scattering profile (t ) 1805 s)
with a0 ) 2.9945 µm, µ ) 0.994, ∆µ ) 9.842 × 10-5, m1 ) 1.4286,
and  ) 0.472. The dashed line and the dash-dotted line are the
contributions of the anisotropic and isotropic terms, respectively.
6150 Chou and Hong Macromolecules, Vol. 41, No. 16, 2008
the local structure of nucleation gel evolves in the late-stage
coarsening or ripening process.
A series of the calculated HV and VV scattering patterns for
nucleation gel model are shown in parts a and b of Figure 5,
respectively. The first column is for the scattering from a
birefringent sphere as a function of ∆µ. The right six columns
are calculated from the aggregation of birefringent spheres as
functions of ∆µ and F. In Figure 5, we also show the size
distribution effect at right half of patterns. In the first, the HV
scattering to the pattern change contrast sharply with the VV
scattering. The HV patterns highlight the feature of local-structure
evolution; in contrast, the VV patterns relate mainly to the feature
of the long-range fractal structure, except the case of spherulites
(∆µ ) 0.5). In fact, the HV and VV scattering complement each
other well, for each captures a different aspect of the structural
evolution of scatterers. Over the past few decades, a considerable
number of studies have been made on the scattering properties
of fractal aggregate; there has thus far been relatively little
research on the local-structure evolution of aggregate. Here we
limit the discussion to this area.
The bottom two rows in Figure 5a present excessively
complicated HV patterns. These multiple structures are formed
by the aggregation of the very weakly birefringent spheres or
the isotropic spheres. Up to now, there is no enough experi-
mental evidence to prove such patterns. The reason may be
explained by following two aspects. In most cases, the amor-
phous colloids are prepared by surface modification, so that the
interparticle interaction is well approximated as the hard sphere
and the coarsening or interpenetrated of two contact spheres is
impossible. In contrast, for amorphous droplets, the liquidlike
coalescence between two diffusing droplets (i.e., dynamic
coalescence)50,51 will govern the droplet aggregation, and the
macroscopic gelation does not occur in such a case. Leaving
whether such patterns exists aside, one of the thorniest problems
we face is analyzing these patterns. For the very weakly
birefringent sphere or the isotropic sphere, we have difficulty
detected the significant difference among F values. Under this
situation, the HV scattering plays only an auxiliary role in
studying the structure of amorphous aggregates. On the other
hand, in the top two rows in Figure 5a, a double structure with
the emergence of new first-order peak shows the main charac-
teristics of the coarsening process of the birefringent sphere,
and the steep growth of new first-order peak can be characterized
by a single time-dependent length parameter ar which offers
the key to an understanding of the coarsening kinetics. On the
grounds of our model, it is possible to examine whether the
time evolution of the HV scattering function can be scaled by ar
or rather whether the scaled HV structure factor exists in late-
stage coarsening. In considering this issue, we may recall the
implication of the scaled structure factor and, most particularly,
the specific characteristic of self-similar evolution of global
structure. It is clear that the interference function is an only
significant structure function in HV scattering but can only
characterize the local structure. For the reason given above, the
HV scattering is incompetent to describe the global structure
evolution. More specifically, although the late-stage coarsening
process can be characterized by ar, the structure factor scaling
is unsatisfactory for HV scattering.
Figure 5. Calculated scattering patterns for a birefringent sphere (first column) and its aggregation (right six columns) are present as functions of
the relative birefringence ∆µ and overlapping parameter F. Other parameters are the same as shown in Figure 1. The right half of patterns show
the size distribution effect on the scattering patterns for  ) 0.25. (a) HV scattering; (b) VV scattering.
6152 Chou and Hong Macromolecules, Vol. 41, No. 16, 2008
Scattering Modeling of Nucleation Gels
Che-Min Chou and Po-Da Hong*
Department of Polymer Engineering, National Taiwan UniVersity of Science and Technology,
Taipei 10607, Taiwan
ReceiVed April 9, 2008; ReVised Manuscript ReceiVed June 20, 2008
ABSTRACT: On the basis of elastic scattering theory, we propose a methodological framework to exactly
reconstruct the entire course during the structural formation of the nucleation gel. The focus of the present work
is on command of the interaction relations between scattering factors and on understanding of how and to what
extent these interactions obtain information on aspects of a complex event in gelation. The scattering modeling
provides a much more detailed and direct examination on the quantitative structure-evolution relationship and
differentiates the gelation process intosnucleation and growth, aggregation, diffusion-controlled coarsening (fast
process), and Ostwald ripening (slow process)sfour stages in which the kinetic evolutions are predicted by either
the growth or the coarsening theory. We demonstrate that the scattering modeling can be practically implemented,
can provide valuable results, and would serve as the basis for a study of temporal and spatial complexity of soft
matter on a mesoscopic length scale.
1. Introduction
The majority of researches in the physical gels have focused
on the “microscopic” junction structure and the “macroscopic”
viscoelastic properties. Guenet1and te Nijenhuis2 have provided
extensive discussions on the subjects. In reality, the structure
of physical gels is too involved; however, the traditional
viewpoint (“equilibrium”) and classification (“junction basis”)
frequently do not give a realistic description of how the diverse,
hierarchical morphologies of physical gels are formed. The key
is that the “microscopic” structure and the “macroscopic”
properties are not necessarily mutually deducible. Despite the
growing awareness of the micro-macro linkage, there has thus
far been relatively little research into the area. Most findings
on gel structural formation have been descriptive and have up
to now employed “morphological criteria” tosimaginativelys
reconstruct the gelation process.3,4
In the first attempt to explore the origin of the diverse gel
morphologies, we used time-resolved small-angle light scattering
(SALS) to trace the gelation process of PVDF solutions.5-7 We
proposed a new model in which the course of the gelation
includessnucleation and growth, aggregation, percolation, and
coarseningsfour consecutive processes, called the “nucleation
gel”. While the nucleation gel is a widespread phenomenon,8-10
the situation is even less understood. Our series of works have
so far presented a fairly clear picture of at least some basic
issues. First, unlike the traditional viewpoint,1-4 the definition
of the “nucleation” is not on the localized junction “point” but
really involves a mesoscopic length scale over; thus, the focus
of the “gelation” shifts from an emphasis on the percolation
phenomena11,12 to attention to the aggregation behavior. Second,
even though the large-scale heterogeneous gels are widely
believed to result from spinodal decomposition (“spinodal
gel”),13-17 their formation might be of a rather different origin.
Third, the nature of nucleation gel is purely nonequilibrium
phenomena, and the concept itself blurs the boundary between
the gel (“elastic” and three-dimensional network structure) and
the jammed solid (“fragile” and nonequilibrium solid state).18,19
Although the discussion has been restricted so far to a
phenomenological level, the nucleation gel gives us new
opportunities to deal in a more general manner with the physical
gelation.
Using the scattering technique to exactly reconstruct a
complicated structure is one of the more intriguing subjects. A
recent development is the combining different scattering tech-
niques to study a “spacial” hierarchical structure in multiscale
systems.20-22 In contrast to these great advances, although the
basic depolarized (HV) scattering theories have been provided
for several decades,23,24 the application of the HV scattering
technique to complicated aggregation systems has only been
touched upon so far. One of the thorniest problems researchers
face is that extracting all structural information contained in
HV scattering patterns is often not trivial. At this point, we have
obtained some remarkable progress especially on HV scattering
from birefringent sphere and its aggregation.7 With this finding
we now have all the ingredients to allow for a reliable analysis
of the complicated nucleation gel. In this paper, we try to extend
the HV scattering technique to the more realistic case of both
“spacial” and “temporal” mesostructural evolution and to
demonstrate the practicability of the scattering modeling through
the nucleation gel. Results of the present study represent the
most complete modeling process to date in obtaining information
on aspects of a complex event in gelation and provide new
insights into both the scattering methodology and the science
of gelation.
2. Background
2.1. Scattering Factors. We have proposed three phenom-
enological functions to describe the nucleation gel. In our model,
the HV scattering function IHV(q,) can be written as6
IHV(q, ) ∼PHV(q, ) S(q) f(q) (1)
where PHV(q,) is the form factor, which describes the scattering
of a spherical particle along and depends on the azimuthal angle
, S(q) is the structure factor, which describes the spatial
arrangement of the particles within a cluster, and f(q) is the
interference function of two interpenetrated spheres, which
describes how the local structure of the nucleation gel evolves
in late-stage coarsening.
The form factor is given by24
PHV(q, ))C|S2 - S1|2 sin2 2 (2)
where C is a constant depending on the apparatus setup. The
expressions for S1 and S2 in the Rayleigh-Gans-Debye light
scattering approximation are24
* Corresponding author: Fax +886-2-27376544, e-mail poda@
mail.ntust.edu.tw.
6540 Macromolecules 2008, 41, 6540-6545
10.1021/ma800788j CCC: $40.75  2008 American Chemical Society
Published on Web 08/14/2008
and shined onto the sample. The sample cell was placed on THMS
600 heating and freezing stage (Linkam Scientific Co.), and the
scattered light intensity was directly imaged through a Fourier lens
and an analyzer onto the CCD camera (Apogee Instruments Inc.,
Alta U2000 CCD camera). The digitized images were transferred
the real-time processing to a personal computer. In present study
the reliable data are about scattering angle θ ) 0.8°-22.5°,
corresponding to q ) 0.2-5.56 µm-1 [q ) (4πm1/λ) sin(θ/2), where
q is the scattering vector, λ is the wavelength of incident light, and
m1 is the refractive index of an isotropic medium].
3.3. Scanning Electron Microscopy. The freeze-dried gel was
prepared as follows: the 20 wt % homogeneous PVDF-DMSO/
water (90/10) solution was quenched from 413 K to room
temperature to form a wet gel and then placed into the freeze-drying
equipment at 223 K. Under a vacuuming condition for more than
2 weeks, a dry gel was obtained. The morphology of the freeze-
dried gel was investigated using scanning electron microscopy
(SEM; Cambridge S-360).
4. Results and Discussion
Figure 1a shows the behavior of the HV scattering profiles
( ) 45°) in different stages of gelation for PVDF/TG-
LiCF3SO3 solution (φ ) 0.04) at 293 K. The solid lines show
the best-fitted theoretical profiles by our model. A comparison
of the experimental (left half of patterns) and the theoretical
(right half of patterns) patterns is also shown in Figure 1b. It is
clear that the theoretical patterns are in complete agreement with
the experimental ones and hold the key feature of each evolution
stage. The typical four-leaf-clover pattern characterizes the
nucleation and growth stage, the four-crescent-moon pattern with
a counterintuitive process (i.e., the reverse growth of qm and a
decrease in peak intensities) characterizes the aggregation/
transition stage, and the emergence with steep growth of new
first-order peak characterizes the late-stage evolution. In order
to obtain more valuable information, these preliminary results
should be further expanded and replicated.
A systematic stepwise survey of time-resolved scattering
profiles was used to extract the essential parameters and to
reconstruct the important events during the evolution. The
reconstructed 3D map surface in Figure 2 reveals all the details
of the gelation process. The complete agreement between the
experimental image plot and the calculated contour plot indicates
that the scattering modeling is practicable.
Thus, we can try to provide a much more detailed examination
on the quantitative structure-evolution relationship. Figure 3
shows the behavior of the parameters a0, ar, , φd, φc, µm1,
∆µm1, and m1 and represents the complete result to date in
obtaining information on aspects of a complex event in gelation.
In order to methodically depict what happens in that process, it
would be useful to differentiate the evolution into three stages:
(I) nucleation and growth, (II) aggregation, and (III) late-stage
coarsening.
4.1. Nucleation and Growth Stage. Figure 3a shows two
typical features of nucleation and growth behavior. First, m1
increases gradually up to the value of the solventscharacterizing
the growth of the PVDF microgels at the cost of the solute
concentration in surrounding. Second, µm1 is constant at this
stagescharacterizing the homogeneous composition of the
growing microgels. On the other hand, ∆µm1 decreases continu-
ously and approaches only slowly the end of this stage. We
have known that ∆µm1 depends on the crystallinity and the
orientation direction of crystalline grains within the microgels.
Unlike typical model of polymeric spherulites, the decline of
∆µm1 means that the orientational correlation of the crystalline
grains is a0 dependent. This also clearly support the previous
assumption which the PVDF microgelsas a spherical cluster
Figure 1. (a) Behavior of the HV scattering profiles ( ) 45°) in the
three stages of gelation for PVDF/TG-LiCF3SO3 solution (φ ) 0.04)
at 293 K. The solid lines show the best-fitted theoretical scattering
curves by our nucleation gel model. (b) A comparison of the
experimental (left half of patterns) and the best-fitted theoretical (right
half of patterns) HV scattering patterns in the three evolution stages.
The fitting parameters for nucleation and growth stage: a0 ) 3.033,
µ ) 0.99343, ∆µ ) 1.0059 × 10-4, m1 ) 1.4295, and  ) 0.469; for
aggregation stage: a0 ) 3.051, µ ) 0.99095, ∆µ ) 8.5132 × 10-5,
m1 ) 1.4331,  ) 0.466, φd ) 0.9975, F ) 0.982, Df ) 1.346, N )
50, and φc ) 0.059; for late-stage coarsening: a0 ) 2.871, µ ) 0.99094,
∆µ ) 9.1412 × 10-5, m1 ) 1.4339,  ) 0.316, φd ) 1, F ) 0.741,
Df ) 1.817, N ) 50, and φc ) 0.733.
Figure 2. Comparison of the experimental HV image plot ( ) 45°)
for PVDF/TG-LiCF3SO3 solution (φ ) 0.04) at 293 K with the
numerically calculated 3D map surface and contour plots.
6542 Chou and Hong Macromolecules, Vol. 41, No. 17, 2008
the existence of this ripening process in the nucleation gel. In
this stage, the behavior is characterized by ar ∼ t0.2, which is
closes to the predicted by the Lifshitz-Slyozov-Wagner theory
(an exponent of 1/3) if a0 ∼ t-0.1 is considered.41,42 At the same
time,  decreases slowly. From a phenomenological point of
view, there is no reason to consider the dissolution of relatively
stable crystal structure (i.e., crystalline microcolloid); thus, the
ripening should take place via the crystalline microcolloids
decomposition from small microgels and reprecipitation in the
surface of backbone of the gel network or in the necks.
4.3.3. Compared with the Real-Space Structure. Figure 4a
shows SEM micrograph of a common PVDF gel, prepared by
the freeze-dried technique. The packing of spherical clusters is
clearly discernible, and the size of the crystalline microcolloids
is about 0.2 µm and is entirely consistent with Park and co-
workers’ result for the core-shell structure in dilute PVDF
solutions (Rb ∼ 0.22 µm, RH/Rg ∼ 1.45).43 This micrograph
visually proves the PVDF microgel is a nonequilibrium soft
colloid, which the nonequilibrium means the aggregation and
complex aging effect and the soft colloid means the relatively
loose cluster and the rearrangeable structure. Figure 4b figura-
tively depicts what happens in the late-stage evolution process.
It is interesting to note that besides reducing the surface free
energy, the ripening also stiffens the weak network structure.
The nucleation gels seem to show a richer structure and behavior
than most idealized hard-sphere colloid systems.44-46 Exploring
the origin of the diverse gel morphologies has only been touched
upon so far; however, the field will remain very active in the
future.
5. Conclusion
In this paper, we have devised a scattering modeling that
accurately reconstructs the entire course of physical gelation
on the basis of elastic scattering theory. We have also shown
how some essential parameters of gelation can be appropriately
evaluated. Furthermore, on the grounds of our model, we can
differentiate the gelation process into four stages in which the
kinetic evolutions are predicted by either the growth or the
coarsening theory.
Anintuitivequestiongoesasfollows:whethernucleation-growth
and aggregation are to be coincided on the time scale.
Phenomenologically speaking, it could be possible. Nevertheless,
the findings seemingly do not support this opinion. What factors
have led to the two processes consecutive mechanism rather
than concomitant one on the time scale? Probably the major
reason is the fact that the nucleation-growth is a “local”
enthalpy-driving process while the short-range attraction and
the entropy play a dominant role in the origin of the “nonlocal”
aggregation behavior,47 and no evolutional competition-coupling
relationships may exist between them.
In general, the nucleation and growth process trends to form
a compact, spherical structure to minimize the surface energy;
thus, the aggregation occurring, which results in an irregular,
fingered cluster-structure, is unfavorable at this moment. Hence,
in order to avoid aggregation, a “self-screening” effect may exist
among the growing microgels. The self-screening may help
account for why φd exhibits a critical-like behavior rather than
exponential one. Close to the end of the growth stage, the system
is regarded as colloidal dispersions, the self-screening effect
must disappear, and the short-range attraction among the
microgels and the entropy start dominating. Furthermore, for
larger degree of supersaturation, where the system is far from
equilibrium, we might speculate that the self-screening effect
and critical-like behavior will smear out, and the concomitant
process may occur. However, our discussions are still limited
to a phenomenological level of description. To answer this
question unequivocally, the time-resolved dynamic small-angle
light scattering technique may be useful to examine whether
certain “diffusive” relaxation modes exist during the nucleation
and growth stage. Future research is obviously required, but
now we leave this issue open.
On the other hand, let us devote a little more space to
discussing . The size distribution described for either stage is
based on idealized assumption which is frequently not expected
to be close to reality. The Gaussian distribution may only be
fulfilledsif at allsduring the earliest nucleation and growth
stage; thus,  cannot quantitatively predict the feature of late-
stage evolution. This may why the higher-order maximum or
the shoulder, e.g., at 2.5 < q < 3.5 µm-1 for t ) 8062 s in
Figure 1a, is still quantitatively off. From the Monte Carlo
simulation, the theoretical results present a fairly clear picture
on the “true” size distribution.37 Introducing these more complex
function into our model is not actually beneficial to describe
late-stage evolution with quantitative accuracy. Indeed, up to
now, analyzing the explicit form of the size distribution function
on grounds of static scattering experiments is not feasible. From
a practical point of view, the advantage of the scattering
modeling is its simplicity and generality, while the excessive
complication goes against our original intention and limits the
practicality of the proposed methodology. However, this draw-
back does not limit or affect our interpretations.
In next work of this series, we will focus on the topic of
global growth kinetics of the microgels. Although the scaling
analysis of qm and Im is a fundamental issue, the relationship in
HV scattering is still unknown and uninvestigated. Having got
the scaled form factor firmly established, we are now in a
position to examine this topic. We will present a new relation-
ship to describe the global growth kinetics of the microgels.
Such research may have a contribution to make unraveling the
Figure 4. (a) SEM micrograph of a common representative of PVDF
gel, prepared by the freeze-dried technique from 20 wt % PVDF-DMSO/
water (90/10) gel. (b) Schematic representation of the structural
formation and evolution of microgel in polymer solution. The model
images that the microgels is constituted by a random assembly of
crystalline microcolloids and highlights the “soft colloids” nature of
PVDF microgels. The sketch also depicts what happens in the late-
stage coarsening process of the nucleation gel.
6544 Chou and Hong Macromolecules, Vol. 41, No. 17, 2008
Dynamic interplay between phase separation and crystallization in a
poly(3-caprolactone)/poly(ethylene glycol) oligomer blend
Wei-Tsung Chuang a,b, U.-Ser. Jeng b, Po-Da Hong a,*, Hwo-Shuenn Sheu b,
Ying-Huang Lai b, Kan-Shan Shih c
a Department of Polymer Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei 106, Taiwan
b National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, Hsinchu 300, Taiwan
c School of Dentistry, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei 114, Taiwan
Received 14 January 2007; received in revised form 3 March 2007; accepted 7 March 2007
Available online 18 March 2007
Abstract
We have investigated the crystallization effect on the phase separation of a poly(3-caprolactone) and poly(ethylene glycol) oligomer (PCL/
PEGo) blending system using simultaneous small-angle light scattering and differential scanning calorimetry (SALS/DSC) as well as simulta-
neous small-angle X-ray scattering (SAXS), wide-angle X-ray scattering (WAXS), and DSC (SAXS/WAXS/DSC). When the PCL/PEGo system,
of a weight ratio of 7/3, is quenched from a melt state (160 C) to temperatures below the spinodal point and the melting temperature of PCL
(63 C), the structural evolution observed exhibits characteristics of (I) early stage of spinodal decomposition (SD), (II) transient pinning, (III)
crystallization-induced depinning, and (IV) diffusion-limited crystallization. The time-dependent scattering data of SALS, SAXS and WAXS,
covering a wide range of length scale, clearly show that the crystallization of PCL intervenes significantly in the ongoing viscoelastic phase
separation of the system, only after the early stage of SD. The effect of preordering before crystallization revives the structural evolution pinned
by the viscoelastic phase separation. The growth of SAXS intensity during the preordering period conforms to the CahneHilliard theory. In the
later stage of the phase separation, the PCL-rich matrix, of spherulite crystalline domains developed due to the faster crystallization kinetics,
traps the isolated PEGo-rich domains of a slower viscoelastic separation.
 2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Crystallization; Viscoelastic phase separation; Spinodal decomposition
1. Introduction
For a polymer blend system containing semicrystalline and
amorphous components, the system morphology quenched
from melt can be kinetically trapped through quench temper-
ature and quench process, which modulate the competition/
cooperation between the phase separation and crystallization
of the system. For instance, when the melt of a binary polymer
blend, of partly miscible or immiscible components, is
quenched to a temperature below the spinodal temperature
but above the melting temperature of the crystalline
component, the morphology of the binary polymer blend is
mainly determined by the phase separation kinetics [1e6].
Numerous studies have established a spinodal decomposition
(SD) model for characterizing the phase separation behavior,
including the exponential growth of light scattering intensity
with time [7] in the early stage of the spinodal decomposition
and the self-similarly growth [8] in the later stage. Recently,
many interesting morphologies such as network-like and
sponge-like as well as the unusual phase separation behavior
like spinodal pinning and phase inversion, have been observed
in various polymer blend systems [9,10]. These phenomena
were attributed to the effects of viscoelastic liquideliquid
phase separation (LLPS) originated from an asymmetrically
molecular dynamics (relating to, e.g., mobility of the mole-
cules) existing between the two blend components [9e16].
* Corresponding author. Tel.: þ886 2 27376539; fax: þ886 2 27376544.
E-mail address: poda@mail.ntust.edu.tw (P.-D. Hong).
0032-3861/$ - see front matter  2007 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.polymer.2007.03.041
Polymer 48 (2007) 2919e2927
www.elsevier.com/locate/polymer
(NSRRC), Taiwan. With an area detector for SAXS and a lin-
ear detector for WAXS (both are gas proportional detectors),
time-dependent SAXS/WAXS data were collected for the sam-
ple sealed inside the DSC chamber, with a data collection time
of 60 s for each time frame. The sample-to-detector distance
was 2772 mm for SAXS and 62 mm for WAXS. The setup
covered q-ranges of 0.025e1.8 nm1 in SAXS and 11e
22 nm1 in WAXS. All the SAXS and WAXS data were rigor-
ously corrected for electronic noise, sample transmission,
background scattering, and detector sensitivity, and calibrated
by polyethylene and silver behenate for SAXS and by silicon
and sodalite for WAXS. The one-dimensional SAXS intensity
profiles I(q) were circularly averaged from the two-dimen-
sional isotropic scattering patterns. The details for SWAXS
instrument were reported previously [35].
3. Data analysis
3.1. Lamellar model for SAXS data analysis
In semicrystalline polymer systems, lamellar structure of
crystallineeamorphous type is often characterized by one-
dimensional correlation function [36],
gðxÞ ¼ 1
Q
ZN
0
I

q

q2 cos

qx

dq; ð1Þ
obtained from the Fourier transform of the corresponding one-
dimensional SAXS intensity profile, I(q), with the scattering
invariant Q and the scattering wavevector transfer q¼
4p sin q/l defined by the scattering angle 2q and the wave-
length l of photons. Limited by the measurable q-range, it is
often needed to extrapolate SAXS data in both high-q and
low-q regions using, respectively, the PorodeRuland [37]
model and the DebyeeBueche model [38,39] before the Four-
ier transformation of I(q) for g(x). Nevertheless, in this study
a relative invariant QSAXS ð¼
R q2
q1
Iq2dqÞ was used with the two
integration limits approximated by the two measurable mini-
mum and maximum q values, q1 and q2. In our case, the rela-
tive invariant thus obtained is found to be within few percent
difference from the Q invariant obtained with the data extrap-
olation method. Fig. 1a illustrates a typical g(x) obtained from
the SAXS profile measured for the system studied. From g(x),
we can extract the amorphous thickness, crystalline thickness,
and long period for the lamellar structure of PCL, as indicated
in the figure.
3.2. Relative crystallinity extracted from WAXS
The relatively crystallinity WC,WAXS in this study is defined
as the ratio of the integrated intensity of all Bragg peaks ob-
served to the integrated intensity of the whole WAXS profile
of the polymer blend studied. We fit the crystalline peak
positions and integrated peak intensities with a Gaussian func-
tion, using a common peak-fitting program. The uncertainties
of the fitted parameters are generally smaller than few percent.
Fig. 1b demonstrates a typical case, where the WAXS data are
deconvoluted by three crystalline peaks and an amorphous
halo.
4. Experimental results
Fig. 2 shows the phase diagram determined previously [40]
for the PCL/PEGo blend of an upper critical solution temper-
ature (UCST). With the sample composition of 7/3 and the
initial sample temperature of 160 C, five quenched tempera-
tures, 65 C, 48 C, 45 C, 42 C, and 40 C, are selected
(marked in Fig. 2). The designated route of phase separation
(indicated in Fig. 2) crosses over the spinodal and melting
curves from the one-phase region and enters into the zone
where crystallization coexists with liquideliquid phase
separation.
4.1. SALS/DSC data
Fig. 3 shows the time-dependent SALS patterns collected
with the Vv and Hv modes defined previously, after the sample
quenched from 160 C to 45 C for an isothermal phase
separation and crystallization. Within the first 16 s after the
quench, the isotropic spinodal ring appears in the Vv mode
while little or no scattering intensity can be observed in the
Hv mode (Fig. 3a). At t¼ 340 s after quench (Fig. 3b), very
0 10 20 30
x (nm)
-1
0
1
(a)
(b)
γ(x
)
L
la
12 14 16 18
q (nm-1)
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u.
)
110
200
111
amorphous
Fig. 1. (a) A typical g(x) obtained from a SAXS profile measured for the PCL/
PEGo (7/3) system, with the amorphous thickness la and the long period L of
the lamellar structure of PCL indicated. (b) Typical WAXS data obtained at
Tc¼ 45 C for the PCL/PEGo blend during crystallization. The data are
deconvoluted into three Gaussian peaks for the 110, 111, 200 Bragg reflections
and a broad amorphous halo.
2921W.-T. Chuang et al. / Polymer 48 (2007) 2919e2927
contribution from the spinodal ring in the Hv mode data col-
lection. For this purpose, the orthogonal alignment between
the polarizer and analyzer needs to be accurate within 1.
In Fig. 5, we summarize the series of SALS data observed
for the sample quenched from 160 C to the temperature above
and below the melting temperature of PCL, Tm¼ 63 C. Ac-
cording to the features of the spinodal peak position and
peak intensity, qm;Vv and Im;Vv , we divide phase separation
into four characteristic stages as indicated in Fig. 5bee. In
Stage I, Im;Vv grows exponentially with a constant qm;Vv
(namely, phase separation increases continuously with a con-
stant domain spacing), which corresponds well to the early
stage of SD and there is little or no observable crystallization
effect. In Stage II, the constants qm;Vv and Im;Vv correspond to
a transient pinning stage of phase separation. From Fig. 5a
(data of no crystallization effect) and Fig. 5d,e (data of in-
creasingly larger crystallization effect due to the deeper
quench), we notice the effect of lower quench temperature
on shortening the duration of the pinning stage for an earlier
entry into the subsequent Stage III. In Stage III, the unusual
increase in qm;Vv , few percent (w3e5%) at most, is a unique
crystallization-induced effect, as compared to the process of
solely liquideliquid phase separation of a monotonic decrease
in the qm;Vv value (see Fig. 5a). For this effect, we assign this
Stage III as crystallization-induced depinning region. From the
four sets of data in Fig. 5bee, obviously, the duration of this
stage can be reduced more by a deeper quench of the system
into a lower temperature for a larger crystallization effect. The
increase of the qm;Vv value can be characterized by a power-
law behavior qm;Vvwt
a, with positive a values ranging from
0.05 (Fig. 5b) to 0.1 (Fig. 5e). The negative a value corre-
sponds to a faster transition to the Stage IV for crystallization.
In Stage IV, the decreasing qm;Vv and increasing Im;Vv with
Fig. 4. Time-resolved scattering profiles extracted from the two-dimensional
scattering patterns shown in Fig. 3, with (a) isotropic scattering (Vv mode)
and (b) anisotropic scattering (Hv mode).
10 100 1000 10000
time (sec)
1
1
1
q m
,V
v 
(μ
m
-
1 )
Im
,Vv ×10
-3(a.u.)
1
1
2
3
qm,Vv
Im,Vv
4
2
3
4
2
3
4
2
3
4
Exotherm
48 °C
45 °C
42 °C
42 °C
I II III IV
2
3
4
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
no crystallization effect at 65 °C
α~-0.28
α~-0.26
α~0.05
α~-0.27α~0.08
α~-0.27
α~-0.27
α~0.1
α~0.1
1
10
1
1
10
10
10
10
1
1
early stage
of SD transient pinning period coarsening stage
Fig. 5. Time-dependent qm;Vv (plotted with the left-hand-side scale) and Im;Vv
(plotted with the right-hand-side scale) extracted from the SALS data taken
after the polymer blend PCL/PEGo is quenched from 160 C to (a) 65 C,
(b) 48 C, (c) 45 C, (d) 42 C, and (e) 40 C, respectively. Also shown are
the simultaneously measured DSC traces (solid curves). The dotted lines split
the phase separation process into four distinct time zones, I, II, III, and IV, as
labeled in (b) for example. The a values are extracted from the slopes of the
corresponding short solid lines.
2923W.-T. Chuang et al. / Polymer 48 (2007) 2919e2927
4.3. Global view of the scattering data
To correlate all the SALS, SAXS, WAXS, and DSC data for
a comprehensive picture of the structural evolution of the
blending system studied, we have integrated all the evolutions
of the structural parameters observed in Fig. 7, according to
the four structural evolution stages proposed previously. In
Fig. 7, the structural evolution displayed covers a time scale
ranging from 10 s to 2000 s and length scale from atomic to
nano, meso, and micron size. For instance, the large domain
spacing w5 mm is first observed by SALS in Stages I and
II, then density fluctuations of a meso-to-nano scale is picked
by SALS or SAXS sometime later in Stage III. Afterwards,
SAXS and WAXS detect the nano-scale ordering and the
atomic ordering of the lamellar structure of PCL in Stage IV.
For the crystallization-involved structural transition
(mainly in Stages III and IV), we have further defined four
characteristic times tQint;Hv , tQ,SAXS, tDSC, and tWC;WAXS for the
initiation of the changes in the Hv scattering invariant Qint;Hv
(SALS), relative invariant QSAXS (SAXS), exothermic heat
flow (DSC), and relative crystallinity WC,WAXS (WAXS). The
time sequence tQint;Hv < tQ;SAXS < tDSC < tWC;WAXS illustrates
the sequential changes of the system morphology before and
during the PCL crystallization, with a focus on the transition
from the later stage of Stage III to Stage IV. During the tran-
sition period near tQ,SAXS, the crystallization-induced local
density fluctuations (of a nano-to-meso scale) start to affect
the liquideliquid phase separation process, and revive gradu-
ally the structure pinned by the viscoelastic effect of the sys-
tem. The transition can be accelerated for an earlier domain
coarsening and PCL crystallization (starting from tWC;WAXS in
Stage IV), by quenching the system to a lower temperature
below the melting temperature of PCL (see Fig. 5).
5. Discussion
5.1. Gibbs free energy of mixing compounded
by crystallization
In this section, we describe how the free energy DG of
mixing of the binary polymer system is affected by the crystal-
lization, and how the resultant driving forces guide the phase
separation process of the PCL/PEGo blend. Fig. 8 illustrates
the two kinds of free energy landscapes for (1) Tps, tempera-
tures below spinodal temperature Ts but above the melting
temperature Tm of PCL and (2) Tc, temperatures below Tm
of PCL. When temperature of the binary system of PCL/PEGo
(7/3) (corresponding to the PCL volume fraction fPCL ¼
0:696) is quenched from one-phase temperature to Tps, the sys-
tem undergoes a phase separation for the liquideliquid bino-
dal compositions, fl0 ðTpsÞ and fl00 ðTpsÞ, of a local free
energy minimum, following the SD process. On the other
hand, when the temperature is quenched below Tm, both the
two driving forces (derived from dðDGÞ=df)dthe force of
liquideliquid phase separation (determined by the tangent
line of two metastable liquideliquid binodal points fl0 ðTcÞ
and fl00 ðTcÞ) and the force of crystallization (determined by
the two stable liquidesolid phase compositions, fLðTcÞ and
fCðTcÞ)dcan affect the route of the phase separation (see
Fig. 8).
In this studied system, we have observed the development
of SD before PCL crystallization (in Stage I), the pinning
and depinning of the phase separation (in Stages II and III),
and the crystallization (in Stage IV). The phase separation
process observed follows well the free energy ‘‘map’’ given
in Fig. 8 for the Tc case. It is possible to rearrange or tune
the weighting of the two driving forces of the crystallization
and liquideliquid phase separation, through the selections of
quenched temperature and initial composition, to trap the
phase separation process in a local minimum of a selected
DG landscape, thus, tailoring the final morphology through
the kinetic competition between the two forces.
5.2. Interplay between phase separation
and crystallization
With the guide of the free energy map shown above, we are
now in a good position to discuss the cause and effect in the
structural evolution of the system studied. With the phase sep-
aration features observed (see Figs. 5 and 7), we can see that
Stage I for the early stage of SD is not affected by the crystal-
lization. In Stage II, we attribute the transient pinning of the
morphology mainly to the viscoelastic phase separation. For
a dynamically asymmetric blend of PCL/PEGo, the PCL, of
a much higher molecular weight and a lager viscoelastic
effect, therefore, slower dynamics than PEGo, defers the
progress of the phase separation. Transient pinning was also
observed by Tanaka and Araki [9,10] in dynamically
Fig. 8. Free energy landscapes of mixing of the binary polymer system at Tps
(dash-dotted curve; below spinodal temperature Ts but above the melting tem-
perature Tm of PCL) and Tc (solid curve; below Tm). The arrow indicates the
initial PCL volume fraction f ¼ 0:696 for the PCL/PEGo (7/3) system studied.
fl0 ðTcÞ and fl00 ðTcÞ are the two metastable liquideliquid binodal points,
whereas fLðTcÞ and fCðTcÞ are the stable liquidesolid phase compositions.
The contribution of PCL crystallization to DG is also shown.
2925W.-T. Chuang et al. / Polymer 48 (2007) 2919e2927
