2form micelles; whereas aniline may exist in the
form of anilinium cations or aniline in the
reaction solution. SAN and aniline cations first
form micelles in aqueous solution. Anilinium
cations can be solubilized in the micelle-water
interface to form micelle, a part of AN diffuses
in micelles. Micelles were regarded as the
templates to further produce SPANI nanofibers.
At the addition of the oxidant (APS), the
polymerization initially performed on the surface
of the micelles. Solubilized aniline or anilinium
molecules are oxidatively polymerized by APS
in the aqueous solution. With the polymerization
proceeding, because SPANI is a rigid molecule,
the micelles thus tend to join along the direction
of the polymer chain in the polymerization
process. Therefore, the polymer chain acted like
a template in the self-assembly of SPANI
nanofibers. Fiber structures are assembled by the
micelles through aggregation and elongation
depending on the local conditions. In our work,
it is obvious that the morphology of the resulting
SPANI nanofibers exhibits the existence of the
elongation procedure. In this Scheme, micelles
will be converted into fibers. Because the
reaction proceeded in a stationary environment,
the primary aggregation of micelles may mainly
affect the size of the resulting nanostructures; on
the other hand, the secondary aggregation of
other micelles near the formed nanofibers will
yield branched structures, which served as
templates for nanostructural junctions and
dendrites. Actually, spherical micelles existed in
the reaction system (Fig. 2), whereas the micelle
spheres aggregated to form a branched structure
coupled with the sumicrometer-sized fibers in
the resulting SPANI. These results reflect that
the micelles can not only fuse to form
sub-micrometer-sized fibers, but can also
aggregate to form sub-micrometer-sized fiber
junctions and dendrites through a self-assembly
process. Moreover, these micelles will fuse
and shrink to form nanofibers in this
self-assembly process. The statement can be
strongly supported by TEM images of the
freeze-fracture replica samples (Fig. 2).
In our work, the average diameter of SPANI
samples varies with the different composition of
AN/SAN mole ratio. Actually, it was found that
the size of the nanofibers strongly depended on
the mole ratio of AN/SAN and reaction
conditions In Fig. 3, the diameter of SPANI
nanofibers decreases with increasing AN/SAN
ratio. In micelles, the sulfonate content (SAN) of
low AN/SAN ratio is higher than that of high
AN/SAN ratio, existing a stronger interactions
among polymer chains
To assemble such stable nanostructures, we have
successfully developed a horizontal immersing
self-assembly method (Fig. 4), immersing
ITO-coated glass into the reaction solution with
AN/SAN ratio of 1, to organize an SPANI film
on the ITO substrate. When an ITO substrate
was settled on the interface of air and reaction
solution, the formed nanofibrils are
perpendicular to ITO surface (Fig. 5, A) as the
free-stand nanofibrils. But a smooth ultra-thin
film (105 nm) was obtained (Fig. 5, B), as the
ITO was immersed in the reaction solution to
keep 1 cm from the interface of air and reaction
solution. UV-Vis spectroscopy was used to
monitor the SPANI formation (Fig. 5, C).
In Fig. 5D, a total solid-state electrochromic
device was assembled as follows: ITO∣ SPANI
nanofilm∥ WPU/LiClO4∥ PEDOT-PSS∣ITO.
The device exhibited dark blue at -1.5 V and
