          
執行單位： 
 
中   華   民   國    97 年   7  月    31  日 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期： 年 月 日 
國科會補助計
畫 
計畫名稱： 
計畫主持人：         
計畫編號：             學門領域： 
技術/創作名稱  
發明人/創作人  
中文： 
 
 
（100~500字） 
技術說明 
英文： 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
 
applications in radar, sonar as well as mobile 
communication problems. The MUSIC (MUltiple SIgnal 
Classification) algorithm is one of the high resolution DOA 
estimation techniques. It is well known that the MUSIC 
algorithm fails to work in the presence of multipath 
propagation, since multipath signals are spatially coherent 
which will make the rank of the signal AutoCorrelation 
Matrix (ACM) degenerate. A solution for this problem is to 
do spatial smoothing on array data before the estimation of 
the ACM [1]. 
 
Due to slow speed of sound wave propagation, the delay 
spread of UWA multipath is large[2]. This causes another 
problem in the estimation of the ACM. From the 
processing of experimental data, it is found in this study 
that, to estimate a stationary ACM, the length of data must 
be several times longer than the delay spreads of all 
channels. A solution to improve the stationarity of the 
estimated ACM is proposed, which is to do temporal 
decorrelation on the array data prior to ACM estimation. 
 
After the introduction of signal model and the MUSIC 
algorithm, the problems in using the MUSIC algorithm for 
estimating the DOA of UnderWater Acoustic (UWA) 
multipaths are addressed. The requirement and problems in 
doing temporal decorrelation are given next. Finally, the 
performance of temporal decorrelation in DOA estimation 
is tested using a set of data taken from the Asian Sea 
International Acoustic Experiment (ASIAEX) [3]. 
 
 
2 THEORY 
 
2.1 The MUSIC algorithm 
 
An acoustic channel can be modeled as consisting of 
directional propagation paths, each described by its 
complex baseband impulse response [4]. When a 
signal  is transmitted through the multipath channel, 
the received signal can be modeled as 
. After demodulation, the sampled 
version of the received signal is . If 
the signal is received by an array of receivers, under the 
narrowband and plane-wave assumptions, the signal 
received at the array element will be  
, where is the 
electrical phase associated with the direction of the  
path  as , with being the array 
element spacing and being the wavelength. The array 
signals can be put into a matrix form as 
 with ,  
, ,
and . 
 
The ACM of , defined as , is 
the key component for many high resolution techniques to 
do DOA estimation. Usually the signals  
are assumed to be uncorrelated with a common variance 
, the ACM can be estimated to have nice properties as  
 
                                                   
eq(1)  
where  is a identity matrix,  is the 
ACM of and  is the ACM of the noise vector
. In such case, the ACM will carry the desired 
information  in a simple way as eq(1).  
For the MUSIC algorithm, the eigen structure of is to 
be used for DOA estimation. Let the eigen decomposition 
of be , where is the matrix of 
eigenvectors and is a diagonal matrix of eigenvalues, the 
eigenvector matrix can be partition into signal and noise 
subspaces as . The dimensionality of  is 
set to be , which known as the order of the MUSIC 
algorithm, the total number of DOA’s and the 
dimensionality of  will be . Then, a null 
spectrum can be defined as , 
where  is the steering vector 
to a pointing direction , and the MUSIC spectrum is 
defined as . The MUSIC spectrum is an 
angular spectrum, ideally it will have peaks in the 
directions . If the relation 
is inversed and applied to , an 
equivalent spectrum can be found as , which will 
have peaks in the directions . 
 
2.2 Decorrelation of the multipath signals 
 
the stationarity of MUSIC spectrum increased also. When
and the order of the MUSIC algorithm , the 
MUSIC spectrum reaches a high degree of stationarity. 
This result is shown in fig.1a, where 1000 MUSIC 
spectrums are estimated continuously and displayed as a 
spectrogram (called MUSIC spectrogram thereafter). For 
clarity, a sample MUSIC algorithm is shown in fig.1b. 
Clearly, there are 5 paths. Therefore the order is set to be 
5 for all the following tests. 
 
The MUSIC spectrograms for and 100 are given in 
fig.2a and fig.3a. Both of them are not so stationary as 
fig.1a. It can be found that there are some occasional 
spurious responses, e.g., around and in 
fig.3a. When spurious response appears, the MUSIC 
spectrum is highly erroneous. 
 
The MUSIC spectrograms with temporal decorrelation are 
given in fig.4a and fig.5a for and 100. The 
temporal decorrelator is a first order difference as proposed 
above. It can be found that both of them are more stable 
than their corresponding cases given in fig.2a and fig.3a. 
From the sample MUSIC spectrums given in fig.4b and 
fig.5b, it can be found that their resolutions are degraded 
by temporal decorrelation. However, if the root-MUSIC 
algorithm is used here, the 5 paths can still be detected 
correctly. 
 
 
4. CONCLUSION 
 
A major conclusion is given here. The MUSIC algorithm 
has good spatial resolution, however, to get stable DOA 
estimate of multipath scattering signals temporal 
decorrelation in ACM estimation is required.  
 
 
5. REFERENCES 
 
 
[1]T-J. Shan, M. Wax and T. Kailath, “On Spatial 
Smoothing for Direction-of-Arrival Estimation of 
Coherent Signals,” IEEE Trans. Acoust., Speech, Signal 
Processing, vol. ASSP-33, No.4, pp. 806-811, 1985. 
 
[2]J.Catipovic, “Performance limitations in underwater 
acoustic telemetry,” IEEE J. Ocean. Eng. OE-15, 
205-216 (1990). 
 
[3]Newhall AE, Costello L, Duda TF, Dunn J, 
Gawarkiewicz GG, Irish J, Kemp F, Liberatore S, 
Lynch JF, McPhee N, Ostrom W, Schroeder T, Trask R, 
Von der Heydt K, “Preliminary acoustic and 
oceanographic observations from the ASIAEX 2001 
South China Sea Experiment,” WHOI Technical Report, 
WHOI-2001-12, Sept., 2001. 
 
[4]M. Stojanovic, J. Catipovic, and J. G. Proakis, 
“Adaptive multichannel combining and equalization for 
underwater acoustic communications,” J. Acoust. Soc. 
Amer., vol. 94, no. 3, pp. 1621-1631, Sept. 1993. 
 
[5]C.-S. Chiu, S. R. Ramp, C. W. Miller, J. F. Lynch, T. F. Duda, and T.-Y. 
Tang, “Acoustic intensity fluctuations induced by south china sea 
internal tides and solitons,” IEEE J. Oceanic Eng., vol. 24, pp. 
1249-1263, Oct. 2004. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fig.3a  The MUSIC spectrogram with P=5 and N=100.     Fig.3b The sample MUSIC spectrum 
 
 
Fig.4a  The MUSIC spectrogram with decorrelation for P=5 and N=50.   Fig.4b The sample MUSIC spectrum 
 
 
Fig.5a  The MUSIC spectrogram with decorrelation for P=5 and N=100.   Fig.5b The sample MUSIC spectrum 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Many applications in ocean exploration require 
information to be transmitted through an underwater 
acoustic channel. Several types of underwater acoustic 
telemetry systems have been built for such purposes. 
However the ocean has proven to be a medium in which it is 
difficult to achieve high data rate transmission since the ocean 
medium is inhomogeneous and in constant but 
unpredictable motion. Sound speed in the ocean can 
change with space and time, which can cause an acoustic signal 
to propagate even along a curved path. There can be one or more distinct paths linking the transmitter and receiver. Signal 
traveling along a particular path suffer fluctuation caused by inhomogeneities presented in that path. As a result of the interaction 
of signals traveling along different paths, the received signal will contain several different attenuated and phase-shifted copies of 
itself and the resultant signal will fluctuate in amplitude and in phase. Such multipath interference causes severe performance 
degradation for data transmission.    
For ISI caused by fixed or slowly moving scatters, adaptive equalization based on jointly Decision Feedback Equalizing (DFE) 
and phase compensation proposed in [1] achieves very good results for high SNR and high SMR (Signal to Multipath ratio) 
signals. However, for channels with low SNR or low SMR, we will still suffer severe performance degradation as the result of 
random signal fading, which cannot be compensated in a single receiver structure. Even with good SNR but low SMR signals, the 
achievable error performance is far below the expected figure. The practical implication is that, in the presence of multipath 
fading, we have to provide a large increase in mean signal-to-noise ratio (relative to a nonfading environment), so as to ensure a 
bit error rate that is low enough for practical use. To meet such a requirement, we have to increase the transmitted power, antennal 
size, and so on, which can be costly in terms of implementation. Among these techniques, the best known and most widely used 
are the multiple-receiver combining techniques referred to collectively as diversity. In space diversity, multiple transmitting or 
receiving antennas (or both) are used, with the spacing between adjacent antennas being chosen so as to assure the independence 
of fading events.  
Between late April and May, 2001, as a main component of the Asian Sea International Acoustic Experiment (ASIAEX), a suit of 
acoustic and oceanography sensors was deployed in South China Sea to study the effect of ocean variability on sound propagation 
in a shelf break environment. Acoustic data were primarily taken by a listening array consisted of 16 hydrophones moored 
vertically in the water column (see Fig.1). Sampling continuously at a rate of 3.2 kHz, these hydrophones monitored repetitive 
binary phase-modulated signals transmitted from a fixed source. The carrier frequency is centered at 400Hz with symbol rate of 
100Hz.  
Based on the ASIAX experiment data, we found heterogeneous receiving conditions between each receiving hydrophones. The 
heterogeneity can be observed in terms of receiving power level (see Fig.6), signal to multi-path ratio (see Fig.6) and channel 
response (see Fig.7). When doing adaptive combining and equalization of these channels, some interesting situations may arise. It 
is possible to combine jointly equalize Rician channels or combine several Rayleigh channels or Rician plus Rayleigh channels. 
This paper will focus on the results and effects of homogeneous and heterogeneous combining and equalization for multi-channel 
underwater communications. The outline of this  
The outline of this paper is as follows. We begin in Sec.2 with a single channel receiver structure. Using the single channel 
receiver, we analyze the received signal from each hydrophone. In Sec.3, we extend the single channel receiver to multi-channel 
jointly equalized receiver. The results will be compared with the theoretical diversity gain of maximum ratio combining method. 
The results of heterogeneous combining will also be addressed. 
2. UNDERWATER ACOUSTIC CHANNEL CHARACTERISTIC 
The Rayleigh fading communication channel model was originally introduced for long-range microwave communications. Such a 
model is valid if there is no dominant component presented in the received multipath signals. We assume a constant amplitude 
transmission signal, given as  
 
 
 
Where A is the amplitude and is the carrier frequency. The received signal arriving from a large number of scattered paths 
 
, We see that the probability density function has a maximum value at approximately r=S. In the vicinity of S, we use the 
approximation 
 , THEN BECOMES 
 
This is the Gaussian distribution with mean value S and variance . Therefore, the envelope of the received signal tends to have 
Gaussian probability distributions at large SMR. The envelope distribution of the received signal when direct path dominate is 
Gaussian and that in the surface reflected path the envelope distribution tends to Rayleigh, particularly at large grazing angles. We 
will also show that property, from performance degradation point of view, use ASIAEX experiment data. In typical situation that 
the received signal are composed of direct path components plus random scattering from surface, that tends to reduce SMR when 
random scattering gradually dominant. Therefore, it is more suitable to use the Rician fading channel model than the Rayleigh 
fading channel model in modeling an underwater acoustic channel. 
3. BINARY SIGNALING OVER A RAYLEIGH FADING CHANNEL 
For BPSK signal over an AWGN channel, the average symbol error probability can be expressed as [5] 
 
In underwater acoustic communication channel, we have an additional effect to consider, namely, the fluctuations in the amplitude 
and phase of the received signal due to multipath effects. To be specific, consider the transmission of binary data over a Rayleigh 
fading channel, for which the (low-pass) complex envelope of the received signal is modeled as: 
 
where  is the complex envelope of the transmitted signal, r is a Rayleigh distributed random variable describing the 
attenuation in transmission,  is a uniformly distributed random variable describing the phase-shift in transmission, and  
is a complex-valued white Gaussian noise process. Under the Rayleigh fading condition, the symbol error probability for BPSK 
signal over AWGN channel can be modified as 
 
where  is an attenuated version of the transmitted signal energy per bit-to-noise ratio, which can be expressed as 
 
THUS THE AVERAGE PROBABILITY OF SYMBOL ERROR IN THE COMBINED PRESENCE OF FADING AND 
NOISE IS EXPRESSED AS 
 where  is the probability density function of . We note that  depends on the square value of 
r. Since r is Rayleigh distributed, therefore, r is chi-square distributed and can be expressed as 
,  
 
The term  is defined as 
 
 
When carry out the integration, we can get the final result 
 
 
 
We see that Rayleigh fading results in a severe degradation in the 
noise performance of an underwater acoustic 
communication system. 
 
adaptively estimates the overall equalizer vector , which has a closed-form MMSE solution: 
 
 
 
5. MULTI-CHANNEL EQUALIZATION AND DIVERSITY COMBINING 
Two types of multi-channel receiver structure considered here [3]. The first receiver (as shown in Fig.3) composed of multiple 
feedforward equalizer jointly equalized for MMSE condition. The combining estimate of data symbol can be formulated as: 
 
  
 
where  is the composite parameter vector and is the composite data vector. The optimum 
MSE solution is the well known Wiener filter, and is given by 
 
 
 
The second multi-channel receiver (shown in Fig.4.) is based on the first receiver plus decision feedback to eliminate ISI caused 
by multi-path effect. The recursive solution is very similar to the previous solution except the composite parameter vector is 
defined as : 
 and data vector is defined as : 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. Diversity combining without decision feedback. 
 
Fig. 4. Diversity combining with decision feedback. 
 
 
 
 7. ILLUSTRATION AND GRAPHS 
 
 
Fig.5a. Scatter plot of single channel RLS equalization 
for channel 16 (left), Channel impulse response 
(right), forgetting factor = 0.999 
 
 
Fig.5a. Scatter plot of single channel RLS equalization 
for channel 8 (left), Channel impulse response (right), 
forgetting factor = 0.999 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.5a. Scatter plot of single channel RLS equalization 
for channel 1 (left), Channel impulse response (right), 
forgetting factor = 0.999 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.8. Multiple-channel (Ch 16~11) combining with 
decision feedback. SNRout = 29.6786 dB 
 
 
  
 
 
Fig.9. Diversity gain of multiple channel combining. 
(Ch 1 to Ch 6), plot 1 without decision feedback, plot 
2 with decision feedback 
 
 
 
 
Fig.10. Diversity gain of multiple channel combining. 
(Ch 16 to Ch 11), plot 1 without decision feedback, 
plot 2 with decision feedback 
 
