2可控制之單一量子點成長與其元件應用
“Controllable Single-Quantum Dots Growth and its Device Applications”
計畫編號：NSC96-2221-E-009-218
執行期間：96 年 08 月 01 日 至 97 年 07 月 31 日
主持人：林聖迪 交通大學電子工程系助理教授
一、中文摘要
在此為期一年的計畫中，我們進行自組式
量子點之定位成長的相關研究。運用本研究
群首先提出並發展出來的一個方法，我們預
計結合電子束微影與分子束磊晶再成長,於預
先圖樣過之平台上形成單一量子點；因為量
子點的成長對於應力場相當敏感，我們可以
利用事先設計的應力分佈，來達成選擇性成
長；我們的方法與其他人的主要不同在於，
量子點可成長在遠離製程接觸過的表面；在
計畫執行的一年中，利用我們提出的結構與
程序，實現高品質之量子點成長；我們藉由
細心的製程步驟以確保再成長樣品的潔淨
性，並檢驗與形成單一量子點的相關參數；
我們使用光學量測來分析所成長的量子點。
I. Abstract
With the financial support of this one-year
project, the self-assembled growth of positioning
single quantum dots has been investigated. By using
a method that was first proposed and developed in
our group, we plan to combine e-beam lithography
and MBE re-growth to form single quantum dots on
pre-patterned templates. Because the growth of
quantum dots is sensitive to the strain field, selective
growth can be achieved with pre-designed strain
distribution. The main difference between our
method and others is that the quantum dots can be
grown on the template far from processed surface. In
this year, high quality and site-controllable single
quantum-dots is realized with our proposed structure
and procedure. Intensive care has been to ensure the
cleanness of re-grown samples. Parameters related to
single-quantum-dots formation are examined.
Optical measurement is used to characterize grown
quantum dots.
二、計畫緣由與目的 (II. Motivation and goal)
In this one-year project, our goal is to
develop a process for making high-quality,
position-controllable single quantum dots. With
the growing demand in various applications,
positioning QDs becomes an important
technology for realizing high-yield production of
QDs’devices. However, most existing methods
suffer from the poor optical properties due to
more or less contamination near the grown QDs.
To overcome this issue, we propose a method
which can distance the processed interface from
the QDs. In this report, we state the fabrication
method and show the measurement results in
detail.
三、研究方法及成果 (III. Method and result)
(A) Fabrication method:
We grew the layer structure, as shown
in Fig.1. The sample includes a strained layer of
InAlGaAs which is used as strained seed for
QDs growth afterward. The main difference
between this structure and previous one [1] is
that the surface is capped with about 50nm
4make sure the excitation spot position. The spot
size is around 2m (10m) when the 100x (20x)
objective lens is used.
We have grown 5 samples in total when this
report is being written. The main difference is
their deposited InAs monolayers (MLs)–2.0, 1.8,
1.7, 1.5, and 1.4 MLs. However, for the first four
samples, no clear PL signal coming from QDs or
wetting layer has been observed. As shown in
Fig.5 below, only the GaAs bulk emission peak
and the background signal coming from the
substrate are seen, no matter that the excitation
spot position is in the processed area (the area
with mesa array) or outside the region. For the
sample of 1.4MLs InAs deposition, the PL
spectrum coming one processed region is very
different from others, as shown in Fig.6.
Fig.5 A typical PL spectrum of the first four samples
Fig.6 The PL spectrum of the 1.4MLs sample
It is clear that the curves C and C2 have
strong signal around 900nm with full-width
half-maximum (FWHM) about 40nm, which is
typical for QDs. Interestingly, comparing the
curves of C and C’, we can find that, in the curve
C, not only the clear 900nm peak is seen but also
the broad peak around 950nm gets weaker. This
indicates a carrier distribution between the
like-QDs and the background states. To identify
the 900nm peak really belongs to QDs, we have
to carry out the single QDs’measurement and it
is undertaking.
One point is worth noting that the 900nm
signal is observed only in one of the 18
processed areas. We believe that the problem of
so many unsuccessful areas comes from the
not-clean-enough interface around the QDs layer
due to the e-beam lithography process. The
to-be-purchased H-atom cleaning setup may be
able to improve the cleanness. Perhaps, it is why
no nice optical result on this topic has been
reported up to date.
四、結論 (IV. Conclusion)
In this project, we have developed a
fabrication and re-growth process of making
single QDs array. The PL signal from most of the
processed samples does not have QDs’peaks. A
QDs-like PL peak around 900nm is observed
only in one of mesas of the 1.4MLs sample. We
believe that the interface cleanness of the
processed sample is the crucial factor in the
failure of the most samples. A further
improvement of the re-growth procedure has to
be taken to achieve the bright PL emission of
signle QDs’.
五、參考文獻 (V. References)
