1 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Service innovation is the focus of a new wave of innovation in a rapidly 
expanding and globalizing platform-based network economy.  With the 
general trends toward a great variety of technology and social settings, the 
need for active research on the productive service innovation and 
management for knowledge-intensive development has gain substantial 
attention.  Innovation in service sector is the process by which the 
opportunities for the creation of markets for new services are identified, 
pursued and exploited (Howells, 2006; OECD, 2006, 2007.) Based on our 
previous studies of knowledge intensive service innovation in Taiwan (Hung, 
Liu and Chu, 2003, Liu, et al, 2004, Liu, et al 2005, Hung and Chu, 2005, Chu 
and Hsu, 2006), we argue that value creation arises via reorganization of 
partnerships, network of resources and intellectual capital. Many firms in 
knowledge services encounter the problems in restructuring organization 
relationship (Childerhouse, et al, 2002; Heikkila, 2002; Hipp and Grupp, 2005; 
Meridith, 2006.) As such, we propose that the embedded organization 
knowledge provides the essence in the proper recombination and mobilization 
of resources and exploitation of service opportunities  
 
The research is focused on the collaborative integration of service resources 
and organizing relationships of the emerging network of the intellectual capital 
and competence for service opportunity creation (Dew, et al 2004; Jones and 
Dimitratos, 2004).  The core problem facing the knowledge intensive service 
industries is the intermediation of the market demand and value (Howells, 
2006; Sidhatha & Maheshkumar, 2007). This study is to extend the existing 
literature by highlighting the importance of the service knowledge creation and 
resource re-organization to address the technical and social changes in the 
process of providing value-added services. In addition, the findings in the use 
of the prototype platform established in this research can contribute to guide 
the directions for organization knowledge creation aiming at new service 
creation activities through delivery of the content, services and experience. 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
This research is directed to examine the mediating ontology for organizing 
intellectual capital in knowledge intensive services. In earlier studies of design 
service industries in Taiwan (Chu and Hsu, 2006; Chu and Cheng, 2007), we 
5 
 
role from one of providing customers services to one of designing systems of 
activities within which customers can create their own value. 
 
From the knowledge base view of firms (e.g., Grant, 1996), this study explore 
the firms‟ service innovation value creating processes based on the ability to 
acquire, integrate, share in knowledge network.  Zander and Kogut (1995) 
find that the codifiability and the ability to learn and teach affect the ability of 
the organization to transfer and apply the knowledge. The complexity of the 
knowledge and the network context are found important for knowledge 
application and transfer (Hansen, 1999). It was observed that dense networks 
can reinforce trust building, strong ties are predictive of early entrepreneurial 
activity and early linkages and legitimating activities affect persistence of 
entrepreneurial activity (Hoang and Antoncic, 2003; Sexenian and Li, 
2003;Carayannis and Von Zedtwitz, 2005). The demand creation and 
management functions in the firms link and coordinate an organization with 
key elements in the external networking environment (Scott, 1995; Au and 
Fukuda, 2002; Daft, 2004.) The diversity of social network and experience is 
conducive to the demand management activities which straddling the 
organization boundary. One core concept adopted in this research for the 
service creation is the coordination and mediation among the partners. 
Coordination can be better understood through the governance and 
transaction cost economics (Williamson, 1996; Jones, Bowonder & Wood, 
2003.)  
 
This research thus elects to use the organization ontology to mediate the 
complex problems of service creation and management. Organization ontology 
consists of formal descriptions of entities and their properties, relationships, 
constraints, and behaviors, as well as the rules for combining entities and 
relations (Neches, et al, 1991; Fox, et al, 1996; Gruninger and Lee, 2002; 
Corcho, et al 2003). This research used the ontology concept not only to link 
business organization but also to re-organize the business resources.  As 
such, an organizational ontology will need to model organizations as being 
made of networks of social actors, processes, and institutions. Indeed, 
organizational ontology is often considered to include a set of actors, 
institutions, activities, rules and procedures. The action perspective of the 
organizational ontology emphasizes the social activities by which the 
actors/agents generate the space of coordinated actions in which they work 
(Fox, et al, 1996; Gruninger and Lee, 2002; Fernandez-Breis and 
7 
 
service sectors, the cross-case and system comparisons have largely been 
unexplored. Furthermore, prior empirical work stressed mostly on the 
judgment-based or purposive sampling also means that the results are difficult 
to generalize. Service innovation research would benefit from a more holistic 
view and a process or research of series of systematic, complementary studies 
rather than static, isolated pieces of work. The emerging field is to benefit from 
building on the extant of the various theories for a new paradigm with a world 
view of the complex process of re-generation and combination of service 
knowledge and organization. 
 
The knowledge intensive service firms in Taiwan were chosen in earlier studies 
(Chu and Wu, 2005; Chu and Cheng, 2007) because these firms provide the 
richness of the intellectual and social context. Collectively, the rich and 
dynamic nature of the services come with an evolving knowledge patterns 
which allow for close examinations on the transformation of the various 
ontological elements on the evolutionary paths of the technology systems. This 
research expands on the previous studies both in the methodology and the 
scope of the study by extending the model to organizational mediation 
mechanisms as well as a diversity set of cross-disciplinary interactions 
exposing to a variety of business service contexts (Miles and Snow, 2007; 
Andersson, 2004; OECD 2007.) The service activities studied include 
representative cases in: 1) IC and software design and logistic services; and 2) 
on-line digital music and game design, production, and delivery services.  
Through a prototype collaborative system for the case studies of a 
representative IC service activities, this research aims to clarify the 
transformation process of organization mediation and service knowledge 
creation, supported by the cross-organizational ontological elements in the 
collaboration activities of supplier-involvement in the SoC (system on chip) 
design service scenario. 
 
Research Method & Results 
 
This research conceptually explored service innovation activities and 
mechanisms with the views of intellectual capital, resource-based, transaction 
cost, and network organization aspects. The data collection, data analysis, and 
conceptualization need to be conducted iteratively in the process of 
investigation.   We use focused interviews (Merton et al., 1990),  and 
electronic correspondence and data synthesis to fill the gaps of the events and 
9 
 
resources (e.g., testability, test capacity, cost and benefit) and mechanisms. 
For example, the ontology for exercising the network ties in the IC industry 
influences the access to the parties and the anticipation of value for a particular 
initiative (e.g., links are prevalent in the leading digital and analog circuit 
design firms in the new design-production-test collaboration arrangements.) 
The ontology directed to fostering the trust and identification factors in 
anticipating the value and motivating the action of an initiative would enhance 
the opportunities and value created. (As shown in the existing outsourcing 
strategy and market partnering patterns of the IC design house as affected by 
the alliance relationship and geographic clusters. The knowledge for the levels 
of trust needed in the intention, capability, reliability, and openness in the other 
parties plays a key role in the new venture initiatives.) 
To test the feature of the ontology-guided platform for IC design service case, a 
multi-agent system prototype for collaborative development of new service has 
been developed (Wu and Chu, 2009.) The system provides an interactive 
environment for inter-firm design members to communicate and share the new 
knowledge on additional services. SoC design house and suppliers evaluate 
product specifications to ensure test work can be carried out in the early stage 
of product development in the short time. Each agent has its own knowledge 
database, which comprised a set of rules. Agents respond to requests from 
other agents to complete the new design initiatives. The result shows that the 
proposed system could be an effective way to shorten development cycle time. 
This is due to: (1) the ontology in the form of constraint and rule graph can be 
used to help build the knowledge base of functional agents, therefore agents 
have ability to evaluate product specifications in the early stage of 
development, (2) a collaborative environment for customers and suppliers to 
share information and knowledge thus enhance the efficiency of 
communication and coordination, (3) development cycle time is shorten as the 
design constraints and resources of suppliers are considered in the negotiation 
process, and (4) a series of audit trail for the confirmed knowledge exchange 
protocol in the multi-agent, inter-firm collaboration process. 
 
CONLUSION & DISCUSSION 
 
This research adopts case study and system demonstration approach to 
explore, analyze and compare the associated ontological transformations of 
selected IC firms, specialized in IC design services involving design, prototype , 
test, and integration services. The main outcome of this case study and 
11 
 
Barnes, D. and Hinton, M. 2007, Developing a Framework to Analyze the 
Roles and Relationships of Online Intermediaries, International Journal of 
Information Management, 27, pp. 63–74. 
Bontis, N., Crossan, M., and Hulland, J. 2001 Managing an Organizational 
Learning System by Aligning Stocks and Flows, Journal of Management 
Studies.  
Carayannis, E.G. and von Zedtwitz, M, 2005. Architecting Global-Local 
Real-Virtual Incubator Networks as Catalysts and Accelerators of 
Entrepreneurship in Transitioning and Developing Economies, Technovation. 
25 pp. 95-110. 
Chen, S.-H. 2004. Taiwanese IT Firms‟ Offshore R&D in China and the 
Connection with the Global Innovation Network, Research Policy, 33(2004) 
pp. 337-349. 
Childerhouse, P., Aiken, J., and Towill, D.R. 2002. Analysis and Design of 
Focused Demand Chain. Journal of Operations Management. vol. 20, pp. 
675-689. 
Chu, Y. and Cheng, Y., 2007 Demand Chain Management Ontology for 
Innovation in Integrated Circuit Design and Manufacture Services, World 
Multi-Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics (WMSCI) 
2007.  
Chu, Y. and Chien, C. (2005) Constructing Collaborative Distributed Objects 
Sharing on the Semantic Web, The 9th World Multi-Conference on 
Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics (WMSCI 2005) , Orlando, FL, July. 
Chu, Y. and Hsu, W. 2006 Organization Ontology for Innovation and 
Entrepreneurship for Cross-border Knowledge Services in the Globalizing IC 
Design Industries, PICMET (Portland International Conference on 
Management of Engineering and Technology.)  
Chu, Y. and Wu, D. 2005. Building Organizational Ontology to Identify 
Technology Entrepreneurial Opportunities, Proceedings of 14th International 
Conference on Management of Technology. 
Combs, J.G., Ketchen, D.J. and Ireland, R.D. 2006 Effectively Managing 
Service Chain Organizations, Organizational Dynamics, 35(4), pp. 357–371. 
Corcho, O., Fernandez-Lopez, M., and Gomez-Perez, A. 2003 Methodologies, 
Tools and Languages for Building Ontologies: Where Is Their Meeting Point? 
Data and Knowledge Engineering, Vol. 46, pp.41-64. 
Daft, R.L. 2004 Organization Theory and Design, Mason, OH: 
South-Western. 
Damanpour, F. and Evan, W. M. 1984 Organizational Innovation and 
13 
 
Research Policy, 34, pp. 517-535. 
Hitt, M.A., Ireland, R.D., Camp S.M., and Sexton, D.L., 2001 Guest editors; 
Introduction to the Special Issue Strategic Entrepreneurship: Entrepreneurial 
Strategies for Wealth Creation. Strategic Management Journal, 22: 479-491.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          
Hitt, M.A., R.D., Ireland, S.M., Camp and D.L., Sexton, 2002, Strategic 
Entrepreneurship: Integrating Entrepreneurial and Strategic Management 
Perspectives‟, pp.1-16. in Hitt, M.A., Ireland, R.D., Camp S.M., and Sexton, 
D.L. (ed.), Strategic Entrepreneurship: Creating a New Mindset, Oxford, 
MA: Blackwell Publishers. 
Hoang, H. and Antoncic, B. 2003. Network-based Research in 
Entrepreneurship: A Critical Review, Journal of Business Venturing, 18. pp. 
165-187. 
Houghton, J.W. , 2004. Digital Delivery of Business Services, OECD 
Working Paper on the Information Economy. 
Howells, J. 2006 Intermediation and the Role of Intermediaries in Innovation, 
Research Policy 35, pp. 715–728 
Hung, S. and Chu, Y., 2005 Stimulating New Industries from Emerging 
Technologies: Challenges for the Public Sector, Technovation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   
Ireland, R.D., M.A., Hitt, S.M., Camp and D.L., Sexton, 2001, Integrating 
Entrepreneurship Actions and Strategic Management Actions to Create Firm 
Wealth, Academy of Management Executive, Vol.15, No.1, pp.49-63. 
Jones, J., Bowonder B. and Wood, D. (2003) Critical Competencies in Virtual 
Service Webs, European Management Journal, Vol. 21-1, pp.48-61.  
Jiang, G., Hu, B., and Wang, Y. 2010 Agent-based Simulation of Competitive 
and Collaborative Mechanisms for Mobile Service Chains, Information 
Sciences, 180, pp. 225-240. 
Juttner, U., Godsell, J., and Christopher, M.G., 2006, „Demand Chain 
Alignment Competence – Delivering Value through Product Life Cycle 
Management‟, Industrial Marketing Management, Vol. 35, pp. 989-1001. 
Ketchen, D.J. and Hult, T.M. 2007, Bridging Organization Theory and Supply 
Chain Management: The Case of Best Value Supply Chains, Journal of 
Operations Management 25 pp. 573–580. 
Kunin, C. 2005. Digital Broadband Content: Mobile Content – New Content for 
New Platform, OECD Report, DSTI/ICCP/IE(2004)14/FINAL. 
Liu, M.C. and Chen, S.H. 2003 International R&D Deployment and Locational 
Advantage: A Case Study of Taiwan, NBER Working Paper Series, 10169. 
Liu, T., Chu, Y., Hung, S. and Wu, S. 2005. Technology Entrepreneurial Styles: 
a Comparison of UMC and TSMC, International Journal of Technology 
15 
 
OECD 2007 Globalization and Innovation in the Business Service Sector, 
OECD Report.  
Rezende, J.L. et al 2005. Peer-to-Peer Collaborative Integration of Dynamic 
Ontologies, 9th international Conference on Computer Supported 
Cooperative Work, ACM. 
Schumpeter, J. A. 1934. The Theory of Economic Development. Cambridge: 
Harvard University Press. 
Sidhartha R. D. and Maheshkumar P. J, 2007 Process innovativeness in 
technology services organizations: Roles of differentiation strategy, operational 
autonomy and risk-taking propensity, Journal of Operations Management, 
25, pp. 643–660. 
Spender, J.C. 1996. „Making Knowledge the Basis of a Dynamic Theory of the 
Firm,‟ Strategic Management Journal, 17(2), pp. 45-62.   
Sugumaran, V. and Storey, V.C. 2002 Ontologies for Conceptual Modeling: 
Their Creation, Use, and Management,‟ Data and Knowledge Engineering, 
Vol. 42, pp.251-271. 
Tripsas, M. and Gavetti, G. 2000 Capabilities, Cognition, and Inertia: Evidence 
from Digital Imaging. Strategic Management Journal, 21: 1147-1161. 
Uschold, M., King, M., Moralee, S. and Zorgios, Y. 1997 The Enterprise 
Ontology, Artificial Intelligence Application Institute (AIAI), University of 
Edinburgh. 
Van der Aa and Elfring, T. 2002 Realizing Innovation in Services, Scandinavia 
Journal of Management, 18, pp. 155-171. 
Williams, T., Maull, R. and Ellis, B. 2002 Demand Chain Management Theory, 
Journal of Operations Management, Vol. 20, pp. 691-706. 
Williamson, O.E. 1996. The Mechanisms of Governance. Oxford University 
Press, Oxford. 
Wolfl, A. Productivity Growth in Service Industries: An Assessment of Recent 
Patterns and the Role of Measurement, OECD report (STI Working Paper 
2003/7) 
Wu, C. and Chu, Y. 2009 Agent-based Inter-firm Collaborative Product 
Development for System-on-chip, Proceedings of International Conference 
on Information and Knowledge Engineering July. 
Yin, R. K. 1994 Case Study Research: Design and Methods, 2nd Ed. London, 
CA: Sage. 
Zander, U. and Kogut, B. 1995  Knowledge and the Speed of the Transfer and 
Imitation of Organizational Capabilities, Organization Science, 7(1) pp. 76-92, 
1995. 
表 Y04 
 
                                                           98  7  30  
  
 
   
      
 
      
98 7 13 16  
 
Las Vegas, NV 
 
 
972221E7110 
:
 
 
 
 ( ) 2009  (
) 
 ( ) The 2009 International Conference on Information and Knowledge 
Engineering (in 2009 World Congress in Computer Science, Computer 
Engineering, and Applied Computing (WORLDCOMP'09)) 
 
 
 
 ( ) SoC  
 ( ) Agent-based Inter-firm Collaborative Product Development for SoC  
 
 
 
(World Congress in Computer Science, 
Computer Engineering, and Applied Computing (WORLDCOMP))
Las Vegas
 
 
SoC
 
表 Y04 
 
 
 
 
 
1   
2   
 
real-time production monitoring. Madhusudan [18] proposed 
an agent-based process coordination (APC) framework for 
distributed design process management. The APC frameworks 
enable large-scale process and product knowledge acquisition 
and management facilitates design process knowledge reuse in 
different contexts, and supports distributed dynamic process 
management.  
Li et al [15] developed a process-oriented intelligent 
collaborative product design system. The system appears to 
facilitate the improvements on the efficiency of the design 
coordination and decision-making in the product design 
process. Liu et al [16] proposed a multi-agent collaborative 
design system to provide a collaborative platform for 
supporting dynamic task management in collaborative design 
process. These studies showed that the agent technology is 
applicable to collaborative product development, but most of 
the researches only focus on the intra-organizational 
development, while only few are concerned with inter-
organizational development. 
3. Collaborative design of SoC 
SoC is a powerful solution to increase system performance and 
to reduce system cost in particular for digital consumer 
products and the high demand for SoC development will 
continue. However, increased development time and cost, 
insufficient development performance for each application 
may block the evolution of SoCs [1]. To develop SoC 
products, designer needs to integrate a complex system from 
basic components, such as processors, memory arrays and 
controllers, and to interconnect them reliably, under the short 
time-to-market. Often, the SoC designers must select the basic 
system components, model bus-contention between the 
different devices and select appropriate bus structures. 
Moreover, they must integrate all hardware components and 
use custom software to integrate all system components [23]. 
Design for Test (DFT) to meet test quality and cost goals is 
one of the design and integration challenges for SoCs. 
Comprehensive DFT techniques must be used to negotiate the 
conflicting goals of quality and cost for testing [20]. Moreover, 
testing a SoC is more difficult than integrating several IP 
(Intellectual Property) blocks and other peripherals together 
into a SoC because test access mechanisms and test 
methodologies are different [22, 7].  
4. MAS for collaborative design of SoC  
4.1 Architecture of the MAS system 
In the proposed multi-agent system application, the teams in 
SoC design house, its first-tier suppliers (test plant), and its 
second-tier suppliers (test equipment provider) are involved. 
The system includes R&D agent (RD Agent) and product 
engineer agent (PE Agent) of SoC design house, test engineer 
agent (TE Agent) of test plant, and R&D agent (RD Agent) of 
test equipment provider. These functional agents are installed 
in different computers and distributed in different firms. 
Besides, they may exchange design data and information via 
the Internet.  The MAS framework is illustrated in Figure 1 
and the functionality of agents is described as follows.   
1. The product engineer agents of SoC design play the role 
of coordinator during DFT design. These agents will 
coordinate with other agents to complete the DFT design 
through negotiating test requirements, asking for extend 
modules and developing new test equipment collaboratively 
with the test plants who may or may not meet the requirements.   
2. The RD Agents of SoC design house are responsible for 
evaluating the feasibility of modifying the test requirements 
when test plants cannot meet the requirements. 
3. The test engineer agents of test plants will respond to the 
test requirements of SoC design house according to their test 
capabilities. Besides, they need also to respond to the request 
for extending the system modules from SoC design house. 
4. The RD agents of test equipment provider are 
responsible for evaluating whether they have the capability to 
develop the corresponding test equipment that can meet the 
requirements of SoC design house. 
In
te
rn
et
Internet
 
Figure 1. Architecture of a multi-agent system for DFT design 
 
4.2 Structure of individual agent 
Each individual agent is mainly composed of communication 
module, reasoning module, and knowledge module. The 
inference engine provides reasoning function based on the 
knowledge base which consisted of a set of rules. Finally, the 
information generated from communication module and 
reasoning module need to be stored in database through the 
knowledge module. 
We use JADE [2] to developed multi-agent system. JADE is a 
package that provides a platform for users to develop an agent 
system quickly. JADE also provides agents a communication 
and coordination environment and a communication module. 
Agents communicate with each other through communication 
module, and the protocols for communication between agents 
DFT design will complete in stage 4. In Figure 3, squares 
represent the evaluation activity of each stage and lines show 
the information flow between agents.  
Frequency
DFT Design
Completed
   unable to meet the requirement
Unsatisfied specifications
Ask for extending modules
The  cost limit of extending modules
Pilot Run Volume 
         Reject the request for extending modules
Ask for design change
Unsatisfied specifications  
Unable to change design
Ask for developing new 
equipment collaboratively Pin Count
Frequency
Development Cost Limit
Reject to develop  new Tester collaboratively 
SOC Design House Test Plant Test Equipment Provider
Pin Count
Memory size
DFT Design
Completed
DFT Design
Completed
DFT
Circuit
Redesign 
DFT Design
Completed
Memory size
Cost limit of design change
Accept
Reject
Test Requirement
Evaluation
Design Change
Evaluation
Reject
Accept
New Tester
Development 
Evaluation
Reject
Accept
Reject
Accept
Extending Modular
Evaluation
Future production Quation
Product 
Engineer
Agent
Tester
 Engineer
Agent
RD
Agent
Product 
Engineer
(User)
RD
Agent
Stage 1
Stage 2
Stage 3
Stage 4
Stage 5
Cost Limit Information
Time Limit Information
 Figure 3. Information flows and coordination process during 
the DFT design process 
5.2 System demonstration  
At the beginning of the DFT design process, customers submit 
their main specifications for DFT circuit to supplier, and then 
customers and suppliers communicate and coordinate one 
another to confirm final specifications. The common objective 
of customers and suppliers is to ensure that the DFT circuits 
pass the test in the future test work. A series of these DFT 
activities are carried out through the inter-firm multi-agent 
system in three-stage cycle, described as follows. 
5.3 System test and evaluation  
We use a case in practice to substantiate a plausible MAS 
framework to support early supplier involvement in DFT 
design. We simplify the case scenario to both verify the system 
execution in DFT designs, which complete in various stages of 
decisions. In addition, the case scenario is also used to show 
the main benefits of the system, i.e., the ways to shorten the 
development cycle time.  
In order to verify our system, we acquired multiple input data 
sets through interviewing the SoC design house. We classify 
the results according to the stage in completion. Table 2 shows 
the comparison of practical field data and simulation results in 
light of the passage through the various stages in DFT design. 
We can see that the results for the simulation and practical 
field experience are about at the same level, an overall 
comparison based on the observation that the system had 
followed the execution logic and protocol of the collaborative 
design process. We did find some minor differences between 
simulation result and practical experience, as discuss below.  
Table 2 The comparison of practical experience and 
simulation result in the light of the completed proportion of 
each stage in DFT design 
Completed 
Stage Stage1 Stage2 Stage3 Stage4 
Stage5 
(Redesign  
DFT Circuit)
 
Simulation 
Result 
 
44% 18% 26% 8% 4% 
Practical  
Experience 33% 25% 32% 5% 5% 
1. The completed portions in stage 1 of simulation results are 
higher than those of practical experience. In the MAS system, 
if test plants satisfy the test specification, it will carry out the 
follow-up test job. Practically, in addition to test specification, 
SoC design house also consider other abilities of suppliers, 
such as the ability to fulfill the order in the past, the ability to 
solve problems, and the ability of quality management to 
decide whether they will place order with test plants. This 
leads to the situation where there is only one test plant, which 
is capable of testing ability to satisfy the requirements. 
Nevertheless, design house will not place orders with this test 
plant, and will take other actions. For this reason, the 
completed portion in stage 1 of simulation result is higher than 
practical experience. 
2. The completed proportion in stage 2 of simulation result is 
lower than practical experience. Practically, if there is 
cooperative relationship between design house and test plants 
or test plants would like to establish cooperative relationship 
with design house, cost is not usually the consideration when 
test plants consider whether they will extend modules to 
satisfy the test requirement of design house. Test plants will 
also complete the module extending according to the schedule 
of design house as much as they could. However, we do not 
consider this close cooperative relationship into our system. If 
test plants cannot accept cost and time for extending modules, 
they will reject requests. Therefore, the completed portion in 
stage 2 of simulation result is lower than practical experience. 
3. The completed portion in stage 3 of simulation result is 
higher than practical experience. There are two main reasons: 
1) design house will consider the cooperative relationship 
between design house and test plant practically. Therefore, the 
completion of given DFT designs is moved forward in stage. 
Since the system did not consider the cooperative relationship, 
the advancing situation will not occur. 2) When design houses 
consider changing design, they only take cost and time into 
