 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
營建線性專案利潤最佳化之二階排程模式及系統建置 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99－2221－E－224 －058－ 
執行期間： 99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：劉述舜 副教授 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 王滄榮、鍾芳結 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列管
計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立雲林科技大學營建工程系暨研究所 
 
中   華   民   國  100  年  10  月  31   日 
Introduction 
 
Due to the characteristics of linear projects, numerous specified scheduling techniques are 
developed for the linear scheduling projects, including LOB, VPM, LSM, and RSM. However, 
most research assumes activities are performed using single-skilled crews, and the flexibility of 
multi-skilling in construction in assigning tasks 1] is neglected. Therefore, this study introduces 
the concept of multiskilling to integrate single/multiple skilled crews for linear scheduling 
problems, and provide possible improvement for work performance. Each activity should be 
executed by one single-skilled crew at least, and one multi-skilled crew may be engaged to 
shorten work time for the activity if necessary. Based on prior research, the one single-skilled 
crew is selected and used to complete repetitive activities with the same type. This study 
complies with the ideal, and moreover introduces the concept of temporary hiring of multi-skilled 
crews to facilitate work efficiency. That is, one single-skilled crew is employed for one specified 
activity type, and multi-skilled crews are hired temporarily to improve productivity for activities 
which are executed by the single-skilled crew already. Moreover, the multi-skilled crew is 
released while completing the activity, and can be used by other following activities. 
In order to enhance the efficiency of problem solving, constraint programming (CP), a 
computer implementation designed for solving constraint satisfaction problems (CSPs), is 
employed to handling the complicated combinatorial scheduling problem. Figure 1 illustrates the 
framework of this study for dealing with construction linear scheduling problems. Two crew 
types are integrated in the proposed model, including single-skilled and multi-skilled crews and 
the CP-based optimization is proceeded for minimization of project duration.  
 
Fig. 1. Optimization framework for linear scheduling 
 
 
for improving work efficiency in construction. Given the characteristics of linear construction 
projects, interruptions in similar repetitive activities are relevant in this model formulation, and 
single/multiple skilled crews for linear projects were integrated to potentially improve work 
performance, such as continuity and productivity.  
The proposed optimization consists of relationships between activities, cost elements, and 
heuristic rules for multi-skilled crew selection. Moreover, interruption time between two similar 
repetitive activities was addressed for considerations of work continuity. A known bridge 
example was used to illustrate the model and for scenario analysis. Use of multi-skilled crews and 
interruption time were considered in scenarios to minimize project duration, demonstrating the 
model’s ability to improving work continuity/efficiency.  
 
 
 
REFERENCES  
[1] Burleson, R.C., Haas, C.T., Tucker, R.L., and Stanley, A., “Multiskilled Labor Utilization 
Strategies In Construction”, Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, Vol. 124 (6), 
pp. 480-489, 1998. 
[2] El-Rayes, K. and Moselhi, O. “Optimizing Resource Utilization For Repetitive Construction 
Projects”, Journal of Construction Engineering and Management, Vol. 127 (1), pp. 18-27, 2001. 
[3] K.G. Mattila, A. Park, Comparison of linear scheduling model and repetitive scheduling 
method, Journal of Construction Engineering and Management 129 (1) (2003) 56–64. 
[4] T. Hegazy, E. Kamarah, Efficient repetitive scheduling for high-rise construction, Journal of 
Construction Engineering and Management, 134 (4) (2008) 253–64. 
[5] S.S. Liu, C.J. Wang, Resource-constrained construction project scheduling model for profit 
maximization considering cash flow, Automation in Construction 17 (8) (2008) 996-974. 
[6] S.S. Liu, C.J. Wang, Two-stage profit optimization model for linear scheduling problems 
considering cash flow, Construction Management and Economics 27 (11) (2009) 1023–1037. 
  
一、 目的 
 
為了能吸收最佳化領域的最新知識以及能和營管最佳化領域的專家學者交流研究，因此
在六月份下旬，本人赴韓國首爾，參加 ISARC 2011 The 28th International Symposium on 
Automation and Robotics in Construction 中的 Management issues in Construction 
Session。 
  
二、 過程 
 
在參與 ISARC 2011 會議期間，本人亦於 7 月 1 日發表了國科會計畫中的論文，論文題
目為 ”AN OPTIMIZATION MODEL FOR LINEAR PROJECT SCHEDULING 
CONSIDERING MULTI-SKILLED CREWS”。並於 7 月 2 日前往首爾大學建築管理系，
與首爾大學營建管理領域的教授們，交換教學研究之經驗。  
 
三、 心得 
 
在本人發表論文後，與會的專家學者，給予本人相當多的意見及改進建議。其中本人認
為最有建設性的意見，是有關論文中關於 multi crew 在實務上的設定問題，與會學者認
為應針對主目標進行最佳化，再對 multi crew selction 進行最佳化選擇，如此一來應可
增進求解效率。自本人回國後，即參考與會學者進行最佳化模式重建，研究結果顯示，
將最佳化過程修改為兩階段求解，確實能增進求解效率，再者本人已將修正過後的求解
模式，改寫成期刊論文，並已投稿。特在此感謝與會學者的建議。 
 
四、 建議事項 
 
本人在與首爾大學營建管理領域的教授們交換教學心得之際，發現兩國學生在學習態度
上，有著截然不同的心態。韓國的同學有著強烈的企圖心，對未來充滿希望；反觀台灣
的學生對未來充滿徬徨，反映在學習態度上，就是消極不振。此一現象，若同仁們不加
以積極導正，勢必對台灣學生未來的國際競爭力有顯著的負面影響。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Introduction 
Due to the characteristics of linear projects, numerous specified scheduling techniques 
are developed for the linear scheduling projects, including LOB, VPM, LSM, and 
RSM. However, most research assumes activities are performed using single-skilled 
crews, and the flexibility of multi-skilling in construction in assigning tasks 1] is 
neglected. Therefore, this study introduces the concept of multiskilling to integrate 
single/multiple skilled crews for linear scheduling problems, and provide possible 
improvement for work performance. Each activity should be executed by one 
single-skilled crew at least, and one multi-skilled crew may be engaged to shorten 
work time for the activity if necessary. Based on prior research, the one single-skilled 
crew is selected and used to complete repetitive activities with the same type. This 
study complies with the ideal, and moreover introduces the concept of temporary 
hiring of multi-skilled crews to facilitate work efficiency. That is, one single-skilled 
crew is employed for one specified activity type, and multi-skilled crews are hired 
temporarily to improve productivity for activities which are executed by the 
single-skilled crew already. Moreover, the multi-skilled crew is released while 
completing the activity, and can be used by other following activities. 
In order to enhance the efficiency of problem solving, constraint programming (CP), a 
computer implementation designed for solving constraint satisfaction problems 
(CSPs), is employed to handling the complicated combinatorial scheduling problem. 
Figure 1 illustrates the framework of this study for dealing with construction linear 
scheduling problems. Two crew types are integrated in the proposed model, including 
single-skilled and multi-skilled crews and the CP-based optimization is proceeded for 
minimization of project duration.  
 
Fig. 1. Optimization framework for linear scheduling 
Owing to the highly complicated combinatorial problems associated with crew 
selection and scheduling, this research employs constraint programming (CP) to 
construct the proposed optimization model. This study adopts CP for model 
formulation which offers three advantages for the problem domain: (1) The setting of 
binary variables is clear because of the logical and sequential constraints provided by 
CP; (2) CP is a naturally appropriate tool for solving combinatorial scheduling 
problems; and (3) CP-based models are flexible, and various heuristic rules can be 
easily modified to meet user requirements without rebuilding the model. Based on the 
above, the proposed CP-formulated optimization model can handle the linear 
scheduling problems, and identify the optimal solution with various multi-skilled 
crew selections. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/11/02
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 營建線性專案利潤最佳化之二階排程模式及系統建置
計畫主持人: 劉述舜
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-224-058- 學門領域: 營建管理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
