2 
 
中，再就模型的建立做報告．第 3 節則就
DPOAE 抑制所進行的模擬方法做介紹。 
 
1.聽覺系統簡介 
1.1 從聲波至電訊號之轉換 
聲波經由耳道撞擊鼓膜，鼓膜與三小聽骨
相連，並藉由槓桿原理向內向外規律地撞
擊 連 接 於 鐙 骨 足 板 的 卵 圓 窗 (Oval 
Window)，造成蝸管中的流體運動，此流體
運動造成基膜(Basal Membrane, BM)上行
進波的變化；基膜依照其特徵頻率分布，
靠近卵圓窗處稱為基部其頻率較高，反之
離越遠處則稱頂部其頻率較低。基膜上有
兩種毛細胞(附錄圖(1))，靠近內側為內毛細
胞(Inner Hair Cells, IHCs)、外側為外毛細
胞。通常有 95%的輸入訊號(afferents)會源
自內毛細胞而外毛細胞僅送出 5%的傳入
訊號[5]。毛細胞上之纖毛鑲嵌於網狀膜
(reticular lamina, RL)，當行進波影響蓋膜
(tectorial membrane)下方流體的運動時，毛
細胞上之纖毛受到屈折，而網狀膜會因此
與蓋膜產生相對位移,而產生離子電流，並
導致與內毛細胞連結之螺旋神經節(Spiral 
Ganglion Neurons, SGNs) [6]內的雙極細
胞電荷量改變並送出動作電位經由聽覺神
經傳至耳蝸核。     
1.2 耳蝸核的功能簡介: 
耳蝸核位於耳蝸與上橄欖體 (Superior 
Olivary Complex)間，其功能又依各種不同
細胞而有所分別。耳蝸核分為三個區域
[5]，前腹側耳蝸核(Anterior Ventral Cochlear 
Nucleus, AVCN)、後腹側耳蝸核(Posterior 
Ventral Cochlear Nucleus, PVCN)、背側耳蝸
核(Dorsal Cochlear Nucleus, DCN)。 
在 AVCN 中包含兩種細胞[5]：毛狀大
球體細胞(Spherical Bushy Cell)與毛狀小球
體細胞(Globular Bushy Cell)。毛狀大球體
細胞的輸入由單一條聽神經所提供，其特
性是輸入等於輸出，故可當作參考標準
值。毛狀小球體細胞則由少許的聽神經提
供輸入[2]，其輸出條件為當有少許的同步
輸入神經動作電位，則輸出才會產生神經
動作電位。 
在 PVCN 中也包含兩種細胞[5]：章魚
細胞 (Octopus Cell) 與星狀細胞 (Stellate 
Cell)。章魚細胞需要更多的聽神經提供輸
入[2]，與毛狀小球體細胞的特性相同，但
輸出需要比毛狀小球體細胞有更多條聽神
經同時提供神經動作電位；至於星狀細胞
直接連接至下丘[5]，屬於更高階層的聽覺
處理，故本計畫中尚未進行建模。 
1.3 內側橄欖體耳蝸-中繼神經元簡介: 
耳蝸核傳入信號抵達 MOC 中繼神經元，再
透過有髓鞘的纖維支配外毛細胞。此謂之
MOC 反射迴路(reflex pathway)，又依穿越
腦幹中線與否，細分為同側反射和異側反
射[1]。 
1.4 內側橄欖耳蝸輸出(Medial Olivo- 
cochlear Efferent, MOCE) 
MOCE 連接至外毛細胞[7]，以控制耳蝸對
聲刺激的敏感性；在吵雜的環境中，這樣
的機制可對噪音產生遮蔽效應使訊號更加
清晰，並且保護聽覺系統免於過大音量的
聽覺傷害。MOCE 能夠透過兩種反應來改
變耳蝸的敏感性，分別為『快反應』(Fast 
Effect)與『慢反應』(Slow Effect)[1]。本文
將報告快反應之模擬結果。 
 
2.聽覺系統模型建構:從耳蝸至腦幹 
依據神經生理學，本計畫中，我們利用機
率概念建構出耳蝸至MOCE的完整迴路模
型(附錄圖(2))，包含了聽神經模型、耳蝸
核模型、MOC模型以及MOCE至外毛細胞
回授模型。  
2.1 週邊聽覺系統：耳蝸與聽神經 
    假設在外耳處放置聲源做為輸入，經
由外耳傳至中耳再傳入內耳。其中，中耳
到內耳耳蝸模型部分，我們採用 Liu and 
Neely[3][4]所提出的模型並與聽神經模塊
做連結。  
    對於聽神經模型建構，則參考了 Sachs 
and Abbas[8]論文所提出的近似式， 
 (eq. 1) 
其中 r 是總激發率,P 是鼓膜上的聲壓，d
是基膜上的振幅， Rm 是最大激發率，RSP
是自發性激發率(Spontaneous Rate)， 是纖
維觸發的臨界值。 
根據此公式我們利用機率的概念去決
定纖維觸發的可能性，計算出當下的 r 值：
若以 l 毫秒為取樣時間，則每次計算時纖維
4 
 
調整其強度L1, L2以獲得可測量的DPOAE. 
接下來，在主音持續撥放之下，另外添上
頻率 f3 在主音附近但強度 L3 遠大於主音的
抑制純音（suppressor tone）. 控制 f3 並調
整 L3 使 2f1-f2 之 DPOAE 的達到固定比例
的衰減 , 則將 L3 對 f3 的作圖結果即是
DPOAE 之 STC. 
 
五、 結果與討論 
1. MOC 反射與行進波抑制之模擬 
我們以頻率為 4kHz 的正弦波做系統測
試，探討 20dB 至 100 dB 聲壓強度（Sound 
Pressure Level, SPL）之下，腦幹是否輸出
動作電位來抑制耳蝸行進波。 
當輸入為 80dB，我們針對未受 MOCE
影響時產生最大 RL 位移之點觀察(附錄圖
(9))，細線為未受 MOCE 影響的 RL 位移而
粗線則為受 MOCE 影響後 RL 位移的變
化，可看出 MOCE 在 80dB 時提供明顯的
抑制，足以說明改變外毛細胞的非線性電
容值能夠對基膜上的行進波產生抑制的作
用，也顯示 MOCE 會保護耳蝸不受過大音
量損傷，符合 Guinan 所提到的聽覺保護
機制[1]。 
利用不同的輸入振幅可得到各振幅與
經 MOCE 抑制後的 RL 位移變化差異(附錄
表格 1，附錄圖(10))，此表格中平均 RL 位
移是將有 MOCE 抑制與無 MOCE 抑制的
RL 位移相減取平均值得到其差異量，故差
異量越大代表 MOCE 提供的抑制越強。結
果顯示，從 50dB 開始到 90dB，其 MOCE
的抑制量逐漸上升，尤以 90dB 為最佳，代
表 MOCE 的抑制會隨著音量增加而逐漸加
強力度，但在 100dB 處卻急遽下降，推測
可能是 MOCE 對行進波抑制有一定的極
限，當輸入過大時不能只單靠 MOCE 提供
抑制，可能還需要其他的機制一起保護耳
蝸免受聽覺損傷。實際上，當音量過大時，
人類大腦也會發出訊號使我們做出摀耳朵
的動作來達到保護耳蝸之功效。 
至於 50dB 以下的變化程度則相當
小，這可以歸咎於音量過小導致神經觸發
次數過低，使得 MOCE 不易使外毛細胞產
生超極化。在功能上，或許也可想像成是
因為音量的大小不足以傷害耳蝸，故
MOCE 不需提供抑制保護耳朵。而在 30dB
處甚至還出現小幅度振幅增加，這似乎與
Liu and Neely [4]所提出的預測不吻合。 
 
2. DPOAE STC 之模擬 
圖（10）所示，左圖為本計畫所模擬的
DPOAE STC, 右圖為美國合作對象 Dr. 
Gorga 研究團隊於今年甫刊登的實際測量
結果[12]，其中同一頻率附近，由低至高表
示不同的主音強度之下，欲達 3dB DPOAE
之下降量所需的 suppressor 強度。模擬與
實測兩者目測比較之下，發覺高頻部分尚
稱吻合，低頻部分實測曲線較寬，這個性
質在模擬部分較不明顯。一般而言，耳蝸
低頻的生理機制與高頻有許多不同，這也
是耳蝸力學領域面臨的最大挑戰之一 
[14]。 
 
未來努力目標 
本計畫執行期限，僅考慮輸入為單一頻率
正弦波的情形，在 100 年度後續計畫中會
繼續模擬各類型輸入，如高斯訊號以及喀
擦聲(Clicks)。 
內毛細胞部分，本計畫假設一個內毛
細胞有 10 個 SGNs 連接並組成一條聽覺神
經纖維，但實際上一個內毛細胞會連接至
少 20 條的聽覺神經纖維[5]，故後續計畫會
再更深入研究相關文獻探討內毛細胞與聽
覺神經纖維的相互關係，並將此概念融入
模型。 
耳蝸核內各細胞相互關係在文獻上鮮
少著墨，本計畫是假定鄰近的五個同種細
胞會互相影響，實際情形不一定是如此。
或許可利用重複試驗方式藉由調整權重與
改變相互作用的細胞個數，逼近活體測量
的 MOC 中繼神經元 PSTH 圖，如此便能逆
向推敲出耳蝸核神經元間的關係。 
此外，若能嘗試加入尚未考慮的星狀
細胞和背側耳蝸神經核的影響，則可期待
使耳蝸核部分之建模更加完善。MOC 中繼
神經元的部分，本計畫只考慮異側反射，
未來可以考慮加入同側反射的影響，調整
參數模擬出同側的 MOC 中繼神經元觸發
值，如此可以模擬雙耳聽覺系統的交互作
用。 
以上是未來需要改進與加強的地方，
6 
 
 
 
圖(1)上圖為位於蝸管中的科蒂氏器(Organ of Corti)剖面圖 
 
 
 
 
圖(2) 聽覺系統方塊流程圖 
 
 
 
圖(3) 上圖為聽神經觸發率對聲音強度做圖，右圖:Sachs and Abbas (1974)對家貓活體量測歸納的
結果。左圖:本團隊撰寫電腦計算模型之結果，每條曲線為不同纖維觸發臨界值 。 
 
 
8 
 
 
圖 (6) 耳蝸核至內側橄欖耳蝸-中繼神經元之建構圖。 
 
 
圖(7) 上圖 A 為外毛細胞之超極化電量變化圖，圖 B 為外毛細胞經快反應後之新電容值。 
A、B 圖皆是取其中變化幅度較大的一個位置上對時間做圖。 
 
  
圖(8) 上圖左圖為各外毛細胞相對應之非線性
電容值，由下往上之曲線相對應為耳蝸
從基部到頂部。 
圖(9)上圖為在未受MOCE抑制時耳蝸上產生       
最大RL位移之處觀察，比較RL在有無受                           
MOCE抑制時其位移之變化圖。 
1 
 
國際會議心得報告 (2011.7.16-7.22) 
清大電機系 劉奕汶 助理教授 
 
壹、目的： 
參加 2011 年Mechanics of Hearing Workshop  
 
貳、緣起： 
Mechanics of Hearing Workshop 乃聽覺科學界三年一度之盛會，今年是第十一屆，輪到
美國主辦。我在三年前曾參加過在英國的第十屆，那時仍是 postdoc. 這次是第二次參加，
但是是頭一次站上演講台。我所講的題目是有關於耳蝸內雜訊響應的似線性現象
（quasi-linearity）, 我提出了詳細的數學模型與模擬結果，說明 quasi-linear responses
可以經由一系列不具記憶性（memoryless）的非線性感測與致能機制產生出來。此論述
反駁 2009 年西北大學一知名團隊的推論，或許所以獲得大會選為口頭報告。 
 
叁、過程 
七月十六日從加州飛往麻州 Williams College 報到。會議隨即自七月十七日開始，至七
月二十一日止，共計五天，採任何時間均只有單一 session 方式進行．共有四十餘場 20
分鐘的演講，另外展出六十餘篇海報。過程非常的緊湊。公餘大會又安排了兩次的出遊，
以及最後一天的土風舞會，使得參與者皆有機會與同儕更密切的交流。 
 我的演講安排在最後一天倒數第二個上台。上台前的準備，說實在的有些凌亂：主
要是因為前四天聽了各國各團隊的 presentation, 發覺我所從事的若干研究項目及本來
不打算發表的成果，其實可能更能激發聽眾的注意；所以我在最後一天凌晨臨時再作最
後的修改. 付出的代價是演練不足而未能於指定時間內完成所有的演說（差了最後兩張），
但是由會後聽眾的提問踴躍程度，這次演講又堪稱是成功的。至少，由於我是整個會議
僅有二個目前任職於亞洲的講者［另外一組來自日本東北大學］，今後這個圈子的同儕
應該都有印象：台灣清大在聽覺科學中也有一席之地。  
 
肆、心得與建議事項 
這次會議見到了幾位本領域後進，包含了紐西蘭威靈頓大學的 Teal 教授，瑞典林雪平大
學醫學工程學的博士生 Amin,以及麻省理工學院的博士生 Samiya，他們不約而同開始採
用我在博士後研究時所建立的耳蝸力學與毛細胞生理學模型，Prof. Teal又提出了一些改
進，可以描述耳蝸中階（scala media）的離子電流。這樣的經驗是本人前所未有的．可
謂是天涯海角中有了學術上的知己，真是非常開心。其中 Amin 所就讀的大學，又正好
是我們的姊妹校，這次會議中，我得知他們想將耳蝸模型的研究，應用在聽力病變的診
斷。這個目標正好與我所提出的國科會計畫不謀而合；或許日後可以展開學術上的交流
與合作，本人亦十分期盼校方的支持。 
 
此外，這次會議所發表的一項其中重大的發現，是在 prestin expression 降低至正常值
Program
Word-cloud analysis of the MoH2011 presentation titles
Follow the links to access a synopsis of the Workshop program and a detailed schedule of talks and discussions.
Schedule of Talks and Discussions
The following tabs list the daily schedule of talks and discussions (also available as a pdf).
Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday
Day 5, Thursday, July 21
Time Speaker Wave Propagation in the Cochlea (Moderator: Karl Grosh)
8:30–8:55
am
Stephen Elliott How many waves propagate in the cochlea?
8:55–9:20
am
Egbert de Boer Tracing distortion product (DP) waves in a cochlear model
9:20–9:45
am
Renata Sisto
Forward- and reverse-traveling waves in DP phenomenology: Does inverted direction of
wave propagation occur in classical models?
9:45–10:15
am
Break
The Cochlear Amplifier (Moderator: Richard Chadwick)
10:15–10:40
am
Dáibhid Ó
Maoiléidigh
High-frequency power gain in the mammalian cochlea
10:40–11:05
am
Elizabeth Olson
Simultaneous measurements of pressure and voltage at the basilar membrane inform
theories of amplification
11:05–11:30
am
Marcel van der
Heijden
The cascaded cochlea
11:30–12:00 Chadwick &
 Mechanics of Hearing
2011 
Quasi-linear cochlear responses to noise can result from
instantaneous nonlinearities
Yi-Wen Liu∗ and Stephen T. Neely†
∗Department of Electrical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 30013
†Boys Town National Research Hospital, 555 N. 30th Street, Omaha, NE 68131, USA
Abstract. Responses to acoustic stimuli in the cochlea are known to be nonlinear. Many existing
models of cochlear mechanics were built upon these assumptions noted by de Boer [1]: First,
traveling-wave amplification is provided by active mechanisms in the outer hair cells (OHCs).
Secondly, as the stimulus level increases, the gain decreases due to saturation nonlinearity in the
OHCs. Finally, the saturation nonlinearity is "instantaneous"; its input-output relation does not
possess memory. These assumptions were recently challenged. Recio-Spinoso et al [4] found that
noise responses on the basilar membrane (BM) are quasi-linear as the responses can be predicted
well by level-dependent Wiener filters. It was argued that the quasi-linear responses could not result
from instantaneous nonlinearity. In this paper, we present a model of cochlear mechanics which has
instantaneous OHC saturation nonlinearity but produces quasi-linear responses to noise. Correlation
coefficients were consistently greater than 0.9 between simulated noise responses and the responses
predicted by equivalent Wiener filters. Further, Gaussianity in the acoustic stimuli was preserved on
the BM. We conclude that the results support the common understandings of cochlear mechanics
noted by de Boer in light of new findings described by Recio-Spinoso et al.
Keywords: Wiener filters, saturation nonlinearity, EQ-NL theorem
PACS: 43.64.Kc, 43.64.Bt
INTRODUCTION
The mammalian cochleae respond compressively to acoustic stimuli while maintaining
frequency selectivity in a place-specific manner. It has been widely accepted that the
frequency selectivity results from the putative “cochlear amplifier”, which also provides
a compressive growth against increasing stimulus levels as a protective mechanism. Nu-
merous experimental results indicated that OHCs are the site of cochlear amplification,
but microscopic details of the amplification mechanism have been subject to heavy de-
bates.
To understand the macroscopic nonlinear properties in cochlear mechanics, de Boer
[1] proposed an equivalent-nonlinearity (EQ-NL) theorem that was summarized as fol-
lows: “to each nonlinear cochlear model – within the given class of models – there
exists a linearized model of the same structure that has the same input-output cross-
correlation function for wide-band noise stimuli.” The key concept here is linearization;
the EQ-NL theorem makes it legitimate to interpret macroscopic experimental results
in cochlear mechanics by means of linear analysis. Oftentimes, the interpretation of
cochlear macromechanics become rather unaffected by details in the nonlinear micro-
electromechanics of the OHCs.
It is noteworthy that the EQ-NL theorem, when originally proposed, was confined to
a given class of models: the wave-amplifying elements must be the sole site of nonlin-
TABLE 1. Stimulus conditions and data-processing techniques: Simulation vs. experiments
Parameter Present work Reported in [4]
Stimulus duration (ms) 100 100
Dynamic range of stimuli (dB) 60 60
Noise bandwidth (kHz) 20 15
Output sampling rate (kHz) 128∗ 100
Definition of acoustic transfer function displacement/displacement velocity/pressure
Number of averages for Wiener-kernel estimation 100 ≥ 512
∗ down-sampled from 640 kHz during post-processing
turned off for 28 ms for the cochlear responses to attenuate. After each run of simulation,
simulation results were saved before re-initiating the simulation for a different instance
of Gaussian noise as the stimulus. For each level of sound pressure in the ear canal,
BM responses along the cochlea were saved for a total of 110 instances of Gaussian
white-noise stimuli. Responses for the first 100 instances were used for calculating
Wiener kernels whereas the other 10 responses were saved for assessing the accuracy
of prediction by Wiener filtering.
We adopted a state-space method to calculate cochlear responses to the acoustic stim-
uli. The state-space vector was comprised of five variables (reticular-lamina displace-
ment, reticular-lamina velocity, OHC contraction velocity, OHC membrane potential,
and voltage across OHC gating capacitance) for each of 700 discrete segments along
the cochlea plus six additional variables that represent the middle ear. The state space
thus consisted of 3,506 variables, and their time-derivatives could be expressed in terms
of their instantaneous values. Therefore, the cochlear responses were calculated through
numerical integration. The integration time-step (1.56 µs) was empirically chosen so
numerical integration did not diverge for the given stimulus conditions.
ANALYSIS OF NOISE RESPONSES
Calculation of Wiener kernels
The data analysis in the present work aimed to determine whether nonlinear cochlear
responses to wideband acoustic noise could be predicted by equivalent linear filters.
Here, the cochlea is regarded as a nonlinear system whose input is defined as the stapes
displacement x(t), and the output signals are the BM displacement y(t,z), where z
denotes different locations on the BM along the direction of traveling-wave propagation.
For each instance of Gaussian white-noise (GWN) as the acoustic stimulus, we calcu-
lated the Fourier transforms for the full length of 128 ms of the input and output signals
defined above. A transfer function H(ω) was estimated by taking the ratio between the
output and input spectra for the present instance of GWN:
H(ω,z) =
Y (ω,z)
X(ω)
, (1)
where Y (ω,z) denotes the Fourier transform of y(t,z) as a function of frequency ω , and
X(ω) denotes the Fourier transform of x(t). Then, H(ω,z) was averaged across 100
runs are referred to as frozen noise1[4].
To evaluate the numerical accuracy of Wiener-kernel approximation, we first pre-
dicted cochlear responses by convolution, then compared the predicted responses to the
“actual” responses obtained in simulation. For each instance of frozen noise at every
stimulus level, the predicted BM response ylin(t,z) was calculated by convolving the
stapes displacement x(t) with the Wiener kernel h(t,z) estimated at the given level:
ylin(t,z) =
∫ t
0
x(τ)h(t − τ,z)dτ. (3)
Similarity between ylin(t,z) and the actual response y(t,z) was evaluated in terms of
their correlation coefficient ρ at every location z for each stimulus level. A high ρ-value
would suggest that the linear prediction was highly accurate and that the cochlear noise
responses were approximately linear. Therefore, ρ can be regarded as a linearity index.
Figure 2 shows the dependence of ρ upon z averaged across 10 instances of frozen noise.
Each trace corresponds to a different SPL in the ear canal. The ρ-value was generally
above 0.92, comparable to the values (0.93–0.97) reported in [4].
A few more observations can be made. First, at the lowest stimulus level (34 dB
SPL), the cochlear model responded almost linearly throughout the full length of the
BM. Secondly, at medium stimulus levels (44-64 dB), the ρ-value generally decreased
but the decrement was not uniform along the BM. Thirdly, when the stimulus level
increased further (74-94 dB), the ρ-value actually increased except at the three most
apical locations.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
Figure 2 shows that as the stimulus level increases the linearity index ρ does not decrease
monotonically. For all but the two most apical locations, ρ decreases first and then
increase at higher stimulus levels. This result might look contradictory to the notion
that a system’s nonlinear characteristics should become more prominent at high input
levels. Nevertheless, it agrees with the notion that, as stimulus level increases beyond a
certain point, active mechanisms saturate so the cochlear input-output relation becomes
more passive and linearized.
The present simulation results indicate that the cochlear model responded quasi-
linearly to wideband noise inasmuch as can be quantified by the correlation coefficient
ρ . In light of important findings in [4] we demonstrate that, even if all nonlinearities in
a cochlear model are instantaneous, level-dependent equivalent linear filters can still be
identified so they give accurate prediction of BM responses to wideband acoustic noise.
We have also examined the statistical distribution of output variables (BM displace-
ments) and found that Gaussianity was preserved. The normalized cumulative distri-
bution of the output variables was nominally identical to that of the normal Gaussian
distribution; the maximum absolute difference never exceeded 0.01 for all but the most
apical location across all stimulus levels. Kurtosis analysis also suggested that the nor-
malized distributions were indistinguishable from that of Gaussian.
1 that is, fixed pseudo-random Gaussian-distributed sequences.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/20
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 正常或聽障之人類耳蝸電生理學與力學模擬
計畫主持人: 劉奕汶
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-007-017- 學門領域: 醫學資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
研究成果獲邀為清華大學主辦 2011 年 BioPro 國際研討會 invited speaker, 
並於計畫執行期間獲邀至交通大學，高雄大學，長庚大學與美國 Boys Town 
National Research Hospital 演講發表. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
