2accepted approach to estimating an S-curve is analytical, i.e. based on a schedule of
planned activity times and progress calculation using (1). Over the years, many
alternative ways of determination of S-curves have been studied, along with various
mathematical formulas for generalizing cumulative project progress as a function of
time (see Skitmore 1992, Navon 1996 etc). Since such methods give estimates of
progress that are not produced from a schedule according to project-specific
information, their results are intended mainly for initial preparation of financing, not
for control purposes during construction. However, it is a prudent practice to
compare a schedule-based S-curve estimate with one obtained according to historical
realities and an empirical method will also serve for the checking purpose.
In light of the backdrop mentioned above, the objective of the research
presented herein is to develop an improved approach based on a proposed
polynomial function and neural networks, whose application is in line with an
empirical method’s. In the following, existing S-curve formulas are reviewed first.
The proposed function and the solution to its parameters are presented next. Then,
based on collected cases of completed construction projects, a neural network model
for estimating S-curves as represented by the polynomial function is proposed, whose
accuracy is compared with that of statistical models before conclusions are drawn.
REVIEW OF EXISTING FORMULAS
Peer (1982) proposed five S-curve formulas for building construction projects in
which percent progress is made a function of percent time with all parameters
predetermined. However, the more common form adopted in other researches is a
progress-versus-time relation in which a few parameters are left to be determined for
an individual project by using some curve-fitting methods. Navon (1996) gave a
summary of the formulas proposed in a number of researches, some of which fail to
meet the boundary conditions of 0% progress at 0% time and 100% progress at 100%
time. Skitmore (1992) fitted each of four two-parameter formulas to 27 case projects
and evaluated their closeness of fit. Since the proposed formula in the present
research will be compared with these four formulas later, they are briefly reviewed
next in (2)-(7), where y and x denotes standardized progress and standardized time,
respectively, and a, b are the parameters to be determined.
1. The DHSS (Department of Health and Social Security) formula, which was
developed for hospital projects, has the form of (2).
bxxxaxaxxy /)396( 232  (2)
where a, b can be evaluated by the method in Tucker (1988) using the Weibull
function according to contract value.
4in accuracy of fitting to real cases.
Derivation of solution to function parameters
For a given set of measurements of cumulative progress versus time for a project,
standardized as {(x1, y1), (x2, y2),…}, the values of a and b of (8) can be determined
by using the least squared error method. The error for time xt, et, is defined as the
difference between the actual progress yt and the calculated progress from (8) as:
ttttt xbabxaxye )1(
23  (9)
Then, the sum of squared errors for all xt in the set is:
  2232 ])1([ ttttt xbabxaxye (10)
For simplicity, subscript t is eliminated in the following statements. Since the
optimum a and b will minimize the sum of squared errors, a and b can be solved
directly by taking partial differentiation of (10) with respect to a and b each and
setting the derivatives to zero as:
0/2  ae (11)
0/2  be (12)
Through re-arrangements of (11) and (12) with insertion of (10), a and b can be
evaluated using expressions (13)-(19) below:
)/()( 2EBCDEABa  (13)
)/()( 2EBCAECDb  (14)
where     243 xxxyyxA (15)
   234 2 xxxB (16)
  246 2 xxxC (17)
  232 xxxyyxD (18)
  2345 xxxxE (19)
With the values of a and b of (8) determined, a fitted S-curve can be constructed.
For example, the S-curve fitted to the actual progress data in Figure 1 is y = -1.025x3
+ 2.108x2 –0.083x. Although in some cases fitting (8) may result in y slightly less
than 0 for x close to 0 or y slightly greater than 1 for x close to 1, this is a minor
6Evans and Kaka (1998). For solving (8), in addition to using (13)-(19), rectification
of any y<0 and y>1 by replacement of 0 and 1 after optimization was used as a
second method. As in the previous comparison, the mean and maximum of MSE and
RMSE for all 101 projects obtained from each method are shown in Table 1. The
manual adjustment method for solving (3) clearly decreases the errors of the original
method and achieves an improvement of about 20% in MSE reduction, albeit at the
expense of added efforts. On the other hand, the second method for solving (8)
achieves only a marginal MSE reduction of about 5% from optimization only, but its
implementation is easier and quicker than the parameter adjustment for (3). With
respect to fitting accuracy, (3) and (8) are generally on a par, considering the errors
of the two solving methods for each formula together. Therefore, although
mathematical proof is not possible and more tests are required to judge conclusively,
for the two sets of cases in Skitmore (1992) and herein, the proposed S-curve formula,
(8), with the advantages of a simpler form and the accompanying convenience in use,
is shown to be at least as good as (3).
DESCRIPTION OF MODEL
The idea of the model presented herein is to represent the S-curve by
parameters a, b of polynomial (8) and use neural networks to acquire the ability to
predict a, b from actual progress data, with the aim of producing a better early
S-curve estimate for a few given project conditions. The attainment of the goal will
be evaluated by comparing the accuracy of the model with that of the multiple
regression and average curve methods.
Input factors
The project data was filtered to set up input factors for a model for estimating
S-curves. The two quantifiable attributes, contract amount and duration, together
measure a project’s relative intensity that affects arrangement of activities, i.e. more
work is done concurrently or sequentially, so they were selected. Categorical
attributes comprising type of work, address of project, and identity of contractor,
were considered next. Type of work affects number of trades, lead-time, and site
character, so it has a bearing on distribution of work and project progress. Project
location in Taiwan, an island with significant regional differences in rainy seasons
and terrain, also has an effect. Although contractor performance certainly influences
progress, the limited information available does not allow a separate indicator for it
to be set up. Therefore, only four factors were used as inputs in model development:
contract amount, duration, type of work, and location.
8with additional patterns new to the network to determine prediction accuracy using
the error measures defined. Out of the collection of 101 projects, a largest possible
part (90) was kept for modeling through training and a minimum yet significant part
(11) was kept for testing. To counter bias in data, six training sets (designated
modeling samples one to six) and six testing sets (designated testing samples one to
six) were prepared from randomly picked projects. The six modeling samples were
used to develop six corresponding neural networks, which are then tested by the six
complementary testing samples. Prior to training, the contract amounts, durations,
and values of a and b for all projects were standardized to the range of 0-1. For the
two categorical variables, decimal representation according to the group numbers in
Tables 2 and 3 was adopted. MATLAB’s Neural Network Toolbox was used as the
training software. Each training session starts with random connection weights
initialized by a different seed (MATLAB 2007).
The initial configuration for the neural networks was four input nodes, nine
nodes in one hidden layer, two output nodes in the output layer, a learning rate of 0.2,
a momentum of 0.9 and the log-sigmoid transfer function. The training error could be
decreased fairly easily and always got lower with more training cycles (or epochs),
indicating that the networks could adapt to the data. However, it was more difficult to
bring down the testing error in the same time, which would become stagnant or even
increasing again past a certain point, a sign of over-training. Therefore, provided the
training error is already low, training was terminated when the testing error is at a
minimum, and the numbers of training cycles used for the six networks range
between 20000 and 30000. Then, each network’s performance was evaluated by the
total error based on (21) against actual progress and the average RMSE for testing
cases was near 6%, which was considered insufficiently accurate.
Subsequently, a few adjustments and trials were made and the final
configuration was revised to seven hidden nodes and a learning rate of 0.7. The
numbers of training cycles used now reduced to a low of 10000. These changes
represent a coarser training of the networks, but they perform better than before; their
modeling and testing RMSE are shown in Table 4. Two issues are noted. First, the
testing error is sensitive to the weights at the start of training and a network was
retrained a few times with different initial weights to get the lowest error, which is
somewhat biased. However, after all, as model performance is judged by the average
error of the six networks for the six random samples, the results of such retraining
can be interpreted as the best achievable. Second, for some projects, a slight change
in the values of a, b will lead to a large total error that is disproportionate to the
change. For the total error to be acceptable, the mapping error should be sufficiently
low, but it is not necessarily the least mean squared error for a and b, since in any
10
combined with the proposed S-curve formula has the following strengths. First, the
polynomial function is of a simpler form that allows more convenient usage in
calculating progress while its fitting accuracy is comparable to that of those best
available so far. Second, the neural network model produces an S-curve by
computing the combined effect of four factors and, as the example shows, the model
being adaptive to the case data can achieve a higher modeling and prediction
accuracy than both the average curve model and the more general multiple regression
model. Lastly, the model facilitates sensitivity analysis where project conditions are
not certain and effects of changing conditions need to be evaluated.
As is common to all S-curve formulas, the fitting error will always exist; a
smooth curve can never capture all the fluctuations of actual progress caused by
reasons specific to an individual project, managerial or otherwise. Although this
problem is less significant for early financial planning whose margins for error are
large and other mathematical forms can be explored in the future, heuristics relating
to improving the accuracy of a neural network model based on mapping of function
parameters are summarized here. The performance of a neural network is subject to
how it is trained, so training must consider noise in the data so as not to over-train it.
If a training session seems unlikely to give a good result, the network can be
retrained with different initial weights. Retraining is also used to deal with the
occasionally volatile relation between the mapping error and the total error; it is the
latter that determines model performance and is to be minimized. To eliminate the
bias of any particular network, the joint result of multiple networks developed from
different random samples should be taken as the model’s solution.
Future researches may use data from different owners covering a wider variety
of work. Meanwhile, additional input factors such as those relating to people and
other constraints may be considered, along with a more detailed classification
scheme for work, to improve on the presented model.
REFERENCES
Blyth, K, and Kaka, A. P. (2006). “A novel multiple linear regression model for
forecasting S-curves.”Engineering, Construction and Management, Vol.13, No.1,
82-95.
Evans, R. C., and Kaka, A. P. (1998).“Analysis of the accuracy of standard/average 
value curves using food retail building projects as case studies.”Engineering,
Construction and Architectural Management, 5(1), 58-67.
Kaka, A. P., and Price, A. D. F. (1993). “Modeling standard cost commitment curves 
for contractors’ cash flow forecasting.” Construction Management and 
12
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
time
cu
m
ul
at
iv
e
pr
og
re
ss actual progress
fitted curve: a=-3.003
b=4.409 rmse=0.0362
neural net: a=-2.169
b=3.296 rmse=0.0525
regression: a=-2.006
b=3.235 rmse=0.0759
average: a=-1.423
b=2.283 rmse=0.0778
Figure 2. Fitted S-curve versus estimated S-curves from neural network, multiple
regression, and average curve models for a project of 60 million NT$, 20 months,
type of work 3, and location 2
Table 1. Comparison between (3) and (8) in fitting accuracy for collected 101 projects
S-curve
formula
Parameters-solving method Mean
MSE
Maximum
MSE
Mean
RMSE
Maximum
RMSE
(3) regression/truncated data 0.000698 0.005399 0.0242 0.0735
(3) ditto + manual adjustment 0.000586 0.003446 0.0224 0.0587
(8) optimization by (13)-(19) 0.000654 0.002869 0.0236 0.0536
(8) ditto + rectification 0.000625 0.002869 0.0230 0.0536
Table 2. Classifications of projects by type of work and their mean values of
parameter a and parameter b
Group number (type of work)
Number of
projects
Mean value of
parameter a
Mean value of
parameter b
1 (Bridges/elevated roads) 31 -1.269 2.002
2 (Embankment roads) 53 -1.273 2.122
3 (Service areas/toll stations) 17 -2.217 3.386
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC96-2221-E-327-029
計畫名稱 預估專案 S曲線的多因子非線型模式
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
晁立中國立高雄第一科技大學副教授
會議時間地點 2008 年 2/11-2/15 在斯里蘭卡 Kandalama 舉行
會議名稱 BEAR2008(Building Education and Research) International Conference
發表論文題目 Estimation of contractor’s project overhead rate as research on building cost
一、參加會議經過
2008年 2/11-2/15在斯里蘭卡 Kandalama舉行的 BEAR2008(Building Education and Research,
建築教育與研究)研討會由國際性建築研究組織 CIB(International Council for Research and
Innovation in Building and Construction)的W89 working commission與英國知名大學 University
of Salford 及斯里蘭卡 University of Moratuwa 共同舉辦，本人得到國科會研究計畫
(NSC96-2221-E-327-029)及本校教學卓越計畫之獎助，前往參加並發表論文一篇(見附件)，兹
略述經過如下．
1. 本研討會主題為 Building Resilience(建設韌性)，課題涵蓋建築教育訓練，設計，營建
管理，成本規劃與控制，資訊技術，設施管理，及建築法務等．由於斯里蘭卡為 2004
大海嘯的受難國之一，災後重建，防災及環境管理的相關課題亦為本會重點之一．會
場 Heritance Kandalama位在該國內陸的古蹟區域，距離首都可倫坡四小時車程．
2. 會程共五天，2/11抵達 Kandalama後即行報到，當天下午有歡迎接待會．2/12-2/15每
日首先有一小時的 plenary session，由大會安排的 Keynote Speaker擔任．然後就是各
課題(theme)的 parallel sessions，共有 160篇論文發表．本人發表之論文題目為Estimation
of contractor’s project overhead rate as research on building cost，為第一天(2/11)的第一場
之首篇 presentation，內容主要為藉蒐集之實際成本數據探討如何建立估計承包商專案
間接費用比例的模式．
二、與會心得
Estimation of contractor’s project overhead rate as
research on building cost
Li-Chung Chao
Department of Construction Engineering, National Kaohsiung First University of Science and Technology,
Taiwan
(e-mail: chaolc@ccms.nkfust.edu.tw)
Abstract
The contractor’s project overhead costs are the on-site related costs for production support in undertaking a
project, such as those for supervision, office, utilities and services. Unlike direct costs, they are not directly
connected with the performance of any particular element of a project, but are required for running the
project as a whole. Despite the recommended practice of estimating the contractor’s field overhead for a
project as line items, the alternative method of applying a selected rate as a percentage of direct cost still is
used widely. As an ongoing research on building cost, Empirical models of project overhead rate have been
developed from historical data in the present study. The nature and significance of the contractor’s project
overhead are first explored, along with factors that have an influence on the overhead rate. The bid data for
173 building projects collected from a large construction firm in Taiwan covering a variety of work is
analyzed and a classification is established whereby the projects’overhead rates range between 0.0171 and
0.2912. The data is divided into two parts for model development and model testing according to order of
time. Then, two methods of estimation are compared in their modeling and prediction errors: the cluster
center method of categorizing projects into 24 groups and the multiple regression method using four
variables, i.e. size, duration, type of work, and location. Either method can achieve an average error of about
3% of direct cost in modeling as well as in prediction. An improvement on the subjective rate-applying
method, the model may coexist with the itemized estimation method as a checking mechanism and is
potentially useful to contractors as well as owners and consultants. Implications for the building industry and
recommendations for future research are also discussed.
Keywords: cost estimation, project overhead, empirical model, statistics
1. Introduction
The contractor’s project overhead costs are the on-site related costs for production support in undertaking a
project. Unlike direct costs, they are not directly connected with the performance of any particular element of
a project, but are required for running the project as a whole. Depending on the practice of categorizing costs,
they generally include costs of supervision, office, utilities and services, insurance, safety etc. The sum of
direct costs and project overhead costs is the contractor’s project construction cost representing all
expenditures internal to a project and essential for completing it according to specifications. In contrast, the
project’s share of the contractor’s home- office overhead costs and profit (so called the bid markup) is
Determination of the bid markup rate to be applied on top of the estimated project construction cost has
attracted much research interest over the past decades. For example, Ahmad and Minkarah [1], Chua and Li
[4] studied factors that influence the markup, which can be categorized broadly into internal and external
factors, or environment, company, and project factors. Using identified factors as inputs, many markup
models built upon past bid experiences, case data, or experts’opinion have been proposed, such as those in
Chua et al [5], Chao and Liou [2], and Chao [3]. Although they serve a different purpose from the present
study, the modeling methodology employed may be referred to, since both deal with very complex
estimation problems.
3. Factors influencing project overhead
Like direct costs, the project overhead costs are entirely project-oriented and consumed on site. The project
overhead rate presumably varies according to some project conditions and project features as reviewed
broadly below. Generic project factors identified by previous researches to have an effect on the bid markup
may also influence the level of project overhead, e.g. a small size project located in a remote area with a long
duration area is likely to have both a high bid markup and a high project overhead rate. First, common to all
construction projects, many overhead costs exhibit economies of scale, e.g. the larger the work, the lower the
manpower required for supervision per unit of work due to a more efficient deployment, and so the project
size as represented by total direct cost could be a factor. Next, the charges for several items of overhead costs
such as office rents and utility fees are mostly in proportion to the time that a project lasts, and hence project
duration is likely another factor. Average direct cost per month derived from the above two factors can
indicate the intensity of activity and may be considered as an alternative measurement of project size.
The main type of work of a project, i.e. road, building, etc, influences the number of specialty trades
involved, the proportion of labor cost, and the character of the site, concentrated or spreading, and thus has
an effect on supervision, coordination, and transportation requirements, which impact on the overhead rate.
Similarly, the project location, urban or rural, influences setting-up and maintenance costs of offices, shops,
and quarters. In particular, the country in which a project is located is an important factor as the contractor’s
operation is subject to customs, practices, and laws applicable. In developing countries, numerous taxes and
fees are levied on a construction project by various authorities, resulting in higher overhead costs in some
categories that have to be allowed for in estimates. In a large country, China, for example, there are even
regional differences in this regard.
Other possibly relevant project attributes include scope of contract, i.e. construction only or design and build
(D/B), and proportion of subcontracted work. D/B and subcontracting affect resources distribution and lead
to changes in interfaces and communication links with effects on costs for attendance, coordination, and
engineering in support of production. Last but certainly not least, the quality level required of a project is
believed to impact significantly on the staff and documentation efforts for quality control and hence
overhead costs. The quality level is to some extent implied by work type and project size, e.g. large mass
rapid transit contracts tend to require higher quality than common road contracts. However, it would be
better to stand as a separate factor since same size facilities such as buildings can have very varied qualities.
tests of the difference between the mean overhead rates of any two adjoining groups conclude that the null
(equality) hypotheses all cannot be rejected except for work type groups #5 and #6, suggesting that different
groupings may be used.
Table 1. Coefficients of correlation among quantifiable factors and project overhead rate for sample projects
Total direct
cost
Total
duration
Mean direct
cost per
month
Project
overhead
rate
Total direct cost 1
Total duration 0.4697 1
Mean direct cost per month 0.9289 0.2838 1
Project overhead rate 0.1059 0.3613 -0.0537 1
Table 2. Statistics of project overhead rates for sample projects by type of work
Group number (type of work) Number ofprojects
Mean project
overhead rate
Standard deviation of
project overhead rate
1 (Site works/parks) 16 0.0573 0.0277
2 (Buildings) 30 0.0597 0.0249
3 (Highways/airfields) 52 0.0665 0.0213
4 (Water structures) 5 0.0726 0.0167
5 (Bridges) 33 0.0728 0.0292
6 (Ports/marine facilities) 9 0.1072 0.0488
7 (Tunnels) 11 0.1217 0.0633
8 (Metros/high-speed rails) 17 0.1465 0.0510
Table 3. Statistics of project overhead rates for sample projects by project location
Group number (location) Number of
projects
Mean project
overhead rate
Standard deviation of
project overhead rate
1 (Cities/townships) 89 0.0730 0.0419
2 (Metropolitan areas) 62 0.0820 0.0360
3 (Remote areas) 22 0.0976 0.0577
5. Description of models
5.1 Data representation
While project overhead rate is the model output and project duration a model input, whether direct cost or
mean direct cost per month represents project size, another input, requires consideration. Trials later showed
to the deviation between model output and target output like MAE. It is therefore a consistent and convenient
performance indicator for the present single output problem. In the following, RMSE is used as the main
evaluator to measure model accuracy in monitoring performance and comparing different models, while
MAE and MAPE are used as secondary measures.
5.4 Cluster center and regression methods
Two methods, cluster center and regression, were used to model overhead rates for a comparison. Using
the cluster center method, the projects are classified according to combinations of work type and location
into clusters, with the maximum number of clusters at 8x3=24. The mean overhead rates for each cluster are
calculated as the modeled rates. Where there is a missing cluster, the mean for the work-type group is used in
its stead. Using the regression method, two multiple regression equations involving all four inputs were built:
one with the decimal representation and a total of four independent variables and the other with the binary
representation and a total of 11 independent variables. The built equations are then used to produce overhead
rates for cases within the modeling set as modeled rates and those for cases within the testing set as predicted
rates.
For each model above, the RMSE, MAE, and MAPE of modeling representing closeness of fit and those of
prediction representing test accuracy are calculated using (1), (2), and (3), respectively. The results are
shown in Table 4.
Table 4. RMSE, MAE, and MAPE of modeling (152 cases) and prediction (21 cases)
Models RMSE of
modeling
RMSE of
prediction
MAE of
modeling
MAE of
prediction
MAPE of
modeling
MAPE of
prediction
Cluster center
method 0.0289 0.0395 0.0207 0.0273 0.2870 0.3673
Regression with
decimal rep. 0.0336 0.0373 0.0243 0.0273 0.3291 0.4377
Regression with
binary rep. 0.0305 0.0409 0.0218 0.0266 0.3099 0.4202
6. Discussion and conclusions
Compared with the large standard deviation (0.0428) of overhead rates, all of the three models represent a
significant improvement (error reduction by more than 1% of direct cost) as a result of explaining factors
being introduced, meaning that the input factors are relevant for modeling. Overall, the cluster center method
outperforms the regression method and the regression model with binary representation outperforms the
regression model with decimal representation. This indicates that linear regression with decimal
representation is unsuitable for the problem as it fails to improve performance by picking up the extra factors
of project size and duration left out by the cluster center method.
An empirical model’s accuracy is inevitably affected by the level of noise in the data used for developing the
