具有形變通道之互補式金氧半電晶體載子穿輸與可靠性分析 
“Study on the Carrier Transport and Reliability of CMOS Transistors with Channel Strain” 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-009-297 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：林鴻志 交通大學電子工程系教授 
 
中文摘要 
此計畫探討具有氮化矽覆蓋之N型通道金
氧半場效電晶體之特性。雖然氮化矽覆蓋能有
效提升載子遷移率與驅動電流，但由於沉積過
程大量的氫將擴散進入通道區域，因此，降低
了熱載子可靠度。為了消除這個缺點，在沉積
氮化矽之前先沉積一層薄薄的多晶矽緩衝層
以阻擋氫的擴散，結果證實，加入薄薄的緩衝
層能提升熱載子可靠度並能維持氮化矽覆蓋
造成之電流增益。 
關鍵字: 氮化矽覆蓋, 緩衝層, 氫擴散, 熱載
子效應。 
Abstracts 
Characteristics of NMOSFETs with SiN 
capping were investigated in this work. 
Although the SiN capping could dramatically 
enhance the carrier mobility and thus the device 
drive current, the resistance to hot-carrier 
degradation is compromised as well, owing to 
the large amount of hydrogen contained in the 
SiN layer which may diffuse into the channel 
region during the process. To eliminate this 
shortcoming, the insertion of an ultra-thin (10 
nm) polycrystalline-silicon buffer layer between 
the gate and the SiN capping was proposed and 
demonstrated to restore the hot-carrier reliability 
of the devices without compromising the current 
enhancement due to the SiN capping. 
Keyword: SiN capping, buffer layer, diffusion of 
hydrogen, hot-carrier stress. 
Introduction 
Channel-strain engineering has emerged as 
one of the most effective remedies to boost the 
drive current in the scaled devices [1-5]. This 
could be done by either applying a high biaxial 
tensile strain to the channel region with a SiGe 
virtual substrate [1], or uniaxially straining the 
channel with strain boosters, such as stress liner 
[2], embedded SiC in the source/drain (S/D) 
region [3], and shallow trench isolation (STI) [4]. 
Among these approaches, a SiN capping layer 
over the gate of NMOSFETs serving as the 
contact etch-stop layer (CESL) has demonstrated 
its potential for large performance gains [5]. 
Such scheme is attractive and practical because 
it can be easily implemented using integrated 
circuit processing. Nevertheless, attentions 
should now be focused on the associated 
reliability issues for practical applications. 
Currently, device degradation caused by hot 
carriers represents one of the most critical 
reliability issues in strain-channel NMOSFETs 
[6,7]. Although the physical mechanisms and 
characteristics of hot electron degradation have 
been extensively examined [8,9], there seems to 
be very few works that investigate the impact of 
SiN capping. Furthermore, the deposition of a 
buffer layer prior to the SiN capping on the 
current of the SiN-capped samples and the 
BL-POLY samples depict similar trends, and 
both are larger than that of the control 
counterparts. When SiN is removed, the 
substrate current becomes comparable to that of 
the control devices. These results indicate that 
the channel strain plays an important role in 
affecting the generation of channel hot electrons 
and the associated impact ionization process. In 
addition, a thin poly-Si buffer layer of 10 nm 
does not seem to release the stress induced by 
the SiN capping, because of the similar 
maximum substrate current (Isub,max), and is 
consistent with the inference deduced from Fig. 
1. Origins for the increase in substrate current 
for the strained samples are ascribed to the 
bandgap narrowing effect induced by the 
channel strain as well as the increased mobility, 
both tend to enhance the impact ionization rate 
[10,11].  
Hot-carrier stressing for all splits of 
samples were performed at VDS = 4.9V and VGS 
at the maximum substrate current. Channel 
length and width of the test devices are 0.5 μm 
and 10 μm, respectively. Figure 3 shows 
threshold voltage shift as a function of stress 
time. We can see that the SiN-capped samples 
depict the worst degradation in terms of the 
largest threshold voltage shift, while samples 
with a thin poly-Si buffer layer apparently show 
improvement in hot carrier degradation. It is 
speculated that the increased carrier mobility in 
strained channel devices and abundant hydrogen 
contained in SiN capping are the two primary 
culprits for the aggravated hot-carrier 
degradation [11,12]. The increased carrier 
mobility may increase the device substrate 
current, as evidenced in Fig. 2, leading to higher 
degradation. On the other hand, the deposited 
SiN contains a large amount of hydrogen species 
which may diffuse into the gate oxide and 
channel region. It is well known that the 
breaking of Si-H bonds is one of the major 
origins responsible for the hot-carrier damage 
[8,9], the voluminous hydrogen species 
definitely aggravate the reliability. This is 
evidenced in the figure as the SiN-removal 
devices depict much severe degradation than the 
control and BL-POLY ones, even though the 
channel strain has been eliminated by the SiN 
removal. The phenomenon clearly indicates that 
the SiN deposition process itself may result in 
the enhanced damage effect in the short-channel 
devices. 
Figure 4(a) shows several possible 
pathways for hydrogen diffusion in SiN capped 
samples, namely, through the gate electrode 
(path A1) or oxide spacer (path A2) into the gate 
oxide and channel region, or through the S/D 
contacts into the Si-substrate and diffuse 
laterally into the channel region (path A3). The 
results shown in Fig. 3 for SiN-removal samples 
imply that such diffusion processes occur during 
the SiN deposition. It has been previously 
pointed out that the grain boundaries in poly-Si 
films act as efficient traps for hydrogen [13,14], 
explaining the observation that the diffusivity of 
hydrogen is significantly reduced as compared 
with that in oxide [13], and in mono-crystalline 
Si [13,14]. This indicates the A1 path is not 
preferred for hydrogen diffusion. Similarly, 
samples with the deposition of a poly-Si buffer 
layer prior to the SiN capping can effectively 
suppress the diffusion of hydrogen species into 
these regions from the pathways mentioned 
above, as shown in Fig. 4(b). As a result, less 
Stress Time (sec)
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
ΔV
th
 (m
V)
0
50
100
150
200
250
300 Control
SiN Capping
BL POLY 10nm
SiN Removal
W/L=10μm/0.5μm
VDS = 4.9V, VG@Isub,max
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.3 Vth shift as a function of stress time. Devices with 
channel width/length of 10/0.5 μm were stressed at VDS
= 4.9V, and VG of maximum substrate current.  
Fig.4 (a) In SiN-capped devices, a large amount of 
hydrogen species from the SiN layer diffuse to the gate 
oxide layer and the channel region through three 
possible pathways denoted as A1, A2, and A3. (b) In 
BL-POLY devices, the diffusion of hydrogen species 
from SiN is suppressed by the poly-Si buffer layer. 
 2
一、前言 
 
報告人此次赴日參加 2006 年國際固態元件與材料會議(2006 International 
Symposium on Solid-State Device and Material，簡稱 SSDM)，係由日本應用物理
協會(JAPS)所主辦，今年在日本橫濱的 Yokohama Pacific 國際會議中心舉行，會
期由 9 月 13 至 15 日，據大會資料顯示，今年參與人數首次超過 1000 人，是歷
來最多的一次。除了日本本土相關的半導體研發人員外，還有來自歐陸，美國及
亞洲的台灣、日本和韓國等地人員，其中台灣是除日本外投稿與註冊人數最多的
國家。筆者此次共有三篇論文在該會議中分別進行口頭報告與海報展示。另外也
受邀為今年會議的論文審查委員(Program Committee)，並協助主持其中一個
Session。 
 4
三、過程 
 
 筆者於 9 月 12 日出發，於當天下午抵達橫濱的會場。9 月 13 ~ 15 日為會議
的論文宣讀與討論。筆者於 9 月 15 日下午主持會議的 Session H9，當早上天並
參加海報論文展示。9 月 15 日當天下午結束大會議程後，參加 Technical Program 
Committee Meeting，於該會議中進行大會最佳論文與學生最佳論文之選拔，由各
領域委員經廣汎討論後，選出並提名數篇評價不錯的論文，最後再經由全體委員
以不記名投票方式選出最佳論文作品，全程歷時 3 個多小時才完成。9 月 16 日
結束行程返回臺灣。
 6
五、心得 
 
今年 SSDM 會議內容相當精采，其論文富有可參考性，若以所參與的 CMOS 
device physics / reliability，carrier transport，nanowire 等領域而言，對於短通道元
件遷移率的求取，元件的製作，以及負偏壓溫度不穩定性的理論等，對於學生未
來的研究提供有力的輔助，在會議中，大會並邀請了幾位國外知名研究學者，對
此研究內容或是現今元件發展的趨勢，做簡潔有力的報告，對於未來的研究更是
獲益良多。 
由大會資料顯示此次 SSDM 會議，台灣的投稿數目與參加此次會議人數均
僅次於日本，但在此次大會最佳論文之選拔中一篇也未入圍(除日本以外的國
家，新加坡與英國都有論文入選)，顯示我們的論文重量不重質。另外也有日本
的委員向我抱怨，台灣很多與會者的態度欠缺尊重，例如海報展示前的口頭介紹
有數篇來自台灣的作者缺席，同時於海報展示期間也有許多來自台灣的作者不在
現場說明或早退的情形發生，這些現象影響了別人對我們的觀感，也破壞了國家
的形象。未來筆者有機會的話將儘量勸說國內學術界的與會者改變其態度，也期
待掌管出國經費的國科會能訂定有效的管理辦法來改善狀況，勿使類似的情形再
次發生而貽笑國際。
