行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
具側翻功能的多功能病床機構設計 
 On the Mechanism Design of a Multi-Function Sickbed with the Capability of 
Making Patient Lie on Side 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-027-009  
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人  ：陳正光      國立台北科技大學機械工程系 
計畫參與人員：胡聖文  國立台北科技大學機電整合研究所 研究生 
           
 
一、摘要 
一般長期臥床的病患，必須定時翻身並加以拍
打，避免產生壓瘡，而定時翻身的照護需要極大的人
力及時間，目前一般使用的病床設計上並不具備側翻
功能；因此，本研究的目的即在於提出一具有側翻功
能之多功能病床的機構設計針。首先先對既有的翻身
裝置相關文獻加以蒐集、分類與分析。為了增加此具
側翻功能之病床的實用性，則利用品質機能展開
(QFD)的方法，篩選出關於此類病床設計的瓶頸技
術，藉此作為病床的設計重點；最後，依據此設計重
點，提出一符合需求的新型機構設計。接著以此新型
機構透過變化鏈機構設計流程，獲得更多可行機構之
圖集。其次，利用商用電腦軟體 ADAMS 將各可行機
構之尺寸最佳化，並驗證與模擬各機構之可行性；再
根據模擬與分析的結果，挑選出最佳的設計。最後，
依據此最佳設計製作一模型，證實此設計的可行性。 
 
關鍵詞: 壓瘡、病床、側翻功能、機構、最佳化 
 
Abstract 
   Many patients need to lie on sickbed 
chronically and their bodies must be turned regularly to 
prevent bedsore. To make such a patient lie on side 
requires a lot of time and manpower. The current 
sickbed design, however, does not provide such function. 
Therefore, this study aims to present a new mechanism 
design of multi-function sickbed with the capability of 
making patient lie on side. Firstly, the related literature 
of current multi-function sickbeds had been collected, 
categorized and analyzed. In order to increase the 
applicability of the new multi-function sickbed, we 
apply the technique of Quality Function Development 
(QFD) to set the requirements and to screen out the 
bottleneck technique for the design of such sickbed. 
Then, a new conceptual design that satisfies the 
requirements is presented. Thereafter, we applied the 
methodology for configuration synthesis of mechanisms 
with variable chains to obtain mechanism graphs of 
potential designs. The optimization of this kinematic 
design has been done through ADAMS software. By 
means of simulating in ADAMS, the feasibility of all 
potential designs has been confirmed. Then, the 
optimized design is selected. A prototype of this 
optimized design has been made to confirm its 
feasibility. 
Keywords: Bedsore, Function of Turning and Tipping, 
Mechanism, Optimization 
 
二、緣由與目的 
隨著科技的發展與全球人口逐漸高齡化[1]，加速
了醫療科技發展的腳步，近年來全球醫療器材市場更
以每年 5.6%的成長率穩定成長[2]。對慢性病患而
言，因其須醫護的時間非一年半載，如何幫助病患維
持正常生活作息與減輕病痛對其造成的痛苦，即為醫
療器材研發的一大目的。 
在 1995-2001 年期間台閩地區護理之家機構的病
 1
可繞長軸之軸線作一旋轉仰起之動作；爲因應仰背與
舉腿所須，將床板劃分為四個部份，再將其床板沿其
長軸做一分割，使其可區分為八個部分，如圖一所示。 
4.3.2 仰背與右側翻身機構之設計 
   此部份之設計，主要利用仰背與翻身運動不會同
時發生，而將右側翻身機構與仰背機構設為同一組機
構；此設計之目的為兩組機構可共用一輸入裝置，以
減少致動器、整體桿件與接頭之數量。如圖二所示，
此機構於仰背板及右側翻身板下方設有一活動板，此
活動板為一四接頭桿，其上下兩端分別藉由一旋轉接
頭與床框及輸入桿相連接，且藉由一接觸對與仰背板
作連接；因右側翻身板與床框間之旋轉接頭之旋轉軸
向與其它旋轉接頭之軸向相互垂直，藉此，本研究則
利用一空間槓桿組(如圖三所示)來連接活動板與右側
翻身板。如圖四所示之此機構於仰背狀態時之側視
圖，當驅動輸入桿伸出，且帶動活動板於平躺狀態之
初始位置作一逆時針旋轉，即可利用仰背板與活動板
之接觸，來提供仰背板作一旋轉運動；此時，活動板
則與右側翻身板分離，且右側翻身板與床框之旋轉對
也變成固定對。 
4.3.3 舉腿與左側翻身機構之設計 
   利用舉腿與側翻此兩種運動不會同時發生之概
念，應用於新型舉腿與左側翻身機構之設計，同樣可
藉由一個驅動裝置達成兩個不同動作。本研究所提出
之舉腿與左側翻身機構，如圖五示。舉腿時之輸出為
大腿板與小腿板兩根桿件，且小腿板可藉由支撐桿與
大腿板的連接作動，如圖六所示。 
4.4 變化鏈機構之機構構造合成 
仰背與右側翻身機構雖為一空間機構，但因其仰
背板與右側翻身板不會同時作動，因此可分為仰背、
平躺與右側翻身等三種狀態，各以不同的機構簡圖來
表示相對應之關係，如圖七所示。接著，將其透過變
化鏈設計流程[7]，即可得到仰背與右側翻身機構之可
行的機構圖集。最後利用個別化將特殊化鏈圖集轉換
為機構簡圖，即可得到可行之機構圖集，如圖八所示
(含三種狀態示意圖)，其中圖(c)為先前提出之新型設
計，所以此三組機構均為新型仰背與右側翻身機構。 
以相同的方法處理舉腿與左側翻身機構，亦可得
到可行之機構圖集，如圖九所示(含三種狀態示意
圖)，其中圖(c)為先前提出之新型設計，所以此三組
機構均為新型舉腿與左側翻身機構。 
4.5 尺寸設計與最佳化的結果 
    利用 ADAMS 軟體進行尺寸設計最佳化，分別以
訂定之設計空間、仰背角度需可仰起至 75 度、活動
板輸入角度需小於或等於 90 度及空間槓桿組的機械
利益平均值需大於或等於一作為最佳化的限制條
件，求出先前之三組仰背與右側翻身的最佳化機
構，利用決策矩陣法(Decision Matrix Method)以選出
較佳的仰背與右側翻身機構，結果是圖八之(c)的先
前提出之新型設計為最佳。以相同的方法處理舉腿與
左側翻身機構，亦得最佳的是圖九之(c)的先前提出之
新型設計。隨後並以 ADAMS 軟體進行模擬及分析，
確定設計的正確性。 
4.6 製作模型進行實際測試 
    依據 4.5 節得出之最佳設計，使用透明壓克力材
料進行模型製作，其結果如圖十至圖十三所示，證
實了此設計的可行性。 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
    本研究已完成之工作項目: 
1. 具側翻功能的多功能病床機構之相關專利及資
料的收集與整理、比較。 
2. 利用品質機能展開法，篩選出此類具側翻功能病
床設計的瓶頸技術。 
3. 提出一新型具側翻功能的多功能病床機構構想
設計。 
4. 利用變化鏈機構之機構構造合成方法，尋找可行
之設計，在仰背與右側翻身機構及舉腿與左側翻
身機構各找到三組可行之設計。 
5. 對各個可能之設計利用ADAMS軟體進行尺寸設
計、模擬、分析與最佳化，再以決策矩陣法，從
可能之設計中選出最佳的最後設計。 
6. 對最後選定的最佳設計製作模型進行實際測
試，證實該設計的可行性。 
已完成的工作項目，和原先計畫預定完成的項目
完全相同。在學術上，本研究的成果已發表於第九屆
 3
 
圖六：舉腿與左側翻身機構於舉腿狀態之側視圖 
 
圖七：仰背與右側翻身機構三種運動狀態之簡圖 
 
圖八：仰背與右側翻身機構可行之特殊化鏈圖集 
 
 
圖九：舉腿與左側翻身機構可行之機構圖集 
 
圖十：病床實體模型  
 
圖十一：仰背與舉腿  
 
圖十二：右側翻 
 
圖十三：左側翻 
 5
行 政 院 國 家 科 學 委 員 會 補 助 國 內 專 家 學 者 出 席 國 際 學 術 會 議 報 告   
                                96 年 7 月 31 日 
報  告  人 
 
姓    名 
 
陳  正  光 
服 務 機 構
 
及  職  稱
 
國立台北科技大學機械工程系
    時 間 
會 議 
    地 點 
June18-21, 2007 
    
 Besançon, France 
本 會 核 定
 
補 助 文 號
 
編號：NSC 95-2221-E-027-009
會議名稱 
 
12th IFToMM World Congress 
發 表 論 文 題 目 
Study on the Mechanism Design of a Multi-Function Sickbed with the 
Capability of Making Patient Lie on Side 
 
一、參加會議經過 
      IFToMM World Congress 為每四年召開一次的國際性機構與機器原理學術研討會，
是全世界機構領域最盛大的研討會，參與成員利用此研討會互相交換與切磋彼此在機構與
機器原理方面的研究心得。 
      此次第十二屆的研討會第一次在法國的 Besançon 召開，邀槁在去年九月中截止，
然後進行審稿，於去年十二月中左右通知審稿結果。此次共收到來自全世界五十一個不同
國家 721 篇論文，經過嚴謹的審核最後共接受 550 篇論文發表，接受率大約是 77%。我國
有三十五篇左右被接受發表，名列五十一個國家的前幾名。 
      我國此次共有近三十位學者或研究生參加，會議從六月十八日一直進行到二十一日
中午，共分七十六個發表場次及兩個張貼場次進行，同時大會並安排三個參觀活動，以供
參與會員選擇。 
      本人的論文被排在最後一天早上發表，如同所有的研討會一般，最後一天大部份與
會的人皆已離開，因此除掉發表者外，只有十多位在場聆聽與發問。本人的論文發表後，
有三位學者提問，皆順利回答。該場次中有一篇來自中國的論文，作者並未出席發表。 
 
二、與會心得 
1. 感謝國科會的補助，才能參與此次盛會，從其中認識一些其它國家知名的學者及
他們所進行的研究成果與方向，對今後研究領域開拓有很大的助益。 
2. 雖然我國發表篇數頗多，但是對岸中國發表篇數幾乎多出我國一倍，值得我們警
惕與努力。 
3. 國際研討會參與人員大部份皆盛裝與會，代表對該研討會的重視，值得國內研討
會參與人員參考。 
4. 最後一天大部份與會人員皆已離開，因此大部份場次皆顯得冷清，值得研討會主
辦單位思考如何留住與會的人員。 
5. 主辦單位與 Besançon 市公車單位合作，提供與會人員免費搭乘，非常方便，也值
得國內研討會主辦單位在未來主辦時可以考慮的作法。 
6. 發表的場次偶爾會因發表者下載 powerpoint 檔案無法開啟而導致拖延時間，值得
12th IFToMM World Congress, Besançon (France), June18-21, 2007          
 
 Study on the Mechanism Design of a Multi-Function Sickbed with the Capability 
of Making Patient Lie on Side 
 
 Ching-Kong Chen* Sheng-Wen Hu†  
 National Taipei University of Technology National Taipei University of Technology 
 Taipei, Taiwan Taipei, Taiwan 
 Abstract—Many patients need to lie on sickbed chronically 
and their bodies must be turned regularly to prevent bedsore. To 
make such a patient lie on side requires a lot of time and 
manpower. The current sickbed design, however, does not 
provide such function. Therefore, this paper presents a new 
mechanism design of multi-function sickbed. We applied the 
methodology for configuration synthesis of mechanisms with 
variable chains to obtain mechanism graphs of potential designs. 
The optimization of this kinematic design has been done through 
ADAMS software. By means of simulating in ADAMS, the 
feasibility of the new design has been confirmed.1 
 
 Keywords: bedsore, sickbed, function of turning, 
variable kinematic chains, optimization 
 
I. Introduction 
Many patients, who are resident with persistent 
vegetative state (PVS), paraplegia, stroke and spinal cord 
injure (SCI), need to lie on sickbed chronically and their 
bodies must be turned over regularly to prevent bedsore. 
While the number of these patients has been increasing 
annually, there are insufficient nurses to take care of them. 
The regular task of making a patient lie on side requires a 
lot of time and manpower. The current sickbed design, 
however, does not provide such function. Therefore, it is 
the aim of this research to develop a multi-function 
sickbed that has the capability of turning patient’s body to 
lie on side in order to reduce the required manpower and 
time on such medical care. Hopefully, it could help these 
patients get better medical care. 
  The current sickbed designs such as [1,2] are manually 
operated only; therefore, its efficacy is restricted. Some 
sickbed designs have the capability with turning patient’s 
body over [3,4,5,6], however, those sickbeds do not 
provide the functions of sitting up and leg lifting. 
Although some sickbed designs [7,8,9,10,11] have general 
functions and turning patient’s body to make patient lie on 
side as well, those sickbeds require too many actuators 
and their mechanisms are too complicated or cumbersome. 
Therefore, they are expensive, and their practicability is 
reduced.  A detailed review of those sickbed designs 
[1~16] could be found in [17]. 
                                                 
*E-mail: ckchern@ntut.edu.tw 
† E-mail: mic7012@yahoo.com.tw 
 
This paper presents a new design of multi-function 
sickbed with the capability of making patient lie on side. 
This new design is simple and uses less actuators than that 
of the current designs. The technique of Quality Function 
Development (QFD) has been applied to obtain the design 
requirements. We also applied the creative mechanism 
design methodology to obtain additional potential designs. 
The final selected design has been optimized through 
ADAMS software. By means of simulating in ADAMS, 
the feasibility of the new design has been confirmed. 
 
II. Design Requirements 
In order to increase the applicability of the new multi-
function sickbed, we had applied the technique of Quality 
Function Development (QFD) to obtain the functional 
requirements and to screen out the bottleneck techniques 
for the design of such sickbed. The detailed results of 
QFD are described in [17]. The design requirements 
include: (1) provide the functions of sitting-up, leg-lifting, 
turning body and elevating; (2) meet the National 
Standards; (3) reduce the weight, numbers of actuators, 
links and joints; (4) sitting-up and leg-lifting should not be 
acting simultaneously; (5) the leg-lifting should consist 
two parts: shank and thigh. The bottleneck techniques of 
the design include the sitting-up mechanism, the leg-
lifting mechanism, the turning-body mechanism, the 
number of required actuator, the number of links and 
joints. Moreover, we found the functions of sitting up and 
leg lifting should be able to act independently, not 
simulataneously, and  it cannot be compromised in order 
to reduce the number of the element of mechanisms 
unilaterally . 
 
III. Conceptual Design 
A. Design the Sitting- up and Right-turning Mechanism 
Based on the fact that the motions of sitting-up and 
turning patient’s body to lie on right side can’t be 
simulataneous, we combine the sitting-up and right-
turning mechanisms together,  and present a new sitting-
up and right-turning mechanism design. In other words, 
the purpose of this part of design is to use only one 
actuator to provide two different output functions. Hence, 
it can reduce the numbers of actuators, joints, and links 
required. 
 
 
12th IFToMM World Congress, Besançon (France), June18-21, 2007                                
revolute joint between the right-turning plate and the 
sitting-up plate is temporarily transformed into a fixed 
joint. Hence, the turning plate can turn a patient’s body to 
make him/her lie on right side. 
 
 
 
Fig. 5.  Side view of the sitting-up and right-turning mechanism in right-
turning position 
 
B. Design the Leg-Lifting and Left-turning Mechanism 
 This mechanism design (shown in Fig. 6) also applies 
the fact that the leg lifting and turning patient’s body to lie 
on left side can’t be simultaneous. Therefore, the new 
design can provide two output functions with only one 
actuator. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. Side view of the leg lifting and left-turning mechanism in lying 
position 
 
 The motion of leg lifting is different from that of sitting-
up. For this reason, this mechanism has two outputs on the 
thigh plate and the shank plate for the leg lifting. One end 
of the shank plate is connected to the thigh plate and the 
other end to the support bar as shown in Fig. 7. Due to 
motion of telescopic-link set, the swing arm will rotate in 
clockwise or counterclockwise direction. When the swing 
arm rotates in clockwise direction, it drives the thigh plate. 
The thigh plate is the input link of a four-bar linkage that 
consists of the thigh plate, the shank plate, the supporting 
bar and the frame. As a result of the motion of thigh plate, 
the leg is lifted and the shank is rotated relatively to the 
thigh. At this moment, the left turning plate is separated 
from the swing arm, and the revolute joint between the 
left turning plate and the frame is temporarily locked up. 
When the swing arm rotates in counterclockwise direction; 
it drives the left turning plate to rotate through the spatial 
level linkage. At this moment, the thigh plate is separated 
from the swing arm, and the revolute joint between the 
left turning plate and the thigh plate is temporarily 
transformed into a fixed joint. Hence, the turning plate can 
turn a patient’s body to make him/her lie on left side. 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. Side view of the leg-lifting and left-turning mechanism in leg 
lifting position 
 IV. Configuration Synthesis  
 In order to find the potential mechanism designs for the 
above two mechanisms, the creative mechanism design 
methodology has been applied. The creative mechanism 
design methodology [19] is used in the configuration 
synthesis of mechanisms with closed kinematic chains. 
However, for these two new mechanisms, the topological 
structure is variable during operating; therefore, it cannot 
be described with a single kinematic diagram. Hence, this 
research applies the methodology for configuration 
synthesis of mechanisms with variable kinematic chains 
[18]. The flowchart of configuration synthesis of 
mechanisms with variable chains  is shown in Fig.8.  
 
 
 
Fig. 8. Flowchart of configuration synthesis of mechanisms with variable 
chains [18] 
 
 
 
12th IFToMM World Congress, Besançon (France), June18-21, 2007                                
corresponding to different states. There are three different 
states: leg lifting, lying-down and left-turning. As shown 
in Fig. 12,  three different kinematic diagrams represent 
the corresponding three different states. 
  As shown in Fig. 12, the cam pair 8 connects the left-
turning plate KL and swing arm KA. It is used to transfer 
the motion to two different planes. The axes of joints 5 
and 10 are orthogonal to those of joints 6, 9, 11 and 12. 
 
 
 
Fig.12. Kinematic diagrams of the leg-lifting and left-turning mechanism 
corresponding to three states 
 
 In the leg lifting state as shown in Fig.12(a), the joint 7 
becomes a separated pair, the revolute pairs 5 and 10 
become fixed. Due to the fixed joint 10, the shank plate 
KS and connecting plate KQ  turn into one link. Therefore, 
the frame KF, the thigh plate Kb, the shank plate KS and 
support bar KO construct a four bar linkage. The 
connecting plate and the shank plate.are driven by the 
thigh plate Kb that is driven through the cam pair 8. 
Hence,. This mechanism can provide leg lifting motion for 
patient’s legs. 
 In the right turning state as shown in Fig.12 (c), the joint 
8 becomes a separated pair, and the revolute pair 6, 9, 11 
and 12 become fixed. Therefore, the thigh plate, Kb, and 
the shank plate, KS, could rotate with the left turning plate, 
KL. Consequently, it can turn the patient’s body to make 
patient lie on left side. The lying-down state as shown in 
Fig.12 (b) is the transited state between the other two 
states. 
 In order to conform the actual trace of human leg lifting, 
as mentioned above, the frame KF, the thigh plate Kb, the 
shank plate KS and support bar KO need to construct a four 
bar linkage. The shank plate KS must be the coupler of 
this four bar linkage. The connecting plate KQ is used to 
avoid the interference of the two different motions for this 
mechanism. Therefore, during the synthesis procedure, the 
topological characteristics about the shank plate KS, 
support bar KO and connecting plate KQ are unchanged. If 
we eliminate these three links, we will obtain the same 
structure with the sitting-up and right-turning  mechanism. 
Hence, we applied the atlas of design for the sitting-up 
and right-turning mechanism. Then, the atlas of leg lifting 
and left-turning mechanisms could be obtained as shown 
in Fig. 13. Fig. 13(c) is the new design presented in 
section II. 
 
 
 
Fig. 13. Atlas of leg-lifting and left-turning mechanisms in three states 
 
V. Optimization and Simulation 
A. Dimensional Design and Optimization 
 Dimensional design is the main part of 
mechanism design; it influences the motion characteristics 
of a mechanism. The purpose of dimensional design is to 
determine the dimensions of all members of a mechanism. 
In this way, we can confirm the feasibility, efficiency and 
design space of the mechanism. Hence, this study 
constructed simplified models in ADAMS software. Then, 
we assigned the design objective to increase the 
mechanical advantage (MA), and set the design variables 
and design constraints as well. Therefore, by using 
ADAMS, the optimization of each feasible mechanism in 
Fig.11 and 13 has been done. By applying the decision 
matrix method, we found the configuration (c) in Fig.11 
and the configuration (c) in Fig.13 are optimum. Please 
refer to [17] on the details of this process and their final 
dimensional design.  
 
B. Simulation and Analysis of Mechanical Advantage 
 After the dimensional design, we obtain all the 
dimensions for the members of the above two optimum 
 
 
 
