2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
選擇性金屬化的軟性基材表面之特性研究
The study of selective metallization on flexible substrate surface
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-270 -002 -
執行期間：97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日
計畫主持人：莊妙如
共同主持人：朱安國
計畫參與人員：林威育、張簡旭翔
摘要
在本實驗中，我們發現以六氟化硫(sulfur hexafluoride, SF6)電漿改質聚對苯二甲二乙酯 (Poly
ethylene terephthalate , PET) 高分子基材，並於基材表面放置遮罩並控制基材與遮罩間之距
離，可同時獲得親水與疏水的表面特性。而經電漿改質前後之PET基材之表面特性則是由接
觸角量測(contact angle measurement)、原子力顯微鏡(atomic force microscope)及 X 射線光電
子能譜儀(x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy ,XPS)獲得。由接觸角量測數據顯示未放置遮罩
(Unshielded)之區域其接觸角為113.3 ± 0.5˚，而有遮罩區(Shielded)則為小於5度。由XPS分析可
發現經SF6電漿理後的PET基材表面，在「Unshielded」區域，CF2-CF2的吸收峰強度大幅度增
加，由此可判斷是造成潤濕力下降之原因。而在「Shielded」區域，則是偵測到有親水基例如
羰基(carbonyl)、羰酸基(carboxyl) 及氟氧基(CFO)的吸收峰強度大幅度增加。這顯示有大量的
氟原子或是氧原子接枝到PET基材的表面，因此造成表面的化學結構有大幅度的改變。
關鍵字：親水性，疏水性，六氟化硫電漿，聚對苯二甲二乙酯
Abstract
This study demonstrates that sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) plasma can result in relatively hydrophobic
and hydrophilic surfaces formed in-situ on polyethylene terephthalate (PET) films using a mask and
controlling the distance of the mask to the substrate. The surface properties of plasma-treated PET
films are characterized by contact angle measurement, atomic force microscopy (AFM), and x-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Under specific modification conditions, contact angles for
hydrophobic and hydrophilic surfaces reach values of 113.3 ± 0.5  ˚and below 5˚, respectively. The 
XPS analyses indicate that the “unshielded” surfaces contained a high proportion of the CF2-CF2
group and therefore decreased the wetability of the surface. On the other hand, the “shielded” 
surface contained hydrophilic groups such as carbonyl or carboxyl with few fluorinated groups,
resulting in increased wettability of the surface.
Keywords：hydrophilic, hydrophobic, sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) plasma, polyethylene terephthalate
(PET)
4Fig. 1. Schematic of the electron cyclotron resonance
plasma treatment apparatus.
3. Results and discussions
The water contact angles as a function of the
SF6 plasma treatment time are shown in Fig. 2.
All PET films were treated at a working
pressure of 0.67 Pa, a Dms of 0.6 mm, and an
MW power of 200W. “Unshielded” means that
the surface is not covered by a mask, while
“shielded” refers to the opposite. Fig. 2 shows 
that the water contact angles of the
“unshielded” surface were nearly constant 
when the plasma treatment time was longer
than 3 min. It is 74˚ with the water contact
angle of the untreated PET film. For the
“shielded” surface, the water contact angle 
decreases radically with the increase in plasma
treatment time and reaches a minimum value
(below 5˚) at a plasma treatment time of 5 min. 
Then the water contact angle decreases with an
increase in time. A high contrast surface was
obviously obtained after plasma treatment
within 5-7 min of treatment time range at a
power of 200W. The difference in water
contact angle between the hydrophilic and
hydrophobic regions is large, as indicated by
the differential water contact angle of 100o
between the two regions. Fig. 3 pictures the
images of the water droplets on the untreated
and plasma-treated PET films at a treated time
of 5 min.
Fig. 2. The water contact angles as a function of the SF6
plasma treatment time.
Fig. 3. The optical images of water drops on the PET
films: (a) untreated, (b) unshielded, and (c) shielded.
(The Dms was controlled at 0.6 mm, and treated time of 5
min.)
Fig. 4 shows the water contact angles as a
6Fig. 5 illustrates the root-mean-square surface
roughness (RMS) and morphology of the
untreated and plasma-treated PET films at a
treatment time of 5 min, with a distance of 0.6
mm. The untreated PET film shows an RMS of
0.9 nm. For the “unshielded” and “shielded” 
surfaces, the RMS was 1.1 nm and 1.4 nm,
respectively. The wettability of the substrate
depends on several factors, such as surface
roughness.[14] An increase in roughness on the
hydrophilic surface decreases the contact angle,
whereas increasing the roughness does the
opposite. As compared to the roughness of the
untreated PET film surface, there is no
significant difference expect for a slight
difference in the morphology of the surface.
Therefore, the AFM measurement results on the
roughness effect can be disregarded without
strongly influencing the change in surface
property. The chemical composition varies in
the polymer surface as caused by the plasma
treatment, which leads to wettability changes.
Figure 6 shows the image of the
hydrophilic/hydrophobic patterned PET
surface with the hydrophilic domains line
using a dye-containing solution.before the
evaporation of water drop. The line width was
about 1.5mm for “shielded” surface was
obtained using the image of the fluidic line
under a light microscope.
4. Conclusion
A simple method for producing a high
hydrophilic/hydrophobic contrast surface on a
flexible substrate by ECR SF6 plasma has been
demonstrated. This is achieved using a mask
and by controlling the distance of the mask to
the substrate. At the optimum parameters of the
SF6 plasma, the “shielded” surface after 
plasma treatment exhibited a super hydrophilic
property, that is, the water contact angle is
lower than 5˚. Meanwhile, the F/C ratio is 0.88, 
and the O/C ratio is 0.36. On the other hand,
for the ” unshielded” surface, the water contact 
angle increases to 113.5 ± 0.5˚, the F/C ratio 
increases to 1.09, and the O/C ratio decreases
to 0.32. This high hydrophilic/hydrophobic
contrast surface can be patterned as a flexible
substrate for fluid devices and simple biochip
arrays applications. The advantage of this
method is the elimination of the need for
conventional photolithography.
Fig.5. AFM pictures of the PET surfaces: (a) untreated,
plasma-treated PET (b) without a mask shielded, and (c)
with a mask shielded (the mask-to-substrate distance is
controlled at 0.6 mm).
