  
 
Abstract—“Telepresence” is an interesting field that 
includes virtual reality implementations with human-system 
interfaces, communication technologies, and robotics. This 
paper describes the development of a telepresence robot 
called TRIC (Telepresence Robot for Interpersonal 
Communication) for the purpose of interpersonal 
communication with the elderly in a home environment. The 
main aim behind TRIC’s development is to allow elderly 
populations to remain in their home environments, while 
loved ones and caregivers are able to maintain a higher level 
of communication and monitoring than via traditional 
methods. 
 
Keywords —Telepresence, Interpersonal communication, 
autonomous behaviors, robot, tele-homecare. 
I. TELEPRESENCE APPLICATION IN 
INTERPERSONAL COMMUNICATION 
“Telepresence” is an interesting field that includes 
virtual reality implementations with human-system 
interfaces, communication technologies, and robotics. 
The earliest research in telepresence dates back to the 
1960’s. Goertz in 1965 and Chatten in 1972 showed that 
when a video display is fixed relative to the operator’s 
head and the head’s own pan-and-tilt drive the camera’s 
pan-and-tilt functions, the operator feels as if she were 
physically present at the location of the camera, 
however remote it is [1].  
Sheridan [1, 2] defines telepresence as: “…visual, 
kinesthetic, tactile or other sensory feedback from the 
teleoperator to the human operator that is sufficient and 
properly displayed such that the human feels that he is 
present at the remote site, and that the teleoperator is an 
extension of his own body. Akin et al. [3] described 
telepresence such that, “At the worksite, the 
manipulators have the dexterity to allow the operator to 
perform normal human functions. At the control station, 
the operator receives sufficient quantity and quality of 
sensory feedback to provide a feeling of actual presence 
at the worksite.” These two definitions emphasize 
control and sensory feedback between the human 
operator and the “teleoperator” or the “manipulator at 
the worksite”. 
Schloerb [4] defines telepresence from the point of 
view of an “observer”, “a person is objectively present 
in a real environment that is physically separated from 
the person in space.” He uses three types of 
specifications to make the definitions more precise: (1) 
a set of tasks, (2) a transformation imposed on the 
human operator’s control output and sensory input, and 
(3) a transformation of the region of presence. The 
degree of objective telepresence is equal to the 
probability of successfully completing a specified task. 
Schloerb also proposed that perfect telepresence occurs 
when the operator cannot discriminate virtual from 
reality. 
To summarize, telepresence provides a connection 
between a user (or the “operator” as defined by 
Sheridan and Akin) and a distant participant or an 
environment (real world or computer generated world), 
to perform social interactions (user-participant 
interactions) or specific tasks (user-environment 
interactions). In this research, we are interested in the 
application of a telepresence robot for communicating 
and interacting between the “user” and the “participant” 
in a remote site. In such applications, the remote 
participant is not only an “observer” as in Schloerb’s 
definition, but also a “dialogist” in the interpersonal 
communication. 
Following this framework, there are two views in 
telepresence application for interpersonal 
communication: the user’s view and the participant’s 
view, as depicted in Figure 1. From the user’s view, 
telepresence enables the user to project herself/himself 
to another place by controlling the telepresence robot or 
system. In the meantime, the user perceives immersion 
from the sensory feedback from the remote environment 
created by telepresence. 
As discussed earlier, the “participant” may have 
two roles in telepresence application in interpersonal 
communication: as an observer and a dialogist. From 
the participant’s view, telepresence provides necessary 
elements to the user and the telepresence robot, so that 
the participant recognizes the telepresence robot as a 
representation of the user. Telepresence also enables 
dialogue between the participant and the user by 
transmitting audio, video, gestures, physical movements, 
and other environmental information between the 
participant and the user, which are helpful for effective 
communication. 
For interpersonal communication, telepresence 
differs from traditional video conferencing by 
establishing a true sense of shared space among 
geographically remote persons. By duplicating the 
three-dimensional human experience via actual 
face-to-face encounters, telepresence is a stunningly 
different way to telecommunicate. 
Developing a telepresence robot for interpersonal communication 
with the elderly in a home environment 
  
 
specific placement 
(1) Data transmission 
Data transmission, the transmission of control 
commands and sensory feedback, is a basic design 
element for the connection between the user and the 
remote telepresence robot or system. Wireless radio 
frequency and Internet are used in most telepresence 
applications, and dedicated lines are used in specific 
applications (such as operation in space and deep sea). 
From the user’s view, timing of data transmission 
is important. Time delays would degrade the 
telepresence 
performance in both projection and immersion of 
the user. From the participant’s view, the time delays 
also affect the participant’s impression as an observer 
and interactive capability as a dialogist. Therefore, past 
telepresence research in data transmission focused on 
the development of a control scheme to deal with time 
delays for promoting performance [7, 8]. 
(2) Teleoperation 
Many studies in telepresence emphasize on 
enabling the user to modify the remote environment [9, 
10, 11], that is, projecting the user to the teleoperator. A 
teleoperator is a machine that extends the user’s sensing 
and/or manipulating capability to a location remote 
from that user. Teleoperation refers to direct and 
continuous human control of the teleoperator. 
(3) Supersensory 
Supersensory refers to an advanced capability to 
modify the remote environment provided by a dexterous 
robot or a precise telepresence system. From the user’s 
view, the user’s manipulative efficiency for special 
tasks is enhanced when projecting onto a telepresence 
robot with supersensory. 
Supersensory elements can also provide the user 
with a novel immersion feeling in a remote environment. 
For example, the user can control the zoom function of 
the camera on a telepresence robot to observe the small 
details of the remote environment, which the user does 
not normally see with the naked eye. 
(4) Anthropomorphic elements 
In telepresence applications, non-anthropomorphic 
telepresence robots are usually designed to perform 
specific tasks which do not involve interacting with 
human. Anthropomorphic elements are of great 
importance for robots involving human-robot 
interaction. Many researches added anthropomorphic 
elements to their telepresence robots in order to improve 
the interaction between users and participants. 
For interacting with the participants, the user’s face 
displayed on a LCD screen is incorporated in many 
telepresence robots, such as Dr. Robot and PEBBLES. 
There are many other solutions for 
anthropomorphic elements [12, 13, 14, 15]. For example, 
Burgard et al. installed mechanical facial expressions 
and a touch screen interface on their tour-guide robots 
to attract on-site visitors’ reactions. 
In summary, anthropomorphic elements enhance 
the impression of the telepresence robot as a true 
representation of the remote user. The friendly interface 
and characteristics of the anthropomorphic telepresence 
robot also increase the interactive capability of the 
participant as a dialogist. Mechanical facial expressions 
can also be used to increase the humanoid 
characteristics of the telepresence robot to further 
encourage people to interact and communicate with the 
user. 
(5) Stereoscopic and stereophonic elements 
In telepresence research, stereoscopic and 
stereophonic design elements are often emphasized to 
create a telepresence illusion of the remote environment 
or people aiming to increase the feeling of immersion 
for the user. For example, the user can identify the 
distance between an object and the telepresence robot 
by binocular vision [16]; the head-related transfer 
function (HRTF) for stereophonic effect enables the 
user to identify the location and direction of a sound 
[17]. 
Telepresence videoconferencing is an important 
application using stereoscopic and stereophonic 
elements [18, 19, 20]. Telepresence videoconferencing 
enables the users and the participants to communicate 
more efficiently. In other words, the interactive 
capability of the participant as a dialogist is enhanced. 
(6) Eye contact 
Eye contact is an important element for 
human-to-human communications. It is a well-known 
cue for gaining attention and attracting interest. In 
human-robot interaction, a robot with eye contact would 
be more familiar and comfortable for humans to interact 
with. Yamato et al. [21] focused on the effect that 
recommendations made by the agent or robot had on 
user decisions, and designed a “color name selection 
task” to determine the key factors in designing 
interactively communicating robots. They used two 
robots as the robot/agent for comparison. From the 
experiments, eye-contact and attention-sharing are 
considered to be important features of communications 
that display and recognize the attention of participants. 
(7) Autonomous behaviors 
In principle, a telepresence robot is operated by a 
remote user, and does not possess autonomous 
behaviors. However, the telepresence robot should be 
able to deal with possible hazardous situations 
autonomously when the remote user is not aware of the 
hazardous situation, cannot control the telepresence 
robot properly, or the data transmission is lost. From the 
user’s view, autonomous behavior increases the user’s 
capability of projection to operate the telepresence robot 
safely and reliably in a dynamic environment. From the 
participant’s view, autonomous behavior also increases 
the interactive capability of the participant as a dialogist. 
For example, a telepresence robot with the autonomous 
behavior of identifying the direction of the participant 
who is speaking can assist the remote user to respond 
more quickly and properly. 
III. BASIC DATA TRANSMISSION STRUCTURE AND 
DESIGN ELEMENTS OF TRIC 
The telepresence robot TRIC (shown in Figure 2) 
developed in this research aims to be a low-cost, 
  
 
implement various sensors for 
environment detection 
Anthropomorphic 
elements 
design of humanoid appearance 
and interactive behaviors 
Stereoscopic 
elements 
Not included 
Stereophonic 
elements 
Not included 
Eye contact control TRIC to gaze at participant 
TRIC is not intended to be only a communication 
media, such as the “movable teleconference system”. 
Through TRIC, one important goal is to give the 
participant the impression the remote user that he/she is 
communicating is actually in the local environment. 
Anthropomorphic elements enhance the impression of 
TRIC as a true representation of the remote user. Design 
of humanoid appearance and interactive behaviors for 
TRIC can facilitate interaction with participants. 
The camera on TRIC is packaged into a “head” 
with humanoid expression, which also facilitate the 
design of “eye contact” because the camera is indeed 
the “eye” of TRIC. Sophisticated stereoscopic and 
stereophonic elements have been omitted to keep TRIC 
a low-cost, affordable homecare robot. 
Autonomous behavior is the design element that 
received the most attention during the planning of TRIC. 
In principle, a telepresence robot is operated by a 
remote user who possesses complete control authority. 
However, a major emphasis of this research is to 
implement key autonomous behaviors in TRIC, such as 
“automatic obstacle avoidance” in order to increase the 
user’s operating capability and reduce the user’s 
workload during operation. By doing so, the aim was to 
also increase the interactive capability of elderly people 
as reciprocal communicators. 
TRIC integrates an MDS, an IP camera with 
pan/tilt/zoom functions and two-way audio 
communications, a wireless LAN adaptor pair, a 
speaker and microphone, and a 12V LiFePO4 battery 
(10 Ah) with power management system, all within a 
mobile platform. Table 3 summarizes the basic 
specifications of TRIC. 
Table 3. The specifications of TRIC. 
L×W×H 38×38×70cm 
Weight 6.5kg 
Varied speed 10~25cm/sec 
Circumrotation radius 0 mm 
Battery type LiFePO4 Li-ion 
Battery capacity 12.8V 10Ah 
Battery operation time 120~150 minutes 
Battery recharge time 90 minutes (6A) 
IV. THE EVALUATION OF TRIC 
This section describes the design of an experiment 
to evaluate the participants’ subjective impression 
towards TRIC. 
Figure 4 shows the experimental setup. Two 
subjects and TRIC were in an experiment room and an 
operator was in an operation room. TRIC was 
teleoperated from the operation room by the operator 
using the control interface; behaviors control and 
audio-video transmission were done through a wireless 
LAN. 
A subject had two roles in this experiment: as an 
observer and a dialogist. The first subject (dialogist) 
was asked to stand by at point A. The operator 
controlled TRIC to move from the conversation site to 
point A. The subject was greeted and invited to sit down 
in the conversation site. The operator then had a 5-min. 
conversation with the subject. After the conversation, 
the first subject was asked to fill out a questionnaire for 
subjective evaluation of experience of interacting with 
TRIC. 
In the mean time, the second subject (observer) 
standing by at point B was asked to observe the 
interaction between TRIC and the first subject. Then the 
second subject was asked to fill out a questionnaire on 
the subjective impression of TRIC’s anthropomorphic 
elements. After finishing the questionnaire, the second 
subject was asked to move to point A and become a 
dialogist. The next subject was asked to enter the 
experimental room to be an observer for next turn. 
During the experiment, all subjects understood that 
TRIC was controlled remotely by an operator in a 
remote site. 
TRIC
Dialogist
Conversation site
Point A
Observer
Point B
Operator
Operation room
Participant
User
Wireless LAN
Experiment room
 
Fig. 4. The experimental setups for evaluation 
57 subjects (51 males and 6 females) participated 
in this experiment. They were all university students 
majored in mechanical engineering in Yuan Ze 
University, Taiwan. 
Table 4 lists part of the questions on the 
questionnaire on the subjective evaluation of experience 
of interacting with TRIC and the evaluation results. On 
the questionnaire, the subjects were also asked about 
their experience of using instant massager (such as 
MSN) to interact with another person. 
Table 4. Specifications for paper layout. 
  
 
[14] Schulz, D., Burgard, W., Fox, D., Thrun, S., and Cremers, A. B., 
2000, “Web interfaces for mobile robots in public places,” IEEE 
Robotics & Automation magazine, 7(1), 48-56. 
[15] Trahanias, P., Burgard, W., Argyros, A., Hahnel, D., Baltzakis, 
H., Pfaff, P., and Stachniss, C., 2005, “TOURBOT and 
WebFAIR: Web-operated mobile robots for tele-presence in 
populated exhibitions,” Robotics & Automation Magazine, IEEE, 
12(2), 77-89. 
[16] Brooker, J. P., Sharkey, P. M., Wann, J. P., and Plooy, A. M., 
1999, “A helmet mounted display system with active gaze 
control for visual telepresence,” Mechatronics, 9(7), 703-716. 
[17] Hawksford, M. O. J., 2002, “Scalable multichannel coding with 
HRTF enhancement for DVD and virtual sound systems,” 
Journal of the Audio Engineering Society, 50(11), 894-913. 
[18] Izquierdo, E., 1997, “Stereo matching for enhanced telepresence 
in three-dimensional videocommunications,” Circuits and 
Systems for Video Technology, IEEE Transactions on, 7(4), 
629-643. 
[19] Ohm, J. R., Gruneberg, K., Hendriks, E., Izquierdo, M. E., 
Kalivas, D., Karl, M., Papadimatos, D., and Redert, A., 1998, “A 
realtime hardware system for stereoscopic videoconferencing 
with viewpoint adaptation,” Signal Processing-Image 
Communication, 14(1-2), 147-171. 
[20] Xu, L. Q., Loffler, A., Sheppard, P. J., and Machin, D., 1999, 
“True-view videoconferencing system through 3-D impression 
of telepresence,” BT Technology Journal, 17(1), 59-68. 
[21] Yamato, J., Brooks, R., Shinozawa, K., and Naya, F., 2003, 
“Human-Robot Dynamic Social Interaction”, NTT Technical 
Review, 1(6), 37-43. 
