 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
超音波釋控微脂體科技於腫瘤預防診斷治療之研究—子計畫三： 
微脂體靶向傳輸效率暨活體腫瘤功能性影像評估系統之研發（3/3） 
Development of an Evaluation System for Liposome-Based Targeting 
Delivery and Functional Tumor Imaging System (3/3) 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-400-002 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：羅履維副研究員   國家衛生研究院醫學工程研究組 
共同主持人：楊重熙教授   國立暨南大學應用化學系（所） 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
總計畫專以肝癌、胃癌與大腸直腸癌等，台
灣相較歐美嚴重的癌症疾病為研究標的，研發一
以超音波釋控之微脂體靶向傳送系統 ( Targeting 
Delivery System)。而此微脂體包裹氣體以增進超
音波造影對比，並藉超音波聚焦能量引發包裹氣
體微脂體之瞬間穴蝕（cavitation），以達到破壞
腫瘤細胞之目的。而此療效亦與使用抗癌藥物結
果作一比較。本子計畫即為配合上述總目標，發
展一微脂體靶向傳輸效率暨活體腫瘤功能性影像
評估系統。 
本子計畫主持人之研究團隊已建立微透析探
針與微光纖系統，並將此項研究將作為探討包裹
氣體微脂體及包裹抗癌藥物微脂體之「靶向」傳
輸效率之基礎，並作為微脂體表面傳輸定位抗體
選擇及修飾標定之依據。 
為能持續追蹤活體腫瘤生長速率及評估聚焦
超音波釋控微脂體瞬間穴蝕（cavitation）或抗癌
藥物對腫瘤之療效。我們利用腫瘤高生物能量轉
換速率的特性，例如對葡萄糖及組織氧的高耗
率，並利用氧焠冷磷光原理，使用對組織光學穿
透性高的近紅外光激發之磷光分子，建立一非侵
襲式之活體腫瘤組織二維氧濃度分佈造影系統，
藉以即時追蹤並評估超音波釋控微脂體療程前中
後，腫瘤功能性之變化及療效。 
本子計畫所研發之「微脂體靶向傳輸效率暨
活體腫瘤功能性影像評估系統」能進一步用以建
立一完整之療效量化資訊網，包括微脂體靶向標
定設計、超音波聚焦釋控能量之調整選擇、以及
相應於各種人類腫瘤組織之最佳療效組合的設定
等等，故為開發腫瘤預防診斷治療之超音波釋控
微脂體工程科技不可或缺的環節之一。 
 
關鍵詞：微脂體、聚焦超音波、氣泡瞬間穴蝕、
靶向傳送、活體微透析探針、微光纖系統、氧焠
冷磷光 
 
Abstract 
 
This PPG was focused on the development of a 
system involving targeting delivery for liposomal 
air-bubbles and ultrasound-assisted release of the 
bubbles that could be used to treat stomach cancer 
and colon cancer diseases.  The air bubbles 
encapsulated in liposomes could also be used to 
enhance the contrast for ultrasound images, in 
addition to the generation of cavitation induced by 
ultrasound wave.  Tumor cells death would be 
concomitant with the cavitation.   The efficacy of 
such therapeutic approach would be compared with 
conventional chemotherapeutics. 
 A microdialysis perfusion system and a 
microlight-guide system have been developed to 
monitor the efficiency of in vivo targeting liposomal 
delivery efficiency.  Further surface modification 
on the liposomes would be engineered.  In order to 
continuously monitor the efficacy of tumor killing 
efficiency of the ultrasound-induced cavitation, 
tissue glucose and oxygen concentration would be 
measured as an important index due to the 
abnormally high metabolic activities in tumor tissues.  
A non-invasive system using the oxygen quenched 
infrared phosphorescence has been constructed to 
obtain the profile of two-dimensional tissue oxygen 
concentration.  This system can be applied to 
evaluate the therapeutic efficacy of 
ultrasound-induced cavitation, as well as the 
following prognosis. 
 The system for evaluating liposomal targeting 
delivery and for functional tumor tissue oxygen 
would assist the synthesis and design of liposomes, 
the optimization of ultrasound operational 
parameters, and the search of best cocktail 
therapeutic approach on tumor treatment.  
Therefore, this system is one of the key tools for 
liposome-based, ultrasound related tumor 
therapeutics. 
 
 4
350-μm），並於尖端兩側各開一 4 mm 之感測窗。
中央微透析探針之透析膜暴露於感測窗位置，上
方並由 13 根 50-μm 的光纖所包圍。中央微透析探
針可用來收集生理相關重要化學分子，以作定量
分析；而光纖用來傳遞激發雷射，並接收傳遞被
激發之螢光訊號，如不同大小之奈米粒子螢光訊
號，以定義血管通透性。 
 
第三年，我們建立此新型之併聯式探針系統於
in vitro 及 in vivo 之校正與定量分析。初期利用
20 nm 螢光奈米球，並以腦血屏障的缺血及再灌
流為先導之動物實驗模型，來探討腦血屏障之通
透性與重要之神經傳導因子，如 glutamate 濃度間
的關係；並驗證此併聯式探針系統於活體實驗
時，與個別系統，即微透析探針和微光纖系統，
準確度之比較。並應用目前我們所新建立之併聯
式探針系統，分析子計畫（二）所設計合成之包
裹氣體微脂體及包裹抗癌藥物微脂體，在子計畫
（四）所建立的癌動物模式之「靶向」定位傳輸
效率：意即包裹氣體微脂體及包裹抗癌藥物微脂
體，自發生癌病變之器官組織血管系統逸出，到
達特定癌細胞區域之能力。 
 
2. 利用腫瘤組織對氧的高代謝率，以組織氧濃
度之分佈變化作為腫瘤功能性影像之因子，
建立一非侵襲式之活體腫瘤組織二維氧濃度
分佈造影系統，藉以即時追蹤並評估超音波
釋控微脂體療程及療效。 
前兩年，針對此一研究目標，我們依氧焠冷磷
光動力原理，已完成建構一非侵襲式之活體腫瘤
組織二維氧濃度分佈造影系統，並以肝臟栓紮引
發之缺血性缺氧的大鼠模型為先期測試標的。大
鼠於注射修飾鈀紫質：Oxyphor R2 後，利用其磷
光激發波長 525 nm 及磷光放射波長 695 nm 的光
學特性，以及其放射磷光生命期與氧濃度之定量
關係，我們成功得到肝臟栓紮造成之缺血性缺氧
以及後續再灌流刺激下，肝臟組織氧濃度分佈變
化之二維即時影像（見去年度成果報告）。目前，
我們則利用微脂體包覆修飾鈀紫質：Oxyphor 
R2，改善其磷光生命期之動力效應（Figure 2）。
由於腫瘤組織之氧代謝率較正常組織為高，因而
亦有相似性之缺氧狀態；相信在後續的研究，我
們當能應用此建構之非侵襲式活體組織二維氧濃
度分佈造影系統，獲得在超音波釋控微脂體的療
程下，即時之腫瘤組織二維氧濃度分佈變化，並
依此定義評估超音波聚焦能量引發包裹氣體微脂
體之瞬間穴蝕及超音波調控抗癌藥物釋放對腫瘤
細胞之療效。 
 
 
 
Figure 2. 利用微脂體包覆修飾鈀紫質：Oxyphor 
R2，改善其磷光生命期之動力效應，並經 ICCD
不同之 gating 取得不同之 delay 時間，攝得大鼠肝
臟於缺血性缺氧之狀況下的磷光生命期分佈圖。
在較長時間之 delay t5時間下，我們依然可得相對
應於低含氧之組織，其磷光生命期之分佈圖。此
即驗證我們已進一步改善並獲得較佳之磷光生命
期之動力效應。一系列暗室磷光動力分析所獲得
之磷光生命期之分佈圖，可進一步經由 Stern 
Volmer Equation 轉換為所對應之二維組織氧分佈
影像。 
 
第三年，我們發展近紅外光之磷光鈀紫質（激
發光＞620 nm；磷光＞780 nm），增加所偵測之
光子訊號在活體組織中之穿透深度，獲得較佳之
光學影像，藉以分析癌動物模式之腫瘤組織氧的
動態分佈；並持續改良應用此建構之非侵襲式活
體組織二維氧濃度分佈造影系統，以獲得在超音
波釋控微脂體的療程下，即時之腫瘤組織二維氧
濃度分佈變化，並依此定義評估超音波聚焦能量
引發包裹氣體微脂體之瞬間穴蝕及超音波調控抗
癌藥物釋放對腫瘤細胞之療效 [子計畫（一）]。 
 
3. 利用腫瘤組織對葡萄糖的高代謝率，以活體
微透析探針於原位(in situ) 量測超音波釋控
微脂體治療前中後腫瘤組織葡萄糖濃度之變
化，以即時追蹤並評估療程及療效。 
前兩年，針對此一目標，我們已建立一活體光
電影像偵測系統（in vivo biophotonics imaging 
 6
 
 
Figure 4. (A) 利用chitosan/ gelatin 微透析探針，
對六種不同之amino acid所進行之in vitro recovery
（實驗條件：examined at 1μl/min flow rates in the 
presence of 1mM amino acid standard solution. 6 
species amino acid included asprtate, glutamate, 
glutamine, glycine, taurine, and GABA）。平均之
recovery為20%. Values represent the mean_SEM of 
three recovery experiments for each group. (B) 六
種 不 同 之 amino acid （ aspartate, glutamate, 
glutamine, glycine, taurine and GABA）於phantom
實驗中，在perfuse 1mM amino acid標準溶液之前
與之後所量測到濃度之時間profile。(C) 於ligation 
of bilateral common carotid arteries 所誘發之腦缺
血性缺氧之前後，所量測到之 amino acid的
chromatograms。(D) 於ligation of bilateral common 
carotid arteries 所誘發之腦缺血性缺氧之前後，在
大鼠之 brain cortex 所量測到六種 amino acid
（aspartate, glutamate, glutamine, glycine, taurine 
and GABA）濃度之時間profile。 
 
 執行本計畫三年，我們在相關的技術與研發
的成果如下： 
 
國際期刊論文 
1. Chen, P.R., Tsai, P.J., Lai, S.Y., Lo, L.W.*, and 
Yang, C.S. (2008) An enzyme-based fabrication 
of biodegradable chitosan membrane composed 
of nanopores for biomolecule sensing. 
(Submitted) 
2. Yang, C.S., Jeng, C.C., Ho, J-A.A., Huang, S.Y., 
Chang, C.H., Tsai, P.J., Wang, Y.C., and Lo, 
L.W.* (2008) Dynamic tracking of liposome 
biodelivery in vivo using optical imaging and 
sensing: from macroscopic to microscopic. 
(Submitted) 
3. Yang, C.S., Huang, S.H-Y. Tsai, P.J., Lo, S.W., 
Wu, I.C., Wang, Y.C., and Lo, L.W.* (2008) An 
in vivo dual-functional microprobe for 
simultaneous measurements of cerebral 
glutamate and blood-brain barrier permeability 
induced following ischemic insults. (Submitted) 
4. Lo, L.W., Tsai, P.J., Huang, S.H., Chang, C.H., 
and Yang, C.S. (2008) Probing the permeability 
windows of ischemic blood-brain barrier and 
liver vasculature with fluorescent nanoparticles 
in vivo. (Submitted) 
5. Lo, L.W., Ho, J-A.A., Tsai, P.J., Lin, W.Y., and 
Yang, C.S. (2008) Photopolymerization-induced 
destabilization of sterically stabilized liposomes 
in anesthetized rat liver using fiber-optic 
microprobe. (Submitted) 
6. Tai, L.A., Yang, C.S., Chao, C.H., and Lo, 
L.W.* Design of multifunctional nanocarriers as 
the locksmith to gates of in vivo targeted 
delivery and controlled release. Soft 
Nanomaterials 2008 (Invited Review) (In Press). 
7. Lo, L.W., Tsai, P.J., Huang, S.H., Wang, Y.T., 
Chang, C.H., and Yang, C.S. In vivo monitoring 
of fluorescent nanosphere delivery in 
anesthetized rats using an implantable 
fiber-optic microprobe. Anal. Chem. 77(4): 
1125-1131, 2005. 
專利 
1. Yang, C.S. and Lo, L.W. (2007) Implantable 
microdevice for detecting, activating, and 
delivering molecules. U.S. 11/869,053 
2. Yang, C.S., Lo, L.W., Chen, P.R, and Tsai P.J. 
(2007) A biodegradable material with nanopores 
and electric conductivity and the fabricating 
method thereof. U.S. 11/717,657 
3. Yang, C.S., Lo, L.W., Chen, P.R, and Tsai P.J. 
(2007) A biodegradable material with nanopores 
and electric conductivity and the fabricating 
method thereof. Taiwan 96100482 
4. Yang, C.S., Lo, L.W., Chen, P.R, and Tsai P.J. 
(2007) A biodegradable material with nanopores 
and electric conductivity and the fabricating 
method thereof. Europe 07005413.5-2102 
 
四、結論 
 
本研究子計畫已完成微透析探針及微光纖系
統之建構，並配合使用不同大小之螢光奈米球，
以及腦血屏障及肝臟血管的缺血及再灌流之動物
實驗模型，建立一創新之方法來探討組織器官血
管系統之通透性，繼而能於組織原位(in situ)，偵
測藥物載體定位傳輸之效率。我們已將微光纖探
針置入於麻醉之大鼠的肝臟，以即時觀察肝臟缺
血性缺氧刺激下，原位奈米螢光球自血管逸出之
濃度，並依此定義肝臟血管於缺血性缺氧下之通
透性變化。於肝臟缺血性缺氧刺激下，我們分析
靜脈注射於大鼠之 20 nm 與 1000 nm 奈米螢光球
在肝臟微光纖探針原位處，自血管逸出之濃度，
即螢光強度之變化，並指出肝臟血管通透性在缺
血性缺氧下，落於 20 nm 至 1000 nm 之間。此評
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-400-002 
計畫名稱 超音波釋控微脂體科技於腫瘤預防診斷治療之研究--子計畫三：微脂體靶向傳輸效率暨活體腫瘤功能性影像評估系統之研發(3/3) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
羅履維 副研究員/國家衛生研究院 醫學工程研究組 
會議時間地點 九十六年八月六日至九十六年八月九日；University of Macau, Macau SAR, China 
會議名稱 1
st Annual IEEE International conference on Nano/Molecular Medicine and 
Engineering 
發表論文題目 Near-infrared mesoporous silica nanoparticles for in vivo optical imaging. 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The 1st Annual IEEE International conference on Nano/Molecular Medicine and 
Engineering was rallied and chaired by Professor C.M. Ho at University of California, Los 
Angeles; and organized by Professor Donna Wang at Michigan State University and Professors 
Kevin Fang-Gang Tseng at National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan.  About four decades ago, 
the late Nobel physicist Richard P. Feynman helped to define “nanotechnology”.  Today, 
through the interchange of ideas in this conference, it aimed to help in defining the application 
of nanotechnology to medicine in the 21st century.  In a great hope that through a series of 
discovery and invention, we are charting a course to prevent and treat diseases as well as 
dramatically extend natural human capabilities.  This conference intends to bring together 
leading researchers to focus on the advancement of biological and clinical sciences using 
engineering methods related to MEMS, Nano, and Molecular technologies.  The topics 
encompass everything from molecular nanotechnology and nanomachine tools to ion channels 
in cell, animal and human.  It is anticipated that the integration of nanotechnology, biological 
sciences, and medicine will have extraordinary implications for the medical profession and the 
improvement of human biological structure and function. 
 
二、與會心得 
Our work, in collaboration with Center for Nanomedicine Research, in development of a 
near-infrared (NIR) mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN) for potential contrast agent for in 
vivo optical imaging and drug carrier for cancer therapeutics was invited to present in the 
session of “Nano Materials Fabrication for Biological use”.  The NIR-MSN possesses optical 
characteristics in the “diagnostic window” (near-infrared spectrum; NIR) the tissue penetration 
of light is considerable allowing obtaining optical information from sub-surface body 
structures.  Moreover, since autofluorecence in the NIR is minimal, high contrast to noise 
yields can be achieved resulting in a high sensitivity of the optical method for tracer detection 
