國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是
否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評
估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
▓    達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：▓已發表 □未發表之文稿 ▓撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性） 
本計畫以兩年的時間探討了兩個紋理和技術中重要且困難的技術，第一: 發展以自動進行
紋理校正(Texture Correction )取代以人為標示(Manually specified )方式，解決透視失真紋理合
成的問題。第二: 結合紋理合成相關技術進一步研究其在影像修補及風格轉移的相關可能應
用性的探討，其中包含：基於毀損區(Damaged area)的結構與紋理特性分析並結合影像補綴
(Image in painting)與紋理合成(Texture synthesis)技術進行數位影像修復、紋理轉移(Texture 
transfer)或藝術風格轉換(Artistic styles transfer)的應用。經過兩年的研究，我們對這兩個議題
都提出了令人滿意的答案，並且也有一些初步的產出。 
目前我們以發表了兩篇研討會論文以及一篇期刊論文，分別是  3rd IEEE International 
Conference on Computer Science and Information Technology 2010.7, 5th International Conference 
on Innovative Computing, Information and Control 2010.12 以及 ICIC Express Letters, Part B: 
Applications。我們也計畫將研究成果寫成完整的論文並投稿於IEEE Trans. Image Processing
and J. Visual Communication Image Representation. 最後將技術整理之後申請專利，目前這些
事項皆有序的進行中。我們在接下來的研究中也將針對視訊，探討將目前成果應用的可能
性，例如視訊紋理合成以及視訊修復等議題，這些也都是多媒體領域中即有研究及應用潛力
的研究。 
 
 
 
Efros et al. [1] first presented the ability of synthesizing a new artistic transferred image by stitching 
small patches of source image through a weighted sum of two independent constrains. That is, the 
“Coherence Match” attempts to have coherence between the neighbor patches and “Fidelity Match” 
attempts to efficiently select a source patch, which matches the synthesized target patch according to 
user-specified feature [2]. Basically, one synthesis pass through the image is not enough to produce a 
visually pleasing result [1]. As a consequence, the algorithm iterated over the synthesized image several 
times ( ) and reduced the patch size with each iteration to compensate the drawback [3]. 3 ~ 5N =
Hertzmann et al. [4] proposed a framework by choosing different types of source image pairs as input, 
and the target image was trained to create an “analogous” filtered result. Although this multi-resolution 
and pixel-based approach produces impressive results but requires few hours for the artistic renderings. 
Another restriction of the technique is that the user must provide additional unfiltered maps restricted to 
having exact pointwise correspondence with the original image [5]. This is not only an inconvenience 
but even impracticality for user. In [6], Nealen et al. used as large as possible patch which is satisfied the 
predefined error bound for synthesizing, and for those pixels in the overlap region exceeding error 
threshold will be re-synthesized on a pixel basis. However, for acceleration possibilities no matter what 
patch- or pixel-based, the existing acceleration schemes such as kd-tree, quadtree pyramid and PCA 
algorithm are not suitable in this case. 
The texture synthesis algorithm should be able to take a texture as an input sample and generate a 
synthetic texture of arbitrary size with perceptional similar views [2]. In literature, one class of the 
algorithm is based on the Markov Random Fields model, which avoids complex and expensive 
probability function construction but uses a deterministic search on the established samples from the 
source. According to the synthesized pixels at each time, these algorithms can be further divided into two 
categories: pixel-based sampling and patch-based sampling approaches. These pixel-based sampling 
techniques [5, 7] demonstrated the power of nonparametric sampling from the local conditional Markov 
Random Field (MRF) density function, and the approach can produce good results for the class of 
stochastic textures such as grass and rock. However, they failed to synthesize textures in the class of 
repetitive pattern and structured textures such as brick and building [2]. Furthermore, these approaches 
also tend to wander into the wrong part of search space and blur out small objects while doesn’t resemble 
the input texture [6]. More importantly, the class of approaches has a major limitation since it requires 
high computational cost for image rendering. 
Another prominent direction is focused on patch-based sampling because of the structured textures 
and synthesis speed. Experiments showed that patch-based texture synthesis algorithms with the 
characteristic of preserving global structure and produce high-quality results for a wide variety of texture 
classes [8]. They also perform faster more than an order of magnitude than that of pixel-based algorithms. 
Although these patch-based approaches [1, 8] have been successful in their respective applications, they 
failed to the type of perspective distorted texture which is captured by camera with perspective-like 
projection. This kind of textures is usually captured by camera lens with non-vertical camera axis, and 
Liang et al. [8] classified the texture as non-frontal-parallel. Some typical perspective distorted textures 
are shown in Fig. 1, and the failure example of the patch-based sampling algorithm is shown in Fig. 2. 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
perspective transform is performed. The process is to project a tilted photograph from the photo plane to a 
rectified plane in order to remove the perspective distortion. In the third step, the conventional patch-
based synthesis algorithms can be applied to generate similar characteristic textures of arbitrary size. In 
order to render the synthesized texture with coincident slant degree as the distorted source texture, reverse 
the mapping process to preserve the characteristics of source is required for the last step.  
In [13], Yan et al. also focused on this problem using a view warping technique [14] to generate a 
rectified FPT (frontal-parallel texture) for a given NFPT (non-frontal-parallel texture). For this approach, 
the user must specify a set of corresponding feature lines on input NFPT and the feature points is 
obtained by calculating the intersections of these feature lines. Based on our observations for these 
techniques, the user needs to select the control points in the plane of perspective-distorted texture 
manually and then map to the un-distorted plane by perspective transform. After synthesizing in un-
distorted plane, the perspective transform apply again to obtain the perspective-distorted texture. Because 
the user interference is necessary, thus the above techniques are not general for applications. On the other 
hand, for planar reconstruction through prior user’s specification, a slight error for the selected procedure 
tend to cause the synthesized texture are not perceptual similar to the source texture. 
 
 
(a) Photo plane (b) Rectified plane 
Figure 3. Photogrammetric reconstruction procedure in [1]. 
Therefore, an automatic and sophisticated rectification technique through Hough transform is 
developed for this purpose. The goal of new approach is preserving the characteristics of the source 
texture and providing more general application for perspective distorted texture synthesis. 
The objective of artistic styles transfer is to synthesize a new stylized image which can infuse novel 
styles from the style example but also preserve the content of the target image. This approach includes the 
definition and extraction of styles (features) and content from the example and the target images [15]. For 
this issue to enhance of the transferred image quality, Lee et al. [16] added an additional energy term that 
respects the image gradient to the previous fast texture transfer algorithm [5]. Then, the proposed 
approach can express a coherent direction of the object shape of the target image. However, the success 
of artistic styles transfer is global in the sense that user preference, but not deal with details of low-level 
statistical features. Therefore, motivated by the advantages of patch-based texture sampling algorithms, 
we tend to present an effective transferred algorithm with the reasonable estimation to make match 
degree optimal when the artistic styles met the user needs. In the second year’s project, there are several 
major proposals are described as follows. 
1. Patch size analysis: A hidden variable in this algorithm is the patch size used in matching and 
pasting. The patch size can be varied depending on the features of source image you want to capture [17]. 
A randomness parameter to estimate the scale of texture elements of sample texture may impact the 
4 
 
 
 
 
{ }| ( )A B x B Ax= ⊆             
              (2) 
 
After the morphological operation, the skeleton technique was introduced to simplify the edge map 
into a more compact representation. For visual clarification, we illustrate a perspective distorted example 
to explain the above steps as shown in Fig. 4. Later on, the Hough transform will be utilized for main 
control point detection. 
 
   
(a) Source texture (b)Color quantization (c) Sobel operator 
   
(d) Dilation (e) Erosion (f) Skelton 
Figure 4. The preprocess for perspective distorted texture synthesis. 
B. Detection of Main Control Points 
In order to derive the control points {a, b, c, d} in the edge map plane, the line structural in perspective 
distorted texture should be identified for planar reconstruction firstly. In this stage, the problem can be 
regarded as the detection of peaks through Hough transform [21, 22] (Eq. (3)). 
 
cos sinx yρ θ θ= + , (3) 
 
where ρ  is the distance from the origin and θ  is the angle it makes with the x axis. 
For line structure detection, the criterion used to identify in the perspective texture is the length of 
linear structure; that is, the point(s) in the parameter space ( , )ρ θ  having the greatest number of 
accumulations are the most likely to be the candidate peaks. In addition, as we should see in Fig. 1, the 
mode of consistent symmetrical deformation is quite distinguishable in the perspective distorted textures. 
Therefore, the restriction of angles in the specific range is adequate to the line structure detection. For 
visual clarification, we use a distorted texture to illustrate the aspect of our approach in Fig. 5. In this 
example, the significant maxima (A1 in Fig. 5(a)) in the transform domain with respect to the one of true 
structural line; Meanwhile, the other symmetrical line (B1) can be detected in the candidate peaks for a 
specific search range. Based on our observation, the specified region is restricted to the range of the 
maxima distance from the origin and for symmetrical search (marked by blue rectangle box 
in Fig. 5(a)) can achieve satisfactory results for most of perspective distorted textures. We may notice 
30 30o θ− ≤ ≤ o
6 
 
 
 
 
  
(a)Perspective 
distorted texture 
(b) Deriving the 
four control points
(c) Rectified 
texture Texture 
 
Figure 6.rectification. 
 
001 1 1 1 1 1
011 1 1 1 1 1
022 2 2 2
102 2 2 2 2 2
113 3 3 3 3 3
123 3 3 3 3 3
4 4 4 4 20
4 4 4 4 4 4 21
1 0 0 0
0 0 0 1
  
1 0 0 0
0 0 0 1
1 0 0 0
0 0 0 1
   
1 0 0 0
0 0 0 1
hx y x x y x
hx y x y y y
hx y x x y x
hx y x y y y
hx y x x y x
hx y x y y y
x y x x y x h
x y x y y y h
′ ′
′ ′
′ ′
′ ′
′ ′
′ ′
′ ′
′ ′
⎛⎛ ⎞⎜⎜ ⎟⎜⎜ ⎟⎜⎜ ⎟⎜⎜ ⎟⎜⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠⎝
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
x
y
x
y
x
y
x
y
′
′
′
′
′
′
′
′
=
⎛ ⎞⎞ ⎜ ⎟⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎠ ⎝ ⎠
 (4) 
C. Texture Synthesis 
In the synthesis step, the similar characteristic textures of arbitrary size can be generated based on the 
conventional patch-based algorithm in [8] efficiently. Then, to render a perspective distorted texture with 
coincident structure as the source texture, the problem can be regarded as the reverse mapping process 
based on the same sets of perspective transform parameters as mentioned in previous subsection. 
III-2 Adaptive Patch-Based Texture Transfer Algorithm Using Particle Swarm Optimization 
The new approach combines the non-iterative adaptive patch-based sampling, which is user-controlled, 
with the PSO algorithm to tackle texture transfer problems. 
A.  Adaptive patch-based sampling approach 
In proposed algorithm, the patch size used in matching and pasting is an implicit variable. The patch 
size can vary depending on the features of source image. Generally, large patch can better capture the 
texture characteristics, but it may take the risk of mismatched features across patch boundaries due to 
the stronger statistical constraints. On the other hand, too small patches tend to blur the small objects 
and the output might lose the visual similarity. Therefore, to develop an adaptive patch size can effective 
address these problems.  
Since the human visual is easily to capture the global salient features such as colors, line structure in 
an image. Therefore, for texture synthesis, to define the “activity” is very effective to achieve better 
transformation of style and preservation content in the target image. In this paper, we adopted the 
distance-based interpolation method (Radial Basis Functions) in [22] for “activity” analysis, and it is 
defined as: 
8 
 
 
 
 
0.299 0.587 0.114
0.596 0.274 0.322
0.211 0.523 0.312
Y R
I G
Q B
⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥= − −⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥−⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
, 
(8) 
 
and the luminance normalization can be defined as 
 
( ) ( )( )', ,arg arg arg
arg
s rcY i j Y i jT et T et T et
T et
σ μσ= −
 
(9)
where σ  and μ  represent the standard deviations and mean values of luminance component. The 
example of approximately uniformed process is shown in Fig. 8(c). Then, the normalized feature is 
adopted to achieve better coherence transition between the boundary zones. 
 
 
  
(a) Source image (b) Target image (c) normalized image 
Figure 8. The example of luminance normalization 
Obviously, the different painting styles have different visual features. Therefore, there are some 
feature vectors that could be further exploited to take a trial-and-error approach through a user-
controlled interface. In our experiments, various drawing and painting styles, such as oil, watercolor, 
and line art can be rendered by using the chromatic, saturation, edge and blurred image intensity [1] 
features (Fidelity Match) based on user preference. 
Although, patch-based texture synthesis algorithms can produce high-quality results for a wide 
variety of texture classes and perform more than an order of magnitude faster than the pixel-based 
algorithms. However, they used various search data-structures (kd-tree, quadtree pyramid and principal 
components analysis) which are very complex to implement and relatively slow in a mid-level PC [23]. 
In our work, we adopt the particle swarm optimization (PSO) algorithm [9-11]with a modified match 
criterion which can select a source patch that matches the synthesized target patch according to user-
specified feature(s) and have consistent transition between the neighbor patches efficiently. 
Now we apply the PSO algorithm to our adaptive patch-based texture transfer. Firstly, we denote the 
Fitness Function D(x) is the distance which related to two independent constrains as shown in Eq.(10). 
 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
2 2 2 2 2 2M N N N N NY i Y i Y i Y i Sat i Sat i IQ i IQ i E i E i Blur i Blur i
B
⎡ ⎤⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞⎟⎠
, 1
1 1 1 1 1 1
D A B P P W P P W P P W P P W P P W P PyB B B B E BA A Sat A IQ A A ABluri j j j j j
α α ⎢ ⎥= − × − + × − + − + − − + −⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟ ⎜∑ ∑ ∑ ∑ ∑ ∑⎢ ⎥⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠ ⎝= = = = = =⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
 
 
(10)
where M and N represent the number pixels in the boundary zone and a source patch which matches the 
synthesized target patch according to user-specified features (luminance Y, saturation Sat, chromatic IQ 
edge E and blurred image intensity). In general, a smaller α leads to smoother the transition between 
overlapping regions, but a lager α  leads to more resemblance to the target image.  
IV. EPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
In this section, several distorted textures are adopted to demonstrate that our proposed texture 
rectification approach can work well for perspective distorted texture synthesis in a visual plausible way 
10 
 
 
 
 
defined and emphasized target content. In the following, we evaluate the transfer results and computing 
time to demonstrate the performance on a 3GHz Pentium 4 PC. 
Figure 11 compares various patch sizes and our activity-guided algorithm for artistic style transfer. 
As shown in image (c) and (d), the artistic style of oil painting can be transferred successfully to target 
image, but with abrupt mismatch at the boundary zones. Image (e) using 8x8 patch can preserve more 
target content; whereas, the artistic style of oil painting is failed in some other parts (as indicated in the 
image with red circles). And result of adaptive patch-based of image (f) shows much better quality in all 
of these parts. 
 
 
(a)Source image(295x326) (b)Target mage(320x250) (c) 32x32; runtime:15sec 
 
(d)16x16; runtime:32sec (e) 8x8; runtime:96sec (f) Adaptive patch; runtime:56sec
 
Figure 11. Artistic style transfer comparisons for Van Gogh using various patch sizes. 
 
In this example, the luminance component is used for “Coherence Match”, the features of saturation 
and blurred image intensity are adopted for “Fidelity Match”. That is, α =0.5, and =0.25, and 
is 0.5 for “activity” analysis. Therefore, the 32x32 patch is selected to ensure better transferring the 
style to the background of target, and 8x8 to enhance the details of target image. Furthermore, a 
blending technique with dynamic weighting feathering approach [4] is utilized to preserve coherence 
between the adjacent patches in this paper. 
Sat
W
Y
W
dTH
 
      
(a)Source image 
(295x326) 
(b)Target image 
(295x326) 
(c)32x32; 
runtime:20sec 
(d)16x16; 
runtime:34sec 
(e)8x8;  
runtime: 86sec 
(f) Adaptive 
patch; 
runtime:33sec 
Figure 12. The second example for artistic style transfer comparisons.      
In this example, the features of edge and blurred image intensity are adopted for “Fidelity Match”. 
We may observe that using smaller patch size as shown in image (e) reveals very pixilated; whereas, the 
12 
 
 
 
 
ies/. 
VI. REFERENCES 
[1] A. Efros and W. T. Freeman, “Image Quilting for Texture Synthesis and Transfer,” Proc. Of 
SIGGRAPH 2001, pp.341-346, 2001. 
[2] C. H. Li, “A Study of Art-Based Rendering and Example-Based Texture Synthesis,” Ph.D. Thesis, 
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering, National Chung-Hsing university, Taiwan, 
ROC, Jan. 2004. 
[3] B. A. Attea and L. M. Rashid, “A Genetic Algorithm for Texture Synthesis and Transfer,” Proc. of 
the 4th International Workshop on Texture Analysis and Synthesis, pp.59-64, 2005. 
[4] A. Hertzmann et al., “Image Analogies,” Proc. Siggraph, ACM Press, pp. 327-340, 
2001. http://mrl.nyu.edu/ publications/image-analog
[5] M. Ashikhmin, “Fast Texture Transfer,” Computer Graphics and Applications, IEEE, pp. 38-43, 
August 2003. 
[6] A. Nealen and M. Alexa, “Hybrid Texture Synthesis,” EurographicsSymposium on Rendering, 
pp .97–105, 2003. 
[7] A. A. Efros and T. K. Leung, "Texture Synthesis by Non-Parametric Sampling," in Proceedings of 
International Conference on Computer Vision, Greece , pp. 1033-1038, 1999. 
[8] L. Liang, C. Liu, Y. Q. Xu, B. Guo, and H. Y. Shum, "Real-Time Texture Synthesis by Patch-
Based Sampling," ACM Transactions on Graphics, vol. 20, no. 3, pp.127-150, 2001. 
[9] Kennedy, J. and Eberhart, R.C., “Particle Swarm Optimization,” Proc. of IEEE International 
Conference on Neural Networks, Vol. IV, pp.1942-1948, 1995. 
[10] Z. Cui, J. Zeng, and G. Sun, “A Fast Particle Swarm Optimization,” International Journal of 
Innovative Computing, Information and Control, vol.2, no.6, pp.1365-1380, 2006. 
[11] X. Cai, Z. Cui, J. Zeng, and Y. Tan, “Particle Swarm Optimization with Self-adjusting Cognitive 
Selection Strategy, ” International Journal of Innovative Computing, Information and Control, vol.4, 
no.4, pp.943-952, 2008. 
[12] L. Y. Wei, "Deterministic Texture Analysis and Synthesis using Tree Structure Vector 
Quantization," in Proceedings of the XII Brazilian Symposium on Computer Graphics and Image 
Processing, pp. 207-213, 1999. 
[13] C. R. Yan and T. Y. Lee, "Texture Synthesis with Prioritized Pixel Re-synthesis," Journal of 
Information Science and Engineering, vol. 25, no. 2, pp.389-402, Mar., 2009. 
[14] S. Seitz and C. Dyer, “View morphing,” in Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on 
Computer Graphics and Interactive Techniques, pp. 21-30, 1996. 
[15] Xuexiang Xie and Feng Tian, et al., “Feature Guided Texture Transfer Synthesis (FGTS) for 
Artistic Style Transfer.” 2nd ACM International Conference on Digital Interactive Media in 
Entertainment and Arts, pp.44-49, 2007. 
[16] H. C. Lee, S. H. Seo, S. T. Ryoo and K. H. Yoon, Directional Texture Transfer, Proceedings of the 
8th International Symposium on Non-Photorealistic Animation and Rendering (NPAR 2010), 
pp.43-48, 2010. 
[17] Patrick Gillespie, “Image Analogies with Patch Based Texture Synthesis,” 
[18] Y. Meng, Y. Zhang, W. Li, Y. Pang, “Image Analogy Using Patch-Based Texture   Synthesis,” 
International Conference on Communications, Circuits and Systems, pp. 974-978, 2004. 
[19] L. Aurdal, "The Hough transform," INF 3300, INF4300, Norsk Regnesentral, http:// www.nr.no, 
2006. 
[20] A. Martin and S. Tosunoglu, "Image processing techniques for machine vision," Florida 
Conference on Recent Advances in Robotics, pp. 1-9, 2000. 
14 
 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   日期： 99 年 7 月 13 日 
一、參加會議經過 
二、與會心得 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
六、其他 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 98－ 2221 － E －214－ 044 －MY2 
計畫名稱 探討有效的紋理合成技術在影像修補及影像風格轉移上的應用 
出國人員
姓名 劉志山 
服務機構
及職稱 義守大學資訊工程學系 
會議時間 99 年 7 月 9 日至 99 年 7 月 11 日 會議地點 中國四川省成都市 
會議名稱 
(中文)第三屆計算機科學與信息技術國際研討會 
(英文)2010 3rd IEEE International Conference on Computer Science and Information 
Technology (IEEE ICCSIT 2010) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)DCT 域中的全域影像強化 
(英文) Global Image Enhancement in The DCT Domain 
附件四 
 - 3 - 
這篇論文中我們利用DCT域中頻帶的特性，將8×8DCT區塊合併成16×16類
DCT(DCT-Like)區塊，進而將整張影像轉換為全域的類DCT區塊，並採用分頻的
對比量測且使用多強化係數技術，使得強化過後的影像得到最佳的人類視覺效
果。休息十分鐘後參加SESSION-06的議程，在這個SESSION中，我個人對於
Application of Adaptive Filtering Algorithm Based on Wavelet Transformation in 
Aeromagnetic Survey這一篇論文覺得有趣，因為在我的研究中也曾使用過小波轉
換(Wavelet Transformation)，在這裡我見識到應用於不同領域的小波轉換。 
 
07 月 11 日 (第三天): 
第三天上午參加SESSION-09以SESSION-10及論文發表報告，這兩個 SESSION 
所發表的論文與我所研究的領域較為相近，其中包含有視訊技術、影像檢索、影
像紋理處理、影像色彩處理…等等。在這些所發表的論文中我個人對於A Study of 
Image Retrieval Based on Hough Transform 與 Real-time Human Behavior 
Recognition Based On Articulated Model這兩篇論文覺得值得參考，前者是使用
Hough Transform的技術應用於影像檢索，後者為人類行為的即時辨識，都是以
往我個人在學習上較少接觸的領域。其他我個人比較偏向喜好影像的紋理以及色
彩的處理，因為這些技術是目前我在研究上比較需要的，在這次的研討會中可說
是獲益良多。下午則參加SESSION-17以及SESSION-18的論文發表，雖然領域不
同有時不甚了解，但是也多了解了其他領域的相關知識。 
 
 
第一天報到、領取資料留影 劉志山論文發表實況(一) 
 - 5 - 
成都市區街景 成都的美食-韓包子 
 
四、 建議 
建議可以多補助國內博士生出國參加國際型會議，交換研究心得。在各個研
究領域中，能與不同國家的人交換心得，增加博士生視野與國際觀，除了可以增
加台灣在國際舞台的能見度，並可以藉此提升博士生的歷練。吸取別人好的經
驗，增進自己的競爭力。培養出優秀的人才以提升台灣的軟實力。 
 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 論文集一本 
2. 會議手冊一本。 
3. 大會紀念品 
a. 手提袋乙個 
b. 鋼珠筆一支 
c. 筆記本一本 
d. 四川刺繡小品一份 
六、 其他 
無 
一、參加會議經過 
第三屆 IEEE 計算機科學與信息技術國際會議(ICCSIT)是由國際電機電子工程師學會(IEEE)、四川
省電子學會、IEEE 中國聯合會、國際計算機與信息學會、四川省電子科技大學等單位所聯合主辦，今
年的會議地點是中國四川省成都市電子科技大學的學術交流中心舉行，會議為期三天 (July. 9-11, 
2010)。此研討會的論文將可以在 EI 國際重要的工程論文資料庫系統中索引到。 
會議行程如下： 
07 月 09 日 (第一天): 
第一天為大會的報到發放會議資料、紀念品以及繳交論文報告投影片的時間。許多遠從印度、中
東、韓國、新加坡、馬來西亞…等國家的學者，都在這一天報到，並在會議廳閒聊茶敘，之後參觀辦
理此次會議的四川電子科技大學校區。 
07 月 10 日 (第二天): 
第二天上午大會安排四場Keynote Speech。第一場邀請到了中國工程院院士李樂民教授同時他也是
電子科技大學的教授，針對網路技術做了精闢的演講。第二場是由新加坡南陽科技大學Cheng Tee 
Hiang教授針對其研究領域光纖網路通訊以及未來發展提出見解。第三場以及第四場分別由長江學者計
畫電子科技大學特聘教授張懷武教授以及微軟最有價值專家(Microsoft Most Valuable Professional，MVP) 
Chris Eargle針對目前電腦科技的軟硬體發展做了詳細的解說。 
下午時間則安排了許多 SESSION，讓來自各地的學者發表的論文，並讓大家互相討論。我選擇了
SESSION-ICCSIT-03，因為在這一個 SESSION 中所發表的論文與我所研究的領域較為接近，其中包含
有視訊技術、影像檢索、影像紋理處理、影像色彩處理 等等與影像有關的議題。在這些所發表的論文
中我個人偏好影像紋理處理，因為這些技術是目前我在研究上比較需要的，並利用茶敘時間與發表者
互相討論，也學習到在紋理處理上的方法，因此這次的研討會可說是獲益良多。 
07 月 11 日 (第三天): 
第三天上午安排在SESSION-ICCSIT-09發表本人的論文，Session Chair是Prof. Surendra Prasad Babu 
Maddali。我們發表的論文題目是An Efficient Synthesis Approach for Perspective Distorted Textures。在這
篇論文中我們利用由霍式轉換，對於透視紋理影像提出了一個有效率並且能夠精準偵測直線的方式來
取得透視失真的參數座標點，我們提出一個有效的解決辦法來針對結構性強的透視紋理影像來紋理合
成，不論在合成的計算複雜度與合成後的品質，都能較目前的研究所提出的更為合理。Session Chair
對於我們的研究非常感到興趣，也花了一些時間討論，並順利完成論文的發表。 
 
 2
 
第一天報到、領取資料留影 方敏媛論文發表實況(一) 
 4
這次到中國四川成都參加 IEEE ICCSIT 2010，除了發表論文外，也聽取了來自各地的專家、學者
報告，並利用茶敘時間與學者們探討相關問題及進行學術交流，另外也利用會後時間參觀四川電子科
技大學校區及成都市區，體驗到了當地人的生活，此次參加研討會不僅開擴了我的視野，也讓我學習
到很多東西，不論是學術或是與人交流，這些東西都是書本上學不到的，真的是得到了許多收獲。 
四、建議 
我認為可以多補助國內博士生出國參加國際型會議，除了能交換彼此的研究心得外，也能增加博
士生視野與國際觀，不僅能提升博士生的歷練，也能增加台灣在國際上的能見度。 
攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 論文集一本 
2. 會議手冊一本。 
3. 大會紀念品 
a. 手提袋乙個 
b. 鋼珠筆一支 
c. 筆記本一本 
d. 四川刺繡小品一份 
 
五、其他 
無 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 - 2 - 
一、參加會議經過 
第五屆創新計算資訊與控制國際會議(ICICIC2010)由《國際創新計算資訊與
控制學會》(ICIC International)與長安大學聯合主辦，今年的會議地點是中國陜西
省西安市西安賓館舉行，會議為期三天 (Dec. 20-22, 2010)。此研討會的論文將可
以在 EI 國際重要的工程論文資料庫系統中索引到。 
會議行程如下： 
12 月 20 日 (第一天): 
第一天為大會的報到發放會議資料、紀念品以及繳交論文報告投影片的時
間。許多遠從印度、中東、韓國、新加坡、馬來西亞…等國家的學者，都在這一
天報到，並在會議廳閒聊茶敘，之後參觀辦理此次會議的長安大學校區。 
12 月 21 日 (第二天): 
第二天上午大會安排一場Keynote Speech。邀請到了加拿大亞伯達大學
Witold Pedrycz教授，同時他也是波蘭科學院的教授，針對模糊系統做了精闢的
演講。 
下午時間則安排了許多 SESSION，讓來自各地的學者發表的論文，並讓大
家互相討論。我選擇了 SESSION-B2:Signal Processing，因為在這一個 SESSION 
中所發表的論文與我所研究的領域較為接近，其中包含有影像檢索、影像紋理處
理、影像色彩處理 等等與影像有關的議題。在這些所發表的論文中我個人偏好
影像紋理處理，因為這些技術是目前我在研究上比較需要的，並利用茶敘時間與
發表者互相討論，也學習到在紋理處理上的方法，因此這次的研討會可說是獲益
良多。 
12 月 22 日 (第三天): 
第三天上午安排在SESSION-C5:Optimization發表本人的論文，Session Chair
是Prof. Jianqiang Yi。我們發表的論文題目是An Effective Adaptive Patch-Based 
Texture Transfer Algorithm Using Particle Swarm Optimization。在這篇論文中我們
提出了一個以特徵為基礎的藝術風格轉移演算法並採用以板塊為基礎的紋理合
成方式來合成，透過粒子群聚法的快速比對方式來減少計算上的複雜度，不論在
合成的計算複雜度與合成後的品質，都能較目前的研究所提出的更為合理。
Session Chair對於我們的研究非常感到興趣，也花了一些時間討論，並順利完成
論文的發表。 
 
 - 4 - 
  
留影於會議室外 第三天參加送別餐會(一) 
 
二、與會心得 
這次到中國陜西西安參加 ICICIC 2010，除了發表論文外，也聽取了來自各
地的專家、學者報告，並利用茶敘時間與學者們探討相關問題及進行學術交流，
另外也利用會後時間參觀長安大學校區及西安市區，體驗到了當地人的生活，此
次參加研討會不僅開拓了我的視野，也讓我學習到很多東西，不論是學術或是與
人交流，這些東西都是書本上學不到的，真的是得到了許多收獲。 
三、考察參觀活動（無此項活動者省略） 
這次到中國陜西西安參加 ICICIC 2010，除了發表論文外，也利用茶敘時間
與學者們探討相關問題及進行學術交流，會議第三天主辦單位有辦理西安市一日
的參訪行程，但因與其他學校的專家、學者有約，因此無法參加。雖然沒辦法參
加主辦單位的行程，不過，在會後曾利用休息時間參觀西安市區，體驗到了當地
人的生活，也看到了這個城市在短時間內發展迅速，還算有些彌補。 
四、建議 
我認為可以多補助國內博士生出國參加國際型會議，除了能交換彼此的研究
心得外，也能增加博士生視野與國際觀，不僅能提升博士生的歷練，也能增加台
灣在國際上的能見度。 
攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 論文集一本 
2. 會議手冊一本。 
3. 大會紀念品 
a. 手提袋乙個 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                    日期：100年7月5日 
計畫編號 NSC 98-2221-E-214 -044 -MY2 
計畫名稱 探討有效的紋理合成技術在影像修補及影像風格轉移上的應用 
出國人員
姓名 方敏媛 
服務機構
及職稱 義守大學資訊工程系 
會議時間 
100 年 6 月 20 日 
至 
100 年 6 月 22 日 
會議地點 中國江西省南昌市 
會議名稱 
(中文)2011 年電氣電子學術研討會 
(英文)2011 International Conference on Electric and Electronics (EEIC 
2011) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 在網球視訊中有效的球員偵測與運動軌跡修正 
(英文) Robust Player Tracking and Motion Trajectory Refinement for 
Broadcast Tennis Videos 
附件四 
一、參加會議經過 
二、與會心得 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
六、其他 
 
 1
讓我吸收了不同領域的知識。 
下午時間則安排了許多 SESSION，讓來自各地的學者發表的論文，並讓大
家互相討論。而我們被安排在 Oral Session2 發表本人的論文，所發表的論文題目
是 Robust Player Tracking and Motion Trajectory Refinement for Broadcast Tennis 
Videos。在這篇論文中，我們的重點在網球視訊球員偵測及運動軌跡，從中可以
獲取重要訊息，如場線的位置、球員的位置、球員的軌跡、球員的速度，所偵測
的這些資訊，未來能幫助我們做更進高階的網球視訊處理，我們提出一個有效適
應各種場地的球員偵測演算法，在抽取球員物件之前，會先利用色彩特徵過濾球
場及場線之後利用剩餘影像檢測球員，最後再將卡曼濾波器嵌入球員追蹤演算法
之中預測球員位置及修正軌跡，不論在計算複雜度與修正運動軌跡後的品質，都
能較目前的研究所提出的更為合理。許多學者對於我們的研究非常感到興趣，也
花了一些時間討論，並順利完成論文的發表。 
06 月 22 日 (第三天): 
第三天一早又搭乘交通工具前往南昌大學，因為在這一個 SESSION 中所發
表的論文與我所研究的領域較為接近，其中包含有視訊技術、影像檢索、影像紋
理處理、影像色彩處理等等與影像有關的議題。在這些所發表的論文中我個人偏
好影像檢索，因為這些技術是目前我在研究上比較需要的，並利用茶敘時間與發
表者互相討論，也學習到在影像處理上的新方法，因此這次的研討會可說是獲益
良多。 
 
參觀南昌大學留影 第一天報到、領取資料留影 
 - 3 - 
會後於會議廳外留影 南昌大學校園一隅 
  
會議結束後參觀南昌著名古蹟-滕王閣 會議結束後參觀南昌著名古蹟-繩金塔 
 
二、與會心得 
這次到中國江西南昌參加 EEIC2011，除了發表論文外，也聽取了來自各地
的專家、學者報告，並利用茶敘時間與學者們探討相關問題及進行學術交流，另
外也利用會後時間參觀南昌大學前湖校區及南昌市區，體驗到了當地人的生活，
此次參加研討會不僅開擴了我的視野，也讓我學習到很多東西，不論是學術或是
與人交流，這些東西都是書本上學不到的，真的是得到了許多收獲。 
三、考察參觀活動（無此項活動者省略） 
這次到中國江西南昌參加 EEIC2011，除了發表論文外，也利用茶敘時間與學
者們探討相關問題及進行學術交流，會議第四天主辦單位有辦理南昌市一日的參訪
行程，但因與其他學校的專家、學者有約，因此無法參加。雖然沒辦法參加主辦單
 - 5 - 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/15
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 探討有效的紋理合成技術在影像修補及影像風格轉移上的應用
計畫主持人: 郭忠民
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-214-044-MY2 學門領域: 影像處理
無研發成果推廣資料
專任助理 0 0 100%  
期刊論文 1 1 100% 
Chung-Ming Kuo、Wei-Han Chang、Min-Yuan Fang、
Guan-Da 
Huang, ’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’An 
Effective Adaptive Patch-Based Texture Transfer 
Algorithm Using Particle Swarm 
Optimization,’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’
ICIC Express Letters, Part B: Applications , 
vol.2, no.1, pp.183-188, 2011.2. 
研究報告 /技
術報告 0 0 
100
%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇
Chung-Ming Kuo、Wei-Han Chang、Min-Yuan Fang、
Guan-Da 
Huang, ’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’An 
efficient synthesis approach for perpective 
distroted 
textures,’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’
2010 3rd IEEE International Conference on 
Computer Science and Information Technology , 
pp.200-204, 2010.7. 
Chung-Ming Kuo、Wei-Han Chang、Min-Yuan Fang、
Guan-Da 
Huang, ’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’An 
Effective Adaptive Patch-Based Texture Transfer 
Algorithm Using Particle Swarm 
Optimization,’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’’
Fifth International Conference on Innovative 
Computing, Information and Control, 2010.12.
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 
章/
本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 
千
元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究
員 0 0 
100
%  
國
外 
參與計畫
人力 
（外國
籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100
人
次
 
