系統晶片之靜電防護元件模擬、電路模型與參數最佳化之研究(III) 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-009-336- 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：李義明 交通大學電信工程系 副教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
在奈米電子中，突然回復(或稱驟回)的現
象在 ESD 元件中扮演了重要的角色。在此報告
中我們展示了一個新的 ESD 等校電路模型，且
能夠適用於深次微米與奈米半導體元件的模
擬。在考慮了元件幾何效應對突然回復現象的
影響後，我們的 SPICE 模型可以直接適用於
ESD 保護電路的模擬。藉由所提出的 ESD SPICE
模型，我們可以研究穩健度改善的問題，並且
也可以對整個電子電路與晶片進行以SPICE為
基礎的全電路模擬。 
英文摘要 
In nanoelectronics, snapback phenomena 
play an important role in electrostatic discharge 
(ESD) protection devices, in particular for 
gigascale, very large scale integration (VLSI) 
circuit design. In this report we present a new 
ESD equivalent circuit model for deep 
submicrion and nanoscale semiconductor device 
simulation. By considering the geometry effect in 
the formulation of snapback characteristics, our 
model can be directly incorporated into 
electronic circuit simulation for the whole chip 
ESD protection circuit design. With the 
developed ESD model, we can investigate robust 
enhancement problems and perform a SPICE 
based whole chip ESD protection circuit design 
in nanoelectronics.  
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
In nanoelectronics, whole chip electrostatic 
discharge (ESD) protection design is important 
for obtaining robust circuits; especially for the 
gigascale, very large scale integration (VLSI) 
circuits [1–14]. In designing the ESD protection 
circuit, the design window shown in Figure 1 is 
one of the most important concerns, which 
ensures the functionality of protection circuits. 
However, owing to the scaling down of gate 
oxides, narrowing of the design window 
occurred, as shown in Figures 2 and 3, 
respectively. Consequently, a robust design will 
become more and more difficult and that 
significantly impacts the standard ESD 
protection design methods. Conventional design 
methods basically rely on the testkeys 
verification and encounter some unexpected 
results due to ESD events, among which are 
instantaneously transient behaviors. Under ESD 
events, the transient current may flow through 
the undesired paths, such as the internal core 
circuits. Once the phenomenon occurs, the ESD 
protection circuit will lose its function and VLSI 
circuits will be damaged. These unexpected 
outcomes become very frequent when the feature 
size of device is continuously scaled and less 
than 100 nanometers. Accordingly, these 
conventional trial and error approaches will 
prolong the time to production, and disturb the 
circuit development cycle in the nanoelectronics 
era. 
 
Figure 1. Specified design window for ESD protection circuit 
design. 
 
The present day techniques of computer 
aided design (CAD) become necessary for 
researchers and engineers to design the whole 
parasitic BJT. In modeling the breakdown 
behavior of BJT, a current controlled voltage 
source (VBCE) is represented for the breakdown 
voltage of parasitic BJT. The IV formula is 
dx
BCE
RR
VVI +
−=                 (1) 
where the current controlled voltage source VBCE 
= VBCE0(1 – B–1)n and B satisfies 
0ln =+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛+⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ C
B
I
B
IR          (2) 
R and C are solved with R = (Zs + re/Vt × αb) and 
C = Zs × (I/Vt) + ln(Is × αb). We note that there 
are only six parameters Rd, n, Zs, re, Is and αb 
appearing in the model to be optimized. In the 
model, Rx is 50 ohm and Vt is 0.0259 V. The 
optimization of parameters is performed with the 
intelligent computational algorithm. This 
approach has recently been proposed for the 
nonscale and RF semiconductor device optimal 
characterization in our recent work [15–17]. The 
model proposed here can be applied to whole 
chip ESD robustness simulation in gigascale 
VLSI circuit. 
 
 
Figure 4. Equivalent circuit models for the conventional (right 
figure) and our (left one) proposed models 
 
In order to perform ESD robustness 
simulation on the whole chip design, a 
multidimensional ESD compact model becomes 
an urgent issue to be solved [7]. To meet this 
requirement, the geometry ratio is further 
introduced. Shown in Figure 6, we determine the 
geometry ratio as 
 
 
Figure 5. The snapback curve is the trajectory of the breakdown 
voltage of the parasitic BJT. 
 
},{/},{ DLDWMinDLDWMaxGR =    (3) 
The geometry ratio means that, when GR is equal 
to 1 the protection device has the highest 
efficiency. Contrarily, a large ratio leads to lower 
protection efficiency. Accordingly, the protection 
efficiency is proportional to (GR)ngr; where ngr is 
a number between –1 and 0. Besides the 
geometry ratio, the channel length of the 
protection device should also be taken into 
consideration when constructing the 
multidimensional device model. The channel 
length will strongly affect the current gain β of 
the parasitic BJT; the current gain of the parasitic 
BJT will greatly influence the turn on voltage 
and turn on efficiency of the protection device. It 
is reasonable that a higher β will cause a lower 
turn on voltage and lower turn on efficiency. 
Taking β gain into consideration, the turn on 
efficiency is 
nl
d LR )(=              (4) 
A scaling down of channel length will increase β 
gain and reduce the turn on efficiency. 
Combining the previous two geometry related 
expressions, the turn on resistance Rd is written 
as 
nlngr
Rdxd LGRRR )()(0 ××+=     (5) 
In this work, a 130 nm CMOS process with dual 
gate oxides is used in preparing the test devices. 
Since the ESD damages always occur at the 
input/output (I/O) devices, thick oxide devices 
are usually used in designing the ESD protection 
from 20 samples. From the calibrated result; we 
conclude that the proposed geometry ratio for the 
multidimensional ESD protection device 
provides a robust way. When taking the 
geometry ratio parameter into ESD SPICE 
simulation, the turn on efficiency will be 
improved. The improvement enhances the circuit 
performance and reduces the chip area, at the 
same time. 
 
 
Figure 7. The transmission line pulse system used in this experiment. 
 
Table 1. A set of optimised parameters for the proposed model. 
 
 
 
Figure 8. Comparison of the measured (dotted line) and the simulated 
(solid line) result of ideal four characteristics. 
 
Channel length modulated turn on 
resistance is also demonstrated in Figure 11. The 
result shows that our proposed model reflects the 
channel length modulated turn on efficiency. The 
good agreement of our proposed model with the 
measured data suggests the fact that our model is 
derived according to device physics and ESD 
phenomena. By observing Figure 11, we find 
that the larger the channel length, the lower the 
turn on resistance. This result is mainly caused 
by the current gain of parasitic BJT, modulated 
by the channel length. That is, a shorter channel 
will cause a higher current gain and make a 
worse turn on uniformity. As a result, the poorer 
turn on uniformity causes a higher turn on 
resistance and gets lower protection efficiency. It 
can be concluded that the developed ESD 
compact model not only precisely reflects four 
major ESD characteristics of the parasitic BJT 
but also successfully shows the geometry effect 
and the channel length modulation. 
 
 
Figure 9. Comparisons of the measured (dotted line) and the simulated 
(solid line) results of the nonideal four characteristics. 
 
 
Figure 11. Optimisation of the length effect for Rd. 
 
2. Iyer, N.M. and Radhakrishnan, M.K. (2003) ESD 
reliability challenges for RF/mixed signal design and 
processing’, Proceedings of the 16th International 
Conference on VLSI Design, New Delhi, India, pp.20, 
21. 
3. Bonisch, S. and Kalkner, W. (2003) ‘Measurement 
and simulation of the behavior of a short spark gap 
used as ESD protection device’, Proceedings of the 
2003 IEEE International Symposium on 
Electromagnetic Compatibility, Istanbul, Turkey, Vol. 
1, pp.37–42. 
4. Bonisch, S., Kalkner, W. and Pommerenke, D. (2003) 
‘Modeling of short-gap ESD under consideration of 
different discharge mechanisms’, IEEE Transactions 
on Plasma Science, Vol. 31, No. 4, pp.736–744. 
5. Feng, H., Chen, G., Zhan, R., Wu, Q., Guan, X., Xie, 
H., Wang, A.Z.H. and Gafiteanu, R. (2003) ‘A 
mixed-mode ESD protection circuit simulation-design 
methodology’, IEEE Journal of Solid-State Circuits, 
Vol. 38, No. 6, pp.995–1006. 
6. Wang, K., Pommerenke, D., Chundru, R., van Doren, 
T., Drewniak, J.L. and Shashindranath, A. (2003) 
‘Numerical modeling of electrostatic discharge 
generators’, IEEE Transactions on Electromagnetic 
Compatibility, Vol. 45, No. 2, pp.258–271. 
7. Ker, M-D. and Hsu, K-C. (2003) ‘Substrate-triggered 
SCR device for on-chip ESD protection in fully 
silicided sub-quarter-micron CMOS process’, IEEE 
Trans. on Electron Devices, Vol. 50, No. 2, 
pp.397–405. 
8. Li, Y., Lee, J-W. and Sze, S.M. (2003a) ‘Optimization 
of the anti-punch-through implant for ESD protection 
circuit design’, Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, 
Vol. 42, No. 4B, pp.2152–2155. 
9. Wang, K., Pommerenke, D. and Chundru, R. (2002) 
‘Numerical modeling of ESD-simulators’, Proceedings 
of the 2002 IEEE International Symposium on 
Electromagnetic Compatibility, Minneapolis, 
Minnesota, USA, Vol. 1, pp.93–98. 
10. Lee, J-W. and Li, Y. (2003) ‘A robust design for 
fully-silicided electrostatic discharge protection 
devices in sub-100 nm CMOS circuit era’, 
Proceedings of the 2003 Third IEEE Conference on 
Nanotechnology, San Francisco, CA, USA, Vol. 2, 
pp.639–642. 
11. Lee, J-W., Li, Y. and Tang, H. (2003b) ‘Silicide 
optimization for electrostatic discharge protection 
devices in sub-100 nm CMOS circuit design’, 
Proceedings of the 2003 International Conference on 
VLSI (VLSI03), Las Vegas, Nevada, USA, 
pp.251–257. 
12. Lee, J-W., Li, Y., Chao, A. and Tang, H. (2004) ‘ESD 
protection under pad design for Copper-Low-K VLSI 
circuits’, Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, Vol. 43, 
No. 4B, pp.2302–2305. 
13. Ker, M-D. and Chang, C-Y. (2002) ‘ESD protection 
design for CMOS RF integrated circuits using 
polysilicon diodes’, Journal of Microelectronics 
Reliability, Vol. 42, No. 6, pp.863–872. 
14. Ker, M-D., Chen, T-Y. and Wu, C-Y. (2002) 
‘Substrate-triggered ESD clamp devices for using in 
power-rail ESD clamp circuits’, Solid-State 
Electronics, Vol. 46, No. 5, pp.721–734. 
15. Li, Y., Cho, Y-Y., Wang, C-S. and Huang, K.Y. 
(2003b) ‘A genetic algorithm approach to 
InGaP/GaAs HBT parameters extraction and RF 
characterization’, Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, 
Vol. 42, No. 4B, pp.2371–2374. 
16. Li, Y. and Cho, Y-Y. (2004) ‘Intelligent BSIM4 
model parameter extraction for sub-100 nm 
MOSFETs era’, Japanese Journal of Applied Physics, 
Vol. 43, No. 4B, pp.1717–1722. 
17. Li, Y., Sun, C-T. and Chen, C-K. (2003c) ‘A 
floating-point based evolutionary algorithm for model 
parameters extraction and optimization in HBT device 
simulation’, in Rutkowski, L. and Kacprzyk, J. (Eds.): 
Advances in Soft Computing V Neural Networks and 
Soft Computing, Physica-Verlag, Heidelberg, 
Germany, pp.364–369. 
 
Silicon Nanoelectronics Workshop & VLSI Symposium on 
Technology 2007 
參加國際會議心得報告 
黃至鴻  
 
一、 參加會議經過 
這次我第一次到日本參與國際會議的報告，也是我第一次用英文做這麼久的簡報，雖說是自己
熟悉的內容，但卻也不免覺得緊張，尤其是這次的研究內容還尚未與國外的專業人士討論過，所以
基本上我是抱著忐忑不安的心情往日本出發。我於 6月 9日開始起程，直飛日本的關西國際機場，
飛行只有 3小時以。這趟行程除了參與 Silicon Nanoelectronics Workshop國際會議以外，我還要接
著參與 VLSI Symposium on Technology的會議，所以更顯得這趟行程的緊湊。6月 9日晚上到達日
本後，我將行李 Check-in 後就立即準備 10號要報告的 Poster Presentation，因時差的關係所以覺得
格外的疲憊。 
  6月 10日的重點在於下午的 poster的 presentation，主持人是此次鼎鼎有名的 Prof. Asenov，而我
報告的主題是 Characteristic Fluctuation Dependence on Gate Oxide Thickness Scaling in    
Nano-MOSFETs 與 Effects of Aspect- and Coverage-Ratio on Radio-Frequency Characteristics of 
Silicon Nanowire Transistors，在簡短的報告之後我就參與了 poster的討論，也重複的介紹了好幾次
這個研究，其中有位法國的 Maliya 小姐對我們的研究非常的有興趣，因為他們也正在研究此次的
主題，所以我們討論了許多這個研究目前的發展以及未來性，我想平面電晶體的研究目前已經有太
多人在做類似的研究，而只有很少部分的人能夠將實際結果與模擬做結合，這是非常可惜的，尤其
是如果模擬不與實際的結果結合，那就會失去了模擬本身的意義，這個觀點也受到與我討論大部分
的人的認同，但是現實是很殘酷的，沒有與晶圓廠的合作，想得到實際的結果是非常困難的，尤其
是在先進製程方面，根本都是各個晶圓廠的命脈，這方面，很幸運的，我們老師ㄧ向都非常重視這
方面，所以我們與台積電的合作要達到此目的並非不可能，我想這也是老師眼光的獨到之處。除了
自身研究的討論外，我也看了幾乎所有的 poster，很訝異的發現，random doping以及高頻 nanowire 
Mixed-mode的模擬真的是非常困難的，有太多的問題要解決，我想這應該是我們必須要突破的重
點。除了我本身的報告外，我也聽了許多其他模擬以及分析的主題，其中我最有興趣的是蒙地卡羅
(3) Stress and strain effects in Front-End processing， 
(4) SOI technology and specific aspects， 
(5) Impact of defects in the high-k/metal gate stack， 
(6) III-V compound semiconductor for CMOS application 
(7) Ge PMOS and III-V NMOS: an industrially acceptable alternative to Si for CMOS scaling 
(8) On surface passivation of Ge and III-V surfaces 
(9) High-mobility materials and novel device structures for high performance nanoscale MOSFETs 
(10) Sub 100nm III-V MOSFETs for digital applications: surface channel vs implant free device 
architectures 
共十種，由此我們可以很明確的知道，未來研究的主題必須集中於 strain、SOI 元件以及 high-k
材料的應用，而這些應用的目的都只有一個，就是提高元件的 mobility。而對我們以模擬與分析為
主的實驗室而言，如何準確並且有效的估計這些效應在元件上面應用就變的非常有趣，而我應該在
high-k 材料的分析以及在 SOI元件上面的應用加強分析。 
    在此次的會議中，我學到了許多新的知識，新的意見以及認識到自己英文能力的不足，我想這
是我回國後必須努力的重點。第一次接觸到日本文化，接收到文化之間的差異以及不同的感動。在
此次會議中，令我感到非常感動的是我碰到了以前大學時代的同學以及研究所碩士班的學長，原來
同學跟學長都是在同一個領域打拼，我們除了談彼此之間的事情外，也聊到了往後一起發展努力的
理想，有了同學以及學長的陪伴，讓我這個身處異地的人感到非常溫暖。除了碰到已經認識的人之
外，此行我也認識了來自台積電的員工，我從他們身上學到了許多對學問以及知識的求學若渴的態
度，也了解到園區工業競爭的激烈，每ㄧ個人都是ㄧ顆螺絲釘，有自己的本分，以及ㄧ件事情的成
功是許多人通力合作的結果，與唸書大有不同。在這次行程，我想回去我要好好練習聽跟說，有機
會去國外多跟人家交流。 
 
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
(略) 
 
四、 建議 
    連續ㄧ個禮拜的會議，可以直接和作者討論以及學習新技術, 啟發靈感。在互相交流討論中，
