1. 研究摘要
Electrical properties and microstructures of ZrTiO4 (ZrO2-TiO2) thin films prepared by the
sol-gel method on ITO substrates at different annealing temperatures have been investigated. All
films exhibited ZrTiO4 (111) and (101) orientations perpendicular to the substrate surface and the
grain size increased with increasing annealing temperature. A low leakage current density of
1.47×10-6 A/cm2 was obtained for the prepared films. Considering the primary memory switching
behavior of ZrTiO4, ReRAM based on ZrTiO4 shows promise for future nonvolatile memory
applications.
2. 技術研發成果與技術特點說明：
For the next generation of ULSI dynamic random access memory (DRAM), it is widely
believed that dielectric materials with high dielectric constant such as SrTiO3, Ta2O5 and
(Ba,Sr)TiO3 will be needed for storage capacitors [1-2]. In addition, new nonvolatile memory
devices such as polymer random access memory (RAM), magnetic RAM, Flash memory, and
resistance RAM have been extensively investigated for future memory device applications,
recently. Among these new memory devices, resistance RAM (ReRAM) shows excellent memory
characteristics such as low power operation, high density integration, and high-speed write and
erase operations [3]. Binary oxide semiconductors, such as Nb2O5, TiO2, NiO or ZrO2 also
showed conductivity switching behaviors controlled by external voltage or current [4-7].
The ZrTiO4 (ZrO2-TiO2) resembled α-PbO2 and was reported in 1967 [8]. It has an order-disorder
phase transition in which the disordering takes place at higher temperatures [9-11]. This attracted
our attention, and we investigated ZrTiO4 thin films because it’s excelent dielectric properties.  
These films can be used in dynamic random access memories (DRAMs) and wireless
communication devices. In this article, we report ZrTiO4 (ZrO2-TiO2) thin films on ITO/Glass
substrate by a sol-gel process. We have investigated the dependence of the structure, electrical
properties and memory switching behavior as a function of annealing temperature.
Figure 1 shows the XRD patterns of ZrTiO4 (ZrO2-TiO2) thin films deposited on ITO/Glass
substrates without preheating temperature at various annealing temperatures. As the annealing
temperatures were increased to 800oC, the intensities of the ZrTiO4 (ZrO2-TiO2) peaks (111) (101)
was relatively increased with the others due to higher orientation. It may due to higher surface
kinetic energies have been produced by higher heat-treated temperature, and the microstructure
would be improved.
electric field. This result indicates that the I–V characteristics of ZrTiO4 (ZrO2-TiO2) capacitors
can be explained Schottky emission in external electric-field region [12, 13].
(a) (b)
Fig. 3 (a) The I-V curve and (b) the J–E1/2 curves of Pt/ZrTiO4 (ZrO2-TiO2)/ITO/Glass MIM
structure with various annealing temperatures.
Figure 4 shows a pronounced hysteretic I-V characteristic with two different conduction
states. Depicted at voltage sweep 0negative biaspositive bias0, the resistance switch for
ZrTiO4 (ZrO2-TiO2) is obtained in a clockwise way, i.e., the current increases and enters into its
high current (on) state at negative switching voltage and into low current (off) state at positive
one. We observed two distinct conduction states of ZrTiO4 (ZrO2-TiO2) devices, as shown in Fig.
4. Gate bias was directly applied to Pt-gate with substrate at ground. The high-resistance state
was switched to a low-resistance state by voltage stress with current compliance with various
annealing temperatures. The slight difference between high-resistance to low-resistance has been
observed with the lower annealing temperature.
Fig. 4 The hysteretic I-V characteristic of two different conduction states for Pt/ZrTiO4
(ZrO2-TiO2)/ITO structure with various annealing temperatures.
3. 人才培育成果說明：
已培育一名碩士畢業(林詩堯)，目前任職於旺宏電子股份有限公司。
