wakeup is introduced at MAC layer, which, instead of idle listening, 
allows a station to sleep (or doze)─to suspend the transceiver─
when there is no data transmission. 
In this project we examine the applicability of asynchronous 
wakeup schemes to MANETs. Our primary goals include 1) 
Discovering the impact of node mobility to existing wakeup 
schemes； 2) Balancing the tradeoff between the energy saving and 
in-time link discovery. We aim to propose a new wakeup scheme, 
named Unilateral- (Uni-) scheme, for MANETs that allows nodes 
with slower moving speed to sleep more without losing the network 
connectivity. Based on this result, we further study the how the Uni-
scheme can be applied to networks with different mobility patterns. 
We focus on both the entity mobility and group mobility. In view of 
the increasing attention on mobile ad hoc and wireless sensor 
networks, we strongly believe that this project is very timely and 
will deliver results of both theoretical and practical importance. 
 
 
Fig. 1. IEEE 802.11 Power Saving (PS) mode. (a) Structures of the
awake/sleep beacon intervals. (b) The neighbor discovery problem in asyn-
chronous environments.
on a battlefield) usually move way slower than the fastest one
(e.g., soldiers carried by an armored vehicle), this extends the
cycle lengths on the majority of nodes, and saves the overall
energy consumption.
To the best of our knowledge, the Uni-scheme is the first
wakeup scheme that is able to give the O(min(m,n)) neighbor
discovery delay and allow a network to save energy by taking
advantages of the nodes’ diverse mobility. Theoretical analysis
is conducted, which shows that the Uni-scheme is able to
render 11% to 24% improvement in energy efficiency as
compared with the previous arts.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section II,
we review existing wakeup schemes at MAC layer. Section III
looks into some practical limitations in MANETs and intro-
duces the Uni-scheme. In section IV, we formally prove the
overlap guarantees given by the Uni-scheme. The performance
evaluation is conducted in Section V. Finally, Section VI drops
the conclusions.
II. RELATED WORK
In this section, we describe our target environments and
review existing wakeup schemes. Some terminologies and
assumptions are specified as well that will be used throughout
the text.
We focus on MANETs where nodes move independently in
different directions and speed. We assume that a node is aware
of its own moving speed by either a speedometer (ultrasonic-,
infrared-, inductive loop-, or vision-based), GPS receiver, or
triangulation1 of the signal strengths from nearby nodes [1],
[9], [10].
IEEE 802.11 Power Saving Mode: The operation of IEEE
802.11 Power Saving (PS) mode [8] is shown in Figure
1A simpler two-node model has also been proposed by the PATH [10] at
UC Berkeley.
1(a). On each station, the time axis is divided evenly into
beacon intervals. In every beacon interval, the station is
required to remain awake during the entire Announcement
Traffic Indication Message (ATIM) window. A beacon frame is
broadcasted at the Target Beacon Transmission Time (TBTT)
to announce the station’s existence. If a station, say H1,
intends to transmit data to a destination H0 (Figure 1(a)(1)), it
first unicasts an ATIM frame to H0 during the ATIM window
(Figure 1(a)(2)). Remaining awake, H0 receives the ATIM
frame and sends back an acknowledgment. Both H0 and H1,
after this ATIM notification procedure, keep awake for the
entire beacon interval and start data transmission after the end
of ATIM window (Figure 1(a)(3)). To avoid data collisions, the
data transmission follows the RTS, CTS, and random back-
off procedure specified in the DCF (Distributed Coordination
Function)2. If there is no ATIM notifications, stations may
enter the doze mode (that is, to sleep) to save energy after each
ATIM window. We denote the duration of a beacon interval
and an ATIM window as B and A respectively.
The IEEE 802.11 PS mode functions only when the timers
on stations are synchronized (or equivalently, when the TBTT
is aligned). Figure 1(b) shows an example where two stations
with asynchronous timers fail to discover each other due to the
forever lost of beacon frames. As synchronizing the clocks in
MANETs is usually costly or even infeasible [3], [12], there
is a need for an energy conservation protocol that admits the
asynchronous timers between stations.
Asynchronous Wakeup Protocols: Based on the IEEE
802.11 PS mode, the idea of asynchronous wakeup protocols,
also known as the Asynchronous Quorum-based Power Saving
(AQPS) protocols, is to prolong stations’ awake periods at
certain beacon intervals to ensure the beacon exchanges. Given
a cycle length denoted by n, an AQPS protocol numbers n
continuous beacon intervals from 0 to n − 1, and defines
a quorum, a subset of {0, 1, · · · , n − 1}, for each station.
The set of quorums is named a quorum system. During those
beacon intervals whose numbers are specified in the quorum,
a station must remain awake after the ATIM window, even
when there is no data transmission. This awake/sleep schedule
repeats every n beacon intervals and is called the cycle pattern.
Figure 2 gives an example where two stations adopt quorums
{0, 1, 2, 3, 6} and {1, 3, 4, 5, 7} respectively to form their cycle
patterns. It can be shown [13], [19] that two adjacent stations
with arbitrary timer shift δB, δ ∈ R, are guaranteed to
exchange their beacons within a finite delay if their quorums
intersect3. Note that in an AQPS protocol the beacon frames
carry additional information about the awake/sleep schedule
of the sending station, such as the selected quorum and the
number of current beacon interval, etc. Once receiving a
2In the situation where data transmission cannot complete within a single
beacon interval (due to collisions or large data volume), H0 can set the more-
data bit (in data frame header) true telling H1 to remain awake through the
successive beacon interval to continue data transmission [8].
3Not every quorum system is applicable to an AQPS protocol. The quorums
system must be cyclic to ensure the neighbor discovery when the timers shift
between stations. The formal definition of the cyclic property will be given
in Section IV.
protocols), one may regard the discovery zone as the effective
node coverage. Like r, the proper value of d depends on the
application needs. Given r and d, the node H0 must ensure
that, for each neighbor H1,
(s0 + s1) · lQ(n0),Q(n1) ≤ r − d,
where si and ni denote the moving speed and cycle length
of Hi respectively, and s0 + s1 is the highest (face to face)
relative speed between H0 and H1, as shown in Figure 4(2).
The picked n0 and n1 must satisfy
lQ(n0),Q(n1) ≤
r − d
s0 + s1
. (1)
However, n1 and s1 are unknown to H0 (so are n0 and s0 to
H1). To discover each other in-time, both of the two nodes
must pick a conservative ni such that
lQ(ni),Q(ni) ≤
r − d
si + shigh
, (2)
where shigh is the highest possible moving speed of a node,
as
lQ(n0),Q(n1) ≤ max
(
lQ(n0),Q(n0), lQ(n1),Q(n1)
)
≤ r − d
min(s0, s1) + shigh
≤ r − d
s0 + s1
.
This implies that all nodes in a network must fit their cycle
lengths to Eq. (2) in order to ensure the all-pair neighbor
discovery. Observe that shigh may be way higher than the
ordinary speed of nodes. For example, in the battlefields an
armored vehicle can move much faster than the soldiers. The
fitted cycle lengths will be dominated by shigh and become
very short. This limits the effect of power saving in practice.
B. The Uni-Scheme
Given a positive integer z, for each cycle length n, n ≥ z,
chosen by a station, we define a quorum S(n, z), a subset of
{0, 1, · · · , n− 1}, as
S(n, z) = {0, 1, · · · , ⌊√n⌋− 1, e1, · · · , ep−1}, (3)
where b√nc − 1 < e1 ≤ b
√
nc+ b√zc − 1, 0 < ei − ei−1 ≤
b√zc for all 2 ≤ i ≤ p − 1, p = b(n− b√nc) / b√zcc.
Basically, S(n, z) contains b√nc continuous elements starting
from 0, followed by p − 1 interspaced elements with mutual
distances less than or equal to b√zc. S(n, z) is not unique
with the above definition. We call Eq. (3) the Unilateral- (Uni-
) scheme. Based on Eq. (3), each node obtains its cycle pattern
by following the AQPS protocol described in Section II.
A careless glance may suggest that the Uni-scheme is very
similar to the schemes proposed in studies [15], [17], [18],
therefore incremental. It is true that all these schemes are based
on similar combinatorics called difference sets5. However,
the changes we have made in Eq. (3) render a fundamental
improvement in practice:
5We omit the discussion about difference sets due to the space limitation.
Interested readers may refer to [2], [15] for more details.
Theorem III.1. Given integers z, m, and n, where m,n ≥
z. Without the clock synchronization, two adjacent sta-
tions adopting quorums S(m, z) and S(n, z) respectively
are able to discover each other within a worst-case delay
lS(m,z),S(n,z) = (min(m,n) + b
√
zc)B = O(min(m,n))B.
We will formally prove this theorem in Section IV. Note
lS(m,z),S(n,z) = min
(
lS(m,z),S(m,z), lS(n,z),S(n,z)
)
. Now,
consider the case shown in Figure 4 where H0 and H1 need
to decide their respective n0 and n1 such that Eq. (1) holds.
Theorem III.1 indicates that it is sufficient for any of these two
nodes to reduce lS(m,z),S(n,z) by picking a small cycle length.
The delay can be controlled unilaterally. With this observation,
H0 and H1 can simply have their ni such that
lS(ni,z),S(ni,z) ≤
r − d
2si
(4)
to ensure the in-time neighbor discovery6, as
lS(n0,z),S(n1,z) = min
(
lS(n0,z),S(n0,z), lS(n1,z),S(n1,z)
)
≤ r − d
2max(s0, s1)
≤ r − d
s0 + s1
.
Eq. (4) implies that all nodes in a network can choose the cycle
lengths based on their individual speed rather then the highest
possible one. Most nodes will obtain longer cycle lengths. The
overall energy efficiency can be improved.
Let’s look at a concrete example on the battlefield. Suppose
the soldiers (i.e., nodes) have mobility ranging from 5 m/s
(when walking/running) to 30 m/s (when carried by vehicles),
shigh = 30 m/s, r = 100 m, d = 60 m, B = 100 ms, and A =
25 ms [8]. Adopting the grid-scheme, a node H with speed
5 m/s needs to fit its cycle length n such that lQ(n),Q(n) =
(n+
√
n)B ≤ 100−605+30 = 1.14 s. We have n = 4, as only a 2×2
grid is feasible. Following the AQPS protocol, the duty cycle,
i.e., the minimum portion of time a station must remain awake,
of H is 3·B+1·A
4·B = 0.81. On the other hand, the Uni-scheme
has z = 4 by lS(z,z),S(z,z) = (z+b
√
zc)B ≤ 100−602·30 = 0.67 s.
The cycle length of H must satisfy lS(n,4),S(n,4) = (n+2)B ≤
100−60
2·5 = 4 s. We have n = 38, and the duty cycle of H
becomes 0.68, yielding 16% improvement in energy efficiency.
It is also interesting to note that the Uni-scheme is a
generalization of the traditional grid-scheme [4], [13], [16],
[19]. The Uni-scheme degenerates when n is a square, n = z,
and ei − ei−1 = b
√
zc. For example, let z = n = 9 and
ei − ei−1 = 3, we have S(9, 9) = {0, 1, 2, 5, 8} containing
a column and a row in a 3 × 3 grid shown in Figure (2).
Unlike the grid-scheme, however, the Uni-scheme is defined
over arbitrary values of n (as long as n ≥ z) rather than
squares only. This provides a finer granularity for each node
in selecting a proper cycle length to strike the balance between
the energy efficiency and incurred neighbor discovery delay.
6The value of z can be set by lS(z,z),S(z,z) ≤ r−d2shigh to ensure that it is
smaller than any picked n. We will study the effect of z in Section V.
B. Proof of Theorem III.1
Define the heads of a revolving set Rn,r,i(Q) as those
elements projected from the smallest element in Q. For
example, in Figure 5 the elements 3 and 7 are heads of
R4,10,2({1, 2, 3}). There could be none, or more than one
head.
Lemma IV.6. Given positive integers m, n, and z, where
m,n ≥ z. The set {S(m, z), S(n, z)} based on Eq. (3) forms
an (m,n; min(m,n) + b√zc − 1)-hyper quorum system.
Proof: Without loss of generality, let m ≤ n, and r =
m + b√zc − 1. We show that ∀i, j, 0 ≤ i ≤ m and
0 ≤ j ≤ n, Rm,r,i(S(m, z)) ∩ Rn,r,j(S(n, z)) 6= ∅. Denote
h the first head in Rm,r,i(S(m, z)). Since r ≥ m, h exists
and h ≤ m − 1. If h is included in Rn,r,j(S(n, z)), we
finish the proof. Otherwise, consider two elements s and
t in Rn,r,j(S(n, z)) such that s < h < t. By definition
of S(n, z), any two interspaced elements in Rn,r,j(S(n, z))
must have mutual distance less than or equal to b√zc. We
have t ≤ s + b√zc, leading to t ≤ h + b√zc − 1 ≤
(m−1)+b√zc−1 = r−1. The element t exists. On the other
hand, by definition of S(m, z), h is a head of Rm,r,i(S(m, z))
implies that there exist b√mc−1 continuous elements after h
in Rm,r,i(S(m, z)). Since t ≤ h+b
√
zc−1 ≤ h+b√mc−1,
the element t must also be included in Rm,r,i(S(m, z)). We
have Rm,r,i(S(m, z)) ∩Rn,r,j(S(n, z)) 6= ∅.
The above lemma indicates that under the situation where
there is no clock shift between stations or the clock shifts
are multiples of a B, two adjacent nodes adopting quorums
S(m, z) and S(n, z) respectively are guaranteed to discover
each other within min(m,n) + b√zc − 1 beacon intervals.
Study [13] has further pointed out that:
Lemma IV.7. Two stations having an arbitrary clock shift
δB, δ ∈ R, and remaining awake/sleep based on the AQPS
protocol described in Section II are guaranteed to discover
each other within lB if given any clock shift iB, i ∈ Z, the
two stations can discover each other within (l − 1)B.
Theorem III.1 is a direct consequence of Lemmas IV.6 and
IV.7.
V. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
In this section, we analyze the performance of Uni-scheme
by comparing it with the other existing schemes that allow
nodes to pick different cycle lengths to control the neighbor
discovery delay, including the DS- [18] and AAA-schemes
[19]. Note the AAA-scheme is a generalization of various grid-
/torus-schemes [4], [13], [16] so we effectively compare the
Uni-scheme with all these studies.
To see the power saving effect given purely by a wakeup
scheme without the involvement of protocol design, we define
a theoretical metrics, the quorum ratio, that denotes the
proportion of beacon intervals in a cycle where a station is
required to awake. Specifically, it is defined as |Q|/n, where
0 5 10 15 20 250
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
n
Qu
o
ru
m
 
R
at
io
 
 
DS (Phi=25)
AAA
Uni (z=4)
Uni (z=9)
Fig. 6. Quorum ratios given different cycle lengths.
|Q| is the quorum size and n is the cycle length. The smaller
the quorum ratio, the more the power saving achievable by an
AQPS protocol.
Figure 6 shows the quorum ratios given by the schemes
taking different cycle lengths as the input. Basically, the longer
the cycle length, the lower the quorum ratio. In particular, the
DS-scheme is able to yield the lowest quorum ratios given
a cycle length picked on a station. Note AAA is able to
provide different types of quorums to different nodes in a
clustered network. Figure 6 also shows the quorum ratios
of the clusterheads/relays in this network to ensuring all-pair
neighbor discovery.
A higer quorum ratio does not imply higher energy
consumption. It is important to note that in MANETs, a
scheme giving smaller quorum ratios over cycle lengths does
not necessarily result in better energy efficiency. Given the
cycle lengths m and n on two stations, the DS-, AAA- and
Uni-schemes result in the worst-case neighbor discovery delay
(max(m,n) + b(min(m,n)− 1)/2c + φ)B, (max(m,n) +
min(
√
m,
√
n))B, and (min(m,n) + b√zc)B respectively,
where φ and z are constants. Figure 7 exhibits the lowest
quorum ratios given by these schemes that satisfy the delay
requirements under different moving speed, s, of nodes. In
a clustered environment, Figure 7 also shows the quorum
ratios of clusterheads/relays. Due to the assumption that n
is a square, in AAA only the 2 × 2 grid is feasible to Eq.
(2) for all s, and the quorum ratios remain 0.75. By taking
arbitrary cycle lengths, both the DS- and Uni-scheme fit n to
a particular s with better granularity, thereby improving the
ratios. Notice that the DS-scheme does not outperform Uni
with its superior quorum ratios over cycle lengths. This is
because that the Uni-scheme shortens the neighbor discovery
delay from O(max(m,n)) to O(min(m,n)), so given any s it
is able to fit a longer cycle length using Eq. (4) rather than Eq.
(2) as DS does. Uni-scheme allows nodes with slower moving
speed to save more energy. Another advantage of the Uni-
scheme is that it avoids a common drawback of most existing
schemes—the quorum ratio fluctuates sharply when n is small
□ 赴國外出差或研習 
□ 赴大陸地區出差或研習 
￭ 出席國際學術會議 
□ 國際合作研究計畫出國 
心得報告 
計 畫 名 稱 行動隨意網路中睡醒式省電
通訊協定之研究 
計 畫 編 號 
99WFA0400531 
報 告 人 
姓 名 
吳尚鴻 
服 務 機 構 
及 職 稱 
清華大學 助理教授 
會議/訪問時間 
 地點 
2011/07/31 – 2011/08/04 
美國 夏威夷 
會 議 名 稱 IEEE International Conference on Computer Communication Networks 
發表論文題目 （檢附論文檔案） 
 
一、主要任務摘要（五十字以內） 
 
We present a entitled “Minimizing Broadcast Delay in Location-Based Channel Access 
Protocols” in the IEEE International Conference on Computer Communication Networks 
(ICCCN’11) conference. Our presentation aims to foster communication among researchers 
and practitioners with a common interest in improving communications and networking 
through scientific and technological innovation. 
 
二、對計畫之效益（一百字以內） 
 
ICCCN is one of the leading international conferences for presenting novel ideas and 
fundamental advances in the fields of computer communications and networks. ICCCN 
serves to foster communication among researchers and practitioners with a common interest 
in improving communications and networking through scientific and technological 
innovation. Technical co-sponsorship is provided by the IEEE Communications Society. 
 
三、經過 
 
ICCCN’11 provides five days technical programs with four concurrent sessions of topics 
spanning through wireless network, performance analysis, multimedia networks, 
peer-to-peer networks, to vehicular networks, etc. Our presentation was on 8/2 in session 
“multiple access”. We had fruitful discussion with the attendees. We also jointed three 
keynotes by Prof. Hari Balakrishnan from MIT, Gee-Kung Chang from Georgia Institute of 
Technology, and C.-C. Jay Kuo from University of Southern California 
 
四、心得 
 
The primary focus of the conference is on new and original research results in the areas of 
design, implementation, and appli-cations of computer communications and networks. This 
year, many interesting papers has been presented in the following tracks: 
Track on Broadband Access Technologies (BAT) 
Track on Communication and Information Theory (CIT) 
Track on Energy Efficient Networking (EEN) 
Track on Internet Services and Applications (ISA) 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 行動隨意網路中睡醒式省電通訊協定之研究
計畫主持人: 吳尚鴻
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-007-023- 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
We have published one paper in IEEE 2011 International Conference on 
Parallel Processing (ICPP'11). ICPP is one of the most prestigious 
conferences in parallel processing and distributed computing and has 
acceptance rate 22% this year. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
