 1 
中文摘要 
在啟動每次快取記憶存取前，由於路預測快取記憶體能投機地僅先選擇一最近最常使
用路（MRU Way），因此是一種能有效降低功率損耗之集合關聯快取記憶體。然而，對於
位於快取記憶體中相同區塊資料的存取，最近最常使用表格（MRU Table）和最近最常使
用標誌記憶陣列的檢查動作是不必要的；特別是對具有良好程式區域性的程式執行，存取
相同區塊資料的機率將會明顯地增加。 
在著重於以相同區塊存取為基礎的路預測快取記憶體架構下，我們提出一種新的路預
測快取記憶體機制，藉由作業系統之記憶管理單元（MMU）的輔助，它能主動判斷目前快
取記憶體存取是否是屬於相同區塊內之資料存取，進而只要直接致能單一的資料記憶陣列
即可。如此藉由無需提取最近最常使用表格和最近最常使用標誌記憶陣列的方式，本計畫
所提出的快取記憶體架構將對於傳統路預測快取記憶體於平均消耗能量上有進一步的改
善；特別是針對具有良好程式區域性的程式執行，抑或是具大區塊容量之快取記憶體。此
外，由於藉由作業系統之記憶管理單元的輔助，相較於傳統的路預測快取記憶體，所提出
的快取記憶體架構，為維持前次存取區塊的記錄而所需要額外增加之硬體複雜度也不會很
高。因此，這類以區塊內存取為基礎的路預測快取記憶體確實提供了另一種低功率快取記
憶體設計之選擇考量。 
 
關鍵詞：路預測快取記憶體、最近最常使用路、最近最常使用表格、區塊內存取、區塊容
量、平均能量 
 
ABSTRACT 
Way-predicting cache is one of the set-associative caches that can effectively reduce power 
consumption, which only speculatively selects an MRU (most recently used) way before starting 
a normal cache access. However, for accessing the data within the same cache block, to check 
MRU table and MRU tag-subarray is unnecessary. Especially for executing the program with 
good locality, the probability to access the intra-block data in the cache is more significant.  
Focusing on the way-predicting cache based on intra-block data accesses, we propose a new 
cache scheme that can judge if the present cache access is an intra-block access by MMU of the 
operating system, and then only directly enable one data-subarray. By this approach without 
fetching the MRU table and MRU tag-subarray for the intra-block accesses, the proposed scheme 
has a further improvement of the average energy saving over the conventional way-predicting 
cache, especially for large block size and good program locality. Moreover, the extra increased 
hardware complexity to keep the track of the previous accessed block is not much high compared 
with the conventional way-predicting cache due to the support of MMU. Therefore, such a 
way-predicting cache based on intra-block accesses indeed provides another selection 
consideration for low-power cache design.    
 
Keywords: Way-predicting cache, MRU way, MRU table, intra-block access, block size, average 
energy. 
 3 
2. Way-Predicting Cache 
Due to the high prediction-hit rate of the MRU way, one effective approach to reduce power 
consumption is the way-predicting cache, and it can be practically applied in low-power 
computer architectures.  
 
2.1 Architecture and Operation 
The basic way-predicting cache architecture (for example, 4-way) is shown in Fig. 1 [10], 
where way-predictor is a main control circuit that can maintain the status of the MRU table and 
send the enabled signals to all tag-subarrays and data-subarrays. Actually, there are two types of 
tag-way selection: only enable MRU tag-way or enable all tag-ways. The basic way-predicting 
cache, like the MRU cache [11][12], requires an MRU table to record the most recently used 
block bits (i.e. MRU way) for each set in a cache. While a set of the cache is referred to, the 
way-predicting cache always directly uses the MRU block bits stored in the MRU table to only 
enable the MRU way with tag-subarray and data-subarray at first cycle. If the prediction of the 
MRU way misses but the cache hits, then the current MRU way has to be disabled and another 
cycle is required to enable the rest ways, and the MRU table can be updated by the 
tag-comparison results. If the cache misses, the way-predictor uses the refilled way determined 
by the LRU replacement circuit to update the MRU table. Consequently, the way-predicting 
cache can effectively reduce the energy dissipation because only one way with tag-subarray and 
data-subarray is enabled for most cache references [24].      
 
Tag Data 
Way 1 
Tag Data 
Way 2 
Tag Data 
Way 3 
Tag Data 
Way 4 
Way-predictor 
MRU Table 
Multiplexor Comparators 
Data 
Out 
Enabled Signals 
Tag 
Address 
 
Fig. 1.  Architecture of the WPD cache. 
 
2.2 Energy and Access Time Models 
According to CACTI model proposed by Wilton [13] and the analytical energy dissipation 
model proposed by Kamble [1], in a conventional set-associative cache structure, the major 
components that dissipate energy include row address decoder, memory cells, comparators, data 
multiplexor, sense amplifiers, and input/output drivers. However, tag RAM cells (i.e. 
tag-subarrays) and data RAM cells (i.e. data-subarrays) mainly consume most of the energy 
dissipation in a cache, which includes energy dissipations to pre-charge bit lines, select word 
 5 
3.1 Architecture of WPD-IB Cache 
Basically, the architecture of the proposed way-predicting cache shown in Fig. 2 is similar to 
the conventional way-predicting cache [19]. However, for eliminating the tag checking and MRU 
table access for intra-block accesses of a cache, a PBR (Previous Block Register) that handles 
data selections from the data-subarrays without any tag checking and a small multiplexor are 
required. The PBR keeps the track of the previous accessed block, and it is used to directly access 
the desired block data from data-subarrays for each intra-block access in a cache. The content of 
the PBR can be updated by the result of tag-checking circuit (i.e. comparators) when the current 
access is not in the same block as the previous access, or by the replacement circuit when the 
cache misses. A small multiplexor is used to switch the selection of data-subarrays between 
non-intra-block accesses and intra-block accesses. The proposed WPD-IB cache also needs the 
support of MMU within operating system (OS), by detecting the reference main memory address, 
the MMU will send a PB signal to indicate if the block of the current cache access is the same as 
the previous accessed block. In addition, the MRU table is maintained when the way-prediction 
misses or the cache misses.  
 
 
 
Word Set Tag 
  Tag-subarrays 
Data Out 
 
Main Memory Address 
Hit 
Comparators 
    
MRU 
Table 
…. 
…. 
…. 
…. 
…. 
 MUX 
Way- 
predictor 
Data-subarrays 
t s w 
d 
 
PBR 
PB 
M 
U 
X 
T.E D.E 
※ T.E: Tag-subarray enabled signals, D.E: Data-subarray enabled signals 
 
Fig. 2.  Architecture of the proposed WPD-IB cache. 
 
3.2 Operations of WPD-IB Cache 
The main difference of operations between the conventional WPD cache and the proposed 
WPD-IB cache is checking if an intra-block access occurs for each cache access, and completing 
the examination of all tags except for intra-block accesses. The operations of the WPD-IB cache 
are described as follows: 
(1) While a set of the cache is referred to, concurrently, the OS can judge whether the cache 
access is an intra-block access from the reference memory address in order to activate the PB 
signal or not. 
(2) If PB = 0 and way-prediction hits, and then only MRU way with data-subarray is enabled but 
all ways with tag-subarrays are concurrently enabled, thus the desired data are speculatively 
 7 
compared with the time to access SRAM memory cells for the circuit implementation using logic 
gate arrays such as CPLD devices.  
 
4. Simulation Results 
To verify the performance of the proposed way-predicting cache, we use a trace-driven cache 
simulator (Dinero) to simulate the access behaviors of both way-predicting caches including the 
conventional WPD cache and proposed WPD-IB cache, where both caches have the same cache 
size (= 32 KB) and replacement policy (LRU). The average access time and average energy 
dissipation of the way-predicting caches are evaluated by re-modeling cache simulator to trace 
various trace programs [20], where some of trace programs are belonged to SPEC benchmark 
suite such as SPICE, GCC, and XLISP. Here, we use ‘cycle’ as a basic access time unit and Edata 
as a basic energy unit, respectively. In our simulation, we change the range of the block size and 
associativity separately to observe the average energy dissipation and average access time for the 
conventional WPD cache and proposed WPD-IB cache, respectively. 
 
4.1 Average Energy Dissipation 
Although large associativity will help in reducing the cache miss rate, but the prediction-hit 
rate decreases down so as to more energy needs to be dissipated due to enabling more ways of 
tag-subarrays and data-subarrays when the prediction misses for the way-predicting cache. In Fig. 
3 (a), under the same block size = 32 bytes, we find that the average energy dissipation increases 
as the associativity increases for both way-predicting caches, where the WPD cache has a 
significant increment when the associativity is large than 4. However, because the intra-block rate 
increases as the associativity increases and only one data-subarry is enabled even when the 
prediction misses, the average energy dissipation of the proposed WPD-IB cache does not vary so 
acutely for large associativities compared with the WPD cache.  
 
(E data )
Energy
0
2
4
6
8
1 2 4 8 16 32
Associativity (Ways )
32-block (WPD) 32-block (WPD-IB) (E data )
Energy
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
1 2 4 8 16 32
Block Size (Bytes )
32-way (WPD) 32-way (WPD-IB)
 
                       (a)                                   (b) 
Fig. 3.  Average energy dissipation for different (a) associativities and (b) block sizes. 
 
Block size is an important factor to affect the cache performance, and thus the cache with large 
block size can achieve lower miss rate, especially for the executing program with good locality 
 9 
Therefore, our proposed WPD-IB cache indeed can improve the conventional way-predicting 
cache on average energy dissipation at large block size, and the access time also can be reduced 
additionally. Consequentially, this proposed WPD-IB cache with large block size, which large 
block size is inevitable for most applications, has a better ED product than that of the 
conventional WPD cache. Moreover, the extra increased hardware complexity to keep the track 
of the previous accessed block is not much high compared with the conventional way-predicting 
cache due to the support of MMU, the proposed way-predicting cache therefore can be applied in 
the low-power and low-cost cache design such as embedded system. 
 
6. References 
[1] M. B. Kamble and K. Ghose, “Analytical energy dissipation models for low power caches,” 
Proc. 1997 International Symposium on Low Power Electronics and Design, pp. 143-148, 
Aug. 1997. 
[2] M. Hill, “A case for direct-mapped caches,” IEEE Computer, vol. 21, no. 12, pp. 25-40, Dec. 
1988. 
[3] C. Su and A. Despain, “Cache design trade-offs for power and performance optimization: A 
case study,” Proc. International Symposium on Low Power Electronics and Design, pp. 
63-68, April 1995. 
[4] J. Kin, M. Gupta and W. H. Mangione-Smith, “The filter cache: An energy efficient memory 
structure,” Proc. 30th Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture, pp. 184-193, 
Dec. 1997. 
[5] D. H. Albonesi, “Selective cache ways: On-demand cache resource allocation,” Proc. 32nd 
Annual International Symposium on Microarchitecture, pp. 248 –259, Nov. 1999. 
[6] H. C. Chen and J. S. Chiang, “Design of an adjustable-way set-associative cache,” Proc. 
IEEE Pacific Rim Conference on Communication, Computers and Signal Processing, vol. 1, 
pp. 315-318, Aug. 2001. 
[7] H. C. Chen and J. S. Chiang, “Design of a low-power configurable-way cache applied in 
multiprocessor systems,” IEICE Transactions on Information and Systems, vol. E86-D, no. 9, 
pp. 1542-1548, Sept. 2003. 
[8] A. Ma, M. Zhang and K. Asanović, “Way memorization to reduce fetch energy in instruction 
caches,” Proc. 28th ISCA Workshop on Complexity Effective Design, pp. 1-9, July 2001. 
[9] E. Witchel and K. Asanović, “The span cache: Software controlled tag checks and cache line 
size,” Proc. 28th ISCA Workshop on Complexity Effective Design, pp. 1-12, June 2001. 
[10] K. Inoue, T. Ishihara, and K. Murakami, “A high-performance and low-power cache 
architecture with speculative way-selection,” IEICE Transactions on Electron, vol. E83-C, 
no. 2, pp. 186-193, Feb. 2000. 
[11] J. H. Chang, H. Chao, and K. So, “Cache design of a sub-micron CMOS system/370,” Proc. 
14th Annual International Symposium on Computer Architecture, pp. 208-213, Jun. 1987. 
[12] H. C. Chen, J. S. Chiang, and Y. S. Lin, “A fast sequential MRU cache with competitive 
hardware cost,” Proc. 2nd International Conference on Parallel and Distributed Computing, 
Application and Technologies, pp. 220-227, July 2001. 
 11 
 
計畫成果自評 
本計畫主要是提出一種以區塊內資料存取為基礎的低功率路預測快取記憶體，有別於
傳統路預測快取記憶體每次皆提取 MRU 表格的動作。對於位於快取記憶體中相同區塊資
料的存取，其 MRU 表格和 MRU 標誌記憶陣列的檢查動作是不必要的，而僅需致能單一的
資料記憶陣列即可；特別是對具有良好程式區域性的程式執行，存取相同區塊資料的機率
將會明顯地增加。因此，所提出之路預測快取記憶體，將可有效減少傳統路預測快取記憶
體的平均消耗能量，同時對於平均存取時間亦有所改善。 
在研究過程中，我們採用快取記憶體模擬軟體（Dinero）針對一些標準測測試程式（如
SPEC benchmark suite）進行模擬。從測試統計結果分析中，相較於傳統路預測快取記憶體，
確實驗證本計畫所提出之低功率路預測快取記憶體可獲致較佳的平均消耗能量與平均存取
時間。同時也對路預測硬體電路部份，以 CPLD 加以驗證評估。總之本計畫之執行皆有達
到所預期目標，而且此研究除具有可探討的學術價值；目前已將此研究成果投稿論文至國
際期刊（IEICE）審查中。此外，在實務應用方面更可實際發展為產業技術，進而使得以微
電腦架構為基礎之可攜式產品能有效地改善其電能消耗。 
出席國際會議心得報告                
單位：聖約翰科技大學電子系    研究助理姓名：黎乃仁        日期：98.6.01 
計畫主持人姓名：陳信全 
 
    研究助理黎乃仁(Nai-Jen Li)代表計畫主持人陳信全教授參加第 2 屆電力控
制最佳化會議（The 2nd Power Control Optimization; PCO 2009）於 2009/6/1~6/3
期間在印尼巴里島之 Inna Grand Bali Beach Hotel 隆重舉行。此一國際會議乃由
Curtin University of Technology(Malaysia) 、 Bandung Institute of 
Technology(Indonesia)與 University Technology(Malaysia)主辦。其目的是為了研究
與發展現代的電機電力工程、控制系統與最佳化技巧的方法，並強化彼此間的相
互連結關係。以提供一學術研討平台，使得全世界這些領域的專家學者得以相互
交流。此次會議共來自全世界多達 10 餘個國家將近 200 人與會者參加，經審查
後共計發表了約 142篇的專業學術論文；其範圍包含電力系統的制定與實現、控
制器、驅動器、機構的設計、智慧系統、軟計算與計算智能、模糊理論與混合最
佳化法等各項議題；並分別以不同類別的 Sections 同時展開論文發表；同時在會
議期間大會尚邀請知名學者發表 9場次的專題演講。  
    本人所從事『混合單體搜尋法之改良型粒子濾波器』研究，藉由97學年度國
科會計畫（NSC 97-2221-E-032-032）的資助，除有實際成果外，也完成了一些
相關的論文發表。其中論文：「Nonlinear Function Tracking via an Enhanced Particle 
Filter Incorporating Tournament Selection and Nelder-Mead Simplex Search」亦有幸
為PCO2009國際會議所接受，並於會議第一天（6/1日）下午的『Hybrid Evolutionary 
and Fuel Cells』場次中作口頭發表。此論文主要是提出一種改良式粒子濾波器之
演算法架構，使用競賽選擇方法 (Tournament Selection)，並混合單體搜尋
(Nelder-Mead Simplex Search Method, NM)法，使粒子濾波器對於狀態的估測能更
加精準，也用於解決非線性函數追蹤之問題，並利用狀態追蹤之均方誤差
(RMSE)，評估及比較各種估測方法之追蹤性能，模擬結果顯示，論文所提出之
Nonlinear Function Tracking via an Enhanced Particle Filter 
Incorporating Tournament Selection and Nelder-Mead Simplex Search 
 
 
Chen-Chien Hsu*1, Nai-Jen Li*, and Hsin-Chuan Chen# 
*Department of Electrical Engineering, Tamkang University 
151 Ying-Chuan Rd., Tamsui, Taipei County, Taiwan, 25137. 
Email: jameshsu@mail.tku.edu.tw 
 
#Department of Electronic Engineering, St. John’s University 
499, Sec. 4, Tam King Rd., Tamsui, Taipei, Taiwan, 25135. 
 
 
                                                          
1 To whom all correspondence should be addressed. 
Abstract 
 
In this paper, an enhanced particle filter 
incorporating tournament selection and Nelder-
Mead (NM) simplex search method is proposed to 
improve the performance of function tracking for 
nonlinear functions. Simulation results show that 
more accurate results on state estimation for the 
nonlinear functions in terms of RMSE can be 
obtained by using the proposed particle filter in 
comparison with existing approaches. 
 
 
Key words: Particle filters, tracking, tournament 
selection, simplex search, NM simplex search, 
hybridization, RMSE 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Many problems in engineering require estimation 
of the state of a system which changes over time 
using noisy measurements made on the system [1]. 
Traditionally, state-space approaches [2] were 
adapted to modeling dynamic systems because of 
their advantages in handling multivariate data and 
nonlinear/non-Gaussian processes. As along as the 
system states are suitably estimated, we can manage 
to solve the engineering problems under 
consideration. Basically, there are two kinds of 
information required to analyze and estimate a 
dynamic system. One is a dynamic system model 
describing the evolution of the state with time; 
another one is a model relating the noisy 
measurements to the state. With regard to the 
problems under investigation, we assume that these 
models are available in a probabilistic form.  
The most commonly used approach in estimating 
system state of a dynamic system is Bayesian 
approach [2]. By constructing a posterior probability 
density function (pdf) of the state based on available 
information, we can obtain the state estimation of the 
dynamic system with the availability of received 
measurements. Among the nonlinear filtering 
techniques based on Bayesian estimation, the 
extended Kalman filter (EKF), the unscented 
Kalman filter (UKF), and the particle filter (PF) are 
the most popular ones. Being parametric filtering 
methods under the classical Kalman filter [3] 
framework, the EKF and the UKF incur only a 
modest amount of computational cost and lead to 
near-optimal performances for problems with weak 
nonlinearity. However, for many highly nonlinear 
problems, the EKF or UKF may diverge. The PF, on 
the other hand, has better performances than the 
EKF and UKF for systems with high nonlinearities 
[4]. As a result, various particle filters and their 
variants were proposed to solve the problems of 
nonlinear function estimation and tracking [1], [4], 
[5], [6] with satisfactory results.  
Though the above-mentioned approaches worked 
satisfactorily to some extent, there is still room for 
further improvement on the performance of particle 
filters. In this paper, we propose an enhanced 
particle filter incorporating tournament selection and 
Nelder-Mead (NM) simplex search for further 
improving the tracking performance. Focusing on 
the salient step of resampling of the conventional 
particle filters, we replace the somehow “universal-
stochastic sampling” mechanism of resampling with 
a tournament selection scheme in the proposed 
enhanced particle filter. Also, a NM simplex search 
method is incorporated into the enhanced particle 
filter to search a fitter particle with better weight for 
resampling. Simulation results of two illustrative 
examples of function tracking have demonstrated 
that better tracking performance can be obtained in 
 
centrefl XXX )1(exp γγ −+=   (4) 
]},[{Resampling]},[{ 11
** m
i
i
k
i
k
m
j
j
k
j
k wxwx == =  
m
L 1= , , ∑
=
=
i
c
c
k
i
k ww
1
ˆ )1,0(1 U
m
C = , 1=j
        For   mi :1=
              While  <C ikwˆ
                       ik
j
k xx =
*
                      
m
w jk
1*
=  
LCC +=  
                       1+= jj
              End While 
        End For 
where γ  is the expansion coefficient ( 1>γ ). 
Nelder and Mead [8] suggested 2=γ . 
If , the expansion is accepted by 
replacing  with ; otherwise,  
replaces . 
lowff exp
highX
high
<
X
expX reflX
 
(4). Contractio: When  lies between  
and , replaces  with . Contraction 
(outward contraction) is performed between  
and  to identify . If  is larger 
than ,  does not replace , and an 
attempt is tried to locate  between  
and . The contraction vertex is calculated by 
the following equation: 
reflf
cont
X
highf
centX
centX
hifsec
highX
highf
highX
highX
X
reflX
f
X
cont
refl
highreflX  
 
centhighcont XXX )1( ββ −+=  (5) 
Note that the above algorithm somehow functions 
like the Stochastic Universal Sampling method [4], 
where particles that have high weights  are 
statistically selected many times. This leads to a loss 
of diversity among the particles as the resultant 
sample will contain many repeated points. This 
problem, which is known as sample impoverishment, 
is severe in the case of small process noise [1]. To 
address this problem, we will introduce the concept 
of tournament selection widely used in genetic 
algorithm [10], where a tournament size 
i
kx
T can be 
used to determine the selectivity pressure to choose 
particles from the current population. A pseudo-code 
description of the tournament selection is given 
below:   
where β is the contraction coefficient (0<β<1). 
Nelder and Mead [8] suggested 5.0=β . 
If , replace  with . highcont ff ≤ highX contX
 
(5). Shrinkage: If  in step 4, 
contraction failed and shrinkage will be the next 
attempt. This can be done by shrinking the entire 
simplex (except ) by: 
highcont ff >
lowX
lowii XXX )1( δδ −+←   (6)     
where δ is the shrinkage coefficient (0<δ<1). Nelder 
and Mead [8] suggested 5.0=δ . 
]},[{Selection Tournament                
]},[{
1
1
**
m
i
i
k
i
k
m
l
l
k
l
k
wx
wx
=
=
=
Set tournament size T  
      For   ml :1=
            Draw T  particles randomly from 
. Ts
s
kx 1,{ =
s
kw }
            Select the best  and set 
as . 
's
kw },{
** l
k
l
k wx
},{ '' sk
s
k ww
            Set 
m
wlk
1*
=   
End For 
 
4. Enhanced Particle filter incorporating 
a NM simplex search scheme 
 
4.1. Particle filter using tournament selection 
 
To reduce the degeneracy phenomenon, a 
resampling step [1], [9] is introduced in the particle 
filters. The basic idea of resampling is to eliminate 
particles that have small weights and to concentrate 
on particles with large weights [1]. Among various 
resampling schemes, the systematic sampling 
scheme [9] is the most widely-adopted method, 
where each resampled particle  is selected by 
criterion  in terms of accumulated weights. 
A pseudo-code description of the tournament 
selection is given below, where  is uniform 
distribute random function: 
*j
kx
0(U
<C ikwˆ
)1,
 
 
As a result, a particle filter incorporating the 
tournament selection scheme to avoid the sample 
impoverishment problem can be obtained, which is 
given below: 
quantify performance of various variants o rticle 
filters, the Root Mean Squared Error (RMSE) is used.  
By using the enhanced particle filter, better 
est
f pa
e 2: Bearing-only tracking 
ple, the target moves 
i
imation performance can be obtained by choosing 
a suitable tournament size in comparison to existing 
variants of particle filters. Table 1 shows the 
performance comparison of various state estimation 
algorithms in terms of RMSE averaged over 100 
runs. As shown in the simulation results, tournament 
size of 5 has the best performance with a 
RMSE=5.2279 for the problem under consideration. 
To better demonstrate the tracking performance, Figs. 
2 to 4 show the true and estimated state kx  as a 
function of k for an exemplar run. If 100 particles 
are employed, a RMSE of 4.9534 can be obtained 
for estimating the state over 100 runs using the 
enhanced particle filter with tournament size of 5, in 
comparison of 5.2408 and 6.7404 by using the 
Generic Particle Filter and SIS Particle Filter, 
respectively. 
 
5.2. Exampl
example [14], [15] 
 
In this exam
w thin yx − plane according to the standard second-
order m  odel:
kkk vFxx Γ+= −1    (10) 
where  is a zero-m
 and .  
A fixed observer at the origin of the plane is used to 
T
k yyxxx ],,,[ &&=
aussian noise with
, kv
ova
12 ean ×  
e =qwhite G  c rianc 610− ,  
⎤⎡ 0011 ⎡0
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦⎢
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
=
1000
1100
0010
F
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
=Γ
10
5.00
01
05.
take noisy measurements kz  of the target bearing, 
kk nyx
x
z +
⎤⎡
=
−1 )/tan y ⎥⎦⎢⎣ −+− 22 )0()0(
(
 (11) 
where  is a  zero-mean white Gaussian 
nced particle filters with or 
kn
ith 
12×
rnoise w covariance 5105.2 −×= .  
By using the enha
without NM simple ethod, x search m better 
estimation performance can be obtained by choosing 
a suitable tournament size in comparison to existing 
variants of particle filters. Table 2 shows the 
performance comparison of various state estimation 
algorithms in terms of RMSE averaged over 100 
runs. As shown in the simulation results, RMSE of 
0.0482 and 0.0223 can be obtained via the Enhanced 
Particle Filter and the Enhanced Particle Filter 
incorporating a NM simplex search method, 
respectively, with tournament size of 5. An even 
better result can be obtained if 100 particles are 
employed with tournament size of 10, RMSE can be 
further reduced as shown in Table 3. To demonstrate 
the tracking performance, Figs. 5 to 7 show the 
trajectories of the true and estimated positions of the 
target in the yx − plane.  
 
Table 1. Performance comparison of various state 
est ation algorithms (averaged over 100 runs) 
SE
im
Algorithm Tournament Size RM
Extended Kalman Filter / 23.19
Approximate Grid-Based 
Filter / 6.09 
SIR Particle Filter / 5.54 
Auxiliary Particle Filter / 5.35 
Reg ter ularized Particle Fil / 5.55 
“Likelihood” Particle Filter / 5.30 
SIS Particle Filter / 6.827
Generic Particle Filter / 5.300
2 5.625
3 5.378
4 5.332
5 5.227
6 5.375
7 5.425
Enhanced Particle Filter 
 
8 5.513
 
Fig.2: Diagram showing true values of the state kx  
as a function of k for the exemplar run. 
 
 
Fig.7:  Diagram showing the trajectories of the true 
and estimated target in the yx − plane.  
 
 
6. Conclusion 
 
In this paper, we have proposed an enhanced 
particle filter by using tournament selection as the 
resampling mechanism, where particles with small 
weights are eliminated and those with better weight 
survive for resampling. Tournament size can be 
adjusted according to the problems under 
consideration to achieve a better performance. 
Simulation results have shown that convergence in 
tracking states of the nonlinear functions slows down 
when the tournament size is small. Large tournament 
size generally results in speedy tracking performance 
but with a tendency of premature convenience. As a 
result, a suitable tournament size is required to 
maintain the diversity of the population, and 
subsequently avoid the problem of sample 
impoverishment. To improve the tracking 
performance, a NM simplex search scheme is also 
incorporated into the enhanced particle filter to 
obtain a fitter particle for resampling. Because of the 
hybridization effect, where global exploration and 
local exploitation are respectively achieved by the 
particle filter and the NM simplex search, the 
proposed enhanced particle filter is capable of 
further improving the convergence and accuracy in 
estimating states of nonlinear functions.  
 
Acknowledgements 
This work was partially supported by the National 
Science Council, Taiwan, under Grant NSC 97-
2221-E-032 -032. 
 
7. References 
 
[1] M. Sanjeev Arulampalam, Simon Maskell, Neil 
Gordon, and Tim Clapp, “A Tutorial on Particle Filters for 
Online Nonlinear/Non-Gaussian Bayesian Tracking,” 
IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 50, no. 2, 
pp.174-188, 2002. 
 
[2] Y. C. Ho and R. C. K. Lee, “A Bayesian approach to 
problems in stochastic estimation and control,” IEEE 
Trans. Automat. Contr., vol. AC-9, pp. 333–339, 1964. 
 
[3] R. E. Kalman, “A new approach to linear filtering and 
prediction problems,” Journal of Basic Engineering, vol. 
82, 1960.  
 
[4] James E. Baker, “Reducing Bias and Inefficiency in the 
Selection Algorithm,” Proceedings of the Second 
International Conference on Genetic Algorithms and their 
Application, pp. 14-21, 1987. 
 
[5] N. Gordon, D. Salmond, and A. F. M. Smith, “Novel 
approach to nonlinear and non-Gaussian Bayesian state 
estimation,” Proc. Inst. Elect. Eng., F, vol. 140, pp. 107–
113, 1993. 
 
[6] G. Kitagawa and W. Gersch, Smoothness Priors 
Analysis of Time Series, New York: Springer-Verlag, 1996. 
 
[7] Marco A. Luersen and Rodolphe Le Riche, 
“Globalized Nelder–Mead method for engineering 
optimization,” Computers and Structures, vol. 82, pp. 
2251-2260, 2004. 
 
[8] N. A. Nelder and R. Mead, “A Simplex Method for 
Function Minimization,” Computer Journal, vol. 7, 1965, 
pp. 308-313. 
 
[9] G. Kitagawa, “Monte Carlo filter and smoother for 
non-Gaussian nonlinear state space models,” J. Comput. 
Graph. Statist., vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 1–25, 1996. 
 
[10] Brad L. Miller and David E. Goldberg, “Genetic 
Algorithms, Tournament Selection, and the Effects of 
Noise,” IlliGAL Report No. 95006, July 1995. 
 
[11] F. Walters, L. R. Parker, S.L. Morgan, and S. N. 
Deming, Sequential Simplex Optimization, CRC Press, 
Boca Raton, USA, 1991. 
 
[12] John Lin, Ying Wu, and Thomas S. Huang “Articulate 
hand motion capturing based on a Monte Carlo Nelder-
Mead simplex tracker,” 17th International Conference on 
Pattern Recognition, vol. 4, pp. 975-978, 2004. 
 
[13] B. Carlin, N. Polson, and D. Stoffer, “A Monte Carlo 
approach to nonnormal and nonlinear state-space 
modeling,” J. Amer. Statist. Assoc., vol. 87, no. 418, pp. 
493–500, 1992. 
 
[14] J. Carpenter, P. Clifford, and P. Fearnhead, 
“Improved particle filter for nonlinear problems,” IEE 
Proceedings Radar, Sonar and Navigation, vol. 146, pp. 2-
7, Feb. 1999. 
 
[15] Ruixin Niu, Pramod K. Varshney, Mark Alford, 
Adnan Bubalo, Eric Jones, and Maria Scalzo, “Curvature 
nonlinearity measure and filter divergence detector for 
出席國際會議心得報告                
單位：聖約翰科技大學電子系    研究助理姓名：黎乃仁        日期：98.6.01 
計畫主持人姓名：陳信全 
 
    研究助理黎乃仁(Nai-Jen Li)代表計畫主持人陳信全教授參加第 2 屆電力控
制最佳化會議（The 2nd Power Control Optimization; PCO 2009）於 2009/6/1~6/3
期間在印尼巴里島之 Inna Grand Bali Beach Hotel 隆重舉行。此一國際會議乃由
Curtin University of Technology(Malaysia) 、 Bandung Institute of 
Technology(Indonesia)與 University Technology(Malaysia)主辦。其目的是為了研究
與發展現代的電機電力工程、控制系統與最佳化技巧的方法，並強化彼此間的相
互連結關係。以提供一學術研討平台，使得全世界這些領域的專家學者得以相互
交流。此次會議共來自全世界多達 10 餘個國家將近 200 人與會者參加，經審查
後共計發表了約 142篇的專業學術論文；其範圍包含電力系統的制定與實現、控
制器、驅動器、機構的設計、智慧系統、軟計算與計算智能、模糊理論與混合最
佳化法等各項議題；並分別以不同類別的 Sections 同時展開論文發表；同時在會
議期間大會尚邀請知名學者發表 9場次的專題演講。  
    本人所從事『混合單體搜尋法之改良型粒子濾波器』研究，藉由97學年度國
科會計畫（NSC 97-2221-E-032-032）的資助，除有實際成果外，也完成了一些
相關的論文發表。其中論文：「Nonlinear Function Tracking via an Enhanced Particle 
Filter Incorporating Tournament Selection and Nelder-Mead Simplex Search」亦有幸
為PCO2009國際會議所接受，並於會議第一天（6/1日）下午的『Hybrid Evolutionary 
and Fuel Cells』場次中作口頭發表。此論文主要是提出一種改良式粒子濾波器之
演算法架構，使用競賽選擇方法 (Tournament Selection)，並混合單體搜尋
(Nelder-Mead Simplex Search Method, NM)法，使粒子濾波器對於狀態的估測能更
加精準，也用於解決非線性函數追蹤之問題，並利用狀態追蹤之均方誤差
(RMSE)，評估及比較各種估測方法之追蹤性能，模擬結果顯示，論文所提出之
