 2
行 政 院 國 家 科 學 委 員 會 專 題 研 究 計 畫 成 果 報 告 
供應鏈中退化性產品在不同信用交易下的最佳訂購策略之研究 
An EOQ model for deterioration Items under different trade credit 
policy in a supply chain system 
計畫編號: NSC95-2221-E-263-002 
執行期間: 95年 8 月 01 日至 96年 7 月 31 日 
主持人:廖瑞容     致理技術學院企業管理系 
1. Scope and Purposes 
Usually, in the classical inventory 
economic order quantity (EOQ) model, it is 
assumed that payments will be made to the 
wholesaler for goods immediately after 
receiving the consignments. However, in 
practice, the wholesaler may offer retailers a 
specific delay period for payments after the 
items are delivered. In day-to-day dealings, it is 
observed that the wholesaler offer different 
trade credit policies to the retailers. One such 
trade credit policy is “ M/α  net T ” which 
means that a %α  discount on sale price is 
granted if payments are made within M  days 
and the full sale price is due within )( MT >  
days from the date of invoice if the discount is 
not taken. Therefore, it makes economic sense 
for the retailer to delay the settlement of the 
replenishment account up to the last moment of 
the permissible period allowed by the supplier. 
Based upon the above arguments, the 
permissible delay in payments provides two 
advantages to the retailer: (1) the retailer will 
have more money to run in that period and (2) 
allowing a delay in payment to the retailer is a 
form of price discount and increase sales. In 
this paper, an attempt has been made to explore 
the lot size determination problem under a 
trade-credit policy of type “ M/α  net T ”. 
2. Literature Review  
The effect of a permissible delay in 
payments on the optimal inventory system has 
 4
2M = the period of permissible delay in 
setting account, with 12 MM > . 
T = the ordering time interval. 
)(tI = the level of inventory at time, 
Tt ≤≤0 . 
)(TZ = the total relevant cost per year. 
Assumption 
（1） The demand for the item is 
constant with time. 
（2） Shortages are not allowed. 
（3） Replenishment is instantaneous. 
（4） The distribution of time to 
deterioration of the items follows 
exponential distribution with 
parameter θ , where 0≥θ .  
（5） During the time the account is not 
settled, generated sales revenue is 
deposited in an interest bearing 
account. At the end of this period 
(i.e. 1M  or 2M ), the customer 
pays the supplier the total amount 
in the interest bearing account, 
and then starts paying off the 
amount owed to the supplier 
whenever the customer has money 
obtained from sales. 
（6） Time horizon is infinite. 
4. Conclusions  
The main purpose of this paper is 
threefold: First, we show that the total 
variable cost per unit time is convex by a 
rigorous proof. Second, with convexity, 
the optimal solution procedures to find 
the optimal ordering policy and bounds 
for the optimal ordering time are 
provided. Third, sensitivity analysis is 
performed to study the effects of 
changing parameters values on the 
optimal solution, and we obtain a lot of 
managerial insights.   
5. Self-Evaluation 
This research corresponds to the 
original plan and has attained its aim. 
Hence, the study is of great academic 
value and suitable for publication in 
academic journals.  
References 
[1] Aggarwal SP, Jaggi CK. (1995), Ordering 
policies of deteriorating items under 
permissible delay in payments. Journal of 
the Operational Research Society 46, 
658-662. 
