 2
 
Figure 1. A PU progressively displays the text in 
three states 
 
Secondly, the image adaptation model takes into 
account the requirement for adapting image size when 
displaying it on a handheld. Briefly speaking, an image 
will be automatically shrunk if it is too big to display 
on a handheld, as well as expanded if it is too small. 
Finally, the layout adaptation model is able to 
reorganize the layout of adapted elements properly 
according to the display ability of different handheld 
devices. But there are a few questions associated with 
previous descriptions. Exactly which textual body is 
needed to be summarized? How do we evaluate and 
decide whether a picture is required to be shrunk or 
expanded? Consequently, before we continue to detail 
each adaptation module, the presentation unit (PU) and 
screen unit (SU) will first need to be introduced.  
 
2.1 Semantic Unit (SU) and Presentation Unit (PU) 
The adaptation process begins by partitioning the 
content into presentation unites (PUs). A content page 
will be separated into several PUs, which instead of 
presenting in the actual HTML, each PU is a rectangle 
around a section which typically presents a paragraph, 
list, table, image, etc. Accordingly, each PU is 
considered as a basic unit of the adaptation process. 
Because each PU contains various contents, the 
question is which SU should execute the adaptation 
process. We will define the other unit, namely screen 
unit (SU), that helps us to evaluate and decide which 
PU is required to be adapted. 
The display area size of a PU is varies because it may 
contain a paragraph or an image; a SU is a virtual 
rectangle presentation block where the boundary is 
fixed according to different handhelds displaying 
ability. Precisely speaking, the size of a SU is matched 
to correspond to the screen sizes of handhelds For 
example, pocket PC’s and smartphone’s in which the 
typical resolution are 240*320 and 176*220 
respectively. The content of each PU will be retrieved 
then filled into each SU. The main concept is that it 
does not need to adapt a text or image within a PU if it 
can be entirely displayed within a single SU without 
additional scrolling. Mathematically, we evaluated 
whether a PU is required to be adapted with a simple 
formula that calculates a threshold value. We defined a 
value, textual information density (TID) as follows: 
 
      TID = number of words in a PU / area of a SU 
 
The area of a SU is constant according to which 
adapted target platform is required by a user. The 
default value of TID is allowing a PU to present the 
maximum number of words without additional 
scrolling. Users are also allowed to adjust the TID, 
which will affect which PU is required to be adapted. 
For example, a larger TID allows a good deal of 
textual information located in a PU without any 
summarization so that the user may need more 
necessary scrolling actions for reading. The size of a 
picture will be shrunk or expanded for image 
displaying, The image in a PU will be adjusted 
proportionately and conserve the original picture’s 
presentation until it fits in a SU. The following 
sections will detail each adaptation module. 
 
2.2 Textual Adaptation Model 
Lari Kärkkäinen suggested that the resolution of 
handheld devices and variable lighting conditions, 
using at least 14 pts font to design a web page for 
handhelds [11]. A smaller font size may impede the 
reading process, but fonts in 14 pts sometimes are 
bigger than the regular content. That leads to a large 
amount of necessary scrolling action for reading. This 
need for frequent scrolling can seriously degrade the 
learning efficiency and performance. Providing a 
simplified overview is another important adaptation 
guideline as well. Next, the details of how to extract 
keywords and summary sentences will be introduced. 
 
2.2.1 Keyword Extraction 
Keyword extraction from a text body relies on an 
evaluation of each word’s importance. According to 
the idea captured in the TF/IDF measure [Salton 1989]. 
The importance of a word W is dependent on how 
often it occurs within the body of text, and how often 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
The procedure of summary sentence extraction is as 
shown in figure 3. Each sentence in a PU will be 
extracted by a sentence dividing manager, and then 
passed to the summary generator. Meanwhile, the 
previous extracted keywords are also passed through 
the summary generator in which each sentence will be 
extracted and listed in order if it contains the matched 
keywords. 
 
2.3 Image adaptation Model 
Similarly, image adaptation replies on comparing its 
size to a SU’s. Recall the definition of SU. It is a 
rectangle displaying unit and its presentation area is 
the same as a physical screen area of required 
handhelds. An image may not be able to adapt its size 
to perfectly match the proportion of a SU and reside in 
it. Hence, a large image (its height and width are all 
exceed a PU’s) might be shrunk proportionately until 
its width is fit to display in a PU without additional 
horizontal scrolling action. The entire adapted content 
will have the default displaying in a single column 
where vertical scrolling for browsing is necessary, so 
the height of a image beyond a SU’s is acceptable. 
Such that the height of a PU is consequently extended 
for the image in our implementation. Accordingly, a 
small image will be enlarged proportionately until its 
width, is at least fit, to display in a PU without 
additional scrolling actions. 
 
2.4 Presentation Adaptation Model 
The presentation adaptation mode provides two main 
functions for user to reedit the content’s layout. One is 
allowing users to pick up PUs to delete, the other is let 
users rearrange PUs’ position manually. After the 
previous automatic adaptation, each PU should contain 
appropriate displaying content-content that has either 
been adapted or not. A few PUs might be required to 
be eliminated, because they may present relatively 
insignificant objects such as pictures decorated only 
for aesthetic purposes in its original content. Besides, 
users may decide to delete certain PUs considered 
unnecessary for learning according to their editing 
experience, and consequently reduce the content’s size. 
On the other hand, the default adapted layout 
rearranges PUs in an orderly single column 
presentation. 
 
3 Implementation 
We implemented the content adaptation Tool as a web-
based application with Ajax and Microsoft .NET 
framework technologies. As the figure 4 shows, the 
user can upload a SCORM-compliant course that is 
composed of html-based contents. The uploaded 
course will be saved at our backend server that is 
responsible for conducting the entire adaptation 
process. There are two adaptation templates we have 
currently developed; the pocket PC version and the 
smartphone version, as shown in top side of the figure 
5. The user only needs to click on the icon to begin the 
adaptation process.  
 
 
                  
Figure 4. Uploading learning contents to on-line 
adaptation application 
 
           
 
Figure 5. Adapting Content according to the pocket 
PC template 
 
The system will automatically accomplish the 
adaptation requirement according to the parameter 
configure of the template. Figure 5 demonstrates the 
html-based content has been adapted properly to be 
displayed in a PU and arranged by a default singular 
column layout. Next, users can manually delete the 
PUs, which contain relatively significant contents that 
have to be determined by users themselves. The 
adaptation result relies on configures of the template 
parameters as shown in left side of the figure 6. Users 
 6
Molina, Andreas Paepcke and Terry Winograd. 
Efficient Web Browsing on Handheld Devices Using 
Page and Form Summarization, ACM Transactions on 
Information Systems, 20(1):82-115, Jan. 2002 
[13] Iqbal Mohomed, Jim Chengming Cai, Sina Chavoshi, 
Eyal de Lara. Applications: Context-Aware Interactive 
Content Adaptation, In Proceedings of the 4th 
international conference on Mobile systems, 
applications and services MobiSys, pages 42–55, 2006. 
 
計劃成果自評 
1. 本計劃研究內容與原計劃完全相符，亦
達成預期申請之成果目標。 
2. 本計劃研究成果已發表於學術會議上。 
3. 已提供相關成果發現給ADL，做為改善
遠 距 教 學 上 有 關 learning content 
adaptation 的參考依據。 
 
