Microfabricated Gel Pre-loaded Biochips for DNA analysis
Jing-Ting Huang (黃靖婷) and Yi-Je Juang (莊怡哲)
Department of Chemical Engineering
National Cheng Kung University
Abstract
In this study, we proposed and demonstrated novel fabrication of microchips for DNA
analysis. The polymer gel solution is first pre-loaded inside the open microchannels,
followed by UV curing and drying. The microchannels with dried gel were covered with a
thin polymer film and sealed via vacuum and heating. The buffer solution is then dispensed
in the microchannels to allow the cross-linked gel to swell and the microchip is ready for use.
The results showed that the swollen polymer gel fills the microchannels compactly without
race tracking and the DNA fragments can be effectively separated. This fabrication
technique yields excellent packaging of the polymer based microchips ready for use with fast
loading capability and increased portability. It also provides the users with microchips
requiring less auxiliary equipments to perform DNA analysis and other biomedical and life
science research and development with less cost and in a much user-friendly fashion.
Introduction
The use of microfluidics provides
numerous benefits such as reduced reagent
consumption, decreased waste, high
throughput, precision of data, and saving of
time and labor through automation,
integration, modularization, and
parallelization. Because of the microscale
phenomena, microfluidic devices can offer
great potential for improving the efficiency
of techniques applied at the macroscale,
especially in drug discovery and medical
diagnostics. One example is DNA
microchips, which have been gaining
tremendous attention in recent years [1-7].
To perform DNA analysis, in general, two
types of sieving matrices are utilized. One
is the viscous polymer solution and the other
cross-linked polymer gel. The use of both
types of sieving matrices for DNA
separation has been demonstrated
successfully [8-12]. For the viscous
polymer solution, its advantages include
ease of preparation and flexibility; however,
a pumping system and careful loading of the
solution are required. In addition, high
electric fields need to be applied in order to
overcome diffusion/dispersion of DNA
fragments during separation. As to the
cross-linked polymer gel, although DNA
separation can be performed at relatively
short separation length with lower electric
power, the demand of UV curing system and
procedure imposes another obstacle for the
DNA microchips to become portable and
user-friendly. Other separation schemes or
strategies have been developed to address
the issues such as“end-labeled free-solution
electrophoresis (ELFSE)” [14, 15],
replacement with polymer matrices having
surface profiles, Nanofcus is used and
Figures 3(a), (b) and (c) show the typical
surface profiles of the dried gel, polymer
film sealed to the microchannel with
dried gel, and swollen gel, respectively.
The thickness of the dried gel is
approximately 30 m. During the
sealing process, the cover film deformed
(or sagged) about 20 m as shown in
Figure 3(b). After the polymer gel
swells, the cover film is pushed upward
around 15 m, resulting in 5-m film
sagging as shown in Figure 3(c). Thin
polymer film is used due to its ease of
deformation during heating. Since
swelling of the polymer gel may not be
uniform along the microchannels,
deformation (or sagging) of the polymer
film ensures that the swollen polymer
gel can fill the entire microchannels
compactly. This can be demonstrated
by injecting the fluorescent dye in the
microchannel with swollen polymer gel,
followed by applying an electric field as
shown in Figure 4(a). We can see that
the flow front of the fluorescent dye near
both top and bottom of the microchanels
is relatively flat, indicating a well
compacted swollen polymer gel inside
the microchannel. On the other hand,
for the micochannel sealed with the
scotch tape (around 170 m in
thickness), the flow front is not flat as
shown in Figure 4(b). Moreover, it
shows race tracking near the bottom of
the microchannel.
2. DNA separation
DNA separation was conducted by
30-second injection at electric field
strength 200 V/cm, followed by
150-second separation at electric field
strength 185 V/cm. Figure 5 shows the
electropherogram of DNA separation
and the result is reasonably well (except
separating 271 and 281).
Conclusions
We have proposed and demonstrated a
novel fabrication technique, which yields an
excellent packaging of a gel pre-loaded
microchip ready for use with fast loading
capability and increased portability. The
swollen polymer gel can fill the
microchannels compactly and the DNA
separation result is reasonably well. This
fabrication technique also provides the users
with microchips requiring less auxiliary
equipments to perform DNA analysis with
less cost and in a much user-friendly
fashion.
Acknowledgment
The authors thank Professor G. B. Lee
from Department of Engineering Science for
using his LIF system. Thanks also go to
Center for Micro/Nano Science and
Technology for access to the facilities to
carry out photolithographic process and
measurement of surface profiles. This
work is supported by National Science
Council in Taiwan (94-2218-E-006-049).
References
1. Liu, S. and Guttman, A., Trends in
Analytical Chemistry, 23(6), 422 (2004).
2. Auroux, P-A, Koc, Y., deMello, A., Manz,
A., and Day, P. J. R., Lab Chip, 4, 534
(2004).
