0行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告
□期中進度報告
新型電子書之使用性工程研究
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫 □ 整合型計畫
計畫編號：NSC -99-2221-E-017-015-
執行期間： 99 年 8月 1日至 100 年 07 月 31 日
計畫主持人：唐硯漁
共同主持人：林榮泰
計畫參與人員：
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告 □完整報告
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件：
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列管計
畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢
□涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢
執行單位：國立高雄師範大學工業設計系
中 華 民 國 100 年 10 月 14 日
2When speaking of books and E-books, we should first examine what a book is. Reading and paper-based documents
have had a long tradition. As we now recognize, dissemination of information can be vastly transformed by
technological innovation –from the Gutenberg press to the World Wide Web (Harrison, 2000). A key part of this
transformation relies upon the extent to which innovative new tools are usable. In their earliest form, paper-based
documents tracked accumulated wealth and records of trade between agricultural communities. They also detailed
the lives, events, and accomplishments of important people or leaders in the community. Later, in order to
communicate with other people and groups, the materials needed to be widely deployable, readily available, and
usable; this lead to the creation of printed documents. Finally, these printed documents became volumes of books.
French philological critic Escarpit (1988) defined the “book”as a sort of the simplest communicating material,
capable of transmitting information and knowledge by its substantial form (Escarpit, 1988). He also indicated that no
matter the literary style, books possess a great amount of emotion, thinking, and faith. Extending the idea from
Escarpit’s opinions about books, we define any medium today a “book”in terms of functionality and meaning as
long as it possesses those same three characteristics.
Arguably, the origins of digital texts can be traced to 1971 with Project Gutenberg, the brainchild of Michael Hart,
who decided that it would be highly desirable if famous and important texts were freely available to everyone in the
world (Project Gutenberg, 2003). Since then, he has been joined by hundreds of volunteers who share this vision.
Now, more than thirty years later, Project Gutenberg has a total of over six thousand digital texts available for free.
Thirty years after Mr. Hart’s novel idea, digital reading has gradually entered the mainstream, drawing the interest of
manufacturers in developing devices and programs related to this new technology.
The E-book, as an electronic product, provides the same basic functions as a paper book – storing and
communicating knowledge through reading. Being electronic media, E-books are more efficient than paper books
from such perspectives as storage, transfer, delivery, and accessibility (Press, 2000). There are now many kinds of
software and hardware related to E-books in the market. Table 1 shows three different types of products pertaining to
digital reading and now seen as “E-book”. These include:contents, devices, and software. The contents of E-books
could be storybooks, novels or poetry and so forth, encoded in particular formats. The devices for presenting the
digital contents include many electronic information products; in some ways, even a mobile phone can be regarded
as an E-book. Actually, this device is the most common and the most familiar definition of an E-book to the public.
Finally, the program provides a software-based interface between users and reading apparatus. Synthetically, an
E-book can be described as a new platform for accessing digital information that preserves the benefits of having
electronic reading while providing many of the advantages of paper books (Schilit, 1999).
Table 1. The Three Components of an E-book
COMPONENT EXPLANATION
(1) Contents
Mainly realized in certain formats and which could be downloaded or
sold though the Internet and shops. Generally provided by specialized
websites.
(2) Devices
Including PC, PDA, or certain dedicated reading apparatus, such as
GoReader and EbookMan.
4paper, we considered the potential target group to include both commuting students and also other possible users
such as office workers, who also spend considerable time traveling to and from the office via public transportation.
2.2 A questionnaire-based pilot study
In order to learn about commuters’attitudes towards E-book technology, data were gathered using a questionnaire.
Questionnaire: In the questionnaire, subjects’backgrounds were requested, including age, sex, and purpose of
commuting. An introduction and several product pictures of E-books were then presented before the main questions
shown below:
1. Do you have any digital reading experience?
2. Do you have a device for digital reading (like E-books)?
3. Have you ever heard of E-Books?
4. Have you ever used any E-book products?
5. How often do you read while commuting?
6. What sorts of books do you usually read while commuting?
7. How is your attitude to the concept of using E-books while commuting?
Subjects: To avoid the possibility of pressure during actual commuting influencing responses, the questionnaires
were distributed on the weekend. The data for this study was taken from 32 males and 38 females between the ages
of 15 and 56 in the Taipei Metro. 70 of the 100 questionnaires distributed were returned. Of the 70 respondents, 29
reported that their purpose of commuting was for school, 37 for work, and 4 for other purposes.
2.3 Results & Discussion
Seventy one percent of the subjects reported digital reading experience while 29 percent did not. Digital reading
experiences of the 71 percent were almost always the Internet. The second question revealed that approximately eight
out of ten subjects (83 percent) did not have any dedicated digital reading device and around six out of ten subjects
(64 percent) had never heard of E-books. Only 11 percent of the subjects had used E-books. In Taiwan, E-books,
whether software or hardware, are developing products, and so the public is not familiar with this new reading
technology and behavior. However, most people did have experience browsing the Internet, which is also a form of
digital reading. Results for the fifth question revealed that more 75% of subjects reported reading often or very often
while commuting, which supports the impression that reading occupies a significant amount of commuting time. The
different types of reading materials are distributed as follows: textbooks (7%), work-related documents (26%),
newspapers (23%), magazines (21%) and others (7%). No single type of material was dominant, which suggests that
commuters require a variety of content to suit their own personal preferences. Responses to question 7 regarding
attitudes toward the concept of using E-books while commuting revealed that six out of ten subjects (60%) had a
very positive opinion, 18 percent positive, only eight percent felt negative, and no one felt very negative. In all, 78%
of the respondents had a favorable attitude toward E-books for reading while commuting. Therefore, the following
conclusions can be made based on this questionnaire survey:
6After observation, several problems and potential requirements were revealed. Reading is one of the most common
activities that commuters engage in while waiting on the platform. This confirms results from our questionnaires.
People usually read standing while waiting (Figure 2). During the commuting time, there are usually many people in
the carriage (Figure 3). Passengers who get seats need to read within a limited space. For those who have to stand,
reading can be difficult because they must hold on to something stable in order to maintain their balance.
Furthermore, insufficient lighting inside the carriage could be harmful to readers’eyes. The personal space scenario
embraces the commuters’physical and mental aspects. A commuter would bother another passenger if his or her
reading documents were too large, such as newspapers or big magazines. As for the mental aspect, commuters do not
want others to see what they are reading in order to preserve their privacy (Figure 4).
3.2 Problems and requirements analysis
The problems and questions mentioned above were observed for the situation of reading paper books while
commuting. For E-books, however, the size of the data storage device can be made smaller than the paper format
thus addressing the size concern.
Six types of requirements are categorized in Table 2 according to the results from the pilot study and field studies.
These six categories; (a) information capacity, (b) mobility, (c) environment factors, (d) information modality, (e)
physical space, and (f) mental space, will be discussed later in the context of Universal Design.
Table 2. Categories of requirements and their supporting reasons
Requirement Reason
(a) Information capacity One single paper book can not provide multiple types of contents.
(b) Mobility The weight and volume of books make them difficult to carry.
(c) Environmental factors Illumination inside the carriage might not be suitable for reading.
(d) Information modality Font or size of text in paper books can not be adjusted.
(e) Physical space Seating space restrictions. Personal belongings are a security problem.
(f) Mental space Personal privacy considerations and reluctance to bother others.
3.3 The principles of Universal Design
At the beginning of the 21st century, the world is very different from 100 years ago. People are living longer
and surviving better. Potential consumers of designs who may be limited in function by age or disability are
increasing at a dramatic rate. Designers are trained to design for a mythical “average”group of people which
in fact does not actually exist. Every individual is unique. The idea of Universal Design, proposed by Ron
Mace (1970), began in demographic, legislative, economic, and social changes among older adults and people
with disabilities (The Center of Universal Design, 1998). Universal Design can be defined as the design of
products and environments to be usable to the greatest extent possible by people of all ages and abilities.
Ergonomic considerations are a part of “Universal Design”. Therefore, it is very important to integrate
ergonomic considerations into the principles of Universal Design as a major design strategy. The seven
principles of this paradigm are shown in Table 3.
8(a) Mobility: Due to size and weight, it is not convenient to carry paper books everywhere. Using available
information processing technology, all contents and information can be compressed into a package that
commuters can carry everywhere. This design reduces commuters’physical effort.
(b) Environment factors: Using backlighting, commuters inside the carriage can still have a clear display independent
of external illumination. Such a device can be used efficiently and comfortably without significant fatigue. From
this design, a changeable form of information (like sound) is worth working out.
(c) Physical space: Reading large documents in the carriage might bother other passengers. With proper E-book
reading device design, people could read newspapers in a space as small as a comic book. The design must also
consider ergonomic requirements.
(d) Information modality: texts and figures in a paper book cannot be altered because of the format. This requirement
will not be a problem when using electronic media. The design should accommodate a wide range of individual
preferences and abilities. For example, text size, brightness and contrast of the screen can all be modifiable.
(e) Mental space: Through flexibility in the use of information, the user should be able to change the presentation
style to keep contents private. On the other hand, in order to improve the user’s mental value for the E-book, the
aesthetics of the product are significant as well.
(f) Information capacity: paper size and the number of pages restrict the contents of a paper book. E-books, however,
use electronic storage that could record a large amount of information. According to the first principle of
Universal Design, the information should be useful to people with diverse abilities. Therefore, a public interface
design and devices for input or output should be considered.
4 Conclusion
Universal Design is an approach to creating everyday environments and products that are usable by all people to the
greatest possible extent. By using Universal Design, companies can maximize their potential market. However,
successful application of these principles requires an understanding of human diversity (ergonomic considerations).
Design and manufacturing engineers seem well aware that the most efficient way of improving ergonomics in the
manufacturing process is by becoming involved in the early phases of product development. This study presents an
example of how to take ergonomic considerations into engineering design when applying Universal Design.
E-books would be more effective if they were designed to take advantage of functionalities that are not part of the
paper book metaphor, such as multiple windows, text highlighting, animation, and sound. Perhaps the key factors
affecting the future of E-books will be the quantity, quality, and cost of content material and the feel of reading
compared to traditional paper books. The key factors critical to the success and widespread use of this new reading
behavior are the skills necessary for consumers to access and read the content, and whether the content generates the
desire and motivation to access it. Once users are convinced that E-books can successfully reproduce familiar
features they have come to expect from the printed document, they can begin to look toward enhanced utility. It
appears that a well-designed electronic book will incorporate features found in paper books to ensure users’
10
Microsoft Reader page, http://www.microsoft.com/reader/
netLibrary page, http://www.netlibrary.com/
Open eBook Forum, http://www.openebook.org/
Palm Reader page, http://www.peanutpress.com/
Project Gutenberg, http://www.promo.net/pg/
SoftBook Press, http://www.softbook.com/
Taipei Metro, http://www.trtc.com.tw
University of Rochester, http://www.lib.rochester.edu/main/ebooks/archive.htm
在論文發表場次中，本人發表 Friendship display medium in response to academic
major influences in visuospatial abilities，發表完後有許多學者提問問題，同時也獲得不錯
的迴響，對後續研究音樂和空間能力的主題，有更多思考的方向。
三、攜回資料名稱及內容
本次研討會的時程表、大會論文集及其他相關資料，其中論文光碟有所有發表的
papers，是一份很好的參考資料。
四、其他
參與活動的相關照片與論文如下所示。
大會開幕式
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/21
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 新型電子書之使用性工程研究
計畫主持人: 唐硯漁
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-017-015- 學門領域: 人因工程與工業設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
2011, Friendship display medium in response to academicmajor influences 
in visuospatial abilities, HCI International 2011, Orlando, Florida, USA
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
