-2- 
 
to recognize a breast cancer or prompt 
unnecessary biopsy of a benign finding. Hence, 
the quality control is a very important issue. 
The American College of Radiology (ACR) has 
some guidelines for the breast ultrasound 
examination. When the image quality is not 
better, the operator should be notified. We also 
want to provide the autofocus and autogain 
functions for a good user-friendly operation 
interface according to the ACR guidelines. 
In the second year, we used the fuzzy 
algorithm to intelligently select the gain and 
focus parameters of echo systems. Moreover, 
we also developed a tumor detection system 
using these good quality images. Based on the 
result, it can reduce the radiologists’ time for 
image acquisition and make sure the quality of 
each image. 
 
一、 緣由與目的 
根據行政院衛生署的統計，乳癌的發生
率與死亡率逐年增加。乳癌好發年齡在40~50
歲之間，較歐美國家的好發年齡約提早十
歲，但任何成年婦女皆有機會罹患此症。近
年來由於醫學進步，經由適當的治療，乳癌
的十年存活率平均達百分之六十，第一期乳
癌的存活率則高達百分之八十，零期乳癌甚
至接近百分之百 [1]。乳癌是今日引起婦女死
亡最常見的癌症之一，隨著生活習慣逐年改
變，罹患乳癌的年齡有逐漸下降的趨勢而且
乳癌的發生率也持續增加中。美國統計
1996-2000年乳癌的發生率為每十萬人中有
131.7人罹患乳癌，佔全部罹癌的 31.4% 
(131.7/419.9)，美國預估2004年，將有215,990
罹患乳癌的新病例並且預估約有 40,110 
(15%)的死亡病例 [2]。 
目前，我們在乳房超音波電腦輔助診斷
的研究上，已經累積了不少的成果，可以再
強化目前系統，使得我們的技術持續保持領
先地位。我們的電腦輔助診斷(CAD)系統目
前主要應用於傳統的一般2D超音波及新一
代的3D立體超音波機器，但是這些超音波都
是封閉的系統，我們的電腦輔助系統並沒有
方法嵌入至一般商業化超音波機器內，形成
一個完整的系統，亦即我們的電腦輔助系統
和超音波系統是完成獨立的，電腦輔助系統
是只是取得超音波影像進行分析，亦即是被
動的角色，並沒有辦法主動下指令操作超音
波。 
通常超音波機器是不易攜帶，為了一些
特殊用途如軍事及急診，也出現了可攜式的
超音波(Portable Ultrasound)  [3]，可攜式超
音波可以分成二種，一是仍如傳統超音波採
用封閉式系統，最著名的是美國ATL公司的
SonoSite 180，另一種是採用開放式架構，通
常是利用一般個人電腦及Microsoft Windows
系統，超音波是利用1394或USB 2.0介面與電
腦進行溝通，超音波設備不僅可以傳送超音
波原始資料，由電腦軟體進行轉換成B-mode
超音波影像，電腦也可以傳送指令給超音
波，設定各項參數，如焦距(Focus)和增益
(Gain)等，這是超音波相當大的革命，有可能
使得超音波低價及普級化，也可能從醫院、
診所進入家庭。這種以個人電腦為中心及主
體的超音波，可以稱為PC-based超音波 [4]。
目前在國外已經有商品化的產品，美國
Tearson公司的SmartProbe及立陶宛Telemed
公司的Echo Blaster 128，而國內亦有聲博公
司正在開發相關產品，因為SmartProbe和
Echo Blaster 128都已是相當成熟並已經實際
應用，同時它們也有完整的開發工具，因此
總計畫購置引進國內。SmartProbe在國內已
經有醫院實際使用，但是尚未有學術研究單
位利用SmartProbe來開發超音波應用軟體，
甚至國外也僅有一篇2004發表的會議論文 
[5]。 
超音波有不少參數可以設定，如果參數
設定有誤將使影像失真造成診斷的錯誤 
-4- 
 
予不同的加權值：脂肪的部份常是增益參數
設定的重要參考，所以其加權值為2；在擷取
超音波影像時，一般都會以乳腺區域為中
心，同時，此區域往往是腫瘤會存在的地方，
所以，此區域的加權值為4；而其他的三個區
域的影像資訊不是特別的多，所以其加權值
為1。因此，明視度加權平均WLA的公式如下 
 
 
 
 
 (1) 
其中，m、n分別是影像的寬和高，g(x, y)是
(x, y)位置上的灰階值。 
 
(2.2)HIST參數 
HIST是用來表示影像中，超過所設定臨
界值的像素個數和像素總數之間的比例；以
此可以評估出影像中，腫瘤和背景之間的對
比程度 [10]。當臨界值為T時，可以用下列
公式來計算HIST(T)的值 
        HIST(T) ＝ NTH(T) / NP  (2) 
其中，NTH(T)是影像中灰階值高於臨界值T的
個數；NP是影像中像素的總數。 
 
(2.3)模糊系統 
在模糊系統中，先以WLA和HIST來推導
出H_WLA和H_WLAdiff兩個參數。H_WLA就是
在Eq. (2)中，令T = WLA時，所求得之值，其
表示如下 
H_WLA ＝ NTH(WLA) / NP    (3) 
H_WLAdiff是藉由不同臨界值的設定，來觀察
HIST的分佈情況，以了解對比的程度，可由
下列算式求得 









)5.0(_
,_)2(
_
WLAHISTWLAH
WLAHWLAHIST
Min
WLAH diff
 (4) 
接下來，便分別以五個不同的值來表示成員
函數（member function）中，五個不同等級
（very small, VB； small, S； medium, M; big, 
B； very big, VB）的H_WLA值和H_WLAdiff
值；其中五個H_WLA值為 μHW1, μHW2, 
μHW3, μHW4及μHW5；五個H_WLAdiff值為
μHW1diff, μHW2diff, μHW3diff, μHW4diff 及
μHW5diff。圖四表示H_WLA和H_WLAdiff的成
員函數圖。最後可用下列算式可以求出參考
補償值RC的值 



25
0
____
5
1
)(
n
sdiffWLAHsWLAH
s
n
RC

 (5) 
其中n為一加權值，在此計畫中設定為5。 
藉由實驗的結果，我們可以取得一個最
佳的參考補償值（BRC），並以此值來作為
自動調整增益參數的依據；比如說，在圖五
(a)中，將增益參數設為0時，所求得的參考補
值小於BRC，表示圖片太暗；在圖五(b)中，
若將增益參數調為30時，所求得的參考補償
值反而大於BRC，表示圖片太亮；經過自動
反覆調整之後，便可求得增益參數為16時，
參考補償值最接近BRC，此時的圖片為最理
想狀態，如圖五 (c)。 
 
(3)自動對焦控制 
根據ACR原則[11]，超音波影像在對焦
時，通常是針對腫瘤的位置。所以在自動對
焦的部份，首先要找到影像中腫瘤的位置，
之後才有辦法針對不同區域評估對焦的效
果。 
 
(3.1)像素點的分類 
我們採用了[12]中所提出的方式，來找
出影像中腫瘤的位置。這方式是以模糊理
論，將影像中的像素點分成三個種類：腫瘤、
正常組織及邊緣區域。首先找出7x7範圍中，
所有灰階值的平均m及中心點(cx, cy)和重心





















   
 
 




 
 
m
m
x
n
n
y
m
x
n
n
y
m
x
n
n
y
m
m
x
n
n
y
m
x
n
y
yxgyxgyxg
yxgyxg
mn
WLA
1
4
3
4
3
1
4
4
0
4
3
1
4
0
1
4
3
4
3
1
4
4
3
1
4
0
4
0
),(),(),(
),(4),(2
9
1
-6- 
 
Server傳輸時使用。Server端將會有個Timer
在固定時間內觸發，觸發時將會去檢查Image 
Buffer是否已經被Update，若有，將會將Image 
Buffer的資料透過CSocket使用非同步的方式
傳輸至Client端。而Client端會用CSocket以非
同步的來接收資料，並存入Image Buffer中，
在 接 收 完 整 張 Frame 後 ， 會 呼 叫
OnFrameReady函式，再將此Frame在GUI上面
顯示出來。 
圖十二展示了我們所做的自動超音波
參數設定系統和穿戴式電腦間的影像資料傳
輸過程。其中，穿戴式電腦的環境為Linux，
參數設定系統的環境為Windows。 
 
三、 計畫成果自評 
在第二年的計畫成果裡，我們成功地將
第一年Window-to-Window的模式，成功地改
成了Window-to-Linux，使得我們的所開發的
自動參數控制系統能直接地和穿戴式電腦整
合起來。其次，在前面的實驗結果中，可以
清楚地看到，我們所開發的自動參數設定系
統，不論是在增益的設定或是自動對焦上，
甚至是在腫瘤的定位上，都有著很好的效
果；如此一來，就如我們一開始所設定的目
的，此系統的開發，能有效地簡化了醫師在
診療上的一些煩瑣步驟，並且藉由可攜式的
超音波，可以使此類的應用程式能更加地普
遍化及便利化。 
 
References 
 
[1] 國家衛生研究院 , "乳癌診斷與治療共
識," 2004. 
[2] American Cancer Society, "Cancer Facts 
and Figures," 2005. 
[3] S. Langlois, "Portable ultrasound on 
deployment," ADF Health, vol. 4, no. 1, pp. 
77-80, Sept.2003. 
[4] A.M. Chiang, P.P. Chang, and S.R. 
Broadstone, "PC-based Ultrasound Imaging 
System in a Probe," in 2000 IEEE 
Ultrasonics Symposium, San Juan, Puerto 
Rico, 2000, pp. 1255-1260. 
[5] T. Zhang, Xu X., and Chen X., "A 
Software Package for Portable 
Three-Dimensional Ultrasound Imaging," 
in IEEE International Symposium on 
Biomedical Imaging, Arlington, VA, USA, 
2004, pp. 539-542. 
[6] J.A. Baker, M.S. Soo, and E.L. Rosen, 
"Artifacts and pitfalls in sonographic 
imaging of the breast," AJR Am. J. 
Roentgenol., vol. 176, no. 5, pp. 1261-1266, 
May 2001. 
[7] American College of Radiology, "ACR 
Practice Guideline for the Performance of a 
Breast Ultrasound Examination," American 
College of Radiology, 2002. 
[8] R.N. Czerwinski, D.L. Jones, and W.D. 
O'Brien, Jr., "Line and boundary detection 
in speckle images," IEEE Trans. Image 
Process, vol. 7, no. 12, pp. 1700-1714, Dec. 
1998. 
[9] L.A. Zadeh, "Fuzzy Sets," Information and 
Control, vol. 8 pp. 338-353, 1965. 
[10]S. Shimizu, T. Kondo, T. Kohashi, M. 
Tsurata, and T. Komuro, "A new algorithm 
for exposure control based on fuzzy logic 
for video cameras," Consumer Electronics, 
IEEE Transactions on, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 
617-623, 1992. 
[11]J.A. Baker and M.S. Soo, "Breast US: 
assessment of technical quality and image 
interpretation," Radiology, vol. 223, no. 1, 
pp. 229-238, Apr. 2002. 
[12]X.Y. Cheng et al., "Breast tumor diagnosis 
system using three dimensional ultrasonic 
echography," in Engineering in Medicine 
and Biology society, 1997.Proceedings of 
the 19th Annual International Conference 
of the IEEE, 1997, pp. 517-520. 
[13] A. Rosenfeld and J.L. Pfaltz, "Sequential 
operations in digital processing," JACM, 
1966. 
 
 
 
 
 
-8- 
 
 
圖四、H_WLA和H_WLAdiff的成員函數圖 
 
                                (a) 
 
                                (b) 
 
                                (c)  
圖五、(a)增益參數為0 (b) 增益參數為30 (c) 增益參數為16 
VS S M B VB 
1 
0 
0.25 0.5 0.75 1 
-10- 
 
 
   
(a) (b) 
圖九、(a) 經過物件連接處理後的結果 (b)經過腫瘤條件篩選後的結果 
 
 
 
圖十、各個樣本的增益參數的分佈圖 
 
 
-12- 
 
  
               (a)                              (b) 
  
               (c)                              (d) 
  
(e)                              (f) 
  
               (g)                              (h) 
 
圖十二、影像傳輸的過程 (a) Server端開始傳輸第一張影像 (b)Client端接收到第一張影像，並
產生畫面 (c)傳輸第30張影像 (d)接收第30張影像 (e)傳輸第70張影像 (f)接收第70張
影像 (g)傳輸第100張影像，傳輸完畢 (h)接收第100張影像，接收完成 
 
表 Y04 
  行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          95 年 09 月 10 日 
報告人姓名 
 
張 瑞 峰 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
國立台灣大學資訊工程學系 
教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
95 年 8 月 30 日至 9 月 3 日-美
國紐約 
95 年 9 月 4 至 5 日- 美國聖荷
西(矽谷)U-Systems 全乳房超
音波公司 
本會核定 
補助文號  
NSC 95-2221-E-002 -446 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2006 IEEE 生物醫學工程學會國際年會 
 (英文) IEEE 2006 International Conference of the Engineering in Medicine 
and Biology Society 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) (1) 全乳房超音波的密度分析 
(2) 三種乳房 X 片的密度分析方法 
(英文) (1) Breast Density Analysis in 3-D Whole Breast Ultrasound Images 
(2) Three Comparative Approaches for Breast Density Estimation in 
Digital and Screen Film Mammograms 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
二、與會心得 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
 
四、建議 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
六、其他 
 
 
附
件
三 
表 Y04 
 
左為 Georgia State University 的潘毅(Yi Pan)教授，潘教授為資科系系主任並為 International 
Journal of Bioinformatics Research and Applications (IJBRA) 及 International Journal of High 
Performance Computing and Networking (IJHPCN) 的 Editor-in-Chief 和 Wiley Series on 
Bioinformatics: Computational Techniques and Engineering 的 Series Editor 
 
 
右為新加坡南洋理工大學陳意釩(Yi Fan Chen)博士，從事微波影像研究 
 
周六9月2日上午10點張貼第二篇論文“Three Comparative Approaches for Breast Density 
Estimation in Digital and Screen Film Mammograms”。The University of Alabama at Birmingham
的吳希增(Xizeng Wu)教授對於此研究也相當感到興趣，吳教授也告知目前最新的 X 光技術是
利用 X 光的 Phase 改變，其可比現在的衰減方式提供可好的影像，日本柯尼科已經賣了近 100
表 Y04 
Biology、Micro- and Nano- Biotechnologies、Bio-sensors: Bio-instrumentation and Wearable 
Technology、Cellular and Functional Tissue Engineering、Pharmaceutical Studies: Drug Delivery 
and Gene Therapy、Biomechanics: Bio-robotics and Surgical Planning、Cardiovascular and 
Respiratory Systems、Neural and Rehabilitation Engineering and Neuromuscular Systems、Clinical 
Engineering and Healthcare Information Systems 幾大主題，而與本人研究比較相關的是
Biomedical Imaging and Image Processing，而我們的第一篇論文是發表於 Multi-modality Breast 
Imaging，第二篇論文是發表於 Image processing and Analysis。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
4 日早上，飛抵舊金山，U-systems 公司副總裁陳博士親自開車接至旅館，下午並與 Bob 
Wang 見面，他為著名 R2 及 U-systems 的創辦人，此為第二次見面，二月時即曾與他見面，
本次也介紹了我們一些研究，他也指導了一些意見。王董事長也是來自台灣，他畢業於師大
附中，創辦了超過 10 家公司。5 日下午再至 U-systems，並給了一場演講介紹我們最新的研
究，他們非常感到興趣。 
 
 
9 月 4-5 日至 U-systems 訪問並演講 
 
四、建議 
Breast Density Analysis in 3-D Whole Breast Ultrasound Images 
 
Ruey-Feng Chang, Kuang-Che Chang-Chien, Etsuo Takada1, Jasjit S. Suri2 
Woo Kyung Moon3, Jeffery H.K. Wu4, Nariya Cho3, Yi-Fa Wang, and Dar-Ren Chen5 
 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi, Taiwan 
1Division of Medical Ultrasonics, Center of Optical Medicine 
Dokkyo University School of Medicine, Mibu, Japan 
2Department of Biomedical Engineering, Biomedical Technologies Inc., CO, USA 
and Biomedical Research Institute, Idaho, USA 
3Department of Diagnostic Radiology, College of Medicine 
Seoul National University Hospital, Korea 
4Department of Radiology, Changhua Christian Hospital, Taiwan 
5Department of Surgery, Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan 
 
Abstract—The breast density information is one of 
important factors for estimating the risk in breast cancer 
detection and early prevention. In this paper, we present two 
methods, including threshold-based and proportion-based, to 
automatically analyze the breast density using whole breast 
ultrasound. The two algorithms are experimented with 32 cases 
which are scanned from 32 patients using the US machine 
SSD-5500 with a recent developed scanner ASU-1004 (Aloka, 
Japan). The experimental results are graded from 4 (extremely 
dense tissue) to 1 (almost entirely fat), and respectively 
compared with the majority grades of three radiologists. The 
accuracy of the threshold-based and proportion-based strategies 
is 88% and 84% respectively. 
 
Keywords: breast density, whole breast ultrasound, ROI, 
Grandular, Fatty, Threshold, Proportionate, Performance 
 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
Breast cancer is one of the leading causes for cancer 
mortality among women [1]. Breast cancer screening, which 
includes mammography and clinical examination, has long 
been established in Western countries [2]. The United States 
Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) had 
recommendations on breast cancer screening, which call for 
annual clinical breast examinations after 40 years of age, 
mammography every 1 to 2 years beginning at 50 years of age 
[3]. If women can take screening early, they will be earlier 
diagnosed having tumor or not and take the earlier cure so that 
the risk of the breast cancer will be decreased. 
In general, many factors are used for estimating the risk in 
breast cancer detection and early prevention, and the breast 
density information is one of the strongest indicators. Breast 
density is assessed at the initial examination and classified as 
'dense' (if > 25% of the breast was composed of density) or 
'lucent' (< or = 25% density) [4]. The relative risk is estimated 
to be about 4 to 6 times higher for women that have 
parenchymal densities over 60% of the breast area, as 
compared to women with less than 5% of parenchymal 
densities [5] 
Boyd et al. [6] determined the level of breast cancer risk 
associated with varying mammographic densities using 
quantitative grade of breast density. Investigation by Saha et al. 
[7] described an automatic and reproducible method to segment 
dense tissue regions from fat using scale-based fuzzy 
connectivity methods and compute different measures for 
characterizing mammographic density. Both of these researches 
showed high accuracy on the risk estimation of breast cancer 
using mammographic density calculation. However, screening 
mammography may be too expensive and its sensitivity 
declined significantly with increasing breast density. In the last 
decade, ultrasound imaging is an important tool for clinical 
examination in the further diagnosis of both palpable and 
impalpable breast abnormalities. It is used not only to detect 
breast abnormalities which can be found at mammographic 
examination but also to screen the women with dense breast 
that is difficult to do using mammography. Hou et al. [8] 
compared breast mammography, ultrasound and physical 
examination for 935 high-risk Asian women who usually have 
dense breasts. The experimented result shows the sensitivity of 
ultrasound was 90.4%, which was higher than mammography 
(52.4%) and physical examination (33.3%). We will analyze the 
breast density based on the ultrasound images. However, the 
conventional 2-D ultrasound, which only obtains the sectional 
image of partial breast region, is not enough to provide the 
whole breast imaging like mammography. Fortunately, the 
recently developed whole breast ultrasound could provide the 
whole breast image. The whole breast ultrasound may be useful 
for three reasons. First, the volumetric ultrasound data may be 
more enough to analyze the breast density than conventional 
2-D ultrasound. Second, whole breast ultrasound can provide 
more data and better statistics more than 2-D mammograms. 
Third, it is considerably beneficial for its convenience, 
non-invasive and inexpensive modality. Hence, this paper will 
analyze the breast density based on the new whole breast 
ultrasound imaging technique. 
In this paper, a novel breast density analysis system has 
been presented to measure the breast density automatically 
based on whole breast ultrasound images that offers 
radiologists a second quantification reading for prediction of 
breast cancer risk. Two quantification methods are proposed to 
measure the breast density. One is to calculate the proportion of 
glandular tissue and fat tissue, another one is based on the 
threshold algorithm. Finally, the two experimental results will 
be respectively compared with the radiologists’ diagnoses 
based on the American College of Radiology Breast Imaging 
Reporting and Data System (BI-RADS) standard [9]. 
 
( )∑
=
−−=
N
i
i XXN
V
1
2
1
1
   (5) 
 
where Xi are the N samples of the echo envelope. 
 
B. Tissue Classification 
In order to diagnose without any manual interaction, we 
adopt an optimum thresholding method presented by Otsu [11] 
to automatically select a threshold value from the histogram of 
the processed image. It uses discriminant analysis to divide 
foreground and background by maximizing the discriminant 
measure function.  
In an image with L gray levels, the number of pixels at 
level i is denoted as ni, and the total number of pixels is 
denoted as N=n1+n2+…+nL. If we want to divide all pixels into 
two classes, C1 and C2, the sums of the probabilities with level 
1-k and k-L should be calculated and represented as w1(k) and 
w2(k) respectively. Let μi be the gray-level mean of C1 and μT 
be the gray-level mean of all pixels, and then the optimum 
threshold value can be measure by 
 
)()(
)]()([)(
21
2
2
kwkw
kkwk iT ⋅
−= μμσ  (6) 
)(max*)( 2
1
2 kk
Lk
σσ
<≤
= .   (7) 
 
When σ2(k) approximates to the maximum, the optimal 
threshold k* will be produced (as represented by Eq. (7)). 
 
C. The Analytic methods 
After the above pre-processing, the desired breast region 
has been located and roughly divided into glandular tissue and 
fatty tissue. Then, two methods, threshold-based and 
proportion-based analyses, are proposed to measure the breast 
density.  
In the threshold-based method, we use a statistics model to 
determine that each pixel belongs to glandular tissue or fatty. 
To focus on the breast region, Ng is the number of the 
corresponding pixels which are classified as glandular tissue in 
all images and can be calculated by 
 
⎩⎨
⎧
=
∈=
=∑
=
otherwiseyxC
GyxifyxC
yxCN
i
i
M
i
ig
0),(
),(pixel1),(
),(
1   (7) 
 
where Ci(x, y) represents the category of the pixel (x, y) in the 
ith image, M (= 84) is the number of all merged images, and G 
represents the glandular tissue. Then, a threshold Tg is chosen 
to determine whether the pixel belongs to glandular tissue or 
fatty tissue. If Ng > Tg, the pixel (x, y) would be decided as 
glandular tissue; otherwise it would be decided as fatty tissue. 
In this paper, the Tg value is set to 30 empirically. After all the 
breast region pixels have been decided, the breast densityρB is 
calculated by 
 
(%)100×=
B
G
Bρ  (8) 
 
where G and B are numbers of pixels within glandular tissue 
and breast region respectively. 
Fig.2 illustrates that if more than 30 corresponding pixels 
are classified as glandular pixels, that position would be 
defined as glandular tissue. 
 
 All US images after threshold
glandular tissue 
 
Fig.2. The category determination of the pixel. 
 
In our second analytic method, the proportion-based 
analysis, the basic concept of this method is based on the 3-D 
viewpoint. By using the optimum thresholding, mentioned in 
section III.錯誤! 找不到參照來源。, each image has been 
roughly divided into two categories, glandular and fatty tissues. 
Hence, the volume of the glandular tissue VG can be calculated 
by accumulating the number of glandular pixels in all images, 
and so does the volume of breast region VB. The breast density 
DP is calculated as follows 
 
                DP = VG / VB  (8) 
 
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
 
The experimental cases were acquired from the 32 patients, 
and these patients were also examined to acquire the 
mammographic films. The experimental results are compared 
with three radiologists’ results which are scored by observing 
the mammograms. We use the majority mammogram grades of 
three radiologists as the ground true for US images. Fig.3 
shows the distribution of the grades for these cases by using the 
majority grades of radiologists’ results for mammograms. 
Fig.4(a) shows the result after applying the 
threshold-based method to the merged breast ultrasound with 
grade 2, and Fig.4(b) is its corresponding mammogram. For 
results of all experimental cases, TD1, TD2 and TD3, which are 
defined through training and shown in Table 1, would be used 
as the threshold values and classify them into the four 
categories. The distributions of 32 classified results is shown in 
Fig.5 (the triangle line represents the threshold-based method, 
the rectangle line represents the proportion-based one, and the 
straight line show the results of radiologists). In summarization, 
the threshold-based method has four false positives and the 
accuracy of it approximates to 87.5%, on the side, the 
proportion-based one has five false positives and the accuracy 
approximates to 84.4% (as shown in Table 2). 
 
 
Fig.3. The distribution of grades for experimented breast cases. 
Three Comparative Approaches for Breast Density Estimation in Digital 
and Screen Film Mammograms 
 
Ruey-Feng Chang, Kuang-Che Chang-Chien, Etsuo Takada1, Jasjit S. Suri2 
Woo Kyung Moon3, Jeffery H.K. Wu4, Nariya Cho3, Yi-Fa Wang, and Dar-Ren Chen5 
 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
National Chung Cheng University, Chiayi, Taiwan 
1Division of Medical Ultrasonics, Center of Optical Medicine 
Dokkyo University School of Medicine, Mibu, Japan 
2Department of Biomedical Engineering, Biomedical Technologies Inc., CO, USA 
and Biomedical Research Institute, Idaho, USA 
3Department of Diagnostic Radiology, College of Medicine 
Seoul National University Hospital, Korea 
4Department of Radiology, Changhua Christian Hospital, Taiwan 
5Department of Surgery, Changhua Christian Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan 
 
Abstract—In general, several factors are used for risk 
estimation in breast cancer detection and early prevention, and 
one of the important factors in risk of breast cancer is breast 
density. The mammography is important and effective adjunct 
in diagnosing the breast cancer. The radiologists would analyze 
visually the breast density with the BI-RADS lexicon on 
mammograms. However, this usually causes a large 
inter-observer variability among the different experienced 
radiologists. In this paper, we individually adopt three methods, 
including pixel-based, region-based, and physics-based, to 
analyze the breast density on mammograms, and the results can 
offer radiologists a second quantification reading for predicting 
the risk of breast cancer. The three methods are tested on 208 
digital and conventional film mammograms which are scanned 
from both breasts of 104 patients respectively. The 
experimental results show that the accuracy of the proposed 
region-based method, which is more consistent with the 
radiologists’ viewpoint, is 88% more than other two 
conventional methods. 
 
Keywords—breast density, grandular, fatty, hentrogeneous, 
dense, pixel, region, physics-based, digital, screen-film, 
mammography 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
The American Cancer Society (ACS) indicated that one in 
every eight women will develop breast cancer at some point in 
their lives. In the United States during 2005, an estimated 
212,240 new cases of invasive breast cancer and about 40,870 
(15%) deaths are expected to occur among women [1]. 
Although the death rates of breast cancer have continued to 
increase since 1980, the mortality rates have declined by 2.3% 
per year from 1990 to 2001. This situation is due to increased 
awareness, earlier detection through screening, and improved 
treatment. 
In general, many factors are used for risk estimation in 
breast cancer detection and early prevention, and the breast 
density information is one of the important indicators. Breast 
density was assessed at the initial examination and classified as 
'dense' (if > 25% of the breast was composed of density) or 
'lucent' (< or = 25% density) [2]. The relative risk is estimated 
to be about 4 to 6 times higher for women whose have 
parenchymal densities over 60% of the breast area, as 
compared to women with less than 5% of parenchymal 
densities [3]. Mandelson et al. [4] investigated whether the high 
breast density increased interval cancer risk in a large group of 
women with interval and screening detected cancers. 
In the clinical practice, X-ray mammography is the most 
effective method in helping radiologists to recognize breast 
lesions and evaluate the breast density [5]. The BI-RADS 
lexicon [6] which is recommended by the American College of 
Radiology was proposed many years ago to identify breast 
density groups of women at high risk for breast cancer. 
However, there is a large inter-observer variability in the 
BI-RADS ratings even among the experienced radiologists that 
analyze visually the breast density on mammograms. Thus, a 
computerized method is required to be a supplement for 
analyzing the breast density. The computer-aided diagnosis 
(CAD) system is a useful tool in the examination of medical 
images and gives radiologists a second diagnosis opinion in 
clinical use. Many studies [7-10] have investigated methods for 
providing quantitative measures in the assessment of breast 
density patterns on mammograms. Boyd et al. [7] studied the 
relation between the breast cancer risk and the breast density on 
the mammographic images. Although it developed a 
computer-assisted measurement based on interactive 
pixel-based density threshold, the method needs to define two 
thresholds manually rather than automatically. The paper by 
Wang ea al. [10] presented a physics-based model method to 
recover the compressed breast tissue composition information 
by considering mammographic attenuation. 
In this paper, a novel breast density analysis system is 
proposed to measure the breast density automatically based on 
mammograms for offering radiologists a second quantification 
reading for prediction of breast cancer risk. We adopt three 
methods, pixel-based, region-based, and physics-based, 
individually. The first two methods individually use the optimal 
thresholding [11] and the watershed segmentation [12] to 
separate the glandular tissue from the breast region, and then 
calculate the mammographic breast density. The third method 
uses the compressed tissue of mammograms to recover the 
tissue composition information. Finally, all of the three 
experimented results will be compared with the radiologists’ 
diagnosis. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows: Section II 
presents the data acquisition and brief discussion on databases. 
The three algorithmic approaches are presented in section III. 
Results of our experimental protocol are discussed in section 
IV and the paper concludes in section V. 
underlying this method comes from geography and it regards 
the gradient magnitude image as a relief map where the 
intensity value corresponds to the contour line. The area where 
a rain drop would drain to the same minimum is denoted as a 
catchment basin, and the line separating adjacent catchment 
basins is denoted as the watershed. On the viewpoint of 
gradient values, the catchment basins have low-gradient values 
and the watershed lines have high-gradient values, as shown in 
Fig.1. 
After the watershed procedure, the images have been 
divided into lots of closed regions, and the gray values of all 
the pixels in the same region could be replaced by the mean of 
these gray values. The optimum thresholding (as described 
above) is employed to select a suitable threshold value to 
distinguish the glandular tissue from the segmented regions, 
and then the breast density is calculated by the Eq. (6). 
 
Intensity 
Basin 
Watershed line 
Water level 
 
Fig.1. Illustration of the watershed segmentation. 
 
C. Physics-based Analysis 
The third method in the analysis system is based on the 
physics model of X-ray attenuation, and employed to recover 
the tissue composition information from mammograms with 
compressed tissues. This method proposed by Wang et al. [10] 
quantitatively derives tissue composition from adjusted pixel 
values, as tailored to mammography, which enabled us to 
estimate the fraction of glandular tissue, for each pixel, over the 
entire breast region. 
In the mammography, the tissue thickness and the 
internal pixel values are in an inverse proportion; that is to say, 
while the thickness of the tissue increases the pixel values 
would be decreased. If a beam of X-ray doesn’t pass thought 
any tissue, the corresponding value is assigned to 255 but 
would be displayed as the black pixel on the mammogram. The 
relationship between the pixel value and the total attenuation of 
the tissue is approximated as 
 
D = D0 － kΣμixi  (8) 
 
where D0 is the intensity of film’s background (i.e., 
non-attenuated exposure), μi is the attenuation coefficient of 
one of the tissue types, xi is the thickness of that tissue type, 
and Σμixi is the total attenuation of the tissue. If D(fat) is the 
pixel intensity corresponding to the pure fatty tissue, xfat which 
is the relative thickness of fatty tissue becomes 1, and then D(fat) 
can be defined as 
 
D(fat) = D0 － kμfat  (9) 
 
By referring to [10], the background intensity D0 is 
calculated as the mean pixel value in a 15 × 15 mask without 
the breast region. The D(fat) is measured as the mean value of 
the 15% of the highest pixel values within the breast region, as 
the pure fatty tissue. Then, the thickness of the fat tissue xfat is 
calculated by 
 
R
R
DD
DD
x fatfat −
−⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
−
−
=
1
)(0
0
 (10) 
 
where R is the ratio of the glandular attenuation coefficient 
μglandular to the fat attenuation coefficient μfat [15]. The final 
tissue composition is the proportion of glandular tissue to the 
entire breast region, and represented as the following formula 
 
B
x
regionbreast
fat
B
∑ −
= _
)1(
ρ  (11) 
 
whereρB is the breast density, and B is numbers of pixels 
within breast region. 
 
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
 
In this paper, the 208 digital and conventional film 
mammograms of 104 patients are used for the development of 
the density analysis method. According to the BI-RADS, each 
case was graded as four categories, almost entirely fat (n=2), 
scattered fibro-glandular tissue (n=43), heterogeneously dense 
tissue (n=52), and extremely dense tissue (n=7), by three 
radiologists. For experiments, a ground true is needed to 
evaluate the analysis accuracy. We would use the majority 
grades of three radiologists as the ground true. In order to 
obtain the BI-RADS categories, three thresholding values, TD1, 
TD2 and TD3, need to be defined for classifying the evaluating 
density values into four grades, and are listed in Table 1. 
Fig.2 shows the separating result using the pixel-based 
method. Fig.2(a) is the original mammogram and Fig.2(b) 
shows the breast region detected by Laplacian operator. In 
Fig.2(c), the breast region is divided into glandular tissue (the 
white region) and fatty by using the thresholding algorithm. 
The result of region-based method is shown in Fig.3. Fig.3(a) is 
the original image, Fig.3(b) is the result with applying 
watershed segmentation, and then the glandular tissue can be 
separated out by using thresholding, as shown in Fig.3(c). 
Through the experiment, the pixel-based, region-based, and 
physics-based methods respectively have 15, 12, and 24 false 
positives, and the accuracy for three proposed methods is 
shown in Table 2. The result shows that the region-based 
watershed method has higher accuracy than the pixel-based and 
physics-based methods. Additionally, we also use the mean 
square error (MSE) to evaluate the variation between the 
analyzed grades of three methods and the ground true. The 
formula of the MSE is defined as follows 
 
∑
=
−=
N
i
iIiX
N
MSE
1
2))()((1   (12) 
 
where X(i) is the grade value estimated by our system for the 
i-th case, and I(i) is the ground true grade value estimated by 
three radiologists. In Table 3, the MSE of pixel-based method 
is 0.1574, and the MSE of the physics-based method is 0.2963, 
and the region-based method has the lowest MSE value 0.1111. 
Thus, the region-based method has good result on the breast 
density analysis because of its lowest MSE. 
 
