reasons； however, the processing of highly 
commingled plastics with different compositions 
within the waste matrix would meet significant 
technical challenges. A more difficult task is 
recycling of commingled plastic waste and thermal-set 
polymer since they consist of not only hydrocarbons 
but also chloride-containing mixed plastics as well 
as some modified materials as well as hard to 
recovery in practice. Due to the advantages of active 
sites and pore structures possessed in these 
multifunctional catalysts, the ability to control 
both the product yield and product distribution from 
waste polymer degradation can be achieved. Hence, a 
process as used in this project could be the most 
favorable solution if the catalyst performance is 
practically suitable for the catalytic conversion 
process, together with the catalysts could cope with 
the reactor type similar to a FCC system. In 
addition, the advantages of active sites and pore 
structures possessed in these multifunctional 
catalysts can have the ability to control both the 
product yield and product distribution from waste 
polymer degradation. 
英文關鍵詞： Plastics； Pyrolysis； Chemical recycling； 
Catalysts； Catalytic Cracking； Selectivity 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適合
在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
 *Lin, Y.-H. ; Wei, T.-T.; Lee, S.-L. Post-consumer Plastic Waste over Post-use 
Cracking Catalysts for Producing Hydrocarbon Fuels. JOURNAL OF ENERGY 
RESOURCES TECHNOLOGY, 2012, In Press. (附錄 1) 
 Wei, T.-T.; *Lin, Y.-H. Fast pyroylysis of polyolefin waste over cracking catalysts for producing 
hydrocarbon fuels using a fluidized-bed reactor. INTERNATIONAL JOURNAL OF CHEMICAL 
REACTOR ENGINEERING, 2012, 10(1), In Press. (附錄 2) 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價值
（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性） 
 本計畫已對單一高分子聚合物及商業應用後之混合高分子聚合物及使
用後回收廢機油共進料完成催化裂解反應，並將各高分子聚合物及廢機油
進料模式需結合觸媒粒徑與反應溫度相搭配進行控制，完成高比例觸媒量
操作，除分別完成(1)以ZSM-5沸石負載結構的單一金屬/沸石負載型式觸媒
搭配廢FCC經活化後觸媒及(2)雙金屬混合結構型式觸媒搭配廢FCC經金屬
修飾負載結構觸媒對各高分子塑膠進行轉化廢高分子材料生成油品能源之
產程效益與最佳化反應條件。計畫內除完成含PVC之商用混合高分子聚合物
時，藉由功能性混合觸媒具有分子篩效應並經由適切反應模式與條件搭
配，完成調整產物得率與產品分佈而同時進行含氯產品含量控制，同時，
本計畫以固廢零價值FCC修飾及觸媒添加並搭配連續催化裂解反應系統方
式，除可有效控制油品品質及改善現今使用高反應溫度之熱裂解製程外，
同時亦可驗證新穎高功能性裂解觸媒催化效能並進一步應用於提昇油化裂
解技術及生產高潔淨無氯油品與燃料。 
 
(一)  Introduction 
Though plastic/engine oil waste can be 
regarded as cheap source of chemicals and 
energy, the recycling of mixed plastic/engine oil 
wastes containing polyvinyl chloride not only 
results in the formation of chloro-organic 
compounds in volatile products but also causes 
serious emission pollution in their applications (Lin 
et al., 2009). It is also undesirable to dispose of 
waste plastics by landfill due to high costs and 
poor biodegradability. An alternative strategy is 
that of chemical recycling, known as feedstock 
recycling or tertiary recycling, which has attracted 
much interest recently with the aim of converting 
plastic/engine oil waste into basic petrochemicals 
to be used as chemical feedstock or fuels for a 
variety of downstream processes. Two main 
chemical recycling routes are the thermal and 
catalytic degradation of waste plastics (Lin et al., 
2008). Thermal cracking or pyrolysis is a 
well-known technique and is often used in 
petrochemical processing. The pyrolysis of 
plastic/engine oil waste is the thermal 
decomposition in the absence of oxygen and is 
carried out in vessels, shaft kilns, autoclaves, 
rotary kilns, screw conveyors or fluidized beds. 
Catalysts for plastic cracking may be either 
homogeneous or heterogeneous, although the 
former are rather more the exception than the rule 
owing to the problem of recovery and separation 
of the catalysts from the products. This is not the 
case for heterogeneous system. Plastics pose 
certain specific problems for their catalytic 
cracking, because of both their bulky nature and 
high viscosity, which create mass-transfer 
constraints. Consequently, mesoporous catalysts 
with high accessibility of the plastic molecules and 
high external surface area are expected to lead to 
enhanced catalytic activities in the cracking of 
plastic. However, these catalysts have been used 
that even if performing well, they can be 
unfeasible from the point of view of practical use 
due to the cost of the catalyst can affect the 
process economy considerably. An economical 
improvement of processing the recycling using 
catalytic cracking can operate in mixing the 
plastic/engine oil waste with fluid catalytic cracking 
(FCC) commercial catalysts (Lin et al., 2010). 
Therefore, a more attractive process is that of 
adding plastic waste into the FCC process, under 
suitable process conditions with the use of 
zero-cost spent FCC catalysts, a large number of 
polymers can be economically converted into 
hydrocarbons (Lin et al., 2007). The results of 
these studies allow the improvement of reactor 
performance and catalyst utilization; unfortunately, 
there is still a need to develop kinetic/mechanistic 
models to describe the experimental results and to 
facilitate the further development of a process to 
industrial scale. However, papers concerning 
kinetic modeling of catalytic process for plastic 
degradation are shared with the study of other 
complex reaction schemes such as catalytic 
cracking and reforming. Additionally, tertiary 
recycling of mixed plastic wastes containing PVC 
release hydrogen chloride which causes not only 
corrosion of the equipment but also the formation 
of chloro-organic compounds in hydrocarbons 
(Wei et al., 2010). Therefore, one of the most 
important problems for the commercial 
implementation of the feedstock recycling 
technologies is the presence of PVC into the 
makeup of plastic waste. A more difficult task is 
recycling of commingled plastic/engine oil waste 
since it consists of not only hydrocarbons but also 
chloride-containing mixed plastics as well as some 
modified materials. It is the objective of this 
current work to investigate a catalytic fluidizing 
system using various cracking catalysts to study of 
the product distributions from the degradation of 
plastic/engine oil waste with PVC mixture 
(PE/PP/PVC/PS) and to especially develop a 
volatile hydrocarbons for the zeolite-added hybrid 
catalysts gave higher yield than reused 
equilibrium FCC catalyst (FCCR), and the highest 
(91.2 wt%) was obtained for Fe-Ce-FCCR. The 
differences in the product distributions between 
those catalysts can be seen with Fe-Pd-FCCR 
producing a much more C1-C4 hydrocarbon gases 
(51.4 wt%) than Fe-Pd-FCCR, Cu-Ce-FCCR and 
Cu-Pd-FCCR catalysts. The major products of 
polystyrene cracking over various catalysts were 
styrene at about 3-4 wt% with light aromatics 
(such as benzene, toluene, ethyl-benzene and 
xylenes etc.) and smaller chain volatile 
hydrocarbons. The major products of PVC 
cracking over various catalysts were hydrogen 
chloride with light aromatics and smaller chain 
olefins and paraffins, and with some amount of 
residue products deposited on the catalyst. As can 
be seen in Table 1, the chlorine was chemically 
separated from the PVC component (1 wt% in 
plastic mixture with 0.53% Cl calculated from 
element analysis) and as a hydrochloric acid (HCl) 
(0.3~0.5 wt%) in de-ionized water system derived 
from volatile products (about 60% and up to 95% 
Cl content) and deposited/captured by residue 
products (about 5~40% Cl content). Greater 
product selectivity was observed with a hybrid 
catalyst of Fe-Pd-FCCR with more than 70.5 wt% 
olefins products. The chlorine-containing products 
shown in the distribution of gaseous hydrocarbons 
are not detectable in this study. Hence, this study 
gives promising results as an alternative 
technique for the cracking and recycling of 
polymer waste. The controlling catalytic factors for 
PVC degradation will be associated with the 
number of accessible spaces in related to the 
cracking ability deactivated by coke content and 
the total number of acid sites. The results indicate 
that although the initial cracking of mixed waste 
must be confined to the external surface and pore 
mouths of the cracking catalysts, the resultant 
initial cracked products are then degraded further 
within the catalyst. 
 
Table 1. Production distributions of the main 
products of post-consumer plastic/engine oil 
wastes degradation at reaction temperature of 
390°C over various catalysts.  
 Catalyst type 
FCCR Fe-Ce 
/FCCR 
Fe-Pd 
/FCCR 
Cu-Ce 
/FCCR 
Cu-Pd 
/FCCR 
Yield ( wt% feed )  
Gaseous 82.5 91.2 87.5 85.1 84.2 
 Liquida 5.3 4.0 4.4 3.9 5.8 
 Residueb 9.2 3.1 5.1 4.7 8.3 
 Coke 2.5 1.9 2.7 5.9 3.1 
 HCl 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 
 C1~C4  23.9 54.8 51.4 32.2 27.5 
 C5~C9 53.8 26.3 30.7 49.3 52.0 
 Styrene 3.6 3.2 3.9 3.3 4.2 
 BTXc 1.4 08 1.1 0.7 0.5 
 
The rate of gaseous hydrocarbon evolution 
further highlights the slower rate of degradation 
over FCCR as shown in Figure 2 when comparing 
all catalysts under identical conditions at 390°C. 
For FCCR, the yield and initial rate of gaseous 
production was decreased and lower during the 
course of reaction. The maximum rate of 
generation was observed after 2 min with the 
composite catalysts (Fe-Ce-FCCR, Fe-Pd-FCCR 
and Cu-Pd-FCCR), whereas the maximum was 
observed after 3 min with the FCCR and 
Cu-Ce-FCCR catalysts. 
post-consumer plastic/engine oil mixture remained 
constant and, therefore, as more waste plastics 
was added to the reactor then fewer catalytic sites 
per unit weight of catalyst were available for 
cracking. The overall effect of increasing the 
catalyst to mixed waste ratio from 0.1:1 to 0.6:1 on 
the rate of hydrocarbon generation was small but 
predictable. As the catalyst to mixed waste ratio 
decreases, the possibility of mixed waste 
adhesion to the reactor wall increases as the 
amount of un-reacted polymer waste in the reactor 
rises. However, for the work carried out in this 
paper no such problems were observed. The total 
product yield after 20 minutes showed only a slight 
downward trend even after a 10 fold increase in 
added mixed waste. For comparison, the use of 
this reaction system coped with these hybrid FCC 
catalysts (Fe-Ce-FCCR, Fe-Pd-FCCR and 
Cu-Pd-FCCR) can be a better option since it can 
gives a good conversion and even its activity is 
lower than that of the typical acid-cracking 
catalysts, this can be compensated by increasing 
the catalyst to mixed waste ratio [Lin et al., 2010; 
2011]. Especially, due to the steric and diffusional 
hindrances posed by the bulky nature of mixed 
waste molecules to enter the catalyst micropores, 
mixed catalysts based on bimodal 
micropore-mesopore structures were used in this 
current work showing enhanced activities for 
obtaining the desired selectivity.  
 
3.3 Aspects of Economy and Environment   
Although mechanical recycling is the most 
preferred and accepted method of plastics 
recycling, it especially includes a wide variety of 
processing techniques and a broad range of 
processing methods requires lot of energy, and 
which is considered highest among all the 
alternatives. Moreover, in the case of energy 
recovery process incinerator design and operation 
depends upon the type of waste to be incinerated 
and another important factor to carry out this 
process is to minimize the harmful emissions. 
Non-adherence to these two methods can cause 
serious failures of various incineration activities 
raising doubt about the effectiveness of this 
process itself. Feedstock recycling would be a 
better alternative from cost and ecological 
aspects. The chlorine-containing products shown 
in the distribution of gaseous hydrocarbons are 
not detectable in this study. As the cost of 
feedstock recycling even in the best case of 
large-scale plants may be as high as to the cost 
for incineration and energy recovery and does not 
produce harmful emission if designed properly.  
More specifically, this process is 
complementary to mechanical recycling since it 
enlarges the overall recycling capacities for large 
waste quantities to be supplies in future. Although 
the benefit of the process of feedstock recycling 
may practically provide the great interest of using 
a fluidized-bed reactor for the conversion of plastic 
wastes, this alternative also introduces a 
significant limit in this type of fluidizing system in 
the use of mixed waste/catalyst ratios, which 
means that a high amount of catalyst must be 
used, mainly when compared with stirred reactor 
working with quite higher values. Therefore, for 
the conversion of plastic waste to valuable 
hydrocarbons, an economical improvement of 
processing the recycling via catalytic cracking 
would operate in mixing the post-commercial 
plastic waste with post-use FCC catalysts. 
Moreover, the production of olefins with potential 
value as a chemical feedstock is economically 
attractive and may offer greater profitability than 
production of saturated hydrocarbons and 
aromatics [Lin et al., 2010; 2011; 2012]. Thus, the 
methodology developed in this project shows an 
adequate alternative in minimization of hazardous 
waste handling costs and optimization of gasoline 
附錄 1: 
 *Lin, Y.-H. ; Wei, T.-T.; Yang, M.-H. ; Lee S.-L. Post-consumer plastic waste over 
post-use cracking catalysts for producing hydrocarbon fuels. JOURNAL OF 
ENERGY RESOURCES TECHNOLOGY, 2012, In Press (SCI).  
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/17
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 連續式催化裂解廢塑膠及回收廢機油混合物生成再生油品能源之研究(II)
計畫主持人: 林岳輝
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-244-022- 學門領域: 能源科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
計畫使用經設計具不同裂解活性與含有雙金屬混合結構型式觸媒經金屬修飾後
擔體觸媒(Fe-Ce-FCCR, Fe-Pd- FCCR, Cu-Ce-FCCR 及 Cu-Pd-FCCR)，並將這些
功能性催化劑首次應用於單一熱固(PU)及熱塑高分子聚合物 (PE, PP, PS 及
PVC) 及商業化後含有 PVC 之混合廢塑膠聚合物（PE/PP/PS/PVC）之催化裂解反
應研究上。成功應用連續式催化裂解螺旋反應器來探討最適熱質傳效應之裂解
溫度、進料速度及反應時間等操作條件控制，以及各觸媒與進料(塑膠及機油)
界面效應與經反應後生成碳氫化合物分佈及各產品選擇度等研究。此計畫以固
廢零價值 FCC 修飾及共觸媒添加並搭配連續催化裂解反應系統方式，除有效控
制油品品質及改善現今使用高反應溫度之熱裂解製程外，同時亦驗證新穎高功
能性裂解觸媒催化效能並進一步應用於提昇油化裂解技術及生產高潔淨無氯油
品與燃料。本計畫執行後預期以固廢零價值 FCC 修飾及共觸媒添加並搭配連續
催化裂解反應系統方式，除可有效控制油品品質及改善現今使用高反應溫度之
熱裂解製程外，同時亦可驗證新穎高功能性裂解觸媒催化效能並進一步應用於
提昇油化裂解技術及生產高潔淨無氯油品與燃料。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
