計畫名稱：使用低介電材質銅晶片之先進封裝結構的破壞機制分析研究(2/3) 
 
中文摘要 
 
當半導體積體電路進入深次微米世代，矽晶片上之“內多層連接導線（Multi-level 
interconnection）”之導線密度將隨之增加。由於銅導線搭配低介電係數（Copper/low-k）之
材料組合具有可減少相鄰連接線路間之 RC 延遲以及具較低能量消耗等優點，故為“內多層
連接導線”製造材料之較佳選擇方案。然，此新結構因其具較柔軟與低黏著性之材料特性，
導致此 low-k/銅晶片因(雙)大馬士革平坦化製程或於後段構裝製程中所承受的熱和應力負
載產生破裂的問題，此一破壞模式為半導體前段製程以及後段構裝研究者目前主要關切之
問題。另外，隨著積體電路的微小化，使得內多層連接導線結構之特徵尺寸與結構強度亦
隨之降低，構裝結構之失效破裂位置可能不再是發生於焊錫接點等構裝層級結構，而是發
生於 low-k/銅晶片之內多層連接導線處。低介電係數材料通常具有較高熱膨脹係數（CTE）
與低彈性係數之材料特性，若與較為堅硬之無鉛合金焊錫接合時，其整體封裝結構之可靠
度將面臨更嚴峻的考驗。為確保此 low-k/銅新式晶片可成功的與新世代封裝結構與材料整
合，本文由基礎力學理論出發，並配合適當之有限單元分析技巧與實驗設計建立出快速且
實用之方法，以瞭解具深次微米特徵、內多層連接導線之電子構裝體(具有大尺度特徵差異
之結構)之行為，以及其破壞的機制。以此方法，可改善 low-k/銅晶片結構之設計、訂定其
設計準則、並可整合與連結半導體前後段製程。 
 
Abstract 
 
As the electronics industry continues its efforts in miniaturizing the integrated circuit (IC), 
an IC chip with copper/low-k stacked Back End of Line (BEoL) structures has been developed 
for reducing RC delay in order to obtain high-speed signal communication. However, its 
reliability might become a concern due to the considerably lower adhesive strength as well as 
greater coefficient of thermal expansion (CTE) of the low-k materials. In this paper, the 
four-point bending technique is used to quantify the adhesion energy (Gc). The Global Local 
finite element method, including the Specified Boundary Condition (SBC) method and the Multi 
Point Constrain (MPC) method, is validated by the four-point bending experiment and is 
employed as a bridge to estimate the impact from package level to the deep submicron BEoL 
structure of the plastic ball grid array (PBGA) package. A crack driving force of 1.8 J/m2 acting 
on the BEoL structure is obtained when the curing process of the moulding compound is 
between silicon and epoxy, and the Global-Local finite element technique was validated by the 
experiment.  
 
 
Fig. 1 Interfacial crack at the interface of FSG dielectric layer/barrier layer. [1] 
 
2. Experiment 
 The four point bend test is a widely adopted method to gauge the adhesion between two 
adhered materials. The critical adhesion measurement was performed using a four point bend test 
and a notched sandwich specimen, as shown in Figure 2. The specimen was made by bonding 
two silicon substrates together using an epoxy material, and cutting a notch at the centre of the 
upper silicon substrate. Then a four point bend test was executed.  
  
2.1 Interfacial Adhesive Strength 
 For the interfacial crack located between the inner loading lines, the cracked ligament is 
subject to constant moment condition. Consequently the strain energy release rate should exhibit 
steady-state characteristics, when the interfacial crack length significantly exceeds the thickness 
of the upper layer of the beam (upper substrate). Furthermore, the steady-state value, Gss, can be 
deduced analytically by recognizing that it is the difference in the strain energy in the uncracked 
and cracked beam. Since there is negligible strain energy in the beam above the crack, Gss can be 
deduced from consideration of the energies in the uncracked section, and in a section of the lower 
beam beneath the crack. If the same material is used for the upper and lower beam, the Gss can be 
expressed as [8] 
 
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −−=
c
ss IIE
MG 11
2
)1(
2
22ν
                                                    (1) 
 
where E and ν are the elastic modulus and Poisson’s ratio respectively. The subscripts 1 and 2 
refer to the split and passive (upper and lower) beam as shown in Figure 2. I2 and Ic are the 
second moments of area per unit width of the passive and composite beams, respectively and they 
During the test, the displacement loading is applied and fixed at a constant velocity 0.1 
micron/sec. 
 
 
Fig. 3 Experiment setup 
 
 
Fig. 4 Image near the notch of the specimen 
 
2.3 Experimental Results 
When the notched sample experiences a four-point bend loading, the notch cracks first; after 
this, the crack tends to deflect into the weakest interface between the substrates. It should be 
noted that a lot of care should be taken when dicing the rectangular substrate to avoid the crack 
occurring during testing. Figure 5 shows the sample after the four-point bend testing. Plenty of 
epoxy is found on the upper substrate. Figure 6 shows the force-displacement result of the 
four-point bend test. In the linear region (a), the stiffness of the specimen against the bending and 
the crack starts to deflect into the layer between the substrates at the region (b); after that, the 
stable plateau region (c) can be observed. By the recorded force of the stable plateau region, that 
is, the critical loading Pc, the strain energy release rate GC of the fractured interface can be 
obtained. Figure 7 is the measured Gc of the three conditions. The Gc of condition 1 to 3 is 46, 50, 
and 59 J/m2, respectively.  
 
The global-local analysis refers to a solution procedure in which the entire structure is 
modeled in two steps, and the models can actually be solved either in one or two steps [10]. The 
Specified Boundary Condition (SBC) method and Multi Point Constrain (MPC) method are the 
approaches that execute the global-local FEM procedure.  
 
4.1 SBC Method 
In this method, the complete structure with coarse mesh, called the global model, is created. 
The solution of this mesh determines the overall response of the structure under load. The 
displacements from the global solution are extracted and applied to the boundary of the local 
mesh. The local mesh which models the area of interest with a finer mesh is then solved. Figure 8 
shows the sketch of the SBC method. 
 
4.2 MPC Method  
 This method consists of one step less than the SBC technique; therefore, the extraction and 
interpolation of displacement are avoided. The global and local areas of the structure are modeled 
in one single mesh model as shown in Figure 9. The local area of interest, whose location is 
known beforehand, has the more finely discrete mesh, and the constrain-equation is utilised to tie 
the local and global mesh. 
 
 
Fig. 8 SBC method 
 
 
Fig. 9 MPC method 
 
5. Numerical Analysis and Results 
The J-integral is a path-dependent integration when estimating the bi-material interfacial 
crack. According to our previous work [11] and the literature [12], a J-integral path should have a 
Fig. 11 Results of the J-Integral with different mesh sizes 
 
5.2 PBGA Package 
The validated Global/Local finite element was executed to perform the impact from the 
process loading of the package level to the multi-level interconnect structure. The plastic ball grid 
array (PBGA) package containing the multi-level interconnects (BEoL) structure was built by 
both the SBC and MPC finite element methods. Figure 12 shows the MPC finite element model. 
The BEoL structures are constructed between the moulding compound and the active surface of 
the silicon chip. The total thickness of the multi level interconnect  structure, which depends 
upon the number of stacked films such as etch stop layer (ESL1,ESL2…), metal track layer 
(M1,M2....), and other dielectric layers, is in the range of hundreds of nanometers to several 
micrometers.  
During the wafer dicing process, cracks always occur at the die edge; and these cracks will 
cause the further package failure when the following process loading is applied. A predetermined 
crack having a length of 3 µm was formed at the critical interface of the multi level interconnect 
structure, which is observed from experiment as shown in Figure 12. In fact, the structures near 
the predetermined crack are composed of the dielectric stacking, so a 2D FEA model with 
multi-thin stacked films (low-k dielectric and Etch stop layer) was created. The material 
properties are listed in Table 1. Thermal loading from curing temperature (180o C) to RT (25o C) 
is applied to simulate the process of cooling the moulding compound.  
The J-value resulting from the SBC and MPC methods are both close to 1.8 J/m2, which is 
lower than the interfacial toughness between the barrier (Ta) and the low-k dielectric (Black 
Diamond) material, 5.3 J/m2 [6], when a crack of 3 µm is formed on the critical interface. This 
simulation also shows that the driving force, J-Integral, increases when the crack length becomes 
larger. In addition, the mode-mixity is 82o. It should be mentioned that the model did not consider 
the thin film process residue stress (that is, the intrinsic stress and the thermo-mechanic stress). 
 
Table. 1 Materal properties. 
Materials E (GPa) CTE (ppm/℃) Poisson Ratio 
Silicon chip 160 3 0.28 
ILD 55-65 1.5-20 0.3 
ESL 55-70 1.5-20 0.3-0.35 
Low-k IMD 2-80 5-25 0.3-0.35 
USG 80 1.5 0.3 
SiN 130 10-30 0.3-0.35 
SiO2 79.5 10-30 0.3 
Molding 
compound 24 20 0.3 
BT substrate 26-x, 26-y,11-z 
15.7-x, 15.7-y,
57-z 
0.36-xy, 0.36-yz, 
0.11-xz 
[10] Voleti, S. R., Chandra, N. and Miller, J. R., Computers and Structures, Vol. 58 (1996) 
453-464.  
[11] Lee, C. C., Chiu, C. C. and Chiang, K. N., Thermo/ mechanical Phenomena in Electronic 
Systems - Proceedings of IThem, San Diego, California, USA,  2006, 885-891. 
[12] Xu, B., Cai, X., Huang, W. and Cheng, Z., J. Electron. Packaging, vol. 126 (2004) 94-99. 
