 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
應用於高安全性保全智慧型多攝影機監視系統之研究與實現 
 
計畫類別：各別型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-032-046- 
執行期間：100年 8月 1日至 101年 7月 31日 
 
計畫主持人：江正雄 教授 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
執行單位：淡江大學電機工程學系 
 
 
中華民國 101年 7月 30日
以繼夜的監控。因此，監視攝影系統在現今
的保全上扮演著愈來愈重要的角色，越來越
多的監視攝影機被配置於各種場合以確保人
員或財產的安全。然而，大量的監視攝影資
訊管理並不容易，需要花費大量的人力來監
視監控畫面，負責監視監控畫面的人員在長
時間專注盯著螢幕的情況之下，所造成的疲
勞也會使監視人員的體力與精神受到考驗，
而導致安全維護效率的降低。因此，為了解
決人為上的疏忽，必須發展一套智慧型攝影
監控保全系統， 來取代傳統的人力監控，如
此不僅可以節省不少人力的需求，更可以提
升監視的效率。 
 
三、研究方法與成果 
本計畫分三個模組進行，接下來會依各
別模組介紹其研究方法與成果。 
A) 多攝影機協同與即時物件的偵測與追蹤
模組 
一般而言，在被監控的場所中，其影像
畫面的變化的部分或是有移動物體的影像區
塊，其資訊通常是比較有價值且比較重要
的，因此本系統便是希望能夠做到自動的偵
測是否有移動的物體，並且進一步的自動追
蹤移動物體。鑑於上述，本模組結合移動物
體偵測及多移動物體自動追蹤與多攝影機協
同技術。利用多攝影機協同技術解決固定式
攝影機有限的拍攝視角的問題，以及多個移
動物件在畫面中產生重疊(Overlap)以及遮蔽
(Occlusion)等問題；再來利用多移動物體自
動追蹤技術分別同時追蹤在畫面上不同的移
動物體，然而在同一個畫面上同時追蹤多個
移動物體，此時便會產生重疊以及遮蔽等問
題，利用上述的多攝影機協同技術可很容易
的解決這些問題[1]。 
目前在多物件追蹤方法上大致可分為三
種，粒子濾波器(Particle Filter)、卡曼濾波器
(Kalman Filter)、以及Cam Shift (Continuously 
Adaptive Mean-Shift)，由於我們的系統必須
是即時的多攝影機系統，所以對於耗費大量
運算時間的方法是不適用的，因此本模組將
使用具有一定的準確率，以及演算法較簡單
快速的Cam Shift作為多物件追蹤方法上的技
術。而Cam Shift 較為簡單快速的原因是在對
移動物體作預測時使用快速的移動估測[2]，
而本研究提出一種適應性的快速移動估測，
使Cam Shift追蹤移動物體的準確率提升，進
而使多攝影機協同技術在解決重疊以及遮蔽
問題時能更為準確及有效，其流程如圖一所
示，其中所提出的適應性移動估測法流程如
圖二所示。實驗證實，自適應Cam Shift追蹤
演算法的準確率比傳統的Cam Shift追蹤演算
法來的更好，不論是在TKU的公開資料庫[3]
或是網路上開放資料庫，都展現我們方法的
優越性，圖三為多攝影機物件追蹤結果。在
最差的測試影像中也都至少提升23%的準確
性，而大部份的測試影像的準確率也都平均
在90%左右，系統也都還維持在23FPS 的水
準。在多攝影機系統中座標轉換的準確性也
有所提升，而系統的Frame Rate 也還有在
12FPS。 
 
 
圖一、適應性 Cam Shift演算法流程 
 
圖五、影片摘要實際結果 
 
 
圖六、Range Tree搜索示意圖 
 
表一、Range Three複雜度比較表 
 Search Range search 
Range Tree O(logDN) O(logDN+K) 
Modified 
Range Tree O(log
D-1N) O(logD-1N+K) 
 
表二、與其他影片檢索技術功能比較 
  
Video 
Synopsis 
Video 
Skimming 
(LS) Video 
Compression 
Proposed 
Solution 
Low storage 
capacity 
  2.69 b/B 1.1 b/B 
Condensed 
video 
    
Lossless 
quality 
    
Complete 
events 
    
Compression 
independent 
    
 
 
C) 身份辨識模組 
步態辨識是一個新興的生物辨識技術，
可藉由每個人行走模式的不同去進行身份辨
識，且可從遠距離擷取資訊，因此步態辨識
漸漸成為一個熱門的生物辨識技術。在這模
組當中，我們提出了一個新的方法來描述步
態特徵，這個新方法是基於局部二元特徵
(Local Binary Pattern, LBP) 延伸而出，我們
改變了局部二元特徵原本的排序方式，並依
照影像上漸層的方向而有不同的排序方式，
我們稱為條件式排序的局部二元特徵 
(Conditional Sorting Local Binary Pattern, 
CS-LBP)，其排序方法如圖七所示，其中橫
條紋為高位元區塊，格子條紋為中位元區
塊，直條紋為低位元區塊，圖八為 CS-LBP
範例。我們將條件式排序的局部二元特徵應
用在步態能量影像上(Gait Energy Image, GEI) 
[8]，如圖九所示，經由條件式排序的局部二
元特徵轉換後的影像即為新的特徵影像，如
圖十所示，之後使用此一新特徵來進行步態
辨識，並提出選取其特徵方式。從本研究的
結果中，我們所提出的特徵描述方法能夠有
效的應用在步態辨識中，比其他現有的文獻
還要有更高的辨識結果，表三為與其他方法
做比較，從表二中可以發現，本研究所提出
的特徵轉換方法可以有效的描述步態特徵，
達到更好的辨識效果，平均超越 4%以上的辨
識率。 
 
四、結論 
本計畫的三個模組均已達到預定目標，
在多攝影機協同與即時物件的偵測與追蹤模
組中提出了適應性的追蹤演算法，並搭配多
攝影機的運用，達到即時且具有多攝影機協
同的功效。在快速影像視訊檢索與分類模組
中提出了改良式的 Range Tree來降低搜索時
的運算複雜度，並搭配影片摘要技術，提供
使用者快速搜索物件的功能，讓影像檢索時
間可以大幅縮減。在身份辨識模組中使用步
態來當作特徵，並加入提出來的特徵描述方
五、論文發表 
期刊論文： 
[1] Hsin-Liang Chen, Yi-Tsung Li, and 
Jen-Shiun Chiang, “A low power 
sigma-delta modulator for 
dual-mode   wide-band receiver,” Analog 
Integrated Circuits and Signal Processing, 
vol. 71, no. 2, pp. 179-185, May 2012. (SCI, 
EI) 
[2] Chih-Hsien Hsia, Jing-Ming Guo, and 
Jen-Shiun Chiang, “A fast discrete wavelet 
transform algorithm for visual processing 
applications,” Signal Processing, vol. 92, no. 
1, pp. 89-106, January 2012. (SCI, EI) 
[3] Chin Yi Chen, Jen-Shiun Chiang, K.Y. 
Chen, T.K. Liu, and Ching-Chang Wong, 
“An Approach for Fuzzy Modeling Based on 
Self-Organizing Feature Maps Neural 
Network,” Applied Mathematics & 
Information Sciences, vol. 6, no. 6S, pp. 
961S-969S, 2012. 
[4] Chih-Hsien Hsia and Jen-Shiun Chiang, 
“Real-time moving objects detection and 
tracking with direct LL-mask band scheme,” 
International Journal of Innovative 
Computing, Information and Control, vol. 8, 
no. 7, pp. 1-18, July 2012. (SCI, EI) 
[5] Chih-Hsien Hsia, Cheng-Kai Liu, Chia-Hui 
Lin, and Jen-Shiun Chiang, “Real-time 
face detection method using discrete wavelet 
transform for a vision care system,” Sensor 
Letters, Accepted. (SCI, EI) 
[6] Chih-Hsien Hsia, Wei-Hsuan Chang, and 
Jen-Shiun Chiang, “A real-time object 
recognition system using adaptive resolution 
method for humanoid robot vision 
development,” Journal of Applied Science 
and Engineering, vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 187-196, 
2012. (EI) 
[7] Chih-Hsien Hsia, Jen-Shiun Chiang, and 
Shih-Hung Chang, “Adaptive vision-based 
self-localization system for humanoid robot 
of RoboCup,” International Journal of 
Innovative Computing, Information and 
Control, Accepted. (SCI, EI) 
[8] Chih-Hsien Hsia, Jen-Shiun Chiang, and 
Jing-Ming Guo, “Memory-efficient 
hardware architecture of 2-D dual-mode 
lifting-based discrete wavelet transform,” 
IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems 
for Video Technology, Revision. (SCI, EI) 
 
研討會論文： 
[1] 簡晉翔﹑李信廷﹑涂詠竣﹑夏至賢﹑江正
雄 , “低成本雲端電子秤收銀管理系統,” 
現代通訊科技應用學術研討會, 第 79-84
頁, 2012年 3月. 
[2] 江正雄﹑夏至賢﹑李信廷, “高效率人臉偵
測與遮蔽處理系統,” 全國電子設計創意
競賽論文集, 2012年 4月. 
[3] 江正雄﹑夏至賢﹑鄧光喆﹑龍純瑜﹑謝吉
芳﹑黃少宏, “快速影像瀏覽技術應用於智
慧型視訊監控系統,” 機電整合科技應用
研討會, Accepted, 2012年 6月. 
[4] 江正雄﹑夏至賢﹑黎均毅﹑謝禎蔚﹑戴義
哲﹑蕭名開, “階層式多物件影像分割技術
應用於家用物品之研究,” 機電整合科技
應用研討會, Accepted, 2012年 6月. 
 
六、參考文獻 
[1] J. Jia, Y. Chai, and R. Zhao, “Robust 
tracking of objects in image sequences using 
multiple degrees of freedom mean shift 
algorithm,” Journal of Image and Graphics, 
vol.5, no.11, pp. 707-713, 2006. 
[2] G. R. Bradski. “Computer vision face 
tracking for use in a perceptual user 
interface,”, Proc. IEEE workshop 
applications of computer vision, pp. 214-219, 
Oct. 1998. 
REF05 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                               日期： 100 年 12 月 31 日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
    IEEE ISPACS 是 IEEE學會有關信號處理與通信系統的年度重要研討會，每年巡迴於世界
各重要國家與都市舉辦，每次均會吸引很多人參加。今年此會議是在泰國清邁舉辦，由 King 
Mongkut's Institute of Technology Ladkrabang 負責會議事宜。 
    此次我們有兩篇論文「A New Temperature Independent Current Controlled Oscillator」與
「VLSI Architecture Design of Moving Objects Detection Using Adaptive Least-Mean-Square 
Scheme」被接受，其中「A New Temperature Independent Current Controlled Oscillator」以口頭
報告的方式於十二月八日發表，而「VLSI Architecture Design of Moving Objects Detection Using 
Adaptive Least-Mean-Square Scheme」則以 Poster的方式於十二月九日發表，報告後獲得很大的
迴響，這對我們未來在時脈振盪器及電腦視覺與影像處理的研究上，將會有很大的幫助。 
    除了論文的發表外，本人也聆聽了許多與本人研究相關的論文發表及 Poster，並與報告人
討論研究心得，獲益良多。 
    此外，本人去年曾積極投入爭取此國際會議於 2012年在台灣舉辦的可能性，在極力的爭
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－032－046－ 
計畫名稱 應用於高安全性保全智慧型多攝影機監視系統之研究與實現 
出國人員姓
名 
江正雄 
服務機構及
職稱 
淡江大學電機系 
教授 
會議時間 
100年 12 月 7日至 
 100年 12月 9日 會議地點 泰國清邁 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2011年 IEEE智慧型信號處理與通信系統國際研討會 
(英文) IEEE 2011 International Symposium on Intelligent Signal 
Processing and Communications Systems (ISPACS 2011) 
發表論文題
目 
 (英文) 
1. A New Temperature Independent Current Controlled Oscillator 
2. VLSI Architecture Design of Moving Objects Detection Using Adaptive 
Least-Mean-Square Scheme 
A New Temperature Independent Current Controlled 
Oscillator  
Zheng-Yi Huang, Jen-Shiun Chiang, Wei-Bin Yang, Chi-Hsiung Wang  
Department of Electrical Engineering  
Tamkang University Tamsui, Taipei, Taiwan 
enjoyable_qq@hotmail.com  
Abstract—This paper describes a circuit, which generates a 
low temperature-dependent bias currents. In this paper, low 
temperature coefficient reference is presented. The circuit is 
firstly employed to generate a current reference with 
temperature compensation, then, supply current to the 
current controlled ring oscillator (CCO). Because of the 
oscillation frequency of CCO is proportional to temperature, 
the current is designed to be inversely proportional to 
temperature to compensate the temperature variation of CCO. 
There are four different oscillation frequency with 
temperature compensation has been completed, they are 
10MHz, 20MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz respectively. The 
proposed circuit has been design by a 0.18um CMOS 
technology process and using computer simulation to evaluate 
the thermal drift of the reference current. The temperature 
coefficient of the proposed CCO is 24 ppm/  in the ℃
temperature range between -25 and 75℃ at 10MHz. In the 
20MHz, 30MHz and 40MHz oscillation frequency, the 
temperature coefficients are 32 ppm/℃, 38 ppm/℃ and 34 
ppm/℃ respectively. 
Keywords: temperature independent current reference, 
current controlled ring oscillator 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Current and voltage references are indispensable circuit 
in analog, digital and power electronic systems. These 
should be designed stable as possible, the current and 
voltage references with high temperature immunity for 
proper operation. They are usually used to determine 
biasing points of sensitive analog circuits, for example 
amplifiers, oscillators, phase-locked loops (PLLs). Many 
high precision, temperature-independent reference circuits 
have been designed in the document over the last decades 
[1]-[3], many approaches have been made in order to 
design reliable current and voltage references in CMOS 
technology process. 
Many CMOS current and voltage references consists 
of bipolar junction transistors (BJTs), which have been 
adapted to CMOS exploiting the parasitic lateral bipolar 
junction transistors in CMOS processes [4]-[5]. In addition, 
all-MOS voltage references have been proposed which use 
the thermal properties of MOS transistors worked in weak 
inversion region [6]or, recently the threshold voltage 
compensate the mobility temperature drift [7]-[11]. 
However, current references having MOS transistors 
operating in this region tend to have fairly large 
temperature coefficients. In these solutions, the circuits 
which want to obtain good temperature performance are 
complex and require a large area [12]-[14]. 
There is a design of current controlled oscillator (CCO) 
in the following. To achieve the goal of compensating the 
frequency of CCO, an independent of temperature current 
reference is needed. When the proper current reference is 
brought in to the current-controlled oscillator, the 
frequency of CCO is compensated as following. 
In this paper, the proposed circuit introduces a low-TC 
CMOS current reference utilizing MOS transistors operating 
in the weak inversion region and the current-controlled 
oscillator is compensated by the proper reference. The rest 
of this paper is organized as follows. Analysis for the 
proposed CMOS reference and current-controlled oscillator 
are both described in section II. Section III presents 
simulation results of several voltage and current references 
and oscillator to assess the performance. Finally, conclu- 
sions are given in Section IV. 
II.  CIRCUIT STRUCTURE 
A.  MOSFETs in Weak Inversion Region 
A model of the proposed CMOS reference can be used 
to describe the working of an n-channel MOS transistor in 
the weak inversion region [15]. Under the characteristic of 
an n-channel MOS transistor operating in the weak 
inversion region is similar to that of a BJT transistor and can 
be described as 
                  
( ) /
0
GS THq V V nkT
D DI I Se
−=                      (1) 
where IDO is the generation current, S is the geometrical 
shape factor of the transistor, q is the electron charge, n is a 
slope factor, k is the Boltzmann constant, T is the absolute 
temperature, VGS is the gate-source voltage, and Vth is the 
threshold voltage of the transistor. From Eq. (1), the gate-
source voltage of the MOSFET for a given drain current can 
be described as 
                           ln DGS T TH
D
IV nV V
SI
= +                             (2) 
where VT is the thermal voltage which is equal to kT/q. In 
this equation, the threshold voltage of the MOSFET can be 
described as [15] 
Fig. 3 shows the structure of the ring oscillator, which is 
composed of an odd numbers of inverter stage with a bias 
current source.  The rise and fall delays in the oscillator is 
determined by the inverter bias current source Isoure, the 
inverter trip voltage and the load capacitance Cload, and can 
be written as [17] 
                 
_
_
( )
load trp
PD rise
source
load DD trp
PD fall
source
C V
t
I
C V V
t
I
⋅=
⋅ −=
                (9) 
The oscillation frequency of the ring oscillator, comp- 
osed of N current-starved inverter stages, can be represent- 
ed as 
                ( )_ _
1
OSC
PD rise PD fall
source
load DD
f
N t t
I
N C V
= ⋅ +
= ⋅ ⋅
                  (10) 
The above equation indicates oscillation frequency of the 
current controlled oscillator is linearly dependent on the 
bias current. Therefore, if Isource is stable with temperature 
drift, it can reduce the variation of oscillation frequency 
obviously. 
III. SIMULATION RESULTS 
The temperature-compensated current reference had 
been designed which have been presented in the previous 
Sections. The current references have been designed and 
simulated by HSPICE with reference to the models of the 
devices available in a 0.18 um CMOS technology.  
The reference current versus temperature of low 
temperature dependent current reference and inversely 
proportional to temperature is shown in Fig. 4. It can be 
observed that the reference current, which has a nominal 
value of 1.65 uA at 25℃.  
In order to compensate the temperature drift of an 
oscillator itself, the temperature slope of proposed 
temperature independent current reference is adjusted.    
Fig. 5 shows the oscillation frequency of oscillator is 
proportional to temperature without temperature 
compensation. Therefore the proposed current source is 
adjusted to complementary to temperature. Thus four 
reference currents are used to current controlled oscillator, 
which can achieve 10 MHz, 20 MHz, 30 MHz and 40 MHz 
oscillation frequency. The temperature drift of the proposed 
CCO is 0.024 MHz in the temperature range between -25 
and 75℃ at 10 MHz in Fig. 6. In the 20 MHz, 30 MHz and 
40 MHz oscillation frequency, the temperature drift are 
0.064 MHz, 0.11 MHz and 0.13 MHz respectively. 
Therefore, in the 10 MHz, 20 MHz, 30 MHz and 40 MHz 
oscillation frequency, the temperature coefficient are 24 
ppm/℃, 32 ppm/℃, 38 ppm/℃ and 34 ppm/℃ respectively. 
 
 
Fig. 4 The simulated current versus temperature 
 
Fig. 5 The oscillation frequency with temperature 
compensation vs. without temperature 
compensation 
 
Fig. 6 The simulated CCO versus temperature at 10MHz 
IV. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, the temperature-compensated current 
source have been presented and analyzed. The low 
temperature dependent circuit, in particular, achieves 
complementary to temperature in the temperature range 
between -25℃ and 75 ℃. The current controlled ring 
oscillator using these currents can oscillate to 10 MHz, 
20MHz, 30MHz and40MHz oscillation frequency, and the 
temperature coefficient the temperature coefficient are 24 
ppm/℃, 32 ppm/℃, 38 ppm/℃ and 34 ppm/℃ respectively.    
Both the current source and the current controlled ring 
oscillator have been designed by a 0.18 um CMOS 
technology process and their performances have been 
verified through computer simulations. 
 
 
  
VLSI Architecture Design of Moving Objects 
Detection Using Adaptive Least-Mean-Square 
Scheme 
Chih-Hsien Hsia1, Member, IEEE, Tsung-Cheng Wu2, Jen-Shiun Chiang2, Member, IEEE, and Chi-Fang Hsieh 
1 Department of Electrical Engineering 
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology 
Taipei, Taiwan 
Email: chhsia@ee.tku.edu.tw 
2 Department of Electrical Engineering 
Tamkang University 
New Taipei, Taiwan 
Email: rlpolo123@hotmail.com; chiang@ee.tku.edu.tw 
 
Abstract— This work presents a new model based on 
least-mean-square (LMS) scheme to train the mask operation on 
low resolution images. This efficient and real-time method with 
adaptive least-mean-square scheme (ALMSS) uses the training 
mask for moving objects detection and tracking on 
resource-limited systems. However, the scheme of moving objects 
detection and tracking in a real surrounding environment is a 
difficult task due to noise issues such as fake motion or noise. 
The ALMSS approach can effectively reduce the noise with low 
computing cost in both fake motion and noise environments. In 
the experiments on real scenes indicate that the proposed 
ALMSS method is effective for moving objects detection and 
tracking in real-time. Our approach can be implemented in 
hardware for the high resolution applications, such as Full-HD 
images. A prototype VLSI circuit was designed and simulated by 
TSMC 0.18μm 1P6M process. 
Keywords- least-mean-square; low resolution image; adaptive 
least-mean-square scheme; moving objects detection; VLSI 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Autonomous video surveillance and monitoring have been 
developed for long time, and various approaches to track 
moving objects have been proposed in recent years. Most 
intelligent video surveillance systems can detect moving 
objects in the initial stage and subsequently process the image 
information for the post-processing. However, activity 
analysis in video surveillance is a challenging problem. The 
environment must be monitored with everything within the 
scene, including human or some other objects. With such a 
rich activity space, it is difficult to imagine general procedures 
capable of working over a wide range of scenarios. Moving 
objects detection is important aspects of computer vision and 
have a very wide range of surveillance applications. To 
correctly track the moving objects, it does not only provide an 
accuracy results for post-processing, but also can reduce the 
redundant computation for the incorrect detection of the 
moving objects. However, moving objects detection in a real 
surrounding environment is essential and needs to be further 
improved owing to some difficult situations, such as 
illumination changes, fake motion [1], night detection [2], and 
Gaussian noise in the background. All these situations may 
lead to detect incorrect region of the moving objects. For 
solving these problems, several methodologies have been 
proposed such as background subtraction, temporal 
differencing, and optical flow for objects detection [3-5].  
The background subtraction approach [3] is the process of 
separating the difference between the current frame and the 
reference background frame. It provides the most complete 
motion mask data but is susceptible to dynamic scene changes 
due to lighting and extraneous events. Therefore, it has to 
update the reference background frame frequently. The 
temporal differencing method [4] adapts the changing region 
by using consecutive frames of the image sequences. This 
method is suitable for dynamic environment, but cannot often 
detect the entire objects. The optical flow approach [5] uses 
characteristics of flow vectors of moving objects over time to 
detect moving regions. However, most of the optical flow 
methods are often with higher complex computation. 
Generally, the above moving objects detection methods are all 
sensitive to illumination changes, noises, and fake motion 
such as moving leaves of trees. 
In order to solve the mentioned problems, several 
approaches for objects detecting have been proposed. Video 
detecting systems have to deal with variously shaped and 
sized input objects, which often result in a massive computing 
cost of the input images. Cheng et al. [1] used discrete 
wavelet transform (DWT) to detect moving objects. The 2-D 
DWT can be used to decompose an image into four-subband 
images (LL, LH, HL, and HH). It only processes the part of 
the low-low frequency image (LL-band) due to the 
consideration of low computing cost and noise reduction 
issues. Although this method provides low computing cost 
(low resolution) and compact object energy for 
post-processing and noise reduction based on the conventional 
DWT, the LL-band image produced by the original image size 
via two dimensions (row and column) calculation may cause 
high computing cost in the pre-processing. Huang et al. [2] 
used the algorithm based on contrast analysis which can run 
in real-time, but it depends on some conditions such as the 
local window size. Bennett et al. [6] enhanced the 
underexposed low dynamic range videos by using a dynamic 
function of the pixel values in the spatial neighborhoods. This 
motion detection method can detect moving objects accurately, 
but it suffers from high computing cost. After dealing with the 
background subtraction, Alsaqre et al. [7] used a local 
pre-process method to smooth the image to reduce noises and 
other small fluctuations. However, this approach is unable to 
reduce the post-processing computation. Sugandi et al. [8] 
proposed a method for detecting objects by using a low 
resolution image with the 2×2 average filter, which is 
generated by replacing each pixel value of the original image 
  3
original image size according to the spatial relationship of the 
LMS algorithm which depends on DWT as follows: 
O(x,y) = LLn(x×2n,y×2n)             (5) 
where n = 0, 1, 2, …, j and j is the number of level. 
 
III. ADAPTIVE LEAST-MEAN-SQUARE SCHEME 
In order to detect the moving objects more accurately, we 
propose a new method based on adaptive filter theory [9] with 
adaptive least-mean-square scheme (ALMSS). It preserves 
more image quality of the low resolution image than that of 
the low resolution methods to reduce the spatial resolution of 
the image by replacing the general mask operation, such as AF, 
DS, and DWT, with the LMS-based mask. 
 
A. Adaptive Filter Theory 
The operation of an adaptive filtering algorithm involves two 
basic processes: 1) a filtering process and 2) an adaptive 
process. The first process is designed to produce an output in 
response to a sequence of input signal. Another process 
provides a mechanism for the adaptive control of an 
adjustable set of parameters used in the filtering process. 
These two processes work interactively with each other. 
There are many types of adaptive filters, and the transversal 
filter is used in this research work. The transversal filter 
consists of three basic elements, unit-delay element, multiplier, 
and adder, as shown in Fig. 2. The numbers of delay elements 
depend on the order of the filter shown in Fig. 2. The function 
of each multiplier in the filter is to multiply the tap input by 
the filter coefficient as the tap weight. The function of the 
adders in the filter is to sum the individual multiplier outputs 
and produce an overall filter output. For the transversal filter 
shown in Fig. 2, the output y(n) is given by 
y(n) =
1
0
M
k
−
=
∑ wku(n-k), n = 0,1,2,…, M-1      (6) 
The summation in (6) is called finite convolution sum 
which convolves the finite impulse response of the filter wk 
with the filter input u(n) to produce the filter output y(n). The 
purpose of the filter is to produce an estimate of the desired 
response d(n). The estimation error e(n) is defined by the 
difference: 
e(n) = d(n) – y(n)             (7) 
To optimize the filter design, we have to minimize the 
mean-square value of the estimation error e(n). The cost 
function J is defined as the mean-squared error: 
J = E[e2(n)]                  (8) 
The problem is to find the operating conditions as the 
minimum value of J. It applies a gradient operator ∇ to the 
cost function J. For the cost function J to obtain the minimum 
value, the gradient vector ∇J equals zero: 
∇J = 0                      (9) 
Under this condition, the filter is said to be optimum in the 
mean-square error principle. By substituting (6)-(8) in (9), we 
can obtain the result 
∇J = −2E[u(n-k)eo(n)] = 0, k = 0, 1, 2, …             (10) 
Equation (10) illustrates the necessary and sufficient 
condition for the cost function J to obtain the minimum value 
of the estimation error eo(n) that is orthogonal to each input at 
time n. eo(n) denotes the value of the estimation error that 
results when the filter operates in the optimum condition. By 
substituting (6)-(7) in (10), it can obtain the following 
equation: 
1
0
M
i
−
=
∑ woiE[u(n-k)u(n-i)] = E[u(n-k)d(n)], k = 0,1,2,…, M-1      (11) 
Two functions are then defined as follows:  
1) The expectation value E[u(n−k)u(n−i)] is equal to the 
autocorrelation function of the filter input for a lag of i−k, and 
the expectation is expressed as: 
r(i−k) = E[u(n−k)u(n−i)]                 (12) 
2) The expectation value E[u(n−k)d(n)] is equal to the 
cross-correlation function between the filter input u(n−k) and 
the desired response d(n) for a lag of –k, and the second 
expectation can be expressed as: 
p(−k) = E[u(n−k)d(n)]              (13) 
Equation (11) can be re-written as the following equation: 
1
0
M
i
−
=
∑ woir(i-k) = p(-k), k = 0,1,2,…, M-1      (14) 
Equation (14) is called Wiener-Hopf equation. This equation 
defines the necessary and sufficient condition for the optimum 
filter. Let R denote the autocorrelation matrix of the tap inputs 
in the transversal filter of Fig. 2, and R can be expressed as: 
R = E[U(n)UH(n)]              (15) 
where U(n) is the tap inputs vector: 
U(n) = [u(n) u(n−1) … u(n−M+1)]T       (16) 
Let P denote the cross-correlation vector between the tap 
inputs of the filter. Together with the desired response d(n) P 
can be expressed as:  
P = E[U(n)d(n)]                (17) 
We can rewrite the Wiener-Hopf equation in the compact 
matrix form: 
RWo=P                                        (18) 
where Wo denotes the optimum tap-weight vector of the 
transversal filter: 
Wo = [wo0  wo1 … woM−1]T             (19) 
If the autocorrelation matrix R is nonsingular, R-1 exists and 
it can obtain: 
Wo=R−1P                   (20) 
To compute (20), it is necessary to obtain the 
autocorrelation matrix R and the cross-correlation vector P in 
advance.  
 
B. Method of Steepest Descent 
The method of steepest descent is for gradient-based 
adaptation. It is recursive in the sense beginning from some 
initial value for the tap-weight vector which can be improved 
with the increased number of iterations. According to the 
method of steepest descent, the updated tap-weight vector at 
time n+1 is computed by using the recursive relation 
W(n+1) = W(n) + 1/2 µ[− ]        (21) 
where µ is a positive constant and is called the step-size 
parameter. It can substitute the gradient vector  in (21) 
as follows: 
 = −2P + 2RW(n)             (22) 
and then W(n+1) can be obtained as: 
W(n+1) = W(n) + μ[P − RW(n)]         (23) 
The parameter μ controls the size of the incremental 
correction applied to the tap-weight vector. The necessary and 
sufficient condition for the convergence or stability of the 
steepest descent algorithm is with the step-size parameter µ to 
satisfy the following condition: 
0 < μ < 2/λmax                     (24) 
where λmax is the maximum eigenvalue of the autocorrelation 
matrix R. 
  5
image. Using the LL2-band image has a better detection 
region and also can cope with noises and fake motion 
effectively, as shown in Table 1. Nevertheless, the low 
resolution images generated by using the 2×2 AF method are 
more blurred than those by using the ALMSS. The average 
filtering is a low-pass filter which denoises the image and 
performs restoration by the noise reduction spatial domain. 
The detail results of using ALMSS are shown in Table 2. 
We use the coefficients of LL-band mask of SMDWT and 
also use the coefficients of 3×3, 5×5, and 7×7 average filters 
as the initial values of the tap-weights. The experimental 
results of the coefficients of LL-band mask of SMDWT are 
better than others as shown in Table 3. 
The line charts as shown in Fig. 4 are used to indicate the 
results of different low resolution methods, including ALMSS, 
LS, 2×2 AFS, and DSS. The proposed method has better 
moving objects detection results. 
 
B. Hardware implementation 
In the future, high resolution images for smart IP surveillance 
system will be more common, and those may increase the 
computing complexity significantly. The system of high 
resolution images operated by the software platform may not 
achieve real-time, and hence it needs to design and implement 
the system in hardware to reduce the computing time for 
real-time processing in some system on a chip (SOC) platform. 
The hardware implementation can be fulfilled by the 
cell-based IC design flow as shown in Fig. 5(a). In this 
research work, we have designed and simulated the proposed 
approach in a VLSI circuit by TSMC 0.18μm 1P6M CMOS 
process. The power supply is 1.8V, the operating frequency is 
50MHz, and it consumes 105.1mW. The chip layout is shown 
in Fig. 5(b), and the detailed specification is listed in Table 4. 
As shown in Fig. 6, the system is operated in a pipelined 
manner with two rows processing concurrently a time. The 
most critical part of Fig. 6 is the RGB to luminance Y 
conversion and it decides the performance of this system. If 
the resolution of the image size is M×N pixels, it needs M×N 
clock cycles to process an image frame in a single row 
processing manner. In our operation scheme, it needs one 
clock cycle time for the operation at the beginning and end of 
each row, respectively, for horizontal synchronization (HS), 
and therefore it needs 2×M clock cycles for the M×N image 
frame in a single row processing manner. Since this 
architecture can process two rows concurrently, it takes 
(M×N+2×M)/2 clock cycles to process a M×N-image-frame. 
By this manner, each frame takes [(M×N+2×M)/2]/CLK 
seconds of processing time; namely it can process 
1/{[(M×N+2×M)/2]/CLK} frames per second. 
If the clock rate is 50MHz and the image frame is in QVGA 
(320×240) format, it can process 1,291 FPS. On the other 
hand if the image frame is in Full-HD (1920×1080) format, 
the same hardware architecture can have 48 FPS operation 
speed and it can still fulfill the real-time requirement of a 
surveillance system. 
 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
The adaptive least-mean-square scheme (ALMSS) for moving 
objects detection is proposed in this paper. It is able to detect 
moving objects in outdoor environments with statistic video 
systems. The proposed ALMSS approach can effectively 
reduce the noise with low computing cost in fake motion 
environments (such as moving leaves of trees). In order to 
process high resolution picture frame such as Full-HD images, 
this work can be implemented as an efficient hardware 
architecture which can work for real-time processing. The 
experimental results demonstrated that the 2-D LL2-band (for 
320×240 image frames) can effectively track moving objects 
by region-based detection under any environments, such as 
morning, afternoon, night, indoor, and outdoor, as well as it 
can cope with noise issues. The ALMSS system can be 
extended to the real-time video surveillance system 
applications, such as object classification and descriptive 
behaviors of objects. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] F.-H. Cheng and Y.-L. Chen, “Real time multiple objects tracking and 
identification based on discrete wavelet transform,” Pattern 
Recognition, vol. 39, no. 3, pp. 1126-1139, June 2006. 
[2] K.-Q. Huang, L.-S. Wang, T.-I. Tan, and S. Maybank, “A real-time objects 
detecting and tracking system for outdoor night surveillance,” Pattern 
Recognition, vol. 41, no. 1, pp. 423-444, January 2008. 
[3] W.-M. Hu, T.-N. Tan, L. W, and S. Maybank, “A survey on visual 
surveillance of object motion and behaviors,” IEEE Transactions on 
Systems, Man, and Cybernetics- Part C: Applications and Reviews, vol. 
34, no. 3, pp. 334-352, August 2004. 
[4] N. Jacobs and R. Pless, “Time scales in video surveillance,” IEEE 
Transactions on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, vol. 18, no. 8, 
pp. 1106-1113, August 2008. 
[5] R. T. Collins, A. J. Lipton, T. Kanade, H. Fujiyoshi, D. Duggins, Y. Tsin, 
D. Tolliver, N. Enomoto, O. Hasegawa, P. Burt, and L. Wixson, “A 
system for video surveillance and monitoring,” Carnegie Mellon 
University, Technical Report, CMU-RI-TR-00-12, 2000. 
[6] E. P. Bennett and L. McMillan, “Video enhancement using per-pixel 
virtual exposures,” ACM SIGGRAPH, vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 845-852, July 
2005. 
[7] F. E. Alsaqre and Y. Baozong, “Multiple moving objects tracking for 
video surveillance system,” IEEE International Conference on Signal 
Processing, vol. 2, pp.1301-1305, August 2004. 
[8] B. Sugandi, H. Kim, J. K. Tan, and S. Ishikawa, “Real time tracking and 
identification of moving persons by using a camera in outdoor 
environment,” International Journal on Innovative Computing, 
Information and Control, vol. 5, no. 5, pp. 1179-1188, May 2009. 
[9] S. Haykin, Adaptive Filter Theory, 2nd Edition, Prentice Hall, 1991. 
[10] S. Cvetkovic, P. Bakker, J. Schirris, and P. H. N. de With, “Background 
estimation and adaptation model with light-change removal for heavily 
down-sampled video surveillance signals,” IEEE International 
Conference on Image Processing, pp. 1829-1832, October 2006. 
[11] C.-H. Hsia, J.-M. Guo, and J.-S. Chiang, “An improved low complexity 
algorithm for 2-D integer lifting-based discrete wavelet transform using 
symmetric mask-based scheme,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits and 
Systems for Video Technology, vol. 19, no 8, pp. 1201-1208, August 
2009. 
[12] C.-H. Hsia and J.-S. Chiang, “Real-time moving objects detection and 
tracking with direct LL-mask band scheme,” International Journal of 
Innovative Computing, Information and Control, vol. 8, no. 5, May 
2012. 
[13] S.-W. Yang, M.-H. Sheu, J.-J. Lin, C.-C. Hu, T.-H. Chen, and S.-Y. Tseng, 
“Parallel 3-pixel labeling method and its hardware architecture design,” 
IEEE International Conference on Information Assurance and Security, 
vol. 1, pp.185-188, August 2009. 
 
Table 1. The moving objects detection and tracking results 
Resolution 1ALMSS 2LS [3] 32×2 AFS 
[10] 
4DSS [12] 
Level Detection flow/ 5AR 
Detection 
flow/ AR 
Detection 
flow/ AR 
Detection 
flow/ AR 
LL2(80×60) 21 FPS / 
81.45 % 
12 FPS / 
77.02 % 
33 FPS / 
68.15 % 
32 FPS / 
15.32 % 
1ALMSS: Adaptive Least-Mean-Square Scheme; 2LS: Lifting Scheme; 32×2 
AFS: 2×2 Average Filter Scheme; 4DSS: Down-Sampled Scheme; 5AR: 
Accuracy Rate. 
 
Table 2. The results of using ALMSS 
Time Total Correct identification AR 
Morning 463 379 81.86 % 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用於高安全性保全智慧型多攝影機監視系統之研究與實現
計畫主持人: 江正雄
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-032-046- 學門領域: 訊號處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1. 已爭取到 IEEE ISPACS 2012 研討會，預計於 2012 年 11 月 4 日至 11 月 7 日
於淡水漁人碼頭福容飯店舉辦。 
2. 擔任 IET 台北分會副主席工作。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
