hardware advancement includes Miniaturized passives,including 
Multi-Layered Organic (MLO) Embedded Passives (EPs) and 
Integrated Passive Devices (IPDs)； 3-D packaging and wafer level 
technologies, for example, die stacking,Through Silicon Via (TSV), 
and microbumps； Micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS), 
including sensors, actuators, switches and tunable devices； and 
Antenna designs. The hardware development has created a great 
demand for system design for 3D SiPs (RF and digital). This 
proposal is dedicated to system design of high and ultra high 
frequency packages and 3D RF SiPs. The RF SiP platform is 
proposed to integrate a RFIC and an IPD (or MLO EP). We are 
interested in Quad Flat Pack (QFN) and Ball Grid Array (BGA) 
packages. These packages include conventional (wirebond and flip 
chip) and advanced (TSVs and microbumps) interconnections. 
Signal and Power integrity (SI and PI) system design considerations 
for these packages are addressed. Antenna (antenna for external 
communications and active antenna for miniaturized local area 
network, or mini-LAN) is a key element in the RF system. The 
external antenna can be designed separately as a component on the 
mother board, or designed as an integrated component on the 
module. In this proposal, the on-module option is explored. Active 
antenna (an Antenna on Chip, AoC, or a Chip Sized Antenna, CSA) 
for mini-LAN is also discussed. 
 
英文關鍵詞
SoC, RF SiP, 3D RF SiP, QFN, BGA, Through Silicon Via (TSV), microbump, Integrated
Passive Device (IPD), Embedded Passives (EP), Active Device Carrier, Signal integrity, Power
integrity, On-module antenna, Chip-sized antenna, Active antenna，mini-LAN
英文摘要
According to the semiconductor analysts, the Moore’s law is approaching its ultimate limits with 
16 nanometer manufacturing processes and 5 nanometers in gate length. The limits can be
reached between 2013 and 2018. The 3D integration technologies have recently become the
favorite strategy that electronic industry takes to extend the ultimate density (and thus
performance) hard limits set by the Moore’s law. ITRI in Taiwan has formed Ad-STAC
(Advanced Stacked- System Technology and Application Consortium) for the development of 3D
IC and die stacking technologies. System in a Package (SiP), as compared to System on a Chip
(SoC), is system integrators’ choice for hardware integration, product development, and 
prototyping tool. It is because SiP technology can be applied easily to assemble heterogeneous
ICs and other critical electrical or mechanical components. In recent years, the advancement in
hardware technologies related to SiP has fueled development and design of many novel mobile
products, such as mobile phones, Bluethooth headsets, and GPS devices. The hardware
advancement includes Miniaturized passives,including Multi-Layered Organic (MLO) Embedded
Passives (EPs) and Integrated Passive Devices (IPDs); 3-D packaging and wafer level
technologies, for example, die stacking,Through Silicon Via (TSV), and microbumps;
Micro-electromechanical systems (MEMS), including sensors, actuators, switches and tunable
devices; and Antenna designs. The hardware development has created a great demand for system
design for 3D SiPs (RF and digital). This proposal is dedicated to system design of high and ultra
high frequency packages and 3D RF SiPs. The RF SiP platform is proposed to integrate a RFIC
and an IPD (or MLO EP). We are interested in Quad Flat Pack (QFN) and Ball Grid Array (BGA)
packages. These packages include conventional (wirebond and flip chip) and advanced (TSVs
and microbumps) interconnections. Signal and Power integrity (SI and PI) system design
considerations for these packages are addressed. Antenna (antenna for external communications
and active antenna for miniaturized local area network, or mini-LAN) is a key element in the RF
system. The external antenna can be designed separately as a component on the mother board, or
designed as an integrated component on the module. In this proposal, the on-module option is
我們完成了被動元件，比如說 balun (政澤), BPF (建勳), 而我自己的學生也設計了 PA 和
LNA. 這些就是 ADC 和 Active antenna 的基礎。
On-module Antenna Design
我的學生田玫設計了微小化的天線。她特别將天線的地縮小到零來觀察漏電的現象（如下
圖）。這是一非常有趣的作法。我們已經完成了一篇的期刊（letter）論文。近期内即可投出。
設計天線實作圖片
Mini-LAN （Inter-chip Communication）
王順鴻設計了两類 24GHz 之 PA. 現正在量測中。待 24GHz 之 Glass IPD 天線設計完，我
們可以更進一步來使用 LNA+balun+Antenna (昱翔)的成果，進行 mini-LAN 之系統組合。
技術特點說明：
SI and PI for QFN Package
QFN, due to its simple construction, is the choice for packaging RF devices (from 3 GHz to 6
GHz). Because of recent interests in of mmW (milli-meter waves) devices, many researchers
are developing packages for devices operating at 24 GHz to 40 GHz. Notable examples include
Mimix Broadband (US), Eudyna (Japan), and United Monolithic (France). They used a cavity
structure on the top of the QFN package. Air was used as the medium for wirebonds,
considered as a method to reduce signal loss (air has low loss). In our low cost options, we used
simple wirebond configuration to increase the frequency operation range, and regular molding
compound was used.
IPD technology: ADC and Active Antenna
Active device occupies very little area on an active silicon substrate. As a result, the die per
wafer can be drastically increased if all the accompanying RF passives are fabricated on an IPD.
Since 01005 components can now be assembled with an adequate high yield, it was proposed that
only active devices are fabricated on CMOS substrate, and passives are fabricated on a glass IPD.
And, because of the assembly experience with 01005, the active devices can be successfully place
on top the glass IPD, making IPD an ADC, that is, an Active Device Carrier, a new form of
device package. Extending the concept, if an antenna (a passive) is formed on the IPD, the ADC
can be considered as an Active antenna.
On-module Antenna Design
If an antenna is fabricated along with active circuit, the effect of ground has to be considered. In
this antenna design, we looked at the effects of the ground size on the performance of balance and
1國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告
日期： 100 年 10 月 30 日
一、參加會議經過
RPI’s paper on Cu to Cu for Chip to Wafer bonding using Cu2Cu technology has attracted many
audiences. The copper width was about two microns, and thickness was about 0.3 nm. The
technology was new, and the authors have not offered reliability data. The technology can be used for
bonding homogeneous materials, for example, Si with Si, due to the low profile and possible high
strain as a result of the low profile. The copper pad is shown in below.
計畫編號 NSC 99 －2221－E－ 110－024 －
計畫名稱 高頻率封裝, 三維射頻單封裝, 和微型區域網路天線之設計及研究
出國人員
姓名
黃立廷
服務機構
及職稱
國立中山大學通訊工程研究所教
授
會議時間
100 年 5月 31
日至
100年 6月 3日
會議地點
Lake Buena Vista, FL, USA
會議名稱
(中文) 電子元件及工藝會議
(英文) 61ST Electronic Components and Technology Conference
發表論文
題目
(中文)
(英文) In-Plane/Out-of-Plane Mixed Probe Techniques to Obtain the RF
Characteristics of SMA Connectors
附件四
3People met included Prof. and Chairman Kao of NTU’s Materials Science and Engineering, Prof. Lin
of NCKU, Prof. Sheng Liu of Wright State (USA) and FineMEMS Inc., Prof. Ricky Lee of HKUST,
and Prof. T. L. Wu of NTU. Prof. Lin was elected to IEEE Fellow this year. Prof. Wu came to
receive the best paper award.
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)
Thursday morning was a busy one. There were two meetings, one was IEEE CPMT (Components,
Packaging, and Manufacturing Technology) Editors’meeting; and the other was CPMT Wireless
Technical committee meeting.
In the editors’meeting, the definition of a re-submission of a conference to CPMT was re-defined.
Previously, Paul Wesling accepted re-submission of conference paper to CPMT because he thought a
manuscript was a different one after the review process. However, this time, the new Editor-in-Chief,
Prof. Wayne Johnson requires significant difference for any manuscript that was previously published
in a conference, ECTC or not.
The technical committee consists of technical managers from US, Europe, Japan, and other areas.
The key purpose of the meeting was to discuss the current major technical focuses in their own area,
and subsequently modified the Call for Paper for the next year’s ECTC. This meeting is actually very
important, since you can learn the important global trends here.
In the technical committee, I was supposed to contact Paul Wesling for a permit to modify the website
for our committee.
四、建議
We need a CIC equivalent organization for RF SiP community. RF and microwaves design require
models for the components. Models have to be done for different substrate technology (Glass IPD,
Silicon IPD, or mmW boards), Silicon technology (channel lengths). Model development is time
consuming, but necessary. Without them, the design cycles become unacceptably long. CIC has
provided models for CMOS technology, for example, 180 nm, 90 nm technologies. Similar efforts
are critically needed in RF SiP design community.
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
Conference CD.
六、其他
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃立廷 計畫編號：99-2221-E-110-024- 
計畫名稱：高頻率封裝, 三維射頻單封裝, 和微型區域網路天線之設計及研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 4 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
