 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
（計畫名稱） 
 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC－97－2221－E－216－034 
執行期間： 97 年 08 月 01 日至 98 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：蔡永培 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
兼任研究助理 周中祺 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：中華大學機械系 
 
中   華   民   國   98 年   10 月    26 日 
附件一 
Direct Numerical Simulation of 3D Fully Developed Turbulent Flow over a Wavy Wall 
 
 
NSC Project No. NSC 97-2221-E-216-034  
Abstract  
This paper of this investigation is to develop a 3D numerical code and compute flow field properties generated 
by turbulent channel flow over a wavy wall. The flows over a wavy wall are very important phenomena in nature. 
They play quite important roles in engineering and scientific applications. Since wavy wall can increase boundary’s 
surface and speed up radiation, therefore wavy wall flows can be applied in the area of heat conduction. Moreover a 
concave-convex thin film coating was developed and applied on the external surface of an Airbus A320 test airplane. 
The experiment results indicate that a surface coverage of 70% could achieve a fuel savings of 1-2% . In the direct 
simulation methods of flows over a wavy wall, Weighted Essentially Non-Oscillatory by the compressible flow 
domain was selected to solve Navier-Stokes equation.  And the LU-SSOR method was applied to increase 
numerical stability and converging of the formula. A good agreement was found between simulation analysis results 
based on the Upwind method and the experimental values generated by P. Cherukat, Y. Na, and T. J. Hanratty & J. B. 
Mc Laughlin(1998). The simulation analysis has accurately predicted the fluid separation and superposition of the 
return flow in the wavy wall downhill areas. As the amplitude doubles, it was predicted that the detachment point of 
the fluid can occur earlier near the profile wall and the region of return flow can increase.  
 
Keywords: Lower drag, Economy energy, Wavy wall.  
  
1. Introduction  
Recent researches on wavy channel concentrate on the areas of revelation of fluxion structure and the control 
and reduction of anti-obstruction mechanism. The research was aimed to theorize this phenomenon and use it in the 
engineering applications to reduce obstruction. However the effects of fluid structure change and the wall surface 
pressure gradient on the change of wall surface obstruction in the near wall area are very complex. The reduction in 
obstruction from the wavy channel is apparently due to the improvement of the partial turbulent flow structure in the 
near wall areas, which has reduced the friction in the fluids and between the fluid the solid wall. Therefore in order to 
further the revelation of wavy channel in obstruction reduction, it is believed that the near wall flowing should be 
characterized. 
Experimental research of flow over the wavy wall was performed as early as 1932. The theory of the surface 
wall variation has been developed. Zilker and Hanratty[4], Zilker et al.[5] continued to conduct studies including the 
experiments of gauging wall surface pressure, measuring mean velocity of stream and the wall surface shearing 
stress and analyzing the mobile characteristics. In 1985 Patel[6] has improved simulation for several kinds of near 
wall with low Reynolds number ε−k  model. Patel and Chen[7] have used double-decked model to solve turbulent 
complex stalled flow. Since this model saves the grids, therefore it can effectively save the computation space and 
time and enhances the computation feasibility. Patel et al.[8] calculation of the wavy wall turbulent flow was 
conducted on two kinds of wave height ratios in 1991. The simulated streamlines picture in the near wall vortex area 
and the cross section velocity distribution were in a good agreement with the experimental results. Comparison of 
friction coefficient curves with pressure coefficients was also made between the wavy wall surface and flat surface. 
The effects of the profile on flows in the near wall area were analyzed. Ferrira and Lopes [9] carried on the 
multi-group wind tunnel experiments on the unimodular flows of sinusoidal wavy wall flow field. The low Reynolds 
can increase. This research then carries on the velocity field take this as the datum in view of the wavy wall 
phenomenon of flow, geometry outlook. The wavy wall applies major part three carries on the system discussion. 
 
 2. Numerical Method 
2.1 Flow configuration 
The parameters of the simulation are the same as used by Tsai[1] and Cherukat et al.[3]. In their numerical, the 
amplitude and the wavelength of the wavy wall were 2.54 mm and 50.8 mm, respectively. The distance between the 
mean location of the wavy surface and the flat wall was 50.8 mm. A schematic diagram of the three-dimensional 
computational domain is shown in Fig.1 and Fig.2. It consists of a channel which is unbounded in both the 
streamwise (x) and spanwise (z) directions. The lower wall has )4(=ωN  waves with sinusoidal shape and a mean 
position at the y = 0 plane (y is the vertical direction). The flat wall is located at y = h. The location of the wavy wall, 
ωy , is given by )
2(cos λ
π
ω
xay =  where a is the amplitude of the wave and is the wavelength. The mean flow in 
the streamwise direction is pressure driven. In the present study, wavelength ¸ and amplitude a were set equal to h 
and 0:05h to match the parameters of Hudson’s (1993) measurements. The flow is assumed to be homogeneous in 
the spanwise direction, justifying the use of periodic boundary conditions. The flow is also assumed to be periodic in 
the streamwise direction. Thus, the computational box size in the streamwise )( λωNx =Λ  and spanwise 
directions )( xΛ  should be large enough to include the largest length scale of the turbulent structures. The extents of 
the computational domain were, respectively, chosen to be 4h in the streamwise direction and 2h in the spanwise 
direction. 
2.2 Governing equation 
3D Navier-Stokes differential equation： 
z
Gv
y
Fv
x
Ev
z
G
y
F
x
E
t
Q
∂
∂+∂
∂+∂
∂=∂
∂+∂
∂+∂
∂+∂
∂
 (2-1) 
where Q is a conservation variable in equation： 
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
=
w
v
u
p
Q  (2-2a) 
where ρ  is density; u and v are quantities of velocity; e is unit volume energy in the above equation. E and F 
are Non-stickiness fluxes︰ 
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
+=
uw
uv
pu
u
E
2
β
 (2-2b) 
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎢
⎣
⎡
+=
vw
pv
uv
v
F 2
β
 (2-2c) 
is also assumed to be periodic in the streamwise direction. Thus, the computational box size in the streamwise 
)( λωNx =Λ  and spanwise directions )( xΛ  should be large enough to include the largest length scale of the turbulent 
structures. The extents of the computational domain were, respectively, chosen to be 4h in the streamwise direction 
and 2h in the spanwise direction. 
The flat boundary, single wavy wall and bilateral wavy wall, three different instantaneous streamwise velocity 
chart are shown in Fig.3. At the flat boundary, both upper and lower parts of inner flow field were flat. it was 
impossible for bilateral flat wall to trigger vortex happening between tube walls and flowing bodies. Thus, the 
apparent separation phenomenon no happening nearby flowing fields. And Fig.4 shows three different instantaneous 
cross-stream and spanwise velocity contour chart. At the single wavy wall, because the upper wall was flat, it was 
unavailable to trigger vortex happening between flowing bodies and tube wall. The separation phenomenon could be 
clearly seen. The lower wall part was a sinusoidal wavy one with apparent vortex happening to the wave trough. At 
the bilateral wavy wall, both upper and lower wall parts of inner flow field were sinusoidal wavy walls with the 
amplitude (A) rated at 2.54mm. Because both upper and lower wall parts were sinusoidal ones, there were vortex and 
pressure changes could be seen nearby the wave trough. 
The Fig.5 and Fig.6 shows three different streamwise velocity contour in the X-Y and Y-Z planes. The by way 
of velocity contour our to be clear about in the flow field the celocity change different has a difference along with the 
boundary, especially of bilateral wavy wall. 
Mean velocity profiles at two streamwise locations (the crest and trough), in Fig.7 show good agreement. 
Since streamlines can be obtained by an integration of mean streamwise velocity, the good agreement of the mean 
velocity profile shown in Figure 6 is consistent with the observation that the thickness of the recirculating region or 
separation bubble is in fair agreement with measurements. 
The mean pressure distribution in the full flow over a wavy channel is shown in Figure 8. The mean pressure 
is a combination of the linear pressure drop and a wave-induced variation. Pressures shown in Figure 8 were 
obtained by subtracting the contribution from the mean pressure gradient; the pressure at the crest is taken as a 
reference. Large vertical pressure gradients exist in the vicinity of the separation point. The spatial pattern of mean 
pressure is periodic in the streamwise direction, indicating that the size of the streamwise domain is adequate. 
5. Conclusions  
This study successfully simulates the flow field characteristics of the two-dimensional profile wall using the 
Upwind and LU-SSOR schemes for space-time discretization and a grid of 125x41 x41 with both sides densified, the 
numerical results agree well with the experimental results, and this agreement can be used to verify the numerical 
codes and numerical results.  
Due to the strong mixing of the core flow and turbulence intensities, Reynolds stresses, turbulent energy 
production, instantaneous and mean flow field, and the pressure distribution of the turbulent channel flow with a 
wavy wall are calculated and investigated shows the turbulent flow over a wavy wall have a Lower drag and 
Economy energy phenomenon.  
This research is to obtain systematic structural information about the turbulent flow field. Features of the 
turbulence structure are discussed. 
6. Acknowledgements 
This work is funded by National Science Council under grant NSC-96-2221-E-212-021. 
 
7. References  
1. Yeong-Pei Tsai and Chung-Chyi Chou 2007. “Direct Numerical Simulation of a Fully Developed Turbulent Flow 
                                                        (A) 
 
                                            (B)                     (C) 
 
Fig.2 The computational grid of (A)Flat wall, (B)Single wavy wall and (C)bilateral wavy wall. 
 
 
 
                                                         (A) 
 
                                          (B)                     (C) 
  
Fig.3 Three-dimensional instantaneous velocity chart for (A)Flat wall, (B)Single wavy wall and (C)bilateral wavy 
wall in the mean streamwise and normal velocity. 
 
                  (A) 
 
                 (B)                     (C) 
  
Fig.4 Three-dimensional instantaneous velocity chart for (A)Flat wall, (B)Single wavy wall and (C)bilateral wavy 
wall in the cross-stream direction. 
 
 
