奈米銅線製作(Ⅱ) 
The Fabrication of Copper Nanowire(II) 
計畫編號：NSC94－2215－E－007－025 
執行期間： 94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：葉鳳生        清華大學電子工程所教授 
 
 
中文摘要 
本研究目的在製作奈米銅線及完成其電性測量。首
先無晶形的矽鍍在氧化矽上，經電子微影技術定線型。
用置換方法，矽被取代，鍍上銅線，再放入硫酸銅及氫
氟酸的混合溶液中。接著用導電式 AFM 測量電阻。同
時，為減少接觸電阻所造成的誤差，我們發展類似四點
探針法，可直接在探針座上量測。再進一步，我們用奈
米熱壓印將奈米銅線轉印在軟性基板上。 
 
 英文摘要 
The purpose of this study is the fabrication and electrical 
measurement of copper nanowires. The patterns of copper 
nanowires were defined by electron beam lithography on 
amorphous-silicon. Then copper nanowires formed by 
replacement method in mixture solution of cupric sulfate 
(CuSO4 5H2O) with HF. After the fabrication of copper‧ ,    
we measured the electrical characteristic by conductive 
AFM . In order to reduce the influence of contact 
resistance ,so we develop 4 point probe measurement method 
to obtain resistivity on probe station.   Furthermore, we 
successfully use nanoimprint-hot-embossing method to 
transfer these copper nanowiers onto parylene/polyimide 
substrate. 
Introduction 
  The nannowries become popular when the size of IC 
devices scale down to deep nanometer regime and 
measurement of nanowires become important. M.E. Toimil 
Molares et al. [1] developed a template meyhod with 
electrochemically deposited Cu in the pores. Then the 
template was dissolved in dichloromethane. Some drop of  
this solution containing single-crystal were placed on the 
patterned electrode. The resisitivity is 1.71x10-5Ω-cm in this 
method which include the contact resistance. Hong et al.[2] 
developed a novel sample structure. The pattern of nanowire 
and ion implanted electrode were defined by electrode beam 
on a-Si. Then copper nanowires and electrode pad were 
formed by replacement method in mixture solution of cupric 
sulfate (CuSO4 5H2O) w‧ ith HF. The novel structure can be 
avoid error from contact resistance and obtained the 
resistivity ~8.99x10-6Ω-cm. 
 
 
In this study, the 4 point probe measurements can be 
performed on probe station. The integration of nanowire and 
micropad was developed ,so resistivity can be measured 
correctly.  
Experimental 
The a-Si films were first deposited on SiO2/Si stacked 
layers by LPCVD .To fabricate controlled and predictable 
nanowires, two important process techniques, electron beam 
lithography and electrochemical replacement, were integrated. 
The C60 [3]-[5] in nanocomposite resist DSE1010 with 
0.015%, 0.025% and 0.035% were used .The C60 was used as 
increasing the scattering of electron beam and improve 
photo-sensitivity of resist. The patterns were exposed iso-line 
with Leica Wepprint 200 system at energy 40kev e-beam 
dose 5~14.75 μC/cm2. The development time is 90s~150s 
with TMAH (type:FHD-5). 
The electrochemical displacement method of Cu 
nanowires was formed by replacing Si atom through 
oxidation-reduction reaction[6]. 
The oxidation reaction in the anode is 
−−− +⎯→+ eSiFFSi 4660                          (1) 
and the metal-reduction reaction in the cathode is 
                                (2) 
02 242 CueCu ⎯→+ −+
The overall reaction is 
                      (3) 
02
6
20 262 CuSiFFCuSi +⎯→++ −−+
 
Then patterned samples were immersed into the mixed 
solution of cupric sulfate (CuSO4 5H2O)‧  3g/L with diluted 
hydrofluoric acid 60cc~70cc/L to form copper nanowire.  
Two kinds of electrical measurement methods were used. For 
the detail of C-AFMmethod was published in Hong et al[2]. 
Here ,we describe the 4 point probe measurement in detail. 
The process flow chart was in Fig.1. First we define pattern 
of nanowire by electron beam. After the copper nanowires 
were fabricated by replacement, and defined the electrode 
pad by metal mask .Then we deposited the copper film which 
thickness is 2000Å by sputtered on pad. The four point 
measurement method was used on probe station with 
HP4156A. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.6 shows the I-V curves of different lenth of nanowires 
measured by C-AFM. And the slope of the I-V curve is 
resistance(RT) of  the nanowire. The total resistance at 
conductive mode of AFM can written as shown in equation 
(4) 
LcPT RRRR ++=                                 (4) 
The total resistance R  contains the probe resistance R , the 
contact resistance R at Pt/Cu contact and the nanowire 
resistance R  The reciprocal slope of I-V we measured is the 
total resistance R . We can formulize the resistance of the 
nanowire R as equation (5) 
T P
C 
L.
T
 L  
A
LRL ρ=                                       (5) 
where A is the cross area of nanowire, L is the length 
between the copper pad to AFM tip. We assumed RP and RC 
are constant at individual points. By doing egression of the 
RT versus length curve (shown in fig. 7), the slope in fig. 7 is 
ρ/A. With 62 nm in thickness and 93 nm in width which is 
measured by SEM the resistivity is 1.33x10-5Ω-cm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.6 measured I-V curves of different length of 
copper wires by C-AFM current measurement. 
(from sample fig.4(a))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The resisitivity is much higher than the bulk material.The 
error may be caused by the roughness of surface morphology 
(fig.4), so we can’t assume the contact resistance of C-AFM 
is constant at each point. 
 
For 4 point probe technique ,fig.8 (a) and (b) show copper 
line of the 4 point probe and line with electrode pad which is 
similar to fig.1(e). We provide current between the Pad1&3, 
then measure difference of voltage between Pad 2&4   Fig.9 
shows I-V curve of 4 point probe.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) (b) 
Fig.5 The cross section of copper nanowire. (a)the 
replacement time is 7s(b)the replacement time is 10s 
Fig.4   The top view of copper nanowire 
Fig.7 RT versus length (from sample fig.4(a)) 
Fig.7 RT versus length (from sample fig.4(a)) 
Slope=ρ/A 
Fig.8 4 point probe structure(a)electrode pad observed from 
optical photography (b)copper nanowire structure  observed  
from SEM 
