 Fig. 4: Example measurement from initial tests. 
Amplifier output signal when tapping the sensor. 
Isolationlayer 1
Isolation layer 2
Metallization 1
Metallization 2
Metallization 3
Piezo Film
Isolation layer 3
Connection (wire)
 
Fig. 5: Sandwich structure of the combined pressure 
sensor and transceiver. 
2 MHz
Clock generator
OOK Modulator
& Output Driver
&
data
HP A
Comparators
Transmitter
Receiver
 
Fig. 6: Block diagram of the transmitter and receiver 
implemented on chip. 
 
response at the amplifier output (Fig. 4). Further 
measurements confirmed the correct operation of the 
assembly. 
 
III. Transmitter Chip and System 
It has been shown that the human body can be used as a 
transmission channel to wirelessly interconnect a sender 
and receiver. This method is preferred over radio 
transmission as it is potentially less power consuming and 
issues on signal integrity (eaves-dropping) are less critical 
since the signal is confined to one person’s body. 
Different methods can be used to couple the signal into 
and out of the body. After careful consideration we 
decided to use capacitive coupling. The transmitter 
couples a displacement current through the human body 
to the receiver. The return path is provided by the “earth 
ground,” which includes all conductors and dielectrics in 
the environment that are in close proximity to the devices 
[7]. This method does not require ohmic contact between 
the electrodes and the skin. Therefore, it can provide 
functionality even through thin layers of clothing. Also, 
sheets of protecting material can be brought onto the 
electrodes to ensure bio-compatibility. The proposed 
system incorporates the capacitive coupling together with 
the sensing piezo element. Adding an additional 
conductive layer to the piezo assembly forms a sandwich 
structure as depicted in Fig. 5. This novel structure 
conserves space and material, is easy to assemble and is 
very versatile. A patent application has been filed to 
protect this concept [8]. The center electrode is connected 
to the circuit reference ground as shown in Fig. 6. The 
sensing voltage is detected across the piezo capacitor. The 
transmission signal is applied across the capacitor formed 
between the ground plate and the additional conductive 
layer. A second capacitor is used for receiving the signal. 
Before transmission, the pressure signal is converted into 
a digital bit stream using an analog-to-digital converter 
(ADC), which amplitude modulates a carrier signal. We 
use On-Off Keying (OOK) modulation to transmit the 
signal as the sender and receiver are of relatively low 
complexity and the signal-to-noise ratio is comparably 
high using OOK. We report in detail on the 
4cm
metallization
PVDF
carrier (plaster)
 
Fig. 2: Photograph of a prototype force sensor patch 
incorporating four sensor fields per patch. 
 
Fig. 3: Microphotograph of our amplifier ASIC 
(active area). 
implementation to achieve reliable transmission.  
VII. Conclusions 
We have achieved the envisaged milestones for this 
project. We have conceived and built a prototype pressure 
transducer and transmission patch using piezo electric 
material. We designed, manufactured and tested the 
transceiver unit, the charge amplifier front-end ASIC, the 
ADC and the memory controller unit realized in this 
project using TSMC CMOS technology. Further 
measurements are required to fully characterize and test 
the design. However, preliminary results are given in this 
report confirming the functionality of the design. We have 
published the results of this project in an SCI journal [12] 
with two further SCI journal papers under review [13, 15]. 
Furthermore, one international conference paper [14] and 
one patent application [8] were realized. In conclusion, 
significant achievements have been made mot only in the 
context of pressure recording, but also in the design of 
key components for the assembly of BAN. 
 
References 
[1] ISO 5982, “Mechanical vibration and shock—Range 
of idealized values to characterize seated-body biodynamic 
response under vertical vibration,” 2001. 
[2] T.E. Fairley, M.J. Griffin, “The apparent mass of the 
seated human body: vertical vibration,” J. Sound and 
Vibration, no. 22, pp. 81-94, 1989. 
[3] P. Holmlund, et. al. “Mechanical impedance of the 
human body in vertical direction,” Applied Ergonomics, no. 
31, pp. 415-422, 2000. 
[4] P.-E. Boileau, X. Wu, S. Rakheja, “Definition of a 
range of idealized values to characterize seated body 
biodynamic response under vertical vibration,” J. Sound 
and Vibration, no. 215, pp. 841-862, 1998. 
[5] M. Krugman, “Instrumented computer keyboard for 
prevention of injury,” US patent 5579238, 1996. 
[6] C. M. Sommerich, et. al., “A quantitative description 
of typing biomechanics,” J. Occupational Rehab., vol. 6, no. 
1, 1996. 
[7] T. G. Zimmerman, “Personal Area Networks: Near-
field intrabody communication,” IBM Systems Journal, vol. 
35, no. 3&4, pp. 609-617, 1996. 
[8] R. Rieger, “A combined transducer for pressure 
recording and bi-directional signal communication in 
distributed on-body sensing,” Taiwan patent application, 
April 2008. 
[9] H.-L. Chan, et. al., “Low-Power Wireless 
Transmission of Biosignals Using the Slotted ALOHA 
Mechanism,” Proc. IEEE Int.Conf. Systems, Man, & 
Cybernetics, 2006. 
[10] L. Brooks, H.-S. Lee, “A Zero-Crossing-Based 8-bit 
200MS/s Pipelined ADC,” IEEE JSSC, vol. 42, no. 12, pp. 
2677-2687, 2007. 
[11] http://www.mmca.org/compliance/buy_spec/mmc_spe
c_v4_3/ 
[12] Huang, Y.-T., Rieger, R.; “An OOK Body-Channel 
Transceiver Front-end ASIC for Distributed Force 
Measurement,” to appear in Journal of Signal Processing 
Systems, 2009. 
[13] Huang, Y.-R.; Rieger, R.; “A Data Logger Core for 
Integrated Wearable Recording of Physiological Signals,” 
submitted paper, IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and 
Measurement. 
[14] Rieger, R.; Chang, L-S.; „A Continuously Trimmable 
Comparator-based Gain Stage,” Proc. Midwestern Symp. 
On Circuits & Systems, August 2009. 
[15] Rieger, R.; Chen, S.-Y.;“Integrated Linear Giga-ohm 
Resistance using Current Scaling,” Microelectronics 
Journal 
 
Fig. 9: Test setup to examine body transmission using proposed patches. 
Table I: Transmitter specification, simulated and measured 
results. 
 
