 1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－033－057 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 01 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
 
主持人：       林康平   中原大學電機系 
共同主持人：   劉仁賢   台北榮民總醫院核醫部 
計畫參與人員： 羅文煬   中原大學電機系 
鄭誠瑋   中原大學電機系 
張博勝   中原大學電機系 
吳至傑   中原大學電機系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 近年來，應用於小動物之分子影像相
關研究發展地十分迅速，漸漸成為應用科
學領域中重要的一環。其中核子醫學
(nuclear medicine)能夠以非破壞性的方式
觀察體內各組織和腦內靜態結構與動態
功能。核子醫學中的正子斷層掃描
(positron emission tomography, PET) 是可
測量活體生化與生理變化的醫學造影工
具，可在器官結構尚未發生病變即偵測出
功能性異常，靈敏度與空間解析度是現今
核醫功能造影儀器中表現最佳者，透過正
子衰變之放射性核種標誌而成的各種核
醫藥物，經影像重建後可獲得放射性藥物
於人體內部的分佈情形，藉由靜態的醫學
影像視覺化與動態功能參數之定量分
析，可觀察到諸如葡萄糖代謝、細胞增生
與神經傳導物質等表現，亦可取得器官組
織的切面影像與評估新陳代謝是否異
常。目前已廣泛地應用於臨床診斷，如惡
性腫瘤、神經病變與心血管疾病。對於發
現早期癌症病灶有相當大的幫助。 
本研究計畫以小動物為主體進行實驗
分析，而動物實驗之驗證部份，目前廣泛
應用之造影技術可分為組織結構與功能性
兩方面，其中 microCT 或 microMRI 等構
性造影，可以提供組織結構資訊，對於病
灶組織之型態分析具有極佳的應用；至於
功能性造影部份，則以 microPET配合不同
放射性追蹤藥劑，進行特定組織標定，藉
此可以獲得組織之生理生化活動相關資
訊，同時進行功能性定量分析，由於
microPET造影技術所獲得之影像，具許多
重要特性，因此除可應用於新藥物研發，
同時經由放射性化合物結合於造影之中的
技術，更可觀測到各組織之相對於不同新
藥的反應。實際應用上，若能再將組織及
生理生化兩者所提供之影像資訊相結合，
開發能同時獲得結構性與功能性影像資訊
之小動物造影技術，將為現階段國內外醫
學研究應用上提供重要之研究方向。 
 
關鍵詞：影像處理軟體、微正子斷層造影、
腦腫瘤 
 
Abstract 
 
Recently, researches about molecular 
imaging that applied to small animals have 
been under the limelight of researchers and 
have been mushroomed in many fields. These 
biomedical researches are gaining more and 
more influences in the field of applied 
sciences. Among them, nuclear medicine 
provides both static and dynamic information 
of body tissues and brain structures through 
non-intrusive methods. The positron 
emission tomography, PET, is a medical 
imaging technology that can measure 
biochemical and physiological changes in 
living bodies. The PET technology has the 
best sensitivity and spatial resolutions of all 
 3 
對不同顯影藥品觀察不同生理狀況之大鼠
的生理特性(如圖 1 所示)。 
     
(圖 1) 實驗設計說明 
 
(1) 放射性藥物 [F-18]FDG 
    第一年期使用[氟-18]去氧葡萄糖([18F] 
2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose, F-18 FDG)來進
行 microPET 造影，F-18 FDG 是葡萄糖的
類似物，可用來觀察大鼠身體各部位的葡
萄糖代謝率。 
     
(2) MicroPET 造影資料 
 實驗使用 4 隻正常大鼠，動物購買來
源 為 陽 明 大 學 動 物 中 心 ， 品 系 為
Sprague–Dawley (SD) rat，性別為公鼠。由
歲數 4 週大(體重 83-130g)開始追蹤至 12
週大(體重 353-463g)，每週造影一次。動物
平日飼養於 20℃常溫，提供標準飼料、無
菌水，以及與外界獨立的空調設備，日照
週期為十二~十四小時，動物的所有管理與
處置皆會遵循相關的動物保護規範。進行
實驗前一兩天先將動物置於造影室的儲存
空間內(仍供以獨立空調)以使動物適應環
境。造影完畢後，動物會再存放於當地一
至二天以待體內核種衰變至背景。注射核
種前 1 小時會將水與食物移除，以免在造
影時增加嘴部肌肉或唾腺之代謝。大鼠經
過適當的麻醉後，將置放於定位架上，並
給予適當的保暖。造影前、後都會從尾靜
脈抽血，並使用 Roche 血糖計測試，以監
測記錄血糖，經由實驗樣本得知，造影前
後之血糖數值並無明顯差異。對於動態造
影的實驗設計，會先將欲造影部位對準至
造影儀中心，之後直接在造影台上從老鼠
尾靜脈注射注射核醫藥物 F-18 DG，同時
立即進行照影；對於靜態造影的實驗設
計，老鼠在被注射核醫藥物後，將於清醒
態進行新陳代謝，為時約 30 分鐘後，再麻
醉上架定位進行照影。 
    每筆動態造影的資料是經過 30 分鐘，
實際狀況來切割時間點，Ring Difference
與 Span 的設定代表三維方向，換句話說在
30 分鐘的造影中，我們可以得到 3 種方向
兩兩互相垂直的影像，，觀察左右兩腦吸
收 F-18 FDG 後反應明顯的部位(如圖 2 所
示)。 
 
     
  (a) Coronal     (b) Horizontal     (c) Sagittal 
圖 2 SD rat 腦部之切面影像 
 
(3) 影像分析軟體功能 
    在影像重建法方面，我們將以最具普
遍性的濾波反投影法為主，疊代式影像重
建法為輔。疊代式影像重建法可得較佳影
像對比與空間解析度，但是對於生理參數
的影響則需有更謹慎的評估。在影像對位
方面，採用 maximum mutual information對
位法搭配 3D TPS 形變，以半自動方式進行
micro PET與 micro MR 影像之校準[2][3]。 
    本分析系統以 PC 為開發平台，採用微
軟 MFC 視窗介面模式，設計一軟體可供使
用者手動於影像上給予數個特徵點，然後
進行 TPS 形變與影像融合，融合後影像同
時提供功能性與結構性之腦影像，如圖 4
所示。 
 
圖 4 影像對位分析系統 
 
(4) 生理參數評估 
 樣本採自 4 隻 SD rat 之腦部 coronal
切面影像(如圖 2(a)所示)，連續觀察年齡
5至 8週大之大鼠[1]，動物進行 micro PET
造影採用氣體麻醉法，先以 Isoflurane(5%)
及 O2(30%) N2O(70%)誘導麻醉，造影過程
出席國際會議心得報告 
 
 
報告人姓名 吳至傑 就讀系所年級 電機工程所博士班四年級 
會議期間及地點 8/26~8/30, 2007 
美國聖地牙哥 
會議名稱 (中文) 光學與光子研討會，國際光學工程學會 
(英文) Optics + Photonics, SPIE 
發表論文題目 
(中文) 比較不同照明方式之下的甲襞微血管影像品質 
(英文) Comparison of Different Illumination Arrangements on Capillary 
Image Quality in Nail-fold 
報告內容 
、一、參加會議經過：申請人於美國時間 8月 29日早上 10點抵達聖地牙
哥會議中心。進入會場報到並取得名牌與收據後，便前往海報展場張貼
參展海報(No. 6696-73)。10:30海報設定完成後，首先到口頭報告會場聽
講，經過幾場演講後，約在下午 4點返回海報展場。海報 session於 5:00
開始進行，session過程中站在海報前回答問題，晚上七點 session結束後
將海報拆下，結束第一天的行程。隔天(8月 30日)早上 9:30再回到會場
聽講，直到下午四點聽完演講後離開會議中心，結束研討會行程。 
、二、與會心得：此會議是世界最大型的光學工程研討會之一，由 51個技
術會議所組成，超過 2100篇技術論文，內容涵蓋光學工程相關議題與演
說討論，包括光學設計、系統、影像處理和工程應用與各類光學儀器探
討等，提供相關領域學者們體驗最新的光學研究成果。以下略述幾項參
與會議聽講與海報 session之重點節錄： 
A. Oral session 
(Wednesday 29 August) 
1. Multiviewing angle display and touch-panel interface system for 
collaborative task surrounding round table. (No. 6695-16) 
本研究發展一套以 3D影像呈現的偏極化 LCD觸碰式螢幕，使用者分
別從上下左右將手放置在觸碰螢幕上，並進行影像識別後，自動判斷
手掌來自何方位，進而顯示 3D影像。 
2. Superresolution mobile video based on fractal theory and post-processing 
techniques. (No. 6696-27) 
本研究採用與傳統內插法不同的分形內插法，此方法內插後的影像解
析度較傳統方法好，能保留影像的紋理特徵，減少失真，並將之應用
在手機影像上。 
3. Stochastic classification/regression framework for singleimage 
superresolution, 
本研究利用 support vector machine (SVM) 迴歸法，將此統計方法運用
在影像的空間域以及 Discrete Cosine Transform (DCT)域。此法獲得超
高解析度影像，與較佳之均方誤差，另外在 DCT域之影像解析度也
有所改善。 
 
 
 
  
 
  
transferring oxygen, nutrients, carbon dioxide, metabolites and fluids between microcirculation and tissues1. It has been 
demonstrated that many diseases such as black foot, cardiac disease, hypertension and diabetes are usually accompanied 
by some microcirculation disorders in part or the whole body2,3,4. Wayland and Johnson5 developed a microscope based 
imaging system to observe blood flows in capillaries in vivo. The system operates by using a mirror mounted on a 
galvanometer to scan the reflected image of a selected microvessel back and forth across the surface of a photomultiplier 
tube, at a rate determined by a frequency generator coupled to the galvanometer. Maricq6 also developed a technique 
whereby observation of the overall pattern of skin vascularture is used. The method is simple which consists of placing a 
drop of immersion oil on the skin and then looking at the plexus under a wide-field stereoscopic microscope with a 
magnification of 12 diameters. A lamp with low voltage is used for incident light directly. The image quality of image 
obtained from those systems was too poor to discriminate vascular distributions and patterns. The capillary imaging 
system should provide high quality images to ensure the accuracy of the blood flow information derived from images 
and be able to apply to clinical diagnose. Fortunately, nowadays, the improved image resolution and high 
contrast-to-noise (CNR) ratio are attributed to high-performance CCD cameras, objectives, high power halogen lamps 
and proper filter selection. An orthogonal polarized system7 (OPS) based capillary imaging microscope and an image 
processing software were developed in our lab which can be used to record the blood flow images and analyze image 
quality by the software. In this study, the image quality of capillary images that acquired form different illumination 
arrangements will be discussed. The index of CNR was used to determine the image quality of a microcirculation image 
in nail-fold. Image registration and dynamic search algorithms were also used to solve image jiggling problem and define 
the region to calculate image contrast. 
 
2. METHODS 
2.1 OPS-based capillary imaging system 
The OPS-based capillary imaging system is shown in Fig. 1. The specification of the objective lens is: 20X 
magnification, 0.42 NA, 20 mm working distance, 1.2 mm field of view and its resolving power is 0.7 µm. The 
wavelength and illumination are both critical parameters of the light source in a microcirculation imaging system. 
Absorption of the blood under skin is another important consideration that will influence the contrast or clarity of image. 
Generally, a wavelength near 550 nm which is at the isobetic point of oxy- and deoxy-hemoglobin absorption is adopted 
for optimal image contrast. We use a digital camcorder (SONY DCR-TRV40) instead of a traditional CCD camera. It 
must be noted that the resolution of a commercial camcorder is usually lower than a research grade CCD camera. 
However, the overall resolution of the microcirculation imaging system, i.e. the system resolution, is high enough to 
obtain reliable capillary images. The light source of the imaging system consists of a halogen lamp with a power of 150 
Watts and a green filter with wavelength of 556 ± 10 nm.  
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6696  669626-2
-System
Ainput
Capillaiy
Image Skeleton CNR Image
Images Registratioii Segmentation Calculation Qualityi, i,
e2=200
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Four cases of illumination arrangements. Green arrows represent the lamp with green filter while white arrows are no filter 
illuminations. 
 
2.3 Image quality evaluation 
The image quality evaluation system was composed of several image processing algorithms that were been applied 
successively to determine the quality of capillary images. The flowchart of the system is shown in Fig. 3.  
 
Fig. 3. Flowchart of the image quality evaluation system. 
 
2.3.1 Image registration 
The block matching algorithm which extracts the same or similar patterns (or ROI, region of interest) in dynamic images 
was used to correct the unavoidable jiggling problem of finger during photographing. In this approach, the mean square 
difference (MSD) matching criterion is applied to compute the minimal difference which can be regarded as the optimal 
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6696  669626-4
•
-%.
tcy
 
 
standard deviation of the original image is σ1. A Gaussian low-pass filter is used to smooth the image, and the standard 
deviation of the image becomes σ2. Consequently, the noise is defined as the difference between two standard deviations. 
As a result, the CNR can be calculated and considered as the evaluating index of image quality. 
 
3. RESULTS 
The capillary images captured in four different cases are shown in Fig. 5. For each case, ten continuous images were 
selected for image quality evaluation. The mean and standard deviation of contrast, noise and CNR of each case were 
illustrated in Fig. 6. The contrast of each case is (a) 0.18 ± 0.0211, (b) 0.1013 ± 0.0063, (c) 0.1278 ± 0.0077 and (d) 
0.0538 ± 0.0095. The noise of each case is (a) 2.4 ± 0.07 %, (b) 2.69 ± 0.17 %, (c) 4.16 ± 0.10 % and (d) 2.51 ± 0.02 %. 
The CNR of each case is normalized to (a) 1, (b) 0.49, (c) 0.40 and (d) 0.28. In case (a), the contrast is significantly high 
and noise is relatively lower than other cases which means using a green light source with an illuminating angle of 20 
degree will provide better image quality than other arrangements. In case (b), the contrast is significant lower than case 
(a) while the noise has no significant with (a) and (d). In case (c), the contrast is relatively well but the noise is 
significantly higher than others which result in a fair image quality. In case (d), the noise of image is low but the contrast 
is relatively low as well which results in a poor image quality. 
 
 
           (a)                         (b)                        (c)                         (d) 
Fig. 5 The capillary images of illumination case (a) green filter added, incident angle of 20 degree, (b) no filter, incident angle of 
20 degree, (c) green filter added, incident angle of 90 degree and (d) no filter, incident angle of 90 degree. 
 
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6696  669626-6
