 3 
中文摘要 
 
為了滿足無線網際網路高頻寬的需求，基於基礎建設網路之多躍中繼（Multihop Relay, MR）技術
於近年內被提出。在「合作式網路之頻寬管理機制」中，針對 IEEE 802.16j MR WiMAX 系統，深入研
究網路頻寬使用和分配的問題，利用頻寬重新分配（Bandwidth Repacking）和頻寬攜帶（Bandwidth 
Borrowing）做為基本概念，設計出適合於 IEEE 802.16j 網路的時槽重新分配（Slot Repacking）演算法
和時槽攜帶（Slot Borrowing）演算法。提出的頻寬管理機制可有效地降低換手連線拒絕率，進而使網
路的頻寬能夠更有效率地被使用。 
 
關鍵詞：合作式網路、多躍中繼、頻寬重新分配、頻寬攜帶、頻寬管理。 
 
 5 
一、 研究背景與目的 
 前言 
The IEEE 802.16j standard [1] has been proposed to triumph over the shadow fading and path 
attenuation problems in IEEE 802.16e networks [2] by employing the multihop relay (MR) technology. IEEE 
802.16j MR networks deploy low-power relay stations (RSs) between base stations (BSs) and mobile stations 
(MSs). A BS can communicate with an MS via a direct path (single-hop path between the BS and the MS) or a 
cooperative path (multihop path through the BS to RSs, and then to the MS). When the short-distance and 
line-of-sight conditions are met, RSs can be used to forward data for BSs/MSs with better radio quality and 
higher transmission rates. Moreover, if the radio interference among non-adjacent RSs can be neglected, these 
RSs can transmit data simultaneously by exploiting spatial reuse [3,4]. With the new issues of multipath 
selection and spatial-reuse RSs determination, the resource scheduling problem in IEEE 802.16j MR networks 
is much more complicated than that in IEEE 802.16e networks. 
 
 文獻探討 
Taking path selection and spatial reuse into account, numerous scheduling algorithms have been 
presented for MR networks. The simplest and fastest scheduling algorithm is the fixed-assignment scheduling 
(FAS) [5,6], in which a BS statically allocates each subordinate RS with a fixed amount of bandwidth. 
However, FAS leads to inflexible and inefficient resource utilization, significantly degrading the system 
throughput and capacity. To accomplish the maximal system performance, most of the recent approaches 
allocate bandwidth in a dynamic manner. Note that various performance objectives exist such as delay 
minimization [7–9], proportional fairness [10–13], QoS guarantee [14–17], and throughput maximization 
[18–21]. According to specific objectives, the scheduling problems can be formulated as different 
optimization problems. For example, the scheduling problems were modeled as a graph multicoloring 
problem in [20] to maximize the sizes of non-adjacent RS sets, a boundary selection problem in [11] to 
balance the traffic loads among RSs, a user-required-rate problem in [17] to satisfy each user’s required rate, a 
network flow problem in [7] to select an appropriate transmission order, and an interference minimization 
problem in [16] to discover a less interfering path for each connection. If the above optimization problems can 
be solved, the corresponding performance objectives can be achieved. However, those optimization problems 
are either NP-hard or NP-complete. Hence, heuristic algorithms were also proposed in the respective 
researches to derive near-optimal solutions in polynomial time for the scheduling problems. Unfortunately, 
although these dynamic/heuristic scheduling schemes can achieve high efficiency of resource utilization, 
almost all (if not all) of their low time complexities considerably rely on expensive operations (e.g., memory 
and/or database access) and sophisticated data structures. In accordance with our experience of practical IEEE 
802.16 network implementation (with III and ITRI, Taiwan), the period for a scheduler to generate a 
bandwidth allocation map should typically be less than one millisecond. In this case, if the time constraint 
 7 
二、 研究方法 
(1) System model  
 
 IEEE 802.16j MR network architecture 
 
The system we consider is the standard IEEE 802.16j MR network. Fig. 1(a) shows a typical IEEE 
802.16j MR network, where a BS is located in the center and surrounded by several RSs. The BS 
coverage area is overlaid with these RS coverage areas. The BS and RSs are stationary while the MSs are 
moveable and randomly distributed within the network. An MS can issue the bandwidth request to its 
corresponding BS for establishing a connection through either a direct path (single-hop path) or a 
cooperative path (multihop path). Note that we only investigate single-hop direct paths and two-hop 
cooperative paths in this paper since it has been shown in [22,23] that the system throughput decreases as 
the number of hop counts increases. 
 
 IEEE 802.16j frame structure 
 
In standard IEEE 802.16jMR networks, the MAC protocol for data transmission is frame-based as 
illustrated in Fig. 1(b). Each frame is partitioned into a downlink (DL) subframe and an uplink (UL) 
subframe. To determine the bandwidth allocations, the BS performs the resource scheduling algorithm at 
the beginning of each frame. Since IEEE 802.16j MR networks adopt orthogonal frequency-division 
multiple access (OFDMA) as the physical-layer technology, the resource allocation unit of the subframes 
can be defined as a slot [20]. Each slot is composed of a subchannel in the frequency domain and several 
symbols in the time domain. The slots are allocated not only for BSs to transmit/receive data to/from RSs 
and MSs, but also for RSs to transmit/receive data to/from RSs and MSs. Slots are grouped into several 
bursts, each of which can adopt its own modulation and coding schemes. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. (a) IEEE 802.16j MR network architecture. (b) IEEE 802.16j frame structure. 
 
 9 
exist, the more the slots can be allocated to each set.  
We use Fig. 1(a) as the scenario to discuss how RBRS can properly determine the number of 
activation sets. For this scenario, the relationship of co-channel interference among the RS cells is 
assumed to be represented by the undirected graph G(V,E) in Fig. 3(c). In G, the vertex set V represents 
the RS cells, and the edge set E represents the interference among them. Assume that to color the vertices 
of G, no two adjacent vertices can share the same color. Based on this rule, each set of the vertices that 
are assigned the same color is equivalent to an activation set, because the vertices with the same color are 
interference-free from each other. The problem of minimizing the number of activation sets can be 
thereby modeled as the minimum coloring problem of G. However, to color G with the minimum number 
of colors is known as an NP-hard problem. To guarantee the computation time, the well-known greedy 
coloring algorithm, the Welsh Powell algorithm [24], is used in this paper. In this algorithm, the vertices 
of higher degrees are assigned the colors with higher priorities. First, the vertices in G are sorted in 
descending order of vertex degree. Then, following this order, each vertex will be assigned a color that is 
different from its neighbors. Specifically, when determining the color of a vertex, the vertex will examine, 
color by color, whether the color is already used by its neighbors, until an unused color occurs. Finally, 
the Welsh Powell algorithm terminates when all the vertices in G are colored. This algorithm guarantees 
that the number of colors is at most one more than the maximum degree D(G). That is, the Welsh Powell 
algorithm determines at most D(G) + 1 activation sets. Accordingly, given the co-channel interference 
graph (provided from the network operator), the Welsh Powell algorithm can appropriately assign each 
RS to an activation set. 
It is worth to note that, because the interference information between RSs is usually static for the 
stationary RSs, our proposed RBRS only executes the coloring algorithm to determine the assignment of 
activation sets at the system initialization. Afterward, according to this pre-configured assignment, the 
scheduling procedure of RBRS is executed at the beginning of each frame. This is different from the 
majority of the conventional scheduling algorithms because the conventional algorithms usually 
formulate the scheduling problems as combinational-optimization problems of both the activation-set 
assignment and bandwidth allocation, which leads to a high-complexity scheduling procedure at each 
frame. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. The slot allocations in the pre-configuration phase and the interference graph of the RSs. 
 11 
sufficient, Ri is allocated slots and accepted at lines 10 and 11. Otherwise, Ri is rejected in the 
fixed-assignment phase at line 13. 
In the case that the ith connection request Ri is rejected in the fixed-assignment phase, the repacking 
phase is executed at line 16. If the repacking phase still cannot provide a service for Ri, the borrowing 
phase is further employed at line 19. In the worst case, after all the three phases, the available slots are 
still insufficient, and Ri is thereby blocked at line 22. In the other cases, Ri will be served within this 
frame, and its slot allocation record is stored in Γ at line 24. When Algorithm 1 terminates, the 
frame-allocation map Γ of the current frame can thus be obtained. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Scheduling procedure-II: repacking phase 
 
To improve the efficiency of the fixed-assignment phase while avoiding the computation 
complexity of the optimal and heuristic dynamic scheduling schemes, the slot repacking mechanism can 
be incorporated with the fixed-assignment phase. The concept of slot-repacking is described as follows. 
Consider that a connection i arrives at an RS cell m subordinated to a BS cell n. Assume that RSm does 
not have sufficient slots to provide a cooperative service and thus connection i is served by BSn via a 
direct path. If there are enough slots in RSm later, connection i can be switched to RSm again for 
cooperative transmission. This operation increases the number of idle slots in BSn so that more slots of 
 13 
 Scheduling procedure-III: borrowing phase 
 
Although slot-repacking can improve the efficiency of slot allocation, the waste and starvation 
problems due to fixed slot assignment cannot be completely solved. The limitation of slot-repacking is 
that repacking candidates do not always exist. Consider the scenario in Fig. 5(a) for illustration. RS1, 
RS3 and RS5 possess several idle slots while the slots of all the other RSs are fully occupied. If no 
ongoing connections in RS1, RS3 and RS5 are served through direct paths, slot-repacking cannot be 
performed, and any connection attempt i at the blocked RS6 is rejected even though RS1, RS3 and RS5 
have idle slots. To resolve this weakness of slot-repacking, the slot-borrowing mechanism can be 
incorporated for further enhancement of the utilization of scarce slot resources. Slot-borrowing allows a 
cell that suffers from slot starvation to borrow slots from another cell that possesses redundant idle slots. 
Note that although slot-borrowing can serve as a standalone scheduling scheme to dynamically allocate 
resources for IEEE 802.16j MR networks, it introduces extra scheduling complexity at the same time. In 
our proposed scheduling architecture, slot-borrowing is employed to complement the slot repacking 
mechanism. By integrating the merits of both mechanisms, we enhance the efficiency of slot utilization 
and simultaneously mitigate the computation complexity of scheduling operations. 
Before slot-borrowing can be exercised, a loading threshold Tk should be defined first to indicate 
the traffic loading status of each BS cell or RS cell k. If the number of idle slots in cell k is less than Tk, 
cell k is classified as an over-loaded cell. Otherwise, cell k is an under-loaded cell. Note that these 
thresholds Tks can be determined in a static or dynamic manner, depending on the system performance 
requirement of each individual cell. Then, based on Tks, borrowing-candidate cells can be identified. A 
cell m is a borrowing candidate if it satisfies the following criterion: 
 
Borrowing criterion: Cell m and all of its co-slot cells (e.g., RS3 and RS5 for RS1 in Fig. 5) are 
under-loaded. This criterion prevents a starving cell from borrowing slots from over-loaded cells where 
idle slots are already inadequate. 
 
Each of the borrowing-candidate cells can be selected as a slot lender (randomly or following a 
pre-defined selection policy). Every chosen lender loans as many slots as it can to assist borrower cells to 
establish a (less slot-consuming) cooperative path for the connection attempt. Notice that the co-slot cells 
of the lender are prohibited to use the borrowed slots in order to avoid increased interference. This 
borrowing-lending procedure is repeated until the bandwidth requirement of the connection attempt is 
met or until no more borrowing candidates can be found. 
During a slot-borrowing operation, according to whether the borrower or lender is a BS or an RS, 
the borrowing scenarios can be classified into three categories: (1) an RS borrows slots from a BS; (2) a 
BS borrows slots from an RS; (3) an RS borrows slots from another RS. These different borrowing 
scenarios merit further discussions as follows. 
 
(1) An RS borrows slots from a BS: In Fig. 5(a), if connection attempt i occurs in RS6 when RS6 
possesses no sufficient slots for providing a transmission service, RS6 may attempt to borrow slots from 
BS1. If BS1 can lend slots to RS6, BS1 must be under-loaded, i.e., the number of idle slots in BS1 is no 
 15 
三、 結果與討論 
 
(1) Analytic Results and Simulation Results 
 
We have developed a discrete-event simulation model to validate against our analytic analysis. Following 
the simulation approach used in [32], the model simulates the connection traffic and mobility behaviors of 
MSs, and the scheduling details of RBRS. In the simulation experiments, we consider a 2-layer BS/RS cell 
layout (will be elaborated in the next section). To simulate only the repacking phase of RBRS, we set the 
loading threshold Tk as a significantly large value so as to deactivate the borrowing phase. Table 2 compares 
the analytic results with the simulation results in the stationary and mobile scenarios. The table indicates that 
the error rates between the analytic analysis and simulation are less than 0.07% in the stationary cases and 
4.9% in the mobile cases. This concludes that both the analytic and simulation models are accurate. 
 
Table 2. Comparison of the analytic and simulation results 
 
 
(2) Conclusions 
 
To maintain the simplicity and low time complexity of FAS while guaranteeing high resource utilization, 
this paper proposed a repacking and borrowing-based resource scheduling algorithm, RBRS, for IEEE 802.16j 
MR networks. In the repacking phase, a connection that is served via a direct path can be handed off to a 
cooperative path to release a part of its allocated BS resources. To complement repacking and further enhance 
the performance of RBRS, borrowing is applied. In the borrowing phase, over-loaded RSs are capable of 
borrowing resources from under-loaded RSs, further improving the resource utilization. Both analytic and 
simulation models were developed to validate against each other and to study the performance of repacking 
and borrowing mechanisms. 
Based on the validated simulation model, we first investigated the appropriate loading threshold Tk for 
the borrowing mechanism of RBRS to achieve the desired performance. Then, we studied the effects of traffic 
loading and user mobility on the Pnc, TP and CT performance. For the input parameter settings considered in 
this paper, our study further indicates the following. In comparison with FAS, RBRS accomplishes much 
higher capacity and throughput, while RBRS is at most 2.1 times slower than FAS. On the other hand, in 
 17 
四、 成果自評 
 
1. 完成之工作項目 
 設計 IEEE 802.16j 網路之時槽重新分配演算法 
 設計 IEEE 802.16j 網路之時槽攜帶演算法 
 設計 IEEE 802.16j 網路之頻寬管理分析模型 
 設計 IEEE 802.16j 網路之頻寬管理模擬模型 
2. 對於學術研究、國家發展及其他應用方面之貢獻 
本計畫的研究成果已被國際期刊[A1]接受 
提出數學分析模型以研究 “合作式通訊網路之系統效能” 
提出電腦模擬模型以研究 “合作式通訊網路之系統效能” 
這個計畫的結果可提供給工業界參考，我們很樂意將研發的技術技轉給工業界 
3. 對於參與之工作人員，獲得以下訓練 
在研究的過程中瞭解並學習Cooperative Communication Networks 的相關知識 
熟識IEEE 802.16e、IEEE 802.16j 等相關業界標準 
學習 “Discrete-Event System Simulation” 之電腦模擬模型技巧 
 
 
我們主要的貢獻可分為兩部分：(1)據我們所知，這項研究計畫是在文獻中第一個針對合作式
多躍中繼網路(包含 IEEE 802.16j 網路)進行頻寬重新分配機制（Bandwidth Repacking）和頻寬攜
帶機制（Bandwidth Borrowing）之效能分析的研究。(2)我們設計了數學分析模型與程式模擬模型，
兩者之間可相互驗證，並幫助我們研究時槽重新分配演算法與時槽攜帶演算法之效能。由於合作
式中繼站(Relay Station)的採用和多躍中繼網路運作的考量，使得我們所提出的數學分析模型與程
式模擬模型有別於現有的非合作式行動網路模型。除此之外，我們的研究成果也已經發表於國際
知名期刊[A1]。 
 
 
Appendix: 
[A1] Chien-Chi Kao, Shun-Ren Yang, and Tung-Lin Tsai, “Performance Enhancement of Repacking and 
Borrowing Mechanisms for IEEE 802.16j Multihop Resource Scheduling,” Accepted for 
Publication in Elsevier Computer Networks. 
 
 
 19 
[20] X. Guo, W. Ma, Z. Guo, X. Shen, Z. Hou, Adaptive resource reuse scheduling for multihop relay wireless network 
based on multicoloring, IEEE Communications Letters 12 (3) (2008) 176–178. 
[21] Y. Shi, W. Zhang, K.B. Letaief, Cooperative multiplexing and scheduling in wireless relay networks, IEEE ICC 
(2008) 3034–3038. 
[22] D. Schultz, R. Pabst, T. Irnich, Multi-hop based radio network deployment for efficient broadband radio coverage, 
WPMC (2003) 377–381. 
[23] J. Cho, Z.J. Haas, On the throughput enhancement of the downstream channel in cellular radio networks through 
multihop relaying, IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications 22 (7) (2004) 1206–1219. 
[24] D.J.A. Welsh, M.B. Powell, An upper bound for the chromatic number of a graph and its application to timetabling 
problems, The Computer Journal 10 (1) (1967) 85–86. 
[25] K. Maheshwari, A. Kumar, Performance analysis of microcellization for supporting two mobility classes in cellular 
wireless networks, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology 49 (2) (2000) 321–333. 
[26] R. Beraldi, S. Marano, C. Mastroianni, A reversible hierarchical scheme for microcellular systems with overlaying 
macrocells, IEEE INFOCOM 1 (1996) 51–58. 
[27] H.-N. Hung, Y.-B. Lin, N.-F. Peng, H.-M. Tsai, Repacking on demand for two-tier wireless local loop, IEEE 
Transactions on Wireless Communications 3 (3) (2004) 745–757. 
[28] Y.-B. Lin, S.-R. Yang, A mobility management strategy for GPRS, IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications 2 (6) (2003) 1178–1188. 
[29] S.M. Ross, Stochastic Processes, second ed., John Wiley, New York, 1996. 
[30] Y.-B. Lin, Performance modeling for mobile telephone networks, IEEE Network 11 (6) (1997) 63–68. 
[31] D. Gross, C.M. Harris, Fundamentals of Queueing Theory, third ed., John Wiley & Sons, 1998. 
[32] S.-R. Yang, W.-T. Chen, SIP multicast-based mobile quality-of-service support over heterogeneous IP multimedia 
subsystems, IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing 7 (11) (2008) 1297–1310. 
[33] Y.-B. Lin, V.W. Mak, Eliminating the boundary effect of a large-scale personal communication service network 
simulation, ACM Transactions on Modeling and Computer Simulation 4 (2) (1994) 165–190. 
[34] ITU-T G.711, Appendix II: a comfort noise payload definition for ITUT G.711 use in packet-based multimedia 
communication systems. 
[35] A. Ghosh, D.R. Wolter, J.G. Andrews, R. Chen, Broadband wireless access with WiMax/802.16: current 
performance benchmarks and future potential, IEEE Communications Magazine 43 (2) (2005) 129–136. 
[36] W.-E. Chen, H.-N. Hung, Y.-B. Lin, Modeling VoIP call holding times for telecommunications, IEEE Network 21 
(6) (2007) 22–28. 
[37] Y. Fang, I. Chlamtac, Teletraffic analysis and mobility modeling of PCS networks, IEEE Transactions on 
Communications 47 (7) (1999) 1062–1072. 
[38] Y. Fang, I. Chlamtac, H.-B. Fei, Analytical results for optimal choice of location update interval for mobility 
database failure restoration in PCS networks, IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems 11 (6) (2000) 
615–624. 
[39] M. Frigo, Machine-dependent Cycle Counters Code. <http://www.fftw.org/cycle.h>, 2003. 
[40] S.-R. Yang, T.-L. Tsai, Repacking and Borrowing-Based Constant-Time Resource Scheduling for IEEE 802.16j 
Multihop Relay Networks, Technical Report, National Tsing Hua Univ. 
提出的論文的確相當值得參考。現階段台灣無論是網際網路技術或是行動通訊技術的
研發，皆已有多年的研究經驗與成果。與上述的幾個國家相較之下，對於實際開發硬
體方面具有一定的競爭力，但是軟體方面則明顯地較為落後。然而網路通訊已為世界
趨勢，對此新興研究領域，台灣既然已有過去研究成果的基礎，若配合觀摩及學習各
個國家的研發經驗與成果，相信技術很快地就可以追上這些通訊產業強國。 
 
五、建議與結語 
 
本人此次國際會議所獲很多，不管是在聽取Keynote Lectures、參與session報告時與國
外學者有很頻繁的互動外，亦認識不少的國際學者。以往本人因為國內學術界較為重
視期刊論文，而較少出國參與國際學術研討會。然而經過了這幾次的出國參與會議的
經驗，本人深深覺得多把握出國報告的機會，可以與國際知名學者進行溝通與互動，
往往能夠得到意想不到的研究靈感，對於未來學術的研究有非常大的幫助。本人於2005
年曾經協助陳文村校長舉辦3rd International Conference on Information Technology: 
Research and Education會議、2009年曾協助許健平教授舉辦5th Workshop on Wireless, Ad
Hoc and Sensor Networks會議，經過本次赴墨西哥坎昆參與規模更大的國際型會議，讓
我對於未來舉辦類似的大型學術活動有更豐富的相關經驗。 
 
六、攜回資料 
 
攜回會議議程之論文集光碟（內含所有報告的學術論文）與Keynote Lectures投影片，
以供日後相關研究之參考。 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/28
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫二：合作式網路之頻寬管理機制
計畫主持人: 林一平
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-009-059-MY2 學門領域: 網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
