  
2  
2
from the supply to boost up the output voltage at different 
output current values. It consists of a power MOS switch, a 
diode, an inductor, and an output filtering capacitor. The 
control stage is used to control the on/off duration of the 
switch to regulate the output voltage. It includes a 
PWM/PFM control circuit. 
The PWM scheme consists of an error amplifier, a 
current-controlled oscillator, a hysteretic comparator, and 
some logic. The PFM scheme consists of a hysteretic 
comparator, a current-sensing circuit, and a current-limiting 
circuit. The current-limiting circuit can restrict the 
switching current that flows through the power MOS 
transistor and the inductor. 
 
Fig. 1. Proposed dual-mode step-up DC/DC converter 
 
2.1 PWM scheme 
The PWM modulator circuit is shown in Fig.2. The 
negative input terminal of the error amplifier (OPA) is 
connected to the feedback (FB) of the output voltage and 
the positive input terminal is connected to a reference 
voltage. The output of the error amplifier is connected to 
the positive input terminal of the comparator while the 
current-controlled oscillator is connected to the negative 
terminal. The pulse width is, therefore, modulated by the 
error signal. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Pulse width modulation scheme 
 
2.2 PFM scheme 
The PFM modulator circuit is shown in Fig.3.  The 
feedback signal is connected to a hysteretic comparator. 
With the design of the hysteretic comparator, the 
feedback signal will be limited between VH and VL. We 
can change the switching frequency by adjusting the 
values of VH and VL. Both are determined by the 
comparator. The modulated PFM signal will then control 
the on and off duration of the power MOS to stabilize 
the output voltage. An important concern, however, is 
the large current generated during switching could 
possibly damage the power MOS. 
 
 
Fig. 3. Pulse frequency modulation scheme 
 
2.3 Soft-start circuit 
The proposed soft-start is shown in Fig.4. It consists of 
two stages of operation. During the initial stage, the gate of 
the power MOS is connected to the ‘Off’ signal so it is 
disabled. The inductor current then flows to the load. The 
circuit will not enter the second stage until the output 
voltage reaches the required voltage. Once the output 
voltage requirement is met the circuit enters the second 
stage and the soft start signal is connected to the gate of the 
power MOS. The soft start signal is a pulse wave with a 
gradually increasing duty ratio. The output voltage is 
boosted up due to the soft start signal. In this design, the 
proposed soft-start circuit will limit the switching current 
not to exceed 400mA. 
 
Fig. 4. The soft-start circuit 
 
2.4 Current-sensing and current-limiting circuits 
Many different current sensing methods have been 
developed. Some of them require accurate and expensive 
resistors, complicated and high power-consuming 
circuits and special processes such as BiCMOS. In this 
section, the current sensing circuit based on an 
error-amplifier current mirror is presented [4] [5]. 
The proposed current sensing circuit for the boost 
converter is shown in Fig. 5. MN1 is a power transistor and 
MN2 is a sensing transistor. The size ratio of MN1 to MN2 
is K=1000 in this design so their drain-current ratio is 1000 
when their drain-source voltages match. To implement the 
current sensor, a high-gain low-offset-voltage error 
amplifier, switches MS1–MS3, and a current mirror 
MR1–MR2 are needed [6] [7]. 
During the ON period, MN1 is fully turned on by setting 
VQ to high. MN1 and MS1 are turned on simultaneously, 
while MS2 and MS3 are turned off. If MS1 is large, the 
voltage drop across its drain and source (VDS of MS1) 
becomes negligible and VDS of MN1 and MN2 are 
approximately equal. Therefore, the drain current of MN2 
  
4  
4
 
Fig. 11. The inductor current under PFM control 
 
 
Fig. 12. The 600 kHz switching frequency without spread spectrum 
 
 
Fig. 13. The 600 kHz switching frequency with spread spectrum 
 
 
Fig. 14. The output ripple with spread spectrum frequency 
 
The efficiency of the proposed dual-mode step-up 
DC/DC converter at different load current is shown in Fig. 
15. As seen on the graph, the efficiency at light load is 
greatly improved by the proposed pulse-frequency 
modulation. A 15 % improvement of conversion efficiency 
is gained when load current is 10 mA. The photo of the 
converter IC is shown in Fig 16. The measured bandgap 
voltage of 0.9 V is shown in Fig. 17. Fig. 18 shows the 
measured waveform of PWM driving voltage. The 
spectrum of the PWM driving voltage is shown in Fig. 19. 
The major spectrums are the 500 KHz switching frequency 
and its third harmonic. From Fig. 20 we can see that the 
spectrums of the switching frequency and the third 
harmonic are reduced for 12 and 15 dB, respectively..      
 
Fig. 15. The efficiency of the boost converter at different load current 
 
 
 
Fig. 16. The photo of the dual-mode boost DC-DC converter 
4. Conclusions 
A dual-mode step-up DC/DC converter with 
current-limiting technology is proposed in this paper. We 
can see that the efficiency at light load is enormously 
improved by the dual-mode operation. With the proposed 
circuit, the switching current has been limited to below 
400mA in this design. Also, a novel soft-start circuit has 
been implemented in this design. Finally, through the use of 
frequency spread spectrum, electromagnetic interference 
has been lessened as the spectrum of fundamental 
frequency is reduced by about 12 dB. Table 1 shows the 
total performance summary. 
Acknowledgment 
The authors would like to thank the National Science 
Council of Taiwan, R.O.C., for their financial support. The 
authors would also like to thank the Chip Implementation 
Center (CIC) of Taiwan, R.O.C, for design support. 
 
