行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
使用低介電材質銅晶片之先進封裝結構的破壞機制分析研究(3/3) 
計畫編號：NSC96－2221－E－007－070 
執行期間： 96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 07 月 31 日 
 
中文摘要 
 為了提升積體電路的效能，半導體製程技術持續朝著電晶體微型化的方向發展。在此
微型化趨勢下，目前電晶體線寬已進步至深次微米等級，意即積體電路中之最小特徵長度
小於一百奈米。如此等級下之線寬將引發 RC 延遲問題並降低信號傳遞速度，利用低介電
材質銅晶片搭配雙重大馬士革製程可有效解決此問題。然而，由於低介電性材質之黏著性
與破裂韌性較低，當低介電材質銅晶片歷經製程負載，將引發低介電材質銅導線堆疊結構
之破裂與脫層之破壞。本計劃使用廣域－局域有限單元分析法探討公分等級銅晶片中的深
次微米等級低介電材質銅導線堆疊結構之介面破壞行為。使用此廣域－局域有限單元分析
法可有效處理幾何特徵尺寸具有極大差異之問題。此外，本計劃利用因子設計之統計方法，
有系統的探討化學氣相沉積之薄膜製程負载引發之銅連線層與蝕刻終止層之破裂行為。 
 
關鍵字：銅金屬/低介電材質堆疊、有限單元分析、因子設計法、廣域－局域法 
 
Abstract 
As the progress of the semiconductor process develops to achieve miniaturization and attain 
better performances for the electronic device, next-generation IC chips with deep sub-micron 
Cu/low-k stacked structures adopting the fabrication of (dual) damascene are developed to meet 
the urgent requirements of reducing high RC delay; the purpose of this is to obtain high-speed 
signal communication. However, due to poor adhesion and intrinsically lower fracture toughness 
of low-k materials as well as process loading that introduces flaws and delaminations, the 
phenomenon of crack growth is observed. To investigate the large scale difference problem, such 
as the back end of line (BEoL) structure to the silicon chip, a special multi-scale finite element 
simulation technology, global-local finite element method, is used to deal with this issue. The 
interfacial crack in the BEoL structure is modeled using the global-local technique. The chemical 
vapor deposition (CVD) process that induced loading to a micro crack in the interface between 
etch stop layer and metal track layer (ESL/Mx interface) will also be discussed through a 
statistical factorial design method in order to understand the crack growth phenomena that might 
occur during the BEoL process. 
 
Key Words: Cu/low-k stacking, finite element analysis, factorial design, global-local technique 
 
Introduction  
The integrated circuit (IC) chip with copper/low-k stacked Back End of Line (BEoL) 
structures has been developed to reduce RC delay in order to obtain high-speed signal 
communication. However, the fracture problem becomes one of the important concerns due to 
lower adhesive strength as well as greater coefficient of the thermal expansion (CTE) of low-k 
coordinates that have centered at the tip, and δij is the Kronecker delta. “K” is the stress intensity 
factor. The square-root singularity of a distance “r” away from the crack tip is reduced in the 
stress intensity factor, “K.” According to modes I and II stress intensity factors, KI and KII, the 
amplitude of the stress fields on the crack tip with no small flaws propagating to the direction 
against the origin crack (θ=0) is shown in Equations (2) and (3). It should be mentioned that 
when discussing the stability and kinking phenomena of a crack as shown in Figure 3(b), T-stress 
(T stress is parallel to the origin crack, that is, stress equals to σ11) should be considered. T stress 
indicates the other loading statuses different from mode I and mode II to a crack; when it is larger, 
the crack tends to deflect from the original direction. 
 
Methodology  
The two-dimensional plane strain finite element method that has been experimentally 
validated [10] was employed. The plane strain condition assumes that the strain component in the 
out of plane direction is equal to zero. This assumption can effectively simplify the long strip 
structure to a plane problem so the Cu trench configuration can be simplified by the plane strain 
condition.  
The MPC finite element method referring to a solution procedure to address the problem 
involving large-scale difference has been successfully validated through a four-point bending 
experiment. Figure 4 (a) shows the experimental set up, and Figure 4 (b) shows the results from 
the experiment and the MPC finite element analysis. The details of the experiment can be found 
in our previous work [11]. In this method, both global and local areas of the structure are 
modelled in one single finite element model as illustrated in Figure 5 (a). The local area of 
interest, whose location is known beforehand, has a more finely discrete mesh to completely 
describe the behavior of the smaller local structure. Therefore, there is an inter-element 
incompatibility at the interface as illustrated in Figure 5 (b). This incompatibility is resolved by 
appropriately tying the “extra” nodes of the local mesh to the global mesh. The 
constrain-equation is utilized to tie local and global meshes.  
The model of the silicon wafer that has been processed the first few structures of the back 
end stacking, including the ILD, ESL1, M1, ESL, M2, and the copper interconnection in the M1 
layer, was built. Figure 6 shows the sketch of the back end model, and Figure 7 is the finite 
element model. To understand the effect during the deposition process, only the first and second 
metal layers (M1, M2) and etch stop layer (ESL1, ESL2) were built. A crack is pre-embedded 
between two copper trenches and is located at the M2/ESL2 interface as shown in Figure 7. The 
thermal loading is applied from the CVD process temperature 400oC to room temperature 25oC. 
Table 1 shows the material properties for the finite element analysis. 
 
Results and Discussions 
 
a. Finite element analysis 
Figure 8 presents the results of the normalized stress components along the ESL2/M2 
interface. The vertical and horizontal axes are the stress and the position along the interface, 
respectively. The origin of the horizontal axis corresponds to the center of the crack. This figure 
shows that the x-direction stress along the interface is the dominating component compared to the 
modulus of ESL) is large. Figure 12 is the interaction plot of ESL2 thickness (Factor A) and 
trench width (Factor E). ESL2 protects the tensile loading from copper trench shrinkage, but 
when the width of copper trench is in the low levels, tensile loading from the trench is reduced, 
and the protection effect becomes insignificant. Hence, the effect of ESL2 thickness (Factor A) 
interacts with trench width (Factor E). 
Figure 13 is the interaction plot of ESL2 thickness (Factor A) and the elastic modulus of 
ESL (Factor B). When the thickness of ESL2 layer is thinner, the harder ESL material (ESL with 
higher Young’s modulus) resists the loading from the copper trench. When ESL2 is thicker, the 
softer ESL material (ESL with lower elastic modulus) reduces the impact from the CTE mismatch 
of M2/ESL2. This causes the effect of the interaction between ESL2 thickness (Factor A) and the 
elastic modulus of the ESL material (Factor B). 
 
Conclusion 
As the miniaturization of the integrated circuit develops, the feature of BeoL structure 
becomes finer, and appearance becomes the reliability issue of that structure. In response to this, 
the current work proposed a methodology to realize the phenomena during the process. The back 
end CVD process loading offers a high x-direction stress (T-stress) to the interfacial crack, which 
raises the probability to induce a kink out crack from the original crack. The results also show 
that copper trenches that play a role, like a structure buffer, can reduce the stress located above 
the trenches. In terms of factorial design analysis, copper trench width and ESL2 thickness are 
the most important factors, and features such as narrower copper width, thicker ESL2 thickness, 
and larger pitch can reduce stress near the crack tip when the crack appears between trenches and 
locates at the M2/ESL2 interface. The material properties of ESL are not significant to the 
response, but the elastic modulus interacts with the geometry factor. ESL thickness becomes more 
sensitive when using softer ESL material. This paper discussed the phenomena in which a crack 
defect appears during the BEoL process. The proposed methodology can be further applied to the 
sequence BEoL process effect to help the layout designer reduce the probability of crack 
spreading. 
 
References 
1. S. Orain, A. Fuchsmann, V. Fiori, X. Federspiel, “Reliability issues in Cu/low-k structures 
regarding the initiation of stress-voiding or crack failure,” Microelectronic Engineering, Vol. 
83, pp. 2402-2406, 2006. 
2. L. Yang, C. King, R. Peng, E. Gelvin, “Reliability Improvement Study of a Build-up Wire 
Bonding EBGA Package Using Eight-layer 0.13 um Copper Silicon Technology,” 56th IEEE 
Electronic Components and Technology Conf., pp.1893-1898, 2006, San Diego, CA, USA. 
3. E. Andideh, J. Blaine, C. Block, B. Jin, T. Scherban, and B. Sun, “Interfacial Adhesion of 
Cu-low k Interconnects,” 2001 IEEE International Interconnect Technology Conference, pp. 
257–259, Jun. 4-6, 2001, San Francisco, CA, USA. 
4. L. L. Mercado, C. Goldberg, S.-M. Kuo, T. Y. Lee, and S. K. Pozder, “Analysis of Flip-Chip 
Packaging Challenges on Copper/Low-k Interconnects,” IEEE Transactions on Device and 
Materials Reliability, Vol. 3, No. 4, pp. 111-118, Dec. 2003. 
5. J. Vitiello, A. Fuchsmann, L. Chapelon, V. Arnal, D. Barbier, and J. Torres, “Impact of 
 
Fig. 1 A crack-like defect near the Cu interconnect [1] 
 
  
  Fig. 2 Silicon metal stack-up structure and a crack is observed at the interconnect structure 
[2] 
 
         
(a)                             (b) 
Fig. 3. Coordinate system at a crack tip and the geometry of a kinked crack 
 
 
Fig. 5 (a) Sketch of the multi point constrain model 
 
Fig. 5 (b) Interface of the local area, A, with finer mesh and global area, B, with coarser 
mesh in the MPC method 
 
Fig. 9 Normalized first principle stress along the ESL2/M2 interface with respect to different 
pitch size of Cu trench 
 
Fig. 10 Normalized first principle stress along the ESL2/M2 interface with respect to 
different Cu trench width 
 
Fig. 11 Normal plot of the 5 design factors 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 96-2221-E-007-070 
計畫名稱  使用低介電材質銅晶片之先進封裝結構的破壞機制分析研究(3/3) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
江國寧，國立清華大學動機系 
會議時間地點 May 26 – June 3, 2008, Florida USA 
會議名稱 ITherm/ECTC 2008 
發表論文題目 
TRACE LINE FAILURE ANALYSIS AND CHARACTERIZATION OF THE 
PANEL LEVEL PACKAGE (PLP) TECHNOLOGY WITH FAN-OUT 
CAPABILITY 
 
 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
Thermal and Thermomechanical Phenomena in Electronic Systems 
(ITherm) 與  El1ectronic Components and Technology Conference 
(ECTC)為電子構裝領域年度重大會議，會期之中除研究論文發表之
外，更有各子領域委員會、未來研究方向與規格制訂會議之召開。因
此本會議是一基礎/應用研究成果發表與研究方向政策決定兼具之重
點會議。世界各國學、研與業界研究人員皆積極參與本會議，會中除
研究心得交換外更可進一步參與各委員會會議，除參加政策之討論並
可瞭解未來國際在電子構裝研究領域之研究走向。參加本會議之國際
研究人員約 800人，所發表之論文超過 300篇次。 
 
本次參加 ITherm and ECTC 除發表論文外亦應大會邀請參加政策委
