II
摘 要
石油價格高漲加上燃燒化石燃料所導致全球大氣排放問題，讓能源節約與效
率及以潔淨再生能源取代化石燃料成為能源應用的思維主流。2006 年十月，挪
威驗船協會(DNV)總裁麥恒力來台時指出，使用其能源管理計畫的船舶，耗燃約
可減少百分之十，在五、六年內，節省出一艘新船的費用。同時，長榮集團十艘
以 Greenship 設計概念打造的超巴拿極限型全貨櫃輪之一的長偉輪，獲頒勞氏(LL)
亞洲海運獎之「年度最佳船舶獎」。其硬體設備包含低硫燃油系統、船舶接岸電
系統等能源管理相關措施等。本計畫團隊近日與長榮等海運業者已就此廣泛研
討，並取得詳盡相關資料及進一步合作的共識。
本計畫以系統分析方法，了解營運中船舶能源的使用特性，並針對影響能源
使用效能的例如購油、燃油品質監控、加油計畫、主機及輔機效率提昇等五十項
因素分別進行研析。所擬操作流程的改善及管理，為在達成原定船舶營運目標的
前提下，降低燃油消耗。
本計畫擬分三階段分別在三年實施。第一階段(第一年)將首先與合作船公司
確定目標船與工作步驟，接著針對目標船，分別針對具備與不具備所提出的能源
管理計畫情形，模擬為期兩年的耗能情形。本計畫主持人除過去曾多年分別在數
艘商輪(油機船)及海軍驅逐艦(汽機船)擔任輪機員外，最近七年來並陸續上船與
船公司共同進行國科會等單位所委辦之燃油與廢油污染防制與回收及壓艙水污
染防制相關問題研究。本計畫將由船上輪機員、主持人、及目前任職驗船師之本
系在職研究生，自始至終分別在各階段持續對船舶進行之能源盤查。
依本計畫團隊去年針對營運中船舶所作初步調查，在一定航速下，一艘船的
推進動力場耗燃，可能比原設計者多出一倍。經過先前的聯繫，本研究團隊已對
部分目標船的動力場與運轉輪廓，以及擬進行的調查與測試工作相當熟悉。前述
工作所獲資料整理出一套性能與燃油效率指標數據庫，藉以了解該船整體系統及
機器元素在實際營運過程當中的運轉性能，並與原始設計數據進行比較，進而力
求未來之連續運轉盡可能接近設計效率。
第二階段(第二年)將接著從輪機日誌、油料日報表、油料紀錄簿等，初步了
解目標船的設計耗燃在不同航行條件下，船齡增加、進塢等因素與耗燃情況之間
的關係，藉此提出初步改進措施、實施方案、及成效評估計畫。本計畫同時將找
出可能進一步有效降低耗能成本的潛在機會，包括保養計畫之調整與船員教育訓
練等。在此階段，將進一步就提升船舶耗能效率的各種機會，就可能採納之不同
類型營運狀態進行經濟分析，並針對未來海運燃油價格對各種船舶動力場的經濟
性影響，進行分析。
1船舶能源效率提升及替代能源應用機會研究(一)
A Study of Energy Efficiency and Alternative Energy
Technology on Board Marine Merchant Ships (I)
Introduction
In the past decade increasing energy prices has become norm, while at the same
time the atmospheric emission problem resulting from fossil fuel use has caused more
concerns around the world. Energy conservation and efficiency, or even further,
utilization of clean renewable energy to replace fossil fuels, is now the most important
challenge in the energy application by all industries. A well-managed energy system
has the potential to save energy requirement of a ship by at least 10%, and in turn,
may result in savings in operating costs, which within 5 to 6 years will be equal to the
building cost of a new ship (DNV, 2006). The increased remediation costs due to the
ever tightened regulations targeting traditional fuels has also prompt many shipping
companies to search for more environment-friendly forms of energy source. It is
therefore appropriate that a comprehensive research study be performed which will
determine all possible management and technology alternatives the shipping industry
can utilize to achieve energy conservation and, in the long run, to reduce the reliance
on traditional fuels. Perhaps equally or more important, economic evaluation should
be performed to determine which one, or which combination, of management and
technology alternatives is more promising.
Accordingly, a systematic study has been undertaken by the authors, with
funding from National Science Council of Taiwan, searching all possible ways of
reducing fuel consumption on board merchant ships, with an analysis of the effects of
such changes on the shipowner’s costs. The three-year study carried out a
comprehensive survey or audit on current energy practice on board typical merchant
ships. An investigation was also performed for factors affecting fuel consumption, in
order to develop possible management strategies to reduce fuel consumption. In
addition, the study will assess the possibility of alternative energy technology on
board ships, starting from the utilization of cogeneration power plant. The
supplementary application of other alternative energy, including solar, wind, or
hydrogen, is also among the technologies being studied.
This report documents the investigation for factors affecting fuel consumption on
board merchant vessels. Based on actual data obtained from marine engineer log, a
multivariate model is developed to assess the impact of various factors related to
3Weather Impact
Weather is also widely acknowledged as an important factor influencing the
consumptions of bunkers. Weather will affect the voyage duration, which, in turn, has
a significant impact on total bunker consumption during a voyage. The effects of
weather on the duration of a cross-ocean voyage usually channel to changes in ship’s
speed of advance. The speed reduction can be remarkable; as a result, the chance of
voyage delay due to weather conditions is very high.”(Cockett, 1997, pp. 272~3)
The impact of weather on the ship’s speed can be measured by propeller slip,
which is defined as a ratio or percentage as follows:
Propeller slip =
speedltheoretica
speedactualspeedltheoretica 
The theoretical speed is a product of pitch and the number of revolution turned in a
unit time. The actual speed is the ship speed. The impact of weather on ship’s speed
usually resulted in a negative slip. It is possible to have a negative value of slip if, for
example, a strong curent or wind were assisting the ship’s forward motion(Taylor,
1996, p.357).
Other Factors
In an estimate of the total fuel requirements of the U.S. flag fleet at the time
Binkley (1975) took into account types of ship, types of machinery, ship horsepower,
and ship deadweight as factors determining fleet fuel consumption.
Method
A multivariate regression model was developed to assess the impact of various
factors on the marine fuel consumption of merchant vessels. Natural log value of the
fuel consumption per nautical mile was regressed on the natural log value of various
factors, so as to measure the elasticity of each factor. The model took the form of:
 OHbDraftbSlipbVbby 432210 lnln)ln(ln
Where,
y is the average fuel consumption per nautical mile between two ports
V is the average theoretical speed (engine speed) of a voyage between two ports
5consumption. In other words, increasing rate of savings in fuel consumption is
expected from an additional decrease of speed. This result has important implication
to ship’s operating practice, especially during the era of high energy prices. It
warrants serious consideration a careful voyage planning which emphasizes shorter
port stay so as to allow more at-sea time.
The variable slip is used as a surrogate for the weather impact. Fuel consumption
is expected to be higher during a severe weather owing to the increased propeller slip.
On the other hand, in a good weather condition, the slip may actually be negative, as
the wind and wave may actually facilitate the ship’s advance. In the latter situation
fuel consumption may actually reduce. The result of this study again confirms this
inference. In light of the result, it is worthwhile for the ship owners to pursue
programs, such as weather routing, that help control the weather impact on the
voyage.
References
Binkley, John, 1975. Analysis of Marine Fuel Consumption and Sales. Glen Cove, NY:
Center for Maritime Studies, Webb Institute of Naval Architecture (prepared for
National Maritime Research Center, Kings Point, NY, NMRC-KP-145)
Cockett, Neil, 1997. Neil Cockett on Bunkers, Practical Guides Series, London,
UK:LLP limited. ISBN: 1-85044-972-4.
Lewis, E.V., J. Femenia, and R.B. Zubaly, 1977. Marine Fuel Conservation, Glen
Cove, NY: Center for Maritime Studies, Webb Institute of Naval Architecture
(prepared for National Maritime Research Center, Kings Point, NY, NMRC-KP-160)
Taylor, D.A. 1996. Introduction to Marine Engineering, Revised Second Edition,
Oxford, UK: Butterworth-Heinemann. ISBN: 0-7506-2530-9.
Zubaly, Robert, 1975. Fuel Consumption in Ship Operations. Glen Cove, NY: Center
for Maritime Studies, Webb Institute of Naval Architecture (prepared for National
Maritime Research Center, Kings Point, NY, NMRC-KP-133)
2然而即便氫具備了諸多益處，實現氫經濟勢將面對諸多挑戰。首先，其不如汽油
和天然氣早已具備必要的基礎條件，因此需要龐大投資。其次，儘管目前氫的生
產儲存及輸送方面的技術早以為化工煉油等工業所使用，將旣存的氫儲存與輸送
技術擴大應用在能源上，尚屬昂貴。最後，由於目前的政策並不在於促進對既有
能源在環境與安全上外部成本納入考慮，氫在能源市場上的競爭力亦難以提升。
特別珍惜在蒙大拿大學的學習機會，主要原因有二：
(一) 該計畫團隊推動再生能源計畫，完全從零起步。
在於政策明確之前，「資源有限、從零做起」很可能是未來系上或學校在推動
再生能源相關計畫時，所不得不面對的現實情況。而申請人目前所參與的氫經
濟計畫推動初期，亦正是從零起步。其先由團隊邀集政府及民間具共同認知的
人士討論，根據國家與蒙大拿州的相關政策與業界需求，規劃出幾個發展方向，
包括成立再生能源中心，規劃明日能源園區，及整合校內相關系所師資成為「再
生能源技術學位學程」(含二年制與四年制，含面授及遠距教學)等(課程如附件
一所示)。
(二) 其得以有效推動在再能源計畫，端賴資源整合。
蒙大氫經濟團隊領導人 Dr. Williamson 本身並不具備充足的能源或再生能源研
究背景。其之所以能有效推動各項再生能源計畫，除了獨到的遠見，最重要的
仍在於其整合，並充分運用了所擁有的有限行政與人力資源。其中包括具共同
理念小型團隊的組成，士氣帶動，以及有效進度擬定與推展，最後得以以小搏
大，獲致最大發揮與收效。
4附件二
Missoula, Montana 學習風力評估
實際參與自行架設風機與太陽能陣列
學習 Self-sustainable 住屋之建立
實際參與自行架設風機
6220 vessels over 100 gross tons for a total of 5.9 million dead weight tons [2]. Evergreen
Marine Corporation, Taiwan, was the third largest container carrier in the world in 2003 [3].
In recent years the most important driver for Taiwan’s economic growth was trade with
Mainland China, [4,5]. As a result, marine transport across the Taiwan Straits plays a vital role
in determining the economic performance of both Taiwan and Mainland China [4]. The
shortest voyage across Taiwan Straits, between Taichun Port in Taiwan and Meichou Port in
Mainland, is only 87 nautical miles [1]. The flow of tourists across the Straits also showed a
high level of growth since the early 1990s [6]. However, this economic development in
Taiwan has been achieved at the expense of adverse impacts on environmental quality and
climate. For example, ships with medium to large engines running on heavy fuel oil (HFO)
without emission controls cause an array of environmental impacts [7].
Secured energy is another main driver for renewable energy. Given their heavy
dependence on imported petroleum energy, both the economies of Taiwan and Mainland
China shall find such a prospect very appealing. Although Mainland China is the fifth largest
oil-producing country in the world, it is unable to meet its petroleum demand and has started
importing oil in 1993 [8]. The increase in petroleum use was clearly related to transportation
[9]. Both Taiwan and Mainland China face the challenge of meeting CO2 emission reduction
targets [10]. CO2 emissions in Taiwan increased approximately 6 percent annually between
1993 and 2003 [11].
Other factors may also influence the growth and development of renewable energy
application in the maritime industry. For example, there is marked increase over the past
decade in the number of passenger ferry services operated with high-speed and high-comfort
vessels. This trend is likely to continue with the demands for shorter travel and delivery time
ever presented [12]. In preparing for the demand of clean and reliable energy for the years to
come, this paper highlights the need for the development of a renewable infrastructure for
marine transportation with sustainability in mind in both energy and environment.
Accordingly, a systematic study has been undertaken by the authors to search for all
possible ways of reducing fuel consumption onboard merchant ships, with an analysis of the
efects of such changes on the ship owner’s costs. The three-year study carried out a
comprehensive survey or audit on current energy practice on board typical merchant ships. An
investigation was also performed for factors affecting fuel consumption, in order to develop
possible management strategies to reduce fuel consumption. In addition, the study will assess
the possibility of alternative energy technology on board ships, starting from the utilization of
cogeneration power plant. The supplementary application of other alternative energy,
including solar, wind, or hydrogen, is also among the technologies being studied.
Specifically, this research project aims to achieve following objectives:
8Pollution from Ships (MARPOL 73/78) [16]. The current regulations controlling air pollution
from ships in Taiwan are based on the provisions of the Exhaust Gas Standards of Air
Pollutants from Mobile Vehicles of the Air Pollution Control Act, adopted in 1999 [17].
Much has been worked out in international maritime industries for onboard emission
abatement strategies [7,16,18]. Approaches to mitigation encompass a range of possibilities
from currently available, low-cost approaches, to more significant investments. The various
control technologies that are currently available are listed in Table 1, with a comparison of
their effectiveness in emission reductions and related costs [7,16,18,19].
Table 1 Pollution reduction potential and related costs of control technologies
currently available onboard ships
Technologies NOx PM CO
Fuel
penalty Cost (US$ 1000)
Selective Catalytic Reduction
(SCR) onboard ships
95-98% - - -
9850/Engine of
48,840kWx104 rpm
Introduction of water 30-60% - - -
1800/Engine of
48,840kWx104 rpm
Active diesel particulate filter and
NOx reduction catalyst
25-35% 50-90% 50-90% 3-7% 15-18 per unit
Diesel oxidation catalysts - 25% 30-90% 0-2% 1-3 per unit
Exhaust gas recirculation 20-50% N/A N/A 0-5% 13-15 per unit
Natural gas 50% 90% Increase N/A N/A
Source: [7,16,19,20]
Clean energy for marine shipping
Using equipments that run on alternative fuels such as compressed natural gas (NG) and
biodiesel is also an option. Compared to conventional diesel technology, NG technology has
shown in-use emissions reductions in the range of 50% for NOx and 90% for PM [20].
Emission benefits of biodiesel and several other cleaner biofuels blends show a 10-20%
improvement over regular diesel [20]. Additionally, the biodegradability of biodiesel makes it
well suited for marine uses because of less environmental impact in case spilled [20].
While docked, ships generally use medium-speed (around 500rpm) auxiliary diesel
engines to run service systems such as lights, HVAC, air compressor, deck machineries,
refrigerator, oil heater, and pumps. Shore-power has widely been considered as a possible
10
connected San Francisco with Treasure Island since 2005. The 24-meter-long ship can
accommodate 149 passengers and is powered by a 240-kW Anuvu FC system [30].
Marine application of FCs ranges from small to very large scale. In summary, possible
fields of application for FCs on merchant ships include mainly: (1) emergency power supply;
(2) electric energy generation; (3) small power output for propulsion at specific operating
modes, such as very quiet run; and (4) electric power generation for the ship’s network [25]. 
Aboard ship, FC system could replace the diesel generators when docked in port. When
the battery banks cannot obtain power from FC, they will be charged directly from shore
power and the vessel’s AC bus is energized [22]. Nevertheless FCs wil be competing in large 
established markets with the conventional technologies of diesel engines and gas turbines.
Options to application
Although the possibilities of FC to marine application have been widely demonstrated, a
major barrier is the fact that virtually all vessels use petroleum fuel. Operating characteristics,
demonstrated life and maintenance schedules, and the logistics infrastructure has long been
developed worldwide based on diesel fuel. FC development and availability has currently
been concentrated on the reforming of NG and methanol to produce the hydrogen required for
FC operation [31]. The key components for diesel oil processing of maritime FC systems (100
kW) have already been demonstrated by four NATO countries [31].
Options to transmit sufficient power to wharves for ships include upgraded substations,
FC units, and a “Power barge” [25]. Based upon previous studies, instalation or upgrade of a 
port area substation is most appropriate for terminals requiring high power loads, such as
cruise terminals or cargo areas. Another power supply alternative is the installation of one or
two FC units (200-250 kW) at berths where smaller ships, e.g. tugboats and other port-service
boats are hostelling and where NG is available [20]. The third power supply alternative is to
install FC system on a barge that could maneuver within a port to supply power wherever
needed. This type of power supply may work well for cargo ships in berth where diesel
generators producing auxiliary loads are in the 1-2 MW range, as opposed to the cruise ships
where the load is an order of magnitude higher [25].
For marine application, low-temperature FCs are voluminous and costly. On the other
hand, the high temperature FCs are more suitable for the NG-fueled ships due to the ability to
directly convert NG or operate on partly reformed fuels [20]. Storing and supplying enough
hydrogen fuel to last a long voyage remains the biggest challenge for FCs application on a
trans-ocean vessel. The market for maritime FC systems will be served with low temperature
FCs in the kW-range and with high temperature FCs in the MW-range [20].
12
[7] Corbett JJ, Fischbeck PS, Pandis SN. Global nitrogen and sulfur inventories for oceangoing
ships. Journal of Geophysical Research 1999; 104 (D3):3457-3470.
[8] Lee S, Gareth L-D. The China syndrome: motorization in the largest countries in Asia --
implications for oil, carbon dioxide, and transportation, paper presented at the International
Association for Energy Economics 1998.
[9] U.S. Department of Transportation, Bureau of Transportation Statistics. Transportation
Statistics Annual Report 1998.
[10] U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Reducing Methane Emissions from Coal Mines in
China: The Potential for Coal-Bed Methane Development, public review draft EPA
430-R-96-005 1996.
[11] Tsai WT. Current status and development policies on renewable energy technology research
in Taiwan, Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews 2005; 9(3):237-253.
[12] Meek-Hansen B. Fuel cell technology for ferries. IMTA conference, Gold Coast Australia
2002.
[13] Taiwan Headline. Environment official respond to oil spill 2001, online
http://publish.gio.gov.tw/iisnet/20010206/20010206s2.html.
[14] US Department of Justice 2005, online
http://www.usdoj.gov/opa/pr/2005/April/05_enrd_159.htm
[15] Skjølsvik K-O. Emissions from ships–The Fourth Stanley Gray lecture. Trans IMarE 1123
2000.
[16] International Maritime Organization. Annex VI to MARPOL 73/78 regulations for the
prevention of air pollution from ships and NOx technical code. Report IMO—664E 1998.
[17] Lin B, Lin C-Y. Compliance with international emission regulations: Reducing the air
pollution from merchant vessels. Marine Policy 2006; 30(3):220-225.
[18] Hua J. Impact of Marine Engine Exhaust on Air Quality of Port City, Final Report. City
Government of Keelung 2005 (in Chinese).
[19] European Commission. Quantification of emissions from ships associated with ship
movements between ports in the European Community. Entec UK Limited 2002, online
www.europa.eu.int/comm/environment/air/background.htm#transport.
[20] AAPA. Harbors navigation and environment 2006, online
http://www.aapa-ports.org/programs/hne/Library_aq.html#LosAngeles.
