J. Micro/Nanolith. MEMS and MOEMS 9(4), 043006 (Oct–Dec 2010)
Fabrication and optical design of a pyramid
microstructure for the base of a light guide used
in backlight module
Jee-Gong Chang
National Center for High-Performance Computing
Computational Application Division
No. 28, Nanke 3rd Road
Sinshih Township
Tainan 74147, Taiwan
E-mail: changjg@nchc.narl.org.tw
Chien-Wei Liu
National Yunlin University of Science and
Technology
Department of Mechanical Engineering
123 University Road, Section 3
64002 Yunlin, Taiwan
Wang-Long Li
National Cheng Kung University
Institute of Nanotechnology and Microsystems
Engineering
Center for Micro/Nano Science and Technology
No.1 University Road
Tainan, 70101, Taiwan
Jian-Ming Lu
Yu-Bin Fang
National Center for High-Performance Computing
Computational Application Division
No. 28, Nanke 3rd Road
Sinshih Township
Tainan 74147, Taiwan
Abstract. We propose a recessed pyramid microstructure (PYM) to be
used on the base of the light guide as micro-optical components to replace
the conventional diffuser dot made by direct etching on the steel stam-
per. The PYM is made by microelectromechanical systems technology,
which uses a silicon wafer for the original PYM mold, which is replicated
on a Ni micromold using the electroforming method. An effective opti-
cal design tool is used to find the optimal PYM distribution integrating
the random microstructure generation scheme based on the molecular
dynamics method into optical commercial software. The scanning elec-
tron microscopy images show intact PYMs can be produced on the Si
micromold and then replicated fully on the Ni micromold by the electro-
forming process. An intact PYM on the base of the light guide can then
be produced by injection molding, completing the transformation of the
Ni micromold for use in the light guide. The luminance measurement of
a 2.4-in. backlight module with four LEDs shows an average luminance
of 4769 nit with 86.3% uniformity for the PYM on the base of light guide,
10% higher than that of the diffuser dot microstructure. C© 2010 Society of
Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers. [DOI: 10.1117/1.3517108]
Subject terms: pyramid microstructure; light guide; backlight module; random mi-
crostructure generation scheme; molecular dynamics method.
Paper 09160SSRRR received Nov. 30, 2009; revised manuscript received Sep. 29,
2010; accepted for publication Oct. 4, 2010; published online Dec. 27, 2010.
1 Introduction
Light guides have been used for many illumination applica-
tions, such as in displays,1 in medical inspection equipment,2
and for ambient lighting.3 In these applications, light guides
play an important role in determining the product’s opti-
cal performance in terms of brightness and uniformity. To
achieve a high brightness requirement, it is necessary to de-
velop both new microstructures better able to reflect the light
beam along a narrower angle range as well as the fabrication
processes of these microstructures. In addition, due to the
high sensitivity of the light incoming to the new microstruc-
ture, an effective design tool is also very important to find
the optimal distribution of these microstructures necessary
to meet the high brightness and uniformity requirements.
The conventional manufacturing process for the mi-
crostructure uses the wet etching method directly on a steel
stamper, which will be attached to the mold afterward and
used to form the microstructure—also called the diffuser
dot—on the base of light guide by injection molding. The
1932-5150/2010/$25.00 C© SPIE
diffuser dot is a 2-D microstructure due to its small depth
when compared to the other two dimensions on the surface.
The surface roughness is used to “diffuse” the incoming
light at a wide upward angle. Due to the some uncertain-
ties in the wet etching process, such as the concentration of
the etching fluid4 and the material resistance5 to the etch-
ing, it is hard to control the shape of microstructure or its
surface roughness to within a very small deviation. When a
3-D half-sphere microstructure is produced, for example, a
large range in sphere curvature may result. This geometri-
cal inaccuracy introduces difficulties into the optical design
phase because it is difficult to adjust for these inaccura-
cies in the optical analysis. However, these manufacturing
inaccuracies can be easily eliminated by using microelec-
tromechanical systems (MEMS) technology to produce the
microstructure. In addition, higher geometrical precision in
the microstructure can also elevate the accuracy of the optical
design.
There are two methods to arrange the microstructure
on the base of the light guide meeting the uniformity re-
quirement: one is regular arrangement6, 7 and the other one
is random arrangement.8, 9 Both methods have their own
J. Micro/Nanolith. MEMS and MOEMS Oct–Dec 2010/Vol. 9(4)043006-1
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 13 Feb 2011 to 140.116.210.6. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
Chang et al.: Fabrication and optical design of a pyramid microstructure for the base of a light guide. . .
as the micro-optical components to replace the conventional
diffuser dot roughening texture. The PYM is made by MEMS
technology, using a silicon wafer for the original mold, which
is replicated by the electroforming method.16 In addition, we
use the MD random microstructure scheme to do the PYM
distribution optimization to meet the uniformity requirement.
Finally, the luminance measurements are also provided to
compare the brightness that is achieved by PYM with the
conventional diffuser dot.
2 Optical design
2.1 MD Random Microstructure Generation Scheme
The microstructure distribution is required to fulfill the
overlap-free condition. It is difficult for most random number
generators to arrange the microstructure in a random manner
without overlapping and without additional modification. In
natural crystalline materials, the atomic position is free of
overlapping due to the repulsive force acting between atoms.
Fig. 2 Fabrication process flow of light guide plate (LGP) with PYM
structure: (a) thermal oxide layer deposition, (b) photolithography and
RIE dry etching, (c) nickel (Ni) layer thermal evaporation deposition,
(d) Ni mold electroforming, (e) demold, and (f) LGP injection molding.
Thus, if we treat the microstructure as an atom, the overlap-
free condition can be easily achieved. This is the basic theory
behind following the classic MD method and introducing a
repulsive force as9–15
m
d2ri
dt2
+ cd dridt =
n∑
j
fi j (ri j ), (1)
where ri is the position of the i’th atom; m is the atom mass;
cd is the damping term; fij is the force exerted on atom i
by neighboring atom j; n is the total number of neighbor-
ing atoms around atom i; and rij =
∣∣ri − r j ∣∣ , with the final
expression9–15 fij(rij) being
fi j (ri j ) = ri j
ri j
exp[−(ri j ckl)], (2)
where rij =
∣∣rij∣∣; ckl is the force control parameter, and sub-
scripts k and l are the cell division row and column numbers,
as shown in Fig. 1(a). Note that in Fig. 1(a), the original do-
main is divided into several subdomains called cells. In these
cells, every force parameter ckl is the force control parame-
ter, and subscripts k and l are the cell division in row number
and in column number, as shown in Fig. 1(a). In Fig. 1(a),
the original domain is divided into a number of smaller cells
whose microstructure densities can be individually adjusted.
As discussed in the following, the force control parameter
ckl is dependent on the microstructure density in each cell kl.
In each cell kl, the force control parameter is given by
ckl = − ln fre
rcut.kl
, (3)
where fre is the residual force at the r-cut distance in each cell
kl. Note that fre tends toward zero when rij is larger than or
equal to the r-cut distance rcut,kl . In general, a small nonzero
value of fre is used to consider the microstructure size in
practice.
As described, the proposed MD microstructure genera-
tion algorithm separates the domain of interest into a pre-
scribed number of individual cells to enhance the flexibility of
the microstructure density adjustment procedure. In one cell
kl the microstructure density is defined as
Dkl = AdotAcell =
mklw
2
Acell
, (4)
Fig. 3 Fabrication process flow of light guide plate (LGP) with diffuser
dot structure: (a) photolithography and FeCl3 wet etching and (b) LGP
injection molding.
J. Micro/Nanolith. MEMS and MOEMS Oct–Dec 2010/Vol. 9(4)043006-3
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 13 Feb 2011 to 140.116.210.6. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
Chang et al.: Fabrication and optical design of a pyramid microstructure for the base of a light guide. . .
(a)
(b)
Fig. 5 SEM images of Si micromold with an array of pyramids
(a) cross section view and (b) top view.
requirement, which is usually set as 90%, then according to
the optimization rule, the microstructure distribution must be
updated and then the second step repeated until uniformity
meets the requirement. The optimization rule is employed
simply to increase the microstructure density when the lu-
minance is lower than the average luminance and vice versa.
Fig. 6 SEM image of Ni micromold with an array of pyramids.
The random microstructure generation scheme can be easily
incorporated into the commercial LightTool software and the
iteration can be achieved by the VB language18 provided in
the software.
After obtaining the optimal microstructure distribution,
this distribution is transferred to an AutoCAD format by
the AutoLISP language, which is a standard file format to
produce the photomask.
3 Manufacturing Procedure
3.1 Fabrication Process of the Silicon Micromold
In this paper, the silicon (Si) micromold with an array of
micropyramids is fabricated by using MEMS technology
KOH wet etching method.19, 20 A schematic diagram of the
process flow is shown in Fig. 2. A 6-in. p-type 〈100〉 Si
wafer is used as the substrate to fabricate the Si micro-
mold. First, the Si wafer is cleaned to remove the parti-
cles by using SC1 (NH4OH:H2O2:H2O = 1:1:5) and SC2
(HCl:H2O2:H2O = 1:1:6) standard clean processes. Next, a
silicon oxide (SiO2) layer with a thickness of 0.5 μm as a
protection mask for a KOH wet etching process is grown
on the Si substrate by thermal oxidation method at a pro-
cess temperature of 950◦C for 4 h, as shown in Fig. 2(a).
Then the SiO2 layer is patterned with a simulated optical
layout by using photolithography and reactive-ion etching
(RIE) methods, as shown in Fig. 2(b). The Si wafer is then
immersed into the chemical bath and the array of pyramids
with a depth of around 35 μm is formed by using wet etching
of 45 wt% KOH at a process temperature of 80◦C for 15 to
20 min, as shown in Fig. 2(c). Finally, the residual SiO2 layer
for masking is removed completely by using buffer oxide
etchant (BOE, HF:NH4F = 1:6) at room temperature (25◦C).
3.2 Fabrication Process of the Nickel Micromold
Before the electroforming process of the nickel (Ni) mi-
cromold, a 50-nm-thick nickel thin layer is deposited on
the Si substrate by the electron-beam (e-beam) evaporation
method, shown in Fig. 2(c). The Ni layer is used as the electric
conduction material. Next, the Ni electroforming is carried
out in a 200-L electroforming bath, shown in Fig. 2(d). The
pH of chemical solution is maintained at a region of 4.6 to 5.5
Fig. 7 SEM image of PC light guide with an array of pyramids derived
from Ni micromold.
J. Micro/Nanolith. MEMS and MOEMS Oct–Dec 2010/Vol. 9(4)043006-5
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 13 Feb 2011 to 140.116.210.6. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
Chang et al.: Fabrication and optical design of a pyramid microstructure for the base of a light guide. . .
Table 1 Nine-point luminance measurement of the PYM and diffuser
dot structure.
Point Number/Luminance (cd/m2)
1/4629(3920)a 2/4747(4247) 3/4920(4420)
4/4711(4128) 5/4526(4426) 6/4814(4414)
7/5247(4236) 8/4648(4348) 9/4684(4667)
aValues in parentheses are the measurements from the diffuser dot
of a conventional method by direct etching on the steel stamper.
light guide and that hits the diffuser dot will reflect from it in
a wider range angle, called diffuse reflection. This is differ-
ent from light hitting the smoother PYM surface, which will
reflect from it in a much narrower angle.
5 Results and Discussion
Figure 4(a) shows the configuration of a 2.4-in. backlight
module, which has four LEDs of 1400 mcd (cd = lm/Sr)
each. This geometrical model along with the inlet sawtooth
structure is constructed by the optical analysis software,
LightTool. The inlet sawtooth structure is used to provide
better light-scattering properties. The final optimized mi-
crostructure can then be iteratively obtained according to
updating by the optimization rule. The result of the opti-
mized microstructure distribution and its density distribution
is shown in Fig. 4(b) in the left and right panels, respectively.
The final distribution contains 91,492 PYM and required six
iterations to obtain.
Before the real trial of the microstructure distribution
shown in Fig. 4(b), some experiments at a smaller scale with
fewer microstructures were conducted to see whether the
manufacturing conditions described in Sec. 3 can meet the
requirement of the manufacturing accuracy. Figure 5 shows
the PYM on the Si micromold for the cross section view and
the top view. These views show the PYM is apparently very
intact. Figure 6 shows an SEM image of the Ni micromold
by the electroforming process. As seen from Fig. 6, the PYM
is also very intact and the pyramids fabricated on the Si sub-
strate were transformed successfully to the Ni micromold.
After cutting the Ni plate and bonding with a stainless steel
fragment as an embedded stamper, the PC material was pre-
pared to be injected into the mold to form the final light guide
product. As can be seen in the SEM image shown in Fig. 7,
the PYM is also very intact, showing that the PYM of the Ni
micromold has been transferred successfully to the base of
the light guide. The reason for such a complete PYM trans-
fer is probably related to the recessed PYM, which leads to a
smaller flow resistance during the injection molding process.
To show the luminance enhancement effect of the PYM
light guide, the light guide utilizing the usual diffuser dot mi-
crostructure made by the wet direct etching method was also
prepared. The light guide with the diffuser dot is a qualified
product in use and fulfilled the moderate market’s standards.
The luminance measurement for both PYM and diffuser dots
on the light guide of a final assembly backlight by BM-7
(Topcon) is listed in Table 1 and also gives the graphic rep-
resentation in Fig. 8. The images in Figs. 9(a) and 9(b) show
the PYM light guide and the diffuser dot light guide, respec-
Fig. 10 Ray tracing illustrations of a simple model with the micro-
structure of (a) PYM and (b) diffuser dot, on the base of light guide
(circle shows the light exiting at a smaller angle toward the viewing
direction).
tively, as inspected by optical microscope (OM). Under the
same optical film configuration, the average luminance for
PYM is 4769 nit (=cd/m2) with 86.3% uniformity, while for
the diffuser dot it is 4312 nit with 84.0% uniformity. The
luminance is 10% higher than that using the conventional
direct etching method.
To determine the possible reason for higher luminance
performance of the PYM, we carried out the ray tracing of two
different PYM and diffuser dot structures on the base of the
light guide, as shown in Figs. 10(a) and 10(b), respectively.
In these two illustrations, a number of simplifications were
made, mainly including the regular arrangements of the PYM
and diffuser dot and only tracing a limited number of the
light rays. As we can see, the light exiting from the light
guide for the PYM includes a smaller angle emitted toward
the viewing direction (identified by the circle). This is not
true for the diffuser dot, where the exiting light exhibits large
angle spread.
6 Conclusion
We proposed the use of a PYM on the base of a light guide
as the micro-optical components to replace the conventional
diffuser dot roughening texture. The PYM is made by MEMS
technology, using a silicon wafer for the original PYM mold,
with replication performed on a Ni micromold made by the
electroforming method. This manufacturing process can en-
sure the optical properties of each microstructure will have
better performance due to the high duplication ability of this
process. In addition, optical design to find the optimal PYM
distribution integrates the random microstructure generation
scheme by molecular dynamics method into the optical com-
mercial software. This method provides significant flexibility
in adjusting the dot density to find the optimal solution fulfill-
ing the uniformity condition. The SEM images show intact
J. Micro/Nanolith. MEMS and MOEMS Oct–Dec 2010/Vol. 9(4)043006-7
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 13 Feb 2011 to 140.116.210.6. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
Chang et al.: Fabrication and optical design of a pyramid microstructure for the base of a light guide. . .
Yu-Bin Fang received his master’s degree
in engineering science from National Cheng-
Kung University, Taiwan, in 2004. After grad-
uating, he was an assistant researcher at
National Center for High-Performance Com-
puting, Taiwan. His research interests mainly
focus on the illumination system of flat panel
displays and LED lighting devices design.
J. Micro/Nanolith. MEMS and MOEMS Oct–Dec 2010/Vol. 9(4)043006-9
Downloaded from SPIE Digital Library on 13 Feb 2011 to 140.116.210.6. Terms of Use:  http://spiedl.org/terms
Application) function provided by the Excel. We 
have provided a practical example to show its 
features.  
2. Mathematics formulation 
The mass center of the microstructure can be 
considered as an atom and its motion obeys 
Newton’s second law, similar to the usual 
treatment in the MD method, such that    
 

n
j
ijij
i
d
i r
dt
d
c
dt
d
m )(
2
2
f
rr
   (1) 
where ri is the position of the ith atom; m is the 
atom mass; Cd is the damping term; fij is the force 
exerted on atom i by neighboring atom j; n is the 
total number of neighboring atoms around atom i; 
and rij=│ri- rj│, with the final expression fij (rij)[1] 
being  
  
)(
)( klij
cr
ij
ij
ijij e
r
r


r
f
     (2) 
where rij=│rij│; Cld is the force control parameter, 
and subscript k and l are the cell division row and 
column numbers. In these cells, every force 
parameter, Cld, is the force control parameter, and 
subscript k and l is the cell division in row number 
and in column number. The original domain is 
divided into a number of smaller cells whose dot 
densities can be individually adjusted. As 
discussed below, the force control parameter, Ckl, 
is dependent on the dot density in each cell kl. In 
each cell kl, the force control parameter and the 
dot density are is defined as shown in reference [1] 
to enhance the flexibility of the dot density 
adjustment procedure.  
In order to ensure that all of the dots in one 
cell interact with all of their neighboring dots and 
keep the dot distribution smooth across the cell 
boundary, the Variable r-cut technique [1] is 
employed, which adjust the interaction range of 
atom beyond the boundaries of the individual cell. 
To maintain the dot number as constant during the 
force calculation, the reflective boundary 
condition is also imposed on each cell boundary. 
During the force calculations, the neighboring 
atoms of each atom are identified using the Verlet 
algorithm [4], which reduces the n
2
 search to an n 
search, and the force control parameter is 
determined according to their distances.  
The base of the overall dot generation 
process is Eq. (1), subject to initial random data at 
a specific dot density distribution. The dots then 
repulse according the force acting between them 
and reach their equilibrium positions. This whole 
process of manipulating the force calculation until 
the dots reach their final equilibrium positions is 
hereafter simply referred to as force regulation. 
3. Development of preprocessor using VBA  
We employ VBA function of the Excel 
software to develop a tool which can graphically 
interactive decide the latticed data sheet. In the 
graphical tool, we choose the density parameter 
instead the number of the dot as the design 
parameter. The luminance is proportional to the 
density, i.e., the more density, the brighter. We use 
the interpolation function of cubic spline to decide 
the density distribution by manipulating several 
control points. For simplicity, we use two 1D 
cubic spline functions to constitute the whole dot 
distribution in 2D. Generally, the dot distribution 
for LED light guide is 1D distribution when the 
region is far from the LED inlet. Only, in the inlet 
region, we need to modify the dot distribution to a 
2D distribution.  
4. Practical example 
We use a 2.4 inches light guide as a practical 
example to illustrate the procedures of the optical 
LEDs and at the front of LED. In addition, it also 
shows that the distribution is very smooth and it is 
hard to recognize the boundary of the small square 
division.   
 
Fig. 2 Random dot distribution obtained from the MD 
simulation. 
 
 
Fig. 3 The (a) illuminance distribution and (b) dot density 
distribution, after the optical optimization. 
The initial dot distribution regulated by MD 
program along with the optical model established 
by commercial software, LightTools, substitutes 
into LightTools to invoking the ray tracing 
function to complete the optical analysis. As 
mentioned previously, the dot distribution will be 
modified according to the luminance result, then, 
do the optical analysis again. This process will 
continue until the even requirement of the 
luminance is satisfied. The final illuminance result 
as well as the final dot density distribution is 
shown in Fig. 3. 
6. Conclusion 
This paper develop the preprocessor for the 
random dot distribution applied to the optimal 
optical design of the light guide, which is used as 
an input for the random dot pattern generation 
program developed by MD method. The MD 
algorithms developed include several numerical 
techniques, namely, cell division technique, 
variable r-cut technique, reflective boundary 
technique and force average technique across the 
boundary. The preprocessor is developed based on 
the VBA (Visual Basic for Application) function 
provided by the Excel. In a practical example, we 
have proven the dot generation more easily and 
effectively by using this VBA preprocessor. 
Acknowledgements 
The authors gratefully acknowledge the 
financial support provided to this study by the 
National Science Council, Republic of China, 
under Grant No. NSC 99-2515-S-492-001. 
Reference 
1. J. G. Chang and C. T. Lee, J. Opt. Soc. Am. A 
24, 839-849 (2007). 
2. J. G. Chang, M. H. Su, C. T. Lee, and C. C. 
Hwang, J. Appl. Phys. 98, 114910, (2005). 
3. J. G. Chang, C. T. Lee, Y. B. Fang and C. C. 
Hwang, Comput. Phys. Comm., 177, 851-862, 
(2007). 
4. J. M. Haile, Molecular Dynamics Simulation: 
elementary methods, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 
New York (1992) 
(a) 
(b) 
 2 
撓式顯示器在電子產品中之應用，如電子書、電子報、電子像片及顯示器等用途。又與一般顯示器作
比較，又具有好攜帶性，還可以彎捲折不佔空間之便利性。相較於一般硬式之顯示器，可撓式之顯示
器是以塑膠為基板，所以要以低溫製程來製造在上面的電晶體。演講中除針對製程技術作了一詳盡之
介紹外，也對可撓式顯示器之挑戰也作了一詳近之介紹。第二部分主要介紹大面積之矽薄膜技術，這
個技術同時出現在顯示器及太陽能電池之製程中，講者除分析這兩種應用之技術之異同性外，也提出
兩種應用可以通力合作之處。此外，除與參與學術研討會外，也於展示會中展示研究成果，與與會者
討論分子動力學亂數設計方法及如何發展前處理(pre processor)，讓大數量級之導光板網點設計可以有
效率的完成。也跟與會者談到南科再光電顯示器的發展現況，此外，也與部分與會者分享了國網中心
的工作與定位及台灣在高速計算之現況，本次研討會收穫非常多。最後，附上與與會者共同合照於會
場之照片。 
 
 
圖一 與與會者之合照。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
近年來智慧型手機、無線網路與平板電腦已經逐漸普遍，近年各大顯示器廠與 NB 大廠更陸續
發表了超薄型 LED 顯示器與超輕薄筆電(例如. ultrabook)，顯示人們對於輕薄顯示器的要求逐漸升
高，電腦裝置的需求已由辦公桌移轉為活動配備，因此可撓式有機發光二極體(OLED)顯示器在電
子產品已在近幾年如火如荼的發展，例如韓國三星與日本 SONY，此技術為革命性的技術，改變
的將不只是顯示器的產業，而是生活上的任何應用。可撓式顯示器技術已成為未來發展重要指標，
建議國內在此領域的發展能持續投入，並深入研究發展。 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以多體力效應之分子動力學理論發展任意形狀邊界及規則/亂數複合網點分佈
設計應用於LED導光板之光學最佳化設計
計畫主持人: 張自恭
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-492-012- 學門領域: 顯示技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究已成功將微機電製程技術(MEMS)、分子動力學理論、光學設計軟體、與
自行開發之網點密度分佈產生器結合，完成完整的光學設計最佳化設計流程，
此外，網點形狀設計並突破傳統圓點設計，可改採用菱形錐狀體設計。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
