計畫執行結果： 
發 表 正 式 論 文 (Research Paper) 於 Radiation Oncology 期 刊 : 
Four-dimensional dosimetry validation and study in lung radiotherapy 
using deformable image registration and Monte Carlo techniques，Radiation 
Oncology，2010 ，5(45) 
（SCI: Radiology, Nuclear Medicine & Medical Imaging: Impact factor: 2.529; 
Ranking: 32/104 (30%)） 
 
 
Huang et al. Radiation Oncology 2010, 5:45
http://www.ro-journal.com/content/5/1/45
Page 2 of 7
Case 2). These 4D CT data sets were comprised of a total
of 10 CT scans per patient, taken at equally-spaced inter-
vals across the entire respiratory cycle (phase-based sort-
ing in 4D CT reconstruction). There were 93 and 94 slices
in each respiratory phase of the two 4D CT cases, respec-
tively. The GTV moved about 1.5 cm during the respira-
tory cycle in Case 1 and 1.0 cm in Case 2, predominantly
in the SI direction. The GTV volume for Case 1 was 12.5
cm3 (about 3 cm in diameter) while for Case 2 it was
159.1 cm3 (about 7 cm in diameter). For the last two
cases, 4D CT image sets were generated from a moving
phantom with two different motion ranges, to compare
the 4D cumulative doses with actual measurements. The
4D scans of the moving phantom contained 90 slices in
each of the ten respiratory phases. All 4D CT imaging
was performed on a 16-slice Big Bore CT scanner (Philips
Medical Systems, Andover, MA). The transaxial slice res-
olution was about 1 mm × 1 mm and the slice thickness
was 3 mm for all scans.
The moving phantom was custom-designed (Figure 1).
Phantom motion was controlled by a motor with adjust-
able rotational frequency. A rotating wheel connected to
the motor. The wheel contained holes at various dis-
tances from the axis of rotation, which thereby deter-
mined the magnitude of the range of the sinusoid motion
of the phantom, which is the only motion pattern the
table can perform. The phantom container was made of
acrylic. Cork blocks with density of 0.26 g/cm3 were
placed inside the acrylic container to simulate normal
lung. An acrylic rod of 3 × 3 × 2 cm3 was placed in the
center of the cork blocks to simulate a tumor. The center
of this rod contained a 0.04 cc Scanditronix CC04 ion
chamber (active length 3.6 mm, inner radius 2 mm) to
measure the point dose. The motion range was set to 1.5
(Case 3) or 3 cm (Case 4) at a frequency of about 18
cycles per minute to simulate respiration. The same
motion pattern was used during both the 4D CT scan and
treatment delivery.
A treatment plan was generated for each of the four CT
data sets. Simple 3D-conformal plans were utilized. All
the plans were calculated for a Varian Clinac 2100EX lin-
ear accelerator (Varian Medical Systems, Palo Alto, CA).
Photon beams of 6 MV in energy were used. The margin
from gross tumor volume (GTV) to block edge is 0.5 cm
(Case 2) and 1 cm (Case 1, 3 and 4). MLC was used for
the conformal plans in Case 1 and 2. Open 5 × 5 cm2
beams were used in the phantom study cases due to the
regular shape of the acrylic rod which simulated the GTV.
For Case 1 and Case 2, the tumors were contoured on
the maximum inspiration phase of the respective 4D CT
image sets and the isocenters were set accordingly. A 3D
plan was then generated for each patient. For Case 1, a
wedged 3-beam 3D plan was created. A wedged two-field
3D-conformal plan was designed for Case 2. The respec-
tive treatment plans were then copied over from the max-
imum inspiration scan to each of the other nine phases of
the CT scan for that patient. A Monte Carlo simulation
was used to calculate the dose distribution on each phase.
The dose distributions from all other phases were
mapped to the maximum inspiration phase using defor-
mation matrices generated via deformable image registra-
tion between all the other phase and the maximum
inspiration phase. A 4D cumulative dose distribution was
created from an equally-weighted average of the dose dis-
tributions. This 4D Monte Carlo dosimetry method was
applied to the two cases over all ten phases (vide infra). A
dose-volume-histogram (DVH) was obtained for each of
the respiration phases and the 4D integrated DVH was
obtained from the 4D cumulative dose distribution.
For the moving phantom cases, a lateral-opposed 2-
beam plan was designed to cover the simulated tumor
during the maximum inspiration phase. These beams
were copied to the nine other phases of CT scans and the
doses were calculated using Monte Carlo methods (vide
infra). The 4D cumulative doses were generated.
Table 1 lists the tumor sizes, motion ranges and beam
margins for all the cases studied. The beam margins are
purposely set smaller than the motion ranges to gauge the
coverage loss effects.
Monte Carlo Dose Calculation
BEAMnrc [1] was used to simulate the linear accelerator.
This is a Monte Carlo simulation application based on
EGSnrc [12], a software package designed for Monte
Carlo simulation of coupled electron-photon transport.
The simulated incident electron beam bombarding the
tungsten target was a 6 MeV pencil beam with a 2-dimen-
sional Gaussian distribution of full width at half maxi-
mum (FWHM) of 0.1 cm [1,12]. For each treatment
beam, the linear accelerator was simulated to generate a
phase-space file containing information about each parti-
cle exiting the treatment head of the machine, as it
Figure 1 A. The moving phantom was controlled by a motor with 
variable rotation frequency. The rotation wheel had variably-spaced 
holes in the radial direction which controlled the motion range. B. The 
phantom had cork placed within an acrylic container to simulate lungs. 
An acrylic rod was placed within the cork to simulate a tumor. An ion 
chamber was inserted into the acrylic rod to measure the point dose.
Huang et al. Radiation Oncology 2010, 5:45
http://www.ro-journal.com/content/5/1/45
Page 4 of 7
ure 2C-D). The distribution of the mapped dose is shifted
inferiorly towards the diaphragm, and the tumor is closer
to the superior aspect of the isodose distribution (Figure
2D). The reason for this is that in the diaphragm and
tumor move upward in the maximum expiration phase
while the beams remain fixed. Consequently, the dose
distribution on the maximum expiration phase moves
inferiorly relative to the diaphragm or tumor. Therefore,
after the dose distribution is mapped onto the maximum
inspiration phase, the isodose distribution skews inferi-
orly.
Figure 3 shows a DVH of the GTV coverage at various
phases of the respiratory cycle together with the 4D
cumulative dose DVH. At the prescribed dose of 70 Gy,
the static plan shows 95% GTV coverage in the maximum
inspiration (0%) phase while the average dose plan only
shows tumor coverage of 80%. The worst phase (50% or
70% in the figure) shows slightly better than 70% coverage
of the GTV. In this example, the GTV moved about 1.5
cm in the SI direction. With a beam margin of 1 cm,
tumor coverage was clearly reduced.
In general, the DVH of the 4D cumulative dose distri-
bution from the mapped doses lies between the opti-
mized static dose DVH at the maximum inspiration (0%)
phase and the maximum expiration (50%) phase. How-
ever, at times, it can exceed or trail the curve for any indi-
vidual phase. In Figure 3, at the low-dose portion of the
curve, around 66 Gy, the volume covered by the average
dose is higher than that for any of the static respiratory
phases. Correspondingly, at the high dose tail (above 75
Gy), the average dose curve is lower than that for any
individual respiratory phase. This behavior of the DVH
curves in Figure 3 indicates that the 4D cumulative dose
reduced the magnitude of hot/cold spots in individual
static plans.
When evaluating a treatment plan, one also needs to
consider the DVH curves for the normal structures. In
particular, different portions of lung move in and out of
the treatment field, which causes the 4D cumulative lung
DVH to vary from that for any given respiratory phase.
This is evident in Figure 4.
We next investigated how many respiratory phases are
necessary to include in the 4D calculations to reasonably
estimate the average dose to the GTV as calculated when
incorporating all ten respiratory phases. Figure 5 shows a
comparison of several GTV DVH curves from Case 1,
including curves from the extreme static phases and the
lowest GTV coverage phase (30%) as references. The cal-
Figure 2 Case 1 comparison of the Monte Carlo calculated static 
dose during the maximum inspiration phase (panels A and B), 
and the mapped static dose of the maximum expiration phase 
viewed on the maximum inspiration phase (panel C and D). The 
original static plan was optimized on the maximum inspiration phase. 
The coronal view of the mapped dose (panel D) shows that the tumor 
is closer to the upper isodose lines, which is expected because the tu-
mor moves superiorly in the maximum expiration phase. The green 
lines on panel B and D indicate the GTV superior edge.
Figure 3 Dose-volume histograms (DVH) of the gross tumor vol-
ume (GTV) from various static respiratory phases (0%, 20%, 50%, 
70%, and 90%) as well as the 4D cumulative dose DVH (average) 
for Case 1. In the static plan from the 0% phase, the GTV coverage at 
the prescribed dose of 70 Gy is about 95%, while it is 80% for the 4D 
cumulative dose.
Figure 4 Left lung DVHs from various static image sets (0%, 50%, 
90%) and the 4D cumulative DVH (Case 1). For the 50% phase, the 
diaphragm started moving superiorly into the field, causing less lung 
being irradiated at this phase, thereby reducing the lung DVH.
Huang et al. Radiation Oncology 2010, 5:45
http://www.ro-journal.com/content/5/1/45
Page 6 of 7
Occlusion may cause motion discontinuity in other
image registration applications, such as daily patient CT
registration when rectal filling varies. For 4D CT images,
occlusion is not a problem since there is no topological
change between the respiratory phase images.
The Monte Carlo method applied in this study is a clas-
sical full Monte Carlo method. The calculation time was
long for each case. In recent a few years, various tech-
niques have helped in increasing the computational effi-
ciency of Monte Carlo simulation and reducing its
calculation time [3,22-24]. Using multiple source models
instead of simulating phase-space files would also reduce
calculation time significantly [24]. By applying these
modifications, some simpler and faster Monte Carlo
methods have already been implemented in commercial
treatment planning systems or demonstrated to be rea-
sonable for clinical application [25-27]. With faster com-
puters and high efficient Monte Carlo algorithms, multi-
phase Monte Carlo dose calculations have been demon-
strated feasible for clinical applications [27]. If fewer
phases are used for 4D dose calculations, the work load is
also correspondingly reduced. Another way to further
reduce the computation time is to lower the simulation
histories in each respiration phase. With a higher statisti-
cal uncertainty in each respiration phase, the statistical
uncertainty of the 4D cumulative dose remains at an
acceptable level [8]. The 4D Monte Carlo dose calculation
can be reduced to a single calculation on the average CT
if the simplified 4D dose accumulation method proposed
by Glide-Hurst et al [28] is applied.
In our 4D test cases, the method noticeably altered the
dose calculation compared to static plans only when the
tumor was small and the respiratory motion was compar-
atively large.
Vinogradskiy et al [29] demonstrated by measurement
that 4D dose calculations provided greater accuracy than
3D dose calculations in heterogeneous dose regions. Rosu
et al [30] studied how many phases are needed in 4D
cumulative dose calculation for various clinical end
points and concluded that results using only two extreme
phases in 4D cumulative dose calculation agreed well
with those of full inclusion for the 4 cases studied. This
study confirmed their conclusion with Monte Carlo cal-
culations.
The treatment plans generated for this study were not
intended for clinical use. The phase for the original plan
was randomly picked between the two extreme phases
and the isocenter was placed on the GTV center of the
corresponding phase. The margins in the plans were pur-
posely set small compared to the motion ranges so that
target volume coverage loss, thus DVH variation of the
target volume versus respiratory phase, was more pro-
nounced. The conditions used in our study tended to
exaggerate coverage loss and hence was more adverse
against the above conclusion. The conclusion is thus
deemed more confident when applied to real clinical
cases which are usually with better coverage. However,
due to limited number of cases studied, this conclusion
should not be applied to cases of larger or irregular
motions. When large motion is reduced to be within cer-
tain range (< 1 cm) by applying a motion-reducing tech-
nique, such as abdominal compression which is often
used in stereotactic lung treatments, this conclusion
should apply as long as the beam margins are large
enough for the motion ranges.
Monte Carlo methodology provides more accurate
dose calculation across an inhomogeneous substrate such
as the lung [31]. For some extrathoracic sites, such as the
abdomen, respiratory motion of tumors and normal
structures is not insignificant [32]. Therefore, 4D dose
calculations might also prove useful in the treatment of
abdominal tumors. When lung or any other significant
inhomogeneous substrate is not involved in treatment
volumes, Monte Carlo methods may be replaced by other
faster dose calculation algorithms in 4D dose calculations
with an acceptable accuracy.
Conclusions
With the combination of Monte Carlo simulation and the
optical flow method, 4D dosimetry is proved accurate
based on point-dose measurement in a moving phantom.
Monte Carlo 4D dose calculation would provide a
planned dose distribution that is closer to the delivered
dose than a static plan does, especially when dose varia-
tion is large between respiratory phases. Based on the
cases studied, large dose variation between respiratory
phases is more likely for small tumor volumes with rela-
tively large motion. The inclusion of only two extreme
respiratory phases in 4D cumulative dose calculation
would be a reasonable approximation to all-phase inclu-
sion for cases similar to the ones studied.
Competing interests
The authors declare that they have no competing interests.
Authors' contributions
TC: performed most data measurement and calculation; contributed in data
analysis; carried out programming; participated draft of manuscript. JA: partici-
pated data acquisition; contributed in draft of manuscript. TD: provided patient
contours and treatment prescriptions; guided treatment plans; contributed in
draft of manuscript. TH: coordinated the collaboration; contributed in data
analysis and draft of manuscript. GZ: contributed the frame work of the project,
participated data analysis; contributed in draft of manuscript; supervised the
project. All authors read and approved the final manuscript.
Acknowledgements
This study was financially supported by the China Medical University (CMU96-
270) and National Science Council of Taiwan (NSC 98-2221-E-039-008).
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                         99  年 8   月  5  日 
報告人姓名 
 
黃宗祺 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
中國醫藥大學 生物醫學影像暨
放射科學系 助理教授 
 
時間 
會議 
 
地點 
2009.09.20-23 
11th International Symposium 
on Radiation Physics 
澳洲,墨爾本 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC 98-2221-E-039-008 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)第 11 屆國際放射物理研討會 
 (英文) 11th International Symposium on Radiation Physics 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 等劑量曲線於劑量膠的最佳化處理 
 (英文) Iso-Dose Curve Optimizations for Gel Dosimetry  
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
 
  本人蒙國科會之計畫經費補助(計畫名稱：NSC 98-2221-E-039-008)參加在澳洲墨爾本
市所舉辦之二○○九年第 11 屆國際放射物理研討會（11th International Symposium on 
Radiation Physics），多年來，此研討會主要議程涵蓋: 
• Processes in radiation physics 
• Quantitative X-ray and particle analytical techniques 
• Absorption and fluorescence spectroscopy 
• Sources and detectors and simulation of radiation transport 
• Materials Science and applications to minerals, mining and processing 
• Medical Applications and Biology 
• Applications to space, earth and environmental sciences 
• Cultural heritage and art 
• New technologies and industrial applications 
 
等 9 個主要的專題演講，目的是針對放射核種在生成；醫療界、工業界、環境等應用；
與安全議題的知識提升有更深的認識與了解。 
  11th International Symposium on Radiation Physics 是由 Australian Synchrotron 與
Victorian Government 所贊助的，而這次會議主席是由 Dudley Creagh 所擔任。由於此會
議所涵蓋的範圍甚廣，且多與臨床實際運用能緊密的結合，這與本人多年來對於結合放
射線治療及醫學影像研究上有著提昇研究廣度之幫助，特別是在使用 MRI 的影像資訊
分析放射線射源所累積的劑量分佈，並做一整合以探討不同參數對量測劑量分佈之最佳
化。因此本次參與國際研討會必將獲得各國在放射線核種結合影像研究上之成果與心
得。 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
