2 
 
A Spectral Graph Theoretic Approach to Quantifying 
Morphological Differences in Cell Images 
 
中文摘要 
基於圖像分析的高通量技術，能迅速產生大量的細胞影像，使我們能夠做進一步
的藥物篩選分析，但數據分析的技術卻無法追趕上高通量技術進步的步伐。本文
提出了一種基於圖論的辦法，來探討細胞影像分析。我們定義了圖型轉移能量來
量化細胞影像集之間型態的差異度。我們利用光譜圖的理論正規化來轉變細胞影
像原來的特徵空間，使量化可以更穩定地對抽樣的變異性。在量化線粒體分裂的
實驗中，我們所提出的定量方法跟專家的測量有相當高度的相關，並確認
squamoncin 可誘導出較 muricin A 更多斷裂程度的線粒體，兩種化合物已知與細
胞凋亡有關。 
關鍵字：細胞影像，藥物篩檢，光譜圖論 
 
ABSTRACT 
High-throughput image-based assay technologies can rapidly produce of a large 
number of cell images for drug screening, but data analysis can not catch up with the 
pace. This paper presents a graph-based approach to cell image analysis. We define 
graph transition energy to quantify morphological differences between image sets. 
A spectral graph theoretic regularization is applied to transform the feature space so 
that quantification can be stable against sampling variance. In experiments for 
quantifying mitochondrial fragmentation, we show that our quantification is highly 
correlated with experts' measurement, and verify that squamoncin induced more large 
fragmented mitochondria than muricin A, two compounds known to be associated 
with apoptosis. 
KEYWORDS: Imaging, Cell, Drug screening, Spectral graph theory 
 
1 INTRODUCTION 
 
Many high-throughput image-based assay technologies have become available for 
drug screening, but data analysis is still a major bottleneck that limits their utility. 
Automated image processing tools bundled with microscopy imaging devices are 
insufficient because they usually only consider a small number of phenotypic 
variables. Quantifying a wide variety of morphological differences observed in cell 
images is still a challenging task. Recently, Loo et al. [1] proposed an image-based 
multivariate profiling method. In their method, support vector machine is applied to 
establish a hyperplane in the feature space between cell images representing control 
and images of cells under different perturbation. Then the norm vector of the 
4 
 
)
)(
exp(:
1 2
2∑ = −−= Dd
d
jdid
ij
xx
w σ ,                 (1) 
if there is an edge ije , otherwise 0=ijw , where σσ ∈d is the length scale for the 
thd  coordinate in the feature space. Given W , we can define the Graph Transition 
Energy as a function of σ  to measure the stability of a set of data points: 
,)(1:)(
,
∑ ≠=
ji
jiij yyITn
E σ                     (2) 
where ijT  is an element in a transition matrix T  such that ∑= k ik
ij
ij w
w
T : . T  is 
usually asymmetric. Our definition of energy is slightly different from previous works 
in that we replace ijw  with ijT  so that E  for different feature scales can be 
comparable. ijT  can be regarded as the probability of transition from iv  to jv  and 
)(σE  is the average transition probability between different labels. A low E  
indicates that G  is stable because data points with different labels are far apart, and 
vice versa. 
 
2.2 Cheeger's Constant 
Our goal is to transform the feature space by re-scaling dσ  so that the Euclidean 
distance in the transformed space correlates the difference of the labels of data points. 
The transformation requires a set of training data points with different labels. Ideally, 
the set consists of data points with two labels that are the most different in Y . 
Intuitively, we may re-scale dσ  such that the energy is the minimized. This approach 
however tends to overfit especially with a small data set and regularization is required. 
Well-known regularization includes graph Laplacian [2] and Cheeger's constant [7, 
8]. It has been shown that Cheeger's constant effectively removes noise-like Laplacian 
but preserves better sharp boundaries needed for classification [8, 6]. Therefore, we 
chose Cheeger regularization for our problem. 
 
Let YXf →:  be a function that labels data points in G . Cheeger 
regularization is defined as 
,1:)( DfLfffr TT β−=  
where )( iddiagD =  is a diagonal matrix with ∑= j iji wd , WDL −=  is the 
6 
 
mitochondrial fragmentation, days after drug applications or drug dosages; 
2. Acquire cell images with labels of the two most different cases, for example, 
mitochondrial intact and complete fragmentation; 
3. Extract features for X  from the images and minimize Equation 3 to obtain a 
transformed feature space; 
4. Then we can perform the experiments to acquire more cell images and apply 
Equation 2 to quantify the difference. 
 
We can apply it either to a collection or individual images. 
 
 
3 Reliability 
 
3.1 Test with Hand-written Digits 
We conducted experiments to test the reliability of our method with the MNIST data 
set(http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/mnist/), a collection of 70,000 2828×  grayscale 
images of hand-written digits. We chose this task because it is intuitive to distinguish 
the difference between digits by human eyes but its variance poses sufficient 
challenge for computers. 
 
We selected images of “0”, “1”, “6”, “7”, “9” from MNIST to simulate cell 
images in five different phenotypes. “0” and “1” represents the two extreme cases that 
are the most different and “6”, “7”, and “9” are those under the influence of different 
compounds or dosages. We used pixel values of the images as the features and 
randomly chose 100 images of “0” and 100 “1's” to obtain the optimal κ  for the 
transformed feature space. The optimal κ  is a good indicator for feature selection. 
The higher dκ  value, the more important the thd  feature. Figure 1 shows the pixels 
corresponding to features with top dκ  values, which indeed capture the 
distinguishing features of “0” and “1”. 
 
Fig. 1. Example images of “0” and “1” of MNIST (top row) and top 20 to 120 
important features (bottom row). 
8 
 
examples from “0” to “9” and then used these 500 examples to obtain the optimal κ . 
Then we computed the energy of the unseen images for each pair of digits. The 
resulting energy table can serve as a measure of pair-wise similarity. We applied 
multi-dimensional scaling (MDS) to plot the table as a 2D plot shown in Figure 
2(right). The plot allows us to visualize the similarity of the shape of ten digits. 
 
3.2 Detecting Mitochondrial Fragmentation 
We applied our method to detect the mitochondria fragmentation in microscopy cell 
images. Mitochondria are essential organelles for eukaryotic cells, because they serve 
as energy plants and regulate cell death. Recent investigations show that dynamics of 
mitochondria morphology may also involve in apoptosis. Over mitochondrial 
fragmentation possibly results in breakage of mtDNA to cause excess free radicles 
due to impaired functions in respiration [9]. Several reports show that mitochondrial 
fragmentation is an early step of apoptosis (see, e.g., [10-12]). Although 
mitochondrial fission may be important to apoptosis, the relationship between 
mitochondrial fragmentation and apoptosis for regulating cell death is still unclear 
[13]. Global screening plays a key role in revealing their relationship. Moreover, once 
the mechanism is revealed, screening potential drugs is also important to treat related 
diseases, e.g. neurodegenerative diseases. 
 
According to effects of knockdown genes involved in mitochondria morphology 
on cell death, there are three types of mitochondrial morphological changes. The first 
type due to knockdown of fusion is in fragmented dots, and results in apoptosis. 
Mitochondria of the second type due to knockdown of both fusion and fission is in 
short rods, and cells with such mitochondria survive normally. The third type of 
mitochondrial morphology is elongated due to blockage of fission, and cells with such 
mitochondria survive normally [13]. Morphological changes of mitochondria is a 
good variable to distinguish which genes affect either both mitochondrial morphology 
and cell survival or only one of them. Current quantification methods are manual and 
mostly only distinguish fragmented, elongated and swelling at a single cell level 
[14-16]. They are not sufficient for high throughput screening [17]. 
 
We have developed a semi-automatic software called “Mito-Q” to measure the 
fragmentation of mitochondria for each cell image as our golden answers. Mito-Q is 
based on our previous work for automatically tracking vesicle organelles [18]. 
Mito-Q's work flow is illustrated in Figure 3. A morphological filter [19], with disk 
structuring element (of size 2), and power-law transformation with the basic form 
γcrs =  [20] are used to enhance the mitochondria fragments. A bi-level operator with 
10 
 
 MI MP1 MP2 MP3 MC 
MI  .3292 .2931 .1469 .0143 
MC .0143 .0842 .1396 .2478  
 
 The result given in Table 1 shows that our method can be used to quantify 
morphological differences of collections of cell images. Now we will show that our 
method can also be applied to quantify individual cell images. In this case, however, 
in addition to training data for obtaining an optimal κ , we need other labeled data in 
the feature space to approximate the manifold of the data. With the labeled data, we 
can quantify each test image by the weighted average of its nearest neighbors: 
,
)(
)(ˆ
1
1
∑
∑
=
= ∗= K
k ik
K
k kik
i
w
fw
f                           (4) 
where kf  is the label of the thk  labeled data and K  is a pre-defined constant for 
the number of the nearest neighbors. In our test case, kf  is simply the output score 
by Mito-Q and 8=K . 
 
We used the same κ  obtained from MI and MC and all 392 images as the 
labeled data. We then acquired an additional set of 43 new images for testing the 
above method. Figure 5(left) shows the results. The x-axis is the estimated degree of 
fragmentation fˆ  by Equation (4) and the y-axis is the output score measured by 
Mito-Q. The correlation between our method and Mito-Q was 0.8405 with p-value 
<< 0.001. Their regression model was xy 97.002.0 += , which is almost identical to 
xy = , suggesting that though our method may not be able to re-produce Mito-Q's 
scores, the quantification is highly correlated and reliable for the purposes of 
high-throughput screening. 
 
4 Analysis of Annonaceous Acetogenin 
 
Annonaceous acetogenin compound was firstly discussed in [22]. The mechanism 
behind how it affects cell cycle is still not comprehended. In the related works, 
Annonaceous acetogenin exhibited significant activity in vitro cytotoxic assays 
against human hepatoma cell lines, Hep G2 [23]. Annonacin arrests cancer cell cycle 
at the G1 phase and causes cytotoxicity in a Bax- and caspase-3-related pathway [24], 
and Squamocin caused apoptotic cell death via caspase 3-related pathway [25]. 
Consequently, annonaceous acetogenin is related to significant cytotoxic activity and 
apoptosis. Since the apoptosis was associated with mitochondrial morphological 
12 
 
isolated from Annonaceae plants. In our future work, we will screen these compounds 
and their various effects to cells and plot their similarity as the one shown in Figure 2. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
We wish to thank Dr. F-R Chang and Dr. Y-C Wu of Kaohsiung Medical Unversity for 
providing muricin A and squamocin compounds, C-G Yeh for analyzing 350 images 
with Mito-Q, and Y-S Wong for acquiring all the cell images. This work is supported 
in part by the National Research Program in Genomic Medicine (NRPGM), NSC, 
Taiwan, under Grant No. NSC97-3112-B-001-024 (Advanced Bioinformatics Core). 
 
REFERENCES 
1. Loo, L.H., Wu, L.F., Altschuler, S.J.: Image-based multivariate profiling of drug responses from 
single cells. Nature Methods 4(5) (2007) 445-453 
2. Belkin, M., Niyogi, P.: Using manifold structure for partially labelled classification. In: Advances in     
NIPS, vol. 15. (2003) 
3. Zhu, X., Ghahramani, Z., Lafferty, J.: Semi-supervised learning using Gaussian felds and harmonic 
functions. In: Proceeding of the Twentieth International Conference on Machine 
Learning(ICML-2003),Washington DC. Volume 20. (2003) 
4. Zhu, X., Ghahramani, Z.: Learning from labeled and unlabeled data with label propagation. 
Technical Report CMU-CALD-02-107, Carnegie Mellon University (2002) 
5. Meila, M., Shi, J.: Learning segmentation by random walks. In: Advances in NIPS, vol. 12. (2000) 
873-879 
6. Chung, F.R.K.: Spectral Graph Theory. CBMS Regional Conference Series in Mathematics. 
American Mathematical Society (1997) 
7. Chang, H.H., Moura, J.M.F., Wu, Y.L., Ho, C.: Immune cells detection of the in vivo rejecting heart 
in uspio-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging. Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, 2006. 
EMBS '06. 28th Annual International Conference of the IEEE (September 2006) 942-945 
8. Chang, H.H., Moura, J.M.F.: Classi¯cation by cheeger constant regularization. Image Processing, 
2007. ICIP 2007. IEEE International Conference on 2 (October 2007) II -209-II -212 
9. Yaffe, M.P.: Dynamic mitochondria. Nature Cell Biology 1(6) (October 1999) 149-150 
10. Desagher, S., Martinou, J.C.: Mitochondria as the central control point of apoptosis. 
Trends in Cell Biology 10(9) (September 2000) 369{377 
11. Frank, S., Gaume, B., Bergmann-Leitner, E.S., Leitner, W.W., Robert, E.G., Catez, F., 
Smith, C.L., Youle1, R.J.: The role of dynamin-related protein 1, a mediator of mitochondrial 
¯ssion, in apoptosis. Developmental Cell 1(4) (October 2001) 515{525 
12. Karbowski, M., Youle, R.J.: Dynamics of mitochondrial morphology in healthy cells and 
during apoptosis. Cell death and di®erentiation 10(8) (August 2003) 870{880 
13. Jeong, S.Y., Seol, D.W.: The role of mitochondria in apoptosis. BMB Reports 41(1) 
14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
計畫編號 NSC96-2221-E-001-002 
計畫名稱 建立無尺度網路圖來學習巨量且互相依存的概念的演算法（3/3） 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
林冠廷, 中央研究院資訊科學所 
會議時間地點 加拿大多倫多市, 民國 97 年 7 月 16 日至 7月 25 日 
會議名稱 
16th Annual International Conference Intelligent Systems for 
Molecular Biology 
發表論文題目 EHCO 2 (Encyclopedia of Hepatocellular Carcinoma genes Online 2) 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The Sixteenth International Conference on Intelligent Systems for 
Molecular Biology (ISMB 2008) was held in Toronto, Canada on July 19 - 23, 
2008.There were over 1500 attendees in Toronto in July of 2008. The Toronto 
conference program included around 70 contributed papers that are selected by 
an international program committee during a rigorous review process rivaling the 
editorial procedure for top-rate scientific journals with an acceptance rate of 
10-15%. Contributed papers are collected in a volume published by as a 
Supplement to the OUP Journal Bioinformatics and are available at the 
conference. Also, ~1,000 posters have been presented during the conference. 
二、與會心得 
 Hundreds of attendee seized up the Metro Toronto Convention Centre 
of Toronto, and the stream of people rushed on the road between talks. 8 lecture 
halls simultaneously held different programs: Paper, Highlights, Special Sessions, 
PLoS, Demonstration, and Industry. Volunteers asking questions are often seen in 
the talks. Hundreds of authors stood beside their posters and are willing to 
附件一 
16 
 
posters and were willing to explain their works if any visitors dropped by.  
 
四、與會心得 
First of all, I would like to thank all who provide grants that I could have 
such a great chance to present one of the largest international conferences in 
bioinformatics. During the period of the conference, thousands of attendees 
seized up the Metro Toronto Convention Centre of Toronto, and the stream of 
people rushed on the road between talks. By attending this conference to 
communicate with world-wide researchers face by face, I obtained many 
pioneering ideas and tried to slightly and correctly modify the orientation in my 
research. Furthermore, I also learned that great research results were usually 
come out from excellent collaborations. 
 
