2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
具 extended max-arithmetic mean 運算之模糊動態系統的基本性質 
(On some fundamentals of the extended max-arithmetic mean fuzzy dynamic systems) 
中文摘要 
模糊關係於研究模糊動態系統扮演著基礎且重要的角色，傳統上，我們會用矩陣來代表模糊
關係，如此一來，我們可藉用矩陣之四則運算來了解模糊動態系統的行為。 
本研究假設系統運作服從extended max-arithmetic mean 運算， 我們可以證明： 著樣的系
統具穩定行為。 除此之外， 本計畫亦研究模糊關聯方程式的解的行為， 我們得到許多好性
質並且設計出有效率之演算法。 
 
關鍵詞：模糊關係 、模糊矩陣 、extended max-arithmetic mean 運算、模糊關聯方程式 、t-norm
運算、u-norm運算 
Abstract 
Fuzzy relations play a crucial role in the study of fuzzy dynamic systems.  Conventionally, Fuzzy matrices 
have been proposed to represent fuzzy relations on finite universes. Hence, the properties of the fuzzy matrices 
will have deep impact to the fuzzy dynamic systems. Since Thomason's paper in 1977 showing that the max–min 
powers of a fuzzy matrix either converge or oscillate with a finite period, conditions for limiting behavior of 
powers of a fuzzy matrix have been studied. It turns out that the limiting behavior depends on the algebraic 
operations employed, which usually in the literature include max–min/max-product/max-Archimedean 
t-norm/max-t-norm/max-arithmetic mean operations, respectively. In this research, we consider the 
max-generalized mean powers of a fuzzy matrix which is an extension of the max-arithmetic mean operation. We 
show that the powers of such fuzzy matrices are always convergent. And we may conclude that such  fuzzy 
dynamic systems are stable. On the other hand, we propose a unified concept called the u-norm which unifies 
the generalized mean and the Archimedean t-norm. The u-norm has been applied to study the solution sets of a 
fuzzy relational equation. 
Besides the fuzzy dynamic systems, the fuzzy relations are also important in understanding the what so 
called the inverse problem. And the inverse problems are usually modeled as the fuzzy relational equations. With 
the NSC support, we also investigate some fundamentals of the solutions of the fuzzy relational equations. We 
designed efficient algorithms for finding the desired solution (such as an optimal solution when one needs to 
consider, for instance, the cost as the objective function. We also consider the decision problem with multiple 
objective functions and a fuzzy relational equation constraint. 
 
Keywords: fuzzy relations, fuzzy matrices, extended max-arithmetic mean operation, fuzzy 
relational equation, t-norm operation, u-norm operation 
1 Introduction
Notation. Let N denote the set of natural numbers. R denotes the set of real number.
For a fuzzy matrix1 A, we mean A = [aij] with aij ∈ [0, 1]. Let F denote the unit interval,
i.e., F=[0,1]. We let Fm×n denote the set of all the m × n fuzzy matrices. Let A,B ∈
Fn×n. Then A ∨B = [max(aij, bij)]. A ∧B = [min(aij, bij)]. A ≤ B iff aij ≤ bij. I is the
identity matrix of size n. AT is the transpose of A. The operation 	 plays an important
role in the study of fuzzy matrices. Let x, y ∈ [0, 1]. The operation x	 y is defined by
x	 y =
 x if x > y,0 otherwise.
Let A,B ∈ Fn×n. A 	 B = [aij 	 bij]. We define 4A = A 	 AT and 5A = A ∧ AT . It
follows that 5A is symmetric.
Boolean Matrices. Let B be an n×n Boolean matrix. A non-zero vector u ∈ {0, 1}n
is called a Boolean eigenvector of B if there exists an s in {0, 1} such that B⊗u = s⊗u.
This s is a Boolean eigenvalue associated with an eigenvector u. It is a well-known result
that all Boolean matrices have an eigenvalue. Define the Boolean spectral radius of B by
ρ(B), the largest Boolean eigenvalues of B. Note that ρ(B) is 0 or 1. We refer to Robert
[39] for further study in this area.
It is well known that the sequence of consecutive powers of a Boolean matrix with
max-min (or max-product) operation either converges in finitely many steps or oscillates
with a finite period (see for instance [22], [42]). Precisely, there exist c0 and p such that
Bc = Bc+kp, k ∈ N, c ≥ c0 ≥ 1.
If p = 1, we have a convergent Boolean sequence. The minimal such p is the period (or
periodic index).
1.1 Fuzzy relation and the matrix representation
Fuzzy matrices have been proposed to represent fuzzy relations in a system based on fuzzy
sets theory ([1],[5],[21],[24],[25],[36],[41],[44],[47]). Precisely, consider the fuzzy relation
1In literature, a fuzzy matrix may be defined in different way. For instance, a fuzzy matrix can be a
rectangular array of fuzzy numbers. See the discussion in [5].)
1
shall denote R⊗R by R2⊗. Moreover, we shall denote the n-fold composition R˜◦ R˜ · · · ◦ R˜
by R˜n◦ . The R
n
⊗ = R ⊗ Rn−1⊗ with n ≥ 2 is the nth power of matrix R under the ⊗
operation.
1.2 Algebraic operations involved in composition
To explore the properties of fuzzy relations, the generic operations ⊕ and  appeared
in (1) must be specified. The most common operations in this context may be the
max-min operations, namely, the ⊕ becomes “max” and  becomes “min”. The other
one is the max-product operations, where the ⊕ becomes “max” and  is the regular
multiplication. Indeed, other operations have been employed in the study of fuzzy sets
theory. Many of them can be studied in a unified way, to which we now turn.
Definition 1. Let T : [0, 1] × [0, 1] → [0, 1]. T is called a triangular norm if the
following conditions hold.
1 T (0, 0) = 0, T (1, 1) = 1.
2 T (x, y) = T (y, x).
3 T (T (x, y), z) = T (x, T (y, z)).
4 T (x, y) ≤ T (x1, y1) if x ≤ x1, y ≤ y1.
A triangular norm T is called a t-norm ([5])if T (1, x) = x for any x ∈ [0, 1]. A triangular
norm T is called a s-norm if T (0, x) = x for any x ∈ [0, 1].
Obviously, both of the “min” and “multiplication” operations are special cases of the
t-norm , while the “max” operation is a special case of the s-norm ([8]).
Definition 2 (Fan [8]). A t-norm T is called a zero t-norm if T (x, x) < x for
0 < x < 1.
Several popular operations are examples of the zero t-norm: arithmetic product, Bolt
intersection, Einstein product, Yager product, and Hamacher product ([8]).
In this research, we shall review three kinds of composition: max-min operation, max-
product operation, and max zero t-norm operation. We note that the “min” operation
is not a zero t-norm.
3
We could obtain a more general operator by combining the convex mean and the
root-power mean powers into the following setting:
[A ◦ A]ij = max
1≤k≤n
{(λapik + (1− λ)apkj)1/p},
where p 6= 0 and 0 ≤ λ ≤ 1. We shall call this setting as a max-general mean composition.
1.3 Motivation
Study on the limiting behavior of powers of a fuzzy matrix is to explore the nature
of the sequence of consecutive powers of a fuzzy matrix. In fuzzy clustering ([25], [44],
[47]) and fuzzy dynamic systems ([5]), the powers of a fuzzy matrix arise naturally. We
review it in the area of fuzzy clustering.
Equivalence relation is an important mechanism in the study of element clustering
in a domain. On the other hand, fuzzy relations have been employed to extend the
equivalence relation to the “situations where the classes involved do not have sharply
boundaries” (Zadeh [46]). More specifically, the similarity relation plays the key role in
this regard. As stated in Zadeh [46]: “The concept of a similarity relation is essentially
a generalization of the concept of an equivalence relation.”
Definition 3 (Zadeh [46]). A similarity relation R˜ is a fuzzy relation in X satisfying
the following conditions:
1. (reflexive) µR˜(x, x) = 1 for all x in Dom (R˜).
2. (symmetric) µR˜(x, y) = µR˜(y, x) for all x, y in Dom (R˜).
3. (transitive) R˜ ◦ R˜ ⊂ R˜, where ◦ is the max-min operation.
The transitive property can be expressed as µR˜(x, z) ≥ maxy{min(µR˜(x, y), µR˜(y, z))} for
all x, y, z in Dom (R˜). Expressed in matrix form, R˜ is a similarity relation if R ∧ I = I;
RT = R, and R2⊗ ≤ R.
With a similarity relation R˜, Dom (R˜) can be partitioned into different classes by
the equivalence relation R˜α, where R˜α = {(x, y) : µR˜(x, y) ≥ α} and α is a threshold.
The equivalence classes generated by a similarity relation have many applications. For
instance, in the similarity-based fuzzy relational databases proposed by Buckles and
5
relations in fuzzy relational databases can be found as well in Ma, Zhang, and Ma ([34])
and Guu, Pang and Liu ([14]).
2 Convergence of powers of a fuzzy matrix with
max-min operation
Since Thomason’s paper ([45]) published in 1977 showing that the powers of a fuzzy
matrix with the max-min operation either converge to an idempotent fuzzy matrix or
oscillate with a finite period, conditions for the powers to converge or oscillate have been
explored in the literature. For the convergence and oscillation of powers of R, we mean
that there exist c0 and p such that
Rc⊗ = R
c+kp
⊗ , k ∈ N, c ≥ c0 ≥ 1.
When p = 1, the sequence of consecutive powers of R is convergent. The minimal such
p is called the period or the periodic index. When the power sequence is convergent, we
shall call the smallest c0 with R
c0⊗ = R
c0+1⊗ the convergent speed.
The main reason in Thomason’s results is that the Logic Max and Logic Min operations
can not yield an entry not in R. Hence, the power sequence has to stay “constant”
(convergence) or to be cyclic within a finite number of distinct matrices generated by the
powers of R.
It turns out that the behavior of the powers of a fuzzy matrix depends on the associated
algebraic operations heavily. For instance, the sequence of powers of a fuzzy matrix with
max-product operation may either converge to a fuzzy matrix or oscillate (not necessarily
with a finite period). Hence, in this section, we shall confine ourself with the max-min
operation. We shall discuss other operations in later section.
Main strategies in the literature of establishing convergence of powers of a fuzzy matrix
can be roughly divided into three types: monotonicity approach, cut-matrix approach,
and graph-based approach. Before proceeding, we recall that R ∈ Fn×n is an idempotent
fuzzy matrix if R = R2⊗. R ∈ Fn×n is a nilpotent fuzzy matrix if Rp⊗ = 0 for some positive
integer p.
2.1 Monotonicity Approach
7
wider fuzzy matrix classes than transitive matrix class. We shall review this topic in s-
transitive fuzzy matrices and controllable fuzzy matrices.
Nearly monotone increasing fuzzy matrices. Fan and Liu ([9]) proposed the no-
tion of maximum principle to establish some interesting convergence results for the powers
of a fuzzy matrix. Precisely, let R ∈ Fn×n. R satisfies the maximum principle if for each
t, either
rtt = max
1≤k≤n
{rkt} or rtt = max
1≤k≤n
{rtk}.
Note that example was given by Fan and Liu to show that R ≤ R2⊗ may fail for an R
satisfying the maximum principle. However, with the maximum principle, Fan and Liu
established R2⊗ ≤ R3⊗. In other words, the monotonicity starts from the second power of
R. This implies
R2⊗ ≤ R3⊗ ≤ · · · .
Hence, the sequence of {Rn⊗} converges to an idempotent fuzzy matrix. Moreover, n− 1
is an upper bound of convergent speed.
The conditions for the convergence of powers of a fuzzy matrix reviewed so far involved
monotonicity between two consecutive powers. If the powers involved in monotonicity are
not consecutive, the sequence of powers of a fuzzy matrix may not be convergent. Buckley
([2]) recently pointed out a false result in Thomason ([45]), which stated “if Rq ≤ Rp
for q < p, then the sequence {Rn⊗} converges.” This can be seen by the counterexample
by Buckley or oscillating results from the s-transitive fuzzy matrices. We note that this
false result was pointed out in Li ([30]) as well.
2.2 Cut-matrix Approach
It is well known that Boolean matrices are special fuzzy matrices. In the literature,
properties and applications of Boolean matrices have been studied extensively. The
research on fuzzy matrices may be motivated from the counterparts of Boolean matrices.
Indeed, this is true: for instance, it is well known that the sequence of consecutive powers
of a Boolean matrix with max-min operation either converges in finite many steps or
oscillates with a finite period. As shown by Thomason, the same result holds for fuzzy
matrices. The other example is for the eigenvalue issue: it is well known that all Boolean
matrices have an eigenvalue ([39]). A recent result in this regard for fuzzy matrices by
9
periodic index of the powers of a Boolean matrix can be found in De Schutter and De
Moor ([42]).
Graph-based Approach. As mentioned in previous subsection, Graph-based approach
played an important role in the study of Boolean matrices ([22]). One may expect a sim-
ilar role here in the study of fuzzy matrices. Several papers by Fan ([8]) and Fan and Liu
([10], [11]) along this approach have been published in the literature. In the following
discussion, we shall follow the notations in Fan ([8]) and Fan and Liu ([11]).
Let R = [rij] be an n×n fuzzy matrix. The (direct) graph representation of R, denoted
by D(R), is defined by D(R) =< V,E >, where the vertex set V = {v1, v2, · · · , vn} and
the set of edges E = {(vi, vj) ∈ V × V : rij > 0}. A path from vi to vj has a length of
k ≥ 1 if a sequence (vi, vl1), (vl1 , vl2), · · · , (vlk−1 , vj) is contained in E. And the path is
denoted by L = L〈vi, vl1 , vl2 , · · · , vlk−1 , vj〉. The capacity of L = L〈vi, vl1 , vl2 , · · · , vlk−1 , vj〉
denoted by w(L) is defined as
w(L) = ril1  rl1l2  · · ·  rlk−1j.
A circular path is a path with coincident initial vertex and terminal vertex. A vertex vi
is called a circular vertex if there exists a circular path passing through vi. Two circular
paths are connected directly if they have a common vertex.
Let Rk⊗ := [r
k
ij]. It follows from the setting based on direct graph D(R) that r
k
ij = 0 if
there is no path from vi to vj with a length of k. Otherwise,
rkij = max{w(L) : L is a path from vi to vj with a length of k}.
Regarding the convergence issue of powers of a fuzzy matrix based on D(R), Fan and
Liu ([11]) proved that the power sequence of R converges if and only if there exists an
integer n0 such that for all k ≥ n0, for each circular vertex vi, rkii = rn0ii .
3 Oscillation of powers of a fuzzy matrix
As stated before, the powers of a fuzzy matrix, when oscillating, will have a finite pe-
riod. It is interesting to note that several fuzzy matrix classes with p = 2 have been
identified. They are Rrd fuzzy matrices (related to the reciprocal matrices [4]), strongly
11
of controllable matrices and the fact that each s-transitive fuzzy matrix has a canonical
form, we have the strongly transitive matrix class is a subset of the controllable matrix
class. Moreover, examples given by Li show that this inclusion is proper.
One interesting result is to characterize a fuzzy matrix to be controllable by nilpo-
tence. Precisely, Li ([29]) proved that R is controllable if and only if 4R is nilpotent.
Furthermore, regarding the powers of a controllable fuzzy matrix of size n× n, Li ([31])
proved that
Rl⊗ ≤ Rl+2⊗ ≤ · · · and Rl+1⊗ ≤ Rl+3⊗ ≤ · · · ,
where l is the least integer such that (4R)l⊗ = 0. Furthermore, R2n+l−4⊗ = R2n+l−2⊗ and
R2n+l−3⊗ = R
2n+l−1
⊗ hold for a controllable matrix for l ≥ 2. It follows that the oscillatory
powers of a controllable matrix have period 2.
Reciprocal Matrices. Two special subclasses of the s-transitive matrices, related to
the reciprocal matrices ([35]), has been studied in the literature. The reciprocal matrices
arise from the study on group decision making and classification ([35]). A fuzzy matrix
R is called reciprocal if (p1.) rij = 1 − rji for i 6= j and (p2.) rii = 0.5. Di Nola
, Kolodziejczyk and Sessa ([4]) denoted Rr the class of reciprocal matrices satisfying
(p3.), where (p3.) states for distinct indexes i, j, k with rik > 0.5 and rkj > 0.5, then
rij > 0.5. A larger matrix class Rrd contains any fuzzy matrix satisfying (p1.) and (p3.).
From the definitions, one can show that
Rr ⊂ Rrd ⊂ s-transitive matrix class.
Di Nola et. al. showed that the powers of a Rr fuzzy matrix of size n × n converges.
Moreover, the speed of convergence has an upper bound n. For the powers of a Rrd
fuzzy matrix of size n × n, the following results can be established: R2n−1⊗ = R2n+l⊗ and
R2n⊗ = R
2n+2
⊗ . Hence, the powers of a Rrd fuzzy matrix are either convergent or oscillating
with a period 2.
Circularly k-dominating Matrices. Let R be an n× n fuzzy matrix. Based on the
direct graph D(R), Fan and Liu ([11]) proposed the notion of circularly k-dominating
matrices. A positive integer p is called a circularly dominating index of R if for every
circular path L there exists a circular path L1 with length p connecting with L directly
and w(L) ≤ w(L1). The minimal such p, denoted by k, is called the circularly dominating
index of R. And R is called a circularly k-dominating matrix.
13
Up to now we have seen very different for the limiting behavior of the powers of a max-
t-norm fuzzy matrix and a max-generalized mean fuzzy matrix. Can we explore more
on these two compositions? Lur et al. [33] considered the following convex combination
composition:
[A ◦ A]ij = max
1≤k≤n
{λmin{aik, akj}+ (1− λ)aik + akj
2
},
where λ ∈ [0, 1]. They showed that the powers of a max-convex combination fuzzy matrix
are always convergent for all 0 ≤ λ < 1. Thus, as long as λ 6= 1, the limiting behavior
of powers of this fuzzy matrix is same to that of a max-arithmetic mean fuzzy matrix.
This result is very interesting if we consider whether the max-min operation is “robust”
or not. When the max-min operation is “perturbed” a little bit in sense of our convex
combination (this may correspond to a λ very close to 1), then the major behavior of
powers of a max-min fuzzy matrix shall change significantly and follow the property
inherited from the max-arithmetic mean fuzzy matrix.
5 The u-norm and the fuzzy relational equation
This section proposes a new class of functions, called u-norm. U-norm is a generaliza-
tion of the three functions (arithmetic mean, continuous Archimedean t-norm and fuzzy
and with c < 1). The max-u-norm can be viewed as an extention of the max-arithmetic
mean. Our results show that the u-norm unifies several coommonly seen operators in
fuzzy dynamic systems. The concept of u-norm just appear in the literature in our 2011
paper. We first explore its usefulness in the field of fuzzy relational equations. We believe
it is so general yet still with precise formulation and should attract scholars to explore
its properties and usefulness.
Definition 5. A u-norm is a bivariate function U: [0, 1] × [0, 1] such that U(0, 0) =
0, U(1, 1) = 1, and U is strictly increasing on the domain in which U(x) > 0.
Obviously the weighted power mean with nonzero weights and a positive power is a
u-norm. Since the arithmetic mean is a special case of such a weighted power mean, this
also proves that the arithmetic mean is a u-norm.
In fuzzy set theory, fuzzy relations describe vague relationships among elements. Fuzzy
relational equations (FREs) are associated with the composition of fuzzy relations, and
have been used as a uniform platform in many applications of fuzzy systems. For exam-
15
The problem that is solved is as follows. Does a class of operations (denoted u-norm,
for brevity) exist such that both continuous Archimedean t-norm and arithmetic mean
are special cases of u-norm, and that solving FREs based on the max-continuous u-norm
composition is still equivalent to the covering problem? Finding such a u-norm has im-
portant implications, both theoretical and practical. Theoretically, the existence of the
u-norm reveals that NP-hardness applies more generally to FREs than of either maxcon-
tinuous Archimedean t-norm FREs and max-arithmetic mean FREs. In the literature,
many approaches have been proposed for solving special cases of max-continuous u-norm
FREs, e.g., max-product FREs, max-continuous Archimedean tnorm FREs and max-
arithmetic mean FREs. The equivalence between max-continuous u-norm FREs and
the covering problem reveals that all these systems of FREs are essentially equivalent,
since they all are equivalent to the covering problem. Practically, the equivalence be-
tween max-continuous u-norm FREs and the covering problem suggests two approaches
for solving the max-continuous u-norm FREs. The first approach is to transform the
max-continuous u-norm FREs into the covering problem, which is then solved by any
existing algorithm for the covering problem. Notably, the covering problem has been
studied in many other fields, and their results can also be applied to solve the covering
problem, and consequently the max-continuous u-norm FREs. For example, the covering
problem can also be formulated as the construction of irredundant disjunctive normal
form for a monotone Boolean function. The second approach is to transform a system of
FREs that is based on some max-continuous u-norm composition to another system of
FREs that is based on a different max-continuous u-norm composition, such that both
systems are equivalent to the same covering problem. For example, max-continuous u-
norm FREs are transformed to max-product FREs. Such a transformation allows any
solution procedure that has been established for max-product FREs to be applied to
solve the max-continuous u-norm FREs problem of interest. This approach for solving
max-continuous u-norm FREs is different from most solution procedures for FREs in two
aspects. First, it transforms the FREs to use a different composition operator without
affecting the set of solutions. Second, it is built on top of the existing solution procedures
for FREs. To transform the problem of solving a system of FREs into the covering prob-
lem, the system of FREs must exhibit the zero-or-greatest property, meaning that each
component of any minimal solution must be either zero or the value of the corresponding
component of the greatest solution.
17
11. Fan, Z.-T. and Liu, D.-F., On the power sequence of a fuzzy matrix (III). A detailed
study on the power sequence of matrices of commonly used types, Fuzzy Sets and
Systems 99, 197-203 (1998).
12. Y.-Y. Lur, Y.-K. Wu, S.-M. Guu, On the max-generalized mean powers of a fuzzy
matrix, Fuzzy Sets and Systems 161 (5), 750-762 (2010).
13. Y.-Y. Lur, Y.-K. Wu, S.-M. Guu, Convergence of powers of a max-arithmetic mean
fuzzy matrix, Fuzzy Sets and Systems 158, 2516-2522 (2007).
14. Guu, S.-M., Pang, C.-T., and Liu, J. Y.-C., On the Proximately Semantic Measure
of Fuzzy Data in Extended Possibility-Based Fuzzy Relational Databases, working
paper, Department of Information Management, Yuan Ze University, (2001).
15. Hashimoto, H., Reduction of a nilpotent fuzzy matrix, Information Sciences 27,
233-243 (1982).
16. Hashimoto, H., Convergence of powers of a fuzzy transitive matrix, Fuzzy Sets and
Systems 9, 153-160 (1983).
17. Hashimoto, H., Canonical form of a transitive fuzzy matrix, Fuzzy Sets and Systems
11, 157-162 (1983).
18. Hashimoto, H., Szpilrajn’s theorem on fuzzy orderings, Fuzzy Sets and Systems 10,
101-108 (1983).
19. Hashimoto, H., Decomposition of fuzzy matrices, SIAM J. ALG. DISC. METH.
6(1), 32-38 (1985).
20. Hashimoto, H., Transitivity of generalized fuzzy matrices, Fuzzy Sets and Systems
17, 83-90 (1985).
21. Higashi, M. and Klir, G.J., Resolution of finite fuzzy relation equations, Fuzzy Sets
and Systems 13, 65-82(1984).
22. K.H. Kim, Boolean Matrix Theory and Applications, Marcel Dekker, New York,
1982.
19
35. Nakamura, K., Preference relations on a set of fuzzy utilities as a basis for decision
making, Fuzzy Sets and Systems 20, 146-162 (1986).
36. Ovchinnikov, S.V., Structure of fuzzy relations, Fuzzy Sets and Systems 6, 169-195
(1981).
37. Pang, C.-T., On the sequence of consecutive powers of a fuzzy matrix with max
zero t-norms, Working paper, Department of Information Management, Yuan Ze
University (2001).
38. Pang, C.-T. and Guu, S.-M., A note on the sequence of consecutive powers of
a nonnegative matrix in max algebra, Linear Algebra and Its Applications 330,
209-213 (2001).
39. F. Robert, Discrete Iterations: a metric study, Springer-Verlag, Berlin, 1986.
40. Rosenblatt, D.,On the graphs of finite idempotent Boolean relation matrices, J.
Res. Nat. Bur. Standards 67 B, 249-259 (1963).
41. Sanchez, E., Resolution of composite fuzzy relation equations, Information and
Control 30, 38-48 (1976).
42. De Schutter B. and De Moor, B., On the sequence of consecutive powers of a matrix
in a Boolean algebra, SIAM J. MATRIX ANAL. APPL. 21(1), 328-354 (1999).
43. Shenoi, S. and Melton, A., Proximity Relations in the Fuzzy Relational Database
Model, Fuzzy Sets and Systems 100 Supplement, 51-62 (1999).
44. T. Terano, K. Asai, M. Sugeno, Fuzzy Systems Theory and Its Applications, Aca-
demic Press, San Diego, 1992.
45. Thomason, M.G., Convergence of powers of a fuzzy matrix, Journal of Mathemat-
ical Analysis and Applications 57, 476-480 (1977).
46. Zadeh, L.A., Similarity relations and fuzzy orderings, Inform. Sci. 3, 177-200 (1971).
47. H.-J. Zimmermann, Fuzzy Set Theory and Its applications, Kluwer Academic Pub-
lisher, Boston, 1991.
21
行政院國家科學委員會補助學者參加國際學術會議報告 
                                          100 年 05 月 13 日 
 
報告人姓名 
 
古思明 
 
服務機構
 
 
元智大學 
 
職稱 
 
 
教授 
中文：第四届計算科學與優化國際研討會  
會議正式名稱 
英文：The Fourth International Joint Conference on Computational Sciences 
and Optimization 
會 議 時 間       自 100 年 4 月 15 日至
100 年 4 月 19 日 
地點（國、州、城市） 
 
中國雲南省昆明 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
 
一、 參加會議經過: 第四届計算科學與優化國際研討會 今年假中國雲南省昆
明市的綠洲國際大酒店舉行 據大會統計 投稿參加本研討會超過八百多
篇論文 最後大會只通過三百篇左右 不過仔細觀察 大部分參與者來自中
國大陸之博士研究生與學者 其他地區或國家參與者人數比例較少 也可
看出大陸的博士研究生積極參與研討會的狀況 
    報告人本次受邀擔任 KEYNOTE SPEAKER (共三位) 進行四十五分鐘之 
論文專題演講 講題環繞著模糊關聯方程式近年來之研究進展與模糊關聯方程
式無解情形之下的最佳近似解的求解方法 會後有華中科大教授進行深入討論
     除發表論文專題演講外 報告人擔任最佳論文之複評審工作 選出香港大
學程教授所發表的論文為最佳作品 可以發現大陸學者的研究結果較不完備 
不過從資料上看來 大陸學者進步很快 研究生亦努力 值得注意 
 
二、 與會心得: 大陸學者常帶領研究生出席國際研討會 討論亦顯積極 值得
注意 
 
三、 考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略）:無 
 
四、 建議事項: 無 
 
五、 其他: 無 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具extended max-arithmetic mean 運算之模糊動態系統的基本性質
計畫主持人: 古思明
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-155-041-MY3 學門領域: 作業研究
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
「無」 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
