中文摘要 
對於智慧家庭一直以來有許多相關的討論，應用的方法與使用的介面也都不太一樣，對於
這些來源的整合以及訂定一個通用的規格是非常重要的，讓環境的資訊可以整合在一起，但使
用的對像大部分還是一般的使用者，男女老少等許多不同的使用族群，要讓他們執行工程師做
的事是不可能的，因此一個有效且簡單易懂的介面是非常重要的。 
 
本研究使用派屈網路做為核心，對上聯結給一般民眾的人機介面，對下與許多硬體周邊聯
結，負責資訊的整合與分析，並透過一些運算的方法，建立一個完整且效率高的系統，使環境
的建立更具彈性。 
 
其中，無線射頻辨識（RFID，Radio Frequency Identification）在無所不在運算（Ubiquitous 
Computation）環境中，室內定位的服務更是一項不可或缺的能力；因此，將 RFID的辨識能力
應用於定位服務上就成為了一項熱門的研究主題，相較於現今已成熟運用的 GPS定位系統，
RFID的定位服務可以補足 GPS無法應用於室內建築的缺點。本研究目的之一就是將現今已經
發展出來的應用主動式 RFID標籤的室內定位技術（LANDMARC）進行分析與探討，找出引
起重大誤差的原因並且加以改善。 
本研究亦提出了一個可供輪椅使用者使用的手勢辨識系統。大多數的手勢辨識相關文獻只
探討如何提升手勢辨識的準確度，但是在這篇論文中除了手勢辨識之外，還有許多的問題需要
解決，例如偵測手什麼時候進入影片當中或者手掌的區域是不是有超出影片的周圍。該系統流
程可以分為四個步驟，首先要判斷手何時出現在影片中，接下來是如何把手從背景中擷取出
來，然後判斷手掌是否超出影片的四周圍，最後則是手勢辨識。在擷取手部區域方面，我們從
統計學的離群值(outlier)觀念做延伸應用到膚色偵測上，不同於大多數的手勢辨識系統只對膚
色做了單一階段的偵測，我們做了兩階段的膚色偵測，藉由此方法去除跟手相連的膚色雜訊。
至於判斷手掌是否超出影片的四周圍的階段，我們利用人體工學的概念來判斷手掌是否超出影
片範圍外。從實驗結果可發現本文提出的系統除了背景的膚色雜訊過大或者手跟攝影機的距離
太過接近無法克服之外，整體而言是相當成功的，如果把本文所提出的系統搭配硬體或者晶片
加以實現，將有助於提升輪椅使用者單獨在家時候的便利性。 
 
關鍵字：LANDMARC、定位、無線射頻辨識、訊號強度、拓撲。 
 
 研究動機與研究問題 
 
Location-aware system and service is very useful to us in our lives. One of the most famous 
outdoor location-based systems is Global Position System (GPS). GPS is widely used to track 
moving objects outdoors. However, because of insufficient resolution and difficult to communicate 
with satellites, GPS is hardly used for locating objects of inside buildings. Indoor location detection 
plays an important role in our lives because we may need to know somebody or something’s accurate 
location. It could help us to do some managements or tracking, for example: museum, exhibition, 
bank, and hospital, etc. And, it will become more and more significant because many applications 
need to know the physical locations of objects in an automatic system in the future. This system 
needs to provide a function of automatic location sensing so that it can do some automatic controls 
according to sensed locations. Thus, the study of indoor location detection is a very interesting issue. 
In order to achieve the ability to locate objects within buildings, our study of an indoor 
location-aware system is reported in this study. 
With the science and technology advanced rapidly nowadays, there are many kinds of location 
technologies developed, such as infrared, 802.11 network, ultrasonic, and Radio Frequency 
Identification (RFID). Among them, RFID indoor location detection is one of the most popular 
technologies because the nature of no contact and non-line of sight required in this technology. RFID 
consists of readers and tags. There is a system using RFID in implementing an indoor location 
sensing system in the literature. Such an approach is called LANDMARC. The tags used for 
LANDMARC system is active tags. The approach has demonstrated that active tags used in RFID 
are viable and cost-effective candidates for indoor location sensing. Although LANDMARC is a 
viable system for indoor location sensing, it still has some problems which needs to resolve. In this 
study, we report our study in investigating some ideas for improving the efficiency and accuracy of 
LANDMARC. 
 
According to the statistics announced by the Department of Statistics, Ministry of the Interior of 
Taiwan, to the end of 2009, the number of people with physical disabilities is 396,753, which 
accounts for about 1.7% of the total population in Taiwan. Among those people with physical 
disabilities, 37.6% are with lower-limb disabilities, which cover the largest portion of people with 
physical disabilities in Taiwan. Owing to their moving capability being limited, people with 
lower-limb disabilities often rely on their family members or care givers to take care of them or help 
them with household chores. In fact, recent statistics show a tendency of rapid increase in the number 
of not only people with physical disabilities but also elderly people who may need external help in 
their daily lives. It can easily be predicted that, in the near future, taking care of those people will be 
  
研究方法 
1.派屈網路 
1.1. 簡介派屈網路 
 
派屈網路是一個圖形化和數學化的網路架構，可以將整個作業流程化成若干個事件與來
源，以模組化的樣式運作，不僅可以提高使用的效能還可以方便使用者檢視資料的流串與資源
的使用，現今已被使用於許多地方。從最開始用於伺服端與使用端之間的封包傳遞，以數學的
方式檢查資是否有浪費或死結(DEADLOCK)的情形發生；進而拓展到其它領域，用於商業可
以使管理者更有效的掌握資金與貨物的流向；用於建築可以簡化繁鎖的 SOP掌握工程的進度；
用於系統控制，可以讓管理者以較簡單的方式設計最佳化的控制器。派屈網路是一個有助於流
程管理、整合來源資訊的一個方便且有效的工具， 
 
1.2. 基本定義 
Petri Nets is composed of 4 groups ( )WFTPN ,,,= . P is the set of place and T is the set of 
transition. The set ( ) ( )PTTPF ×∪×⊆  is the flow relation or directed arcs. The set W is a 
weighted value written as +→ ZFW :  where +Z  is the set of non-negative integers. Given a 
met ( )WFTPN ,,,=  and a node TPx ∪∈ , ( ){ }FxyTPyx ∈∪∈=• ,  is the preset of x , 
while ( ){ }FyxTPyx ∈∪∈=• ,  is the post-set of node x . This notation can be extended to a 
set of nodes as follows: given TPX ∪⊆ , xX Xx •∈• = U  and •∈•= xX XxU . A marking is 
mapping +→ ZPM : . The pair ( )0, MN  is a marked petri net or a net system. The set of 
markings reachable from M  in N  is denoted as pair ( )MNR , . The Incidence matrix [ ]N  
of net N  is an integer matrix as TP × and ( ) ( ) ( )tpWptWtpN ,,,][ −= . 
 
2. Sensor Network Based Petri Nets 
 
A lot of people study for this issue. They focus on the disposing place if the transition is fixed. Now, 
a lot of studies discuss about this issue but it depends on state transformed. In physical application, 
people use it in process management. For example, the workers in the factory do not necessary for 
supervising other status. It is enough to know next stage for them. For IC designer, they study their 
transition. 
k
k A
C



=
0
 k=1、2、…、n  Satisfy kS  is nonzero vector. 
Suppose the '0M  is the newest marked and it is made from original marked. We can separate it into 
sum of all the transitions that are fired by token and the vector which is composed of the remainder 
of tokens.  
∑
=
+=
n
k
kSMM
1
Re
'
0  
Now, we want to find the difference between marked 0M and '0M  so the newest marked subtract the 
initial marked. Reference by, we called the newest marked '0M  is reachable from initial marked 
0M  if and only if the difference between 0M and '0M must be a linear combination through the 
matrix A . 
( ) ∑∑∑∑
====
=−=





+−





+=−=∆
n
k
k
n
k
kk
n
k
k
n
k
k CMSMMSMMMM
111
Re
1
Re0
'
0  
Simplify the above equation that it become sum of vector of firing transition and we define the 
difference from '0M  to 0M as M∆ . Applying the definition , if 
'
0M  is reachable from 0M through 
matrix A , it must be satisfied 0=∆MB f .  
We decompose the matrix A  into ( ) ( ) rArankArankwhere
AA
AA
A nm ==





=× 21
2221
1211
so 
that ( ) ( )[ ]11211 −×− −= TTrrmf AAIB  . 
and put into original function. We can get 
0
11
=⋅=⋅=∆ ∑∑
==
n
k
kf
n
k
kff CBCBMB . 
In this algorithm, we combine the status of the tokens to produce another marking but it still satisfies 
the definition of Petri net. The newest marked also reachable from the initial marked.  
 
2.2. Remove Place and Deadlock Prevention 
 
In this section, we want to design a system which is able to increase and decrease the node from the 
Step 2: if ∑∑
==
+≤+
n
j
ij
n
j
ij aMaM ii
1
0
1
0 then 
   Delete relative transition  
Make the column vector of matrix 0:=iA  
   Go to Step 1 
end if 
Step 3: 1: += ii  
Step 4: if mi ≤ then go to Step 2 end if 
This algorithm is not hard to understand because we use the mask net to build the whole system. The 
method of deadlock prevention can detect the illegal part from the net of Petri net and delete it. 
 
3. 運作架構 
 
此研究將整個系統分成三個部分，從硬體的角度來看有電腦、控制器、感測器或資料來源
的裝置。電腦為整個系統的核心扮演非常重要的角色，可以概分為兩個部分：人機介面、資料
處理模組，也是派屈網路執行運算整合環境資訊的地方。使用者透過人性化的介面，可以觀察
環境中人與空間中的物件之間的關係，本系統還可以透過模擬器，模擬空間中人與物件之間運
作的行為。控制器為電腦和外部裝置連接的橋樑，可以用階層的方式連接數個控制器再與終端
的裝置連接。電腦以中斷的方式接收控制器以 RS232 傳送過來的資訊，然後將讀入的資訊送
至派屈網路執行。資料來源為智慧型物件和空間中的物件的合稱，可能為發訊器、影像處理裝
置、家俱、壁畫…等，可以被移動或運作的裝置，將環境資訊傳送給控制器的緩衝區。如 FIG. 
1所示。 
 
 
 
 
HUMAN
BUILDING
CLIENT DATA TABLE
MANAGER
PROCEDURE MANAGER
MODULE
SMART
OBJECT
DEVICE DATA
OPERATING
UNIT
SENDER
UNIT
RECEIVER
UNIT
Link
 
Figure工作的關係圖 
 
 將居住環境的網路分成兩個部分，第一個部分負責資料處理與整合，可能為複數個子網
路，這樣被建立的子網路是由同類型或可以共同產生相同事件的智慧型物件或其他的物件連結
而成，負責將原始的資料進行分析建立完整的資訊，透過這樣的模型還可以達到資源分配的效
果，防止資源使用衝突或重複觸發的情形發生。這類子網路可能因地理相對位置不同而有相同
的網路架構，電源管理或物件觸發系統，本身就能運作，也可以視為一個完整的系統。 
 
Figure第一層子網路架構 
 另一類的子網路對整個家庭的環境是唯一的，與前面不同的地方在於此類的網路運作所需
t30
t33
t31
t34
t32
t35
p39
p35
p38
p34
p37
p36
p40
t1
t2t3t4t5
t6t7
t9 t8
p2p3p4p5
p6
p8
p1p7
p9
p10
t21
t22t23t24t25
t26t27
t29 t28
p25p26p27p28
p29
p32
p24p30
p31
p33
t10
t11
t14t13
t16t15
t19 t18
p18
p17
p16
p15
p20
p21
p11p19
p22
p23
p12
p13
p14p14
t12
t17 t20
 
Figure整合的網路架構 
  
安全且完整的派屈網路是具有循環功能的，當 transition被同時觸發下，無法知道自己以
外的資源使用的狀況，將會產生分岐與矛盾，此研究使用 4.1提出的方法，讓所有的部分都可
以知道目前使用的情形，因此不需要額外的決策就可以使網路能正常的運作，簡化了必免衝突
所需採取的決策行為。 
 
4. 系統與模擬 
 
本系統使用 RS232與周邊的裝置連接，電腦使用 SENDER和 RECIVER與控制器連接，
當電腦收到 RS232的中斷請求命令，就會觸發派屈網路從緩衝區取得資訊。派屈網路應用於
完整智慧家庭的架構如 Figure所示。圖中黑色箭頭代表模組之間的關係，紅色的箭頭為資源
使用的關係，藍色的方框代表群組。 
 Figure家庭監視器 
 
在新的裝置安裝在目標的位置後，透過 Figure的對話框，可以簡化繁鎖的設定，由於環
境中一些不變的項目，如房間的大小與數量等是固定的，應用階層的概念由大設定到小，照著
步驟進行即可快速的建立完整的事件處理流程。因此只要設定好感測器的類型與功能並決定安
裝的位置，就可以一次將子網路建立起來，然後主動的與上層網路聯結。 
 
 
Figure連結新的智慧型物件 
 
 
若輸入資訊發生錯誤，系統會跳出錯誤視窗提示使用者有不良的操作行為，然後釋放掉目
 Figure派屈網路運作流程圖 
 
 
This is the basic assumption for our simulation experiment. All of RFID readers and RFID tags 
will follow the physical characteristics to work in our experiment. It avoids error caused from 
different RFID specifications and standard. 
3. All RFID devices are in motionless states. 
It is reasonable to assume that all of RFID readers and tags are in static states in our simulation 
experiment. Because readers and tags use radio wave to communicate with each other, it is 
known that there are differences between two waves, emitted before moving and after moving. 
One of these two waves will interfere with each other wave. In order to eliminate the 
phenomenon, we assume that all of RFID devices are in the static state. 
4. Signal propagation is line of sight. 
There are many kinds of phenomenon about the signal propagation in non-line-of-sight 
environment, such as refraction, diffraction and reflection. They may bring some other problems. 
In this study, we assume that the signal propagation between readers and tags is line of sight. 
5. RFID readers and tags are all configured with continuous modes. 
We assume that readers always read tags continuously and tags always send the signal 
continuously, so readers continuously report tags. If readers or tags are not in continuous modes, 
it may influence the experimental results. 
 
System Design 
The system design is developed under Borland C++. Simulation system is divided into the 
following modules. 
1. Interface module 
According to the positions of readers and of tags defined by users, the interface will display 
the experimental environment map. It includes the functional button and experimental results. 
2. Random coordinate producer module  
In the course of our simulation, the system needs a large number of samples with uniform 
distribution to evaluate the efficiency of the system. It can make the experiment result more 
reliable. 
3. Manual enter coordinate module 
Sometimes, we need to check some special cases in order to analyze the distribution of nearest 
neighbors. So the system must be equipped with the capability of entering the coordinate 
manually. 
4. LANDMARC system module 
We use LANDMARC algorithm to facilitate the LANDMARC system module. The 
LANDMARC system will estimate the positions of objects and compute the error between the 
estimated position and the actual position. 
 
 Figure Wrong searching on the diagonal line at (1.5, 1.5) 
 
 
Figure Wrong searching on the diagonal line at (1.25, 1.25) 
 
  
Figure Results of searching for square nearest neighbors 
 
In Figure 6, the error is 0.157 meter for case 1, 0.293 meter for case 2, and 0.41 meter for case 3. 
However, all error for each case is improved by the method of square nearest neighbors. In Figure 7, 
the error is 0.035 meter for case 1, 0.131 meter for case 2, and 0.235 meter for case 3. So, we define 
the algorithm about searching for square nearest neighbors: 
1. Two smallest E values are considered as two nearest neighbors first. 
2. Search for the third nearest neighbors according to the sequence of E values by comparing the 
relative distance of the reference tags. di,j is represent the distance between the ith nearest 
neighbor and the jth neighbor. So, d1,3 has to be less than 1.414 meters, and d2,3 is, too. Then, the 
third nearest neighbor will be found. 
3. Search for forth nearest neighbors by the same method. Compare all the distances, d1,4, d2,4, and 
d3,4. All distances have to be less than 1.414 meters. Then, forth nearest neighbor will be found. 
4. The four nearest neighbors will form a square shape. 
An advantage for using square nearest neighbors, it can point out the area of the target tag 
according to the density of reference tags. Even if some errors exist, the area is circled by nearest 
neighbors. And then, we repeat the simulation experiment about tracking for 1000 target objects 
which randomly appear on the map. The result is shown in Figure 4.8. However, the results do not 
become better. The reason of such an algorithm does not work well is because the found square may 
be the wrong one.  
 
natural problem of the LANDMARC approach. In order to resolve this problem, a method is 
proposed in our study to improve the accuracy in those situations stated in case 1. The proposed 
method is to use marks for those special cases. If the sequence of nearest neighbors is that shown on 
case 1 of Figure 9, the second nearest neighbor with the second smallest E value is ignored. The 
reference tag with the third smallest E value becomes the second nearest neighbor instead, and so on. 
In addition, for case 2, the reason causing the mistake is different from that of case 1 because 
the first and second nearest neighbor are correct, but the third and fourth are wrong. According to 
Mark 3, the nearest neighbors seem to only need two nearest neighbors to estimate the target object 
because the target object is located near the straight line between two reference tags. We just use this 
method to resolve case 2. 
Therefore, we define an algorithm of marks, and Mark 1, Mark 2 and Mark 3 are also defined 
by the sequence shown on Figure 9. When the sequence of nearest neighbors is looked like those 
marks, the following procedures are considered: 
1. For case 1, the second nearest neighbor with the second smallest E value is ignored. The 
reference tag with the third smallest E value becomes the second nearest neighbor instead, and 
so on. 
2. For case 2, the first and second nearest neighbor are correct, so we only need two nearest 
neighbors to estimate the target object. 
Therefore, the experimental result improved by marks, and we repeat the simulation experiment 
about tracking for 1000 target objects. The result is shown in. 
 
 
Figure Search for square nearest neighbors with marks 
 
 Figure Exclusion range. 
 
The experiment result of the exclusion from reader is shown in Figure 13, and the further 
experiment with using mark is shown on Figure . 
 
 
Figure Tracking for 1000 target tags with random locations (square nearest neighbors with exclusion) 
 Figure Searching for square nearest neighbors with exclusion and marks overall map 
 
 
Figure Searching for original nearest neighbors with exclusion overall map 
 
 Figure Topology of readers for 6×6 map 
 
 Topology of reference tags 
First, we try to change the topology of reference tags as diamond, and the result is shown on 
Figure 19. Note: the interval of reference is changed as 2  meters, so the standard of error points is 
also changed as 0.4242error >  meter. There are also error points near the boundary of map, 
because the boundary can not form a correct nearest neighbors. So, we add virtual reference tags at 
the boundary for fixing those error points. The result is shown on Figure 20. In addition, we do it 
again with the exclusion, such as Figure 21. 
 
 Figure Diamond topology with virtual reference tags and exclusion. 
 
Besides, we want to try other topology of reference tags, and a triangular form is the prior 
choice. In the new experiment, the number of nearest neighbors is set as three because the topology 
of reference tags is triangular. However, we will also test for four nearest neighbors and compare 
both of them. The interval of reference tags is about 1.16 meter, so the experimental result without 
marks and exclusion will show out error points whose error are bigger than 0.35 meter on the map, 
such as Figure  
We observe the result form Figure, and we find that four nearest neighbors is better than three 
even if the topology is triangular. When the number of nearest neighbors is set as four, four nearest 
neighbors will form a diamond shape like the prior experiment (Figure 19). So, it has more 
information to estimate the target object than three nearest neighbors. Therefore, we are sure that 
four nearest neighbors is the best choice overall situations. 
 
generated near around readers. RSSI values have a characteristic, which is signal strength is 
inversely proportional to the square of the distance. It means that the difference of RSSI value by 
distance is bigger at near field than far field. For this reason, if the target tag is located near a reader, 
nearest neighbors will be wrong. The reference tag should be a candidate as nearest neighbors, but 
the characteristic of RSSI will make it be not. Therefore, in order to improve the accuracy, error 
points near around readers, we have to execute the step of exclusion. And, the curve of RSSI values 
we simulate is shown on Figure 24. 
 
 
Figure Simulated RSSI curve 
 
In addition to exclusion, there is another method to resolve the problem, that is, to normalize 
the E value. We modify the formula as Equation (1). 
 
2
1
( )n i ij i
i
SE
S
θ
=
−
= ∑ . (1) 
This change will reduce the difference of E values, and then the sequence of E values will be more 
reliable. Therefore, this method is called modified formula. There are some experiment results for 
using the modified formula. Figure 25 is to estimate the coordinate (1.5, 2), and Figure 26 is to 
estimate the coordinate (1.55, 2). Results show that the sequence of E value is changed slightly. And, 
the result improved by Equation (4.1) is better than the original. 
 
RSSI 
Distance 
Vision-based hand gesture recognition system for users on 
wheelchairs  
 
Method: 
In this study, we intend to develop a system that can recognize hand gestures made by users on 
wheelchairs. As mentioned, a mini DV is hung on the middle of the user’s collar. The user can show 
his/her hand in front of the camera no matter whether they are moving or in still. In this chapter, we 
shall introduce the system used and also describe those ideas employed for fulfilling the task. 
 
There are 4 stages in the proposed hand gesture recognition system, detection of the appearance of 
hands, segmentation of hand regions, detection of full palm and hand gesture recognition.An 
overview of the proposed system is illustrated in following Figure.  
 
Overview of the proposed system 
 
Images after “Detection of the appearance of hands.” 
(a) original image (b) result of applying skin color detection to (a) 
 
 
Flow chart of segmentation of hand regions 
 
3. Detection of Full Palm 
Since the mini DV is hung on the middle of the user’s collar, he/she is not aware whether the full 
palm is in the field of the camera view or not. Therefore, it is necessary that the system must be able 
to know whether the current image includes the full palm area or not. Ergonomically speaking, the 
user will “raise” his/her hand into the camera view. Thus, in this study, we assume the user’s arm 
will show from the edges of the bottom part of the image no matter whether the right or left hand is 
considered. Thus, the considered edges are from the middle of the right-hand side downward to the 
middle of the left-hand side as indicated by thick black lines. 
 
Users reaching their hands 
 
 4. Hand Gesture Recognition 
 
Flow char of hand gesture recognition 
 
In our study, after the palm region is segmented from the background and filtered by the algorithm 
proposed in above sections, the palm is obtained and then the system needs to know how many 
fingers has been raised. In order to detect the number of fingers, the hand of the binary image will be 
transformed into a polar image for recognition. Polar hand image is a popular method of recognizing 
hand gestures due to its scale, translation and rotation invariance. An example of a polar hand image 
is shown as Figure below. We shall introduce the concept in the following. 
 
(a)                           (b) 
A binary image transforming into a polar image 
(a) original image (b) polar image of (a) 
 Experimental Results in Simple Backgrounds 
Experiment 1 
Total number of frame 186 
The number of "the hand is reaching 
beyond the field of camera" 
90 
The number of "no hand appears" 56 
The number of "no object is larger than a 
human hand" 
3 
1 0 
2 0 
3 0 
4 37 
5 0 
Detected commands 4,4,4,4,4,4 
 
 
The number of correctly judged commands 6 
The number of misjudged commands 0 
 
Experiment 2: 
 
Total number of frame 178 
The number of "the hand is reaching 
beyond the field of camera" 
82 
The number of "no hand appears" 60 
The number of "no object is larger than a 
human hand" 
9 
1 0 
2 0 
3 27 
4 0 
5 0 
Detected commands 3,3 
 
The number of correctly judged commands 2 
The number of misjudged commands 1 
 
 
Experiment 5: 
 
Total number of frame 209 
The number of "the hand is reaching 
beyond the field of camera" 
170 
The number of "no hand appears" 0 
The number of "no object is larger than a 
human hand" 
5 
1 0 
2 1 
3 2 
4 17 
5 14 
Detected commands 5,4,4 
 
The number of correctly judged commands 2 
The number of misjudged commands 1 
 
Experiment 6: 
 
Total number of frame 204 
The number of "the hand is reaching 
beyond the field of camera" 
56 
The number of "no hand appears" 2 
The number of "no object is larger than a 
human hand" 
69 
1 8 
2 20 
3 17 
4 25 
5 14 
Detected commands 4,4,2 
 
The number of correctly judged commands 2 
The number of correctly judged commands 0 
The number of misjudged commands 0 
 
implemented. Following that, the position of the camera inspires us to use ergonomics concept to 
deal with the problem that hands often reach beyond the image. We cut the edges of the frame into 4 
line segments, along with frame division, to judge whether the image is just partially palm included. 
Finally, hand gesture recognition is performed. If needed, arm removal will be implemented before 
recognizing hand gestures. 
 
Most hand gesture recognition approaches in the literature control their images in a simple 
background, but in our test videos, skin-color-like noises are allowed to appear in the background as 
long as they are smaller than the size of a human hand. 10 participants are asked to test our system. 
Experimental results show that the proposed system is quite promising except that a very small 
number of frames are misjudged because the system cannot deal with some problems such as the 
area of the noise being too large or the hand being too close to the camera. 
 
 
6. 參考文獻 
[1] T. Murata. “State equation, controllability, and maximal matchings of petri nets”, IEEE Trans 
Automat. Contr., vol AC-22, no 3, pp. 412-416, Jun. 1977 
[2] M. Yan, Z. Li, N. Wei and M. Zhao. “A deadlock prevention policy for class op petri nets 
PMRS 3 “, Journal of information science and engineering25,167-183, 2009 
[3] Han ZandongGibum Lee. ”Application of Petri Nets for deadlock analysis and avoidance in 
flexible manufacturing systems”, Int J AdvManufTechnol 25, 735-742, 2005 
[4] 江至峯, “智慧型家庭中基於監督式系統之派屈網路,” 碩士論文, 國立台灣科技大學, 台北, 
2008. 
[5] T. Mori, A. Takada, Y. Iwamura, T. Sato, “Automatic human life summarization system in 
sensory living space,” Systems, Man and Cybernetics, 2004 IEEE International Conference on 
Volume 2 , pp.1583 – 1588, 2004. 
[6] Lan Zhang Henry Leung Chan, K. “Information fusion based smart home control system and its 
application”, Consumer Electronics IEEE Trans volume 54 ISSUE 3, August 2008 
[7] L. Borodulkin, H. Ruser, H-R. Trankler, “3D Virtual 〝Smart Home〞User Interface,” 
VIMS2002 International Symposium on Virtual and Intelligent Measurement Systems, pp. 
111-115, 2002. 
[8] 林晏冬, ”設備與環境整合的智慧家庭系統研究”, 碩士論文, 國立台灣科技大學, 台北, 
2009 
[9] S. K. Wood, D. H. Akehurst, O. Uzenkov, W. G. J. Howellsand  M. K. D. McDonald, “A 
Model-Driven Development Approach to Mapping UML State Diagrams to Synthesizable 
VHDL,” IEEE Transactions on Computers, Volume 57,  Issue 10,  pp.1357-1371, 2008. 
[10] Alhroob. A., Dahal. K., Hossain. A.,”Transforming UML sequence diagram to High Level Petri 
Net”, ICSTE 2010 - 2010 2nd International Conference on Software Technology and 
[25]  K. Grobel and M. Assam, “Isolated Sign Language Recognition Using Hidden Markov 
Models,” Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Computational Cybernetics and 
Simulation, pp. 162-167, 1997 
[26] Y. Hamada, N. Shimada, and Y. Shirai, ”Hand Shape Estimation under Complex Backgrounds 
for Sign Language Recognition,” Proceedings of 6th Int. Conf. on Automatic and Gesture 
Recognition, pp. 589-594, 2004. 
[27]  J. Issacs and J.S. Foo, “Hand Pose Estimation for American Sign Language Recognition,” Proc. 
of the Thirty-Sixth Southeastern Symposium on System Theory, pp. 132-136, 2004. 
[28]  D.S. Zhang and G. Lu, “Review of Shape Representation and Description Techniques,” 
Pattern Recognition, pp. 1-19, 2004. 
[29]  E.J. Holden and R. Owens, “Recognizing Moving Hand Shapes,” Proceedings of the 12th 
International Conference on Image Analysis and Processing, pp. 14-19,2003 
[30] C.G. Rafael and E.W. Richard, “Digital Image Processing 2/e,” Prentice Hall, 2002. 
[31] K.Kristensen, P. Nilsson, and V. Owall, “Background Segmentation beyond RGB,” 7th Asian 
Conference on Computer Vision. Pp. 602-612, 2006. 
[32] E. Osuna, F. Cirosi, and R. Freund, “Training Support Vector Machines: an Application to Face 
Detection,” Proceedings of CVPR’97, pp. 241-246, 1997. 
[33]  L. Bretzner, I. Laptev, and T. Lindeberg, “Hand Gesture Recognition using Multi-Scale Colour 
Features, Hierarchical Models and Particle Filtering,” Proceedings on Automatic Face and 
Gesture Recognition, pp. 423-428, 2002. 
[34] J. Yang, W. Lu, and W. Alex, “Skin-Color Modeling and Adaptation,” Computer Vision – 
ACCV’98, pp.687-694, 1997 
[35] M.H. Yang and N. Ahuja, “Gaussian Mixture Model for Human Skin Color and Its Application 
in Image and Video Databases,” Conference on Storage and Retrieval for Image and Video 
Databases (SPIE 99), pp. 458-466, 1999. 
[36] J. Li, B. Zhao, H. Zhang, and J. Jiao, “Dual-Space Skin-Color Cue Based Face Detection for 
Eye Location,” International Conference on Information Engineering and Computer Science, pp. 
1-4, 2009. 
[37] M.H. Yang, D.J. Kriegman, and N. Ahuja, “Detecting Faces in Images: a Survey,“ IEEE Trans. 
Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., pp. 34-58, 2002. 
[38] 王貞元 , “火災偵測和區域定位應用於影像監控 ”台灣科技大學電機工程學系碩士論文, 
2008. 
[39] 曹文潔 , “猜拳機 ”, 中央大學電機工程研究所碩士論文, 2007. 
[40]  Barnett, V. Lewis, “Outliers in Statistical Data 3/e,” John Wiley & Sons, 1994. 
[41] WolframMathworld, http://mathworld.wolfram.com/ 
[42] 黃俊捷, “互動雙足式機器人之設計與實現 (I)手勢辨識 “,中央大學電機工程研究所碩士
論文, 2008. 
[43] 陳培森, “看護系統之監控與辨識功能建立 “,中央大學電機工程研究所論文, 2006. 
[59]  Y.K. Chen, T.Y. Cheng, and S.T. Chiu, “Motion Detection with Entropy in Dynamic 
Background,” International Asia Conference on Informatics in Control, Automation, and 
Robotics, pp. 263-266, 2009. 
 
二、    與會心得 
葉人瑋論文「On Learning Analysis of Neural Fuzzy Systems」發表由於是第一次
參加國際會議且英文表達並不好，這部分有待加強。但其研究的內容也引起相當的
注意。期望繼續研究而能有更完善的結果。團隊成員皆於會議期間 2010 年 7 月 18 
日至 23 日發表論文並擔任數場 Regular Session 和 Special Session 的主持人，會中
有來至世界各國學者聽講及討論，團員們亦參加其他不同幾場 Sessions 的聽講並參
與討論，會中有多位與會人士對各研究領域提供了一些值得參考的意見與建議，並
互相分享做研究所遭遇的困難以及解決的方式。此次會議(WCCI 2010) 為 IEEE 
Computational Intelligent Society (IEEE CIS)針對類神經網路、模糊系統及演化式計算
領域，將三場極為重要的國際指標性會議， International Joint Conference on Neural 
Networks (IJCNN)、IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems (FUZZ-IEEE) 以
及 Congress on Evolutionary Computation (CEC)合辦而成的。並藉由這些會議，對於
相關領域進行最前端、最先進的研究與探討。以上三大會議，都是該領域的年度盛
會。由此可知 WCCI 規模之盛大，及其無遠弗屆的影響力。參加此研討會的學者
專家們均非常踴躍的交換學術研究心得，並藉著學術的交流提供與會專家學者更寬
廣之思考空間。然而其會議的安排並不盡理想，相關指標及會議流程都不是很合
理，雖從投稿及與會學者的參與而言，此研討會是一個非常成功的研討會，但從議
程安排及 local arrangement 而言尚有許多可改善空間。明年，台灣將主辦 2011 IEEE 
Fuzzy Conference 接此交流機會也獲得許多相關訊息。參加論文研討部分，會中來
至世界各國學者做報告，所發表之論文都相當嚴謹並具有突破性與創新性。經由此
次會議之熱烈討論可充分了解近年來各個智慧型系統上的應用與學術發展之趨
勢，進而啟發許多的研究方向的靈感，收穫頗為豐碩。 
在 IFSA council 會議，由於我們是屬於 B category，擁有二票的投票權。因此
我們將結合此一優勢積極參與 IFSA 的相關活動，並極力爭取在 2014 年或 2015 年
於台灣舉辦 IFSA 的國際會議。如可能的話，我們也將在 IFSA 中也極力爭取機會被
選為理事長。IFSA 的國際會議雖沒有 IEEE 的國際會議大，但也有其影響力，如能
順利的進行相信在可見的未來應可被選為 IFSA 的 President 並進而掌控在 Fuzzy 領
域中非常知名的期刊－Fuzzy Sets and Systems。 
三、 考察參觀活動 
無。 
 
四、 建議事項 
國際電機電子學會(IEEE)為世界電機電子高科技領域最具權威的專業組織，共
有來自五十多個國家合計超過三十五萬名會員在世界各地從事最尖端的研究。IEEE 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/04/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一：智慧型家庭中內容認知及管理
計畫主持人: 蘇順豐
計畫編號: 96-2628-E-011-119-MY3 學門領域: 智慧型控制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
與中山科學院合作開發引影像辨識系統。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
