II
目錄
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
前言 1
第一年之研究方法和結果 2
第二年之研究方法和結果 9
第三年之研究方法和結果 13
附錄一 第一年度(2005) 出席國際學術會議心得報告 17
附錄二 第二年度(2006) 出席國際學術會議心得報告 22
IV
Abstract
The main purpose of this study is to search for the optimal parameters of electrical
stimulation for promoting peripheral nerve regeneration. The results of existed studies indicated
that electrical stimulation have effects on both nerve fibers and myofibroblasts generated during
repair of an injury. Because that the PI have had many studies dealing with the effects of
electrical stimulation on nerve regeneration, the main focus of this study is on searching the
optimal parameters of electrical stimulation for inhibiting the contraction of myofibroblasts.
This study was divided into three years. The goal of the first year was to confirm that
proliferation of myofibroblasts impeded nerve regeneration. In the first part of the experiment,
-interferon was given locally to the severed and regenerating nerves and the functions of the
regenerated nerve were compared with those of control nerves. The second part was to investigate
the effects of electrical stimulation on myofibroblasts. The goal of the second year was to isolate
and culture myofibroblasts and evaluate the contractile force of a single myofibroblast under
different electrical stimulation. In the third year, the technique of using optical coherence
tomography (OCT) for in vivo evaluation of nerve morphology was developed and the efficacy of
the parameters determined in the second year was tested again in animal experiments.
For the results, we finished the experiments of the first year smoothly. The results indicated
that -interferon had no significant effects on the myofibroblasts generated during the
regeneration of an injured nerve. The study of the second year was much difficult, and we could
achieve the goal even at the end of the third year. The main obstacle was how to clamp a single
cell in suspension. Because of the delay of the second year experiments, the scheduled
experiments in the third year could not be performed in the full scale. Yet, we finished the setup
and the image processing technique of using OCT for in vivo evaluation of nerve morphology.
For the self-evaluation, we finished approximately 70-80% of the proposed experiments and
expected to publish two referred papers. The efficiency and productivity was modest.
Key words: nerve regeneration, electrical stimulation, myofibroblast, optical coherence
tomography, biomechanics of nerve
2第一年之研究方法和結果
The effects of monophasic pulse electrical stimulation and
local infusion of Interferon-(IFN-) on nerve regeneration
through silicone conduits.
中文摘要
此研究的目標是以干擾素來抑制類肌纖維
母細胞的收縮，免除電刺激對神經再生時的
不良影響。 將實驗鼠坐骨神經切斷後縫合
入矽膠導管，兩端的間隙為 7mm。 實驗共
分 4 組: 控制組、干擾素施藥組、電刺激組
和電刺激且施予干擾素組。 手術後的十週
內進行數次行為評估、痛覺閥值、肌電生理
及組織切片等分析以決定神經復原的情況。
Abstract
Contraction of myofibroblasts is one of the
mechanisms that reduce the benefits of
electrical stimulation on nerve regeneration.
The purpose of this study was to investigate
the effects of Interferon- (INF-), which
inhibited contraction of myofibrobalst, on
nerve regeneration under electrical stimulation.
Rat sciatic nerve was transected and
reconnected by using a silicone rubber conduit
with a 7-mm gap. The subjects were divided
into four groups: control, electrical stimulation,
IFN-treatment and electrical stimulation plus
IFN-treatment. During the ten weeks after
nerve section, the four groups were serially
examined by behavioral evaluation,
mechanical nociceptic threshold determination,
electrophysiological assessment and
histological evaluation to determine the
degree of nerve regeneration. Currently,
evaluations of 24 rats were finished, and the
evaluation of another 11 rats would be
accomplished in the next month.
Key Words: Electrical stimulation, interferon,
regeneration, nerve.
INTROKDUCTION
Nerve fibers in the peripheral nervous
system show far greater regeneration capacity
than those in the central nervous system.
However, proper recovery does not ensue
unless the transected nerves are repaired
surgically by direct end-to-end approximation.
When a gap exists between nerve stumps, the
recovery deteriorates dramatically. Many
researchers are investigating various materials
for making better guiding conduits as well as
methods to enhance regeneration in this
condition.1
One of the potential methods for
improving nerve fiber regeneration is
electrical stimulation. In vitro cell culture
studies have demonstrated that DC electric
fields ranging from low levels (nV/cm) to
high levels (V/cm) augmented neurite
outgrowth, and the growth was consistently
directed toward the cathode.2 However, in
vivo studies using a DC electric field have
produced contradictory results. In a previous
study,3 we showed that pulse current
stimulation protocols decreased the nerve
fiber bundle area without affecting the number
of myelinated fibers, resulting in increased
nerve fiber density. Within the pulse current
stimulation protocols, stimulation frequency
4Electrical treatment
Sterile stainless steel needles (0.3 mm) were
used as percutaneous electrodes. One needle,
acting as the cathode for stimulation, was
inserted between the third and forth toes of the
right hind paw. Another needle, acting as the
anode for reference, was inserted into the
adductor brevis muscle of the right hind thigh.
The daily 30-minute electrical stimulation was
produced by a bioelectrical isolator in constant
current mode driven by a personal computer
with a DA card. The monophasic pulse
stimulation was 100 Hz-1.5 ms, and current
strength was 20 µA.
Behavioral evaluation
A rectangular walking track (10 cm wide, 13
cm high and 90 cm long) was custom-made
and a white paper tailored to the track size
was paved on the inner side of the bottom of
the track. The feet of the animal were coated
with black ink and the animal was put into the
walking track from the end. The walking
deficit was quantified by measuring the foot
print parameters and calculating sciatic
functional index (SFI). SFI was zero for an
intact subject and -100 for a subject with
complete sciatic nerve transection.
Nociceptic threshold determination
The withdrawal threshold to pressure was
determined by Von-Frey Digi-Tactile Data
Acquisition System (VF011, Kent Scientific
Co.). The VF011 wand was pressed at the fifth
toe until the paw moved and the maximal
pressure limit was 100 gram. The threshold
value was the lowest amplitude of five
repeated tests.
Electrophysiological assessment
Under anesthesia, the sciatic nerve was
stimulated with electrical pulses (0.1 ms in
duration, 1mA to 6mA in current strength and
10hz in frequency) delivered by monopolar
needles percutaneously placed proximal to the
injury, the cathode at the sciatic notch and the
anode in one centimeter proximally. The
compound muscle action potentials (CMAP)
of gastrocnemius muscle were recorded for 20
ms by means of monopolar needles. The
active recording electrode was placed
subcutaneously on the medial side of leg at the
midpoint between knee and ankle and the
reference electrode was placed 5 mm from the
active recording electrode. The maximal
CMAP elicited was chosen for each animal at
each test day. Tests were performed on both
hindlimbs preoperatively and just before
surgery and 7, 28, 42, 56, 63 and 70 days after
operation. For normalization, the amplitudes
of CMAP were expressed as the percentage
with respect to values obtained prior to the
surgery.
Histological evaluation
The sciatic nerve with the silicone rubber
conduit in bloc was cut into three pieces and
the silicone rubber conduit was removed.
The first and third pieces were processed for
paraffin embedding. The first piece was
transversely sectioned and the third piece was
longitudinally sectioned in 6 m thickness
slices for immuohistochemical stains.
Pan-neurofilament antibody (1:200, Zymed)
was used to visualize regenerating axons.
S100 (1:200, Neomarkers) was used to detect
viable Schwann cells. Antibodies to GAP-43
(1:1,000, Zymed) and myelin basic protein
were used to label non-myelinating and
myelinating Schwann cells, respectively.
Smooth muscle actin was a distinguishing
characteristic of myofibroblast. Macrophage
infiltration was visualized by using ED1
antibody (1:200, Serotec). The primary
antibodies were detected with Histostain®-SP
6-100
-90
-80
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
0 2 4 6 8 10
week
SF
I
control
IFN
ES
ES+IFN
Figure 2. Sciatic functional index
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0 2 4 6 8 10
week
fo
rc
e(
g)
control
IFN
ES
ES+IFN
Figure 3. The lowest force response for the mechanical nociceptic stimulus
0
1/4
1/2
3/4
1
0 2 4 6 8 10
week
re
co
ve
re
d
ra
t
control
IFN
ES
ES+IFN
Figure 4. The ratio of recovered rats in various groups.
80
1/4
1/2
3/4
1
0 2 4 6 8 10
week
pr
op
or
ti
on
of
ra
ts
sh
ow
in
g
E
M
G
control
IFN
ES
ES+IFN
Figure 8. The proportion of rats showing EMG in groups.
Figure 9. Photomicrographs of a nerve in cross-section and postfixed with osmium tetroxide. Left:
a regenerated nerve. Right: the same image with myelinated fibers outlined by image processing
in automatic counting.
REFERENCES
1. Seckel BR. Enhancement of peripheral
nerve regeneration. Muscle Nerve 1990;
13:785–800.
2. Sisken BF, Walker J, Orgel M. Prospects
on clinical applications ofelectrical
stimulation for nerve regeneration. J Cell
Biochem 1993; 51:404–409.
3. Cheng WL, Lin CC. The effects of
different electrical stimulation protocols
on nerve regeneration through silicone
conduits. J Trauma 2004;
56(6):1241-1246.
4. Chamberlain LJ, Yannas IV, Hsu HP,
Spector M. Connective tissue response to
tubular implants for peripheral nerve
regeneration: the role of myofibroblasts. J
Comp Neurol 2000; 417:415–430.
5. Oldroyd SD, Thomas GL, Gabbiani G, El
Nahas AM. Interferon-gamma inhibits
experimental renal fibrosis. Kidney Int
1999; 56(6):2116-2127.
The number of the mylinated fiber: 6914
10
稀釋置於 4℃過夜，再加二級抗體(goat
Anti-mouse IgG, Molecular Probes) 30 分
鐘，最後以 PPD-mounting medium 封片，用
螢光顯微鏡觀察細胞螢光染色結果。
IIb. Hardware setup
Hardware setup
ADmicromanipulator
oscilloscope
platinum plate
Glass rod
OD:20μm, ID:10μm
30-40μm
Carbon graphite fiber
10μm
micromanipulator
Electrical stimulator
Force
transducer
圖一:硬體設備示意圖
圖一為實驗整個硬體架構之示意圖。 整個
架構的中心為放置待測細胞之培養皿，配置
兩套微操作器。 微操作器前端附有微玻璃
管用以抓住細胞之兩側。 右側為微測力器
架在微操作器上，可以感測單一細胞之收縮
力。 左側為電刺激裝置，刺激的參數由電
腦決定而輸出至電刺激器。 電刺激之訊號
和細胞所產生的力量經類比數位轉換(採樣
頻率為 10K)而儲存至電腦中，之後再進行
離線分析。
IIc. Experimental procedure
經適當培養之 Cell 用 PBS 洗過，用
0.05% trypsin & 002% EDTA 處理，在 37 ℃
5min，將細胞從培養皿打下來，放入白金電
極培養皿中。
以電動微調器利用壓克力板接力傳感
器，力感感器上的玻璃管再接上拉細的玻璃
拉細的玻璃終端接碳纖維(carbon fiber 由
Tsukuba Materials Information Laboratory 提
供)12(圖二)。 實驗時以手動方式調整微調器
架上玻璃毛細管(尖端外徑20μm，內徑
10μm，尖端覆上 poly-L-lysine)的位置(圖三)
以抓住細胞一側。 再以電動微調器移動
carbon fiber 抓住細胞另外一側。 設好示波
器、力傳感器和電刺激器。 請動電腦和控
制電刺激器之軟體介面。 電刺激參數為刺
激頻率 1 Hz，脈波寬度(Pulse width) 100 ms
& 500 ms，定電流(Constant current) 0.5 安
培 14-15。
Force transducer head
micromanipultor
圖三:微調器利用壓克力板接力傳感器，力
傳感器上的玻璃管再接上拉細的玻璃。
Borosilicate tube
OD:20μm, ID:10μm Carbon graphite
fiber 5-7μm
Platinum plate
圖二:左邊為玻璃毛細管，尖端外徑20μm，
內徑10μm，左邊為拉細的玻璃，終端接
carbon fiber
Force transducer calibration
y = -5.0068x - 5.3695
R2 = 0.9925
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
-3 -2.5 -2 -1.5 -1 -0.5 0
voltage
m
g 數列1
線性 (數列1)
Force transducer head
7-2.416-2.433-2.399
5.3-2.1535-2.162-2.145
3.3-1.7825-1.789-1.776
1.5-1.403-1.424-1.382
0-1.0225-1.032-1.013
重量(mg)平均值
最大值
(V)
最小值
(V)
Model:406A
Scale factor: 5 mg/volt
Resolution: 0.01μN
12
5. Sebille A and Bondoux-Jahan M, Effects of electric
stimulation and previous nerve injury on motor
function recovery in rats, Brain Res, 193: 562-565,
1980.
6. McDevitt L, Fortner P and Pomeranz B, Application
of weak electric field to the hindpaw enhances sciatic
motor nerve regeneration in the adult rat, Brain Res,
416: 308-314, 1987.
7. Politis MJ, Zanakis MF and Albala BJ, Facilitated
regeneration in the rat peripheral nervous system
using applied electric fields, J Trauma, 28:
1375-1381.
8. Chamberlain LJ, Yannas IV, Hsu HP, Spector M,
Connective tissue response to tubular implants for
peripheral nerve regeneration: the role of
myofibroblasts, J Comp Neurol, 417: 415-430, 2000.
9. Garreta E, Genove E, Borros S, Semino CE.
Osteogenic differentiation of mouse embryonic stem
cells and mouse embryonic fibroblasts in a
three-dimensional self-assembling peptide scaffold.
Tissue Eng 12(8):2215-27, 2006.
10. Hinz B. Formation and function of the
myofibroblast during tissue repair. J Invest Dermatol
127(3):526-37, 2007.
11. Lila J. Chamberlain, Ioannis V. Yannas, Hu-Ping
Hsu, Myron Spector Connective tissue response to
tubular implants for peripheral nerve regeneration:
The role of myofibroblasts. J comp neurol
417:415-490, 2000.
12. Miebach S, Grau S, Hummel V, Rieckmann P, Tonn
JC, Goldbrunner RH. Isolation and culture of
microvascular endothelial cells from gliomas of
different WHO grades. J Neurooncol 76(1):39-48,
2006.
13. Meyer-Ter-Vehn T, Gebhardt S, Sebald W,
Buttmann M, Grehn F, Schlunck G, Knaus P. p38
inhibitors prevent TGF-beta-induced myofibroblast
transdifferentiation in human tendon fibroblasts.
Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 47(4):1500-9, 2006.
14. Newbold C, Richardson R, Huang CQ, Milojevic D,
Cowan R, Shepherd R. An in vitro model for
investigating impedance changes with cell growth
and electrical stimulation: implications for cochlear
implants. J Neural Eng 1(4):218-227, 2004.
15. Pucihar G, Mir LM, Miklavcic D. The effect of
pulse repetition frequency on the uptake into
electropermeabilized cells in vitro with possible
applications in electrochemotherapy.
Bioelectrochemistry 57(2):167-72, 2002
16. Ramirez AM, Shen Z, Ritzenthaler JD, Roman J.
Myofibroblast Transdifferentiation in Obliterative
Bronchiolitis: TGF-β Signaling Signaling Through 
Smad3-dependent and -independent pathway. Am J
Transplant 6(9):2080-8, 2006.
17. Shao J, Sheng GG, Mifflin RC, Powell DW, Sheng
H. Roles of myofibroblasts in prostaglandin
E2-stimulated intestinal epithelial proliferation and
angiogenesis. Cancer res 66(2):846-855 2006
18. Shin D, Minn KW. The effect of myofibroblast on
contracture of hypertrophic scar. Plast Reconstr Surg
113(2):633-640, 2004.
14
Automated detection of cell layer structures on optical coherence
tomography (OCT) images
1. Deformable model
For searching a complete surface of cell, we adopt snake algorithm. The energy
function of snake can be expressed as:
1 2
0
0.5 | ( ) | ( ( )) ( ( ))E v s G v s S v s ds       
where | ( ) |v s , ( ( ))G v s and ( ( ))S v s control the continuity, image and similarity
forces, respectively; ,and  are the related parameters. We use value of,
and  equal to 0.1, 0.2 and 0.7, respectively. After contour deformation, we execute
the B-spline to continue the optimized snaxels.
2. Similarity force
We observe that the boundary of cell in OCT image have several types of texture.
The orange windows illustrated in Fig.1 capturing some represent textures. The
similarity force in the energy function E is used to find the desired textures in the
OCT image. Here, we use PCA (principal component analysis) to decompose these
textures in order to find their characters. To our best knowledge, the similarity force is
the first applied in boundary segmentation.
Figure 1 Orange window overlapped on the original OCT image
2.1 Computation of eigen-images
Let a training set of texture image be 1{ ,..., }MI I , where M is the number of
training images. Each image Ii, represents as a vector iΓwith length N
2 describing an
N by N image. The average texture image of the training set is defined by
1
1 M
i
iM 
 μ I .
Then each texture image subtracts the average by the vector i i Φ I μ. The
covariance matrix is defined as 1 2
1
1
, [ , ,..., ]
M
T T
i i M
i
C BB where B
M 
      .
The covariance matrix is then executed PCA which can decompose N2 orthogonal
vectors 21,... Nu u and their associated eigen-values that can best describe the distribution
of these images. For achieving efficient computation, we reduce the original 2 2N N
16
more accuracy than only have internal and external terms in Fg.3(b). Orange arrows
in Fig.3 (b, c) point the different result between without and with similarity force.
Figure 3 (a) Original image (b) Internal and external force (c) Add similarity force
(a) Original image
(b) Internal and external force
(c) Add similarity force
18
Chronic Electrical Stimulation of Four Acupuncture Points on Rat
Diabetic Neuropathy
1C.-C. K. Lin, 1M.-C. Chen, 2S.-N. Yu & 3M.-S. Ju
1Neurology, Medical Center, National Cheng Kung University
138 Sheng Li Road, Tainan City 701, Tainan, Taiwan,
2Department of Electrical Engineering, National Chung Cheng University
168, University Road, Min-Hsiung, Chia-Yi, Taiwan
3Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University
1 Ta-Hsueh Road, Tainan City 701, Tainan, Taiwan
Abstract-The main purpose of this study is to investigate the
effects of chronic electrical stimulation of acupuncture points
on rat diabetic neuropathy. Diabetes mellitus was induced
by a single dose of intravenous streptozotocin. The efficacies
of several different protocols of electrical stimulation were
compared. The evaluation measures included nerve
conduction velocity, tactile threshold and blood perfusion on
eye and footpad. Electrical stimulation was administered 30
min/day for 4 weeks. On the 4th weekend of stimulation,
when compared with the control group, the stimulated groups
showed differential benefits on different evaluation measures.
The results indicated that chronic electrical stimulation could
reduce the functional deficits of diabetic neuropathy.
Key word-electrical stimulation, acupuncture, diabetes
mellitus, neuropathy
I. INTRODUCTION
Diabetes mellitus (DM) causes a long list of neuropathies,
including the distal sensory neuropathy [1]. Several
studies have shown that the blood flow is reduced in
diabetic rats, which is one of the possible pathogeneses of
diabetic neuropathy [2]. Acupuncture is one part of
Chinese medicine practice, and now it is used worldwidely
to treat many diseases. Several studies reported that
stimulating some acupuncture points had significant effects
in reducing the blood glucose level [3]. It is also well
known that electrical stimulation with proper settings could
accelerate the regeneration of peripheral nerves [4].
Furthermore, electroacupuncture combined with NOS
inhibitor (L-NAME) has an analgesic effect [5].
The main goal of this study was to investigate the effects
of long-term electrically stimulating the acupuncture points
on the diabetic neuropathy.
II. MATERIALS AND METHODS
The research protocol was approved by the animal ethics
committee of National Cheng Kung University.
A. Animals and induction of DM
The subjects in our experiment were male Wistar rats
(200-250gw), and they were housed in cage with
wood-dust and maintained on a 12h-12h light-dark cycle.
Rats were given food and water ad libitum, and the
environment was kept as clean as possible.
DM was induced by one single intravenous injection of
streptozotocin (STZ) at a dose of 60 mg/kg. The blood
glucose level (BGL) was examined with a glucose-meter
(FreeStyle, Therasense). We checked the glucose level
both before and after DM-induction, once per week during
electrical stimulation, and once more before sacrifice. All
rats were weighed weekly.
On the 5th days after induction of DM, we started to carry
out our electrical stimulation treatment and evaluation
procedure.
B. Acupuncture points
The acupuncture points we chose were ST36
(Zu-San-Li), SP9 (Yin-Ling-Quan), SP6 (San-Yin-Jiao) and
K3 (Tai-Xi) in the right lower limb of rats, and we
electrically stimulated these four points by two independent
isolators at the same time, with positive electrodes on the
first 2 points (ST36 and SP9) and negative electrodes on
the latter 2 points (SP6 and K3), respectively. We used
the disposable stainless acupuncture needles with 0.19 mm
in diameter and 15 mm in length (J.D.
Acupuncture-Instrument Center, Taiwan).
C. Electrical stimulation and grouping
We started the treatment protocol on the 5th day after
STZ-injection. The subjects were divided randomly into 7
groups in this study. The first three groups were control
groups: (1) normal (NM, n=12), (2) DM-control (DMC,
n=13) which were STZ-induced rats without any treatment
and (3) acupunctured (OA, n=15) which received needle
insertion to the acupuncture points as in the stimulated
groups but without electrical stimulation. The rest four
groups were electrically stimulated: (4) by DC current (ES1,
n=12), (5) by 4Hz with pulse width of 2.5ms (ES2, n=11),
(6) by 20Hz/0.5ms (ES3, n=11) and (7) by 20Hz/10ms
(ES4, n=11). The electrical stimulation was produced by
a bioelectrical isolator in constant current mode and the
current strength was set at 50μA. The continuous square
waveforms, driving the isolator, were produced by a
digital-analog board under the control of a custom-written
program with the software LabView (www.ni.com). The
electrical stimulation was administered, with the animals in
the clear conscious state, continuously for 30 min per day
for four weeks. Nerve conduction velocity (NCV), tactile
threshold (TH), BGL and blood perfusion of foot and eye
were recorded per week.
D. Evaluation measures
NCV of the sciatic nerve and its branches was measured
as previously described [6]. In brief, the sciatic nerve was
stimulated at the sciatic notch and tibial nerve was
20
the electrical stimulation of acupuncture points reduced the
slowing of NCV. At 4th weekend of treatment, ES1 and
ES3 groups showed even better performance than the other
3 stimulated groups. The results implied that stimulation
parameters had significant influence on NCV. More
studies in the future are needed to systematically
investigate the effects of each stimulation parameter on
NCV.
C. Tactile threshold
The data of TH (Fig. 3) showed that THs of diabetic rats
were significantly higher than those of normal rats (Fig. 3,
p<0.005). On the 2nd weekend of treatment, THs of ES4,
OA and NM were significantly lower than those of others
(p<0.05), as compared with the results of TH of ES1, ES2,
ES3 and DMC rats. On the 3rd weekend of treatment, TH
in DMC rats was significantly higher than other groups
(p<0.0001). On the 4th weekend of treatment, TH of
DMC was significantly higher than those of ES1 and ES2
(p<0.001). Besides, THs of ES4 and NM was
significantly lower than THs of ES1 and ES2 (p<0.03).
Our result of TH in DMC was consistent with other
studies [7], in which THs were increased with increasing
Doppler expression in the eye of all roups
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
ES 1 ES 2 ES 3 ES 4 OA DMC NM
Treatment
D
op
pl
er
ex
pr
es
si
on
Week 1
Week 2
Week 3
Week 4
Fig. 4. Local blood perfusion of eyes of all groups during electrical
stimulation from week 1 to week 4.
duration of hyperglycemia. In our research, the increase
of TH in diabetic neuropathy was prevented by electrical
stimulation on 3rd-4th weeks, and the effect of prevention in
ES4 was best of five protocols.
D. Local blood perfusion of foot and eye
We examined the local blood perfusion in both eye (DE)
and footpad (DF) of all groups every week. Fig 5 showed
that there was significant reduction in DF between OA and
normal rats in the weeks 1 and 2 of treatment (p<0.05).
However, this phenomenon disappeared in the weeks 3 and
4. There was no significant difference in DE and DF
between DMC and normal rats.
There are two possible explanations for these results.
The first is that DM did not affect the local blood perfusion.
This explanation is contradictory to the current concept
about DM. The second is that Doppler flowmetry for
blood perfusion, being very sensitive to the setup and local
contact between the probe and the subject surface, was a
relative measure and had a large inter-trial variation.
IV. CONCLUSION
This study indicated that electrical stimulation of four
acupuncture points with or without electricity could prevent
the reduction of NCV and the increase of tactile threshold
in diabetic neuropathy. However, stimulation without
electricity seems to reduce the blood flow on the ventral
surface of footpad. Different combinations of stimulation
protocols produced different effects on each evaluation
measure.
There are many reports showing that the nerve endings
in footpad skin and the structure of sciatic nerve are
changed in diabetic rats, and now we are conducting the
histological evaluations on these tissues before and after
treatment.
Doppler expression in footpad (DF) of all groups
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
ES 1 ES 2 ES 3 ES 4 OA DMC NM
Treatment
D
op
pl
er
Ex
pr
es
si
on
Week 1
Week 2
Week 3
Week 4
Fig. 5. Local blood perfusion of footpads of all groups during
electrical stimulation from week 1 to week 4.
ACKNOWLEFGMENT
This work was partly supported by a grant, NSC
92-2218-E-194-014, from National Science Council of
Taiwan.
REFERENCES
[1] PR. Cavanagh, GG. Simoneau, and JS.Ulbrecht, “Ulceration,
unsteadiness, and uncertainty: the biomechanical consequences of
diabetes mellitus,”J. Biomech, vol. 26, Suppl 1, pp. 23-40, 1993.
[2] MS. Creighton et al.,“Decreased skin blood flow early in the course
of streptozotocin-induced diabetes mellitus in the rat.”Diabetologia,
vol. 36(10), pp. 907-11, October 1993.
[3] SL. Chang, JG. Lin, CL. Hsieh, JT. Cheng, and TL. Chang,
“Comparison of hypoglycemic effect in different acupoints response
to 2 Hz electroacupuncture.”J Chin Med, vol. 13(2), pp. 111-117,
2002
[4] AA. Al-Majed, SL. Tam, and T. Gordon, “Electrical stimulation
accelerates and enhances expression of regeneration-associated
genes in regenerating rat femoral motoneurons.”Cell Mol Neurobiol,
vol. 24, No. 3, June 2004
[5] YT. Tsao, JG. Lin, and WZ. Sun,“Electroacupuncture combined with
NOS inhibitor (L-NAME) treatment on analgesia.”J Chin Med, vol.
14(2), pp. 129-137, 2003.
[6] P. De-Koning and WH. Gispen, “Org.2766 improves functional and
electrophysiological aspects of regenerating sciatic nerve in the rat.”
Peptides, vol. 8, pp. 415-22, 1987.
[7] NA. Calcutt, MC. Jorge, TL. Yaksh, and SR. Chaplan, “Tactile
allodynia and formalin hyperalgesia in streptozotocin-diabetic rats:
effects of insulin, aldose reductase inhibition and lidocaine.”Pain,
vol. 68, pp. 239-299, 1996.
11th Annual Conference of the International FES Society
September 2006–Zao, Japan
22
HYBRID AMPLITUDE/PULSE WIDTH FUZZY MODULATION OF
ELECTRICAL STIMULATION
Chou-Ching K. Lin 1, Ming-Shaung Ju 2, Wei-Chen Liu 2
1 Department of Neurology, University Hospital,
2 Department of Mechanical Engineering,
National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan
cxl45@mail.ncku.edu.tw
ABSTRACT
The main purpose of this study was to develop a
better feedback control algorithm for controlling
muscle force generated by electrical stimulation
via cuff electrodes at nerves. We combined a
hybrid amplitude /pulse width modulation scheme
with a fuzzy logic, and created several types of
fuzzy controllers approximately equivalent to the
linear PI, PD and PID controllers. The
controllers were tested on the ankle joint of
anesthetized rabbits and the cuff electrode was
placed on the tibial nerve. First, the step torque
response was tested at the natural ankle position
and the controller parameters were adjusted to
obtain the best response. Then, the performance
of the controllers with the identical set of
parameters was studied at different ankle angles.
The results showed that (1) fuzzy PD controller
had a large steady state error, (2) fuzzy PI and
PID controllers showed a marginally better
performance than the conventional PID
controller, and (3) the performance of fuzzy
controllers at different ankle angles was
acceptable.
1. INTRODUCTION
Successful functional electrical stimulation
requires accurate control of muscle force. For
electrical stimulation of a muscle by using
rectangular pulses, muscle force can be
controlled by modulating either pulse width [1]
or amplitude. It is well known that the
recruitment curve is S-shaped and, thus,
muscle force changes sharply in a small range
of control variable (pulse width or amplitude).
High command resolution is required to
accurately control the force level.
The main goal of this study was to investigate
the eligibility of controlling muscle force by
modulating pulse width and amplitude
simultaneously, i.e. hybrid amplitude/ pulse
width modulation (HAWM). It was hoped that
the scheme could reduce the slope of the
recruitment curve and, thus, reduce the
requirement of a high command resolution. We
also investigated the usefulness of adding a
fuzzy logic [2] before the HAWM to improve
the controller performance.
2. METHODS
The whole experimental setup is shown in Figure
1.
Figure 1. Schematic drawing of the whole
experimental setup.
The software part consisted of a controller and the
HAWM scheme. The hardware part included the
stimulation isolator, the frame to fix the rabbit,
torque sensor and real-time I/O board. In order to
construct the HAWM, the recruitment curves of
pure amplitude modulation with pulse width set
respectively at 100 and 500 m were first
established experimentally just before the main
experiment. A straight line from the intersection of
two curves at the saturation level to the threshold
of 100 m recruitment curve was established. The
straight line was divided into 8 pulse width zones
according to the desired torque level (Figure 2) and
the required amplitude was projected down from
the straight line to the transverse axis.
11th Annual Conference of the International FES Society
September 2006–Zao, Japan
24
fluctuation in the controller output, though the
steady-state torque was relatively stable. The fuzzy
PD controller showed marked oscillation and could
not reach the steady-state torque level, even after
extensive parameter adjustment (Figure 5). The
fuzzy PI controller showed the least oscillation,
especially when looked at the command level,
though the overshoot was larger (Figure 6).
Figure 5. Step torque response of fuzzy PD
controller.
Figure 6. Step torque response of fuzzy PI
controller.
The experiments were repeated by using the same
animal respectively at different ankle positions (10,
20 and 30º in dorsiflexion) with the same set of
controller parameters. The averaged results for
different positions were summarized in Table 1.
The controllers showed similar characteristics as
those in the natural position. All the controllers,
except that linear and fuzzy PID controllers were
unable to reach within 5% of the steady-state level
at 10º position, could meet the minimal
performance specification at all three positions.
Table 1.
PID Fuzzy PI Fuzzy
PID
Maximum
overshoot
10.8 18.3 2
(%)
Rising
time (sec)
0.09 0.19 0.13
Settling
time (sec)
2.25
Fail at
10º
0.84 0.79
Fail at
10º
ITAE 0.13 0.13 0.14
4. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS
The above results indicated that HAWM could be
implemented for muscle force control. The fuzzy
controllers showed only marginally better
performance than the conventional PID controllers
and had a tendency to oscillate. There were two
possible reasons. First, the HAWM scheme was
similar to a reduced fuzzy logic, thus blurring the
advantage of adding a fuzzy type controller.
Second, we chose parameters for fuzzy controllers
based on their linear approximation. It is possible
that the linear approximation was far from the
reality for the very non-linear systems, such as the
muscles.
In conclusion, HAWM scheme could be used for
controlling muscle force. Adding a fuzzy type
controller had only a marginal advantage over the
conventional PID controller.
REFERENCES
[1] Chizeck HJ, Crago PE, Kofman LS.
Robust closed-loop control of isometric
muscle force using pulsewidth modulation,
IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng. vol. 35, pp.
510-517, 1988
[2] Lee CC. Fuzzy logic in control system:
Fuzzy logic controller, Part I and Part II,”
IEEE Trans. System, Man and Cyb., vol. 20,
pp. 404-435, 1990.
Acknowledgements
This study was partly supported by a grant
(NSC 94-2213-E-006-103) from National
Science Council of Taiwan.
11th Annual Conference of the International FES Society
September 2006–Zao, Japan
26
2. METHODS
The spiral cuffs containing two oppositely placed
bipolar electrodes in this study were developed by
the Man-Machine System Laboratory in National
Cheng Kung University (NCKU), Tainan, Taiwan.
These cuff electrodes had a three-layer structure
(two polyimide sheets as insulating layers
sandwiching a gold sheet) with a total thickness of
50m and they were fabricated by using the
micro-electro-mechanical system technologies [4].
In the present study, four contacts bipolar cuff
electrodes were implanted around the sciatic
nerves in order to achieve the selectivity of the
FNS. But, only the two contacts were used for
stimulation (figure 1). Six adult rabbits weighing
between 2 and 3kg were used for the experiments.
The animal was anesthetized with a constant
infusion of thiopental (8-9ml/hrs) intravenously.
The rabbit was placed on the dynamometer frame,
and the foot was clamped into the shoe. The knee
and ankle angles were fixed at 90º. The isometric
torque generated at the ankle joint in response to
electrical stimulation was measured by the torque
sensor on the dynamometer. The electrode was
implanted via acute surgery on the sciatic nerve in
the popliteal fossa. First, we measured the ENG
signals by passively stretching the rabbit’s ankle
through a full range of dorsiflexion and plantar
flexion in the sagittal plane. The ENG signals
collected were first pre-amplified with a gain of
50,000 and analog pre-filtered with cutoff
frequencies between 100 and 10k Hz by a
biopotential amplifier and then, analog-to-digital
converted into the dSPACE 1104 development
system with a sampling rate of 10k Hz per
channel.[5] We generated an amplitude-modulated
twitch recruitment curve for two channels on the
electrodes. For each amplitude level of a
recruitment curve, the stimulator delivered five
monophasic current pulses with stimulation
frequency 0.5 Hz. Then, the maximum contraction
torque within each twitch was recorded. Dual
stimulation method was preformed by fixing the
amplitude of channel 1 at 20μA and increasing the
amplitude of channel 2 from 20 to 200μA. The
direction of current was opposite in these two
channels. Then the amplitude at channel 1 was
increased from 20 to 200μA. With each amplitude
at channel 1, the torque response to changing
amplitude at channel 2 was plotted. The
experimental procedures were approved by the
animal ethics committee of NCKU.
Figure 1. Transverse section of an example sciatic
nerve consisting of fascicles encircled by a nerve
spiral cuff electrode containing two oppositely
placed bipolar contacts.
3. RESULTS
The torque value was defined as positive in the
dorsi-flexion direction. Figure 2 showed the
isometric torque recruitment curve generated by
electrical stimulation on each of two channels on
the sciatic nerve respectively. The curve of
stimulating channel 1 changed the direction at 100
μA which might be caused by spreading of
stimulus current to the other fascicle (peroneal
nerve) and the spillover point of the channel 2 was
60μA. Figures 3 and 4 showed the effects of
channel 2 stimulation on the torque response of
stimulating channel 1. The results showed that the
recruitment curve of channel 1 changed
systematically with different amplitudes at channel
2, i.e., the point where the torque response changed
direction was postponed to larger amplitudes when
the stimulation amplitude at channel 2 was
increased. In figures 5 and 6, similar torque
response curves of channel 2 with graded
stimulation amplitudes at channel 1 were revealed.
The spiilover moved backward because the
increasing of the channel 1 stimulus amplitude.
Figure 2. Individual torque recruitment curve for
amplitude modulation for 20 to 200μA when only
one channel was stimulated.
Cuff electrode Channel 1
Channel 2
Sciatic nerve
Each channel Torque V.S. Amplitude
-5
0
5
10
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180 200
Amplitude(μA)
To
rq
ue
(N
-c
m
)
ch1
ch2
To
rq
ue
(N
-c
m
)
1附錄一 第一年度(2005) 出席國際學術會議心得報告
參加 27th IEEE EMBS Annual International Conference。
IEEE EMBS 學會今年在中國上海浦東舉行。 IEEE EMBS 是醫學工程學門最大的國
際組織，其年會涵蓋醫學工程各個領域。 在年會中可以得知各個領域目前的最新進展。 今
年的年會主題著重在神經醫學的進步，尤其是功能性磁振造影。 藉由此項檢查，可以用非
侵入方式來探索大腦的功能和運作。 大會邀請此項技術的發明人來做重點演講，講者敘述
他數十年的研究歷程，印象十分深刻。 另一方面重點則在於細胞力學和再生醫學技術。 在
這一方面則是因為原子力顯微鏡和各式測量儀器的進步，以及醫工和傳統生物研究學者的
合作，逐漸改變過去較偏定量的細胞觀察，而改以定量描述。 原子力顯微鏡逐漸普及，而
其改良和運用也日益增加，在可見的未來是一項研究細胞和細胞以下層面的利器。
由於今年在中國舉行，可以看到來自內陸各地相當多的中國研究人員參加，深深感受
到中國科技的進展。 但另一方面，中國研究生的英文程度仍有待加強，無法使用英文適當
溝通。
我的報告是結合電刺激和針灸穴道來改善周邊神經在生。 聽眾不少，除了醫工學者有
興趣之外，中國傳統中醫研究人員也頗感興趣，將來有合作的空間。
過去幾年持續參加此會，可以感受到加入醫工研究領域的學者越來越多，且背景越來
越廣，這對醫工的發展是一件好事。 國內學者也可朝這方向合作，組成更大的合作群。
在會場之外，浦東的快速進展也是相當引人注目，高樓一棟接著一棟不停的蓋，整個
區域的發展程度不亞於台北。
最後在感想方面，我覺得我們在醫學工程的整體研究能力已經逐漸趕上世界之一般水
準，但是如何走上尖端還需進一步努力。 人員和財力需要集中並有效運用，讓研究人員可
以長時安心工作，如同功能性磁振造影的發明者，才能有重大的突破。
在此會議中我們報告了一篇論文
Lin CCK, Chen MC, Yu SN, Ju MS. Chronic electrical stimulation of four acupuncture points
on rat diabetic neuropathy, 27th IEEE EMBS Annual International Conference, Shanghai, China,
September 1-4, 2005.
3stimulated beneath the Achilles tendon at ankle. The
latencies of the EMG response of the foot muscles were
measured. NCV was calculated by dividing the distance
between two stimulated points by the difference in latencies
of proximal and distal stimulations.
We utilized the Von-Frey Digi-Tactile Data Acquisition
System (VF001-R, Kent Scientific Corporation) to
determine the tactile threshold. First, we tied the rats in a
special-designed framework under temporary anesthesia
with ether. In about 15 minutes later, rats could move
their tail ad libitum and, then, we started to examine TH.
We pressed the tail-end with the pressure-sensitive wand
and increased pressure slowly and steadily until the rat
withdrew its tail. The minimal pressure at the withdrawal
was defined as TH.
Blood perfusion was measured after the completion of
TH evaluation. Because Doppler flowmetry was very
sensitive to the local temperature, we controlled the
temperature of area to be examined as constant as possible.
A stereotatic manipulator was used to hold the laser
Doppler micro-needle probe (Biopac Systems) steadily, and
the probe was positioned at the medial canthus of eye and,
then, the ventral depression of footpad. The local blood
perfusion was represented in the
Glucose level of all groups
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
ES 1 ES 2 ES 3 ES 4 OA DMC NM
Treatment
G
lu
co
se
le
ve
l(
m
g/
dl
)
Week 1
Week 2
Week 3
Week 4
Fig. 1. Blood glucose levels of all groups during electrical
stimulation from week 1 to week 4.
NCV of all groups during ES
0
50
100
150
200
ES 1 ES 2 ES 3 ES 4 OA DMC NM
Treatment
N
C
V
(c
m
/s
)
Week 1
Week 2
Week 3
Week 4
Fig. 2. Nerve conduction thresholds of all groups during electrical
stimulation from week 1 to week 4.
eye and foot as DE and DF respectively.
E. Statistical analyses
All the data were presented as mean ± standard error of
the mean (SEM). Among-group differences in BGL, NCV,
TH, DE and DF were analyzed by one-way analysis of
variance (ANOVA) and, when the difference was
significant, between-group difference was tested by the
Fisher’s PLSD post hoc test. The statistical analyses were
accomplished by the software StatView (SAS Institute Inc.).
The confidence level was set at= 0.05.
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
A. Blood glucose level
There was significant difference in BGL between
diabetic and normal rats, but no significant difference in
BGL before and after treatment for all the treated groups
(Fig. 1, p>0.05). Some studies showed that electrical
stimulation on acupuncture points of the abdominal area
(Zhongwan/Gwanyuan) could reduce BGL [3]. However,
the four acupuncture points that we chose in this study for
investigating neuropathy did not affect BGL.
B. Nerve conductive velocity
At the 1st and 2nd weekends of treatment, NCVs of all
DM groups, including the DMC group were similar to the
NCV of the normal group (F6,76=0.985, p=0.44; F6,74=0.443,
p=0.8477). However, at 3rd weekend of electrical
stimulation, the difference among groups was significant
(F6,68=3.518, p=0.0043). There was significant reduction
in NCV of the DMC when compared to the results of other
groups (p<0.05). On the other hand, the NCVs of ES1,
ES2, ES3, ES4, OA and NM were similar to each other.
At 4th weekend of electrical stimulation, NCV of
DMC group remained significantly worse than other groups
(F6,64=6.794, p<0.0001). NCV of ES4 was significantly
Tactile threshold (TH) of all groups during ES
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
ES 1 ES 2 ES 3 ES 4 OA DMC NM
Treatment
Ta
ct
ile
Th
re
sh
ol
d
Week1
Week2
Week3
Week4
Fig. 3. Tactile thresholds of all groups during electrical stimulation from
week 1 to week 4.
better than NCV of DMC (p=0.0416) and NCVs of ES1
and ES3 were, in turn, significantly better than the NCV of
ES4 (p<0.005). NCVs of ES2 and OA were between
those of ES4 and of ES1 and ES3.
The patterns of electrical stimulation in each group were
quite different. DC was used in ES1 group, while AC with
different parameters was used in ES2, ES3 and ES4 groups,
respectively. The difference between ES2 and ES3 was
the frequency, and the difference between ES3 and ES4
was the total charge of stimulation. There were several
studies showing that NCV was reduced significantly in
diabetic rats, which was similar to our results. At 3rd and 4th
weekends of treatment, NCV of DMC group was
significantly reduced. However, our results indicated that
5附錄二 第二年度(2006) 出席國際學術會議心得報告
參加 IFESS年度會議
本年度的國際功能性電刺激學會(International Functional Electrical
Stimulation Society)年會在日本東北之白石舉行。 由於地處偏僻，需要由東京搭
換幾次交通工具才能到達。 加上天氣陰雨，更加不方便。
本次年會共三天(2006.9.13-2006.9.15)。整個主題皆為功能性電刺激之運用。
第一天由 Popovic教授給予特別演講，接下來的主題著重在於復健的運用，這是
將功能性電刺激的運用擴展到復健使用。
第二天則有微電極和控制的討論。 由會中可以得知目前的趨勢是使用微製
程來製造電極以減小植入物的體積。 但另一方面，由於植入之難度較高，似乎
有許多學者又回到使用表面電極的研究。 第二天之特別演講是亞洲各國功能性
電刺激之進展和現況。 台灣之現況由成大醫工所之陳家進教授報告。 日本在這
方面領先其他各國甚遠。 台灣假如要迎頭趕上，需要有更多的研究人員和資金
的投入。 傍晚則是壁報討論時段，跟我一起參加的博士生林華禮展示他的研究
主題: 以單一多極銬型電極來控制電刺激肌肉，受到相當多的迴響，學生之英文
應對能力也有明顯進步。
最後一天，重點在於大腦深部刺激，這個主題並不是傳統功能性電刺激的範
疇，大家把它當成新知一般吸收，或許以後可以當作研究主題。
總結，今年國際功能性電刺激學會年會參加人數比往年減少，地點偏僻可能
是原因之一。 新的進展並不明顯，可以感覺功能性電刺激需要突破性的發展，
不然會逐漸沒落。
在此會議中我們報告了兩篇論文
1. Lin CCK, Ju MS, Liu WC. Hybrid amplitude/pulse width fuzzy modulation of
electrical stimulation, IFESS, Miyagi-Zao, Japan, September 12-15, 2006,
p.32-34.
2. Lin HL, Ju MS, Lin CCK. Selective electrical stimulation of sciatic nerve by
two-channel cuff electrodes, IFESS, Miyagi-Zao, Japan, September 12-15, 2006,
p.202-204.
11th Annual Conference of the International FES Society
September 2006–Zao, Japan
7
1I 2I
a
aI
b
bI
F
igure 2. The approximated straight line for HAWM.
It is evident that the slope of the line is smaller
than the original recruitment curve.
We constructed 4 different controllers, i.e.
conventional proportional-integrative-derivative
(PID), fuzzy proportional-derivative type (PD),
fuzzy proportional-integrative type (PI) and fuzzy
proportional-integrative-derivative type controllers.
For the fuzzy logic, inputs (error and error change)
were mapped to the three triangle-shaped
membership functions. One membership degree
was obtained for each scaled input and
membership function combination. Then, each
combination of mapped inputs activated one
control action according to the inference rule table.
The output of the fuzzy logic was obtained in the
defuzzification process by using the min-max
height method.
The custom-made frame consisted of several
clamps to fasten the lower limb of the rabbit and a
torque sensor to measure the torque output of the
ankle joint. The torque output was digitized at a
rate of 20K Hz by a digital signal processing board
for real-time control and for off-line analysis. The
commands were transformed to analog signals and
fed to a linear stimulus isolator. The electrical
stimuli produced by the isolator were applied to the
tibial nerve via a bipolar cuff electrode. The
stimulation frequency was fixed at 40 Hz. The
pulse width and amplitude of stimulation pulses
were modulated by the controller.
Acute experiments were performed in adult male
New Zealand white rabbits (2-3 kg). The animals
were anesthetized with a constant infusion of
pentobarbital intravenously. An incision of
approximately 3 cm was made on the lateral side
of the thigh to expose the sciatic nerve through the
avascular fascicular junction. The proximal parts of
tibial and peroneal nerves were then carefully
separated from each other over a sufficient distance
to permit the installation of a bipolar cuff electrode
to the tibial nerve for electrical stimulation.
The amplitude-torque recruitment curves
respectively at pulse width of 100 and 500 m
were obtained by incrementally (10 A per step)
increasing the stimulation amplitude and
measuring the isometric torque response. The
hybrid amplitude/pulse-width modulation line was
then calculated.
The parameters of the conventional PID controller
were determined by the Ziegler-Nichols method.
The parameters for the fuzzy controllers were
determined by tuning the linear approximation to
obtain the best response. The robustness of the
controllers to the different ankle positions was
evaluated by repeating the step responses at
positions of 10, 20 and 30º in dorsiflexion,
respectively, and using the identical controller
parameters obtained at the natural position.
3. RESULTS
Figures 3 and 4 show the results of conventional
and fuzzy PID controllers.
Figure 3. Step torque response of conventional PID
controller. Upper panel: torque; middle panel:
controller output; lower panel: stimulator output.
Figure 4. Step torque response of fuzzy PID
controller.
The performance of conventional and fuzzy PID
controllers was similar, except the fuzzy PID
controller showed slight oscillation before the step
rise of torque. Both controllers showed very busy
11th Annual Conference of the International FES Society
September 2006–Zao, Japan
9
Selective electrical stimulation of sciatic nerve by two–channel cuff
electrodes
Hua-Li Lin1, Ming-Shaung Ju1, Chou-Ching K. Lin2
1 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan
2 Department of Neurology, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan
Hua-Li Lin
n1892141@ccmail.ncku.edu.tw
Ming-Shaung Ju
msju@mail.ncku.edu.tw
Chou-Ching K. Lin
cxl45@mail.ncku.edu.tw
ABSTRACT
Functional neuromuscular stimulation (FNS) is a
method to restore the motor function of the
patients with lesions in central nervous system.
For the purpose of feedback control, selective
stimulation of a nerve trunk is an important field.
This paper considers the dual stimulation method
to improve the selectivity of electrical stimulation
of the rabbit’s sciatic nerve by a two-channel
spiral cuff electrode. Previous works have
experimentally demonstrated good results of
selectivity by using four-channel cuff electrodes.
In this studty, it is shown that the two-channel
cuff electrode can achieve similar results. Using
different combination of stimulus amplitudes at
two opposite channels can change the
recruitment curve of the muscle torque. The
results show that, with stimulation at the other
channel, not only the spillover to other muscles
can be delayed, but the direction of the total
torque acting on the ankle joint can also be
changed.
1. INTRODUCTION
Functional neuromuscular electrical stimulation
(FNS) is a method to restore the motor functions.
The principle of FNS is using the electrical current
to directly stimulate a peripheral nerve to restore
the ability of movements. Stimulation of a
myelinated motor nerve fiber can be achieved, if
an electric field is introduced in the region of the
nerve fiber that sufficiently depolarizes the
excitable membrane at the node of Ranvier.[1]
With excitation of a motor nerve fiber, an action
potential is generated that propagates towards a
muscle. Electrically stimulating motor nerves can
be achieved with many electrode types. Using
electrodes located on the skin surface to stimulate
the motor point is technically straightforward but
relatively non-selective,
because the electric field introduced into the body
is widespread. FNS systems that use intramuscular
or epimysial electrodes are presently limited by the
need to implant, maintain and use a large number
of electrodes if many muscle are to be controlled.
It will be desirable if an electrical stimulation
system can be designed that control the activation
of several muscles with only a single implanted
electrode device.[2] Thus, an important part of
neuroprosthetic implants for motor control is the
potential to independently activate many muscles
by stimulating only a single peripheral nerve. This
generally requires preferentially stimulating a
single fascicle in a nerve trunk without stimulating
other fascicles. To realize selective activation of
individual fascicles, a “neural”electrode is needed
that can create a highly focal electric field within a
nerve trunk.[3] Previous researches have shown
that selective activation of a peripheral nerve using
a cuff electrode with multiple electrical contacts
can produce selective activation of two antagonist
muscle groups innervated by that nerve trunk. The
goal of this research was to demonstrate that a
two-pair spiral cuff electrode placed around the
rabbit’s sciatic nerve could be used to perform
selective activation of the motor fascicles in the
sciatic nerve. The stimulation protocol set a fixed
stimulus at one pair and changed stimulus
amplitudes at the other pair. The results showed
that the stimulation protocol selectively produced
several different effects on sciatic nerve. The
results of these experiments supported the
hypothesis that selective and independent
activation of motor fascicles in the rabbit sciatic
nerve was possible by using a spiral cuff electrode
containing two pairs of bipolar contacts.
