2 
一、 中文摘要 
整合型電信應用服務包括語音、資料、影像
服務之整合，電信營運商為提供不同的加值
服務以迎合客戶需求，需要處理複雜的服務
與網路管理。若缺乏完整的營運支援系統，
很難即時、有效率地依據客戶需求提供有競
爭力的服務。本計畫前兩年著重在UMTS之即
時計費。第三年則將即時計費之經驗應用於
電信營運系統。本研究以新一代營運系統及
軟體為基礎，發展電信營運支援系統，以支
援電信服務及IT服務的實行。依據標準電信
營運流程，本系統整合四類營運支援系統：
TOSS-P (智慧型服務佈建), TOSS-N (整合性
大型網路管理), TOSS-T (故障處理及排解), 
and TOSS-Q (點對點服務品質管理)。我們以
網路協定電視及IP虛擬專屬網路之營運模
式，展示這些營運支援系統如何協同運作以
支援日常之企業營運，並達到降低成本及加
速收益的優點。 
 
關鍵詞：營運支援系統，新一代營運系統及
軟體，增強式電信營運藍圖，網路協定電視，
IP虛擬專屬網路 
 
Abstract- Due to the convergence of voice, 
data, and video, today’s telecom operators are 
facing the complexity of service and network 
management to offer differentiated value-added 
services that meet customer expectations. In the 
first two years of this project, we have studied 
UMTS Online Charging Protocol. This year we 
apply the online charging experience to 
Business Support System/Operations Support 
System (BSS/OSS). Without the operations 
support of well-developed BSS/OSS, it is 
difficult to timely and effectively provide 
competitive services upon customer request. In 
this study, a suite of NGOSS-based Telecom 
OSS (TOSS) is developed for the support of 
fulfillment and assurance operations of telecom 
services and IT services. Four OSS groups, 
TOSS-P (intelligent service provisioning), 
TOSS-N (integrated large-scale network 
management), TOSS-T (trouble handling and 
resolution), and TOSS-Q (end-to-end service 
quality management), are organized and 
integrated following the standard telecom 
operation processes (i.e., eTOM). We use IPTV 
and IP-VPN operation scenarios to show how 
these OSS groups co-work to support daily 
business operations with the benefits of cost 
reduction and revenue acceleration. 
 
Keywords: Operations Support System (OSS), 
New Generation Operations Systems and 
Software (NGOSS), enhanced Telecom 
Operations Map (eTOM), Internet Protocol 
Television (IPTV), IP-Virtual Private Network 
(IP-VPN) 
 
二、 前言 
Today, telecom operators are facing many 
challenges introduced by provisioning 
diversified and digital convergent services in a 
fast-changing multi-technology network 
environment. In the first two years of this 
project, we have studied UMTS Online 
Charging Protocol. This year we apply the 
online charging experience to BSS/OSS. It is 
essential that a telecom operator quickly 
respond to market and technology changes, 
satisfy customer needs, and reduce operational 
expenditure (OPEX). To address these issues, 
the telecom operator’s Operations Support 
System (OSS) must meet the following 
requirements: automated service provisioning 
for fast service fulfillment, proactive and 
reactive monitoring for end-to-end quality 
assurance, efficient and effective trouble 
handling, and high flexibility of customization 
and adjustment for offering new products to 
market in time.  
To fulfill the above requirements, Chunghwa 
Telecom has developed a series of OSSs called 
Telecom OSS (TOSS). These OSSs support the 
operational processes for broadband service 
delivery and quality assurance where the 
customer needs for new contents and services 
are constantly changing, and sometimes 
unpredictable. The design of TOSS is compliant 
to the enhanced Telecom Operations Map 
(eTOM) framework of New Generation 
Operations Systems and Software (NGOSS) [1]. 
As illustrated in Figure 1, eTOM defines a 
comprehensive telecom business process model 
for service providers (e.g., telecom operators 
and content providers). There are three major 
process areas: Strategy, Infrastructure and 
Product (SIP; Figure 1 (a)) for planning and life 
cycle management, Enterprise Management 
(EM; Figure 1 (b)) for corporate or business 
management, and Operations (OPS; Figure 1 (c)) 
for core operational management. As the heart 
of eTOM, the OPS consists of two vertical 
process groups, i.e., Operation Support & 
Readiness (OSR) and Fulfillment, Assurance, 
Billing (FAB) which are the focal point of 
4 
 
Figure 2. TOSS architecture (and an example of management for IPTV) 
  
 
三、 研究目的與文件探討 
As illustrated in Figure 2, TOSS contains four 
major subsystems: TOSS-P (Provisioning), 
TOSS-N (Network Management), TOSS-T 
(Trouble Management) and TOSS-Q (Quality 
Management).  
TOSS-P corresponds to Order Handling 
(Figure 1 (1)) and Service Configuration & 
Activation in eTOM (Figure 1 (4)). TOSS-P 
supports light-weight Order Handling 
Management (OHM) to accept customer orders. 
Since TOSS-P is modularly designed with open 
interfaces, the OHM developed by Chunghwa 
Telecom can be easily replaced by other 
corporate or commercial order handling systems. 
TOSS-P implements service design functions 
that translate customer ordered products into 
service specifications and design how these 
services should be configured. After that, it 
instructs TOSS-N and service platforms (Figure 
2 (1)) to perform service activation.  
TOSS-N corresponds to eTOM RM&O 
processes (Figure 1 (7)-(10)). This subsystem 
provides a complete carrier-grade solution for 
management of large heterogeneous 
telecommunications networks as well as 
information technology (IT) servers. TOSS-N 
conducts all resource-level activities including 
resource activation, resource testing, resource 
trouble detection, and resource performance 
monitoring. In Figure 2, we use the Internet 
Protocol Television (IPTV) service [4] as an 
example for management, where all network 
elements for constructing the IPTV service are 
resources to be managed by TOSS-N. These 
network elements include the ATM switches or 
MPLS-based routers in core networks (Figure 2 
(2)); the Digital Subscriber Line Access 
Multiplexers (DSLAM), the Multi-Service 
Access Nodes (MSAN), or the Layer 2 and 
Layer 3 switches in xDSL or FTTx access 
networks (Figure 2 (3)), and the end-user 
devices such as home gateways or set-top boxes 
(STBs) located in customer premises (Figure 2 
(4)). In this study, the terms device and network 
element are used alternatively to represent 
network and end-user equipment. 
TOSS-T corresponds to Problem Handling 
and Service Problem Management processes in 
eTOM (Figure 1 (2) and (5)), which handles 
troubles reported by customers. Specifically, 
TOSS-T generates trouble tickets, dispatches 
them to the appropriate operators (e.g., network 
maintenance operators, field operators, etc.), 
and tracks them until the problems are resolved 
and the services are restored. TOSS-T also 
interacts with TOSS-N to perform resource 
testing functions that assist the operators to 
identify and locate the causes of the service 
problems. 
6 
process, an exception-handling process is 
initiated to resolve the problem and inform the 
operators as well. The Designer also sets the 
alert criteria to monitor the status of a provision 
sequence. For example, the IPTV service 
platform should finish provision task in 2 
minutes, otherwise TOSS-P will report an 
exception alert to the system administrator.  
After finishing the design for service 
specifications, provision sequence and 
exceptional handling, the Designer 
automatically publishes these service 
specifications to the OHM for product manager 
to wrap up various product offerings (e.g., the 
IPTV service specifications can be used to 
define the Olympics Games package or sports 
packages for NBA season options).  
 
1.2. TOSS-P Activator 
The Activator accepts customer orders from 
the OHM. Every customer order includes a 
product instance that specifies the product name 
(Figure 4 (2)) such as Multimedia on Demand 
(MOD; an IPTV product of Chunghwa Telecom) 
[4] and a Customer Facing Service (CFS) 
instance which consists of several 
characteristics such as the uplink bandwidth of 
IPTV connectivity (Figure 4 (6)). The 
specification in Figure 4 (7)-(9) enforces the 
value in Figure 4 (6) to be restricted in the range 
[2M, 20M] defined in Figure 3 (6)-(8). 
Note that the CFS instance is created when a 
customer subscribes to a product at the first time. 
After this order is handled, the updated CFS 
instance is stored in the Service Inventory. For a 
subsequent order requested by the customer 
(e.g., upgrade bandwidth from 2Mbps to 
10Mbps), the CFS instance of the customer 
order will be recognized, retrieved from the 
Service Inventory, updated, and then stored back 
to the Service Inventory. 
The Request Manager (RM; Figure 2 (d)) 
receives a customer order from the OHM 
through a common Service Activation Interface 
(SAI) [5]. The SAI supports several options that 
allow the OHM to instruct TOSS-P to perform 
actions (activate, cancel, modify, finalize, etc.) 
on services for lifecycle management. 
The RM extracts the CFS instance from the 
customer order and passes it to the Order 
Manager (OM; Figure 2 (e)). Based on the CFS 
instance, the OM controls the provision 
workflow that implements the Service 
Configuration & Activation process in eTOM 
(see Figure 1 (4)). Specifically, the OM instructs 
the State Manager (StM; Figure 2 (e)) to run a 
finite state machine (FSM) for every CFS 
instance. This FSM is driven by the action 
specified by the OHM. Figure 5 illustrates a 
partial state transition diagram for the FSM. 
Every time the Activator finishes a customer 
order, the StM moves the FSM of the CFS 
instance to a new state, and saves it in the 
Service Inventory. When the customer issues the 
next order, the state stored in the Service 
Inventory will be retrieved with the OHM action 
to drive the FSM. 
 
Figure 3. FTTx connectivity service specification 
8 
underlying network and service resources 
which will not be activated for this product 
again. The StM moves the FSM to the 
Terminated state. Note that we cannot 
terminate a service directly from the 
Provisioned_activate state. For example, a 
customer may travel and forget to pay the bill, 
and it is appropriate to temporarily deactivate 
the service, and actually terminate the service 
until we are sure that the customer confirms 
service termination. 
Service Modification: When the IPTV 
service is at the Provisioned_Activate state, 
the customer may request to change the service 
profile; e.g., to upgrade the Internet service 
uplink bandwidth from 2 Mbps to 4 Mbps or 
upgrade the class of IPTV service from 
Standard Definition TV (SDTV) to High 
Definition TV (HDTV). The OM instructs the 
SCM to modify the network and service 
resources. The FSM state remains the same. 
In the lifecycle of a product, the OM 
maintains a service order ID linking to the 
corresponding customer orders from the OHM. 
The service provider will continually check the 
execution status of TOSS-P for the customer 
orders through this service order ID.  
 
2. INTEGRATED NETWORK MANAGEMENT 
(TOSS-N) 
TOSS-N performs centralized management 
of large heterogeneous networks that are 
geographically distributed. TOSS-N consists of 
six components. The System Connector (Figure 
1 (l)) connects TOSS-N to TOSS-P, TOSS-Q, 
and TOSS-T. By using Java Message Service 
(JMS) and web service, the System Connector 
is implemented on the loosely-coupled 
service-oriented architecture (SOA) [6][7]. The 
Flow-through Network Provisioning & 
Activation (FNPA; Figure 2 (m)) processes the 
requests from TOSS-P to automatically 
configure and activate the network elements. 
The Network Status & Performance Analysis 
(NSPA; Figure 2 (n)) collects measured data 
and analyzes network status. The Alarm & 
Ticket Management (A&TM; Figure 2 (o)) 
creates event tickets when some faults were 
detected at the network elements, and issues the 
fault alarms to the related operators through 
short messages or e-mails. The Network Test & 
Diagnosis (NT&D; Figure 2 (p)) handles 
network test requests from TOSS-T to detect 
abnormal operations of the network elements. 
The Network Element Adapter (NEA; Figure 2 
(q)) monitors and controls broadband network 
elements with multiple protocols such as SNMP, 
TL1, CLI/Telnet, HTTP, CORBA, and TR-069 
[8]. In Chunghwa Telecom’s commercial 
operation, TOSS-N manages hundred types of 
broadband network elements over 40 vendors.  
We use three operation scenarios to illustrate 
how TOSS-N interacts with TOSS-P, TOSS-T 
and TOSS-Q to deal with IPTV service 
fulfillment and assurance activities.
 
Figure 6. Web-based TOSS-N network management 
10 
Dispatching (THD; Figure 2 (h)) and Service 
Problem Management (SPM; Figure 2 (i)), 
TOSS-T provides problem handling and 
resolution functions such as trouble ticket 
creation, problem diagnosing, activities 
dispatching, problem resolving, and activity 
tracking/reporting.  
 
3.1. Trouble Handling and Dispatching 
The Trouble Handling and Dispatching 
(THD) receives trouble reports from customers, 
and is responsible for managing the recovery 
activities, fixing customer problems, and 
providing status of the activities. Specifically, 
the THD performs trouble report creation, 
activity dispatching, activity tracking, history 
reporting, and report sharing. The details are 
given below.   
 
3.1.1. Trouble Report Creation 
When the THD receives a customer problem, 
it creates a trouble report. This customer 
problem can be an event ticket (such as 
“performance degradation of a device”) from 
TOSS-N, or a customer complaint issued from 
the CSR. For the IPTV service, the THD has 
defined more than 30 trouble codes to describe 
various trouble situations. For examples, code 
Z61 represents the complaint “No available 
IPTV channels”, code Z11 means “Can’t 
connect to server”, and Z71 means “Can’t 
subscribe to video clip”.  
An IPTV trouble report can be created 
through the THD web page, which includes 
customer’s IPTV service number, reported 
IPTV trouble code, customer’s contact 
information and the appointed time of a visit 
for, e.g., STB replacement.  
 
3.1.2. Activity Dispatching 
A problem is resolved by carrying out 
several activities. An activity can be problem 
isolation/diagnosis, resource maintenance, 
cable/device repair, customer’s equipment 
replacement, and so on. Each activity is 
assigned to an appropriate operator for 
execution. After the operator finishes this 
activity, a result code is returned to the THD. 
This result code concludes the execution of the 
activity. The subsequent activity is dispatched 
by the THD based on the result code of the 
previous activity. To do so, the THD relates 
every trouble code/result code to a dispatch rule. 
Depending on device type, operator’s workload, 
customer’s address and other factors, the 
dispatch rule defines appropriate operators to 
handle specific activity types. In the previous 
example, after an IPTV trouble report was 
created with trouble code Z61 “No available 
IPTV channels” (Figure 7 (a)), the THD applies 
the corresponding dispatch rule (Figure 7 (b)) 
to select an operator in IPTV operation center 
and dispatches “diagnose” activity (Figure 7 (c)) 
to him/her to identify the cause of this problem. 
The operator isolates the problem by using the 
SPM functions. If the diagnosis indicates an 
STB failure, the result code is ZC1 “STB is 
unavailable” (Figure 7 (d)). Based on this result 
code, the THD applies the dispatch rule “Duty 
of Office” (Figure 7 (e)) to assign an 
appropriate field operator (the rule option is 
“Field Maintenance”) to carry out the “Repair” 
activity (Figure 7 (f)). The field operator then 
makes a visit to the customer for STB 
replacement. 
 
Figure 7. An example of IPTV activity dispatching 
12 
Figure 8 (c) illustrates two video servers 
PCPC-TVS-402 and PCPC-TVS-403 in the 
IPTV service platform. These servers connect 
to the L3 switch PCPC-212. Assuming that 
some TV channels are lost in each of the video 
servers, and therefore these servers are marked 
red (and that is why the customers fail to access 
the TV channels). The above abnormal 
situation results in a trouble ticket generated for 
PCPC (Figure 8 (d)). Notation (1:0) means that 
there is one ADSL trouble ticket and no 
leased-line trouble ticket. The trouble ticket 
suggests that an appropriate operator be 
dispatched to fix the problems of the video 
servers. After the problems are fixed, the 
red/yellow KPIs will turn green again.  
 
4.1.2. Service Testing 
The SQM implements the Performance 
Evaluation and Testing System (PETS) to 
measure the service quality, and detect the 
problems before the customers are aware of 
them. The PETS contains many Remote Test 
Units (RTUs) and a Test Center (TC). An RTU 
(Figure 9 (a)) is installed at a central office to 
emulate the STB at a customer site. The RTU 
automatically executes test cases that emulate 
customer behaviors such as downloading a file 
from the Internet, selecting IPTV channels and 
watching IPTV programs. The TC server 
(Figure 9 (b)) periodically collects the test 
results from the RTUs. If a potential problem 
(such as failure for IPTV channel selection) is 
detected, the SQM will notify appropriate 
operators to confirm the problems, and repair 
malfunctioned network elements or software 
configurations. There are about 600 RTUs in 
Chunghwa Telecom’s central offices, which 
execute various tests every two minutes to 
identify potential problems and service quality 
degradation. A major advantage of the RTU/TC 
approach is that it is proactively detect the 
service problems without involving STBs at the 
customer sites. 
The RTU test results are sent to the TC to 
generate a statistics report that provides, for 
example, the failure history in the last ten days. 
This report indicates when failures were 
detected. An operator may check the test results 
of a particular time period in this report. 
 
Figure 8. The SQM monitoring web page for IPTV 
14 
 
Figure 11. Measurement points of a VPN architecture 
 
 
Figure 12. The CQM monitoring window for IP-VPN performance 
 
4.2.1. Service Performance Monitoring 
Similar to the SQM, the CQM monitors 
network status through TOSS-N. Network 
elements monitored by the CQM are either 
located in service provider’s central offices or 
at customer sites. For example, an IP-VPN 
customer can use the CQM to measure network 
performance (such as round trip delay, packet 
loss, throughput, and so on) in different time 
periods according to the SLA contract. The 
CQM provides the round trip delay between the 
Provider Edge routers (PEs; Figure 11 (c)) 
located in the central offices and the Customer 
Edge routers (CEs; Figure 11 (b) and (d)) 
located at the customer sites. The CQM can 
also directly retrieve the throughput data 
recorded at the PEs. Furthermore, if a pair of 
CEs (Figure 11 (b) and (d)) is managed by 
TOSS-N, the CQM can also provide the 
end-to-end packet delay statistics. 
Figure 12 (a) illustrates the IP-VPN topology 
of an enterprise in the CQM web page. When a 
user clicks, for example, the line between 
Tokyo and Bangkok (1st), it shows the round 
trip time and packet loss in last five minutes 
(Figure 12 (b)) and the delay statistics in the 
last 24 hours (Figure 12 (c)). 
 
4.2.2. SLA Reports and Traffic Analysis 
Reports  
The CQM generates SLA reports for, e.g., 
availability. The availability report summarizes 
the availability measurements of a specific site 
including total up time, total disconnect time 
and so on.  
In Figure 11, the CQM fully monitors the 
service provider network (from Figure 11 (b) to 
(d)), but may not be able to access the devices 
(e.g., web/ERP/video servers) in the customer 
networks (Figure 11 (a) and (e)). Through tools 
such as NetFlow [10], the CQM can analyze 
the statistics (e.g., utilization of a web server at 
the customer network; see Figure 11 (e)) by 
16 
Analysis   
NT&D: Network Test & Diagnosis    
OHM: Order Handling Management  
OM: Order Manager 
OPEX: Operating Expenditure  
OPS: Operations 
OSR: Operation Support & Readiness  
OSS: Operations Support System  
PCPC: Pan-Chiao area  
PETS: Performance Evaluation and Testing 
System  
PSTN: Public Switched Telephone Network  
QoS: Quality of Service 
RM : Request Manager 
RTU: Remote Test Unit 
SAI: Service Activation Interface 
SC : Service Component  
SCM: Service Component Manager  
SDTV: Standard Definition TV 
SI&P: Strategy, Infrastructure & Product  
SLA: Service Level Agreement  
SNMP: Simple Network Management Protocol 
SOA: Service-Oriented Architecture 
SPM: Service Problem Management   
S/PRM: Supplier/Partner Relationship 
Management   
SQM: Service Quality Management 
STB: Set-top Box 
StM: State Manager   
TC: Test Center   
TCA: Threshold Crossing Alert  
THD: Trouble Handling & Dispatching 
TOSS: Telecom Operations Support System 
VPN: Virtual Private Network 
VTU-R: VDSL Transceiver Unit - Remote 
Terminal 
xDSL: x Digital Subscriber Line 
 
六、 成果自評 
（一）對於學術研究、國家發展及其他應用
方面預期之貢獻：  
1. 論文發表：本計畫之學術成果包括： 
a. Lee, H.-Y. and Lin,Y.-B. Credit 
Pre-reservation Mechanism for UMTS 
Prepaid Service. IEEE Transactions on 
Wireless Communications, 9(6): 1867 – 
1873, 2010.  
b. Chen, Y.-K., Lin, Y.-B., et al., TOSS: 
Telecom Operations Support Systems 
for Broadband Services. To appear in 
Journal of Information Processing 
Systems  
c. Lin, Y.-B., Liou, R.-H., Chen, Y.-K., 
and Gan , C.-H. A Handset-based 
Solution for Reducing International 
Roaming Costs, IEEE Transactions on 
Wireless Communications, 10(5): 
1627 – 1635, 2011.  
2. 效能評量： 利用電信營運系統之效能
評量模組監測電信服務效能及客戶端
服務品質。 
（二） 對於參與之工作人員，預期可獲之訓
練： 
1. 整合型電信應用服務之營運系統設
計。 
2. 電信營運系統之效能評量方法。 
七、 參考文獻 
 [1] TM Forum, New Generation Operations 
Systems and Software (NGOSS), TM 
Forum, 2009.  
[2] TM Forum, Business Process Framework- 
enhanced Telecom Operations Map 
(GB921), R8.0, TM Forum, 2009.  
[3] Y.-B. Lin and S.-I. Sou. Charging for 
Mobile All-IP Telecommunications. John 
Wiley and Sons, 2008. 
[4] Multimedia on Demand (MOD), 
http://www.cht.com.tw/.  
[5] TM Forum. Multi-Technology Operation 
Systems Interface (MTOSI) Solution Suite 
Release 2.0 Service Activation, TM Forum, 
2009. 
[6] T. Erl. Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA): 
Concepts, Technology, and Design, Prentice 
Hall, 2005.  
[7] C. H. Hu and S. H. Hsu. “SOA-based 
Alarm Integration for Multi-Technology 
Network Fault Management,” IEEE 
Symposium on Service-Oriented System 
Engineering, Taiwan, Dec. 2008, pp. 
221-226. 
[8] Broadband Forum, “TR-069 CPE WAN 
Management Protocol,” 
www.broadband-forum.org/technical/.../TR
-069_Amendment-2.pdf, Broadband Forum, 
Dec. 2007. 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/07/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: UMTS即時計費協定之研究
計畫主持人: 林一平
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-009-143-MY3 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
