1 
 
報告內容： 
Introduction 
The development of nanoscale transistors based on Si nanowires has been widely 
investigated for applications in electronics and life sciences since the end of the very 
large scale integration of Si-based field effect transistors is approaching according to 
the semiconductor technology roadmap.
1-3
 To explore the potential of Si nanowires, 
the formation of silicide
4-6
 and, more importantly, silicide/Si heterostructure in 
nanowires has been studied.
7-11
 The single-crystal NiSi nanowire has one of the lowest 
resistivity among all silicides, and  it also has the remarkably high failure current 
densities and no degradation in electrical conductivity when being scaled to ultrasmall 
dimension. Therefore, the nanowire heterosturctures of NiSi/Si/NiSi are of interest 
and were created by Wu et al.
7
 Based on those heterostructures, field effect transistors 
were fabricated, the source and drain contacts of which are defined by the metallic 
NiSi nanowire regions.
6
 Schottky barrier field effect transistors were fabricated by 
Weber et al. based on similar heterostructures.
8
 Additionally, nanowires of different Ni 
silicide phases have been synthesized, exhibiting various remarkable properties and 
receiving extensive attention.
5, 12-14 
Well-defined nanoscale building blocks such as 
ohmic contacts and gates on Si nanowires must be developed for being assembled into 
functional circuit components in future nanotechnology. To form these circuit 
components, it requires systematic studies of solid state chemical reactions in the 
nanoscale, which, however, are not well understood. In this work, through an in-situ 
ultrahigh vacuum transmission electron microscopy, we investigated the point contact 
reaction between Ni nanodots and a Si nanowire and the line contact reaction between 
PS sphere-mediated Ni nanopatterns and a Si nanowire, based on which multiple 
heterostructures of NiSi/Si in nanowires were fabricated with three important features. 
Firstly, the very sharp interfaces of NiSi/Si are expected to significantly improve 
interface resistivity between NiSi and Si and enhance the performance of electronic 
devices.
15
 The flatness of the interfaces may enhance the potential applications such 
as single electron transistor.
16
 Secondly, the small nanogaps of Si is another 
contribution to better performance of field effect transistors and bio-sensing due to the 
corresponding shorter channel length.
17
 Thirdly, the multi-nanogap-structure may lead 
to fabrication of multiple electrode contacts for complex integrated circuits of 
nano-scale electronic devices.
18
 In addition, in-situ transmission electron microscopy 
(TEM)
19-29
 was utilized to study the kinetics of reaction and the growth mechanism of 
the multi-nanoheterostructures of single crystal NiSi/Si in a Si nanowire is proposed. 
Furthermore, how to fabricate and control periodic nano-structures remains one of the 
biggest challenges in today’s nano-technology; thus, using a distinctive method, we 
have achieved periodic nanowire heterostructures without lithography. 
3 
 
Since Ni atoms diffuse interstitially in Si,
32
 the interstitial Ni atoms diffuse away 
quickly from the point contact and lead to nucleation and growth of NiSi at about the 
middle of two adjacent contact points, where a higher concentration and 
super-saturation of Ni atoms is achieved due to the fluxes of Ni atoms coming from 
both sides. Subsequently, as more Ni atoms are supplied from the Ni nanodots by 
dissolving into the Si, diffusing from the contact points to the NiSi/Si interfaces, the 
growth of the NiSi occurs. Owing to the limited contact area and the oxide, the flux 
dissolving into the Si is small. Then the fast diffusion of Ni away from the contact 
point will not lead to super-saturation of Ni under the point of contact, so the 
nucleation and growth of NiSi does not start at the point of contact. Another reason is 
that it is more difficult for Ni atoms to diffuse through silicide than through Si since 
the latter occurs by interstitial diffusion. We reported before that in the point contact 
reaction between Ni and Si nanowires, the growth of NiSi starts from both ends of Si 
nanowires.
25, 26
 As for the present case of the reaction between Ni nanodots and a Si 
nanowire, the growth from the both ends of a Si nanowire is possible too; however, 
the nucleation at the middle of two adjacent point contacts requires a shorter distance 
of diffusion of Ni atoms as compared with that at both ends. 
Since the amount of Ni atoms in a Ni nanodot is very limited, the length of the 
sugarcane-type NiSi grain cannot grow very long, and the growth of NiSi grains stops 
when the Ni in the Ni nanodot is completely consumed so that multi-sections of 
nanoheterostructures can be formed. To reconfirm the growth is limited by the supply 
of Ni atoms or not, we further annealed the sample shown in Figure 2 for over two 
hours. Figure 3 is the resultant in-situ TEM images, in which it can be seen that before 
and after the annealing, there is little change on the shape, size, and distance between 
the sugarcane-type silicide grains. In addition to the several grains of NiSi shown in 
Figure 3, we checked other grains of silicide in the sample; it turns out that almost no 
change was observed on all of them. The NiSi is stable at the annealing temperature; 
it does not grow, nor transforms to NiSi2. 
To confirm whether there was ripening during this experiment, we annealed the 
same sample at 800 ℃ for over 2 hours, focusing on the change among the Ni 
nanodots. Figure 4 shows the in-situ TEM images of the Ni nanodots before and after 
the annealing. It turns out that no obvious ripening was observed; neither the sizes nor 
the relative positions of the Ni nanodots had changed apparently. Since the gradient of 
Gibbs-Thomson potential between nanosize Ni dots is very large, the driving force of 
ripening should be large. Thus, no ripening suggests that the surface diffusion of Ni 
on the Si oxide surface is very slow, and so is the surface diffusion of Ni on the SiO2 
surface of a Si nanowire. It can be inferred that all the silicide formation in this study 
is attributed to interstitial diffusion of Ni atoms inside a Si nanowire instead of surface 
5 
 
reactions on Si nanowires, fabricating a number of high quality multiple 
nano-heterostructures of axial epitaxial single crystal NiSi in Si nanowires and 
investigation of nano-NiSi. The growth mechanism of the point contact reaction 
between Ni nanodots and a Si nanowire has been proposed in which nucleation and 
growth of NiSi start at the middle of the point contacts. The growth of the nano-NiSi 
grains in a Si nanowire was found to be supply-limited due to finite provision of Ni 
atoms in a Ni nanodot. Moreover, for long time annealing at a very high temperature, 
the length of the nano-silicide grains does not change and no obvious ripening among 
the Ni nanodots was observed. Therefore, we can conclude that surface diffusion of 
Ni on SiO2 surface is negligibly small. As a result, the reaction between Ni nanodots 
and a Si nanowire occurs by the dissolution of Ni into Si at the point contact and by 
interstitial diffusion of Ni atoms within a Si nanowire, rather than by surface diffusion. 
Additionally, without lithography, we have successfully fabricated periodic 
multi-nanowire-heterostructures of NiSi/Si using the line contact reaction between 
regular Ni nanopatterns which is PS sphere-mediated and Si nanowires. Our study 
here has demonstrated that the nano-chemical reactions with different contact modes 
lead to different growth behaviors of silicide formation. The distinctive methods of 
fabrication of multi-nano-heterostructures may enhance the development of circuit 
elements needed in nano-scale electronic devices. A mechanism of controlling the 
period nano-heterostructure formation on the basis of flux divergence is proposed. 
 
References 
(1)  Cui, Y.; Lieber, C. M. Science 2001, 291, 851-853. 
(2) Xia, Y.; Yang, P.; Sun, Y.; Wu, Y.; Mayers, B.; Gates, B.; Yin, Y.; Kim, F.; Yan, H. 
Adv. Mater. 2003, 15, 353-388.  
(3) Patolsky, F.; Timko, B. P.; Zheng, G.; Lieber, C. M. MRS Bulletin 2007, 32, 
142-149. 
(4) Schmitt, A. L.; Jin, S. Nano Lett. 2008, 8, 810-815. 
(5) Song, Y.; Schmitt, A. L.; Jin, S. Nano Lett., 2007, 7, 965-969. 
(6) Schmitt, A. L.; Higgins, J. M.; Szczech, J. R.; Jin, S. J. Mater. Chem., 2010, 20, 
223-235. 
(7) Wu, Y.; Xiang, J.; Yang, C.; Lu, W.; Lieber, C. M. Nature 2004, 430, 61-65. 
(8) Weber, W. M.; Geelhaar, L.; Graham, A. P.; Unger, E.; Duesberg, G. S.; Liebau, 
M.; Pamler, W.; Cheze, C.; Riechert, H.; Lugli, P.; Kreupl, F. Nano Lett. 2006, 
6, 2660-2666. 
(9) Björk, B. T.; Ohlsson, B. J.; Sass, T.; Persson, A. I.; Thelander, C.; Magnusson, 
M. H.; Deppert, K.; Wallenberg, L. R.; Samuelson, L. Appl. Phys. Lett. 2002, 
80, 1058-1060. 
7 
 
(32) Spit, F. H. M.; Gupta, D.; Tu, K. N. Phys. Rev. B 1989, 39, 1255-1260. 
(33) Thompson, R. D.; Gupta, D.; Tu, K. N. Phys. Rev. B 1985, 33, 2636-2641. 
(34) Tu, K. N.; Mayer, J. W.; Feldman, L. C. Electronic Thin Film Science; 
Macmillian Publishing: New York, 1992. 
 
 
本計畫相關之著作 
1. Kuo-Chang Lu*, Wen-Wei Wu*, Hao Ouyang, Yung-Chen Lin, Yu Huang, 
Chun-Wen Wang, Zheng-Wei Wu, Chun-Wei Huang, Lih J. Chen* and K. N. Tu, 
“The influence of surface oxide on the growth of metal/semiconductor 
nanowires,” Nano Letters , Vol.11, No.7, 2753-2758 (2011). (SCI) (N/M: 5/222; 
IF: 12.186) *Corresponding author 
 
2. W. W. Wu〒,*, Kuo-Chang Lu〒,*, K. N. Chen*, P. H. Yeh, C. W. Wang, Y. C. 
Lin and Yu Huang, “Controlled large strain of Ni silicide/Si/Ni silicide nanowire 
heterostructures and their electron transport properties,”Applied Physics Letters , 
97, 203110 (2010). (SCI) (N/M: 14/116; IF: 3.820) 
〒The first two authors contributed equally to this work. 
*Corresponding author 
   
3. W. W. Wu〒,*, Kuo-Chang Lu〒,*, C. W. Wang, H. Y. Hsieh, S. Y. Chen, Y. C. 
Chou, S. Y. Yu, L. J. Chen* and K. N. Tu, “Growth of multiple 
metal/semiconductor nanoheterostructures through point and line contact 
reactions,” Nano Letters, Vol.10, No.10, 3984-3989 (2010). (SCI) (N/M: 5/222; 
IF: 12.186)   
〒These two authors contributed equally to this work. 
*Corresponding author 
  
4. Yi-Chia Chou, Kuo-Chang Lu and K. N. Tu, “Nucleation and growth of epitaxial 
silicide in silicon nanowires,” Materials Science and Engineering R, Vol.70, 
112-125 (2010). (SCI) (N/M: 3/222; IF: 19.750)  
 
9 
 
 
            Fig. 3 In-situ TEM images of the multi-nanoheterostructures of NiSi/Si 
within the Si nanowire. (a) Before and (b) After further annealing of over two hours at 
650 ℃ showing the high stability of the heterostructures. 
 
 
Fig.4 In-situ TEM images of the stability investigation on the Ni nanodots at the SiO2 
thin film. (a) Before and (b) After annealing of over 2 hours at 800 ℃. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 Fabrication of periodic multi-NiSi/Si/NiSi nanowire heterostructures. (a) On a 
Si substrate covered with SiO2, nanospheres were arranged to be closely packed in a 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
                        日期：100 年 7月 15 日 
                                 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
國際電化學會議是一個每年舉辦兩次的大型國際會議。參加者來自世界各國。綜觀
近幾屆的參加人數至少都有千人以上，此次亦不例外。這次第218屆國際電化學會議
從十月十日到十五日一連六天在美國的拉斯維加斯舉行。會議共有近60 個
symposium，領域涵蓋電子，化學，材料及物理。我所參加的是low dimensional 
photonic devices相關的symposium 在會議中是以口頭及海報兩種方式發表。至於
我口頭發表的時間則是安排在十月十二日，內容是「In Situ TEM Investigation of 
Silicide/Si/Silicide Heterostructure Nanowires」，本次演講反應熱絡，多位來自不同
國家的學者也提出問題一同討論與交流，收穫良多。另外，有許多來自台灣的教授，
包括多位本校甚至本系的教授。在會議中也給了幾場精采的演講，在這幾天的議程
中，我們也聽了好幾場跟自己研究領域有關的演講及看了一些相關的海報，讓自己
得到更多訊息。 
計畫編
號 
NSC 99-2221-E-006-131 
計畫名
稱 
奈米矽化物之生成應用於奈米元件之研究（II） 
出國人
員姓名 
呂國彰 
服務機
構及職
稱 
成功大學材料系助理教授 
會議時
間 
 99 年 10月 
10日至 99年 10
月 15 日 
會議地
點 
美國拉斯維加斯 
會議名
稱 
(中文)第 218屆國際電化學會議 
(英文) 218th ECS Meeting 
發表論
文題目 
(中文) 矽化物/矽晶/矽化物奈米線異質結構之臨場穿透式電子顯
微鏡觀察 
(英文) In Situ TEM Investigation of Silicide/Si/Silicide 
Heterostructure Nanowires 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 奈米矽化物之生成應用於奈米元件之研究（II）
計畫主持人: 呂國彰
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-006-131- 學門領域: 跨領域
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
獲獎: 
2011 國立成功大學工學院『明日之星』研究獎 
2011 國立成功大學高品質論文獎助 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
