 1.前言 
顯微技術，在量測材料表面細微結構佔有舉足輕重的地位。其中，電子顯
微鏡自西元 1938 年第一部商用電子顯微鏡-穿遂式電子顯微鏡TEM（transmission 
electron microscope）問世，至今其解析力已可達數個埃（Å）之原子等級；另一
種為研究物體表面結構及成分的分析利器為電子顯微鏡-掃描式電子顯微鏡SEM
（scanning electron microscope），其橫向解析度亦可達幾個nm等級，在材料領域
及半導體研發上有廣泛的使用。儘管已有如此高倍率、高解析度的電子顯微鏡可
供人們使用，但由於電子顯微鏡的購置與維護成本過高、操作手續繁複，以及為
了避免電子束散射無法於電磁透鏡聚焦，必須維持在高度真空（10-4 torr~10-10 
torr）的環境操作等限制，再加上電磁透鏡的像差，高能電子束對試片的破壞，
與電子束所造成的電荷累積（charging effect）等等不利因素，造成此電子顯微技
術無法完全取代傳統光學顯微鏡的功能。而傳統之光學顯微鏡（optical microscope, 
OM）雖然受限於光學繞射極限的限制，但是經由與其他技術的結合，如共焦術、
光子穿遂顯微術、干涉術，使得其量測的能力包括橫向、縱向解析度、以及解析
相位能力等都得以提升，應用也隨之多樣化。而其解析度受制於光學繞射極限的
缺點，也在近場光學顯微鏡的發明後得到了改善。隨著近場光學顯微鏡的發展，
衍生出了許多附加的功能，主要是光學特性的量測，包括材料折射率變化的量
測，反射率、穿透率的量測，磁性或應力造成光學特性變化的量測，螢光光譜、
拉曼光譜的量測……等。然而原先使得遠場光學顯微鏡改善的技術(如共焦術、
光子穿遂顯微術、干涉術等)卻沒有充分地與近場光學技術結合，因此本計畫於
研究過程中主要嘗試結合近場光學術(near field microscopy)、光子穿遂顯微術
(photon tunneling microscopy)、及干涉術(interferometry)等三大技術，藉由對前項
技術做更詳細的討論後，提出創新整合架構來嘗試建構全新的量測系統，以求能
進一步利用光學顯微系統來實現奈米結構微小振動的量測需求。 
本計畫的原始概念乃奠基於計劃主持人所領領導之研究團隊過去多年持續
研究多功光學顯微鏡的基本構想，延續其理念建構一套結構剛性佳且穩定性高的
基礎顯微鏡架構，開發多項功能以求同時能承載多種不同功能的量測系統；本研
究團隊已開發完成之共焦光學顯微鏡與光子穿隧顯微鏡，即是以一傳統的反射式
光學顯微鏡為基礎，將共焦光學顯微鏡之光路系統架構於其中，同時也以同一顯
微鏡基礎，利用光子穿隧效應接近近場光學顯微術的架構，研製了光子穿隧顯微
鏡，提供了一套擁有雙重功能的顯微鏡系統。通常一套共焦光學顯微鏡或光子穿
隧顯微鏡，大概都需要新台幣四、五百萬的等級，此外在半導體廠用於檢測薄膜
厚度的橢偏儀，亦是需要花費數百萬之譜，因此，想要同時擁有數種不同的精密
量測設備，所需預算必定相當可觀，所以本計劃書延續前述基本理念，試圖推廣
有固定相位 rβ ，並不隨空間改變，將兩者合在一起形成干涉，不同位置的相位
會產生相對應的亮暗條紋，藉此推算彼此間相對相位。 
 
)]),((exp[),(),( 0 ssss yxtiyxAyxE βφω ++=  
)](exp[ 0 rrr tiAE βω +=  
)),(cos(222 rssrsrs yxAAAAI ββφ −+++∝                               (3.1) 
以本實驗室開發之近場光學頭量測為例，其為具有長焦距的次波長結構，涵蓋近
場與遠場特性，使用近場光學顯微鏡做不同高度的掃描，從表面幾十奈米到微米
之內，將近場光學頭的聚焦特性描繪出。對於近場光學頭從近場過渡到遠場的傳
撥現象可更完整解釋，推算其光轉換函數(Optical Transfer Function, OTF)，先前
只能藉由光強分佈來分析調變轉換函數(Modulation Transfer Function, MTF)，在
取得像位資訊下對於近場光學元件的研究上對於設計與判別奈米光學元件將有
莫大助益。甚至在不同材料下所造成相位影響，也有機會對次波長尺度下的材料
特性與近場之間的影響做分析。 
 
4.研究方法 
本計劃第二年度主要執行目標為建立NSOM光纖探針自製的能力以及實際進行
架設近場干涉儀的整體架構，底下將詳細介紹各部份之研究方法。 
 
4.1 NSOM 光纖探針之研製 
    在於觀察次波長結構的光學特性反應中，近場光學顯微鏡是一個相當有力的
工具，因為其具有高解晰度的優勢。因一般光學顯微鏡會受到光學繞射極限的限
制，使得在觀察奈米尺度或次波長結構遭遇鑑別度不夠的問題，也就是無法識別
距離小於 1/2 波長結構下樣本，且關於消逝波(evanescent wave)會成指數衰減的
光場也是無法在遠場觀測到。因此，要能完整反應樣本的光學特性，就必須在近
場的範圍內進行光學訊號的偵測。 
    在 NSOM 的應用上，光纖探針扮演其中很重要的角色，一具探針的 Q 值、
敏感度、針頭的收光效率等，皆會影響整體實驗結果的精度，故著手發展 NSOM
光纖探針的自行研製能力，製作出適合本計劃實驗特性的光纖探針，同時亦將探
針應用於本計劃的干涉儀鎖向放大器上，做訊號調變之用，是本期計畫之重點。 
    根據光纖探針的架構分析，設計了流程如下（表 4.1）： 
3. 顯微鏡初步觀察：透過百倍的光學顯微鏡觀察光纖的針尖部分之針形，初步
判斷並確認上述拉針步驟是否成功，成功者繼續進行鍍膜，並做更高解析之
確認。 
4. 鍍膜：將光纖以 45°的傾斜角度旋轉（圖 4.3）進行濺鍍，使之均勻的濺鍍上
金屬。此步驟可防止光纖針頭在針尖以外部份因拉針過程使原始鍍膜破損而
造成的漏光，另外金屬鍍膜亦有助於利用掃描式電子顯微鏡（SEM）對於針
尖進行更進一步的觀察。 
5. SEM 觀察：利用掃描式電子顯微鏡作高解析度的觀察，確認光纖針頭於上述
步驟中是否有有所破損，倘無則完成一完整的光纖針頭，可進行後續步驟。 
6. MOUNT：設計直式及彎式探針 Holder，將光纖針頭與震盪音叉黏接於探針
座之上，並焊接兩端電極，完成一光纖探針。 
7. 探針測試：完成之探針正式架上近場光學顯微儀（NSOM）平台進行測試。
確認其 Q 值（Quality Factor）大小後，進行標準試片之樣本掃描，透過掃描
出之結果比對，了解此一光纖探針成功與否。 
8. 成品：完成之光纖探針可正式使用於 NSOM 上，進行近場光學訊號的量測應
用。 
 
圖 4.3  45°角傾斜濺鍍示意圖 
 
4.2 近場干涉儀之架設 
4.2.1 實驗架構 
    在干涉架構中，需要有一道參考光引入，形成干涉。如下圖 4.4 所示，光源
使用較為穩定的紅光氦氖(He-Ne)氣體雷射，波長為 632.8nm，其具有頻寬窄、
同調長度長、模態單純與線性偏極態的特性，適合用於干涉儀所需的穩定光源。
平台上的彎式光纖根據其他人研究的確造成偏極態的改變，但量測中偏極態不會
隨時間變化，是處於靜態的，在此條件下克服偏極態影響可以於參考光那一道中
加入偏極態控制器(General Photonics PLC003)，施加壓力造成光纖的雙折射效應
(Birefringence)改變參考光的偏極態，調成讓干涉對比明顯即代表參考光與訊號
光的偏極態近乎相同。可見度為
minmax
minmax
II
II
+
− ，盡可能讓訊號光與參考光的強度相
同，因訊號光的強度恆定所以一開始先掃描ㄧ次看訊號光最強為多少，調整雷射
出口第一個二分之ㄧ波板，調整參考光強度使其與最強訊號光差不多，即可使可
見度提高。 
5.結果與討論 
5.1 光纖探針研製 
    針對光纖探針自製成果，以下分為三個部份討論之：參數設置與拉針針形
觀察、針座設計；光纖黏著平台設計；光纖探針測試。 
 
5.1.1 參數設置與拉針針形觀察 
    拉針機台共有五個可供配置參數，HEAT（Laser 能量大小）、FILAMENT
（Laser 聚焦光點大小）、VELOCITY（光纖熱熔拉動達該速度後即停止加熱）、
PULL（拉力大小）、DELAY（加熱停止後施力延續之時間），而本次實驗測試影
響較大的關鍵參數 HEAT 與 PULL，在五組拉針實驗中觀察參數對拉出光纖的影
響，從得到的結果得知若 HEAT 或 PULL 值愈大，則 Taper Length 愈長且 Tip 
Diameter 愈小。如表 5.1。 
 
表 5.1 五組相異拉針參數結果比較表。由此表可得知若 HEAT 或 PULL 值愈大，則 Taper Length
愈長且 Tip Diameter 愈小。 
 
     
圖 5.3 完成黏合之自製探針。可見光纖針尖黏著於音叉前端之探針整體架構。 
光纖探針測試：製作完成之光纖探針接著進行測試。 
5.1.3 光纖探針測試 
    製作完成之光纖探針接著進行測試，測試的項目為探針 Q 值大小確認（共
振頻率靈敏度）與實際掃描 sample 的測試（探針與機台整合度）。自製探針的 Q
值部份（Quality Factor：約為共振波形之中心頻率與半高寬的比值，值愈大則震
盪音叉對頻率變動之感應愈靈敏，愈有利於本處之使用）約為 156.5，雖與原廠
探針（Q 值約為 504.3）相較下自製探針 Q 值較低，不過推測應已足夠應用於一
般需求下，是以繼續進行下一部份測試—使用自製之探針進行周期 8µm 樣本（圖
5.4）的表面訊號量測，而量測結果的 2D 或 3D 圖形皆與樣本週期吻合（圖 5.5），
且由圖 5.5(c)可看出代表來與回兩次掃描的藍色紅色兩線圖形大約一致，又一週
期約由下方座標-6µm 至 2µm 處，符合樣本週期 8µm。由此可知本自製探針已成
功與 NSOM 系統完成整合，雖然仍有可精進之處，但整體探針製作與接合流程
獲得了證實是確定可行的。 
 
圖 5.4  AFM 訊號量測之樣本，結構週期 8µm。 
1. 近場光纖探針的直徑小，收光面積更是平方倍的的縮小，所以最後可收的光
的強度相當微弱，除非以物鏡聚焦增加單位面積的光強度才能大幅提升接收
的光子數，但也不可以太強，因尖端細小形成加熱溫度可能高達 400 多度造
成表面鍍膜剝落。這邊使用的光纖採用彎式探針，因為不會擋住上方視野，
可以達到精準定位光纖到次波長結構上，但也因為彎曲特性而造成光損失嚴
重，只能在彎曲地方鍍膜盡量降低光的逸散。 
2. 中間將光纖導到偶合器時需要接合，這時候接合的損失也要盡可能減少，使
用毛細管(capillary)式的機械接合(Splice)，管徑為 125 µ m 是單模光纖尺寸
用，內有介質匹配油幫助接合降低損失。 
3. 2x2 光纖偶合器將兩道光結合形成干涉，
coupler)分配最後出口兩端的比例，採用
嚴重，況且另一輸出並不使用，光偵測器
為恰當，讓主要訊號盡量全部進入光偵測
5.2.2 鎖相放大器(Lock-in amplifier) 
    將量測訊號做調變，專門偵測調變頻率
器對於微弱訊號可以作良好擷取並放大，所以
變方式是用下列方法提供穩定的參考頻率，
雜訊並沒有調變，像是散粒雜訊這樣寬頻譜
使用石英音叉(tuning forks)來調變訊號。在機
為可靠，其共振頻率大約為 32kHz 附近，遠
場距離的控制亦是用石音共振頻的力回饋機
時探針本身處於微幅擺動的狀態，所以用鎖相
號的提升有所幫助，甚至可以鎖此頻率的二
探針的粘著方式如圖 5.6，其 z 軸方向的二倍
xy 方向上解析度提升有幫助。 
    
圖 5.6 光纖探針與石
5.3 結語 
    計畫執行至今，已完成光纖探針夾
裝自製精密移動與固定機構將光纖黏著於共所用原理是漸逝波偶合(evanescent 
50/50 的分配比在訊號光微弱下更為
只接收一端，使用 99/1 的耦合器更
器 
的訊號，可以提高訊雜比。鎖相放大
本實驗中要達到訊號穩定所需的調
並在此頻率下對光訊號做調變。因為
的雜訊就可以大幅降低，在本實驗中
械調變機構中，石音音叉的應用頗
離低頻雜訊的範圍。在掃描時，近
制決定探針與樣本之間的距離，掃描
放大器鎖住石音音叉共振頻對於訊
倍頻，但在我們實驗架構中因為彎式
頻並不會產生，在此二倍頻主要在
        
ω
音音叉黏著 
具以及奈米尺度探針頭的製作，並組
震音叉上，根據初步近場表面掃描實
參考文獻 
1. G. A. Valaskovic, M. Holton, and G. H. Morrison, “Parameter control, 
characterization, and optimization in the fabrication of optical-fiber near-Field 
probes,” Appl. Opt. 34, 1215-1228 (1995). 
2. S. T. Jung, D. J. Shin, and Y. H. Lee, “Near-field fiber tip to handle high input 
power more than 150 mW,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 77, 2638-2640 (2000). 
3. A. Lazarev, N. Fang, Q. Luo, and X. Zhang, “Formation of fine near-field 
scanning optical microscopy tips. Part II. By laser-heated pulling and bending,” 
Rev. Sci. Instrum. 74, 3684-3688 (2003). 
4. W. H. J. Rensen, N. F. van Hulst, and S. B. Kammer, “Imaging soft samples in 
liquid with tuning fork based shear force microscopy,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 77, 3 
(2000). 
5. A. Nesci, "Measuring amplitude and phase in optical fields with sub-wavelength 
features," in Institut de Microtechnique,  (Universite de Neuchatel, 2001). 
6. M. Vaez-Iravani, and R. Toledo-Crow, “Phase contrast and amplitude 
pseudoheterodyne interference near field scanning optical microscopy,”  Appl. 
Phys. Lett. 62, 1044 (1993). 
7. D. Courjon, Near-Field Microscopy and Near-Field Optics (Imperial College 
Press, 2003). 
8. R. Hillenbrand, and F. Keilmann, “Complex Optical Constants on a 
Subwavelength Scale,” Phys. Rev. Lett. 85, 3029 (2000). 
9. T. Mitsui, “Development of a polarization-preserving optical-fiber probe for 
near-field scanning optical microscopy and the influences of bending and 
sequeezing on the polarization properties,” Rev. Sci. Instrum. 76, 043703 
 12
2007 年 SPIE Smart Structures and Materials and NDE for 
Health Monitoring and Diagnostics (SSNDE) 
March 18-22, 2007 
Town and Country Resort & Convention Center 
San Diego, California, USA 
 
李世光 
李柏勳 
呂英毅 
劉元平 
吳爵宇 
 14
 
 
 
 16
部分論文摘要與討論 
March 18, 2007 
1 Big Picture of the Conference (Special Event) 
甲 EAP Actuators and Devices （EAPAD Conference #6524）by Yoseph 
Bar-Chen (Jet Propulsion Lab.) 
A Invited Speech: How fish swim 
B EAP-in-Action Demonstration Session 
C Biology – inspiration of human innovation 
a The honeycomb is now part of almost every aircraft 
b The desire to fly has prompted to study birds 
D Nastic structures pants a model for mimicking (捕蠅草、含羞草, etc.) 
E Nature imitates technology 
a The mynah bird  
(http://img.dailymail.co.uk/video/384Kbps.wmv) 
F DARPA funded prosthetic arms 
a Human-like robots with distinguishable features 
b Realistically looking humanlike robots 
G Various active EAP 
a Ionic EAP 
b Electronic EAP 
H Platforms for EAP Implementation  
I Android Head 
J Wrestling match between EAP actuated robotic arm and human  
K Dec. 2002 The first commercial EAP product by Eamex Inc. in Japan, 
the fish robot. 
乙 Active and Passive Smart Structures and Integrated Systems: Smart 
Structures and Bionics （Conference #6525）by Yuji Matsuzaki (Nagoya 
University) 
A 2006 SPIE: Conf. Damping and Isolation & Smart Structures; Merged 
this year  
B Energy Harvesting, MR Systems, Smart Aerospace Systems, 
Biology-inspired and related systems, Shape memory materials and 
applications, autonomous materials, active control, damping and 
vibrations 
C Bionics and Nature Inspired Technologies 
a Collapsing of Iceberg in Norwegian Sea  
b Bionics, equivalently Biomimetics (from 1950’s) 
 18
Technologies Conference by M. Brett McMickell (Honeywell Co.) 
A Plenary Speaker: Torey Davis (Thursday March 22nd, 8:20 am – 9:05 
am, Town and Country Room) 
a Smart Structures: the solution to “cheaper, faster, better’ in the 
space industry 
B Role of Industrial and Commercial Applications of Smart Structures 
and Technologies Conference 
a Focus on applications 
i Highlight multiple areas within broad markets 
ii Specific examples of products currently on the market 
b Applications to broad technology areas 
i Aircraft, spacecraft, marine ships, automobiles, civil 
structures, machinery and medical equipments 
c Provide a global forum 
i Particupants from Brazil, Canada, China,etc. 
d Space applications, mechanisms and sensing applications, 
structural health monitoring applications, aircraft applications, 
etc. 
C Space Applications 
a Key technical topics 
i Isolation and pointing of jitter sensitive payloads 
ii Flatness control of flexible membrane structures 
D Structural Health Monitoring Applications 
a Key technical topics 
i Lightweight healable composite structures 
ii Monitoring of composite structures 
iii Design of adaptive algorithms to compensate for damaged 
sensors 
iv Cost advantages of SHM 
E Mechanisms and Sensing Applications 
a Key technical topics 
i Increase performance of parallel kinematics 
ii Piezoelectric pumps and hydraulic amplifiers (DARPA 
funded projects, high power density, etc.) 
iii Industrial mechanisms 
F Aircraft Applications 
a Key technical topics 
i Shape morphing wings 
 20
a High deformation measurements 
i Kiesel, Peters, Abdi, Hassan and Kowalsky (6530-12) 
E Sensor Networks for imaging 
a Ultrasonic 3D imaging: Schmitt and Hafner (6530-08) 
F Performance Issues, Data Fusion, Signal Processing 
a Shape deformation for control of morphing structures 
i Nishio, Mizutani and Takeda (6530-56) 
ii Rritt, Klimcak, Pollard, Dumm and Murphey (5430-42) 
G Future of Sensor Networks 
a Monitoring/Measuring of structures before and after the damages 
as well as while the damaging is happening 
庚 Nondestructive Characterization for Composite Materials, Aerospace 
Engineering, Civil Infrastructure, and Homeland Security by Peter J. Shull 
(Penn State U.) 
A Our newest challenges are often our oldest problems! 
B What we want is what we always wanted – more than we have now! 
a Increased: intelligence, sensitivity, speed, reliability (sensor 
reliability, system reliability), longevity 
b Reduced: technical expertise, manpower, costs 
C “New” Challenges 
a New materials 
b New applications (security!) 
c Increased Expectations:  
i In-service lifetime 
ii Greater mechanical demands 
iii Reduced maintenance 
D Structural Health Monitoring: Smart Suitcase  
E Structural Health Monitoring: Civil Structures 
F Information Technology/Wireless 
a Wireless Structural Health Monitoring System (eg. Sensametrics, 
Palo Alto, California) 
G Homeland Security / Robust, Multi-modal Biometrics Technology 
H Home Security / Microsystems 
I Some Challenges for 2008 
a Scalable integrated sensing, monitoring, and control management 
b Continuous and real-time quality control tools for civil 
construction 
c System and methodologies for improving infrastructure 
 22
H Biological and Medical Applications 
a Federal estimates predicate that health care spending will surpass 
the $2 trillion mark in the next decade in US alone,.  Within 
health care technology, biomedical devices are one of the fastest 
growing area 
b Sensing Topics: biomedical imaging and optics (acoustics, optics, 
etc.) 
 
 24
E 20/20 Hindsight - Lesson learned and Challenges 
F The future – opportunities and transition 
G A few closing thoughts 
乙 Morphing Wing – A Working Definition 
A A wing whose shape and/or state can be actively changed in flight to 
achieve dramatically improved system level performance in multiple 
flight regimes which cannot be achieved with a fixed wing 
B Goals: 
a Develop and Test a Full-scale, morphing wing 
b Lay the foundation for near-term flight testing 
C Technical Challenges 
a Morphing skin designs (flexible skins is one step further from 
variable sweep wings (similar to the one in F-14)) 
b Development of kinematics and shape change structures 
c System Integration 
丙 Bottom Line (Each week testing in Wind Tunnel cost US$250K) 
A Morphing wing provides dramatically improved performance at 
acceptable cost and budget 
丁 Key Innovations 
A Flex Skins (150% skin area changes) 
a Flexible wing skin designs which can undergo strains in excess 
of 100 percent while withstanding air loads of up to 400psf 
b The material is just pre-stretched rubber.  The trick is on how 
you support it. 
B Distributed Actuators (hybrid actuators from CHAP program originally, 
eventually use hydraulic actuator for the current flying model) 
C Optimized Morphing Configurations 
D Kinematic load bearing structures 
a Torsion stiffness augmentation 
E Load Distributed over multiple joints 
戊 Leading edge provides most of the stiffness 
己 20/20 Hindsights: If this is not a DARPA program, we will spend 10 years 
in basic research and write many technical papers.  However, no working / 
flying model will be built in such a short time. 
A Technical  
B Programmatic 
C Running a Small R&D business 
a Gets a thick skin 
 26
A Bending of Mimosa Pudica Petiole (含羞草) 
i Motor cells in stem change its size (expand above the 
neutral axis and shrink below the neutral axis) 
B Leaf Folding of Venus Flytrap 
a Insect touches sensing hair will trigger the action.  The closing 
is done in less than 2 seconds 
C Coiling of cucumber tendril 
a Tendril found secure surface will induce coiling (right coil first 
and then with a reverse coiling point to become left coil to 
balance the rotation.   
D Mechano-chemo-sensor in insects 
a A hair-like olfactory sensilla of insect  
E Successful and unsuccessful defense systems across the different 
kingdoms 
a Cotton plant (successful model): herbivorous caterpillar vs bug 
sensing the volatile chemical to come to sting the caterpilla 
b Colorado potato plants (unsuccessful model): volatile chemicals 
attract the bug as well.  However, the bug eat the plant leaves 
instead of the catellipar 
F Bio-inspired Research from the above cases 
a Flemion and Nafion materials was compared and explored.  
i Arrayed design and single dome-shaped Flemion IPMC 
b Functionally Graded Microstructures (FGM) 
i Cross section of a Mohso-Bambo along the stem cross 
section is also functionally graded microstructures. 
ii Achieve same deformation with much lower strain level 
than the traditional bimorph configuration. 
G Bird of Paradise Flower (Latin name: Strelitzia reginae) is a 
bird-pollinated flower.  Small birds are attracted to this flower to help 
pollination of this plant.  
a Purple flower utilizes mechanical force exerted by a bird to pen 
its petals sideways 
b This flower view birds as helper and insects as enemy.  This 
choice was done by giving spectrum attract bird and repel insect. 
H Are we smarter than the Hawke moth? 
5 From phtogrammetry, computer vision to structural response measurement 
(#6529-02) by C.C. Chang (Smart and Sustainable Infrastructure Research Center, 
Department of Civil Engineering, Hong Kong University of Science and 
 28
b Flexible, more flexible? 
i Rotation? 
ii Egomotion? 
6 A road to practical dielectric elastomer actuators based robotics and mechatronics: 
discrete actuation (#6524-05) by J. Plante (MIT) 
甲 Scientific motivation – caves, etc. 
乙 Bistable Actuator Module 
丙 System concept 
A Highly redundant 
a 1000s of units 
b Sacrificial 
B Small and light weight 
a 100mm/100 grmas 
C Highly agile in rough terrain 
a Hops of 1 m clear most obstacle 
b Hopping, rolling, bouncing 
c Caves exploration 
D LAN (Local Area Network) communications: each one can serve as a 
local controller to relay information 
E Micro sensing 
F Autonomous 
a Teams group intelligence 
G Mobility –DEA actuators 
丁 Conclusions 
A The design DEA actuators to meet required force, power, work output, 
efficiency and reliability of many applications is very challenging. 
B The will not meet the requirements of all challenges 
7 Robust adaptive control of conducting polymer actuators (#6524-06) by Y. Fang 
(Michigan State U.) 
甲 Conjugated polymer is one class of electroactive polymers (EAP) 
乙 Challenges 
A The actuator is time-varying system, while consistent performance is 
needed in applications. 
B The elecrochemomechanical dynamics is complicated 
丙 Motivation 
A Utilize adaptive control algorithm to control the action 
丁 Model Structure 
A The complete model consistent of three models: admittance model, 
 30
the audio frequency 
11 How fish swim: flexible fin thrusters as an EAP platform by George V. Lauder 
(Harvard University) http://www.oeb.harvard.edu/lauder 
甲 Fish as model systems for understanding aquatic propulsion. 
乙 Fish fins are flexible, complex composities. 
丙 Low frequency on fin motion (0.5-4 Hz) 
丁 Modest strains of fin muscles (2-10%) 
戊 The EAP useful for generating the biological platform 
己 Focusing on the pectoral fin. 
庚 Using polypyrrole to EAP and the applied voltage can define the 
displacement of the fin. 
辛 One fin ray attach to four muscles. The material between the fin ray is the 
collagen.. 
壬 There are 14 fin ray of the sun fish and there are 59 muscles bundles total 
per fin.. 
癸 Ref. Hydrodynamic Performance of Deformable Fish Fins and Flapping 
Foils.  44rd AIAA Aerospace Sciences Meeting and Exhibit, January 9-12, 
2006, Reno, Nevada 
( http://www.people.fas.harvard.edu/~glauder//reprints_unzipped/Bozkurtta
s_AIAA2006.pdf ) 
12 Benefits and challenges of using ionic polymer metal composites in medical 
device applications 
C. Yung, N. Bhat, PAVAD Medical, Inc. 
甲 The advantage of the ionic polymer metal composites 
A low driving voltage 
B no moving parts 
13 Harvesting of electrical energy from an backpack with a piezoelectric strap 
(#6525-01) by H. A. Sodano (Michigan Technological University) 
甲 This study developed an energy harvesting backpack that can generate 
electrical energy between the wearer and the pack. 
乙 It is accomplished by replacing the traditional strap of the backpack with 
one made of the piezoelectric polymer PVDF.  
丙 This work developed a theoretical model of the backpack strap and perform 
experimental testing to identify its performance in this application. 
丁 The output power depends on the load of the backpack. 
14 Energy harvesting using optimized piezoelectric micro-cantilevers (#6525-02) by 
M. J. Parsons (The University of  Tennessee) 
甲 Simulation model of a piezoelectric MEMS-based cantilever bonded to an 
 32
a Membrane : 0.3mm in radius, 1um in thickness 
b Separation : 1.2mm 
B Determination parameter 
a Rocking mode : diaphragm 
b Bending mode : coupling effect + diaphragm 
C Soft and hard beam : small and large couple respectively 
丁 Conclusion 
A Cavity and coupling effect : amplify delay and intensity 
B Simulation and experiment both declare that 
      
 34
a Magnetic shielding is not necessary 
C Higher efficiency 
a Insensitive to the size 
D Non-flammable 
戊 Focusing/Zoom mechanisms in a cellular phone 
A Autofoucs 0.2mm displacement range, done by the end of 2005 
B Optical Zoom 2 mm displacement range, pursued now 
a Heli-morph by One Limited 
b Metal Tube Ultrasonic motor (Penn State Patent filed 2000) 
i Keys: “Gentle to Ceramic” – Uniform poling 
ii 90 degree phase difference in x and y axis driven on a tube 
己 Piezoelectric transformer 
A Smaller, lighter & thinner; No magnetic noise 
B 20 – 25% of notebook used today 
C Evolution of High Power PTs since 90s  
a 10W backlight inverter Æ35W high power adapter 
b Penn State collaborate with Taiheiyo Cement Corp & Face 
Electronics 
庚 EPSON MACH Printer Head Structure 
辛 Optical Fiber Alignment 
A V-shaped actuator: sine and cosine with 0 or 90 degree phase difference 
to have left/right versus circular motion 
B LTCC combined with piezoelectric actuator 
a Lower temperature sinterable ultrasonic motor 
壬 Active Damping of Train bodies (EADS)  
A TGV trains in France 
癸 70W multilayer piezoelectric transformer was developed to form: driver 
integrated transformer 
11 Transformer integrated ultrasonic motor by Penn State Univ.: ultrasonic 
motor + Piezo-transformer + battery 
12 From Passive Dampers to Adaptive Dampers with Energy Harvesting 
A K. Uchino, T. Ishii, J. Ceramc Soc. Japan Vol. 96, 883 (1980)  
B K2 & ACS 
13 Micropositoner by Phsik Instrument 
14 Piezoelectric MicroRobot by Applied Micro Systems in Japan 
15 Microvehicle by Penn State U. 
16 Compact Helicopter with 4 micro actuators by Seiko Co. 
17 Piezoelectric impact actuator for manipulating the cell in artificial 
 36
丙 0.5 to 2 μm grain size approximately. 
5 Ornithopter by J. M. Dietl & E. Garcia (Cornell University) 
甲 Flapping-wing aerodynamics 
A The airflow is time dependent and 3D Æ practically unsolvable 
乙 Cannot achieve simple steady state flight.  It can achieve limit cycle, in 
fact, two limit cycles.   
A Monodromy Matrix: defined as the Jacobian of the limit cycle’s 
Poincare map 
丙 Control was done by linear stabilization. 
丁 More flight regimes; hoer, takeoff/landing, maneuvering, 6 degree of 
freedom  
戊 Acknowledgement: Eglin AFB, ASEE NDSEG Fellowship  
6 Evolutionary flight and enabling smart actuator devices by Justin Manzo & E. 
Garcia (Lab for Intelligent machine Systems, Cornell U.) 
甲 Unique evolved flight devices (vertebrate) 
A Birds 
a Alula (slat/Krueger flap) 
b Span change (F-14) 
c Tip feathers (Spillman 1987) 
d Tail  
e TE Feather Turbulators 
B Bats 
a Camber change 
b S-wing flexion 
c Uropatagium  
C Pterosaurs 
a Pteroid bone 
b Active twist 
乙 Evolutionary flight similarities 
A High sensory capacity 
a Merkel cells 
b Cutaneous feather deflection sensors 
c Actinofibril network 
B Passive high-lift /low drag devices 
a Cambered airfoils 
b Leading edge roughening  
c Optimized feathers 
C Typical modern camber drawbacks 
 38
stimulation of tympanum and/or direct electrical neuromuscular 
actuation 
C Systems integration of life with power scavenging, navigation, 
nanofluidics and sensors 
丙 Interdisciplinary study 
A Life sciences: study behavior and response to changes in the 
environment in insects 
B Engineering: develop cheap, mass produced, yet efficient, MAVS to 
carry payload for surveillance 
丁 Subsystem development 
A Surgical implantation, power scavenging, etc. 
B For moth, the power extractable from vibration is 0.164W 
a Piezoelectric strain power harvesting method 
b Solenoid generator with minimum power generation of 20mW 
and 1.5 voltage output 
戊 Behavior Control 
己 Status and Forecast 
A DARPA Microsystems technology Office (MTO) HI-MMES Program 
Dr. Amit Lal 
9 Towards artificial molecular moto-based electroactive/photoactive biomimetic 
muscles by Tony J. Huang (The Penn State) 
甲 Rotaxane: An artificial molecular machine (J. Fraser Stoddart, Chemist at 
UCLA) 
A Mechanical properties: 
a High strain (40-60%) 
b Large force (100pN) 
c Multi stimuli (Chemical, Electrical, Optical) 
d Low Voltage 
乙 Comparison to Biomotors and NEMS Actuation Materials: Rotaxane is 
more robust and has wider application regimes 
丙 Objective: Rotaxane-based nanosystem using the hybrid 
top-down/bottom-up approach 
丁 To make this system useful, we need to explore the possibility of actuating 
Rotaxane in condensed phase on top of solid substrate, which originally 
switch only in solution. 
戊 Even AFM does not have enough resolution to study the 8nm expansion of 
Rotaxane.   
己 One of the methods found is: 
 40
乙 It provides a solution that the strain applied to the piezoelectric can be 
maintained at its in-firing peak value 
丙 Mechanical design 
丁 The modeling and simulation only. 
 
14 Novel vibration-based electrical energy generators for low and variable speed 
turbo-machinery (#6527-33) by J. S. Rastegar 
甲 For the applications such as wind mills, tidal flows, and the like. 
乙 Mechanical design 
丙 The generator is simple, can efficiently operate over a very large range of 
input speeds, and should require minimal service and maintenance 
丁 Analytical modeling and simulation only. 
 
 42
E Leverage opportunities for PHM technology within GE’s businesses 
F Questions 
丙 GE – A simplified company pursing growth 
A Infrastructure: oil and gas, engine, financial services, etc. 
B Industrial: working other industries, securities, etc. 
C Healthcare: medical instruments, biological sciences, etc. 
D NBCU 
E Commercial Finance 
F Consumer Finance 
GE Global Research Centers is the technology clearing house with 
US$3.5B budget with US$0.5B from GE Aviation. 
丁 Technical Synergy:  
A Materials & Modeling (new coatings, new composites, new metal 
alloys, etc.)  
B From imaging to NDT & Security (Digital X-ray, phased array 
ultrasound, eddy current, thermography, optical metrology, image 
processing, etc.) 
a The reason for NDE must be thought of.  If there is no 
fundamental reason  
C From Biosciences to Security to Water (imaging, contrast personal 
medicine Æ personalized maintenance, discovery sciences, security 
BioDetection, Water analysis, etc.)  
戊 DoD Sustaining Dilemma 
A Today’s asset management 
a Fixed schedule maintenance based upon fleet wide statistics 
b Discard parts based upon hard time limit 
己 PHM (Part Health Management) Objectives 
A Enable wing commanders to adaptively manage their assets… 
B Real-time asset capability prediction 
a Field operation database 
i Failure mechanisms + sensor interrogation Æ physics – 
based material damage & life models & life meter 
(associated with each part) 
ii Prognosis & asset management systems  
(i) + (ii) Æ prognosis advisor 
C Engine by Engine mission severity is not captured in current lifing 
process  
D Part Health Prognostics – Approach 
 44
d Mg2Si1-xGex is another candidate being looked at (funded by 
JPL) 
B Solar cell systems (Ref: Improvements in solar cell efficiency by 
system from 1976 to 2005) 
a TiO2 and Ru Complex: Dye-sensitized solar cell (DSSC); a few 
company reported 10% efficiency now.  The UW research goal 
is to achieve 15% by 2010. 
b Compound semiconductor 
c Silicon semiconductor 
d The structures of a antenna complexes from purple 
photosynthetic bacteria (Nature, Science 2005) 
i Nature photosynthesis: photosynthetic bacteria SP: BCMa)2 
ii Dye-sensitized solar cell: Dye:Ru complex  
戊 Conclusions: 
A Nanocomposite has high potential to be used as airborne sensors and 
actuators 
B Bio-inspired design can be a good approach to next generation 
development. 
4 Instrumented Indentation of shape memory polymers by M. Dunn (U. of 
Colorado) 
甲 Outline 
A Shape memory effects and shape memory polymers (SMPs) 
B Thermal mechanical behavior of SMPs 
a Thermal-mechanical behavior 
b Shape memory mechanisms 
C SMP thermo mechanical constitution model 
D … 
5 Packaging of an iron-gallium (galfenol) nanowire acoustic sensor by Jan Stadler 
(U. of Minnesota) 
甲 Material section 
A Polyurethane: its acoustic impedance is close to hat of sea water with 
minimum attenuation of sound waves expected 
B Advantages of PDMS over polyurethane 
C Predefined MEMS materials with well-known processing conditions 
乙 Final package chosen: the microphone was placed within a PDMS case 
filled with silicon oil. 
丙 Water (20 degree C) has acoustic impedance is 1.48, seawater (20 degree C) 
has acoustic impedance at 1.56, Castor oil is 1.43, polyurethane is 1.56, 
 46
battery power densities are low.  
A Demonstrate artificial muscle that is  
B Honda’s ASIMO 
a Can run 6 km/hr  
b Has 26 degrees of movement 
c About 0 min of activity per battery charge 
d Four hours needed to recharge batteries 
辛 Proton Exchange membrane fuel cell 
A Comparison of fuel and electrically powered carbon nanotube muscles 
a Electrically powered muscle 
b Hydrogen powered muscle 
B Fuel powered carbon nanotube muscle 
a The electrodes charge when the circuit is open (it is chemically 
charged and not electrochemical charged) 
C New Second type fuel cell based actuator 
a Cost NiTi wire with Pt in O2 
b Does not need shape memory alloy. The only thing needed here 
is the heat generated.  In fact, the author adopted metallic 
bimorph or metallic spiral spring to do the actuation as well.  
壬 Summary (www.ScienCentral.com) 
A The fuel powered shape memory muscle supported ~150MPa stress 
while undergoing ~5% contraction. 
B It is to be noted that this discussion is fundamental and not limited to 
fuel cell directly 
(An interesting topic to look into.  Dig out related papers and 
investigate.) 
8 Impingement, adhesion, and size-scale effects of a single polymeric nanofibers by 
Min Kyoon Shin (Center for Bio-artificial muscle, Dept. of Biomedical 
Engineering, Hanynag University) 
甲 Background 
A Nanomaterials, produced mostly by synthetic bottom-up methods, are 
discontinuous objects, and this leads to difficulties with their alignment, 
assembly. Etc.  A different method will be needed. 
B Elecrospinning is a potential candidate (Adv. Mater. 16, 1151 (2004)) 
乙 Some additional testing methods 
A Impingement : shape of nanofibers 
B Adhesion surface effect of nanofibers 
C Size effect: unexpected properties of nanofibers 
 48
March 22, 2007 
1 Funding Agency Talk, Naval Perspective on Smart Structures/Materials by Mike 
Yu (Program Director, NAVAIR) 
甲 Towards the Navy-after Next 
A Operational Navy (current) 
B Acquisition Community (5-20 years) 
C Domain of Science and Technology (>20 years) 
乙 Hybrid, active FSMA/polymer micro-composites and electrostrictors by 
Bob O’Handley, MIT 
丙 Multifunctional Materials – ONR MURI, Artificial and Naturla 
Mulitferroics, Manfred Wutug, Virginia Tech 
丁 Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) by General Dynamics & Lockheed-Martin 
戊 Unmanned sea surface vehicle (USSV): two designs span the LCS mission 
space 
A Premise – USVs with hull and propulsion optimized for the mission 
will perform better than manned boats adapted for the mission 
己 USSV Stabilization and Collision Avoidance 
A Performer: SBIR: Intellitech Systems 
B Technology Challenges 
a Larger payload/fuel fraction 
b Increased platform stability  
c Weight and space efficient power sources for USV payloads, etc. 
庚 Smart Sleeve Demonstration  
A Smart sleeve concept to reduce the noise in order to achieve Stealth 
B Demonstrated >10dB in noise deduction 
C Performeer: Dr. Steve Winzer, Lockheed Martin 
辛 ACORN (Active control of radiated noise) 
壬 Naval Aviation Weapon Systems 
癸 V-22 Reconfigurable Rotor Blade (RRB) 
A Shape memory alloy actuation system to make a compromise between 
the blade between a helicopter and a propeller airplane 
B V-22 airplane is at least 2 times faster than helicopter 
11 The way ahead for Naval S&T 
A Today’s Navy and Marine Corps. 
B Next Navy and Marine Corps 
C Navy and Marine Corps After Next  
2 Smart Structures: The Solution to “Cheaper, Faster, Better” in the Space Industry 
by Torey Davis (Honeywell Defense and Space) 
 50
14 SMA Hinge for Lightweight Flexible Solar Array  
A Launched in 1999 
B Experiment on STS-93 
C Shape memory alloy 
15 QWKNUT SMA Release Application 
A Qualified in 1999 and launched in 2002 
B SMA technology 
16 Whole Spacecraft Launch Isolation  
 
Present 
17 2007 Conference 6527 Session 1 
18 Smart Materials Implementation Benefits for Space Flight  
A Significantly reduced structural resonance 
a Reduced loads 
b Reduced vehicle control 
B Significantly reduced dynamic loads 
a Discrete optimal damping 
b Vibration damping  
C Significantly reduced mechanism release loads 
D Increased performance predictability 
E Benefits equal reduced risk, reduced analysis, reduced verification 
steps = $$$ savings 
19 Possible Future Applications of Smart Materials 
A Active composite fuel tanks 
B Viscous fluid damped landing feet 
C Constrained layer structural damping  
D EAP tie downs/ 
E Piezoelectric strut vibration suppression  
20 Conclusion 
A Smart structures and materials have been implemented on numerous 
space-borne missions to improve performance and in some cases to 
ensure mission success through  
B Reduced dynamic loading, increased controls robustness, improved 
pointing resolution, increase performance predictability  
C Smart structures and materials continue to be used on spacecraft and 
the industry is taking progressively greater advantages of their 
performance advantages 
D Future space missions will be in need of smart structures and materials 
 52
D Précis nanoscale control over thickness 
E Excellent long-term environment tolerance 
乙 Properties now 
A Electrical conductivity: 0.1-1 ohm-meter; 10-6 ohm-meter 
丙 Design: polycarbonate substrate, suface preparation ,EMI shielding, 
abrasion resistance, electrostatic dissipation, chemical resistance 
丁 Synthesis and Scale up: can do 100liter per batch now 
戊 Automated process, can coat in flat as well as curved surfaces 
己 Self-assembled nanocomposites; metal rubberTM pm of metal 
A Metal contents is only 0.007% even for conductive case: effect of 
electrical percolation, etc. 
B Since the metal particle is not connected, this configuration does better 
when facing high strain, experiencing flexible bending. Perform much 
better than sputtering 
庚 MRTM textiles: RF Shielding properties 
辛 Metal Rubber – Velco: electric and mechanical interconnects 
壬 Large area light-weight MRTM Textiles 
癸 Summary 
A Self-assembled materials 
B Lower resistance and lower modulus (0.01 MPa) 
C Interconnected flexible electrically and mechanically 
11 Comments:  
A does not solder well on the flexible sheet made by this process at this 
moment 
B gold is not the cost driver 
C can achieve US$10 per square foot in the future (currently sell to 
high-school student for US$1000 a sheet!) 
5 Test/analysis correlation for a Nomex-based honeycomb with piezoelectric patch 
for a by Ms. Corine Florens (Ph.D. students, Ecole Centrale Paris, France) 
甲 Material properties depend on temperature and frequency, which is typical 
for plastic materials 
乙 QuickPack QP20W Mide’ (46 x 33.3 x 0.25 mm) piezoelectric patch is 
embedded within the honeycomb beam  
丙 Local phenomenon: blister for the piezoelectric patch was found by FEM 
and in experiment; good agreement between the theoretical and the 
experimental results was found. 
丁 Future work: application on a realistic helicopter trim panel; taking into 
account of viscoelastic law in FEM 
 54
a Zero required power 
b Visual readout 
c Bi-stable compliant mechanism 
d Laser cutting of plastic 
B Customizable switch parameters 
辛 Comments: 
A This design is based on thin bi-stable wire with shallow cutout.  This 
type of device is very sensitive to the slight imperfection, which may 
be a problem in the manufacturing process used here. 
7 Electric field sensor based on core-replaced optical D-fiber by M. Schultz 
(Brigham University) 
甲 Background 
A E-field sensors needed for  
a Characterization of devices 
b Electromagnetic interference, etc. 
乙 Optimal electro-optic sensor 
A Optimum design parameters 
a Sensor size of fiber 
b Seamless fiber transition 
B Innovative solution  
a In-fiber sensor 
i Flexible and small cross section 
b D-fibers 
丙 D-fiber platform  
A Undoped silica cladding, fluorine cladding 
丁 In-fiber hybrid waveguide 
A Expose fiber core 
B Fabricate hybrid waveguide 
C Poly hybrid waveguide 
戊 Selective chemical etch 
A Core etches faster than cladding 
B Structural integrity maintained 
C Hydrofluoric acid was used to etch the core away (8 x faster etching 
speed in core than that of the clad) 
己 Deposition of polymer into core 
A PMMA/DR1 used as proof of concept 
B Thin polymer Æ low loss 
C Thick polymer Æ sensitivity 
 56
model 
c Without the spring, the actuator is not able to achieve high 
displacements 
C Experimental verifications 
a A voltage ramp from 0 V to 120 V is sent to the actuator 
b The same actuator can perform in quasi-linear and non-linear 
mode depending on the amount of compression and the applied 
voltage 
D Conclusion 
a Snap through mechanics 
i Considering relaxed boundary conditions 
9 Active Mounts for Marine Applications: the BMBF research projects – active 
aggregate mounts to reduce structure vibrations and structure-borne sound 
transmission by M. Matthias (Fraunhofer Institute, Germany) 
甲 Active aggregate mounts with piezoelectric actuators in the force 
transmission (elastomer mounts for the low-frequency isolation and 
piezoelectric actuators for the high-frequency isolation) 
乙 Testing setup 
A 30 feet ship as the platform 
B 8x triaxial accelerometer, 2x laser displacement meter, etc. 
C Long-term measurements in EOS (much larger sailing ship) to evaluate 
time effect 
D Test set-up to derive dynamic displacements and forces 
E Consider misuse (boat overturn, etc.) conditions as well. 
丙 Design/construction/building of the test base (reduced ship structures) 
丁 Matlab/Simulink model was used to extract the open-loop experimental 
data and then to design the closed-loop performance 
戊 Piezoelectric actuator purchased from the catalog 
A 0-1000 driving voltage 
B Displacement 80 micrometer, etc. 
10 MEMS glaucoma monitoring device by Ms. Smitha Shankar (GE India 
Technology IP Dept., was with MIT) 
甲 Glaucoma 
A Flow in anterior chamber 
B Steady state Intra ocular pressure (IOP) 
C Flow block 
D IOP rises 
E Optic Nerve Damage 
 58
A Bioengineering 
B Electronic industry 
C Advantages:  
a Miniaturized potential 
b Better energy efficiency, etc. 
丙 System for cooling an electronic device: new device here adopted two 
parallel piezoelectric bimorph fan to increase the flow rate; concept similar 
to fish swimming 
丁 Computation results indicate that putting two fan within the same chamber 
will have higher flow rate than the case of putting two parallel chamber 
with a fan within each chamber. 
戊 Conclusion 
A At a frequency of 416 Hz with 60V peak-to-peak load, the pump 
prototype had flow rate of 44 cm3/min 
12 Measurement of Stresses in MEMS Structures by Stress Release by Dr. D. Vogel 
(Fraunhofer Institute for Reliability and Microintegration; 
dietmar.vogel@izm.fraunhofer.de)  
甲 fibDAC stress release: basic approach 
A mechanical solution for elastically induced stress release, analytically, 
numerical simulation 
B material removal by FIB milling Æ stress release, i.e, deformation 
nearby milling pattern Æ quantifying exp. Deformation field, DIC 
analysis 
乙 Stress release: measurement example for thin membranes 
A Stress release by FIB hole milling into a 200 nm Si3N4 membrane 
B Stress level 1085+/-75MPz 
丙 Practical solutions aiming at  
A High stress sensitivity 
B Recognition and suppression of major error sources 
C Spatially small affected object volume by stress release 
D Solution applicable to layer system on substrate 
E Effective and stable stress extraction 
丁 Potential error sources of stress measurement  
A Wrong residual stress hypothesis 
a Assumed σxx = σyy is not valid 
b Non homogeneous stress over measurement area 
c Rotation induced stress asymmetry solutions 
B Different stress building mechanisms than assumed 
 60
Nima Mahmoodi (Clemson Univ.) 
甲 Microcantilevers are the most mass-produced MEMS devices 
A Their miniature size make them very practical in small scale  
B Applications include surface scanning, mass sensing, interfacial stress 
and force sensing, etc. 
C AFM (Ref. www.stanford.edu);  
D Mass sensing: resonant frequency changes due to added mass 
乙 Veeco Instruments made the microcantilever used for this paper 
丙 Conclusion 
A Quadratic and cubic nonlinearities were observed in the 
microcantilever 
15 Visualization of buried structures in atomic force acoustic microscopy by Nobert 
Meyendorf (Fraunhofer Institute, Germany) A Contrast Technique worth looking 
into! 
甲 Electronic industry need to visual 250-500 nm buried structures 
乙 Motivation: Kirkendall voids, electron migration of Al-wire,  
acoustic microscopy, X-ray CT Æ resolution down to mm, 
FIB cross section measurement Æ resolution down to nm, but is destructive 
testing 
丙 From atomic force microscopy to Acoustical Excited AFM 
A Combination of AFM with ultrasound techniques (Atomic Force 
Acoustic Microscopy, AFAM) 
B Excitation of both bending and torsional modes simultaneously 
C AFAM contrast mechanism 
a Contact resonance frequency changes in dependence of the 
effective elasticity of the material 
b Change of the vibration amplitudes for constant excitation 
frequency 
c Contrast inversion is possible: protein surface layers with a 
thickness of 5-7 nm (bottom up nano structures) 
D Hertzian contrast: penetration depth 3x the radius 
E The potential of AFAM for subsurface mapping 
(Ref: Gajendra S. Shekhawt, Science 310, 2005) Æ Examine and See if 
we can look into this instrument and explore the use of this instrument 
丁 Conclusions 
A AFAM gives images with a strong elastic contrast 
B Using careful designed samples, it could be proved that subsurface 
features can be imaged. 
 62
A 3-parameter D-Strut (Passive) to enhance performance in mid-to-high 
frequency range 
B Piezoelectric actuator (Active) to enhance performance in low 
frequency range 
乙 Using Power IC 500MHz clock < 10% utilization 
丙 Conclusion  
A 40dB/decade attenuate 
20 Isolation, pointing, and suppression (IPS) system for high performance spacecraft 
by T.A. Hindle (Honeywell Defense and Space Electronic Systems) 
甲 過去的系統稱為 Vibration, Isolation, Suppression and steering system 
(VISS), IPS system 為 VISS system 之延伸 
乙 VISS 與 IPS 的基本架構 
A 6-DOF in passive control 
B Hybrid control (active compensate passive) 
丙 Conclusions: IPS 之創新 
A A dual-stage voice coil design for improved dynamic range as well as 
improved low-noise drive electronics 
B Integral load cells, gap sensors and payload-side accelerometers for 
control and telemetry purposes. 
C Smaller size  
21 Nonlinear dynamics and chaos of a SMA passive vibration isolation and damping 
device by L.G. Machado, Texas A&M Univ. 
甲 作 者 認 為 SMA 本 身 具 有 highly nonlinearity 主 要 來 自 
thermo-mechanical properties & 遲滯效應，而過去在 constitutive 
equations 中忽略了這些效應 
A 作者利用 phase space plot 去分析 SMA actuator 的行為。認為可以用
Lyapunov exponent 的大小可以去預測是否會發生 Chaos. 作者認為
在某些微小頻段會發生 Chaos 的效應。 
B Conclusions: 作者認為過去的 Boyd, Lagodas and Capatures 所提出
的遲滯 Model 雖然可以預測 SMA actuator 的行為，但並不完整。 
a second-order polynomial hardening function should substituted 
by general power law hardening function to smooth the 
transitions between elastic and phase transformation regimes, 
eliminating the presence of kinks in SMA stress vs. strain 
response 
b the fully-coupled energy balanced heat equation 需同時被考慮
進 constitutive equation 
c 作者主要是提出此現象並提出對應模型(Modeling)，而非應用
