表 C012                                                    共 10 頁  
第 2頁 
1 Background and introduction  
1. 1 Background of semiconductor supply chains on Silicon Island  
Taiwan silicon industry’s first industry evolution was facilitated by Taiwan government’s 
Complimentary Metal Oxidation Semiconductor Program to the prosperous semiconductor industry in 
Taiwan with above $16 Billion for IC industry and $50B for PC Industry since 1976 to 2000. This 
innovation program enables Taiwan’s silicon industry as the importance player in the global value 
chain.  Another best practice is the 2002 Corporate Innovation Award from IEEE “for pioneering and 
realizing the dedicated IC wafer fabrication business.”  This award recognizes Taiwanese foundry 
business model, which has fostered significant and innovative contributions to the global 
semiconductor industry. [2,16] Nowadays, Taiwan has played the successful role of manufacturing hub, 
the Silicon Island, of worldwide semiconductor industry.  However, the Silicon Island is encountering 
the challenge of the advanced silicon technology countries, the emergent raising of China and the 
getting more and more complex of technology evolution roadmap. Looking ahead, Taiwan silicon 
industry is in the stage of “second silicon industry evolution”. Hence, a series of national programs had 
been launched for enlarging the completive advantages.  
 
1.2 SCM Problems of the Semiconductor Industry 
Semiconductor industry is both the capital and expertise-intense industry. As the corporate and supply 
chain management view, capital investment and demand fulfillment effectiveness are the critical 
successful factors to enable the industry or the corporate to enlarge competitive advantages. From the 
analysis of the worldwide historical data, it shows that the technology capacity deviation between the 
actual supply and planned supply was huge.  [8,20,26] Specifically speaking, the over-investment was 
amplified in the up term and the over-cost down was also amplified in the down term. It shows that 
bullwhip effect is the dominator to affect the performance of the worldwide semiconductor industry [4].  
It shows that the capital effectiveness of the semiconductor was getting lower and lower. Obviously 
speaking, the industry suffered the unsatisfied performance of supply chain management in the 
responsiveness of the market dynamics. [4, 20, 24] 
 
1.3 The industry effort to improve the enterprise SCM performance 
The semiconductor industry is badly expecting for a perspective and theoretical SCM management 
methodology to upgrade their competency in the enterprise level. In our observations and interviews, 
we found that a great of the companies are seeking the methodology and redesign the process with IT 
systems to improve the SCM performance. SCM is discussed as a brilliant remedy to enable the 
company to improve the current situation. However, most of the delivered SCM projects focus on the 
IT system introduction. The business process and customer needs responsiveness were not addressed. 
There were few companies had an integrated supply chain strategy and management architecture to 
ensure their supply chain performance. There were few successful cases, which could actually benefit 
from the implementation of SCM. The proven capability of managing the market and demand change is 
表 C012                                                    共 10 頁  
第 4頁 
managers to propose the changes and see the simulation results will be one of the core capabilities of 
uncertainty management. [40] Haul identified that “Efficient supply chains often become 
uncompetitive because they don’t adapt to changes in the structures of market.” [15] He demonstrates 
the best supply chain management identifies the structural shifts by capturing the latest data, filtering 
out the noise, and tracking key patterns. Hence, the triple-A was proposed as the thinking dimensions 
fro the SCM reconstruction. The first A is agility for responding short-term demand or supply changes 
quickly& handle external disruptions smoothly; the second A- adaptability to adjust supply chain 
design to meet structural shifts and modify supply network to strategy, products, and technologies; the 
third A is alignment – create incentive for better performance.  
 
2.2 Business process integration and synchronization 
The business process integration of supply chain is to making the supply to meet the market demands. 
The information collecting, analyzing, and action responsiveness are usually performed separately by 
the different organizations and systems. [7,30,32,35,37] Hence, the coordination among the cross 
departments is the central of concurrent management or synchronization management. [43] Institute for 
Defense Analyses (IDA) provided the first well-known definition of Concurrent Engineering (CE or 
Synchronization Engineering).  “CE is a systematic approach to the integrated, concurrent design of 
products and their related processes, including manufacture and supporting.  This approach is 
intended to cause the developers, from the outset, to consider all elements of the product life cycle from 
concept to disposal, including quality, cost, schedule, and user requirements.” [44] At present, the 
shortened Time-To-Market (TTM) is getting the central role in competitive advantages.[31] This 
particular advantage requires consistently greater speed in making operation and management decisions, 
delivering new business service and products to customers.  Charles formulates a 3-D CE to conduct 
the value chain innovation.  It’s a customized CE approach to manage product, process and value 
chain redesign and development. Specially, the Double Helix illustrated the thinking and review 
process to construct the new value chain. [1,9]  
 
3. Methodology of synchronization supply chain management  
3.1 Methodology overview 
The synchronization management of supply chain management is the integration of the market 
dynamics and the corporate response such as the operational processes of order management, strategic 
initiatives of new service development and technologic capacity expanding.  Additionally, an effective 
SCM methodology must have the capability for the corporate to synchronize the internal business 
processes with the external market dynamics. The benefit of an effective SCM is not only the premium 
operational performance but also the premium capability to fulfillment customer needs with constant 
value creation. The purpose of this paper is to demonstrate an effective reference model for the 
world-class manufacture or service provider to conduct the SCM reengineering toward the 
synchronization management of external dynamics and internal response.  
表 C012                                                    共 10 頁  
第 6頁 
portfolio for customer demand 
fulfillment 
-Technology or product standard 
cost 
S7 Operation Execution  The physical operation and 
execution for demand 
fulfillment. 
- Manufacture activities 
-Demand and order fulfillment 
process 
S8 Service Fulfillment The service development and 
offering for customer’s specific 
needs. 
-The real time Work In Process 
(WIP) information providing 
-Development for Manufacture 
support 
-Design for test 
-Mask sharing mask for cost down. 
S9 Risk Assessment Assess the potential factors and 
impact of business scenarios on  
supply objectives realization. 
Have the trade/off of the service 
level and investment cost. 
3.3 Synchronous SCM architecture (SSCMA)   
The essential none synchronization module functions were performed individually by different 
departments. The effective interaction and efficient information processing of the essential nine 
synchronization modules is the central to realize the synchronization management of supply chain. The 
Synchronous Supply Chain Management Architecture (SSCMA) was presented to collaborate the 
synchronization modules for completing real time management of supply chain. The SSCMA is 
formulated as the double helix structure to model the synchronization modules of SCM. The integrated 
Synchronous SCM Architecture (SSCMA) is illustrated as below. The double helix demonstrates the 
closed interactions and collaboration among the essential nine synchronization modules.   
The Synchronous Supply Chain Management Architecture
THE DOUBLE HELIX STRUCTURE
S.6 Technology 
Capacity
S.1 Corporate Strategy
And Objectives
S.9 Risk 
Assessment
S.5 Business 
SimulationS.4 Knowledge 
Abstraction
S.3 Market 
Dynamics
S.2 Supply 
Chain 
Objectives
S.8 Service 
Offering
S.7 Operation 
Management
Sensitivity-based
Planning
Real Time 
Execution
 
表 C012                                                    共 10 頁  
第 8頁 
strategically capabilities Sensitivity-based plan and Real time execution was defined for top 
management. Once get the Top management support the enterprise SC is on the way towards THE 
architecture reconstruction and performance improvement. 
 
Practical and adoptability consideration of the SCM research  
To help the industry to have a executable and adoptable SCM model is one of the determinants as 
conducting this paper.  This research formulates the critical nine synchronization modules for 
realizing the two characteristic capabilities Sensitivity-based plan and Real time execution. The 
essential nine synchronization modules in SSCMA, such as corporate objectives (S1), marketing 
dynamics (S3), knowledge recovery (S5) Technology capacity modeling (S6), risk assessment (s7) 
reminds the SCM participants or researchers to have the comprehensive thinking and communication 
protocol while the intensive SCM reconstruction and refinement. 
 
 
5. Conclusion 
 
This paper presents the nine synchronization modules as the central of synchronization management.  
With the structure procedures defined in this paper, the corporate could establish and reengineering 
their enterprise level SCM architecture.  The SSCMA is presented to enhance the SCM performance. 
From the theory study, industry benchmarking and case study, the SSCMA’s capability in improving 
the entire SCM performance and promote the value chain position is demonstrated.   This research 
also provides the reference model to assist the industry of world-class manufacture and service 
providers on Silicon Island, to conduct the SCM reengineering with the business model innovation. 
Specially, this paper delivers an efficient and effective model of creating the new age of the supply 
chain management in the industry. 
 
 
