 2
activity behavior model for elders with different. 
Keywords：Hospital-Based Nursing Homes、Space Construction Forms、Activity 
Behavior、Elderly 
 
一、研究動機與目的 
「單人房」、「多元化的空間層級」、「確保個人居住生活隱私」、「提供交誼及
休閒空間」等面向，是現今國內外學者專家在探討護理之家或是老人住宅空間，
解決機構化、營造居家環境時共同關注的課題，也是現今高齡者入居設施環境規
劃的趨勢。因小團體單位照護的服務理念，在於改變「輸送帶式照顧」成為「以
住民為中」之照護模式（外山義等，2000；陳政雄，2003）。為了落實此一理念，
除需空間的配合，最重要的是在於「照護人員」的意識改革，也就是說照護人員
必需要有積極的意識，支援個人自立的日常生活，在生活上實施貼心的照顧，塑
造家庭生活的感覺，並與住民及家屬維持良好的溝通互動。 
近年來國內對公私立安養中心或養護中心等論題的關心提高，政府及學術單
位也積極投入相關主題的研究調查，但針對長期照護機構探討建築類型與室內平
面空間構成對空間活動行為之影響的研究較少，對於未來新建機構環境規劃無法
提供具體可作為評估參考的資訊。此外因醫院附設型態的護理之家是截至目前為
止設置機構數最多的類型（佔 57.3﹪），相較於獨立型態護理之家而言，大部分
的醫院附設護理之家都利用原有之病房單元改建而成，具有利用既有醫院醫療資
源的優勢（中華民國長期照護專業協會，2002；賈淑麗，1999）。但從本人過去
研究的發現，目前國內機構的環境尺度，尚無法達到「小團體單位照護」（如每
一生活群介於 10 人前後，6～25 人之間）的標準，仍屬集中營式的照護環境，
由於照護單元規模大，照護人員的移動距離也較大。因此吾人認為有關環境對於
照護人員工作態度、負擔的影響，及與住民間之互動情形等更應被關注與了解。
因此本研究初步擬以醫院附設護理之家為對象，針對機構空間構成與機構管理規
範對於高齡者及看護人員日常活動活動行為的影響等進行深入探討，以為後續研
究建立完整的基礎資料。 
基於此，本研究主要探討住民之日常活動樣態與活動領域，從既有設備條件
與空間領域層級的向度，引用行為場景「人、事、時、地、物」作用的理論架構，
以機構輕度依賴、中度依賴高齡者為主要觀察研究對象。希望從中了解： 
1）不同身心機能高齡者之活動行為內容與活動領域。 
3）高齡者之「交流互動」行為模式。 
4）不同建築配置型態與空間領域深度下，高齡者交流互動行為樣態。 
5）影響高齡者日常活動行為模式之因素。 
 
二、護理之家法規與空間領域層級 
 4
三、研究方法 
計劃開始執行後，本研究即針對原計劃提及的 8 家機構之人體試驗委員會，
或長期照護部等相關審核單位提出詳細研究計劃。由於各機構要求內容與研究單
位保證項目皆有所不同，送審文件往返多次，直至今年 9 月底至 10 月中旬審核
結果陸續出爐，共有 5 家機構給予核准，其中包含 2 家「L 型」平面機構，3 家
「一字型」平面機構。 
本研究 97 年 10 月上旬起即針對先給予核准的機構進行基本資料收集、空間
現況圖面建置、住民同意書簽核及預備調查等作業。截至目前為止已確實完成「高
齡者及看護人員」活動行為調查的機構共有 3 家。在「高齡者」方面，收案對象
受高齡者身心機能狀況，及須入住 3 個月以上的條件限制，目前每家機構調查人
數從 28～22 人不等，其中「中度依賴群」人數較「輕度依賴群」多。選定觀察
對象後，首先進行預備調查，以檢視調查計劃之缺失。正式調查時間從早上八點
至下午六點，共十個小時。 
在「看護人員」照護行為調查方面，因全天候跟蹤觀察，護理長認為容易造
成困擾，因此建議僅以「願意協助配合」的各樓層或分區「組長」為調查對象，
目前每家機構調查人數約 4～5 人不等。配合看護人員班別，調查時間從早上七
點至下午三點，共八個小時。 
研究觀察採取每 2 位高齡者派遣 1 位曾接受過調查訓練的人員，每 1 位看護
人員配置 1 位調查人員，以 10 分鐘為巡迴調查單位。為避免調查當日進駐過多
調查人員影響機構住民作息，觀察時依各樓層別、各樓層收案對象數目，採分次
同日的調查方式，分別以二至三週的時間完成調查。每位觀察對象觀察天數為 1
天。觀察過程中主要以計時器、相機拍照，輔以調查註記表完整紀錄高齡者、看
護人員日常生活實態。調查註記表內容涵蓋行為時間、地點、活動行為、參與人
數、參與人員、互動情形、使用輔具設備等 7 個項目。 
2008 年 5 月～6 月首先進行機構住民基本資料的登錄與機構平面測繪作業，
實質記錄機構的空間配置、寢室單元型態及內部設備狀況。透過機構護理長的訪
談瞭解機構狀況及住民特質，並依護理站之高齡者身心機能評分為標準，選擇居
住時間達 3 個月之輕度及中度依賴高齡者為對象。同年 7 月中旬進入預備調查階
段。 
因假日家屬、親友來訪頻率較高，其互動行為過於多元、特殊，無法真實反
映平日的生活樣態，故本研究將調查時間界定於平常日（指週一至週五）中，多
數觀察對象不需外出門診的日子。正式調查時間為 2008 年 8 月 14 日及 21 日（星
期四）兩日，從上午八點至下午六點，每日共計十個小時。受調查人力的限制，
兩家機構依樓層別，採分次同日的調查方式，每位高齡者派遣 1 位曾接受過調查
訓練的人員進行生活行為的觀察紀錄。調查方式主要以計時器及調查註記表詳細
記錄各高齡者日常生活行為的類型、進行場所、時間、頻率、陪同者、使用設備
等資料。 
本報告除附上今年 5 月於美國 EDRA40 國際研討會發表之文章（針對單一
 6
活時間量分為「必需行為」、「休閒行為」、「療養行為」、「移動y其他」等四大類，
內含 17 個活動類型，與 65 個行為細項（表 1）。 
 
 
表 1 高齡者日常生活行為活動的分類 
 
 
5-2 生活行為類型與內容 
本研究共計觀察紀錄 28 位高齡者 44 項 1298 次的生活行為紀錄。以下從生
活行為類型、活動領域、活動成員規模及活動姿勢等四個向度說明兩家機構高齡
者一日的生活時間安排。 
機構住民生活行為頻率比前三位依序為必需行為、移動行為、休閒行為。行
為時間比則以必需行為時間最多（占 52.7％），其次依序為休閒行為、療養行為。
高齡者日常生活平均活動次數為 46.36 次，其中以移動行為次數最多（平均 14.96
次），但輕度依賴群移動行為的次數明顯高於中度依賴群。輕度與中度依賴兩群
組進行日常生活行為的平均次數分別為 43.41：41.82。更「換尿布」與「睡眠行
為」都有隨著高齡者身心機能的衰退而增加的情形。在「休閒行為」中，以看電
視的發生頻率最高（4.57 次）。在「療養行為」方面，以中度依賴群使用復健器
具及外出復健的次數較多。 
大 分 類 中分類 小分類 
吃正餐 飲食 
吃點心 
排泄 如廁行為 
身體沐浴 
清潔盥洗行為 
物品清潔行為 
清潔 
污物處理行為 
整理 周邊環境的整理行為 
整容 儀表的修飾 
必需行為 
睡眠 閉目的狀態 
興趣娛樂 與個人興趣有關的行為 
視聽 看電視、聽收音機 
閱讀 閱讀書報 
面對面交談 交談 
電話交談 
步行或推輪椅行走 散步y運動 
 在床邊或床上進行手腳運動 
機構活動 機構舉辦的活動 
發呆 茫然狀態 
休閒行為 
觀看 看周邊景物 
檢測 療養行為 醫療y復健 
治療 
移    動 移動 行走行為 
其    他 其他 其他 
 8
編號 年齡性別 入住天數機構
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
必需行為
休閒行為
療養行為
移動.其他行為
聊天
聊天
睡覺
洗澡
穿衣
睡覺
看電視
觀望 晒太陽
看電視
吃飯
打瞌睡 睡覺
走動
看電視
換尿布
打瞌睡
觀望
打瞌睡
看電視
復健
吃飯
看電視
換尿布
吃點心
65.42%
27.77%
      6.81%
       0%
f7 85 928天BX1.必需行為型 女
 
 
 
 
 
圖 1  「必需行為型」典型案例 
X2 型：【均衡型】 
此類型高齡者除必需行為與休閒行為時間外，從事「療養行為」的時間比高
達 13.1％。7 位高齡者平均年齡 75 歲，入居天數 677 天。此類型中有半數以上
為罹患中風、右腿骨折、糖尿病，高血壓等疾病，每週需進行兩次物理治療的「中
度依賴」高齡者（圖 2）。 
 
圖 2  「均衡型」典型案例 
X3 型：【休閒行為型】 
此類型休閒行為時間占 60.12％。兩位「輕度依賴」男性高齡者，日常生活
都以輪椅或助行器移動，平均年齡 75 歲，入居天數 2259 天。兩位高齡者睡眠時
間較短，大約 1小時左右，清醒時間以看電視、聊天、散步等行為是兩位高齡者
最常進行的休閒活動（圖 3）。 
 
圖 3  「休閒行為型」典型案例 
X4 型：【充實型】 
7 位高齡者大多患有高血壓、糖尿病或退化性關節炎等疾病，可借助輪椅移
動，平均年齡 82 歲，平均入住 803 天，其中僅有 1 位為「中度依賴」患者。此
類型高齡者在必需行為與休閒行為的時間比相當，分別為 49.53％：49.06％。
在「休閒行為方面」，高齡者有晒太陽、看電視、聊天、觀望、散步運動等多種
 10
的情形。 
綜合以上，可以瞭解小單位照護及塑造像家的環境是目前機構從事改善計劃
的目標，但其中多把力氣投注於公共空間、半公共空間之改造，但住民使用時間
最長的寢室空間卻仍維持醫院病房的意象。再者因目前的空間規劃仍留於圖像式
的居家情境的塑造，相關照護方式、家具的選用、安排未考慮住民社交規模的大
小及心理感受，所以空間使用頻率相當低。因此研究者認為從重視程度、期望程
度及實際感受滿意程度等三個層面探討護理之家使用者（住民、家屬、護理人員）
對現況空間品質的感受，對於日後長期照護空間設計之發展應有其意義。 
 
七、參考文獻 
1. Brown, B.B., Werner, C.M. 1985, Social cohesiveness, territoriality, and holiday 
decorations: The influence of cul-de-sacs, Environment and Behavior, 17, pp. 539-561. 
2. Holahan,C, j. 1976, Environmental change in a psychiatric setting: A social systems 
analysis, Human relations, 29, pp. 153-166. 
3. Gillian, H.I. 2002, Daily life in a nursing home Has it changed in 25 years？ Journal of 
Aging Studieds, 16, pp. 345-359.  
4. Newman, O. 1972, Defensible space. New York: MacMillan. 
5. Wolfe,M. 1987. Childhood and privacy. Children and the environment. New York: 
Plenum Press. 
6. 外山 義，1993，“高齡者概括性生活環境之變遷，以日本及瑞典的經驗為借
鏡”，社會福利設施計劃，第十四屆中日工程技術研討會，台北：內政部建築
研究所，頁 1-5。 
7. 今井正次等，1996，“余暇的生活行為から見た長期療養生活者の類型化と生
活要求”， ＜日本建築學會論文集＞，第 479 號，pp.111。 
 
 2 
Ling-Fang Wang (National Taichung Institute of Technology, Department of 
Interior Design, Taiwan) “The Study of the Daily Life Behavior Time Distribution 
for the Elders—By the Case of Hospital-Based Nursing Home in Southern Taiwan” 
 
The purpose of the miniature care-giving unit and versatile living spaces are for 
producing positive connections for group life depending on different levels of the living 
group. And the miniature care-giving unit and versatile living spaces are also used to 
build up a reasonable human relationship. However, this notion of the space planning 
is in the initial stage in Taiwan. So, there are fewer cases of Taiwan’s nursing homes 
using those notions in the environmental designing. Due to this, many of the nursing 
homes in Taiwan are insufficient to be compared with the nursing homes which have 
mature and complete care-giving environment in other countries. The study is based 
on building up a family-like and humanity nursing environment to realize how the 
elders start their daily life in the nursing homes and try to analyze the interactions 
between elders & elders, elders & environment and elders and care-givers and the 
related influence factors. Moreover, the purpose of the study is to build up the related 
data of the living environment of the long term caring institution for Taiwan’s elders for 
future analysis and reference.  
The study takes a nursing home in southern Taiwan as an example and divides the 28 
samples into two groups with physical and mental functions of “Little” and “Medium” 
dependent levels and the living ability is divided into “Partly Capable” and “Fully 
Capable” Though those 28 samples, the study is focused on the discussion of the 
interaction between the daily life behaviors and environment to induce the daily life 
behavior patterns for the elders of different physical and mental function levels.  
 
Keywords: Hospital-Affiliated Nursing Homes, Elders, Incapable Level, Daily Life 
Behavior Patterns        
 
1. Motivation and Purpose of the Study 
The hospital-affiliated nursing homes are the most common model of Taiwan’s 
established nursing homes (57.3%), many of them are established in partial stories of 
hospital buildings. The characteristics of this model include the space planning that is 
based on the original hospital and the sharing of medical resources with hospitals. 
The study selects a hospital-affiliated nursing home which the construction’s space 
planning is L shape in southern Taiwan as the research sample. According to Oscar 
Newman (1972, 1979)’s Territory Space Level concept to define and classify the 
territory space level of the nursing home according to the space unit attribution 
characteristics. Besides, the study applies the basic concept of “Time Geography” to 
 4 
based territory level concept into the discussion of spaces for elders’ group apartment. 
According to his viewpoint, the private space is the space that can be controlled by the 
individual such as the bedroom space in the living unit. The semi-private space is the 
one that the space is owned by all of the inhabitants such as the space of restaurant 
and social room in each living group. The semi-public area is the public space for the 
inhabitant in the same story such as corridor and social room. The public space is the 
public area that is used by all of the inhabitant, colleagues or visitors such as the 
space of garden and the lobby.  
According to the above-mentioned classification concept, the study applies the user 
based concept to choose bedroom, nursing station, restaurant, social room, public 
bathroom and public restroom to do the territory space determination without 
calculating the public service spaces such as ordure handling room, kitchen, laundry 
and office that are used by the colleagues of the nursing home（as show in Figure1.） 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High Space Control Level                         Low Space Control Level 
Figure1. The Definition of Space Territory Levels of the Nursing Homes 
3. Research Methodology  
The study records the personal information for the inhabitants and also measures and 
draws the draft for the space of the institution to realize the space allocation, bedroom 
unit types, and the situation for the internal facilities. Through the interview with the 
chief of the nurse, the study realizes the situation of the institution and the 
characteristics of the inhabitants from May to June, 2008. The study selects the 
light-dependence and medium-dependence levels elders that are lived in the nursing 
home for more than three months as the research sample according to the elders’ 
physical and mental function evaluation standard in the nursing station. At the middle 
July, the study is ready to enter the pre-survey step.  
Semi-Private 
Space 
Owned by all of 
the bedroom’s 
inhabitants
Private Space 
Controlled by the 
individual 
Semi-Public 
Space 
For the inhabitant 
in the same story
First Layer: Bed Space                
Second Laye: Bedroom Unit            
Tthird layer: Inside the Living Unit Group 
Fourth layer: outside the Living Unit 
Group 
Public Space 
Used by all of the 
inhabitant, 
leagues or visitors
Living Unit 
 6 
   
Rehabilitation Room in 8th floor Style of Dining Table-1 Style of Dining Table-2 
   
Semi-Public Space
The Corridor Space for Living 
Unit in each floor-1 
The Corridor Space for Living Unit 
in each floor-2 
The Decoration of the Corridor Wall
Table2. The Floor Plan of Bedroom and the Current Situation of the Space 
                    Bedroon Type Space Situatiion 
浴室
 
  
Two People Bedroom 
22.31 square meter (8 room) Bed Space Basic facilities of each Bed
ABC
D E 浴室 廁所
 
  
Two People Bedroom 
46.61 square meter(13 room) Bed Space Wardrobe in the Bedroom
 
For the inhabitants in the 7th floor, most of them are elders with medium or heavily 
dependence people. For the 8th floor, most of them are light-dependent elders. For the 
environmental planning, there is a outdoor corridor for inhabitants to do a sunbath. For 
the interior space, each story has nursing station, social room, restaurant and public 
bathroom and there is a small family hall for worshipping Buddha. There is a 
recreation space in the 8th story for the elders and their families and there is another 
rehabilitation room (as Table 1). For the types of the bedroom, there are two kinds of 
types including the bedroom for two people and five people. A large amount of the 
bedrooms are for five people. For the space facilities, there is a bathroom for each 
bedroom. The bathroom and the restroom are combined for the two people type 
bedroom. For the five people type bedroom, the bathroom and restroom are 
separated. For the facilities, each bed has lamp, safety bell, wardrobe and cabinet 
beside the bed. However, there is no separate curtain for each bed and the chair to 
take a rest. The inhabitant can add the facilities such as TV and refrigerator if it is 
needed. (as show in Table. 2) 
 8 
Table3. The Classification of Elders Daily Life Behaviors 
5-2 Daily-Life Behavior Types and Contents 
The study observes and records 44 items and 1298 times of the daily-life behaviors 
for 28 elders. The study will discuss the daily-life time arrangement of the two different 
institutions by four different aspects of daily-life behavior types, territory of activities, 
the scale of the member of the activities and the gesture of the activities. (as shown in 
Table 4) 
The top three behaviors for the elders in the institution are necessary behavior, 
movement behavior and recreation behavior. For the behavior time length, the 
necessary behavior consumes the largest portion of the time (57.2%), and the 
second and the third are recreation behaviors and treatment and rest 
behaviors. The average daily activity times for the elders is 46.36 times. The 
movement behaviors occupies largest portion of it(14.96 times). But the times 
of the movement behaviors for the light-dependence group are apparently 
higher than the medium-dependence group. The average times for the 
Classification of Behavior Types Behavior Items Details of Behavior Items 
Eating Meals Eating 
Eating Snacks 
Excrete Go to Restroom 
Take Bath 
Cleaning and Washing up Behaviors 
Things Cleaning Behavior 
Cleaning 
Dirt-Handling Behavior 
Put things in order Cleaning the Environment Around 
Face Cleaning Handle the Face 
Necessary Behaviors 
Sleep Close Eyes 
Hobbies Behaviors Related to Personal Hobbies
Watching & Listening Watching TV, Listening to Radio 
Reading Reading Books or Newspapers 
Chat by Face  Chat 
Chat by Telephone 
Walk or walk by Wheelchair Take a Walk, Exercise 
 Exercise the hands and legs on the bed 
Institution Activities Activities Held by the Institution 
Daze At a loss situation 
Recreation Behaviors 
Watch See Scenes Around 
Test Treatment and Rest Behaviors Treatment & Rehabilitation
Treatment 
Movement Movement Walk 
Others Others Others 
 10 
5-4 The Time Percentage of Different Spaces and Daily Life Behavior 
Territory Distribution 
The average percent of time for the light-dependence group’s activities in private 
space, semi-private space, semi-public space and public space are 46.51%, 13.90%, 
1.36% and 38.23% respectively. For the medium-dependence group, the percentages 
are 45.36%, 3.63%, 3.39% and 47.62% respectively. The average activity times for 28 
elders in indoors and outdoors are 4 hours and 42 minutes and 4 hours and 56 
minutes.. The outdoor activities remain large portion in total times. And the activity 
frequency for the elders is proportional to the behavior time length.  
All in all, the average sleep time for two different groups is 3 hours and 31 minutes. 
The average activity time is 5 hours and 54 minutes. In the activity time, both groups 
are watching TV at public space, eating dinner and fooling around. The activity time 
for the elders in the private space will increase once the elders life ability is increasing 
declined.  
 
5-5 The Categorization of Daily Life Behaviors 
The categorization of behaviors is to use chart to show elders’ necessary behaviors, 
recreation behaviors, treatment and rest behaviors and other behaviors’ behavior time 
ratio. And the categories are named and categorized according to the ratio of the 
behavior time. (as shown in Figure 4). According to the characteristics of time ratio, 
there are four types of categories can be induced including necessary behavior type, 
balanced type, recreation behavior type and meaningful type (as shown in Figure5). 
 
Figure4. The Categorization of Elders’ Daily Life Behaviors 
 12 
(3) X3 Type (Recreation Behavior Type) 
The recreation time of this type’s elders remains 60.12%. There are two 
light-dependence elders that use wheelchair and walk-assistant equipment to move in 
daily life. The average age is 75 years old. The days they have lived in the institution 
is 2259 days. The two elders have shorter sleep time which is about 1 hour. For other 
times, they usually do the recreation activities such as watching TV, chatting or taking 
a walk.  
(4)  X4 Type (Meaningful Behavior Type) 
Most of the 7 elders have diseases such as high blood pressure, diabetes, and 
degenerated arthritis. They can be moved by wheelchairs. The average age of them 
is 82 years old. The average inhabited period is 803 days. Only one of them is the 
elder of medium-dependence level. For this type’s elders, they have balance time 
ratio between necessary behaviors and recreation behaviors. The ratio is 49.53% v.s. 
49.06%. In the recreation behaviors, they usually do multiple kinds of activities such 
as a sunbath, watching TV, chatting, taking a walk or exercising, 
 
6 Conclusion 
All in all, the movement behavior is the highest frequency for elders daily life behavior. 
In the aspect of behavior time, both group’s elders consumes most of their time in 
necessary behaviors. However, due to the decline of the physical and mental 
functions, the elders of medium-dependence level increase their time in the 
necessary behaviors and treatment and rest behaviors and reduce the time for the 
recreation behaviors. If the watching TV related behavior which consumes most of the 
time and is done with high frequency is deducted from the recreation behaviors, the 
light-dependence level elders mainly do the recreation activities related with personal 
hobbies. For the medium-dependence elders, they consumes most of their time in 
watching other activities.  
The daily life behavior model for the elders can be divided into four categories 
including necessary behaviors type, balance behavior type, recreation behavior type 
and meaningful type. For light-dependence and medium-dependence elders, most of 
them are people with necessary behaviors type. They consumes their time mainly on 
wearing clothes, handling face affairs, handling the personal wardrobe except eating, 
sleeping, excreting, and washing up. For the medium-dependence elders, they have 
the need of rehabilitation, so they have more people with balance type which contains 
treatment behaviors than light-dependence group. However, the recreation type is 
less than light-dependence group.  
Due to the group life is emphasized by the institution, they hope inhabitants can leave 
