  一、中文摘要  
（一）計畫中文摘要。（五百字以內）  
為了改善傳統氧化矽-氮化矽-氧
化矽(oxide-nitride-oxide,ONO)結
構記憶體的特性，並使元件縮小密度
提高、且期望增加操作速度、元件可
操作的次數以及保存時間。在此計畫
中，我們主要分兩個目標，一為改善
傳統ONO 結構的特性，將電荷儲存層  
trap-state 的數量提高或採用新穎
電荷儲存層材料，使電荷儲存於deep 
trap-state不易流失，並利用Deep 
Level Transient Spectroscopy(DLTS)
量測方式量測深層缺陷之活化能
(activation Energy)、捕捉截面積與
濃度等。對ONO 結構記憶體之電荷補
捉機制作深入的探討。另一為多位元
(multi-bits) 的儲存結構，能使記憶
體的密度大大地提高。我們將利用高
密度電漿化學氣相沈積系統(HDPCVD)
製作含有較多trap- state 之電荷儲
存氮化矽層或其他具有潛力的介電質
(SiC、SiCN、GeNO、GeN 和GeO)。由
於HDPCVD沈積薄膜，於沈積過程中具
有較高的離子轟擊效應，導致形成的
薄膜較緻密且電荷捕獲中心(trap)較
多，對電子的捕獲效應較佳，期望達
到較大的記憶窗，以改善記憶體元件
的保存時間。  
在多位元(multi-bits) 的儲存
結構方面，我們提出一種新穎半導體
與絕緣體交錯相疊的似超晶格
(quasi-superlattice)結構，作為載
子儲存的單元。預期在記憶體特性的
表現上，隨著不同的閘極電壓，使電
荷儲存在不同層數。期望藉由適當的
閘極電壓寫入，讓此記憶體元件具有
每個記憶單元(memory cell)多個位元
(bit)的操作能力。  
關鍵詞:非揮發性記憶體；氧化矽-氮
化矽-氧化矽；缺陷密度  
 
Abstract  
In this project, the nonvolatile devices 
SONOS will be improved by increasing 
the density of trap-states in charge 
trapping layers or using novel charge 
trapping materials with deep trap states. 
And we use the Deep Level Transient 
Spectroscopy to measure the activation 
Energy of deep trap-state 、 capture 
crossion and concentration.We utilize 
high density plasma chemical vapor 
deposition (HDPCVD) to deposit the 
charge trapping layer SiNx and other 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫期末報告 
 新穎SONOS非揮發性記憶體元件製作與特性研究 (2/2)  
 Novel SONOS Nonvolatile Memory Device Fabrication and 
Characteristics Research 
計畫編號：95-2221-E-009-316-MY2 
執行期間：95年08月01日至 97年07月31日 
計畫主持人： 施敏 交通大學電子工程學系暨電子工程研究所 
 
fabricated on a 4 in. p-type silicon (100) wafer. 
After a standard RCA process, 3-nm-thick tunnel 
oxide was thermally grown by a dry oxidation 
process in an atmospheric pressure chemical 
vapor deposition furnace. Subsequently, a 
10-nm-thick nitrogen incorporated Ni0.3Si0.7 
layer was deposited by reactive sputtering of 
Ni0.3Si0.7 comixed target in the Ar [24 SCCM 
(SCCM denotes cubic centimeter per minute at 
STP)] and N2 (10 SCCM) environment at room 
temperature, and the dc sputtering power was set 
to 80 W. Then, a 30-nm-thick blocking oxide 
was deposited by the plasma enhanced chemical 
vapor deposition system at 300 °C. Hence, these 
ternary nanocrystals could be found to 
precipitate and embed in SiNx during the 
foregoing process. Al gate electrodes on back 
and front sides of the sample were finally 
deposited and patterned to form a 
metal/oxide/insulator/oxide/silicon (MOIOS) 
structure. Electrical characteristics, including the 
capacitance-voltage (C-V) hysteresis, current 
density–voltage (J-V), and retention 
characteristics, were also performed.  
 
Figure 1 exhibits a cross-sectional HRTEM 
image of the nitrogen incorporated Ni0.3Si0.7 film 
containing spherical and separated nanocrystals 
embedded in the SiNx matrix. It is found that the 
thickness of tunnel oxide is larger than 3 nm due 
to the contribution of SiNx matrix by HRTEM 
analysis. This SiNx matrix can be used to 
improve charge storage ability for nonvolatile 
memory application. Moreover, the average 
diameter of the nanocrystals is approximately 
5–6 nm and the area density of the nanocrystals 
is estimated to be about 1.08x1012 cm−2 by 
HRTEM analysis. 
 
 
FIG. 1. Cross-sectional high resolution transmission electron 
microscope (HRTEM) analysis of nitrogen incorporated 
Ni0.3Si0.7 film between the tunnel oxide and the blocking 
oxide. The nanocrystal size and density are about5–6 nm and 
1.08x1012 cm−2, respectively. The inset shows the memory 
structure diagram. 
 
To further invetigate the nanocrystals, we have 
performed XPS analysis by using an Al 
Kα(1486.6 eV) x-ray radiation to demonstrate 
the chemical composition of the nanocrystals. To 
correct the possible charging effect of the film, 
the binding energy was calibrated using the C 1s 
(284.6 eV) spectra of hydrocarbon that remained 
in the XPS analysis chamber as a contaminant. 
Figure 2(a) shows the XPS Ni 2p core-level 
photoemission spectra which consist of two 
main peaks, 2p3/2(855 eV) and 2p1/2(873 eV) 
with two small satellite peaks. According to the 
values of other literature, Ni 2p3/2 binding 
energies are at 852.3 and 853.4 eV for metallic 
nickel (Ni–Ni) and Ni silicide (Ni–Si), 
respectively. However, it cannot be found that 
the abovementioned peak signals are observed at 
the Ni 2p3/2 peak by XPS analysis. Due to the 
strong electronegativity of nitrogen atom, it is 
reasonably assumed that the larger Ni 2p3/2 
binding energy (855 eV) of the nanocrystals can 
embedded in SiNx matrix is enough to be defined 
1 and 0 states. In addition, current 
density–voltage (J-V) characteristics in the inset 
of Fig. 3 show the current density of the MOIOS 
structure by gate voltage sweeping from 0 to 10 
V and 0 to −10 V. It is evident that the high 
quality of blocking oxide can avoid the stored 
carriers of charge trapping layer to leak into gate 
electrode. 
 
 
FIG. 3. Capacitance-voltage (C-V) hysteresis of the 
fabricated MOIOS structure with the NiSiN nanocrystals 
embedded in SiNx matrix as a charge trapping layer. The 
inset shows current density–voltage (J-V) characteristics. 
 
Retention characteristics of the memory 
structure with NiSiN nanocrystals are illustrated 
in Fig. 4. The retention measurements are 
performed at room temperature by operating 
a ±10 V gate voltage stress for 5 s. The Vfb is 
obtained by comparing the C-V curves from a 
charged state and a quasineutral state. When 
carriers are stored in the nanocrystals, the stored 
charges will raise the nanocrystal potential 
energy and increase the probability of escaping 
from the nanocrystal to the silicon substrate. 
Moreover, carriers trapped in the shallow traps 
are unstable and can easily leak back to the 
silicon substrate. It is found that the window of 
Vfb significantly reduces during the first 1000 s 
and then becomes more stable for long retention 
time. This result is consistent with partial carrier 
trapping in the shallow trap state of the SiNx 
matrix around the nanocrystals. However, we 
use an extrapolation to give a long-term 
predictable result (dotted line) after 1000 s 
(stable region of retention) and extrapolate 
a memory window of 1.8 V (total charge hold 
ratio 57%) after 10 years. The majority carriers 
stored in the deep trapping states of NiSiN 
nanocrystal surrounding with SiNx matrix 
exhibit good retention characteristics. 
 
FIG. 4. Retention characteristics of the memory structure 
with NiSiN nanocrystals embedded in SiNx matrix using a 
±10 V gate voltage stress for 5 s at room temperature. The 
dotted line is the extrapolated value of retention data after 
1000 s. 
 
In conclusion, the nonvolatile memory 
structure of Ni-SiN nanocrystals embedded in 
SiNx matrix was fabricated by sputtering a 
comixed target in the Ar/N2 ambiance at room 
temperature. A larger memory window of 3.5 V 
was observed after ±12 V voltage sweep for 
nonvolatile memory application. In addition, the 
date retention of the nanocrystals memory 
device is also good enough to maintain for 10 
years. 
b)  Ge nanocrystals nonvolatile 
memory application  
 
The fabrication of NVM structure was started 
with a thermal dry oxidation at 950 °C to form a 
 FIG. 2. Secondary ion mass spectrometer (SIMS) analysis of 
MOIOS structure with Ge of before annealing, Ge of 
structure (3) (no use of PACO step), and Ge of structure 
(1)(use of PACO step). 
 
Figure 3(a) shows a cross-sectional TEM 
image of structure (1) containing spherical and 
separated Ge nanocrystals. The average diameter 
of the nanocrystals is approximately 5–6 nm and 
the area density of the nanocrystals is estimated 
to be about 1.73x1012 cm−2 by TEM analysis. For 
the formation of Ge nanocrystals, the Gibbs free 
energy of Si–O and Ge–O at 900 °C, are about 
−805 and −666 kJ mol−1, respectively. Because of 
the smaller Gibbs free energy of Si–O compared 
with Ge–O, the oxygen atoms can interact with 
Si atom easier than with Ge atom in the 
Si1.33Ge0.67O2 layer during the RTA process. It 
can be considered that an internal competition 
reaction will induce self-assembled of Ge 
nanocrystals in the Si1.33Ge0.67O2 layer, which is 
dependent on the amount of oxygen of charge 
trapping layer. Therefore, Ge nanocrystals could 
be formed at lower thermal budget and no use of 
further high pressure H2 treatment or steam 
process in our experimental method. We also use 
the internal competition reaction for 
Si2.67Ge1.33N2 layer to form Ge nanocrystals 
embedded in SiNx, as shown in the 
cross-sectional TEM image of Fig. 3(b). The 
average diameter of the nanocrystals is 
approximately 7–8 nm and the area density of 
the nanocrystals is estimated to be about 
1.12x1012 cm−2 by TEM analysis. Besides, the 
charge trapping layer contains SiNx matrix which 
increase trapping states to improve charge 
storage capacity (as shown in Fig. 1(b)) and 
program/erase efficiency. 
 
 
 
FIG. 3. Cross-sectional transmission electron microscope 
(TEM) analysis of MOIOS structure with (a) Ge nanocrystal 
embedded in SiOx (the nanocrystals size and density are 
about 5–6 nm and 1.73x1012 cm−2, respectively) and (b) Ge 
nanocrystal embedded in SiNx (the nanocrystal size and 
density are about 7–8 nm and 1.12x1012 cm−2, respectively.) 
 
The retention of nonvolatile nanocrystal 
memory structure with (1) and (2) are illustrated 
in Fig. 4. The retention mensuration was 
performed at room temperature by operating a 
±15 V gate voltage stress for 10 s and measured 
up to 104 s. The flatband voltage shift (Vfb) was 
obtained by comparing the C-V curves from a 
charged carrier state and the quasineutral state. 
We find that the charge holding ratio of structure 
(2), 20%, is better than that of structure (1), 7%, 
after 106 s by analyzing the extrapolation value 
of retention data _dotted dashed line for (1) and 
dotted line for (2) of Fig. 4. Because structure (2) 
provided trapping states of SiNx for charging 
carriers, this result could reduce the Coulomb 
blockade effect of charge trapping layer leading 
to lowertunneling probability between tunnel 
oxide and conduction channel under retention 
state. Hence, the nanocrystals combined with 
approximately 5–6 nm and the area density of 
the nanoparticles is estimated to be about 
1.33x1012 cm−2. 
 
 
FIG. 1. Cross-sectional transmission electron microscope 
(TEM) analysis of (a) control sample, and (b) MOIOS 
structure containing nanoparticles. The nanoparticles size 
and density are about 5–6 nm and 1.33x1012 cm−2, 
respectively. The inset shows sketch diagrams of control 
sample and MOIOS structure. 
 
(C-V) hysteresis is shown in Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) 
for the control sample and nanoparticles, 
respectively. From Fig. 2(a), memory effect is 
not found in the control sample under ±10 V 
gate voltage operation. On the contrary, it is 
clearly observed that 0.8 and 2.5 V of memory 
windows can be obtained, respectively, under 
±10 and ±15 V gate voltage operation for the 
MOIOS structure with nanoparticles, as shown 
in Fig. 2(b). Hence, it is considered that the 
memory effect of nanoparticles is dominated by 
formation of nanoparticles as compared with Fig. 
2(a). Moreover, the hysteresis loops follow the 
counterclockwise direction due to injection of 
electrons from the inversion state and discharge 
of electrons from the accumulation state of Si 
substrate. The memory window of MOIOS with 
nanoparticles is enough to determine data 
information by different memory window for 
nonvolatile memory application. As a result, our 
electrical characteristics of C-V show that 
formation and nonvolatile memory effect of 
nanoparticles are influenced by oxygen doping 
during sputter process. 
 
 
FIG. 2. Capacitance-voltage _C-V_ hystereses of MOIOS 
structure with (a) the control sample, and (b) NiOSi 
nanoparticles. The memory windows of NiOSi nanoparticles 
0.8 and 2.5 V can be obtained under ±10 (dash line) and ±15 
V (solid line) gate voltage operation, respectively. 
 
In our work, the chemical composition of the 
nanoparticles is demonstrated by XPS analysis 
using an Al Kα(1486.6 eV) x-ray radiation, as 
shown in Fig. 3. Figure 3(a) exhibits the XPS Ni 
2p core-level photoemission spectra that consist 
of two main peaks, Ni 2p3/2 and satellite. 
According to previous research, the composition 
of Ni 2p3/2 peak can be separated out 
Ni–O–Si(854.6 eV) and Ni2O3_856.8 eV_ by 
increased as the programing/erasing voltage 
increased at the same programing/erasing 
duration, and also increased with the increasing 
programing/erasing duration at the same 
programing/erasing voltage. Moreover, the 
defined window 0.5 V can be obtained at 
programing/erasing ~10−4 s under ±10 V 
operation. This memory device reveals a high 
speed programing/erasing time for further 
nonvolatile memory application. 
 
 
FIG. 4. _a_ Retention characteristics of the memory structure 
with NiOSi nanoparticles using a ±10 V gate voltage stress 
for 5 s at room temperature. The dotted line is the 
extrapolated value of retention data after 100 s. (b) 
Programing and erasing characteristics of the NiOSi 
nanoparticles under ±10 and ±15 V gate voltage. 
] 
In conclusion, the NiOSi nanoparticles 
embedded in the SiOx layer were fabricated for 
the nonvolatile memory application by 
sputtering a commixed target in an Ar/O2 
environment at room temperature. Due to 
different enthalpies of Si–O, Ni–O, and Ni–Si, 
the nanoparticles can be selfassembly fabrication 
in this study. A larger memory window of 2.5 V 
was clearly observed after ±15 V voltage sweep 
and the retention can get up to 10 yr for NVM 
application. In addition, this memory device is 
suitable for high speed operation and the 
fabrication technique of NiOSi nanoparticles can 
be compatible with current manufacture process 
of the integrated circuit manufacture. 
 
 
d) Ni–Si and Ni–N nanocrystals 
Nonvolatile memory 
 
This memory structure was fabricated on a 4 
in. p-type silicon (100) wafer which the 
resistivity was 10Ωcm in this letter. After a 
standard clean process and native oxide 
removing, a 3-nm-thick tunnel oxide was 
thermally grown by a dryoxidation process in an 
atmospheric pressure chemical vapor deposition 
furnace. Afterward, a 10-nm-thick nitrogen 
incorporated Ni0.3Si0.7 layer served as the 
charge trapping layer was deposited by reactive 
sputtering of Ni0.3Si0.7 commixed target in 
Ar N2 [2410 SCCM (SCCM denotes cubic 
centimeter per minute at STP)] environment at 
room temperature, and the dc sputtering power 
was set to 80 W (deposition 
pressure ~7.6 mtorr). Then, a 30-nm-thick 
blocking oxide was deposited by the plasma 
enhanced chemical vapor deposition system at 
300 °C. In our work, the charge trapping layer 
was annealed at 500 and 600 °C for 100 s using 
a rapid thermal annealing system to improve the 
shape and crystallization of nanocrystals. In 
addition, the standard device (STD) is no use of 
annealing process, which this device also has the 
storage abilities of nonvolatile Ni–N and Ni–Si 
NCs memories. Figure 3(a) shows C-V 
hysteresis of STD with Ni–N NCs and it is 
clearly observed that memory windows of 1.5 
and 3.5 V can be obtained under ±10 and ±12 V 
operations, respectively. However, the MOIOS 
structure with Ni–Si NCs has larger memory 
window of 4.0 V under _10 V operation, as 
shown in Fig. 3(b). In addition, the difference of 
flatband voltage between Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) is 
due to coupling effect with conduction channel 
by the crystallizations of Ni–Si and Ni–N NCs. 
The insets of Figs. 3(a) and 3(b) were simple 
energy band diagrams to explain this 
phenomenon. Because of the nitride layer of 
STD simple deposited at low temperature 
environment, its density of traps was more than 
the memory cell after annealing process. From 
the inset of Fig. 3(a) the charges stored in the 
shallow traps of nitride layer were unstable and 
easy leaked into silicon substrate under retention 
test. Furthermore, the nonvolatile Ni–Si NC 
memory had stronger nitride layer than Ni–N 
NC memory to defend the interface between 
oxide and nitride under endurance test because 
this interface state generated by carries 
transportation would induce traps assisted 
tunneling effect resulting in lower charge storage 
ability. 
 
FIG. 3. (a) C-V hysteresis of nonvolatile Ni–N NCs 
memories. The memory window was 1.5 V under ±10 V 
operation and the inset was a simple energy band diagram. (b) 
C-V hysteresis of nonvolatile Ni–Si NCs memories. The 
memory window was 4.0 V under ±10 V operation and the 
inset was a simple energy band diagram. 
 
In conclusion, the nonvolatile memory 
characteristics were influenced by the 
crystallizations of Ni–Si and Ni–N NCs. The 
nonvolatile Ni–Si NC memory shows the better 
charge storage ability and reliability than 
nonvolatile Ni–N NCs memory, since Ni–Si NC 
have higher density of state and stronger 
surrounding dielectric than the other one. Hence, 
the MOIOS structure needed a rapid thermal 
annealing process to obtain a high performance 
nonvolatile NC memory in this work. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
