1電泳動沈積法製備氧化鎳複合電極及其電化學性質探討
Electrochemical properties of nickel oxide composite electrodes prepared by electrophoretic
deposition
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-151-029
執行期限：97年08月01日 至 98年07月31日
主持人：吳茂松 國立高雄應用科技大學化學工程與材料工程系
1. Abstract
Nickel oxide electrode is prepared by the
electrophoretic deposition (EPD) process.
EPD method is useful to deposit nickel
hydroxide from isopropyl alcohol suspension
containing iodine and water additives.
Hydrogen ions are produced by the reaction
between iodine and water, and then adsorbed
on the nickel hydroxide, leading to the
positively charged nickel hydroxide surface.
Positively charged nickel hydroxide having
high zeta potential is turned out to be
beneficial to the EPD and powder dispersion.
Electrochemical performance of the electrodes
was characterized by cyclic voltammograms.
Results indicate that the specific capacitance
of the nickel oxide electrode prepared by EPD
method is higher than that of prepared by the
dip coating method.
Keywords: electrophoretic deposition,
nickel oxide electrode, nanoplatelets, porous
thin film, and electrochemical capacitors.
2. Introduction
Nickel oxide materials have received
much research attention due to their potential
applications in electrochromic devices, optical
materials, fuel cell electrodes, photocatalysts,
and supercapacitors, etc. Metal oxides like
manganese oxides, ruthenium oxides, and
nickel oxides have been demonstrated to be
the suitable electrode materials for
supercapacitors owing to their higher specific
capacitance compared with carbon materials.
Among these metal oxides, a hydrous form of
ruthenium oxide in an aqueous H2SO4
electrolyte exhibits a high specific capacitance
of 720 F/g and an excellent cycle-life stability
[1,2]. However, ruthenium oxide is too
expensive for commercial use.
Nickel oxides are synthesized by thermal
treatment of the nickel hydroxides for
electrochemical capacitors. Nickel hydroxide
oxide materials have been widely used for the
positive electrode in rechargeable alkaline
batteries, nickel-cadmium and nickel-metal
hydride batteries. For preparing nickel oxide
electrode, several methods such as slurry
coating [3], dip coating [4], and
electrochemical deposition [5-11] have been
reported to be the possible manufacturing
processes for electrochemical capacitors. EPD
of the nickel oxide electrode has rarely been
studied. Recently, the high-power density
supercapacitor electrodes made of carbon
nanotube films prepared by EPD have been
reported [12,13]. Also, EPD of hydrous
ruthenium oxides with polytetrafluoroethylene
(PTFE) and their capacitive behaviors have
been studied as a high-power supercapacitor
[14,15].
Slurry coating and dip coating methods
may suffer from the difficulty in fabrication of
well-dispersed nickel oxide powder on the
metal substrates. To alleviate such difficulties,
EPD is used to fabricate well-dispersed nickel
3of the nickel hydroxide suspensions at various
additives was measured by a zeta potential
analyzer (Brookhaven, 90Plus, USA).
4. Results and discussion
Fig. 1a displays the EPD current
associated with deposition time at various
applied voltages in a suspension without
iodine additive. The depositing current is
increased very slightly with increasing the
applied voltage. At low applied voltage for
300 s, nickel hydroxide deposit is observed
neither on the negative electrode nor the
positive electrode. At a high voltage of 200 V
for 300 s, only a very small amount of nickel
hydroxide deposit can be observed on the
positive electrode, indicating that the
deposition rate is quite slow. These results
reveal that nickel hydroxide nanoplatelets in
the IPA-water solution without iodine additive
are negatively and weakly charged and move
towards the positive electrode under high
electric field. EPD current (deposition rate)
and powder dispersion depend strongly on the
zeta potential of the particles in a suspension.
The zeta potential of the nickel hydroxide
powder in the IPA suspension is measured to
be about -5 mV. A small negative zeta
potential is responsible for the low deposition
rate. Surface charge of the nickel hydroxide
nanoplatelet, which can be controlled by
addition of charging agent into the suspension,
plays a crucial role in stabilization of the
suspension.
Fig. 1b shows the EPD current associated
with time at various applied voltages in a
suspension with iodine and water additives.
Obviously, the EPD current is significantly
improved by using additives. The higher the
applied voltage, the higher the EPD current.
Nickel hydroxide deposit is observed on the
negative electrode even at a low voltage of 5
V for 30 s. The zeta potential of the nickel
hydroxide nanoplatelet is measured about 30
mV. Such high zeta potential favors the
powder dispersion and facilitates powder
deposition under an applied electric field.
These results reveal that the nickel hydroxide
nanoplatelets in an IPA solution containing
iodine and water additives are positively
charged and move towards the negative
electrode under the applied field. In contrast to
the nickel hydroxide of negatively charged
surface, a reversal of the charge of nickel
hydroxide particle can be implemented by
adsorption of H+ on the negatively charged
surface in the IPA bath with additives. The H+
ions may be produced by addition of I2 and
H2O into to the IPA solvent according to the
following reaction,
I2 + H2O H+ + I+ HOI (1)
Fig. 2 shows a schematic diagram of the
proposed nickel hydroxide deposition in the
EPD process. H+ ions are adsorbed by the
nickel hydroxide particles of negatively and
weakly charged surface to form more
positively charged surface. EPD of the nickel
hydroxide electrode is achieved through
transport of positively charged nanoplatelets
towards a negative electrode and deposition of
nanoplatelets with neutralization under the
applied electric field. Hydrogen evolution
occurs during deposition due to combination
of the adsorbed H+ ions on the surface of
nickel hydroxide nanoplatelets. According to
Koura et al. [18], the adsorbed H+ ions on the
oxide particle move to the surface of substrate
by diffusion through a small opening in the
oxide film according to the voltage gradient
and the concentration, and subsequently
discharge to evolve hydrogen gas. As a result,
the oxide particles continue to deposit on the
5during high-rate scanning. A small decrease in
specific capacitance with increasing scan rate
indicates the high-power characteristics of the
nickel oxide electrode. Possibly, this is a result
of nanoporous structure, which exhibits large
electroactive area for fast redox reactions and
shortened diffusion paths for high-rate
charge/discharge. On the other hand, specific
capacitance value of the electrode prepared by
dip coating is lower than that of prepared by
EPD at all scan rates. This is a result of
non-uniform distribution of the aggregated
nickel oxides on the SS substrate.
An electrochemical capacitor having a
specific capacitance of 65 Fg-1 using nickel
oxide prepared by chemical precipitation
method has been reported by Liu et al. [23]. A
more controllable electrochemical method of
preparing nanoporous nickel oxide capacitors
was reported by Srinivasan et al. [22]; a
specific capacitance of 59 Fg-1 based on a
device fabricated from two identical nickel
oxide electrodes was obtained at a scan rate of
20 mVs-1. A higher specific capacitance (120
Fg-1) of nickel oxide has been reported:
nanoarrays with ordered mesoporous structure
were synthesized by calcining nickel nitrate at
550oC within a silica template [24]. Nickel
oxide film composed of nanowhiskers
prepared by depositing nickel hydroxide
(nickel chloride plating bath) on SS and
heating in air at 300oC for 3 h has a
capacitance of 138 Fg-1 [9]. This work does
not aim to obtain a high specific capacitance,
but to develop the nickel oxide electrode of
high uniformity for high-rate applications.
EPD method turns out to have positive effects
on the capacitive behavior of nickel oxide
electrode.
Fig. 6 shows the relationship between the
capacitance retention and cycle number during
galvanostatic charging and discharging.
Cycle-life stability is implemented by
charge/discharge cycling at a current density
of 4 Ag-1. Capacitance retention of the
electrode prepared by EPD shows high
stability over 5000 test cycles because there is
very little degradation of the specific
capacitance after cycling. The electrode has a
stable capacitance during cycling, and
therefore is very suitable for long-time
capacitor applications in KOH solution.
5. Conclusion
When adding a small amount of iodine
into IPA-water suspension, H+ ions are created
by the reaction between iodine and water and
then adsorbed on the nanoparticle forming
more positively charged particle, leading to an
increase in EPD current. Nanoplatelets with
weakly charged surface are not uniformly
distributed on the substrate by conventional
dip-coating method due to the agglomeration
of nanoplatelets. In contrast, H+ ions adsorbed
on the nickel hydroxide leading to a more
positive zeta potential can alleviate the
agglomeration of nanoplatelets due to an
enlarged repulsion force between platelets. An
electrode fabricated by EPD strategy has a
higher specific capacitance than one prepared
by dip-coating method. A relatively small
decrease in specific capacitance with
increasing scan rate reflects the high-power
characteristics of nickel oxide electrode.
Electrode fabricated by EPD also exhibits
excellent cycle-life stability. Capacitive
behavior of the electrode fabricated by EPD is
better than that fabricated by dip coating. This
may be attributed to the well-dispersed nickel
oxide electrode fabricated by EPD with iodine
and water additives.
