2Simultaneous Simulation of Closure Behavior and Shape Development
of Fatigue Surface Cracks
By
Chien-Yuan Hou
Department of Construction Management
Diwan College, Madou, Taiwan, R.O. China
Abstract
The shape development and crack closure behavior of a surface crack subjected to fatigue
loadings are two important features studied by researchers in the fatigue community. In the
current study, both features are considered in the finite element analysis, and closure behavior and
shape development of surface cracks are obtained simultaneously. In the analysis, two types of
finite element models are constructed, one developed for the closure analysis and the other for the
stress intensity factor computation of surface cracks. In the closure analysis, a new node release
scheme is developed and the crack front nodes are unnecessarily simultaneously released during a
loading cycle. Hence, the closure analysis of a surface crack with an evolving front of arbitrary
shape becomes possible. The calculated results show that the proposed two-finite element model
approach can obtain reasonable opening stress levels and crack shapes.
Keywords: surface cracks; crack closure; crack shape development; finite element analysis
Introduction
Surface cracks are usually detected in structural components and their growth behavior is
always examined. Many research works have focused on the shape evolution during their growth.
Newman and Raju [1] assumed that initial semi-elliptical surface crack front remains a
mathematical-function defined semi-ellipse during the propagation, and estimated the crack growth
increments using the Paris equation simply at the free surface and the deepest point of the crack.
Subsequently, there were many studies describing surface crack shape using the mathematical
semi-elliptical function and based on this assumption the shape development was predicted by the
mentioned two points [2-6].
Since the shape of semi-elliptical surface cracks unnecessarily remains mathematically
elliptical, Lin and Smith [7,8] used a multiple point scheme which additionally monitored the front
growth at several front points. In the scheme, shape assumption of mathematical-function defined
ellipse was no longer required and different finite element models on a cycle-by-cycle basis were
constructed when a new crack front was given. There are other works focused on the shape
evolution of surface cracks using a similar multiple point scheme with a finite element or boundary
element technique [9-11]. However, none of these works considered another important
phenomenon of crack closure in surface cracks.
In the past several years, some researchers have started to investigate the three-dimensional
crack closure problems using the finite element technique [12-16], and they reported that the
surface crack closure effects are more pronounced near the free surface region than those in the
interior region. Though they provided useful results, a disadvantage of these surface crack closure
analyses was that the crack shape was limited to the original mesh and hence the shape evolution
was not accounted for. Hou [15] calculated both the crack opening levels of
mathematical-function defined semi-circular and semi-elliptical cracks remaining the same aspect
ratio during growth and the results showed that opening levels were different for both types of
cracks. This implies that the opening stress level can be influenced by the shape variation.
Therefore, it is definitely unable to capture the closure behavior involving crack shape variation
4locations where element nodes are deployed are calculated and, except the element with an edge
coincident with the free surface, all the elements edges around the front are arranged along these
norms. When the model is analyzed, the loading-direction displacement of the crack-plane quarter
nodes is used to calculate the SIFs:
K= )4/1(
)4/1(
2
2
)1(4 


u
r
E

(3)
where E andare the Young’s modulus and Poisson’s ratio of the material, respectively; r(1/4) and
u(1/4) are the distance between the quarter node of the singular element and the corresponding crack
front node and the loading-direction displacement of the quarter node, respectively.
To verify the validity of the finite element model generated by the developed computer code,
the SIFs of semi-circular and -elliptical cracks subjected to axial loadings were calculated and were
compared to the results of the SIF equations proposed by Newman and Raju [1]. Figure 3(a)
shows the calculated results of semi-circular cracks of various depth to thickness ratios (a/2/t). It
is obvious that the computer code generated finite element models by which good SIF results can be
obtained for semi-circular cracks. Figure 3(b) demonstrates the results of semi-elliptical cracks
with an aspect ratio of 0.5. The code still generated good finite element models for SIFs except for
the case of a/2/t = 0.8, in which the results show a maximum 10% error near the surface region.
The Finite Element Scheme for Closure Analysis of Arbitrary Crack Front Shape
Figure 4 schematically shows the finite element meshes of a semi-circular crack closure model
on the crack plane. The meshes are shown by the gray lines and the hollow circles are the front
nodes at the jth loading cycle. In a conventional surface crack closure analysis, the front nodes are
always arranged to simultaneously locate on one of the circular arcs, hence, the front of the jth cycle
can also be presented by the dashed line. The front growth is simulated by simultaneously
releasing all the nodes along the jth front and the front nodes at the j+1th cycle become those solid
circles, which are still located on a circular arc. Therefore, the conventional finite element closure
scheme is not capable of capturing the closure levels of crack front deviating from the prescribed
mesh arcs.
To capture the crack front variation, the front must not be restrained by the planned mesh arcs.
A first attempt to solve this problem is probably to develop a finite element closure scheme similar
to the SIF calculations that a new closure model is generated as long as a new crack front is given.
However, this type of scheme will cause a difficulty due to the fact that the elastic-plastic analysis is
required in a closure analysis, that is, when a new closure model is generated based on the given
front, the plasticity information such as the plastic strains, and yield surfaces of the old model must
be transported to the new model. This procedure is not required in the SIF calculations since it is
simply an analysis involving elasticity. Because the front variation between each loading cycle is
small, the location of the nodes in the old and new models may have only slight changes and the
transporting procedure can be completed by extrapolation of the nodal plasticity information from
the old model. As the commercial finite element packages are becoming popular in the fatigue
community for closure analysis, the support of the transporting procedure by the packages is a
major concern whether this cycle-by-cycle closure analysis is adoptable. Unfortunately, this
procedure is not supported by today’s finite element packages. To overcome this difficulty, a
different crack closure analysis scheme using a unique finite element model from the beginning to
the end of the analysis was developed.
In this new scheme, the finite element model can be identical to the one used in the
conventional approach. The mathematically function defined circular arc C0 is the initial front: see
Fig. 5(a). As the front moves forward and if the front location is not restricted by the meshes, the
front of the jth loading cycle (Cj) used in the SIF model can be located at any location as shown by
the dashed line. Since the meshes of the closure model are not generated based on Cj, it is
unnecessary that element nodes are right located on Cj, hence, in the scheme, the front nodes used
6one of the front nodes during the j+1th loading cycle.
In a conventional approach, as shown in Fig. 4, the crack front nodes are released
simultaneously in one loading cycle. The proposed approach results in a different front node
release scheme, that is, it is not necessary for the front nodes to be released simultaneously, which
becomes the basis of the closure analysis without restraining the shape of the crack front. Figure 6
illustrates the flow chart of the proposed scheme when it is used in the finite element calculations.
The Finite Element Model for the Closure Analysis
In a conventional finite element closure analysis, there is a fine mesh region in which the crack
front may sweep during the analysis: see region A in Fig. 7(a). Because the conventional
analyses are usually performed for approximately 10 to 20 loading cycles, the element number
along the radial direction in the fine mesh region is arranged in a way that the number is larger than
but close to the planned loading cycles. For a crack shape study, crack aspect ratio at a crack
depth to specimen thickness ratio of 0.8 or even larger is also a concern, indicating that the crack
front in the closure analysis is required to sweep a large portion of the crack plane. This condition
is certainly different from the conventional closure analysis that crack front simply sweeps a small
region on the crack plane. Hence, there are some modifications for the mesh plan of the current
closure model.
Figure 7(b) schematically shows the crack-plane mesh plan of the closure model. There are
three fine mesh regions and are denoted as A, B and C in the figure. In all these three regions, 64
and 16 eight-node hexahedral elements are deployed along the radial and circumferential directions,
respectively. Because these three regions are bordered by circular arcs with radii of 5, 8.2, 14.6,
and 24.2 mm, the element sizes along the radial direction in regions A, B, and C are 0.05, 0.1, and
0.15 mm, respectively. The initial crack front is located at region A and is semi-circular with a
radius of 5.25 mm. Figure 8 shows the meshes of the closure model. The A, B and C regions are
demonstrated in different scales and each arrow pointing at the two region corner nodes indicating
that these two points are the same nodes in the meshes. In the present closure model, because the
fine mesh regions extend to a depth of 24.2 mm, the model allows the crack front to propagate to a
crack depth close to 24.2 mm, which is approximately equivalent to an a/2/t value of 0.9. The
total number of nodes of the model was approximately 15000.
Details of the Closure Analysis
The material of the analyzed specimen was assumed to have an elastic perfectly plastic
stress-strain relationship with a flow stress 0 = 360 MPa and a Poisson’s ratio = 0.3. The
Young’s Modulus was 200 GPaand the von Mises criterion was employed in the calculations.
The crack front node release decision was made at the maximum load (Smax) of each loading cycle
and the load incrementS was 3 MPa. The commercial finite element software ANSYS was used
for the calculations.
To simulate the crack closure phenomenon, the loading-direction displacements of crack face
nodes were monitored in each unloading step. When any crack face node displacement was found
to be negative indicating that the node was closed, the node displacement along the
loading-direction was fixed to zero in the following unloading steps. During the loading phase,
the loading-direction reaction forces of the fixed crack face nodes were monitored. If a face node
was still in contact, the direction of reaction force should be the same as that of the external load.
Once the direction of the reaction force became opposite to that of the external load, the fixed node
displacement was released in the following loading steps, that is, crack face at the node was opened.
In Eq. (1), Lin and Smith [8] used different amax ranging from 0.6 to 2% of the specimen
thickness to estimate the crack increments, and showed that the value ofamax caused insignificant
discrepancies on the simulated crack aspect ratio. However, in the current study, when the closure
effect is considered, the value ofamax in Eq. (4) is no longer arbitrary. This is because when the
chosen value is large, the calculated acan be large enough to cause the proposed node release
scheme in one loading cycle releases more than one node along a radial direction. The effect of
this multi-node release on the calculated opening stresses has not been studied. However, it is
8fluctuating but stable trend, and the stable trend is commonly seen in the results of the conventional
analyses.
In the figure, there are solid symbols demonstrating whether the node is released for the
corresponding loading cycle. For example, there are in total 16 solid squares in the figure
indicating that in the 30 loading cycles, the nodes along the= 0 direction were totally released 16
times. For the first loading cycle, there is a solid square denoting that the front node along = 0
was released. Corresponding to the second loading cycle there is no solid square, presenting that
the front node along = 0 was not released during the second loading cycle. For the loading
cycles without releasing front node, arrows are used in the figure to emphasize this event. For the
hollow squares demonstrating the Sopen /Smax values, the value drops are also denoted by arrows (see
the hollow squares indicated by the arrows). As the two sets of arrows are plotted, it is interesting
to see that each Sopen /Smax value drop arrow corresponds to a non-node releasing arrow. This
phenomenon can also be seen for other radial directions such as = /32 and /2 in the figure.
Hence, it is concluded that when a front node is not released, a Sopen /Smax value drop would occur.
To avoid the node release caused Sopen /Smax fluctuations, the calculated Sopen was examined
during the analysis for modification. In each loading cycle when the Sopen along each direction
was obtained, the node release information was examined. If the front node was released, the
calculated Sopen was not modified. On the contrary, when the front node was not released,
indicating that the Sopen drop would occur, the Sopen of previous loading cycle was used as the Sopen
of the current loading cycle. Figure 10(b) shows the modified Sopen for = 0 and /2 and it is
obvious that the modification significantly vanished the fluctuations and captured the trend of the
original Sopen.
The Calculated Crack Opening Stresses
Figure 11 shows the calculated entire Sopen along= 0 and/2 directions for the case of Smax =
180 MPa. Along the = 0 direction, the calculated Sopen of the conventional scheme (thin line in
the figure) shows a trend that increases and becomes stable, which is consistent with the common
concept about Sopen. However, the calculated = /2 results show a different trend which
increases and then decreases to a stable state in a short crack range, after which a sudden drop is
seen and is illustrated by an arrow. This sudden Sopen drop is also seen in the results of= 0 using
the conventional scheme. Both drops occur at a crack dimension of approximately 8.2 mm, where
the border of the fine mesh regions A and B (see Fig. 7(b)) is located. In other words, the front
was located at the region where the radial- direction element size was changed from 0.05 mm to 0.1
mm. Another element-dimension caused Sopen drop can also be seen along the = /2 results at
the crack dimension of approximately 14.6 mm, where the radial element dimension was changed
from 0.1 mm to 0.15 mm. It has been well known from the 2D finite element crack closure results
that the number of elements in the crack tip plastic zone influences the calculated Sopen [24].
Therefore, when the crack front crossed the border of two fine mesh regions, the change of element
size decreases the number of elements embedded in the plastic zone ahead of the front and caused
the Sopen drop.
Besides the results of using the conventional scheme, the calculated Sopen/Smax of Smax = 180
MPa using the proposed scheme is also shown in Fig. 11. For the results of = /2, there is no
significant difference between the results of the proposed and the conventional schemes, indicating
similar crack geometry and hence similar stress state at the deepest point of the two cracks
simulated by the two schemes. For the results of the proposed scheme when= 0, there is no Sopen
drop caused by the element size transition from A to B region and the values of Sopen are larger than
those obtained from the conventional scheme from the beginning of the analysis to a crack
dimension of approximately 17.5 mm. This Sopen/Smax discrepancy is certainly caused by different
stress states, or shape, near the free surface of the two cracks.
The Shape Development and the Stress Intensity Factors of the Simulated Surface Cracks
Figures 12(a) and (b) show the calculated crack shape development of the two loading cases.
10
The author would like to express thanks to the National Science Council, Taiwan, Republic of
China, for funding this research under a project number NSC96-2221-E-434-007. The National
Center for High-Performance Computing of Taiwan, Republic of China is also acknowledged for
providing the computational facilities.
References
1. Newman, J. C., Jr., and Raju, I. S., “An Empirical Stress-Intensity Factor Equation for the
Surface Crack”, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 15, No. 1-2, 1981, pp. 185-192.
2. Lorentzen, T., Kjaer, N. E., and Henriksen, T, K., “The Application of Fracture Mechanics to
Surface Cracks in Shafts”, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 23, No. 6, 1986, pp.
1005-1014.
3. McFadyen, N. B., Bell, R., and Vosikovsky,“Fatigue Crack Growth of Semi-Elliptical Surface
Cracks”, International Journal of Fatigue, Vol. 12, No. 1, 1990, pp. 43-50.
4. Carpinteri, A.,“Shape Change of Surface Cracks in Round Bars under Cyclic Axial Loading”,
International Journal of Fatigue, Vol. 15, No. 1, 1993, pp. 21-26.
5. Carpinteri, A. and Brighenti, R.,“Part-Through Cracks in Round Bars under Cyclic Combined
Axial and Bending Loading”, International Journal of Fatigue, Vol. 18, No. 1, 1996, pp.
33-39.
6. Shin, C. S., and Cai, C. Q., “Experimental and Finite Element Analyses on Stress Intensity
Factors of an Elliptical Surface Crack in a Circular Shaft under Tension and Bending”,
International Journal of Fracture, Vol. 129, 2004, 239-264.
7. Lin, X. B., and Smith, R. A., “Finite Element Modeling of Fatigue Crack Growth of Surface 
Cracked Plates, Part I: The Numerical Technique”, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 63,
1999, pp. 503-522.
8. Lin, X. B., and Smith, R. A., “Finite Element Modeling of Fatigue Crack Growth of Surface 
Cracked Plates, Part I: Crack Shape Change”, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 63,
1999, pp. 523-540.
9. Chipalo, M. I., Gilchrist, M. D., and Smith, R. A., “A Finite Element Technique for the
Investigation of the Shape Development of Planar Cracks with Initially Irregular Profiles”,
International Journal of Mechanical Science, Vol. 32, 1990, pp. 243-251.
10. Wessel, C., Cisilino, A., Santi, O., Otegui, J., and Chapetti, M, “Numerical and Experimental
Determination of Three-Dimensional Multiple Crack Growth in Fatigue”, Theoretical and
Applied Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 35, 2001, pp. 47-58.
11. Couroneau, N. and Royer, J., “Simplified Model for the Fatigue Growth Analysis of Surface
Cracks in Round Bars under Mode I”, International Journal of Fatigue, Vol. 20, No. 10, 1998,
pp. 711-718.
12. Chermahini, R. G., Palmberg, B., and Blom, A. F., “Fatigue Crack Growth and Closure 
Behavior of Semicircular and Semi-Eliptical Surface Flaws”, International Journal of Fatigue,
Vol. 15, No. 4, 1993, pp. 259-263.
13. Zhang, J. Z., and Bowen, P., “On the Finite Element Simulation of Three-Dimensional
Semi-Circular Fatigue Crack Growth and Closure”, Engineering Fracture Mechanics, Vol. 60,
No. 3, 1998, pp. 341-360.
14. Skinner, J. D., and Daniewicz, S. R., “Simulation of Plasticity-Induced Fatigue Crack Closure
in Part-Through Cracked Geometries Using Finite Element Analysis”, Engineering Fracture
Mechanics, Vol. 69, 2002, pp. 1-11.
15. Hou, C.-Y., “Three-Dimensional Finite Element Analysis of Fatigue Crack Closure Behavior
in Surface Flaws”, International Journal of Fatigue, Vol. 26, 2004, pp. 1225-1239, 2004.
16. Kim, J.-S., Kang, J.-Y., and Song, J.-H, “Elucidation of Fatigue Crack Closure Behavior in
Surface Crack by 3D Finite Element Analysis”, International Journal of Fatigue, Vol. 29,
2007, pp. 168-180.
17. Ferrié, E., Buffière, J.-Y., Ludwig, W., Gravouil, A., and Edwards, L., “Fatigue Crack
Propagation: In Situ Visualization Using X-Ray Microtomography and 3D Simulation Using
the Extended Finite Element Method”, Acta Materialia, Vol. 54, 2006, pp. 1111-1122.
12
C

a
a
a/2
free surface a
A
Figure 1 A schematically drawing of a typical semi-elliptical surface crack.
60 mm
25
mm
80 mm
bottom view
crack front
inclined view of the meshes
around the crack front
Figure 2 A typical finite element model with an arbitrary crack front for the SIFs.
0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
Newman and Raju [1]
Finite element model
of the present study
2

0.2
0.8
0.6
0.4
/a = 1a/2 0
/ta/2
K
S

a


0 0.25 0.5 0.75 1
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2

Newman and Raju [1]
Finite element model
of the present study
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
/a = 0.50a/2
/ta/2
K
S

a


(a) (b)
Figure 3 Comparison of the SIFs obtained from the finite element model of the present study and
the results obtained from the Newman and Raju’s equation, (a) semi-circular cracks, and (b)
semi-elliptical cracks.
14
End
Yes
1.
.
.
2
3
No
Initial crack front given
Construct the finite element
closure model
Elastic-plastic finite element
closure analysis, loading to
Determine the front nodes to be
released and perform elastic-
plastic finite element analysis
for stress redistribution
Elastic-plastic finite element
closure analysis, unloading to
Smin
Elastic-plastic finite element
closure analysis, loading to
and determine S open
Generate elastic finite
element model for SIFs
Calculate the SIFs along the
front
KeffCalculate
Calculate crack front increments
Generate new crack front
Required loading cycles reached?
No
Smax
Smax
Figure 6 The flow chart of the proposed scheme used in the calculations.
25
m
m
60 mm
A
25
m
m
5 8.2 14.6 24.2
A
B
C
64
64
64
60 mm
(a) (b)
Figure 7 The crack-plane mesh plan (a) for a conventional and, (b) for the present, finite element
closure model.
16
0
0.3
0.6
0.9
1.2
= 0
=/32
=/2
0 10 20 30
Number of loading cycle
S
/S
op
en
m
ax
0
0.5
1
0 10 20 30
Number of loading cycle
= 0
=/2
Calculated S open
Modified Sopen
S
/S
op
en
m
ax
(a) (b)
Figure 10 The (a) calculated fluctuating crack opening loads, and (b) modified crack opening loads.
5 10 15 20 25
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
Crack dimension along the
radial direction, (mm)
=/2
=
proposed node release
scheme
max
conventional node release
scheme
a
S
/S
op
en
m
ax
S = 180 MPa
Figure 11 The calculated Sopen/Smax, using the proposed and conventional schemes.
(a) (b)
Figure 12 The crack shape variation during propagation, (a) Smax = 180 MPa, and (b) Smax = 240
MPa.
