可供推廣之研發成果資料表
▓ 可申請專利 □ 可技術移轉 日期： 年 月 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：微波對生物系統中生物效應(非熱效應)的探討
計畫主持人：傅以中
計畫編號：NSC 94－2214－E－005－005-
學門領域：工程處 食品科技學門
技術/創作名稱 Microwave kinetics vessel 微波動力學控溫系統
發明人/創作人 傅以中
中文：
利用微波快速升溫特性，配含攪拌使整個系統能快速升溫、恆溫，
達動力學研究要求
技術說明 英文：
We design an apparatus, referred to as a steady-state microwave
kinetics reactor, incorporating a low pressure (10 bar) stirred vessel
with mechanical mixing together with a microwave temperature and
power controller. This reactor is a combination of a glass reaction
vessel with a metal head, internal stirrer, dip tube, thermowell, cooling
loop, and external valves and fittings. The kinetic vessels can run the
temperatures to 100°C and determine its operating capabilities and
limitations.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
基礎動力學研究
技術特點
推廣及運用的價值
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
附件二
十一、研究計畫英文摘要：
Bioeffects of Microwave Radiation on Biological System
Bioeffects of microwave radiation address the thermal and nonthermal effects of
microwave radiation on biological systems. The controversy over the existence of nonthermal
microwave effects has not been settled. Four main experimental difficulties need to be
resolved, any or all of which may be blamed for the longevity of the controversy. These
involve (1) the lack of a precise and convenient technology that allowed for on-line temperature
measurement in a microwave field, (2) problems to achieve homogeneous heating due to uneven
microwave field distributions and the nature of physical and electrical properties of the sample,
(3) inability to isothermally control temperatures of microwave heated samples, and (4) the lack
of fair comparison of equivalent thermal histories between microwave radiation and
conventional heating. The purpose of this two years’project is to introduce a new methodology
to settle the thermal and nonthermal effect controversy on biological system. This new
methodology addresses the traditional difficulties mentioned and fulfills technological
requirements to achieve the equivalent time-temperatures treatments.
The purpose of the first year project is three-fold. The first purpose is to design an
apparatus, referred to as a steady-state microwave kinetics reactor, incorporating a high pressure
(10 bar) vessel with mechanical mixing together with a microwave temperature and power
controller. A microwave oven with variable continuous power and a feedback temperature
controller are also developed. Both temperature and microwave power are computer
programmable. The second purpose is to assess the performance of the kinetics reactor at
temperatures sufficiently greater than 100°C. The third purpose is to illustrate the use of this
microwave kinetics reactor by comparing degradation rates of vitamin B1 for reactions
performed under microwave radiation and conventional heating at 100, 110, 120, and 130°C,
with equivalent thermal histories (time-temperature treatments). In addition, experiment is also
performed to determine whether exposure of the vitamin B1 solution to relatively high power
(400-600 W) of microwave radiation, at low temperatures (25-35°C), induced degradation
which would not normally be expected in the absence of microwave exposure.
The second year project is to introduce the new methodology developed from the first year
for studying the growth kinetics of E. coli. and B. stereothermophilus with conventional and
microwave heating and then to analyze the growth data to determine if there are any nonthermal
effects from microwaves on the growth kinetics of the microorganisms. The microwave
kinetics reactor is used to provide isothermal temperature conditions at 90, 100 and 110, and
120°C. In addition, the effects of relatively high power microwave radiation on the
microorganisms while the suspension is maintained at sublethal temperatures.
Using the accurate temperature controller with controlled microwave energy and
especially well-designed apparatuses, the thermal and nonthermal effects on biological
systems can be fairly compared. The results show that there are no nonthermal effects
from microwaves on the growth kinetics of the microorganisms and degradation of vitamin
B1.
Key words: microwave heating, bioeffects, nonthermal effect, thermal effect, degradation
homogeneous over the entire field of application, depending on the strength of reflection
of the waves at the walls of the equipment, (2) product composition, structure, shape, and
size alters the microwave E-fields distribution within the product, (3) microwave heating is
strongly dependent on the depth of penetration of the microwave, depending on localized
microwave power absorption and on local moisture content, and (4) foods are usually
nonhomogeneous contributing further to heating non-uniformity (Fu, 2004). Obviously
there are a variety of important factors in optimizing the appeal of a food product prepared
in a microwave oven.
Microwaves are part of the electromagnetic spectrum and are considered to be that
radiation ranging in frequency from 300 MHz) to 300 GHz, which correspond to a
wavelength range of 1m down to 1mm. This nonionising electromagnetic radiation is
absorbed at molecular level and manifests as changes in vibrational energy of the
molecules or heat (Laura and Ashton 1991). The physical laws of dielectric heating by
microwaves and the effects of heat on biological systems are well known (Metaxas and
Meredith 1988). A question remains, however, as to whether microwave radiation, as an
electromagnetic entity, is capable of influencing the chemistry of molecules in the
proximity of wave, independent of those effects attributable to heat.
Several theories which predict the possibility of nonthermal microwave effects have
been proposed (Cope 1976; Frölich 1975; Pickard and Rosenbaum 1978). The
nonthermal effects of microwaves on tissue responses are being documented (Dumanskij
and Shandala 1974; Czerski 1975; Otto 1978; D'Andrea et al. 1979; Adey 1981; D'Andrea
et al. 1986a; D'Andrea et al. 1986b). However, other theories based on quantum physics
suggest that it is impossible for microwave energy to induce chemical changes, such as
bond breakage and ionizations (Kalant 1959). Kalant (1959) explained that the energy of
one quantum of microwaves is too low to produce ionization, no matter how many quanta
are absorbed. Several review papers provide relevant information on the history of the
controversy about the effects of nonthermal microwaves on biological, microbiological,
and chemical systems (Kalant 1959; Goldblith 1967; Fung and Cunningham 1980; Chipley
1980; Cross and Fung 1982; Diprose et al. 1984; Rosenberg and BÖgl 1987).
Identifying and evaluating the biological effects of microwaves have been complex and
controversial. One of the modern approaches to sterilization in the food industry is the
use of microwave irradiation. Microbiological studies involving microwave irradiation
have resulted in the following two conflicting conclusions: cell death was solely the result
of heat produced by microwave irradiation; death was due to not only heat but also
microwave electric field. Reports denying the existence of nonthermal effects on
inactivation of microorganisms were published by Goldblith and Wang (1967), Ockerman
et al. (1976), Coote et al. (1991), Diaz-Cinco and Martinelli (1991), Fujikawa et al. (1991),
and Welt et al. (1994). The absence of nonthermal effects on metabolic activity of
microorganisms was reported by Lechowich et al. (1969) and Hamrick and Butler (1973).
On the other hand, claims of nonthermal effects on inactivation of microorganisms were
presented by Dessel et al. (1960), Grecz et al. (1964), Culkin and Fung (1975), and
Wayland et al.(1977). The existence of nonthermal effects on metabolic activity of
microorganisms was reported by Dreyfuss and Chipley (1980) and Khalil and Villota
that D form amino acids could be neurotoxic in humans. These claims were subsequently
refuted by Fay et al. (1991). In a less publicized study, it was claimed that a substantial
rate increase in the hydrolysis rate of adenosine-5’-triphoshohate (ATP), using microwave
instead of conventional heating, at comparable temperatures was achieved (Sun et al.,
1988). Jahngen et al. (1990) attempted to duplicate these findings, but found that when
temperatures in microwave heated samples were carefully monitored, no significant
difference in hydrolysis rates occurred. Such examples illustrate the need for technologies
that allow for improved experimental design and control in related microwave research.
Vitamin B1 is one of the most heat labile vitamins, and has often been used as an
indicator of the sterilization efficacy of thermal treatments on food (Mulley et al., 1975),
thus, additional studies on the effect of microwave energy on the vitamin are warranted.
The chemistry and kinetic of thiamin degradation under various conditions is well known
(Dwivedi and Arnold, 1973; Arabshahi and Lund, 1988; Welt et al., 1993).
Dreyfuss, M.S.; Chipley, J.R. 1980. Comparison of effects of sublethal microwave radiation
and conventional heating on the metabolic activity of staphylococcus aureus. Appl.
Envirin. Microbiol. 39:13-16.
Dumanskij, J.D.; Shandala, M.G. 1974. The biologic action and hygienic significance of
electromagnetic fields of superhigh and ultrahigh frequencies in densely populated areas.
In P. Czerski, K. Ostrowski, M.L. Shore, C. Silverman, M.J. Suess, and B. Waldeskog
(eds.), Biologi Effects and Health Hazard of Microwave Radiation. Warsaw, Poland:
Polish Medical Publishers. pp. 289-293
Dwivedi, B.K.; Arnold, R.G. 1973. Chemistry of thiamine degradation in food products and
model systems: A review. J. Agr. Food Chem. 21(1):54-60.
Fay, L.; Richli, U.; Liardon, R. 1991. Evidence for the absence of amino avid isomerization in
microwave-heated milk and infant formulas. J. Agric. Food Chem. 39:1857-1859.
Fu, Y.C., Tong, C.H. & Lund, D.B. (2003a). Flavor migration out of food matrices: I. system
development for on-line measurement of flavor concentration. Journal of Food Science,
68(3), 775-783.
Fu, Y.C., Tong, C.H. & Lund D.B. (2003b). Flavor migration out of food matrices: II.
quantifying flavor migration from dough undergoing isothermal heating. Journal of Food
Science, 68(3), 923-930.
Fu, Y.C, Tong, C.H. & Lund, D.B. (2003c). Flavor Migration Out of Food Matrices: III.
Migration of limonene and pyrazine in formulated dough undergoing microwave
reheating. Journal of Food Science, 68(3), 931-936.
Fu, Y.C., Tong, C.H. & Lund, D.B. (2003d). Moisture migration in solid food matrices.
Journal of Food Science, 68(8), 2497-2503.
Fu, Y.C. (2004). Fundamentals and industrial applications of microwave and radio frequency
in food processing. Chapter 4 In Food processing: principles and applications. (edited by
J. S. Smith, Y.H. Hui) (pp. 79-100) Oxford: Blackwell Publishers.
Fu, Y.C., Dai, Li & Yang, B.B. (2005). Microwave finish drying of (tapioca) starch pearls.
International Journal of Food Science & Technology. Accepted.
Fujikawa, F.; Ushioda, H.; Kudo, Y. 1991. Kinetics of Escherichia coli destruction by
microwave irradiation. Appl. Environ. Microbiol. 58:920-924
Fung, D.Y.C.; Cunningham, F.E. 1980. Effect of microwaves on microorganisms in foods. J.
Food Prot. 43(8):641-650.
Fröhlich, H. 1975. The extraordinary dielectric properties of biological materials and the
action of enzymes. Proceedings of the Natural Academic Sciences of the USA, 72:4211-5
Goldblith, S.A.; Wang, D.I.C. 1967. Effect of microwaves on Escherichia coli and Bacillus
subtilis. Appl. Microbiol. 15:1371-1375.
control in the food industry. Food Technol. 41(6):92-99.
Tong, C.H. & Lund, D.B. (1993). Microwave heating of baked dough products with
simultaneous heat and mass transfer. Journal of Food Engineering, 19(4), 319-339.
Wayland, J.R.; Brannen, J.P.; Morris, M.E. 1997. On the interdependence of thermal and
electromagnetic effects in the response of Bacillus subtilis spores to microwave exposure.
Radiat. Res. 71:251-258.
Wei, C.K., Davis, H.T., Davis, E.A. & Gordon, J. (1985). Heat and mass transfer in
water-laden sandstone: Microwave heating. American Institute of Chemical Engineers
Journal, 31(5), 842-848.
Welt, B.A.; Tong, C.H.; Rossen, J.L.; Lund, D.B. 1994. Effect of microwave radiation on
inactivation of Clostridium sporogenes (PA 3679) spores. Applied and Environmental
Microbiology 60(2):482-488.
Results And Discussion:
The schematic diagram of a microwave temperature controller with computer
programmable microwave power is shown in Figure 1. The system combines the
microwave oven with variable continuous power, a temperature sensing unit with a fiber optic
probe, a feedback temperature controller, and a computer. A computer program will be
developed for data acquisition and control. The computer acquires temperature from the
temperature sensing unit through an RS-232 port. The on/off switching of the magnetron
depends on the isothermal temperature setting. The variable microwave power is able to
alter during the whole controlling process and the desired power can be written in the
program before the process stated.
circulator
directional coupler
three stub
tuner
microwave
generator
Input power
Output power
power source
coupling section
excitation
dc
generator
water
load
microwave
multimode system
temperature sensing unit
RS-232
LUXTRON
SAMPLE
fiberoptic temperature probeprogrammable
variable
microwave
power
On/Off
Controller
Figure 1. The schematic diagram of a microwave temperature controller with computer
programmable microwave power
1. Fiber-optic temperature sensing unit
Conventional wire thermocouple probes can give inaccurate readings in a sample under
the electromagnetic field. A Luxtron thermometry system (790 series, LUXTRON
Corporation, Santa Clara, CA, USA) is used to measure the sample temperature. The optical
fiber temperature probe was centered in the sample (solid, semisolid media or liquid).
2. Microwave oven with variable continuous power
A commercial microwave oven (National Model NE-1756) rated 850 W and 1700 W was
used for the modifications. Based on the modification described by Tong et al. (1993), a
typical microwave oven power supply circuit and the modified microwave oven power supply
circuit for delivering continuous variable power to a microwave cavity are shown in Figure 2.
Instead of adjusting variable transformer by hand, the transformer setting was computerized
and divided into 100 divisions. The microwave oven can be changed at any time during
heating by adjusting the transformer using a pre-setting value written by a computer program.
Figure 3. Electronic circuits for the on/off switches
This on and off control continues until it reaches the desired radiation (heating) time.
There are several things we need to pay more attention to. During the on and off control
stage, overheating often occurs, especially for higher microwave power or smaller samples.
This is because the data acquisition and control rate cannot keep up with the rate of heating.
Higher microwave power certainly results in fast heating and also minimizes come-up time.
But, when it comes to the controlling scheme, higher power causes the temperature rise too
fast to maintain the desired upper limit temperature. And, in other way, in the whole
isothermal process, it reduces the chances for the heating material being radiated by
microwave. It may result in most of heating time being under the heat conduction and
convection rather than in real microwave heating. I am here concerned with the true
microwave heating time. The problem which we have to consider next is what should be
done to develop a heating period under a prolonged microwave radiation.
4. Computer programmable microwave power
In practice, in order to have reasonable temperature control stability and solve the
overheating due to the high power, many researchers introduced an additional water load
(50-300 mL) into the microwave oven. The water loads absorb microwave energy and
reduce the microwave power and, therefore, reduce the sample heating rate. But, for a
prolonged heating, the ability of power absorption by the water load is reduced. The
other problem is that because most of time during heating is under the isothermal condition
which causes the lack of true microwave radiation scheme. To solve this problem, this
system designs a computer programmable microwave power system rather than previous
system (Tong, 1993) which lowered the power by switching the transformer operated by a
person. This method can pre-set much variable desired power in the computer program.
position the stem is retracted completely to open a clear passage from the vessel.
For conventional heating, this reactor can be heated either with a removable mantle or
with an attached circulating jacket. The equipped circulating jacketed vessel is especially
useful for maintaining the whole system under isothermal condition. A further modification
is made for microwave heating purpose. Because of only plastic material being transparent
to microwave energy, there is no reason to design a plastic system including all features
inside the microwave oven. In this project, the whole system has been separated into two
parts, mixing and heating. The benefits of leaving the stirred vessel outside the microwave
oven are better mixing, sampling, heating, and cooling. Two holes (1/4 inch) are punched at
upper and lower part of this glass vessel to provide the connection between the vessel and the
Teflon tubes inside the microwave oven. The internal volume of Teflon tubes inside the
microwave oven is approximate 500 mL which is helix-shaped to allow more homogeneous
microwave radiation. Another two small holes equipped with o-rings at the vessel and the
tube in order to accommodate two fiberoptic temperature probes for temperature
measurement. This measurement represents the temperature difference of this system. The
medium’s temperature inside the circulating jacket is -4 to -20°C which lower the temperature
of the heated material and also creates the temperature difference allowing the material to be
heated again by microwave.
6. The thermal degradation rates of vitamin B1
The purpose is to use the microwave kinetics reactor developed in the first year by
comparing degradation rates of vitamin B1 for reactions performed under microwave
radiation and conventional heating at 100, 110, 120, and 130°C, with equivalent thermal
histories (time-temperature treatments). Vitamin B1 solutions were prepared separately
for each experiment. The solutions were prepared at a concentration of 0.1 grams of
thiamin hydrochloride per liter of 0.15 M phosphate buffer at pH 6.7. The solutions were
refrigerated and protected from light before use.
If the vessel is designed inside the microwave oven, in order to take the sample at
predetermined time intervals, the magnetron needs to be deactivated by opening the
microwave oven door (Welt and Tong, 1993). This inconvenience has been modified in
this project. In this design, all samples can be taken outside the microwave oven without
deactivating the magnetron, so as not to stop the whole heating process. During come-up
time the program pre-set 100% power to deliver maximum microwave power (900 W).
When the desired temperature is attained, the power is programmed and set to its 20-35%
of maximum to improve temperature control stability. For fairly comparing the Vitamin
B1 degradation between these two methods, the whole process should be under the
equivalent heating time of conventional and microwave heating. Otherwise even the
microwave could maintain the whole system in isothermal condition, the percentage of
heating time for microwave radiation could be very low (less than 10%). For solving the
problem, in this project, a circulating medium is used to lower the temperature about 0.5 to
1°C to create the temperature difference allowing the material to be heated again by
microwave (in Figure 5). Conventional heating experiments are performed in the stirred
vessel heated with a mantle in the come-up time. After the temperature has brought to
microwave exposure. The duration of all experiments is about 5-7 h. Samples are taken
twice per hr. Three replicates independent runs are performed at each temperature of 25,
30, and 35°C.
The Vitamin B1 assay is performed in accordance with the HPLC procedure described
by Arabshahi and Lund (1988). The conditions of HPLC are: Pump：SSI/Lab Alliance®
( SeriesⅢ, USA)；HPLC column：Zorbax ODS ( 250 mm×4.6 mm )；UV/Vis Detector
S-3740 set at 254 nm；flow rate at 0.2 mL/min；injection volume at 20μL.
Using the accurate temperature controller with controlled microwave energy and
especially well-designed apparatuses, the thermal and nonthermal effects on biological
systems can be fairly compared. The activation energy of the degradation of vitamin
B1.based on conventional and microwave assisted heating is shown on Table 1. There is
no difference of activation energy between conventional and microwave heating, which
shows that there is no nonthermal effects from microwaves on the degradation of vitamin
B1.
7. The degradation of the growth kinetics of E. coli. and B. stereothermophilus
The objective of the second year project is to introduce the new methodology
developed from the first year for studying the growth kinetics of E. coli. and B.
stereothermophilus with conventional and microwave heating and then to analyze the
growth data to determine if there are any nonthermal effects from microwaves on the
growth kinetics of the microorganisms.
E. coli. and B. stereothermophilus are purchased. The stock suspension is prepared
by diluting each mL of 2x107 CFU/mL into 9 mL of autoclave-sterilized, 0.15 M
potassium phosphate buffer solution at pH 6.5. For more experiment, the test suspension
was prepared by diluting 1 mL of stock suspension into 99 mL of autoclave-sterilized, 0.15
M potassium phosphate buffer solution at pH 6.5. The initial concentration for all
experiments is approximately 2 x 104 CFU/mL. Subsequent verifications are obtained in
the natural course of the study, at zero-time samples are enumerated in all experiments.
The purpose is to use the microwave kinetics reactor developed in the first year by
comparing degradation rates of growth kinetics of E. coli. and B. stereothermophilus
performed under microwave radiation and conventional heating at 90, 100, 110, and 120°C,
with equivalent thermal histories (time-temperature treatments).
Before each experiment, the fiberoptic temperature probes are cleaned with 85%
alcohol. The high and low set-point temperature limits of 0.1°C above and below the
desired temperature. During come-up time the program pre-set 100% power to deliver
maximum microwave power (900 W). When the desired temperature is attained, the
power is programmed and set to its 20-35% of maximum to improve temperature control
stability. For fairly comparing the degradation of the microorganisms between these two
methods, the whole process should be under the equivalent heating time of conventional
and microwave heating. Otherwise even the microwave could maintain the whole system
in isothermal condition, the percentage of heating time for microwave radiation could be
very low (less than 10%). For solving the problem, in this project, a circulating medium
is used to lower the temperature about 0.5 to 1°C to create the temperature difference
The conclusion :
1. We have design a microwave oven with variable continuous power and a
feedback temperature controller and to test its performance. Both temperature
and microwave power are computer programmable.
2. We also design an apparatus, referred to as a steady-state microwave kinetics
reactor, incorporating a low pressure (10 bar) stirred vessel with mechanical
mixing together with a microwave temperature and power controller.
3. The kinetic vessels can run the temperatures to 100°C and determine its
operating capabilities and limitations.
4. Using the accurate temperature controller with controlled microwave energy and
especially well-designed apparatuses, the thermal and nonthermal effects on
biological systems can be fairly compared. The results show that there are no
nonthermal effects from microwaves on the growth kinetics of the
microorganisms and degradation of vitamin B1.
