optimal design procedure can be developed for future 
reference while designing a specific solar 
application.  Therefore, the proposed three years 
integration research project intends to solve the 
following problem: 
 
1. First year: Develop a star-like solar energy 
harvesting control technology 
 
For high power solar energy throughput application, 
the efficiency of PV panels is affected by shading, 
module mismatching, degrading, etc. A star-like 
methodology is proposed to control the power output 
of each PV panels based on its operation condition 
using high efficient FPGA control hardware.  To 
achieve the goal of this work, a buck/booster 
converter is to be designed to work with the newly 
invented MPPT algorithm. 
 
2. Second year: Discuss the influence of ship motion 
to the solar energy conversion efficiency 
 
Similar to the shading effect in urban area, motion 
of ship will affect the instant insolation over the 
solar panels and the efficiency for energy transfer 
rate is low if a non-appropriate MPPT algorithm is 
used.  A fine tune procedure is to be amended for the 
quadratic maximization MPPT method in order to solve 
the stated problem.  PID feedback control loop will 
be implemented to stabilize the voltage output in 
such a way that it can help improving the performance 
of the developed QM MPPT algorithm. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Quadratic maximization, MPPT, Standalone PV system, 
Converter, Inverter, Star-like energy harvesting 
control 
 
2 Centralized and Distributed PV system 
A centralized PV application design is shown in Fig 2. Basically, the PV panels are in cluster format, where they are 
wired in series and parallel to achieve required voltage and power output.  By its name, system uses only one MPPT 
controller and a DC/DC converter or DC/AC inverter to manage the power from the PV panels.  Consequently, any 
panel degrading or malfunction will affect the system’s total efficiency drastically.  Partial shading of single PV panel 
will also cause panels mismatch, as a result, leading to reduction of the total power harvested by the system [1-3]. 
 
 
 
Fig 2: The centralized PV system design in grid-connected or stand-alone application 
 
Distributed PV system resolves the problems encountered by the centralized system using module-integrated 
converter (MIC) on each PV panel [4-8].  The problem remain is how to economically design the DC/DC converter 
and use of controller since there is a maximum power point tracker on each of the PV panel installed, see Fig 3. 
 
 
 
Fig 3: The distributed PV system arrangement 
 
The fundamental difference between these two systems can be depicted in Fig 4:  The current flows through the PV 
panel will be affected by the performance of each soar panel in the centralized system.  Any damage or blackout of a 
single panel will result in the loss of power of the entire PV string.  Due to the MIC on each of the solar panel, the 
distributed PV system will be able to adjust the current output of the panel to match the system output [9,10].  Even in 
the extreme case, it can bypass a damage panel and keep others still working [11]. 
 
 
 
Fig 4: (a) Current flows through the PV string will be affected by any panel; (b) Distributed PV system uses MIC to 
regulate the power output of each PV panel 
   (a)  (b) 
I
PV Panel
＝ ＝
Converter
PV Panel
＝ ＝
Converter
PV Panel
＝ ＝
Converter
+ -
MPPT MPPT MPPT
PV Panel
PV Panel
PV Panel
PV String
PV Panel
PV Panel
PV Panel
PV Panel
PV Panel
PV Panel
PV Array
＝ ＝
＝ ~ 
Battery
Grid
DC Load
AC Load
Stand-Alone Photovoltaic System
Grid-Connected Photovoltaic System
or
+
‐
+
‐
+
‐
Converter
Inverter
MPPT
Controller
MPPT
Controller
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Fig 7: (a)The distributed and the centralized PV systems, (b) the FPGA controller system, (c) The PV test site at 
NCKU, Taiwan 
4 Experiment results  
Under normal circumstances, where no partial shading had occurred, this study conducted the power generation 
experiment for approximately 10h between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on August 25, 2011. The results of the experiment 
are presented in Fig. 8. According to our calculations, the DPV and CPV generated 1684 Wh and 1611 Wh of 
electricity, respectively, that is 4.5% more power produced by the distributed system compared to the centralized 
system.  
For partial shading, the first photovoltaic panel in the DPV and CPV systems was partially covered by a 50 x 60 cm 
sun visor. The experiment was conducted on September 6, 2011. The results of the experiment are shown in Fig. 9. 
The DPV system generated 1345 Wh of electricity, whereas the CPV system only generated 1067 Wh, a 26% 
difference in power generation. 
 
 
Fig 8: Panel mismatch test showing 4.5% power difference of the two system ( CPV 1.61 kWh vs. DPV 
1.68kWh, tested on Aug 25, 2011) 
Power Electron., vol. 19, no. 4, pp. 1130-1139, 2004. 
[8] G. Walker and J. Pierce, "Photovoltaic dc-dc module integrated converter for novel cascaded and bypass grid 
connection topologies 8212; design and optimisation," in Power Electronics Specialists Conference, 2006. 
PESC '06. 37th IEEE, pp. 1-7, June 2006. 
[9] N. Femia, G. Lisi, G. Petrone, G. Spagnuolo and M. Vitelli, "Analysis of Photovoltaic Systems with Distributed 
Maximum Power Point Tracking," IEEE International Symposium on Industrial Electronics ISIE08, pp. 2408 - 
2413, June 30-July 2 2008.  
[10] N. Femia, G. Lisi, G. Petrone, G. Spagnuolo, and M. Vitelli, "Distributed maximum power point tracking of 
photovoltaic arrays: Novel approach and system analysis," IEEE Trans. Ind. Electron., vol. 55, no. 7, pp. 2610-
2621, July 2008. 
[11] E. Roman, R. Alonso, P. Ibanez, S. Elorduizapatarietxe, and D. Goitia, "Intelligent pv module for grid-
connected pv systems," Industrial Electronics, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 53, no. 4, pp. 1066-1073, June 2006. 
[12] V. Salas, E.O., A. Barrado, A. Lazaro, Review of the Maximum Power Point Tracking Algorithms for Stand-
alone Photovoltaic Systems, Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells, p.p 1555-1578, 2006. 
[13] T. Esram and P. L. Chapman , "Comparison of photovoltaic array maximum power point tracking techniques",  
IEEE Trans. Energy Convers., vol. 22,  no. 2, pp.439 -449., 2007 
[14] D. Hohm and M. Ropp "Comparative study of maximum power point tracking algorithms using an experimental, 
programmable, maximum power point tracking test", Proc. 28th IEEE Conf. Rec. Photovoltaic Spec., pp.1699, 
2005. 
[15] Nicola Femia, Giovanni Petrone, Giovanni Spagnuolo, and Massimo Vitelli, "Optimization of Perturb and 
Observe Maximum Power Point Tracking Method, " IEEE Trans. on Power Electronics, Vol. 20, NO. 4, p.p. 
963-973, 2005. 
[16] R.M. Chao, I.H. Lin, F.S. Pai, S.H. Ko, and C.C. Chang, "Evaluation a Photovoltaic Energy Mechatronics 
System with Built in Quadratic Maximum Power Point Tracking Algorithm, " Solar Energy, 83, pp. 2177-2185, 
2009. 
[17] F.S. Pai, R.M. Chao, "A New Algorithm to Photovoltaic Power Point Tracking Problems with Quadratic 
Maximization, " IEEE Transactions on Energy Conversion, DOI 10. 1109/TEC. 2032575, Vol. 25, No. 1, pp. 
262-264, Mar. 2010. 
A Path Following Autonomous Auxiliary Solar-
Powered Boat Using Fuzzy Control  
R.M. Chao, S.H. Ko, J.H. Yeh, Y.T. Jeng and P.L. Chen 
Department of Systems and Naval Mechatronics Engineering 
National Cheng Kung University 
Tainan, Taiwan 701, ROC 
Abstract 
An auxiliary solar-powered research boat is enhanced in this work.  We 
implemented the quadratic maximization maximum power point tracking (MPPT) 
technique to increase the efficiency of solar panels on the moving vehicle. With 
Holux M87 GPS module, HM55B compass module, and other I/O, information 
of the solar panels and geological data of the boat are all recorded by the 
compact real-time I/O modules (cRIO) from National Instruments.  A path 
following autonomous control algorithm is also developed using fuzzy logic VI 
within the LabVIEW software.  By giving GPS information at certain control 
points, the vessel can follow its projected path autonomously.  Evaluation of the 
vessel will be reported and possible application will also be discussed. 
Keywords:   Fuzzy control, cRIO, LabVIEW, GPS, Compass, Solar energy, 
Autonomous, Path following 
1 Introduction 
Taiwan is not only surrounded by ocean, but also covered with creeks, rivers and 
several lakes. As a result, each year after the typhoon season, there are situations 
requesting for underwater geological information for debris or mud accumulation 
under the rivers or reservoirs. This leads to the development of a remote 
operation boat with auxiliary solar-power and low cost underwater sonar system 
[1].  We had successfully integrated the low cost ultrasonic sonar and maximum-
power-point tracking (MPPT) solar-energy system into a model ship. While 
controlling the vessel for underwater geographical survey, there are some 
disadvantages at its current instrumentation leading to navigation route deviation, 
 
 
Fig 1: Control architecture for the autonomous vessel using cRIO embedded 
system 
 
 
 
Fig 2: Hardware arrange on the FRP autonomous ship 
3 Maximum power point tracker for solar energy 
To harvest the maximum electricity from the solar cell, a DC/DC converter uses 
the MPPT (Maximum Power Point Tracking) controller to increase the 
efficiency of the PV system by controlling the duty cycle of the internal switch 
in order to match the impedance of the PV array with that of the DC converter 
 
 
Fig 4. Dynamic response of the ship in 6 seconds 
 
 
Fig.5 Power received by the solar panels during the 6-second operation 
 
 
Fig 6 Total power received in 10 minutes of autonomous operation 
5 Experiment results and discussion 
The ship’s azimuth angle was calculated using the coordinates of the ship and the 
target point.  One variable autonomous control is achieved by pre-setting the 
cruse speed.  Distance greater than 10m from the target point, the ship is running 
at constant motor output (average speed 1.9 knots), less than 10m running at 
reduced speed, and within 3m tracing next control target.  A sample autonomous 
path following test is shown by Fig 9.  Target points from A to G are set in 
advances.  This route arrange is about 75m by 70m water surface in Ann-Ping 
Harbor near Tainan City.  According to the autonomous path following test 
result, the path repeatability is high which implies control on the rudder is 
satisfactory without worrying the effect of the current.  If speed control is also 
desired, a more accurate GPS or a speed sensor shall be installed.  Fuzzy control 
of the extra variable posts no difficulty within the VI environment. 
 
 
a 
 
B 
Fig 9, Autonomous path following experiment: A: actual cruise at blue vs 
designated route at red; B: bird-eye view over An-Ping Harbor Tainan 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                日期：101 年 8月 14日 
 
    
  
計畫編號 NSC100－2221－E－006－019－ 
計畫名稱 使用二項次極值最大功率追蹤法之獨立式高功率太陽能船發電系統
之研發(II) 
出國人員
姓名 
趙儒民 
服務機構
及職稱 
成功大學系統系教授 
會議時間 
101年 8月 6日至 
101年 8月 9日 
會議地點 Virginia Beach, VA, USA 
會議名稱 
(中文)第四屆國際系統與機電研討會，2012 
(英文) The 4th International Forum on Systems and Mechatronics 
(IFSM) 2012 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)應用模糊理論實現自主式軌跡追蹤之太陽能輔助動力船 
(英文) A Path Following Autonomous Auxiliary Solar-Powered Boat Using Fuzzy Control 
項目之一，也拓展工程界所謂的電腦模擬的眼界，其尺度大小懸殊可以系統中的系
統工程(System of system Engineering, SoS)來體會。 
除了各組的分組討論，與國科會海工學門較有關係的是無人海上載具發展時，演講中
提到人才的特質需要多重領域之系統工程訓練，即機械工程與電機之整合教育，對方
接受海軍委託，具備發展許多無人自主船艦的實務經驗，也推崇本系的課程規劃具有
前瞻性。相較 ODU電機系的機電系統課程，以微控制器、嵌入式系統設計、自主式機
器人等課程連結，教導學生系統工程，這些規劃也值得參考！ 
ODU 最大的特色是與美國海軍關係密切，軍事領導人才更需系統的思考與訓練，前述
兩位講員具備陸軍及海軍服役經驗，在軟性及硬性觀點交錯下，是有不同於一般工程
教育的談吐。 
Virginia Beach市除了海灘外，也常見過往船隻與軍艦，8/7中午巧見林肯號航空母
艦急駛入港，這對造船系前身的我們，轉型成系統與船舶機電，真是一種心靈上的衝
擊、鼓舞與努力方向：試想一個海洋載具，隨時有五千人常駐，系統如何運作，不是
系統工程應該探討的領域嗎？ 
 
圖一：最佳的系統、船舶與機電工程範例：林肯號航空母艦駛入 Chesapeake Bay, VA 
 
三、建議 
來去匆匆，利用短暫時間看看 ODU校園，由於本能也做綠能載具的研究與規劃，看見
圖書館的擺置與校園電動車使用，可提供學校參考。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/07/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 使用二項 次極值最大功率追蹤法之獨立式高功率太陽能船發電系統之研發
(II,III)
計畫主持人: 趙儒民
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-006-019- 學門領域: 造船工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
相關技術協助成功大學低碳校園規劃及實施方案之進行，爭取台達電產學研究
計畫。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
