可供推廣之研發成果資料表
■ 可申請專利 □ 可技術移轉 日期：97年 10 月 30 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：哮喘肺音辨識晶片之設計與實作
計畫主持人：張國清
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-214-067 學門領域：微電子學門
技術/創作名稱 Dual sensor wheeze recognition chip design
發明人/創作人 張國清
中文：
哮喘肺音辨識晶片用於實際環境會受到雜訊干擾，本研究提出雙感
測器肺音辨識晶片可抗雜訊干擾。
技術說明
In order to compensate the degrading effect of noise on the lung
sound recognition, a dual sensor spectral subtraction algorithm is
applied before the extraction of lung sound features. It is observed
that the proposed algorithm is capable of providing adequate
performance in terms of noise suppression and lung sound signal
enhancement.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
醫療產業
技術特點
可用於實際環境
推廣及運用的價值
可用於實際環境
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
一、背景及目的
氣喘(asthma)是一種支氣管慢性發炎反應，主要為氣管、支氣管受到刺激，而產生的支
氣管痙攣與收縮、黏膜水腫及分泌大量的黏液、造成呼吸道阻塞，可能的症狀有咳嗽、胸
悶、呼吸急促和哮喘[1][2]。根據行政院環保署1995-1996 年的調查顯示，台灣地區兒童發
生氣喘的盛行率在11-13﹪間，比起同年世界衛生組織的7.7﹪高出許多，是台灣兒童最常見
的慢性疾病。由於氣喘發作時間常在清晨或夜裏，常影響到小朋友的生活，亦造成父母心
理上的壓力。因此若能發展一套低價位且可攜式的氣喘監視系統，則可協助父母長時間、
連續式及非侵入性地監測家中幼童氣喘是否將要發作，若監測到氣喘已發作則產生警訊告
知父母，採取適當之治療措施，如此能避免熟睡或喪失自主意識之病患的病情繼續惡化。
根據實驗統計顯示，約有90%的氣喘病患會於發作時有哮喘(wheeze)的異常肺音產生
[3]，因此可藉由偵測肺音訊號是否有哮喘肺音的特徵以判斷是否氣喘發作。哮喘肺音是一
種連續且偶發的肺部聲音，在時域上的波形近似於弦波信號，根據最新電腦化呼吸聲分析
(Computerized Respiratory Sound Analysis, CORSA)標準定義哮喘肺音之主頻率(dominant
frequency)為大於100Hz，且單一波形長度持續時間(duration) 在100ms以上之呼吸聲[9]。因
此目前有一些哮喘肺音偵測方法，是根據哮喘肺音在時域與頻域上的特性，如主頻率範圍
與單一波形持續時間的長短以及主頻率峰值(peak)特徵來判定是否為哮喘肺音[6-9]。但是用
來判斷是否為哮喘肺音主頻率峰值的閥值(threshold)往往是藉由經驗法則去估測決定，因此
對不同的受測者，或環境雜訊較高時，系統可靠度與辨識的正確率將降低。為了增加系統
可靠度與辨識的正確率，有些研究利用線性預測係數(linear prediction coefficient) [10][11]、
倒頻譜係參數[12]、小波轉換(Wavelet transform) [13]作為肺音特徵參數，並結合一些辨識
器如類神經網路(neural networks) [14]、高斯混合模型(Gaussian Mixture Model)[15][16]、向
量量化(vector quantization) [11]以辨識肺音訊號是否有哮喘。其中，Bahoura等學者[11]證實
倒頻譜參數當為肺音特徵參數比主頻率峰值特徵、線性預測係數、小波轉換有較佳的辨識
效果，因此本研究採用倒頻譜係數作為特徵參數。另外，為了解決肺音信號變異的問題[1]，
本研究使用動態時間校正(dynamic time warping, DTW)[17]此種非線性比對方式對特徵參數
進行辨識。
成：



P
k
k knsnsnsnsne
1
][][][ˆ][][ 
再利用杜賓遞迴程序(Durbin’s recursive procedure)[25]求出線性預測係數 k，使得上式
誤差能量達到最小。其演算法流程為：
)0((()) RE 
piEjiRiRk i
i
i
i
ji 


  


 1,/)()( )1(
1
1
)1(
i
i
i k)(
11,)1()1(   ijk i jiiijij 
)1(2)( )1(  iii EkE
pjpjj  1,)(
其中 p為線性預測係數的階數； R(i)為自相關係數 (autocorrelation coefficient),
piiRkiR nk  1),()( 。
2.2.2 動態時間校正分類模組
肺音訊號會因生理的變化而有差異，所以每次在擷取肺音訊號時，訊號的時間、振幅
以及持續的長度皆不一定相同，如果以線性比對的方式，則分類器參考樣本與辨識樣本間
的關係將會不穩定而造成辨識率下滑，因此使用動態時間校正此種非線性比對方式對特徵
參數進行辨識以解決肺音信號變異的問題。
圖3. 肺音辨識系統在經雙感測器頻譜消去法補償雜訊干擾後的辨識結果
圖4為Quartus II合成結果，總共使用了6883個邏輯單元。圖5是時序模擬的結果，包
含倒頻譜參數與動態時間校正的輸出，及其結果與Matlab模擬的運算結果相符。
圖4. Quartus II合成結果
No. 10, pp. 625-635, 2000.
[4]. T. Kaisla, A. Sovijarvi, P. Piirila, H-M. Rajala, S. Haltsonen, and T. Rosqvist, “Validated 
method for automatic detection of lung sound crackles, ” Med. Biol. Eng. Comput. , vol.29, 
pp. 517-521, 1991.
[5]. R. J. Riela, P. Nohama, R. F. Borges, A. L. Stele, “Automatic wheezing recognition in 
recorded lung sounds”, Proceedings of Annual International Conference of the IEEE, vol 3,
pp.17-21, 2003.
[6]. S. A. Taplidou , L. J . Hadjileontiadis , T. Penzel , V. Gross and S. M. Panas “WED: An 
efficient wheezing-episode detector based on breath sounds spectrogram analysis”, 
Proceedings of the Annual International Conference of the IEEE, vol. 3, pp.2531-2534,
2003.
[7]. 溫祖建，“電腦化肺音擷取系統” ，國立中央大學電機工程系暨研究所，碩士論文，中
華民國九十四年一月。
[8]. R. Jane, S. Cortes, J. A. Fiz, and J. Morera, “Analysis of wheezes in asthmatic patients during 
spontaneous respiration”, in Proc. 26th IEEE/EMBS Int. Conf., San Francisco, Vol. 2, pp.
3836-3839, CA. USA, Sep. 2004.
[9]. Y. P. Kahya, U. Çini and Ö. Cerid, “Real-time Regional Respiratory Sound Diagnosis
Instrument,” Proceedings of the 25th Annual International Conference of the IEEE 
Engineering in Medicine and Biology Society, pp. 3098-3101, Cancun, Mexico, September
2003.
[10]. Sankur, B., Y.P. Kahya, E.C. Guler, and T. Engin., “Comparison of AR-based algorithms for
respiratory sounds classification”, Comput. Biol. Med., Vol. 24, No. 1, pp. 67-76, 1996.
[11]. M. Bahoura, and C. Peletier, “New Parameters for respiratory sound classification”, in Proc. 
IEEE Elect. and Computer Eng. Conf., Canada, Vol. 3, pp. 1457-1460, 2003.
[12]. M. Bahoura, and C. Peletier, “Respiratory sounds classification using Cepstral Analysis and 
Gaussian Mixture Models”, in Proc. IEEE Elect. and Computer Eng. Conf., Vol. 3, pp.
1309-1312, Canada, 2004.
[13]. S. A. Taplidou, L. J. Hadjileontiadis, I. K. Kitsas, K. I. Panoulas, “On applying continuous 
wavelet transform in wheeze analysis”, in Proc. 26th IEEE/EMBS Int. Conf., San Francisco,
CA. USA, Vol. 2, pp. 3832-3835, 2004.
[14]. K. E. Forkheim, D. Scuse, and H. Pasterkamp, A comparison of neural network models for
wheeze detection , in Proc. IEEE Commun., Power, and Computing Conf., Winnipeg, Man.,
pp. 214-219, 1995.
附錄一


ABSTRACT
This study investigates the problems associated with lung sound recognition under noisy
conditions. Firstly, the effects of noise on the lung sound feature representation and the
classification performance are analyzed. Two kinds of feature representations, autoregressive and
Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients, are used to characterize the lung sound signals. Dynamic
time warping is used to categorize the lung sounds to one of the three: normal, wheezes, or
crackles. Our experimental results indicate that additive noise produces a mismatch between
training and recognition environments and deteriorates the classification performance with a
decrease in the SNR levels. In order to compensate the degrading effect of noise on the lung
sound recognition, a dual sensor spectral subtraction algorithm is applied to the lung sound
signals before the extraction of lung sound features. It is observed that the proposed algorithm is
capable of providing adequate performance in terms of noise suppression and lung sound signal
enhancement.
Keywords:
Lung sound recognition; Autoregressive coefficients; Mel-frequency cepstral coefficients; Dual
sensor spectral subtraction algorithm
analyze the influence of noisy environments on the experimental results. Therefore, for the lung
sound recognition system to be used as a reliable bedside monitoring equipment, more researches
are required to evaluate and enhance the classification performance of the system in real noisy
environments.
In this study, we investigated the problems that arise when lung sound recognition is
performed under noisy conditions. Firstly, we studied the effect of noise on the lung sound
representation and the classifier performance. Secondly, we propose a dual sensor spectral
subtraction method for compensating the effect of noise on the lung sound representation. To
evaluate the effect of noise on the lung sound representation, we added two types of noise (babble
noise and car noise) to each lung sound signal in the test database. We compared the performance
of the methods that use the AR coefficients with those that use the MFCC coefficients to
characterize the lung sound signal. Dynamic time warping (DTW) was performed to categorize
the lung sounds to one of three: normal, wheezes, or crackles.
2. Theoretical background
2.1. Autoregressive model
In the AR model, each sample )(kx of the lung sound signal is described as a linear
combination of the previous samples plus an error term )(ke that is independent of the past
samples. A pure AR time-series model is given as follows:



P
i
i kekxakx
1
)()1()(  ,2,1,0k (1)
where )(kx denotes the samples of the modeled signal, ia denotes the AR coefficients, P
The spectral subtraction method was first proposed by Boll [15], and it has widely been
utilized in various enhancement applications such as speech and audio enhancement in addition
to being used for the removal of scratches and artifacts produced on CD or DVD recordings. This
technique operates in the frequency domain and is based on the direct estimation of the short time
duration of a clean signal. The research in [16] showed that a dual sensor spectral subtraction
technique could perform better than a single sensor method due to the ability to recognize not
only the spectral energy distribution of noise but also its time varying property. For this reason,
the former is applied before the AR or MFCC feature extraction to reduce the deteriorating effect
of the noise added to the lung sound signals.
A block diagram of the dual sensor spectral subtraction method is shown in Fig. 1. The
primary sensor is responsible for detecting the corrupted lung sound signal and the reference
sensor is responsible for recording the environmental noise. Let )(kx and )(kn be samples of a
clean lung sound signal and environmental noise, respectively, and let )()()( knkxky  be the
samples of noisy lung sounds. The time domain signals were segmented and windowed with
half-overlapping Hamming windows, and the resultant data were subjected to short time fast
Fourier transform (STFFT), as shown in Fig. 1. The magnitude and phase of the signals were
computed from the latter and the phase of the environmental noise was discarded from them. The
reconstruction of the clean lung sound signal was performed by using only the corrupted lung
sound phase. In order to enhance the lung sound, an estimate of the environmental noise
magnitude was obtained; this value was then subtracted from the corrupted lung sound
The leave-one-out method [19] was used to estimate the recognition rate. Each time a
sample was tested, the remaining samples were used as the training samples. Every sample in the
entire sample set was tested once. Since every test sample was excluded from the training sample
set, the test set and the training set were independent of each other.
4. Results and discussions
4.1. Effects of noise on lung sound feature representation
The effects of noise were analyzed depending on the lung sound feature representation and
the type and level of noise. Two types of lung sound feature representation, AR and MFCC
coefficients, were calculated for the three categories of clean lung sounds (normal, wheeze, and
crackle) as a noise-free reference feature set. In order to investigate the effects of noise on the
lung sound feature representation under noisy conditions, we added babble noise and car noise at
various SNR levels to each lung sound signal in the test database. Subsequently, the AR and
MFCC coefficients of the corresponding noisy lung sound were computed. After the feature
parameters were calculated for each clean and noisy lung sound, the scatter plots of the first two
dimensions of these feature parameters were obtained and superimposed for the different kinds of
lung sounds, feature representations, and for the different types and levels of noise. Fig. 2 shows
the effect of the two real noises on two feature representations for a noisy wheeze signal, as a
typical illustration, to observe the effects of additive noise. The two top subplots of Fig. 2(a) and
2(b) illustrate the effect of babble noise on the AR feature and the MFCC feature, respectively.
Fig. 2(c) and 2(d) show the effect of car noise on two feature representations. As shown in Fig. 2,
recognition system by using noiseless training sets and noise-free test sets and achieved 93.75%
correct identifications with two types of feature parameters. Next, recognition experiments were
performed under two real noise disturbances at various SNR levels using clean feature models.
The recognition performances for the two types of features are presented in Fig. 3. The accuracies
are plotted against the SNR levels ranging from 0 to 40 dB. It can be observed that additive
babble noise significantly deteriorates the identification rate in the lung sound recognition process
for both the AR coefficients and MFCC coefficients at low SNR levels. For example, the
recognition rate reduces by 60% at SNR of 0 dB for both types of feature representations. The
average recognition rate is 63.8% for the AR feature and 52.4% for the MFCC feature for babble
noise disturbance. This coincides with previous observations: babble noise leads to a more severe
inconsistency between training and recognition environments than car noise. The average
recognition rate is 80.95% for the AR feature and 76.19% for the MFCC feature for interference
from car noise.
Additionally, in Fig. 3, the performance of the AR coefficients is observed to be better than
that of the MFCC coefficients in our lung sound identification system at SNR levels above 5 dB.
The mean recognition rate when the AR coefficients are used is superior to that when the MFCC
coefficients are employed by 11.4% for lung sound signal contaminated by babble noise. When
the lung sound signals in the test set were corrupted by car noise, the mean recognition rate
obtained by using the AR coefficients is better than that obtained by employing the MFCC
coefficients by 4.76%. From the experimental results, it can be shown that the AR feature set is
results in Fig. 2, the improvement in the distortion is between 13.5% and 51.4% for the AR
coefficients and between 37.5% and 41.6% for the MFCC coefficients. The results show that the
proposed algorithm is able to compensate the mismatch between the training and the recognition
environments. However, the distortion is still significant at low SNR levels (5 dB and 0 dB). This
is due to the fundamental limitations of the spectral subtraction algorithm [20]. In a future
research, we intend combining the other methods of noise reduction and lung sound enhancement
to increase the compensation of the mismatch between training and recognition environments.
The recognition experiments were also evaluated for enhanced lung sound signals. The
classification results are shown in Fig. 6. The recognition performance of the AR feature
representation is still observed to be superior to that of the MFCC feature representation.
Meanwhile, the average recognition rates for the enhanced are listed in Table 1. The values given
in parentheses are the improvements obtained relative to the average recognition results without
the lung sound signal enhancement. From Table 1, it is observed that the dual sensor spectral
subtraction method improves the recognition performance of both feature representations when
two types of real noise are present. For example, it improves 25.1% accuracy from 63.8% to
88.9% for the AR feature representation when the lung sound signals are corrupted by babble
noise. Similar results can be observed in Table 1. The results presented in the table show that the
application of the dual sensor spectral subtraction algorithm is a feasible method for improving
the recognition performance in noisy environments.
5. Conclusions
[3] V. K. Iyer, P. A. Ramamoorthy, Y. Ploysongsang, Autoregressive modeling of lung sounds:
Characterization of source and transmission, IEEE Tran. Biomed. Eng. 36(1989) 1133-1137.
[4] S. Alsmadi, Y. P. Kahya, Design of a DSP-based instrument real-time classification of
pulmonary sounds, Comput. Biol. Med. 38(2008) 53-61.
[5] E. Güler, B. Sankur, Y. Kahya, S. Raudys, Two-stage classification of respiratory sound
patterns, Comput. Biol. Med. 35(2005) 67-83.
[6] S. Chauhan, P. Wang, C. S. Lim, V. Anantharaman, A computer-aided MFCC-based HMM
system for automatic auscultation, Comput. Biol. Med. 38(2008) 221-233.
[7] M. Bahoura, C. Pelletier, Respiratory sounds classification using cepstral analysis and
gaussian mixture models, in: Proceeding of the 26th International Conference of the IEEE
EMBS, San Francisco, CA. USA, 2004, pp. 9-12.
[8] S. A. Taplidou, L. J. Hadjileontiadis, I. K. Kittsas, K. I. Panoulas, On applying continuous
wavelet transform in wheeze analysis, in: Proceeding of the 26th International Conference of
the IEEE EMBS, San Francisco, CA. USA, 2004, pp. 3832-3835.
[9] A. Kandaswamy, C.S. Kumar, R.P. Ramanathan, S. Jayaraman, N. Malmurugan, Neural
classification of lung sounds using wavelet coefficients, Comput. Biol. Med. 34(2004)
523-537.
[10] S. A. Taplidou, L. J. Hadjileontiadis, T. Penzel, V. Gross, and S. M. Panas, WED: An
efficient wheezing-episode detector based on breath sounds spectrogram analysis, in:
Speech, and Signal Processing, Toulouse, France, 2006, pp. 145-148.
(Fig. 1)
(Fig. 3)
(Fig. 5)
Table Captions:
Table 1 Comparison of average recognition rates after lung sound signal enhancement for two
feature types with babble noise and car noise.
附錄三
Research and Chalenges”。 Fabio Roli 教授介紹網路廣告郵件的影響及電子郵件過
濾技術的現況及未來展望。C. L. Philip Chen教授則談到如果利用文字、影像、音訊、
視訊等數位多媒體藏密(steganography)所要傳遞的訊息，達到訊息傳遞及保密的效
能。
另有多篇論文研究議題相當有趣，第一篇研究論文相當具有參考價值，由
Zhen-Dong Zhao等人發表 “An effective pitch detection method for speech signals with
low signal-to-noise ratio”，主要的目的是利用頻譜相減法(spectral subtraction)，估測
雜訊的功率分佈，將其自帶雜訊語音功率功率中相減，以降低雜訊的干擾。下圖顯
示原始語音訊號、受雜訊干擾的語音訊號與利用頻譜相減法去除雜訊後的語音訊
號。目前執行的國科會計畫，我們正開發一個可用於雜訊環境的肺音辨識晶片，因
此本論文可做為參考。
第二篇論文由Raonaak Kabir等人所發表之“Enhancement of a laryngeal speech
utilizing spectral subtraction and minimum statistics”， 也是利用頻譜相減法(spectral
subtraction)消除人工喉頭的雜訊干擾。
