2rather than at the receiving end. The advantages of
managing ISI problem at the transmitting end are the
availability of previous and upcoming data
information and little noise is included in signal
processing. Specifically, the multipath coefficients can
easily be measured at the transmitter in short-distance
communications. Moreover, since most system
complexity will be located at the transmitter, the
receiver structure can be much simplified, being
suitable for 1-to-N systems. In the proposed system, a
multipath processor (MP) similar to the infinite
impulse response (IIR) filter structure is designed to
measure the multipath coefficients first. After the
measuring procedure, the MP estimates the effect of
the multipath-induced ISI produced by the past data
and then modifies the amplitude of the current data.
While simple 1/-1 bipolar signaling is applied, the MP
can accurately modify the transmitted signal
amplitude so as to achieve nearly multipath-free
transmission.
II. Channel Model and Measurement
1. Channel Model
Using discrete-time signal representation, the
general channel impulse response shown in [6] will be
modified as
  


N
l
j
l lneanh l
0
 (1)
where la and l represents the relative magnitude
and phase of the l -th path, respectively.
To accomplish the multipath-assisted system,
both forward and backward channel impulse responses
as shown in Fig. 1 should be considered, in which
nh f is the forward impulse response (FIR) and
nhb is the backward impulse response (BIR). Since
bipolar pulses are adopted in our system, l in Eq.(1)
can be simplified to 0 or  to represent signal
polarity. Then the impulse responses are given
respectively as
  


N
l
lf lnnh
0
 (2)
  


N
l
lb lnnh
0
 . (3)
where l and l are real numbers, while fN
and bN are the number of FIR and BIR components,
respectively. For simplicity, we assume
NNN bf  in the following analysis.
Fig. 1 Bi-directional channel model
We adopt the channel model described in [9] to
specify the channel characteristics. Such an indoor
UWB channel possesses two unique properties. One is
the clustering property of the arrival paths, which
results in unevenly distributed arrival times. The other
is the rather small number of scatters within one
resolvable path, usually no more than 2 or 3. Hence,
two statistical models, the two-state Markov Model
coupled with modified Poisson distribution and
Gamma distribution, are employed to demonstrate the
multipath arrival time and the power distribution,
respectively.
In the arrival time model, ig is the number of
scatters in the i-th time bin. The state 1 means that no
paths are present in the previous time bin, while the
state 2 refers to the case that no paths are present in
the previous time bin. The parameters are
characterized as 
Tc
dtt11  and
4multiple measurements under short-range environment,
the multipath coefficients could be accurately obtained.
Meanwhile, since the cancellation of
multipath-induced ISI is performed at the transmitting
end, the affect of channel noises is absent.
2. Transmitted signal management
After explaining the design concept, we proceed
to realize the multipath-assisted transmission. First,
we have to develop a mechanism to estimate the
amount of multipath-induced ISI and then modify the
amplitude of transmitted data, if necessary.
Fortunately, the MP can be directly converted to serve
this purpose. After the FIR coefficients ( 'l ) are
measured, we can modify tap coefficients of the MP
as
,'1p 00  (9)
ll 'p  , N,...2,1l (10)
Let the transmitted data
   
m
m mndnD  be the input of MP and
1'0  be set as the reference, we obtain the MP
output as
   
m
m mndnD '' (11)
and
 

 m
N
1l
'
lmlm
'
m dd'dd (12)
where  is the estimated multipath-induced ISI
resulted from the past transmitted data.
When the modified data, nD' , is transmitted to the
receiver via the multipath channel, the ISI effect is
expect to lead the received signals to the desired
polarity and magnitude. In order to verify our design,
we assume the measured FIR coefficients be identical
to the real ones and apply them to specify the tap
coefficients of the MP. A total of 35 multipath
components are considered. Then we perform
computer simulation by sending data through the
multipath channel with additive gaussian noise.
Fig. 3 Multipath-assisted transmission system
verification and comparison
Fig. 3 is the bit error rate (BER) versus SNR for
three different transmission systems. The thick solid
line is the BER of the data passing through a
multipath-free channel, being interfered only by the
additive gaussian noise. It is treated as the reference
for comparison. The performance of direct
transmission without any ISI management is quite
poor compared to the reference one, which implies
that the ISI significantly degrades system performance.
While the multipath-assisted transmission with the MP
is employed, the simulated curve is rather close to the
reference one, revealing that the proposed system can
effectively eliminate the multipath-induced ISI.
In reality, there are two factors to preclude the
MP system to achieve the multipath- free transmission.
One is the consideration of system complexity that
would limit the number of taps in the MP. The other is
the unavoidable noise involved in the measurement
procedure, making the measured multipath
coefficients deviated from the real ones. Intuitively,
we just have to obtain the essential and less noisy
portion of the FIR coefficients instead of getting all of
them. Moreover, the variance of 'l increases as l
increases. Thus there may exist an optimum tap length
of the MP, which would lead to a minimum BER. We
perform computer simulation to find the optimum tap
