 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計劃成果報告 
新穎旋光異構式光纖主被動元件及其於生化分子感測之研究 
The studies of novel chiral fiber active and passive components for 
biosensing applications 
計劃編號：NSC 97-2218-E-239-003 
執行期限：97 年 3 月 1日至 98 年 2 月 28 日 
  主持人：陳南光助理教授   國立聯合大學光電工程學系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
  手徵性(chirality)是自然界生命物質最基本組成結構的特色。基本上，生化分子具有手性
碳結構，並具有圓偏振雙折射(circular birefringence)的旋光現象。手徵物質無法以移動或是
旋轉等任何方式來使得自身結構與自己的鏡像結構(旋光異構物)重疊；是故，當分別有左右
旋光經過此等物質及其旋光異構物的時候將面臨到不同折射率的情況。然而，僅當光源的
旋光方向與物質結構旋轉方向相同的時候，光與物質才會發生共振吸收的現象。美國的
Chiral Photonics 公司的科學家率先提出使用特殊矩形光芯結構之光纖預型體，抽絲製作出
旋光光纖光柵元件並發表在 2004 年的 Science 期刊上，但至今仍無法實現高靈敏度的長週
期光纖光柵生化感測器。在此計畫中，我們成功地發展出使用與標準單模光纖相容的扁平
光殼單模光纖（flat-clad fiber）製作旋光異構式光纖光柵(具有不同旋光性的手徵光柵)。 
 
關鍵詞：手徵性,光纖光柵,橢圓偏振雙折射,旋光異構,旋光色散 
 
Abstract 
 
  Chirality is the characteristic of the basic constitutes of natural live materials. In fact, the 
bio-molecules with chiral carbon structure and have circular birefringence optical properties. 
The chiral materials can not coincide with their image (optical isomers) through translation or 
rotation so that when different circular polarized lights passing through these materials will see 
different indices. The resonant absorption only occurs at the condition when the light has the 
same handness with the materials. The scientists in Chiral Photonics Company, US, had 
proposed to make chiral fiber grating components using specially designed rectangular core and 
their work had been published in Science magazine, 2004. However, they still can not achieve 
high sensitivity biosensors based on chiral long period grating to date. In contrast, we had 
successfully achieve the fabrications of chiral fiber long period grating using flat-clad 
single-mode fibers.  
 
Keywords: chirality, fiber grating, elliptical birefringence, optical isomers, optical rotatory 
 
 
 
 
  
Fig2. Chiral intermediate-period gratings: scattering broadband lights out of the fiber. 
 
 
  
 
Fig3. Chiral short-period gratings: reflection of the resonant wavelength guiding in the core. The solid line reflects 
the light with the same handedness as the structure whereas the dotted line stands for the light with opposite 
handedness. 
 
三、結果與討論 
 
(I) Birefringence in micro fiber tapers 
In-line fiber polarizers are essential and important components for fiber-optic interferometery, 
mode-locking, communication and sensing systems. Usually, the in-line fiber polarizers were 
fabricated by using liquid crystal, long period grating, surface plasmon resonance, birefringent 
polymer, and so forth, to attenuate one of the two polarizations, namely, the TE- and 
TM-polarization. A fiber polarizer with the optical loss less than 1 dB, the polarization extinction 
ratio (PER) higher than 30 dB and even the wide operation bandwidth is beneficial to variant 
fiber-optic systems. However, it is difficult to simultaneously satisfy the above requirements 
based on the conventional fiber polarizers [5-9]. The birefringent micro-fiber was made from 
tapering a flat-clad single-mode fiber directly, as shown in Fig. 4(a). The original flat-clad 
single-mode fiber has a cylindrical core with diameter of 8.5 μm and a flat cladding with the 
diameters of 125 μm and 80 μm at long and short axes, respectively. In order to achieve a fiber 
polarizer with a high PER under single-mode operation, it is important to increase the index 
difference between the neff-S and neff-L as large as possible and make the tapered fiber as small as a 
few micrometers, which can also help the guided light of short axis easier leaking out. In 
fabrication, to keep the aspect ratio of the flat-clad fiber, lower temperature tapered process with 
700°C to a diameter of about 7.6μm at the short axis and the diameter at long axis was 11.3 μm 
viewed by a 1000X CCD camera, as shown in Fig. 4(b).  
 4
(b) 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
Fig.6. (a) The power spectra of the X- polarized and Y- polarized lights measured by OSA, (b) The polarization 
extinction ratio of the proposed polarizer. 
To realize the birefringent characteristics of the proposed fiber polarizer, a theoretical analysis for 
the property of TE and TM mode. The effective indices of the TE- and TM-polarizations waves 
(neff-S and neff-L) can be solved by the Rsoft software package when the parameters (waveguide 
shape, diameters of long and short axes, and refractive indices: n(λ)) of the devices are given. 
Once the effective index of the proposed micro-device are obtained. Then, the birefringence (B) 
can be expressed as  
k
B yx
ββ −=                                             
(1) 
Where xβ  and yβ are propagating constants of the long and short axes, respectively. , the 
wave number is
k
λ
π2 . The group velocity υg (m/s) and dispersion D (ps/nm/km) of long and short 
axes can be calculated by the following equations: 
1−
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ −= λλ d
dn
ncv effeffg                                             (2) 
    D = 2
2
λ
λ
d
nd
c
eff−                                               (3) 
Where  is the effective index, λ is the wavelength, c is the velocity of light. In Fig. 7 The 
aspect ratio of the long axis to short axis of the tapered flat-cladding micro-fiber set to be 9:3, the 
birefringence of the structure is about . It can be seen in figure 7(b), the birefringence 
of short wavelength is larger than long wavelength because of However, when the aspect ratio is 
lower, 9:6, the birefringence is lower as well, shown in Fig. 8. From the simulation results, we 
found the birefringence of the proposed device is small; it might be enhanced if the aspect ratio of 
the long axis to short axis is enlarged and the difference of the refractive index of tapered fiber 
and liquid surrounding become large. 
effn
65 1010 −− −
 
 
 
 
 
 6
polarizer device can be enhanced and an optimized Cargille optical liquid is used. The wide 
operation bandwidth and high polarization extinction ratio are ascribing to the substantial 
splitting between the effective indices at short and long axes by anisotropical silica cladding to 
enlarge the aspect ratio of the tapered birefringent micro-fiber. The more experimental results 
might be appeared in our forthcoming paper. Finally, it has to be emphasized, the proposed in-line 
fiber polarizer is very simple, cost effective, easy to fabricate and can be compatible to standard 
single-mode fibers. These features certainly may have great merits in practical applications for 
fiber optical communications. 
 
(I) Fabrication of chiral fiber long period gratings 
 
Several methods are expanded for creating gratings in optical fibers. The method most widely 
used is change the refractive index of the fiber core by a UV-induced. Long gratings are produced 
by overlapping interference patterns to produce an extended coherent pattern of index variation. 
Chiral grating created grating structure by twist optical fiber. We heat the flat clad fiber by 
controlling the MFC flow rate of H2, the taper speed controlled by LabVIEW, because have to 
keep the ratio of length to wide, so the flame have to control suitable. This method is cheaper 
than drawing tower. Fig 9 is the tapered fiber and the ratio of length to wide is 1 / 1.5 in Fig 10. 
After tapered, the two extremities of the fiber have huge variation from thick become thin, so 
we have to heat the fiber so that retard to the huge variation, avoid some mode can not follow the 
structure to transmission Fig 11. Fig 12 and Fig 13 is the twisted fiber, when light incident the 
chiral structure, the optical rotation is same as the chiral structure, the light will have different 
mold of transmission with different period of gratings, make use of the characteristic to measure 
the optical rotation of the substance. 
 
 8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12μm
 
Fig 9. the tapered fiber, length is 12μm. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  10
 
 
 
56.4μm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 13. The intermediate period chiral fiber, the pitch of the grating is 56.4μm 
 
四、成果自評 
 
在這一年計劃執行期間，我們成功地利用與單模光纖相容之扁殼光纖來製作出新穎結構
之旋光異構式光纖光柵，光柵週期可以從數百微米至 30 微米左右皆可成功地製作出來。量
測中發現，此扁殼光纖在 taper transition 區域會干擾傳導光的極化穩定狀態，是故，我
們利用局部加熱之方式來使得 taper transition 內部的 Ge 發生擴散，進而降低圓偏振光
極化態的不穩定性。在進行 chiral fiber grating 之前，我們先進行熔拉光纖線性極化偏
振的影響，並製作出光纖極化器；基此，chiral 光柵乃針對此線性光纖極化器進行加熱扭
轉，使得左右旋圓偏振與光纖光柵扭轉方向須一致時，才能發生耦合。在此計劃期間，被
接受之學術期刊及研討會論文如參考文獻[10-14]。數篇研討會論文目前正在改寫且改良實
驗架構以獲取較佳之實驗數據並準備投稿 SCI 論文中。 
 
五、參考文獻  
 
1. V.I. Kopp, V.M. Churikov, J. Singer, N. Chao, D. Neugroschl, A.Z. Genack. Science (2004) 
305, 74. 
2. V.I. Kopp, A.Z. Genack, Opt. Lett. (2003) 28, 1876. 
3. V. I. Kopp, V. M. Churikov, and A. Z. Genack, Opt.   Lett. 31, 571 (2006). 
4. V.I. Kopp, V.M. Churikov, J. Singer, C.W. Draper, N. Chao, D. Neugroschl, A.Z. Genack. 
SPIE (2007) Vol. 6619 
5. D. Alzetta and M. Matsumoto, “Distributed polarization-mode dispersion compensation using 
polarizers,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett. 15, 822-824 (2003). 
6. T. T. Alkeskjold and A. Bjarklev, “Electrically controlled broadband liquid crystal photonic 
bandgap fiber polarimeter,” Opt. Lett. 32, 1707-1709 (2007). 
7. Y. Wang, L. Xiao, D. N. Wang, and W. Jin, “In-fiber polarizer based on a long-period fiber 
grating written on photonic crystal fiber,” Opt. Lett. 32, 1035-1037 (2007). 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           97 年 12 月 22 日 
報告人姓名 陳 南 光  服務機構及職稱 
國立聯合大學光電工程學系助理
教授 
時間 
會議地點 
2008 年 12 月 8-11 日 
新加坡 
本會核定
補助文號
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文)國際電子電機工程學會新加坡光電會議 
 (英文) IEEE Photonics Global@Singapore 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) (1)具有高截止斜率之波長相依損耗長波濾波器 
        (2) 與金屬光柵側接之長周期光纖光柵的頻譜響應 
 (英文) (1) Highly wavelength-dependent loss for short-pass edge filters with 
high cutoff slope 
        (2) Spectral response of long period fiber grating based on tapered 
fiber with side-contacted metal grating 
附件三
 
