1一、中文摘要
統包訂約大部分在政策、制度面研
究，少有探討實際執行問題。針對設計與
施工併行，本研究深入了解實際協調問
題，研擬解決方法。前次研究以高雄捷運
興建為例，訪談統包商之設計與施工單
位，歸納統包之設計與施工併行問題，包
括設計完成度過高、計價里程碑定義不合
理、設計與施工同步影響時間與成本、設
計施工相互回饋少、變更設計依然存在、
審查程序過長等。針對上述問題，本研究
提出待命訂約之工作單元規劃加以解決，
此規劃分為五個步驟：(1)切割全部工作，
(2)組成工作單元， (3) 詳細設計工作單
元，(4)審查與交付施工，(5)施工與回饋。
針對設計與施工併行時，如何改善協調過
程，解決上述問題，提出理論論述，並以
實例驗證。
關鍵詞：協調、設計施工併行、待命訂約、
工作單元規劃、統包
Abstract:
Design-build related research is more on the 
policy and contractor selection, lacking of
inquiring into the execution problems and 
resolution. This research investigates the
design-construction concurrent execution 
problems, proposes a resolution mechanism 
and provides verification from real
design-build projects. The last research took 
KMRT program as a case to study its design 
builders’ design and construction units. The 
problems found in design-construction 
coordination include: high basic design 
completeness; unreasonable payment 
milestones; increased individual design and
construction schedule and cost; little
feedback between design and construction; 
still existed design changes; and long design 
review process. To solve the above problems, 
this research proposes the work unit planning 
guideline, out of the on-call contracting 
strategy. This work planning has five steps: 
(1) divide overall work, (2) group work units, 
(3) design work units, (4) review and issue to 
construction, and (5) construction and 
feedback. The reasons behind the five steps
are explained and their validity checked with 
real project data.
Keywords:
Coordination, design-construction 
concurrency, on-call contracting, work unit
planning, design-build
二、前言
協調在理論與實務上，被認為是營建
工程成功的關鍵因子（Thomas et al. 1998; 
Chua et al.1999）。或許因為營建專案之特
性及工程人員的習慣，工程的困難常出在
協調上，跨部門的溝通也經常出問題，協
調多以會議方式進行（Darshi de Saram and
Ahmed 2001）。除了付出的時間與成本外，
由於協調未有效規劃，後續工作並未有系
統地執行，成效常不如預期 (陳素娥 民
92)。
張行道 (民 93) 研究跨階段工程計畫
之組織協調，並以高雄捷運工程為例。BOT 
計畫由於興建期間愈短愈對特許公司有
利，所以多採用設計加施工交由同一廠商
施作的統包方式執行(王冠雄等 民 90)，計
畫採用統包方式執行，設計與施工單位間
的協調比傳統發包方式更為重要，二者須
搭配得宜，才能發揮統包的優點，例如縮
短工期 (Ibbs et al. 2003)。
統包之設計及施工併行，使用同步工
程，這種觀念初期多用於製造業（Mundal 
1995），使作業同時併行、互有重疊，許多
相互依賴的設計及施工作業，只能在部分
資訊、不完整的知識，和主觀的解釋下進
行，所以持續的設計與施工資訊交流，及
參與成員間的密切協調，對專案成功非常
重要。營造業用的快捷工程（fast track）則
是同步工程的基本形式。發展快捷工程
時，須藉由系統性方法協助規劃，可於施
工前發現潛在問題，方有機會縮短工期
（Pena-Mora and Li 2001）。DBIA（1997）
的研究顯示，統包工程在良好的設計與流
程管理下，可獲得許多利益，包括提高效
率、縮短時程、降低成本、自行提高品質、
減少變更設計等，以及藉由設計與施工的
3步驟1 切割全部工作
重點為計畫初期之設計與施工規劃，
強調設計單位及施工單位應共同規劃，依
工作內容做出 WBS 分工結構與 CPM 綱
要進度表，切割成各項工作單元，並決定
各工作單元間的關係，及所需時間、資源。
高雄捷運進度規劃是由捷運公司依據
與捷運局合約中所訂定之里程碑及完工日
期，編排綱要進度表及中階進度表，再由
統包商就其資源規劃詳細進度表。由於設
計與施工單位間協調不密切，或設計單位
不參與進度規畫工作，僅由施工單位自行
規劃。
雖然統包商之設計單位表示設計量大
致可符合施工量，部份單位仍反應工程初
期常須追著施工進度，探討其原因除時程
緊迫外，另設計單位未參與進度規劃工
作，造成初期設計不知如何配合施工，這
種情形在香港 BOT 也有類似案例(Zhang 
and Kumaraswamy 2001)。
步驟2 組成工作單元
重點是將工作組成較小或易管理的範
圍，以避免初期設計工作太多或太少，影
響後續施工進行。
工作單元組合時，必須考慮施工單位
工作量及工作介面。施工單位工作量可配
合工作能量，如圖 3 所示，依工作量安排
里程碑，才不會有人員、機具不足或閒置
的情形。
圖3 考量工作量安排里程碑
由表 1 可知，在此步驟高雄捷運發生
的問題有，部分計價里程碑定義不合理。
計價里程碑為捷運局參考國外及高鐵經驗
訂定，目的為誘使儘快施工及安全上考
量。捷運局、捷運公司與統包商間皆採里
程碑計價，計價里程碑按工程特性或關連
性規定百分比，規劃出施工範圍及順序。
步驟3 詳細設計工作單元
內容由施工進度表切出，並配合施工
的需要，作更詳細工期及資源分析，使施
工單位工作更明確。由於工作單元相對於
整個工程已較小，可被設計得較好，避免
後續變更。
高雄捷運依統包方式執行，變更設計
依然存在。傳統公共工程細部設計完成
後，施工中仍會產生很多變更設計，這是
因為很多問題在設計階段不易發現，而是
施工後配合現場狀況才會發覺，統包工程
設計與施工亦難免。
Ibbs (1997) 及 Hanna et al. (1999) 研
究顯示，變更設計對工率有負面的影響，
主要因等待澄釋及變更設計完成才能施
工，施工者需重新適應工作環境及調整工
法。透過範圍凍結可避免過多的設計變
更，此即為詳細設計較小工作單元隱含的
觀念。
步驟4 審查及交付施工
工作單元詳細設計完成後，由於設計
範圍較小且內容詳細，使審查單位容易了
解，可避免長時間或重覆審查，施工單位
亦可即早施工，避免等待施工圖核准。在
審查及交付施工步驟中，高雄捷運發生的
問題有基設與細設理念不同、施工圖審查
程序繁瑣，將進一步分析並提出解決方法。
步驟5 施工與回饋
工作單元詳細設計及審查後，即可進
入施工，將各種施工資訊回饋後續工作單
元，持續規劃。實際上如能在整個工作單
元規劃過程中，導入施工性，可改善設計
與施工的問題，使設計與施工併行成效達
到最大。圖 4 說明完成設計也需要施工資
訊，有越多的施工資訊，設計也越完善，
這也是施工性的原理。
施工性是由施工單位提供，設計性則
由設計單位提供。後續工作單元設計即導
入前面工作單元的施工性，在工作單元執
行時，作適當調整。透過施工性的回饋機
5礎，發展出設計與施工併行的管理流程，
兼具完整規劃、重疊進行、設計與施工管
理的功能。
六、計畫成果自評
統包訂約前幾年受到矚目，且頗多被
採用，惟設計與施工併行方法多在摸索，
經驗尚在累積，本研究提出系統方法，可
供統包執行之參考。
七、參考文獻
【中文資料】
1. 張行道 (民 93)，「跨階段工程計畫之
組織協調與工作整合」，國科會專題研
究計畫成果報告，計畫編號：NSC 
93-2211-E-006-073，執行期間：九十三
年八月至九十四年七月。
2. 莊信慧 (民 93)，以工作單元規劃解決
統包之設計與施工併行問題，成功大學
土木工程研究所碩士論文。
3. 陳素娥 (民 92)，協調管理規範，成功
大學土木工程研究所碩士論文。
4. 曾惠斌等（民91），以統包制度加速推
動國家計畫之研究，行政院公共工程委
員會研究報告。
5. 王冠雄等（民90），「高雄捷運BOT 計
畫與執行策略之探討」，高雄捷運工程
技術研討會（二）論文集，4 月23 日，
高雄市政府捷運局。
6. 李得璋(民89)，公共工程統包制度之推
動，營建工程統包制度研討會論文集，
台北，1-30。
【英文資料】
7. Chang, A. S. and Ibbs, W. C. (1998), 
“On-call contracting and management,” 
Journal of Management in Engineering, 
ASCE, 14(4), 35-44.
8. Chua, D. K. H. et al. (1999), “Critical 
success factors for different project 
objectives. ”  Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, ASCE, 
125(3), 142-150.
9. Darshi de Saram, D and Ahmed, Syed M. 
(2001), “Construction coordination 
activities: what is important and what 
consumes time,” Journal of Management 
in Engineering, ASCE, 17(4), 202-213.
10. DBIA (1997), Design-Build Process for 
Civil Infrastructure Projects, Design-Build 
Institute of America, Washington, D.C.
11. Hanna, A. S., Russell, J. S., Nordheim, E. 
V., and Bruggink, M. J. (1999), “Impact of 
change orders on labor efficiency for 
electrical construction, ”  Journal of 
Construction Engineering and
Management, ASCE, 125(3), 176-184.
12. Ibbs, W. (1997), “Quantitative impacts of 
project change: size issues,” Journal of 
Construction Engineering and 
Management, ASCE, 123(3), 308-311.
13. Ibbs, W., Kwak, Y. H., Ng T., and 
Odabasi A. M. (2003), “Project delivery 
systems and project change: quantitative 
analysis, ” Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, 145(4),
382-387.
14. Mundal, M. (1995), “Time and cost
driven design.” Design for
manufacturability: concurrent engineering 
and design/manufacturing integration. J. R. 
Behun, (ed.), ASME, Vol. 81.
15. Pena-Mora, F. and Li, M. (2001), 
“Dynamic planning and control 
methodology for design/build fast-track 
construction projects,” Journal of 
Construction Engineering and 
Management, ASCE, 127(1), 1-17.
16. Thomas, S. R., Tucker, R. L. and Kelly, 
W. R. (1998), “Critical communications 
variables.” Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, ASCE, 
124(1), 58-66.
17. Zhang, X. and Kumaraswamy, M. (2001), 
“Hong Kong experience in managing BOT 
projects,” Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, ASCE, 
127(2), 154-162.
1行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告
                                                           96年 10月 7 日
報告人姓名 張行道 服務機構
及職稱
成功大學土木系教授
    會議時間
     地點
95年 9月 12日至 15日
西班牙卡那里
本會核定
補助文號
NSC95-2211-E-006-342
會議
名稱
第五屆國際工程計算科技會議
5th International Conference on Engineering Computational Technology 
發表
論文
題目
營建資訊科技之應用與策略
 Construction IT Application and Strategy
報告內容應包括下列各項：
一、 參加會議經過
行程於 95 年 9/11 出發，9/12 抵巴賽隆納城市，之後赴卡那里開會，9/16、17 參訪馬德里及近郊之
文化遺產，9/18返回。
二、 與會心得
此第五屆國際工程計算科技會議，與第八屆國際計算結構科技會議同時舉辦，此兩會議每年在歐洲
不同城市同時舉辦。此次會議約有 470位作者，大部份來自歐洲國家，台灣有 10多位學者參加。論文較
多在結構的計算，營建管理是一小部分，台灣學者論文多被安排在一個 session: Modelling of decision 
making and risk analysis in construction management 。
三、 考察參觀活動
此次會議附帶參觀西班牙的世界文化遺產 西班牙政府對於文化資產的尊重與用心，不但能保存本身
豐富多元的文化資產，並且善加活用，賦予舊建造物新的意義。由羅馬水道橋可發現，在不破壞古蹟遺
址的前題下，仍能促成市鎮現代化發展。台灣也有文化資產保護的相關法規，在實際的作法上，土木工
程師應檢視工程的規劃與設計如何周延，思考保存文化資產並切合實際的雙贏機制。
四、 建議
此研討會之論文發表，應將台灣的學者分開到不同 session，才容易增加交流機會。
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容
          論文集 Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Engineering Computational Technology
3This study explored the IT strategic needs of construction to understand the forces driving the companies 
to adopt IT. Then, this study reviewed the IT status and stages of construction companies, understood their 
adoption thinking, interviewed companies, and finally suggested guidelines of IT adoption strategy for a 
construction company to increase its competitive advantage.
2. Definition and Influence of IT
2.1  Definition of technology 
The meaning of technology is multi-dimensional, existing in different kinds of forms and definitions. In 
manufacturing, technology has often been used interchangeably with the production system. Koskela [6] sees 
the production as a transformation process. Daft [7] defines technology as the tools, techniques, machines, and 
actions used to transform organizational input (materials, information, ideas) into output (product and services) 
as shown in Figure 1.
In this definition technology includes hard machinery and soft work procedures. Most literature of 
technology emphasizes the hardware aspect such as machine and techniques but neglects the software aspect 
such as methods of working and managing. Technology influences the achievement of strategic objectives and 
performance. The software of the transformation process is like tacit knowledge that is worth exploring in depth 
to supplement hardware to achieve better performance [8].
IT in the broad sense is equivalent to technology. An organization’s IT consists of hardware, software, 
telecommunications, database management, and other technologies. It stores data and makes them available in 
the form of information for organization decision making [9]. These technologies give organization managers 
and employees access to complex databases of customer and organizational information.
Today, almost every company uses some forms of IT. The strategic use of IT may be one of the defining 
aspects of organizational success today. By providing managers with more information more quickly than ever 
before, current IT improves efficiency and effectiveness.
Figure 1: Definition of technology
5Figure 2: Driving Forces of Technical Change
3.  IT Application and Obstacles
3.1  IT application status 
The construction industry has been slow in adopting new IT compared to other industries. Most construction 
companies do not believe what benefit IT will bring to products and services. As IT develops, lessons learned 
from other industries seem to be positive to organizational performance. So construction companies began to 
use IT but their strategies to IT adoption are still limited in financial accounting system, data storing system, or 
human resource management system. 
Construction companies in Taiwan generally utilize computerized management in routine activities such as 
financial accounting [18]. If applied well, they would adopt IT in further activities such as budget estimation, 
quantity calculation, purchase and bids. However, the project management system will be adopted at the final 
stage. From the result of investigating IT application in thirty-three construction companies in Taiwan [18], 
there are still about 45% of the companies that have not applied any IT yet. Besides, the study has examined the 
current status of construction companies and made a list of IT adoption priority for business management as 
illustrated in Table 1. The priority list reveals the same order as discussed above, that is, financial accounting 
and human resource management are the most common IT that the construction companies adopt.
By interviewing Taiwan construction companies recently in 2005, it is known that construction IT 
application does not make obvious progress. Most construction companies still apply IT in financial accounting 
system and data storing system. Some companies adopt daily report system, document searching system, 
quantity calculating system, or schedule management system due to requirements from owners. IT adoption 
does not come spontaneously but is forced by the owners. On the other hand, IT application including the tools 
and techniques that are seldom integrated with the construction engineering process makes it no value to the 
construction companies for a long-term business strategy.
7The guidelines for the project level are: (1) ensure adequate technical support; (2) standardize transmission 
solutions; (3) set strategic and technical direction; (4) conduct regular evaluation of IT-induced benefits; (5) 
appoint a project IT champion; and (6) encourage more active involvement by IT staff.
5. Conclusion
IT is changing work operations, management methods, and even organization strategies. The issue of IT 
application such as electronic business has been ushered in Taiwan in recent years. But IT application in the 
construction industry is still scarce, especially rarely used in construction operation activities.
This research explored the IT strategic needs of construction companies from the standpoint of forces 
driving IT adoption. One force is from the market and the other is from organizations and work processes to 
improve productivity and competitiveness. The IT status of the construction companies in Taiwan shows that 
their IT adoption is still limited in routine activities such as financial accounting and data storage. 
From reviewing previous studies and interviewing construction companies, some guidelines for 
construction companies to adopt IT were suggested. However, the extent of the study is great. Further research 
is needed to materialize them.
References
[1] P. Mitropoulos, and C. B. Tatum, (2000). “Forces Driving Adoption of New Information 
Technologies.” Journal of Construction Engineering and Management. ASCE, 126 (5), 340-348.
[2] Business Roundtable (1982). “Technological Progress in the Construction Industry. A report of The 
Construction Industry Cost Effectiveness Project.” Rep. B-2, New York.
[3] M. E. Porter, (2003). “Building the Microeconomic Foundations of Prosperity: Findings from the 
Business Competitiveness Index.” The Global Competitiveness Report 2003-2004, 29-56, Word 
Economic Forum, Oxford University Press, N.Y.
[4] G. Ofori, (1994). “Construction Industry Development: Role of Technology Transfer.” Construction 
Management and Economics, 12, 379-392.
[5] F. Hasegawa, (1988). Built by Japan: Competitiveness Strategies of the Japanese Construction Industry. 
Wiley, New York.
[6] L. Koskela, (2000). ”Management of Production in Construction: A Theoretical View.” Proceedings of 
IGLC-7, Berkeley, CA.
[7] R. L. Daft, (2004). Organization Theory and Design. 8th edition. South-Western College Publishing, 
USA.
[8] A. S. Chang, and K. P. Lee, (2004). “Nature of Construction Technology.” Proc. 12th Annual Lean 
Construction Conference. 3-5 Aug., Demark.
[9] R. L. Daft, and D. Marcic, (2004). Understanding Management. 4th edition. South-Western Thomson 
Learning, Inc., Ohio.
[10] N. S. Morton, (1991). The Corporation of the 1990's: Information Technology and Organizational 
Transformation. Oxford University Press, N.Y.
[11] M. Betts, K. Mathur, G. Ofori, and C. Lim, (1991). “Strategies for the Construction Sector in the 
Information Technology Era.” Construction Management and Economics, 9, 509-528.
[12] S. S. Lim, (1990). “Singapore’s opportunities for Competitive Advantage.” Keynote Address to 
Opening Session of the National IT Application Conference, 1-7 March 1990, Singapore.
[13] N. G. Carr, (2003). “IT Doesn’t Matter.” Harvard Business Review, May, 41-49.
[14] M. E. Porter, (1985). Competitive advantage, Free Press, New York.
