2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
無鉛低黏度錫磷酸鹽封接玻璃的性質改善
Improvement of Properties of Lead-Free, Low-Viscosity Stannous Phosphate Sealing Glasses
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-036-005
主持人：徐錦志 大同大學材料工程學系
計畫參與人員：葉志賢, 江志鈞, 周瑞彬, 賴孝杰, 林孟姍, 梁力人,大同大學材料工程學系
Abstract
Effects of sintering atmosphere (Ar, air, and O2) on the sinterability, crystallization, and water
durability of 60SnO, 10MgO, 30P2O5 (mole%) glass powder were investigated. Increasing the
oxygen partial pressure (PO2) in the sintering atmosphere enhanced the oxidation tendency of Sn2+
to Sn4+ near the surface region of the glass particles. Therefore, the glass viscosity was increased,
resulting in the increase in both the temperature of densification and the temperature at which
crystalline phases developed. Phase assemblage and the amounts of crystalline phases were also
affected by PO2. The water durability of the sintered glasses is discussed in terms of the above
microstructural parameters.
Keywords： glass, phosphate, stannous, sintering, atmosphere, oxidation, sealing
I. Introduction
In comparison to silicate glasses, phosphate
glasses have low softening temperatures, high
thermal expansion, and unique optical
characteristics. Thus, low-melting phosphate
glasses are candidate materials for applications
such as molding glasses [1], laser glass/fiber
laser [2], optical glasses [3], low-temperature
hosts for nuclear waste [4], and
soldering/sealing glasses [5-6]. From the
environment viewpoint, lead-free, P2O5-baed
glasses are also alternatives to the
PbO-containing glasses [7]. In the past, the
practice use of low-melting phosphate glasses is
limited due to their relatively poor chemical
durability [8, 9]. Several efforts have been made
to improve the chemical durability while retain
the low softening temperature of phosphate
glasses [5, 7, 8, 10-19].It has been shown that
partial substitution of nitrogen for oxygen in
glass structure during the melting process is able
to improve the chemical durability of phosphate
glasses [20-22]. It is also reported that addition
of one or more oxides, such as SnO, SiO2, Al2O3,
or B2O3, can remarkably improve the chemical
durability of phosphate glasses [23-26].
Sn-P-O-F glasses with ultra-low glass transition
temperatures, good chemical durability, and
relatively high thermal expansion have been
reported [25, 27]. Morena [5, 17], Yamanaka
[28], and Taketami [29] reported that
SnO-ZnO-P2O5 glasses have low softening
temperature and good chemical durability. We
recently published a new glass system
SnO-MgO-P2O5 that has low softening
temperatures and good chemical durability [30,
31]. Effects of glass composition on the glass
formation, thermal properties, and water
durability of the as-cast glasses have been
investigated [30]. We also studied the sintering,
crystallization, and the resulting properties of
the 60 SnO, 10 MgO, 30 P2O5 (mole%) glass in
4scanning electron microscopy observations. The
bottom surface of the sintered samples was less
influenced by the sintering atmosphere due to
the attachment of the substrate. Therefore, in the
water durability test, the bottom surface of the
specimen was smeared with epoxy to avoid
water attack. The samples were placed in
covered polypropylene flasks containing 100 ml
of deionized water at 40°C for 540 min. At least
three samples were used for each sintering
condition. Finally, the average dissolution rate,
defined as the weight loss per surface unit area
per time unit, was calculated.
III. Results and discussion
(1) Thermal Analysis of the Glass Powder
Figure 2(a) shows the original TGA
thermograms of the glass powders heated in
various atmospheres. The weight loss at lower
and higher temperatures may be due to water
evaporation and trace evaporation of the glass,
respectively. The sequence of weight loss of the
glass powder was Ar > air > O2. Because
heating the glass under an Ar atmosphere should
not cause oxidation of Sn2+, the actual weight
loss curves for air and O2 can be obtained by
subtract the Ar curve from the original curves,
as shown in Fig.2(b). It can be seen that the
weight gain increased with increasing PO2,
implying that on the glass particle surface the
tendency of Sn2+ to oxidize into Sn4+ becomes
more obvious.
Figure 3 shows the TMA shrinkage curves
of the glass powder compacts heated in various
atmospheres. The rate of viscous-flow sintering
(represented as the curve slope) of glass
powders decreased with increasing PO2. Figure 4
shows the DTA thermograms of glass powders
heated in various atmospheres. For each curve,
two exothermic peaks appeared at a lower
temperature (380°C, 398°C, and 410°C for Ar,
air, and O2, respectively) and a higher
temperature (457°C, 451°C, and 481°C for Ar,
air , and O2, respectively) indicating that at least
two crystalline phases formed during heating.
According to the XRD and SEM analyses
(described in the Sec.III(2)), the lower- and
higher-temperature exothermic peaks are
associated with the formation of Mg- and
Sn-bearing phosphates, respectively. Moreover,
the lower-temperature exothermic peak shifted
to a higher temperature with increasing PO2. On
the other hand, the higher-temperature
exothermic peak first slightly shifted to a lower
temperature, and then moved to a higher
temperature.
According to the TGA thermograms in
Fig.2, on the glass particle surface the tendency
of Sn2+ to oxidize to Sn4+ is significantly
enhanced by increasing PO2. The stronger
Sn4+-O bond than the Sn2+-O bond [40] would
increase the viscosity of the glass on the particle
surface, thus increasing both the sintering
temperature (Fig.3) and the temperature at
which crystalline phases developed (Fig.4).
(2) Crystalline Phase Formation and
Microstructure Development
Figures 5(a)-(i) show the as-sintered surfaces of
the samples. For the samples sintered at 380°C
and 410°C (Figs.5(a)-(c) and Figs.5(d)-(f),
respectively), the surface porosity (or surface
roughness) increased with increasing PO2. For
the samples sintered at 470°C (Figs.5(g)-(i)), the
surface porosity is very high for all samples.
Figure 6(a) shows the XRD patterns of the
as-sintered surfaces. Although crystalline signals
can be detected around 380°C on the DTA
thermograms (Fig.4), the as-sintered surfaces at
380°C were x-ray amorphous. This suggests that
6assemblage, and the amount of crystalline
phases) affect the water durability of the sintered
sample.
(3) Water Durability
Figure 8 shows the variations in the average
dissolution rate, DR, of the sintered samples
immersed in 40°C water for 540 min. For the
380C-sintered samples, the DR increased with
increasing PO2. This result can be attributed to
the increase in the porosity on the as-sintered
surface (Figs.5(a)-(c)) which increases the
effective contact-area between glass and water.
For the 410C-sintered samples, the DR initially
decreased slightly with increasing PO2, and then
increased obviously. The reason for this DR
decrease may be due to the reduced amount of
S3P phase (Fig.7(a)), with has an intrinsically
poor water durability. The reason for the DR is
an increase in the surface porosity (Figs.5(d)-(f)).
When the sintering temperature was increased to
470C, with the increasing PO2 the DR value
decreased continuously although the surface
porosity became higher (Figs.5(g)-(i)). It is
suggested that when PO2 is increased, either the
obviously decreased amount of S3P phases
(Fig.6(a)) or the enhanced tendency of Sn2+
oxidizing to Sn4+ on the glass particle surface,
which will increase the glass viscosity, leading
to a higher average bonding strength of glass
structure and in turn to a decreased DR. These
findings on chemical durability indicate that the
PO2 level during sintering affects the porosity,
phase assemblage, and the amounts of
crystalline phases on the as-sintered surface,
which in turn influenced water durability.
In summary, water durability of the present
sintered SnO-MgO-P2O5 glass can be improved
when sintering at lower temperatures (e.g.,
380C and 410C) under Ar or air atmosphere,
or when sintering at higher temperatures (e.g.,
470C) under O2 atmosphere.
IV. Conclusions
A low-viscosity stannous phosphate
(SnO-MgO-P2O5) glass powder was sintered at
380-470C for 15 min under different
atmosphere (Ar, air, and O2). It was found that
increasing oxygen partial pressure (PO2) caused
a greater tendency of Sn2+ oxidizing to Sn4+ on
the surface of the glass particles, increasing the
apparent viscosity of the glass. This increase in
glass viscosity increased both the densification
temperature and the crystallization temperature
of the glass powder compacts, resulting in an
increase in porosity and a decreased in total
amount of the crystalline phases. Phase
assemblage was also affected by the sintering
atmosphere. The crystalline phases formed in he
sintered samples are Mg3(PO4)2, Mg2P2O7,
Sn3(PO4)2, and Sn(IV)P2O7, depended on the
sintering conditions (temperature and
atmosphere). For sintering temperature of 470C,
on the as-sintered surface Sn(IV)P2O7 developed
under O2 atmosphere, while Sn3(PO4)2
developed under air and Ar atmospheres. The
PO2-dependent porosity, phase assemblage, and
the amounts of crystalline phases of the
as-sintered surface determined the water
durability of the sintered glass. It is shown that
the water durability of the sintered glass can be
improved using Ar or air atmospheres for lower
temperatures (e.g., 380C and 410C) and using
O2 atmosphere for higher temperatures (e.g.,
470C).
8Ta
bl
e
1
Su
rf
ac
e
ch
ar
ac
te
ri
st
ic
s
an
d
w
at
er
du
ra
bi
lit
y
of
th
e
sa
m
pl
es
si
nt
er
ed
at
38
0º
C
-4
70
ºC
fo
r2
0
m
in
in
va
ri
ou
s
at
m
os
ph
er
es
.
and A. Watiaux, “NMR and Mössbauer 
Characterization of Tin(II)-Tin(IV)-Sodium
Phosphate Glasses,” J. Non-Cryst. Solids, 345&346,
70-74 (2004).
40. K.F.E. Williams, C.E. Johnson, J. Greengrass, B.P.
Tiley, D. Gelder, and J.A. Johnson, “Tin Oxidation 
State, Depth Profiles of Sn2+ and Sn4+ and Oxygen
Diffusivity in Float Glass by Mössbauer
Specctroscopy,” J. Non-Cryst. Solids, 211, 164-72
(1997).
41. S. Takeda, R. Akiyama, and H. Hosono,
“Formation of Nanometer-Sized SnO2 Colloids and
Change in Sn-Depth Concentration Profile in Float
Glass Induced by Oxygen Diffusion From
Atmosphere at Temperature Above Tg,” J.
Non-Cryst. Solids, 281, 1-5 (2001).
42. G. Principi, A. Maddalena, A. Gupta, F.
Geotti-Bianchini, S. Hreglich, and M. Verita,
“Oxidation State of Surface Tin in an Industrially
Produced Float Glass,”Nucl. Instr. Meth. Phys.
Res., B76, 215-17 (1993).
10
Figure 5 SEM as-sintered surface micrographs of the samples sintered at 380°C-470°C for 20 min in
various atmospheres
Figure 6 XRD patterns for (a) as-sintered surface and (b) polished surface of the samples sintered at
380°C-470°C for 20 min in various atmospheres. (+: Sn(IV)P2O7, ○: Mg3(PO)4, ■ : Sn3(PO4)2, and
# : α-Mg2P2O7).
