 
II. 英文摘要： 
Recently, the low-rate, short-distance, and low-cost wireless networks are 
required in many applications. One of these applications is sensor network which 
combines wireless transmission and different sensors to provide special services for 
human beings. The main researches of sensor networks are location, power saving, 
mobility, and the performance of transmissions. There is a novel and standard medium 
access control (MAC) protocol constructed to satisfy the requirements of sensor 
networks named IEEE 802.15.4. Another group ZigBee Alliance also proceeds to 
define this kind of networks to make it robust. 
Recently, the sensor devices are widely embedded in varies appliances for 
automatic control. For instances, a sensorial lamp switches on/off depending on the 
changes of infrared and an air conditioning is able to trace the heat source to cool. 
However, most parts of non-sensor embedded or programmable appliances cannot be 
smart as what we want unless replacement. Therefore, in this project, we propose 
an(a) automatic/half-automatic integrated control environment named “Smart Wireless 
Integrated Networks (S-WIN)”. This structure consists of one or multiple controllers 
(replaced as coordinator) and multiple smart nodes. The coordinator(s) could order 
and program nodes if need by wireless communication following IEEE 802.15.4 
standard protocol. The entities of programming include the clock setting, the 
transmission distance, the sensor selection, and some advanced functions. The 
prototype of smart node is a power relay between the power slot and the electric 
appliance. The smart node controls power on/off according to the orders or programs 
made by coordinators. Thus, these relay nodes could be seen as smart wireless 
switches. 
We will combine a micro-control unit (MCU) and a transceiver to implement the 
master devices and smart nodes of S-WIN. This project encourages us to study the 
wireless transmission protocol and to develop the technology of embedded systems. It 
is expected that the smart wireless switches will bring us much more convenient life.   
 
關鍵詞(keywords)： IEEE 802.15.4、感測網路(sensor networks)、無線智慧型整
合網路（S-WIN） 
 
 
                                              共 5 頁  第 2 頁 
 
報告內容： 
 
  III. 研究方法： 
吾人於計劃執行前期尚未實現硬體之前，先採用由瑞典 Chipcon 公司所販售
之 CC2430 開發平台 CC2430 DK (如圖一所示) 進行程式碼的開發，CC2430 DK
乃為一 SoC，其結合 8051 微處理器(MCU)以及無線送發功能。此開發平台可讓使
用者將撰寫完成之程式碼載入至 MCU 中進行運算及執行，兩塊開發平台間的無
線傳輸便可透過程式碼而標準化。標準化是為了依照 IEEE 802.15.4 通訊協定來
制定平台間的運作方式，目的是為了未來能與其他數位家電互相通訊。 
開發程式的過程中，需要除錯及驗證各程序或是所傳送的封包內容是否符合
吾人的要求，因此需要一個輔助的設備監視著空氣中的訊號並且能夠解釋所接收
到之封包內容。除了使用 Chipcon 公司的 CC2430 DK 開發平台外，吾人另外使
用一組名為 CC2420 DK (如圖二所示) 的測試平台。CC2420 DK 測試平台可以接
收空氣中的訊號，並且解釋 IEEE 802.15.4 標準之封包格式。透過此儀器，吾人
於開發階段，可判斷所撰寫之程式是否可正確的傳送出封包以及兩平台間資料交
換的程序是否滿足標準。 
 
圖一、CC2430 DK 
 
圖二、CC2420 DK 
                                              共 5 頁  第 4 頁 
