Abstract 
 
A transparent carbon nanotubes thin film with complex ZnO materials has been prepared, 
and utilized the spinning coating technology to fabricate a cathode of the field-emission 
display. A nanoscale Ni-Mg bimetallic catalyst was used to grow the mutiwalled carbon 
nanotubes (MWCNTs) by catalytic chemical vapor deposition (CCVD) method. To use the 
purified MWCNTs with ZnO gel prepared the ZnO-CNTs gel by sol-gel method. The 
sunthesized ZnO-CNTs composite gel was coated on ITO substrate by spinning coating 
method and annealed to manufacture a field-emission cathode. According to the experimental 
results, the field emission has the higher efficiency when the concentration of ZnO gel 
reached to 0.2M. The optimum result was achieved with a turn-on field of 3.15 V/µm at 10 
µA/cm2. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image results show that the higher ZnO 
concentration can trap the carbon nanotubes and decrease the performance of field emission. 
In addition, the higher annealing temperatures cause the dispersing agent to decompose, and 
increase transmittance and field emission property of the ZnO-CNTs composite film. 
 
Keywords: Carbon nanotubes; zinc oxide; field emission; transparent film; sol-gel method 
 
 
1. Introduction 
 
In recent, CNTs have been widely investigated for application in field emission devices 
due to their high aspect ratios, small curvature radius, low turn-on fields, and large-emission 
current [1]. They are also increased attention to the CNTs transparent conductivity film 
(CNTs-TCF) in field emission research [2-8]. For the applications in displays and highly 
efficient luminescent lamps, the CNTs-TCFs have several advantages over conventional field 
emission device. For example, if the emitter device is transparent, the light can generate on 
the phosphor layer of the anode plate and go through the transparent cathode plate. This 
inverse structure makes it possible that the field emission device’s brightness is easily 
doubled. Moreover, the thicker metallic layer can also be used for the anode plant that 
improves discharge of the phosphorus. 
The common methods for the CNTs-TCF fabrication include spin-coating [9], wire-bar 
coating [10], vacuum-filtering [7], spray-coating [11,12], and dip-coating [13,14]. The 
synthesis of CNTs-TCF by spin-coating shows advantages in surface uniformity, good 
electrical conductivity, controllable thickness, short coating time, and ability to extend the 
coating area. However, the method has an obstacle from a weak adhesion between CNTs and 
the substrate. To overcome this shortcoming, we use ZnO gel as an inorganic adhesive to 
increase adhesion between the CNT and the substrate. ZnO has a wide band gap (3.37 eV) 
semiconductor with a large exciton binding energy (60 meV), and it is also a popular material 
for field emission studies due to its high mechanical strength, good optical quality, chemical 
stability and excellent piezoelectric properties. Many studies have shown that the ZnO-CNTs 
nanocomposite exhibits good field emission properties [15-19]. ZnO nanoparticles coated on 
the walls of CNTs can enhance the field emission stability and reduce the turn-on electric 
fields of CNTs [20-22]. 
In this study, the transparent ZnO-CNTs composite film has been fabricated by sol-gel 
method and spin coating technology. The ZnO gel can be used as an inorganic adhesive to 
increase adhesion between the CNT and the substrate, and enhance the field emission stability. 
Transmittances and field emission properties of the transparent ZnO-CNTs composite film 
will be further discussed under different concentration of the ZnO gel and annealing 
temperatures. 
 
Figure1. The TEM images of the raw (a) and purified (b) CNTs 
  
The SEM imagesof the ZnO-CNTs film were prepared from different concentration of 
zinc oxide gel at 350oC annealing temperature are shown in Fig. 2(a)–(d) to observe the 
surface morphology of the samples. Fig. 2(a) shows the SEM images of the pure carbon 
nanotubes transparent film which was prepared by the purified CNTs were dispersed in IPA. 
It indicates from that the formation of carbon nanotubes network structure on the substrate. 
Fig. 2(b) and (c) shows the morphology of the ZnO-CNTs film prepared at different 
concentration of zinc oxide gel. When the concentration of the zinc oxide gel is 0.2M (Fig. 
2(b)), carbon nanotubes can be fixed by the zinc oxide layer on the substrate. The surface of 
the carbon nanotubes exist many zinc oxide nanoparticles. However, when zinc oxide gel 
concentrations increases to 0.4 M (Fig. 2(c)), the large amount of zinc oxide covered carbon 
nanotubes. Therefore, the CNTs are difficult to expose in the surface of the ZnO-CNTs film. 
Fig. 2(d) shows the low magnification SEM image of the ZnO-CNTs film prepared with the 
0.2M zinc oxide gel. The images confirmed that the surface morphology of the ZnO-CNTs 
films were prepared by spin coating method is quite uniform. A large number of carbon 
nanotubes are not only uniform distribution in the cathode plate but also exposition in the 
surface. 
 
 
 
Figure 2. The SEM image of the ZnO-CNTs film prepared with of  (a) 0M (b) 0.2M 
(c) 0.4M zinc oxide gel at 350oC annealing temperature (d) low magnification image 
of the ZnO-CNTs film prepared with 0.2M ZnO gel 
The curves of field emission current density (J) versus electric field (E) have been shown 
in Fig. 5. The emission current is measured by applying voltage increasing from 0.005 to 1 
kV with a sweep step of 5 V. The J–E curves of the ZnO-CNTs film cathode was prepared 
from different concentration of zinc oxide gel at 350oC is shown in Fig. 4(a). The turn-on 
fields, defined as an electric field required emitting electrons of 10 µA/cm2, for 0M (pure 
CNTs film), 0.2M are ~4.45 V/µm, and ~3.15 V/µm, respectively. The turn-on fields of the 
the ZnO-CNTs film prepared with 0.4M ZnO gel could not be detected because the field 
emission current density is too small. The results show that appropriate concentration of ZnO 
gel could help the field emission properties of CNTs. But the higher concentration of ZnO gel 
could entrap the CNTs and decrease the performance of field emission. The J–E curves of the 
ZnO-CNTs film cathode was annealed at different temperatures with 0.2M ZnO gel is shown 
in Fig. 4(b). The turn-on fields are ~3.3 V/µm, ~3.15 V/µm and ~3.55 V/µm at 250oC, 350oC 
and 450oC, respectively. In addition, Fig. 6 shows the ZnO-CNTs film annealed at 450oC. It 
shows that the CNTs on the film surface have been destroyed because of the high annealing 
temperature. The results show that although the annealing process can decrease the turn-on 
fields by removing the organic dispersion agent, it causes the oxidation of carbon nanotubes 
and decreases the performance of field emission. 
 
 
Figure 5. Field emission characteristics of the ZnO-CNTs film (a) different 
concentrations of ZnO gel (b) different annealing temperatures 
 
Fig.6. The SEM image of the ZnO-CNTs film 
annealed at 450oC with 0.2M ZnO gel 
 
 
 
 
 
參加 2011 國際化學工程和先端材料研討會會議報告 
一百年五月二十八至三十一日，長沙市湖南省，中國 
 
 
(一) 參加會議經過 ： 
 2011 國際化學工程和先進材料研討會於一百年六五月二十八日至三十一日在中國湖南省
長沙市隆重舉行，此次會議以基礎化學工程、化學工程之應用及先端材料三個主題之現況及
及未來發展風向，尤其對奈米科技於化學工程之應用有深入之探討。每一天以三組不同領域
分別為主要課題進行口頭報告前都會有邀請函邀請之演講者對此課題做一般性之演講，其中
包括五篇邀請演講: Professor Chuanjian Zhong, State University of New York at Binghamton, 
USA; Professor Yinghe He, James Cook University, Australia; Professor Xueqiang Cao, Changchun 
Institute of Applied Chemistry; Professor Lixian Sun, Dalian Institute of Chemical Physics, CAS, 
China; Professor Zhong Cao, Changsha University of Science and Technology 等。每一天約有 u
一百二十多篇論文口頭發表，整個會議共有約一千三百五十篇論文摘要申請口頭報告，總共
約五百篇獲選做口頭發表，參加會議之總共有來自十五個國家約為五百人，主要參加者以中
國學術界為最多。 
本人於星期一(5/30)早上發表之口頭論文題目為“覆載型奈米氧化鎢觸媒於甲醇氧化之研
究＂。由文獻得知，在覆載型氧化鎢屬觸媒具有酸性基位應用於同分異構、脫水、裂解等催
化反應，分析此模式觸媒之特性如孔道結構、孔道大小、表面積大小等並對甲醇氧化反應的
影響，以應用於甲醇氧化反應研究及並探討氧化鎢表面結構之相關性，對其它有興趣之研究
主題亦和多位學者做深入之交談，如奈米技術之應用及太陽能電池材料之開發等，受益甚多。 
 
(二) 與會心得 
藉由此次會議對中國觸媒發展及研究加深瞭解，比較國內最大之不同點在人力、環境及
研究經費。中國著重於長期基礎研究，而且人力資源雄厚，大部分都由國家科學院贊助之研
究較多。國內之研究著重實物應用方面而以短期研究計畫為主。這次除了本人參與外，國內
還有國立宜蘭大學及虎尾科技大學兩位教授參加。對於此會議之主題亦可做為國內每年舉辦
之觸媒及反應工程研討會之參考。藉由學術會議彼此交流，進而互相成長及發展。 
 
 會議一律用英文進行口頭報告，中國之學生英文能力普遍比台灣學生較好，茲將演講之
材料(見附件一)，此論文亦發表於 Advanced Materials Research。 
(三) 帶回之資料 
 2011 國際化學工程和先進材料研討會會議目錄及口頭報告摘要，出席會議之名單。 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鄭紀民 計畫編號：99-2221-E-005-093- 
計畫名稱：新穎碳氮奈米管透明導電膜應用於三極式場發射平面光源之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
