1光電元件之研究，設計與製作(I)
“Investigation, Design and Fabrication of Optoelectronic Devices (I)”
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-013-001-
執行期間：98 年 8 月 1 日 至 99 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：郭德豐 空軍軍官學校電子系 教授
共同主持人：劉文超 成功大學微電子所 教授
I. ABSTRATE
The illumination effect on switching
performance is presented for a triangular-barrier
resonant-tunneling diode (TBRTD). In the
structure center of the TBRTD, a delta-doped
(-doped) quantum well is inserted. Owing to
the resonant tunneling through the miniband in
the quantum well, an N-shaped
negative-differential-resistance (NDR)
phenomenon is observed in the current-voltage
(I-V) characteristics. The device shows a flexible
optical function related to the cap-layer
conductivity and potential barrier height
changeable by incident light.
Keywords: triangular barrier, resonant tunneling,
delta-doped, miniband
在本成果報告中，主要是三角形位能障壁共振
穿透元件之光電特性，在該元件之結構中，具
有一單原子摻雜(-doped)之量子井，藉由共
振穿透該量子井中之迷你能帶，而形成N型之
負微分電阻特性，由於頂層(cap layer)導電性與
位能障壁高度受到光照強度之影響，該元件展
現了光控之特性。
關鍵詞:三角形位能障壁，共振穿透，單原子
摻雜，迷你能帶
II. INTRODUCTION
In addition to that the tunneling mechanism
and quantum effect involved in the operation of
resonant tunneling diodes (RTD’s) have been the 
focus of both theoretical and experimental
investigations, RTD’s have also been applied 
successfully to the field of high-speed switches
and high-frequency oscillators [1-5]. Because of
their fast response time and device physics,
RTD’s can be utilized as optical devices [6,7]. 
As an alternative candidate of fast-speed devices,
triangular-barrier diode is very promising [8,9].
The triangular-barrier diode was the first time
made by inserting a p -GaAs layer into an
i-GaAs layer with n -GaAs layers on both sides
[10]. However, it is suitable for rectifying, but
not for resonant tunneling device. In this report,
a GaAs-InGaAs triangular-barrier resonant-
tunneling diode (TBRTD) and the illumination
effect on the switching characteristics are
presented. Sandwiched in between two
n -GaAs layers, an InGaAs well with a p-type
delta-doped ( )( p ) sheet in the center is used
to form the triangular-barrier structure. In the
InGaAs well, a miniband is produced. Owing to
the resonant tunneling through the miniband, an
N-shaped negative-differential-resistance (NDR)
phenomenon is observed in the current-voltage
(I-V) characteristics. Not only the electric but
optical performance of the device is studied. The
difference between dark and illumination
characteristics is interpreted by the variation of
the cap-layer conductivity [11] and triangular
barrier height. Because the I-V characteristic is
associated with incident light, the device exhibits
a flexible optical function.
III. EXPERIMENTS
3demonstrated [12, 13]. In these researches, the
photoinduced Vp and VV decreases were due
to the local enhancement of the electric field
within the double barrier structure by
accumulated photogenerated holes, and the
photoinduced IV increase is because of
photogenerated hole tunneling. The illumination
influence on the transport mechanism of the
studied TBRTD is quite different from that of the
DBRTD’s. We consider first the screening 
mechanism related to the triangular barrier
height. The holes photogenerated in the drain
region and then accumulated in the InGaAs well,
as shown in Fig.2, will cause a lowering of the
triangular barrier, which implies that less voltage
is necessary to switch the device. This is meant
that a lower Vp and VV are obtained under
illumination. Moreover, the lowered barrier also
produces a higher I P and IV , as shown in
Fig.3. However, compared to the I P increment,
the IV increment from dark to illumination
condition is very small. This is attributed to not
only the barrier lowering effect but also the
lateral current confinement associated with the
cap-layer conductivity. As the area of the mesa
equals that of the metal contact, i.e., w=0, the
lateral current confinement is complete. When
the mesa is larger than the metal contact, w0,
the lateral current confinement is incomplete,
and thus the electrostatic potential in the cap
layer is not constant along the cap-layer plane
because of the finite conductivity of the layer.
Furthermore, the potential difference across the
device at different points along the cap-layer
plane is not the same and the resonant tunneling
effect is not the same at each point. Under
illumination, the conductivity of the cap layer is
increased, and a larger amount of electrons
injected from the cap layer can tunnel through
the miniband in the )( p InGaAs well with
the peak or valley range in the transmission
resonance spectra to produce a higher I P or a
lower IV , respectively. The I P is increased by
the increasing of the cap-layer conductivity as
well as by the lowering of the barrier under
illumination. However, the IV decrement
caused by the increasing conductivity neutralizes
the IV increment by the lowing barrier. Thus
the IV is increased a little, nearly unchanged,
from dark to illumination condition. In Ref.12,
the I P of the DBRTD’s first increased and then 
decreased with increasing illumination power.
The I P increase might be attributed to the
cap-layer conductivity increase, and the I P
decrease might be due to the accumulated
photogenerated holes that destroyed the
symmetry of the double barrier and then reduced
the peak transmission coefficient.
The experimental I P and IV and
peak-to-valley current ratio PVCR for the
devices with different values of w under
illumination (solid lines) and dark (dashed lines)
at -170 o C are plotted in Fig.4. The devices are
all with r of 20m . In w ranging from 150 to
about 50 m under dark and to about
70m under illumination, the I P and IV do
not change much. This implies that the lateral
current is confined mostly within a region of
w=50 m under dark and 70 m under
illumination in our devices. The wider
confinement region of the lateral current under
illumination results from the cap-layer
conductivity enhanced by incident light. From
dark to illumination condition at a fixed value of
w, since the lowered barrier by accumulated
photogenerated holes in the InGaAs well causes
the I P and IV increase, and the increased
cap-layer conductivity by incident light makes
the I P increase and IV decrease, as
previously mentioned, the increment of I P is
much larger than that of IV and thus the PVCR
is increased, as shown in Fig.4.
V. CONCLUSION
A GaAs triangular-barrier resonant-
tunneling diode (TBRTD) with a )( p
InGaAs quantum well has been fabricated and
demonstrated. N-shaped NDR characteristics are
obtained due to the resonant tunneling through
the miniband in the well. Because the incident
light changes the potential barrier height and
5Figure 1. Schematic sketch of the studied
device.
Figure 2. Energy band diagram of a biased
studied device with incident photons, and
photogenerated electrons and holes.
Figure 3. Experimental current-voltage
characteristics of the studied device with
r=20 m and w=20 m under illumination
(solid lines) and dark (dashed lines) at -170 o C .
Figure 4. Experimental peak current I P and
valley current IV and peak-to-valley current
ratio PVCR for the studied devices with
difference values of w under illumination (solid
lines) and dark (dashed lines) at -170 o C . The
devices are all with r of 20m .
1國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告
日期：99 年 10 月 15 日
一、參加會議經過
第 217 屆電化學會議(217th ECS Meeting)之舉行日期為 4 月 25 日至 4 月 30 日，共計 6 天；本
屆會議涵蓋了數個主題，每個主題亦分了數個會議，該些主題包含了”Batteries, Fuel Cells, and
Energy Conversion”、”Biomedical Applications and Organic Electrochemistry”、”Corrosion, Passivation,
and Anodic Films”、”Dielectric and Semiconductor Materials, Devices, and
Processing”、”Electrochemical / Chemical Deposition and Etching”、”Electrochemical Synthesis and
Engineering”、”Fullerenes, Nanotubes, and Carbon Nanostructures”、”Physical and Analytical
Electrochemistry”、”Sensors and Displays: Principles, Materials, and Processing”等，而本次所參加的
是”Dielectric and Semiconductor Materials, Devices, and Processing”主題裏的”Wide-Bandgap
Semiconductor Materials and Devices”會議，其中，參與之專家學者除了來自我國外，計有德國、加
拿大、韓國、美國、日本、英國、及中國等，其討論內容包含了 ZnO、III-Nitrides、SiC and Related
Materials、及 Energy Devices 等。
計畫編號 NSC 98－2221－E－013－001－
計畫名稱 光電元件之研究，設計與製作(I)
出國人員
姓名
郭 德 豐
服務機構
及職稱
空軍軍官學校電子系 教授
會議時間
99年 4月 25日至
99 年 4月 30 日
會議地點 加拿大 溫哥華
會議名稱
(中文)第 217 屆電化學會議
(英文) 217th ECS Meeting
發表論文
題目
(中文) pnpn 及 npn 異質結構光電元件
(英文) pnpn and npn Heterostructural Optoelectronic Devices
3於領先地位；然，在今日物價飛漲之際，國內之學術與研究界之專家學者參與國際學術性活動
之費用明顯地上升，除了希望國科會能提供足夠之經費外，更希望能夠積極鼓勵及補助研究生
參與國際性學術活動，以開拓他們之視野，因為這群莘莘學子將是我國未來於學術界及產業界
之棟樑，讓他們了解及參與國際科技之發展，日後將對我國光電科技之發展提供相當之助益。
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
會議光碟
5Experiments
The devices were grown by MBE on (100)-oriented n-GaAs substrates. The ohmic-contact pnpn TBOS,
named device TBOS-1 hereafter, contained a 200nm n-GaAs (31018 cm3 ) buffer layer, a 600nm
n-GaAs (21016 cm3) layer, a 15nm undoped In 0 2. Ga0 8. As quantum well, a 600nm n-GaAs (2
1016 cm3) layer, and a 200nm p-GaAs (51018 cm3) cap layer. A (p) (51013 cm2) sheet was inserted in
the center of the InGaAs quantum well. The structure of the Schottky-contact npn TBOS, named device
TBOS-2, was similar to that of device TBOS-1 except the p-GaAs cap layer was replaced by an n-GaAs (3
10 17 cm3 ) layer with the same thickness. After the MBE growth, metal contacts were achieved by
conventional evaporation, lift-off and alloying techniques. AuZn and Au were employed as the ohmic-contact
and Schottky-contact metals for the p-GaAs cap layer of device TBOS-1 and the n-GaAs cap layer of device
TBOS-2, respectively. The ohmic and Schottky contacts were in the form of a ring, which was enlarged on
one side to enable bonding. The open area for incident-light optical window had a diameter of 30m. A
circular mesa, 80m in diameter, was made by etching down to the substrate for both devices. AuGe was
employed as the ohmic metal for the substrates.
Results and Discussion
The device operations can be explained by reference to band diagrams. Figures 1(a) and (b) show the band
diagrams of devices TBOS-1 and TBOS-2 with a positive CEV voltage, respectively. The InGaAs )(
p
well and n-GaAs barrier layer and n-GaAs active layer achieve a triangular barrier for both devices. For
device TBOS-1, the p-GaAs cap layer is the collector. But the n-GaAs cap layer of device TBOS-2 is the
emitter. In device TBOS-1, focusing a light source of energy higher than the band-gap energy of GaAs onto
the device surface will generate electron-hole pairs in the device. With a positive CEV voltage applied to the
device, the photogenerated electrons will travel toward the collector, while the photogenerated holes will
move toward the emitter and part of the holes will be accumulated in the )( p well, as shown in Fig.1(a).
The accumulated holes will increase the two-dimensional free holes concentration P D2 and compensate for
some of the two-dimensional acceptor ions density DQ2 in the )(
p sheet. According to that the potential
barrier  is proportional to DQ2 - DqP2 (12), the  will reduce, which will influence the switching
characteristics of device TBOS-1. In the high-impedance OFF state, the emitter and collector junctions are
both slightly forward biased, but the active layer is reversely biased. Due to high impedance of the depletion
region of the active layer, almost all voltage is dropped in the active layer. As the applied voltage is increased
to the switching voltage
SV , the strong electric field across the active layer will be sufficient to cause an
avalanche multiplication. The multiplied holes will move toward the emitter, and some of the holes will also
be accumulated in the InGaAs ( )p well to lower the potential barrier . This potential redistribution
process will cause an S-shaped NDR phenomenon in the experimental current-voltage (I-V) characteristics.
Then, a low-impedance ON state is obtained. Because the characteristics of device TBOS-1 are influenced by
7characteristics revert to the dark situation and the TBOSs will switch back to A. Therefore, both devices can
be switched on and off with an optical input.
Conclusion
An ohmic-contact pnpn triangular-barrier optoelectronic switch (TBOS) was fabricated. An S-shaped
NDR was obtained in the device characteristics. With a Schottky-contact n-type layer to replace the
ohmic-contact p-type cap layer in the ohmic-contact pnpn TBOS, a Schottky-contact npn TBOS was also
proposed to obtain a double S-shaped NDR in device characteristics. Attributed to the triangular barrier
heights associated with incident light, both devices showed a flexible optical function.
Figure 1. Band diagrams of devices (a) TBOS-1 and (b) TBOS-2 with a positive CEV voltage.
910. S. Hutchinson , M. Carr, R. Gwilliam, M. J. Kelly and B. J. Sealy, Electronic Lett., 31, 583 (1995).
11. K. Board and M. Darwish, Solid-State Electronics, 25, 529 (1982).
12. R. J. Malik, T. R. AuCion, R. L. Ross, K. Board, C. E. C. Wood and L. F. Eastman, Electronic Lett., 16,
836 (1980).
13. G. W. Taylor, R. S. Mand, J. G. Simmons and A. Y. Cho, Appl. Phys. Lett., 49, 1406 (1986).
14. J. G. Simmons and G. W. Taylor, IEEE Trans. Electron Devices, 34, 973 (1987).
15. S. J. Kovacic, J. G. Simmons, J. P.Noel, D. C. Houghton and S. Kechang, IEEE Electron Device Lett.,
12, 439 (1991).
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：郭德豐 計畫編號：98-2221-E-013-001- 
計畫名稱：光電元件之研究,設計與製作(I) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
