I. INTRODUCTION
The membrane vesicles are self-assembly structures consisting of bilayers of fluid lipids or
amphiphilic block copolymers, which roll up into a spherical shell, enclosing a small amount
of water and separating it from the water outside the vesicle.1−4 In living cells, vesicles
can transport lipids, proteins and many other molecules within the cell as well as into or
out of the cell. The naturally formed vesicles consist of a complex mixture of diﬀerent
lipids and proteins. Although they oﬀer greater realism for studying specific biological
phenomena, simple artificial vesicles have been extensively used for studies of fundamental
bilayer properties owing to their fundamental similarity to the cell membrane. Another
reason that vesicles have been used so frequently is that they are relatively easy to make.
Phospholipid vesicles, also known as liposomes, of various sizes and compositions have
been employed as carriers, both in vitro and in vivo, to introduce biologically active sub-
stances into cells. Polymersomes are similar to liposomes and assembled by amphiphilic
synthetic block copolymers.5,6 Most reported polymersomes contain an aqueous solution in
their core and are useful for encapsulating and protecting sensitive molecules, including
drugs, enzymes, peptides, and DNA and RNA fragments. While having many of the proper-
ties of natural liposomes, polymersomes exhibit increased stability and reduced permeability.
Furthermore, the use of synthetic polymers enables designers to manipulate the membrane
characteristics and thus control stability, permeability, and other properties of the vesicles.
The deployment of medicines to specifically targeted parts of our bodies is the goal of all
drug delivery systems. Liposomes or polymersomes have been shown to be able to not only
provide protections for drugs against biochemical degradation but also eﬀectively enhance
drug targeting specificity. As a consequence, artificial membrane vesicles are extensively
utilized as carriers for drug delivery systems to improve absorption rates and the properties
of the bilayer membrane plays a key role for their performance.
A bilayer membrane is a large enough structure to have some of the mechanical properties
of liquids or solids. Such physical material properties, classifying bilayer behavior with stress
and strain rather than biochemical interactions, influence several membrane-mediated bio-
logical processes.7−11 These properties are typically characterized in terms of the mechanical
parameters: the area compression modulus Ka, a bending modulus Kb. The membranes
of living cells have remarkable elastic physical properties,8,9 which are believed to play a
3
on the material properties including area compression modulus and bending modulus are
studied.
II. MODEL AND SIMULATION METHOD
The dissipative particle dynamics (DPD) is a coarse-grained particle-based, mesoscale
simulation technique that explicitly includes solvents and reproduces hydrodynamic behav-
ior. Introduced by Hoogerbrugge and Koelman in 1992,15 DPD method combines some of
the detailed description of the molecular dynamics (MD) but allows the simulation of hy-
drodynamic behavior in much larger, complex systems, up to the microsecond range. Like
MD, DPD particles obey Newton’s equation of motion,16,17
dri
dt
= vi,
dvi
dt
= fi/mi, (1)
where fi denotes the total forces acting on particle i with mass mi.
A. Interactions between beads
The interactions of the soft DPD beads are governed by three pairwise-additive, short-
ranged forces: conservative (FC), dissipative (FD) and random forces (FR),
fi = Σj 6=i
¡
FCij + F
D
ij + F
R
ij
¢
. (2)
These forces conserve net momentum and all acts along the line joining two interacting
particles. The conservative force FC for non-bonded beads is a soft repulsive force,
FCij = aij(rc − rij)brij, rij ≤ rc; 0, rij > rc,
where aij is a maximum repulsion between particles i and j and rij is the magnitude of the
bead-bead vector. brij is the unit vector joining beads i and j. The interaction parameter aij
can be qualitatively estimated based on the relationship between a and the Flory-Huggins
parameter χ established by Groot and Warren.16 For fairly compatible species i and j,
aij ≈ 25. As incompatibility between i and j increases, aij increases. The dissipative or
drag force has the form,
FDij = −γwD(rij)(brij · vij)brij,
5
B. System parameters
On the basis of the interaction model described above, the dynamics of 648,000 DPD
particles was simulated in a cubic box (603) under periodic boundary conditions. Note that
in DPD simulations, all the units are scaled by the particle mass m, cutoﬀ distance rc, and
thermal energy kBT . The equation of motion are integrated with a modified velocity Verlet
algorithm16 with λ = 0.65 and ∆t = 0.01. Since DPD simulation utilizes soft-repulsive
potentials, the systems studied are allowed to evolve much faster than the “brute-force”
molecular dynamics. Therefore a typical DPD simulation needs only about (5 ∼ 10)× 104
steps to equilibrate. In this work, each simulation takes at least 1.5× 106 steps and the first
1× 106 steps are for equilibration. The concentration of model lipids can be used to control
the vesicle size. We have defined the segment (volume) fractions of lipid (ϕl) in the solution
as,
ϕl =
total no. of lipid beads
total no. of beads
=
nl × 15
nl × 15 + nw .
where nw is number of water bead and nl is the number of lipids in the system and each
lipid contains a total of 15 beads.
In the system, the model lipids form vesicles in water medium and thus there are three
diﬀerent species of DPD particles, including solvent (W), hydrophilic particle (A) of the
lipid, and hydrophobic particle (B) of the lipid. Figure 1(a) shows the schematic dia-
gram of a model lipid and their interactions with the water solvent. Our simulation mod-
els can correspond qualitatively to the atomistic lipid of 1,2-diarachidonoyl-sn-glycero-3-
phosphocholine in water solvent. The mapping between the atomistic lipids and the coarse-
grained A3(B6)2 lipids in our DPD simulations can be performed as follows. First, an isolated
1,2-diarachidonoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine was constructed by using Materials Studio’s
polymer and simulation modeling software.22 Then it was assumed that the choline, phos-
phate, and glycerol groups can be taken as a spherical bead with diameter equal to 5.8 Å,
5.9 Å, and 4.9 Å, respectively. The α-butylene of the hydrophobic tail was estimated to have
the size of approximately 5.5 Åand can be taken as one DPD bead. The water molecule has
the size of approximately 1.51 Åand therefore one DPD bead contains roughly three water
molecules. Figure 1(b) demonstrates how 1,2-diarachidonoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine is
mapped onto the “beads” described in the model.
7
lipids (ϕl). The membrane characteristics are then analyzed for diﬀerent vesicle sizes. The
membrane tension can be obtained by evaluating the pressures inside and outside the vesicle.
Upon the inflation approach via liquid injection into the vesicle, the mechanical properties
like stretching and bending moduli are determined as well. The variations of the membrane
characteristics and mechanical properties with the vesicle size are shown and the results are
compared to those of an infinitely extended membrane.
A. Spontaneous formation of vesicles with diﬀerent sizes
In this study, the vesicles are formed from the model lipids A3(B6)2 in water medium.
The vesicles are constructed in two steps as displayed in Figure 2. First, a bowl-like bilayer
structure is artificially built. Secondly, DPD simulation is performed to equilibrate the
system and a vesicle is formed spontaneously. The water beads can come in and out of
the vesicle before the open hole closes up. The open holes with diﬀerent initial sizes are
constructed and it is found that the final characteristics, e.g. the size and the membrane
thickness, of the spontaneously formed vesicles are essentially the same, irrespective of the
initial size of the open hole, as shown in Figure 2 for small and big holes. Note that before
vesicle enclosure, a large initial hole evolves into two holes during the equilibrating process,
as depicted in Figure 2(b).
As we have mentioned, small vesicles are less stable than the larger ones against fusion.
It is attributed to their bilayer characteristics. To investigate the relation between vesicle
sizes and membrane characteristics, vesicles with diﬀerent radii are spontaneously formed by
controlling the number of model lipids in the water medium. Since the box size remains the
same throughout all simulations, the change in the number of model lipids corresponds to
changes in volume fraction of lipids (ϕl). In this work, ϕl of 0.015, 0.03, 0.045, 0.06, 0.075,
0.09, 0.12, and 0.15 are used. As depicted in Figure 3(a), the radius (r) of the spontaneously
formed vesicle rises as ϕl is increased. Moreover, Figure 3(b) shows the snapshots of the
spontaneously formed vesicles. The vesicles are sliced so that the inner regions are visible
(note that solvent particles are not shown). Those vesicles are stable against fusion because
they are isolated in a box.
It should be noted that the spontaneously formed vesicle is in a metastable state instead
of a thermodynamic equilibrium state. After the equilibrating process of a closed vesicle,
9
the bilayer with h∞ is always greater than that of a spontaneously formed vesicle by the
excess volume Vex. Figure S2. displays the cross-sectional snapshots of an infinitely large
vesicle and some important physical properties.
2. Area density
To understand the variation of the thickness with the vesicle size, the characteristics of
lipid packing in the membrane are explored, including area densities (σ), lipid lengths (l), and
lipid volumes (v) in both leaflets. In many naturally occurring bilayers, the compositions of
the inner and outer membrane leaflets are diﬀerent and thus the asymmetry in both leaflets
arises. Nevertheless, the bilayer of a small unilamellar vesicle is asymmetric even though the
inner and outer membrane leaflets are made of the same lipid. Figure 5 shows the variation
of the area densities of the lipid head in both leaflets with the vesicle size. The outer and
inner area densities are defined as σho = No/4πr2o and σhi = Ni/4πr2i , respectively. Here No
and Ni depict the number of lipids in the outer and inner leaflets, respectively. Note that No
is significantly larger than Ni in a small vesicle. Since the formation of vesicle has to bend
the membrane, the inner face must be compressed and the outer face must be stretched.
As a result, it is anticipated that the area density of lipid head in the inner leaflet must
be greater than that in the outer leaflet. Although both area densities rise with increasing
the vesicle size, the area density in the inner leaflet is very close to that of an infinitely
large membrane, σ∞, as indicated by the arrow in Figure 5. That is, the lipid heads on the
inner side are crowded as a planar membrane but those on the outer side are uncrowded.
On the contrary, the area density of the lipid tail on the outer side is as crowded as that
of a planar membrane but that on the inner side is uncrowded. The area densities of lipid
tails are defined as σti = Ni/4πr2i and σto = No/4πr2o, where r represents the mean distance
from the center of mass to the last bead of the tail and ro ' ri ' r. As the vesicle size
is increased, σti grows while σto remains essentially the same as σ∞. Obviously, bending the
membrane to form a closed vesicle leads to the compression of the tail of the outer leaflet
and the headgroup of the inner leaflet. This aforementioned consequence reveals that the
lipids on the outer side have a shape like a truncated cone while those on the inner side
take the shape of a inverted truncated cone. Note that similar observations were already
made in the previous studies.30,31 Through the analyses of the radial density profile, they
11
Evidently, the interfacial area per lipid exposed to the aqueous phase, i.e. optimal head-
group area a, is related to the area density by a = 1/σh. The packing shapes of the lipids
and the structure they formed can be described by the dimensionless packing parameters,
defined as P o = vo/aolo and P i = vi/aili based on the geometric packing considerations. As
illustrated in Figure 7, the packing parameter of the outer leaflet follows 1
2
< P o < 1 and
grows with increasing r. On the other hand, the packing parameter of the inner leaflet obeys
1 < P i and decays with increasing r. The former corresponds to the truncated cone while
the latter indicates the inverted truncated cone or wedge as also shown in Figure 7. This
consequence agrees with that inferred from the area densities, σh and σt. As r is increased,
both P o and P i approach toward the packing parameter of a planar membrane, P∞ ∼ 1.
4. Lipid orientation
The membrane of a vesicle has a unilamellar structure. The description of liquid crystals
involves an analysis of order. The orientational order of a liquid crystal is generally quanti-
tatively described by the orientation order parameter. For a typical liquid crystal sample,
S is on the order of 0.3 to 0.8. Since the local director, i.e. the preferred direction in a
volume element of a liquid crystal sample, is absent in the bilayer membrane of a vesicle,
the detailed packing arrangements within the spherical shell is expressed by the local order
parameter associated with the hydrophobic lipid tails. The short-ranged order parameter is
defined as20
S =
X
NP
i=1
XN∗i
j=1
µ
3 cos θij − 1
2
¶
/
X
NP
i=1N
∗
i , (7)
where θij denotes the included angle between two neighboring hydrophobic tails as illustrated
in Figure S4. The number N∗i means the total number of neighboring hydrophobic tails
around a centered tail i and is determined according to the schematic demonstration as
shown in Figure S4(b). N∗i can be determined by counting the total number of hydrophobic
tails within the cylindrical domain of a centered lipid tail. The cylindrical domain is with
radius l/2 and length l, where l is the length of the lipid tail. Note that any hydrophobic tail
with one or more beads situating within the cylindrical domain is counted as a neighboring
hydrophobic tail around the centered lipid tail. As a consequence, the value of local order
parameter S = 1 represents that the neighboring hydrophobic tails are perfectly aligned in
13
impact on the fusion process. The membrane tension (τm) of a vesicle can be estimated by
the Young-Lapalce equation,
Pi − Po = 2τm
µ
1
ri
+
1
ro
¶
, (8)
where Pi and Po are pressures estimated in the inner and outer water regions of the vesicle
respectively. The radii of the curvature of the inner and outer interfaces associated with the
spherical vesicle are represented by ri and ro, respectively. We assume the pressure in the
membrane to be Pm and the interfacial tensions on both sides are γi and γo, respectively.
The combination of the two relations, Pi − Pm = 2γi/ri and Pm − Po = 2γo/ro, yields eqn
(8). Note that the assumption γi = γo = τm has been made.
For a vesicle, the pressures in the interior and exterior water domains of the vesicle
can be estimated by the virial theorem. The membrane tension can then be calculated by
eqn (8) once the pressure diﬀerence and vesicular radii are obtained. Figure 9 shows the
variation of pressure diﬀerence (∆P ) and membrane tension (τm) as a function of the vesicle
radius (r). It can be seen that the surface tension exhibits a declining trend as the size of
a spontaneously formed vesicle increases. The membrane tension originates primarily from
the interfacial tension between lipid tails and water. As the vesicle size is increased, the area
density of lipid heads grows, the tail/water contact is reduced and thereby the interfacial
tension declines. This result reveals that a spontaneous formed vesicle with smaller size
possesses comparatively larger membrane tension. As a consequence, small vesicles are less
stable against fusion and destabilize immediately in order to reduce the tension as they are
in contact with the other bilayers.33
In addition to membrane tension, the area stretching modulus Ka and the bending mod-
ulus Kb are the two important mechanical parameters in lipid bilayer mechanics. To study
Ka and Kb of lipid bilayer, it must be curved in some measurable way with known and well
characterized forces or moments. Thus, the two moduli are diﬃcult to measure experimen-
tally because of the thin, fragile nature of bilayers and the consequently low forces involved.
One method utilized is to determine how vesicles swell in response to osmotic stress. In this
work, we have used an inflation method to obtain the mechanical properties associated with
a spontaneously formed vesicle. As water beads are injected into the interior water region
of the vesicle, the vesicle size is increased. By measuring the inner and outer radii of the
vesicle, the area dilation can be determined as ∆A = As−A, where A is the surface area of
15
estimation is based on the bead size equal to 0.58 nm. This consequence indicates that more
energy is needed to bend or stretch the membrane of smaller vesicle from its original large
curvature. It can be realized by the higher membrane tension and the bilayer characteristics
associated with the smaller vesicles.
In general, the bending modulus is dependent on the bilayer thickness. Due to the fact
that to bend a bilayer, the inner face must be compressed and the outer face must be
stretched, the bending modulus, area-stretch modulus and bilayer thickness are generally
related by
Kb = βKa · h2, (10)
where β ∼ O(10−2). This relation holds only for small deformations. If two of these
parameters are known experimentally, the other can be calculated. If one assumes Kb ∼ h2,
then the bending modulus should rise with increasing the vesicle size. However, we have
opposite results because all quantities Ka, Kb, and h vary with the vesicle size. The change
of the mechanical properties with the vesicle size can be comprehended by the fact that the
membrane characteristics vary with the vesicle size as well. Therefore, one should examine
whether the relation remains true under the same bilayer structure by evaluating Kb/Kah2
for diﬀerent values of r. In this work it is found that this relation still holds for diﬀerent
vesicle sizes but the numerical constant, β = 5.6× 10−3 is smaller than the typical value.
D. Simple metastable model
We have shown that the spontaneously formed vesicles in DPD simulations are in a
metastable state. As the vesicle size is reduced, the bilayer thickness declines while the
membrane tension rises. It is interesting to find that there exists simple scaling expression
for h and τm. Here a simple metastable model is proposed to explain such a size-dependent
behavior. We assume that a thermodynamically equilibrium membrane has zero tension
and the equilibrium area per lipid is a∞. When the hole of the vesicle is open, the tension
is essentially zero and the pressure inside and outside the vesicle are equal. At the instant
of the closure of the hole, the membrane tension and the inside pressure build up because
the lipids are not enough for the formation of equilibrium vesicles. There are N lipids in
this metastable vesicle with the size r. Its thickness h is thinner than the equilibrium value
17
IV. CONCLUSION
The size-dependent behavior of small unilamellar vesicles is explored by DPD simulations,
including the membrane characteristics and mechanical properties. DPD simulations can
oﬀer valuable microscopic insights and circumvent perturbation by size polydispersity in
experiments. The size of spontaneously formed vesicles is controlled by the concentration of
model lipids, A3(B6)2, where A and B are the hydrophilic head bead and the hydrophobic
tail bead, respectively. There are 648,000 DPD beads in the system and additional forces
are employed to mimic the stiﬀness of lipid tails. The fusion between vesicles is avoided
because of isolation.
Independent of the initial conditions, the spontaneously formed vesicles are in the
metastable state. Although there exist an exchange of water beads across the bilayer and
flip-flop of lipids in the membrane, the chemical potential and pressure are higher in the
interior of the vesicle. Nonetheless, those thermodynamic quantities remain essentially un-
changed during the DPD simulations. It is found that as the size of metastable vesicles
decreases, the bilayer thickness (h) is getting thinner and the area density of lipid head
declines as well. Nonetheless, the area densities (σh) are diﬀerent in the inner and outer
leaflets. The area density is higher in the inner leaflet (σhi > σho ) and it is close to the lim-
iting value associated with a planar membrane. The packing parameters (P ) are calculated
for both leaflets. P i > 1 grows but 1 > P o > 12 declines with reducing the vesicle size.
This result indicates that the shape of lipid in the outer leaflet is like a truncated cone but
that in the inner leaflet resembles an inverted truncated cone. To describe the orientational
structure in the bilayer, a local order parameter is defined. The orientation order is found
to decay with reducing vesicle size and this fact reveals that the thinner bilayer is mainly
attributed to the orientation disorder.
Since the membrane characteristics vary with the vesicle size, it is anticipated that the
mechanical properties of the bilayer depend on the vesicle size as well. The membrane
tension can be obtained through the Young-Laplace equation by determining the interior
and exterior pressures. It is found that the tension grows with reducing vesicle size. This
fact reveals that small vesicles are less stable against fusion in order to reduce the tension.
On the basis of the inflation method, which is similar to the osmosis swelling, the area
stretching (Ka) and bending (Kb) moduli can be determined for various vesicle sizes and
19
[1] Jones, M. N.; Chapman, D. Micelles, Monolayers, and Biomembranes, Wiley, New York, 1995.
[2] Mouritsen, O. G. Life-as a matter of fat, Springer, 2004.
[3] Israelachvili, J. Intermolecular & Surface Forces, 2nd edition, Academic Press, New York, 1994.
[4] Lasic, D. D. Liposomes: from physics to applications, Elsevier, New York, 1993.
[5] Discher, B. M.; Won, Y. Y.; Ege, D. S.; Lee, J. C.; Bates, F. S.; Discher, D. E.; Hammer, D.
A. Science 1999, 284(5417), 1143.
[6] Nardin, C.; Hirt, T.; Leukel, J.; Meier, W. Langmuir 2000, 16, 1035.
[7] Boal, D. H. Mechanics of the cell. Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 2001.
[8] Ou-Yang, Z. C.; Helfrich W. Phys. Rev. Lett. 1987, 59, 2486.
[9] Lipowsky, R. Nature 1991, 349, 475.
[10] McIntosh, T. J.; Simon, S. A. Annu. Rev. Biophys. Biomol. Struct. 2006, 35, 177.
[11] Garcia, M. L. Nature 2004, 430, 153.
[12] Suchyna, T. M.; Tape, S. E.; Koeppe, R. E.; Andersen, O. S.; Sachs, F.; Gottlieb, P. A. Nature
2004, 430 235.
[13] Rutkowski, C. A.; Williams, L. M.; Haines, T. H.; Cummins, H. Z. Biochemistry 1991, 30,
5688.
[14] Huang, K. C.; Lin, C. M.; Tsao, H. K.; Sheng, Y. J. J. Chem. Phys. 2009, 130, 245101.
[15] Hoogerbrugge, P. J.; Koelman, J. Europhys. Lett. 1992, 19, 155.
[16] Groot, R. D.; Warren, P. B. J. Chem. Phys. 1997, 107, 4423.
[17] Espanol, P.; Warren, P. B. Europhys. Lett. 1995, 30, 191.
[18] Lowe, C. P. Europhys. Lett. 1999, 47, 145.
[19] Nakajima, T.; Hirao, K. J. Chem. Phys. 2006, 124, 184108.
[20] Chou, S. H.; Tsao, H. K.; Sheng, Y. J. J. Chem. Phys. 2011, 134, 034904.
[21] Lin, Y. L.; Chiou, C. S.; Kumar, S. K.; Lin, J. J.; Sheng, Y. J.; Tsao, H. K. J. Phys. Chem.
C 2011, 115, 5566.
[22] Accelrys Software Inc. (2008), Materials Studio Release Notes, Release 4.4, Accelrys Software
Inc., San Diego, USA.
[23] Shelley, J. C.; Shelley, M. Y.; Reeder, R. C.; Bandyopadhyay, S.; Klein, M. L. J. Phys. Chem.
B 2001, 105, 4464.
[24] Marrink, S. J.; de Vries, A. H.; Mark, A. E. J. Phys. Chem. B 2004, 108, 750.
[25] Kranenburg, M.; Smit, B. J. Phys. Chem. B 2005, 109, 6553.
21
Figure Captions
Figure 1. Schematic diagrams of (a) the model lipids (A3(B6)2) and their interactions with
the solvents (W); (b) the mapping between the atomistic 1,2-diarachidonoyl- sn-glycero-3-
phosphocholine and the coarse-grained 1,2-diarachidonoyl- sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine in
DPD simulations.
Figure 2. The evolutionary process of a vesicle with diﬀerent initial configurations. (a)
initial configuration with a small open hole; (b) initial configuration with a large open hole.
The metastable states of the vesicles are essentially the same.
Figure 3. (a) The radius (r) of the spontaneously formed vesicle versus the volume fraction
of the lipids (ϕl); (b) the sliced images of the spontaneously formed vesicles.
Figure 4. Membrane thickness (h) vs. vesicle radius (r); (b) snapshots of the cross-sectional
slices of vesicles at volume fractions (ϕl) of 0.015, 0.030, and 0.045. In the inset, h is plotted
against r−2 and the intercept h∞ agrees with the thickness of an infinitely large membrane
indicated by the arrow.
Figure 5. The lipid area density (σ) versus vesicle size (r) for both membrane leaflets,
including inner head, outer head, inner tail, and outer tail.
Figure 6. The lipid lengths (l) of the inner and outer leaflets are plotted as a function of
the vesicle size (r). The lipid volumes (v) of the inner and outer leaflets and the mean lipid
volume of the membrane are shown in the inset.
Figure 7. The packing parameters of the inner and outer leaflets are plotted as a function
of the vesicle size.
Figure 8. (a) Local order parameter (S) versus vesicle radius (r); (b) Cross-sectional slices
of the snapshots for diﬀerent vesicle sizes. In the inset, S is plotted against r−1 and the
intercept S∞ agrees with the local order parameter of an infinitely large membrane indicated
by the arrow.
Figure 9. The membrane tension and pressure diﬀerence of the vesicle versus the vesicle
size(r).
Figure 10. The tension increment (∆τm) is plotted against the fractional change in the
vesicle surface area (α). The area stretching modulus can be obtained from the slope of
∆τm against α for large area dilation. The bending modulus can be extracted from the
small area dilation as shown in the inset.
23
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
(b)
 
Atomistic 1,2-diarachidonoyl- 
sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine 
 
Coarse-grained 1,2-diarachidonoyl-
sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine 
 
 
  
                                  Coarse-grained water 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Schematic diagrams of (a) the model lipids (A3(B6)2) and their interactions with 
the solvents (W); (b) the mapping between the atomistic 1,2-diarachidonoyl-
sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine and the coarse-grained 1,2-diarachidonoyl-
sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine in DPD simulations. 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
φl = 0.015 φl = 0.030 φl = 0.045 
   
φl = 0.060 φl = 0.075 φl = 0.090 
   
 
Figure 3. (a) The radius (r) of the spontaneously formed vesicle versus the volume 
fraction of the lipids (φl); (b) the sliced images of the spontaneously formed vesicles.  
0.00 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.10 0.12 0.14 0.16
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
 
ve
si
cl
e 
si
ze
 (r
)
ϕl
 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
0.45
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80
 
lip
id
 a
re
a 
de
ns
ity
 (σ
)
vesicle size (r)
inner head
outer head
 
Figure 5. The lipid area density (σ) versus vesicle size (r) for both membrane leaflets, 
including inner head, outer head, inner tail, and outer tail. 
6 12 18
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
 
 
σ
r
inner tail
outer tail
σ∞ 
σ∞ 
 
 
6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
 
pa
ck
in
g 
pa
ra
m
et
er
vesicle size
inner
outer
 
 
Figure 7. The packing parameters of the inner and outer leaflets are plotted as a 
function of the vesicle size. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outer leaflet
Inner leaflet
6 8 10 12 14 16 18
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
τm
ΔP  
pr
es
su
re
 (Δ
P)
 a
nd
 te
ns
io
n 
(τ m
) 
vesicle size (r)
 
 
Figure 9. The membrane tension and pressure difference of the vesicle versus the 
vesicle size(r). 
 
表 Y04 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                      日期： 99 年 11 月 20 日 
 
 
 
報告內容：                                 
一、 參加會議經過 
第 19 屆國際化學及程序工程會議(CHISA 2010)暨第 7 屆歐洲化工會議
(ECCE-7) 的會議地點在捷克共和國的首都布拉格(Prague)，此地也是捷克的最
大城市，位於該國的中波希米亞州、伏爾塔瓦河流域。該市地處歐洲大陸的中心，
在交通上一向擁有重要地位，與周邊國家的聯繫也相當密切。布拉格是一座歐洲
歷史名城，也是歐洲的文化重鎮之一。本人搭乘中華航空之班機直飛德國之法蘭
克福後，再轉捷克航空即可到達。 
計畫編號 97-2221-E-008-031-MY3 
 
計畫名稱 兩性離子膠體的輸送與溶液性質研究 
 
出國人員
姓名 
曹    恒    光 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
國立中央大學 
化學工程與材料工程學系 
 
會議時間 
2010 年 8 月 28 日
至 
2010 年 9 月 1 日 
會議地點 
Prague, Czech Republic 
會議名稱 
(中文)第 19 屆國際化學及程序工程會議(CHISA 2010) 及 
第 7 屆歐洲化工會議 (ECCE-7) 
 
(英文) 19th International Congress of Chemical and Process 
Engineering CHISA 2010 & 7th European Congress of 
Chemical Engineering ECCE-7 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 超疏水表面上的高接觸角遲滯現象:疏水缺陷效應 
 
(英文) High contact angle hysteresis of superhydrophobic 
surfaces:hydrophobic defects 
表 Y04 
澳洲學者所發表之”A new model with reduced number of virial coefficients for 
predicting heat capacity of homologous linear hydrocarbons over a 300 to 1,000 K 
temperature range based on molecular weight”，也十分有趣。該新模式與維里方程
式類似，但以少數的維里係數便可成功地預測熱容量。此結果可以加入在質能均
衡、物理化學、和熱力學等課程中，增進學生學習的興趣。另外，德國學者所發
表之＂The influence of electrolytes on partition equilibria in micellar systems: A 
predictive tool for separation processes”補強了我對電解質與界劑微胞相互作用的
瞭解；斯洛維尼亞學者所發表之＂Processing bioresorbable polymers with 
supercritical CO2 for obtaining porous structures: solubility and diffusivity of gas in 
polymers and the effect on foam morphology”則對我在超臨界條件下高分子形態學
的研究有所助益。 
在輸送現象部份，講題多集中於氣泡運動和微流道。比利時和加拿大學者所
發表之＂Effect of contact angle on gas slug formation, shape and flow in a 
microchannel T-junction by numerical simulation”頗有趣，可做為未來的研究方向。
與會期間我也與多位學者交流。例如與挪威化工教授交談後發現，挪威積極發展
綠色工業，雖然產天然氣與石油，但都在國外煉製，所以無相關的環保問題。 
三、 建議 
參與國際會議可以讓國內的研究人員增廣見聞，吸收新知與世界接軌。國內
的學者或研究生，應該多利用機會到這些場合進行學術交流。若能在攻讀學位期
間，給予博士班學生較多的補助，讓學生參加美洲及歐洲等地的國際會議，對增
進學生的視野會有極大的幫助。 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 會議手冊 
2. 會議論文摘要集一本 
3. 光碟片一張 
 
97 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：曹恒光 計畫編號：97-2221-E-008-031-MY3 
計畫名稱：兩性離子膠體的輸送與溶液性質研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 2 2 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 6 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 1 1 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 12 13 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 5 5 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
