無人飛行載具編隊飛行導引控制
呂文祺
國立虎尾科技大學飛機工程學系
E-mail:luwenchi@nfu.edu.tw
NSC 97-2221-E-150 -025
摘要
本文描述一用於無人飛行載具研究之多載具平台的發展。平台硬體設計與功能驗證已透過軟體達
成。同軸雙旋翼模型直升機被選定為平台中之飛行載具，同時其飛行特性已透過手動遙控飛行測試
進行評估。理論工作部份，長機-僚機型式下編隊飛行的導引控制問題已進行分析，基於軌跡規劃的
觀點上，非線性系統之可微平坦性則被引入進行導引律問題之研究。相關結果可提供更彈性的架構
引進各式強健型控制法則進行更先進之研究。
關鍵字： 無人飛行載具、導引控制、可微平坦性
ABSTRACT
This paper describes the development of a multi-UAV platform for UAV research. The hardware
design and functional validation has been made using software. Coaxial model helicopters have
been chosed as the flying vehicles in the platform and their flight characteristics are evaluated by
manual flight tests. In theoretical work, the guidance control problem in leader-follower scenario for
formation flight has been analysed. Differential flatness of nonlinear systems has been introduced to
investigate the guidance control problem from the view point of trajectory planning. The results in
this study provides more flexible structure for the advanced research of all kinds of robust control
methods.
Keywords: Differential flatness, guidance control, UAV.
1
As for multi-vehicle based coordinated operation of UAV systems, formation flight and obsta-
cle avoidance are the two critical issues to its success of operation. Formation control of multiple
unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) has attracted more significant attention from the UAV research
community [9,10]. The objective of formation control is to obtain a group of autonomous agents to
move together in a desired formation pattern and accomplish desired tasks such as reconnaissance,
surveillance and precision strike. To complete such tasks without human intervention and in the pres-
ence of large external disturbances or flight critical failure, one of the problems of particular interest
to researchers has been the automatic control of a group of UAVs flying in close formation [11,12].
Regarding to close formation flight which was inspired by birds’ flight, many efforts of relevant re-
search have been made to reduce drag of fixed-wing manned aircraft by efficiently using formation
flight.
In the past, automatic air-refueling of manned aircraft with safety and coordinated flight of multi-
UAVs in one mission were two of major applications of formation flight. In these applications, the
flight guidance and control problems were more challenging due to its strong dependence on quality
of mutual exchange of flight information between vehicles at the limited bandwidth of data link. Most
early work on guidance and control of multi-UAVs took the guidance techniques for missiles such as
PN-guidance (Proportional-Navigation guidance) and Target-pursuit guidance [13,14] since missiles
usually could not obtain sufficient and accurate information of target motion and UAVs have the same
problems. Therefore, the leader-follower or target-pursuit based framework are two major guidance
techniques adopted by most early UAV researches.
Recently, most of the research has focused on the coordination and station-keeping of multi-
ple UAVs so as to maintain the relative separation and orientations between the UAVs in the for-
mation and to track desired flight trajectories. In most autonomous formation flight (AFF) de-
signs,communications between UAVs in formation is required. In general, information about a vehicle
in formation is broadcast to the entire group or only to the adjacent vehicles in close proximity. Wire-
less communication network can be used in order to acquire position, velocity, and heading data of
each vehicle for deriving further globally stable AFF. The availability and health of communication is
also crucial to the performance of formation flight controller. Since a failure of any part of the com-
munication equipment results in a failure of entire task, passive detection methods would be much
preferred. Some researches have devoted to the AFF control design under communication failure.
The study intends to investigate the dynamics of relative motion in formation flight. At first, a
generic relative motion based framework extracted from the guidance techniques above is used with a
limited view angle and inaccurate relative velocities to make stationary keeping and maintain relative
bearing. A guidance control strategy is investigated for formation flight by introducing differential
flatness. Differential flatness is a property of nonlinear dynamic systems with certain forms. Based on
differential flatness, the general control problem can be transformed into a planning problem of a so-
called flat output trajectory [15–17]. Assuming that the only information available is measurements of
LOS range and angle to a leader vehicle and a following vehicle navigation data, an adaptive guidance
law for autonomous formation flight is developed. The objective is for a follower aircraft to maintain
a desired range from a maneuvering leader flying vehicle. Moreover, the adoption of virtual leader
concept is introduced for further complex formation flight patterns.
3
be made indoors. The mechanical design (as shown in Fig. 2) of LAMAs is rather simple than single
rotor model helicopters. The flybar (as shown in Fig. 3), the moving-free upper rotor and flexible
Figure 2: lower rotor and control links
rotor blades of LAMAs reduce the controllability and give more inherent stability in both the longi-
tudinal and lateral motion. In another word, its agility is constrained such that they cannot perform
aerobatic maneuvers. The main lower rotor is controlled by two servos from two command signals
(lateral and longitudinal cyclic). The collective control in conventional single-rotor helicopters is ne-
glected. The vertical hovering motion is directly controlled by controlling the rotational speed of two
motors. In addition, its yaw-motion is controlled by the speed difference bewteen two motors which
drive the upper and lower rotors respectively. By manual controlled flight tests, LAMA features 2nd-
Figure 3: Flybar and upper rotor
ordered dynamic characteristics in vertical hovering motion. The roll motion is rather retarded by the
flybar with respect to the agility in longitudinal motion and yaw motion. Therefore, the roll motion
will be stabilized rather than being controlled in the following guidance control design. Further de-
tail dynamic characteristics should be identified by more data-logged flight tests. With such a simple
configuration, LAMA is the adequate flying vehicle for the initial phase of the multi-vehicle platform.
Moreover, its simplified mechanism also reduce the complexity of dynamic modelling in formation
control.
2.2. ONBOARD AVIONICS
The onboard avionics on a UAV comprises of a flight computer, sensors, actuators, and a power
control unit. The flight computer, sensors and actuators are introduced in the following context.
5
power consumption and cost which increases the weight of batteries or decreases the endurance.
Therefore, conventional sensors are taken in this study and described as follow.
• Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU). The IMU is consisted of a 3-axis gyroscope and a 3-axis ac-
celerometer. The 3-axis gyroscope is constructed by three low-cost 1-axis rate gyros. Due to its
drift with time, a Kalman filter will be implemented to reproduce reliable attitude information
in incorporated with the 3-axis acceleration. The sampling rate of IMU should be no less than
30 Hz for vehicle dynamic control. As for the dynamics of LAMA, the command updating rate
will be at 30 Hz such that the information from IMU should be no less than 30 Hz. An inde-
pendent A/D converter with SPI or I2C interface is used to avoid the data converting loading to
the onboard computer and to transmit data with ease.
• Global Positioning System (GPS). For outdoors operation, GPS will provide coarse position
information since its positioning errors now is much larger than the size of a LAMA. In this
study, GPS is used only for loose formation flight outdoors. A miniature GPS module with
antenna is used to provide positioning data at up to 10 Hz which is high enough for navigation
purpose for low-speed LAMAs. The GPS module will occupy a serial communication port.
• Barometer. The barometer is the best source of absolute altitude with high precision and low-
cost. In this study, a barometer with SPI-type protocol is used to give calibrated digital pressure
and temperature information. This light-weighted and small-sized device only requires a 3V
power supply
• Ultrasonic Altitude Sensor. Due to the resolution of barometers at around 1 meter, an additional
altitude sensor by ultrasonic sonar is applied to keep the flying vehicles from the obstacles
beneath or the terrains. It usually works in the range of 6 m with resolution of around 3 cm.
This can be used for precision approach or landing.
2.2.3. Actuators
For LAMAs, only two low-cost servos are used to change the angles of lower main rotor through the
swashplate such that the pitch and roll motion can be made. In practice, dynamics of the servos used
in R/C toys can be considered as first-ordered with negligible dead band. The time-constant of servos
should be determined by practical tests.
2.3. Computer-Aided Design
After the function definition of computational and sensing capabilities, the hardware of onboard
avioincs can be defined as shown in Fig. 4. At present, the circuit design and some functional simula-
tion have been done using EDA software Proteus. With the help of Proteus, further functional codes
can be also simulated and validated to reduce both the time and cost of hardware implementation
only for functional tests in conventional development process. After validation of circuit design and
functional test, a 3-D PCB layout can be generated to check the interference of onboard components
for placement arrangement as shown in Fig. 5 .
7
• actuator dynamics: The actuator dynamics is to describe the control-rod dynamics between
servos and swash plate. In practical, PWM (Pulse-Width-Modulation) electronic signals are
transmitted from receivers to servos. Servos move the control rods to change the pitch angles
of the swash plate which are represented respectively by longitudinal pitch and lateral pitch
( A1 and B1 ). Meanwhile, the position of the swash plate is proportional to the collective
input (θ0) while the function of the tail rotor in conventional helicopters is replaced by the
speed difference between the upper and lower rotors for LAMA.
• rotary wing dynamics: The thrust from the main rotor (Tmr) and the thrust from the tail
rotor (Ttr) are respectively represented by (θ0,mr) and (θ0,tr). Meanwhile, the thrusts are also
determined by the translation motiom and their attitudes.
• force and moment generation: The direction of the thrust is defined be β1s and β1c which are
respectively the functions of A1 and B1.
• rigid-body dynamics: The rigid body dynamics can describe the translation motion and the
rotational motion of UAVs in inertial space.
Even though the helicopters work involving higher complexity of aerodynamics than fixed-wing
aircraft, they share the same coordinate system to describe their motion and attitudes. Thus, by adopt-
ing conventional flight dynamics, u, v, w are used to describe the translation motion of helicopters
in body-axis frame; p, q, r are the used to describe the rotational speed of the helicopter around the
body axes. The Euler angles including the roll angle (φ) , pitch angle (θ) and yaw angle (ψ) respec-
tively represent the angles bewteen the body axes and the inertial axes after the rotational motion of
helicopters [26].
Generally speaking, the dynamic relation between the states an the control inputs for helicopters
illustrated in Fig. 7 can be described as follow according to [7]:
1. lateral input: generating roll rate p and lateral velocity v .
2. longitudinal input: generating pitch rate q and longitudinal velocity u .
3. yaw input (or called pedal input): generating yaw rate r but rarely cause translation motion.
4. collective input: making helicopters moving vertically, called ’heave’.
Rigid body
equations
Pe
Vb
Θ
ω
Fb
τb
Figure 7: Input-output relation for helicopters
The biggest difference of control methods between the fixed-wing and rotary-wing UAV is that
rotary-wing UAVs control their manoeuvres by changing the thrust direction and the pitch angle of
9
objective-orientated method, this study intends to simplify the flight control algorithm and its design
process by fusing the robotic guidance technique and nonlinear control theory. At first, the kinematics
of leader-following configuration is analysed. Differential flatness of nonlinear dynamic systems is
then introduced to deal with the relative dynamics of formation flight.
4.1. Leader-Follower Kinematics
In the earth-center-earth-fixed inertial frame, the geometric relationship between the leading UAV and
the trailing UAV can be presented as follow:
x˙ = V sinψ +Wx
y˙ = V cosψ +Wy
(4)
where x and y present the inertial coordinate of a UAV; V is the airspeed; ψ is the heading; Wx and
Wy are the wind speed components.
xF = xL − ρ sinµ
yF = yL − ρ cosµ
(5)
where the subscripts F and L respectively present the trailing UAV and the leading UAV; ρ is the
line-of-sight (LOS) distance bewteen the leading UAV and the trailing UAV; µ is the relative bearing
between the leading UAV and the trailing UAV.
With Zigbee communication, the trailing UAV can acquire on-line the flight information of the
leading UAV and winds such as xL, yL, VL, ψL, W , ψW . We also assume that the leading UAV and
the trailing UAV are subject to the same wind condition. Then, Eq. 4 and the differential of Eq. 5 with
time can give as follow [28].
VF sinψF = VL sinψL − ρ˙ sinµ− µ˙ cosµ
VF cosψF = VL cosψL − ρ˙ cosµ+ ρµ˙ sinµ
(6)
For station-keeping purpose in formation flight, the LOS distance (ρ) and the relative bearing (µ)
are both desired output to be controlled by the trailing UAV with its airspeed (VF ) ,heading angle ψF
as the guidance control inputs. The airspeed (VL) and heading angle (ψL) of the leading UAV are also
regarded as control inputs.
4.2. Differential Flatness
Differential flatness is early introduced from geometrical algebra setting to deal with control problem
of nonlinear dynamic systems [15,29–31]. Conventional flight dynamics has been investigated to
possess the differential flatness such that the control problem of flying vehicles may be transform
into a trajectory planning problem [16,32,33]. Depending on the representation forms of dynamic
systems, two definitions of flatness are introduced: the one is called explicit flatness for which the
dynamic systems have analytical expressions, and another one is called implicit flatness for which the
dynamic systems are expressed in implicit functions. A general nonlinear system given by:
X˙ = F (X,U) (7)
11
V 2F = V
2
L + ρ˙
2 + ρ2 + µ˙2 − 2VLρ˙ cos(ψL − µ)− 2VLρµ˙ sin(ψL − µ)
tanψF =
VL sinψL − ρ˙ sinµ− ρµ˙ cosµ
VL cosψL − ρ˙ cosµ+ ρµ˙ sinµ
(13)
Then, it is clearly that the airspeed and the heading of the trailing UAV can be expressed in terms
of (ρ, µ, ρ˙, µ˙). Furthermore, by combining Eq.1 and Eq.2, this shows that all the system state can be
expressed as a function of (ρ, µ) and their first and second order derivatives such that the LOS range
(ρ) and the relative bearing (µ) between the leading and trailing UAV may be the flat outputs of the
system (Eq.6) while the airspeed and the heading and of the leading UAV are regarded as the system
parameters.
4.4. Trajectory planning for formation guidance
From the conclusion above, the existence of the flatness and flat output for the dynamics of trailing
UAV in the leader-follower configuration has been proved such that the flight guidance command (VFc
and φF ) can be derived from the trajectory planning of desired relative orientation (ρc and µc). Once
the instant relative orientation (ρ0 and µ0) between the leading and the trailing UAVs can be obtained
on-line with given desired final orientation (ρc and µc), the reference trajectory of LOS range and
relative bearing can be formulated as follow [28].{
ρr(t) = ρc + (ρ0 − ρc)e−t/τρ
µr(t) = µc + (µ0 − µc)e−t/τµ
(14)
where τρ and τµ are the time constants to be chosed carefully from degrading the guidance perfor-
mance.
The exponential behavior of the reference trajectories for the flat output makes their derivatives
explicitly independent of time for computational simplicity. Consquently, the n-th derivative of the
reference trajectories can be shown as follow.
ρnr (t) =
(−1
τρ
)n
(ρr(t)− ρc)
µnr (t) =
(−1
τµ
)n
(µr(t)− µc)
(15)
In most applications of differential flatness, the dynamic inversion is often the popular strategy to
deal with control problem [29,30,34]. However, the weakness presented in the dynamics inversion
method is its insufficient robustness to dynamics uncertainty and external disturbance. At this stage,
the access of differential flatness to flight guidance control for formation flight has been constructed.
The chosed flat outputs can transform the conventional control problem into a trajectory planning
problem which gives more possibility to adopt more advanced and robust control methods to assure
the precision of trajectory following for formation flight. Moreover, a potential-field approach used
in mobile robots may be introduced to implement further obstacle avoidance capability to helicopters
in leader-follower formation flight without difficulties.
13
References
[1] N. Ceccarelli, J. Enright, E. Frazzoli, S. Rasmussen, and C. Schumacher, “Micro uav path plan-
ning for reconnaissance in wind,” in Proc. American Control Conference ACC ’07, pp. 5310–
5315, 2007.
[2] H.-K. T. S.-Y. H. C.-C. Fei-Bin Hsiao, Ying-Chih Lai and R. H. Woei-Leong Chan, “The devel-
opment of an unmanned aerial vehicle system with surveillance,watch, autonomous flight and
navigation capability,” (Bristol, UK), 21st Bristol UAV Systems Conference, 2006.
[3] L. Wu, S. Zhao, and X. Xu, “Design of an obstacle-avoidance strategy based on robot soccer
competition,” in Proc. 5th International Conference on Signal Processing WCCC-ICSP 2000,
vol. 3, pp. 1722–1725, 21–25 Aug. 2000.
[4] T. Balch and R. C. Arkin, “Behavior-based formation control for multirobot teams,” vol. 14,
no. 6, pp. 926–939, 1998.
[5] J. Archibald and R. Beard, “Competitive robot soccer: a design experience for undergraduate
students,” in Proc. 32nd Annual Frontiers in Education FIE 2002, vol. 2, pp. F3D–14–F3D–19,
2002.
[6] D. Bailey and G. Gupta, “Automatic estimation of camera position in robot soccer,” in Proc.
International Machine Vision and Image Processing Conference IMVIP ’08, pp. 91–96, 3–5
Sept. 2008.
[7] R. W. Prouty, Helicopter Performance, Stability and Control. Krieger Publishing Company,
1990.
[8] M. V. H. Ulrik Bech Hald and M. Siegumfeldt, “Nonlinear modeling and optimal control of a
miniature autonomous helicopter,” Master’s thesis, AALBORG UNIVERSITY, 2006.
[9] X. Wang, V. Yadav, and S. N. Balakrishnan, “Cooperative uav formation flying with obstacle/-
collision avoidance,” vol. 15, pp. 672–679, July 2007.
[10] F. Borrelli, T. Keviczky, and G. J. Balas, “Collision-free uav formation flight using decentralized
optimization and invariant sets,” in Proc. CDC Decision and Control 43rd IEEE Conference on,
vol. 1, pp. 1099–1104, 17–17 Dec. 2004.
[11] S. Ueno, T. Higuchi, and K. Iwama, “Collision avoidance control law of a helicopter using
information amount feedback,” in Proc. SICE Annual Conference, pp. 2118–2121, 20–22 Aug.
2008.
[12] J. Boskovic and R. Mehra, “An adaptive reconfigurable formation flight control design,” in Proc.
American Control Conference the 2003, vol. 1, pp. 284–289 vol.1, 2003.
[13] C. Y. Kuo and Y. C. Chlou, “Geometric analysis of missile guidance command,” IEE Proceed-
ings -Control Theory and Applications, vol. 147, no. 2, pp. 205–211, 2000.
15
