technologies and/or between different wireless 
operators. Dynamic spectrum sharing is expected to be 
one of the most important solutions to this issue. We 
believe that long-term fundamental studies on the 
spectrum sharing and management technologies is 
essential for the consistency between the development 
of wireless communication industry and the spectrum 
policy and to improve utilization of nation’s 
precious spectrum resources. 
This 3-year integrated project thus divides the 
corresponding fundamental research topics into 5 
areas. The investigated topics include the 
application of cognitive radio at the physical layer, 
the coordinated/collaborative spectrum sharing 
mechanism between network/operators, the bandwidth 
trading and management for Mobile Virtual Network 
Operators (MVNOs), user behavior modeling, the 
auction and trading mechanism in such 
telecommunication markets, game theoretic approaches, 
and the corresponding platform designs.  
In the third year of this project, we have completed 
the rest set of important research results and 
experiments. For the first subproject, we have 
completed a spectrum auction platform for 
hierarchical package bidding (HPB) as well as a 
detailed model for femtocell-based MVNO. In the 
second subproject, we have successfully transformed 
the NP-hard integer programming formulation of the 
DSA problem into a nonlinear programming problem 
without losing globally optimal objective values. The 
third subproject investigated the short-interval 
secondary spectrum market and designed the auction 
mechanism and a short-interval spectrum auction 
(SISA) platform according to the analysis results. 
The fourth subproject focused on the VCG auction 
design and has completed 16 sessions of experiments 
with 96 subjects participating in 201 auctions. We 
believe the outcome of this project, including its 
models, analysis approaches, results, and the human-
machine hybrid simulation platform can become a set 
of valuable decision-supporting tools for both the 
government and the wireless industry. 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計劃 
下世代無線網路頻譜共享模型與機制之基礎研究-總計畫：下世代無線網路
頻譜共享模型與機制之基礎研究(3/3) 
Basic Studies on Models and Mechanisms for Spectrum Sharing in the Next Generation 
Wireless Network 
 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2219-E-002-001 
  執行期限：99年8月1日至100年10月31日 
計畫主持人：國立臺灣大學電信工程研究所 林宗男 教授 
共同主持人：國立臺灣大學電信工程研究所 蔡志宏 教授 
                   國立臺灣大學電信工程研究所 張時中 教授 
                   國立臺灣大學資訊管理學系   孫雅麗 教授 
                   東吳大學經濟系             樊沁萍 教授 
 
1. Abstract 
 
Thanks to the continuous progress of worldwide radio communication and broadcasting 
technologies and the rapid development of novel wireless network applications, both Taiwan 
and other developed countries shall soon face the competition of limited spectrum between 
different wireless communication technologies and/or between different wireless operators. 
Dynamic spectrum sharing is expected to be one of the most important solutions to this issue. 
We believe that long-term fundamental studies on the spectrum sharing and management 
technologies is essential for the consistency between the development of wireless 
communication industry and the spectrum policy and to improve utilization of nation‟s 
precious spectrum resources. 
This 3-year integrated project thus divides the corresponding fundamental research 
topics into 5 areas. The investigated topics include the application of cognitive radio at the 
physical layer, the coordinated/collaborative spectrum sharing mechanism between 
network/operators, the bandwidth trading and management for Mobile Virtual Network 
Operators (MVNOs), user behavior modeling, the auction and trading mechanism in such 
telecommunication markets, game theoretic approaches, and the corresponding platform 
designs. In specific, the four subprojects cover the following topics: 
(1) Hybrid Cognitive and Cooperative Resource Allocation and Mobility Management 
for Mobile Virtual Network Operators. 
(2) Performance Analysis and Simulation of Coordinated Spectrum Sharing between 
Large Scale Wireless Networks and MVNOs. 
(3) Intelligent and Reliable Transmission in a Cognitive Radio Environment. 
(4) Research on Market Mechanism and Experimental Auction Platform Design for 
Dynamic Spectrum Access. 
(5) An Experimental Study of Auction Design and Spectrum Trading Mechanisms in 
Telecommunication Market. 
In the third year of this project, we have completed the rest set of important research 
results and experiments. For the first subproject, we have completed a spectrum auction 
platform for hierarchical package bidding (HPB) as well as a detailed model for 
femtocell-based MVNO. In the second subproject, we have successfully transformed the 
NP-hard integer programming formulation of the DSA problem into a nonlinear programming 
problem without losing globally optimal objective values. The third subproject investigated 
the short-interval secondary spectrum market and designed the auction mechanism and a 
short-interval spectrum auction (SISA) platform according to the analysis results. The fourth 
subproject focused on the VCG auction design and has completed 16 sessions of experiments 
carrier frequency. Therefore, the use of multiple antennas is not an attractive way to achieve 
the transmit/receiving diversity in small handsets/cellular phones. To overcome such a 
naturally fundamental problem, CD is in nature an effective strategy to allow a single-antenna 
mobile device to achieve the benefit of MIMO systems with the help of cooperative mobile 
devices in a spectrum sharing environment. 
CD, which is a form of spatial diversity, is through cooperating users‟ (usually called 
partners) relaying signals to the destination. This technique is achieved without the use of 
additional antennas of any user. That is to say, the antennas of the sender and partners together 
form a multiple-transmit antenna situation and take the advantage of spectrum sharing. 
Basically, the relay mechanism can be decode-and-forward or amplify-and-forward. Moreover, 
CD is an emerging and powerful technique that can mitigate fading and improve robustness to 
interference in wireless environments. Thus, CD becomes a promising candidate for 
emulating MIMO systems. Recently, many research groups have turned their attention to the 
CD-related topics. Individual aspects of these problems have been considered, for example, in 
various papers [1-4]. In [1], Mahinthan et al. proposed a Quadrature Signaling (QS) 
mechanism in the CD system for transmissions. CD transmissions considering issues related 
to power allocation algorithms were explored by Mahinthan et al. in [2-3]. In [4], Chen et al. 
exploited that the use of space-time block coding in the multi-user CD to improve the 
performance of the transmission in wireless local area networks. Other abounding literature 
survey and investigation regarding the issue related to CD including principles and 
applications can be referred to Ray Liu et al. in [5] and Fitzek et al. in [6], respectively. 
Recently, a simple method to evaluate the performance of complex networks under CD using 
sampling property of a delta function was proposed by Jang in [7]. 
However, because of fundamental physical characteristics of wireless channels, data 
packets often cannot be delivered to the destination successfully. As a result, the design 
focusing on the efficient retransmission scheme under such a CD environment still plays a 
highly crucial role. Due to the evolution of the communication technology, most packet 
retransmission schemes under CD in literatures were based on the rich results from those 
retransmission schemes on point-to-point transmissions. Thus, we will first provide an 
overview of retransmission schemes on point-to-point transmissions, and then, investigate the 
issue on the retransmission scheme under the CD environment. 
While there have been many papers exploring various retransmission schemes in the CD 
environment, there were no elaborations on the issue considering the time constraint for 
delay-sensitive services. Consequently, in such a CD and spectrum sharing environment, their 
throughput formulas did not reflect the effective throughput (goodput) that must satisfy the 
typical delay constraints of streaming-type or real-time multimedia flows. Motivated by the 
above point, we therefore pay our attention to design a novel fast packet retransmission 
scheme to be employed in a general CD environment for delay-sensitive flows as a case study. 
The rest of this study is organized as follows. A survey of various retransmission 
schemes is included in Section 2. Next, Section 3 proposes a novel fast packet retransmission 
scheme in a general CD environment for delay-sensitive applications as a case study. Section 
4 makes a summary of this study and suggests the future work of interest. Finally, the list of 
references is provided in the end. 
 
2.1.2 A Survey of Various Retransmission Schemes 
 
The traditional retransmission scheme designed to combat the loss of transmission data for 
single-radio single-channel environments was first introduced by Lin et al. in [8]. Thanks to 
the advances of multi-band radio technologies, for many broadband wireless systems and 
short range communication networks, there may be many communication channels available 
to use. Consequently, it is natural to arrange the link layer packets to be transmitted over 
multiple channels to boost bandwidth. Issues regarding how to design and analyze the 
multi-channel transmission schemes have recently become an important research direction. A 
vast amount of research groups have thus started to pay attention to related topics. Individual 
scheme in a cluster-based multi-hop wireless network was proposed by Le et al. in [25]. 
Markov models developed to evaluate the CD system were also investigated by Mahinthan et 
al. in [26] and by Issariyakul et al. in [27], respectively. 
While papers [24-27] have widely explored various ARQ/HARQ schemes in the CD 
environments, the issues regarding time constraints for delay-sensitive flows were not 
addressed and elaborated on. Therefore, their throughput formulas did not reflect the effective 
throughput that must satisfy the typical delay constraints of streaming-type or real-time 
multimedia flows in such an environment. 
Due to the aforementioned reasons, we herein propose a novel fast packet retransmission 
scheme, where a new approach of retransmission strategy is designed and appropriately 
combines the encoding/decoding mechanism presented in [18], in such a CD environment for 
delay-sensitive flows as a case study. In the proposed scheme, there are 2 retransmission 
policies that can be employed adaptively according to both the channel quality and the 
Application layer Protocol Data Unit (APDU) size. The retransmission is designed to be 
allowed only one time. Here, APDU flows in the sender are further assumed to always have a 
link packet ready for transmission. As a result, it is not much meaningful to analyze the packet 
delay involving the queueing analysis. In this paper, we only focus on the complete 
throughput analysis to gain the main insight of optimizing the number of channels for 
retransmission between the 2 proposed retransmission policies under such the CD 
environment. All of the derived formulas are then verified via simulations. The effective 
throughput of our proposed scheme is shown better than that of other CD retransmission 
schemes (such as [26]) and non-CD retransmission schemes. 
 
2.1.3 Case Study: On the Effective Throughput Gain of Cooperative Diversity with a 
Fast Retransmission Scheme for Delay-Sensitive Flows 
 
2.1.3.1 System Description 
 
Cooperative Diversity System 
 
A general CD system model composing of a sender, a partner, and a receiver is considered, 
as shown in Fig. 1, where two cooperative users (i.e., sender and partner) transmit their 
information to the same destination (i.e., receiver). It is assumed that each user‟ device in this 
system only has one radio transceiver. Additionally, Orthogonal Frequency Division 
Multiplexing (OFDM) is employed as the underlying transmission technique. 
 
 
Figure 1: System model for two cooperative users (sender and partner) transmission. 
 
In the present system, channels among sender, partner and receiver are modeled as 
non-identical but independent Nakagami-m slow-fading channels corrupted by additive white 
Gaussian noise. The fading channels and the noise are assumed to be independent of each 
other. 
Generally speaking, for the transmission of flows of the sender, application layer flows are 
composed of APDUs. We assume that an APDU consists of s link packets. Each link packet 
will be encoded (described in detail in Section 3.1.3) in sequence for transmission. Here, 
APDU flows in the sender are assumed to always have a link packet ready for transmission. 
For the convenience of the following analysis, channels that between sender and 
destination, between sender and partner, and between partner and destination are denoted as 
channel-j, j=1,2,3, respectively. Channel 1 and 3 are assumed to be located in a shared band. 
 
Figure 3: A typical example of fast HARQ with policy_1. When any original link packet is 
found failed in the receiver, both the sender and the partner will retransmit a 
complementary link packet. Link packet i' is the complementary packet of link 
packet i. 
 
Cooperative Diversity with Fast HARQ Scheme 
Two codes, a block code 0C  and a convolutional code 1C , are together used as the 
coding mechanism employed in each user (see [29], [36] for examples). For more detail 
description, 
1C  is a rate-1/2 convolutional code with constraint length c consisting of a 
c-stage shift register and two generator polynomials )(1 xG  and )(2 xG . This code 1C  is 
used as an inner code for error detection and correction. Next, the outer code 0C  is a high 
rate ))1(),1(( rcncn   block code used for error detection only, where n is the length 
of each link packet that is transmitted in this scheme, and r is the length of parity-check bits 
for error detection. 
When an APDU arriving at the sender, there will be s new information sequences )(xI i , 
si 1 , each length ))1(( rcn  , generated in sequence. They are encoded into )(xJ i  
with 0C  and then encoded into )()()( 1 xGxJxV ii   with 1C  in sequence. Each of them 
will be broadcasted in sequence only one time to the partner and the receiver. 
Let )(
~
xVi  and )(xVi

 
be the noisy versions of )(xVi  arriving at the receiver and the 
partner, respectively. For the receiver, the syndrome of )(
~
xVi  is checked in two steps. In 
step_1, )(
~
xVi  is regarded as a noisy version of a codeword in the ))1(,(  cnn  shortened 
cyclic code generated by )(1 xG . In step_2, an estimate )(
~
xJ i  of )(xJ i  is then checked in 
the high rate ))1(),1(( rcncn   block code. If the syndromes are all zero in any step, 
an estimate )(
~
xI i  of )(xI i  is obtained and delivered to the receiving buffer, which is a 
buffer used for waiting other link packets back for an APDU. Subsequently, an ACK packet 
will be sent to the sender and the partner. However, if the aforementioned syndrome check in 
any step is not zero, )(
~
xVi  is stored in the receiver buffer, and a NACK packet will be 
transmitted to the partner and the sender for possible retransmission. For the partner, if )(ˆ xVi  
is error-free, then either policy_0 or policy_1 is adopted; otherwise, it is directly dropped. 
Under policy_0, if )(xVi

 is error-free, )(xVi

 will be decoded to )(xVi  
and then 
re-encode via )(2 xG  to )(xVi
 . Thereafter, )(xVi  
is transmitted to the receiver. Let the 
noisy version of )(xVi  be denoted as )(
ˆ xVi . )(
ˆ xVi  
will be checked in the same way as in 
the first transmission. If )(ˆ xVi  
is found failed, )(ˆ xVi  shall be combined with )(
~
xVi , to 
form a combined codeword, which is decoded by the Viterbi decoding. The result is checked 
in the high rate ))1(),1(( rcncn   block code. If the syndrome is zero, it is claimed 
as a correct result. Its information sequence is then estimated and delivered to the receiving 
buffer; otherwise, it is discarded and the retransmission for this link packet is stopped. 
Under policy_1, a complementary link packet )(xVi  
via )(2 xG  of )(xVi  
will be 
transmitted from the sender to the receiver, and let the noisy version be denoted as
 
)(
~~
xVi . 



0 ,,
)))(1(1)((
j
n
jjinsjjej
dpP  , j=1,2,3.     (3) 
Furthermore, the average link packet error probability after the Viterbi decoding conditional 
on the event that both )(ˆ xVi  
and )(
~
xVi  are corrupted, denoted as 0,fP , can be 
approximately by (see eq. (28) in [29]) 
)1(
0, )1(1
 cnbf pP ,                    (4) 
where bp  is the corresponding bit error probability obtained via the Viterbi decoding. As 
shown in [29], bp  is bounded by 
1,)1(2 ''
),(
2
1



YX
b
Y
YXT
p

,                (5) 
where ' , the upper bound of the conditional BERs given that the two-step (mentioned in 
Section 3.1.3) decoding syndromes in channel-1 and channel-3 are non-zero, is given by 










nn ))1(1(1
)1(
,
)1(1
max
32
32
1
1'




 ,        (6) 
and T(X,Y) is the generating function of the convolutional code. In addition, 1,fP , the average 
link packet error probability after the Viterbi decoding conditional on the event that both 
)(
~
xVi  
and )(
~~
xVi  are corrupted, can be given by (4)-(6) together with 
'  replaced by 
))1(1( 11
n  , which is the conditional BER given that the two-step decoding 
syndrome in channel-1 is non-zero. 
 Last, but not least, the average link packet error probability after the MRC decoding, 
under policy_1, denoted as mrcP , can be given by  
,)))(1(1)((~
0

 b
n
bmrcbmrc dpP           
(7) where
 b

 
is the instantaneous SNR per 
bit at the output of the MRC decoder, )(~ bp   
represents the pdf of b , 0b , and 
)( bmrc   is the instantaneous BER conditional on b  
for M-ary QAM after the MRC 
decoding. According to [28], [30], )2()(~ 2
/122 memp mc
mm
b
m
b
cb     , where c  means 
the equivalent average SNR for each channel. The instantaneous BER
 
)( bmrc   can be given 
by (2) with j  replaced by b . 
 
Throughput 
For the fast HARQ scheme with policy_0, the application layer throughput in APDU/slot, 
denoted as 0T , can be derived as 
,))1(1(
1
0,,3,2,1,2,10
s
feeeee PPPPPP
s
T 
     
(8) 
where s/1  represents the average number of the APDUs transported per slot, and the second 
term indicated the success probability of an APDU transmission. 
Next, for the fast HARQ scheme with policy_1, the application layer throughput in 
APDU/slot, denoted as 1T , can be derived as 
,))1(1( 1,0,,3,2
2
,11,,2
2
,11
s
mrcffeeefee PPPPPPPPP
s
T 

       
(9) 
where s/  represents the average number of the APDUs transported per slot, and similar to 
the concept in (8), the second term means the success probability of an APDU transmission. 
In (9), mrcP  is the average link packet error probability after the MRC decoding conditional 
on )(ˆ xVi  
and )(
~~
xVi  
all found failed. Since mrcP  is the unconditional probability of a link 
packet error after the MRC decoding and the result will be correct after the MRC decoding as 
 
Figure 5: Application throughputs under typical 
1  with 1.0,3 eP  
under a fast HARQ 
scheme. 
 
In what follows, we compare the throughput of our proposed scheme with that of the 
previous work [26] and non-CD HARQ scheme under 1 , with 
3
3 10
  in Nakagami-3 
slow-fading channels, as shown in Fig. 6. Notice that in Fig. 6, the CD with optimized fast 
HARQ scheme represents the case that the retransmission policy is adaptively adjusted to be 
optimal on the basis of the channel quality in the CD environment. For a fair comparison 
among all schemes, all throughput results are in bit/second, and other 2 schemes are modified 
to allow only 1 retransmission and time slots for those discarded retransmissions are then used 
for new transmissions. Notice due to this modification, their throughput formulas are 
modified versions of (9) with the unused parameters removed. In details, one should set 
11, fP  and replace the parameter n in (3) by n-(c-1) for the scheme in [26], and set 1,2 eP  
for the non-CD HARQ scheme. With the help of Fig. 6, it can be found that better 
performance is achieved by the optimized fast HARQ scheme except when 1  is extremely 
small due to the additional overhead of the HARQ. 
 
 
Figure 6: Application layer throughput (in bit/sec.) comparison among various schemes under 
Nakagami-3 slow-fading channels when channel-2 is error-free. 
 
Notice that, generally speaking, BER=0.001 is fairly high (in our parameter setting, which 
is about equal to the packet error rate =0.9 when without employing any error correcting 
mechanism), that is to say, the channel condition is extremely bad. Here, the reasons for 
setting channel-3‟s BER=0.001 are explained as follows. Although the sender would like to 
select the neighboring partner having good channel condition for helping transmission, in the 
worst case when the partner is far away from the receiver and both of them are at the edge of 
a cell such that the channel-3‟s condition degrades. In this case, with the validation of 
analytical and simulation results, the performance result of our scheme is much better than 
that of other schemes. It means our scheme is very powerful. Thus, it can be easily reasoned 
that when channel-3‟s BER decreases, our scheme still remains the best although the 
performance results for these schemes will all be improved. 
Furthermore, taking 31 102
  and 
3
3 10
  as an example, effective throughput 
performances of these schemes under different Nakagami-m, m=1/2, 1, 3, slow-fading 
channels in the CD environment are compared, as listed in Table 1. From Table 1, both 
analytical results based on (8)-(9) and simulation results show that the optimized fast HARQ 
scheme always achieves better throughput performance than other schemes since the 
optimized fast HARQ scheme can adaptively adjust the retransmission policy according to the 
channel quality. Again in Table 1, it is found that the analytical results are slightly lower than 
since its performance only depends on channel-1‟s BER. We also notice that throughput 
improvement of our scheme is significant even with 42 10
  in the sender-to-partner 
channel. 
 
Table 2: Comparisons of the application layer throughputs (in bit/second) at 3
1 102
 , 
4
2 10
 , 33 10
  among various schemes under different Nakagami-m, m=1/2, 1, 
3, slow-fading channels. 
 
 
In summary, based on Figs. 6 and 7 and Tables 1 and 2, we can thus conclude that the 
fast HARQ scheme is an excellent approach for transporting delay-constrained streaming-type 
or real-time multimedia flows in CD environments even when there is an error probability on 
the cooperative path. It is for the reasons that the retransmission strategy can be adaptively 
adjusted according to the channel condition and that the decoding procedure involving MRC 
and the Viterbi decoding are appropriately designed. 
 
 
2.1.3.4  Conclusions 
 
A fast HARQ packet retransmission scheme has been successfully proposed to transport 
delay-sensitive flows in a general CD environment. The presented scheme incorporates 2 
retransmission policies, and these 2 policies can be selected adaptively by the channel SNRs 
and the APDU sizes. In ideal conditions, the best retransmission policy can always be selected 
to achieve optimized performance. 
In this case study, our cooperative fast retransmission scheme has been shown to be an 
excellent approach for improving the effective throughput in transporting delay-sensitive 
flows in CD environments. Numerical results verified via simulations, show that when 
optimized, the proposed scheme can achieve effective throughput much better than that of 
other ARQ schemes (such as [26]) and non-CD HARQ schemes, especially when the 
sender-to-partner channel condition is good. The performance improvement is still significant 
even when there is an error probability (e.g. BER < 10
-4
) in the sender-to-partner channel. 
Moreover, in the aspect of the battery saving, the presented scheme should save much more 
power than that of other schemes due to the one-time retransmission design. It is thus 
concluded that the proposed fast HARQ retransmission scheme is an excellent ARQ candidate 
for the multimedia or real-time transport in CD environments, when the time-constraint is 
imposed. 
 
2.1.4 Summaries 
 
The issues of improving fast retransmission schemes under CD environments can be 
essential to many delay-sensitive applications. This study has widely covered the conceptual 
description of many representative retransmission schemes under various environments and 
presented a novel fast packet retransmission scheme intended for effectively transporting 
delay-sensitive flows in a general CD environment. The presented retransmission scheme and 
other related works should have provided a sufficient collection of schemes and analysis 
methodologies for designing further wireless communication systems with similar 
component carrier scheme is a horizontal spectrum sharing. The main factor to affect the 
system performance is interference. Therefore, many researche s have been studied about this 
issue [38]–[45]. There still has some space for improvement in these works. In [44], [45], for 
example, the strategies of the authors are to set a static threshold in order to determine the 
usage of CCs. And both of the works didn‟t consider the interaction between cells. The 
problem is that the channel in a metropolitan environment is varying dramatically, it can‟t 
adjust with the varying of the channel and the change of other cells. 
The technique of carrier aggregation is to aggregate multiple CCs to get a wider 
bandwidth for transmission. Therefore, LTE-advanced environment is an intensive spectrum 
sharing environment since many cells may aggregate the same CCs at the same time. The 
interference and management among these CCs are important issues. In Liu‟s work [56], he 
focus on investigating appropriate management of CCs. He proposed component carrier 
management method in Layer-3 and the method provides comparable user throughput and 
lower complexity for implementation. And the control information is used for CC 
management which contain the assignment of CCs to users. The transmission of this 
information may be failed, therefore the performance of the system may decrease. The work 
in [47], [54] proposed a cross-carrier scheduling method to improve the performance of the 
control information. Another important issue in CA is interference management. 
The carrier aggregation is not only provide wider bandwidth but also achieve spectrum 
sharing. It is inevitable to produce interference in this environment. The work in [27] study 
uplink CC selection problem. The author wants to decrease interference and power 
consumption in uplink. The idea is good in this work, but the author only uses two CCs in the 
simulation. Since LTEadvanced can aggregate five CCs with 20 MHz to get 100 MHz 
bandwidth for equipments, two CCs with small bandwidth is not appropriate for simulation 
settings. In [45], the author proposed an algorithm called ”Autonomous Component Carrier 
Selection” (AACS). The main idea of ACCS is to divide component carrier into two category: 
primary component carriers and secondary component carriers. Each cell has one primary 
component carrier and several secondary component carriers. The selection criterion is 
according to the carrier-to-interference ratio to decide which component carrier would be used. 
The main steps of ACCS is as following: (1) if there exists some component carrier didn‟t be 
chosen for primary or secondary using, choose one of them, (2) if all component carriers were 
chosen by others, select one with no primary using and the lowest number for secondary using, 
(3) if all component carrier were used for primary by others, select the one the same as its 
neighboring eNB‟s with the maximum path loss, and (4) if there are still multiple choices 
according to the above rules, select a component carrier with the lowest experienced uplink 
interference. The secondary component carrier selection of ACCS is according to the static 
SINR (signal-to-interference-plus-noise-ratio) of each eNBs. Because ACCS is based on a 
static value, it may has some problem while the channel varying dramatically. Once a cell 
chose a CC as its primary component carrier, the channel may become very terrible in a short 
time. This component carrier is wasted. In ACCS, each eNB individually determines primary 
cell and second cell. However, IMCC didn‟t use a static threshold and take the whole system 
condition into consideration. Therefore, IMCC can adjust the CC assignment with varying of 
the channel and manage interference better.                                              
The work in [58] is study spectrum allocation algorithm in two-tier networks. The author 
formulates a sharing spectrum environment as traditional ALOHA in Ethernet. He termed the 
spectrum access strategy as Frequency-ALOHA because this system can be a decentralized 
spectrum access and has low complexity. However, one characteristic of ALOHA is 
randomness. Some critical conditional would occur in this mechanism that all the cells would 
access the spectrum at the same time. It causes severe interference in the system and no cells 
would have a successful transmission. The work in [44] is to study an intensive femto cell 
environment. In this environment, the interference is very severe. The main idea of the 
proposed algorithm in this work is similar to ACCS. The author discusss two different 
strategy of the algorithm: Maximize Throughput and Maximize Proportional Fairness. The 
proposed algorithm is also used static threshold, so it experience the same problem in ACCS. 
value of Reci and the elements of recParticlei are all zero for i ∈ {1, 2, ..., p}. The new Ctotal is get 
in each iteration, we would update Reci as this new Ctotal and record this assignment as 
recParticlei if Ctotal is larger than Reci. Otherwise, Reci and recParticlei is remained the same. Let Opt 
be the global maximum index, and 
 
 
 
therefore, Recopt is referred to Gbest in 
the original PSO algorithm and recParticleopt is its assignment. 
 
After finishing the step of evaluation and record, following is about movement. In 
original PSO algorithm, the particle would approach to the Pbset and the Gbest. In our algorithm, 
the movement is how the particles change their assignment matrices to approach the Pbest or 
Gbest. We need to define the distance between two particles, so we denote D(P1, P2) be the 
distance between particle P1 and P2. The definition is shown below: 
 
Definition: The distance between matrices A and B (A and B are both N by M matrices) 
is  
 
 
 
 
where aij and bij are the element of ith row and jth 
column of matrix A and B respectively. The goal of the movement is to approach either the 
local maximum or the global maximum, namely to decrease the distance between particle and 
Pbest or Gbest. The particle usually can get higher score with this movement. In our design, we 
arbitrarily change a row of particlei to the same row of recPartcilei to approach the Pbest. This 
behavior would decrease (or remain the same) the distance between particle and Pbest 
according to Eq.(15). And in the same way, we arbitrarily change a row of particlei to the same 
row of recPartcileOpt to approach the Gbest. And This behavior would decrease (or remain the 
same) the distance between particle and Gbest. 
 
In our design, there has some probability that Particlei doesn‟t get close to local maximum 
nor global maximum. The purpose is to let particles can find more possible better solution in 
the solution space. So we define an operation called ”Row-Addition” as below. 
 
Definition: Row-Addition RA(P) 
 
RA(P) means to do row-addition on particle P. The row-addition is operated in a random 
row of P. If row j of particle P is chosen, we regards this row as a binary number and add this 
row by 1 (modF), where F is equal to 2L −1. Because the maximum value of each row is 2L −1, 
the mod operation is to be sure that this binary number wouldn‟t exceed this value. For 
example, the row j of Particlei is [0 1 0 1], which is 5 in binary, and it is changed to [0 1 1 0] by 
adding 1 to it. 
 
So, the movement of our algorithm is defined. We would repeat these operation, namely 
evaluation, record, and movement, iteratively. The finale solution to the problem is 
recParticleOpt. 
 
2.2.4 Conclusions 
 
A. Simulation set-up 
 
We design some experiments to evaluate the proposed algorithm and other algorithms. In 
randomly distributed in a 40m×40m square with center (565,565) which is 800m far from the 
base station. Since the coverage range of BS is 800 meters, these users are on the cell edge. 
The FAPs is distributed circularly with the same center as users, the radius of crowded and 
sparse topology are 5m and 15m respectively. 
From the performance results in Fig.2 and Fig.3, we find that the proposed algorithm can 
increase the system performance in the crowded case. But in the sparse case, the proposed 
didn‟t increase the performance. This result tells us the performance can decrease the impact 
the interference by using different component carriers. In crowded topology, the interference 
between FAPs are severe, the FAPs are trending to use different carrier components. The 
colors in the Fig. 4 and Fig. 5 mean the component carriers. There are five different carrier 
components, so the number of colors is five, too. From Fig. 4, we see that in the stable 
allocation, the FAPs use the different carrier components. We can easily see the performance 
improvement due to the using of different carrier components. However, in the sparse 
topology, the distance of FAPs is larger than their coverage range, so the interference between 
FAPs is too light to be ignored. So, each FAPs would use the whole bandwidth all the time, 
the proposed algorithm didn‟t provide any increment in this condition. From Fig. 5, the stable 
allocation for the FAPs are to use the entire component carriers. 
 
C. The number of FAPs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this scenario, the number of FAPs in the topology would be changed. The FAPs are 
still circular distributed with center (565,565), and the users are randomly distributed in a 30m
×30m square with the same center. The base station is still located at (0,0), so all the users 
are in the cell edge. From Fig.6, we can easily see that the performance increases much while 
the number of FAPs increased. The proposed component carrier scheduling algorithm actually 
increases the performance of the whole system with the increasing number of FAPs. This is 
because the interference between FAPs become severe while the number of FAPs increased. 
The proposed algorithm can reduce the impact of the interference via assigning different CCs 
to FAPs. When the number of FAPs is lower than 6, the performance of the proposed 
algorithm and full band almost the same. Under this condition, the interference between FAPs 
is very low. Each FAP use the whole bandwidth, the same behavior as using the full band. 
This is why the performance of the proposed algorithm and full band are the same while the 
number of FAPs is lower than 6. 
 
D. FAP transmission power 
 
 
In this scenario, we adjust the transmission power of FAPs. The transmission power is a 
key factor to impact the interference. We know the a FAP has better performance while using 
more power to transmit. This behavior would cause severe interference to other FAPs, and 
reduce the system performance. This simulation is to discuss the bandwidth used by FAP 
while the transmission power getting higher and higher. In this simulation, there are 40 users 
and 6 FAPs. The half of users are randomly distributed in a 50m×50m square with center at 
(424m,424m). The other half of users are randomly distributed in a 800m×800m square with 
center at (0m,0m), which is the location of the base station. The FAPs are circularly and 
uniformly distributed with the center (424m,424m) and radius 100m. In this topology, some 
users link to the base station ,  and some users are in a crowded condition. We set FAPs in 
this crowded area to run our simulation, and observe the effect of the transmission power on 
the throughput and utilization of components carriers. 
 
From the Fig.7, when the transmission power is low, the FAPs use almost the whole 
bandwidth. This is because the lower transmission power only cause light interference to 
others. The light interference didn‟t influence to the performance of FAPs. Therefore, each 
FAPs can just to use the whole bandwidth without thinking about others. On the other hand, 
when transmission power is getting higher, the interference would get severe at the same time. 
The FAPs would like to use only some CCs to avoid the interference. In Fig.7, we see that the 
average bandwidth used by FAPs is reduced to 1.5 CCs. And from Fig.8, to use some CCs 
instead of full bandwidth access can improve the performance when the transmission power is 
high. The proposed algorithm can find the suitable CC assignment way to improve the system 
performance. 
 
The Fig.9 shows that the average throughput under different condition. The performance 
of FAPs is decreasing while the transmission power is higher than 10 dBm. The FAPs can 
provide service to the far distance users, and SINR of these users is low. So the average 
throughput is decreased, and the average throughput of the BS in increasing at the same time. 
The BS always uses the full bandwidth to transmit. When the transmission power is getting 
higher, the interference on the BS is getting severe. The average throughput of the BS is 
approach to zero as shown in Fig.7. All of the users use the FAPs to transmit. And we can see 
that using only some CCs has better performance than full bandwidth access.  
 
E. Compare with other algorithm 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this scenario, we compare the proposed algorithm with the Kan Zheng‟s algorithm 
proposed in 2010 [8]. In this topology, the relative distance between FAPs and users remain 
the same. There are 25 users are randomly distributed in a 30m×30m square and 10 FAPs are 
cicularly and uniformly distributed with radius 10m and the same center of the users. We 
adjust the distance between the BS and this center from 200m to 800m to compare the two 
 
圖 1. 話務流量轉移示意圖 
 
    根據實驗，我們發現存在一最佳的頻道分配數目：當分配給 macrocell 的頻道過多
時，femtocell 所分得的頻道數目過少，使得 femtocell 協助 macrocell 紓解流量的果效不
彰；而當分配給 macrocell 的頻道過少時，將無法滿足人數較多的 macrocell 用戶。實驗
結果如圖 2，橫軸代表總系統流量(calls/second)，縱軸代表 macrocell 的話務阻隔機率，
各曲線代表不同 femtocell 頻道數目的模擬結果(總頻道數目是有限的)，我們可以發現當
沒有 femtocell 來協助分擔流量時(Cf=0)，macrocell 的話務阻隔機率是最高的，而隨著系
統流量的不同，有不同的最佳頻道分配數目。 
 
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
λT
P
m
λT vs Pm
 
 
Cf=0 (No Femtocell)
Cf=2
Cf=4
Cf=6
Cf=8
 
圖 2. 不同頻道分配數目對於 macrocell 話務阻隔機率的影響 
 
簡單總結貢獻如下:針對 femtocell 及 macrocell 的共存系統進行建模，並以分割式頻
譜再用的方法來分配頻道。透過實驗證實 femtocell 的加入能有效分擔 macrocell 的流量，
使其話務阻隔機率降低，而此兩基站之間亦存在一最佳化的頻道分配能提供無線用戶最
好的服務品質。 
 
2.3.2 短期頻譜交易市場需求探討 
    由於所研究的頻譜次級市場(Secondary Market)[1]是以短時段的交易為主，其商務模
型(Business Model)如圖 3 所示。主要的參與者有行動營運商(Mobile Network Operator，
MNO)、行動虛擬營運商 (Mobile Virtual Network Operator，MVNO)及頻譜仲介者
(Spectrum Broker，SB)。但是已存在的頻寬買賣市場皆為長時段交易的模式，且買家與
賣家之間的關係多以合作的模式來進行。因此，在著手進行短時段次級頻譜市場交易機
制設計前，先對市場的需求性做詳盡的分析，分析方法為分別從短時段頻譜空檔的供應
端與需求端來探討。 
 
制。此外，紐西蘭做為全球第一個可交易無線頻譜的國家，更利用線上授權服務(Online 
Licensing Service)，如 SMART(Spectrum Management and Registration Technology)等線上
工具來交易多種類型的頻譜執照。由這些例子皆可以看出，在一級頻譜市場之外，次級
頻譜市場交易的普遍性將會逐步提升。 
 
2.3.3 短時段次級頻譜市場設計 
 
2.3.3.1 短時段次級頻譜拍賣經濟架構 
 
Sengupta 及 Chatterjee (2009)提出了動態頻譜拍賣的經濟架構模型[2]，本研究將之
調整分為四個層級，分別是行動營運商、行動虛擬營運商或無線服務供應商、頻譜仲介
者與終端使用者(End User)。本研究的整體經濟架構在圖 4 中展示。Williamson 在 1986
年提出關於有效管理(Efficient Governance)的概念中[8]提到，在偶而發生且交易物的特
色是介於非客製與完全客製之間的市場，買家賣家各自訂定契約來進行交易是不合成本
的，需要有公正的第三者來使交易成功。因此我們提出頻譜仲介者作為市場中公正的第
三者，能有效降低交易問題的複雜度並使之有效率的進行。 
 
 
圖4. 動態頻譜拍賣經濟架構圖 
 
    在短時段次級頻譜 (Short-interval Secondary Spectrum，SiSS) 拍賣模型中，交易供
給端為行動營運商，透過頻譜仲介者進行交易，需求端則為行動虛擬營運商，向頻譜仲
介者提出其需求，頻譜仲介者並透過贏家決定與標金配置制對行動虛擬營運商進行頻譜
分配。 
 
2.3.3.2 短時段次級頻譜拍賣機制設計 
    在進行拍賣機制設計前，先規劃交易進行的流程，如圖3。由於我們考慮的是短時
短的頻譜交易，所以採用單一回合密封標(single round, sealed bid)的拍賣模式，以快速決
定贏家為誰，達到有效率分配頻譜資源的目的。在圖5中，箭頭代表拍賣中資訊的傳遞，
MNO將供給的資訊告知給Spectrum Broker後，由Spectrum Broker來與MVNOs進行拍賣。 
 
,1 1
iJN
i j
i j
x j S
 
   
此種贏家判定規則，可以讓投出最高標金的競標者贏得某頻道數，代表著
頻道的分配結果是以需求最高的競標者獲得。 
 
(4) 讓競標者的投標金額為其對頻道的真實價值 
    至於標金支付機制方面，我們採用 VCG (Vickrey Clarke Groves)拍賣
的標金支付模式：贏家所需支付的金額為其對其他競標者所造成的損失。
此種標金支付機制經過證明後所得的結論是，競標者的最佳投標策略
(Optimal Bidding Strategy)為投出頻道對競標者的真實價值。此種支付機制
的設計除了可達到投標金額為頻道真實價值(Truthfulness)的特性，在短時
段的頻譜交易市場，讓競標者不需花費太多成本在投標金額的詴算，可在
短時間內決定標金資訊。但是此種標金支付機制存在著賣家收益偏低的缺
點，因此若是贏家所需支付的標金低於賣家的設定的底價，則必頇以底價
來支付。 
 
2.3.4 行動虛擬營運商模型建模 
在完成了市場需求探討及拍賣機制設計後，針對競標者進行決策模型的設計，主要
有對於頻道的需求模型(Demand Channel)及標金決策模型(Bid Decision Model)，以下進
行討論： 
(1) 需求模型 
    參與競標的 MVNO 其第一件任務為決定在下一回合的拍賣中需要多少個頻道。在
此我們將分別以 GSM 及 3G 系統說明： 
    (1.1) GSM 系統 
    假定 MVNO-i 在下一回合會有 Ni 個顧客來使用服務，而每個顧客在下一小時的帄
均使用服務次數為 i， i 的決定是對過去的資訊取隨機 Poisson 分布後所得。每個顧客
單次使用服務的周期為 Ti，統計資料顯示，手機使用者有 80%的比例會在 3 分鐘內結束
通話，帄均使用服務的時間則為 1 分鐘，使用服務周期的分布呈指數(Exponential)遞減，
可以推估出帄均的使用服務週期。系統採用分時多工接取 (Time Division Multiple 
Access，TDMA)的調變技術將一個頻道分為8個時槽(Time Slot)，讓8個使用者在4.615ms
的週期中輪流使用頻道，可以推得下一回合所需的頻道數 Ji 為 
8 60
i i i
i
N T
J
  
   
 
    (1.2) 3G 系統 
    在 3G 系統不論是 WCDMA、CDMA2000 或 TDS-CDMA，都是以 CDMA(Code 
Division Multiple Access)的技術為基礎所研發出來的。本研究引用[3]的公式來計算
MVNO 在下一回合拍賣中所需競標的頻譜資源有多少。在有 Ui 個使用者下所需的頻寬
為 W 
0
( 1) bi
E
W R N
S N

      
其中 R 為 Information bit rate，S 為帄均傳輸功率，Eb/N0 為 Average bit energy to noise 
density ration， 為背景雜訊。 
 
(2) 標金決策模型 
    此標金決策模型的目標為最大化 MVNO 的獲利(Profit)，以及決定在此獲利之下向
終端使用者所收取的服務費率( i,j)。在進行最大化獲利求解之前，MVNO 需先評估在
不同的贏得頻道數下，對服務品質(Quality of Service，QoS)的要求為何，為達成此 QoS
 因Ausubel為少數將拍賣流程與系統申請專利之學者，其著作將有助於本計畫拍賣
帄台之流程設計部分。本研究團隊具體化專利內容流程敘述之文字，並以Sequence 
Diagram呈現並整理比較文獻與專利內容。 
 
針對Ausubel拍賣的研究，將探討[9]之主要精神。假設拍賣針對異質性商品(同質性
商品只是其中一種特例)設計，而參與競標者則有多商品的需求。拍賣流程在一開始即
一次蒐集完競標者所有的競標資訊，其中包含特殊要求與對商品需求之價量資訊，但在
每一次的回合中，競標者有機會修改其偏好，拍賣仲介商喊價方式為由價低到價高直至
競標者所回報之總需求量等於總供給量後，即可停止，並進行結標。詳細流程可參考圖
6。完成贏家的判定後，所採取的標金支付模式為贏家支付次高價模式。 
 
 
圖6. Ausubel拍賣流程 
 
針對此Ausubel拍賣，我們簡單以兩個競標者參與拍賣來說明整個拍賣進行的流
程，其中i、j為二維變數，決定競標者(i或j)是否暫時得到標的物(X、Y為二種類不同質
之標的物)表示；當X標的物的贏家暫時在第四步驟確定後，再進一步確定Y標的物的贏
家，當反向檢查步驟結束後沒有更動，此拍賣便將出現最終之拍賣分配(贏家、贏得之
標的物)，系統將在下一步驟傳回相關參數，如贏家、贏得之標的物組合及得標價格與
支付價格，簡略流程圖如下(圖7)所示。 
 
 
圖7. 兩個競標者參與競標之流程圖 
P0：系統貣始值，第一回合為0，將隨暫時得標者價格資訊遞增 
Pt：系統內暫存之X標的物(暫時)價格資訊，第一回合Pt=P0=0 
Pij(X)：競標者i對於X標的物之估價資訊 
Pij(S/Y)：競標者j對於X標的物之估價資訊 
測詴場景 
求解時間 
列舉
解 
CBBB 演算
法 
4MVNOs 3
頻道 
<1 9‟3 
5MVNOs 4
頻道 
* 14‟1 
7MVNOs 4
頻道 
* 14‟2 
7MVNOs 5
頻道 
* 17‟3 
7MVNOs 6
頻道 
* 28‟4 
* Maximum recursion limit of 1500 reached 
 
2.3.7.2 帄台系統實做 
本短時段次級頻譜拍賣系統 (Short-interval Secondary Spectrum Auction System, 
SiSS Auction System)擁有三個使用者介面 (Graphic User Interface, GUI)，分別為 MNO 
Registration GUI, Auctioneer Control GUI與MVNO Bidding GUI，以利行動營運商
(MNO)、拍賣者(Auctioneer)與行動虛擬營運商(MVNO)使用。在使用者介面設計上，本
研究使用了Adobe Flash CS4 [4]進行設計與實做，同時使用PHP [5]網路程式語言實作與
編寫我們所設計的演算法並與使用者介面進行串連。在資料庫的選擇方面，我們選擇與
PHP整合度相當高的免費軟件MySQL 4.0.24 [6]。最後，網路伺服器方面，也是採用了來
自The Apache Software Foundation [7]的免費產品Apache 1.3.33版本。 
本年度的研究中，除了短時段次級頻譜拍賣機制之外，本系統亦加入了傳統的VCG
拍賣及雙邊拍賣(Double Auction)可供使用者選擇使用。而新設計的CBBB演算法也可以
模塊(Module)的模式新增置帄台中。這些成果足以顯示本系統帄台的延伸性及可擴展性。 
 
 
圖 9. 短期頻譜拍賣系統架構圖 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
外，似乎只能仰賴國際大廠來台選商殺價下單。至於產業成果、產量市佔有率
是我們對外宣稱的最佳利器，但談到產值與利潤卻不成比例。因為臺灣通訊產
業只能扮演跟隨者的腳步，利潤與遊戲規則都是國外業者所訂定。因此。要促
進通訊產業升級，必需投入先期研發及參與標準。』 
從大趨勢來說，ICT 產業必然持續往無線寬頻網路發展。所謂行動寬頻是指在快速
移動（行車）時仍然維持傳輸品質。除語音之外，民眾對影音檔案傳輸之需求也日益增
加，故網路傳輸速度必頇更快。Wi-Fi 傳送距離一般只有幾十米，下一代網路設備的涵
蓋範圍也應該要更廣。第四代（the fourth generation，簡稱 4G）通訊是一個美麗的目標，
但是預測未來則是一件困難的事。技術發展與市場競爭都有其不確定性，所要正確預測
那一種通訊技術標準會勝出成為 4G 標準幾乎是不可能的任務。雖然瞭解此困難，但是
為追求 ICT 產業升級，政府還是決定在無線寬頻接取技術中，選擇推動 WiMAX 
(Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access)標準。 
台灣政府曾經多次在經濟發展與產業升級的過程中扮演重要的推手。早在 1950 年
代，經濟安定委員會就曾利用美援貸款協助石化工業發展。1980 年代半導體產業發展也
與政府政策有關。上例中台灣政府參與產業發展都能得到良好成效，Ouyang (2006)認為
原因之一是政府組織中包含外部顧問監督官僚體系。行政院科技顧問組正是許多外部顧
問參與制訂科技政策的橋樑。行政院為推動科技發展於 1979 年貣成立科技顧問組，作
為協助行政院院長積極推動全國科技發展之幕僚單位。科技顧問組由行政院院長擔任召
集人，聘請國內、外科技學者、專家或從事專業性工作有卓越成就者擔任科技顧問。圖
一是政府相關科技組織圖，由此圖可看出科技顧問組位階甚高，便於在推動科技政策時
擔任協調行政院下轄各單位之規劃帄台角色。 
 圖 2 行動台灣計畫圖，資料來源經濟部工業局，(2006) 
種種跡象都顯示台灣 ICT 展業升級已經蓄勢待發，問題是在新興的寬頻無線接取技
術中，要選擇何種技術標準？行政院科技顧問組於 2005 年召集成立「台灣 WiMAX 發
展藍圖工作小組」，自該年 6 月中開始進行跨部會規劃，三個月之後 NICI 就通過「台灣
WiMAX 發展藍圖」（以下簡稱 WiMAX 藍圖），正式確定台灣選擇 WiMAX 做為發展
無線寬頻網路接取的標準技術。三個月的規劃期間看來不長，但其實這項重要科技政策
的醞釀期始於 1998 年第一期電信國家型計畫；也正因為各個政府單位長期的努力，NICI
才能夠於三個月之間完成跨部會的規劃。依照 NICI 新聞稿6，WiMAX 藍圖主要內容包
含： 
標準研擬、技術發展策略、服務與應用帄台的開發、頻譜規劃以及測詴驗證等各
項發展時程，預計明年底前投入近十一億元預算，補助國內產官學界的法人及業
界科專計畫研發 WiMAX 技術，並將透過「M 台灣計劃」推動我國 WiMAX 的應
用，以取得我國在 WiMAX 產業發展上的全球領先優勢，協助國內業者搶得全球
市場先機，進而帶動我兆元通訊產業的發展。 
NICI 表示台灣希望透過發展 WiMAX 的設備和服務藉以提升我國通訊產業，讓台
灣能提供 WiMAX 整體解決方案，以便帶動上、中、下游通訊產業，促進國內業者發展
用戶端設備、局端設備（如 WiMAX 基地台）以及各種技術應用；並鼓勵各界運用 WiMAX
                                                 
6
 2005 年 9 月 9 日，NICI 第 14 次委員會新聞稿。 
目標也是放眼國際，希望台灣的通訊晶片、零組件、個人及區網設備能在全球市場中創
造佳績。如果從這個角度考量，似乎 ICT 產業的重要性高過電信產業。 
再就行政體系而言，此二產業分別隸屬於不同政府單位管理，經濟部下設小組專責
推動 ICT 產業發展，而電信產業之主管官署則在相關期間內正逢轉型。1996 年之前，
台灣的電信產業是獨佔公營產業，所有固定及行動通信都是由交通部下轄的電信總局提
供。為追求電信市場自由化，立法院於該年通過「電信三法」8，改制後的電信總局負
責政策設計以及監督管理電信市場，不再扮演電信行政監督與事業經營之雙重角色，並
且另外成立中華電信公司來提供電信服務9。為整合通訊及傳播事權分散並因應監理革
新趨勢，並於 2006 年成立國家通訊傳播委員會（簡稱 NCC）負責通訊傳播監理。 
為達成 WiMAX 解決方案輸出國之目的，台灣必頇先建立貣全球無線寬頻服務示範
島的地位；故電信廠商必頇成為 WiMAX 產業鏈中運作良好的環節。NCC 在此背景下
接手推動台灣電信廠商提供無線寬頻應用服務。雖然已有成功操作 3G 執照拍賣的經
驗，但是 2007 年執照拍賣的政策背景完全不同。WiMAX 藍圖及產業政策的目的是要
在全球市場搶先機，故會在國際間還沒有確定商業模式的時候，就希望台灣能夠成功的
建立貣無線寬頻商轉環境界。基於以上政策背景，故 NCC 對此次拍賣決定下列原則：
1.技術中立，定名為寬頻無線接取(Wireless Broadband Access，簡稱 WBA)執照，六張執
照中只有兩張指定使用 WiMAX 標準。雖然執照正式名稱保持技術中立，但民間一般仍
稱為「WiMAX 執照」，我們在下文也沿用此通稱。2. 因為還不存在成熟的商業運轉模
式，故希望避免廠商付出太高標價。3. 保護新廠商進入，因為新技術是既有大電信業者
有可能標到執照後延遲發展無線寬頻新技術。在這些原則下 NCC 設計出與國際常用完
全不同的 WiMAX 拍賣規則。 
在分析設計特殊的 WiMAX 拍賣之前，我們在下一節先介紹 3G 執照標準 SMR 拍
賣設計之意義，以便做為比較基準。 
 
2.4.3 台灣 3G 執照拍賣--標準 SMR 設計 
交通部電信總局於 2000 年 3 月成立「第三代行動通信業務開放規劃小組」，規劃議
題包含：3G 執照開放時機，核發頻寬，執照數，以及發照方式採評審或拍賣制等等。
為妥善進行台灣的第一次執照拍賣，經建會也於同期間委託野村總合研究所進行「第三
                                                 
8
 「電信法」、「交通部電信總局組織條例」、「中華電信股份有限公司條例」。 
9
 中華電信於 2005 年 8 月完成民營化。 
成第一階段審查。經評定遞件申請之六家廠商均符合要件，都可進入第二階段競價。 
2.4.3.2 SMR 拍賣制度 
3G 發照採取國際常用的 SMR 拍賣方式進行，SMR 的特點是同時拍賣多張執
照，廠商可自由選擇要對那一張執照投標，也可自由轉換目標。競標過程持續進行，
直到沒有新標價出現時，多張執照的拍賣才同時結束。 
當年政府設計賣出 5 張 3G 執照，表 2 顯示 2002 年 1 月 28 日拍賣前五回合結
果，我們以此例說明 SMR 拍賣過程。各回合內對執照出價最高的廠商稱為暫時得
標者，例如第 93 回和結束時電信總局公布執照 A 的暫時得標者是聯邦電信標價
84.95 億元，執照 B 之暫時得標者是遠致電信標價 60.69 億元，…。第 93 回合五張
執照標金總計 413.58 億元，暫未得標者是世界全通。第 93 回合結果公布稍事休息
後就進入 94 回合，五位暫時得標廠商不需出價，上回合未得標的世界全通在第 94
回和以 92.83 億元標價成功的從亞太行動手中搶到執照 E。但是亞太行動於 95 回合
又以 93.76 億元標價由世界全通手中搶回執照 E。第 96 回和時世界全通轉攻 C 執
照，以 88.5 億元標價成功由台灣大哥大手中搶標到執照 C，但是 97 回合台灣大哥
大又以 89.39 億元標價搶回執照 C。 
表 2. 2002 年 1 月 28 日 3G 執照拍賣第 93～第 97 回合    (單位：新臺幣億元) 
SMR 拍賣的重要特性是同時賣出多張執照，並且完全由投標者行為內生決定
拍賣何時結束。各回合的暫未得標者可以觀察到各執照的暫時得標價，如果他認為
某張執照仍然有獲利空間，就會繼續提出新標價，類似表 2 的過程持續進行，標價
回
合 
時
間 
執照 A  執照 B  執照 C  執照 D  執照 E  
暫未得
標者 
總標
金 
93 
09:5
0 
84.95 60.69 87.62 88.41 91.91 
世界全
通 
413.58 聯邦電
信 
遠致電
信 
台哥大 
中華電
信 
亞太行
動 
94 
10:3
0 
84.95 60.69 87.62 88.41 92.83 
亞太行
動 
414.5 聯邦電
信 
遠致電
信 
台哥大 
中華電
信 
世界全
通 
95 
11:1
0 
84.95 60.69 87.62 88.41 93.76 
世界全
通 
415.43 聯邦電
信 
遠致電
信 
台哥大 
中華電
信 
亞太行
動 
96 
11:5
0 
84.95 60.69 88.5 88.41 93.76 
台哥大 416.31 聯邦電
信 
遠致電
信 
世界全
通 
中華電
信 
亞太行
動 
97 
12:3
0 
84.95 60.69 89.39 88.41 93.76 
世界全
通 
417.2 聯邦電
信 
遠致電
信 
台哥大 
中華電
信 
亞太行
動 
華電信又多次提高標價搶回執照 D。到了第 180 回合，世界全通判斷已無獲利空間
存在故放棄投標，此時拍賣才結束。SMR 拍賣架構是不完全資訊動態賽局，策略
的數學型態十分複雜，也難以進行理論分析。但是上過程顯示沒有廠商會想要單方
面改變第 180 回和的結果，這正符合賽局理論奈許均衡的重要條件。 
2.4.3.3 行為規則 
為保障拍賣順利進行，SMR 拍賣還制訂重要的行為規則，包含棄權次數限制
以及標價增額規定。訂定棄權次數限制是為了維持資訊揭露的一致性。在賽局理論
分類中，拍賣屬於不完全資訊賽局，也就是參與拍賣的廠商都不知道其他廠商願意
為執照付出多高的價格。競標廠商的目的是以盡可能低的價格標到商品並賺取利
潤。假設某廠商知道其他廠商所願付的最高標價是 78 億元，則某廠商的最佳反應
是投下比 78 億元略高的標價來標到商品，而不需要投下像是 95 億元這樣過高的標
價。在動態 SMR 拍賣中，各回合公布暫時得標價就是一種資訊揭露過程。而如果
廠商在某回合選擇棄權，這就表示他可以觀察別家廠商的出價資訊而不揭露自己的
購買意願。為避免此種情況發生，所以 3G 管理規則規定所有競標廠商在拍賣的第
一回和都必頇投標，之後最多可以棄權三次，第四次棄權即視為退出拍賣。 
電信總局於 3G 執照拍賣中先訂出各執照的底價，政府不會以低於底價的價格
賣出執照，也規定各回合標價也必頇滿足增額上下限。第一回和出價必頇介於(底
價 到(底價 之間，其他回合標價必頇介(暫時得標價 到(暫時得
標價 之間。規定標價增額下限 1%是為了確保標價逐漸上升，下限定的越高
標價上升的速度就越快，有助於縮短拍賣進行的時間。另一方面，規定標價增額不
得超過 7%則是為了讓標價上升的速度不要衝的太快。凡是高於最低增額限制的標
價就稱為跳升標(jump bidding)，投標者在多回合拍賣中有時會蓄意送出跳升標以宣
示自己搶標的積極度，並期望影響其他廠商的競標行為。就我們所得資料12觀察，
台灣 3G 拍賣過程中絕大多數新標價都維持在增額下限 1%，只有 2 月 5 日曾發生
過跳升標，當日開始時世界全通是執照 B 的暫時得標者，標價 75.67 億元。聯邦電
信在 172 回和時直接以跳升標 77 億元由世界全通手中搶到執照 B。在此新高標價
後，世界全通就不再對執照 B 投標，也就達成了聯邦電信送出跳升標的目的。 
 
 
                                                 
12
 全部 19 天拍賣過程中，目前我們僅對 1 月 28 日，1 月 30 日，2 月 1 日，2 月 5 日，2 月 6 日五天有當
日完整的各回合記錄。 
如果無法經由技術或政策上的清楚標準來決定優先執照，可能還是經由抽籤決
定較佳。因為抽籤可以保持隨機性並可避免以上兩缺點。 
2.4.4.2 乘數比投標： 
NCC認為直接以金額競標對新進業者可能較不利，並且WiMAX的技術標準與商
轉模式都不成熟，所以NCC也不希望廠商不理性的互相搶標而付出太高的特許費，
故規定拍賣之報價數值是「指競價者承諾每年按本業務營業額計算繳納特許費之乘
數比值」。表4報告WiMAX拍賣得標乘數比介於4.18%到12.89%之間，帄均值為
7.40%。 
若以2G執照特許費2%為標準，則WiMAX執照得標乘數比其實頗高。在發展初
期WiMAX營業額可能不高，因此業者所繳納的特許費金額並不會太高。但是如果從
利潤率的角度分析，帄均而言繳納營業額的7.40%做為特許費其實會嚴重降低電信業
者的利潤。因此以乘數比值投標似乎並未降低業者競爭的積極性。 
表 4. 2007 年台灣 WiMAX 執照拍賣結果 
競價標的 得標者 得標乘數比值 
執照 A1：北區 大眾電信 既有業者 12.89% 
執照 B1：北區 創一投資 新進業者 6.19% 
執照 C1：北區 威邁思電信 新進業者 5.2% 
執照 A2：南區 遠傳電信 既有業者 4.18% 
執照 B2：南區 大同電信 新進業者 7.25% 
執照 C2：南區 威達有線電視 新進業者 8.69% 
資料來源：國家通訊傳播委員會網站，http://www.ncc.gov.tw/ 
*北區執照 A1 與南區執照 C2 是必頇採用 IEEE 802.16e（WiMAX）標準的優先執
照。 
2.4.4.3 實質審查： 
早期世界各國曾經採用審議制來分配頻譜，但是審查計畫書就和審美一樣，很
難有清楚客觀的標準，故審議制有時也被稱為選美比賽(beauty contest)。申請廠商都
會詴圖做出一份看來最好的計畫書，但是計畫書寫的最好卻不一定是最有效率的廠
商，因此各國政府大多改用拍賣作為分配頻譜的方法以求達到資源之有使用。台灣
3G拍賣規則也明訂釋照程序採形式審查，拍賣前審查之目的只是確保廠商符合競標
資格而不是進行實質審查。 
NCC 設計的單回合拍賣是出價最高者得標，並且得標者直接支付其標價，此制度
一般稱為密封標最高價拍賣(sealed-bid first price auction)。世界各國頻譜拍賣經驗中似
乎並沒有採用過此種設計的例子，在理論及實務上討論較多的是密封標次高價
(sealed-bid second price)拍賣，或稱 Vickrey 拍賣17。次高價拍賣也是由出價最高者得
標，不同處是以次高標價決定售價。此種方式乍看之下有些奇怪，但其實動態的投標
過程就往往執行出次高價拍賣的結果，我們以下例說明。假設某張執照有甲、乙、丙、
丁等四家廠商參與標購，他們各自最高願付標價分別是 30、40、50、60 億元。若底價
為 20 億元，則四家廠商皆有意願購買，當標價升到 30.1 億元時甲廠商會退出；標價
再升到 40.1 億元時乙廠商退出；再升到 50.1 億元時丙廠商退出。故丁廠商可以用 50.1
億元的價格買到執照，也就是在動態投標的過程中，願付標價最高的廠商可以用次高
價買到商品而不必支付自己真實的最高願付標價。 
台灣 3G 執照 SMR 拍賣經過 19 天 180 回合後，最終拍賣總標金達 488.99 億元，
比底標高出 152.99 億元。多回合投標過程中業者互相競爭使得標價節節上升。NCC 希
望對 WiMAX 執照進行單回合拍賣的主要原因是想避免標價衝的太高對新業者不利
18。但是就表四結果看來，單回合拍賣並沒有成功的遏止過高標價。這是因為單回合
拍賣中業者只有一次出價機會，所以很想買到的廠商必頇立刻送出一個贏面極大的高
標價。例如大眾電信因為 PHS 業務陷入困境，急於獲得 WiMAX 執照以便有東山再貣
的機會，所以投下 12.89%的高標價。威達有線電視亟欲進入電信市場所以也投下 8.69%
的高標價；這些標價是 2G 通訊特許費 2%的四到六倍之高。反之如果進行多回合拍賣
設計，則廠商可以由底價開始，讓標價逐漸提高。有可能在願付標價次高廠商退出市
場後，願付標價最高廠商可以次高標價得標，而不必完全揭露自己的願付標價。 
我們尚無完整的投標資料故難以進行確實分析，但是表 4 資料似乎顯示 WiMAX
拍賣結果並不符合賽局理論奈許均衡的精神；也就是看到表 4 結果之後，很可能多家
得標廠商都想改變其出價，或稱有背離此結果的誘因。大眾電信贏得北區偏好排序最
低 A1 執照之得標乘數比值高達 12.89%，而其他兩張偏好排序較高執照得標比值傴為
5.2%與 6.19%，因此大眾電信若降低標價應該也可以得標19。而在南區，如果知道南區
執照最低得標比值為 4.18%，大同與威達也可能想降低其標價，也就是他們會有誘因
背離表 4 的結果。 
                                                 
17
 理論可證明次高價拍賣中投標者可直接用自己的真實評價投標，但此制度的缺點是可能用過低價格售
出商品，紐西蘭的頻譜拍賣就曾發生過此缺失。 
18
 國家通訊傳播委員會(2007)，頁 275。 
19
 假設偏好排序與得標價成正比。 
WiMAX 拍賣規定第一回合不得棄權，「第二回合貣至第九回合止，其棄權次數
逾三次者喪失競價資格」。3G 拍賣同樣也是規定棄權逾三次就喪失競標資格，但是
3G 拍賣回合數內生決定，實際進行 180 回合，故投標者可棄權回合比例是 3
180
；
而 WiMAX 拍賣廠商可棄權回合比例則高達 3
8
，兩者差距甚大。如前述投標者選
擇棄權的意義在於可觀察他人標價並且不揭露自己願付標價，因此允許廠商在接近
40%的回合數中可以棄權彷彿是太過寬鬆的規定。並且在此規則下，每家廠商在第
二到第九回和之間都可選擇三回合棄權，所以很可能有些回合會有多張執照沒有新
標價投入。因此從資訊揭露之角度而言，拍賣實際進行之回合數甚至可能少於十回
合。我們認為更合理的作法是配合回合數限制來決定可棄權次數，以便確保業者會
在拍賣中持續表達自己願付標價。 
3G 拍賣規定標價增額下限 1%上限 7%，也就是新標價必頇介於(暫時得標價
1.01 到(暫時得標價 1.07 )之間，以便確保標價會以穩定速度逐漸上升。WiMAX
拍賣報價以 0.01%為單位，貣始報價數值不得低 1.5%，第二到第九回合標價增額無
上下限規定。為了避免競標者在前九回合都隨便出價而到第十回和突然提高標價得
標，故規定第十回合報價上限為（第九回合暫時得標乘數比值 1.10 ）。因為第二到
第九回合增額無上限，故如果依照 WiMAX 管理規則進行多回合拍賣，有可能標價
乘數比會上升的很快。如果希望達成「標價不要太高」的目標，似乎還是應該訂定
增額上限。 
第十回合是拍賣的最後一回合，也是賽局理論反向歸納的貣點，必頇做詳盡規
劃。暫時得標者在第二到第九回合不能出價，但是暫時得標者如果在第十回合仍然
不能出價，就會落入「只能被搶標卻無法還擊」的不公帄處境。因此 WiMAX 管理
規則敘明除了填寫競價標的及報價數值外，競標者在第十回和還要「再填寫一張單
列投標標的之競價標的單，並裝入另一信封內。…第十回和報價結束後，應先行開
啟單列投標標的之競價標的單，供第九回合結束後開標所決暫時得標者考量是否再
對同一競價標的再為報價」。接著再依照以下順序開標：「先行開啟非暫時得標者之
報價單，其報價為有效報價時，方開啟第九回合所決暫時得標者之報價單」。 
以上規定與一般同時行動(simultaneous move)密封標的精神有所不同。一般情況
是競標者在選擇標的並決定願付標價時，並不知道是否有其他人也對此標的投標，
這就是所謂的同時行動賽局。而依照 WiMAX 管理規則，第十回合是「順序行動」
(sequential move)競標，而非同時行動競標。暫時得標者不必先表達自己提高標價的
意願，而是在知道有人想搶標之後再決定新標價，故暫時得標者可能居於較有利地
之出價必頇大於等於 1225，1227 以及 2065 方為有效出價，如果出價不符增額規定電腦
會送回錯誤訊息。因為一人只能買到一張執照故暫時得標者不可出價，若違反電腦也會
送回錯誤訊息。 
      
圖 3. 競標結果歷史資訊 
SMR 拍賣包含許多執行細節，故無法求出理論節，但是我們可以分析完全資訊假
設20下的拍賣結果，現以表 5 資料說明。 
表 5. 評價設計範例 
 投標者 X 執照 Y 執照 Z 執照 完全資訊報酬  
評價 
A 1274 1239 2018 
 
B 1225 1289 2077 24 
C 1296 1254 2054 22 
D 1260 1258 2125 17 
E 1250 1265 2085 
 
F 1265 1265 2108 
 
表 5 是我們實驗中所用的一組隨機評價值。假設完全資訊，則執照 X 的標價會從底
價 1220 開始逐漸上升，升到 1274 時其他投標者都會放棄，故對 X 執照評價最高的投標
者 C 可以用 1274 的價格買到 X 執照，賺到 1296 1274＝22 的標購利潤。同理，投標者
B 會用 1265 的價格買到執照 Y，標購利潤為 1289 1265＝24；投標者 D 會用 2108 的價
格買到執照 Z，標購利潤為 2125 2108＝17。我們預期在完全資訊情況下應該可以得到
最有效率的結果，也就是將執照 X、Y 與 Z 分別賣給評價最高的投標者 C、B 與 D。由
表 4 數字可算出：將這三張執照作最有效率分配可以得到最大社會總剩餘（maximal 
social surplus）1296＋1289＋2125＝4710，記做 max 4710S  。此時政府收入是 1274＋1265
＋2108＝4647，記做最適總收入(optimal revenue) 4647opR  ，得標者報酬加總是 24＋22
                                                 
20
 也就是假設所有投標者都知道到彼此的真實評價。 
表 7. 範例評價組之拍賣制度比較 
得標者 實際剩餘 效率比 實際收入 收入比 實際報酬 報酬比 
SMR 4710 100.00 4690 100.93 19 30.16 
SLR-6 4710 100.00 4639 99.83 71 112.70 
SLR-3 4710 100.00 4624 99.51 86 136.51 
對於表 5 之範例評價組，我們也進行 SLR-6 及 SLR-3 拍賣實驗，並用同樣方法算
出效率、收入與報酬之實際值和比例報告於表 7 中。表 7 顯示此組評價值在三種拍賣制
度實驗中都達成最大效率。不限回合數的 SMR 拍賣達成最高賣方收入，以及最低競標
者報酬；至多進行三回合的 SLR-3 之結果則是賣方收入最低以及競標者報酬最高。報酬
比的分母較小，故算出之 PR 比值較大。我們共進行 36 組 PV 值之拍賣實驗，為便於跨
組比較，故以下仍將以效率比、收入比及報酬比來觀察三種拍賣制度之差異。表 8 報告
SMR(18 場)、SLR-6(36 場)以及 SLR-3(36 場)等各場拍賣實驗結果之帄均比值。表 8 最
後一欄則是計算跳升標佔所有有效標價的比例，稱為跳升標比例。 
表 8. 實驗結果帄均比值，單位：% 
拍賣制度 效率比 ER 收入比 RR 報酬比 PR 跳升標比 JBR 
SMR 99.74 100.31 54.18 58.81 
SLR-6 98.96 99.17 82.40 47.76 
SLR-3 99.80 99.70 107.11 71.48 
上表數字可提供初步觀察，為確定表中各比值是否有顯著差異，我們繼續進行兩母
體帄均數假設檢定並將檢定所得 t 值報告於表 9。因為三種拍賣制度實驗場次數不同，
故在表 9 中我們是以 18 組評價資料之拍賣實驗結果來檢驗「SMR 與 SLR-6」以及「SMR
與 SLR-3」是否有顯著差異，以 36 組評價資料檢驗「SLR-6 與 SLR-3」是否有顯著差異。
表中**上標表示在 0.05 水準上有顯著差異，***表示在 0.01 水準上有顯著差異。 
表 9 假設檢定 t 值 
  效率比 收入比 報酬比 跳升標比 
SMR vs. SLR-6 0.9993 1.2900 -1.9121
**
 1.5882 
SMR vs. SLR-3 0.1580 5.8303
***
 -2.7598
***
 -2.5764
**
 
SLR-6 vs. SLR-3 -1.0827 -0.6795 -2.8190
***
 -6.2862
***
 
實驗結果顯示三種拍賣制度之效率並無顯著差異。本研究的 18 場 SMR 拍賣中最快
的未來，包含國科會、行政院科技顧問組、NICI、經濟部、NCC 等單位一棒接一棒的
參與政策制訂及執行過程。NCC 是此過程中最晚上場的單位，並且因適逢電信監理單
位改制，故雖然 WBA 釋照政策背景卻遠比 3G 釋照複雜，但是 WBA 執照釋照規劃期
間甚至比 3G 釋照規劃期還要短。 
3G 釋照的目的是讓最有效率的廠商為台灣消費者提供電信服務，而 WBA 釋照則
是為了配合政府發展 WiMAX 產業政策。因為當時技術尚未成熟，也還沒有確定的商業
模式，故 WiMAX 釋照深具特殊性，在國際間幾無前例可循，並且當時新成立的 NCC
也沒有很長的規劃期間。為配合政府產業政策，NCC 決定釋照原則是鼓勵新廠商加入
並且希望標價不要太高，在此原則下 NCC 設計出十分特殊的拍賣設計。然而作為一種
交易機制，拍賣往往會誘發參與者高度的競爭心態。當時許多業者可能還是有競標進入
4G 市場的門票的心態，故帄均得標乘數比值高達 7%，是 2G 執照特許費 2%的 3.5 倍之
高，似乎並未達成降低廠商負擔之目標。 
分析 WiMAX 管理規則後，我們認為其中一些制度設計尚有改善空間。例如實質審
查階段無法避免「選美比賽」的批評，優先執照的選取方法可能有策略操作空間，參與
業者對單回合拍賣可能沒有一致的認知，以及最後一回合的開標方式可能對暫時得標者
較有利等等。WiMAX 拍賣的設計特點之一是限制最多進行 10 回合，我們也以實驗方式
檢驗限制回合數 SLR 拍賣之效果。實驗資料顯示 SLR 拍賣之效率與國際通用的 SMR
拍賣無顯著差異，並且回合數限制可使投標者報酬提高。故實驗結果支持 NCC 設計之
SLR 拍賣。唯本研究是在私人評價（private value）架構下進行實驗，未來可繼續進行公
共評價(common value)或是複合評價(affiliated value)架構實驗，以便更為符合電信頻譜執
照之真實情況。 
 
 
 
3. References 
 
[1] V. Mahinthan, J. W. Mark, and X. Shen, “A cooperative diversity scheme based on 
quadrature signaling,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 41-45, January 
2007.  
[2] V. Mahinthan et al., “Maximizing cooperative diversity energy gain for wireless 
networks,” IEEE Trans. Wireless Commun., vol. 6, no. 7, pp. 2530-2539, July 2007. 
[3] V. Mahinthan et al., “Partner selection based on optimal power allocation in cooperative 
diversity systems,” IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 57, no. 1, pp. 511-520, January 2008. 
[4] J. Chen and K. Djouani, “A multi-user cooperative diversity for wireless local area 
networks,” Int. J. Communications, Network and System Sciences, vol. 3, pp. 207-283, 
2008. 
[5] K. J. Ray Liu, A. K. Sadek, W. Su, and A. Kwasinski, Cooperative communication and 
networking, Cambridge University Press, 2009. 
[6] F. H. P. Fitzek and M. D. Katz, Cooperation in wireless networks: principles and 
applications, Springer, Netherlands, 2006. 
[7] W. M. Jang, “Quantifying performance of cooperative diversity using the sampling 
Networking, vol. 17, no. 1, pp. 225-238, February 2009. 
[28] M. Nakagami, “The m-distribution - a general formula of intensity distribution of rapid 
fading,” in Statistical Methods of Radio Wave Propagation, pp. 3-36, W. C. Hoffman Ed. 
Elmsford, Pergamon Press, New York, 1960. 
[29] L. R. Lugand, et al., “Parity retransmission hybrid ARQ using rate-½  convolutional 
codes on a nonstationary channel,” IEEE Trans. Commun., Vol. 37, no. 7, pp. 755-765, 
July 1989. 
[30] M. S. Patterh, et al., “BER performance of MQAM with L-branch MRC diversity 
reception over correlated Nakagami-m fading channels,” International Journal of 
Wireless Communications and Mobile Computing, vol. 3, pp. 397-406, May 2003. 
[31] D. G. Brennan, "Linear diversity combining techniques,” Proc. IRE, vol. 47, pp. 
1075-1102, June 1959. 
[32] D. Yoon, K. Cho, and J. Lee, “Bit error probability of M-ary quadrature amplitude 
modulation,” in Proc. the IEEE VTC, Boston, MA, September 2000. 
[33] Y.-L. Chung and Z. Tsai, “On the effective throughput gain of cooperative diversity with 
a fast retransmission scheme for delay-sensitive flows,” IEICE Trans. Commun., vol. 
E94-B, no.12, pp.-, December 2011. 
[34] Y.-L. Chung and Z. Tsai, “Cooperative diversity with fast HARQ for delay-sensitive 
flows,” in Proc. IEEE 71st Veh. Technol. Conf. (IEEE VTC), Taipei, Taiwan, May 2010. 
[35] A. Leon-Garcia, Probability, statistics, and random processes for electrical engineering, 
3rd ed., Prentice Hall, 2008. 
[36] A. J. Viterbi and J. K. Omura, Principles of digital communication and coding, 
McGraw-Hall, 1979. 
[37] A. Attar and V. Krishnamurthy, “Interferrence Diversity Gain and its Application in 
Multi-Channel Systems: Capacity maximization and QoS Guarantee Strategies,” IEEE 
Transactions on Communication, vol. 59, January 2011. 
[38] V. Chandrasekhar and J. G. Andrews, “Uplink Capacity and Interference Avoidance for 
Two-Tier Femtocell Networks,” IEEE Transactions on wireless communications, vol. 8, 
July 2009. 
[39] H. Holma and A. Toskala, LTE for UMTS-OFDMA and SC-FDMA based Radio Access. 
Wiley, 2009. 
[40] K. Son, S. Lee, Y. Yi, and S. Chong, “REFIM: A practical interference management in 
heterogeneous wireless access networks,” IEEE Journal on selected areas in 
communications, vol. 29, June 2011. 
[41] W. et al., “Transmission Capacity of Wireless Ad Hoc Networks with Successive 
Interference Cancellation,” IEEE Transactions on Informantion Theory, vol. 53, pp. 
2799–2814, August 2007 
[42] J.-H. Yun and K. G. Shin, “Adaptive Interference Management of OFDMA Femtocells 
for Co-Channel Deployment,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 
29, June 2011. 
[43] H. Boche, S. Naik, and M. Schubert, “Combinatorial Characterization of Interference 
Coupling in Wireless Systems,” IEEE Transactions on Communication, vol. 59, June 
2011. 
[44] K. Zheng, F. Hu, L. Lei, and W. Wang, “Interference coordination between femtocells in 
LTE-advanced networks with carrier aggregation,” in CHINACOM, 2010. 
[45] L. G. U. Garcia, K. I. Pedersen, and P. E. Mogensen, “Autonomous Component Carrier 
Selection: Interference Management in Loca Area Environments for LTE,” IEEE 
Communications Magazine, September 2009. 
[46] J. Kennedy and R. Eberhart, “Particle Swarm Optimization,” in Proceedings of IEEE 
International Conference on Neural Networks, 1995. 
[47] 3GPP TR 36.814, “Further Advancements for E-UTRA: Physical Layer Aspects,” 
Technical Specification Group Radio Access Network, June 2009. 
[48] T. Tjelta, A. L. Lillebo, and E. O. Evenstad, “ITU-R World Radiocommunication 
Conference 2007,” in Telektronikk 1(2008), 2008. 
Taiwan‟s semiconductor industry development”, Research Policy, V35-9, 
[75] Seifrt, S. and K. M. Ehrhart, “Design of the 3G spectrum Auctions in the UK and 
Germany: An Experimental Investigation,” German Economic Review, Vol. 6, 
pp.229-248.2005. 
[76] WiMAX Forum, “M-Taiwan Program – A WiMAX Ecosystem”, March 2007.   
[77] 行政院科技顧問組，(2005)，TW-WiMAX 發展藍圖規劃 
[78] 行政院，(2010)，WIMAX 產業發展行動計畫，2010 年 10 月 7 日 
[79] 新通訊，( 2011) 卡位 4G 通訊新商機 LTE 軟硬體方案決勝負，2011 年 7 月 
[80] 經濟部工業局，2006，行動台灣應用推動計畫簡報。 
[81] 國家通訊傳播委員會，2007，規劃頻率拍賣與回收制度之研究。 
[82] 野村總和研究所，(2001)，第三代行動通信執照競價釋出整體規劃研究案，行政院
經濟建設委員會委託研究。
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 1月 20日 
                                 
 
一、參加會議經過 
此次本人出席在拉斯維加斯舉辦的 6 天(08/01/2011/~13/01/2010)的 IEEE CCNC 
2010 國際會議(The 9th IEEE Consum. Commun. Networking Conf. (IEEE CCNC))，以發表一篇
LTE-Advanced 環境下封包排程學術論文及了解國際學術動態為目的。在 CCNC 會議
中，我發現以 LTE 及 LTE-Advanced 為主題的論文均不少，而且其中探討的技術已經由
原標準中之核心協定漸漸進展到以網路架設、服務實現及應用導向為主之研究，在議程
方面，也同時涵蓋 PHY, MAC, Network, Service & Application 四大議程系列，也代表此
計畫編號 NSC 99-2219-E-002-001 
計畫名稱 
下世代無線網路頻譜共享模型與機制之基礎研究-總計畫：下世代無線網
路頻譜共享模型與機制之基礎研究(3/3) 
出國人員
姓名 
鍾耀梁 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立台灣大學電信工程學研究所 
博士班學生 
會議時間 
100年 01月 08日
至 
100年 01月 13日 
會議地點 
拉斯維加斯 
會議名稱 
(中文) 第 9屆 IEEE 國際消費通訊與網路研討會 
(英文)  The 9th IEEE Consum. Commun. Networking Conf. (IEEE CCNC) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)在 LTE-Advanced 多載波下傳環境下提出一個有效率的封包排
程演算法 
(英文)   An efficient downlink packet scheduling algorithm in LTE-advanced 
systems with carrier aggregation 
附件四 
 3 
註冊參加此會議有給予一片會議論文光碟。 
 
六、其他 
    無 
 我於 6月 5日~9日於日本京都參加 IEEE通訊協會(ComSoc Society)會議，並代
表中國電機工程師協會(CIEE)出席 IEEE ComSoc姐妹會的高峰會(Sister Society 
Summit)。 ICC與 GlobeCom是 通訊協會的旗艦會議，而 GlobeCom則於 11月
底舉辦。ComSoc Society 則與全世界各國的工程組織簽定姐妹會的協定，以促進
學術交流，目前總共與全世界 31的組織簽定姐妹會。 
 
中國電機工程師協會則在 1996與 IEEE ComSoc簽定姐妹會。我與台科大電資學
院副院長陳俊良教授一起出席。 
 
 
 
                      我與台科大電資學院副院長陳俊良教授 
 
 
在會中個姊妹會的代表首先報告自己組織的介紹與活動。我於會中報告時，簡報
內容穿插了台灣美麗景色的照片，故宮文物照片等，及 101跨年煙火的照片，以
便讓世界各國代表流下台灣深刻的印象。 
 會後留影 
我立即舉手要求發言說明。在 2009臺北舉行的 ICASSP國際會議中，也有眾多的
中國作者投稿並出席會議。從無越南代表所說的問題存在，且 IEEE國際會議在
世界各地舉辦多次，臺灣與中國作者工同出席也很平常。因我的發言，使得會中
討論國名等不利我國的討論隨之停止。從此例子也可看出踴躍參加國際學術會議
的重要性。 除了出席姐妹會外，我也參加了數個 Technical Symposiums 的討論。 
 
Contents
Formosa:(from Portuguese: 
"Beautiful Island" )
2
 Briefing on CIEE
 Current Status
 Recent Activities
 Pl d W kanne  or s
The Chinese Institute of Electrical Engineering
Briefing on the CIEE cont.    
4
 Missions
 To support development of industries and advancement in 
technical fields
 Fields of interest
 Originally Telecommunication and Electrical Power
 Currently Semiconductor, Photonics, and Information 
Engineering
The Chinese Institute of Electrical Engineering
Activities of CIEE  
6
 Publications
 Lecture series and training courses
 Conferences
The Chinese Institute of Electrical Engineering
(Co-)sponsor local and international conferences
8
 CIEE Annual Convention
 National Symposium on Telecommunications
 PIMRC’97
 GlobeCom’02
 IEEE ICASSP 09
 IEEE VTC-Spring 2010  
The Chinese Institute of Electrical Engineering
Hosted ComSoc Sister Society Summit at 
GlobeCOM’02
10
The Chinese Institute of Electrical Engineering
Activities of CIEE（3）  
12
Gi d ll f iti f di ti i h d ve awar s annua y or recogn on o  s ngu s e  
professionals
 Outstanding EE Professor Award
 Outstanding Electrical Engineer Award
 Outstanding Young Electrical Engineer Award
 G d t St d t Th i A dra ua e u en  es s war
The Chinese Institute of Electrical Engineering
Planned Works 
14
In this year, we will
 Cosponsor international conference: 
 2011 Asia-Pacific Network 
Operations and Management 
Symposium（APNOMS 2011） 
 Plan joint activities with sister societies
 Attend important conferences
The Chinese Institute of Electrical Engineering
Welcome to Taiwan  
16
The Chinese Institute of Electrical Engineering
2011 Annual Conference of EGPA 心得報告 
樊沁萍 
本人於 2011 年 9 月 7~10 日赴 Bucharest, Romania 參加歐洲行政學會（European Group of 
Public Administration，簡稱 EGPA）2011 年年會，（2011 Annual Conference of EGPA）。一般會
議通常是先議定相關主題，等收到投稿文章後再進行議程規劃。EGPA 的作法不同，其下有
十餘個 PSG（permanent study group），這些 PSG 是常設組織，各自有其主題。年會中各 PSG
自行審查及安排發表文章。本人參與 PSG XV: PATI (Public Administration, Technology and 
Innovation)。此 PSG 的重點是政府組織在技術創新與科技進步中所扮演的角色。與本年度研
究主題甚為吻合。 
本計劃今年之主要研究內容是研究 2007 年台灣 WiMAX 執照拍賣設計及其政策背景。若
與他國常用之頻譜拍賣制度比較，WiMAX 拍賣設計甚為特殊。但我們必須瞭解完整的政策
背景才能正確分析此特殊的拍賣設計。為因應資通訊產業長期發展規劃之需要，行政院科技
顧問組 NICI 小組於 2005 提出 WiMAX 發展藍圖。此科技政策過程展現政府單位跨部會合作
的能力，包含國科會、行政院科技顧問組、NICI、經濟部、NCC 等單位接續參與政策制訂及
執行。當時技術尚未成熟，也還沒有確定的商業模式，故 WiMAX 釋照拍賣深具特殊性。為
配合政府產業政策，NCC 決定釋照原則是鼓勵新廠商加入並且希望標價不要太高，在此原則
下設計出十分特殊的拍賣設計。然而在業者競標 4G 門票的心態下，平均得標乘數比值高達
7%，是 2G 執照特許費的 3.5 倍，似乎並未達成降低廠商負擔之目標。 
WiMAX 拍賣之部分設計尚有改善空間，例如實質審查階段無法避免「選美比賽」的批
評，優先執照的選取方法可能有策略操作空間，參與業者對單回合拍賣可能沒有一致的認知，
以及最後一回合的開標方式可能對暫時得標者較有利等。我們也以實驗方式檢驗 NCC 設計的
限制回合數 SLR 拍賣。實驗資料顯示 SLR 拍賣之效率與國際通用的 SMR 拍賣無顯著差異，
並且回合數限制可使投標者報酬提高。 
與會學者對本文所報告之台灣經驗深感興趣，並邀請投稿至該 PSG 之期刊 Administrative 
Culture。 
1. Introduction 
Since FCC (Federal Communications Commission) started the first spectrum license auction in 
the US in 1994, many countries have used auction as an efficient way to allocate the scarce resource 
of spectrum licenses, but with various degrees of success.  
The first spectrum auction in Taiwan was held in 2001, with the government awarding six 3G 
(third generation) licenses. In 2007, Taiwan held the second spectrum auction of 6 WiMAX 
(Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access) licenses. At that time, there were no 
international standard for 4G (fourth generation) communication, while WiMAX was among the 
leading candidates. Usually, the goals of the spectrum management policy include the following: 
awarding the spectrum licenses to the most efficient firms, and to a less degree, to increase 
government revenue and to create a competitive market. But during this era of rapid technology 
changes, the values of the licenses are highly volatile and they may involve huge initial investment 
before operating. And with no established world standard, it is almost impossible to identify the 
efficient firms. Also considering the fact that firms may be over zealous for the new technology and 
winner‟s curse had been repeatedly observed in the experimental labs and, so it may be necessary 
for the government to take steps to reduce the possibility of telecommunication firms bidding too 
high and paying too much for the licenses.  
Besides these delicate details of auction design, there was actually a bigger picture in the 
background. The auction of 3G licenses took place in more developed counties first and then spread 
around the world. But Taiwan was among the first few countries to issue WiMAX licenses. One of 
the main policy goals of the WiMAX auction is to make Taiwan a leading country with the 
emerging WiMAX technology, and this in turn will facilitate the export of Taiwan‟s 
telecommunication equipment industry. With these bold objectives, the government encouraged the 
telecommunication firms to enter into the unknown future.  
In Taiwan, the government has been an important driving force for the development of many 
important industries. The experience begins with the establishment of the petrochemical industry in 
the 1950‟s. And the semiconductor industry is another notable example. Liu (1993) studies the 
success of Taiwan‟s semiconductor industry and the role played by the government. The author 
identified three major policies: technology acquisition and in-house pioneer research, technology 
transfer, and infrastructure build-up. It was concluded that in a developing country without large 
enterprises, the government must play an active role in developing an emergent high-tech industry.  
ICT (information and communication technology) policies as a future economic driver, 
coordinating cross Ministry efforts in ICT development, and coordinating and supporting 
ICT-related international collaboration and partnerships. For developing strategy, NICI takes 
foresight studies on ICT development and measures information society development, and then 
proposes strategic plans and national ICT agendas, including development and deployment for next 
generation network. The Blueprint for the Development WiMAX is one notable example of the 
strategic initiatives of NICI, it‟s details discussed in Section 2.  
 
2. Formation of the WiMAX Policy  
 
Taiwan is a successful leading country in ICT industry, records show that Taiwan enjoys more 
than 90% of the world market share in the Wi-Fi
1
 industry. With such an impressive market share, 
the cruel fact is that Taiwan‟s ICT production was mostly OEM (Original Equipment Manufacturing), 
that is, Taiwan produced and assembled according to the design of foreign firms. Comparing with 
leading foreign firms that controls the IPR (intellectual property right), the value added and profit rate of 
OEM was truly insignificant. As a follower in the international ICT industry, Taiwan‟s firms had to pay 
huge amount of royalty to foreign firms, and were forced into a competitive disadvantage had little 
bargaining power and could only accept the rules determined by leading firms. In order to upgrade the 
ICT industry, Taiwan must participate in setting up the standard for the new technology. Also, ICT has 
a formidable speed of technology improvement. In order for Taiwan to be successful not only today 
but also tomorrow, it is crucially important for Taiwan to take the next step before others do.   
It was obvious that the next step of the ICT industry would be 4G communications, that is, 
wireless broadband internet access with wider range and faster speed. For example; a 4G 
technology should allow users in a fast moving automobile to download a whole movie within 10 
seconds. But in 2005, there were only a few possible candidates for this new technology but no sure 
winner. Should we wait or should we leap into the future fearlessly? There were cases where once 
promising new technologies were later eliminated in the market competition process. Therefore, 
choosing a new wireless communication technology involves a high degree of risks.  
Partly due to this technology difficulty, Taiwan‟s ICT industry mostly followed the direction 
                                                 
1
 Wi-Fi is an earlier standard for wirelessly connecting electronic devices such as PC or smartphones. See WiMAX 
Forum (2007).  
 Figure 2 M-Taiwan program 
 
It was declared that one of the major objectives of the M-Taiwan Program is to strengthen 
Taiwan‟s ICT infrastructure and services to provide a world class wireless broadband access 
environment for internet users.  To achieve this goal, the government encouraged local firms to 
collaborate with international companies not only to take on domestic projects, but also to address 
global business opportunities aggressively.  Specifically, M-Taiwan has the following objectives:  
1. Enhance Infrastructure: Reducing digital divide by achieving wireless broadband coverage in 
the urban area to 80~90% and rural area to 30~40%.  
2. Upgrade the Capability of the Communications Equipment: Achieving over 50% usage of 
domestic equipment and incubating 1~2 system vendors.  
3. Create a Mobile Data Service Industry: Establishing domestic mobile data services and 
incubating 2~3 service solution companies.  
4. Build a Competitive Mobile Industry Environment: Selecting 2~3 fixed network operators for 
WiMAX trials and creating integrated data, video, and IPTV services.  
The M-Taiwan program hoped to create several city-wide broadband wireless networks for 
providing integrated mobile services. These networks would form a big test-bed for the trials of new 
technology development and application services.  To achieve these goals the following strategies 
were adopted for the technology development of the M-Taiwan program and WiMAX related 
projects:  
promotes the idea of ubiquitous coverage and creative applications such as entertainment, banking, 
or even purchases.  The Government also encourages early investment in mobile content and 
service related resources.  
On the supply side, many WiMAX application and service demands generated in the early 
stages of the M-Taiwan Program have encouraged the development of products to satisfy the needs.  
To propel WiMAX development quickly, the government launched a WiMAX Acceleration Project 
to focus on WiMAX solutions. The project aims to meet the requirements demonstrated in the 
M-Taiwan Program and offers a total system solution to meet the market demand.   
And a well-established infrastructure is crucial to deliver the demand generated in an 
ecosystem.  For an extensive coverage wireless technology like WiMAX, the most essential 
element is undoubtedly a dedicated frequency spectrum. With the purpose of creating a private 
WiMAX environment with leading technology, the government auctioned off six regional WiMAX 
licenses in 2007.  
Several government agencies were involved in the above policy process, the National Science 
Council started the basic research, NICI initiated the M-Taiwan and WiMAX program, and the 
most important policy goals of the Ministry of Economic Affairs was manufacturing and exporting 
of ICT product. But in order to demonstrate to the world that WiMAX could provide the complete 
4G solution, Taiwan must have successful private commercial WiMAX applications. But before 
telecom firms could operate, they needed to secure spectrum licenses from the government. The 
government agency responsible for spectrum management policy is National Communication 
Committee (abbreviated NCC). Section 3 provides the details of the 2007 auction of WiMAX 
spectrum licenses.  
 
3. SLR auction of WiMAX licenses in 2007 
The 2007 spectrum auction was not the first in Taiwan‟s experience. Taiwan had her first 
spectrum auction in 2002; six corporations competed for five 3G licenses. It was a standard 
simultaneous multi round (abbreviated SMR) ascending price auction. The auction took 19 days and 
180 rounds. The 3G licenses expire at the end of 2018, i.e., they lasted for 16 years. The first seven 
rows of Table 1 report the contents and results of the 3G auction; the rest report the current status of 
the telecommunication industry as of 2010. 
In March 2007, the very young NCC directed Taiwan‟s second spectrum auction; six WiMAX 
licenses were put up for sale. Due to the uncertainty of future technology, the NCC called these 
WBA (wireless broadband access) licenses to keep them technology neutral. Only two out of the six 
licenses were required to use the WiMAX technology, these were called the preferred licenses. But 
because of the WiMAX blueprint, they were generally referred to as WiMAX licenses by the public. 
Table 2 reports the policy goals of WiMAX auction as reported by NCC. 
Table 2 Policy goals of the WiMAX auction 
Policy goal Proposed target Achieved target 
Encouraging the development of wireless broadband 
industry, attracting firms to make more investment in 
Taiwan  
200 billion NT 
dollars investment 
220 billion NT 
dollars investment 
Creating environment facilitating the development of 
new technology and new services 
six licenses six licenses 
Let Taiwan be a leading mobile information society  top 7 in the world  top 5 in the world  
Let Taiwan‟s people enjoy more advanced wireless 
broadband services before leading countries  
in 2009. in 2008. 
Promote the growth of mobile communication industry two new firms three new firms 
Increasing employment  1,000 workers 1,600 workers 
Source: NCC (2007b), p.25. 
Considering that wireless broadband access was quite a new technology, so these licenses 
lasted for only six years, and could be renewal for another six years. They were regional licenses, 
i.e., for North or South Taiwan only, but not for the whole country. The plan was to allocate national 
licenses later when the technology became more mature. The license fee was defined to be 
percentage of sales, so a 10% bid means that 10% of the firm‟s WiMAX sales would be license fee 
pay to the government. Again, since the technology was new, so the market and revenue might be 
less predictable. In a sense this percentage license fee meant that the government helped share the 
firm‟s risks. This design also had the intention of protecting new entrants since they might have less 
financial resources and would be in a relative disadvantageous position when bidding in dollar 
amount. Table 3 lists the results of the WiMAX auction.  
and oral interview must be over 75 points to be eligible for entering the auction stage.  
Of the thirteen applicants, only eight firms successfully passed the review, five were rejected. 
The number „eight‟ had great importance because it resulted in a single round auction.  
2. The possibility of single round auction 
The WiMAX auction was not a standard multi round ascending price auction; it was stipulated 
that with less than ten firms participating, the auction would be for single round only. And since 
only eight firms past the proposal review stage, so the auction was single-round. The bids in the 
proposals were compared directly to determine the winners. This result came as quite a surprise to 
some participating bidders and the general public. Some firms, including Chunghwa Telecom, were 
expecting the usual multi-round auction, so they wrote down low bids in the proposal, and intended 
to gradually increase their bids in the latter rounds. But these later rounds never took place and the 
allocation of the licenses was completely determined by the bids in the proposal. Therefore, in 
essence, the beauty contest stage was the most crucial allocation mechanism.  
But perhaps this single round auction was not a surprise for NCC but a deliberate design. If 
comparing detailed wording of regulations of 3G and WiMAX auctions, we find the following 
differences. Article 22 of the Management Regulation for 3G Communication Services stated that: 
“the allocation of the licenses is determined by an open, simultaneous, ascending price, multi round 
auction.” And since multi round auction involves many details, so Article 21 stated the fourteen 
days before the auction, the Telecom Bureau would held a workshop explaining the detailed auction 
rule to the bidders, and participation to this workshop is mandatory.  
However, in the 2007 Management Regulation for Wireless Broadband Access Services, 
Article 11 stated that “except for the situation described in Article 14, NCC will run a single-round 
auction.” And Article 14 stipulated that “when there are more than ten eligible bidders, the auction 
will change into a simultaneous, ascending price, multi round bidding.”   
The above comparisons of the two regulations are only hindsight. In 2007, newspaper reported 
that at least some participating firms were surprised by the single round auction. But, was it a 
surprise to all bidders? Was there information asymmetry among them? Before submitting written 
proposal, if some firms could read between the lines and anticipated a high possibility of single 
round auction, their bidding behavior would be different from those expecting multi round auction. 
And more importantly, if the NCC were determined to run a single round auction, what was the 
reason behind this design? Table 3 shows that the amount of variation of the winning bids were 
were efficient, they would have higher profit margins, and would be relatively strong when the bid 
was in sales percentages.  
This argument seemed correct, but still there are some doubts. New firms with no experiences 
may be less accurate in estimating revenues and profits. Also, firms with new technology are more 
likely to be overly optimistic about the profit this new technology would create. Again, the 12.89% 
high bid submitted by First International might demonstrate this arguments. Comparing with the 2% 
royalty of the 2G licenses, the 12.89% fee was overwhelmingly high. Also, whatever the percentage 
is, if a winning bidder could not successfully operate and generate revenues, the payment to the 
government would still be only at the minimum level.  
Besides bidding in percentages, the telecom corporations were also required to fill out a table 
describing their preference ordering for the licenses. The purpose of this preference ordering is 
twofold, to break tie and to determine which were the two preferred licenses. Within each round, the 
firm that submitted the highest bid would be the leading bidder of the license. And if more than one 
firm submitted the highest bid, the bidder who had the highest preference would be assigned as the 
leading bidder. The FCC also calculated accumulated preference ordering and stipulated that the 
least preferred North Taiwan license and most preferred South Taiwan license would be the 
preferred licenses that must use the WiMAX technology.  
In mathematical terminology, under this design, the strategy space of bidders becomes 
two-dimensional. If this preference was only used to break tie, the bidding problem would not be 
changed much. However, the overall preference ordering would also determine which were the 
preferred licenses with technology limitations, so it resulted in the possibility for strategic thinking. 
A firm could strategically report a false preference in order to influence the determination of the 
preferred licenses.  
Again, we could not know whether there were theoretical studies or experimental testing for 
this design. And therefore, we could not be assured of the contribution of this design. 
  
For the valuation design of Table 4, we conducted three auctions. The SMR auction follows the 
common practice; the number of rounds is determined endogenously by bidders‟ action. The auction 
would continue as long as there are new bids from the subjects. We also conducted two version of 
SLR auction, SLR-6 has a restriction that the auction will last for at most 6 rounds, and SKR-6 has 
a restriction that the auction will last for at most 6 rounds.  
The result of an auction are usually compared in three dimensions, efficiency, seller’s 
revenue and bidders payoffs. The efficiency ratio, %
S
S
ER
max
actual 100 , calculates the percentage 
of total surplus that is actually achieved in an auction. ER = 100% denotes an efficient allocation 
has been achieved. In a SMR auction experiment, if the winners were indeed bidders with highest 
values, so the SMR auction achieves 100% allocation efficiency.  
Let ciR  denotes the complete information prediction of seller’s revenue, and actualR  
denotes the actual revenue. The revenue ratio, 100%actual
ci
R
RR
R
  , compare the actual revenue 
with the complete information revenue. RR = 100% means that the actual revenue is the same as 
complete information revenue.  
Finally, we look at the bidders payoffs. Let ci  denotes the complete information prediction 
of winning bidders payoffs, and 
i
actual
  denotes the actual payoff of bidder Bi. The payoff ratio, 
100%
i
actuali
ci
PR


 

, compare the actual total payoff with the complete information payoffs. PR 
= 100% means that the actual payoff is the same as the complete information prediction.  
The experimental data for the valuation design of Table 4 is given in Table 5. We can see that 
all three auction designs achieve 100% efficiency. For SMR, SLR-6, and SLR-3, the sellers 
revenues are, respectively, 4690, 4639, and 4624, and bidders total payoffs are 20, 71, and 86. So 
with the same 100% efficiency, SMR has the highest seller revenue and lowest payoff.  
Table 5 An example of experiment result  
 Winning Bidder X Y Z  
SMR 
B2  1299  -10 
B3 1280   16 
B4   2111 14 
Jump Bidding 1.5882 -2.5764** -6.2862*** 
** for significant at 0.05, *** for significant at 0.01. 
 
5. Current situation of WiMAX in Taiwan 
Six years has passed since NICI‟s first WiMAX promotion program. For wireless broadband 
4G technology, there is still no single winner accepted worldwide. However, Long Term Evolution 
(LTE) is considered by many the most promising 4G candidate. Table 8 shows that the WBA 
(wireless broadband access) still accounts only a very insignificant part in Taiwan‟s mobile 
communication network.  
Table 8 Mobile communication in Taiwan 2011 Jan.~Mays  
 
user* Minute* Revenue** 
2G  777  2,681,386 195 
3G 1956 14,465,183 685 
WBA    6         0     0.07 
Source: http://www.ncc.gov.tw/  
  
Appendix I.  Auction Experiment computer interface, in Chinese 
      
Figure 1. Bidders choose bidding target 
  
 
Figure 2. Bidders submit bid 
      
Figure 3. Bidders review historical records of previous rounds 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：林宗男 計畫編號：99-2219-E-002-001- 
計畫名稱：下世代無線網路頻譜共享模型與機制之基礎研究--總計畫:下世代無線網路頻譜共享模型與
機制之基礎研究(3/3) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 1 1 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 1 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 9 9 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
本研究計畫團隊第三年總計發表 2 篇國際期刊論文（含 1 篇 IEEE Transactions on 
Vehicular Technology 論文及 1 篇 IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing 論文）及 8 篇
IEEE 國際研討會論文及 2篇經濟領域之國內外研討會論文，並完成專書專章 Communications 
and Networking, SCIYO 之章節撰寫。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
拜全球無線通訊傳輸技術持續進步與新興無線網路應用發展之賜，未來全球先進國家及我
國無線業務預期將會很快面臨不同無線技術或業者對極為有限的可用頻譜資源之競爭。頻
譜共享技術與機制是解決頻譜不足之最重要手段之一。我們認同頻譜共享管理技術長期基
礎研究投入之必要，相信可以藉此維持無線產業發展與頻譜政策間之扣合，達到國家資源
效益之提昇。 
本整合型計畫將擬探討議題區隔為五大領域，分由五個子計畫投入研究。此計畫涵括由實
體層感知無線電，協調合作式頻譜資源共享，虛擬網路業者之頻寬取得與管理模式，使用
者行為，頻譜拍賣交易及共享機制，到賽局模型及市場設計等議題。各子計畫探討議題包
括: 
一： 達成行動虛擬網路服務提供之混合感知與共合式的網路資源分配與行動通訊管理 
二： 大型無線網路與虛擬業者協同頻率共享機制之效能分析與模擬 
三： 感知無線電環境中的智慧型與可信賴傳輸 
四： 動態頻譜接取市場機制與拍賣實驗平台設計之研究 
五： 拍賣設計和電信市場頻譜交易機制之實驗研究 
在此計畫的第三年度中，本團隊完成了剩餘重要的研究結果及實驗。子計畫一除了完成 HPB
