 I. Introduction 
ZnO is a wide band gap material with 3.36 eV belongs to II-VI groups. Because 
of its large excition binding energy (60meV) which is about three times larger than 
GaN, and availability of high quality and ease of wet etching, they have been potential 
candidates for blue and ultraviolet light-emitting diodes, lasers and communication 
device1-2. Therefore, the modulation of electrical properties, such as the species of 
dopants and doping effects are very important. Generally, it is rather difficult to 
achieve low-resistivity p-type condition for ZnO film because of problems such as its 
self-compensating effect, deep acceptor level, and low solubility of the acceptor 
dopants. So it is a primitive n-type semiconductor with high defect density and 
oxygen vacancies. Many reports3-4 indicate the p-type ZnO can be fabricated by 
several different methods, such as pulsed-laser deposition, co-doping sputtering, ion 
implantation, and hybrid beam deposition. However, the complicated process and the 
inconsistent p-type conduction are crucial to improve. Considerable efforts have been 
made to realize p-type ZnO by doping the V group elements, like nitrogen, phosphors 
and arsenic, the reproducibility and stability of p-type ZnO are still controversial. In 
this study, high quality Al-doped ZnO films were deposited on (0001) sapphire 
substrates by rf magnetron sputtering method with treatment of rapidly temperature 
annealing method. It is shown that when the samples was annealed at 800°C for 1 min 
in vacuum ambient, the electron mobility of 25.8 cm2 /V s and a carrier concentration 
of 3.37x1020 cm-3 can be obtained. 
 
II. Experiment 
The n-type ZnO:Al layers were deposited on sapphire substrates by using a rf 
ZnO and Al cannot have a appropriate migration and crystallization on the surface 
when the rf power lower than 100 W. It can be seen that a good crystallinity of 
ZnO:Al films can be obtained when the optimum rf power kept at 100W. 
The Hall measurement was used to characterize the electrical properties of the 
ZnO:Al films, as shown in Fig. 3. The electron concentration of 3.37x1020 cm-3 and a 
mobility of 25.8 cm2 /V．s was obtained when the as-grown films were annealed at 
800°C for 1 min in a vacuum ambient. It is shown that as the annealing temperature 
arises to 1000 °C, the increase of resistivity became noticeable. However, the electron 
mobility was degraded as the annealing temperature increased further. It is suggested 
that the drop in electron mobility may be due to the diffusion of the Al dopant being 
induced when the annealing temperature is above 800 °C, as shown in the Fig. 4. 
Through the calculation of full width at half maximum (F.W.H.M) of dominant peak, 
it can be observed the crystal lattice had been stressed and expanded due to the 
external atom. 
Generally, in many referable reports5-6, multi-layers electrodes of Ti/Al and 
Ti/Al/Pt/Au are usually used for n-type ZnO, and Ni/Au or In/Zn alloy layers are used 
for p-type ZnO. In this study, ohmic characteristics can be obtained by using the 
electrode of Ti(20nm)/Al(300nm) layers to the n-type ZnO:Al films; with the specific 
contact resistance being determined by using circular-transmission line method 
(c-TLM). In Fig. 5, it is shown the specific contact resistivity varies as a function of 
annealing temperature. We supposed that it may be due to the creation of charges 
compensates the native defects in the ZnO films. A standard photolithography 
technique was used to pattern the circular-transmission line. And Ti (20 nm)/Al (300 
nm) layers were evaporated to the n-type ZnO:Al layers. Then, the Ti/Al contacts 
were annealed at various temperatures of 200°C, 300°C, 400°C and 500°C for 1.5 min 
6. Hyuck Soo Yang, D. P. Norton, S. J. Pearton and F. Ren, Appl. Phys. Lett. 87, 
212106 (2005) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
Figure 3 Schematic trend of the electrical properties of AZO films as a function of the 
annealing temperature. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4 The relation of F.W.H.M. and electron mobility of ZnO films deposited at 
different Ar flux with the sputtering pressure fixed at 4mtorr. 
 
 
