1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫
■ 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
 
可轉債資產交換與一般資產交換評價與風險控管分析 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：100-2221-E-004-0146 
執行期間： 20011年 08月 01日至 2012年 07月 31日 
 
 
計畫主持人：廖四郎 
計畫參與人員：吳文峰  
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
■赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：政治大學金融學系 
 
 
 
 
中   華   民   國 101 年 9 月 13 日 
 
 
3 
 
1. Introduction 
In order to improve the soundness and transparency of operations of financial institutions, the 
international supervision financial systems, such as the International Accounting Standards Board 
(IASB), have revisedand developed increasingly rigorous regulations. The development of 
international financial supervision system has imposed more rigorous regulations to improve the 
soundness and transparency of financial institutions. These regulations include the adoption of 
Basel II, implementing International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS), promoting Solvency II, 
among many others. The Basel II requires financial institutions to specify the risks of financial 
products to calculate the capital requirements. As to accounting system, the Financial Supervisory 
Commission announced in May 2009 that all companies have to report their financial status 
according to IFRS after 2013 in Taiwan. Under this requirement, the assets have to be marked to 
market. The pricing of the components of financial products will become a necessity. Moreover, 
the scheduled adoption and implementation of Solvency II in the European insurance industry 
will make the pricing of financial products more important. All these regulations show that the 
valuation of detailed components of financial products will be a common practice in the future. 
The valuation of financial products and their components fits the trend of the development of 
international financial system. However, the valuation of financial products in Taiwan is still in a 
very preliminary stage, and therefore it is important to improve the correctness and effectiveness 
of the valuation according to the regulation of IFRS. In this project, we choose the valuation of 
Euro-convertible bond asset swap (ECB asset swap) as the starting point since ECB asset swap is 
one of the popular financial products in Taiwan financial market and has some differences among 
structured notes and general asset swap. 
Convertible bonds (CBs) are bonds with a right (option) to convert the bond into shares 
(equity), i.e., CB is a bond embedded with a stock call option. In fact, CB issuance is a major 
funding way in the capital market, its amount is about 614,573 billion USD in 2010. Another 
alternative funding channel for companies is the CB stripping transaction, called Convertible 
Bond Asset Swap (CB asset swap), that has grown significantly since the mid 1990s and at least 
30% of CB have been stripped in 2001 [1]. 
5 
 
[5] and Least-square Monte-Carlo (LSMC) model [6]. In practice, the ECB strip is to make the 
value of synthetic straight bond plus price of call option on ECB equal to the value of ECB. 
Hence, the price of synthetic straight bond is equal to price of ECB minus price of call option. 
Last, practitioners can use an asset swap calculation method to estimate the swap rate. The 
problem here is that this method ignores the relationship of valuation of ECB and ECB call 
option. If ECB issuer decides to call ECB back or ECB holder (equity investor) decides to 
convert ECB in the valuation procedure of ECB, the decisions will influence the valuation 
procedure of ECB call option. Therefore, the price of synthetic straight bond could be 
underestimated, and thus the asset swap is overestimated. 
 Method B: 
First, the prices of ECB and call option are valued using the pricing model. Since the 
maturity date of asset swap is the same as the nearness put date of ECB, the price of synthetic 
straight bond is equal to the discounted value of put price of ECB. Next, practitioners can use 
their calculation procedure to estimate the swap rate. The problem here is that this method 
ignores the American-style feature of ECB asset swap since asset swap could be early terminated. 
Therefore, the price of synthetic straight bond could be overestimated, and thus the asset swap is 
underestimated. 
Credit risk plays an ever-increasingly important role in today’s financial markets due to the 
financial crisis caused by U.S. subprime mortgage problem from 2007 to 2010. Banks and 
companies have applied increasingly methods to assess the risk of their loan portfolio and their 
counterparty. Since ECBs are issued by non-government companies, the credit risks of those 
companies are very important. Hence, developing an effective credit risk analysis becomes one of 
the key factors for pricing ECB and ECB asset swap. When pricing ECB, ECB asset swap, or 
other financial products, it is necessary to address the problem of interest rate risk. Interest rate 
risk is the risk borne by an interest-bearing asset, such as a loan or a bond, due to movement of 
interest rates. Interest rate changes will impact companies. For example, rising interest rates have 
a big impact on companies that have a large current debt or need to borrow more because with the 
rise in interest rates, the cost of borrowing rises. Since ECB asset swap is a variation of interest 
7 
 
et al. [11] proposed a semi-parametric approach, which uses nonparametric regression to 
approximate derivative values and parametric asset models to derive the continuation values, to 
value financial derivatives, including European- and American-style options and convertible 
bonds. Ammann et al. [8, 12] proposed and empirically investigated a pricing model for 
convertible bonds based on Monte Carlo simulation. They also indicated that Monte Carlo 
simulation may overcome many of the limitations of both closed-form and numerical partial 
differential equation (PDE) approaches since Monte Carlo simulation has high flexibility in 
modeling the underlying state variables and is suitable for taking into account path-dependent 
features, i.e., embedded options. 
2.2. ECB Asset Swap Pricing 
As we know, ECB asset swap is one of the popular financial products in Taiwan bond 
market, but there still exist a small number of researches to discuss the pricing of ECB asset swap. 
Wang et al. [1] could be the first article to price the CBs, including foreign-currency or 
inflation-indexed CBs, and their asset swap subject to interest rate, exchange rate, and credit risk 
by using a refined lattice model. Chung et al. [4] proposed a novel pricing model for both call 
option on CB and CB asset swap. Based on LSMC model [6], they simulated a three-factor CB 
option model with an early exercise feature since LSMC model not only depends on multiple 
factors, but also has path-dependent and American-exercise features. 
2.3. Credit Analysis 
Concerning the default probability estimation, Altman [13] and Beaver [14] developed 
systematic attempts, mainly rely on discriminate analysis, to identify which predictors perform 
well. They classify firms into defaulting or non-defaulting groups based on company 
characteristics. The derivation of the discriminate function and the threshold can be based on a 
maximum likelihood estimator (MLE) or on a decision theoretic approach [15], in which a cost is 
assigned to misclassification. This approach provided computational convenience but cannot be 
easily adapted to a dynamic framework with time-varying covariates. Global factors such as GDP, 
CPI, and business cycle indicators are covariates that are common to all firms also make the MLE 
approach not well-suited. Logistic regression methods [16] and survival analytic methods based 
9 
 
 
 
Figure 2: The Procedure of Asset Swap: Case 1 
3.2. Case 2 
Figure 3 shows the procedure of the second kind of asset swap. In this case, bank does not sell 
the corporate bond to investor on the effective day of asset swap. Banks buys a corporate bond 
for market value and pays a difference equal to notional amount minus market value for holding 
the corporate bond. 
On each interest payment day of asset swap, banks has to pay coupon from the bond (because 
bank holds it) plus agreed swap rate (floating rate plus a swap rate spread ), and investor should 
pay coupon. If bond issuer defaults, bank will sell the defaulted bond to investor for notional 
amount and pay the agreed swap rate only to investor in the consecutive interest payment days. 
The investor takes the loss of credit default risk. On the maturity day of asset swap, bank will sell 
the bond to bond issuer if bond issuer does not default. 
11 
 
securities trader. Figure 4 shows the procedure of CB asset swap on the effective day. 
 
Figure 4: The Procedure of Asset Swap on the Effective Day 
 
On each interest payment day of CB asset swap, securities trader has to pay agreed swap rate to 
credit investor, and credit investor should pay the coupon from CB to securities trader. Usually, 
the agreed swap rate could be fixed or floating, for example, LIBOR plus an asset swap spread, 
and coupon from CB is zero, i. e., CB is a zero coupon bond. Figure 4 shows the procedure of CB 
asset swap on each interest payment day. 
  
Figure 5: The Procedure of Asset Swap on the Payment Day 
There are three cases make that CB asset swap early terminated: (1) CB issuer defaults, (2) CB 
issuer calls CB back, and (3) equity investor exercises his right to buy CB. As shown in Figure 
6(a), if default occurs, the payoff of credit investor has a loss equal to the cash inflows (notional 
amount plus accrued interest) minus the residual value of CB, and equity investor will lose the 
13 
 
 
(b) Equity Investor Exercises CB Call Option 
Figure 6: The Procedure of CB Asset Swap with Early Termination 
 
On the maturity day of CB asset swap, credit investor will receive the last swap interest and 
pay a CB premium (put price minus notional amount) to securities trader. Equity investor will 
lose the premium of CB call option since the CB call option is expired. After the last time of 
interest rate swap, credit investor can convert CB or sell it in the secondary market without any 
restriction from the regulation of CB asset swap contract. Figure 7 shows the procedure of CB 
asset swap on the maturity day. 
 
Figure 7: The Procedure of CB Asset Swap on the Maturity Day 
 
 
15 
 
,
),(
,0



−
=
otherwiseKECBMax
backECBcallsissuerECBif
Option
nn
n           (2) 
,
),_,(
,0



−
=
otherwiseContOptionKECBMax
backECBcallsissuerCBif
Option
iii
i        (3) 
where 
i  is the time index, .1,...,1 −= ni  
iContOption _  is the discounted value of 1+iOption at time .1+i  
iK  is the strike price at time .i  
In practice, the ECB strip is to make the value of synthetic straight bond plus price of call option 
on ECB equal to the value of ECB. The value of synthetic straight bond can be stated as: 
,iii OptionECBSB −=  
where 
iSB  is the synthetic straight bond at time .i  
For pricing ECB asset swap, the goal is to determine a suitable swap rate such that the ECB 
asset swap is no-arbitrage game for credit investor and securities trader. We denote M the 
notional amount of ECB asset swap. If ECB issuer calls ECB back, equity investor exercises its 
call option, or ECB asset swap is matured, the payoff of credit investor is equal to the cash flows 
from securities trader minus the value of synthetic straight bond. If ECB issuer does not call ECB 
back or equity investor does not exercise its call option, the payoff of credit investor is equal to 
the accrued interest payment from securities trader plus continuum value of ECB asset swap 
minus coupon payment of ECB. At the issuance day, the credit investor pays M and gets synthetic 
straight bond, in other words, the payoff of credit investor is equal to the value of synthetic 
straight bond minus and plus continuum value of ECB asset swap. The value of ECB asset swap 
can be stated as follows: 
,Pr_)_1( icePutMRateSwapPayoffn −⋅+=                              (5) 
 
,
__
min)_1(



+⋅
−⋅+
=
otherwiseContpayoffMRateSwap
atedterearlyisswapassetifSBMRateSwap
Payoff
i
i
i
 (6) 
17 
 
,Pr_ icePutSBn =                                                 (7) 
,360
1)(
1
⋅+−
+=
sr
ii eSBSB                                               (8) 
where 
r  is the risk-free interest rate. 
s  is the credit spread. 
The problem here is that this method ignores the American-style feature of ECB asset swap 
since asset swap could be early terminated [4]. Equation (9) assumes that both ECB issuer and 
equity investor promise not to exercise their call right or there is no call provision prior to the 
maturity day of ECB asset swap. Therefore, the price of synthetic straight bond is overestimated, 
and thus the asset swap could be underestimated. The valuation of synthetic straight bond should 
be taken into account the early termination of the ECB asset swap from both ECB issuer and 
equity investor. 
 
6. Credit Analysis Technique 
We have developed a systematic method to rating a set of companies based on their default 
probabilities estimated by the Poisson intensity model [17, 20]. The essence of a Poisson 
intensity function assumes that the default process of an obligor is subject to a default shock 
governed by a Poisson process with time-varying intensities (counting process), and the intensity 
function depends on a set of factors with some being macroeconomic factors and others being 
obligor-specific attributes. For example, an important macroeconomic factor is Taiwan’s 
unemployment rate and an obligor-specific attribute is the firm’s distance-to-default as defined in 
the KMV implementation of Merton’s structural credit risk model. 
Unlike other rating models that only provide quarterly or annual rating results, our rating 
model is a dynamic real time model, and can provide a timely rating service. Here, we introduce 
one of our criteria for selecting the fraction and take the quarterly data from Taiwan market as an 
example. For fraction criteria, we choose each cut-off points following some rules: The default 
intensities of firm-quarters in level 1 should 
19 
 
 
7. CIR Model 
  Since the ECB contains the asset swap, we have to consider the dynamics of interest rate. The 
CIR model introduced by Cox, Ingersoll and Rose [22], which is the general equilibrium that lead 
to a square-root term in the diffusion process of instantaneous short-rate dynamics. The CIR 
model formulation under the risk-neutral measure Q is described as the following: 
             ,)())(()( dWtrdttrtr σθκ +−=                           (9) 
where κ is the speed of mean revision, θ  is the average of long term internet rate, σ  is the 
standard deviation of instantaneous short-rate. The condition 22 σκθ >  ensures the short-rate 
)(tr  remains positive. If we need to model the object measure dynamics R  of the model, which 
is shown as 
                   .)(( dWrdtr tt σλσκκθ ++−=                    (10) 
In other terms, we assume the market price of risk process λ  to be of the particular form 
.)()( trt λλ =  
  If we have the affine-structure term structure that are interest-rate models where the 
continuously-compound rate ),( TtR  is an affine function in the short-rate )(tr , i.e., 
                ),(),(),()( trTtTttR βα +=  
 where α  and β  are deterministic functions of time. The relationship is satisfied when the 
zero-coupon bond price can written in this form 
                ,),(),( )(),( trTtBeTtATtP −=                             (11) 
where ),( TtP  is the zero-coupon bond price at time t  with the maturity date ,T   
,]
)1}))(exp{((2
}2/))(exp{(2[)()),(ln(),( 2
2
σ
θ
α
k
htThkh
tThkhtTTtTt
−−++
−+
=−−=  
.,
)1}))(exp{((2
)1})(exp{(2)(),(),(
−−++
−−
=−=
htThkh
htTtTTtBTtβ  
.2 22 σ+= kh  
The zero-coupon bond price with $1 at maturity can shown as 
21 
 
                        Table 2 (a): The Contract of ECB 
European Convertible Bond 
Issue date  2010/8/10  
Maturity date  2015/8/10  
Credit rating  2 (TCRI in Taiwan)  
Country  Taiwan  
Currency  USD  
Issuing FX rate  31.8300  
Issuing conversion price  110.76  
Issue price  100  
Maturity price  102.171  
Underlying asset  The common stock of ACER Inc.  
Call provision  The issuer can repurchase ECB if the holder’s stock price is 
higher than the conversion price on 20 consecutive business 
days after 2013/8/10.  
Put provision  The holder can sell its ECB to the issuer at the put price of 
101.297 on 2013/8/10  
Conversion provision  The holder can convert its ECB to common stock at the 
conversion price between 2010/9/20 and 2015/9/31.  
 
Table 2 (b): The Contract of Asset Swap 
Asset Swap 
Delivery Date 2011/3/25 
Maturity Date 2013/8/20 
Contract 
1. Receive $100 and pay an American CB call option on the delivery date. 
2. Receive USD 3M LIBOR+115bps(30/360) quarterly. 
3. Pay $101.297 to counterparty on the maturity date. 
23 
 
References 
1. C.W. Wang, S.L. Liao and J.Y. Chang, “Pricing Foreign-Currency Convertible Bonds and 
Their Asset Swaps 
With Interest Rate, Equity, FX, and Credit Risk,” In the Proceedings of Taiwan Financial 
Academic Conference, 2004. 
2. 黃健榮, “可轉債資產交換之定價,” 大華債券期刊, vol. 4, pp. 1-11, 2001. 
3. 王姿云 and 劉德明,“可轉換公司債拆解訂價與實例分析,” 中山大學財管所碩士論
文, 2003. 
4. S.L. Chung, H.W. Lai, S.Y. Lin and G. Shyy, “CB Asset Swaps and CB Options: Structure 
and Pricing,” 經濟論文, vol. 32, no. 1, pp. 23-51, pp. 443-466, 2004. 
5. J. C. Cox, S. A. Ross, and M. Rubinstein, “Option Pricing: A Simplified Approach,” Journal of 
Financial Economics, vol. 7, pp. 229-263, 1979. 
6. F. A. Longstaff and E. S. Schwartz, “Valuing American Options by Simulation: A Simple 
Least-Squares Approach,” The Review of Financial Studies, vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 113-147, 2001. 
7. A. Brace, D. Gatarek, and M. Musiela, “The Market Model of Interest Rate Dynamics,” 
Mathematical Finance, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 127-154, 1997. 
8. M. Ammann, A. Kind and C. Wilde, “Simulation-based pricing of convertible bonds,” Journal 
of Empirical Finance, vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 310-331, 2008. 
9. Y. Zheng , M. Lu, J. Yu and X. Yang, “Convertible bond pricing based on Variance Gamma 
model,” In the Proceedings of IEEE International Third Conference on Computer Science and 
Information Technology (ICCSIT), pp. 427-431, 2010. 
10. P. Kovalov and V. Linetsky, “Valuing convertible bonds with stock price, volatility, interest 
rate, and default risk,” FDIC Center for Financial Research, working paper, no. 2008-2, 2008. 
11. S.F. Huang and M. Guo, “Financial derivative valuation: a dynamic semi- parametric 
approach,” Statistica Sinica, vol. 19, pp. 1037-1054, 2009. 
12. M. Ammann and R. Seiz, “Pricing and hedging mandatory convertible bonds,” Journal of 
Derivatives, vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 30–46, 2006. 
出差與研習心得 
本人於 2012 年 4 月 12 日由台灣搭機赴中國大陸上海，參加「2012兩岸三
地金融發展與合作高峰論壇」。於 4 月 12 日下午四點左右抵達位於上海的主辦
單位上海交通大學海外教育學院。晚上住宿於研討會會場旅館並與主辦單位及研
討會與會者共敘晚宴。台灣方面的參加者除本人外，另有金融研訓院董事長許嘉
棟、櫃買中心董事長陳樹、證券公會理事長、期貨公會理事長及銀行公會人員等。 
4 月 13 日參加整天的研討會，本人擔任一場研討會的評論人及另一場發表
一篇主題報告，發表論文「金融工程在經濟與金融發展中之角色」。 
此次參加該會，除增進兩岸學術交流的目的外，亦深覺大陸地區之學者正在
拚力追趕西方的研究，並擁有其自有的哲學判斷標準，不盡與台、美、日之學術
觀點完全相同。本人除與學術界人士接觸交流外，亦與大陸地區之證監會與業界
人士進行意見交流，對本人及大陸人士在兩岸互相瞭解的方面均有頗大之助益。 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：廖四郎 計畫編號：100-2221-E-004-016- 
計畫名稱：可轉債資產交換與一般資產交換評價與風險控管分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
