2 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：95 年 08 月 25 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：圓鼻負稜刀具高速精密車削不銹鋼之溫度預測研究 
計畫主持人： 張 充 鑫        
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－197－009 學門領域：機械固力 
技術/創作名稱 圓鼻負稜刀具高速精密車削不銹鋼之溫度預測 
發明人/創作人 張 充 鑫  
中文：本研究是一種選用P型材質的碳化物刀片，磨成圓鼻負稜主刃車刀刀後，
針對不銹鋼材料做車削研究，其中圓鼻半徑( R)小於進給(f)。研究當中除了量測
三軸切削力外，並利用切削過程中刀面與工件之摩擦面積，計算出摩擦力。其
次配合有限元素分析技術，AbqusTM軟體及 Inverse method，以預測刀片切削時
其刀尖之表面溫度。最後與紅外線儀器所量測的結果作比較，結果顯示量測值
與預測值很接近。 
關鍵詞: 銀白色切屑, 不銹鋼, FEM, 切削溫度,圓鼻負稜主刃車刀 
技術說明 
英文：The main purpose of this report is to study the carbide tip's surface 
temperature and the cutting forces of turning stainless steel with sharp chamfered 
main cutting tools.  An Inverse heat transfer model of turning is developed to study 
the tool temperature distribution in turning stainless steel .  The tool tip and cutting 
edges are treated as a series of elementary cutting tips.  The forces and frictional 
heat generated on elementary cutting tools are calculated by using the measured 
cutting forces and the oblique cutting analysis.  The heat partition factor between 
the tip and chip is solved by using the inverse heat transfer analysis, which utilizes 
temperature on the carbide tip’s surface measured by infrared as the input.  The 
carbide tip’s temperature distribution is solved by finite element analysis (FEM) 
and compared with experimental measurements. A good approximation 
demonstrates the accuracy of the proposed model. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本研究係關於一種自行設計與製造的負稜主刃車刀把，利用其特殊的幾何形狀
設計，當鎖上碳化鎢刀片後以磨成特定的刀角:如邊間係角，前間係角，刀鼻半
徑及切刃負稜寬度後，根據此刀具幾何形狀，不同刀角，不同刀鼻半徑及負稜
寬度再作不同的切削實驗。切削時用紅外線儀器量測刀尖之表面溫度。最後與
FEM技術之計算結果作比較，結果顯示量測值與預測值很接近。因此本研究的
方法與技術也可以作為爾後切削其它鋼材的參考。 
技術特點 
(1).符合圓鼻負稜主刃車刀的刀把設計與製造。   
(2).研磨車刀片並:配合工具顯微鏡及光學投影機，以磨出合乎幾何形狀的刀片。 
(3).依前項敘述，先磨出一合乎幾何形狀的車刀片再磨出負稜量，並在刀尖磨出
一刀鼻並在工具顯微鏡及光學投影機上量出此刀鼻值，以為爾後計算刀鼻與
工件接觸長度,車刀刀角及有關參數等。 
(4).建立一套動態車削過程之訊號處理單元,並在高速車床上作實驗,量測其溫度
後,以便和電腦模擬之結果作比較。 
推廣及運用的價值 
由於習知的刀把，刀片幾何形狀的設計，僅侷限於幾項功能。目前市售的刀具
也有將切刃去角及圓鼻的設計，但僅能受限於廠商的設計資料，無法依照自己
的理想或需要而找到或量測到最佳幾何形狀的刀具。此外，該以前習知之技藝，
對於圓鼻負稜主刃刀具之設計、製造與切削溫度模擬的方法，也難以得知何種
刀角，何種幾何形狀，何種負稜量大小最省力，切削溫度最低。因此須要發展
出一成本低，能提供使用者特殊刀把的設計、製造與切削力模擬方法，以找出
最合適的刀角及刀具幾何形狀，以提高效率，降低成本。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發成果推廣單位。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
附件二 
4 
attention.   However, the cutting temperatures of nose radius tools were excluded from the discussion.  The aim of 
this paper is to clarify the temperatures of stainless steel with the chamfered main cutting edge nose radius tools. 
2.   Theoretical Analysis 
The FEM was first applied in the 1970s, greatly improving the accuracy of simulations ( Fang and Zeng, 2005).  
Klamecki (2005) first introduced the application of FEM in the field of machining.  Lajczok (1980) developed a 
simplified orthogonal cutting model from the chip geometry and tool forces obtained from his experiment while 
neglecting the presence of chips.  Usui and Shirakashi (1982) first assumed the shear cutting angle, chip geometry 
and flow lines in order to predict factors such as stress, strain and temperature.  Shamoto and Altintas (1999) 
demonstrated that the mechanics of oblique cutting are defined by five expressions.  Three of the expressions are 
obtained from the geometry of oblique cutting, and the remaining two are derived by applying either maximum shear 
stress or minimum energy principle.  Since temperature is of fundamental importance in metal cutting operations, 
many attempts have been made to predict it.  Some works simply use the relationship between the work done and the 
volume of metal involved in the process to obtain an average temperature.  Others use computers to derive the 
temperature distribution.   However, the methods for measuring temperature in metal cutting have not been improved 
much, so it is difficult to prove the theoretical results in a precise manner.    
The energy shear plane conversion in metal cutting takes place mainly in three regions, the primary 
deformation zone and the secondary deformation zone, a third heat source develops in most practical cases at the 
wear land on the flank of the tool.  It is also always safe to assume, as a first approximation, that all of the work done 
during the deformation process gets converted into heat (Shaw, 1984).  Most of the heat generated at the shear plane 
goes into the chip and leaves the problem zone.  A portion of this heat enters the workpiece.  The main part of the heat 
generated has little influence on the performance of the tool since the chip leaves the contact area very quickly.  Usui 
and Hirota (1974, 1978) and Usui et al. (1978) used an iterative technique to find the chip flow direction that 
minimized the sum of shear and friction energies.  They did so by calculating the shear energy of a series of parallel 
effective shear planes (consisting of the cutting velocity and chip flow vector) along the active cutting edge.  Chang 
(2007) presented a model for sharp tools with a chamfered main cutting edge that can predict the cutting temperatures.  
A three-dimensional cutting model with a nose radius tool is a simple case including main and front cutting edges, as 
shown in Figs 1, 2 and 3.   Prediction of the cutting temperatures and forces with chamfered main cutting edge nose 
radius tools depends on nose radius R, cutting depth d , feed rate f , cutting speed V , first-side rake angle S1α , 
second-side rake angle 
2Sα , parallel back rake angle bα , side cutting edge angle SC , and the end cutting edge angle 
eC .  The process for deriving the shear plane A and friction plane Q are divided into segments with tool nose radius, 
rate of feed and depth of cut as shown in Fig. 3.  The areas of the shear plane A and the projected area Q  of the 
various cases are obtained as follows. 
                                       
                                                       
 Fig. 1.  Basic model of the chamfered main cutting           Fig. 2. Basic model of the chamfered main cutting        
edge tool, f<R, R≠0                                                            edge tool, f>R, R≠0 
 
Table 1 Tool geometry specifications (chamfered main cutting edge) 
Side cutting  
edge angle
SC  
No. of 
tools   
Side rake angles, 
S1 2 1 2, ( , )S r rα α α α  
Nose roundness ( R) 
20 o  1   10 o , -10 o ( 10 o , -10 o ) 0.1, 0.3, 0.5 and 0.8(mm) 
6 
applying the proposed equation  H s fVF U U U= + =  for Umin  in conjunction with the energy method (R. E. M. 
method) (Ravindran et al. 1984), and V is the cutting speed.  Therefore, 
min min
( ) / { cos / cos( )H U s e e eF U V Aτ α φ α= = ⋅ − + sin cos /[cos( )cos( )]}s e e e e eQτ β α φ α β φ α− + −                        (12) 
   To obtain the value of 
min
( )H UF  from Eq. (12), min( )H UF  is equated to the principal component of resultant cutting 
force
tR , which consists of tF  and t! .  
min min2
( ) cos cos ( ) in ( )t H t S b t U e H UR ! F s Fα α α= + =                                                                                                     (13) 
where the frictional force is determined by   
sin cos /[cos( )sin ]t s e e e eF Qτ β α φ β α φ= + −       (14),   min 2[( ) ( ) sin ]/(cos cos )t H t U e S b! F F α α α= −                   (15) 
The values of TF  and VF   are determined from the components of !t  and tF .  That is 
2cos sin (sin cosT t S b t c bF ! Fα α η α= − + − 2cos sin sin )c S bη α α    (16), 2 2sin (cos cos )V t S t c SF ! Fα η α= − +       (17) 
where t! , the normal force on the tip is a surface with minimum energy; and ( )t HR  is the horizontal cutting force in 
the horizontal plane.  
                
 Fig. 3.  Flow chart of the friction force and                                              Fig. 4. Solid model of the chamfered main  
 inverse heat transfer solution                                                                    cutting  edge tool      
2.3 Solid modeling of carbide tip 
The chamfered main cutting edge tool has a more complex geometry.  To develop a 3D FEM for thermal analysis, 
a solid model of the tip can be established in three steps.  First, the tip cross-section profile (TCSP) perpendicular to 
the main cutting edge was measured using a microscope, then CAD software, SolidWorksTM, was employed to 
generate the tip body by sweeping the TCSP along the main cutting edge with the specified pitch.  Finally the tip’s 
main cutting edge was simulated to remove unwanted material and create a solid model of turning tip geometry, as 
shown in Fig. 4. 
2.4  Finite element model 
The finite element analysis software Abaqus
TM
 is used in this study.  The finite element mesh of the carbide tip is 
shown in Fig. 5, which was modeled by 58,000 four-node hexahedral elements.  As shown in the top view of Fig. 5, 
8*6 nodes are located on the projected contact length between the tool and the workpiece, 3 * 6 nodes are located on 
the chamfered width of the main cutting edge, and 1*6 nodes are placed on the flank wear.  These should provide a 
reasonable solution in the analysis of tip temperature distribution in turning.  The initial condition of FEA has a 
uniform temperature of 25 ℃ in the tip.  Because the tip does not rotate in the experiment, free convection boundary 
condition is used when applied to the surface of tip contact with the workpiece.             
2.5  Modified carbide tip temperature model 
Magnitude of the tip’s load is shown in the following Eqs. (18) and (19) 
'/fK U A=     (18)  
' ( )p e bA L d W V= + +                                                                                                                 (19) 
where 'A  is the area of friction force action, fU  is the friction energy, eW  is the tip’s chamfered width, d  is the 
cutting depth, bV  
is the flank wear of the tip and for simplification, the value of bV  is set to be 0.1mm. fL  is the 
contact length between the cutting edge and the workpiece, as in Eq. (20),
PL  is the projected contact length between 
he tool and the workpiece, as referred to in Fig.5 , and can be determined by Eq. (21),  as the following conditions.  
( cos ) /(1 sin( ))s s eR f C C C< + − , (Figs. 1 and 2) 
( ) 2/ cosf SL Ph hj jok dg α= + + + = ( ) / cos sd R C− +  ( ) ( )2 1/ 2 / cos cos /[coss e S s e sR C C f C C Cπ α− + + −  
2cos ]Sα − 2tan / cose SR C α⋅                                                                                                                                   (20) 
8 
Fig. 6, the workpiece is held in the chuck of the lathe and the cutter is mounted on a dynamometer (Kistler type 
9257B) to measure the three-axis component forces.   The force signals are recorded through charge amplifiers and 
A D  converter.  An infrared detector is utilized to monitor the cutting tips, and the temperature acquired is stored in 
the computer.  All the measured data are recorded by a data acquisition system (Keithley Metrobyte Das-1600) and 
analyzed by the control software (Easyest).  The workpieces are stainless steel, SUS 304 of 65 mm in diameter;. The 
cutting tools used in the experiments are Sandvik p10, type S1P (Brookes, 1992).  Carbide-tipped tools with 
following angles are used: Back rake angle=0 o ; side rake angle=6 o ; end relief angle =7 o ; side relief angle =9 o ; 
end cutting edge angle=70 o ; side cutting angles=20 o , 30 o and 40
o
; and nose radius=0.1~0.3 mm.  Tool 
characteristics include WC 69 % , TiC 15 % , TaC 8 % , Co 8 % , HV =1740, density=10.3 3/g cm , thermal 
conductivity=25 /W m K°−  and heat capacity= 210 /J Kg K°− .  The tool geometries are summarized in Table 1.  
Block diagrams of performance are drawn as shown in Fig. 3. 
    
4.    Results and discussion 
The temperature measured by infrared on the tip surface is used as input for the inverse heat transfer method to 
predict the heat flux on the chamfered main cutting edge nose radius tools.  This method determines the heat partition 
factor using the optimization method.  An infrared (IR) pyrometer system was developed to measure the temperature 
during turning with a nose radius chamfered main cutting edge tool.  For knowing the temperature of cutting tools 
and how this chamfered main cutting edge nose radius tools decreases the temperature of the tool tip surface, is 
indicated in the following.  As mentioned by Li and Shih (2005) according to Eqs. (24) and (25), the flowchart for 
inverse heat transfer solution of K is described in Fig. 4.  The results obtained from the finite element analyses are 
shown in Figs. 8-11 and described as follows:  
(1) Fig. 7 shows the cutting temperatures vs. cutting time for different values α
S1
, α
S2  and CS  with chamfered nose 
radius tools.  Fig. 8 shows the cutting temperatures vs. C
S  for different values R with chamfered nose radius tool 
Fig. 9 shows the cutting temperatures versus R for different values
1Sα , 2Sα  and SC with chamfered nose radius 
tool.  . 
(2) For a constant nose radius, R, Figs. 7 and 8 show that increasing the side rake angles, α αS S1 2,  andCs , reduces the 
cutting temperature.  The reason was that the contact length between the chip and the tool is shortened, thus 
causing the effective rake angle, effective shear angle to increase and the friction force to decrease. 
(3) As seen in Figs. 7-8, the cutting-edge temperature of the chamfered main edge nose radius tool, at 30
S
C = o , 1Sα = 
-30o and 2Sα =30
o
 was the lowest, while the highest was 20SC =
o ,
1 10sα = −
o
 and 2 10sα =
o
 and the temperature 
does not exceed 400
oC .   
(4) From Figs. 8-9, for Cs=30
°
, αS1 30= −
°
, αS2 30=
°
 and 0.3R mm= , it can be seen that the cutting temperature 
was the lowest, because the areas of shear and friction were the smallest, but the effective rake angle and the 
effective shear angle were both the largest and the inverse data correlate closely with the experimental values. 
(5) From Fig. 9 for constant Cs , as the nose radius (R ) increased from 0.3 mm to 0.8 mm, the cutting temperature 
increased, but it decreased as R  increased further from 0.1 to 0.3 mm.  When R=0.8 mm , the areas of shear 
and friction were the largest, and probably due to the effect of chatter leading to unstable cutting forces. 
10 
Fig. 8. Cutting temperatures vs. C
S
 for different values R with chamfered nose radius tool atαS1 30= −
°
,αS2 30=
°
, 
d=2.0mm, f=0.33 mm/rev, V=120 m/min (stainless steel) 
Temperature, Te, vs nose radius, R  of chamfered cutting edge tools
375
380
385
390
395
400
405
R=0 R=0.1 R=0.3 R=0.5 R=0.8 R: mm
Te: degree
calculated Te. vs R of chamfered tool at side rake angle -10 & 10, Cs=20
measured Te. vs R of chamfered tool at side rake angle -10 & 10, Cs=20
calculated Te. vs R of chamfered tool at side rake angle -30 & 30, Cs=20
measured Te. vs R of chamfered tool at side rake angle -30 & 30, Cs=20
calculated Te. vs R of chamfered tool at side rake angle -10 & 10, Cs=30
measured Te. vs R of chamfered tool at side rake angle -10 & 10, Cs=30
calculated Te. vs R of chamfered tool at side rake angle -30 & 30, Cs=30
measured Te. vs R of chamfered tool at side rake angle -30 & 30, Cs=30
 
Fig. 9. Cutting temperatures vs. R for different values
1Sα , 2Sα  and SC with chamfered nose radius tool at d=2.0mm, 
f=0.33mm/rev, and V=120 m/min (stainless steel) 
5.    Conclusions 
      Good correlations were obtained between predicted values and experimental results of forces and temperatures 
during machining stainless steel with chamfered main cutting edge sharp tools (Chang, 2007).  A new model for nose 
radius tools with chamfered main cutting edge has been developed by including the variation in friction plane areas.  
In this model, the energy method is also employed for more accurate prediction of cutting force.  The FEM and 
Inverse heat transfer solution for tool temperature in stainless steel turning is obtained and compared with 
experimental measurements.  The good agreement demonstrates the accuracy of proposed model.  This model can be 
extended to the on-line control domain in addition to the factors of time and thermal effect.  Additionally, this new 
nose radius tool model using the variation in friction areas that occur in nose radius tool can be applied to accurately 
predict the cutting forces and the temperature of the tool tip surface. 
References 
Amdt G., Brown R. H., 1966.  On the temperature distribution in orthogonal machining, Int. J. Machine Tools and Manufacture, 
Design, Research and Application 119, pp.39-45. 
Boothroyd G., 1963. Temperature in orthogonal metal cutting, Proc., Inst. Mechanical Engineering 177, pp.7-13. 
Brookes K. J. A., 1992.  World directory and handbook of hard metals, 5th edition, published by International carbide data hand 
book, United Kingdom, D 172-175. 
Chang C. S., 2007, Prediction of the cutting temperatures of stainless steel with chamfered main cutting edge tools, J. of 
Materials Processing Technology 190 (1-3), pp. 332-341. 
Chang C. S., 1998, Turning of stainless steel with worn tools having chamfered main cutting edges, Int. J. Machine Tools and 
Manufacture, Design, Research, and Application 38, pp. 291~313. 
Divine JR C. A., 1975.  What to consider in choosing an alloy, Machining Stainless Steels, Published by the American Society 
for Metals (ASM), USA, pp.19-23. 
Fang G., Zeng P., 2005.  Three-dimensional thermo-elastic-plastic coupled FEM simulations for metal oblique cutting processes, 
J. of Materials Processing Technology 168, pp. 42-48. 
Fuh K. H., Chang C. S., 1995.  Prediction of the cutting forces for chamfered main cutting edge tools,  Int. J. Machine Tools and 
Manufacturing, Design, Research, and Application 35, pp.1559-1586. 
Kato S., Yamaguchi Y., Watanabe Y., Hiraiwa Y., 1976.  Measurement of temperature distribution within tool using powders of 
