 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫  
■成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
可撓式電致色變元件於節能之研究(1/3) 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  99－2221－E－451－004 
執行期間：99年 08月 01 日至 100年 07月 31日 
 
執行機構及系所：明道大學材料科學與工程學系 
                國立金門大學電子工程學系 
 
計畫主持人：翁克偉 
計畫參與人員：陳雅琪、李昀達、彭一玲 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告 □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
   □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
中   華   民   國    年    月    日 
附件一 
V-570) and the scanning range was 190-1000nm. 
The transmittances (△ T, %) of the specimen 
between in the bleached and colored states at λ = 
400, 550 and 800 nm were plotted. 
 
Table 1 Operating parameters of the pulsed magnetron sputter 
deposition system 
Parameter Value 
Sputter target W-Ti alloy 
Substrate ITO glass 
Ar flow rate (sccm) 150 
O2 flow rate (sccm) 50 
Work pressure (torr) 5x10-2 
Pulsed power (W) 100/200/300/400/500 
Pulsed frequency (kHz) 100 
Deposition time (min) 15 
 
3. Results and discussion 
 
Figure 1 shows the surface morphological 
features of the WTiOx films. The films have a 
crack-free homogeneous structure, indicating a 
uniform distribution of granular clusters grains. The 
cluster size of WTiOx films increased from 40 nm to 
74 nm as the deposition power increased from 200 
W to 500 W, because energetic plasma bombardment 
during the deposition process remixed the surface 
atoms and produced a coarse morphology. The 
deposition rate of WTiOx films increased with the 
plasma power from 12 nm/min at 100W to 91 
nm/min at 500W. Therefore, the time for preparing 
WTiOx films of a particular thickness could be 
controlled by varying the plasma power. Figure 2 
shows cross-sectional SEM micrographs of the 
WTiOx films that were prepared at various  powers 
with a thickness of 340 ±  20 nm. A ordered 
structure was observed in all films, except that 
deposited at 500W, which contained some block 
clusters.  
   
 (a)                         (b) 
   
(c)                         (d) 
Fig. 1. Surface morphological features of the WTiOx films with 
varying power, (a) 200, (b) 300,(c) 400 and (d) 500. 
 
  
(a)                         (b) 
  
(c)                         (d) 
Fig. 2. Cross-sectional features of the WTiOx films with varying 
power, (a) 200, (b) 300,(c) 400 and (d) 500. 
 
Figure 3 shows 3D AFM micrographs and the 
accurate values for the surface roughness of the 
WTiOx films deposited at various powers. The 3D 
figure shows individual granular particles that stick 
out from the surface at the higher deposition powers, 
such as 400 and 500 W. The roughness of the WTiOx 
films was 0.6, 2.4, 2.5, 2.8 and 3.3 with increasing 
deposition power, indicating that a higher plasma 
energy yields a coarser morphology. This result is 
consistent with the SEM observations. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. AFM micrographs and accurate surface roughness of the 
WTiOx films with varying deposition power. 
 
Figure 4 shows typical powder X-ray 
diffraction (XRD) spectra of the WTiOx films. The 
patterns of the WTiOx films that were fabricated at 
various powers include a broad band of WO3 (120) 
at about 2θ = 25o. The intensity and shape of the 
peaks increased slightly and became more 
symmetrical as the deposition power increased, 
indicating that the WTiOx films were changed from 
an amorphous state to a nanocrystalline structure as 
the plasma energy was increased. 
 
 
40 nm 
100 nm 
 
62 nm 
100 nm  
74 nm 
100 nm 
 
55 nm 
100 nm 
 100 nm  100 nm 
 100 nm  100 nm 
 
 
Fig. 6. XPS spectra of WTiOx films with varying power and the 
inset for W4f and Ti2p spectrum at high magnification. 
 
Figure 7a shows data on the dependence of 
optical transmittance on wavelength in the range 
200–1000 nm for the as-deposited WO3 and WTiOx 
films that had been deposited at various powers. The 
minimum transmittance which corresponds to 
maximum filter-ability of the WTiOx films that were 
deposited at 400W, in the colored state, was ~40% at 
400 nm, ~22% at 550 nm and ~10% at 800 nm. The 
optical density is also calculated from the optical 
transmittance data: its maximum values are 0.22 at 
400nm, 0.48 at 550nm and 0.85 at 800nm (for 
deposition at 400W. Figure 7b plots the 
transmittances (△T, %) of the WTiOx films in the 
bleached and colored states (λ = 400,550 and 800 
nm). The maximum △T (%) at 400 nm is 25.8% , at 
550 nm is 52.5% and at 800 nm is 62.4%. In all 
cases, △T (%) is highest following deposition at 
400 W.  
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 7. (a) Optical transmittance for the bleached (up curve) and 
the colored (down curve) for WTiOx films and (b) the variation of 
transmittance (△T, %) of the WTiOx films at λ = 400,550 and 800 
nm. 
 
The transport of metal ions (M+) is a major 
process that influences EC behavior. The mobility of 
M+ in the films depends strongly on the 
microstructure of the film, including its density, 
crystallization, surface morphology, valence state 
(W6+, W5+), energy gap and other factors. The 
WTiOx films, as revealed by SEM, comprised 
nanograins, and the coarseness of their morphology 
increased with the deposition power. Coarse 
morphology favors the transport of M+ and improves 
EC behavior. TEM and XRD analyses indicate that 
some short-range order appears at high deposition 
power, such as300-500W, and the crystallization of 
WTiOx films is improved, although this affect does 
not improve EC performance. An XPS investigation 
indicates that all of the WTiOx films contain a high 
percentage of W6+ compared than as-deposited WO3, 
and therefore exhibit greater transmittance and less 
residual color between the bleached and colored 
states. Therefore, WTiOx films exhibit a coarse 
morphology, and their crystallization and percentage 
of W6+ increase with the deposition power. The 400 
W WTiOx film is the best for electrochromic 
applications. 
 
 
4. Conclusions 
 
WTiOx films were deposited on ITO-coated 
glass using a pulsed magnetron sputtering deposition 
system. The results of this study support the 
following conclusions.  
(1) The deposition rate of WTiOx films is a function 
of the plasma power and increases from 12 nm/min 
at 100W to 91 nm/min at 500W. The morphology 
becomes coarser as the power increases. 
(2) Some short-range order appears in the WTiOx 
 7 
附件 1：接受信 
 
 
 2 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
如附件 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
Chiyi  
寄件者: "IUMRS-ICEM 2010" <office@iumrs-icem2010.org>
收件者: "翁克偉" <kowei@mdu.edu.tw>
傳送日期: 2010年5月6日 上午 09:26
主旨: [IUMRS-ICEM 2010] Acceptance Letter
第 1 頁 (共 1 頁)
2011/10/31
 
 
Dear Ko-Wei Weng, 
 
It is my pleasure to inform you that your following abstract has been accepted for presentation at the 
IUMRS-ICEM 2010.  
 
Abstract No.: O-P-72 
Title: Electrochromic Properties of Tungsten-Titanium Oxide Films 
 
You will be notified through the IUMRS-ICEM 2010 website (www.iumrs-icem2010.org) of your 
presentation schedule by June 15th. 
Thank you for your contribution. 
See you at IUMRS-ICEM 2010 at KINTEX in Seoul, Korea. 
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
IUMRS-ICEM 2010 
Program Chair 
Hyungsun Kim 
 
 
 
 
 
--  
Jeongkyoung Kim  
IUMRS-ICEM 2010 executive office 
Materials Research Society of Korea 
Rm903, The Korea Federation of Sci.&Tech. Bldg. 
635-4 Yeoksam-Dong, Kangnam-Ku, Seoul 135-703, 
Korea 
Tel: +82-2-566-4496       
Fax: +82-2-566-4497   
E-mail : office@iumrs-icem2010.org 
http://www.iumrs-icem2010.org 
22nd - 27th August  2010 
KINTEX (Korea International Exhibition Center), GyeongGi-Do, Korea
http://www.iumrs-icem2010.org
Organized by
Sponsored by
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
International Conference on Electronic Materials 2010
presented by International Union of Materials Research Societies 
  

IUMRS-ICEM 2010
23
August 22 (Sun) 13:00~16:00, 2F 210B
August 25 (Wed) 13:00~16:00, 2F 210B
Chair : Jeon-Kook Lee (Korea Institute of Science and Technology (KIST))
Prof. Jeremy Levy
(University of Pittsburgh, USA)
Title : Oxide Nanoelectronics
Instructor Biography
Professor Levy is a professor in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at the University of Pittsburgh. He received
his bachelor’s degree at Harvard University and his Ph.D. in physics from the University of California at Santa Barbara.
He has worked in the field of oxide nanoelectronics for fifteen years, and has interests in quantum computation and
spintronics. Professor Levy has received the Nano50 Innovator Award in 2008 his discovery of nanoelectronic patterning
at the LaAlO3/SrTiO3 interface. He is also a Fellow of the American Physical Society, and has received the highest-level
teaching and research awards at the University of Pittsburgh. More information will be announced soon.
Audience
For graduate students, engineers and scientists in electronic industry
Course Description
3 hrs lecture, 2 times (Sunday and Wednesday)
1. Overview of major research areas in oxide nanoelectronics
a. Nanoscale electronic and ionic transport
b. Novel heterostructures, especially 2DEG systems
c. Oxide-semiconductor heterostructures (esp. SrTiO3/Si)
d. Bistability, resistance and capacitance modulation
2. Nanoelectronics at the LaAlO3/SrTiO3 interface
a. Physical and electronic structure
b. Nanoscale control of metal-insulator transition
c. Superconductivity, spin-orbit interactions and magnetism at oxide interfaces
d. Novel device concepts (e.g., memory and logic)
3. Live demonstration of nanoscale writing and erasing at LaAlO3/SrTiO3 interfaces
Learning Outcomes
Attendees will leave with a working overview of cutting-edge research directions in the growing field of oxide nano-electronics.
They will understand the key properties that motivate research in oxide nano-electronics, and will learn what are the greatest
challenges and potential roadblocks for commercial application. In the last part of the tutorial, a live demonstration showing
how to write and erase sub-10 nm oxide nanostructures at the LaAlO3/SrTiO3 interface will take place.
Short Course B
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
21
August 22 (Sun) 13:00~16:00, 2F 210A
August 25 (Wed) 13:00~16:00, 2F 210A
Chair: Junhee Hahn (Korea Research Institute of Standards and Science(KRISS))
Prof. Roman Nowak
(Aalto University, Finland)
Title : Mechanics meets Electronics in nanoscale: Fundamentals of
Nanoindentation and application of the method for Electronic Materials
Instructor Biography
Roman Nowak is presently professor at the Aalto University, Finland, where he runs the joined USA-Finnish enterprise
the Nordic Hysitron Laboratory. The Nordic Hysitron Laboratory (NHL) is the international scientific team active in physics
and mechanics of nanomaterials and from this angle contributes the design of new unexplored nanostructures. The
strength of NHL comes from its essential combination of the expertise in nanomechanical testing with Molecular
Dynamics simulations and ab initio quantum calculations. This international team is run in Japanese style since RN spent
13 years in Japan acting as Associate Professor in Electrical Engineering & Computer Science at Nagoya Institute of
Technology, and subsequently, in Advanced Mechanics at Hiroshima University. Prof. Nowak was active for many years
in various areas that belong to Applied Physics, Materials Science, Nano-Science and Nanotechnology including Surface
Engineering. He always performed research that bends towards nano-physics and advanced, optoelectronics-oriented
technologies. Both the NHL’s efficiency and effectiveness are demonstrated by the recent Nature Nanotechnology
publication which forms the bottom line of this “short course”, which was only made possible by virtue of the synergistic
combination of expertise in atomistic calculations together with sophisticated nano-experimentation (in-situ electrical
measurements and nano-indentation) and a proficiency in the development of advanced semiconductors. Roman Nowak
was working also in Max Planck Institute in Stuttgart and various research institutions in Japan.
Audience
The course is designed for graduate students, engineers and scientists in electronic industry. However, the instructor
contends that the researcher or students from other fields of science and technology may also find this specific
presentation profitable and enjoyable as well. The lecture will stress concepts rather than mathematical formalism which
should made presentation relatively easy to understand. The selection of topics is restricted to material which is
considered to be essential. The modern electron theory of solids is relatively involved. The essential quantum
mechanical concepts are introduced only to the extent to which they are needed for the understanding of materials
science. In this way the gap between physics and engineering was tried to be bridged. The insights we have gained
through “the mystery of current spike” enhance understanding of the link between nanoscale deformation and electrical
behavior, and ultimately lead to advances in pressure-sensing, pressure-switching, and unique phase-change
applications in future electronics.
Short Course A
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
19
Journal of Crystal Growth
Organized by Jihyun Kim / Korea University
E-mail : jhkim@prosys.korea.ac.kr
Symposium D.
Wide Bandgap Semiconductors (III-Nitrides, ZnO, SiC, and Diamond)
Symposium I.
Light-emitting diodes : Solid-state lighting and back light unit applications
Current Applied Physics
Organized by 
Byung Tae Ahn / KAIST
Donghwan Kim / Korea University
Ho Jung Chang / Dankook University
E-mail: btahn@kaist.ac.kr
donghwan@korea.ac.kr
hjchang@dankook.ac.kr
Symposium F.
Challenges in Interconnect and Packaging for Next-Generation Devices
Symposium G.
Solar Cells and Related Materials
Symposium H.
Materials and Devices for Fuel Cells
Symposium J.
Flexible displays and electronic papers
Symposium L.
Advanced Electroceramic Materials and Devices: Microwave Dielectrics, Piezo-electrics, Tunable Devices, Piezoelectrics
and Actuators
Symposium M.
Direct Writing and Printed Electronics; Materials, Processing and Applications
Symposium Q.
Computational Design for Next Generation Electronic Materials
Symposium W.
Electronic Materials Processing and Characterization
Manuscript Details
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
17
Time allocated for oral presentations:
?Plenary Presentation :  45 minutes
?Invited Presentation :  30 minutes
?Oral Presentation :  15 minutes
* Note: the total time includes the Q&A session
PowerPoint or Acrobat PDF format is recommended for presentation.
Preview rooms will be equipped with the following items :
A PC with WINDOWS XP operating system installed with Microsoft Office 2007, Acrobat Reader 6.0, and Windows
Media Player 9.0 will be provided.
We recommend that the presenters bring their own presentation files in a format compatible with one of the above
applications in a CD-ROM disk or a USB thumb drive (flash memory).
Alternatively, they can use their own notebook computer.
In case you bring your own notebook PC, please check whether it works exactly as planned before your session  starts.
The time to connect your notebook PC may reduce the available presentation time. If your graphics or video clips are not
imbedded in your presentation, please be sure to bring them as well. 
We also recommend that you bring the presentation in a CD-ROM or a USB thumb drive as a backup.
Uploading of the presentation files will be done daily, before the sessions commence and during the coffee-breaks /
lunch. Presenters should also be at their session at least 10 minutes before it begins.
All questions regarding audio/visual, computer support, or optional equipment should be addressed to us at
secretariat@iumrs-icem2010.org.
Poster presentations will take place during the following hours :
Posters should be attached before 1 pm, respectively.
The Poster Board :
You will be provided with a poster board to mount your poster. Your poster presentation code will be indicated on the
board. Please note that the width of the poster board may not be exceeded under any circumstances. Adhesive will be
provided at the conference to mount posters on the boards.
Poster Size : 100 X 150 cm (horizontal X vertical)
Attaching of your poster will be done before the sessions commence and during the coffee-breaks / lunch.
Presenters are responsible for the dismantling of their posters. Posters left behind after the stipulated removal date and
time will be disposed of and are not the responsibility of the organizer.
Poster Presentations
Oral Presentations
Presentation Guideline
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
15
Conference Banquet will be held at the Lotte Hotel Seoul (www.lottehotel.co.kr) from 18:00 to 20:00 on August 25, Wednesday.
Address : 1, Sogong-Dong, Jung-Gu, Seoul, Korea 100-721 C.P.O.Box 3500, TEL. 82-2-771-1000
After passing the crossroad in front of City Hall, take a U-tern in front of the South Gate of the Seoul
? Turn right into the Bukchangdong-road just before Hanwha General Insurance Building ? Turn left
Euljiro direction in front of Chosun Hotel ? Turn right beside of the City Hall Square ? Enter into
Parking zone of Lotte Hotel
Straight ahead for Bookchangdong-road at the crossroad in front of City hall ? Turn left for Euljiro
direction in front of Chosun Hotel ? Turn right beside of the City hall Square ? Enter into the Parking
zone of Lotte Hotel
Cross the Hannam Bridge at the end of the Gyeongbu Expressway ? Enter into a high-level road ?
Enter into the South Mountain No.1 tunnel ? After passing the tunnel, go straight at the first
crossroad ? Turn left City Hall side at the second crossroad called Euljiro ? After straight ahead for
about 100M, then turn right in front of Lotte Young Plaza ? Enter into the parking zone of Lotte Hotel
and Lotte Department Store
(the Parking zone of Lotte Hotel and Lotte Department Store is the same)
The South Mountain No.3 Tunnel
Go straight into the crossroad of Korea National Bank after cross the South Mountain No.3 Tunnel ?
Go for City Hall and Gwanghwamun direction about 350M, then turn right at the City Hall Square ?
Enter into the parking zone of Lotte Hotel
Turn left for Korean National Bank at the crossroad of Euljiro 1 ga ? After passing Lotte Department
Store turn right at the entrance of Young Plaza ? Enter into the parking zone of Lotte Department Store
(the Parking zone of Lotte Hotel and Lotte Department Store is the same)
Way to Lotte HotelStarting point
How to get Banquet place
? By Car
Gwanghwamun 
Side
Shinchon /
Seosomun
The Gyeongbu
Expressway
Euljiro
Conference Banquet
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
13
KINTEX Floor Layout
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
11
How to Get Here - From the Incheon International Airport
? By Car
Incheon Int’l New Airport TG > Nooji JC > Seoul Ring Expressway About 1 hour
Airport > Jayuro JC > Jayuro > KINTEX IC > KINTEX
? By Bus
Bus No. Starting Point Arriving Point Intervals Travel Times Transportation Cost
3300 Songpo-dong Incheon Int’l Airport 15 ~ 20 min. 70 ~ 75 min. 8,000 won
Bus stop 1F 8A
Embarkation Incheon Int’l Airport > Express Way > Neunggok > Todang-dong > Hwajeong Station >  
Points Goyang Police Station > Daegok Station > Baekseok Station > Madu Station > 
Ilsan Police Station > Juyeop Station > Daehwa Station > Songpo-dong
? By Airport Limousine
Bus No. Starting Point Arriving Point Intervals Travel Times Transportation Cost
Airport Uijeongbu Incheon Int’l Airport 15 ~ 20 min. 70 ~ 75 min. 8,000 won
Limousine
Bus stop 1F 8B
Embarkation Uijeongbu Station > Pung-dong > KINTEX > Kimpo Int’l Airport >
Points Incheon Int’l Airport Express Way
How to Get Here - From the Kimpo International Airport
? By Car
Kimpo Int’l Gonghangno > Gonghang High School > Gaehwa IC About 1 hour
Airport > South End of Haengjudaegyo(Bridge) > Haengju IC 
> Jayuro > KINTEX IC > KINTEX
? By Bus
Bus No. Starting Point Arriving Point Intervals Travel Times Transportation Cost
150 Geum-chon Domestic Terminal 10 ~ 20 min. 70 ~ 85 min. 850 won
Embarkation 
[Now], Domestic Terminal ([Before],International Terminal 1)
Points
? By Airport Limousine (Same bus, Incheon airport Limousine)
Bus No. Starting Point Arriving Point Intervals Travel Times Transportation Cost
Airport Uijeongbu Incheon Int’l Airport 15 ~ 20 min. 70 ~ 75 min. KINTEX 
Limousine 8,000 won
Embarkation Incheon Int’l Airport Express Way > Kimpo Int’l Airport > KINTEX >
Points Pung-dong > Uijeongbu Station
How to Get Here - 
From the Incheon International Airport
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
9
Conference Schedule
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
07
Symposium P. Nanoscale Functionalization and New Discoveries in Modern Superconductivity
Chang Kyu Rhee - Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute
Symposium Q. Computational Design for Next Generation Electronic Materials
Kwang-Ryeol Lee - Korea Institute of Science and Technology 
Seunghoon Choi - Insilicotech Co., Ltd.
Kyungjae Cho - University of Texas at Dallas 
Jaichan Lee - Sungkyunkwan University
Symposium R. Semiconducting Nanowires - synthesis, properties, and applications
Dojin Kim - Chungnam National University 
Young-Ho Kim - Hanyang University
Supratik Guha - IBM TJ Watson
Sungho Jin - UC San Diego
Symposium S. Process Technology Related to the Fabrication of Nano Structured Devices
Ungyu Paik - Hanyang University
Won Il Park - Hanyang University
Wolfgang M. Sigmund - University of Florida
Symposium T. Self-Assembling Materials and Processes from Fundamental Phenomena to Nanomaufacturing
Jaegab Lee - Kookmin University 
Ahmed Busnaina - Northeastern University
Yukiharu Uraoka - Nara Institute of Science and Technology
Symposium U. Materials Education: : Changing Needs, New Resources, Curriculum Development
Hyuck Mo Lee - KAIST (Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology)
Symposium V. Materials World Network
Robert P.Chang - Northwestern University
Taik Nam Kim - Paichai University 
Symposium W. Electronic Materials Processing and Characterization 
Woo-Gwang Jung - Kookmin University
Ho Jung Chang - Dankook University
V. Education and Network
IV. Nanomaterials, nanostructures and nanoelectronics
Symposium Organizers
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
05
Symposium A:  Molecular and Organic Electronics
Jang-Joo Kim - Seoul National University 
Kilwon Cho - POSTECH
Yong-Young Noh - Hanbat National University
Symposium B:  Materials and devices for future logic technology
Rino Choi - Inha University
Byoung Hun Lee - Gwangju Institute of Science and Technology
Hyungjun Kim - Yonsei University
Philip Wong - Stanford University
Jiyoung Kim - University of Texas at Dallas
Rusty Harris - Texas A&M University
Symposium C: Materials, Processing, and Devices for Nonvolatile Memories
Cheol Seong Hwang - Seoul National University
Seungwu Han - Seoul National University
Rene Meyer - Unity Semiconductor Corporation
Symposium D: Wide Bandgap Semiconductors (III-Nitrides, ZnO, SiC and Diamond)
Jihyun Kim - Korea University
Chang-Sik Son  - Silla University 
Fan Ren  - University of Florida 
Jaime A. Freitas, Jr.  - U.S. Naval Research Laboratory 
Akinori Koukitu  - Tokyo University of Agriculture and Technology
Shangjr Gwo - National Tsing-Hua University 
Symposium E: Material Systems and Processes for Three-Dimensional Micro- and Nanoscale Fabrication
Jinho Ahn - Hanyang University
Heon Lee - Korea University
Nae-Eung Lee - Sung Kyun Kwan University
Won-Jun Lee - Sejong University
Dae-Kyu Choi - New Power Plasma
Shinji Matsui - University of Hyogo
Vivek Bakshi - EUV LItho Inc.
Moon Kim - UT-Dallas
Symposium F: Challenges in Interconnect and Packaging for Next-Generation Devices
Young-Chang Joo - Seoul National University
Won-Jun Lee - Sejong University
Young-Bae Park - Andong National University 
Chee Lip GAN - Nanyang Technological University
I. Semiconductors processing and devices
Symposium Organizers
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
03
Hyeong Joon Kim  - Seoul National University
Woo-Gwang Jung  - Kookmin University
Chair : Hyungsun Kim - Inha University
Do-Kyun Kwon - Korea Aerospace University
Sang Sub Kim - Inha University
Jin Hyeok Kim - Chonnam National University
Hyungjun Kim - Yonsei University
GeunYoung Yeom - Sung Kyun Kwan University
Byong-Taek Lee - Soon Chun Hyang University
DaeYong Jeong - Myongji University
Chair : Taik Nam Kim  - Paichai University
Jung Sik Kim - University of Seoul
Chan Joong Kim - Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute
Hyoun-woo Kim - Inha University
Young-Min Kong - University of Ulsan
Jungho Ryu - Korea Institute of Materials Science (KIMS)
Jin-Goo Park - Hanyang University
Young-Bae Park - Andong National University
Tae-Yeon Seong - Korea University
Euijoon Yoon - Seoul National University
Jong-Sook Lee - Chonnam National University
Jong-Heun Lee - Korea University
Sung Tag Oh - Seoul National University of Technology
HooJeong Lee - Sung Kyun Kwan University
June Key Lee - Chonnam National University
Si Young Chang - Korea Aerospace University
Yong-Ho Choa - Hanyang University
Kyung Nam Kim - Kangwon National University
Il-Ho Kim - Chungju National University
Won-Yong Kim - Korea Institute of Industrial Technology
Eun-Kyung Kim - Seoul National University of Technology
Organizing Committee4
Program Committee3
Secretariat2
Conference General Chair 1
Conference Committees
IUMRS-ICEM 2010
01
Welcome to IUMRS-ICEM-2010 and Korea, the most dynamic country in the
world.
On behalf of the IUMRS-ICEM-2010 Organizing Committee and the Materials
Research Society of Korea (MRS-K), I would like to extend a heartfelt
welcome to all participants of the Conference. IUMRS-ICEM-2010 is an
International Conference on Electronic Materials (ICEM) sponsored by the
International Union of Materials Research Societies (IUMRS), which is held
biennially and followed from the past successful ICEM’s in Korea (ICEM-2002), San Francisco
(ICEM-2004), Nice (ICEM-2006) and Sydney (ICEM-2008). 
The IUMRS-ICEM-2010 proposes 23 Symposia with over 1300 abstracts received from more than
30 countries and it covers general topics of electronic materials including semiconductor
processing and devices, energy materials, thin film processing and applications, nanomaterials and
nanoelectronics, and materials network. Furthermore, the IUMRS-ICEM-2010 does not only
provide a great opportunity to report and discuss scientific results in the field of electronic materials
but it also aims to enhance possible future collaborations between numerous research groups from
all over the world. Hence it is hoped that all participants of the Conference find the symposia most
rewarding and fruitful to attend for information exchange and dissemination. 
As briefly mentioned in the earlier, ICEM-2002 was held in an exotic and fascinating venue in
Korea, Jeju Island and successfully hosted by MRS-K where as the ICEM-2010 is held at KINTEX
in Seoul-Gyunggi Metropolitan area, which is regarded as the center and the most civilized and
dynamic area in Korea since it embraces many historical monuments and cultural relics as well as
several modernized shopping centers. 
In order to express my sincere appreciation, I would like to acknowledge the Organizing Committee
members of the Conference who have worked very hard and led the Conference to a great
success, and the Symposium Organizers and the Conference sponsors who have provided
invaluable contributions and endorsement towards the outstanding results. I truly hope all of you
really enjoy the technical programs as well as the pre- and post-Conference activities in Korea
during your stay.
Hyeong Joon Kim
General Chair of IUMRS-ICEM-2010
Welcome
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：翁克偉 計畫編號：99-2221-E-507-006- 
計畫名稱：可撓式電致色變元件於節能之研究 
量化 
成果項目 
實際已達
成數（被接
受或已發
表） 
預期總達成
數(含實際
已達成數)
本計畫
實際貢
獻百分
比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：如數
個計畫共同成果、成
果列為該期刊之封面
故事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告 /技術報
告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 0 100% 
篇 
1.脈衝磁控濺射氧化鎳
釩薄膜結構分析與電致
色變特性研究,台灣真空
學會 
2.脈衝磁控濺射 WCrN 薄
膜微觀結構分析與特性
研究,台灣真空學會 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  
專利 已獲得件數 2 0 100% 件 
1. 翁克偉、劉程煒、鍾
健平「可調整透光係數之
智 慧 型 遮 光 裝 置 」
2011/8/21-2020/12/16, 
Taiwan, Patent. 
2. 翁克偉、劉程煒、鍾
健平 「抗菌園藝剪」
2011/8/21-2020/12/15, 
Taiwan, Patent. 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國外 論文著作 期刊論文 1 0 100% 篇 Ya-Chi Chen, Ko-Wei 
Weng*, Ming Don Tseng, 
Jung-Jie Huang, 
Shui-Yang Lien,C. L. 
Lin, ’Electrochromic 
Properties of 
Tungsten-Titanium 
