 中文摘要： 
本計畫主要目的是開發一協助協同式新產品開發的案例式推理系統。本研究將案例式
推理系統(Case-Based Reasoning System, CBRS)結合協同設計(Collaborative Design)的理
念，開發出可以運用於新產品協同開發之案例式推理系統。此一系統架構是以產品資料管
理系統(Product Data Management System, PDMS)為基礎，於案例式推理系統中篩選出的案
例可以由 PDMS 下載相關設計資料。藉由選擇本公司或協同公司中的新產品開發之專案資
料庫的歷史專案，可以縮短並且改善新產品開發之流程與品質。本研究之主要研究議題為
CBR 協同作業機制與安全控管機制的建立，以增進協同公司間產品開發的效率並且能保持
公司的智慧財產。本研究之雛形系統是以 java, JSP 撰寫程式並使用 Apache 軟體基金會的
Tomcat 運用程式伺服器，併使用 MySQL 為後端資料庫。此一系統可以實作於微軟的
Windows 作業系統或是其他 Linux 或 UNIX 作業系統。因此對於協同公司間的軟硬體並無
特殊限制，可以充分發揮 java 跨平台的特性。 
 
關鍵詞：案例式推理、新產品開發、協同開發 
 
 
Abstract (英文摘要) 
The objective of this research project is to develop a case-based reasoning system (CBRS) 
to assist engineers develop new products in collaborative environment. This project combined the 
collaborative design concept with Case-Based Reasoning System (CBRS). The framework of the 
system is built upon the product data management system (PDMS).Therefore, the relevant files 
associated with the selected design cases from CBRS can be downloaded from PDMS. The 
workflow and quality of new product development can be improved through this sharing 
mechanism of historical design cases within the collaborative partners. The major issues in the 
research are access control mechanism and sensitive content control between collaborating 
partners. These mechanisms will improve the design information sharing efficiency without 
compromising the intellectual properties of the collaborative partners. The pilot system is built 
upon Tomcat of Apache Software Foundation with MySQL as backend database. The system can 
be implemented in Microsoft Windows or Linux operating systems. Therefore, there are no 
restrictions on the hardware or software platform restrictions for the collaborative partners. 
  
Keywords: Case-based reasoning, new product development, collaborative development 
 
system)，主要是以 Fuzzy Integral 來決定各代理人之間較佳的案例。此法主要針對協同式案
例系統，各系統間並無一定關係，因此此一技術雖然有效但是較為複雜。本計畫中的系統
有產品結構資料可以應用，因此可以更快速有效的蒐集各協同公司的案例來決定較佳的案
例。 
四、 研究方法： 
本計畫首先構建一植基於產品資料管理系統的案例式推理系統，如圖一所示 [14]。此
一系統可以解決公司內新產品設計資料管理與分享的問題。對於多樣產品的公司，本系統
應用物件導向觀念設計案例式推理系統，產品及其組成部品的資料可以抽象化的以類別表
示，如圖二所示。，與產品資料管理系統中的物料清單(BOM)可以相會對應，其對應關係
如圖三所示。在每一類別中均有其特有的特性(attribute)，子類別可以繼承父類別的特性。
因此雖然在背光模組中沒有尺寸的特性，可是當搜尋背光模組設計案例時，尺寸仍會是需
要輸入的特性值。在搜尋時，系統會根據使用者輸入的特性值及其權重值(weight)計算出案
例庫內的案例與目標值得接近程度。計算的公式為 
⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
−
−−= ∑
= −−
i
m
i ii
ii w
vv
TvvCTSimility
1 minmax
)(1),(     (1) 
其中 T 代表目標，C 代表現存於案例庫的案例。  是第 i 個特性值， 則是相對於此
特性值的權重值。 權重值可以用來調整每一特性值的重要性，但是所有權重值須滿足下列
要求： 
iv iw
1
1
=∑
=
m
i
iw  (2) 
當案例式推理系統需要在協同的環境下運作時，首先要解決的是協同夥伴公司間的網
路安全問題。第一步需要檢驗的是存取的是否為協同開發產品的夥伴公司，詳細運作如圖
四所示。當筆記型電腦顯示模組廠商要求背光模組廠商的案例時，背光模組廠商需要先確
認對方是協同合作的夥伴。通過驗證後，背光模組廠商將會提供 buyer 版的資料給顯示模
組廠商，示範畫面如圖五所示。 
 
Case-based reasoning system 
Case library Case feature Similarity Adapted new 
Product case 
 
圖一、 整合 PDMS 與 CBRS [14] 
 
 
 
 
 
Produc
t 
structu
Produc
t item 
manag
Docume
nt 
manager
Project 
manag
er 
Messa
ge 
manag
Access 
manag
er 
Basic 
data 
manag
Product 
t t
Product 
it Product it 1
Document Document 
Product feature
Produc
t
Feature 
2 Feature 
1
Item 2 Feature 
2Item 1 Feature 
1
 
圖五、協同案例式推理系統中協同公司檔案要求運作畫面 [15] 
五、 結果與討論： 
本計畫首先以物件導向技術，規劃一個以產品資料管理系統為基礎的案例式推理系
統，並發表於國際性研討會[14]。協同運作的安全控管機制是本計畫的重點，參予研究的碩
士生不僅獲得碩士學位[15]而且得到產品設計管理及系統整合的理念。 
 
六、 參考文獻 
1. Rodriguez, K. and A. Al-Ashaab, 2005, “Knowledge we-based architecture for collaborative 
product development,” Computer in Industry, Vol. 56, pp. 125-140. 
2. Rodgers, P.A., N. H. M. Caldwell, P. J. Clarkson, A. P. Huxor, 2001, “The management of 
concept design knowledge in modern product development organizations,” International 
Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, Vol. 14, pp. 108-115. 
3. Cunningham, P. and A. Bonzano, 1999, “Knowledge engineering issues in developing a 
case-based reasoning applications,” Knowledge-Based Systems, Vol. 12, pp. 371-379. 
4. Goldstein, I. P. and R. B. Roberts, 1977, “NUDGE: A Knowledge-based scheduling 
Program,” Proceedings of 5th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pp. 
257-263. 
5. Alani, H., S. Kim, D. E.Millard, M. J. Weal, W. Hall, P. H. Lewis, and N. R. Shadbolt, 2003, 
“Automatic ontology-based knowledge extraction from web documents,” IEEE Intelligent 
Systems, January/February, pp.14-21. 
6. Kolodoner, J. L., 1988, “Extending problem solving capabilities through case-based 
inference,” in J. L. Kolodoner (ed.), Proceedings of the Case-Based Reasoning Workshop, 
Clear Beach, Florida, May 10-13, pp. 21-30. 
7. Kolodoner, J. L., 1993, Case-Based Reasoning, Mogan Kauffman, San Mateo, CA, USA. 
8. Leake, D. B. (Eds.), 1996, Case-Based Reasoning, Experiences, Lessons and Future 
Directions, AIAA Press/The MIT Press, Menlo Park, CA, USA. 
9. Waheed, A. and Adeli H., 2005, “Case-based reasoning in steel bridge engineering,” 
Knowledge-Based System, Vol. 18, pp. 37-46. 
10. Perera, S. and I. Watson, 1998, “Collaborative case-based estimating and design,” Advances 
in Engineering Software, Vol. 29, No. 10, pp. 801-808. 
11. Counsell, J., I. Poter, M. Duffy, 1999, “Schemebuilder: computer aided knowledge based 
design of mechatronic systems,” Assembly Automation, Vol. 19, No. 2, pp. 129-138. 
12. Ho, Cheng-Ter, Yuh-Min Chen, Yuh-Jen Chen, Chin-Bin Wang, 2004, “Developing a 
國科會專題研究計畫補助專家學者出席國際會議報告 
(計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-151-003) 
 
何 正 得 
國立高雄應用科技大學 
工業工程與管理系副教授 
 
一、參加會議經過 
2006 年 International Conference on Intelligent Agents, Web Technologies  
and Internet Commerce (IAWTIC，國際智慧型代理人網頁技術與網際網路商務會議)
於 2006 年 11 月 29 日至 12 月 1 日在澳洲的雪梨舉行，會議主題為全球未來的科技管理
(Technology Management for the Global Future)。此次會議共有來自全世界 35 個國家的兩
百多所大學與一百多家公司的二百四十多篇論文發表，在三天的會議期間分別在 48 個 
場次發表。會議論文依特性分為 Intelligent Agents, Web Technologies, Internet Commerce
三大範圍，並分為 44 類(track) 分別為： 
Intelligent Agents 
      Knowledge Management 
      Intelligent Business Agents 
      Agent Architectures 
      Environments and Languages 
      Adaptation and learning for agents 
      Human and agent interaction 
      Interface agents 
      Mobile agents 
      Virtual agent-based marketplaces 
      Agents and uncertainty 
      The privacy issues for agents 
      Automated shopping and trading agents 
      Agent-oriented services 
      Social implications for agent 
      Conceptual modelling and design of Ontologies for agents 
      Agents and e-commerce 
      Legal aspects of agents in e-commerce 
      Performance measurement of e-commerce agents 
      Rational information agents and electronic commerce 
      Auction and negotiation for e-commerce agents 
      Knowledge Discovery, 
      Intelligent Information Systems 
      Knowledge Clustering 
      Classification 
Web Technologies 
      Web data mining and information retrieval 
      Agent-based trade-and mediating services 
      Teaching on Web 
      Virtual trading institutions 
Internet Commerce 
      E-commerce applications of Knowledge Representation 
The Case-Based Reasoning System for Knowledge Management of 
Engineering Consulting Projects 
 
 
Chengter Ho and Jiang-Jing Chen 
Department of Industrial Engineering and Management  
National Kaohsiung University of Applied Sciences 
hoc@cc.kuas.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Retaining the knowledge acquired from each 
project is one of the major competitive advantages for 
engineering consultant industry. The traditional 
repository of a knowledge management system 
provides the memory for all the projects done by the 
company. But, due to the business nature of the 
industry, the knowledge is dispersed from design and 
planning for a highway construction project to 
auditing of sewage constructing project. The retrieval 
of knowledge becomes a less meaningful search 
through thousands of documents. The objective of this 
study is to design a case-based reasoning system with 
more accurate retrieval technology via object-oriented 
methodology. The object-oriented frame was designed 
to organize the knowledge acquired throughout the 
lifecycle of the engineering projects. The engineering 
knowledge store in the system can be retrieved in a 
more precise way through the specification of the 
object class. The prototype system is constructed by 
using the java technology. Tomcat server and mySQL 
are used as the application and database servers.  
 
1. Introduction 
 
Engineering consultant industry provides planning, 
design, and supervising for engineering projects 
ranging from manufacturing factory to highway 
construction. There are no facilities and personnel for 
manufacturing or constructing in the engineering 
consultant company. Hence, it is a very knowledge 
intensive business. The knowledge acquired through 
all the projects carried out by the company becomes 
the competitive advantages of the company [2]. In 
engineering consultant industry, the sharing of 
experiences and knowledge would greatly reduce the 
time and cost to solve similar problems recurred over 
and over again. However, information systems used in 
most of the companies to support reuse of past 
experience are still restricted to document sharing [1]. 
Figure 1 show how the knowledge would be acquired 
from the projects conducted in the company. For a well 
established consulting firm, even a small organization 
would accumulate hundreds of cases from past projects. 
A well designed case-based reasoning system is needed 
for the consulting engineers to retrieve the suitable 
case in reasonable time. Most of the case-based system 
is design to solve one particular problem, such as 
bridge evaluation [3], retaining wall selection [5]. 
However, a consulting project may involve from 
bridge design to facility planning. It would be 
impossible for a company to implement a case-based 
reasoning system (CBRS) for each category of 
problem. 
 
2. The object-oriented case-based 
reasoning system 
 
The object-oriented CBRS is proposed to 
accommodate all kinds of different projects in the 
consultant business. The class diagram of cases stored 
in CBRS is shown in Figure 2. Bridges are classified as 
one of the classes in the system and beam bridges are 
one of the subclasses in bridge class. Users can retrieve 
case from broader bridge class or more restricted beam 
bridge subclass. Each bridge case can be consisted of 
component classes, such as superstructure, substructure, 
deck slab, etc. The class diagram of bridge case is 
shown in Figure 3. All the components of the bridge 
can be treated as the features in bridge design as shown 
on Figure 4. We can rank the retrieved cases according 
to the similarities of the features. The evaluation of 
similarities, by adopting from Watson [4], can be 
calculated as 




−
−
−= ∑
=
−−
i
m
i ii
ii w
vv
TvvCTSimility
1 minmax
)(1),(    (1) 
where T is target and C represents the cases in the 
case library. iv  is the value of ith feature in the 
selected subclass with m features. iw  is the weight to 
International Conference on Computational Intelligence for Modelling
Control and Automation,and International Conference on
Intelligent Agents,Web Technologies and Internet Commerce (CIMCA-IAWTIC'06)
0-7695-2731-0/06 $20.00  © 2006
 
Figure 1. Acquisition of knowledge during different phase of engineering project.  
 
 
Figure 2. Class diagram of cases stored in CBRS. 
International Conference on Computational Intelligence for Modelling
Control and Automation,and International Conference on
Intelligent Agents,Web Technologies and Internet Commerce (CIMCA-IAWTIC'06)
0-7695-2731-0/06 $20.00  © 2006
 
Figure 5. Similarity comparison of object and attributes (local).  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Adding new class to the Object-Oriented CBRS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
International Conference on Computational Intelligence for Modelling
Control and Automation,and International Conference on
Intelligent Agents,Web Technologies and Internet Commerce (CIMCA-IAWTIC'06)
0-7695-2731-0/06 $20.00  © 2006
