 3
(二)中、英文摘要及關鍵詞 (keywords)。 
（一）計畫中文摘要。 
長年以來，科學家都是以紙筆與剪貼的方式來記錄實驗的重要結果，寫下其間所觀察到的推測與
結論，並比較不同實驗之間所顯示的異同狀況，以作為下一步研究的基準，然而隨著科學技術的日新
月異與高速發展，新的儀器與實驗手法，產生各式各樣的大量文字、數據與影像資料，傳統的實驗紙
本記錄方式，並無法將這些結果做系統性的整理與儲存，在研究計畫暫告一段落之際，如何將片段的
實驗紀錄串接成一個完整的面貌，對辛苦完成研究工作的科學家來說，更是一大難題。特別是對於從
事跨領域研究與國際合作的研究人員來說，更需要一個研究資料的呈現平台與共享機制，來免除協同
合作中不必要的舟車奔波與時空限制。 
為了因應新世代的研究需求，解決資料的分享與擷取再利用，本研究團隊在國科會第一期經費的
支持下，開始了實驗室電子記錄本的建置工作，以開放源碼為基礎，並融入 web 2.0 的精神，在不
同作業平台上(Linux, Windows, Mac)，整合網路工具(durpal, apache, Ajax)、資料庫(mySQL)與
程式語言(php, Java, C++)，建構一套電子實驗室記錄本(Electronic laboratory Notebook, ELN)，
以簡易安裝介面方式，提供各類型實驗資料的儲存列表、增刪修訂、搜尋分類、瀏覽列印、安全防護
以及複製備份等功能，並能進一步協助建置資料交換分享、線上討論、即時編修、文獻管理與數位簽
章等機制。使得研究團隊與個別使用者，能對研究流程與實驗結果，以直覺簡明的操作手法，進行更
有效的管理紀錄與歸納分析，並進一步彰顯研究成果的價值。目前本研究團隊已開發完成一套，可以
在一般 windows 介面安裝，針對個人使用者與小型實驗室使用的雛形平台，使用者無須耗用大量經
費與具備高深的資訊技術，便能在自己熟悉的工作平台上安裝本套系統。也就是說，以開放源碼所建
置的 ELN 平台，將簡化實驗紀錄的方式，以更安全，更有效率的方式來對研究資料進行加值與分享，
這對於我國科學研究品質的提昇、研究能量的蓄積、知識的重整與研發成果的產業化，將會有相當大
的助益，也使得國際合作與跨領域交流更為容易而且效益更佳。除中文與英文版本外，目前也正與日
本研究團隊合作，開發日文版本，針對 MAC 與 LINUX 所使用的平台架構，亦正建置中。 
雛形平台與系統影音簡介請參考: http://eln.iis.sinica.edu.tw 
關鍵字：實驗室電子記錄本、web 2.0、開放源碼、即時分享 
 5
(三)報告內容：包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含結論與建議）…等。 
For a long time, scientists used pens and glues to record their findings, musing, ideas and inference in 
paper-bound laboratory notebook. This old fashion is lasted even in the 21st centuries. However, the 
hand-writing, paper-based recording way is not competent to keep data in increasing volumes and 
complexity, and is hard to make data sharing in a cooperating project among various disciplines and 
research communities. With more and more outputs generated with digital deluge, a platform for 
knowledge repository with the functions like search, backup, reconstruction will be an important issue in 
current laboratories for daily records.  
In our conception, electronic laboratory notebook (ELN) should not only help scientists to put everything as 
records, but also raise the possibility for new discoveries and problem solving, which may have significantly 
increased the competitiveness of whole research team. Although there are some ELNs available on market 
and public domain, the interfaces and prices of these ELNs are not so friendly with shape learning curve. The 
essential functions inside ELN will be included simple installation with few clicks, note creating with 
attached experimental digital outputs, full text search with image gallery, succinct user management with 
digital signature, automatic system backup, calendar with coming event notification, personalized interface 
with privacy, data sharing and exchange via web, duplication and backup of whole ELN, high availability on 
function extension, and all the features existed in web 2.0. Here, under the support of NSC from Aug, 
2009 for 1 year, we have implemented a draft of ELN, which can be installed on windows platform for 
personal and small group use. This prototype can enable scientists without profound computer skills to 
build the electronic laboratory records quickly, sort notes and compare results and share information 
to others without the physical limitation. Based on drupal and well-chosen modules, an open source 
content management system, we will exploit apache, mySQL, php, Java and Ajax to construct 
web-based ELN for various operation systems like linux, Windows, Mac. We have developed the draft of 
pure web-based ELN (windows-based) which can be deployed on most available PCs and portable devices 
instead of high manpower required ELN server /client architecture. Meanwhile, there will be two kinds of 
robust ELNs released in future; one is group ELN designed for research team as collaboration platform, the 
other one is portable ELN suitable for personal use as mobile web blog. Currently, we are polishing the draft 
ELN in English and Traditional Chinese version. And we are also cooperating with the research groups in 
Japan for the ELN in Japanese. By dissemination in international and domestic conferences, we plan to 
show our ELN in schedule to research community for revolution of lab notebook. 
 
 
 7
 
 
Figure 2. The online animations for demonstration on installation and system management. reference site: 
http://eln.iis.sinica.edu.tw 
 
3. Implement	new	modules	for	extensibility	
For specific purposes which may not provide by current modules, we have developed new ones for 
our needs. For example, the “Search” module we can get from public domain performs poor with less 
extendibility. We have planned to create more powerful one with full text search and graphs search 
(like google graph search) for ELN. 
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	
4. Mechanism	for	customization	on	personalized	theme,	view	and	layout	
We have designed an interface to guide the users when they meet ELN first time to give them the 
power to edit their own theme, layout and view even logo and footnote. Based on the privilege 
granting rules, users can modify all the parts belonged to him/her and create a better circumstance 
they can enjoy freely. 
	
5. Disseminate	our	works	via	publications,	workshops	and	international	conferences.	
In past few months, we have demonstrated our draft system in several workshops, seminars and 
international conferences like ICSB 2009, GIW2009 etc. Via such kind of disseminations, we also 
got the help from Prof. Mori (Keio University) and other researchers in Tokyo University to polish 
our current version from English to Japanese. In the following years, the various languages will be 
introduced into ELN for research community worldwide. 
 
 9
Reference 
 
1. Blaschke, C., Yeh, A., Camon, E., Colosimo, M., Apweiler, R., Hirschman, L. and Valencia, A. (2005) 
Do you do text? Bioinformatics, 21, 4199-4200. 
2. Butler, D. (2005) Electronic notebooks: A new leaf. Nature, 436, 20-21. 
3. Hunter, P. (2005) Laptop biology. As mathematics and computation increasingly invade laboratories, 
biologists need to master new skills. EMBO Rep, 6, 208-210. 
4. Kihlen, M. (2005) Electronic lab notebooks - do they work in reality? Drug Discov Today, 10, 
1205-1207. 
5. Myers, J.D., Arp, C.E., Talbott, T. and Peterson, M. (2005) From collaboration tool to semantic 
e-record: The evolving role of the Electronic Laboratory Notebook (ELN). Abstracts of Papers of the 
American Chemical Society, 230, U1029-U1030. 
6. Prilusky, J., Oueillet, E., Ulryck, N., Pajon, A., Bernauer, J., Krimm, I., Quevillon-Cheruel, S., Leulliot, 
N., Graille, M., Liger, D. et al. (2005) HalX: an open-source LIMS (Laboratory Information 
Management System) for small- to large-scale laboratories. Acta Crystallographica Section 
D-Biological Crystallography, 61, 671-678. 
7. Rabin, R. and Pastorius, E. (2005) Electronic laboratory notebook systems. Genetic Engineering News, 
25, 30-30. 
8. Rousay, E.R., Fu, H.C., Robinson, J.M., Essex, J.W. and Frey, J.G. (2005) Grid-based dynamic 
electronic publication: a case study using combined experiment and simulation studies of crown ethers 
at the air/water interface. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society a-Mathematical Physical 
and Engineering Sciences, 363, 2075-2095. 
9. Scoffin, R. (2006) The new wave in Electronic Laboratory Notebook systems. Chemical Biology & 
Drug Design, 67, 184-185. 
10. Taylor, K.T. (2006) The status of electronic laboratory notebooks for chemistry and biology. Current 
Opinion in Drug Discovery & Development, 9, 348-353. 
11. van Eikeren, P. (2004) Intelligent electronic laboratory notebooks for accelerated organic process R&D. 
Organic Process Research & Development, 8, 1015-1023. 
 
 
 
 12
展自己的生物產業與招募投資，我國則有十數廠商由外貿協會帶領，在現場展示農
業生物科技的商品化成果。國內的基因體國家型計畫亦與會參展，展示十年來的研
究成果。本次研討會共有二百五十場以上的相關演講，六百五十家廠商與學術研究
單位參展，超過六萬六千餘人與會。 
二、與會心得 
此次與會，透過大會細心的安排，能以十分有條理的方式來瞭解最新生物醫學與醫
學資訊的研發現況，同時並設有國際交流合作區，讓我們瞭解亞洲國家，特別是日
本如何將研究成果透過產官學合作，使其實用化與產業化。在三天的整個會議裡傳
達了一個重要的訊息，就是生物技術已由傳統的學術研究漸漸地與人類日常生活息
息相關，譬如再生醫學的研究，目前日本政府已列為未來重要科技產業，除了在法
規與政策上與以支援外，也透過產業界的協助，在京都大學內成立了 IPS Academia 
Japan 的商業公司，將以此為平台，作為再生醫學相關技術、專利與合作的交流中心。
由此可見，生物醫學產業的發展，必須配合法律的鬆綁與行政措施的配合，再加上
學術單位的創新研究與產業界的應用研發，才能在激烈的競爭中脫穎而出。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
在大會展覽會場方面，今年參展的廠商展出多種最新的基因定序平台，與基因體層
級的生物晶片製作架構，如 SOLiD, 454 及 Solexa 等新一代工具，及多種快速開發
與分析系統，這些平台，都會產生大量的資訊的分析結果，然而目前卻沒有很好的
資料管理工具與紀錄平台，本研究計畫的目標成果，將能填補此一缺憾，也希望在
明年度的會議中，我們能與會參展，展示我們的初步研究成果。 
 14
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下赴國外(或大陸地區)出差或研習心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、國外(大陸)研究過程 
二、研究成果 
三、建議 
四、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC  －    －  －    －    － 
計畫名稱  
出國人員
姓名  
服務機構
及職稱  
出國時間  年 月 日至  年 月 日 出國地點  
附件五 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/13
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 建構以開放源碼為基礎的實驗室電子紀錄本
計畫主持人: 林仲彥
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-001-018- 學門領域: 生物資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
已與美日等國研究人員合作，建置多國語言版本，並藉由測試過程，修正系統
缺失與進行優化。並於 2009，2010年的中央研究院開放院區日公開研究成果，
相關訊息，請參閱 http://eln.iis.sinica.edu.tw 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
