2二、報告內容：
1. INTRODUCTION
Owing to the rapid growth in the number of mobile phone subscribers and the widespread
deployment of WiFi hotspots all over the world, the next-generation (2.5G/3G) mobile data
systems and WiFi wireless local-area networks have become two dominating technologies a
mobile user today will choose for Internet access. The two wireless networks, however,
exhibit very different network characteristics in terms of bandwidths, latencies and loss rates.
For example, WiFi networks offer much higher data rate compared to 2.5G/3G networks, but
have poor coverage and mobility support. Thus, more and more mobile devices are being
multi-homed, equipped with two or more wireless interfaces to allow for Internet access
through 2.5G/3G and WiFi networks. Motorola, NEC, LG, and HP are among companies that
have announced the availability of dual-mode handsets and PDAs to the public recently.
While it is evident that the availability of dual-mode mobile devices enables users to switch
between the two networks depending on service availability and user preferences, these
dual-mode mobile devices are yet to find widespread acceptance among the large mobile
Internet population. One key reason potentially hindering their popularity is the lack of
services/applications that can fully make use of the dual-mode mobile devices. As existing
technology only allows users to switch to another network when one becomes unavailable, it
has very limited support for leveraging the availability of multiple wireless interfaces and
enables enhanced services on such dual-mode devices. Users who preferentially use only one
network thus are not motivated to replace their single-mode devices with the dual-mode ones.
Dual-mode-aware services/applications thus play a defining role in the dual-mode industry.
In this project, we investigate the problem of providing seamless application support for
multi-mode mobile devices over heterogeneous wireless networks. In particular, since
multimedia service has been considered as the killer application in next-generation wireless
systems, we target effective video streaming support on dual-mode mobile devices that have
3G and WiFi wireless interfaces. An important objective of this project not only is to identify
problems and propose solutions for dual-mode devices, but also is to build a real-life wireless
testbed involving dual-mode mobile devices on which future research and experiments can be
based. Therefore, in addition to research results on dual-mode video streaming, this report
also focuses on problems and issues related to testbed setup.
The rest of the report is organized as follows. Section 2 presents the testbed and environment
setup for performance evaluation, and Section 3 shows the experiment results. Section 4
discusses related work on multi-homed mobile devices. Finally, Section 5 discusses several
research issues and concludes the report.
4FastEthernet network interface and the Linux (Fedora Core 3) operating system. It hosts an
on-demand RTSP streaming server that can stream video clips stored on the local hard disk.
The XviD tool is used to encode the raw YUV video sequences into the MPEG-4 (.m4v)
format. Upon receiving requests from the client, the server advertises related media
information using SDP, after which video frames will be packetized into the RTP/UDP
payload and unicast to the client. The client uses the VLC media player together with the
FFMPEG video codec to decode the video frames received.
Although most components used in the testbed video streaming system can be built using
open-source packages available to the public, they are not designed for the purpose of
performance evaluation and profiling. To build an evaluation framework for video streaming,
we modify the source codes of related packages to record packet and video frame statistics
both at the server and the client, so the instantaneous throughputs, latencies, packet and frame
losses, and jitters can be calculated. The media player is also modified to output raw YUV
frames displayed on the screen so the PSNR metric can be calculated to measure the quality
of received video clips.
2.3. UDP TUNNEL
One major obstacle to making the dual-mode wireless testbed work is the problem with NAT
traversal. Both the 3G and WiFi networks assign only private IP addresses to the client and
employ NAT for translating private IP addresses to public ones only for external traffic. Since
the NAT table is not in the open, the server does not know the actual IP address and port used
at the client that it needs for the proper operation of RTP and RTCP. Although several NAT
traversal methods have been used in existing streaming systems, they cannot easily integrated
to the testbed streaming system that this project uses. To solve this problem, we write a
program in Linux to create a UDP tunnel between the server and the client that can traverse
any type of NAT schemes used.
In addition to NAT traversal, the tunnel provides a platform to enable simultaneous use of
both wireless interfaces for transport of IP packets. We setup the IP routing table on the client
so packets from different wireless interfaces at the client can be routed to individual gateways
and received by the server. The tunnel program at the server side intercepts packets both from
the application and the network. For outgoing traffic, based on the striping policy the tunnel
program chooses the desired network socket to send packets to. The packets are then
encapsulated in UDP datagrams before leaving the server. The tunnel program at the client
intercepts and decapsulates packets received from individual wireless interfaces. Depending
on the striping policy used at the server, packets arriving from different wireless interfaces
may be received in duplicates. The program then checks for duplicate packets before they are
sent up to the application.
6Therefore, it is clear that individual wireless networks have limitations in supporting effective
video streaming, especially in multi-user shared and mobile environments. The next
subsection shows the performance benefits that can be achieved when both wireless
interfaces can be used simultaneously on the dual-mode mobile devices.
3.2. TWO WIRELESS INTERFACES
In Figure 3, we consider the case when the dual-mode mobile device can simultaneously use
both wireless interfaces to improve the performance of video streaming. Since different
wireless interfaces may exhibit very different characteristics, incur very different cost
structures and energy consumption requirements, an optimal striping policy should be able to
opportunistically activate one or both interfaces subject to user preferences. For example, two
extreme cases that can be conceived are: (1) all video frames (I, P, B frames) transmitted from
the server are duplicated in both interfaces, and (2) only the key frames (I frames) are
duplicated in both interfaces while other frames only go through the primary wireless
interface. In Figure 3, we consider the case when the WiFi interface on the dual-mode device
is used for file transfer from a file server in the Internet, while the spare capacity of the WiFi
link together with the 3G link are used by the dual-mode client to stream video from the
RTSP server. Figure 3 shows the performance benefits compared to the“3G only”and“WiFi
only”scenarios. It can be observed that while the 3G interface alone cannot support a video
sequence of about 300kbps (the bit rate at the encoder output), by using the spare capacity
from the WiFi interface the dual-mode device can enjoy a smooth streaming experience that a
single-mode 3G device cannot enjoy. Similarly, the file transfer in the WiFi interface
introduces PSNR degradation to the video, but 3G can also help to“fill”the capacity gap (to
the extent of its maximum data rate). We thus motivate the need for using dual-mode mobile
devices for performance benefits that otherwise cannot be achieved on single-mode devices.
Figure 3. Video quality using two interfaces
85. DISCUSSIONS AND CONCLUSIONS
In this project, we propose to investigate the problem of providing seamless application
support for multi-mode mobile devices over heterogeneous wireless networks. In particular,
we focus on effective video streaming support on dual-mode mobile devices with 3G and
WiFi wireless interfaces, in consideration of the promising applications of video related
services in the future. We have successfully built a dual-mode wireless testbed including a
3G-WiFi enabled client and an MPEG-4 video streaming system and evaluation framework.
We presented the performance deficiencies of existing 3G and WiFi networks in supporting
video streaming. In addition, we used the dual-mode testbed to motivate the performance
gains that can be achieved when both wireless interfaces can be used simultaneously on the
dual-mode mobile devices.
While this project pioneers in multi-homed video streaming involving 3G and WiFi wireless
networks, there are several directions that can be pursued in the future. For example, a more
generic striping framework considering packet loss and latency mismatches of individual
wireless networks can be investigated. In addition, video codec techniques can be used in
combination with network striping techniques for optimal streaming performance. We believe
research along this direction will play a defining role in the success of dual-mode mobile
devices.
三、參考文獻：
1. M. Buddhikot et al, “Integration of 802.11 and third-generation wireless datanetworks,” 
in Proceedings of IEEE INFOCOM, San Francisco, CA, USA, pp. 503-512, Mar. 2003.
2. A. Salkintzis, “Interworking techniques and architectures for WLAN/3G integration
toward 4G mobile data networks,” IEEE Wireless Communications Magazine, vol. 11, no. 
3, pp. 50-61, June 2004.
3. H.-Y. Hsieh, K.-H. Kim, and R. Sivakumar, “An end-to-end approach for transparent
mobility across heterogeneous wireless networks,” ACM/KluwerMobile Networks and
Applications Journal (MONET), vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 363-378, Aug. 2004.
4. T. Gof and D. Phatak, “Unified transport layer support for data striping and host 
mobility,” IEEE J-SAC, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 737-746, May 2004.
5. H.-Y. Hsieh and R. Sivakumar, “A transport layer approach for achieving aggregate 
bandwidths on multi-homed mobile hosts,” ACM/Kluwer Wireless Networks Journal 
(WINET), vol. 11, no. 1/2, pp. 99-114, Jan. 2005.
6. R. Stewart et al, “Stream control transmission protocol,” IETF RFC 2960, Oct. 2000.
7. J. Apostolopoulos and M. Trot, “Path diversity for enhanced media streaming,” IEEE 
