 2
摘要 
光電高分子奈米薄膜導電度之碎形分析 
導電高分子及光電高分子近年來已獲得廣泛的注意及研發。利用此類可以導電甚至發光的有
機材料，將逐步取代傳統電子元件及平面顯示器之組成。為了達到元件輕薄短小之要求，以
增加使用方便性並減少能源之損耗，有機光電構成物主要皆以層疊方式製作。因此，薄層化
是光電元件的一大挑戰。以 polypyrrole（PPy）為例，PPy 薄膜可藉化學法，如附微胞聚合法，
及電化學法進行聚合而成，其基材可為導電的 ITO 玻璃或不導電的雲母片。當薄膜厚度只有
數奈米時，其結構可能會由連續薄膜轉變成部分聯結薄膜。此時薄膜之導電機制將由有限之
導電通路所決定；同時，薄膜之導電度也將變小。本研究計畫採用導電原子力顯微鏡
（conductive atomic force microscope，CAFM）進行接觸式掃瞄，可同時獲得薄膜之表面形貌
及電流的分布圖。通常，CAFM 較適用於基材可導電之樣品；相對於非導電基材上之樣品，
由於電流更低，必須使用次–飛安（sub-femtoamp）超低電流計，方可有效測量薄膜的導電
度。本研究除了探討以不同方法及條件將 PPy 等奈米薄膜沈積於不同基材上，其導電度之不
同外，也將以碎形維度來探討部分聯結薄膜之導電度與電流計電極間距的關係。期望提出一
有效分析奈米薄膜導電度之方法，以為未來量測單分子導電度建立理論基礎。 
關鍵字：光電，導電度，碎形，奈米 
 
Abstract 
Fractal Analysis of Nano-Film Conductivity of Optoelectronic Polymers 
Electroconducting and optoelectronic polymers have been receiving wide attention and vigorous 
study in recent years. Utilization of those organic materials which can conduct electricity and even 
emit light will gradually replace the components of traditional electronic devices and flat panel 
displays. In order to fulfill the requirement of size shrinkage so as to enhance the convenience in 
usage and reduce the energy consumption, organic optoelectronic components are mainly 
conformed to stacked layers. Hence, making thin films is a big challenge to organic optoelectronic 
devices. Taking polypyrrole (PPy) as an example, PPy thin films could be prepared by chemical 
synthesis such as admicellar polymerization, and electropolymerization, in which processes the 
substrates could be either electrically conductive ITO glass or insulating mica discs. As the film 
thickness goes down to a few nanometers, the films will switch from continuous to partially 
connected. At this time, the conducting mechanism will dominated by the finite number of 
conduction paths, and the film conductance will decrease. This project proposes using the 
conductive atomic force microscope (CAFM) to perform the contact mode scanning to obtain 
simultaneously the film morphology and the current map. Usually, CAFM is fit for samples 
deposited on conducting substrates while those on insulating ones conduct even smaller current and 
will need sub-femtoamp source meter to effectively measure the film conductance. In addition to 
studying the effects on conductance of depositing PPy nano-films or others on different substrates 
using aforementioned methods at various conditions, the correlation between the conductance of 
partially connected films and the spacing of the two source meter probes by fractal analysis is also 
sought. The technique to be developed for analyzing nano-film conductance will serve as a 
cornerstone in theory for measuring the conductance of a single molecule in the future.  
Keywords: optoelectronic, conductance, fractal, nano   
一、  前言  
光電高分子自 1990 年[1]時，英國劍橋大學 Burroughes 等人發表了第一個以共軛高分子
PPV 作為發光層的高分子發光二極體（PLED）元件，此後光電高分子在 PLED 上的應用獲得
 4
溶液，我們將這些溶液由濃度高到低，標為英文字母 A、B、C、D、E、F、G。準備經過切
開、清洗乾淨的雲母片作為基材，並裁剪成 1 cm × 1 cm 的大小，放置在玻璃片以進行旋轉塗
布，旋轉塗布時，我們將每個溶液取 0.1 ml 進行塗布，塗布的條件為 4000 rpm，60 秒，並在
常溫常壓下進行，結束後以 DI water 清洗，放置烘箱乾燥超過八個小時。 
當實驗流程結束後，接著進行電性分析，首先我們在雲母表面畫上 2 條間隔 4 mm 的銀
膠條紋電極，接著放入乾燥箱烘乾數小時後，以三用電錶測試銀膠條紋電極是否乾燥導電，
之後就可以測量其電性和表面形貌了。實驗流程如圖 1。 
 
圖 1：實驗流程圖 
五、 結果與討論 
圖 2 為 A 於 AFM 下的影像，可以看到一個連續的薄膜，和一些 pin holes，而導電度經
過五次以上的測量，求其平均值約為 5.17×10-12 S。圖 3 是當濃度降到 C（3 g/L）的形貌圖，
當濃度降低，薄膜的完整度也隨之下降，破洞較 A 來得多，且也沒有高分子的顆粒狀團聚，
導電度平均降為 2.61×10-12 S。圖 4 是 D 之表面形貌圖，D 的濃度只有 C 的ㄧ半，此時，薄膜
的型態變為不連續，薄膜形成分散的島狀高分子，其間散佈著一些高分子鏈，從前面兩個樣
品知道，MEH-PPV 與基材的附著力不高，所以這些高分子島和鏈，應該是當旋轉塗布完成，
溶劑揮發後，高分子收縮的結果。高分子大部分收縮為直徑數百到數千奈米的高分子島，少
部分來不及吸收到島裡的高分子，則很快乾掉成為密佈在島之間的高分子鏈，形成一個連續
的導電高分子網絡，此時高分子鏈呈現出碎形，因為不僅有大的鏈，大鏈之間也存在較小的
鏈，此時的導電度為 1.36×10-12 S。圖 5 是 E 之表面形貌圖，與前者的相同之處在於，E 擁有
島狀的導電高分子，與破碎的高分子鏈，但不同之處由 phase mode 可以看出高分子鏈已經變
為不連續，這是由於濃度降低，所以沒有足夠的 MEH-PPV 去形成高分子島間的鏈，導電通
路在這裡變得比前者少得多，E 的導電度是 4.73×10-13 S。圖 6 是 F 之表面形貌圖，當濃度再
降低可以發現，此時薄膜形成島狀不連續的型態，在島之間只有存在很少或者沒有高分子，
在島與島之間，是平整的雲母基材表面，因此也沒有導電通路的形成，導電度降到 2.02×10-13  
S。 
 
 
圖 2：A 之 AFM 圖，左為 5×5μm
之表面形貌，右為對應之相位
圖。 
 
圖 3：C 之 AFM 圖，左為 5×5μm
之表面形貌圖，右為對應之相
位圖。 
 
圖 4：D之AFM圖，左為5×5μm
之表面形貌圖，右為對應之相
位圖。 
 
圖 5：E 之 AFM 圖，左為 5×5μm
之表面形貌圖，右為對應之相
位圖。 
 
圖 6：F 之 AFM 圖，左為 5×5μm
之表面形貌圖，右為對應之相
位圖。 
 
圖 7：MEH-PPV 濃度對導電度
作圖，在 1.5 g/L 至 1 g/L 可以
找出碎形關係式。 
 
 6
大學碩士論文（2007） 
與計畫有關之期刊及會議論文 
1. Chun-Yueh Mou, Yu-Jing Sie, Min-Jhao Gao, Wei-Li Yuan (2006) Morphology and 
Conductance Characterization of P3HT Films Formed on Mica, 2006 Japan/Taiwan/Korea 
Chemical Engineering Conference, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, Japan, Nov. 17-19, 
OF-1 
2. Tsung-Hui Huang, Zong-Ren He, Wei-Li Yuan (2006) Conductance and Morphology 
Characterization of MEH-PPV Films Deposited on Mica, 2006 Japan/Taiwan/Korea 
Chemical Engineering Conference, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, Japan, Nov. 17-19, 
PF-23 
3. Wei-Li Yuan, Chun-Yueh Mou, Tsung-Ren He (2006) Morphology and Conductance 
Characterization of Flexible ITO-PET Substrates by Hydrochloric Acid Etching, 2006 
Japan/Taiwan/Korea Chemical Engineering Conference, Kagoshima University, Kagoshima, 
Japan, Nov. 17-19, OF-2 
二、與會心得 
本人認為，此次出訪最大的收穫，包括以下數點： 
1. 認識許多化工與高分子界的前輩。 
2. 博士生的口頭報告，獲得許多先進的嘉獎。 
3. 日本一行回來後，促成 1位碩士生想繼續唸博士班。 
4. 結識許多國外的友人。 
5. 一次準備 5篇英文會議論文，雖然不長，老實說身體還是吃不消。 
 
 
 
Results and discussion
The I-V curves were obtained by a sub-femto-amp SourceMeter and the two-point probe method was used to
calculate the conductance. The probe tip diameter is 5.0 μm and the probe distance is 5.0 mm. Fig. 3 gives a
curve of film conductance against the P3HT concentration. The conductance was found to increase with the
P3HT concentration but not in a linear way. The bare mica substrate with no P3HT has the lowest conductance,
calculated as 1.13 × 10-14 S, hardly showing any conduction paths. At 0.5 mg/L, the film conductance was found
to be 1.12 × 10-14 S which is similar to that of the bare mica. The conductance then increases quickly, reaching
5.52 × 10-13 S at 256 mg/L.
Figure 3. Plot of conductance vs. P3HT concentration. The conductance increases with the P3HT
concentration. The conductance was measured according to the Ohm’s law.
Yuan et al. [4] postulated that the lateral electrical conductance of a thin film deposited on an insulating
substrate might exhibit a power-law relationship against the probe distance. The conduction in such a
semi-continuous film is carried out through the finite fractal conduction paths found between the electrodes. To
further study the power law dependence of the conductance upon the film precursor concentration, a log-log plot
was drawn and shown in Fig. 4 (A). Unfortunately, the linear regression does not fit the data well and only gives
an R2 of 0.5, showing poor power law relationship. The reason might be that the fractal conduction paths did not
form in our concentration range or could not be formed by the spin coating conditions used.
As seen in Fig. 4 (B), however, the data could be fitted quite well by an exponential curve with an R2 larger
than 0.96. The conductance increase might be attributed to exponential growth of the film thickness. That is,
linear concentration change does not thicken the films in a proportional way.
(A) (B)
Figure 4. (A) Log-log plot of conductance vs. P3HT concentration. The data could not be fitted well by a
straight line of which the R2 is only 0.5. (B) Semi-log plot of conductance vs. P3HT concentration. The data
could be fitted by an exponential curve with R2 = 0.97.
Reference
1. T. A. Skotheim, et al. Handbook of Conducting Polymers, 2nd ed. pp.225 (1998)
2. T. A .Chen, et al. J. Am. Chem. Soc. pp.117-233 .(1995)
3. A. J. Breeze, et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. Vol.81, pp.3085-3087 (2002)
4. Wei-Li Yuan, et al. International Journal of Nanoscience 2:4 & 5, pp 245-255 (2003)
Results and discussion
The AFM images of MEH-PPV thin films spin-coated on mica at different concentrations are shown in Fig. 3.
The darker brown in the figurers represent lower regions. As the concentration decreases from (A) to (C), the
film coverage over the substrate decreases accordingly. Comparing the morphologies, the film in Fig. 3 (B) is
semi-continuous and apt to possess fractal conduction paths.
Figure 3. AFM images of MEH-PPV thin films spin-coated on mica at different concentrations. The scan sizes
are all 5 µm × 5µm. (A) At 3 g/l, the MEH-PPV thin film is continuous but with some pinholes. (B) At 1.5 g/l,
an MEH-PPV network is shown, indicating the lower droplet concentration caused the incomplete coverage
over the substrate. The pattern might also have resulted from the dewetting of MEH-PPV. The film is switching
from continuous to fractal. (C) At 0.375 g/l, only scattered MEH-PPV islands are observed. There is no film at
all. Few or none conduction paths exist.
The I-V curves were obtained by a sub-femto-amp SourceMeter and the two-point probe method was used to
calculate the conductance. The probe tip diameter is 5.0 µm and the probe distance is 5.0 mm. Yuan et al. [5]
postulated that the lateral electrical conductance of a semi-continuous thin film deposited on an insulating
substrate might exhibit a power-law relationship against the line-probe distance. A finite number of fractal
conduction paths may exist between the electrodes.
To further study the power law dependence of the conductance upon the droplet concentration of MEH-PPV,
a log-log plot was drawn and shown in Fig. 4. Unfortunately, the linear regression does not fit the data well and
only gives an R2 of 0.57, showing poor power law relationship. The reason might be the semi-continuous film is
just apparently fractal. Nonetheless, the trend line points out that the higher the concentration, the higher the
conductance, which is consistent with the film morphologies.
Figure 4. Log-log plot of conductance vs. concentration of MEH-PPV. The data could not be fit well by a
straight line of which the R2 is only 0.57.
Reference
[1] P. Kolla Angew. Chem., Int. Ed. Engl 36 p. 800, 1997.
[2] J.H. Burroughes, D.D.C. Bradley, A.R. Brown, R.N. Marks, K. Mackay, R.H. Friend, P.L. Burns, and A.B.
Holmes Nature 347 pp. 539-543, 1990.
[3] P.S. Vincett, W.A. Barlow, R.A. Hann, and G.G. Roberts Thin Solid Films 94 p. 171, 1982.
[4] D. Braun and A.J. Heeger Appl. Phys. Lett. 58 pp. 1982-1984, 1991.
[5] Wei-Li Yuan, et al. International Journal of Nanoscience 2(4, 5) pp. 245-255, 2003
not conducting. From the solid diamonds in the figure, the conductance was found to decrease with the etching
time but not in a linear way. When the etching time is 5 s, the etched ITO had the highest conductance,
calculated as 1.03 × 10-8 S. At 10 s, the film conductance decreased down to 6.71 × 10-9 S, , which means the
conductive paths becomes fewer on the ITO substrate surface. After 30 s, the film conductance dropped to
values as low as that of the insulating bare mica, which means the ITO layer had almost been etched away.
In addition, Fig. 2 shows that a semi-log regression does not fit the data well because R2 is only 0.77.
Although polynomials could fit the data much better, the expressions lack physical meaning.
Figure 2. Plot and exponential fit of ITO-PET conductance vs. HCl etching time. The data could not be
well-fitted by an exponential curve. One reason might be the quick drop of the film conductance during a short
etching time.
Yuan et al. [3] proposed that the lateral electrical conductance of a semi-continuous thin film deposited on an
insulating substrate might exhibit a power-law relationship against the probe distance. A finite number of fractal
conduction paths may exist between the electrodes. Normally, an ITO-PET substrate is composed of a
continuous layer of ITO. However, as sputtering or PVD could form fractal ITO films on PET, so could etching.
To further study the power law dependence of the conductance upon the etching time, a log-log plot was drawn
and shown in Fig. 4. The linear regression of the log-log data is better than the exponential regression of the raw
data. Hence upon etching, the continuous film seems to disintegrate in bits. After a while, the electrical
conduction starts depending on the number of the remaining pathways meandering in the film of pores.
Figure 3. Log-log plot and linear regression of ITO-PET conductance vs. HCl etching time. The data are fitted
better with R2 = 0.87 than by the exponential curve, indicating a fractal relationship.
Reference
1. J.H. Burroughes, et al. Nature Vol.347, pp.539 (1990 )
2. A. J. Breeze, et al. Appl. Phys. Lett. Vol.81, pp.3085-3087 (2002)
3. Wei-Li Yuan, et al. International Journal of Nanoscience 2:4 & 5, pp 245-255 (2003)
cuvettes. The scan range for UV-VIS spectroscopy is set from 190 ~ 800 nm in wavelength (Gensys
10, Shimadzu), The scan resolution is ± 1 nm. Curves of absorbance vs. wavelength were recorded
and contours of absorbance-concentration-wave length are plotted and analyzed.
Results and discussion
From Mie and Rayleigh light scattering theory [4-6], the scattered light intensity by small particles
in solution is proportional to the power of -4 in wavelength (nm), which implies that shorter
wavelengths could obtain higher scattering intensities, and more precise results. As shown in Fig. 2,
the contours of absorbance-concentration-wave length for the SDS system give 2 obvious local
maxima or peaks. By intuition, those 2 points of convergence could be related to some critical points
as seen in phase diagrams with physical meanings. As to the first peak on the right in Fig. 2, the point
was found to consist with the CMC of SDS, compared to the published data (8.3 mM) [2]. Meanwhile,
by multivariable statistical analyses, the data used in the contour plot is possessed of a small error
within ±3%. In view of physics, the first peak represents a stronger absorption of UV light at CMC
when the nanostructured SDS micelles are formed. Similarly, the other maximum point might then
hint at some new but unknown secondary surfactant structures, which should be useful in studying the
phase change of self-assembled nano-aggregates.
Fig. 2 Contour diagram of absorbance-concentration-wave length for SDS
References
[1] Warangkana Warisnoicharoen, Alison B. Lansley, and M. Jayne Lawrence et al., AAPS Pharmsci
2(2) Article 12, 2000.
[2] Tsuyoshi Asakawa, Mikio Mouri, Shigeyoshi Miyagishi, and Morie Nishida et al., Langmuir 5,
pp. 343-348, 1989.
[3] Salib Alkhouri and Irbid, Jordanien, Tag der mundlichen Prufung 10.2003.
[4] I. Weiner, M. Rust, and T. D. Donnelly, Am. J. Phys. pp. 69-71, Feb. 2001.
[5] David W. Hahn, Light Scattering Theory, Florida (2004).
[6] L.E. McNeil, A.R. Hanuska, and R.H. French et al., Applied Optics 40(22) Aug. 200.
Concentration /M
W
av
e
le
ng
th
/n
m
