可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：97 年 10 月 10 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：微流體介電泳成體幹細胞分離裝置之設計 
計畫主持人：王明文         
計畫編號：NSC97-2221-E-161-007   學門領域：熱流能源 
技術/創作名稱 CD34+特徵幹細胞組織之分離篩選方法 
發明人/創作人 王明文 
技術說明 
本創作為一微小化且具簡單構造之流式生醫細胞篩選裝置，其具備可於連續流
中捉捕生醫微粒接合體之功能，將一簡單電極佈局之介電場產生器安設於具單
一出口的微流體渠道中，含有特定且微量細胞組織之生醫流體導入流路中時，
預先表面修飾接著對應抗體之高分子微粒將會與對應特定抗原之細胞組織進行
選擇性結著作用，而特定微量幹細胞組織與高分子微粒接著後之接合體，將會
因為微流體層流作用而限制於特定流線運動，但當其流經本創作裝置中介電場
產生器作用區域時，高分子微粒/幹細胞接合體將會受到特定介電場的作用而立
刻快速且有效率的偏流朝向電場強度較強的捕捉電極移動並進行吸附收集，因
此特定微量的活體細胞組織便能使用本裝置從生醫流體中篩選分離出來。 
In order to make possible the selective sorting of target cells in a 
multi-component solution, the first step is to use an antigen-antibody 
reaction to attach antibody-immobilized nanobeads to the surfaces of 
target stem cells. Later, the resulting nanobead/stem cell compounds 
are trapped and separated from the mixture by applying a local 
dielectrophoretic trap device. The experimental studies show that the 
compounds incur a local dielectrophoretic field when they are 
suspended in a continuous flow (Re=5.0) and exposed to AC fields at 
500 kHz frequency. Using this device, the strip electrodes provide a 
local dielectrophoretic field strong enough to manipulate and attract 
nearby compounds in a continuous flow. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本創作之核心技術與理論將可提供生醫細胞篩選晶片之設計布局與成體幹細胞
應用研發之實際參考，同時對於成體幹細胞之檢核篩選提供一快速且精準之方
法，使得可攜式生醫組織篩選分離裝置之產品開發變為更加容易。 
技術特點 
1.已有之介電泳篩選分離方法僅能於靜置生醫流中進行低通量採樣，而本技術可
透過高效能介電場產生器於連續流中快速高通量的捉捕低含量之高分子/生醫
細胞接合體，大量提升稀有細胞篩選採樣之速度及效率。 
2. 本技術結合微機電、生醫抗體抗原表面反應結著以及高分子微粒表面修飾技
術，有別於傳統介電泳細胞分離技術篩選精確度低落之缺點，可百分之百達成
生醫流體中特定微量細胞組織之捕捉篩選。 
3.採用有別於傳統介電泳篩選分離裝置靜置採樣方式，透過設置高效能介電產生
裝置於微連續流渠道內，將可快速連續且高通量的捉捕生醫流體中之稀有高分
子微粒/幹細胞接合體，大量提升幹細胞之捕捉篩選效率；進而使得可攜式生
醫組織篩選分離裝置之效果提升。 
推廣及運用的價值 
本技術系統不但構造簡單、價廉、準確，而且可快速連續且高通量的捉捕生醫
流體當中的特定細胞，大量提升特定細胞之篩選捕捉效能，尤其是應用在含量
微少的成體幹細胞組織篩選捕捉上，將能夠更有效率，耗費成本也將更低廉。
 
附件二 
Introduction 
In the form of components such as microchannels, micromixers and microseperators, 
micro-fluidic devices have been widely adopted for many kinds of biological and chemical 
applications.1 Most of the chemical and biological reactions are performed in fluid with 
suspended polymeric beads immobilized by ligands or antibodies. In order to make possible the 
selective sorting of biomolecules in biofluids, the first step is to use an antigen-antibody reaction 
to attach antibody-immobilized nanobeads to the surfaces of target stem cells.2, 3 Later, the 
resulting nanobead/stem cell compounds must be trapped and separated from the mixture by 
applying other technologies.  
One of the fundamental difficulties in manipulating the compounds is that most 
conventional operating tools are orders of magnitude larger than the compounds, which range in 
size from a few nanometers to micrometers. An additional problem is that bio-fluid is an insulator 
of magnetism and electricity. A number of traditional methods utilized to manipulate the 
compounds have their own limitations and disadvantages. Antibody-based magnetic sorting is 
among the most useful of such separation technologies, because it achieves rapid and thorough 
attachment of the antibodies onto the specific target cells.4 Magnetic separation has also proven 
invaluable as a method for the pre-enrichment of complex samples.5 However, magnetic selection 
strategies operate with only a single operating parameter (i.e., magnetism), and the development 
of similar methods capable of enriching multiple distinct species simultaneously has proven 
challenging.6 Of all the micro-fluidic sorting technologies, the manipulation of biological 
particles by dielectrophoresis is probably the most broadly applied method.7,8 A dipole movement 
is induced in the biological particles when they  enter an AC field. In an asymmetrical electric 
field, the polarized particles incur a force that can induce them to move forward to regions of 
high or low potential field, depending on the polarizability of the particles compared with that of 
the suspending medium. This force was termed dielectrophoresis (DEP) by Pohl.7,9 Thus by 
choosing a medium of appropriate conductivity and permittivity, particles of similar dielectric 
properties can be trapped efficiently. Recent studies have shown that submicron particles can be 
elegantly manipulated using dielectrophoretic methods. Leukemic cells,10 breast cancer cells,11 
and CD34 cells12 can be sorted or enriched from human blood. Combined electrophoretic and 
dielectrophoretic forces have been used to trap and manipulate DNA on planar 
microelectrodes.13-15 However, in the above mentioned studies, performance was restricted due to 
the fact that most of the manipulation and separation of submicron particles was performed in a 
steady pool. Performance in a continuous flow is better and more efficient. Furthermore, only a 
few experiments have been reported regarding the use of dielectrophoretic manipulation to trap 
and separate nanobead/stem cell compounds.11, 16-19 Although the MT-DACS (Multiple 
Dielectrophoresis Activated Cell Sorter) has been developed and used to achieve multiple 
bacterial target cell separation, it is a complex electrodes structure that does not allow for the 
precise manipulation of hydrodynamic force.16, 20, 21 For these reasons, we have conducted a 
detailed investigation of the mechanisms that enable the trapping of nanobead/stem cell 
compounds by dielectrophoretic manipulation. The simple arrangement of electrodes that is 
required is regarded as a promising scheme for future biological studies.  
In order to trap the nanobead/ stem cell compounds en masse from the continuous flow 
mixture, a micro-fluidic device consisting of a micro channel and multiple electrode strips has 
conducting fluid, the power generated is given by W=E2 22; the power per unit volume of the 
electrical field that is absorbed by the fluid is due to Joule heating. Consequently, the temperature 
of the fluid can be calculated by solving the heat equation with a source term for electrical heat 
generation: m cp [(∂T/∂t) + Uflow·▽T ] = k▽2T + E2 , where Uflow is the velocity of medium flow, 
T is the temperature, m is the mass density, cp is the specific heat (at constant pressure), k is the 
thermal conductivity, andis the electrical conductivity of the fluid medium. Temperature 
dispersion in the continuous flow is affected by advection: the heat equation can be shown as 
Uflow·▽T = (k▽2T/m cp) + (E2/m cp). Following the simplified heat equation, the change of 
temperature in the medium can be estimated as ∆T ~ V2/k if conduction dominates the heat 
transfer in the medium. If advection dominates, the change of temperature in the medium can be 
estimated as ∆T ~ V2/m cp Uflow. Gradients in temperature produce gradients in permittivity and 
conductivity in the medium fluid. For the buffer solution (1/)( ∂∂T ) = +1% and (1/)( ∂∂T ) 
= +0.5% per degree Kelvin. 23 These variations in electric properties produce gradients in charge 
density and perturb the electric field. 
 
Experiment procedures 
Flow visualization setup 
In order to analyze the fluidic transport of the beads, a flow visualization system was 
designed to record the morphogenesis of the antibody-immobilized nanobead/stem cells 
compounds inside the micro-fluidic device, as shown in Fig. 2. To illuminate the micro-fluidic 
chamber, light from a mercury-arc lamp was directed through a set of epi-optical filters (532 nm). 
The flow images were captured using a high-speed CCD camera (1k×1k pixels, 12-bit grayscale, 
and 5000 frames/s, Fastcam SA1, Photron Ltd., Japan) capable of recording 2500 pairs of images 
via a microscope with an objective lens (M plan Apo Series M=100, N.A.=0.42). The camera 
offers outstanding light sensitivity and brilliant image quality that relies on a 1394 interface 
connected with a PC. Its resolution and decay time were 32l p/mm and 2s, respectively.  
In this study, a filtered illuminant with a wavelength of  = 532 nm was used to make the 
polymeric beads and cells visible in the biological fluid; the diameters of the 
antibody-immobilized beads and target cells (db ≈800nm, dc ≈ 3-5m) will be larger than the 
wavelength of the illuminant, i.e. db > , and dc > . 
 
Design of the micro-fluidic compound trapping device 
A micro-fluidic trapping device was designed to separate the nanobead/stem cell compounds 
from the continuous flow mixture. It consists of a micro channel with strip electrodes and was 
fabricated on a silicon substrate using micro-electro system fabricating technology. A firm 
silicone tube connects the micro-fluidic chamber to a fluid supply system. The biological mixing 
fluid – composed of the antibody-immobilized nanobeads and stem cells in a buffer solution – is 
driven by pressurized air and regulated by precision valves. A micro-flow meter is used to 
measure the flow rate. As is shown in Fig. 3, the multi-layer structure of the micro-fluidic device, 
equipped with strip electrodes, was fabricated by bonding a poly(dimethylsiloxane) (PDMS) 
replica between ITO-coated Pyrex glass (ITO film, 1000 Å) and a electrode-equipped silicon chip. 
To fabricate the PDMS replica, a micro-stereo lithography (-SLA) system was used to focus 
 
Electric field distribution simulation 
Asymmetrical microelectrodes were used to create the non-uniform field necessary to 
generate dielectrophoretic forces. The upper electrodes were transparent conducting film, while 
the lower ones were designed as strips on the surface of the silicon wafer. When the high 
frequency AC electric charge was applied (20Vpp), the maximum electric field would occur in the 
region of the lower strip electrodes and the compounds would be trapped. To illustrate this point, 
a simulation of the electric field distribution between asymmetrical microelectrodes can be 
constructed (Fig.5). In order to generate a non-uniform electric field across the flow section, the 
gaps between opposing electrodes were equal to the width of the flow channel. To solve the 
electro-magnetic problem the electric fields were modeled using ANSOFTTM Maxwell 3D, a 
finite element software package. A two-dimensional model was sufficient to describe the electric 
fields created by the asymmetrical microelectrodes. For simplicity the system was modeled as if 
it were surrounded by PDMS. The result of the simulation shows that the electric field 
distribution is strongest in the vicinity of the strip electrodes. We can make sure that the electric 
field gradient is at its maximum in the regions closest to the edge of the strip electrodes; cells 
which undergo positive DEP should be attracted to those regions. 
 
Results and discussion 
Dielectrophoretic force calculation 
The nanobead/stem cell compounds experience drag force in the buffer solution, given by 
Stokes law as Fdrag = -v, where is the friction factor of the compound. A compound moving 
under the effect of a force F is considered always to move at the terminal velocity FDEP/. For a 
low Reynolds number, the friction factor for a compound is given as 　rb+rcell), where 　is 
the viscosity of the medium. By ignoring Brownian motion and buoyancy, the equation of motion 
can be written as m[dv/dt] = FDEP – FDrag. The moving velocity of a compound should be 
proportional to the time-averaged dielectrophoretic force, so as UDEP = FDEP /, then UDEP 
={2m▽Erms2(r3bead Re [K（）]bead + r3cell Re [K（）]cell}/　rb+rcell)　in the direction of ▽
Erms2.  
Variations in the Clausius-Mossotti factor give rise to a dielectrophoretic force that is 
frequency dependent and unique to a particular particle type. For particles the response is 
dominated by conductivity, which in turn is governed by the surface charge on the particle. The 
polarizability and the dielectrophoretic force of each particle can be calculated by the 
dielectrophoretic theory and the total conductivity of particle. However, exposing biological cells 
to non-uniform electric fields may cause the membrane potential of the cells to rise rapidly.25, 26 
Membrane structure conformation and the formation of electropores are changed by increases in 
the potential of the angled membrane. Electrophoresis increases the conductivity of the 
membrane, thereby protecting the cell. The creation of electrophoresis was found to start at a 
membrane potential of 0.5-1 V for several cell types. According to Zimmermann et al.,25 an 
alternating electric field induces a membrane potential on a cell of Vm = [1.5r Erms cos] / 
[1+(2)2]1/2, where  is the angle between the membrane patch and the field direction, and  is 
the relaxation time of the membrane, r Cmem(int+0.5ext), with int and ext denoting the 
specific resistivity of the interior and exterior of the cell, respectively, and Cmem the specific 
force will have a minimal effect on continuous fluid flow. 
Cell-cell interactions constitute an additional force that may affect the trapping of compounds in 
the buffer nutrient medium. Because the derivation of the DEP force is based on a single 
compound, cells that disturb the field locally alter the dielectrophoretic force. In this way, forces 
that attract other compounds and cells may be created. The ratio between the inter-cell 
dipole-dipole force and the dielectrophoretic force acting on a single cell can be calculated 
according to Fratio ~ [6 | K() |  △] /dcell 28, 29 with  as the volume fraction of the cells; △ is 
the characteristic length over which the field varies; dcell ~ r / 1/3 with r being the mean radius of 
the cells. For the initial density (4.5 - 6×106 cells/ml) this ratio is about 2.3 - 3.5×10-7 which 
indicates that the inter-cell interaction is negligible. When the biological fluid is mixing well in 
the stream flow, there is a corresponding broad decline in cell density, whereby Fratio decreases. 
The inter-cell interaction therefore disperses gradually. 
 
Dielectrophoretic manipulation 
The observations show the conditions under which it is possible to trap the nanobead/stem 
cell compounds. At a suitable frequency and applied potential, it was possible to provide a local 
dielectrophoretic field strong enough to manipulate and attract nearby compounds in a continuous 
flow (Re=5.0). This can clearly be seen in Fig. 7, which shows the conditions which enabled 
trapping of the compounds at an applied potential of 20V peak to peak. At a medium conductivity 
of m = 1.0 mSm-1 and frequency of 500 kHz, the compounds experience positive 
dielectrophoresis, and they move toward the direction of the trap in the main fluid flow, where 
the dielectrophoretic force is at high strength. In this case, the front strip electrodes supply 
enough dielectrophoretic force, and the compounds move forward to the rear strip trapping 
electrodes. The image shows that the compounds are attracted to the high-field region of the rear 
strip trapping electrodes in the downstream direction, and the compounds are widely distributed 
on the rear strip trapping electrodes. The moving velocity of compounds should be proportioned 
to the time-averaged dielectrophoretic force, UDEP = FDEP/, then UDEP = r2 beadmRe [K（）] 
bead }/3. Considering the steady state condition, and ignoring the electro thermal effect, the 
velocity of the compounds mobility with AC electric field application can be expressed as 
UtotalUDEP+ Uflow, and the deviating angle of movement toward the attracting electrodes can be 
estimated as  ~ tan-1 [||UDEP|| / ||Uflow||], where Uflow is the steady flow velocity of continuous 
flow. 
According to the theoretical analysis, ||UDEP|| / ||Uflow|| ~ Lb /Le in a constant time, the deviating 
angle can be conveyed to  ~ tan-1 [Lb /Le], where Lb=100m is roughly the distance from the 
main beading flow to the strip trapping electrodes and Le = 300m is the range of the 
dielectrophrosic field provided by the front electrodes, and the deviating angle can be expected 
to fall in the range of 17-20 degrees in the steady state. As measured during the experiment, the 
approximate value of the deviating angle is 18.5 degrees because the nanobead/stem cell 
compounds are widely distributed in the region of the rear strip trapping electrodes. The real 
attaching position deviation of compounds in Fig. 8 has shown that, for the real cases of the 
biological fluid flow considered here, the experiments and theoretical predictions have some 
similarities. The deviation of the experimental measurements from theoretical predictions may be 
attributed to the way the discontinuous electrical field in the experimental electrodes differs from 
11. F.F. Becker, X.B. Wang, Y. Huang, R. Pethig, J. Vykoukal, and P.R.C. Gascoyne, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92, 
860 (1995). 
12. M. Stephens, M.S. Talary, R. Pethig, A.K. Burnett, and K.I. Mills, Bone Marrow Transplant 18, 777 (1996). 
13. M. Washizu and O. Kurosawa, IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 26, 1165 (1990). 
14. M. Washizu, O. Kurosawa, I. Arai, S. Suzuki, and N. Shimamoto, IEEE Trans. Ind. Appl. 31, 447 (1995). 
15. C.L. Asbury and G. van den Engh, Biophys. J. 74, 1024 (1998). 
16. U. Seger, S. Gawad, R. Jogann, A. Bertsch, and P. Renaud, Lab Chip 4, 148 (2004) 
17. U. Kim, J. Qian, S.A. Kenrick, P.S. Daugherty, and H.T. Soh, Anal. Chem. 80, 8656 (2008). 
18. P.H. Bessette, X.Y. Hu, H.T. Soh, and P.S. Daugherty, Anal. Chem. 79, 2174 (2007). 
19. U. Kim, C.W. Shu, K.Y. Dane, P.S. Daugherty, and J.Y.J. Wang, and H.T. Soh, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 104, 
20708 (2007). 
20. J.G. Kralj, M.T.W. Lis, M.A. Schmidt, and K.F. Jensen, Anal. Chem. 78, 5019 (2006).  
21. P.R.C. Gascoyne and Vykoukal, J. Electrophoresis 23, 1973 (2002). 
22. A. Ramos, H. Morgan, N.G. Green, and A. Castellanos, J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 31, 2338 (1998). 
23. D.R. Lide editor, CRC Handbook of Chemistry and Physics, 88th Ed., (CRC Press, London, 2008). 
24. M.W. Wang and K.H. Teng, Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 44, 2021 (2005). 
25. U. Zimmermann and G. A. Neil, Electromanipulation of Cells (Boca Raton, FL: CRC Press, 1996) 
26. I. Tural, I. Mezic, F. Bottausci, Y.T. Zhang, N.C. MacDonald, and O. Piro, Phys. Rev. Lett. 95, 236200 (2005) 
27. T. Heida, W.L. Rutten, and E. Marani, J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 35, 1592 (2002) 
28. T.B. Jones, Electromechanics of Particles (Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, U.K.,1996) 
29. A. Dussaud, B. Khusid, and A. Acrivos, J. Appl. Phys. 88, 5463 (2000) 
 
 
Figures List  
Figure 1. Upon experiencing a positive 
dielectrophoretic force, the nanobead/ stem cell 
compounds are attracted to the high field 
intensity near the electrodes strip. When the 
non-target cells are not subjected to a 
dielectrophoresic force, they pass through the 
region of the dielectrophoretic field. 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Setup of the high speed flow 
visualization system. 
 
 
