followed by ion-milling [7, 8], or quite complicate as by the 
way of chemical process [9, 10]. Furthermore, the nanobowl 
structures thus made were mostly built on rigid and stiff 
substrates so that many useful applications couldn＇t be 
realized. As reported before, CNTs can be transferred onto 
thermoplastic polymers by microwave heating [16-18]. The 
bonding between the CNTs and the polymer substrate was so 
strong that the CNTs hold the polymer together even when the 
polymer substrates were break by the pulling force. In this 
work, the authors applied the unique advantage of microwave 
heating of the CNTs to attach an array of metallic nanobowls to 
a thermoplastic polymer substrate. 
2. Experiment 
The process is as follows: First, a 10 × 10 mm2 p-type Si 
(100) wafer was cleaned with deionized water in ultrasonic 
bath for 10 min and then hydrophilic treated at 70 oC for 45 
min. The solution for hydrophilic treatment was made of 500 
ml deionized water, 100 ml of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2, 26%) 
and 100 ml of ammonia (NH4OH, 38%). A 10 wt% solution of 
monodisperse PS spheres (Microparticales GmbH, Germany) 
was mixed with methanol at a ratio of 4 : 1. A drop of 15-20 µl 
of the mixed solution was applied on the hydrophilic treated Si 
wafer surface. Then by spinning at a controlled speed of 800 
rpm for 60 s, a monolayer of close-packed PS sphere array can 
be obtained on the Si wafer. A multilayer film of 5 nm Co/ 1 
nm Ti/ 75 nm TiN/ 100 nm Mo was deposited on the periodic 
PS spheres by sputtering method. Then the CNTs were grown 
by rapid heating chemical vapor deposition process as reported 
elsewhere [19]. 
To transfer the CNT film, a thermoplastic polymer substrate 
such as a PC film (500 µm in thickness) was placed on top of 
the vertically aligned CNT film and put in a 2.45 GHz 
microwave reaction chamber. The reaction chamber was 
mechanically evacuated to 1×10-3 Torr and then refilled with 
nitrogen gas of 500 Torr. The microwave generator was 
operated at 400 watts for 30-60 seconds. 
The specimens were examined with a field-emission 
scanning electron microscopy (FE-SEM, JEOL-6500F). The 
optical properties of periodic nanostructures were measured by 
UV-Vis spectrophotometer (Hitachi, U-4100) with varied 
detector angles under normal incident light. Focus ion beam 
(FIB, FEI Quanta 200 DBFIB) operated at 30 kV, 100 pA was 
incident on the sample surface at an angle of 90o. 
 
3. Results and Discussions 
The whole process is described step by step in figure 1. (I) A 
monolayer of PS sphere array is formed on a Si wafer by the 
spin-coating method. (II) Metallic coating and catalyst (Co) for 
the growth of CNTs was deposited on PS sphere by sputtering. 
(III) Vertically aligned CNT film was grown on the metallic 
coating and the PS spheres were evaporated out. (IV) A piece 
of thermoplastic PC was put on and welded to the CNT film by 
microwave heating. (V) After the CNTs fixed to the PC film, 
the Si wafer could be removed simply by a pair of tweezers. 
Thus, an artificial nanostructure of metallic nanobowl array on 
a thermoplastic substrate was obtained. 
Heating materials by microwave irradiation is unique in that 
the heating is very fast, selective and localized. When CNTs 
and thermoplastic polymers such as PC, PET, etc. are 
microwave irradiated together (step IV), the temperature of the 
CNTs will increased drastically in just a few seconds while the 
thermoplastic polymers is almost unaffected. The hot CNTs 
pierced the thermoplastic polymers just like hot steel wires 
piercing a super-cooled chunk of ice. As soon as the heating 
power of the wires was turned off, the super-cooled chunk of 
ice would refreeze the small local melt part immediately and 
held the steel wire firmly. And so was the thermoplastic 
substrate held the CNTs firmly. 
Figure 2 is the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images 
of the specimen. Figure 2(a) shows the monolayer film of PS 
spheres formed on a 10 × 10 mm2 silicon wafer. The film 
contains domains of perfect close-packed spheres and defects 
such as vacancies and cracks. The domain size ranges from 10 
to 30 µm. The diameter of the PS spheres was measured to be 
904 nm before the deposition of the metallic coating. Figure 
2(b) is a 30o side-view SEM image of the specimen after the 
carbon nanotube growth process. The CNT film grown on the 
coated spheres is vertically aligned and the thickness of the 
and the refractive index of PS is 1.57. Therefore, it is suggested 
that the discrepancies between calculated and measured may 
relate to the geometrical shape and the refractive index of the 
composition materials. 
 
4. Conclusion 
In conclusion, the unique heating property of microwave 
irradiation on CNTs was applied in fabrication of a new 
architecture of two-dimensional metallic nanobowl array on a 
thermoplastic substrate. In the process, vertically aligned CNT 
film was grown on metal coated PS submicron sphere array and 
then transferred onto a polycarbonate substrate by microwave 
heating. Due to the selective heating characteristic of 
microwave irradiation, the metallic nanobowl array was fixed 
firmly on the polymer substrate by the CNTs. Light can be 
diffracted by this structure and the discrepancies between the 
calculated and measured diffraction results were suggested to 
be related to the shape and the refractive indices of the 
composition materials. 
 
 
 
Si
CNT
MW
Polymer
CNT
Si
Si
Si
CNT
Polymer
(II)
(III)
(IV)
(V)
PS spheres(I)
 
Figure 1. The fabrication of a two-dimensional metallic 
nanobowl array on a thermoplastic substrate. 
    
 
Figure 2. (a) Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) image of a 
close-packed monolayer of PS spheres settled onto a silicon 
wafer. (b-d) The cross-section of the specimen after carbon 
nanotube growth process: (b) a 30o side-view, (c) higher 
magnification, (d) a cross-section cut with focus ion beam 
(FIB), and (e) a top view of the metallic nanobowls transferred 
onto a PC substrate. 
 
Figure 3. (a) The iridescent colour of the specimen changes 
with the view angle. (b) A continuous spectrum of colours was 
observed on the specimen bent between fingers.  
 
Science 309 1215 
[17]  Wang C Y, Chen T H, Chang S C, Cheng S Y and Chin T 
S 2007 Adv. Funct. Mater. 17 1979 
[18]  Wang C Y, Chen T H, Chang S C, Chin T S and Cheng S 
Y 2007 Appl. Phys. Lett. 90 103111 
[19]  Chiu C C, Tsai T Y and Tai N H 2006 Nanotechnology 
17 2840 
[20]  Krieger I M and O’Neill F M 1968 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 90 
3114 
[21]  Duffel B V, Ras R H A, De Schryver F C and 
Schoonheydt R A 2001 J. Mater. Chem. 11 3333 
[22]  Ishii M, Harada M, Tsukigase A and Nakamura H 2007 J. 
Opt. A: Pure Appl. Opt. 9 S372 
 
表 Y04 1
2008 材料科學與技術國際會議報告 
 
清華大學教授  張   士   欽 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
    材料科學與技術國際會議是美國礦冶、金屬、材料學會(TMS)、美國陶瓷學
會(ACerS) 、美國材料資訊學會(ASM)與鋼鐵學會(AIST)每年舉辦的最重要的國
際學術會議之一。今年共有歐美日中等世界各國二千五百多位學者參加，在四
十多個主題兩百多個議程中海報發表兩百多篇、口頭發表一千五百多篇最新的
研究成果。並同時有百餘家的相關廠商及研究機構，在材料展示會展示其最新
的商品及成果。 
  本人得到國科會計畫與清華大學的補助於 10 月 3 日赴美，先到舊金山參訪
了 Innomedia 公司，確定會議後到舊金山參訪的相關廠家與時程。隨即於 10 月
5 日凌晨飛匹茲堡，抵達後即到會場辦理註冊，領取資料。我主要參加的奈米科
技：奈米顆粒結構與複合材料的控制製程研討會共有四天八個場次，我的論文
發表是排在 9 日星期四上午的第七個場次。10 月 6 日星期一，全體與會人士先
在大會主場聚會，由一段介紹會議所在地匹茲堡的影片，細數了與材料科學的
密切關係，美鋼、美鋁、西屋、匹茲堡大學、卡內基美隆大學……，匹茲堡出
身的名人(包含舞蹈家馬莎格蘭姆)、著名企業(包含 Henz 番茄醬) ……，由於
表 Y04 3
刊 Nanotechnology 接受發表，在會議中頗受國際同行專家重視，在相互討論中也
有了許多收穫。 
    除了參與議程外，休息時還抽空參觀展示場，搜集了一些最新的會議與設
備的資料，滿載而歸。 
 
二、與會心得 
  科學的研究，在眾多研究者參與下，可以說是日新月異．經常都有新的技
巧，新的成果出現，資訊的交換取得成了研究人員保持其研究得與世界同步最
重要的工作之一。雖然現今網路發達，多數論文都可即時由網上取得，但國際
學術會議中的資訊一般還是要比正式發表早上至少半年到一年之久，除了私人
間之通訊外，學術會議可算是大量取得最新資訊的最佳方式了。此次在會中聽
了二十多場有關本人目前從事研究的論文，得到了不少的啟發，更有機會向許
多同行專家請益，不虛此行，十分感激國科會與清華大學的補助，相信對我未
來研究工作會有非常大的助益。但同時也感受到近些年來國際學術會議中台灣
來的教授逐漸減少(此次只遇到清華的陳信文、簡朝和、李三保和台大的高振宏
幾位)，而大陸來的學者則以十倍數以上的人數漸漸變為主流，使我不能不為台
灣在國際學術會議中甚至於國際學術界被邊緣化而憂心。 
三、建議 
請國家寬列經費盡量多支持國內學者參加國際學術會議，以有效提升研究
人員能力，增進我國際學術地位。 
