Legendre pseudospectral frequency-domain (PSFD) 
method with penalty scheme for solving Maxwell’s 
equations； plasmon resonance calculations for 
metallic nanospheres using the multidomain Legendre 
pseudospectral time-domain (PSTD) method； finite-
difference frequency-domain (FDFD) method analysis of 
surface plasmon modes on 2D and 3D sub-wavelength 
slit arrays； 3D FDTD study of extraordinary optical 
transmission through periodic apertures of different 
shapes； analysis of modes on the metal stripe 
plasmonic waveguide using the finite element method； 
finite-element analysis of propagating, complex, and 
evanescent modes on a 1D periodic array of nano-
plasmonic rods； simulating plasmonic waveguide 
devices using the Legendre PSTD method. 
英文關鍵詞： Nanophotonics, plasmonics, finite-difference 
frequency-domain method, finite-difference time-
domain method, pseudo-spectral time-domain method, 
optical waveguides, surface plasmon waveguides, 
subwavelength structures, nanoantennas, periodic 
waveguides, optical wave scattering 
 
Maxwell’s equations; plasmon resonance calculations for metallic nanospheres using the 
multidomain Legendre pseudospectral time-domain (PSTD) method; finite-difference 
frequency-domain (FDFD) method analysis of surface plasmon modes on 2D and 3D 
sub-wavelength slit arrays; 3D FDTD study of extraordinary optical transmission through 
periodic apertures of different shapes; analysis of modes on the metal stripe plasmonic 
waveguide using the finite element method; finite-element analysis of propagating, complex, 
and evanescent modes on a 1D periodic array of nano-plasmonic rods; simulating plasmonic 
waveguide devices using the Legendre PSTD method. 
Keywords: Nanophotonics, plasmonics, finite-difference frequency-domain method, 
finite-difference time-domain method, pseudo-spectral time-domain method, 
optical waveguides, surface plasmon waveguides, subwavelength structures, 
nanoantennas, periodic waveguides, optical wave scattering 
This report contains several different topics. The Introduction, Research Purposes, 
Literature Survey, and Results and Discussion for each topic can be found in the 
corresponding Appendix. 
I. Assessment of FDTD Analysis of Scattering by a Nano-Plasmonic Circular Cylinder 
We have developed two-dimensional (2D) finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) 
numerical models and calculated the field enhancement by a single nano-plasmonic circular 
cylinder under the conditions of surface plasmon resonance due to incident plane light wave. 
For the treatment of the curved interface of the cylinder, the staircase approximation, the 
index-average scheme, and the conformal scheme [1] are all employed and compared. The 
material of the cylinder is silver and the radius of it is r = 25 nm. The parameters in the Drude 
model for silver are derived from [2]. The arrangement for this simulation is set as shown in 
Fig. 1. A single nano-plasmonic cylinder is placed in free-space attached with the UPML, and 
a TM polarization line source generates wave propagation toward the positive x-direction. Fig. 
2 shows the variation of the maximum strength of the Hz field with the incident wavelength. 
The result is obtained from the analytical solution [3] and from which the maximum field 
strength is seen to occur when the incident wavelength is around 347.5 nm. The FDTD 
computation error may become more significant as the field strength is enhanced severely. 
Therefore, we examine the numerical error at λ = 347.5 nm. Fig. 3 shows the variation of the 
error of the maximum value of |Hz| for the three different schemes in treating the cylinder 
interfacei versus the spatial discretization specified as the cylinder radius divided by the grid 
size Δx. From Fig. 3, we can see that the conformal method shows the smallest error and 
converges fastest compared to the other two methods. The errors for the conformal method 
are always below 4% and decrease to the saturated value of 2% as r/Δx = 25. The 
index-average method shows better performance than the staircase approximation. However, 
the errors of the index-average method are higher than those of the conformal method. The 
converging rate is also slower than that of the conformal method. 
We have also developed 3D FDTD numerical models and simulate the scattering of an 
incident plane light wave by a single nano-plasmonic sphere. Figures 1(a) and 1(b) show the 
calculated cross-section spectra of one Ag sphere with radius r = 25 nm using the mesh sizes 
of 0.5 nm and 0.25 nm, respectively. The absorption cross section (Cabs) and the scattering 
cross section (Cscat) are defined by 
 ),()( ωω incabsabs IPC =
 
                         
)()( ωω incscatscat IPC =
 2
 0.3 0.35 0.4 0.45 0.5 0.55 0.6
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Wavelength  (μm)
C
ro
ss
 S
ec
tio
n/
(p
i*r
2 )
 
 
Cabs with ds = 0.5 nm
Cscat with ds = 0.5 nm
Cabs (Mie)
Cscat (Mie)
  
0.3 0.35 0.4 0.45 0.5 0.55 0.6
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Wavelength  (μm)
C
ro
ss
 S
ec
tio
n/
(p
i*r
2 )
 
 
Cabs with ds = 0.25 nm
Cscat with ds = 0.25 nm
Cabs (Mie)
Cscat (Mie)
  
                 (a)                                   (b)                       
Fig. 4: Comparison between the 3D FDTD calculated cross-section results and the Mie theory results for the 
scattering of an incident plane light wave by a single Ag sphere with radius r = 25 nm using the mesh sizes of (a) 
0.5 nm and (b) 0.25 nm. 
II. Development of a Multidomain Legendre Pseudospectral Frequency-Domain (PSFD) 
   Method with Penalty Scheme for Solving Maxwell’s Equations 
High-accuracy calculation of electromagnetic fields near dielectric-metal interfaces at optical 
wavelengths is highly demanded in recent plasmonics research. We develop in this research 
an accurate Legendre pseudospectral frequency-domain (PSFD) method to solve Maxwell’s 
equations for relevant 2D scattering problems [5]–[9]. We derive the PSFD formulation from 
the first-order equations and utilize Legendre polynomials as the interpolation basis. 
Furthermore, the penalty method as developed previously for the Legendre pseudospectral 
time-domain (PSTD) scheme is used to handle boundary conditions for well-posedness 
consideration. The perfectly matched layers (PMLs) can be easily incorporated into the PSFD 
formulation, which is then solved by iterative algorithms. With the simple stair-casing 
approximation of the curved material interface, the FDTD method may have difficulty in 
providing high-accuracy field values along such curved interface. The PSFD method however 
is without such stair-casing problem since it partitions the computational domain into 
subdomains of curvilinear geometries matching exactly to the shape of the interface. 
Moreover, as a frequency-domain method, the PSFD method directly adopts the given 
complex dielectric constant at the considered frequency without needing auxiliary differential 
equations for modeling material dispersion. Simulations of several scattering problems are 
shown for demonstrating the performance of the method. Please refer to Appendix I [5] and 
Appendix II [9] for the detail.  
III. Plasmon Resonance Calculations for Metallic Nanospheres Using the Multidomain 
gendre Pseudospectral Time-Domain (PSTD) Method Le
The field coupling between metallic nanoparticles plays an important role in plasmonics 
research, which in particular may result in strong field enhancement that can provide many 
useful applications. Therefore, accurate near-field calculation is essential and important for 
understanding the underlying optical behaviors. The Mie theory and the multiple scattering 
methods for analytically calculating lightwave scattering by spheres have been proposed. But 
for more general geometries of the plasmonic objects, numerical methods can provide more 
flexibilities. In this paper, we exploit the multidomain Legendre PSTD method for studying 
the 3D phenomenon of coupling between plasmonic nano-spheres, with focus on two closely 
placed spheres interacting with incident electromagnetic waves of different directions and 
 4
new technology has emerged in recent development. The principle of the plasmonic 
waveguide is based on the subject called surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs). Simply speaking, 
SPPs are one kind of electromagnetic waves, which occur particularly at metal/dielectric 
interface, and manipulate infrared or visible light. Due to the feature of good confinement on 
the surface, it has great prospective to be a new type of waveguiding. It exploits the unique 
optical properties to achieve power delivery by a tiny structure (tens of nanometers). This 
new technique of waveguide has been investigated by several predecessors. One such 
waveguide is the finite-width metal stripe for obtaining long-range SP modes. The guiding 
modes supported by the stripe waveguide were classified into bound modes and leaky modes. 
In this work, we employ a finite-element imaginary-distance beam propagation method 
(FE-ID-BPM) to solve modes on the stripe waveguide [20]–[22]. In addition to bound and 
leaky modes, edge modes located at the metal stripe corners are obtained and their 
characteristics are compared with those of the bound mode. Please refer to Appendix VI [21] 
and Appendix VII [22] for the detail. 
VII. Finite-Element Analysis of Propagating, Complex, and Evanescent Modes on a 
 Periodic Array of Nano-Plasmonic Rods  1D
The 1D periodic array of nano-plasmonic rods forms a kind of the plasmonic waveguide, 
whose operation is known to based on near-field electrodynamic interactions between closely 
spaced metal nanoparticles or nanorods with spacing much smaller than the wavelength. The 
FDTD method has been popularly employed to model the propagating modes of such 
structures. In this research, we apply a real-ω finite-element formulation with the method 
with inner nodes to analyze the unit cell and obtain the complex Bloch wavenumbers at 
different frequencies. Then, the dispersion diagrams are constructed, showing the existence of 
the complex and evanescent modes in addition to the propagating modes. Please refer to 
Appendix VIII [23] for the detail.  
VIII. Simulating Plasmonic Waveguide Devices Using the Legendre PSTD Method 
 We simulate and study subwavelength metal waveguide ring resonators operating 
under the phenomenon of surface plasmon polaritons. The FDTD method has been a popular 
numerical analysis and simulation method for studying such structures and other plasmonic 
problems. However, due to its stair-casing approximation of the often occurring curved 
material interface, the FDTD calculation of the electromagnetic field near the interface is 
difficult to offer high accuracy. In this research, we use the high-order accurate 2D Legendre 
PSTD algorithm based on a penalty scheme and a multi-domain approach to simulate ring 
resonators formed by metal/insulator/metal (MIM) waveguide structures. Curvilinear 
quadrilateral sub-domains are properly designed so that possible curved metal/insulator 
boundaries can be well fit and boundary conditions can be correctly imposed, avoiding the 
stair-casing approximation as in the FDTD scheme. Please refer to Appendix IX [24] for the 
detail. 
References 
[1] A. Mohammadi, T. Jalali, and M. Agio, “Dispersive Contour-path Algorithm for the Two-dimensional 
Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method,” (OSA) Optics Express, Vol. 16, 9397, 2008. 
[2]  D. W. Lynch and W. R. Hunter, Handbook of Optical Constants of Solids. Orlando, FL: Academic Press, 
1985. 
[3]  C. F. Bohren and D. R. Huffman, Absorption and Scattering of Light by Small Particles, 2nd ed. New York: 
Wiley, 1983. 
[4]  E.D. Palik, Handbook of Optical Constants of Solids, London, Academic 1985. 
[5]  C. Y. Wang, S. Y. Chung, C. H. Teng, C. P. Chen, and H. C. Chang, “A Multidomain Legendre 
 6
 8
[20] H. C. Chang, C. C. Chung, H. C. Yeh, and J. J. Lin, “Study of Plasmonic Waveguides Based on Finite 
Element Method Analysis,” presented at the 3rd Cross-Strait Workshop on Optical Nanostructures and 
Laser Technologies, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C., September 5–6, 2009. (invited 
paper) 
[21] J. J. Lin and H. C. Chang, “Modes on the Metal Stripe Plasmonic Waveguide,” in Optics and Photonics 
Taiwan ’09 (OPT ’09) Proceedings (CD-ROM), paper BO139, Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C., December11–12, 
2009. 
[22] J. J. Lin, W. J. Tseng, and H. C. Chang, “Corner Modes and Edge Modes on Surface Plasmon Polariton 
Waveguides Having Right-Angle Metallic Corners,” presented at META’10, 2nd International Conference 
on Metamaterials, Photonic crystals and Plasmonics, Cairo, Egypt, February 22–25, 2010. 
[23] C. H. Lee and H. C. Chang, “Finite-Element Analysis of Propagating, Complex, and Evanescent Modes on 
a One-Dimensional Periodic Array of Nano-Plasmonic Rods,” in Abstracts Book, the Ninth International 
Conference on Photonic and Electromagnetic Crystal Structures (PECS-IX 2010), p. 144 (paper P-050), 
Granada, Spain, September 26–30, 2010. 
[24] H. C. Chang, C. Y. Wang, S. Y. Chung, B. Y. Lin, C. H. Teng, and C. P. Chen, “Legendre Pseudospectral 
Electromagnetic Analysis Methods for Plasmonics Research,” in Proceedings of the 8th Asia-Pacific 
Engineering Research Forum on Microwaves and Electromagnetic Theory (APMET 2010), pp. 115–122, 
Fukuoka Institute of Technology, Fukuoka, Japan, November 19–20, 2010. (invited paper) 
 
 
 
method, the PSFD method directly adopts the given complex dielectric constant at 
the considered frequency without needing auxiliary differential equations for 
modeling material dispersion. Simulations of three scattering problems will be 
shown for demonstrating the performance of the method. 
 
The Penalty-Scheme Formulation 
 
For time-harmonic electromagnetic fields, E and H, in a linear isotropic medium 
region with permittivity  and permeability , Maxwell’s curl equations can be 
written in the complex form as 
j
j


  
  
H E M
E H J  
where J and M represent the source electric and magnetic current densities, 
respectively, and   is the angular frequency.  For scattering problems in the 2D 
(x-y) plane involving transverse-magnetic (TM) waves with field 
components xE , yE , and zH , the curl equations become 
,   ,   .           yxz zx x y y z z
EEH Hj E J j E J j H M
y x y x
                
Under the multidomain approach, the computational domain is partitioned into 
properly designed nonoverlapping subdomains of curvilinear quadrilateral shape. 
If boundary conditions are considered at the interface between adjacent 
subdomains I and II, with the unit normal vector to the interface expressed as 
ˆ ˆ ˆx yn n x n y  , the continuity of tangential fields across the interface requires that 
                    
ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ( ) ( ).
I
z z
II
x y x y
II
I I II
H H
n E x E y n E x E y

      
Furthermore, if there exists a surface current density Js with unit A/m on the 
interface, ˆ ˆ( )z
I II
zn H H z    Js should be used for the boundary condition. Note 
that the relation between Js and J, the latter being the volume current density with 
unit A/m2, is  dx sJ J  if Js flows in the y direction, and we would have 
0/ sJ J , where 0  is the quadrature weight on the interface which will be 
defined in the next section. Finally, the penalty scheme as in [2] is employed to 
impose weakly characteristic boundary conditions, and the resultant curl 
equations with penalty terms for imposing dielectric material interface boundary 
conditions between adjacent subdomains become 
( )
2
( )
2
( ) ( )
2 2
I
I I I IIz
x y z z x
I
I I I IIz
y x z z y
II
yI I I II I I IIx
z y x x x y y z
Hj E n H H J
y
Hj E n H H J
x
EEj H n E E n E E M
y x
 
 
   
    
    
        

  
1 m   is generated and propagated in free space toward the silver cylinder of 
radius 0.25 mR   having complex dielectric constant 50.981 0.562r j    . 
Figure 1(b) shows the maximum absolute difference versus the degree of the 
polynomial N used between the PSFD calculated field value and its corresponding 
analytical one [4] for the Ex, Ey, and Hz components, respectively, when the 
incident electric field intensity is 1 V/m. Note that Hz has been multiplied by 0 = 
377. It is seen that the accuracy is better than 910 when N > 22. 
 
Scattering of a dielectric square cylinder investigated in [5] is considered next. 
The side length of the square is d = 3.5/k, where k is the free-space wavenumber, 
and the plane wave incidence is as in the inset of Fig. 2. Note that the square was 
assumed in [5] to have rounded corners with a radius of curvature 0.01/ k   but 
it is assumed to have sharp corners in our calculations. Thus, there would be four 
singular points expected at these sharp corners in our results. The tangential 
electric field of the TM case versus kS, where S is the distance along the square 
surface, for dielectric constants 2.5r   and 10r   are shown in Fig. 2(a) and 
(b), respectively. The results are seen to well agree with those of [5]. Notice that 
the fields at the singular points grow up as the grid resolution (or N) increases. 
 
Finally, scattering by two silver circular cylinders having the same parameters as 
in the first case is studied. In particular, we examine the effect of the cylinder 
spacing. Figure 3 shows PSFD calculated |Hz| field distributions for three different 
side spacings: 0.1, 0.05, and 0.02 m. In Fig. 3(a), (b), and (c), the plane wave is 
incident from left, and in Fig. 3(d), (e), and (f), it is incident from the bottom. It is 
observed that the field grows up in the gap as the spacing gets smaller. 
 
Conclusion 
 
We have established a new numerical model for solving electromagnetic 
scattering problem based on the Legendre seudospectral method with penalty 
scheme in the frequency domain. High-accuracy field calculation with error on 
the order of 910  has been demonstrated for the case of plane-wave scattering by a 
silver circular cylinder. Simulations for scattering by a dielectric square cylinder 
and by two silver cylinders have also been shown. The method should be useful 
for plasmonics research when field enhancement near metal surface is concerned. 
References 
 
[1] Q. H. Liu, “A pseudospectral frequency-domain (PSFD) method for 
computational  electromagnetics,”  IEEE Antennas Wireless  Propagat. Lett., 
pp. 131–134, 2002.  
[2] C. H. Teng, B. Y. Lin, H. C. Chang, H. C. Hsu, C. N. Lin, and K. A. Feng,  
“A Legendre  pseudospectral  penalty  scheme for  solving  time-domain 
Maxwell’s  equations,” J. Sci. Comput., vol. 36, pp. 351–390, 2008.  
[3] A. Taflove and S. C. Hagness, Computational Electrodynamics: The Finite-
Difference Time-Domain Method. Boston, MA: Artech House, 2005. 
High-Accuracy Calculations of Light Scattering by 
Plasmonic Cylinders Using the Legendre Pseudospectral 
Frequency-Domain (PSFD) Method 
 
Chih-Yu Wang1, Shih-Yung Chung1, Chun-Hao Teng2, Chung-Ping Chen1,3, and Hung-Chun Chang3,4,5 
1Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
 2Department of Applied Mathematics and Center of Mathematical Modeling and Scientific Computing, National Chiao Tung University, 
Hsinchu, Taiwan 30010, R.O.C. 
3Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
4Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
5Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
E-mail: hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract: A high-order accurate pseudospectral frequency-domain (PSFD) method is used to 
analyze light scattering by plasmonic cylinders. Field coupling and enhancement within the gap of 
close spaced cylinders are examined. Dielectric-coated metallic cylinders are also studied. 
OCIS codes: (050.1755) Computational electromagnetic methods; (260.2110) Electromagnetic optics; (290.5850) 
Scattering: Particles 
 
1. Introduction 
The interaction of light waves with metallic nano-cylinders or nano-particles is a fundamental process in plasmonics, 
which has offered many potential applications [1]. One underlying fundamental phenomenon is the possible near-
field enhancement and its analysis has been essential. The finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method [2] has 
been a popular numerical analysis and simulation method for studying related plasmonic problems. However, due to 
its stair-casing approximation of the often occurring curved material interface, the FDTD calculation of the 
electromagnetic field near the interface is difficult to offer high accuracy. We have developed a high-order accurate 
Legendre pseudospectral frequency-domain (PSFD) method and demonstrated that numerical accuracy on the order 
of 10-9 in the scattered field calculation for a circular plasmonic cylinder can be achieved [3]. Here we utilize this 
method to calculate near-field characteristics in light scattering problems by two-dimensional (2-D) plasmonic-
cylinder structures for understanding coupling between nanometer spaced cylinders. We believe the obtained results 
possess very high accuracy. 
Liu [4] first formulated the pseudospectral method in frequency domain from the second-order Helmholtz 
equation by using the Chebyshev polynomials. We instead derive the PSFD formulation from the first-order 
differential equations using Legendre polynomials as the interpolation basis and the penalty scheme as in a related 
time-domain method [5]. With the multidomain approach, the computational domain is partitioned into subdomains 
of curvilinear quadrilateral shape for matching the shapes of the geometrical and material interfaces so that the stair-
casing approximation in the FDTD method can be avoided. As a frequency-domain method, the PSFD method has 
the advantage of directly adopting the available measured complex dielectric constant of a metal [6] at the 
considered frequency and the implementation of auxiliary differential equations [2] for modeling material dispersion 
over a spectral range is not needed. Several light scattering problems will be investigated, including that by two 
silver circular or square nano-cylinders and that by six silver circular nano-cylinders with two-by-three arrangement 
[7]. The effect of coating the nano-cylinder with a dielectric layer is also studied. 
2. The PSFD method 
For time-harmonic electromagnetic fields E and H in a linear isotropic medium region, Maxwell’s curl equations 
can be written in the complex form as 
                                                                         
j
j
ωμ
ω
− −∇× =
− + ∇× =
H E M
E H Jε                                                                  (1) 
where ε and μ are the permittivity and permeability of the medium, respectively, J and M represent the source 
electric and magnetic current densities, respectively, and ω is the angular frequency. In the frequency-domain 
method formulation, ε and μ could be of negative or even complex values, which is convenient for plasmonics and 
metamaterial researches. Since the unknown E and H are placed on the left hand side and the sources are on the 
right hand side, Eq. (1) can be easily transformed into a linear matrix equation AX = B, with the vector X composed 
of the unknown fields at numerical grid points to be solved. The solution X = A-1B can be obtained by using efficient 
             
                             (a)                                                  (b)                                                (c)                                                 (d) 
Fig. 2. Same as Fig. 1 but with coated cylinders and the observed wavelengths are at (a) 0.467 μm, (b) 0.417 μm, (c) 0.649 μm, and (d) 
0.616 μm. 
nm, the maximum field enhancement of 8.94 occurs when the cylinder radius is 36 nm.  Our PSFD simulated |E|  
profile for this case is shown in Fig. 3(a) with the calculated maximum |E| field value being 11.11 V/m, referring to 
the incident field of 1 V/m. The field value at the center of the gap of the middle pair is ~9.34 V/m, which is larger 
than 8.89 V/m obtained in [7]. When λ is changed to 650 nm, it was found in [7] that the cylinder radius is 58 nm 
when the largest field enhancement of 13.04 occurs. Our results for this case are presented in Fig. 3(b), showing the 
maximum |E| is 15.54 V/m. The field value at the same gap center is ~14.1 V/m, again larger than that value in [7]. 
     
(a)                                                    (b) 
Fig. 3. |E| distributions of the six silver cylinder array with incident wave from left. (a) 36-nm cylinder radius and 20-nm gap size at λ = 
460 nm. (b) 58-nm cylinder radius and 20-nm gap size at λ = 650 nm. 
4. Conclusion 
We have developed a high-order accurate Legendre polynomial based pseudospectral frequency-domain (PSFD) 
method and utilize it in this paper for accurate analysis of light scattering by nanometer spaced plasmonic nano-
cylinders. Enhanced optical near fields resulting from the coupling between the cylinders are particularly 
investigated. Two circular or square silver cylinders and two-by-three arranged circular silver cylinders are 
considered as numerical examples. The effect of coating the silver cylinder with a dielectric layer is also examined. 
We believe the obtained results possess very high accuracy. 
5. Acknowlegment 
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council of the Republic of China under grants NSC98-
2628-M-002-009 and NSC98-2221-E-002-025-MY2. The authors would like to thank the National Center for High-
Performance Computing in Hsinchu, Taiwan, and the Academia Sinica Computing Center in Taipei, Taiwan, for 
providing useful computing resources. 
6. References  
[1] S. A. Maier, Plasmonics: Fundamentals and Applications (Springer, 2007). 
[2] A. Taflove and S. C. Hagness, Computational Electrodynamics: The Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method, 3rd ed. (Artech House, Boston, 
MA, 2005). 
[3] C. Y. Wang, S. Y. Chung, C. H. Teng, C. P. Chen, and H. C. Chang, “A Legendre pseudospectral frequency-domain method for solving 
Maxwell’s equations,” in Proc. the XX URSI Commission B International Symposium on Electromagnetic Theory (EMT-S 2010), pp. 748– 
751. 
[4] Q. H. Liu, “A pseudospectral frequency-domain (PSFD) method for computational electromagnetics,” IEEE Antennas Wireless Propagat. Lett. 
1, 131–134 (2002). 
[5] C. H. Teng, B. Y. Lin, H. C. Chang, H. C. Hsu, C. N. Lin, and K. A. Feng, “A Legendre pseudospectral penalty scheme for solving time-
domain Maxwell’s equations,” J. Sci. Comput. 36, 351–390 (2008). 
[6] P. B. Johnson and R. W. Christy, “Optical constants of the noble metals,” Phys. Rev. B 6, 4370–4379 (1972). 
[7] M. Y.  Ng and W. C. Liu, “Local-field confinement in three-pair arrays of metallic nanocylinders,” Opt. Express 14, 4504–4513 (2006). 
[8] D. W. Lynch and W. R. Hunter, “Silver (Ag)” in Handbook of Optical Constants of Solids, E. D. Palik, ed. (Academic, Orlando, Fla. 1985), 
pp. 350-357. 
  
choose a proper curve-fit of these parameters for silver, obtaining ε∞ = 1.0, dω = 1.3877 × 1016 rad/s, dγ = 1.87 
× 1013 rad/s, 
1LεΔ = 0.089, 1Lω = 3.254 × 1015 rad/s, 1Lγ = 1.165 × 1015 rad/s, 2LεΔ = 2.066, 2Lω = 7.758 × 1015 
rad/s, and 2Lγ = 3.46 × 1014 rad/s, which provide well fit in the optical wavelength range from 350 nm to 1100 
nm. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
At first, the cross sections computed by the PSTD method are examined for a single silver sphere. The 
Drude-Lorentz model with parameters listed in the last paragraph for silver is used. The calculated extinction 
cross sections for three different radii, 25 nm, 50 nm, and 100 nm, are compared, respectively, with the analytic 
Mie theory results [2], as shown in Fig. 1(a). If we normalize the maximum values of the Mie theory to 1.0, the 
maximum absolute errors corresponding to these three radii would be 0.012, 0.002, and 0.006, respectively, for 
grid resolution N = 12 (i.e., N + 1 points for each direction of the subdomain). These errors can be improved by 
increasing N. We also analyze the corresponding extinction cross sections for the same silver spheres but each 
coated with a 10-nm thickness dielectric shell of relative permittivity ε = 3, and the results are shown in Fig. 1(b). 
It is known that the environmental material can cause the shift of the resonant wavelength, and it is found that 
red-shift occurs in Fig. 1(b) compared with Fig. 1(a). In these shell coated cases, the errors are about 0.005. The 
obtained cross sections in Fig. 1 indicate that larger sphere possesses more resonant peaks, i.e., more higher 
order modes [2,4]. 
                
(a)                                                        (b)                                                          (c) 
Figure 1. (a) The mesh division, subdomains, and coordinates for the two-sphere structure. (b) PSTD 
calculated and analytical (Mie theory) extinction cross sections for three silver spheres with different radii, 
100 nm, 50 nm, and 25 nm, for pure silver spheres. (c) Same as (b) but for silver spheres coated with 10-
nm thickness dielectric shell of ε = 3. 
 
Next, the field coupling between two closely placed silver spheres with radii 50 nm is studied. We place 
these two spheres along the x-axis with three different spacings, 10 nm, 25 nm, and 50 nm, and consider three 
situations with different incident wave directions (wave vectors) and polarizations, i.e., wave vector kx with Ey 
polarization, ky with Ex polarization, and ky with Ez polarization. The extinction cross sections for these three 
polarizations are shown in Fig. 2(a), (b), and (c), respectively, for three different spacings. When the incident 
wave propagates toward the spheres, the incident electric field would lead the electrons in the metallic spheres to 
oscillate and then radiate energy outward. In Fig. 2(a), the sphere spacing has small effect on the interaction and 
the resonant cross section profile because the arrangement of spheres are perpendicular to the incident electric 
field. But, the induced Ex field still causes strong interaction between the spheres, as can be seen in the |Ex| and 
|Ey| profiles in the x-y plane in Fig. 3(a) for the 10-nm spacing and the main spectral peak at λ = 414 nm. On the 
contrary, the resonant spectral shift, as shown in Fig. 2(b), is related to the spacing between the two spheres 
when the incident wave propagates along the y-axis and is with Ex polarization which is parallel to the sphere 
arrangement. There exists quite strong field enhancement in the gap as revealed in the |Ex| and |Ey| profiles in the 
x-y plane in Fig. 3(b) for the 10-nm spacing and the main spectral peak at λ = 481 nm. The |Ex| field is about 28 
times larger than the incident field. But if the incident polarization is changed to Ez (with ky), the cross section 
again has no apparent relation to the sphere spacing, as shown in Fig. 2(c), and the electric field in the gap is 
weaker are seen in the |Ex| and |Ez| profiles in the x-z plane in Fig. 3(c) for the 10-nm spacing and the main 
spectral peak at λ = 375 nm. Note that although both the first and third cases are with perpendicular incident 
polarization against the sphere arrangement, much stronger coupling occurs in the first case, due to that the two 
spheres are placed symmetrically with respect to the direction of wave incidence in the third case so that Ex = 0 
at the center of the gap. 
76 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 30, NO. 1, JANUARY 1, 2012
Determination of Surface Plasmon Modes and Guided
Modes Supported by Periodic Subwavelength Slits on
Metals Using a Finite-Difference Frequency-Domain
Method Based Eigenvalue Algorithm
Ming-Yun Chen and Hung-Chun Chang, Senior Member, IEEE, Fellow, OSA
Abstract—An eigenvalue solution algorithm is formulated
based on the finite-difference frequency-domain (FDFD) method
for determining guided modes, including the surface plasmon
modes, supported by periodic metallic structures. The Yee-mesh
grids which have been popularly adopted in the finite-difference
time-domain (FDTD) method are used in the FDFD method and
standard eigenvalue matrix equations are obtained for easily
searching for the guided eigenmodes. Both two-dimensional (2-D)
and three-dimensional (3-D) structures are considered and the
periodicity is along the propagation direction. The metals are
assumed to be perfect ones or real ones without loss. For 2-D
structures, an array of grooves drilled in a perfect conductor and
a real-metal structure with a periodic arrangement of subwave-
length slits in air are analyzed and the dispersion diagrams and
mode-field profiles are obtained. For the latter structure, surface
plasmon modes and dielectric slab modes are identified to be in
agreement with published results based on a different numerical
scheme. This subwavelength-slit structure is then extended to a
3-D one having an additional depth and it is demonstrated that
the formulated algorithm can solve the same two kinds of modes
for the more complicated 3-D problem. The modes guided along
drilled periodic rectangle holes on a perfect conductor surface are
also calculated.
Index Terms—Finite-difference frequency-domain (FDFD)
method, periodic waveguides, plasmonic waveguides, surface
plasmon polaritons.
I. INTRODUCTION
M ETALLIC films made with one-dimensional (1-D) pe-riodic array of subwavelength slits have been an attrac-
tive optical structure intensively investigated in recent studies of
Manuscript received June 26, 2011; revised September 14, 2011; ac-
cepted November 07, 2011. Date of publication November 14, 2011;
date of current version January 16, 2012. This work was supported in
part by the National Science Council of the Republic of China under
Grants NSC98-2221-E-002-025-MY2, NSC99-2221-E-002-107-MY2, and
NSC099-2811-E-002-107, in part by the Excellent Research Projects of
National Taiwan University under grant 99R80306, and in part by the Ministry
of Education of the Republic of China under “The Aim of Top University Plan”
grant.
M. Y. Chen is with the Graduate Institute of Photonics and Opto-
electronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan (e-mail:
giga421@gmal.com).
H. C. Chang is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, Graduate In-
stitute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, and Graduate Institute of Communi-
cation Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 10617, Taiwan (e-mail:
hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JLT.2011.2175902
Fig. 1. (a) Schematic of the periodic arrangement of subwavelength slits in
metal in the - plane with the thickness of the metal being . (b) One period
of the structure of (a) as the computational domain with properly placed PBCs
and PMLs.
transmission enhancement phenomena, which offer useful ap-
plications in enhanced molecular absorption, boosted fluores-
cence, vibrational spectroscopy, etc. [1], as well as considered
potentially useful in integrated optic device applications [2].
Guided modes on such periodic array are of course the main
characteristics which would be concerned in the latter issue
while they also play roles in the physical mechanism in the
former issue. By treating the metal with a plasmonic material
model, in [2] Catrysse et al. found that in the long-wavelength
regime two types of transverse-magnetic (TM) guided modes
exist in the structure of Fig. 1: the surface modes confined at the
top and bottom periodic boundaries, and the effective dielectric
slab modes with mode fields distributed mainly within the slits
and resembling modes guided on a dielectric slab. Referring to
the coordinates shown in Fig. 1, the film is an infinite structure
in the - plane and with thickness , and the TM modes are
defined to have only , and field components. It is
well known that surface plasmons or surface plasmon polari-
tons (SPPs) with electromagnetic field structure of subwave-
length scale can exist and propagate along an interface between
metallic and dielectric materials [3], [4]. The surface modes
mentioned above are related to such SPPs. On the other hand,
when the metallic film is of perfect electric conductor (PEC) na-
ture, the periodic structure on it has been demonstrated to sup-
port surface bound states with dispersions having strong simi-
larities with those of SPPs at real metal surfaces [5].
0733-8724/$26.00 © 2011 IEEE
78 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 30, NO. 1, JANUARY 1, 2012
Fig. 2. The 2-D Yee meshes for (a) TM modes and (b) TE modes.
associated boundary conditions. Note that the subscript
on the left hand side of each equation in (11) denotes the par-
ticular element of the column vector which corresponds to the
th grid point in the 2-D Yee-mesh domain, and those on
the right hand side specify the neighboring grid points as shown
in Fig. 2(a). Since the structure is periodic along the -axis, the
PBCs can be expressed as
(15)
where is either the electric or magnetic field in the unit cell,
is the period, and is the wavenumber along the -axis. Hence,
and in (10) are of the same form as in [7] and [12].
In this paper, we consider the real metal as a lossless medium
as in [2], with its relative permittivity described by the free-
electron model
(16)
where is the bulk angular plasma frequency. We therefore
assume and in the and matrices in (10) are in the
-dependent form as
(17)
where and for the lossless metal and
for the lossless dielectric with being its relative permittivity.
Then, (10) can be re-arranged to lead to the following standard
eigenvalue matrix equation:
(18)
This derivation is equivalent to substituting in (7) into (8)
and (9). Note that if the grid points fall in the lossless
dielectric medium and when the points are located in
metal. Note that the total matrix in (18) contains of (15). For
a given , solving the eigenvalues gives the values of
and the dispersion band diagram can be constructed.
Similarly, for TEmodes with only , and field com-
ponents, the standard eigenvalue matrix equation can be derived
as
(19)
based on the mesh depicted in Fig. 2(b).
III. THE STANDARD EIGENVALUE-PROBLEM ALGORITHMS FOR
3-D STRUCTURES
We now consider 3-D structures involving lossless metal and
derive the eigenvalue algorithm for the dispersion band diagram
analysis. Since 3-D structure analysis would require much more
computer memory, with the propagation in the direction, we
take the perfect electric conductors (PECs) as the boundary
conditions in the and directions. The PECs can be considered
not affecting the eigen frequencies if the guided modes are well
localized on the structure surface. From (1) and (2), we have the
six equationswith themeanings of , and as in (8) and (9)
(20)
(21)
(22)
(23)
(24)
(25)
With the 3-D Yee’s mesh, as depicted in Fig. 3, and the central
difference scheme, we can obtain the following matrix equa-
tions with the meanings of symbols similar to those in (10):
(26)
(27)
80 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 30, NO. 1, JANUARY 1, 2012
Fig. 5. Dispersion diagram of the guided TM modes on the structure of Fig. 1 with . The red solid lines represent surface modes and the blue solid
lines represent a series of effective dielectric slab modes. The right and bottom panels are expanded views for more clear visualization.
IV. NUMERICAL EXAMPLES
First, we analyze an array of grooves drilled in a perfect con-
ductor, as was discussed in [5]. The unit cell as a computational
domain is depicted in Fig. 4(a), where is the period of the
array, is the width of the grooves, and is the
depth of the grooves. The band diagram in the first Brillouin
zone for the TM mode calculated using our developed FDFD
method is shown as the dotted line in Fig. 4(b), and the solid
line is the result based on the effective medium approximation
[5]. The magnetic field profile when is shown in
Fig. 4(c), where it is seen the field is confinedwithin the grooves.
In fact, we have used the FDFD method to calculate the disper-
sion curves of the waveguide modes on a PEC film with a peri-
odically cut-through subwavelength slits having a geometrical
shape like that of Fig. 1(a), which was studied in [13], and our
results are in very good agreement with those shown in [13].
Then, we consider the real-metal structure with a periodic ar-
rangement of subwavelength slits in air, which was investigated
by Catrysse et al. [2]. The arrangement is in the - plane, as
shown in Fig. 1(a), where is the period, is the width of
metallic film, and is the thickness of metallic film. Catrysse
et al. [2] used a finite-difference reflection calculation to search
for the trapping of guided modes. Here, we employ the simpler
FDFD method based standard eigenvalue algorithm to solve for
the modes. The unit cell as our computational domain is detailed
in Fig. 1(b), with PMLs and PBCs in the and directions, re-
spectively. We take rad/s as in [2] to
describe the material property of the real metal, i.e., the silver.
First, we consider the structure with nm and .
The calculated dispersion diagram of the guided TM modes is
shown in Fig. 5 for the case of . As in [2], detailed
investigation reveals that the guided modes can be classified
into two different types: two surface plasmon modes plotted as
red solid lines and a series of effective dielectric slab modes
plotted as blue solid lines in Fig. 5. Sixteen modes are desig-
nated with the mode orders based on the increasing values
at . Modes above the twelfth mode appear to be
quite crowded, and for clear visualization, the expanded view
for eighth to twelfth modes is shown in themiddle panel in Fig. 5
and that for thirteenth to sixteenth modes is shown in the bottom
panel. The magnetic field profiles at of these
sixteen modes are displayed in Fig. 6(a). From the profiles, it is
clearly recognized that the eighth and ninth modes correspond
to the surface plasmon modes for which the fields are confined
at the top and bottom metal-air interfaces. The corresponding
profiles of the eighth and ninth modes are also displayed in
Fig. 6(b). It can be identified from Figs. 5 and 6 that the eighth
and ninth modes, are odd and even modes, respectively, and at
their frequencies and
, respectively. Other than the eighth and
ninth modes, the first to the fourteenth modes clearly possess the
characteristics of the effective dielectric slab modes [2] with the
mode fields mainly existing in the slits showing resonance pat-
terns of various orders.
For 3-D structures, we first consider the PEC formed wave-
guide studied in [14], as illustrated in Fig. 7(a), with the PEC
surface in the - plane drilled periodic rectangle holes along
the direction. Each hole has width and length
, and the period is . The cross-section of each hole
in the - plane is plotted in Fig. 7(b), showing the hole depth
is and the distance between the bottom surface of the
waveguide and the bottom of the hole is . Therefore, the rec-
tangle holes are not drilled through the PEC waveguide thick-
ness. The unit cell as the computational domain is shown in
Fig. 7(c). The boundaries of the domain are PBCs, PECs, and
82 JOURNAL OF LIGHTWAVE TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 30, NO. 1, JANUARY 1, 2012
Fig. 10. Dispersion diagram of the guided modes on the structure of Fig. 9. The
red solid lines represent surface plasmon modes and the blue solid lines repre-
sent a series of effective dielectric slab modes. The right panel is the expanded
view for more clear visualization of the surface plasmon modes.
Fig. 11. -field profiles at on the three sides of one metallic block,
as plotted in Fig. 9(b), i.e., in the - - , and - planes, for each of the four
suface plasmon modes mode in Fig. 10. (a) Mode (1). (b) Mode (2). (c) Mode
(3). (d) Mode (4).
plotted in Fig. 10, where the red and blue solid lines represent
the surface modes and the effective dielectric slab modes, re-
spectively. Compared with the 2-D case of Fig. 5 having the
same , four surface plasmon modes are found in this 3-D case.
The expanded view for them is shown in the right panel in
Fig. 12. -field profiles at on the three sides of one metallic block,
as plotted in Fig. 9(b), i.e., in the - - , and - planes, for each of the first
(I) and second (II) effective dielectric slab modes in Fig. 10. (a) Mode (I). (b)
Mode (II).
Fig. 10, marked by the first to the fourth modes. The frequen-
cies at of these four modes obtained in our anal-
ysis are ,
and . Their profiles at on the
three sides of one metallic block, as plotted in Fig. 9(b), i.e.,
in the - - , and - planes, for each mode are shown in
Figs. 11(a), (b), (c), and (d) for the four modes, respectively. It
is seen in Fig. 11 that for each mode, the profiles are confined
at the top and bottom metal-air interfaces in both - and -
planes, while in the - plane, the field is localized at the four
corners of the metallic block. They are indeed characteristics of
the surface plasmon modes. As for the effective dielectric slab
modes, we give the profiles at for the first and
second modes in Fig. 12. It is seen that the fields are mainly dis-
tributed in the dielectric regions, which are air in this structure,
between the adjacent metallic blocks.
V. CONCLUSION
We have presented an FDFD method based eigenvalue al-
gorithm for determining modes guided along periodic metallic
structures, including the surface plasmon modes. The period-
icity is along the propagation direction and the computational
domain includes only one period, with the periodic boundary
conditions applied. In the transverse directions, the boundaries
of the computational domain are designed to connect to PMLs
or PECs. The PECs are used if the mode to be calculated can
be assumed to be with negligible fields at the PECs, and thus
the number of unknowns can be reduced compared with using
PMLs, especially when analyzing 3-D problems. Using the Yee-
mesh grids, standard eigenvalue matrix equations have been de-
rived for both 2-D and 3-D structures and guided eigenmodes
can be easily obtained. The metals are assumed to be either
PECs or real metals without loss. For real-metal problems, we
have analyzed the 2-D structure of a periodic arrangement of
Investigating Far-Field Spectra and Near-Field 
Features of Extraordinary Optical Transmission 
Through Periodic U- to H-Shaped Apertures
Volume 4, Number 2, April 2012
Hui-Hsin Hsiao
Hao-Fu Huang
Si-Chen Lee, Fellow, IEEE
Hung-Chun Chang, Senior Member, IEEE
DOI: 10.1109/JPHOT.2012.2188787
1943-0655/$31.00 ©2012 IEEE
of Garcia-Vidal et al. [8] and Ruan and Qiu [5]. Mary et al. [9] analyzed theoretically how SPPs and
localized resonances evolve and mix when the period of the array is varied.
In order to figure out more detailed properties of extraordinary transmission, some structures with
more complex-shaped apertures have been studied. For example, a range of arrays composing of
double holes that slightly overlap provides an additional local field enhancement [12]–[14], which
could be potentially applied to nanolithography, biochemical sensing, or nonlinear processes.
Arrays with C- or U-shaped apertures [15], [16] have been designed for the purpose to redshift the
shape resonant wavelength. In particular, Sun et al. [17] experimentally showed the transmission
properties of H-shaped arrays, and Liu et al. [18] theoretically investigated the same structure by
analyzing the transmission spectra and the near-field amplitude and phase distributions. In this
paper, we study the optical properties of three similar but differently shaped apertures, which are
basically composed of two horizontal slits, named x -arm slits, and one vertical slit, named the y -arm
slit. The difference between them lies in the horizontal position of the y -arm silt, which is shifted
from the alignment with the left of the two x -arm silts to one forth length and finally to the middle.
Fig. 1(a) shows the top view and structural parameters of samples 1 (U-shaped) to 3 (H-shaped).
The experimental observation of such structures has been reported [19]. The SR wavelengths
could be roughly estimated by the modified cutoff wavelengths of the rectangular waveguide
res ¼ 2neff Lres=m, where neff ¼
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
ðn2substrate þ n2air Þ=2
q
is the effective refractive index, Lres is resonant
length, and m is an integer [10]. However, when the shape of the aperture becomes more complex
and higher ordermodes coexist, Lres would have some ambiguities to be determined.We thus use our
in-house developed 3-D finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) program [20] to simulate transmission
spectra and near-field distributions at several particular wavelengths to gain more understanding of
the physical characteristics of the resonant modes.
Since the phasor form of electric field can be expressed as E ¼ jEx jei x x^ þ jEy jei y y^ þ jEz jei z z^,
we analyzed the distributions of electric field amplitude (jEx j, jEy j, and jEz j) and phase ( x ,  y , and
 z ) simultaneously. The modulus of the electric field, jEj, is defined by
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
jEx j2 þ jEy j2 þ jEz j2
q
. We
find three features are helpful in recognizing the effective SR lengths: the large magnitude of jEj
contours clear geometry of resonant length. Within the shape resonant paths, the distribution of the
Fig. 1. (a) Top view and structural parameters of samples 1–3. (b) The unit cell and near-field plane cuts
in our simulation. In-plane cut: perpendicular to the direction of propagation; perpendicular-plane cut:
parallel to the direction of propagation.
IEEE Photonics Journal Investigating Near-Field Features of EOT
Vol. 4, No. 2, April 2012 Page 388
WAs which could happen when a diffracted order becomes tangent to the plane of the grating, and
the free-space wavelength that satisfies WA condition under normal incidence is given by
WA ¼ ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
i2 þ j2
p  ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ"dp (1)
where i and j are integers referring to the specific orders of the WA modes in the x and y directions,
respectively,  ð¼ 14 mÞ is the lattice constant, and "d ð¼ 11:9Þ is the relative dielectric constants
of silicon. Notice that only Ag/Si WAs, denoted as (i ; j) mode Ag/Si WAs, will be excited in the
wavelength range of 20–140 m. Adjacent to the WA dips are some small peaks which are due to
the coupling of the incident field with surface EM modes [23]–[25]. Since the property of silver is
PEC-like in the far-infrared range, the surface EM modes dominantly result from the multiple
scattering of the diffracted modes within the holey metal surface [24], [28]. We have examined the
spectra with the silver film replaced by a perfect conductor which usually does not support surface
plasmon waves. The spectra are almost the same with Fig. 3 (not shown), while the peak values
corresponding to SRs increase because of the lossless material and the spectral positions of SRs
are slightly blue shifted due to the lack of penetration depth for perfect conductor.
As mentioned in [19], the localized shape resonant path is mainly the U-shaped part of the hole in
our case. The broadband peaks at 109 m, 96 m, and 87 m for samples 1 to 3 under x -polarized
light correspond to the 1st U-shaped resonance. The blue-shifted trend of the spectral positions
from samples 1 to 3 is due to the shrinkage of the effective resonant length of aperture referring to
the green path indicated in Fig. 1(a). On the other hand, the peaks at 51 m and 47 m in Fig. 3(b)
correspond to the second U-shaped resonances for samples 1 and 2 under y -polarized light. The
broadband resonance at 42 m of sample 3 may seem to also be the second U-shaped resonance
according to the trend. However, from the help of near-field analyses, this peak is related to the two
x -arm slits resonance.
3. Near-Field Distributions
Next, we analyze the distributions of electric field amplitude and phase simultaneously to investigate
the relation between transmission spectra and near-field features. The in-plane cut shown in Fig. 1(b)
is along the silicon substrate side right after the back surface of thinmetal film perforated with 2-D hole
arrays, while the perpendicular-plane ?x ð?y Þ-plane cut is the x–z (y–z) plane cut along the center
of y ðxÞ-coordinate of the unit cell. According to Liu et al. [18], since the H-shaped hole pattern has
twofold mirror symmetry, the components of electric field (Ex , Ey , and Ez ) under normal incidence
could be classified into four symmetric categories, which is summarized in Table 1. An incident field
will preserve its particular symmetry when transmitting through subwavelength hole structures drilled
in metallic film. Therefore, for x -polarized light, Ex has even–even symmetry, and Ey has odd–odd
symmetry. On the other hand, for y -polarized light,Ex has odd–odd symmetry andEy has even–even
symmetry. For example, Fig. 4(a) shows  x and  y , respectively, at in-plane cut for (2, 0) mode
Fig. 3. Calculated transmission spectra with polarized incident light at (a) x polarization and
(b) y polarization under normal incidence.
IEEE Photonics Journal Investigating Near-Field Features of EOT
Vol. 4, No. 2, April 2012 Page 390
Next, we focus on the brand-band peaks in the spectra of Fig. 3(a) corresponding to the first
U-shaped resonances for samples 1 to 3. As shown in Fig. 7, the large magnitude of jEj and the
homogeneous distribution of  x under x -polarized light within the shape resonant paths may result in
the strong transmission. jEj also contours clear geometrical patterns of the resonant modes and jEz j
at?y -plane cut is strongly localized near the edge of the slits for SRs. jEz j for samples 2 and 3 are not
shown since they demonstrate similar features. The most interesting part is that  z exhibits a
Fig. 4. For sample 3 within twofold mirror symmetry, Ex possesses even–even symmetry, and Ey
possesses odd–odd symmetry under x -polarized light excitation, while Ex possesses odd–odd
symmetry, and Ey possesses even–even symmetry under y -polarized light. For samples 1 and 2, mirror
symmetry with respect to the center of the x -coordinate no longer exists. For example, the  x and  y
distributions for (2, 0) and (0, 2) Ag/Si WA are shown in (a) and (b) for sample 3 and in (c) and (d) for
sample 1, respectively.
IEEE Photonics Journal Investigating Near-Field Features of EOT
Vol. 4, No. 2, April 2012 Page 392
3.2. y-Polarized Light
Fig. 9 shows the jEj distribution at in-plane cut and jEz j and  z distributions at ?y -plane cut for
ð1;1Þ Ag/Si WA modes at 35 m and those for the adjacent surface EM modes at 34 m of
sample 1 under y -polarized light. Sample 2 demonstrates similar near-field features (not shown).
Both jEj and jEz j display distinct field patterns at the Ag/Si interface for WAs and surface EM modes
as in the case under x -polarized light. We again find the homogeneity of  z for WAs and the severer
phase change for surface EM modes, thus showing the consistency of the observation. Moreover,
in order to check whether these features are general to WAs and adjacent surface EM modes, we
have varied the structural parameters to examine their near-field distributions in the optical range.
The same profiles have been observed, thus providing evidence that the different  z distributions
near the apertures are meaningful to the mentioned physical characteristics of WAs and adjacent
surface EM modes.
Fig. 7. jEj,  x , and  z distributions at in-plane cut and jEz j distribution at ?y -plane cut corresponding to
the first LSR for (a) sample 1 at 109 m, (b) sample 2 at 96 m, and (c) sample 3 at 87 m.
IEEE Photonics Journal Investigating Near-Field Features of EOT
Vol. 4, No. 2, April 2012 Page 394
to the requirement of even symmetry with respect to the center of the x -coordinate for H-shaped holes
under y -polarized light (see Table 1). For samples 1 and 2, there is no such symmetry requirement for
their y -arm slits since the mirror symmetry with respect to the center of x -coordinate no longer exists.
Besides, theSRhas the priority to follow the longest possible path, thus exciting the secondU-shaped
resonance for samples 1 and 2, as well as the two x -arm slits resonance for sample 3. In order to
validate that this resonance is associated with the two x -arm slits resonance rather than the second
U-shaped resonance for sample 3, we enlarge the difference of effective resonant lengths between
these two resonances by changing the separation distances ly between the two x -arm slits from 8 m
to 6 m and 4 m, respectively. The effective lengths of the 2nd U-shaped resonance shrink from
15 m to 13 m and 11 m, respectively, while those of the two x -arm slits resonance will not be
affected by different ly ’s and keeps at 8 m. However, due to the great effects of WAs in shaping
the spectral profiles [10], we could hardly tell the response of resonant wavelengths corresponding
Fig. 10. jEj,  y , and  z distributions at in-plane cut and jEz j distribution at ?y -plane cut corresponding to
the second U-shaped resonances for (a) sample 1 at 51 m, (b) sample 2 at 47 m, and the two x -arm
slits resonance for (c) sample 3 at 42 m.
IEEE Photonics Journal Investigating Near-Field Features of EOT
Vol. 4, No. 2, April 2012 Page 396
[6] J. W. Lee, M. A. Seo, D. H. Kang, K. S. Khim, S. C. Jeoung, and D. S. Kim, BTerahertz electromagnetic wave transmission
through random arrays of single rectangular holes and slits in thin metallic sheets,[ Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 99, no. 13,
pp. 137401-1–137401-4, Sep. 2007.
[7] K. L. van der Molen, K. J. Klein Koerkamp, S. Enoch, F. B. Segerink, N. F. van Hulst, and L. Kuipers, BRole of shape
and localized resonances in extraordinary transmission through periodic arrays of subwavelength holes: Experiment
and theory,[ Phys. Rev. B, vol. 72, no. 4, p. 045421, 2005.
[8] F. J. Garcı´a-Vidal, E. Moreno, J. A. Porto, and L. Martı´n-Moreno, BTransmission of light through a single rectangular
hole,[ Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 95, no. 10, pp. 103901-1–103901-4, Sep. 2005.
[9] A. Mary, S. G. Rodrigo, L. Martı´n-Moreno, and F. J. Garcı´a-Vidal, BTheory of light transmission through an array of
rectangular holes,[ Phys. Rev. B, vol. 76, no. 19, pp. 195414-1–195414-5, Nov. 2007.
[10] Y.-W. Jiang, L. D. Tzuang, Y.-H. Ye, Y.-T. Wu, M.-W. Tsai, C.-Y. Chen, and S.-C. Lee, BEffect of Wood’s anomalies on
the profile of extraordinary transmission spectra through metal periodic arrays of rectangular subwavelength holes with
different aspect ratio,[ Opt. Exp., vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 2631–2637, Feb. 2009.
[11] A. Degiron and T. W. Ebbesen, BThe role of localized surface plasmon modes in the enhanced transmission of periodic
subwavelength apertures,[ J. Opt. A, Pure Appl. Opt., vol. 7, no. 2, p. S90, Jan. 2005.
[12] E. X. Jin and X. Xu, BFinite-difference time-domain studies on optical transmission through planar nano-apertures in a
Metal Film,[ Jpn. J. Appl. Phys., vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 407–417, Jan. 2004.
[13] H. Guo, T. P. Meyrath, T. Zentgraf, N. Liu, L. Fu, H. Schweizer, and H. Giessen, BOptical resonances of bowtie slot
antennas and their geometry and material dependence,[ Opt. Exp., vol. 16, no. 11, pp. 7756–7766, May 2008.
[14] F. Eftekhari and R. Gordon, BEnhanced second harmonic generation from noncentrosymmetric nanohole arrays in a
gold Film,[ IEEE J. Sel. Topics Quantum Electron., vol. 14, no. 6, pp. 1552–1558, Nov./Dec. 2008.
[15] J. W. Lee, M. A. Seo, D. J. Park, D. S. Kim, S. C. Jeoung, C. Lienau, Q.-H. Park, and P. C. M. Planken, BShape
resonance omni-directional terahertz filters with near-unity transmittance,[ Opt. Exp., vol. 14, no. 3, pp. 1253–1259,
Feb. 2006.
[16] M. Turkmen, S. Aksu, A. E. Cetin, A. A. Yanik, A. Artar, and H. Altug, BU-Shaped nano-apertures for enhanced optical
transmission and resolution,[ in Proc. SPIE, 2011, vol. 8034, pp. 80340H-1–80340H-6.
[17] M. Sun, R. J. Liu, Z. Y. Li, B. Y. Cheng, D. Z. Zhang, H. F. Yang, and A. Z. Jin, BEnhanced near-infrared transmission
through periodic H-shaped arrays,[ Phys. Lett. A, vol. 365, no. 5/6, pp. 510–513, Jun. 2007.
[18] R.-J. Liu, J.-X. Fu, and Z.-Y. Li, BNear-field analysis of the transmission properties of subwavelength periodic H-shaped
arrays in thin metal film,[ J. Opt., vol. 12, no. 6, p. 065002, May 2010.
[19] H.-F. Huang, Y.-W. Jiang, H.-H. Chen, Y.-T. Wu, Y.-T. Chang, F.-T. Chuang, and S.-C. Lee, BLocalized shape
resonance on silver film perforated by H-shaped and more complex shaped hole arrays,[ Opt. Exp., vol. 19, no. 6,
pp. 5225–5231, Mar. 2011.
[20] A. Taflove, Computational Electrodynamics: The Finite-Difference Time-Domain Method, 3rd ed. Norwood, MA:
Artech House, 2005.
[21] M. Schnell, A. Garcı´a-Etxarri, A. J. Huber, K. Crozier, J. Aizpurua, and R. Hillenbrand, BControlling the near-field
oscillations of loaded plasmonic nanoantennas,[ Nat. Photon., vol. 3, no. 5, pp. 287–291, May 2009.
[22] M. Schnell, A. Garcı´a-Etxarri, A. J. Huber, K. B. Crozier, A. Brisov, J. Aizpurua, and R. Hillenbrand, BAmplitude- and
phase-resolved near-field napping of infrared antenna modes by transmission-mode scattering-type near-field
microscopy,[ J. Phys. Chem. C, vol. 114, no. 16, pp. 7341–7345, 2010.
[23] F. J. Garcı´a de Abajo, R. Go´mez-Medina, and J. J. Sa´enz, BFull transmission through perfect-conductor subwavelength
hole arrays,[ Phys. Rev. E, vol. 72, no. 1, pp. 016608-1–016608-4, Jul. 2005.
[24] F. J. Garcı´a-Vidal, L. Martı´n-Moreno, T. W. Ebbesen, and L. Kuipers, BLight passing through subwavelength apertures,[
Rev. Mod. Phys., vol. 82, no. 1, pp. 729–787, Jan./Mar. 2010.
[25] U. Fano, BEffects of configuration interaction on intensities and phase shifts,[ Phys. Rev., vol. 124, no. 6, pp. 1866–
1878, Dec. 1961.
[26] F. J. Garcı´a de Abajo and J. J. Sa´enz, BElectromagnetic surface modes in structured perfect-conductor surfaces,[
Phys. Rev. Lett., vol. 95, no. 23, pp. 233901-1–233901-4, Dec. 2005.
[27] E. D. Palik, Handbook of Optical Constants of Solids. London, U.K.: Academic, 1985.
[28] J. B. Pendry, L. Martin-Moreno, and F. J. Garcı´a-Vidal, BMimicking surface plasmons with structured surfaces,[
Science, vol. 305, no. 5685, pp. 847–848, Aug. 2004.
IEEE Photonics Journal Investigating Near-Field Features of EOT
Vol. 4, No. 2, April 2012 Page 398
appropriate selection of the step size, different modes can be sequentially extracted from the starting field. Then, 
the effective index neff, defined as β/k0, and the attenuation constant, defined as α/k0, for each mode are 
determined, where β and α are the real and imaginary parts, respectively, of the complex mode propagation 
constant, and k0 is the wavenumber in free space. 
NUMERICAL RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
A thin metallic stripe film on a homogenous dielectric, as shown in Fig. 2(a), can be generated by electron 
beam lithography, such as Au or Ag stripes mounted on glass substrate [10]. The excitation of the metal stripe 
mode has been achieved by attenuated total reflection (ATR) in the Kretschmann configuration [11]. Besides, 
the SPP bound mode on this structure have also been predicted [2] using the Method of Lines (MoL), and 
verified experimentally [12]. However, another kind of modes, the edge mode, supported by the stripe was not 
reported by the MoL study. Here, we present both modes calculated by the FE-ID-BPM method. The metal in 
the structure of Fig. 2(a) is Au with relative dielectric constant, ε= −26.1437 + 1.8497i at λ= 800 nm, and 
dielectric 1 is air with ε= 1.0, and dielectric 2 is silicon with ε= 1.46. Thanks to the symmetry with respect 
to the vertical direction, only the right half of the waveguide cross-section needs to be considered in the analysis 
with the assignment of the perfect-magnetic-conductor (PMC) boundary, as shown in Fig. 2(b) with the FE 
mesh.  
We investigated the characteristics of an edge waveguide with finite height, having the other edge extending 
to infinity in the x direction, and found that the SPP mode is strongly bounded on the edge, which we call the 
edge mode. If the distance between the two edges is finite, it becomes a stripe waveguide we concern in this 
study. Here, we discuss the SPP edge mode and the bound mode on the stripe waveguide. The edge mode is 
different from the bound mode in several aspects. For the mode profiles, shown in Fig. 2(c) and (d) as the 
z-direction power density profiles in the waveguide cross-section, we can easily distinguish the difference 
between these two modes. For the edge or corner mode shown in Fig. 2(c), the power is mainly guided by the 
stripe corner and secondarily by the edge. For the bound mode, the power flows over the metal/silica interface, 
as shown in Fig. 2(d). Besides, the bound mode has the limitation of the stripe width because it requires a wide 
enough stripe to fulfill the smallest momentum, kx, in the lateral direction [4]. We find the limitation width is 
about 1.4 μm. However, the edge mode is easier to exist without this width limitation.  
 
 
 
Figure 2. (a) Cross-section and the computational domain of the stripe waveguide. (b) The right half and FE 
mesh of a 35-μm wide and 55-nm tall stripe waveguide employed for the FE-ID-BPM calculation. (c) 
z-direction power density profile for the edge mode of the Au stripe waveguide. (d) z-direction power density 
profile for the bound mode of the Au stripe waveguide. 
 
We have considered several different stripe widths on the 55-nm tall Au stripe waveguide on the glass 
substrate at λ= 800 nm. We consider the following stripe widths: 0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.6, 0.8, 1.0, 1.2, 1.4, 2.0, and 
3.5 μm for the edge mode, and 1.4, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.5, 5.0, 7.5, and 10.0 μm for the bound mode. The comparison 
between the edge and bound modes for the effective index neff is shown in Fig. 3(a). The effective index is larger 
            
Corner modes and edge modes on surface plasmon polariton 
waveguides having right-angle metallic corners 
Jia-jheng Lin1, Wan-ju Tseng2, and Hung-chun Chang1,2,3* 
1Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
 2Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
3Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
*corresponding author: hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract- Using a finite-element imaginary-distance beam propagation method, surface plasmon 
polariton modes, including corner modes and edge modes, guided on plasmonic waveguides having 
right-angle metallic corners are accurately analyzed. The propagation length obtained from the 
imaginary part of the modal propagation constant is calculated. It is found that for the metallic 
stripe waveguide, edge modes should be paid attention to in addition to the reported bound modes. 
 
Surface plasmon polariton (SPP) modes propagating along plasmonic waveguide structures, such as metal 
wedges and grooves, slot structures, etc., have been investigated in recent years due to their essential roles in 
achieving highly miniaturized integrated photonic circuits. For example, metallic wedges supporting wedge 
plasmon polaritons (WPPs) have been studied in detail [1, 2] using the multiple multipole method [1] or the 
finite-element eigenmode solver [2]. In this paper, we particularly consider the 90-degree wedge, or the 
right-angle metallic corner, and a stripe edge with two right-angle corners. The analysis method is the 
full-vectorial imaginary-distance finite-element beam propagation method (ID-FE-BPM) based on high-order 
hybrid edge/nodal elements and with perfectly matched layers (PMLs) [3]. The FE mesh near the corner is 
carefully designed with high density in order to assure high enough numerical accuracy. The SPP corner modes 
and edge modes are studied for various parameters first. Then, the stripe waveguide with 55-nm-thick gold on 
top of silica, as shown in Fig. 1(a), is analyzed at 800-nm wavelength [4]. It is found that for small enough stripe 
width (2~4 μm), there exist edge modes with propagation lengths (~14 μm) not too short compared with those of 
reported bound modes having mode fields mainly under the gold stripe [4], as shown in Fig. 1(b). Such edge 
modes thus should be carefully assessed in the design and applications of the stripe waveguide. 
 
REFERENCES 
1. E. Moreno, S. G. Rodrigo, S. I. Bozhevolnyi, L. 
Martin-Moreno, and F. J. Garcia-Vidal, “Guiding 
and focusing of electromagnetic fields with 
wedge plasmon polaritons,” Phys. Rev. Lett., Vol. 
100, 023901, 2008. 
2. M. Yan and M. Qiu, “Guided plasmon polariton 
at 2D metal corners,” J. Opt. Soc. Am. B, Vol. 24, 
pp. 2333–2342, 2007. 
3. K. Saito and M. Koshiba, “Full-vectorial 
imaginary-distance beam propagation method 
based on a finite element scheme: application to 
photonic crystal fibers,” IEEE J. Quantum 
Electron., Vol. 38, pp. 927–933, 2002. 
4. R. Zia, M. D. Selker, and M. L. Brongersma, 
“Leaky and bound modes of surface plasmon 
waveguides,” Phys. Rev. B, Vol. 71, 165431, 
2005. 
0 2 4 6 8 10
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
W (μm)
Pr
op
ag
at
io
n 
le
ng
th
 (μ
m
)
 
 
bound mode
edge mode
 
        (a)                      (b) 
Fig. 1. (a) The stripe waveguide. (b) Calculated propagation 
lengths of the edge and bound modes. 
LEGENDRE PSEUDOSPECTRAL ELECTROMAGNETIC ANALYSIS METHODS FOR 
PLASMONICS RESEARCH 
 
Hung-chun Chang1,2,3, Chih-Yu Wang4, Shih-Yung Chung4, Bang-Yan Lin3, Chun-Hao Teng5, 
and Chung-Ping Chen1,4 
1Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 10617, R.O.C. 
2Graduate Institute of Photonics and Optoelectronics, National Taiwan University 
3Graduate Institute of Communication Engineering, National Taiwan University 
4Graduate Institute of Electronics Engineering, National Taiwan University 
5Department of Applied Mathematics, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 300, R.O.C. 
E-Mail: hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract: High-order accurate Legendre pseudospectral time-domain (PSTD) and frequency-domain (PSFD) 
methods have been established for accurate analyses and simulations of electromagnetic problems, in particular, 
plasmonics related problems. The formulated PSTD method is based on a penalty scheme and a multi-domain 
approach. The same penalty scheme is used to derive the PSFD method, as shown in this paper. One interesting 
and useful phenomenon in plasmonic structures is the enhanced electric field near the metal-dielectric interface 
at optical frequencies. The basic problems of light scattering by two metallic nano-cylinders and that by two 
metallic nano-spheres are analyzed for correctly determining such field enhancement. The PSTD method is also 
applied to simulate transmittance spectra of plasmonic waveguide ring resonators. 
 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
The research of this paper concerns accurate 
modelling of the interaction of electromagnetic 
waves with metallic structures at optical frequencies, 
which is related to the area of plasmonics. 
Plasmonics is a relatively new field concerning the 
collective electromagnetic resonance of free electrons 
inside nanometer-scaled structures [1]. One 
interesting and useful phenomenon in this field is the 
enhanced electric field near the metal-dielectric 
interface. The finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) 
method [2] has been a popular numerical analysis 
and simulation method for studying plasmonic 
problems. However, due to its stair-casing 
approximation of the often occurring curved material 
interface, the FDTD calculation of the 
electromagnetic field near the interface is difficult to 
offer high accuracy [3]. But obtaining such near field 
with high accuracy is important for understanding the 
behaviour of a plasmonic structure and relevant 
applications. 
Recently, a Legendre pseudospectral time-domain 
(PSTD) method has been applied to obtain 
high-accuracy fields near silver nanorod arrays [4]. 
This PSTD method is a high-order accurate algorithm 
and was developed based on a penalty scheme and a 
multi-domain approach [5]. For general 
three-dimensional (3-D) problems, curvilinear 
hexahedrons are designed as sub-domains so that 
possible curved boundaries can be well fit and 
boundary conditions can be correctly imposed, 
avoiding the stair-casing approximation as in the 
FDTD scheme. 
In treating the plasmonic structures, material 
dispersive property of metal needs to be carefully 
considered. In [4], the auxiliary differential equation 
(ADE) technique is employed to include the 
Drude-Lorentz material model for silver in the 
simulation. But the parameters in the material 
dispersion model need to be carefully assigned 
through curve fitting on the measured dielectric 
function of the metal. Possible errors in this 
curve-fitting procedure would occur. We therefore 
formulated a pseodospectral frequency-domain 
(PSFD) approach so that at a given frequency the 
measured dielectric value of the metal can be directly 
used in the electromagnetic calculation [6]. A 2-D 
PSFD method was proposed by Liu [7] based on 
Chebyshev polynomials and the Helmholtz equation. 
In [6], we derived the 2-D PSFD formulation from 
the first-order equations and utilize Legendre 
polynomials as in [4] and [5]. The penalty method as 
developed in [5] for the Legendre PSTD scheme was 
used to handle boundary conditions for 
well-posedness consideration. The perfectly matched 
layers (PMLs) [8] can be easily incorporated into the 
PSFD formulation, which is then solved by iterative 
algorithms. Very high numerical accuracy was 
demonstrated by considering plane-wave scattering 
by a silver circular cylinder which has an analytical 
solution. 
In this paper, we employ the established PSTD and 
PSFD methods to study several basic problems of 
light scattering by two metallic nano-cylinders and 
that by two metallic nano-spheres. Accurate 
determination of enhanced electric fields in the 2-D 
cylinder and 3-D sphere structures is the main 
concern. The PSTD method is also used to simulate 
transmittance spectra of 2-D plasmonic ring 
resonators based on the metal/insulator/metal (MIM) 
waveguide structure [9]. The Legendre PSTD and 
PSFD methods are introduced in Section 2. PSFD 
region) is as shown in Fig. 3 with the 
Legendre-Gauss-Lobatto (LGL) grid mesh to be 
discussed later. Boundary conditions are rigorously 
considered between adjacent sub-domains. For 
example, if the unit normal vector perpendicular to 
the interface between the two sub-domains a and b is 
ˆ ˆ ˆx yn n x n y= + , then for source-free dielectrics, it 
requires 
                    
ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ ˆ( ) ( )
a b
z z
a a b b
x y x y
H H
n E x E y n E x E y
=
× + = × +
 
for the TM waves. And in the case of having a 
surface current Js at the boundary, 
ˆ ( )a b sz zn H H J× − = is used. The perfectly matched 
layers (PMLs) are put around the computational 
domain, as shown in Fig. 2, to absorb outgoing 
waves. Maxwell’s equations inside the PML as given 
in [11] are employed, which are not shown here due 
to space limit. 
 
Fig. 2.  Computational domain for the scenario 
in which a plane wave is scattered by a 2-D 
object. 
 
 
Fig. 3.  Portion of the sub-domain division 
profile in the computational domain near the 
circular cylinder scatterer (the dark region) for 
N = 12. 
 
2.2.2 The Penalty Scheme 
Following the Legendre PSTD formulation with 
the penalty scheme based on well-posed boundary 
impositions of physical boundary conditions in terms 
of characteristic variables [5], within a sub-domain I 
with one of its four adjacent sub-domains denoted as 
sub-domain II and nˆ  being the unit normal vector, 
we obtain the governing equations of the 
frequency-domain method with the penalty scheme 
when only dielectric material interface conditions are 
involved as 
( )2
( )2
( ) ( )2 2
II I I IIz z zx y x
II I I IIz z zy x y
II yI I I II I I IIxz zy x x x y y
Hj E n H H Jy
Hj E n H H Jx
EEj H n E E n E E My x
τω δ
τω δ
τ τωμ δ δ
∂− + − − =∂
∂− − + − =∂
∂∂− + − − − + − =∂ ∂
ε
ε
where those containing δ  are penalty terms with δ  
being 1 when the grid point is on the sub-domain 
edge and is 0 otherwise, and τ is a free parameter. 
These three equations are in the form of a linear 
matrix equation, AX = B, with the unknown vector X 
consisting of E and H fields, the vector B 
corresponding to known sources, and the A matrix 
consisting of spatial differential operators. The 
unknown electric and magnetic fields can be solved 
from 1X A B−=  using iterative algorithms such as the 
bi-conjugate gradient (BiCG) method. 
2.2.3.The Legendre Pseudospectral Method 
Now we discuss the Legendre PS method for 
numerically treating the spatial derivatives in the 
above governing equations. Each curvilinear 
quadrilateral sub-domain region in Cartesian 
coordinates (x, y) can be mapped onto a square 
region [–1, 1] × [–1, 1] in curvilinear coordinates 
( , )ξ η  by using the transfinite blending function 
described in [12] under the transformation 
( , ), ( , ).x y x yξ ξ η η= =  
Applying the chain rule, derivatives of a 2-D function 
f(x,y) will then become 
( , ) ( , ) ( , )
( , ) ( , ) ( , ) .
f x y f x y f x y
x x x
f x y f x y f x y
y y y
ξ η
ξ η
ξ η
ξ η
∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂= +∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂
∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂= +∂ ∂ ∂ ∂ ∂
 
Some properties of Legendre polynomials which we 
use as the basis for the interpolation of a function are 
given below. 
The Legendre polynomial ( )NP ξ  of degree N can 
be defined as [13]  
21( ) ( 1)
2 !
.
N
N
N N N
dP
N d
ξ ξξ= −
 
The N+1 Legendre-Gauss-Lobatto (LGL) quadrature 
points iξ , arranged in the 1-D region from –1 to 1, 
are the roots of the polynomial 2(1 ) ( )NPξ ξ′− where 
the prime denotes derivative. Associated with these 
LGL quadrature points are a set of quadrature 
weights iω  for i = 0, 1, 2,…, N, and the quadrature 
rule [5] 
1
1
0
( ) ( )
N
i i
i
f f dξ ω ξ ξ−= =∑ ∫  
provided that ( )f ξ  is a polynomial of degree at 
most 2N – 1, where the quadrature weights are 
defined by 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 5. |Ex| distributions of two 10-nm spaced 
silver circular cylinders of 50-nm radius with 
plane light wave incidence. (a) Wave incident 
from left at λ = 0.421 μm. (b) Wave incident 
from bottom at λ = 0.4 μm. 
 
  
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 6. |Ex| distributions of two 10-nm spaced 
silver circular cylinders of 100-nm edge width 
with plane light wave incidence. (a) Wave 
incident from left at λ = 0.627 μm. (b) Wave 
incident from bottom at λ = 0.613 μm. 
 
measured complex dielectric constant of silver at this 
wavelength is –5.598 + i0.213. Since Ex is the 
dominant component, only |Ex| profile is presented 
here. The two cylinders are coupled such that strong 
electric field enhancement occurs within the gap 
between them, with the maximum |Ex| being 6.42 
times the incident electric field intensity, as indicated 
in the color bar in Fig. 5(a). If the incident wave 
direction is changed to be bottom-up, strong field 
enhancement again occurs at λ = 0.4 μm with the 
|Ex|-field distribution shown in Fig. 5(b). At this 
wavelength, the measured complex dielectric 
constant of silver is –4.435 + i0.211. The incident Ex 
field induces a strong Ex field within the gap (9.14 
times enhancement). 
The second case is a system of two square 
cylinders, each having 100-nm edge width, again 
with 10-nm spacing. There is no analytical solution 
for such scattering problem, even for a single square 
cylinder. Since our PSFD method has been proved a 
high-order accurate one, its analysis results for the 
square-cylinder structures should carry high 
numerical accuracy and would serve as a very useful 
reference for other analysis methods to compare with.         
Figure 6(a) shows the |Ex| distribution when the wave 
is incident from left at λ = 0.627 μm, which reveals 
two spots of field enhancement at the upper and 
lower corners in the gap, with the field enhancement 
being as high as up to 30 times. This appearance of 
symmetric upper and lower field-enhancement 
regions is quite similar to that in Fig. 5(a). Likewise, 
if we change the incident wave direction to 
bottom-up at λ = 0.613 μm, the strong |Ex| 
enhancement appears in the gap near the bottom 
corner, as shown in Fig. 6(b), with the enhancement 
being up to 13 times. The complex dielectric 
constants of silver for these two cases are –17.98 + 
i0.485 and –16.96 + i0.485, respectively. Note that 
extremely high fields can occur at the sharp corner 
points. 
We would like to remark here that our 2-D PSTD 
method can also obtain the “same” results as Figs. 5 
and 6. “Same” means it cannot be distinguished by 
the eyes. We show in Fig. 4 that the numerical error 
in our PSFD method can get down to 10–9 for the 
field in the single nano-sphere calculation. For our 
2-D PSTD method, the corresponding numerical 
accuracy order is at most 10–3 to 10–4 which however 
is good enough for obtaining results such as Figs. 5 
and 6 and for general plasmonic studies. 
Time-domain methods have the advantage of 
obtaining spectral results from a single 
impulse-response calculation while frequency- 
domain methods have the advantage that, as 
mentioned in the Introduction, at a given wavelength 
the measured dielectric value of the metal can be 
directly used in the calculation. 
 
4. PSTD ANALYSES OF SCATTERING BY 
TWO NANO-SPHERES 
In this section, the 3-D PSTD method is used to 
study light scattering by a system of two silver nano- 
   
(a) 
   
(b) 
 
(c) 
Fig. 9. PSTD simulation results for the circular 
ring resonator. (a) Transmittance spectra. (b) 
ON-resonance |Hz| distribution at 349.4 THz. (c) 
OFF-resonance |Hz| distribution at 272.53 THz. 
 
It is seen that the more realistic Drude-Lorentz model 
for silver gives larger attenuation for higher 
frequencies. Also, the elongated ring we design is a 
modified structure which increases the coupling 
length of the ring and higher extinction ratio is 
achieved. 
 
6. CONCLUSION 
We have demonstrated that high-order accurate 
multidomain Legendre PSTD and PSFD methods are 
useful and powerful tools for accurate analyses and 
simulations of electromagnetic problems in 
plasmonics, in particular for obtaining high-accuracy 
near fields. The established PSTD method is based 
on a penalty scheme and a multi-domain approach. 
We have shown in this paper that the same penalty 
scheme can be used to derive the PSFD method. 
Calculation of light scattering by a silver circular 
cylinder using the 2-D PSFD method has shown that 
   
(a) 
   
(b) 
 
(c) 
Fig. 10. PSTD simulation results for the 
elongated-ring resonator. (a) Transmittance 
spectra. (b) ON-resonance |Hz| distribution at 
326.73 THz. (c) OFF-resonance |Hz| distribution 
at 272.53 THz. 
 
the method indeed provides high-order accuracy with 
the obtained field error down to 10–9 referring to 
1-V/m incident electric field strength. Then, the 
PSFD method is applied to analyze light scattering 
by two silver circular nano-cylinders and by two 
silver square nano-cylinders to demonstrate its great 
capability of determining enhanced electric fields. 
 Our PSTD method also has good enough 
accuracy and is used to analyze the 3-D problem of 
light scattering by two silver nano-spheres and the 
associated field enhancement determined. Finally, 
PSTD simulations are performed for obtaining 
transmittance spectral characteristics of 2-D 
plasmonic waveguide ring resonators based on the 
silver/air/silver waveguide for two structures, the 
circular-ring one and the improved elongated-ring 
one we design. In the latter case, better extinction 
ratio in the transmittance spectrum has been 
  
 
 
 1
出席國際學術會議報告 
民國 100 年 10 月 30 日 
 
會議名稱：2011年積體光電研究，矽光子學與奈米光子學研討會 (2011 OSA Integrated 
 Photonics Research, Silicon and Nano Photonics (IPR 2011)) 
時    間：2011年6月12日至6月15日 
地    點：加拿大多倫多 
發表掄文：C. Y. Wang, S. Y. Chung, C. H. Teng, C. P. Chen, and H. C. Chang, 
“High-Accuracy Calculations of Light Scattering by Plasmonic Cylinders 
Using the Legendre Pseudospectral Frequency-Domain (PSFD) Method” 
出席人：  張宏鈞  臺大電信所／電機系教授 
 
（一）參加會議經過 
 
筆者由國科會專題研究計畫補助旅費前往加拿大多倫多參加由美國光學學會
(Optical Society of America)所主辦之「2011年積體光電研究，矽光子學與奈米光子學研
討會 (2011 OSA Integrated Photonics Research, Silicon and Nano Photonics (IPR 2011))」，
筆者為一篇口頭報告論文的共同作者。筆者於6月11日晚間飛抵多倫多，6月12日午後前
往會場所在的The Westin Harbour Castle旅館領取會議資料，並參與下午2:00至6:00 
“Biomedical Optical Sensors – Differentiators for Winning Technologies” Workshop，來自
美、加、歐的九位學者報告新近技術的發展與應用，並有兩段panel討論，筆者主要有興
趣瞭解奈米光子晶片技術在此領域的應用。 
IPR研討會歷史悠久，2007至2009年更名為Integrated Photonics and Nanophotonics 
Research and Applications (IPNRA)，去年起又改回IPR，但多了Silicon and Nano Photonics
之標題。筆者多年前曾參加過三次，停了好多年後，2004年受邀發表了一篇邀請論文，
感覺研討會有許多論文內容和筆者目前研究興趣相近，因此有興趣連續第八年與會。2007
年起亦受邀擔任三年的Technical Subcommittee Member，2010年與今年受邀擔任
Subcommittee 3: Modeling, Numerical Simulation and Theory的Chair。今年IPR研討重點有
四大項目：Photonic Integration, Devices and Components, Modeling, Numerical Simulation 
and Theory, 以及Nanophotonic Devices and Applications。本次IPR與Access Networks and 
In-house Communications (ANIC), Optical Sensors (Sensors), Signal Processing in Photonics 
Communications (SPPcom), Slow and Fast Light (SL), Specialty Optical Fibers (SOF)等幾個 
Topical Meetings同時同會議地點舉行，合稱Advanced Photonics Congress，會期為6月13
  
 
 
 3
好的研究生，演講過程中與黃教授與學生們有許多相當深入的討論。筆者搭17日半夜1:30
的班機返國，於18日清晨飛抵桃園機場。 
 
（二）與會心得與建議 
 
本次研討會有約200位註冊與會者，來自臺灣有8位以上，包括本系王維新教授、邱
奕鵬教授學生杜承翰，中山大學于欽平教授，濟南大學蔡宛卲教授及三位學生等，算是
不小的團隊。IPR的研討內容，包括nanophotonics與plasmonics的最新發展與相關理論和
數值方法的進展，和筆者個人的研究興趣以及目前的研究題目相符，總是收穫很多，由
不少著名學者的邀請論文可獲得許多新近研究趨勢的資訊。本次研討會和Specialty 
Optical Fibers一起開會，有機會聆聽如光子晶體光纖等課題的報告，也多一些收獲。 
IPR算是在optical waveguide numerical modeling領域重要的國際研討會，有機會和幾
位國際著名學者一起籌辦本次會議，是很不錯的經驗。明年將擔任Program Chair，後年
擔任General Chair，期望研討會能吸引更多參與者，特別是臺灣的學者與學生。 
16日在McMaster University的演講是相當愉快的經驗，國外的研究生，即使是華人，
均有把握機會問問題的習慣，和臺灣多數沉默的學生還是有所不同。 
 
（三）攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
1.  Conference Program, 2011 OSA Advanced Photonics Congress, 共53頁。 
2.  Conference Program, 2011 OSA Advanced Photonics Congress, Technical Digest 
CD-ROM一片。 
3.  Postdeadline Papers, 2011 OSA Advanced Photonics Congress, 共9頁。 
iterative algorithms such as the bi-conjugate gradient (BiCG) method. 
The spatial grid points in the Legendre pseudospectral method is arranged as the Legendre-Gauss-Lobatto (LGL) 
points. One can use the degree-N Lagrange polynomials as the interpolation bases to approximate a function and its 
derivative based on these collocation points [5]. The first-order Maxwell’s equations can thus be approximated by 
substituting the spatial derivatives with the Lagrange interpolation based formulae. The penalty method which was 
derived from the mathematical scheme related to power conservation [5] is implemented in the PSFD formulation to 
handle boundary conditions between adjacent subdomains. 
3. Numerical results 
The field coupling between two silver nano-cylinders under the incidence of a TM-polarized plane light wave is 
analyzed. Only Hz, Ex, and Ey field components exist. A system of two 50-nm-radius circular cylinders with 10-nm 
spacing is first considered. The wave is incident from left at λ = 0.421 μm for the |Ex| distribution results shown in 
Fig. 1(a). The measured complex dielectric constant of silver at this wavelength is – 5.598 + i0.213 [6]. Only |Ex| 
profile is presented here since it is the dominant component. Strong electric field enhancement is seen to occur 
within the gap between the cylinders, with the maximum |Ex| being 6.42 times the incident electric field intensity, as 
indicated in the color-bar scale in Fig. 1(a). When the wave is incident from the bottom, strong field enhancement 
again occurs at λ = 0.4 μm with the |Ex|-field distribution shown in Fig. 1(b) where 9.14 times enhancement is 
indicated. At this wavelength, the measured complex dielectric constant of silver is – 4.435 + i0.211 [6]. 
The second case is that of two square cylinders, each having 100-nm edge width, again with 10-nm spacing. 
Figure 1(c) shows the |Ex| distribution when the wave is incident from left at λ = 0.627 μm, where two spots of field 
enhancement are seen to appear at the upper and lower corners in the gap, with the field enhancement being up to 30 
times. This occurrence of symmetric upper and lower field-enhancement regions is quite similar to that in Fig. 1(a). 
When the incident wave direction is changed to bottom-up at λ = 0.613 μm, the |Ex| distribution is shown in Fig. 1(d) 
and it is seen that the strong |Ex| enhancement appears in the gap near the bottom corner with up to 13 times 
enhancement. The complex dielectric constants of silver for these two cases are – 17.98 + i0.485 and – 16.96 + 
i0.485, respectively [6]. Note that extremely high fields can occur at the sharp corner points. 
    
                            (a)                                                  (b)                                                (c)                                                 (d) 
Fig. 1. |Ex| distributions of two 10-nm spaced silver circular cylinders of 50-nm radius or two 10-nm spaced silver circular cylinders of 100-
nm edge width with plane light wave incidence. (a) Wave incident from left at λ = 0.421 μm. (b) Wave incident from bottom at λ = 0.4 μm. 
(c) Wave incident from left at λ = 0.627 μm. (d) Wave incident from bottom at λ = 0.613 μm. 
We now investigate the situations when each of the cylinders in Fig. 1 is coated a 10-nm-thickness dielectric 
layer of dielectric constant εr = 3.  The diameter or edge width of each silver cylinder is reduced by 20 nm to keep 
the cross-sectional size the same as before. The gap size is still kept as 10 nm. This outer material would shift the 
plasmonic resonant frequency, but the field characteristics are rarely seen, especially for coupled cylinders. The 
corresponding results to Fig. 1 are shown in Fig. 2 for which the incident wavelengths in Fig. 2(a), (b), (c), and (d) 
are 0.467 μm, 0.417 μm, 0.649 μm, and 0.616 μm, respectively, so that the maximum field enhancement is obtained 
in each case. The corresponding complex dielectric constants being – 7.97 + i0.270, – 5.42 + i0.219, – 19.42 + i0.46, 
and – 17.193 + i0.496, respectively [6]. It is observed that the |Ex| profile characteristics are quite similar with those 
in Fig. 1, but the fields are now mainly localized at the dielectric-air interfaces and in the gaps. Weaker fields near 
the metal interfaces could reduce the ohmic losses in the metals. The field enhancement is found to be lower 
compared with uncoated cases. This is reasonable since the actual distance between the metallic cylinders is 30 nm 
rather than 10 nm. 
We finally analyze two-by-three arranged six-silver-cylinder arrays studied in [7], where the FDTD method was 
used for simulations. This system is shown to give not only particle-particle but pair-pair interactions, resulting in 
strong localized field enhancement in the gap of the middle pair [7]. We adopt the same measured dielectric 
constants for silver taken from [8] as in [7]. For the incident wave from the left side and 20-nm spacing between 
adjacent cylinders, our PSFD results are given in Fig. 3. It was found in [7] that with 20-nm gap size and at λ = 460 
 
 
IPR Author Notification 
Hung-Chun Chang <hcchang.ntuee@gmail.com> 
cstech@osa.org <cstech@osa.org> 2011年4月23日上午12:30 
收件者: hcchang@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw 
Dear Prof. Hung-chun Chang, 
 
On behalf of the Technical Program Committee, we are pleased to inform you that your contributed paper 
has been scheduled for oral presentation at the 2011 Integrated Photonics Research, Silicon and Nano 
Photonics (IPR) Topical Meeting.  The meeting will be held 12-16 June, 2011 at the Westin Harbour 
Castle, Toronto, Canada. 
 
Your session information is as follows: 
 
Control number: 1084630 
 
Paper title:  High-Accuracy Calculations of Light Scattering by Plasmonic Cylinders Using the Legendre 
Pseudospectral Frequency-Domain (PSFD) Method 
 
Author block:  Hung-chun Chang(1); Chih-Yu Wang(1); Shih-Yung Chung(1); Chun-Hao Teng(2); Chung-
Ping Chen(1) 
 
Session: Modeling and Simulation I: Plasmonics 
 
Pres. number:  IMA4 
 
Session Date & Times: June 13, 2011 from 10:30 AM to 12:30 PM 
 
Presentation Time: 11:45 AM to 12:00 PM 
 
Location: IPR 
 
Please note that your presentation time includes 3 minutes for discussion. Time limits for oral 
presentations (12 minutes for contributed) will be strictly enforced to maintain the conference schedule 
and provide ample time for questions. A "two-minute warning" will be given to warn speakers to wrap up 
their presentations. 
 
The additional authors on your paper will not be notified. Kindly disseminate this email to your co-authors, 
if applicable. Your publishing author list: 
 
Hung-chun Chang(1); Chih-Yu Wang(1); Shih-Yung Chung(1); Chun-Hao Teng(2); Chung-Ping Chen(1) 
 
 
*Any reference numbers listed in this author list will be superscripted in the conference program planner 
and the conference program. If you see any discrepancies in this author block, please send changes to 
cstech@osa.org no later than Wednesday, 27 April, 2011. 
 
Please note: Only papers that are presented at the conference will be archived on the meeting publication 
archive website. Any "no-shows" will be considered withdrawn from the conference and not included in 
the archival publication. 
 
To take advantage of pre-registration rates for the meeting, please register by 23 May 2011, 23:59 EST. 
After 23 May 2011, on-site registration rates will be in effect. http://www.osa.org/Meetings/
optics_and_photonics_congresses/Advanced_Photonics_Congress/Registration.aspx 
 
Visas 
Due to increasing delays in securing visas, we strongly encourage international attendees to begin this 
process as early as possible to ensure timely processing. Please refer to the Letters of Invitation section 
第 1 頁，共 2 頁Gmail - IPR Author Notification
2011/6/8https://mail.google.com/mail/?ui=2&ik=262874ab08&view=pt&q=ipr&qs=true&search=query...
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/03/26
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 幾種奈米光電中光波散射與傳輸問題的電磁分析研究
計畫主持人: 張宏鈞
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-002-025-MY2 學門領域: 光纖通訊與波導光學
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數   
 
