2Abstract
Heteropolymers with complex architectures offer a unique means to build ordered
nanoscale functional systems through self-organisation. This project aims at a comprehensive
study of nanostructure formation in self-assembling comb-like polymers in bulk and solution
state, combining experiments, theory, and computer simulation methods. Special attentions have
been directed to supramolecular comb-coil block copolymers formed by associating
end-functionalized oligomers (or surfactants) to linear block copolymers via ionic bonding and
the semiflexible hairy-rod conjugated polymers for opto-electronic applications. This project
effectively integrates experimental efforts of Prof. Hsin-Lung Chen’s group at the National
Tsing Hua University and the massive computer simulations of Prof. Viktor A. Ivanov’s group at
Moscow State University. The objective is to understand in detail the mechanisms of
self-organisation in existing systems and thus identify new ways to produce modern materials
with nanoscale heterogeneity, partial controllable structural order and efficient functional
properties. The following major progresses have been made thus far: (1) experimental
characterizations of the nanostructures formed by the aggregation of a series of hairy rod
polymers in solution state, (2) atomistic and coarse-grained molecular dynamics simulations of
the phase behavior of hairy rod polymers in solution state and the systematic comparisons
between the simulation and experimental results for elucidating the aggregation mechanism, (3)
the discovery of a unique tetragonally packed cylinder nanostructure in a supramolecular
comb-coil block copolymer and (4) development of the method of dissipative particle dynamics
(DPD) to simulate the equilibrium morphologies of supramolecular comb-coil copolymers.
Keywords: self-assembly, comb-like polymers, hairy rod polymer, comb-coil block copolymers,
nanostructure, computer simulations
40.01 0.1
10-3
10-2
10-1
100
I(
q
)
(c
m
-1
)
q (Å-1)
0.1 wt%
0.5 wt%
1.0 wt%
fitted result
-2.7
-1.0
0.01 0.1
10-3
10-2
10-1
100
101
102
I(
q
)(
cm
-1
)
q (Å-1)
0.1 wt%
0.5 wt%
1.0 wt%
due to their unique electrical and photonic semiconducting properties. Spectroscopic studies
have indicated that these polymers underwent inter-chain aggregation in the solution state even
at large dilution; however, the origin of this event and the structure of the resultant aggregates
remained the crucial issues to be resolved as the presence of aggregates even in trace amount
can have profound impact on the photophysics of these materials [4]. In the present study, we
investigate both experimentally and theoretically the aggregation behavior of a hairy rod
polymer derivative, poly(2,3-diphenyl-5-alkyl-1,4- phenylenevinylene) (DPn-PPV; n = alkyl
chain length), in the solutions with chloroform and toluene. The experimental study of DP6-PPV
(i.e. DP-PPV bearing hexyl side chain) by means of small angle neutron scattering (SANS)
shows that aggregates of this polymer have fractal structure [5]. In chloroform, which is a good
solvent both for the backbone and the side chains, aggregate fractal dimension is found to be 2.7
through the wide range of temperature and polymer concentration. In toluene, which is good
solvent for the backbone but relatively poor for the side chains, aggregate fractal dimension is
2.2 –2.7 and increases with increasing concentration. This fact is quite difficult to understand,
since from general physical considerations we expect that aggregate fractal dimension would be
higher in poor solvent due to association of the side chains. Consequently, coarse-grained
molecular dynamics simulation is conducted to understand such an interesting behavior of the
aggregates.
I.2 Experimental Results
The aggregation behavior of a conjugated polymer system, poly(2,3-diphenylphenylene
vinylene) (DP-PPV), composing of hexyl (denoted by DP6-PPV) side chains in the solutions
with chloroform and toluene has been explored in [5]. Chloroform is a better solvent than
toluene. Small angle neutron scattering (SANS) demonstrates that the internal structure of
these aggregates is characterized by the mass fractal dimensions of 2.2 ~ 2.7 (cf. Fig. 1). The
networks (cf. Fig. 2) are looser in chloroform but become highly compact in the poorer
toluene solvent due to severe segmental association. Increasing the temperature alleviates the
segmental association in toluene while largely retaining the mass fractal dimension of the
aggregates (cf. Fig. 3). However, the inter-chain aggregation is never completely dissipated by
the heating, suggesting the existence of two types of segmental association with distinct stability.
The highly stable segmental association that can neither be solvated by chloroform nor be
disrupted thermally in toluene is attributed to the -complex already present in the DP6-PPV
powder used for the solution preparation. In the poorer toluene solvent further segmental
association takes place within the pre-existing aggregates, making the networks more compact.
This type of segmental association can be disrupted by moderate heating and its occurrence is
ascribed to the poor affinity of the aliphatic side chains of DP6-PPV to toluene.
Fig. 1. The room-temperature SANS profiles in log-log plots of DP6-PPV in the solutions with
chloroform (left) and toluene (right) at different concentrations.
6Fig. 5 Simulation snapshot: DP6-PPV aggregate in chloroform (left) and toluene (right)
To determine the aggregate fractal dimension we calculated static structure factors. Results
are shown in Fig. 6 (chloroform) and 7 (toluene). On Fig. 6 structure factor follows S(q) ~ q-0.9
dependence in the high-q region indicating the presence of rod entity under large spatial
resolution. In the low-q region S(q) dependence transforms to S(q) ~ q-2.7 providing information
about the aggregate fractal dimension. The power law of S(q) ~q-2.7 signals that over the length
scale covered by the low-q region the structure of the aggregates is characterized by a mass
fractal dimension of 2.7. On Fig. 7 (toluene) high-q region with -1 (or -0.9) slope vanishes,
indicating that the aggregates become highly compact and the rod-like structure of the chains
cannot be observed under accessible spatial resolution. Low-q region slope again provide
information about the aggregate fractal dimension. The obtained value 2.3 is less than in
chloroform. The fractal dimensions of aggregates calculated from the slope of the structure
factor agree very well with experimentally found values. Our SANS experiments and simulation
results indicate an interesting behavior, namely, fractal dimension decreases in poor solvent.
To understand the reason of such an unexpected phenomenon it is useful to refer to Fig. 8,
where the radial distribution function for backbone units is presented. One can see that in poor
solvent the value of first correlation peak slightly drops in magnitude and the probability density
shifts to the larger r, thus indicating that mean separation between backbone units increases. It
occurs due to the severe attraction of the side chain units in poor solvent. Backbone units acts
like hindrance for the side chain units which tend to pack tightly. Thus backbone units are
effectively thrown out of the aggregates, diminishing its fractal dimension.
Fig. 6 Static structure factor for
DP6-PP/chloroform solution
Fig. 7 Static structure factor for
DP6-PP/toluene solution
8The scattering pattern deviates from that prescribed by the hexagonal lattice as the binding
fraction is reduced to x = 0.5. The relative positions of the peaks now follow the ratio of 1: 21/2:
41/2: 51/2. The 21/2 and 51/2 peaks are not prescribed by any diffraction order from the hexagonal
lattice; a tetragonal or square packing of the cylinders on the other hand can give rise to these
diffraction peaks [8]. Consequently, the comb-coil diblock with x = 0.5 exhibits a special
morphology of tetragonaly packed PS cylinders embedded in the lamellar mesophase formed by
the P4VP(DBSA) comb blocks. The tetragonal lattice of PS cylinders is further supported by
Figure 2 showing the TEM micrograph (along with the FT image) of the cross section of the PS
cylinders.
Figure 3 displays the 2-D SAXS patterns of the complex with x = 0.5 after subjected to a
large-scale structure alignment using large amplitude oscillating shear. In the end view [Figure
2(a)] the first-order scattering shows four spots in the four quadrants (rather than six spots as
seen for hexagonal lattice), while the corresponding scattering pattern in the edge view (Figure
2(b)) is characterized by two spots in the meridian associated with the nearest-neighbor
correlation of the cylinders perpendicular to the long axis. The 2-D SAXS pattern hence
provides unambiguous evidence for the formation of tetragonally packed cylinders in the
system.
Fig. 3 The 2-D SAXS patterns of the complex with x = 0.5 with large-scale structure alignment ;
(a): end-view pattern; (b): edge-view pattern.
The orientation of smaller-scale lamellae with respect to the PS cylinder axis can also be
deduced from the 2-D SAXS patterns. It can be seen from Figure 3(b) that the 2-D pattern of
the P4VP(DBSA) lamellar structure also exhibits two spots in the meridian. This means that
the lamellar interfaces tend to align parallel to the long axis of the tetragonally packed cylinder
(or the lamellar normal aligns perpendicular to the cylinder axis). This orientation is
completely different from that found in the complexes containing hexagonally packed cylinders,
where the lamellar normal tends to orient parallel to the cylinder axis. Therefore, the unusual
Fig. 1 The SAXS profiles of the
PS-b-P4VP(DBSA) complexes.
Fig. 2 The TEM micrograph of
the PS-b-P4VP(DBSA) complex
with x = 0.5
10
Fig. 8 Square packed cylinders
of cylinders (e.g. in triblock copolymers). In this case, hexagonal lattice would have a
symmetry of 2nd order only (not 6th order). In other words it is a preferential direction.
Besides, the sublattice of cylinders of one type would have a rectangular structure, hence,
each chain has to distort anisotropically in space. On the other hand, square lattice has a
symmetry of 4th order, and sublattice of one-type cylinders has a form of a square, hence
anisotropical distortion is absent.
5) We assume that in the case when binding fraction of DBSA y<1, DBSA molecules do not
have a uniform distribution along the P4VP block. DBSA molecules gather in one part of
P4VP block, and another part is bare. So, supramolecular complex resembles triblock
copolymer.
So we performed simulation of triblock copolymers (Fig. 7). In correspondence with above
qualitative considerations we observed square packed cylinders (Fig. 8).
References
1. P.G.Khalatur, D.Shirvanyanz, N.Starovoitova, A.R.Khokhlov. Macromol. Theory Simul.
2000, 9, 141.
2. a) Burroughes, J. H.; Bradly, D. D. C.; Brown, A. R.; Marks, R. N.; Mackay, K. Friend, R.
H.; Burns, P. L.; Holmes, A. B. Nature 1990, 347, 539. (b) Friend, R. H.; Gymer, R. W.;
Holmes, A. B.; Burroughes, J. H.; Marks, R. N.; Taliani, C.; Bradley, D. D. C.; dos Santos, D.
A.; Brédas, J. L.; Löglund, M.; Salaneck, W. R. Nature 1999, 397, 121. (c) Spreitzer, H.;
Becker, H.; Kluge, E.; Kreuder, W.; Schenk, H.; Demandt, R. and Schoo, H. Adv. Mater.
1998, 10, 1340.
3. (a) Nguyen, T. Q.; Doan, V.; Schwartz, B. L. J. Chem. Phys. 1999, 110, 4068. (b) Grell, M;
Bradley, D. D. C.; Ungar, G..; Hill, J.; Whitehead, K. S. Macromolecules 1999, 32, 5810.
(c)Collison, C. J.; Rotherberg, L. J.; Treemaneekarn, V.; Li, Y. Macromolecules 2001, 34,
2346.(d) Hsu, J. H.; Fann, W. S.; Tsao, P. H.; Chuang, K. R.; Chen, S. A. J. Phys. Chem. A
1999, 103, 2375.
4. Blatchford, J. W.; Jessen, S. W.; Lin, L. B.; Gustafson, T. L.; Fu, D. K.; Wang, H. L.; Swager,
T. M.; MacDiarmid, A. G.; Epstein, A. J. Phys. Rev. B 1996, 54, 9180.
5. Li, Y.-C.; Chen, K.-B.; Chen, H.-L.; Hsu, C.-S.; Tsao, C.-S.; Chen, J.-H.; Chen, S.-A.
Langmuir, 2006, 22,11009.
6. Hashimoto, T.; Shibayama, M.; Fujimura, M.; Kawai, H. In Block Copolymer-Science and
Technology, Meier, D. J. Ed.; Harward Academic Publishers: London, 1983.
7. Ruokolainen, J.; Mäkinen, R.; Torkkeli, M.; Mäkelä, T.; Serimaa, R.; ten Brinke, G.; Ikkala,
Fig. 7 Our model of triblock copolymer
12
Statistics on Research Cooperation
(This section will only be used for NSC reference and will not be publicly disclosed)
I. Number of staff working on this joint project
“Staf type”includes principal investigators (PI), collaborating principal investigators
(co-PI), assistant investigators, and postdoctoral research fellows.
Staff Type Taiwan Side Russian Side
PI and co-PI Hsin-Lung Chen Viktor A. Ivanov (PI)
Pavel Khalatur (Co-PI)
Full-time research assistant
Part-time research assistant Chun-Yu Chen
Shao-Ching Liao
Alexander Lukyanov
Lenoid Spirin
Postdoctoral research fellow
II. Joint publications (as of the date of this report submission)
1. Scientific journals in which papers have been published or accepted for publication
Title of Paper Name of Journal SCI/EI/SSCI
Impact
Factor
Volume
No. Date
2. International or domestic conferences or symposia where papers were presented
Title of Paper Name of Event Organizer of theEvent Date
3. Other journals targeted for publication of papers (submitted or under review)
Title of Paper Name of Journal SCI/EI/SSCI Impact Factor
Segmental Alignment in the Aggregate
Domains of Poly(9,9-dioctylfluorene) in the
Semidilute Solution
Macromolecules SCI 4.07
Conformational Structure and Aggregation
Behavior of Poly(2,3-diphenyl-5-decyl-1,4-
phenylenevinylene) (DP10-PPV) in
Solution State
Macromolecules SCI 4.07
Appendix 2: Statistics
14
III. Joint application for patent rights or technology transfers
□ Patent □ Technology transfer
Name of Invention or Technology
Technology Description
(max. 200 words)
Technical Features
Applicable Industries or
Potential Commercial Products
Patent Issuing Country
Patent Period
Note: Please do not describe any major contents if the patent has not yet been issued.
IV. Personnel exchange
1. Taiwan Research Team Visiting Russia
Date of Visit Main Tasks and Results Total Members onVisiting Team
No. of Young
Researchers
Involved (aged 40
or lower)
June 30, 2006
learn the experimental skills of
real-space imaging of single chains and
aggregates of hairy rod polymers by
atomic force microscopy
1 1
July 4, 2007
learn the experimental skills of dynamic
light scattering and basic simulation
skills of hairy rod polymers
2 2
2. Russian Research Team Visiting Taiwan
Date of Visit Main Tasks and Results Total Members onVisiting Team
No. of Young
Researchers
Involved (aged 40
or lower)
May 10, 2006
Intensive discussions on the
experimental and simulation results
obtained for the aggregation of hairy rod
polymers and the hierarchical assembly
of comb-coil block copolymers;
identification of the directions of further
studies
3 2
May 23, 2007
Discussions of the experimental and
simulation results obtained for the
aggregation of hairy rod polymers and
the hierarchical assembly of comb-coil
block copolymers; identification of the
directions of further studies
2 1
