 1
一、報告內容 
 
    (一)前言 (Backgrounds) 
 
The Multi-Pixel Interferometry Array Telecope project aims to build a prototype two-station array 
for demonstration of a full array telescope that consists of 8 stations for the microwave 
background radiation sciences.  Except for the backend digital correlator, which needs to be 
designed for the full array, other components in one station can stand alone as an individual 
radiometer telescope.  Therefore when the two stations of the prototype array are successfully 
built, other stations can be duplicated without additional R&D effort.   
 
The multi-pixel receiver is not a conventional receiver which normally contains a single pixel.  
The former can cover a large area of sky proportional to the pixel number and is useful for survey 
observations, whereas the latter covers only a small patch of sky aiming mainly for single-target 
observations.  The advantage of multi-pixel receiver to sciences is well-known, but the technical 
difficulties prohibit any progress in this direction.  The complexity in handling the compact 
high-frequency electronics devices in a finite space inside and outside the receiver poses a great 
challenge for such a receiver.  As of today, no such kind of receiver exists in the world, and this 
project is among the first in the world for development in this direction.  We undertake this 
challenging task because we think that the timing and the strategic position are good for Taiwan 
to be ahead in this research direction because of Taiwan’s advantages in assessing the frontier 
silicon chip technology for high-frequency system-on-chip (SOC) applications.  A SOC chip 
integrates a subsystem on a chip, and can greatly reduce the size of high-frequency electronics, 
making it possible for the full system to be very compact.  For example, we aim to have 19 
pixels in one receiver, and this requires the physical dimension of the electronics system to be 
reduced by a factor of at least 10.   
 
In this project, NTU is in charge of the design and making of a compact receiver front-end, which 
is in a cryogenic temperature, 20K, as well as the system integration.  In addition, NTU will also 
design and build the backend digital correlator for the full array.  NCTU is responsible for the 
design and making of various SOC chips.  NTIST takes charge of modularization of these chips.   
 
 
 
 
    (二)研究目的 (Science Goals) 
 
Due to the shortage of available fund, this project aims to build two stations of a 19-pixel receiver 
array for demonstration of inteferometric experiments.  A full array consists of 9 stations and 
such an array will be the unique powerful millimeter-wave interferometry telescope for CMB 
sciences.  Shown in Fig.(1) is a simulated CMB sky of 1 squared degree area.  The targets of 
the full array are those bright objects, the galaxy clusters, which are sparsely distributed across 
the sky.  These galaxy clusters are distant objects and they often cannot be detected using optical 
telescopes. 
 
 3
since many environmental effects are incoherent and averaged out upon the use of coherent 
detection schemes.  This advantage of coherent detectors may out-weigh the high sensitivity of 
incoherent detectors, in particular for co-observation with telescopes at other wavelengths.  For 
example, South Pole provides a friendly environment for bolometer observations, the far south 
location makes it difficult for South-Pole Telescope to observe the same targets as other optical  
telescopes, which tend to be located at low latitudes, and hence most of SPT’s detection offers 
only partial sciences.  This also points to a future revival trend of coherent detector receivers for 
observations via Sunyaev-Zeldovich effect.  A US consortium for a future multi-pixel-receiver 
array has recently been formed [8].    
 
(ii) Silicon-Based, High-Frequency Chips: 
 
The SOC chips are much more easily implemented with silicon technology than using III-V 
semiconductors.  This is due to the much more advanced and matured fabrication and 
integration processes for silicon-based chips than for other kind of chips.  However, it has been 
rare in the past that high-frequency chips are made of silicon.  The situation nevertheless 
changes in recent years.  For example, silicon chips are commonly working at 60Ghz for future 
wireless communications [9].  Even W-band amplifier chip has also been announced to be made 
with 90nm silicon technology [10].  These recent advents in silicon technology prompt us to 
investigate the use of silicon SOC chips for our receivers.   
 
There has been very little experience in packaging the W-band chip in a waveguide module.  All 
W-band chips developed in Taiwan in the past were packaged in the US.  We also take this 
opportunity to develop the experiences and techniques for packaging the W-band chips.  
 
    (四)研究方法 
 
Sub-Project (I):   
In this project, we will design and integrate the entire receiver system, including the RF and 
cryogenic/vacuum.  In the past year, we focus on the design and making of a full-band polarizer 
and a multi-pixel feeds.  The latter depends on the optics, such as the focal ratio of primary and 
secondary mirrors.  We fix the optics parameters by choosing a 1.8m primary mirror and a 27cm 
secondary mirror for a Cassegrain reflector.   
 
The feedhorn has a 26 degree 3db full beam.  It has a corrugated inner surface for better 
impedance matching from 376 Ohm in free space to 50 Ohm in waveguides.  This feedhorn is 
similar to the ones used in NTU-Array, which is made in UK with the cast method.  Instead of 
using the cast, we have two other schemes for its making.  The first scheme adopts machine 
cutting and milling to create the corrugated inner surface.  The mechanical diagram is shown in 
Fig.(2).  The second scheme consists of a stack of copper sheets of different sized holes to form 
the desired corrugated feedhorn.  The second scheme has not yet been attempted but will be 
executed in the near future, and its mechanical diagram is shown in Fig.(3). 
 
The polarizer is a magic device that makes use of a septum at the center of a circular waveguide 
to separate a linear polarized incident wave into one left-hand polarized wave going out from the 
left output channel and one right-hand polarized wave going out from the right output channel. 
The polarizer is normally used for narrow-band operation, e.g., < 10% bandwidth, but we design 
 S21 
Fig.(4): Drawing and simulation performance of the the polarizer design. 
 
Fig.(5):  Mechanical drawing of the polarizer of circular cross-section (center piece) where the 
septum has a fat L shape.  The transition adaptors at the front (left piece) and back (right piece) 
of two oppositely directed polarizers are inserted for verification via network analyzer. 
In addition to the millimeter-wave components, we have also set up a vacuum system for future 
cryogenic receiver.   
 
The high-speed (18GSampling 3-bit) analog-to-digital converter chip is also one of our main 
building block for the backend digital processing system.  The schematics and layout of this 
chip are both given in Fig.(6).  The chip has been made with TSMC 90nm silicon technology 
and returned to us a couple of month ago, and its performance is currently under test. 
 
 5
 
Fig.(7):  Schematics of W-band LNA using 3-stage cascade and 2-stage common-source 
amplification and the simulation performance of S parameter and noise figure. 
 
(2) W-band Mixer: 
The layout of the mixer has been completed, pending the CIC opportunity for fabrication with 
90nm TSMC process.  This SOC chip will contain LNA, mixer, LO tripler and broad-band IF 
amplifier, as shown in Fig.(8).  The performances of LNA and IF amplifier are separately 
simulated and also shown in Fig.(8). 
 
 
 7
 9
esigned with TSMC 0.18um RF process.  This version of mixer layout has no doubler and the 
oubler has been separately designed. 
 
ance  
ixer.   
e transition is the m
itted to the RF ch
trans
ansition module is also shown in Fig (11).  This m
d
d
 
RF in 
LO in 
Mixer 
IF out  
 
 
 
Fig.(10):  Layout and simulated perform
of the low-frequency IF SOC m
 
 
 
Subproject (IV): 
 
The waveguide-to-planar substrat
wave and getting it to be transm
is the simulation performance of one of such 
-20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10
Input power (dBm)
ost critical component for picking up EM 
ips on the planar substrate.  Shown in Fig.(11) 
itions, and the mechanical diagram of the 
odule has been made and currently under tr .
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
G
ai
n 
(d
B
)
 
fundamental
second_harmonic
third_harmonic
Doubler 
fourth_harmonic
 Ideal feedhorn S11 
 
 
Simulated S11 for 
feedhorn + WR10 WG
 11
 S21 
 
S21 1db/div 
S11 10db/div 
Fig.(13) Simulated performance and measured performance of two oppositely directed polarizers. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 99 年 7 月 5 日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
    We arrived at San Diego on June 26, and the conference would start on June 27.  The 
conference site is located at Town & Country Resort Hotel near the San Diego old town.  
The attendance to this conference is estimated about 500 scientists and engineers.  The 
conference is held once every two years and covers many aspects of astronomical 
instruments, ranging from optical to millimeter waves.  Our papers are in the CMBR 
session, and we are mostly in this session during the conference.   
A lot of presentations are about the bolometer array and the KID array, which need to be at 
an extremely low temperature chamber to attain the desired sensitivities.  There are rather 
few heterodyne receivers which we are presenting in the meeting.  The reason is probably 
that the heterodyne technology is quite matured and very limited rooms are available for 
further improvement in the near future, but the superconducting bolometer and KID 
technologies are new ones that attract much attention in the meeting.  Our heterodyne 
receiver pushes its limitation to a new boundary which may in the long run return to 
become the mainstream. 
 
二、與會心得 
    In the conference, we found a paper addressing a novel design of feedhorn, which we 
計畫編號 NSC 98－2627－E－002－004－ 
計畫名稱 78-113GHz 超寬頻多像素干涉陣列望遠鏡(1/3) 
出國人員
姓名 
闕志鴻 
蕭宇劭 
滕曉峯 
服務機構
及職稱 
台灣大學天文物理研究所 教授 
台灣大學天文物理研究所 博士後研究 
台灣大學天文物理研究所 博士生助理 
會議時間 
99年 6月 27 日至
99 年 7 月 2 日 
會議地點 San Diego, USA 
會議名稱 
(中文)SPIE 望遠鏡及天文儀器 2010 
(英文)SPIE Telescopes and Astronomical Instrumentation 2010 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)(1)NTU-Array LO 及 IF 系統 
      (2)NTU-Array 數位相關器 
(英文)(1)NTU-Array LO and IF System 
      (2)NTU-Array Digital Correlator 
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 99年 5 月 27日 
                                 
The 2010 radio-frequency integrated circuit (RFIC) conference was held in the Anaheim convention 
center, Calfornia, USA, where most of the leading researchers in this field were gathering for this annual fest. 
As the 2010 IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques Symposium (MTTS) was also sharing the same space 
during the same period, an even broad and intense interaction among academia and industry thus became 
more than a possibility.  
What impressed people most in the conference was the rapid development of the 60GHz and W-band 
millimeter-wave integrated circuits. We saw quite complex front-end receiver and transmitter systems and 
critical components like low noise amplifiers, power amplifiers, mixers, phase shifters, and voltage-control 
oscillators demonstrated by both industrial research laboratories, such as IBM York-Town Height and 
Media-tek, and several elite university research teams like UC Berkeley, UC Los Angela, UC San Diego, and 
HK University of Science and Technology. With the maturity of 60GHz technology already in sight, it 
becomes clear that in order to catch the next tidal wave front, the research focus should now be up-lifted to 
W-band and beyond, i.e., 200GHz and 300GHz and even 600GHz; and, rather than the merely mentioning of 
hardware circuit implementations, both the biological and science applications of the emerging 
millimeter-wave technology will become an integral and indispensible part of the overall research maneuver. 
Also, green technology has come to the fore, which is a real surprise because in the past people rarely 
associate this with RF, microwave and millimeter wave, while this time it is Professor David Rutledge, the EE 
Department Chair of Caltech, who made the formal announcement. 
The attendance of this year’s RFIC conference thereby greatly enriched our research scope. The 2011 
RFIC conference and IEEE-MTTS will be held in Baltimore, Maryland, U.S.A. and we are looking 
forward to that event for more exciting research results. 
計畫編號 NSC98－2627－E－002－004－ 
計畫名稱 78-113GHz超寬頻多像素干涉儀望遠鏡(1/3) 
出國人員
姓名 
胡樹 
服務機構
及職稱 
交通大學電子工程系副教授 
會議時間 
99年 5月 22日至 
99年 5月 26日 
會議地點 美國‧加州安納罕 
會議名稱 IEEE MTT 2010 International Microwave Symposium 
發表論文
題目 
無 
