II 
 
摘要  
磁振擴散影像是絕佳檢查神經纖維結構的工具，但是 diffusion MR對移動相當敏感，所
以傳統上幾乎都是以 Single Shot EPI作為擴散影像的 sequence。但是 Single Shot EPI擴
散影像對磁化率相當敏感，因此在磁場不均勻處，影像將在 phase方向上有相當嚴重的
變形。這就是為何擴散磁振影像大多為 128X128的解析度。而腦幹和脊柱區域，是磁場
極不均勻之處，所以傳統的 Single Shot EPI擴散影像在此無法使用。Reduced FOV Single 
Shot EPI擴散影像是利用縮減 FOV方式，減少在 phase方向上的取樣點，可以大為降低
影像扭曲程度，但須注意 FOV外影像信號的 aliasing。本研究即是利用兩 RF頻帶，成
功建立一 sequence，交集出縮減之 FOV，達到避開激發 FOV外影像信號，以及減少 phase
方向取樣。為了使影像有完整的 FOV，本研究利用移動兩斜交之 RF頻帶，分次激發不
同部分 FOV以組合出完整 FOV。利用此方法，成功開發出小腦高解析度之 DTI影像。
本研究已成功於三軍總醫院的 3T PHILIPS ARCHIEVA以及 1.5T GE SIGNA完成Multi 
slices Reduced FOV Single-Shot EPI MR Diffusion Tensor Image sequence，並完成 90度與
180度 RF相交之最佳調整，與 prepare IR對 multi-slices的最佳化調整，因本方法所得
的影像較一般擴散張量影像解析度高(256 vs 128)，所以腦脊髓液的部份體積效應將大為
降低，因此 FLAIR Reduced FOV Single-Shot DWI EPI sequence之在此情形下已非必要。
本研究轉而將 FOV採多次部份 FOV激發，以組合任何想要之 FOV大小。目前不但已
成功完成 multi-slices和 multi rFOV組合，並且已經開發完成 6個方向之擴散梯度磁場
sequence，以及張量演算程式撰寫，成功組合出高解析度之大腦和小腦擴散張量影像，
完成原計畫之進度。 
關鍵詞：rFOV、擴散磁振造影、高解析度 
 
 
IV 
 
multiple rFOV to a full FOV image. We propose an alternative inner volume excitation 
scheme which could achieve multiple slice acquisition with relatively less compromise in 
SNR loss. High resolution diffusion tensor imaging in the brain, brain stem and cerebellum 
was performed to demonstrate the unique advantages of the proposed technique. 
Keywords: rFOV、DTI、high resolution
1 
 
Introduction (前言、研究目的、文獻探討) 
 Diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), which is very sensitive to the water diffusion, has 
been widely applied to the field of neuroradiology and neurology in evaluating ischemic 
cerebral infarction because of its superiority in distinguishing acute ischemic infarction from 
chronic ischemic infarction (1-2) and small vessel ischemia (3) compared to conventional 
T2-weighted magnetic resonance imaging. However, because the measured signal intensity on 
DWI is related to T2 relaxation, non-diffusion related factors coming from tissue's 
T2-relaxation, which is frequently encountered in case of hematoma (4), subacute cerebral 
infarction (5), and even old lacunar infarction (6), also contribute to the signal intensity on 
DWI, known as T2-shine through and T2 dark-through effects, and mislead the understanding 
of water diffusion of the lesion. The apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) provides a 
quantitative measurement of water diffusion and a useful platform for the comparison of 
cerebral infarctions between different brain tissue(1-2, 7) and between different stages (1-2). 
However, the ADC value cannot provide information regarding the diffusion anisotropy 
because it was averaged from the measurements along three orthogonal gradients to eliminate 
the effect of anisotropy.  
Diffusion tensor MR imaging (DTI), by applying six or more diffusion gradients, 
diffusion ellipsoid of water can be indicated from the three eigenvalues and eignevectors, not 
only the trace ADC (tADC), but also the anisotropy index such as fractional anisotropy (FA). 
Fractional anisotropy has been applied to the normal aging (8) and some neurological diseases, 
including cerebral infarction (9-10), multiple sclerosis (11-12), ischemic leukoaraiosis (13), 
mitochondrial leukoencephalopathy (14). To tract the orientation of first eigenvector in DTI, 
the fiber pathway can be reconstructed and fiber tractography is visualized by three 
dimensions representation. In cerebral infarction, decrease of FA has been observed at the 
infarcted area (15) and remote corticospinal tract (16). 
3 
 
Methods and Materials (研究方法) 
In the first year, we had developed an in-house diffusion weighted EPI pulse sequence 
with reduced FOV in phase encoding direction to shorten the readout duration of EPI 
acquisition and to lower the geometric distortion along the phase direction. The acquired 
parameters of MR images were TR 4000ms, TE 64ms, b=700 s/mm2, slice thickness 4mm 
and in-plane resolution 1x1 mm2. The excitation was applied oblique to the imaging plane. 
Then the subsequent refocus RF pulse was superimposed exactly on the imaging plane 
(Fig1.). In this manner, only the signal from the cross-section will contribute to the image. 
We also succeeded in developing a rFOV for single slice and combining multiple rFOV to a 
full FOV image in this year. After the acquisition of one volume of interest (VOI), the FOV 
was shifted to acquire the image in the adjacent location after TR duration as shown in Fig 2. 
Each DTI has been averaged over 4 times to improve the image quality. After the whole 
regions of interest were sampled, the fringe boundaries were cut out to keep off the 
inhomogeneous excitation within each region and sewed together to form a full FOV image 
for each diffusion weighted images. The DTI indices were subsequently computed.  
In the second year, we propose an alternative inner volume excitation scheme which 
could achieve multiple slice acquisition with relatively less compromise in SNR loss. High 
resolution diffusion tensor imaging in the cerebellum was performed to demonstrate the 
unique advantages of the proposed technique. Fig3. shows the pulse sequence diagram for 
multi-slice rFOV imaging. A non-selective inversion hard pulse was utilized followed by the 
excitation. A 7-lobe selective refocusing pulse with optimized slice selection profile was 
applied along the phase encoding direction. EPI acquisition was adopted for sampling the 
image data. In addition, two crusher gradients clipping the selective refocusing pulse were 
added to minimize contaminations from imperfect refocusing and from outside of the FOV. 
The acquired parameters of MR images were TR 7500ms, TE 74ms, b=700 s/mm2, slice 
5 
 
Results 
 
The First Year 
The single rFOV image using EPI acquisition without SENSE was shown in Fig.4, in 
which the phase encoding direction is in from R to L. Due to no contribution from the proton 
signal from the outer volume, no aliasing artifact would be in this image in the reduced FOV 
acquisition. A full FOV image combined from multiple partial VOI images were put in Fig 
5(a). The full FOV image with SENSE is shown in Fig 5(b). The corresponding color FA map 
was shown in Fig.6. One particularly notices the residual unfolding artifacts in the Fig.5b 
(arrow) and the lowered SNR in Fig.6b. In Fig 7, we perform the DTI on the cerebellum using 
both zoom technique and SENSE acceleration under similar temporal consumption. 
 
The Second Year 
The longitudinal magnetizations of different slices before being excited, which 
determines the signal intensity, are plotted in Fig.8(a) versus the number of excitations. 
Results from Fig.8(a) suggest that SNR becomes similar throughout all slices immediately 
following the second excitation, suggesting good signal uniformity. Fig.8(b) shows the signal 
recovery results after experiencing the excitation and refocusing pulses, where is seen that 
nearly 84% of the magnetization can be restored for TR greater than about 4500ms, thus 
maintaining sufficiently high SNR even under the effects of the sequential inversion pulses.  
 The color FA maps of the sagittal slices of the cerebellum are presented in Fig.9(a). The 
RGB color scheme indicates the three directions of right-left (anatomical anterior-posterior), 
top-down (anatomical superior-inferior), and through-plane (anatomical medial-lateral), 
respectively. The whisker plot (color stick along the principal direction with FA > 0.25) 
overlaid on the FA map of the cerebellum is also demonstrated in Fig.9(b) for the ninth slice. 
7 
 
Discussion 
The distortion induced from the local magnetic field inhomogeneity could be easily seen 
in a full FOV image without SENSE in a 3T MRI system especially near the border of the 
scalp. In Fig. 4, the image was shown almost no distortion. It was shown in Fig 5 that the 
distortions in b0 image combined with the reduced FOV acquisition were similar to that 
obtained using 4-fold SENSE acceleration. However, the right frontal side in the SENSE (Fig 
4b) image showed inevitable unfolding artifacts resulted from the mismatch between the 
sensitivity map in SENSE and the image due to distortion. From the color FA map (Fig 6), the 
image distortion and contrast were also similar. The color FA map in the left lower side in Fig 
6(a) showed shaper boundaries between grey and white matter. In Fig 6(b), the lower SNR in 
the center region than in the outer region is anticipated to be caused by the effect of G factor 
in SENSE reconstruction. This effect could also be observed in Fig. 4 where the image 
acquired by the SENSE acceleration showed a little noisy in the central area. Therefore, our 
results suggest that the full-FOV image produced from the zoom technique could provide 
equal effectiveness as using SENSE in terms of reductions in geometric distortions. In 
addition, compared with SENSE at equal distortions, the proposed method is advantageous in 
its absence of unfolding artifacts and better SNR at similar imaging acquisition time. The 
preliminary DTI result of the cerebellum in Fig 7 showed that the zoom DTI would provide a 
more high resolution with less partial volume effect and less SENSE induced artifact on 
resolving cerebellar micro-structure. By reason of the less distortion and high resolution, our 
method would suggest that the quality of diffusion tensor imaging could be improved around 
the heterogeneous regions such as neighborhood of scalp base or body DTI. And due to the 
high resolution, the complex micro-architecture embedded in the human organ such as 
cerebellum could be possibly resolved.  
The sequential inversion pulses accompanied with T1 relaxation affects the signal in the 
9 
 
90˚ 
180˚ 
Fig 1. The schematic illustration of slice selection pulse. 
Fig 2. Sampling scheme to acquire full 
FOV. Circular region is denoted for the 
imaging object. Each rectangle shows the 
FOV for each scan with some overlap area 
to the other region.  
 
Fig 3. Pulse sequence diagram of pre-IR rFOV excitation scheme. The 
refocus pulse was slice-selective along the phase encoding direction 
 
11 
 
Fig 8. (a) The magnetization evolution of each 
slice at each excitation. (b) The recovery of 
longitudinal magnetization is plotted versus 
TR containing 14 sets of excitation/refocusing 
pulses. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)             (b) 
Fig 9. (a) Color-coded FA maps obtained for the cerebellum. (b) The color coded whisker 
plot magnified to represent the detail orientation of fiber bundles in cerebellum for the ninth 
slice.  
13 
 
(a)  
(b)  
(c)  
(d)  
(e)  
Fig.11 (a) the phantom image of gradient echo sequence.  (b) the combined image from all sampled 
rFOV EPI. (c) the contour image of gradient echo sequence. (d) the contour image of rFOV EPI. (e) the 
subtraction of contour image between gradient echo and rFOV EPI sequence. 
15 
 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d)   
Fig.13 (a) the brain image of rFOV EPI sequence.  (b) the ADC map computed by rFOV EPI DTI . 
(c) the FA map computed by rFOV EPI DTI. (d) the tractography of rFOV EPI sequence.  
 
17 
 
14. Brockmann K, Finsterbusch J, Schara U, Wilichowski E, Frahm J, Hanefeld F. 
Stroke-like pattern in DTI and MRS of childhood mitochondrial leukoencephalopathy. 
Neuroradiology. 2004;46(4):267-71. 
15. Sorensen AG, Wu O, Copen WA, et al. Human acute cerebral ischemia: detection of 
changes in water diffusion anisotropy by using MR imaging. Radiology. 1999;212(3):785-92. 
16. Werring DJ, Toosy AT, Clark CA, et al. Diffusion tensor imaging can detect and quantify 
corticospinal tract degeneration after stroke. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 
2000;69(2):269-72. 
17. Wheeler-Kingshott CA, Trip SA, Symms MR, Parker GJ, Barker GJ, Miller DH. In vivo 
diffusion tensor imaging of the human optic nerve: pilot study in normal controls. Magn 
Reson Med. 2006;56(2):446-51. 
18. Yongbi MN, Huang NC, Branch CA, Helpern JA. The application of diffusion-weighted 
line-scanning for the rapid assessment of water ADC changes in stroke at high magnetic fields. 
NMR Biomed. 1997;10(2):79-86. 
19. Feinberg DA, Hoenninger JC, Crooks LE, Kaufman L, Watts JC, Arakawa M. Inner 
volume MR imaging: technical concepts and their application. Radiology. 1985;156(3):743-7. 
20. Jeong EK, Kim SE, Guo J, Kholmovski EG, Parker DL. High-resolution DTI with 2D 
interleaved multislice reduced FOV single-shot diffusion-weighted EPI (2D ss-rFOV-DWEPI). 
Magn Reson Med. 2005;54(6):1575-9. 
21. Wang JJ, Deichmann R, Turner R, Ordidge R. 3D DT-MRI using a reduced-FOV 
approach and saturation pulses. Magn Reson Med. 2004;51(4):853-7. 
22. Chou MC, Wang CY, Liu HS, Chung HW, Chen CY. Pseudolesions arising from 
unfolding artifacts in diffusion imaging with use of parallel acquisition: origin and remedies. 
AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2007;28(6):1099-101. 
 
 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
1.Tzu-Cheng Chao, 
Yi-Jui Liu, Teng-Yi 
Huang, Hsiao-Wen 
Chung, Cheng-Yu Sandy
(2008) Multi-Slice 
High Resolution 
Cerebellum Diffusion 
Tensor Imaging Using 
Pre-IR Inner Volume 
Excitation, in 
International 
Society of Magnetic 
Resonance in 
Medicine, 16th Annual 
Meeting, #1806, 
Toronto, Canada. 
2. Chun-Jung Juan, 
Yi-Jui Liu, Cheng-Yu 
Chen, Tzung-Tzuo 
Tsai, Ming-Chung 
Chou, Tzu-Cheng Chao, 
Chun-Jen Hsueh, 
Chung-Ping Lo, 
Hsiao-Wen Chung, 
Te-Cheng Lai, Guo-Shu 
Huang (2008) 
Orientation-Specific 
Degeneration of the 
Cerebral White Matter 
in Aging Brain 
Investigated by 
Geometric DTI, in 
International 
Society of Magnetic 
Resonance in 
Medicine, 16th Annual 
Meeting, #2091, 
Toronto, Canada. 
3. Chao TC, Liu YJ, 
Huang TY, Wang FN, 
Chung HW, Wu MT, Chen 
CY (2007) High 
resolution diffusion 
tensor image using 
segmented FOV, in 
Joint Annual 
Scientific Meeting of 
the International 
Society of Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine 
/ European Society 
for Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine
 
