可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                   日期：95 年 10 月 21 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：微流體裝置之高頻 Micro-PIV 量測應用技術 
計畫主持人： 王明文  
計畫編號：NSC 94－2212－E－161－002－學門領域：熱流 
技術/創作名稱 應用長焦光學系統於高頻 Micro-PIV 之方法與設備 
發明人/創作人 王明文 
技術說明 
傳統 Micro-PIV 之光學系統多採用一般短焦距、窄視場顯微
鏡頭加以建構，而為了達成局部流場精準量測，就必須使用高倍率
鏡頭來達成短景深的效果，因此光學系統物鏡的工作距離便會相當
的短，幾乎與觀測物接觸，而且視場也相對變窄，如此在被量測物
的架設上相當不便，尤其在流體晶片必須安裝管路與感測器等附件
情況下更容易造成妨礙；而本案提供一種能應用於 Micro-PIV 量測
的長焦光學量測方法與設備，不但在短景深量測狀態下能夠具有較
長的工作距離與較廣視場，而且還能夠以離焦方式快速的進行光路
校正，對於以流體為工作介質之生醫晶片，如：生醫細胞分析晶片
中最為常用的夾流渠道(cytometer fluid combine flow channel)微流
體元件在進行實驗測試與高頻 Macro-PIV 數據量測時能夠更加方
便且更加準確。 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可利用產業： 
          微系統晶片研發廠商以及設備商研發微流體晶片使用。
可開發產品： 
            HF Micro-PIV 系統。 
技術特點 
1.修改舊有 PIV 系統建構出一新式廉價 HF Micro-PIV(高頻微質點
影像測速法)實驗裝置，可達暫態時間 200μSec, 2500pairs Images.
2.無需使用螢光粒子即可分析 100μm 以上流道之速度場。 
3.採用有別於傳統短焦式顯微光學系統之長焦系統，能夠有更大的
工作距離空間以及大視場薄景深。 
推廣及運用的價值 
HF Micro-PIV(高頻微質點影像測速)不但能夠快速計算出速
度場而且還能直接與真實流場影像進行比對，可應用在微流體元件
研究及開發上，不但系統簡單且費用價廉。 
本系統已針對以流體為工作介質之生醫晶片，如：生醫細胞
分析晶片中最為常用的夾流渠道(cytometer fluid combine flow 
channel)微流體元件為標的，進行實驗測試與高頻 Macro-PIV 數據
量測，並已將實驗測試結果與數值模擬進行比對應證，證明其系統
的可靠性。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
價格較便宜，目前已廣泛地應用於一般巨觀流場之速度量測上，但由於其量測必須依賴頻
移訊號感測器之訊號接收故僅能採取局部區域範圍進行量測，對於全面性範圍之流場量測
就相當麻煩，應用於微流道中之速度量測更是需要特別設計的雷射發射及接收裝置，而且
最重要的是 LDV 所得到的量測結果是數據而非直接影像故很難與實際流場的動態情況做
連結比對，因此在微流體運動時所發生的特殊物理現象與行為常無法掌控，應用上受到極
的限制。LIF 乃是以特定範圍波長之雷射直接照射流場以激發事先混於流體中的螢光成分
產生螢光放射，螢光之放射將會因流場之速度及濃度變異而產生光強度對應變化，此時利
用一光倍增攝影機收集其瞬時之光譜變動影像，如此便能夠經由換算而得到流場的速度及
混合過程濃度變化，此一量測方式亦為非接觸式量測，準確度高、反應速度高達 100kHz
且可同時紀錄四百萬個以上的量測點，與 LDV 之最大差異是其還能夠表現動態的影像，是
一種功能相當強大的流場量測方法，可惜的是其設備組成相當昂貴，而且實驗條件限制嚴
格，螢光染劑昂貴，在對微流道流場進行量測時，必須另外在攝影機前端裝設一具同步訊
號處理功能的光倍增管(intensify)，設備將會變得相當複雜而導致訊號控制困難。紅外影像
分析系統雖有少部份之應用，但受到影像必須校正之限制，一旦影像放大組件做任何變動
就必須經由原廠重新校正，相當的麻煩，所以甚少有應用於微流場量測之實例。至於微熱
線測速法則必須結合元件製程，將量測用之微熱線鑲埋於流場之中，所以在一些不允許溫
度干擾的流場並不適合，而且將會增加元件製作之複雜度與成本，目前僅用於少數流體分
析晶片中。而 PIV(Particle Image Velocimetry) 質點影像測速法是目前應用於流場之流體運
動行為分析最為普遍也最成熟之方法，其乃是利用雷射激發流體當中事先放入之微粒子，
以影像追蹤方式抓取粒子亮點移動軌跡，加以計算便可得到全面性範圍之流場速度分佈量
測，不但流體運動行為分析容易而且也可視化，對於一些比較特殊的局部流場藉由可視化
分析將不會有任何的失誤，是近來許多研究流體力學者所致力研發的方向，而其設備組成
不但簡單、校正容易，搭配同步器之設計連結超高速攝影機及脈衝雷射，可得到 10μs 之暫
態影像與速度變化，對於速度極高之超音速流場分析相當方便，而透過顯微鏡頭與高階晰
度攝影機之結合加上適當的計算軟體修正 Macro-PIV 便可轉換成為 Micro-PIV，所以是目前
微流體元件之製作及開發進行微流體運動行為之分析研究最簡單也是最可能之方式。 
PIV (Particle image velocimetry)量測技術自 1991 年 Adrian[1]發展開始至今十餘年的時間，
已經被廣泛的用於巨觀流場中的速度量測，藉著使用脈衝光源以短時間間斷曝光之方式追
蹤記錄兩個已知時間點流場中質點位置座標，或是以連續光源控制機械或電子快門記錄取
得固定曝光時間內流場中質點位置座標，以成對的質點影像判斷質點的相對位移再除上影
像對的差異時間，便可計算出質點的移動速度與整個流場的速度場[2]，對於流體運動速度
場分析而言是一個相當方便的檢測方法，更重要的是其計算數據的取得是依影像而來，所
以計算所得結果還可以與流場影像比對，一些重要的流場物理現象就不容易發生遺漏。 
 近年來由於微系統科技的蓬勃發展，許多的晶片都包含了微流道的設計以方便採樣、
篩選、分類及檢驗，所以其流道中之微流體行為分析就相對重要，而且由於關鍵尺寸已達
到微米級，故流體的表面張力效應就不能如巨觀流場分析一般被忽略，邊界效應影嚮也會
跟著變大，傳統的流體力學分析方法與統御方程就必須加以修正，也因此一些巨觀流場中
所使用的實驗量測模式大多屬接觸性量測法，極容易因流場關鍵尺寸的縮小而造成干擾，
也就不再適用於微流場中使用，必需再尋找新的實驗方法，而 PIV 由於是屬於非接觸性的
量測法，並不與流場直接接觸所以沒有干擾流場之問題，只要應用簡單的光學設計將流場
放大至如同巨觀流場一般便可輕易測得整個流場中的速度變異，基於此一想法，第一套成
功將微流場進行 PIV 量測的方法便於 1998 年由 Meinhart 建置成功並稱之為 Micro-PIV[3]，
其利用採外部同軸投光之倒立式顯微鏡放大流場影像，汞弧燈作為連續光源，以直徑
d. 以各方向速度場之變化值計算壓力之殘質(Residual Pressure) 
e. 以壓力殘質計算各方向壓力之變化值 
f. 以殘值之變化作為收斂與否之判斷進行速度與壓力之計算迭代 
此一數值計算雖然快速正確，但在靠近曲面邊界時須進行數值之適應性調節(Boundary 
Fitting Regularization) ，必須採用 In-line mesh 以防止曲面邊界之發散及壓力(Pressure 
Waggle)震盪現象，Re<1000 之情況下演算至奈米尺度並且可處理異相界面之問題。 
2.FIT-FD Method 
Fit stands for Fractional Increment Treatment of curved boundaries in Finite Difference 
method 之方法基本上是以採用所謂的 in-line mesh 為主，在格點的處理基本上分成三個部
分，分別是曲線內部格點、接近曲線之鄰近點以及曲線與格點之真實切點；對於曲線內部
格點部分 FIT-FD 之處理方式與一般有限差分數值計算方法完全相同，採二階精準無特殊之
處，而在曲線與格點之真實切點部分則可直接利用幾何學直接求得，而真實格點處理之關
鍵在於接近曲線之鄰近點，因為唯有藉由此一鄰近點才可能找出曲線之真實位置，亦即曲
線與格點之截距，也就是說藉由此點的確立曲面邊界之各項物理參數才有可能得到，而其
位置之確立就是直接藉曲線內部格點與真實切點來作判斷，此三部分格點位置確立之後便
可開始計算各格點之物理參數如壓力、速度等。 
格點物理參數之確立也如同格點產生之計算方式分成三部分求解： 
在內部均勻格點部分可直接取用有限差分式以二階精準以 ACM 數值方法直接迭代求得，
而接近曲線之鄰近部分之求法亦涵蓋於內部點部分可順利解出；而重點在於曲面點之物理
參數求法，其必須仰賴前述已求得且之接近曲線鄰近點的物理參數與前段曲線與格點之截
距之先期解。從數學的角度出發已知量化值對與未知參數而言很短的變化截距內，未知值
均可以差分(Interpolated)輕易求得，基於此一方式曲面點之物理參數亦可藉截距距離與鄰近
點直接以分量方式分成切線(tangential)與法線(normal)兩分量差分分別求出，再合成，但此
一求值方法又牽扯到截距過短時會產生除零之無限大的問題，此一問題就仰賴以邏輯判斷
在允許誤差之內以鄰近點物理量取代曲面點之物理量的方法來解決! 
 
實驗流程與系統架設 
本研究所採之實驗設計與分析系統架構分述如下： 
A.非無塵室微機械元件製程： 
高分子模具翻製 PDMS 微流體元件之製作流程首先必須應用光硬化樹脂直接成形法
製作出高分子模具；爲有效降低製程費用與非於無塵室中完成操作，採用選用石英玻璃、
金屬或壓電陶瓷板片為底材板以扁狀塗嘴(slit nozzle)或旋轉塗佈法(spin coating)將光硬化
高分子塗於其表面，形成一固定厚度之高分子層，該厚度可藉由塗嘴(扁狀塗嘴)與玻板高度
作或轉速高低(spin coating)加以控制，此時再以如圖一所示之加工流程，依據數值模擬方法
所模擬設計出之元件外形尺寸以繪圖軟體繪製再經由人機介面驅動立體光罩掃描系統開始
以紫外光雷射進行熟化照射，其所形成之結構尺寸可由掃描雷射功率、掃描速度、樹脂硬
化特性加以決定，高分子熟化掃描完畢後將成型元件由基板卸下以酒精清洗並烘乾便做成
具微結構流體元件之高分子模具；然後直接將 PDMS(Polydimethylsiloxane)與硬化劑以 10:1
之比例混合在常壓下灌注入高分子模具內置於 50℃之熱烘箱中熟化 40 分鐘即可脱模得到
透明的結構層，進一步將 PDMS 結構層與玻璃置於 O2/RF Plasma 中處理活化一分鐘後直接
對合壓緊(約 4-5kg 重物壓置)保持兩分鐘即完成鍵合，便製成透明的 PDMS 微流體元件，
整個製程約在兩小時內就可完成，不但製程耗時短、費用便宜而且所有程序完全不需在無
塵室中即可製成微結構流體元件。 
 
B.微元件測試與 Micro-PIV 微流體量測系統數據量測分析 
在量測系統架設部份所需之設備包括：控制光源與攝影機做時序同步控制之多工時序
同步控制器、5000 FPS/512*512 pixels 超高速攝影機、10W/λ=736-1024 nm/CW/pulse 近外
外光雷射、550nm 單色光源以及運算控制軟體等，其系統架設如圖二所示；本研究之
Micro-PIV 微流體量測系統可做到之最高頻率之速度分佈解析時間已達 200μs/2500pairs，對
於微流道中的高速暫態流動分析取像毫無困難，由於所採用之照射雷射是不同於以往 PIV
 
結論 
本研究已成功將研製出之非無塵室微機械元件製程應用於具有商業價值之產業，
並成功建構出一新式廉價之 HF Micro-PIV(高頻微質點影像測速法)實驗裝置，針對以流
體為工作介質之生醫細胞分析晶片中的夾流渠道(cytometer fluid combine flow channel)
微流體元件為標的，進行實驗測試與高頻 Macro-PIV 數據量測，最後將實驗測試結果與
數值模擬進行比對應證，建立出標準實驗流程等技術數據，確實完成計畫執行預期之要
求。 
 
參考文獻 
 [1] R.J. Adrian, Particle-imaging techniques for experimental fluid mechanics, Ann Rev 
Fluid, 261-304 (1991) 
 [2] C.D. Meihart, A.K. Prasad, and R.J. Adrian, A parallel digital processor for particle 
image velocimetery, Meas. Sci. Technol., 619-626 (1993) 
[3] J.G. Santiago, S.T. Wereley, C.D. Meinhart, D.J. Beebe, and R.J. Adrian, A micro 
particle image velocimetry system, Exp. Fluids, 316-319 (1998) 
[4] C.D. Meinhart, S.T. Wereley, and J.G. Santiago, PIV Measurements of a 
microchannel flow, Exp. Fluids, 414-419 (1999) 
[5] D.C. Tretheway and C.D. Meinhart, Apparent fluid slip at hydrophobic 
microchannel walls, Phys. Fluids, L9-12 (2002) 
[6] Y. Sato, G. Irisawa, M. Ishizuka, K. Hishida, and M. Maeda, Visualization of 
convective mixing in microchannel by fluorescence imaging, Meas. Sci. Technol., 
114-121 (2003) 
[7] K. Shinohara, Y. Sugii, K. Okamoto,H. Madarame, A. Hibara, M. Tokeshi, and 
T.Kitamori, Measurement of pH field of chemically reacting flow in microfluidic 
devices by laser-induced fluoresence, Meas. Sci. Technol., 955-960 (2004) 
[8] Y. Sugii, S. Nishio, and K. Okamoto, In vivo PIV measurement of red blood cell 
velocity field in microvessels consindering mesentery motion, Physiol. Meas., 
403-416 (2002) 
[9]Y. Sugii and K. Okamoto, Quantitative visualization of micro-tube flow using 
micro-PIV, J. Vis., 9-16 (2004) 
[10]R. Okuda, Y. Sugii, and K. Okamoto, Velocity measurement of blood flow in a 
microtube using micro PIV system, Proc. PSFVIP-4 (Charmonix) (2003) 
[11] A. Aota, A. Hibara, K. Shinohara, Y. Sugii, K. Okamoto, and .T. Kitamori, Micro 
counter-current flow (Un-publish) (2004) 
[12] N.O.L. Viernes and J.S. Moore, Chemistry at liquid-liquid interfaces, Proc. m-TAS 
2003 (Squaw Valley) (2003) 
[13] K. Shinohara, Y. Sugii, A.Aota, A. Hibara, M. Tokeshi, T. Kitamori, and K. 
Okamoto, High-speed micro-PIV measurements of transient flow in microfluidic 
devices, Meas. Sci. and Technol., 1965-1970 (2004) 
 
 
 
 
High Frequency Micro PIV Measurement of Microfluidic Devices 
 
Keywords: Micro Fluidic Devices, Microscopic flow, 
Particle Image Velocimetry, High Frequency Micro-PIV 
 
Micro-fluidic devices have been applied to many kinds of chemical and biological 
operations. The devices have many specific advantages such as rapidity, effectiveness, and 
reduced consumption through the merits of scale, short diffusion distance, high surface tension, 
and interface-to-volume ratio. However, several researches have reported the physical 
phenomena in micro-fluidic devices, which disagreed with conventional fluid dynamics, for 
example, the various differences in flow patterns between micrometric and macrometric 
multi-phase flows, the characteristics of interfacial tension between miscible and immiscible 
liquid, and the presence of unbalanced shear stress between miscible liquids. It is very difficult 
to solve the dynamics by using conventional fluid theory. Therefore, experimental approaches 
to the study of microscopic flow in a bio-microelectromechanical system are very important 
and critical. 
To investigate the physical phenomena in micro-fluidic devices, the micro-particle image 
velocimetry(Micro-PIV)technique has been adopted. A novel high frequency micro-PIV has 
been applied to observe the flow fields of micro-cytometer and micro-nozzle. The high 
frequency micro-PIV experimental studies of microscopic flow have been compared with the 
results of numerical simulation in micro-scale fluidic devices. Base on the results of numerical 
simulation and experimental datum, the manufacturing technologies of micro-fluidic devices 
will be improved. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
附件:  
 
參與會議之台灣學者於會場前合影 
 
報告人於會場發表情況 
Wang et al.                                                                                                    
ISTP-16, 2005, Prague 
14  
silicon are complicated to fabricate, often 
requiring layer bonding process to incorporate 
glass substrates that provide an optical access 
for flow detection. Lee et al.12 claimed to have 
a novel design and micro-fabrication on an 
observable micro-machined flow cytometer, 
which consists of a polymethylmethacrylate 
(PMMA) flow chamber with shallow channel 
hot embossed by a quartz template directly. 
Hydrodynamic focusing is verified with the 
use of microscopic visualization of water 
sheath flows and dye-containing sample. The 
micro-fluidic cytometer has been illustrated in 
literatures.  
To investigate the fluidic transport in the 
micro-flow chamber, for convenience, most 
previous experimental studies used either a 
single fluid or two fluids with approximate 
matching properties; investigation of real 
biological fluid flow has not yet been reported. 
Furthermore, the relative sheath and sample 
flow ratio of mass flow rate play an important 
role on the accuracy of examine the 
availability of sample cells, and the reliability 
of devices. Consequently, the area of sorting 
sample flow that reaches a stable flow 
becomes a critical operative parameter. The 
present study, therefore, aims at exploring the 
phenomena in micro-fluidic cytometer; the 
micro-particle image velocimetry (μ-PIV) 
technique is applied13,14,15,16. A novel high 
frequency micro-PIV has been proposed for 
micro-fluidic cytometer. The high frequency 
micro-PIV experimental studies of 
microscopic flow will be compared with the 
results of high-efficient numerical simulation 
in micro-scale fluidic chamber.  
In order to mass fabricate cheap, 
disposable micro-fluidic chips, a different 
from traditional manufacturing method in 
micro flow chamber has been adopted by 
stereo-lithography and polymer curing 
methods. The scale in 10-300μm biological 
fluidic chips can be rapidly designed and 
fabricated at low cost using these processes. 
Base on the results of numerical simulation 
and experimental datum, the manufacturing 
technologies of micro-fluidic devices will be 
improved. 
2 Experimental Apparatus 
2.1 High Frequency Micro-PIV Setup 
For probing fluidic transport, a high 
frequency micro-PIV system was developed to 
measure micro sheath flow in a micro-fluidic 
chamber.  is shown in figure 1. The 
micro-fluidic chamber has three inlet ports, each 
connected to fluid supply system through a firm 
silicone tube. The sample and sheath fluid are 
driven by pressurized air and regulated by 
valves. A micro flow meter is used in measuring 
the flow rate. Zinc oxide particles(dp=500nm) 
with high reflectivity respecting infrared rays 
were used as tracer particles in all experiments. 
The particles are usually stored as suspensions 
in deionized water. However, the agglutinate 
substance occurred because of chemical activity 
under long time deposit, the experimental fluids 
needed to be carefully filtered. An IR CW/Pulse 
diode laser (736-1024 nm) beam was direct 
through a set of optical lens to illuminate the 
micro-fluidic chamber. The flow images were 
captured using a high-speed CMOS camera 
(512×512 pixels, 10-bit grayscale, and 5000 
frames/s) capable of recording 2500 pairs 
images via a zoom optical tube equipped with 
an epi-optical filter (λ ＞  850nm) and 
objective lens (M=80, NA=0.8). 
Following Inoue and Spring17, the 
depth-of-focus is expressed as δz =n0λ0/NA2+n0e
/(M×NA), where n0 is the refractive index of the 
immersion medium, λ0 is the wavelength of 
light imaged, e is the space between 
neighboring pixels of the camera, and NA and M 
are the numerical aperture and magnification of 
the objective lens, respectively. Meinhart et al.18 
derived the following expression for the 
depth-of-correlation: δzc = 
3n0λ0/NA2+2.16dp/(tanθ0)max＋dp, where dp is 
the particle size and θ0 is the small light 
collection angle. In the study, n0 was 1.3, λ0 was 
850nm, NA was 0.8, dp was 500 nm and tanθ0 
was 0.782. Therefore, the depth-of-correlation 
was calculated to be 7.1μm.  
2.2 High Speed Camera 
Wang et al.                                                                                                    
ISTP-16, 2005, Prague 
16  
(A) (B) (C) 
(A) (B) (C) 
(A)
(B)
(C)
Fig. 5 The experimental and numerical dimensionless 
velocity profiles correspond to position x/L at Y=75μm, 
130μm, and 250μm downstream from the channel 
branching point for the cases of the ratio of mass flow 
rate (A) φ = 0.5, (B) φ =1.0, and (C) φ =2.0. 
Fig.4 The velocity profile test in the downstream region via 
high frequency micro PIV for differential ratio of mass flow 
rate. (A) φ = 1.0, (B) φ =2.0, and (C) φ =0.5 
Fig. 3 Profiles of a sheath flow of around blood sample flow 
for differential ratio of mass flow rate φ = msample/msheath. (A) 
φ = 1.0, (B) φ = 2.0, and (C) φ = 0.5 
21 x
v
x
v
sheathsample ∂
∂=∂
∂ μμ  for interface  
In the outer sheath flow region: 
0=v  no slip condition in the wall 
12 x
v
x
v
samplesheath ∂
∂=∂
∂ μμ  for interface 
The momentum equations along with 
appropriate boundary conditions were solved 
numerically using finite difference method with 
ACM (Artificial Compressibility Method). 
To characterize fluid dynamic condition for 
stable hydrodynamic focusing in micro-scale 
fluidic chamber, we used ratio of mass flow rate 
(φ ), which was given by 
φ =m mass flow of sample / m mass flow of sheath 
Under conditions of constant outlet pressure, 
the width of the sample fluid in the observation 
channel could be adjusted by changing the 
sample flow rate, where slower flow rates gave 
blood streams with thinner widths (Figure 3). 
We maintained stable flows from the ratio of 
mass flow rate φ = 2.0 to 0.5, which yield 100 to 
25μm width sample streams. The ability to 
change the width of sample is useful for the 
analysis of different cells. 
Figure 4 shows the velocity profile test in the 
downstream region via high frequency micro 
PIV. After the two fluids join, the sheath fluid 
occupies a larger area and forces the sample 
fluid to move at a higher speed. High 
differentials in the velocity profile were found 
near the sample-sheath interface. The velocity 
vector distribution shows a cross flow pattern at 
plane where the two fluids join, but this 
cross-flow diminishes within a short distance 
downstream. The velocity develops rapidly in 
the streamwise direction, and the profile is 
typical of parabolic flow. Compare the 
experimental and numerical dimensionless 
velocity profiles Re=ρVL/υ, respectively where 
ρ is the density, υ is the viscosity, V is the 
velocity and L is the width between the channel 
wall and sample flow center, at Y=75μm, 
130μm, and 250μm downstream from the 
channel branching point for the cases of the 
ratio of mass flow rate φ = 0.5 to 2.0. In velocity 
profiles, shown in Figure 5, the dashed lines 
indicate the sample-sheath interface which is 
