2微銑削高硬度的元件材料時，容易導致刀
具快速的磨耗或斷裂，而造成工件品質不
佳導致加工成本的上揚。目前國內對於微
球銑削的技術資訊甚為有限，對於微球銑
削刀具的磨耗探討更為鮮少，若能針對微
球銑削刀具磨耗模式進行探究，以尋求控
制刀具磨耗速度的有效的因子，將能提升
加工的效益而降低製造的成本。
文獻中[4~6]常藉由觀察切削力的變
化，來反應刀具磨耗的狀況。在傳統銑削
加工中，切削條件都比微銑削大上許多，
犁切力佔總切削力的比例較小，幾可忽略
不計；在微銑削加工時則不然，犁切力的
比例明顯增加[7]。在其他研究中發現有效
負傾角會導致犁切而非剪切變形成為影響
切削力的主因[8、9]。Chae[1]針對較小之
切深及進給進行探討，均發現較大負傾角
的切削情形，導致犁切與工件回彈的現
象。Kim[10]亦發現，工件表面發生的彈性
回覆會造成軸向受力的顯著增大，同時也
會增加刀具的磨耗。
藉觀察微銑削刀具的尺寸大小，發現
刀具與加工條件間的相對尺寸大小與磨削
加工相近，加上刀具的負傾角效應亦與磨
粒的情形相仿。在陳政瑋[11]的論文中驗證
微 銑 削 的 切 削 行 為 與 磨 削 相 似 。
Rusnaldy[12]等人利用鑽石披覆刀具進行
微銑削實驗，在研究中提到當進給非常小
時，切削的行為與磨削加工相似。因此，
在微銑削加工的切削亦可利用磨削加工的
研究做進一步的探討。
刀具的磨耗往往會反應在切削力的變
化，切削力模型的探究必有助於微銑刀磨
耗行為的了解。本文的主要目的在於針對
高強度合金鋼的微球銑削加工，藉由探討
銑削力，來分析刀具磨耗的關鍵及其行為。
針對微銑刀的切削，若從幾何形狀及
尺寸尺度的角度來觀察，其行為與砂輪磨
削的磨粒切削相近，因此本文假設，磨削
力模型可用於描述微銑削切削力。針對磨
削力模型，Malkin[13]提出磨削的磨削力可
分解成切削及滑擦分量，若將磨削力模型
類比微球銑削的銑削力，則可將銑削力亦
可如是區分；至於銑削滑擦力與切削時的
壓應力相關，其大小由刀具與工件間之平
均銑削壓力 P 及有效刀具作用面積（Ae）
二者之乘積決定，其關係式如下，
eslt APF , (1)
其中μ是銑削力切線分量與法線分量之比
值。至於有效刀具作用面積（Ae），乃指
實際參與刀具滑擦的切屑面積；刀具因磨
耗而發生其幾何條件之改變等因子，導致
有效刀具作用面積的改變，而平均銑削壓
力 P 則是單位切屑面積的法線力。
就刀具磨耗行為而言，當刀具磨耗
時，必然增加了刀具與工件材料間的接觸
面積，而導致滑擦力的上揚。本文認為，
有效刀具作用面積是受到一所謂幾何滑擦
係數η(geometric sliding coeficient)的影
響，換言之，有效刀具作用面積（Ae）僅
止於部分切屑表面積（A），其間的比例係
數稱之為幾何滑擦係數，其關係式如下，
AAe  (2)
在其他各項要因均已決定時，滑擦力的改
變必然會改變幾何滑差係數的大小。至於
如何自銑削力中分離出滑擦力，則可藉由
能量的觀點來探討。
由於銑削時的比切削能( u )亦可將分
別作用於切屑的生成( uc ) 及刀具的滑擦效
應( usl )，
slc uuu  (3)
一般而言，比切削能常隨著切屑厚度
的增大而變小[14]，主因犁削力的影響往往
變得可以忽略。本文假設，透過銑削實驗
刻意將切屑的厚度逐漸增加，將導致比切
削能趨於定值的結果，以此作為銑削所需
的比切屑生成能(uc)。一旦比切屑生成能獲
得後，比滑擦能(usl)則將可自比切削能中加
以分離。再經由轉換後可獲得滑擦力。
銑削之切削機制為刀具旋轉犁入工件
時，工件承受刀具的剪切作用下形成切
屑，切屑隨刀面移動離開工件。但微銑削
的加工中，由於刀具變小後，刀刃與工件
間的相對尺寸大小相近，若能了解移除材
料時各參數對加工的影響，便能使用較佳
的參數進行有效率的材料移除加工。
泛觀切削文獻[3、4、5、6]之探討，常
以切削力、比切削的切削分析，用以評估
銑削刀具在進行材料移除時，加工參數對
4三、 結果與討論
針對微球銑削刀具磨耗之研究，本研
究進行二種實驗獲得數據並進行分析，分
別為比切削能與磨耗實驗。有關比切削能
實驗，實驗所採用的刀具是DIXI7032鎢鋼
(WC)球銑刀，試片材料則選用SKD11合金
工具鋼，實驗條件如表一。實驗以槽銑進
行，在每加工長度達20mm時進行數據的擷
取，包含三軸向銑削力及刀腹的磨耗。
有關磨耗實驗，亦使用相同的刀具及
工件，但僅選取前一實驗中的五組條件進
行實驗，進行方式與數據擷取皆與比切削
能實驗相同，其實驗條件如表二所示。本
文設定當切削深度為 0.1mm 以上時，取累
積的體積移除量達 10mm3，而切削深度較
小之組別，取累積的體積移除量達 5mm3
時為磨耗實驗的終止時機。
實驗結束後，藉實驗所獲得之三軸向
銑削力，經轉換成切線力後再計算得加工
時的比切削能，並依各組加工條件之最大
切屑厚度所對應的比切削能，繪製如圖一
所示。依先前假設，比切削能會隨最大切
屑厚度之增加而漸減，且其減少的幅度會
漸趨緩而趨於一定值；由圖一的觀察得
知，比切削能的變化確是如此。透過曲線
配適，獲得本實驗之比切屑生成能為 3.0
J/mm3。圖中亦發現，當最大切屑厚度小於
5μm時，比切削能快速上升，由實驗所採
用之微球銑刀其刃口半徑為 4–5μm，此現
象與 keong[15]所提出的理論一致。藉由上
述結果，可因而分離比滑擦能，於是可藉
之而推得銑削時的滑擦力。
利用分離而得的滑擦力及切線法線銑
削力，則可推算出對應之幾何滑擦係數。
將幾何滑擦係數相對於最大切屑厚度並繪
製如圖二。由圖可發現，最大切屑厚度愈
小時，幾何滑擦係數的值愈高；主因是當
最大切屑厚度愈小時，刀刃與工件間的接
觸面積變大，導致滑擦力的比例增加。
刀具在銑削過程中隨著加工時間的持
續，幾何滑擦係數會隨著銑削的時間持續
產生變化。如前所述，實驗中切削力的擷
取是從新刀具的加工開始，直至實驗結
束，而幾何滑擦係數隨之進行估算。將五
組磨耗實驗的幾何滑擦係數與體積移除量
之對應關係繪製如圖三。由圖可知，當最
大切屑厚度愈小，對應之初始幾何滑擦係
數愈大，隨著加工的持續進行，幾何滑擦
係數曲線緩慢地上升。反之亦然，最大切
屑厚度愈大，其初始幾何滑擦係數值較
小，幾何滑擦係數曲線亦緩慢增長，大部
分的曲線皆如此，除了初始幾何滑擦係數
最小的曲線。原因如下，切削時較小的最
大切屑厚度，所需要的機械能較少，反之
亦然。較大的最大切屑厚度會導致刀具與
切屑間的快速接觸，從幾何滑擦係數曲線
中可看出其具有較大斜率。
四、 計畫成果自評
本研究主要目的在於探究刀具磨耗的
關鍵因子與磨耗行為，以期深入了解微球
銑削的刀具磨耗。藉由比切削能的計算來
判定磨削力模型可否類比於微球銑削力模
型，進而探索幾何滑擦係數的關鍵變因，
並得到以下結論：
1. 本文提出以磨削理論來描述微銑削的
切削力變化，藉由理論的分析提出影響刀
具磨耗的關鍵因子，將之為幾何滑擦係
數，文中並利用幾何滑擦係數來描述刀具
磨耗的變化。由實驗結果證實，幾何滑擦
係數確實可描述刀具磨耗的狀況。
2. 幾何滑擦係數的大小由加工條件決
定，隨體積移除量的累進而增加，亦隨之
產生不同的變化。透過加工參數的觀察得
知，進給速率、刀徑與幾何滑差係數成反
比；與切削速度及深度成正比，其中以每
刃進給的大小對幾何滑擦係數的影響最為
重要。
根據實驗的結果得知，比切削能隨著最大
切屑厚度的增加而趨於一定值，當最大切
屑厚度越小時，大部份的能量皆消耗在無
法生成切屑之摩擦上。
如前所述，實驗中每加工固定長度後
便進行刀腹磨耗的量測，刀腹磨耗與體積
移除量之關係繪製如圖四。由圖可知，刀
6圖二 幾何滑擦係數與最大切屑厚度之趨
勢圖。
圖三 幾何滑擦係數隨體積移除量之關係
圖。
圖四 刀腹磨耗隨體積移除量之關係圖。
表一 比切削能實驗參數配置表
刀具直徑：d(mm) 0.5 ~ 6
切 削 線 速 度 ：
t(m/min)
21.98 ~
237.38
每刃進給： fz(μm/per
teeth)
2 ~30
切削深度：ap(mm) 0.05 ~0.3
表二 微球銑削磨耗實驗參數配置表
組
別
刀具
直徑
d(m
主軸轉速
S(rpm)
每刃
進給
fz(μm)
切深
ap(mm)
最大切屑
厚度
ac(mm)
1 0.5 18000 2 0.05 0.0013
2 0.5 18000 2 0.14 0.0021
3 0.5 18000 5 0.05 0.0032
4 0.5 18000 5 0.1 0.0045
5 0.5 18000 8 0.14 0.0085
8附件一：出席國際學術會議心得報告
出國報告
10/27 - 10/29/2009 赴馬來西亞參加
The International Conference on
Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies (AMPT 2009)
高雄第一科技大學機械與自動化系 邱能信
11/02/2009
一、 參加研討會經過
2009 年之 AMPT(Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies) 研討
會，於今年(2009)的 10 月 27 日至 10 月 29 日，在馬來西亞吉隆坡市的 Legend
Hotel 盛大舉行。本次研討會，由馬來西亞國際伊斯拉米大學（International
Islamic University Malaysia）主辦，共有來自各國的學者與會，發表了超過 560
篇以上的專業論文；大會同時並邀請了世界著名的專業學者進行專題報告，包
含來自法國的 Emin Bayraktar 教授、新加坡的 Mustafizur Rahman 教授、英國的
Francisco Chinesta 教授、及度的 Bekir Sami Yilbas 教授等人。所發表的論文涵
蓋了多項工程相關的領域，分別是：金屬成形、鑄造、材料工程、料移除製程、
高能量束製程、精密工程與奈米科技、表面工程、電腦輔助工程、及綠色製造
與管理等。
此次會議本人所發表的論文，題目為：“Study of Tool Wear for
Micro-Ball-End Milling Process”，在論文發表後，有部份學者提出討論意見，
但未見交鋒。在研討會大會入口處及論文發表時的情景，可參見後附的圖一及
圖二。本次研討會，來自國內的學者亦不在少數，涵蓋台大、中央、中山大學、
台科大、清大、勤益科大、虎尾科大、及本校的學者等約四十餘人，尚可謂群
雄群聚一堂。在最後一天的學者結束發表後，眾人紛紛返回國內，於是熱鬧的
場面終告一個段落。
研討會結束後，主辦單位會將通過同儕審查(Peer Review)的論文送交以下
期刊，考慮付予送印刊登：Journal of Achievements in Materials and Manufacturing
Engineering、Journal of Mechanical Science and Technology、International Journal
of Mechanical Sciences、Surface and Coatings Technology、The International Journal
of Material Forming 等。
10
圖一、在研討會大會入口處的留影
圖二、論文發表時的情景
Materials and Manufacturing Engineering、Journal of Mechanical Science
and Technology、International Journal of Mechanical Sciences、Surface
and Coatings Technology、The International Journal of Material Forming
等。
二、 與會心得
參加國際學術研討會，對於以研究工作為職志的學者而言，實在
是相當難能可貴的經驗，除了能與來自各國的學者進行交流、在各方
面相互討論與意見交換外，並可廣結人緣同時認識各國的文化，最重
要的是能了解當前國際科技的研究與發展方向，以利擬訂後續的研究
方向與範圍，值得持續的參與努力，國內亦應鼓勵所有的學者能夠多
多的參與。
三、 建議事項
藉國科會經費參與國際學術研討會，往往限制所搭乘的航班必須
是來自國籍的航空公司，雖然可藉由申請而改搭他國航空公司的航
班，然而畢竟在出發及返國的時間，在行程的安排上，容易出現諸多
的限制，而導致時間上的浪費，頗有得不償失之意。因此建議有關單
位，不再予以出國學者任何的限制，相信學者會善用總額管制（核定
經費），而採取最佳的安排。
四、 攜回資料
1. 大會論文發表日程及論文摘要集各一冊。
2. 已被接受發表之論文全文。
五、 其他
無。
STUDY OF TOOL WEAR FOR MICRO-BALL-END MILLING PROCESS 
 
Neng-Hsin Chiu and Nai-Kang Liu 
 
Department of Mechanical and Automation Engineering 
National Kaohsiung 1
st
 University of Science and Technology 
email: nchiu@ccms.nkfust.edu.tw 
 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Due to increase demand on the micro-meso component for miniaturized product, micro-
meso machining technique has gained strong interest in the past decade.  Micro-ball-end-milling 
(MBEM) process can be used to generate complex curve surface and quickly remove work 
material with sufficient precision under low cost.  However, tool wear decreases the machining 
efficiency and the process quality.  Without effective control of tool wear, the process is not 
economical.  Realizing the behavior of tool wear in an MBEM process is then critical.  Concept 
of geometric sliding coefficient (GSC) defined as the fraction of tool-chip contacted area due to 
friction was proposed to describe the status of tool wear.  Experiment was performed in the study 
to collect milling force data for the estimation of GSC.  The GSC was found to be proportional to 
the measured tool frank wear (VB) under experimental conditions.  Dimensionless analysis for 
GSC was also performed with two parameters, including machining conditions related parameter 
Km and time related parameter Kt.  A mathematical relation with Kt and Km was thus constructed 
for the GSC such that GSC can be used as an effective reference for the status of tool wear of an 
MBEM process. 
 
KEYWORDS: Geometric sliding coefficient, Grinding, Micro-ball-end-milling, Tool wear 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Due to increase demand on the micro-meso component for miniaturized product, micro-
meso machining technique has gained strong interest in the past decade.  Micro-milling is one of 
the main mechanical machining processes for components with micro-meso characteristics, in 
terms of geometry and dimension.  The milling operation utilizing micro-ball-end milling 
(MBEM) cutter aided with CNC controller can generate curved surface with 3-D feature.  The 
application of this process is especially important in producing components for micro mold and 
die.  
Typically, the diameter of an MBEM cutter is in the order less than 1mm and larger than 
50 µm.  When machining strengthened alloy with an MBEM cutter, the tool wears fast with the 
form [1,2] of rake face wear, flank wear, chipping, and so on.  Usually the width increase of 
flank wear land is used as an indication for tool life.  Machining with worn tool would impair the 
surface finish and machining accuracy; hence the machining cost increases accordingly.  The life 
for an MBEM cutter is ususally short since the amount of tool material allowed to be worn is less 
than that for a conventional tool in terms of total material removal volume.  The geometric 
accuracy of the machined workpiece [3] was found to deteriorate fairly quickly when a high 
strength alloy was micro-milled.   Realization of the state variation of a worn tool for an MBEM 
cutter is therefore critical for the development of a micro-milling process. 
 2. MILLING VS. GRINDING FORCE 
 
When compared the scale of material removal among different machining process, the 
cutting condition in an MBEM process is similar to that removed by the abrasive grain in 
grinding, as can be seen in Fig. 2.  Usually the analysis of grinding is done via observing the 
abrasion process of a single grain from grinding wheel surface [17].  By analogy, it can be 
inferred that the material removal mechanism of an MBEM process be similar to grinding 
process.  It was then decided in this study that the milling force model of an MBEM cutter be 
borrowed from grinding related theory. The grinding force model proposed by Malkin [17] 
suggests that the tangential tool force (Ft ) from material removal can be considered to consist of 
cutting (Ft,c) and sliding components(Ft,sl ), or 
 
sltctt FFF ,, +=       (1) 
 
Fig. 2 Material removal of grinding vs. micro-milling 
 
 
The cutting component is mainly responsible for material removal to generate cutting chip, 
while the sliding force is due to tool rubbing against the work surface and the chip over the tool 
rake.  From the model, the tangential sliding force is proportional to the average contact 
pressure P acting over portion of the tool/chip contact area (A), named as the active area of 
sliding contact (Ae).  It is thus suggested that the sliding component of the tangential force for 
micro-milling has the form, 
eslt APF µ=,         (2) 
where µ is the force ratio of tangential to normal force components.  The tool-chip contact area 
mentioned above includes the area of the chip contacted to the tool rake, work surface contacted 
to tool frank, and the material wrapped around tool nose.  The active area of sliding contact (Ae ) 
is simply the fraction of the tool-chip contact that is contributed to the sliding friction of the tool, 
and this fraction is determined by a geometric sliding coefficient (η ), such that, 
AAe η=         (3) 
The sliding force is induced due to friction between tool and work and is not directly 
related to work material removal during the process.  As can be imagined, the more the tool 
wears the more the sliding force, and therefore the more the fraction of tool-chip contact for 
sliding.  It is thereby proposed here that geometric sliding coefficient (GSC) be used to describe 
the state of tool wear for an MBEM process.  Besides, GSC should be inversely proportional to 
the process efficiency since more consumption of sliding energy would decrease the machining 
efficiency.  Therefore GSC was then used to investigate tool wear for the process as well as an 
indicator for the process efficiency in this study. 
 
 4. MBEM EXPERIMENT 
 
Two MBEM experiments were performed for the purpose of observing tool wear with 
respect to GSC under experimental conditions.  The first experiment was to obtain the specific 
cutting energy for the given tool and work material.  In this experiment, the MBEM cutter made 
of tungsten carbide has a tool diameter of 0.5 mm and tool nose radius of 4 µm.  The material 
of the specimen was a typical mold material, SKD 11, with surface hardness heat treated to 50 
HRC.  The experiment was done in a machining center with maximum spindle speed up to 
20000 rpm.  The experimental variables include cutting speed, feed, and depth of cut, as is in 
Table 1.  During the experiment, three axial milling forces were collected at every 30 mm of 
cutting length.  Tool force was measured with a Kistle9257 force dynamometer using a 
sampling frequency of 20 kHz by a computer acquisition system.  After the data was collected, 
the tool was then retracted, temporally arrested, reset with the subsequent milling condition, 
and continued the experiment. 
 
Table 1 Experimental milling conditions 
Cutting speed: vt (m/min) 21 ~ 230 
Feed per tooth: fz (µm) 2 ~8 
Cutting depth: ap (mm) 0.05 ~ 0.3 
MUCT: ac (µm) 1.5 ~ 12.5 
Tool edge radius (µm) 4 
 
As for the second experiment, its purpose was to observe the progress of tool wear with 
flank wear land (VB), together with the evaluated GSC from the measured tool force.  In the 
experiment, the same tool and work material were used, while only 5 sets of milling tests were 
performed.  The conditions are shown in Table 2.  The experiment was designed to repeatedly 
collect the force data whenever the milling test reached the designated cutting length (30 mm).  
Afterward the cutter was unloaded and the flank wear (VB) was measured.  The cutter was then 
reloaded to perform the subsequent machining repeatedly until either total machining distance 
has reached the preset value or the tool was broken. 
 
Table 2 Machining conditions for the tool-wear experiment 
sets 
feed per tooth, 
fz(µm ) 
cutting depth, 
ap(mm) 
MUCT,  
ac(mm) 
1 2 0.05 0.0013  
2 2 0.14 0.0021  
3 5 0.05 0.0032  
4 5 0.1 0.0045  
5 8 0.14 0.0085 
 
 
5. RESULT AND DISCUSSION 
 
As the two experiments were finished, data was collected and analyzed.  The specific 
milling energy calculated from the acquired milling force was plotted in Fig. 4, and is found to 
vary inversely with MUCT.  When MUCT is larger than 10 µm the SME slowly decreases and 
 Fig.5 Geometric sliding coefficient vs. MUCT for the SME experiment 
 
 
Fig. 6 Geometric sliding coefficient vs. accumulated material removal volume 
 
 
Fig. 7 Measured flank wear (VB) vs. accumulated volumetric removal volume 
 (d) ac = 45 µm 
 
(e) ac = 85 µm 
Fig. 8 Width of flank wear (VB) vs. geometric sliding coefficient (η) for different machining 
conditions (a) ~ (e) 
 
 
Dimensionless analysis was performed for the collected GSC from the experiment.  As is 
known from literature, machining conditions and accumulated volumetric removal are the two 
major factors determining tool wear.  Two dimensionless parameters were proposed for the 
analysis: one is related to the machining conditions, Km, and the other the machining 
accumulated duration, Kt.  Km is defined as the ratio of MUCT to tool diameter such that the 
analysis is not confined to tool size.  Kt is the ratio of accumulated volumetric removal (ΣQw) to 
chip volume per tooth (Qe ).  Kt and Km has the form, 
e
w
t
Q
Q
K
∑
=  and 
t
c
m
d
a
K =      (6) 
GSC data was then fitted to Kt and Km with a polynomial function.  The result leads to a close fit 
with the fitted statistics R
2
 = 0.97.  Kt and Km are then taken as the factors for GSC.  The fitted 
surface is plotted in Fig. 9 with the form, 
93.099.0
0043.00224.094.0 tm KK +−=η     (7) 
