I 
摘要 
本報告主要探討多封包接收（MPR）無線網路之上鏈媒體存取控制（MAC）協定設計，
藉由一個簡單的旗標位元機制，吾人提出適用於多封包接收無線網路之多群優先佇列
（MGPQ）媒體存取控制協定。多群優先佇列協定能夠克服現今多封包接收媒體存取控制協
定設計的兩大瓶頸。首先，此法避免使用複雜的使用者狀態估測演算法，而依據封包接收狀
況自動排序出使用者的可能活躍程度，進而大幅降低演算複雜度；其次，遷就使用者狀態估
測演算法所加諸於使用者的封包阻絕（blocking）限制也隨之解除。因此，多群優先佇列協定
不僅可以適用於異質使用者的環境，同時性能也優於現今的多封包接收媒體存取控制協定。
模擬數據顯示，相對於常見的動態佇列（DQ）媒體存取控制協定，多群優先佇列協定最多可
以提昇40%的系統吞吐量，平均而言，也有14%的改善。本報告接著將同質（homogeneous）
通道的假設推廣為異質（heterogeneous）通道環境。 
協力式的媒體存取控制協定在多封包接收無線網路的設計上為一具挑戰性的議題，也尚
未見諸於文獻上；吾人提出協力式多群優先佇列（CMGP），以利用空間多樣性（diversity）
來提昇系統吞吐量，並利用使用者空閒（idle）的時間作封包的中繼傳輸，因此沒有一般中繼
方式造成部分使用者吞吐量下降的缺點。此外，吾人也以馬可夫鍊（Markov Chain）針對最
差情況作分析，推導出直接傳輸受到中繼傳輸干擾所引起的吞吐量損失上界，及中繼傳輸對
失敗傳輸所提供的吞吐量增益下界。藉由上述推導的封閉解，吾人將可以直接經由實體層的
多封包接收矩陣，計算協力式多群優先佇列的吞吐量性能。 
無線通道不可避免地受到各種衰落（fading）而惡化，儘管吾人可利用以機率密度函數為
基礎的統計量，例如蜂巢邊緣可靠度、蜂巢區域可靠度等來量測其影響，但實際上由於傳統
的多封包接收媒體存取控制協定必須分配通道資源給每一使用者，因此單一個具有較差通道
狀況的使用者都可造成整個系統吞吐量的惡化。本論文最後從系統吞吐量最佳化的觀點，提
出基於流量的動態使用者集合（DUST）演算法，進一步改善整體系統吞吐量並已模擬加以驗
證。 
 
III 
Abstract 
This report focuses on the medium access control (MAC) protocol design for the uplink of 
wireless networks with multi-packet reception (MPR) capability. Relying on a simple flag-assisted 
mechanism, a multi-group priority queueing (MGPQ) MAC protocol is proposed. The proposed 
MGPQ scheme is capable of overcoming two major performance bottlenecks inherent in the 
existing MPR MAC protocols. First, the proposed solution can automatically produce the list of 
active users by observing the network traffic conditions, remove the need of active user estimation 
algorithm, and thus can largely reduce the algorithm complexity. Second, the packet blocking 
constraint imposed on the active users for keeping compliant with prediction is relaxed. As a result, 
the proposed MGPQ is not only applicable to both homogeneous and heterogeneous (in traffic) 
cases, but also outperforms the existing MPR MAC protocols. Simulation results show that the 
network throughput can be improved by 40% maximum and 14% average as compared with the 
well-known dynamic queue (DQ) MAC protocol. 
Subsequently the homogeneous channel is generalized into heterogeneous channel. MAC 
protocol design for cooperative networks over MPR channels is a challenging topic, but has not 
been addressed in the literature yet. In this report, we propose a cooperative multi-group priority 
(CMGP) based MAC protocol to exploit the cooperation diversity for throughput enhancement over 
MPR channels. The proposed approach can bypass the computationally-intensive active user 
identification process. Moreover, our method can efficiently utilize the idle periods for packet 
relaying, and can thus effectively limit the throughput loss resulting from the relay phase. By means 
of a Markov chain model, the worst-case throughput analysis is conducted. Specifically, we derive 
(i) a closed-form upper bound for the throughput penalty of the direct link that is caused by the 
interference of concurrent packet relay transmission; (ii) a closed-form lower bound for the 
throughput gain that a user with packet transmission failure can benefit thanks to cooperative packet 
relaying. The results allow us to investigate the throughput performance of the proposed CMGP 
1 
Chapter 1  
Introduction 
In this introductory chapter, some background materials about medium access control (MAC) in 
uplink/downlink transmissions, multi-packet reception (MPR), and adaptive modulation and coding 
(AMC) mechanism are presented. What follow up are the literature survey, contributions and an 
overview of this report. 
1.1 Basics of MAC 
Multiple access is a technique used to make best use of the transmission medium. In multiple 
access, multiple terminals or users share the bandwidth of the transmission medium. An efficient 
MAC mechanism is characterized by high throughput and low delay. A major concern in a MAC 
protocol is to decide which users are allowed to participate in each simultaneous transmission. 
Specifically, the MAC protocol may need to restrict the number of simultaneous transmissions in 
order to provide service to each user with acceptable quality.  
A centralized network typically involves two-side communications, namely, downlink and uplink. 
The former is the transmission from the central controller (CC) to users, and the latter is the 
transmission from users to the CC. As all the packets of downlink are stored at the buffer of the CC, 
MAC can easily exploit the MPR capability of physical (PHY) layer due to the full knowledge 
about the packet status for all users. Nevertheless, there must be some specially designed 
mechanism for scheduling the uplink transmission due to the lack of full knowledge about the status 
of users’ buffers in which the packets are stored as shown in Fig. 1.1. We will focus on the uplink in 
this report. 
3 
separated in the frequency domain. In a code-division multiple-access (CDMA) system, users 
transmit data simultaneously in both time and frequency domains, but are separated in the “code” 
domain. Traditionally, the design of MAC protocols is based on the so-called collision channel 
model, that is, a transmitted packet is successfully received only when no concurrent transmission 
occurs. Such a paradigm, however, ignores the MPR capability at the PHY layer, for example, 
FDMA, orthogonal FDMA (OFDMA), CDMA, and multiuser detection [18]. 
1.3 Related Literature Review 
Recently MAC protocols with the MPR capability draw increasing attention. Several proposals 
have been reported in the literatures. An initial attempt to reflect the MPR facility is the channel 
model with capture effect characterized via the probability of successful reception [17]. The impact 
of capture effects on various existing MAC protocols such as slotted ALOHA, and FCFS has been 
addressed in [8][29][1]. However, the capture model overall remains a simplified representation of 
the actual channel characteristics and does not explicitly account for the MPR capability. This thus 
motivates the development of more realistic MPR channel model [7], based on which several MAC 
protocols have been proposed for realizing various system-wide performance requirements. The 
multiqueue service room (MQSR) protocol [27] is, to the best of our knowledge, the first proposal 
which relies on the MPR model [7] for user scheduling. It calls for active user prediction via an 
exhaustive search over all the available network-traffic and PHY layer channel capacity information 
up to the current slot. However, as the total number of users increases, the number of search states 
grows exponentially thereby incurring high-computational complexity. Moreover, the transmission 
of the newly generated packets of selected users is not allowed in order to maintain the active user 
prediction determined via the previous network traffic, inevitably resulting in throughput 
degradation. The dynamic queue (DQ) protocol introduced in [28] delivers a large portion of 
performance gain attained by MQSR solution but at reduced complexity. By viewing the traffic as a 
flow of transmission periods (TP), the DQ protocol otherwise aims for minimization of the expected 
5 
 
Fig. 1.2 Category of MAC. 
 
exploit the MPR capability at the PHY layer [7][8][17][19][20][29]. Toward more efficient 
solutions, one promising approach is thus to further take the MPR advantage into consideration so 
as to gain full benefits from the PHY-layer processing. 
1.4 Basics of AMC 
Due to the enhancement of the spectral efficiency and link robustness, adaptive modulation 
and coding (AMC) has been widely adopted as an efficient technique in the PHY layer of several 
standards [31-32]. Traditionally, AMC refers to the concept of adjusting modulation order and 
coding rate dynamically to different channel conditions. When the channel is good, higher-order 
modulation and higher coding rate are used; when channel is bad, robust but less efficient 
lower-order modulation and lower coding rate are chosen. In [33], an AMC link adaptation 
algorithm that adjusts transmission parameters such as rate and power over time-varying channels is 
proposed to improve the system performance. Recently, many cross-layer designs about analyzing 
7 
is to avoid unfair scheduling that can occur in a binary grouping strategy. (If there are merely 
two groups, users in the STANDBY group would suffer an unlimited service delay since the 
channels could be constantly reserved for some ACTIVE links with heavy traffic.) With the 
trigroup user classification scheme, the priorities of service (from high to low, respectively) are 
PREM, ACTIVE, and STANDBY. The proposed method integrates the deterministic 
knowledge of those users in the ACTIVE group and the estimated states of those users in the 
STANDBY group to derive the optimal waiting period for the PREM group. 
3. Through a Markov chain model of the proposed protocol and an associated analysis of the 
steady-state transition probabilities, we propose a method for determining the optimal waiting 
period, subject to the constraint that a uniform mean delay requirement among all users must 
be met. 
4. In the proposed scheme, the number of users permitted for channel access is deterministically 
set to be that attaining the MPR channel capacity. This prevents the channel from being 
overloaded and hence avoids irrecoverable packet collision in a heavy traffic environment. 
B. MPR MAC in heterogeneous channels 
1. The proposed protocol is, to our best knowledge, the first cooperative MPR MAC scheme. It is 
free from any assumptions on the channel and is applicable to the general heterogeneous 
environment [26]. 
2. The number of users permitted for channel access is deterministically set to attain the MPR 
channel capacity. This prevents the channel from being over-loaded, thereby avoiding 
irrecoverable packet failure due to collisions. 
3. Based on the Markov chain model, the throughput performance in the worst-case scenario is 
analytically characterized. Specifically, we derive 1) a closed-form upper bound for the 
throughput penalty of the direct-link user that is incurred by the interference of relay packet 
9 
1.6 Organization of Report 
The remaining of this thesis is organized as follows. 
In Chapter 2, relying on a simple flag-assisted mechanism, a multi-group priority queueing 
(MGPQ) MAC protocol is proposed for the wireless networks with MPR. The proposed MGPQ 
scheme is capable of overcoming two major performance bottlenecks inherent in the existing MPR 
MAC protocols. First, the proposed solution can automatically produce the list of active users by 
observing the network traffic conditions, remove the need of active user estimation algorithm, and 
thus can largely reduce the algorithm complexity. Second, the packet blocking constraint imposed 
on the active users for keeping compliant with prediction is relaxed. As a result, the proposed 
MGPQ is not only applicable to both homogeneous and heterogeneous (in packet generating 
probabilities) cases, but also outperforms the existing MPR MAC protocols. Simulation results 
show that the network throughput can be improved by 40% maximum and 14% average as 
compared with the well-known DQ MAC protocol. 
Chapter 3 generalizes the homogeneous channel into heterogeneous channel. MAC protocol 
design for cooperative networks over MPR channels is a challenging topic, but has not been 
addressed in the literature yet. In this chapter, we propose a CMGP based MAC protocol to exploit 
the cooperation diversity for throughput enhancement over MPR channels. The proposed approach 
can bypass the computationally-intensive active user identification process. Moreover, our method 
can efficiently utilize the idle periods for packet relaying, and can thus effectively limit the 
throughput loss resulting from the relay phase. By means of a Markov chain model, the worst-case 
throughput analysis is conducted. Specifically, we derive 1) a closed-form upper bound for the 
throughput penalty of the direct link that is caused by the interference of concurrent packet relay 
transmission; 2) a closed-form lower bound for the throughput gain that a user with packet 
transmission failure can benefit thanks to cooperative packet relaying. The results allow us to 
11 
Chapter 2  
Multipacket Reception MAC Design in Homogeneous 
Channels 
2.1 Overview 
In this chapter, we propose a new approach to design the MAC protocol for wireless networks 
with MPR capability. The proposed approach relies on the flag-bit assisted knowledge about the 
presence of buffered packets as well as a priority user grouping strategy. The distinctive advantage 
of the proposed method is three-fold: 1) it is applicable to both the homogeneous and heterogeneous 
environments (in traffic), whereas almost all existing protocols developed for the MPR channel are 
exclusively tailored for the former case; 2) the insertion of a single bit facilitates the acquisition of 
network traffic condition with minimal bandwidth expansion; 3) the adopted user grouping policy 
avoids computationally-intensive search for the active user set as required in the existing protocols. 
To prevent an infinitely long service delay the waiting period of those yet-to-be-served users can be 
determined subject to a specified delay requirement. Simulation results show that, compared with 
the DQ protocol, the proposed scheme yields improved throughput, reduces the average delay 
penalty when the traffic condition is light, and yields a smaller packet loss ratio (PLR). 
 System Model 
 System Description 
In the proposed system model, all accesses to the common wireless channel are controlled by the 
CC. At the beginning of each slot, the CC broadcasts an access set to inform the users who are 
allowed to access the channel in the current slot. Upon reception, the CC acknowledges the users 
whose packets are successfully received. Users who transmit packets but do not receive the 
acknowledgments assume their packets are lost, and will retransmit whenever they are enabled. At 
13 
 
Fig. 2.1 An illustrative example of MGPQ with four users. 
be the minimum amount of capacity-achieving packets. Hence the maximal number of users 
permitted to access the channel should be 0n , since there will be no further improvement in system 
capacity if more than 0n  users are simultaneously served. Note that the MPR matrix (1) can be 
determined via the physical layer performance metric such as bit error rate; an illustrative example 
based on CDMA communication can be found in [28]. 
2.3 Multi-Group Priority Queueing Protocol 
2.3.1 An Illustrative Example 
Fig. 2.1 shows an illustrative example for the proposed MGPQ protocol, where the total number 
of users is M = 4 and 0n = 2 users are selected to simultaneously access the channel. In MGPQ, all 
users are classified into three different priority groups (PREM, ACTIVE, and STANDBY). The 
condition of the user i  is summarized in a tag as shown in Fig. 2.1(a), in which the first field 
represents user ID, second field is the count of waiting slots, third field marks the on/off status of 
15 
Table 2.1 Transition conditions among three different priority groups. 
 
2.3.2 Proposed MGPQ Algorithm 
The proposed MGPQ protocol is now stated as follows, and the resulting state transition 
conditions are summarized in Table 2.1.  
(I)  Put all users into the PREM group.  
(II)  Select first 0n  users (by the order of PREM, ACTIVE, and then STANDBY group) to 
access the channel.  
(a)  If the packet of a certain user is received successfully, then put the user to the tail of the 
ACTIVE (if the flag-bit is on) or STANDBY group (if the flag-bit is off). And reset its 
count of waiting slots to zero.  
(b)  If, for a certain user, the buffer is empty (no packet sent) or there is packet transmitted 
but not successfully received, and then put the user back to the tail of the STANDBY or 
ACTIVE group in which the user originally stayed.  
(III) Increase waiting slots of all users by one.  
(IV) Move those users with waiting slots equal to S  to the PREM group.  
17 
 max≤kt kt ,  (2.4)  
 where 
, if 
, if 
0 0
max
0
1
⎧⎡ ⎤⎪⎪⎢ ⎥ ≤ ≤⎪⎪⎢ ⎥⎪⎢ ⎥= ⎨⎪⎪ < <∞⎪⎪⎪⎪⎩
M M
S
n n
t
M
S S
n
,  (2.5) 
and S  is the waiting period.    
Based on the above two lemmas, the following theorem can be sustained. 
Theorem 2.1 The mean worst-case delay [ ]maxE d  satisfies  
 [ ] 1 1max max
0
− −≤ + <∞ME d t
n
δ δ .  (2.6) 
   
Proof: The mean worst-case delay can be expressed as [ ] [ ] [ ]max 1 2= +E d E d E d , where [ ]1E d  
and [ ]2E d  are the averaged delays upon which the first and the second packets associated with the 
last-to-be-served user are successfully received, respectively. We first observe that  
 
[ ] { }
{ }
( ) ( ){ }
( )
Pr 1st packet successfully received in the th round
Pr 1st packet successfully received in the th round
1
1
max
1
2
max
1
max
1
1
max
2 1 3 1
1
.
∞
=
∞
=
∞ −
=
−
=
≤
≤ + − + − +
= −
=
∑
∑
∑
"
k
k
k
ms ms ms ms ms
k
ms ms
k
ms
E d t k
t k k
t p p p p p
t kp p
t p
  (2.7)  
We note that the considered user will be moved to the ACTIVE group when the first packet is 
successfully received. In the worst-case, 2d  will incur when all the M  users are in the ACTIVE 
group. Therefore, the CC will assign users to access the channel in a round-robin way, and the 
average time slots elapsed per service round is thus 
0
M
n
. Thus, it is implied that  
19 
waiting period S , the more likely the users in the PREM group have packets to send. As a result, 
S  should be kept as large as possible. However, the unlimited increase in S  may incur severe 
delay penalty. Particularly if →∞S , the transition from STANDBY to PREM is prevented and 
the proposed trigroup priority queuing protocol degenerates into a bigroup scheme. To determine an 
S  for striking a balance between large ip  and small delay, we propose to seek the optimal optS  
with which the following set of constraints on the mean delay per user is satisfied: 
 ( ) ≤i rD S D , 1≤ ≤i M , (2.11) 
where ( )iD S  stands for the mean delay of the user i  and rD  is a uniform delay requirement. 
To find the desired S  from (2.11), one crucial step is to determine an explicit expression of 
( )iD S  in terms of S . Toward this end, we shall determine all the possible transitions of states (an 
exact definition of a “state” will be specified later) in the proposed protocol. This can be solved by 
applying Markov chain analysis shown below. 
2.4.1 Markov Chain 
Associated with the user i  ( 1≤ ≤i M ), we define ( )ix t , ( )iy t , and ( )iz t  to be the 
assumed value of the waiting slots, the indication of the flag, and the number of packets in the 
buffer at the t th time slot, respectively. Hence we have ( ) { }1,2, ,∈ "ix t S , ( ) { }0,1∈iy t , and 
( ) { }0,1,2∈iz t . (The waiting period 
0
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥≥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥
M
S
n
 and the buffer of size two are assumed hereafter if 
not specified otherwise.) Let us further collect ( )ix t , ( )iy t , and ( )iz t  for all users to form 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )( )1 2, , ,= " MX t x t x t x t , ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )( )1 2, , ,= " MY t y t y t y t , and 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )( )1 2, , ,= " MZ t z t z t z t . The proposed protocol can be modeled by a Markov chain with 
state space 
21 
 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ){ } ( ) ( ) ( )Pr
1
1 , , , , ,
=
+ = = =∏   + + +M x i y i z i
i
E t X Y Z E t X Y Z P x P y P z  (2.16) 
where  ( )1 2, , ,− = + + "+ MX X x x x ,  ( )1 2, , ,− = + + "+ MY X y y y , and  
( )1 2, , ,− = + + "+ MZ Z z z z ; ( )+x iP x , ( )+y iP y , and ( )+z iP z  are the probabilities of the 
increment of state components given ( ), ,X Y Z  (see Appendix D for details). Based on the state 
transition probabilities (2.16), we can immediately construct the transition matrix ×S SN NT , with 
which the steady-state probability jπ , 1≤ ≤ Sj N  can be readily obtained by  
 
1 2
1 2
1 2
lim
→∞
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
"
"
# # % #
"
S
S
S
N
N
t
t
N
π π π
π π π
π π π
T . (2.17) 
In this report, we assume that the above limit exists, and the assumption is justified by numerical 
results. The mean delay ( )iD S  can be then determined as follows. 
2.4.3 Computation of Mean Delay 
According to Little’s law [11], we have 
 ( ) ( )( )=
i
i
i
N S
D S
Sλ , (2.18) 
where ( )iN S  is the average number of packets in the buffer of the user i , and ( )i Sλ  is the 
packet departure rate (i.e., throughput) of the user i . Let ,i jz  be the number of buffered packets of 
the user i  in the j th state, then we have 
23 
In this section, simulations are carried out by Matlab and we first compare the results with the 
theoretical analysis for a simple scenario to validate the derivation in Section 2.4. In this report, 
throughput is defined as the average of successful packet transmissions per slot; delay is defined as 
the average elapsed time slots for a packet to be successfully received by CC; PLR is defined as the 
average ratio of the number of blocked packets to the number of generated packets. Then in the 
heterogeneous case, the individual delay curves with increasing S  are plotted to show the effect of 
S  on system performance. In the homogeneous case, throughput, delay, and PLR of MGPQ are 
further compared with those of DQ. Finally, the throughput performance with more users and finite 
buffer size of MGPQ, PMP [6], and DQ [28] are compared to verify their scalability. 
2.5.1 Validation of Analytical Results 
This simulation aims at validating the analytical performance results in Section 2.4. The test 
system is a CDMA network with random spreading; the packet length, spreading gain, number of 
correctable errors in a packet, and noise variance are, respectively, 200, 6, 2, and 10 dB as adopted 
in [28]. The capacity of such an MPR channel in this scenario is 1.7925, which is attained by 
0 2=n  concurrent transmissions in each time slot. The total number of users is set to be 3=M . 
We note that the incurred overhead due to the insertion of a flag-bit is 1/201 < 0.005, which is 
rather small and is thus neglected in the performance evaluation. Figures 2.2 and 2.3, respectively, 
show the mean throughput and mean delay curves for the two scenarios: (i) the heterogeneous case 
with packet generating probabilities [ ] [ ]1 2 3, , 0.1,0.1, 0.9=p p p , and (ii) the homogeneous case with 
an equal packet generating probability 1 2 3 0.5= = =p p p . As we can see from the figures, in 
both cases the theoretical results well predict the corresponding simulated outcomes. It can also be 
seen that, in the homogeneous environment, the mean throughput and mean delays remain 
unchanged as the waiting period increases: this confirms the assertion in Section 2.4.4. For the 
heterogeneous case, we impose the mean delay requirement of each user to be less than 4 time slots;  
25 
 
Fig. 2.4 Delay performance of individual users. 
 
by using the results in Section 2.4.3, the optimal waiting period is computed to be 7=optS . Fig. 
2.4 depicts the mean delay of each user. It can be seen that the delays of all the three users are 
indeed kept below 4 when 7= =optS S . We also note from Fig. 2.4 that users with large (or small, 
respectively) packet generating probabilities ip  experience less (or more) delay. This is not 
unexpected since, if ip  is large, the flag-bit will be on with a high probability and the user will be 
allowed for accessing the channel more frequently. 
2.5.2 Comparison with Previous Work [28] 
This simulation further compares the proposed MGPQ scheme with the DQ protocol [28]. We 
will consider the homogeneous case since the DQ protocol is exclusively tailored for this scenario. 
The respective throughput curves, including the slotted ALOHA with optimal retransmission 
probability [28], are plotted in Fig. 2.5. As we can see, the proposed solution can outperform the  
27 
 
Fig. 2.7 Packet loss ratio performance comparison between MGPQ and DQ. 
 
DQ protocol over a wide range of the packet generating probabilities. The maximal achievable 
throughput improvement is about 40% for p  = 0.25. Also, the proposed approach almost achieves 
the channel capacity 1.7925 whenever 0.3≥p , whereas the DQ protocol can attain at most 96% 
of the capacity for 0.8≥p . Fig. 2.6 shows the delay performances (measured via time slots per 
packet) of the two schemes. As shown, the proposed method yields a smaller mean delay with light 
traffic ( 0.4≤p ). This is because the MGPQ method tends to reserve the channel access for those 
who are more likely to have packets to send, thus avoiding the time latency incurred by the 
procedure of network-wide active user prediction. In a heavy-traffic environment, the DQ protocol 
will block the incoming packets, thereby reduce the mean delay. However, this comes at the 
expense of a larger PLR, as evidenced in Fig. 2.7. 
2.5.3 General Case 
In this simulation, we test the proposed protocol with finite buffer size, and compare the  
29 
 
Fig. 2.9 Throughput comparison between MGPQ, PMP, and DQ for different number of users. 
 
small. Fig. 2.9 further depicts the respective throughput performance as the number of user 
increases from 2 to 100. The result shows that the DQ protocol degrades the performance severely 
when there are more than two users. This is mainly because in the DQ protocol all users, no matter 
with packet or not, will be served continually until their packets are received successfully or empty 
slot occurs. With more than 0n  users in the system, the probability of serving idle users is 
definitely increased. 
2.6 Summary 
In this chapter, we proposed a new approach to design the MAC protocol for wireless networks 
with MPR capability. The proposed approach relies on the flag-bit-assisted knowledge about the 
presence of buffered packets as well as a multi-priority user grouping strategy. The advantages of 
the proposed method are three folds: 1) it is applicable to both the heterogeneous and homogeneous 
environments, whereas almost all existing protocols developed for the MPR channel are exclusively 
31 
Chapter 3  
Multipacket Reception MAC Design in Heterogeneous 
Channels 
 
3.1 Overview 
Cooperative MAC protocol design aimed for MPR channels is typically subject to the following 
challenges. Firstly, the CC may require the knowledge of the MPR channels of all links, as well as 
the traffic conditions of all users, to determine the access set. However, this will call for extra 
communication overheads, and will degrade the system-wide throughput, especially in a large-scale 
mobile network. Secondly, when packet reception failure occurs due to collisions, a certain portion 
of the users may have to serve as the relay for data retransmission. Without properly designed MAC 
protocols for cooperative user scheduling, there would be a large throughput penalty incurred by the 
latent of packet relaying phase. To the farthest of our knowledge, cooperative MAC protocol 
designs for MPR channels have not been found in the literature yet. 
MGPQ scheme proposed in Chapter 2 has several distinctive features that make it a potential 
candidate for cooperative MPR MAC protocol designs. Firstly, in the MGPQ scheme the users are 
allowed to access the channel according to some prescribed service priority. There is no need for 
active user selection through exhaustive search over the channel knowledge and local traffic 
conditions. This will thus considerably reduce the communication overheads in dense cooperative 
networks. Secondly, the flag-bit can provide the CC with the knowledge of each user’s buffer status. 
Combined with the multi-group service priority, the channel access can then be reserved for both 
direct data transmission and packet relaying in a more balanced fashion. Hence, in a high collision 
environment, the throughput penalty incurred by the relay phase can be largely reduced. To realize 
the aforesaid advantages, in this chapter we subsequently extend the MGPQ scheme and propose a 
cooperative MAC protocol for MPR channels. 
33 
where ( ),n kC U =Pr{k packets are correctly received | n packets from first n users in U  are 
transmitted} for 1 n M≤ ≤  and 0 k n≤ ≤ . We note that, according to the setting (3.1), different 
permutation index sets U in general result in different MPR matrices. Let  
 ( ) ( ),
1
n
n n k
k
C U kC U
=
∑   (3.2)  
be the expected number of correctly received packets when n  packets are concurrently transmitted. 
The capacity of an MPR channel for the particular service sequence U  is defined as  
 ( ) ( )
1, ,
max n
n M
U C Uη
= "
 .  (3.3) 
Note that the numbers of simultaneously transmitted packets for achieving the channel capacity 
may not be unique. Let  
 ( ) ( ){ }0 1, ,min arg max nn Mn U C U= "   (3.4) 
be the minimum amount of capacity-achieving packets. Hence the maximal number of users 
permitted to access the channel should be ( )0n U , since there will be no further improvement in 
system capacity if more than ( )0n U  users are simultaneously served. Note that the MPR matrix 
(3.1) can be determined via the PHY layer performance metric such as bit error rate; an illustrative 
example based on CDMA communication can be found in [28]. 
3.2.3 Highlight of the MGP Protocol [24] 
  The proposed cooperative MPR MAC scheme is based on the MGP method [24], which is 
highlighted below. As in [28] it is assumed that each user has a buffer of size two for storing two 
  
35 
the CC schedules the service priority of user i according to the previous flag record. We shall note 
the followings:  
a) In the MGP scheme the number of users permitted for channel access is deterministically set 
to attain the MPR channel capacity. This prevents the channel from being overloaded, thereby 
avoiding irrecoverable packet reception failure due to collisions.  
b) Under light traffic environments, a significant portion of the users could be in the idle phase 
(i.e., no data packets to send). If packet reception failure occurs, the idle periods can then be 
exploited for packet relaying to reduce the possible throughput loss. This can be effectively 
accomplished via a natural extension of the MGP protocol, as discussed next. 
3.3 Cooperative Multi-Group Priority Protocol 
The flag-bit is the instrumental mechanism for facilitating the multi-group priority based user 
service in the MGP protocol. The central idea of the proposed CMGP scheme is to exploit the 
flag-bit message for distinguishing the direct links from the relay ones. By assigning different 
service priority to different types of links, the throughput degradation due to the packet relaying 
overheads can be limited, and an increase in the network-wide throughput can be achieved. 
3.3.1 Operation of the Proposed CMGP Protocol 
If user i is permitted to access the channel, as in the MGP scheme a flag-bit ib  is appended at 
the tail of the packet upon transmission. The flag signature is ON ( 1ib = ) only if the second buffer 
is non-empty and contains a data packet also of user i. The flag signature is instead OFF ( 0ib = ) 
when either one of the following cases is true: i) the second buffer is empty, ii) the second buffer is 
nonempty but the packet therein is received from some other user ( )j i≠ . Upon successful packet 
reception, the CC decodes the flag-bit message and then schedules the user access according to the 
MGP protocol. If packet reception failure occurs at the CC and user k, who is not in the access set 
37 
 
Fig. 3.2 An illustrative example. 
ACTIVE users will be promoted into the PREM group is 3S = . The traffic status of user i is 
summarized in a tag shown in Fig. 3.2 (a), in which the first field represents the user ID, second 
field is the counts of waiting slots, third and fifth fields represent the content of the two buffers, and 
forth field marks the status of the flag-bit. Fig. 3.2 (b) depicts the operation of the proposed protocol 
during three consecutive time slots, and is also explained in detail as below.  
- At the end phase of slot 1t− : 
The PREM group is empty; user 1 is in the ACTIVE group, users 2, 3, 4, are in the 
STANDBY group.  
- At the start phase of slot t: 
User 1 (with 1 1b = ) and user 2 (with 2 0b = ) are allowed for channel access. 
- At the end phase of slot t: 
(i) The packet of user 1 is successfully received by CC; user 1 remains ACTIVE but the flag 
39 
 
Fig. 3.3 Flow chart of user acting as a relay. 
 
count of waiting slots to zero. 
b) If, for a certain user, the buffer is empty (no packet sent) or there is a packet transmitted 
but not successfully received, and then put the user back to the tail of the STANDBY or 
ACTIVE group in which the user originally stayed. Reset its count of waiting slots to 
zero. 
III.  Increase waiting slots of all users by one. 
IV. Move those users with waiting slots equal to S to the PREM group. 
41 
loss due to packet reception failure, the increase in the number of active relay links, however, will 
introduce stronger interference toward direct data transmissions. The throughput loss caused by the 
relay-induced interference is thus one major limiting factor for the overall system performance. By 
regarding the achievable throughput of the MGP scheme as a benchmark, this section aims to 
characterize the throughput performance of the proposed CMGP protocol. We shall note that the 
exact analysis for the general case, however, is quite difficult. In this section we will focus on the 
interference-limited worst case, in which there is only one direct link, and the other ( )0 1n U −  
users serve as the relay. Although the performance evaluation based on such a worst-case scenario 
could be conservative, our analyses are quite appealing in that the problem formulation becomes 
tractable. As will be shown below, we can derive a closed-form upper bound for the throughput 
penalty incurred by the relay interference, as well as a closed-form lower bound for the throughput 
gain benefiting from user cooperation, directly in terms of the MPR matrix coefficients. This allows 
us to deduce several interesting features regarding the proposed CMGP protocol.  
3.4.1 Upper Bound for Worst-Case Throughput Penalty 
We shall note that the effective relay candidates are those users with a good link condition and 
low packet generating probability (or, low packet blocking probability). Based on this observation, 
we can derive a closed-form upper bound for the worst-case throughput penalty suffered by the 
direct-link user in terms of the MPR matrix coefficients in (3.1); the result allows us to further 
analyze the throughput results under various direct-link channel conditions. In the sequel we let 
{ }
01
, , nu u"  be the index set for the active users; without lose of generality we assume that 1u  
denotes the direct-link user. 
To proceed, we resort to the Markov chain based analysis. A reasonable model for the evolution 
of the buffer status is the birth-and-death process with a finite number of states [23]. With the aid of 
this model, we have the following theorems (see appendix F and G for the proofs). 
43 
transmission of any number of packets (not greater than the channel capacity along good 
communication links) can be perfectly recovered. The resultant MPR matrix admits the form 
[16][17] 
 
0 1
0 0 1
0 0 0 1
1 0 0 0 0
1 0 0 0 0 0 0
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
# # # # " %
C , for some index set 1U .  (3.8) 
From (3.8) and by definitions (3.3) and (3.4), we have ( ) ( )1 0 1 3U n Uη = = , { }( )1 1 1C u = , 
( ) ( ) ( )0 1 1 1 3n UC U Uη= = , and ( ) { }( )0 1 1 11 \ 2n UC U u− = . Hence the throughput penalty upper bound 
(3.7) is identically zero: 
 
1 1
1 3 2 0pu uΔ ≤Δ = − + = .   (3.9) 
Since 
1
0puΔ ≥ , (3.9) then implies 1 0puΔ = , i.e., there is no throughput penalty for the direct link. 
This is intuitively reasonable since, with strong packet separation capability, the interference caused 
by the relay links toward direct data transmissions can be kept negligible.  
Case 2: Consider the situation in which k  relay users 2 3 1, , , ku u u +"  are located far away from 
the CC and suffer poor channel conditions so that the corresponding MPR matrix reads 
 
0 1
0 1 0
0 1 0 0 0
0 0 1 0 0 0
0 0 0 1 0 0 0
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
# # # %
C , for some index set 2U .  (3.10) 
k 
45 
becomes 
 ( )3 2
j
g
u p pΔ ≥ − = .  (3.13) 
Since 
j
g
u pΔ ≤ , we must have jgu pΔ = . This implies that, even in the interference-limited worst 
case, the proposed CMGP protocol can still retrieve the maximal achievable throughput advantage.  
3.5 Optimal Waiting Period Selection 
3.5.1 Markov Chain 
In the proposed protocol, the number of users permitted for channel access is ( )0n U , namely, 
the one attaining the MPR channel capacity. A natural criterion for determining the waiting period S 
is to maximize the probability that each of the selected ( )0n U  users has a packet to send. We first 
note that the probability of the user i (selected from PREM) with a packet to transmit after waiting a 
period of S is at least [24]  
  ( ) { }1 1 ,  1,2, ,Si ip p i M= − − ∈ " ,  (3.14) 
where ip  denotes the packet generating probability of the user i. This implies that the larger the 
waiting period S is, the more likely the users in the PREM group have packets to send. As a result, 
S should be kept as large as possible. However, the unlimited increase in S may incur severe delay 
penalty. Particularly if S →∞ , the transition from STANDBY group to PREM group is prevented 
and the proposed tri-group priority queuing protocol degenerates into a bi-group scheme. To 
determine an S for striking a balance between large ip  and small delay, we propose to seek the 
47 
Table 3.1    
COMBINATIONS OF ( )iy t , ( ),0iz t  AND ( ),1iz t  
( )iy t  ( ),0iz t  ( ),1iz t  Amount 
0 0 1 
i  { }0,1, ,j M∈ "  1M +  0 
{ } { }1, , \j M i∈ "  { } { }0, , \ ,k M i j∈ "  ( )21M −  
1 i  { }0,1, ,j M∈ "  1M +  
 
of ”1” in X(t) must equal ( )0n U ; (ii) no more than ( )0n U  entries in X(t) will assume the same 
value. Taking the above constraints into account and using the permutation and combination theory, 
the number of distinct outcomes of X(t) is [24] 
 ( ) ( )( )
( )
( )
( )
( )( )
( )
( )0 0
0
0 0
0 0
!1 !!
! !
! ! ii
C n U n U
mm
i
i i
M n USM
N
n U M n U
m i
= =
−−= ⋅ ⋅− ∑ ∏ ∏
,  (3.17) 
where the integers im ’s are found as the solutions to the following constraints  
 
( )
( )0 0
0
n U
i
i
i m M n U
=
⋅ = −∑ , and ( )0
0
1
n U
i
i
m S
=
= −∑ .  (3.18) 
Because (i) there must be own packet in the buffer for each user in the ACTIVE group, (ii) own 
packet has higher priority than relayed packet, and (iii) flag-bit only indicates own buffered packet, 
the total number of possible states in the system can be reduced to ( )( )2 4 MS CN N M= ⋅ +  (see 
Table 3.1 for possible combinations of  ( )iy t , ( ),0iz t  and ( ),1iz t ). If there exists some 0ip =  
or 1, the total number of states will be further reduced. 
49 
where ( )iN S  is the average number of own packets in the buffer of user i, and ( )i Sλ  is the 
packet departure rate of user i. Then we have 
 ( )( )SN ji j i l
j l
N S z iπ δ
= =
= −∑∑1 ,
1 0
( ) ,  (3.22) 
where ( ),
j
i lz  is the ,i lz  value at the state j, and ( )δ i  is the delta function. 
Also, denote by BiP S( ) the packet blocking probability of user i, therefore 
 ( ) ( ) ( )S
A
N
B j j S
i i j u u A
u Uj
P S z i z i P Uδ π δ
∈=
⎡ ⎤= − − −⎣ ⎦∑ ∏( ) ( ),1 ,0
1
( ) 1 ;  (3.23) 
where ( )Su AP U  is the successful packet transmission probability of the user u in access set AU . 
Then it follows that 
 Bi i iS p P Sλ = −( ) (1 ( )) .  (3.24) 
Substituting (3.22) and (3.24) into (3.21), we can obtain a functional relation of ( )iD S  in terms of 
S. The solution to (3.15) can then be computed via numerical search. 
3.6 Simulation Results 
We consider a CDMA network with randomly generated spreading codes. The packet length, 
spreading gain, and number of correctable errors in each packet are, respectively, 200, 6, and 2. We  
assume that there are a total number of 8M =  users in the network, among which users 2, 4, 5, 
and 7 are nearby the CC and users 1, 3, 6, and 8 are located far away from the CC. The MPR matrix 
of the considered system scenario can be derived in an analogue way as in [28]. 
51 
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
Packet generating probability  p
T
hr
ou
gh
pu
t (
P
ac
ke
t/S
lo
t)
 
 
All users (w/ cooperation)
Near users (w/ cooperation)
Far users (w/ cooperation)
All users (w/o cooperation)
Near users (w/o cooperation)
Far users (w/o cooperation)
 
Fig. 3.6 Average throughput of near, far and all users.  
 
3.6.2 Throughput Results for Near- and Far-End Users 
We go on to investigate the throughput results for near-end and far-end users in both cooperative 
and non-cooperative environments. The results are depicted in Fig. 3.6. As we can see, due to poor 
channel conditions the average throughput of the far-end users is almost zero without cooperation. 
However, when cooperation with near-end users is allowed, throughput up to about 0.4 for the 
far-end users can be achieved when the packet generating probability p  is not large. Also, there is 
a significant increase in the overall throughput when compared with the non-cooperative case. For 
the near-end users, it is important to see that the throughput penalty is almost zero even though a 
certain portion of the channel access will be dedicated to packet relaying. This is mainly because, in 
the proposed CMGP protocol, only the idle periods are exploited for the relay phase, and the service 
priority of the relay users are potentially lower than the direct data transmission links. Fig. 3.7 
compares the simulated average throughput gain (per direct link user) with the theoretical lower 
bound (3.12). As we can see, the analytic result shows close agreement with the simulated outcome  
53 
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
Packet generating probability p
D
el
ay
 (
S
lo
t/P
ac
ke
t)
 
 
All users (w/o cooperation)
Near users (w/o cooperation)
Far users (w/o cooperation)
All users (w/ cooperation)
Near users (w/ cooperation)
Far users (w/ cooperation)
 
Fig. 3.9 Average delay of near, far and all users. 
 
Fig. 3.8 further compares the simulated throughput penalty (per direct link user) with the theoretical 
upper bound (3.7). The result shows that the upper bound (3.7) tends to be conservative. Actually, 
the throughput loss due to packet-relaying interference is pretty small (<0.02) in the proposed 
CMGP protocol. 
 
3.6.3 Delay and Packet Blocking Performances 
Fig. 3.9 further shows the resultant average delay performance. It can be seen that, without 
cooperation, even a small packet generating probability ( 0.1p ≈ ) results in severe delay penalty. 
However, if cooperation is allowed, the delay performance becomes more robust against the 
increase in p . Finally, Fig. 3.10 depicts the packet blocking probability curves. It can be seen that, 
for small p  (hence small packet blocking probability), the blocking probability associated with the 
near-end users almost diminishes. This reflects the fact that the near-end users typically enjoy good 
channel conditions, and the MPR capability of these links is strong so that throughput penalty can 
be kept very small (as evidenced by the analysis in Sec. 3.4.1). 
55 
the aggregate traffic load is set to be 80% of the channel capacity, i.e., 1.2 packets per slot. The 
proposed CMGP method is seen to achieve the maximal throughput of 1.18 when the number of 
users equals 48; this yields about a 140% throughout gain as compared with the MGP. As the 
number of users increases, both methods are subject to throughput floors, but the CMGP still results 
in a 34% gain as compared with the MGP. 
3.7 Summary 
Motivated by [24] this chapter proposes a cooperative MAC protocol for MPR channels. As far 
as we know, our scheme is the first proposal which integrates the user cooperation facility and the 
PHY-layer MPR advantage for MAC protocol designs. The proposed method relies on a 
priority-based scheduling mechanism, and does not need active user identification: It is thus a 
promising candidate for the low-complexity protocol implementation in dense cooperative networks. 
Based on Markov chain models we provide throughput analysis for the proposed protocol. We 
derive closed-form throughput bounds for the worst case that allow us to investigate the impact of 
the MPR capability on the system performance. Simulation results confirm the throughput 
advantage achieved by the proposed method, and validate the presented analytical results. 
57 
Consider the uplink of a centralized wireless network and there are total M users within this 
network.  
4.2.1 Generalized MPR Channel  
Let 1 ~ M denote the users’ IDs respectively. Thus, the generalized MPR matrix can be expressed 
as 
 
( )( )
( )( ) ( )( )
( )( ) ( )( ) ( )( )
( )( ) ( )( ) ( )( ) ( )( )
1,0 1,1
2,0 2,1 2,2
,0 ,1 ,2 ,
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
C  # # #
"M M M M M
C U t C U t
C U t C U t C U t
U t
C U t C U t C U t C U t
, (4.1) 
in which the user set ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ){ }1 2, , ,= " MU t u t u t u t , ( ) { }1,2, ,∈ = "iu t U M , is the index set 
of users after certain permutation such as priority sorting [25]. For 1≤ ≤n M  and 0 ≤ ≤k n , 
( )( ), n kC U t Pr{ k packets correctly received | n packets from first n  users in ( )U t  
transmitted}. Denotes 
  ( )( ) ( )( ),
1=
∑ nn n k
k
C U t kC U t  (4.2) 
the expected number of correctly received packets when total n packets from 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ){ }1 2, , ,= "n nU t u t u t u t  are transmitted. The instantaneous channel capacity is defined as  
 ( )( ) ( )( )
1, ,
max
= "
 nn MU t C U tη .  (4.3) 
Let  
 ( )( ) ( )( ){ }0 1, ,min arg max= " nn Mn U t C U t  (4.4) 
be the minimum among those capacity-achieving packet numbers for power saving. 
59 
 
,1 0
1 0
pT s p
T T
p
p p
= ⋅
−= ⋅−
 (4.5) 
where s  is the slope of the throughput curve, p  is the packet generating probability. It can be 
easily seen that 0 0T =  and 1T m=  under the assumption that the traffic is unsaturated. Hence 
the capacity for the unsaturated traffic can be represented by 
 
.
1 0
1 0
0
1 0
p
T T
T p
p p
m
p
mp
−= ⋅−
−= ⋅−
=
 (4.6) 
If the traffic is saturated, the throughput pT  equals to a constant value no matter how the traffic 
changes. For each permutation ( )iU t , there exists an instantaneous channel capacity ( )( )iU tη . In 
order to get an average channel capacity instead of an instantaneous channel capacity changing with 
time, an averaging method is proposed. There are total !m  permutations and 
{ }U 1 2 !, , , mU U U= "  is the permutation set, where iU  is the index set of users under certain 
permutation. The average channel capacity can be calculated using the instantaneous channel 
capacity set above under the assumption that every permutation will have the same probability to 
appear in the long run if the network is a fair system. Therefore the average channel capacity under 
the fair system is 
 
( ) ( ) ( )
( )
U
! !
1 1
1
!
1
!
i
m m
i i i
i i
i
U
U p U U
m
U
m
η η
η
= =
∀ ∈
=
=
∑ ∑
∑
 (4.7) 
where ( )ip U  is the probability of permutation iU .   
61 
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
Packet generating probability (p)
T
hr
ou
gh
pu
t
Adaptive Range (k=0, no added user)
 
 
4
8
20
28
36
48
Adaptive
 
Fig. 4.2 Throughput performance of the proposed DUST. 
4.4 Numerical Results 
We consider a CDMA network with randomly generated spreading codes. The packet length, 
spreading gain, number of correctable errors in a packet are respectively, 200, 6, and 2, as in [25], 
and 48 users are deployed in a grid distribution. As we can see in Fig. 4.2, the simulated results 
comply with our initial observation in Fig. 4.1, thus validating the derived theorem. The 
associated packet generating probabilities for each user set are also correctly estimated by (4.8) 
and (4.9). Finally, the overall throughput is significantly improved by using DUST. 
4.5 Summary 
In this chapter we propose a DUST algorithm, where the user set is dynamically adjusted by the 
63 
Chapter 5  
Joint Optimization of MAC and AMC for Wireless 
Networks with MPR 
5.1 Overview 
5.1.1 Overview 
 In this chapter, we introduce the Joint AMC-MAC (JAM) algorithm. First, some simulation 
results are shown to highlight the performance issue of directly incorporating AMC into MPR 
networks. The new Joint AMC-MAC algorithm is proposed to jointly optimize user set selection 
and the corresponding assigned modes, which can fully exploit the packet reception capabilities of 
the physical layer. The analytic results reveal that the throughput performance is improved 
compared with those suboptimal methods, i.e. directly incorporating AMC into MPR environments. 
In Section 5.2, the motivation of this thesis is described and some simulations are shown. The 
proposed Joint AMC-MAC design is introduced in Section 5.3. In Section 5.4, the proposed Joint 
AMC-MAC design with MGPQ MAC protocol is summarized. Section 5.5 contains the numerical 
results of the proposed method, and Section 5.6 summarizes this chapter. 
5.1.2 AMC mechanism 
The objective of AMC mechanism in the physical layer is to maximize the data rate by 
adjusting transmission parameters to the different available channel conditions, which are 
characterized by each user’s SINR. In conventional AMC works [33-34], there is a certain 
algorithm to segment the SINR axis (from 0 to infinity) with thresholds to be the criterion of mode 
selection for attaining some goals, e.g. maintaining a prescribed packet error rate in every mode 
segmentation [34]. After those mode thresholds of AMC are determined, each user’s 
modulation-coding pair (transmission mode) is adaptively assigned with the feedback information 
65 
higher percentage of data in a packet, the packet success probability would be lower since its error 
controlling capability is weaker; however those modes with lower coding rate might not possess 
high data percentage, they do have higher packet success probability. The relation between SINR 
and contribution to throughput of the adopted modes is depicted in 錯誤! 找不到參照來源。.  
 
Fig. 5.3: Throughput contribution of adopted modes corresponding to different SINR 
 
In Fig. 5.3, it can be observed that there exists a crossing point between the two modes. 
Therefore if a user’s SINR is given, the suitable transmission mode for the user could be decided 
simply by checking Fig. 5.3, e.g., if a user’s SINR is higher than the crossing point (about 6.7 dB), 
the suitable mode would be Mode 2 to attain a high data rate; on the other hand, if the SINR is 
lower than the SINR of the crossing point, the suitable mode should be Mode 1 to guarantee the 
user have higher packet success probability with stronger error controlling capability. 
5.2 Motivation 
67 
calculated. With the simulation results, we will show that the selected user-mode set determined 
through this direct flow may not attain the achievable channel capacity from AMC incorporation. 
We consider a CDMA network with randomly generated spreading codes. Eight users are 
deployed in a grid distribution as in Fig. . CC is located in the middle of the grid distribution. The 
users can be regarded as two groups: near users (2, 4, 5, 7) and far users (1, 3, 6, 8), whose SNR 
level are set 20 dB and 16 dB, respectively. Note that in the following simulation results, the 
effective throughput is defined as the average number of information bits successfully transmitted, 
which is normalized by the packet length. 
 
Fig. 5.6 Network deployment of 8 users in grid distribution 
Case 1:  
The parameters of the MPR matrix formulation are based on Mode 1, which means that all 
users’ default transmission modes are set to Mode 1. After all selected users’ SINRs are calculated; 
those users with higher SINRs will be switched to Mode 2. The numerical result of this case is 
shown in Fig. . 
In Fig. , the line labeled as channel capacity is the attainable channel capacity when AMC is 
incorporated into the MPR environment, which can be calculated as (5.7). It can be observed that 
the curve labeled as Suboptimal AMC, AMC directly applied to the MPR environment, doesn’t 
improve the system throughput in a significant way compared with the Mode 1 (AMC is not 
incorporated). The reason of this situation is that the formed MPR matrix based on Mode 1 
inherently informs the CC that this environment allows for a strong packet reception capability. 
69 
which guarantees that they can obtain a higher packet success probability. This can be verified by 
Fig. , which shows that the average packet loss rate of the far users (user 1,3,6,8 in Fig. ) is 
improved by AMC. However, even though the throughput performance is improved in Fig.  by 
directly incorporating AMC, it still cannot attain the channel capacity.  
By the two cases, we can find out that if AMC is directly incorporated into MPR environment, 
either no improvement to the system throughput or limited throughput could be achieved. Both 
cases imply that the packet reception capabilities of the physical layer are not fully exploited by the 
direct incorporation of AMC into MPR environment, which means that the selected accessing user 
set and the assigned transmission modes are non-optimal. Thus, a Joint AMC-MAC algorithm is 
proposed to fully exploit the MPR capabilities by a simple iterative procedure which optimizes the 
user selection and the associated transmission modes. The algorithm will be introduced in next 
section. 
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
Packet generating probability
E
ff
ec
tiv
e 
th
ro
u
g
h
p
u
t (
P
ac
ke
t/S
lo
t)
 
 
Suboptimal AMC(2)
Mode 2
 
Fig. 5.8 Throughput comparison between Suboptimal AMC and Mode 2 
Channel capacity 
71 
Fig. 5 
 
Fig. 5.10 Joint AMC-MAC design 
The proposed Joint AMC-MAC could form a matrix as in (5.1), which is similar to the GMPR 
matrix as in 錯誤! 找不到參照來源。. Denote  
 ( )( )
( )( )
( )( ) ( )( )
( )( ) ( )( ) ( )( )
1,1
2,1 2,2
AMC
,1 ,2 ,M M M M
C U t
C U t C U t
U t
C U t C U t C U t
⎡ ⎤′⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥′ ′⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥′ ′ ′⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
C # # %
"
 (5.1) 
and 
 ( )( )
( )( )
( )( ) ( )( )
( )( ) ( )( ) ( )( )
AMC
1,1
2,1 2,2
,1 ,2 ,M M M M
TM U t
TM U t TM U t
U t
TM U t TM U t TM U t
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
# # %
"
CM  (5.2) 
as the GMPR matrix incorporated with AMC and the corresponding mode matrix, respectively; 
where ( )( ) ( ),
1,2,...
maxn k c
m
C U t R m
=
′ = ⋅ Pr{ thk  user’s packet in ( )U t  is correctly received using 
mode i| n packets from first n users in ( )U t  are transmitted}, i.e. the maximal average throughput 
contributed by user i, ( )cR i  is the coding rate of mode i, and m is the index of modes. 
( )( ),n kTM U t  in (5.2) records the associated transmission mode of the kth user in ( )U t  when the 
73 
where ( )( ) ( )( ),
1
n
n n k
k
C U t C U t
=
′ ′∑ . And 
 ( )( ) ( )( )0,AMC
1,...,
min arg max n
n M
n U t C U t
=
⎧ ⎫⎪ ⎪′⎨ ⎬⎪ ⎪⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭
 . (5.8) 
The corresponding transmission modes of the ( )( )0,AMCn U t  users are the ( )( )0,AMCn U t th 
row of ( )( )AMC U tCM . Therefore, the reverse design from MAC to PHY can be conceptually 
illustrated as in Fig. 5. 
 
Fig. 5.11 Concept of reverse design from MAC to PHY 
5.4 Proposed Joint AMC-MAC Design with MGPQ MAC Protocol 
I. Put all users in the user set into the PREM group. 
II. Input: U(t)   
temp_n0 = 1;  temp_η  = 0; ( )( )AMC 0U tη =  
while temp_n0 <= M 
a) Calculate the SINR levels of the first temp_n0 users in U(t) by 
錯誤! 找不到參照來源。. 
b) Assign modes to the first temp_n0 users and record the associated average 
throughput (temp_η ) by the corresponding SINRs. 
if temp_η  > ( )( )AMC U tη    
 ( )( )AMC U tη  = temp_η  
 ( )( )0,AMCn U t  = temp_n0 
    Record the current user-mode combination  
end if 
75 
M 8 8 8 24 
 
Case 1:  
The Joint AMC curve in Fig. 5 represents the performance of the proposed method, and the 
curve labeled as Suboptimal AMC (k) means that the MPR matrix is formed based on the 
parameters of mode k and the AMC is directly incorporated into MPR environment through the 
flow described in Fig. . It can be observed that the Joint AMC curve outperforms the other two 
suboptimal cases in the region p>0.45 (p: packet generating probability). The Joint AMC curve also 
attains the channel capacity of the MPR environment incorporated with AMC, which means that 
through Joint AMC-MAC design, the MPR capabilities of the physical layer can be fully exploited. 
In addition, it can be observed in Fig. 5.2 that although the Suboptimal AMC (1) curve outperforms 
Joint AMC in the delay performance, its throughput performance is worse than the Joint AMC 
curve. 
It is observed that there exist some losses of the Joint AMC curve compared with the 
Suboptimal AMC (2) curve in the low traffic region (p<0.45) in Fig. 5. The reason of the low traffic 
loss is that in previous MPR works, it is assumed that all the selected n0 users are active to transmit 
packets, i.e. full load assumption. But this assumption is invalid in the low traffic region because the 
selected users might be idle. Thus in the proposed method, the invalid assumption causes that the 
interference levels are overestimated for all selected users, therefore CC assigns some weaker users 
Mode 1 to combat the overestimated interferences. In fact, those weak users could be assigned 
Mode 2 since the actual interference levels might be low in the low traffic region. Therefore, since 
users’ default modes are set to Mode 2 in Suboptimal AMC (2), it has more information bits in a 
packet and achieves a higher effective throughput than Joint AMC in the low traffic region.  
77 
Case 2:  
Simulation in Fig. 5.3 demonstrates a network in which all users’ SNR levels are very low such 
that the SINRs of the selected users are too low to activate the AMC mechanism. If the channel 
conditions are always poor, users will always be assigned Mode 1, i.e. AMC mechanism is not 
activated. This makes the proposed method acts almost the same as the Suboptimal AMC (1). To 
deal with the poor channel condition cases, some more robust modes, e.g. smaller constellation size 
or lower coding rate, may be considered to be added into the AMC mechanism to combat the bad 
environments. Besides, there still exist some losses in the low traffic area compared to the 
Suboptimal AMC (2) curve. This is because that although the SNR levels are low, the actual 
interferences from other users in the low traffic region are low as well.  
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
Packet generating probability
E
ff
ec
tiv
e 
th
ro
u
g
h
p
u
t (
P
ac
ke
t/S
lo
t)
 
 
Joint AMC
Suboptimal AMC(1)
Suboptimal AMC(2)
 
Fig. 5.3 Throughput comparison between Joint AMC and suboptimal methods of Case 2 (SNR_max 
= 13 dB, SNR_min = 9 dB) 
79 
Case 4:  
This case demonstrates a network in which there are 24 users. It can be observed that the trend 
in Fig. 5.6 acts like a left-shifted version of the other cases. Since the number of users in this case is 
larger, the probability of the selected accessing users being idle is lower. Therefore the low traffic 
loss problem is less severe because the average waiting slots of users becomes longer when there 
are many users in the network. The longer the users wait the more probable they have packets to 
send as they are selected to access the channel; this mitigates the low traffic loss problem. 
 
Fig. 5.5 Network deployment of 24 users in grid distribution 
81 
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
 
 
Packet generating probability
E
ff
ec
ti
ve
 t
h
ro
u
g
h
p
u
t 
(P
ac
ke
t/
S
lo
t)
Joint AMC
Suboptimal AMC (1)
Suboptimal AMC (2)
Suboptimal AMC (3)
Suboptimal AMC (4)
 
Fig. 5.7 Throughput comparison between Joint AMC and suboptimal methods for Case 5 
5.6 Summary 
In this chapter, we give a detailed description of the proposed Joint AMC-MAC design. By the two 
simulations in Section 5.2, we showed that if the AMC mechanism is directly incorporated into MPR 
environments, the packet reception capabilities of the physical layer could not be fully exploited by 
the suboptimal flow depicted in Fig. . The Joint AMC-MAC algorithm uses a simple iterative 
procedure in  
Fig. 5 that tries every possible combination of user selection and modes to find the optimal 
user-mode combination, which can fully exploit the physical layer’s MPR capabilities.  
 
 
83 
promising candidate for the low-complexity protocol implementation in dense cooperative networks. 
Based on Markov chain models we provide throughput analysis for the proposed protocol. We 
derive closed-form throughput bounds for the worst case that allow us to investigate the impact of 
the MPR capability on the system performance. Simulation results confirm the throughput 
advantage achieved by the proposed method, and validate the presented analytical results. 
In Chapter 4, we propose a DUST algorithm aiming for uplink throughput optimization in 
wireless networks with MPR. Numerical results show significant improvement in the network 
throughput. 
6.2 Future Works 
There are still some issues remaining to be further investigated in this work. First, how to 
efficiently determine the optimal user-mode combination is a concern. Also, the estimation of users’ 
active probability could be modified to further achieve higher precision. Furthermore, the extension 
of the proposed MAC protocols to different systems such as OFDMA systems is a subject and 
worthy of investigation.
85 
slots of the users in the ACTIVE and STANDBY groups must be less than S , that is, equal to 1, 
2, . . ., or 1−S . Besides, as 0n  users are selected to access the channel in each slot, the maximal 
number of users with the same waiting slots must be less than or equal to 0n . Therefore, it can be 
seen that  
 
( )
.
0
0
0
0
1
1
+ ≤ −
⎛ ⎞⎟⎜ ⎟≤ −⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜⎝ ⎠
= −
ACTIVE STANDBYn n S n
M
n
n
M n
 (B.2)  
Combining (B.1) and (B.2), we have  
 
( )
( )
.
0
0
= − +
≥ − −
=
PREM ACTIVE STANDBYn M n n
M M n
n
 (B.3)  
Equation (B.3) shows that there will always be at least 0n  users in the PREM group waiting for 
channel access, which implies that all users will be selected ( 0n  users per slot) to access the 
channel in turn in the PREM group, that is,  
 max
0
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥
M
t
n
. (B.4)  
For 
0
< <∞M S
n
, the following hold.  
According to the MGPQ protocol defined in Section 3.3, all users are in the PREM group 
initially. After 
0
⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
M
n
 slots, there will be less than 0n  users left in the PREM group because 
87 
accounts for possible combinations of im ’s in the remaining 1−S  waiting slots; (c) accounts for 
possible combinations of i ’s in the remaining 0−M n  users; (d) is the constraint for multinomial 
coefficient (b), that is, summation of im ’s must equal 1−S ; and (e) is the constraint for 
multinomial coefficients (c), that is, summation of users in each im ’s must equal 0−M n .  
D. Description of State Transition Probability in Section 2.4.2  
Denoted by { }
01 2
, , ,= " nA a a a  the index set of the users who are allowed to access the 
channel. Also, let an  be the number of nonzero elements in { }1 2 0, , ," na a az z z , that is, the number 
of packets that will be sent simultaneously. Define SP  as the success probability of selected user 
with packet to send in each slot, then 
 ,
1=
= ⋅∑a a
n
S n k
k a
k
P C
n
. (D.1)  
Thus, the probabilities of the increment of state for X , Y , Z  components, that is, ( )+x iP x , 
( )+y iP y , and ( )+z iP z  can be calculated by (D.2) according to current state ( ), ,X Y Z .  
 ( )1 1= − =+x i iP x x , ∈i A  
 ( )1 1= =+x iP x , ∉i A  
 ( )
, , 
 , , 
, , , 
0 2
1 1 2
0
1 0 2
⎧ ⎧⎪ ⎪ ∈ = <⎪ ⎪⎪ ⎪⎪ ⎪⎪⎪ ∈ = =⎨⎪⎪ ⎪= = ⎨ ⎪⎪⎪ ∉⎪⎪ ⎪⎩⎪⎪⎪ − ∈ = =⎪⎪⎩
+
i i
i i
y i
S i i
i A y z
i A y z
P y
i A
P i A y z
  
 ( )1= =+y i SP y P , , , 0 2∈ = =i ii A y z    
 ( )1 1= − =+y iP y , , , 1 1∈ = =i ii A y z    
89 
 
1 2
1 2
1 2
∞
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
"
"
# # % #
…
C
C
C
N
N
N
g g g
g g g
g g g
G , where 
1
1
=
=∑CN gα
α
;  
 
1 2 5
1 2 5
1 2 5
∞
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
"
"
# # % #
…
M
M
M
h h h
h h h
h h h
H , where 
5
1
1
=
=∑
M
hβ
β
.  (E.2)  
Now, (17) can be written as 
 
1 21 2 1 2 5
1 2 1 2 1 2 5
1 2 1 2 1 2 5
⎡ ⎤⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥= ⊗ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
"" "
" " "
# # % # # # % # # # % #
… … …
M
S C
MS C
S C M
N N
N N
N N
h h hg g g
g g g h h h
g g g h h h
π π π
π π π
π π π
.  (E.3)  
Substituting (E.3) into (2.19), we have 
 
( )
( )
( )
( )
.
,
1
5
,
1 1
5
,
1 1
5
,
1
=
= =
= =
=
=
=
⎛ ⎞⎟⎜ ⎟= ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜⎝ ⎠
=
∑
∑∑
∑ ∑
∑

S
M
C
M
C
M
N
i j i j
j
N
i
N
i
i
B
N S z
g h z
g h z
h z
N
α β β
α β
α β β
α β
β β
β
π
  (E.4)  
Substituting (E.3) into (20), we have 
91 
 
p : packet generating probability 
iT : throughput of user i  
B
ip : packet blocking probability of user i  
B
ip : packet blocking probability of user i with cooperation 
( )aip q : access probability of user i at state q 
( )aip q : access probability of user i at state q with cooperation 
( )sip q : successful packet transmission probability of user i at state q 
( )sip q : successful packet transmission probability of user i at state q with cooperation 
( )is q : state probability of user i at state q 
( )is q : state probability of user i at state q with cooperation 
( )i qα : birth probability of user i at state q 
( )i qβ : death probability of user i at state q 
( )i qρ : utilization factor of user i between state 1q−  and q  
 
The state probability of the birth and death process can be derived by the birth probability and 
death probability as follows.  
A birth event occurs when a new packet is generated and no existing packets in the buffer are 
successfully transmitted: 
 
( ) ( ) ( )[ ] ( )[ ]
( ) ( )[ ] .
1 1
1 , 0 2
= − + −
= − ≤ <
a s a
i i i i
a s
i i
q pp q p q p p q
p p q p q q
α
 (F-1) 
93 
 
( ) ( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( ) ( )( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ ]( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )
2
2 2
2 1 2 2
1 0 0 1 1 1 1 2 2
1 1 1 1 2 2 1 0 0 1 2 2 1 0 0 1 1 1
1 0 0 1 1 1 1 2 2
1 1 1 2 2 1 1 0 0 2 2 1
= −
− − −= − − + − − + − −
− − −= − + − − + −
B a s
i i i i
a s a s a s
i i i i i i
a s a s a s a s a s a s
i i i i i i i i i i i i
a s a s a s
i i i i i i
a s a s a s a s
i i i i i i i i
p s p p
p p p p p p p p
p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p p
p p p p p p p
p p p p p p p p p p p p p ( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ ]{ } ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( )
2
2 2
0 0 1 1 1
1 0 0 1 1 1 1 2 2
1 1 1 1 1 0 0 2 2 1 0 0 1 1 1
1 2 2
,
2 2
−
− − −= − + − − + − −
−= +
a s a s
i i i i
a s a s a s
i i i i i i
a s a s a s a s a s
i i i i i i i i i i
a s
i i i
a s
i i i i
p p p
p p p p p p p
p p p p p p p p p p p p p p
A p p
B p p A
(F-5) 
where  
 ( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )[ ]2 1 0 0 1 1 1= − −a s a si i i i iA p p p p p , and  (F-6) 
 ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ ]21 1 1 1 1 0 0= − + − −a s a si i i i iB p p p p p p p . (F-7) 
For those users with packet blocking probability smaller than some positive number δ , we can 
derive the following lower bound on ( )2sip . Substituting (F-5) into ≤Bip δ , we have 
 
( ) ( )[ ] ( ) ( )
( ) ( )
( )
( ) ( )
                        
                       
1 2 2 2 2
2 2
1
1
2 1 .
a s a s
i i i i i i i
a s i i
i i
i i
i i
i i
i i
i i
i is
i
i i
A p p B p p A
A A
p p
A B
B A
A B
A B
A B
A B
p
A B
δ δ
δ
δ
δ δ
δ
δ
δ
δ
δ
⇒ − ≤ +
−⇒ ≥ +
+= − +
+= − +
+⇒ ≥ − +
 (F-8) 
Before stepping further, we need the respective successful packet transmission probability. Let 
( )nkp U  denote the successful packet transmission probability of user k under concurrent 
transmissions from the first n users in U . As the respective successful probability is a 
95 
transmissions are all relay links. In such a condition, the direct link will suffer from the most 
interference produced by relay links, which are not present in non-cooperative scenario.  
Let ( ) ( )2 2s si i ip p= −Δ , where iΔ  is the maximal degradation of the successful packet 
transmission probability of the user i due to relay links. We have  
 { }( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) { }( )0 01 1 \−Δ = − +i n U n UC i C U C U i ,  (F-13) 
where { }( )1C i  is the successful packet transmission probability of only one user i’s packet 
transmitted, and ( ) ( ) ( ) { }( )0 0 1 \n U n UC U C U i−−  is the minimal successful packet transmission 
probability of user i with ( )0 1n U −  relay links as shown in (F-12). Now, let us look at the packet 
blocking probability with cooperation: 
 
( ) ( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )[ ]
( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( ) ( )
( )
.
2 1 2 2
2 1 2 2 2
2 1 1 2
2 2
= −
= − + Δ
⎡ ⎤+⎢ ⎥≤ − + + Δ⎢ ⎥+⎣ ⎦
⎡ ⎤+⎢ ⎥= + Δ⎢ ⎥+⎣ ⎦
+≤ +Δ+
   
  
 
 
B a s
i i i i
a s a
i i i i i
i i a
i i i
i i
i i a
i i i
i i
i i
i
i i
p s p p
s p p p
A B
s p
A B
A B
s p
A B
A B
A B
δ
δ
δ
δ
δ
δ
 (F-14) 
With the bound of packet blocking probability (F-14), the throughput with/without cooperation can 
be obtained and compared as follows: 
 
97 
 
( ) ( ) ( )( )
,
2
2
2 2
0 1
2
1
1 1
0
⎛ ⎞+ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜= + − ⎟⎜ ⎟⎟⎜⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞+ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜≈ + − ⎟⎜ ⎟⎟⎜⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞⎟⎜ ⎟⎜= + − − ⎟⎜ ⎟⎟⎜⎝ ⎠
=
a a
j j j j j j
j a
j j j j
j j j j
j j j
j j
j j
A A B p A p
T p
B A B p
A A B A
p
B A B
A A
p
B B
 (G-2) 
 
( ) ( ) ( )
( )( ) ( )
.
2
22
2
2
2 2
1 1
2 2
1
1
⎛ ⎞⎟+⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟= + −⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟+⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞+ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜≈ + − ⎟⎜ ⎟⎟⎜ +⎝ ⎠
⎛ ⎞⎟⎜ ⎟⎜= + − ⎟⎜ ⎟⎟⎜⎝ ⎠
=
a a
j j j j j j
j a a
j j j j j j
j j j j
j j j j
j j
j j
A A B p A p
T p
B B p A B p
A A B A
p
B B A B
A A
p
B B
p
 (G-3) 
Thus, we can derive the incremental throughput as 
 
( ) ( )( ) ( )
( ).
1 0 2
2
≥ −
=
+ +
+
s
j j j j
s
j
T T T p
p p
 (G-4) 
Now, let us turn to ( )2sjp+ , which is the incremental successful packet transmission probability 
due to relaying. We consider the worst case that all relayed packets are the same and no special 
combining mechanism is available. Therefore ( )2sjp+  should be larger than the maximal value of 
( ) ( ) ( ) { }( )0 0 1 \n U n UC U C U k−−  for ( ){ }02 , , n Uk u u∈ " as shown in (F-12), i.e., 
 
( )
( ){ } ( ) ( ) ( ) { }( ){ }
( ) ( )
( ){ } ( ) { }( ).
0 0
2 0
0 0
2 0
1
, ,
1
, ,
2 max \
min \
−∈
−∈
≥ −
= −
"
"
+
n U
n U
s
j n U n U
k u u
n U n U
k u u
p C U C U k
C U C U k
 (G-5) 
Substituting (G-5) into (G-4), we conclude 
 
99 
Bibliography 
 
[1] S. Adireddy and L. Tong, “Exploiting decentralized channel state information for random 
access,” IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 51, no. 2, pp. 537–561, 2005. 
[2] ANSI/IEEE Standard 802.11b–1999 (R2003), “Wireless LAN medium access control (MAC) 
and physical layer (PHY) specifications: higher-speed physical layer extension in the 2.4GHz 
band,” IEEE SA Standards Board, Tech. Rep., 1999.  
[3] M. X. Cheng, Y. Li, and D. Z. Du, Eds., Combinatorial Optimization in Communication 
Networks, Springer, New York, NY, USA, 2006.  
[4] H. M. Deitel, An Introduction to Operating Systems, Addison-Wesley, Reading, Mass, USA, 
1984.  
[5] F. H. P. Fitzek, M. D. Katz, Cooperation in Wireless Networks: Principles and Applications, 
Springer, 2006. 
[6] R. H. Gau and K. M. Chen, “Predictive multicast polling for wireless networks with 
multipacket reception and queuing,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 5, no. 6, 
pp. 725– 737, 2006.  
[7] S. Ghez, S. Verdu, and S. C. Schwartz, “Optimal decentralized control in the random access 
multipacket channel,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, vol. 34, no. 11, pp. 1153– 
1163, 1989.  
[8] I. M. I. Habbab, M. Kavehrad, and C. E. W. Sundberg, “ALOHA with capture over slow and 
fast fading radio channels with coding and diversity,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in 
Communications, vol. 7, no. 1, pp. 79–88, 1989.  
[9] M. Hadzialic, M. Hamza, and P. Begovic, “An approach to cell signal coverage reliability in 
presence of different fading models,” Proceedings of the 5th ACM international workshop on 
Mobility management and wireless access, pp. 91–98, Oct. 2007. 
101 
[21] Z. Wang, H. R. Sadjadpour, J. J. Garcia-Luna-Aceves, "Capacity-delay tradeoff for 
information dissemination modalities in wireless networks," IEEE International Symposium on 
Information Theory, 2008, pp.677-681, 6-11 July 2008. 
[22] X. Wang and J. K. Tugnait, “A bit-map-assisted dynamic queue protocol for multiaccess 
wireless networks with multiple packet reception,” IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 
vol. 51, no. 8, pp. 2068–2081, 2003.  
[23] Z. Wang and X. Yang, Birth and Death Processes and Markov Chains, Springer-Verlag, 1992. 
[24] W. F. Yang, J. Y. Wu, L. C. Wang, and T. S. Lee, "A multigroup priority queueing MAC 
protocol for wireless networks with multipacket reception," EURASIP Journal on Wireless 
Communications and Networking, vol. 2008, July 2008. 
[25] W. F. Yang; J. Y. Wu; T. S. Lee, "An enhanced multi-packet reception MAC protocol: 
Cooperative approach," Third International Conference on ChinaCom 2008, pp.516-520, 
25-27 Aug. 2008. 
[26] J. Yu and A. P. Petropulu, “Cooperative transmissions for random access wireless networks 
with MPR channels,” Conference on Information Sciences and Systems, The Johns Hopkins 
University, 2005. 
[27] Q. Zhao and L. Tong, “A multiqueue service room MAC protocol for wireless networks with 
multipacket reception,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 125– 137, 
2003.  
[28] Q. Zhao and L. Tong, “A dynamic queue protocol for multiaccess wireless networks with 
multipacket reception,” IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications, vol. 3, no. 6, pp. 
2221–2231, 2004.  
[29] M. Zorzi, “Mobile radio slotted ALOHA with capture and diversity,” Wireless Networks, vol. 
1, no. 2, pp. 227-239, 1995. 
[30] M. Zorzi and, R. R. Rao, “Capture and retransmission control in mobile radio,” IEEE Journal 
on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 12, no. 8, pp. 1289–1298, 1994.  
 1
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一、參加會議經過 
The 20th Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications Symposium 2009 
(PIMRC-09) was held in Tokyo, Japan. The theme of the PIMRC 2009 is “Giga bit 
Wireless for Real Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications” and will focus 
from physical layer to applications technologies to realize REAL PIMRC.  
There is one thing different from the past. The PIMRC 2009 TPC has decided to offer a 
choice of oral or poster presentation to all presenters at PIMRC 2009. The presenters can 
request the preferred way to present their papers, oral or poster presentation. The reasons 
of offering this opportunity on presentation way are following: 
The poster session will have about 2 hours per presentation and it will offer a good time 
of presentation, questions and answers in a more interactive way. This has started to be 
recognized as an excellent aspect of poster presentations and preferred by many people 
against oral presentations with a limited time for presentation. 
 
計畫編號 NSC 96-2628-E-009-003-MY3 
計畫名稱 廣義的機會式通訊：無線行動網路中之競爭、合作與感知 
子計畫二：感知無線行動網路之協力式跨層設計 (2/3) 
出國人員
姓名 楊雯芳 
服務機構
及職稱 交通大學電信工程學系博士班學生 
會議時間 98 年 9 月 13 日至 98 年 9 月 16 日 會議地點 Tokyo, Japan 
會議名稱 
(中文) 個人、室內及行動無線通訊國際會議 
(英文) International Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio 
Communications (PIMRC 2009) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 基於多群優先之多封包接收通道協力式媒體存取協定 
(英文) A Multi-Group Priority Based Cooperative MAC Protocol for 
Multi-Packet Reception Channels 
附件四 
 3
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
 
一、參加會議經過 
The 6th IEEE APWCS aims at sharing the fresh results and innovative ideas of the 
leading edge research in wireless technologies. Several sessions are included in the 
technical program, such as antenna & propagation, OFDM, transceiver techniques, coding 
techniques, cooperative & relay communications, performance evaluations, OFDMA/ 
WiMAX, resource management, wireless sensor networks, WPAN, and multihop networks. 
A keynote speech and three invited talks are also dedicated to recent experience and future 
trends in wireless communications.  
 
 
計畫編號 NSC   96-2628-E-009-003-MY3 
計畫名稱 廣義的機會式通訊: 無線行動網路中之競爭, 合作與感知子計畫
二: 感知無線行動網路之協力式跨層設計 (2/3) 
出國人員
姓名 
潘先俐 服務機構及職稱 
交通大學電信工程系碩士班 
會議時間 
 98年 8月 20日至 
 98 年 8 月 21 日 
會議地點 
EWHA WOMANS 
UNIVERSITY 
Seoul, Korea 
會議名稱 
(英文) The 6th IEEE VTS Asia Pacific Wireless Communications 
Symposium 
發表論文
題目 
(英文) Uplink Throughput Optimization for Wireless Networks with 
Multipacket Reception 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月29日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
子計畫二:感知無線行動網路之協力式跨層設計
李大嵩
96 -2628-E -009 -003 - 通訊
具多封包接收能力無線網路之媒體存取控制及適應性調變和編碼之聯合最佳化
Joint Optimization of Medium Access Control and Adaptive Modulation
and Coding for Wireless Networks with Multipacket Reception
國立交通大學 李大嵩,楊雯芳,黃崇榮
在現代結合適應性調變編碼(AMC)的無線通訊網路中，傳統的多封包接收矩陣已
無法反應真實的物理層(PHY)特性。若將AMC機制直接加入MPR的環境中，由MAC
層所選到的使用者及其相對應的傳輸模式可能不為最佳的，這將使得PHY的MPR
能力無法被完全地發揮。在本報告中，吾人提出一跨層式(cross-layer)設計來
將所選使用者及其相對應的傳輸模式做一聯合最佳化，這使得MAC層在做排程程
序時可將PHY的MPR能力完全地發揮。
The traditional MPR matrices cannot reflect the channel dynamics in
modern wireless communication networks, where adaptive modulation and
coding (AMC) mechanisms are adopted to improve the system
performance. If AMC mechanisms are directly incorporated into MPR
environments, the selected users and the associated transmission
modes may not be optimal for the medium access control (MAC) layer to
fully exploit the MPR capabilities of the physical layer. In this
report, we propose a cross-layer design to jointly optimize the user
selection and the corresponding modes, which can fully exploit the
MPR capabilities while MAC layer performing the scheduling procedure.
Numerical results show that the proposed method outperforms other
suboptimal AMC methods, where AMC is directly incorporated into MPR
environments.其他專業、科學及技術服務業
第四代行動通訊系統
由於數位信號處理能力及微波技術的日新月異，通訊網路的實體層多具備多封包接收
的能力，例如CDMA、MIMO、WiMAX等。因此能充分利用此特性的跨階層媒體存取控制
愈顯重要。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
