摘要
隨著個人通訊系統科技的快速成長，在各種無線網路下的位置感知(Location-awareness)服務
也愈來愈受到青睞。最為人所熟知的全球定位系統(Global Position System, GPS)，就是利用三角定
位法再藉由用戶端 GPS 接收器接收 3 個以上衛星訊號進行運算來提供定位與導航服務，其定位精
確度可達到 5m 至 40m；但其缺點為 GPS 接收器必須與衛星保持視線(Line Of Sight, LOS)才能精
確地收到訊號，如此便限制了在室內環境之行動端位置感知的相關應用範疇。至於在室內 LBS
(Location-Based Service)方面的技術亦日趨成熟，特別是 P. Bahl 和 V. N. Padmanabhan 在 2000 年
IEEE INFOCOM 提出名為 RADAR (Radio Detection and Ranging) 的系統，就是應用在室內無線區
域網路中的無線電訊號特徵比對技術 (Pattern matching)，即可對行動端進行定位與追蹤運算，以
達到位置感知的目的。本研究計畫主要則是在 IEEE 802.11 無線區域網路環境中，以接收無線電
波訊號強度 (Received Signal Strength Indicator, RSSI)在空間中的分佈趨勢，於離線階段(Off-line)
利用 Fitting function 建立無線電訊號傳遞的預測模型(Prediction mode)，且提出即時校正的有效方
法；並於連線階段(On-line)時，藉由行動端將收到來自基地台(Access Point)的無線電波訊號強度
代入此模型，即時進行定位演算與位置判斷。如此，除了能直接有效降低一般位置感知系統在離
線階段建立訊號紋(Fingerprinting)的成本外，更能減免於連線階段必須進行訊號紋比對的系統負
擔。
關鍵詞：接收無線電波訊號強度、預測模型、RADAR、訊號紋、無線區域網路。
ABSTRACT
With the rapid growing of personal wireless communications, location-aware services have
received great attention in various wireless networks. The commonly used global positioning systems
(GPS) and cellular phone systems are suitable for outdoor environment, but not for indoor environments
during the limit of LOS (Line of sight). Server approaches have been adopted for estimating the location
of a mobile terminal inside buildings. The first indoor locating system to use signal strength from
wireless local area network (WLAN) adapters to provide location-based services (LBS) is RADAR,
which operates by measuring and recording the signal strength information of a number of sampled
locations, and then inferring the location of a mobile terminal based on the recorded signal strength
database information by using pattern matching method. This research project will propose an indoor
location-aware system based on IEEE 802.11 WLAN environments to alleviate the difficulties in the
RSSI (Received Signal Strength Indicator) propagation prediction model and empirical method, where
the former one does not work well indoors and the latter is time-consuming in setting up training point’s
data during the off-line.
Keywords: RSSI, Prediction Model, RADAR, Fingerprinting, Wireless LAN.
Reader 的天線(Antenna)。即當應用系統欲進行物件
之辨識工作時，主電腦上之應用程式可透過有線或
無線方式下達控制命令給 Reader；Reader 接收到控
制命令後，其內部之控制器會透過內建的 RF 收發
機(Transceiver)發送出某一頻率之無線電波能量。當
Tag 內的天線感應到無線電波能量時，內含的詢答
機(Transponder)機制會將此能量轉成電源，並以無線
電波傳回一系列識別資料給 Reader，最後再傳回主
電腦內以進行物件之識別與管理[3]。目前 RFID 應
用相當廣泛，其相關產品以應用在日常生活當中，
如捷運系統之悠遊卡、商店常用的門禁與防盜辨
識、寵物身上植入之識別晶片、以及倉儲物料的管
控等。
無線感測網路(Wireless Sensor Network)是無線
網路中類似隨意型網路(Ad Hoc Network)的特殊應
用，其主要架構是由無線資料收集器(Sink Node)以
及數量龐大的感測器(Sensor)所組成的網路系統，而
其元件之間則採用無線通訊方式進行通訊，如無線
電波、紅外線等。在無線感測網路環境中需要佈置
許多如手錶或是鈕釦般大小的感測器，Sensor 之主
要功能在於感應周圍環境變化，將感應到的資料傳
送至 Sink Node，當 Sink Node 收到資料後，經過運
算即可參考使用者之決策做出適當反應，如圖一所
示。由圖一之 Sensor 架構中，即可將環境即時訊號，
進行處理並且做出決策再以無線(無線電波、紅外線)
方式傳輸至中央控制器(Central Controller)[4]。將
Sensor Network 應用在室內定位研究時，將 Sensor
以及 Sink Node 佈置於定位環境中，可輔助定位系
統之精確度改善；Sensor 擷取無線存取點(Access
Point, AP)之無線電波訊號強度並且將資料回傳至
Sink Node 進行運算藉以評估當時定位環境之無線
電波訊號特徵值；藉由此特徵值比對可對定位系統
進行即時校正。此外，若以 Sensor 為主要的定位機
制，一般皆是 Sensor 均勻佈置於定位環境中形成無
線感測網路環境，Sensor 以無線傳輸介面與行動端
以及鄰近 Sensor 進行訊息溝通，再以演算法估測行
動端位置[5]。以 Sensor 為主的定位方式，相對於
Wi-Fi 環境定位而言，缺點在於必須佈置 Sensor，在
硬體成本方面必須額外負擔。若以 Sensor 為輔，
Wi-Fi 為主，其優點在於 Sensor 可感知環境即時變
動，可即時校正 Wi-Fi 定位系統，並且可節省硬體
成本 [6]。
圖一 無線感測器的內部架構
3. 系統架構與環境
本論文提出之研究方法主要是在離線階段以 2
階與 3 階多項式函式，預測建立實驗環境之無線電
訊號傳遞模型；並於連線階段時，由行動端裝置將
即時訊號代入此預測模型求解，以精確地判斷出行
動端位置[7][8]。
本研究分別實作Wi-Fi隨機存取式網路(Ad Hoc
Network)與基礎架構式網路(Infrastructure Network)
兩種無線網路拓樸(Topology)之定位系統[9]。
首先在離線階段，於實驗環境(本校資訊大樓六
樓教師研究室平面配置圖)中 4 條走廊建立 90 個訓
練點(Training Point ,TP) 如圖二所示。圖二中位於定
位環境中 4 個頂點(黃色圓點)為 Ad Hoc 模式下之基
地台(Base Station)，其 SSID(Service Set Identifier,
SSID)分別為 BS1、BS2、BS3 與 BS4；此圖中 4 個
紅色圓點為定位環境中無線存取站(Access Point)位
置(以 AP1、AP2、AP3、與 AP4 標示)其 SSID 為
MCU，本研究以 AP MAC Address 辨別此 4 個 AP。
圖六 以走廊為基準的預測模型曲線(2階與 3階)
在連線階段進行定位運算時，必須要注意將預
測模型之預測模型座標對應(Location Mapping)至實
際走廊座標(Coordinate of Corridor Length)。型態 2，
如圖七所示，長走廊分為 AP 左邊與右邊 2 區域，
並且分別對這2區域進行預測模型曲線建立。以AP1
為例，其所對應之訓練點區分為 TP13 至 TP26 與
TP27 至 TP45 此 2 區域，如圖七所示，在 AP 兩側
分別建立 Prediction Region1(TP13-26)與 Prediction
Region 2 (TP27-45)之預測模型。圖八則顯示以型態
2 之觀念為基礎，使用 MATLAB Polyfit 函數建立之
預測模型示意圖；同樣地在連線階段定位運算時，
也必須將預測模型建立之座標軸對應至實際座標
軸。
圖七 以 AP為基準的預測模型建立
圖八以 AP為基準的預測模型曲線(2階與 3階)
本論文最後將 MATLAB Polyfit 函數以程式
(C++)實作至定位系統中，其主要以最小平方距離
(Least Square Error)觀念，運用在預測模型中之平面
座標找尋一條曲線，此曲線距離平面座標上所有的
點 ( 訓練點之訊號強度值 ) 有最小的距離誤差
(Minimum Distance Error)。此最小距離總合再以積
分方式可推導出如式(4)所示矩陣，由式(4)即可將本
定位系統之訊號強度即時演算出無線電波傳遞模型
[12]。
 
 
 
ModeledictionProftCoefficienOrder-Thirda
ModelPrefictionoftCoefficienOrder-Second:a
ModeledictionProftCoefficienOrder-One:a
ModelPredictionofItemConstant:a
n...3,2,1iHBSandTPbetweenDistance:y
n...3,2,1iTPonStrengthSignalTime-ealR:x
TPsofumberN:n
yx
yx
yx
y
a
a
a
a
xxx
xxx
xxx
xxn
3
2
1
0
i
i
i
3
i
i
2
i
ii
i
3
2
1
0
5
i
4
i
3
i
4
i
3
i
2
i
3
i
2
ii
2
ii
：
















































 



(4)
5. 結論
本研究提出之無線電波傳輸預測模型與相關機
制，相對於一般室內定位技術所使用之樣式比對法
可節省建立資料庫時間成本以及減低行動裝置運算
負擔；但除了擁有上述優勢外，當然亦必須達到室
內定位要求之精確度，本論文實作在 Ad Hoc 與
Infrastructure 兩種無線網路拓墣(Topology)，在 Ad
Hoc 模式下本研究之定位精確度在錯誤距離 CDF 小
於 5 公尺達到 95.56%，平均錯誤距離則有 2.67 公尺
之水準，而在 Infrastructure 模式下，最佳之錯誤距
離 CDF 小於 5 公尺部分為 76.67%，平均錯誤距離
則為 3.63 公尺，其定位精確度明顯不如 Ad Hoc 模
式，原因在於 Ad Hoc 模式之基地台置放於走廊之 4
個轉角，可讓行動端隨時對兩台基地台保持 LOS，
此特性相對 Infrastructure 模式而言，可降低多重路
徑問題，故其訊號紋較 Infrastructure 模式穩定。
誌謝
本研究感謝國科會專題研究計畫(計畫編號： NSC
95-2221-E-130 -021)的經費支持。
計畫成果自評
本研究內容與原計畫完全相符，並達成預期完成之工作項目與對於參與人員預期可獲
得之訓練，以及對於學術研究、國家發展及其他應用方面之預期貢獻(論文發表)如下：
1. Chin-Liang Wang, Yih-Shyh Chiou, and Sheng-Cheng Yeh, “An Adaptive Location 
Estimator Using Kalman Filtering for Indoor WLANs,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile
Computing (SCI), 2007 (submitted).
2. 陣軒志、葉生正，”結合 RFID 與 RSSI 預測模型技術之室內定位系統研究”, NST
2007, Taiwan, November 2007 (submitted).
3. 陣軒志、葉生正，”應用 PDA 進行無線區域網路下之室內定位技術研究”, TANET
2007, Taiwan, October 2007 (submitted).
4. 邱方怡、葉生正，”整合 RFID 與無線定位技術的行動電子商務系統研究”, TANET
2007, Taiwan, October 2007 (submitted).
5. 葉生正、邱奕世、彭詠靖，"以 RSSI 預測模型為基礎之室內 LBS 技術的研究,”
Journal of Informatics and Electronics, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 1-8, March 2006.
6. 陣軒志、葉生正，”以 RFID 技術為基礎的行動商務系統研究,”The 13-th Mobile
Computing Workshop, Taiwan, April 2007.
7. 陣軒志、葉生正，”以手持式行動裝置為主的定位系統研究,”The 13-th Mobile
Computing Workshop, Taiwan, April 2007.
8. 邱方怡、葉生正，”以定位服務為基礎的行動電子商務系統研究,”銘傳大學 2007
國際學術研討會, Taiwan, March 2007.
9. 葉生正、彭詠靖、邱奕世、王晉良，”以接收訊號強度值為基礎建立無線電訊號傳
遞之定位預測模型,”2006全國電信研討會, Taiwan, December 2006.
10. 彭詠靖，“無線區域網路之位置感知系統研究”，銘傳大學資訊傳播工程研究所碩
士論文，民國 95 年 7 月。
11. 陣軒志，“以手持式行動裝置為主的室內定位系統研究”，銘傳大學資訊傳播工程
研究所碩士論文，民國 96 年 8 月。
12. 邱方怡，“以定位服務為基礎的行動電子商務系統研究”，銘傳大學資訊傳播工程
研究所碩士論文，民國 96 年 8 月。
A Context-aware Blogging and Learning Service in
Mobile IPv6 Networks
Sheng-Cheng Yeh*, Wu-Hsiao Shyu1
Dept. of Computer and Communication Engineering
1Dept. of Computer Science and Information Engineering
Ming Chung University
5, The-Ming Road, Gwei-Shan, Taoyuan, Taiwan 33324
Ching-Hui Chen, Rung-Huei Liang
Department of Computer and Communication Engineering
Ming Chung University
5, The-Ming Road, Gwei-Shan, Taoyuan, Taiwan 33324
*E-mail: peteryeh@mcu.edu.tw
Abstract—Recently, the development of mobile services is
becoming more popular. The mobile applications will not only
take advantage of contextual information, such as
location-awareness, to offer greater services to a mobile host (MH)
but maintain existing transport-layer connections as the MH
moves from one location to another. This paper exhausts our
most recent work: the AcoustaNomad project. AcoustaNomad
not only uses the mobile IPv6 to maintain the existing
connections even if the MH changes locations and addresses, but
utilizes location-aware technique to detect what kind of services
the new location provides. In addition, AcoustaNomad shows two
mature mobile applications: mobile learning and audio blogging.
This paper proposes the architecture of AcoustaNomad and
experimental results that demonstrate the ability of
AcoustaNomad to enable location-aware services and
applications.
Keywords: Mobile IPv6, Wi-Fi, Mobile Learning, Mobile Blogging.
I. Introduction
Wireless and mobile networks become popular
research issues in recent years. Since a mobile host
(MH) can roam across different wireless networks,
knowledge about locations is the necessity for the
MH to detect what kind of services the current
location provides. Therefore, the development of
mobile applications should take advantage of
contextual information, such as location, to offer
greater services to the MH. In addition, the mobile
IPv6 [1] should also be used to allow transparent
routing of IP datagrams in order to maintain
existing transport-layer connections as the MH
moves from one location to another.
Mobile technologies also provide an opportunity for
a change in education. So, educators and technical
developers are exploiting the capabilities and
characteristics of mobile technologies to enable new
and engaging forms of learning. In addition, Mobile
technologies create challenges for the media
industry. In Location33 [2], users equipped with a
GPS enabled PDA or mobile phone walk around
downtown Culver City, California and explore a
new type of musical album by mixing songs and
stories based on their movement.
In this paper, we present our recent work: the
AcoustaNomad project which is supported by IPv6
R&D division of National Information and
Communications Initiative (NICI) in Taiwan.
AcoustaNomad integrates mobile learning, mobile
audio blogging, location-aware technology and
mobile IPv6 technologies for any MHs. When a
MH roams across multiple wireless networks, its
IPv6 address may change in order to maintain
connectivity. AcoustaNomad not only uses the
mobile IPv6 to maintain the existing connections
even if the MH changes locations and addresses, but
utilizes location-aware technology to detect what
kind of services the new location provides. At the
current implementation, AcoustaNomad provides
two mature mobile applications: mobile learning
and mobile audio blogging. When a MH roams
across multiple wireless networks, it will trigger the
m-blogging service and allow the MH to upload its
audio file that recorded the feelings or stories about
a specific location to a remote server. Any MH can
download the audio files when it roams to the same
location. The system will also activate location
specific learning contents in which language
learners will be able to move around the physical
space and retrieve location-specific content to act
out the authentic conversations.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows.
Section II introduces the previous works related to
12
from multiple APs to match the fingerprinting of the signal
strength database, which was established during the off-line
phase. In the proposed locating algorithm, a MH’s position is 
obtained by using the following Euclidean Distance method:
 


n
i
n
ii SSSS
1
2
DistanceEuclidean
(1)
Where n and i denote SS stored in the database
during the off-line phase, the real-time accessed SS
by the MH, the amount of AP and the APi,
respectively.
Figure 1. The AcoustaNomad architecture with a m-Blogging and
m-Learning.
3.3 m-Learning
The purpose of m-Learning feature is to provide
location-specific content to help the language
learners to engage in the real world activities. Based
on the characteristics of specific locations, the
learning materials were designed to meet the needs
of learners and were evaluated by an expert
language teacher. Each dialogue was displayed in
three formats; English, Chinese character and
pin-yin, accompanied with correct pronunciations.
When a MH enters the zone of a specific location,
the selection menu will pop up on the screen of the
MH as shown in Figures 2 and 3. By clicking on
the selected categories, specific dialogues will be
presented and the MH can click on the play icon to
listen to the pronunciations.
3.4 m-Blogging
The m-Blogging service aims at supporting locative
audio interaction in urban living situation. Any MH
can easily keep personal audio blogs in specific
locations via our m-Blogging authoring system. As
shown in Figure 4, a MH can press recording button
to start his/her voice recording and upload the audio
file immediately right at the location. Our tools also
support previous and next selection buttons to
facilitate audio selection at the corresponding
location. In addition, a playback button is made to
support both audio previews before upload and
audio listening after download.
The interface is designed according to a metaphor
of portable mp3 player and recorder. Furthermore,
this mp3-like system is context-aware enabled by
our locating engine. Different blogs are kept by
people in different places.
Figure 2. The selection menu for a m-Learning service.
Figure 3. The illustration of the learning content.
Figure 4. The user interface for the m-Blogging service.
14
Figure 7. A simulated station with the m-Learning service.
Figure 8. The CDF of the error distance for the locating scheme.
V. Conclusions
This paper has introduced AcoustaNomad, an
implementation work for mobile learning and audio
blogging applications. AcoustaNomad is based on
locating engine which uses empirical signal strength
measurements as well as mobile IPv6 which
maintain the existing transport-layer connections. In
addition, we also present the architecture of
AcoustaNomad and the experimental testbed.
The analysis results indicate that more than 80
percent of the estimated locations have error
distance less than 5 meters. This means that the
empirical method is superior and more accurate. As
a result, any MH can detect the services easier when
it moves to a new location. The results also revealed
that subjects of the experiments had great interests
in our system; they not only like the friendly user
interfaces, but also satisfied with the services that
the system could provide. It proves that emerging
context-aware technology with the location-specific
content is able to offer better opportunities for
cultural explorations and social interactions. It also
draws people from isolated environments together
to our magic AcoustaNomad world. We believe that
is our most significant contribution.
References
[1] D. Johnson, C. Perkins, J. Arkko, “IP mobility Support for IPv6,” IETF 
RFC 3775, June 2004.
[2] W. Carter, S. L. Liu, “Location33: A Mobile Musical,” In Proceedings
of the International Conference on New Interfaces for Musical
Expression, Vancouver, BC, Canada, pp. 26-28, May 2005.
[3] Adrian Friday, Maomao Wu, Joe Finney, Stefan Schmid and Keith
Cheverst, “Network layer Access control for Context-Aware IPv6
applications,” Wireless Networks, pp. 299-309, 2003.
[4] P. Bahl and V. N. Padmanabhan, “RADAR: An In-Building RF-BASED
User Location and Tracking System,” IEEE INFOCOM 2000, pp. 
775-784, May 2000.
[5] S. Fisher, “Environment Media: Linking Virtual Environments to the 
Real World,” In Creative Digital Media: Its Impact on the New Century, 
Keio University COE international Symposium, Keio University Press,
Tokyo, Japan, December 2001.
[6] H. Westerkamp, “Soundscape Composition: Linking Inner and Outer 
Worlds,” Writen for Soundscape before 2000 Conference, Amsterdam,
Holland, pp. 19-26, November 1999.
[7] S. I. Salamensky, “Talk, Talk, Talk: The Cultural Life of Everyday 
Conversation,” article by H. Bhabha, and S. L. Gilman, “Just Talking: 
Tete-A-Tete,” Routledge, London and New York, pp. 3-14, 2001.
[8] Oversampling, INC. Soundwalk NYC., Jan. 2005. Retrieved from
http://www.soundwalk.com
[9] H. Ogata, Y. Yano,”Context-aware support for computer-supported
ubiquitous learning,” Proceedings of the The 2nd IEEE International 
Workshop on Wireless and Mobile Technologies in Education
(WMTE’04), 2004.
[10] The overview of KAME project,
http://www.kame.net/project-overview.html
[11] Guolin Sun, Jie Chen, Wei Guo and K.J. Ray Liu, ”Signal Processing
Techniques in Network-Aided Positioning,” IEEE Signal Processing
Magazine, pp.12-23, July 2005.
[12] Chin-Liang Wang, Yih-Shyh Chiou, and Sheng-Cheng Yeh, “An Indoor 
Location Scheme Based on Wireless Local Area Networks,” IEEE
Consumer Communications and Networking Conference 2005, pp.
602-604, January 2005.
A Context-aware Blogging and Learning Service in Mobile IPv6
Networks
Sheng-Cheng Yeh*, Wu-Hsiao Shyu1 , Ching-Hui Chen, Rung-Huei Liang
Dept. of Computer and Communication Engineering
1Dept. of Computer Science and Information Engineering
Ming Chung University
5, The-Ming Road, Gwei-Shan, Taoyuan, Taiwan 33324
*E-mail: peteryeh@mcu.edu.tw
Abstract—Recently, the development of mobile services is
becoming more popular. The mobile applications will not
only take advantage of contextual information, such as
location-awareness, to offer greater services to a mobile
host (MH) but maintain existing transport-layer
connections as the MH moves from one location to another.
This paper exhausts our most recent work: the
AcoustaNomad project. AcoustaNomad not only uses the
mobile IPv6 to maintain the existing connections even if the
MH changes locations and addresses, but utilizes
location-aware technique to detect what kind of services the
new location provides. In addition, AcoustaNomad shows
two mature mobile applications: mobile learning and audio
blogging. This paper proposes the architecture of
AcoustaNomad and experimental results that demonstrate
the ability of AcoustaNomad to enable location-aware
services and applications.
Keywords: Mobile IPv6, Wi-Fi, Mobile Learning, Mobile
Blogging.
I. Introduction
Wireless and mobile networks become popular
research issues in recent years. Since a mobile
host (MH) can roam across different wireless
networks, knowledge about locations is the
necessity for the MH to detect what kind of
services the current location provides.
Therefore, the development of mobile
applications should take advantage of
contextual information, such as location, to
offer greater services to the MH. In addition,
the mobile IPv6 [1] should also be used to
allow transparent routing of IP datagrams in
order to maintain existing transport-layer
connections as the MH moves from one
location to another.
Mobile technologies also provide an
opportunity for a change in education. So,
educators and technical developers are
exploiting the capabilities and characteristics of
mobile technologies to enable new and
engaging forms of learning. In addition, Mobile
technologies create challenges for the media
industry. In Location33 [2], users equipped
with a GPS enabled PDA or mobile phone walk
around downtown Culver City, California and
explore a new type of musical album by mixing
songs and stories based on their movement.
In this paper, we present our recent work: the
AcoustaNomad project which is supported by
IPv6 R&D division of National Information
and Communications Initiative (NICI) in
[8] provides a tour experience with vocal and
background sounds, however, the listening
mode is linear.
2.4 Mobile learning
Mobile technologies enable learners to interact
simultaneously with both the physical world
and the digital information. The Savannah
study [9] explored the use of mobile devices to
enable an interactive learning experience.
Each student wore headphones for auditory
experience and carried a PDA which could be
tracked using GPS. The learners not only
gained the knowledge of learning through
experience, but also learned to help each other,
to offer suggestions and ideas, and to try things
out through practice.
III. Theoretical Model
As shown in Figure 1, the architecture of
AcoustaNomad is divided into four
components: m- Learning, m-Blogging,
Locating Engine and mobile IPv6 technologies.
More specifically, the components of m-
Learning and m-Blogging are applications that
must be based on the components of Locating
Engine and mobile IPv6 technologies. When a
MH changes its location, it uses the Locating
Engine to detect and decide what kinds of
services should be provided in the specific
location. At the same time, the Locating Engine
employs mobile IPv6 technology to maintain
the existing connection. Afterward, the MH
uses the services of m-Learning and
m-Blogging via Sockets API. The functions
provided by these components are described in
following subsections.
3.1 Mobile IPv6
The main function of mobile IPv6 is to
maintain an existing connection. That is, when
an MH changes its location, it might also
change its IPv6 address. In AcoustaNomad, the
KAME [10] mobile IPv6 stack had been used
since it works well and is regarded reference
code.
3.2 Locating engine
A locating technique over wireless LANs can adopt
the network-based or client-based deployment. For a
network-based algorithm [11], a group of access points
(APs) collect the RF signal measurements from a MH
and send them to the central server for locating
estimation. In AcoustaNomad, we propose a client-based
locating engine with a locating database. Each MH’s 
wireless adapter gathers real-time SS from multiple APs
to match the fingerprinting of the signal strength
database, which was established during the off-line phase.
In the proposed locating algorithm, a MH’s position is 
obtained by using the following Euclidean Distance
method:
 


n
i
n
ii SSSS
1
2
DistanceEuclidean
(1)
Where n and i denote SS stored in the database
during the off-line phase, the real-time accessed
SS by the MH, the amount of AP and the APi,
respectively.
Figure 1. The AcoustaNomad architecture with a m-Blogging and
m-Learning.
CISCO router 2811, is both mobile IPv6 and
IPv6 capable router. Since there are eight
networks in the network topology, each
network must have a different IPv6 address. A
dynamic routing protocol, such as RIPv6, is
used between CISCO 2811 routers in order to
route packets to different networks.
Router
Access
Point
MH
2001:3429:1:2::1/64
2001:3429:1:1::1/64
2001:3429:1:3::1/64 2001:3429:1:3::2/64
2001:3429:1:4::1/64
2001:3429:1:5::1/64
2001:3429:1:5::2/64
2001:3429:1:4::2/64
2001:3429:1:6::1/64
2001:3429:1:7::2/642001:3429:1:8::1/64
2001:3429:1:6::2/64
2001:3429:1:1::2/64
HA
2001:3429:1:8::2/64
Learning and
Bloggin Server
Figure 5. The proposed network topology over the Wi-Fi system with
4 APs.
4.2 The implementation results and
discussion
As shown in Figure 6, when a MH stays in a
simulated station, the location engine will
estimate the MH’s location and trigger the 
interactive menu for the specific location. As in
Figure 6, the “S” and “L” icon indicates 
m-Blogging and m-Learning services,
respectively. When the MH continues to roam
to next simulated station, the location engine
wil estimate the MH’s new location, maintain 
the existing connection and trigger the new
interactive menu for the new location. When
the new location only has m-Blogging service,
the MH will see simply the “S” icon appeared 
on the MH. At this time, the MH can click on
the icon to activate the menu shown in Figure 4.
Figure 7 indicates that the location only has
m-Learning service. Therefore, the MH can
click on the red icon to activate the menu as
shown in Figure 2 for a specific location.
Figure 8 shows another analysis result, the
cumulative distribution function (CDF) of the
error distance for the locating scheme, of our
implementation. It is obvious that increasing
the total number of APs from 1 to 2 or more
can provide a significant locating accuracy.
However, the performance improvement is
saturated when the total number of APs is
increased from 3 to 4 [12]. It is worth noting
from the experimental results that more than 80
percent of the estimated locations have error
distance less than 5 meters. As a result, many
services can be predicted in advance accurately
in a specific location when a MH roams to the
specific location.
Figure 6. A simulated station with the m-Blogging and m-Learning
service.
