transmitted symbols. Depending on the receiver 
design, the acquisition time varies from tens of 
micro-seconds to tens of milliseconds. Evidently, 
for high data rate applications, the overhead of 
preambles will significantly reduce the 
efficiency of UWB networks. 
To address the overhead problem, [2] 
proposed a general framework for MAC 
protocols in high data rate UWB networks. In 
this framework, the MAC protocol is based on 
the well-known IEEE 802.11 CSMA/CA 
protocol, which is also a basic component in 
IEEE 802.15.3. The main idea of the scheme is 
to assemble multiple upper-layer packets into 
one burst frame at the MAC layer. In contrast to 
the traditional approach, under which each 
upper-layer packet is delivered individually, 
transmitting multiple upper-layer packets in one 
frame significantly reduces the synchronization 
overhead. 
Performance of CSMA/CA protocols, 
particularly IEEE 802.11, has been studied 
extensively in the literature [3]-[5]. However, 
until recently, most theoretical studies are 
focusing on saturation performance [3], [4], 
where a node in the network always has packets 
ready to be transmitted. Recently, the 
unsaturated analysis for IEEE 802.11 is provided 
in [5], where the system under study is 
decomposed into a queueing subsystem and a 
service time subsystem. In this model, the MAC 
layer queue is modeled as M/G/1/K; the service 
time is characterized by a transfer function. 
However, this model is not directly applicable to 
the unsaturated performance analysis of the 
burst-frame-based MAC protocol due to the 
complicated queueing behavior caused by burst 
frames. 
Since the burst-frame based protocol is 
expected to become the essential component of 
MAC schemes in the next generation wireless 
networks, it is crucial to analyze the performance 
of the protocol under various traffic conditions. 
In [6], the authors have developed an unsaturated 
throughput analysis for a burst-frame-based 
CSMA/CA protocol, which shows that the 
proposed protocol can significantly improve the 
throughput by reducing overheads. Furthermore, 
the delay performance of the burst-frame-based 
MAC protocol is studied in [7]. 
However, as a matter of fact, many kinds of 
impairments exist in the wireless environment, 
e.g., co-channel interference, adjacent channel 
interference and multi-path fading. Therefore, 
assuming an ideal channel, i.e., no channel error, 
is unrealistic. Thus, we first consider the 
scenarios with nonzero channel error rates. 
Secondly, since the demand for multiple services 
is growing, it is essential to consider not only 
homogeneous traffics, but also heterogeneous 
traffic. Our study is basically an extension of the 
results in [6], [7], where the fading channel, the 
bit error rate and the heterogeneous traffic are 
taken into account. A two-dimensional discrete 
time embedded Markov chain is formulated to 
describe the considered system. 
 
三、結果與討論 
 
3.1. System model 
In this section, we describe a burst-frame- 
based MAC protocol In this protocol, we 
consider only one quality-of-service (QoS) class 
of traffic for each destination, i.e., all packets for 
the same destination have the same QoS 
requirements. Incoming packets are first 
classified based on its destination, and then put 
into a corresponding packet queue. Suppose 
there are N  nodes in a UWB network; then we 
can implement N  packet queues in each node, 
among the 1N −  nodes, and one queue is used 
for buffering broadcast packets. For each queue, 
packets will be dropped when there is a buffer 
overflow. 
A burst frame will be generated if the total 
number of packets in the queue exceeds a 
threshold minB  and the server is idle (i.e., there 
is no other burst waiting for transmission). In 
addition, we assume that the total number of 
packets in a burst must be smaller than or equal 
to a preset value max B . In this protocol, we 
require that all the packets in a burst frame have 
the same destination so that most existing 
functions of IEEE 802.11 can be reused as we 
mentioned previously. To achieve the fairness 
among destinations, a simple round-robin 
scheme will be employed. When a burst 
assembly is finished, the burst frame will be 
stored in a buffer and waiting for transmission. If 
where nξ  is the state of the queueing system 
just before  nδ , i.e., 
 ( )n nξ ξ δ −= .       
 Obviously, the state space of the embedded 
Markov chain is 0 1 { , , , }KA A A" . Let dkp  
(0 )k K≤ ≤  be the steady-state probability 
that  n kAξ = . Let ijp  be the steady-state 
transition probability from iA  to jA  for all i , 
j , where 0 i K≤ ≤  and 0 j K≤ ≤ , 
 ( )1lim |ij r n j n inp P A Aξ ξ+→∞= = = .  
Consequently, dkp  can be obtained by solving 
the associated equilibrium state equations once 
all ijp ’s are found in following. 
Π =Π ⋅Ρ ,      
where   ( )0 1 1 1, , ,
d d d
K K
p p p × +⎡ ⎤Π = ⎣ ⎦" , 
and     ( ) ( )1 1ij K Kp + × +⎡ ⎤Ρ = ⎣ ⎦ . 
 
3.2.4 Throughput Analysis 
We can calculate throughput in the network 
based on the previous derivations from 
subsection (3.2.1) to (3.2.3). Let ( )tΓ  be the 
total number of the successfully transmitted 
packets in  [0, ]t . It is noted that the channel is 
non-ideal, and thus we must consider BER due 
to fading error. Then we have 
 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )max
min
1
0
1 0 1
BK
b PM
k k
k b B
t d t B p B B t Nε ⋅+
= =
⎡ ⎤⎡ ⎤Γ = ⋅ ⋅ − + − ⋅ − ⋅⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦∑ ∑
. 
 
Define throughput Γ  as the total number 
amount of data (in bits) of MAC payload 
successfully received in a given time (in sec). 
Accordingly, we can obtain 
          ( )lim
t
t
P
t→∞
ΓΓ = ⋅     
Therefore, 
( ) ( )
( )
( )max
min
min
1
1
min
0
1
1
1
M B
b P
B
b Bs d
k
k
E B p P
N
T B k p
ε
λ
+
⋅
−
=
=
− ⋅ ⎡ ⎤Γ = ⋅ − ⋅⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦+ − ⋅
∑∑
 
 
where  ( )E B  is the average number of packets 
in a burst. 
3.2.5 Unsaturated Delay Analysis 
Here we define the end-to-end delay of a 
packet as the time duration from the epoch that 
packet arrivals at the MAC layer of the source 
node to the epoch that the packet is successfully 
received by the MAC layer of the destination 
node. Note that we only consider the delay of 
packets that are successfully received. 
We can get a general relationship between 
the steady-state probability distributions of the 
buffer condition at the packet arrival time and 
the packet arrival time for a 
min max[ , ]/ /1/B BG G K  queue as in [7]. Based on 
the relationship, we can derive the average 
queueing delay of the min max[ , ]/ /1/B BM G K  
queue. 
 
3.3. Numerical Results 
We present the numerical results to 
demonstrate the performance measures of UWB 
network with Poisson arrivals under different 
burst assembly policies in this Section. Assume 
there are 10N =  stations in the model studied. 
All data fields in a frame (including physical 
header and MAC header) are transmitted with 
data rate R =100 Mbps. Packet arrivals to any 
station i  are modeled by a Poisson process 
with the same rate λ  (packets/s), all packets 
have a constant packet size P  bits, and the 
incoming assemble traffic data rate is iR N Pλ= . 
Furthermore, the incoming assemble traffic load 
is defined as 
 Load iRN P
R R
λ⋅ ⋅= =    
For the analytical model, we let time unit =τ σ . 
Let the maximum service time be 50000 time 
units. The steady state probability distribution is 
determined recursively. 
We consider three burst assembly policies: 
(1) min max[ , ] [1,1]B B = , (2) min max[ , ] [1,10]B B = , 
and (3) min max[ , ] [10,10]B B = . It is noted that the 
bit errors occur independently in the payload of 
MAC frame. The performance measures of 
interest are throughput, average end-to-end delay, 
and the overflow probability. 
There are two classes of users in the system 
and each class uses a different packet assembly 
scenario 2, the first observation is that the 
overflow probabilities for policy 1 and policy 3 
increase with load for all bit error rates. The 
second observation is that the overflow 
probability for policy 1 is greater than that for 
policy 3 for all bit error rates. On one hand, for 
loads greater than 0.6 overflow probability for 
policy 1 increases significantly with load for all 
bit error rates. On the other hand, overflow 
probability for policy 3 increases slightly with 
load except for -5BER=10 . For scenario 3, the 
first observation is that the overflow 
probabilities for policy 2 and policy 3 increase 
with load for all bit error rates. The second 
observation is that the overflow probability for 
policy 3 is smaller than that for policy 2 at all 
loads for bit error rates no greater than 510− . 
For -5 BER=10 , the overflow probability for 
policy 3 is always greater than that for policy 2, 
since the larger burst size for policy 3 results in 
more retransmissions and thus lower throughput 
due to channel errors. 
 
四、成果自評 
In this work, we analyze the packet assembly 
scheme at the MAC layer and service 
differentiation issues for high data rate UWB ad 
hoc networks. Instead of assuming the traffic 
load is saturated, we consider the unsaturated 
performance measures for UWB networks with 
Poisson arrival traffic model, e.g., throughput, 
average end-to-end delay, and overflow 
probability. A discrete-time Markov chain is 
used to characterize the system studied. In 
particular, each station is modeled as an 
min max[ , ]/ /1/B BM G K  queueing system. Since the 
bit error rate (BER) in the wireless channel is 
much higher than that in the wired channel, we 
also consider the scenarios with nonzero bit error 
rates. We study the scenarios with heterogeneous 
traffic, where each class of users uses a different 
packet assembly policy to provide service 
differentiation. 
 First, we analyze the scenarios with 
nonzero channel error rates and homogeneous 
traffic. The results show that the packet 
assembly scheme may significantly improve the 
throughput and average end-to-end delay. The 
throughput of policy 3 is the worst among the 
three policies when bit error rate is no less than 
510−  due to its large frame size. However, 
with -5BER=10 , the average end-to-end delay 
for policy 1 is greater than those for policies 2 
and 3 if load is no less than 0.6. For the cases 
with min max B B= , throughput increases as maxB  
increases if BER is no greater than -610 , and 
decreases as maxB  increases when
-5 BER=10 . 
However, the average end-to-end delay 
decreases as maxB  increases no matter how 
BER changes. Therefore, there is a tradeoff 
between throughput and average end-to-end 
delay. Among these three policies, the overflow 
probability for policy 1 is the highest, which is 
nearly 50% when the load is 1. Obviously, the 
policy 1 is not suitable for real time transmission 
due to its high packet loss probability when the 
offered load is heavy. We can assemble more 
packets into a burst to reduce the packet loss 
probability. 
Second, we study the heterogeneous traffic 
cases, where there are two classes of users and to 
support service differentiation, each class of 
users use a different packet assembly policy. For 
scenarios 1 and 2, the policy 1 is unsuitable for 
real time transmission due to the fact that it leads 
to large average end-to-end delay (no less than 
60ms) when load is heavy, and the packet loss 
probability due to queue overflow for policy 1 is 
greater than those for policies 2 and 3. For 
scenario 3, policy 2 is suitable for real time 
transmission no matter how BER changes. The 
results show that the average end-to-end delay 
for policy 2 is less than that for policy 3 when 
the load is light, especially -5 BER=10 , and 
policy 2 results in higher throughput than policy 
3 when -5BER=10 . 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
