2 MATERIAL AND METHODOLOGY USED
the laboratory tests and it has not been verified
whether the strength under water infiltration
process was similar to the strength at constant
suctions, except Meilani et al. (2005) who per-
formed a series of experimental study to exam-
ine this effect for the factory made kaolin soil.
It was necessary to examine this effect on real
soil such as the lateritic soil in Taiwan.
Our aim was to achieve an understanding of
the triggering mechanism of landslides caused
by field drying stress path and water infiltra-
tion in unsaturated lateritic soil slope. To com-
prehensively study and evaluate the effects of
field stress path and water infiltration on the
shear strength of unsaturated lateritic soil, a
series of unsaturated triaxial testing would be
conducted. The effect of water infiltration on
the shear strength of lateritic soil, which was
equilibrated via the drying stress path, was then
examined.
2 Material and Methodology
Used
Linkou terrace is composed of lateritic soil of
varying thicknesses and flat-lying cobble de-
posits (Liao et al. 1987). The production of
lateritic soil requires a yearly average tempera-
ture of 20-25oC and a minimum annual rainfall
of 750 mm. The soil is the product of both the
chemical and physical weathering on cobbles,
involving varying degrees of wind and precip-
itation. It is characterized by the presence of
iron and aluminum oxides, particularly those of
iron that dictate the color of the soil (Wan et al.
1986). A study conducted on the lateritic soil
obtained from this terrace (Gui and Chu 2005)
revealed that the lateritic soil has a high poten-
tial for shrinking and swelling due to water con-
tent changes. Its suction decreases sharply and
the volume increases greatly with increasing wa-
ter content. The study site is located at the cen-
ter of Linkou terrace with an elevation of about
251 m above sea level and its groundwater table
was about 14 m below the ground surface. The
lateritic soil was thus partially saturated. Intact
soil specimens of 5.6 cm diameter by 30 cm long
have been obtained from several trial pits. Af-
ter being retrieved from the ground, the samples
were immediately sealed with wax at both ends
and transferred to the laboratory for a series of
laboratory tests. A modified triaxial apparatus
was used for this study. In addition, the basic
physical properties and soil water characteristic
curve (SWCC) of the study soil were also con-
ducted. X-ray diffraction analysis (XRD) and
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) have also
been performed to determine the mineralogy,
chemical compositions and fabric of the soil, re-
spectively.
2.1 Physical properties
A series of physical properties tests has been
conducted according to the procedures set out
in the ASTMs, such as ASTM D2216-92 (2002),
on these soils. The purpose of conducting soil
physical properties tests was to determine the
water content, specific gravity, unit weight, par-
ticle size distribution, liquid limit (wL), and
plasticity index (Ip) of the study soil. The aver-
age physical properties obtained from a total of
15 soil specimens were summarized in Table 1.
The particle size distribution curves are shown
in Fig. 1(a) where it can be seen that the soil
contents about 11.4% of sand and 88.6% of silt.
It, thus, has more than 50% of silt-sized par-
ticles. Atterberg limits tests are intended for
the investigation of the presence of clay miner-
als in a soil, and they are carried out only on
soil passing through sieve with a 0.43 mm aper-
ture. The Atterberg limit results of the study
soil are plotted in Fig 1(b). According to unified
soil classification system (USCS), the soil can be
classified as low plasticity clay/silt (CL/ML).
2/14
2.1 Physical properties 2 MATERIAL AND METHODOLOGY USED
Table 2: Empirical formula for the estimation of SWCC (after Fredlund & Wilson, 2000).
Authors Equation Definition of variables
Gardner
(1958)
θw = θrg + (θs − θrg)
[
1
(1+agψ
ng )
]
θs saturated gravimetric wa-
ter content; θw any gravimet-
ric water content; θrg residual
gravimetric water content; ag
fitting parameter; ng fitting
parameter; ψ soil suction.
Brooks
and Corey
(1964)
θw = θr + (θs − θr)
[
ac
ψ
]nc
ac bubbling pressure (kPa);
nc pore-size index; θs satu-
rated gravimetric water con-
tent; θw any gravimetric water
content; θr residual volumet-
ric water content; ψ soil suc-
tion.
van
Genuchten
(1980);
Burdine
(1953)
θw = θrb + (θs − θrb)
[
1
(1+(abψ)
nb )
(
1− 2nb
) ] θs saturated gravimetric wa-
ter content; θw any gravimet-
ric water content; θrb resid-
ual gravimetric water content;
ab fitting parameter; nb fitting
parameter; ψ soil suction.
van
Genuchten
(1980);
Mualem
(1976)
θw = θrm + (θs − θrm)
[
1
(1+(amψ)nm )
(1− 1nm )
]
θs saturated gravimetric wa-
ter content; θw any gravimet-
ric water content; θrm residual
gravimetric water content; am
fitting parameter; nm fitting
parameter; ψ soil suction.
van
Genuchten
(1980)
θw = θrvg + (θs − θrvg)
[
1
{1+(avgψ)nvg}mvg
]
θs saturated gravimetric wa-
ter content; θw any gravimet-
ric water content; θrvg resid-
ual gravimetric water content;
avg fitting parameter; nvg fit-
ting parameter; mvg fitting
parameter; ψ soil suction.
Fredlund
and Xing
(1994)
θw = θs
1− ln(1+ ψhr )
ln
(
1+ 10
6
hr
) 1{
ln
[
exp(1)+
[
ψ
af
]nf ]}mf
 θs saturated gravimetric wa-
ter content; θw any gravimet-
ric water content; af fitting
parameter closely related to
the air-entry value for the soil;
nf fitting parameter related
to the maximum slope of the
curve; mf fitting parameter
related to the curvature of the
slope; hr parameter used to
adjust lower portion of the
curve; ψ soil suction.
4/14
2.3 Advanced triaxial test 2 MATERIAL AND METHODOLOGY USED
Figure 4: Soil specimen in the triaxial cell.
2.3 Advanced triaxial test
The main method used for this study was the
advanced laboratory triaxial testing. The ap-
paratus for triaxial test of unsaturated soil was
essentially similar to the apparatus used for sat-
urated soil, which includes a triaxial cell, an ax-
ial loading device, a pressure applying system,
pore-water pressure and volume transducers,
and a computer program suitable for controlling
the test sequences. Some modifications to the
triaxial apparatus for saturated soil were needed
following the recommendation of Fredlund and
Rahardjo (1993) prior to any specific triaxial
test for unsaturated soil. The system shown
in Fig. 3 adopted a telescopic spiral ram and a
server motor to replace the conventional LVDT
and axial loading device. In addition, three ad-
vanced pressure/volume controllers were used
to control and measure the cell fluid pressure,
pore-air and pore-water pressures and their re-
spected volumes.
Triaxial shearing tests were conducted to
study the shear strength of lateritic soil when
it fails due to water infiltration. Two types
of consolidated drained tests were performed
in this study: (1) constant-suction shearing
test, and (2) shearing-infiltration test. In the
constant-suction shearing test soil specimen –
equilibrated via a drying path – were sheared
under a net normal stress and constant ma-
tric suction (i.e. drained test under constant
air and water pressures so that (ua − uw) = 0,
and hence, (ua − uw) = constant) until failure.
In the shearing-infiltration test specimen – also
equilibrated via a drying path – were sheared
under a constant suction until 85-90% of its
shear strength, which was estimated from the
constant-suction shearing test, before it was in-
jected with water while maintaining a constant
shear stress until failure was reached. Suction
in the soil specimen was created using the axis
translation technique proposed by Hilf (1956).
A typical set-up of soil specimen in the triaxial
cell is shown in Fig. 4.
2.3.1 Constant-suction shearing test
In the constant-suction shearing test, soil spec-
imen failed by increasing the shear stress under
constant matric suction. Failure was defined
when a constant shear stress or at least 15%
of shear strain was attained. Tests were con-
ducted under saturated and unsaturated con-
ditions. Specimen was first equilibrated to a
specific matric suction under a particular net
normal stress before shearing to failure. During
shearing, the matric suction was maintained at
a constant value, i.e. both the air and water
valves were opened during shearing.
6/14
3 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
The shear stress level (Point C in Fig. 5) to be
maintained on the specimen while the soil was
being infiltrated with water was first defined,
and an appropriate stress level was the one that
ensures that the soil will fail in an unsaturated
condition during the water infiltration process
(Han, 1997). The selection of a stress level for
a soil specimen depended on the initial net nor-
mal stress, (σ3 − ua) and the matric suction,
(ua − uw) in the soil. The stress level for a soil
specimen was normally determined as a portion
of the shear strength as obtained from the shear-
ing test under a particular set of net normal
stress and matric suction. Meilani et al. (2005)
adopted a constant shear stress of between 85-
90% of the shear strength.
For infiltration test, water was injected into
a soil specimen using a digital pressure volume
controller to infuse water at a constant rate via
the water compartment located below the high
air entry disk beneath the specimen. The rate
of water infiltration should be smaller than the
permeability of the high air entry disk and the
soil specimen. In addition, the rate should be
slow enough such that the water pressure in the
water compartment was similar to that in the
soil during the process of infiltration. The in-
filtration rate used in the above tests was 0.004
mm3/s.
3 Results and Discussion
Fig. 6 and Fig. 7 show the typical results of the
study soil during the constant suction test and
shearing-infiltration test, respectively. Fig. 6(a)
shows the stress/strain curve of the tests con-
ducted at net normal stress (σ − ua)=100 and
400 kPa and matric suction (ua−uw)=300 kPa.
The test A at (σ−ua)=100 kPa was terminated
earlier than the other two tests due to electricity
cut-off. Hence, a second testB was carried. The
peak strength of tests A and B was similar, in-
dicating the repeatability of the test. Fig. 6(b)
shows the stress path of the tests plotted in
q = (σ1−σ3) vs p′ = 13(σ1+2σ3)−ua (Atkinson
& Bransby, 1997). The stress paths revealed
that all the specimens were undergoing drained
test while moving towards the failure envelope.
The stress path first hit the peak stress before
decreasing to the critical state. The M line for
critical state is also plotted where a value of
1.025 has been obtained. Fig. 6(c) indicates
that no excess pore-water pressure was gener-
ated during the constant-suction shearing tests.
Fig. 6(d) shows the volumetric strain of the wa-
ter draining out from the specimens during the
constant-suction tests. The maximum volumet-
ric strain observed in test C was about 5.2%.
It was clear that the shear strength of the
study soil dropped significantly in the shearing-
infiltration test and achieved a critical strength
value at the end of failure. Fig. 7(b) shows the
variation of the matric suction in the soil during
the shearing-infiltration test. It could be seen
that large excess pore-water pressure generated
quickly at some points of the infiltration pro-
cess causing the matric suction to vanished and
replaced by the excess pore-water pressure in-
stead. Fig. 7(d) shows the q vs p′ plot of the
tests conducted under matric suction value of
about 40 ∼ 50 kPa. The stress path shows
that all the specimen were initially undergoing
drained test, after the commencement of the
infiltration process, the stress path move hor-
izontally towards the failure envelope. Failure
occurred when the stress path touched the fail-
ure envelope. This shows that infiltration alone
could cause failure in the soil without additional
shearing.
Fig. 7(a) shows the deviatoric strength pro-
files obtained from the shearing-infiltration test
of the study soil, conducted at (ua−uw) of 200,
300 and 400 kPa. Fig. 7(b) shows the vari-
ation of the matric suction in the soil during
the shearing-infiltration test. It could be seen
that large excess pore-water pressure generated
8/14
3 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Figure 7: Typical shearing-infiltration test results at net normal stress (σ − ua) = 100 kPa and matric
suction (ua − uw) = 200, 300 and 400 kPa.
10/14
5 CONCLUSIONS AND SUGGESTIONS
under a decreasing effective stress. In slopes
with a deep groundwater table, the soils were
unsaturated and the matric suction can be re-
duced by the rising groundwater table or by the
movement of a wetting front from the slope’s
surface during a rainfall. Consequently, the av-
erage shear strength along a potential failure
surface was reduced to a value close to that of
the average shear stress acting on that failure
surface and when this happens the soil mass
begins to slide along the failure surface (Han,
1997).
4 Effects of Drying and Wetting
Stress Paths
The shear strength of the study soil obtained
from the wetting stress path of the constant-
suction shearing test have been obtained in
the previous study (NSC-98-2221-E-027-070);
they were c′ = 42.6 kPa, φ′ = 25.8o and
φb=22.1o. The corresponding extended Mohr-
Coulomb failure envelope of the soil tested fol-
lowing the wetting stress path is thus:
τ = 42.6 + (ua − uw) tan 22.1o + (σ − ua) tan 25.8o (2)
Equation 2 is compared to the extended fail-
ure envelope of the soil tested following the dry-
ing stress path in this study:
τ = 42.6 + (ua − uw) tan 26.2o + (σ − ua) tan 25.8o (3)
Hence, it can be said that the effect of wetting
and drying stress paths on the shear strength
of unsaturated lateritic soil is observed in the
component of the rate of strength increase due
to matric suction, φb. The angle φb decreased
by about 18% (1 − tan 22.1o/ tan 26.2o) if the
soil specimen was subjected to the wetting stress
path compared to the soil that was subjected to
the drying stress path prior to shearing.
Likewise, the extended failure initiation en-
velope of the shearing-infiltration test can also
be obtained using the multi-regression analy-
sis for both the wetting and drying stress paths
shearing-infiltration test. The wetting stress
path posses an extended failure initiation en-
velope that was represented by
τ = 42.6 + (ua − uw) tan 14.5o + (σ − ua) tan 24.5o (4)
while the drying stress path posses an extended
failure initiation envelope that was represented
by
τ = 42.6 + (ua − uw) tan 26.2o + (σ − ua) tan 25.5o (5)
The shear strength of soil undergoing wetting
stress path would be further reduced if water
infiltrated into the soil whereas for the soil that
underwent drying stress path the shear strength
remained reasonably constant with or without
water infiltration. Han (2001) obtained a signif-
icantly higher strength for the soil getting drier
than the soil getting wetter in his direct shear
tests. It was believed that the higher water con-
tent in the soil results in a larger contact area
of water with soil particles that contributed to
the increase in the shear strength of the soil
when subjected to matric suction (Goh et al.,
2010). Therefore, the specimens on the drying
path have a higher peak shear strength than the
specimens on the wetting path.
5 Conclusions and Suggestions
5.1 Conclusions
A series of laboratory test have been conducted
to obtain the shear strength of unsaturated lat-
12/14
7 BIBLIOGRAPHY
14. Fredlund D G & Xing A (1994). Equation for
the soil-water characteristic curve. Canadian
Geotechnical J., 31, 521-532.
15. Fredlund D G, Xing A, Fredlund M D & Barbour
S L (1995). The relationship of the unsaturated
soil shear strength to the soil-water characteristic
curve. Canadian Geotechnical J., 32, 440-448.
16. Gardner, W. (1958). Some steady state solutions
of the unsaturated moisture flow equation with
application to evaporation from a water table.
Soil Science, 85(4), 228-232.
17. van Genuchten M T (1980). A closed-form equa-
tion for predicting the hydraulic conductivity of
unsaturated soils. J. Soil Science Soc. Am., 44,
892-898.
18. Goh, S G, Rahardjo, H and Leong, E C (2010).
Shear Strength Equations for Unsaturated Soil
under Drying and Wetting. Journal of Geotech-
nical and Geoenvironmental Engineering, 136(4),
594-606.
19. Gui, M.W. and Chu, H.A. (2005). Preliminary
study on the swelling/shrinking of Taiwan lat-
eritic soil. Proc. of Int. Conf. on Problematic
Soils: GeoProb2005, Cyprus, 25-27 May 2005.
639-646.
20. Gui, M W, Chang C H and Chen S F (2008).
Some Attributes of Road-Slopes Failure Caused
by Typhoons. Proc. 10th Int. Symp. on Land-
slides and Engineered Slopes, Xian, China, June
30 - July 4, A.A. Balkema Publishers - Taylor &
Francis The Netherlands, 1559-1564.
21. Han K K (1997). Effect of hysteresis, infiltration
and tensile stress on the strength of an unsatu-
rated soil. PhD. Dissertation, Nanyang Techno-
logical University, Singapore.
22. Han K K (2001). Modeling rainfall-induced land-
slides. Proc. 10th Forum on Engineering Geology
& Geotechnics of Slopes, Kuala Lumpur.
23. Hilf J W (1956). An Investigation of Pore-Water
Pressure in Compacted Cohesive Soils. Ph.D.
Dissertation, Tech. Memo. No. 654, U.S. Dept of
the Interior, Bureau of Reclamation, Design and
Construction Div., Denver, CO, 654p.
24. Leong E C & Rahardjo H (1997). Review of
soil-water characteristic curve equations. J. of
Geotechnical and Geoenvironmental Engineering,
123(12), 1106-1117.
25. Liao, T.N., Wu, J.S. and Chang, T.L. (1987).
The preliminary investigation of potential hazard
in Linkou area. Geohazard Report, 75-40, Na-
tional Science Council, Republic of China. 2-7.
[In Chinese.]
26. Lin, M.L. and Jeng, F.S. (2000). Characteristic
of hazards induced by extremely heavy rainfall
in Central Taiwan-Typhoon Herb. Engineering
Geology, 58, 191-207.
27. Lin, M.L. and Jeng, F.S. (2004). Identification of
Areas Prone to Rain-Induced Landslides of Shi-
To Area in Central Taiwan. Int. Symp. on Land-
slide and Debris Flow Hazard Assessment, 1-23.
28. Meilani I, Rahardjo H & Leong E C (2005). Pore-
water pressure and water volume change of an un-
saturated soil infiltration conditions. Canadian
Geotechnical. J., 42, 1509-1531.
29. Melinda H, Rahardjo H, Han K K and Leong E
C (2004). Shear strength of compacted soil un-
der infiltration condition. J. of Geotechnical and
Geoenvironmental Engineering, 130(8), 807-817.
30. Mualem, Y. (1976). A new model predicting the
hydraulic conductivity of unsaturated porous me-
dia. Water Resources Research, 12, 513-522.
31. Olivares L and Picarelli L (2003). Shallow
flowslides triggered by intense rainfalls on natural
slopes covered by loose unsaturated pyroclastic
soils, Geotechnique, 53(2), 283-288.
32. Terzaghi K and Peck R B (1967). Soil Mechanics
in Engineering Practice. A Wiley International
Edition, 729p.
33. Vanapalli S K, Fredlund D G & Pufahl D E
(1996). The relationship between the soil-water
characteristic curve and the unsaturated shear
strength of a compacted glacial till. Geotechnical
Testing J., 19(3), 259-268.
34. Wan, S.M., Chen, S.H., and Riu, C.T. (1986).
The relationship between the mineralogy, chem-
ical characteristics and formation of lateritic soil
in the weathered cobbles of Linkou terrace. Geo-
hazard Report 74-52B, National Science Council,
Republic of China. 5-13. [In Chinese.]
35. Wong, J.C., Rahardjo, H., Toll. D.G. and Leong,
E.C. (2001). Modified triaxial apparatus for
shearing-infiltration test. Geotechnical Testing
J., 24(4), 370-380.
14/14
文口頭發表與72篇海報。筆者為其中一位口頭發表者，發表場次被安排於第一天（6/30）
下午的S15─7場次，發表過程順利。参會代表圍繞着本次會議主題進行了廣泛的交流和
討論。總共有來自25個國家和地區的295余位專家學者参加了本次的研討會。 
 
主辦單位對於整個會議之安排及對與會者之招待，十分細心周到，更在第三晚安排晚宴
和韓國文化表演之餘興節目，以促進與會者間之交流，整個會議過程十分順利圓滿，相
信與會者對舉辦單位之熱情招待會十分難忘。主辦單位也帶領與會者參觀韓國政府在仁
川機場附近規劃的一個面積 53.3km2 、投資額332億31百萬美金（至2007/12止）的 小型、
智能城市（Songdo Compact Smart City）。該環保、多功能城市將容納國際業務園區、
尖端生物與知識信息產業原區、仁川新港物流園區、亞洲教育與研究中心園區，展現了
韓國政府的遠見、國土規劃政策與魄力。  
 
與會心得與建議 
首先要感謝國科會對筆者的補助，使筆者得以順利參加此次本次研討會，並發表論文。
此次會議所得到的收獲很多，主要的心得與建議如下： 
 
（一） 本領域教授們平日由於教學與研究工作繁忙難得有機會可相互了解彼此之研究
心 得 ， 透 過 像 第 28 屆  International Symposium on Automation and 
Robotics in Construction 國際研討會會議，在沒有日常的教學與研究等事務
干擾下，不僅能與其他國家跨領域研究之專家學者交流、交換教學與研究之經
驗與心得、尋找共同合作之可能性；因此，建議鼓勵同仁多多參加。 
 
（二） 筆者對於與會的幾所南韓大學在教學與研究方面之國際化深感佩服。南韓的大
學不但積極主動舉辦國際學術活動，加上其研究成果有一定之水準，令筆者另
眼相看。 
 
1mwgui
From: ISARC <isarc@isarc2011.org>
Sent: Friday, May 06, 2011 12:53 PM
To: mwgui@ntut.edu.tw
Subject: [ISARC 2011] Paper Acceptance Letter
May 6, 2011 
 
Denzel M W Gui 
NTUT 
Taiwan 
E-mail: mwgui@ntut.edu.tw 
 
Dear Denzel M W Gui,  
 
On behalf of the Organizing Committee, we are pleased to inform you that your paper submission has been accepted
to present at the ISARC 2011. 
   
Please confirm the acceptance on your presentation and guideline as follows.   
 
1. Presentation Schedule 
Paper Accepted Type Oral 
Paper Title 
COMPARISON OF TWO WATER STORAGE FUNCTIONS OF SOIL ON 
PORE-WATER PRESSURE OF EARTH-FILLED DAM UNDER CHANGING 
ENVIRONMENT 
Authors Meen-Wah Gui, Chia-Hsian Wu, Chih-Wei Lu 
Presenter Meen-Wah Gui 
Date/Time June 30 ~ July 1  (The exact date/time will be announced soon.)  
Standard Equipment 
Laptop (English, MS Office 2003 Version over), Beam Projector & Screen 
* If you want to use other equipments for your presentation (ig, Mackintosh computer),  
 please contact the Secretariat office in advance. 
   
2. Registration 
The presenter must make pre-registration with full payment for the Conference by May 20, 2011.  
For smooth symposium operation, the paper of speakers who do not register by the pre-registration  
deadline would be withdrawn from the schedule. Please visit our website (http://www.isarc2011.org/registration).  
 
3. Accommodation  
Please reserve hotel rooms after logging into our online system no later than May 20th. Hotel rooms will  
be booked on first come, first served basis. For more information on accommodation, please visit our website 
(http://www.isarc2011.org/hotel.htm) 
 
4.  Visa 
An official invitation letter will be issued at your request to facilitate your participation in the conference. Please 
contact the secretariat (isarc@isarc2011.org) for any assistance.  
 
We look forward to seeing you in Seoul, Korea. 
 
Sincerely yours, 
 
COMPARISON OF TWO WATER STORAGE FUNCTIONS OF SOIL ON PORE-
WATER PRESSURE OF EARTH-FILLED DAM UNDER CHANGING 
ENVIRONMENT 
 
Meen-Wah Gui1*, Chia-Hsian Wu1, and Chih-Wei Lu2  
 
1 Department of Civil Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan 
2 Department of Construction Engineering, National Kaohsiung First University of Science and Technology, 
Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
* Corresponding author (mwgui@ntut.edu.tw)  
 
ABSTRACT: Seepage of water through earth fill dam involves both the saturated and unsaturated flows of water. Unsatu-
rated flow of water is often neglected because of the complexity required in solving the non-linear partial differential equa-
tion involved. This paper presents a seepage analysis of water flows through the partially saturated Renyi-Tan earth fill dam 
in Taiwan. The governing non-linear partial differential flow equation together with equations representing the characteris-
tics of dam materials was solved using a PDE solver. Two water storage functions, which were derived by differentiating the 
van Genuchten (1980) and Leong and Rahardjo (1997)’s SWCC functions, have been used, and the two sets of results ob-
tained have been compared for their sensitivity in seepage analysis of the study dam. 
 
Keywords: Earth-fill Dam, Seepage, Unsaturated Soil, Water Storage Function, PDE  
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Seepage analysis is important in the assessment of long 
term stability of slope, underground excavation, dam, etc. 
For homogeneous and isotropic material, the flow of water 
in saturated zone is commonly estimated by solving the 
linear partial differential equation (PDE) through the use of 
the graphical flow net method (Thieu et al., 2001). The 
flow of water in unsaturated soil is a very complicated 
problem because water flow and moisture content in un-
saturated soil may vary both spatially and temporally as a 
result of time-dependent changes in environmental condi-
tions, such as rainfall and rising water-table, and the stor-
age capacity of soil (Lu and Likos, 2004). The environ-
mental changes are normally considered by including them 
into the boundary conditions of the problem under consid-
eration while the storage capacity of the soil is considered 
via the governing laws of flow, which is essentially repre-
sented by a non-linear partial differential equation.  
 
Taiwan is receiving plenty of rainfall that was brought by 
typhoons between May and October every year. Not only 
could the stability of dam be affected by the sudden rise of 
the upstream water-table it could also be affected by the 
infiltration of the rain. Taking two different functions of 
water storage capacity of soil into consideration, this study 
aims at examining the generation and distribution of pore-
water pressure of Renyi-Tan earth fill dam due to the rising 
upstream water-table and rainfall infiltration. The two sets 
of results, generated by the two water storage functions, are 
then evaluated and compared in terms of pore-water pres-
sure contour generated in the dam.  
 
2. THEORETICAL BACKGROUND 
The governing law for transient water flow in soil under 
isothermal conditions can be derived by applying the prin-
ciple of mass conservation, which is also called the conti-
nuity principle. It states that for a given elemental volume  
S15-7
538
into a FE model and solve the system before presenting 
graphical output of the results. The program is capable of 
auto-mesh generation and refinement and, thus, simplifies 
the mesh creation process. It also allows the material prop-
erties to be input in equation form or a series of data points. 
 
4. RENYI-TAN DAM AND INPUT PARAMETERS 
4.1 Background of the Dam 
 
Fig. 1 Cross-sectional view of Renyi-Tan dam (in meter). 
 
The study dam that formed part of an off-stream reservoir 
is called Renyi-Tan dam. It is a roller-compacted earth fill 
dam with layout shown in Fig. 1. The dam has a maximum 
height of 28 m and a 9 m wide by 1550 m long crest locat-
ed at elevation EL. 108 m. The highest water-table is at EL. 
105 m with a water surface covers an area of 3.66 square 
km; the total water-holding capacity is 29.11 million m3 
but the effective water-holding capacity is only 27.31 mil-
lion m3. The dam itself is situated at the upstream of the 
Ba-Zhang River, which is 2.1 km from the Lan-Tan dam. 
Construction of the dam started in 1980 and it began to 
store water in August 1987. Together with Lan-Tan dam, it 
supplies water to the community in Jia-Yi County, and the 
industry around the area. The dam was constructed using 
four materials. The shell of the dam was constructed by 
SM material, the core by CL material and the two semi-
impermeable zones, located between the shell and the core, 
by ML material (Fig 1). The surface layer of the shell was 
covered by gravelly material. 
 
4.2 Input Parameters 
Equation (7) reveals that three characteristic functions 
(SWCC, hydraulic conductivity and water storage) are 
needed in this seepage analysis. 
 
Fig. 2 Experimental and back-fitted SWCC functions. 
 
Fig. 3 Estimated hydraulic conductivity functions. 
 
Table 1: Fitting parameters used in fitting SWCC and ݇௪. 
Soil type van Genuchten 
(1980) 
a, n, m(=1-1/n) 
Leong and Rahardjo 
(1997) 
a, n, m 
CL 0.01599, 1.180 70.54, 1.211, 0.4620 
ML 0.01721, 1.209 104.0, 1.016, 0.5904 
SM 0.06816, 1.411 21.42, 1.734, 0.8811 
 
SWCC 
Experimental data of the SWC of the three materials (CL, 
ML, and SM) have been obtained using the pressure plate 
extractor tests (Fig. 2). The figure shows that the saturated 
volumetric water content ߠ௦	for CL, ML and SM materials 
was 45%, 37%, and 35%, respectively. These data were 
fitted, with the fitting parameters a, n, and m tabulated in 
Table 1, using the functions proposed by van Genuchten 
(1980) with residual volumetric water content ߠ௥=0: 
 
ߠ ൌ ߠ௥ ൅ ఏೞିఏೝሾଵାሺ௔∗టሻ೙ሿ೘                             (8) 
 
and Leong and Rahardjo (1997): 
 
ߠ ൌ ఏೞ
൜௟௡൤௘௫௣ሺଵሻାቀഗೌቁ
೙൨ൠ
೘                              (9) 
S15-7
540
4.4 Boundary Conditions 
The earth fill dam considered is 28 m high and incorpo-
rates a filter under the downstream slope of the dam. The 
transient seepage problem requires that initial conditions of 
head be specified. To represent the low storage condition 
water-table level at 96.54 m, a head of 16.54 m was de-
fined on the upstream face of the dam. The initial condition 
of the dam was obtained by first solving a steady state run 
of the problem with the 16.54 m head on the upstream face 
and a head of 0 m on the lower portion of the filter. All 
other boundaries were set to zero flux condition. The re-
sults from the steady state analysis were then used as the 
initial condition for the transient analysis.  
 
5. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The above seepage analysis results are evaluated and plot-
ted here in terms of pore-water pressure distribution.  
 
5.1 Steady State: Initial condition 
Fig. 6 shows the distribution of steady-state pore-water 
pressure distribution across the dam. The contour that cor-
responds to zero pressure (line ‘d’) represents the phreatic 
line in the dam. Soil that lies below this line is saturated 
with positive pore-water pressure and soil that lies above 
this line is unsaturated with negative pore-water pressure. 
At the crest, the value of the matric suction was 196 kPa. 
 
In practice, dam design required the water to exit the dam 
before the toe of the downstream slope. If the water-table 
had extended to the toe of the dam, there would be concern 
that the toe of the dam would become unstable due to pip-
ing failure. As expected, with a filtering layer installed at 
the base of the downstream slope it is obvious that the 
pore-water pressure was unable to accumulate in the down-
stream semi-permeable zone (Fig. 6). In this zone, most of 
the pressure dissipated along the filter of the dam with zero 
pore-water pressure as shown by contour “d” in Fig. 6. 
Above the filtering layer, negative pore-water pressures 
(matric suction) exist. In general, matric suction would 
increase shear strength and, thus, the stability of the down-
stream slope in this case. In addition, the existence of the 
matric suction in the downstream slope would also prevent 
the occurrence of piping at the toe of the downstream slope. 
 
 
Fig. 6 Contour of pore-water pressure (kPa) from steady-
state analysis with water-table at EL. 96.54 m [contour 
interval: 50 kPa; e.g. c=-50 kPa, d=0 kPa; e=50 kPa]. 
 
5.2 Transient State: Rising water-table 
The process of filling up a reservoir is a transient process. 
The upstream water-table rose 7.09 m during a nineteen-
day period between 21 May and 9 June (Fig. 5a). This is 
equal to an average rise of 0.373 m per day. Using the daily 
rise shown in Fig. 5(a) and setting the initial water-table at 
EL. 96.54 m, a 31-day seepage analysis has been carried 
out for this dam.  
(a) day-11 
(b) day-31 
Fig. 7 van Genuchten (1980)’s function: change of pore-
water pressure due to rising water-table [contour inter-
val=50 kPa; a=-150 kPa; d=0; l=400 kPa]. 
 
The distributions of the pore-water pressure in the dam, 
obtained through the functions of van Genuchten (1980) 
and Leong and Rahardjo (1997), for day-11 and day-31 are 
shown in Fig. 7 and 8, respectively. In all cases, the maxi-
mum pore-pressure of 426 kPa (11-day) and 428 kPa (31-
day), compared to 424 kPa in the case of steady-state con-
dition, occurred at the base of the upstream slope of the 
dam. No significant variation of pore-water pressure distri-
S15-7
542
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 現地應力路徑及水入滲對不飽和紅土強度之影響(II)
計畫主持人: 魏敏樺
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-027-055- 學門領域: 大地工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
