2When analyzing mobile communication systems, the
2-ray Rayleigh fading model is generally used for
analyzing the performance in the frequency-selective
fading channel. For this statistical model, the impulse
response of the kth diversity path is given by
(3)
where , , , and are zero-mean, i.i.d.
Gaussian random variables with the same variance .
Parameter represents the relative delay of the two
rays. The fading channels of all diversity paths are
assumed to be mutually independent with multiple
antennas spaced sufficiently far apart. We denote the
channel impulse response corresponding to the CCI as
.
The channel is treated as quasistatic and therefore the
channel can be considered time-invariant over several
symbol intervals. The average value of the baseband
SNR on the kth diversity path is given by
where is the data
symbol variance given by for M-ary QAM
and is the common double-side spectral density of
the noise. With the same modulation as the desired
signal, the average signal-to-interference ratio (SIR) on
the kth diversity path is derived as ,
where represents the common variance of the
Gaussian random variables of each Rayleigh-fading
component in the CCI channel.
With taking into account the effects of symbol and
carrier timing offsets, the CCI can be seen as a wide-
sense stationary (WSS) process. Based on this CCI
model,Based on this CCI model, the optimum
combining diversity reception revealed by the theory is
composed of a set of whitening matched filters whose
outputs are first summed and sampled. These samples
are then passed through a tapped-delay transversal filter
[6]. The whitening matched filters, a combination of
continuous whitening and matched filters, on the kth
path has the transfer function
(4)
with the impulse response denoted by , where
is the Fourier transform of . We define
which represents the power
spectrum of the kth CCI with denoting the Fourier
transformation of . All outputs of the matched
filters are summed and then sampled at . The
combiner-sampler output can be represented by
(5)
where is the sum of , the sample of which
represents the overall impulse response of the desired
signal at the output of the kth matched filter. can be
written as
. (6)
The pulse response is the sum of , the sample of
which is the overall impulse response of the CCI
signal. can be expressed as
. (7)
Similarly, sampled noise , the sum of which is
given by
. (8)
The responses in (6)-(8) are obtained by sampling the
impulse responses after exciting the continuous
convolution.
A. Equalization with CCI
The whitening matched filter equals SINR (signal-to-
interference-noise ratio) maximization regardless what
happens to the ISI. The ISI might be enlarged
remarkably. Also, a linear combiner can increase more
ISI. Hence, it has to be accompanied by equalization
techniques to mitigate the impairment due to the ISI.
The discussion in this section describes the algorithm
used to compute the coefficients of the equalizer
impaired by ISI, additive noise and CCI.
Linear equalization
While the CCI is present, based on the MMSE
criterion, the optimum tap coefficients, , of the post-
combining linear equalizer (LE) with 2K+1 taps can be
solved by using
. (9)
While the CCI is treated as a WSS process, the noise and
CCI can be combined and whitened by the matched
filter. Their effects can be included in the pulse . In
order to evaluate the precise error probability by using
the GQR method, the impulse responses of the desired
signal and CCI at the output of the equalizer have to be
determined as well as the output noise power. The
equalized pulse response of desired signal is given by
. (10)
By using the matched filter, the is generally
conjugately symmetric with respect to which is a
real number. The equalized impulse response of the CCI
signal is denoted by
. (11)
The output noise is written as
. (12)
The noise power (variance) is derived as
(13)
where we define as the sum of , which is
. (14)
The variance of the noise has to be calibrated carefully.
The calculation of the noise variance used in [3][8] may
be not valid for the finite-length equalization.
hk t k 1 jk 1+ t k 2 jk 2+ t – +=
k 1 k 1 k 2 k 2
s2

hi k t
k 4c2s2 No= c2 E cn 2 =
2 M 1– 3
No
i k s2 i2=
i2
kw
Skw
No k w+
---------------------------=
 t– 
Sk w s t
k w d2 T Fk w2=
Fk w
fk t
t lT=
rl cn gl n–
n –=

 dml m–
m –=

 l+ +=
gn gk n gk t
gk n
gk n sk tkt nT– td
–

=
n k n
k t
k n
k n ejk fk tkt nT k–– td
–

=
l k l
k l nk tkt lT– td
–

=
uj
uj gi j– g i j– –  
1
c2
-----gj i–+
 
 
 
j K––=
K
 g i–=
gn
pn uj
j K–=
K
 gn j–=
pn
p 0
qm uj
j K–=
K
 m j–=
l uj
j K–=
K
 l j–=
2 E l 2  No uiujRj i–
j K–=
K

i K–=
K
== =
Rn Rk n
Rk n k  nT+ kd
–

=
4With equalization, even if the error rate can be largely
reduced, the error probability does not decrease below a
certain irreducible floor. This irreducible error floor is
due the residual ISI and CCI. Inspection of Figs. 1-2
reveals that the linear equalizer with only 5 taps can
approximate the best performance for SIR = 15dB.
Unlike the noise-limited channel, the performance
cannot be improved by using more taps since the residue
CCI dominates the performance. Figs. 3-4 show the
outage probability versus SNR for decision feedback
equalization with different number of taps at SIR =
10dB. Interestingly, we find that the performance
becomes worse at high value of SNR. Compared to the
linear equalization case, given the total taps of 5, Fig. 3
shows worse performance of DFE(3,2) than that of the
LE when the SNR is over 25dB. The possible reason is
that postcursive terms become very high at the output of
the FF and need more taps in the FB filter to eliminate
them completely. Fig. 4 shows that the outage
performance of the DFE can be largely improved by
increasing the taps in FB to 4. The actual required taps
in FB to achieve the infinite-length bound is 8.
In general, at least 6 taps are required to achieve
the best performance while the value of SIR is less than
30dB. The required number of taps in the FB can be
reduced while the noise becomes more dominant. Our
simulation results confirm what is intuitively expected:
the DFE may be not superior to the linear equalizer with
the same finite length when operating on channels with
CCI. Furthermore, for the linear equalization case, our
results are considerably different from those presented
in [3]. We find that with finite taps the results presented
in [3] appear too high in a noise-limited channel while
the infinite-tap bound is too low. For the CCI-dominant
case, the error rate is lower than our results and thus the
required number of taps to approach the infinite-tap
bound appears too high. We can guarantee the accuracy
of our simulation results, which produce the same robust
accuracy with the direct average method for the
nonfading case.
四、計畫成果自評
The use decision-feedback equalization technique
along with diversity combining is important to achieve
good system performance during frequency-selective
fading in current cellular mobile radio systems. This
paper provides a fairly tight bounds on error probability
of such a technique when operating on channels with
CCI. We successfully apply Gaussian Quadrature rule
(GQR) to calculate the error rate in the presence of CCI
and ISI. The main important findings of our analysis are
summarized as follows:
•When fading CCI is present, our simulation results
reveal that the postcursors of the ISI are increased
significantly. Thus, with the same overall number of
taps, the DFE may be inferior to the LE in a CCI-
dominant fading channel while insufficient taps in
the feedback filter are applied. In contrary to the
noise-limited case, the length of the feedback filter
becomes greater than that of the feedback filter when
SIR is low.
•We observe that the curves by GQR method behave
very well; in fact the convergence to the exact value
is fast. It takes about two days of computer time for
each fading case. The required time of the exhaustive
average method may be up to several weeks.
Furthermore, for the linear equalization case, the
accuracy of our simulation results is significant in
comparison to the previous related research.
•A procedure allows one to construct GQR starting
from “modified moments”. Extensions of such a
proposed method to evaluate the error probability
seem possible if the orthogonal polynomials are
suitably chosen; however, the task to find suitable
polynomials for different applications is not easy.
We find the error probability was underestimated in
our application while the Tchebyshev and Legendre
polynomials are used.
參與計劃之兩位碩士生獲得相當豐富之無線行
動通訊模擬訓練，同時由於理論與實務得以互相驗
證使其增加學習興趣。相關結果發表在泰國曼谷
IEEE ICICS'2005 國際通訊及訊號學術會議，並投稿
至 IEE-proceeding- communication 及 IEEE ICC'2007 國
際通訊學術會議。由以上成果可知本研究深具學術
及應用價值，計劃執行成效相當良好。
五、參考文獻
[1] P. Balaban and J. Salz, “Optimum diversity
combining and equalization in digital data
transmission with applications to cellular mobile
radio-Part I and I: Theoretical Considerations,”
IEEE Trans. on Commun., vol. 40, no. 5, pp.
885-907, May 1992.
[2] M. V. Clark, L. J. Greenstein, W. K. kennedy
and M. Shafi, “Optimal linear diversity receiver
for mobile communications,” IEEE Trans. on
Vehicul. Tech., vol. 43, no. 1, pp. 47-56, Feb.
1994.
[3] S. H. Tseng, “Optimum diversity combining and
equalization over interference-limited cellular
radio channel,” IEEE Trans.on Vehicul. Tech.,
vol. 47, no. 1, pp. 103-118, Feb. 1998.
[4] W. K. Lo, D. D. Falconer and U.H. Sheikh,
“Adaptive equalization for co-channel
interference in a multipath fading environment”,
IEEE Trans. on Comm., vol. 43, no. 2,3,4, pp.
1441-1453, Feb./Mar./Apr. 1995.
[5] A. A. Abu-dayya and N. C. Beaulieu, “Diversity
MPSK receivers in cochannel interference,”
IEEE Trans. on Comm., vol. 48, no. 6, pp. 1959-
1965, Nov. 1999.
[6] S. C. Lin, H. W. Fang, “Accurate Performance
Analysis of Optimum Diversity Combining and
Equalization over Mobile Radio Fading Channel
with CCI”, ICICS’2006, Bangkok, Thailand.
[7] J. Salz, “Optimum mean-square decision-
feedback equalization,”, Bell System Technical
Journal, vol. 52, pp. 1341-1373.
[8] R. Framjee and V. K Prabhu, “Zero-forcing
equalization for space combining diversity in
microwave digital radio”, IEE Proceedings-
Communications, Vol. 144, No. 2, pp. 107-113,
April 1997.
