2以影像為基礎之晶圓缺陷辨識系統(3/3)
Automated Recognition of Wafer Defects Based on Image Processing
Techniques
計劃編號：NSC 96-2221-E-007-010
執行期限：96年8月1日～97年7月31日
主持人：陳飛龍 flchen@ie.nthu.edu.tw
執行單位：清華大學工業工程與工程管理系
一、中文摘要
半導體產業已經成為台灣近幾年來最重要的產業之一，雖然半導體晶圓是在高度自動化及
無塵的環境中製造，但是良率的流失仍是無法避免的，其潛在的原因固然很多，而晶圓上所存在的
缺陷則無疑是其中最主要的原因。因此整個半導體製程必須嚴密掌控，才能將製程中可能產生之變
異降低，使產品品質合乎客戶的實際需求，其中晶圓缺陷圖樣辨識乃是最直接、最有效反應異常製
程之方法。晶圓缺陷圖樣包括環狀(ring)、半圓狀(half ring)、刮傷(scratch)、重覆(repeat)、放射狀
(radiation)等圖樣，以往多半是透過人工的方式來目視來檢閱晶圓缺陷圖樣，並藉由定義好的準則
來決定晶圓缺陷圖樣，但這種方式不僅需要耗費昂貴的訓練成本，還要要大量的時間，且即便是經
驗老到之工程師，亦可能因為長期目視檢測所帶來之疲乏，而使其判定結果出現不穩定性；更何況
半導體產業人員流動性高，經驗不足之工程師更難期待能有準確的缺陷辨識分析能力，因此，晶圓
缺陷之自動辨識乃成為半導體業者亟於發展之技術。
視覺可辨認的缺陷有可見的顆粒、開路、短路或其它不尋常的點，而視覺所辨認缺陷通常是由
群集中彼此的關係所定義，群集指的是由晶圓中某一小區域裡可見的大量缺陷所組成。經由辨識所
發現的區域性缺陷可以提供某些跡象去定義此缺陷是機台設備或製程變異所引起的，因而可以減少
排除問題所需的時間。基於此，本計畫擬提出一以影像處理為基礎的晶圓缺陷辨識系統，結合影像
處理技術、資料探勘技術、以及類神經網路技術來分析大量資料，以快速又正確的辨識出晶圓上的
缺陷圖樣，並建立缺陷診斷知識庫，以提升系統之智慧能力。
在前二年的計畫中，我們發展了基本缺陷圖樣類型的辨識系統，可以自動辨識環狀(ring)、半
圓形(half ring)、刮傷(scratch)、重覆(repeat)、放射狀(radiation)等圖樣，並在此基礎上進一步發展了
複雜度更高之交錯圖樣辨識系統，在本年度計畫中則進一步擴大並與業界合作，重新定義缺陷型態
為直線型、曲線型、環形、區域型、放射型、重複型及晶片邊緣型，除了這些單一缺陷圖樣問題外，
本研究亦提出多重缺陷圖樣問題的解決方法，以期此方法論能夠更切合實際應用領域，研究中定義
出五種不同的多重圖樣關係，包含分離型、分支型、交錯型、包圍型及重疊型。
關鍵詞：晶圓缺陷、影像處理、資料探勘、類神經網路、良率提升
Abstract
For the past few years, semiconductor manufacturing has emerged as one of the most important
industries in Taiwan. Even with the highly automated and precisely monitored facilities to process the
complex manufacturing steps in the near particle free environment, the wafer yield loss is still
unavoidable. The cause of these variations may arise from equipment malfunction, delicate and difficult
process steps, or human mistakes. Even though IC yield loss may be contributed to many problems, the
4pattern-related defects. These pattern-related defects may indicate the systematic problem with the
equipments or processes. The engineers must know when problems occur and direct to their source as
soon as possible. The impact of problems must immediately be addressed and solved in order to minimize
the affection on the final product.
Nowadays, the inspection is performed automatically on-line, but the recognition procedures are still
performed manually off-line. The engineers review the defect data subjectively to identify the
pattern-related defects. There is no existing rule to define and classify these different pattern-related
defects. The identification usually affected by individual cognition and emotion. This research intends to
utilize pattern recognition techniques to replace human operation and enhance the connection between
inspection and recognition tools.
The semiconductor manufacturing processes have been developed for several decades. Wafer
fabrication still needs more sophisticated inspection and recognition tools on the area of defect control. A
closer integration of detection and recognition tools into semiconductor manufacturing flow is
indispensable, defect detection and recognition can be done with more insightful complementary
technology.
This research intends to combine academic methodology with practical application. By applying the
pattern recognition techniques into wafer defect maps inspection, it is expected to correctly classify
pattern-related defects. Meanwhile, this research also intends to solve the problems of multiple-pattern
such that the ability to automation level of inspection can further be improved.
In the previous two years of this project, we have already developed an automatic defect pattern
recognition system which can recognize many patterns including ring, half ring, scratch, repeat, and
radiation. We have also successfully developed an algorithm to deal with the intersecting patterns. In this
year’s research we re-classify pattern-related defects into different categories including line, curve, ring,
local, radial, repeat, and die edge. In addition to normal single-pattern problems, we have also solved the
problems of multi-pattern recognition such that the practical applications can further be improved. There
are five types of relationship in multi-pattern situation defined in this research, including separation,
branch, crossover, encirclement and overlap.
三、 研究方法
This research intends to propose a high-efficiency solution of the pattern-related defects recognition
based on the hybrid approach of pattern recognition in order to achieve the classification and description
tasks. Figure 1 depicts the structure of the proposed methodology. From this figure, we can understand
that the methodology starts from reading defect raw data including the coordinate of defect point, the die
size, the reticle size and the other related information. After that, the proposed methodology can be
divided into four stages as described below:
6unsystematic noises in defect map are usually salt and pepper noises. From literature review, we know the
median filter can eliminate the salt and pepper noises successfully, we have to consider the isolated points
which stack defects in different layers.
The two-dimensional defect map cannot properly show the high density defect which is an important
issue for yield impact. For this issue, we proposed a three-dimensional model to demonstrate the defect
distribution on the wafer. We add the density of defect as the third dimension and construct the
three-dimensional model. The proposed model can point out the high density defect correctly. We can
understand the difference between the defect map and three-dimensional model through Figure 2.
Defect Map Three-Dimensional Model
Figure 2 Defect map and three-dimensional model
This research proposes an improved filter based on the characters of median filter. The proposed
filter not only removes the unsystematic points but also keeps the isolated points which have high density.
In Figure 3, we compare the results using the two different filters.
Median Filter Proposed Filter
Figure 3 Median filter and proposed filter
After eliminating the unsystematic defects, this research intends to aggregate the neighbor defect
8statistical approaches to extract and select features from the primitives and get the individual characters
for further analysis.
1. Template Matching
Template matching is a generic operation in pattern recognition which is used to determine the
similarity between two entities of the same type. The pattern to be recognized is matched against the
designed template while taking into account all allowable poses, including scale changes and rotation.
After setting grids, we can get the structural information to compare the stored templates and calculate the
similarity. Figure 6 demonstrates the templates of different types, including ring type, line type and curve
type. These templates consider rotation, scale changes and shape changes in order to have higher
flexibility and matching ability.
Ring Line & Curve
Figure 6 The examples of templates
We designed and built the templates according to the problem definitions. Templates matching will
simplify the multi-pattern situation and enhance the ability to deal with the practical applications properly.
Figure 7 shows the purpose of template matching.
Multi -Pattern
Situation
Single-Pattern Situation
Single-Pattern Situation
...
Template
Matching
[Simplify ]
Figure 7 The purpose of template matching
There are two main ways to build up the templates: previous and following construction as shown in
Figure 8.
10
precisely, the other one is how to classify this pattern into right categories and make the correct decision.
Sense the pattern
of objects
Feature Extraction &
Feature Selection
Features of
the pattern
Classifier
Decision
Figure 10 Partition of the pattern recognition problem
This research uses two methods simultaneously to extract the features from pattern-related defects:
square method and distribution of distance with center as shown in Figure 11.
Square Method Distribution ofDistance with Center
Figure 11 Two methods of feature extraction
The square method calculates the ratio of major axis and minor axis to present the shaped
characters. The distribution of distance with center can offer the structural correlation between pattern
position and central point to increase the ability of recognition.
This research will extract features from different patterns and evaluate the performance in order to
find out the best combination of features for each pattern type. Selecting fit features not only improves the
accuracy of recognition but also reduces the complexity of execution.
The Method of Pattern Description
The end result of the patter description is a set of features, commonly called a feature vector which
constitutes a representation of the data. A collection of feature vectors for clustering is generated by
applying feature extraction methods to each data set and arranging the extracted features into a
fixed-length feature vector.
A statistical classifier can be used to discriminate the different clusters based upon a collection of
associated feature vector such the each vector contain features extracted from one of the primitives. For
particular feature extraction method, each vector is expected to be formatted such that the thi feature in
each vector presents the same characteristic in each data set. The multi-pattern and single-pattern are
separated or converted into primitives and the features are extracted and selected. The features vectors
12
Here we consider the simple case of a two-dimensional application of the FCM. Sixty data and
three clusters are used to initialize the algorithm and to compute member function. Figure13 shows the
membership value for each cluster and for each datum. The data belong to one or two clusters with some
confidence degree are specified by the membership value.
The classification task uses a classifier to map a feature vector to a group. Such a mapping
procedure can be specified by hand or, more commonly, a training phase is used to induce the mapping
from a collection of feature vectors which represent the different groups.
From the previous experience we know that no matter the grouping method is fuzzy or not,
clustering is an art of finding groups in a data set so that the variance of those data within each group will
be minimized, while the variance between different groups will be maximized. Once formulated, the
mapping procedure can be used to assign specific identification and to each unlabeled feature vector
subsequently presented to the classifier. In this research, the classifier will feed back the results of
performance evaluation to the kernel processor. The kernel processor adjusts parameters of recognition
system according to the performance evaluation. The feedback function is to play an important role in
learning stage. It improves the accuracy of recognition by adjusting the configuration of templates and
parameters of classifier.
四、 結果與討論
The system implementation and verification of the proposed method is developed using Borland
C++ language. This research uses the real industrial defect data to verify the performance of system
including the operational functions, accuracy and executing time. Figure 14 depicts the schematic logistic
of pattern recognition system including the feedback function and the operative mechanisms between
different steps.
In semiconductor industrial, the defect detection is accomplished by specific machine and stored
into the defect database. The defect recognition is performed by engineers manually. This research
transforms those stored defect data into image format for further analysis. In the first stage, the system
marks the defects on the canvas depending on the coordinates and the density information. The
methodology uses the modified median filter proposed by this research to eliminate the nonsystematic
defect and applies the idea of aggregation to set grids for enhancing the execution performance of
recognition system.
The system combines the approaches of structural and statistical pattern recognition to build up the
kernel processor. The kernel processor has a two-stage structure which can be divided into four steps
including template matching, primitive separation, feature extraction and feature selection. The kernel
processor can solve the problems of single-pattern and multi-pattern efficaciously. The feedback function
between template database and kernel processor can keep improving the accuracy of recognition by
adjusting the configuration of templates.
14
local type; 66~74 are line type and sample 75~86 are radial type. Samples 87~100 belong to the
multi-pattern defect maps. The verification procedure can be divided into three phases. In the first phase,
the functions of the developed system including file loading, noise elimination and grids setting will be
verified thoroughly. In the second phase, the accuracy of single-pattern and multi-pattern recognition will
be tested with the sampled defect maps. Finally, the executing time will be calculated by each defect type.
Verification of System Functions
The main functions in the developed system including file loading, noise elimination and grids
setting will be verified in this section.
File Loading
The function of file loading is verified by four defect maps selected from the sample database. By
comparing the original defect maps generated from the semiconductor company with the defect maps
loaded in system as shown in Table 1, we can understand the defects marked correctly in the system.
Table 4.1 also demonstrates the defect maps with density which will be operated and recognized by the
system further more.
Noise Elimination and Grids Setting
The function of noise elimination and grids setting are verified by four defect maps selected from
the sample database as shown in Table 2. The function of noise elimination not only erases the
unsystematic defects but also keeps the isolated defects which have high density. In this case, it can reveal
the structure of the defect pattern clearly and help system recognize defect patterns precisely.
The efficiency of recognition system is improved greatly by applying the idea of aggregation. The
function of grids setting aggregates the defects but keeps the complete structure of pattern. Each grid
presents color by its density level in the system. The grid information including the grid position and the
grid density will be sent to next stage for analysis.
16
Table 2 Demonstration of noise elimination and grids setting
Sample No. Loaded Defect Maps Noise Elimination Grids Setting
38
60
66
100
Performance of Accuracy
Accurate rate of recognition is an important factor to measure the ability of system. The detailed
results of experiment are listed in the Appendix II. The test results of single pattern is summarized and
shown in Table 3. The cause of failed recognition will also be discussed later.
Single-Pattern
The proposed methodology performs well in the region of single-pattern problem. There are 86
18
build a mechanism dealing the scatter and weak structures in defect pattern such that the accuracy of
recognition can be further improved.
Sample No. Original Defect Map After Noise Elimination
94
99
Figure 15 The damaged structure after noise elimination
Performance of Executing Time
The performance of executing time is another important issue to any developed system. This
research enhanced majorly the efficiency in recognition stage by adopting the idea of aggregation. Table 5
shows the executing time needed to perform each stage in system by different defect types.
The pre-processing stage includes the function of file loading, noise elimination and grids setting.
The recognition of repeat type and die edge type was also included into the pre-processing stage. The
executing time in pre-processing stage will increase when the system deals with specific defect type
which has large defect quantity like radial type. But the average executing time in recognition stage was
affected minimally by defect types. The total average executing time of all defect types is 33.99 seconds.
20
Breaux, L. and Singh, B., “Automatic defect classification system for paterned semiconductor wafers,” 
IEEE/UCS/SEMI International Symposium on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 68–73(1995).
Chen, Y. F. and Nazir, A. W.,“A Knowledge-Based System for Multiple Pattern Recognition Paradigms
Support”IEEE Transactions Computer-Aided Design, 1130-1135(1995).
Carpenter, Gail A., Grossberg, Stephen, “A Massively Parallel Architecture for a Self-Organizing
Neural Pattern Recognition Machine,”Computer Vision Graphics Image Processing, 54-115(1987).
Chen, F. L. and Liu, S. F., “A neural-network approach to recognize defect spatial pattern in
semiconductor manufacturing,” IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 13(3), 
366-373(2000).
Chuai-aree, S., Lursinsap, C., Sophatsathit, P. and Siripant, S., “Fuzzy C-Mean: A Statistical Feature
Classification of Text and Image Segmentation Method,” International Journal of Uncertainty, 
Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based Systems, 9(6), 661-671(2001).
Cunningham, S.P. and MacKinnon, S., “Statistical methods for visual defect metrology,” IEEE 
Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 11(1), 48-53(1998).
Ester, M., Kriegel, H. P., Sander, J. and Xu, X., “A density-based algorithm for discovering clusters in
large spatial databases,” Conf. Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 226-331(1996).
Ferri, F., Pudil, P., Hatef, M. and Kittler, J., “A Comparative Study of Techniques for Large Scale
Feature Selection,”Pattern Recognition in Practice IV, 403-413(1994).
Flury, B.,“Common Principal Components and Related Multivariate Models”Wiley, NewYork, 1988.
Friedman, D. J. and Albin, S. L.,“Clustered defects in IC fabrication: Impact on process control charts,” 
IEEE Transaction Semiconductor Manufacturing, 4(1),3642(1991).
Friedman, J. H.,“Exploratory Projection Pursuit,”J. Am. Statistical Assoc., vol. 82, pp. 249-266(1987).
Fu, K. S.,“Syntactic Pattern Recognition and Applications,”PrenticeHall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey,
1982.
Fukunaga, Keinosuke, “Introduction to Statistical Pattern Recognition,”Library of Congress
Cataloging-in-Publication Data, 1990.
Fukushima, T., Narazaki, H. and Konishi, M., “A method of feature extraction from an image for 
quality analysis,” IEEE International Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, 2, 
952-957(1999).
22
Koski, Antti, Juhola, Martti, and Meriste, Merik,“Syntactic Recognition of ECG Signals by Attributed
Finite Automata,” Patern Recognition, 28(12), 1927–1940(1995).
Krishna, K., Murty, M.N., “Genetic k-means algorithms,”IEEE Transactions System Management
Cybernet.-B: Cybernet. 29(3), 433-439(1999).
Krishnapuran, R., Joshi, A., Nasraoui, O., Yi, L., “Low-complexity fuzzy relational clustering
algorithms for web mining,”IEEE Transactions Fuzzy System, 9(4), 595-607(2001).
Liao, T. Warren, “Clustering ofime series data-a survey,”The journal of the pattern recognition society,
1857-1874(2005).
Maly, W. and Deszczka, J., “Yield estimation model for VLSI artwork evaluations,” Electron. Let., 
19(6), 226–227(1983).
Mar,c L., Maty, M. and Dan, Y., “DCS-1: a fuzzy logic expert system for automatic defect classification
of semiconductor wafer defects,” IEEE World Congress on Computational Inteligence, 
2100–2106(1994).
Marques, de Sa J. P.,“Pattern Recoanition Concepts, Methods and Applications,”Springer, 2001.
Nemoto, K., Ikeda, S., Yoshida, O., Sasabe, J. and Su, H., “A statistical method for reducing systematic 
defects in the initial stages of production,” Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Conference, 
77–81(2002).
Neyer, T. and Hafner, M., “Yield learning using the defect reticle method,” Advanced Semiconductor 
Manufacturing Conference, 110-114(2004).
Nurani, R. K., Akella, R., and Strojwas, A. J., “In-line defect sampling methodology in yield
management: An integrated framework,” IEEE Transaction Semiconductor Manufacturing.,
506–517(1996).
Olszewski, Robert T.,“Generalized Feature Extraction for Structural Pattern Recognition in Time Series
Data,”Submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Doctor of Philosophy,
2001.
Raman, K. N., Andrzej, J. S., Wojciech, P. M., and Charles, Ouyang, “In-Line Yield Prediction
Methodologies Using Patterned Wafer Inspection Information,”IEEE Transaction on Semiconductor
Manufacturing, 11(1), 40-47(1998).
