 II
（二） 計畫英文摘要。 
 
Key words: aluminum, emissivity, temperature measurement, surface roughness, 
   MRT (multispectral radiation thermometry) 
 
Author’s previous studies prove surface roughness plays an important role in the 
aluminum alloys emissivity variations and the accuracy in multispectral radiation 
thermometry.  The effects of surface topography on the emissivity are widely documented in 
the literature, but the relationships between emissivity and surface roughness are not well 
understood and developed yet. 
Therefore, for the approved project (94. 11. 17)(NSC 94-2218-E-006-046-), we will 
first examine the complex parametric trends of emissivity of aluminum surfaces with 
wavelength, temperature, alloy and surface roughness, and provide a mathematical method for 
determining both the empirical constant in the MRT emissivity model and the surface 
temperature based on spectral radiance measurements.  In this project, Part II of the whole 
study, we will concern mostly the effects of surface roughness since two afore-mentioned 
models in my previous studies provided adequate compensation for wavelength, temperature 
and alloy.  In particular, a method is sought for incorporating surface roughness parameters 
in the emissivity model.  A comprehensive study of the theoretical emissivity principles will 
be categorized and discussed according to surface finish.   
The ultimate goal of this research is to develop powerful and universal emissivity 
models that can accurately infer the metal surface temperature.  Findings from this research 
will have great impact on both manufacturing cost and product quality in metal processing. 
 
-2- 
1 Introduction 
1.1 Multispectral Radiation Thermometry (MRT) Methods 
Most processes in aluminum production, such as extruding and rolling, are highly 
temperature-dependent.  For example, one stage of the aluminum extrusion process, called 
profile pressing, requires an understanding of the impact of temperature when deciding the 
optimum extrusion speed for obtaining specific mechanical properties.  Other stages, like melting, 
casting, and heating of billets are all temperature-dependent when manufacturing high 
performance alloys.  Therefore, precise temperature controls are extremely tight in order to 
produce higher quality products, using better materials, at lower cost while producing less waste. 
At present, the thermocouple or other types of contact thermometers are very commonly 
used to measure the surface temperature in industry.  However, in some processes, contact 
temperature measurement methods are undesirable because physical contact may not be feasible 
in moving material situations and may change the surface physically or chemically.  Additionally, 
the contact method currently in use for aluminum processing can only achieve the accuracy of 
±10 to 25 K [5], which is not accurate enough for aluminum industry.  These cause a need for a 
more accurate, nondestructive and easy-using approach.  That is non-contact radiometric method. 
Radiation thermometry, a non-contact temperature measurement method, utilizes spectral 
radiance observation from the target surface to infer the true temperature.  The concept is the 
radiation thermometer calibrately indicate the temperature of a blackbody having the same 
radiance as the target and then the true temperature can be inferred with the known surface 
emissivity. Determining the temperature can be accomplished by three categories of radiation 
thermometry which utilize radiance measurement at different number of wavelength: spectral, 
dual-wavelength and multispectral.  Spectral radiation thermometry requires the radiance 
measurement at one wavelength and a constant emissivity value to infer the surface temperature.  
Dual-wavelength radiation thermometry (DWRT) utilizes the radiance measurements at two 
distinct wavelengths and an emissivity compensation algorithm to obtain the surface temperature.  
Multispectral radiation thermometry (MRT) employs the radiance measurements at three or more 
-4- 
surface and applying Planck blackbody distribution, the generated spectral intensity can be 
simplified as  
 Lλ ,gen (λ ,T ) ≅ ελ (λ ) Lλ ,b (λ,T) = ελ (λ ) c1
λ5 e
c2 λ T −1⎛ ⎝ ⎜ 
⎞ 
⎠ ⎟ 
. (2) 
 
 
1.2 Emissivity Principles Categorized by Surface Topography  
1.2.1 Rationale  
The experimental data provided in previous studies [1-3] prove surface roughness plays 
an important role in emissivity variations.  The effects of surface topography on the emissivity 
are widely documented in the literature, but the relationships between emissivity and surface 
roughness are not well understood and developed yet.  Of eighteen mathematical and analytical 
emissivity functions examined in previous studies [1-3], only two relatively simple models, an 
exponential function of 1/Tλ and an exponential of linear first order function of λ , provided 
acceptable compensation for emissivity trends.  Recall that a key objective of the present study is 
to develop a more accurate emissivity model that can tackle the complex and diverse operating 
environment of aluminum processing plants.  Such a model should possess sufficient sensitivity 
to capture the complex variations of emissivity with wavelength, temperature, surface 
roughness, …etc.  This section will explore the effects of surface roughness.  In particular, it 
seeks a method for incorporating surface roughness parameters in the emissivity model.  Before 
this goal can be accomplished, it is important to examine the relationship between surface 
roughness and emissivity.  The following are theoretical emissivity principles categorized 
according to surface finish. 
Figure 1 summarizes theoretical emissivity principles relative to surface finish.  Two 
broad categories of surfaces are identified: optically smooth (ideal) and rough (real). Rough 
surfaces can be divided into spectral regions based on optical roughness, defined as the ratio of  
-6- 
root-mean-square (rms) surface roughness, σ, to wavelength, λ.  The specular region 
corresponds to 0 < σ/λ < 0.2 and the geometric region σ/λ > 1.  A third intermediate region 
corresponds to 0.2 < σ/λ < 1. 
 
1.2.2 Optically Smooth Region   
For optically smooth surfaces, spectral emissivity is determined by combining Fresnel’s 
equation and Kirchhoff’s law, yielding 
 ελ = 4n
2
n +1( )2 +κ 2 , (3) 
where n is the index of refraction and κ the extinction coefficient.  However, these optical 
constants are known to vary with wavelength, temperature and material composition, and these 
factors can influence emissivity.  Optical constants can be measured experimentally or estimated 
using electromagnetic or Drude free electron theory [9,10].  Figure 1(a) shows a comparison of 
spectral emissivity values using three different methods: (1) reflectance calculated from 
measured n and κ values and Kirchhoff’s law, (2) experimental reflectance data and Kirchhoff’s 
law, and (3) Drude free electron theory and Fresnel’s equation.  Both calculated and measured 
values show a general trend of decreasing emissivity with increasing wavelength in the infrared 
range for most metallic surfaces.  Moreover, calculated trends may be extrapolated to include 
other spectral regions and material properties [10].  Application of the free electron theory is 
only limited to flat optically smooth surfaces and does not capture the trends of the first two 
methods.  
 
1.2.3 Specular Region  
In specular region (0 < σ/λ < 0.2), the surface roughness is small compared to the 
wavelength.  In most theoretical studies on this region, the reflection of incident radiation is 
assumed to be specular, i.e., the angle of reflection is equal to the angle of incidence, and the 
diffraction theory is used to predict the effects of surface roughness on emissivity [10-12].  For a 
-8- 
When 0.2 < σ/λ <1, the bidirectional reflectance function (BDRF) [18] is used to quantify 
the angular reflected radiation, 
 ′ ′ ρ λ θo ,θ s( )=
π
cosθ ⋅
dΦ s
dΩs
dΦo
dΩo
, (6) 
where subscripts o and s denote the incident and scattered components of angle of energy θ, 
radiant power flow Φ, and solid angle Ω.  Either electromagnetic scattering theory or 
approximate models (e.g., Specular model (Fresnel approximation), Diffuse model (Lambertian 
approximation), Kirchhoff approximation, Geometric Optics approximation, Statistical 
model, …etc.) [19-24] are used to estimate the incident and scattered radiant power flow for use 
in Eq. (6).  The directional reflectance can be determined by integrating BDRF over the 
respective hemisphere for a given angle of incidence. 
 ′ ρ λ θo( )= 1π ′ ′ ρ λ2π∫ θ o, θs( )cosθs dΩs . (7) 
Using Kirchhoff’s law and conservation of energy, the directional emissivity can be determined 
from 
 ′ ε λ θo( )= 1− ′ ρ λ θo( ). (8) 
Eqs. (6) – (8) require rigorous numerical solution of the fundamental equations to model the 
roughness-emissivity relationship for 0.2 < σ/λ <1. 
The electromagnetic scattering theory is an exact approach to quantifying BDRF or other 
directional features of surface radiative properties.  This theory is based on the extinction 
theorem and Green’s theorem.  Other approaches are applying approximate models to estimate 
the incident and scattered radiant power flow of BDRF.  For the specular model (Fresnel 
approximation), energy is assumed to be reflected in the solid angle region around the specular 
angle, and the fraction of the reflected energy is predicted by Fresnel relations applied to an 
optically smooth surface. However, for the diffuse model (Lambertian approximation), the 
-10- 
applied to determine the emissivity if the detailed surface topography is known.  Surfaces with 
repeatable grooved finish, such as V-shaped grooves [12, 25-29], circular grooves [29], 
rectangular grooves [30], and pyramidal grooves [31-33] are commonly used to statistically 
model the emissivity enhancement.  Figure 1(c) shows inter-reflections caused by a 60° V-
groove enhance normal emission by a factor of 3.3 [11].  Figure 1(d) shows appreciable 
variations of emissivity with observation angle (φ) and groove angle (β) for an aluminum surface 
with a smooth surface normal emissivity (εn) of 0.04 [28].  Notice how normal emissivity (φ = 0) 
increases seven folds for a groove angle of 30° compared to a smooth surface.  Moreover, for 
small groove angles, emissivity decreases sharply with increasing observation angle.  Therefore, 
the slope of the grooved surfaces plays an important role in emissivity enhancement in this 
region.  
The above categorization of surface finishes provides valuable insight into the theoretical 
emissivity principles and knowledge amassed concerning the relationship between surface 
roughness and emissivity.  The optical roughness, the ratio of roughness and wavelength is the 
key parameter to categorize the influence of the surface topography on the emissivity.  Different 
theories have been established for the relationship between emissivity and surface topography of 
idealized surfaces.  In summary, emissivity is dependent on surface slope when the surface 
roughness is greater than the wavelength of radiation (σ/λ >1). In contrast, emissivity is 
dependent on surface roughness when surface roughness is less than the wavelength of radiation 
(σ/λ <1).  However, despite the extensive literature that has been written on this important topic, 
the effects of surface topography on emissivity are not adequately understood, and existing 
emissivity models are not adaptable in practical emissivity measurements.  This fact highlights 
the urgent need to develop an universal emissivity model that can adequately account for surface 
topography, and which can be widely adopted throughout the aluminum industry. 
 
 
-12- 
Fig. 2 Construction of sample heating assembly. 
-14- 
Fig. 3 Construction of aluminum test sample and insulating flange. 
-16- 
As 
Ar 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Idealized representation of roughness feature. 
-18- 
characteristics of a profilogram of the surface [37,38].  Specifically, for an isotropic surface 
having small surface inclinations,  
 F = 1 +π 2n2σ 2( )−1 , (17) 
where n is the number of intersections of the surface profile with the mean per unit length of the 
mean line, and σ the mean-square deviation of the profile from the mean.  For many surface 
structures, it is a good approximation that σ can be expressed in terms of the mean arithmetic 
deviation of the profile Ra according to the relation σ ≈ 1.25 Ra, where Ra can be measured by a 
profilometer or other surface measurement instrument.  Therefore Eq. (17) can be simplified as  
 F = 1 +1.252 π 2 n2 Ra 2( )−1  (18) 
Eqs. (17) and (18) show how the emissivity of a rough surface can be related to the 
surface roughness parameters.  This method also provides a fundamental basis for the 
development of a new more comprehensive emissivity model that can accurately compensate for 
emissivity variations with surface roughness.  Eq. (16) further shows how the emissivity of a 
rough surface can be determined from a known emissivity value of another rough surface of the 
same material, provided the surface roughness parameters (n and Ra) of both surfaces are known. 
Since this model is based on geometric optics, it may also be incorporated in spectral 
variations of emissivity.  This can be done using the experimental data obtained in the present 
study.  The polished surface is used as a reference for all the other rougher surfaces.  As shown 
in Table 1, the surface parameters of AL7075 are examined for four different surface finishes. 
Alpha-Step IQ surface profiler, made by KLA-Tencor Corporation and MicroXam microscope, 
made by Phase Shift Technology, Inc. are used to measure Ra and σ.  The number of 
intersections of the surface profile with the mean per unit length of the mean line, n, is manually 
calculated through the surface profilogram as illustrated in Figure 5.  Then F can be solved by 
Eqs. (17) or (18).  Therefore, when the polished surface is used as a reference, theoretical 
emissivity values for all the other rougher surfaces can be predicted based on Eq. (16). 
-20- 
Figures 6-8 compare our experimental emissivity values for the four rough surface 
finishes at temperatures 600 K and 700 K to theoretical predictions based on Eq. (16).  Overall, 
good agreement is achieved between the measured and predicted values for all different surface 
roughness and the agreement appears to improve with increasing temperature. 
Therefore, the emissivity model presented by Agababov [34-38] uses the simple form to 
successfully correlate the emissivity and surface roughness parameters and well represented the 
variations of emissivity with surface roughness parameters. This represents an important step 
toward developing a new comprehensive aluminum emissivity model that can account for not 
only the effects of surface roughness, but those of wavelength and temperature as well. 
 
 
4 Application of MRT Emissivity Models 
Emissivity characteristics of polished and roughened aluminum alloy surfaces have been 
comprehensively examined in previous research conducted by the Wen and Mudawar [1-3].  The 
experimental work was also used to assess eighteen MRT emissivity models which encompass 
mathematical and analytical functions.  As concluded in the studies, two relatively simple MRT 
emissivity models, an exponential function of 1/Tλ and an exponential of linear first order 
function of λ , provided the best overall compensation for different alloys, temperatures, and 
surface roughness.  In addition, two other MRT emissivity models which are variations thereof 
based on these two functions also provide good temperature predictions [4].  Therefore, as shown 
in Table 2, they are applied to Agababov's emissivity model and examined in the current study 
for accuracy in temperature determination.  These four distinct emissivity models use the simple 
form to correlate the emissivity temperature, wavelength and surface roughness parameters.  This 
achieved our goal of developing an emissivity model that possesses sufficient sensitivity to 
capture the complex variations of emissivity with temperature, wavelength, and surface 
roughness.  During this study, AL7075 polished surface and 14-μm roughened surface were 
selected for two tested surfaces, i and k, as represented in Eq. (16).  The respective roughness  
-22- 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7   Comparison of experimental and theoretical spectral emissivity values for AL 7075 
samples roughened with 14 μm grit paper at 600 and 700 K. 
-24- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 Mathematical form of emissivity models.
-26- 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3  Absolute error in inferred temperature of AL7075 samples 
roughened with 14 mm grit paper.  Missing values correspond to errors 
beyond ± 50 K.examined in this study 
-28- 
Therefore, the emissivity model presented by Agababov uses the simple form to 
successfully correlate the emissivity and surface roughness parameters and well 
represented the variations of emissivity with surface roughness parameters. This 
represents an important step toward developing a new comprehensive aluminum 
emissivity model that can account for not only the effects of surface roughness, but those 
of wavelength and temperature as well. 
(2) The temperature predictions for four new emissivity models which use the simple form to 
correlate the emissivity temperature, wavelength and surface roughness parameters and 
original examined mathematical emissivity models are all in agreement. They both 
appear the acceptable results in the same regions. This means the modified model can 
work as well as original mathematical model. Furthermore, all new models demonstrated 
the better results than original models.  Regarding the effects of spectral range, 
broadening the wavelength range to encompass all measured wavelengths may not 
always enhance the predictive capability of an emissivity model. In addition, increasing 
the number of wavelengths also does not improve accuracy.  For all new emissivity 
models, model new 4 shows the poorest compensation for emissivity variations at 700 K.  
In contrast, model new 1 at 700 K and model new 3 at 600 K are the most effective at 
compensating for emissivity variations.  Overall, model new 2 provides the better 
compensation for different temperatures.  In summary, all new models were successful in 
applying surface roughness parameters into emissivity model and demonstrated the better 
temperature predictions than original mathematical models.  They provide a prototype for 
developing a better emissivity model which is capable of accommodating for the varied 
operating conditions found at aluminum processing plants. 
 
-30- 
ε′λ  Directional emissivity 
εr  Effective emissivity for rough surface 
εs  Emissivity for smooth surface 
εn  Normal spectral emissivity 
αs  Absorptivity for smooth surface 
σ Root-mean-square (rms) surface roughness, standard deviation, mean-square 
deviation of the profile from the mean 
λ  Wavelength 
ρλ  Spectral reflectance 
ρ′λ  Directional reflectance 
ρ″λ  Bidirectional reflectance function (BDRF) 
ρs  Reflectance for rough surface 
ρo  Reflectance for polished surface 
2χ   Least-squares error, chi-squared 
Ω  Solid angle 
κ Extinction coefficient 
θ  Angle of energy, characteristic function 
Φ  Radiant power flow 
φ Observation angle 
 
Subscripts 
b  Blackbody 
gen  Generated 
int  Intrinsic 
meas  Measured 
rad  Radiated 
λ  Spectral 
-32- 
6 M.A. Pellerin, Multispectral Radiation Thermometry for Industrial Applications, Ph.D. 
Thesis, Purdue University, School of Mechanical Engineering, West Lafayette, IN, 1999. 
7 P.B. Coates, Multi-Wavelength Pyrometry, Metrologia 17 (1981) 103-109. 
8 B.K. Doloresco, Review of Multispectral Radiation Thermometry and Development of 
Constrained Minimization Method, M.S. Thesis, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN, 
1986. 
9 M.F. Modest, Radiative Heat Transfer, McGraw-Hill, Inc., 1993. 
10 D.P. DeWitt and J.C. Richmond, Thermal Radiative Properties of Materials, Theory and 
Practice of Radiation Thermometry, Eds. D.P. DeWitt. and G.D. Nutter, John Wiley, 
New York, NY, 1988. 
11 R. Siegel and J.R. Howell, Thermal Radiation Heat Transfer, McGraw-Hill, New York, 
NY, 1981. 
12 M.J. Haugh, Radiation Thermometry in the Aluminum Industry, Theory and Practice of 
Radiation Thermometry, Eds. D.P. DeWitt and G.D. Nutter, Pub. John Wiley, New York, 
NY, 1988. 
13 H. Davis, Reflection of Electromagnetic Waves from Rough Surfaces, Proc. Inst. Eng., 
Vol. 101, 1954, pp. 209-213. 
14 J.O. Porteus, Relation between the Height Distribution of a Rough Surface and the 
Reflection of Normal Incidence, Journal of the Optical Society of America, 53 (1963) 
1394-1402. 
15 H.E. Bennett and J.O. Porteus, Relation between Surface Roughness and Specular 
Reflectance at Normal Incidence, Journal of the Optical Society of America, 51 (1961) 
123-129. 
16 H.E. Bennett, Specular Reflectance of Aluminized Ground Glass and the Height 
Distribution of Surface Irregularities, Journal of the Optical Society of America, 53 (1963) 
1389-1394. 
