2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
二層遞階系統與向量變分不等式系統 (I) 
System of two-level problems and system of vector variational inequality problems (I) 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 96-2221-E-230 -003 
執 行 期 限：96年 08月 01日至 97年 07月 31日 
主 持 人：劉永誠   正修科技大學資訊管理系 
共同主持人：xxxxxx   執行機構及單位名稱 
計畫參與人員：王緯強、鄭守昌   正修科技大學工管所、資管系 
一、中文摘要 
由於平衡問題包含了許多種的特例問
題，例如：最佳化問題、變分不等式、互補問
題、鞍點問題等，故本研究我們將研究二種的
向量平衡問題系統及其擾動解集的敏感度分
析。這類問題無論是在理論和應用都是相當重
要的，例如，MPEC問題的下層問題就是來自
擾動參數的問題；數值計算上，對於誤差的刻
劃與數值逼近的問題上，更是充滿了這類的問
題。我們將應用Fan-Browder定點定理來建立
本研究問題的存在性，並討論了本研究問題解
集映射的拓樸性質。特別，討論了關於擾動解
集映射的下半連續性，其對於研究參數問題的
穩定性有著相當重要性。相關有趣的例子也都
將在文中說明。 
關鍵詞：(向量)平衡問題、擾動參數型(向量)
平衡問題、MPEC問題、Fan-Browder定點定
理、上半連續性，下半連性性、存在性、敏感
性、穩定性。 
Abstract 
In this project, we study two kind of 
simultaneous systems of vector equilibrium 
problem (SSVEP) and sensitivity of the solution 
mappings of perturbation of SSVEP since 
equilibrium problems includes many kinds of 
special cases, for example, optimization, 
variational inequality, complementary problem, 
saddle-point problem, etc.. The parameterization 
and sensitivity of equilibrium problems are great 
importance both in theory and applications. In 
optimization models with functional 
dependences, for example, the mathematical 
program with equilibrium constraints (MPEC in 
short), the lower-level problem can be generated 
by parametric equilibrium problems or 
parametric system of equilibrium problems. 
Numerical computing models with some 
estimated errors or dependence of initial data in 
a certain approximate sense, are always viewed 
as parametric problems. We apply the 
Fan-Browder fixed-point theorem to study the 
existence of and the continuity of the solution 
mapping of SSVEP .Specially, some results 
concerning the lower semicontinuity of the 
solution mapping of SSVEP is established. The 
related interesting examples are given. 
Keywords：  (vector) equilibrium problem, 
parametric (vector) equilibrium problem, MPEC 
problem, Fan-Browder fixed-point theorem, usc, 
lsc, existence, sensitivity, stability. 
二、緣由與目的 
Decision in group often involves simultaneous 
(coordinated) choices and sequential 
(centralized) choices. Simultaneous decisions 
are in which all players try to make decisions 
based on what each thinks the others will do and 
PDF created with pdfFactory Pro trial version www.pdffactory.com
4 
 
Another simultaneous system of vector 
equilibrium problem (SSVEP’) whose solution 
mapping defined as 
 
where  and  stand for the ith elements of x and 
y, respectively. 
 
We can see SSVEP as variant of the 
constraint set depends on the parameters then 
the SSVEP can be viewed as some kind of 
quasi-VEP. Our problem SSVEP can be viewed 
as some kind of simultaneous decision, that is, 
the decision maker i makes a decision according 
to the other decision makers’ opinion decision 
set  and his own preference  with 
dependences of .  is a framework of 
group decision and means that each decision 
maker choose his or her choices conditional on 
the additional information received during the 
other decision makers. We distinguish from our 
problem SSVEP and the ordinal system of VEP 
as follows: 
The ordinal system of VEP is to find  
such that  for all  
where . For the ordinary system of 
VEP, we can see the references (e.g. [1, 2, 3]). 
The main difference is that the ordinary system 
of VEP is not a framework of sequential 
decision since it is only to find a decision x 
based on individual decision makers’ opinion 
without the interaction of other decision makers. 
Thus the ordinary system of VEP cannot contain 
a framework of group decision. 
The problem SSVEP contains the 
following problems as special cases: 
(1) If I is a singleton, then the SSVEP reduces to 
the quasi-VEP problem of finding  such 
that  for all . 
Furthermore, if “for all ” is replaced by 
“for all ” then the SSVEP reduces to the 
framework of generalized vector equilibrium 
problem. 
(2) If  is constant, the SSVEP reduces to 
the system of vector equilibrium problems. 
Moreover, if , then the 
framework of group decision reduces to ordinal 
decision problem. 
(3) If I is a singleton and  for all x, 
then the SSVEP reduces to the ordinary 
equilibrium problem. 
四、研究內容 
In this section, we first give some preliminaries 
that will be used in the rest of this paper then we 
will illustrate our main results based on them. 
We recall the cone-convexity of 
vector-valued functions by Tanaka [14]. Let X 
be a vector space, and Z also a vector space with 
a partial ordering defined by a pointed convex 
cone C. Suppose that K is a convex subset of X 
and that f is a vector-valued function from K to 
Z. The mapping f is said to be C-convex on K if 
for each  and , we have 
 
As a special case, if  and  then 
C-convexity is the same as ordinary convexity. 
Definition 1. Let X be a vector space, and Z 
also a vector space with a partial ordering 
defined by a pointed convex cone C. Suppose 
that K is a convex subset of X and that f is a 
vector-valued function from K to Z. Then, f is 
said to be C-quasiconvex on K if it satisfies one 
of the following two equivalent conditions: 
(i) for each  and , 
 
where  is the set of upper bounds 
of , that is 
PDF created with pdfFactory Pro trial version www.pdffactory.com
6 
where . We 
also say that f is strictly C-weakly quasiconcave 
on X if for each  such that 
 and  imply 
 
Definition 7 (C-diagonally quasiconcavity; see 
also [8]). Let X be a nonempty convex subset of 
a real vector space, Z a real vector space and 
 with proper solid convex cone values. 
We say that  is C-diagonally 
quasiconcave in its second argument, if for any 
finite subset A of X and any , there exists 
 such that . 
Definition 8 (Intersectional mapping [16]). Let 
X be a topological space and Z a nonempty set. 
Let , respectively. We say G is 
an intersectional mapping of T, if for each  
there exist a neighborhood  of x such that 
 
Definition 9. Let X be a topological space and Y 
a nonemptyset. A set-valued map  is 
said to have open lower sections, if the set  
, 
is open in X for every . 
Remark 3. If  has open lower 
sections then F is also lower semicontinuous on 
X and if F has an open graph then F has open 
lower sections are well-known facts. 
Definition 10. Let X be a topological space and 
Y a nonempty set. Suppose . We say 
that F can have open lower sections, if there a 
set-valued mapping  such that F’ 
has open lower sections and  for 
all . 
Now we state and prove our main results 
for SSVEP as follows: 
Theorem 1. For the SSVEP defined above. Also 
we assume that the following conditions holds: 
(i) for each ;  is -diagonally 
quasiconcave in the second argument; 
(ii) for each ;  is compact and convex; 
(iii) K has a closed graph and convex values 
and can have open lower sections; 
(iv) the set 
 
is open for each . 
Then SSVEP has at least one solution. 
Similarity, we also analyze another 
SSVEP as follows: 
Theorem 2. For the SSVEP’ defined above. 
Suppose for each  that  
with  and that  
is defined by 
  
for each . Also we assume that the 
following conditions holds: 
(i) for each ;  is -diagonally 
quasiconcave in the second argument; 
(ii) for each ;  is compact and convex; 
(iii) K has a closed graph and convex values 
and can have open lower sections; 
(iv) the set 
 
is open for each . 
Then SSVEP’ has at least one solution, i.e., S’ is 
nonempty. 
Next, we will study the sensitivity of 
SSVEP. First, we give a result concerning with 
the upper semicontinuity of the solution 
mapping. Consider the perturbation of SSVEP 
as the parametric SSVEP defined as follows: 
For each , let  be a nonempty set, 
 with proper, solid, convex cone 
values,  
 and 
 defined by 
 
where  We consider 
PDF created with pdfFactory Pro trial version www.pdffactory.com
8 
well-known results in the literature, especially, it 
includes the main result of [6, 9-17] as special 
cases. 
五、參考文獻 
[1] Q. H. Ansari and J. C. Yao, The system of vector 
equilibrium problems and its applications, J. Optim. 
Theory Appl. 107(3) (2000), 547–557. 
[2] Q. H. Ansari, S. Schaible and J. C. Yao, System of 
generalized vector variational inequalities and their 
applications, Appl. Anal. 76 (2000), 203–217. 
[3] Q. H. Ansari, S. Schaible and J. C. Yao, The system of 
generalized vector equilibrium problems with applications, 
J. Global Optim. 22 (2002), 3–16. 
[4] C. Berge, Topological Space, (1963) Oliver&Boyd, 
Edinburgh and London. 
[5] F. Ferro, A Minimax Theorem for Vector-Valued 
Functions, J. Optim. Theory Appl. 60(1) (1989), 19–31. 
[6] X. H. Gong, K. Kimura, and J. C. Yao, Sensitivity 
analysis of strong vector equilibrium problems, J. 
Nonlinear Convex Anal. 9(1) (2008), pp.83–94. 
[7] A. Gopfert, C. Tammer, H. Riahi, and C. Zalinescu, 
(2003). Variational Methods in Partially Ordered Spaces, 
Springer-Verlag. 
[8] S. H. Hou, H. Yu, and G. Y. Chen, On 
Vector-Quasi-Equilibrium Problems with Set-Valued 
Maps, J. Optim. Theory Appl. 119(3) (2003), 485–498. 
[9] K. Kimura and Y. C. Liou, Convexity of the solution 
mapping of vector equilibrium problem and its 
applications, Proceedings of the Fifth International 
Conference on Nonlinear and Convex Analysis. (to 
appear). 
[10] K. Kimura, Y. C. Liou, and J. C. Yao, A Parametric 
Equilibrium Problem with Applications to Optimization 
Problems under Equilibrium Constraints, J. Nonlinear 
Convex Anal. 7(2) (2006), 237–243. 
[11] K. Kimura, Y. C. Liou, and J. C. Yao, Semicontinuity 
of the Solution mapping of "-Vector Equilibrium Problem, 
Pac. J. Optim. 3(2) (2007), 345–359. 
[12] K. Kimura, Y. C. Liou, S. Y. Wu, and J. C. Yao, 
Well-posedness for parametric vector equilibrium 
problems with applications, J. Ind. Manag. Optim. 4(2) 
(2008), pp.313–327. 
[13] K. Kimura and J. C. Yao, Sensitivity of Solution 
mappings of Parametric Vector Quasi-Equilibrium 
Problems J. Glob. Optim. 41 (2008), 187–202. 
[14] K. Kimura and J. C. Yao, Sensitivity Analysis of 
Vector Equilibrium problems, Taiwanese J. Math. 12(3) 
(2008), 649–669. 
[15] K. Kimura and J. C. Yao, Semicontinuity of Solution 
mappings of Parametric Generalized Strong Vector 
Equilibrium Problems, J. Ind. Manag. Optim. 4(1) (2008), 
167–181. 
[16] K. Kimura and J. C. Yao, Semicontinuity of solution 
mappings of parametric generalized vector equilibrium 
problems, J. Optim. Theory Appl., 138(3) (2008), 
pp.429–443. 
[17] K. Kimura and J. C. Yao, Sensitivity analysis of 
solution mappings of parametric generalized quasi vector 
equilibrium problems, Taiwanese J. Math. (2008). (to 
appear）. 
[18] D. T. Luc, (1989). Theory of Vector Optimization: 
Lecture Notes in Economics and Mathematical Systems, 
Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg. 
[19] J. W. Peng, H. W. J. Lee, and X.-M. Yang, On 
system of generalized vector quasi-equilibrium problems 
with set-valued maps, J. Glob. Optim. 36 (2006), 
139–158. 
[20] W. Takahashi, (2000). Nonlinear Functional 
Analysis-Fixed Point Theory and its Application, 
Yokohama Publishers Yokohama. 
[21] G. Tian, Generalized Quasi-Variational-Like 
Inequality Problem, Math. Oper. Res. 18 (1993), 
213–225. 
 
 
 
 
 
PDF created with pdfFactory Pro trial version www.pdffactory.com
22(Thu)--24(Sat), 2007, http://mathweb.sc.niigata-u.ac.jp/isnaca2007/ (supported by NSC 
96-2221-E-230-003). 
2. K. Kimura, Y.C. Liou and J.C. Yao (2007). “Approximate vector equilibrium problems,” 
The 7th International Conference on Optimization: Techniques and Applications (ICOTA7), The 
International Conference Centre, Kobe, Japan, 12-15 Dec. 2007, ISSN 0915-8502, 
http://www.iict.konan-u.ac.jp/ICOTA7 (supported by NSC 96-2221-E-230-003). 
3. Y.C. Liou (2008). “Sensitivity analysis of the solution mapping of  -vector equilibrium 
problem,” 2008全球商業經營管理學術研討會, 正修科技大學管理學院 , Apr. 25, 2008, 
http://cm.csu.edu.tw/cm/actCont.php?a_id=16 (supported by NSC 96-2221-E-230-003). 
4. K. Kimura, Y.C. Liou* and J.C. Yao (2008). “Simultaneous system of vector equilibrium 
problems,” 9th International Symposium on Generalized Convexity and Generalized Monotonicity 
and 2nd Summer School, College of Science (GCM9 and SS2), National Sun Yat-sen 
University (NSYSU), Kaohsiung, Taiwan, July 15-25, 2008, 
http://www.math.nsysu.edu.tw/gcm9 (supported by NSC 96-2221-E-230-003). 
3. 本計畫進行期間共訪問了二所在這研究領域頂尖的大學如下： 
1.四川西南交通大學數學系、信息暨軟件學院與經濟管理研究所(邀請者：趙勇教授暨
中心主任、胡培教授暨副院長)。 
2.日本甲南大學理工學部知的情報通信所(邀請者：岳五一教授)。 
此次計劃期間跟中山大學應數系共同組織、舉辦了The 9th International Symposium 
on Generalized Convexity and Generalized Monotonicity and 2nd Summer School (GCM9 & SS2) 
國際研討會並擔任Organizer與Webmaster的工作。 
二、 計畫執行過程中所遭遇困難 
1. 本次計劃執行期間除了出國參加了 The 7th International Conference on Optimization: 
Techniques and Applications (ICOTA7)研討會外，也訪問了二所在這相關研究領域頂尖的大
學，以致於經費的運用略嫌不足，希望國科會能儘量加以協助。 
2. 學校對於國科會報銷經費限制很多，以致在經費報銷上手續繁瑣、耗力費時。 
3. 學校對於國科會計畫已有補助者不願意再補助經費，使得本計畫在後續學術交流的事務
上受到許多侷限，而計畫主持人便成了計畫的受害者。希望國科會對於國外差旅費不足
的研究者能給予再次申請補助的機會。 
4. 對於購買的機票限制是須先以中華航空為主，造成出國時間受到些限制。 
三、 研究心得與學術交流 
本計畫之執行依所核定經費之項目內容與額度，循序完成計畫並支用。這次與四川西
南交通大學交流的部份，已達成實際研究交流的任務並取得大陸地區相關的研究資料與書
籍，可謂收益良多。對於日本甲南大學所舉辦之 ICOTA7研討會，確實是一個不可多得之機
會，使我有機會跟日本及韓國多位頂尖研究學者進行交流。這次研討會的行程委託高雄世
捷旅行社幫我們處理機票的相關事宜，並偕同中山大學應數所的老師一起同行，彼此都能
互相照應、互通有無，使得參加研討會活動變得增趣不少。日本是一個國際化的都市，辦
這個國際型的會議一點都不生疏；這個會議粗略估計大概有五、六百人參與，將這個世界
上 Optimization領域的同行都集結在一起，實在是個不可多得的機會。除了歐美的學者外，
PDF created with pdfFactory Pro trial version www.pdffactory.com
