 1
1. Introduction 
 
The modern world develops rapidly in terms of social economy and technology and thus 
leads the enterprises to face more serious challenges in satisfying the increasingly customers’ 
demands (Lai & Ming, 2002). In the past, the industry was dominated by the traditional 
manufactures which paid more attentions to the products orientation and expected better 
product quality instead of concerning about the customers’ demands in particular. Yet, with 
the development of times, the service sector has played a primary role in the industry. The 
enterprises started to customize massive products and concerned about the satisfaction of 
customers’ demands gradually. For the modern enterprise, the capability of providing 
customer-requested qualified products and services is one of their competition advantages. In 
other words, the key issue to maximize these enterprises’ profits relies upon their capabilities 
of providing the products and services in line with customers’ demands. Under these 
circumstances, Quality Function Deployment (QFD) was developed as a set of systematic tool 
to satisfy customers’ demands. Sullivan (1986) once gave the definition to QFD as a 
systematic method to promote the production with the basis of customers’ demands in product 
design and manufacturing. According to Guinta and Praizler (1993) and Kaulio (1998), QFD 
was considered as a customer-oriented tool of quality control in Total Quality Management 
(“TQM”) with the main purpose of planning the products design and manufacturing according 
to customers’ demands. Chen et al. (2005 & 2006) also pointed out that QFD is one of the 
effective ways to develop the service standard operation procedure. 
 
However, most previous related researches of QFD deployment processes were only for 
the issue about how to satisfy the demands of single-customer groups and didn’t consider the 
way to satisfy the demands of multiple-customer groups or how to deal with this problem 
effectively. For example, Bouchereau and Rownlands (1999), as well as Shen et al. (2000a) 
argued that if considers multiple customers’ demands in using QFD in practice, the House of 
Qualify (HOQ) might be huge and complicated. Lai and Ming (2002) proposed in their 
research that it is necessary to improve QFD further with respects of customer identification 
and class. Shahin and Chan (2006) said that the conflicts would be occurred among different 
customer groups and their different expectations, which QFD has to solve urgently. In fact, for 
the related theories and practices, the important issue is how to identify the types of multiple 
customers and their demands, as well as introducing them to QFD successfully to satisfy 
multiple customers’ demands. 
 
Based upon the contents stated above, this research tries to develop a revised QFD 
technique in order to meet the needs of multiple customer groups by using Mitchell’s 
stakeholder theory. Mitchell (1997) once proposed the theories of stakeholder identification 
and salience, which is primarily composed of three relationship attributes of stakeholders 
(power, legitimacy and urgency), and took this as the basis of stakeholders class. In this 
research, the revised QFD technology includes three deployment processes of multiple 
customers’ demands as follows: latent stakeholders, expectant stakeholders and definitive 
stakeholders. Finally, in order to demonstrate how the proposed technique works, an empirical 
case study is conducted. A policy analysis for the no.5 national highway construction in 
Taiwan is chosen as the subject of the empirical case study. 
 
 
2. Literature Review 
 
2.1 Definition and categorization of stakeholders 
 3
QFD in narrow sense, controlling point of Quality Assurance (QA), value engineering and 
generalized QFD etc. (Akao & Glenn, 2003). 
 
As a customer-oriented quality control tool in TQM (Guinta & Praizelr 1993, Kaulio, 
1998), the procedures of QFD are called four-stage model including House of Quality, Parts 
Deployment, Process Planning and Production Planning, as shown in Figure 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    House of Quality          Parts Deployment           Process Planning       Production Planning 
 
Figure 2. QFD four-stage model (Lai & Ming, 2002) 
 
Each stage of QFD has its own function and name and the methods and operations are 
very similar to each other. The main purpose is to introduce more important technical 
elements to next stage and keep it continual. However, as mentioned by Lai and Ming (2002) 
in their research, though the completed QFD is composed of four stages, most enterprises use 
QFD according to the actual demands of the customers, which means sometimes they might 
only use and modify QFD at the first stage without any further step. 
 
Further, if we review the previous related files, we will find out that the present QFD has 
some limitations and thus needs to be improved in some respects. For example, Lai and Ming 
(2002) pointed out that QFD is not perfect in terms of customer class. Bouchereau and 
Rowlands (1999), as well as Shen et al. (2000a) summarized the following drawbacks and 
limitations of QFD in practice: (1) the House of Quality might be huge and complicated if 
considers multiple customers’ demands; (2) in terms of relation matrix, sometimes the 
judgment of interrelation degree might be vague; (3) QFD is not definite enough in terms of 
customer identification, and (4) customer satisfaction is in linear relationship with 
product/performance attributes in QFD. 
 
 
2.3 Customer demands identification and QFD 
 
Previous researches developed some methods to convert customers’ demands for their 
effective identifications and satisfactions. For example, Kamara et al. (1999) used Client 
Requirements Processing Model (CRPM) to classify the customers into different groups while 
considering their different demands and then, introduced them to QFD. Shen et al. (2000a) 
used characters of two-dimensional model proposed by Kano to classify different customers’ 
demands according to quality attributes and then introduced them to the House of Quality. 
Also, Shen et al. (2000b) calculated the frequency of customer demands at first and then 
classified them into classes for strategy evaluations. Hwarng and Teo (2001) found out the 
demands of primary customers by using hierarchical model and then customers’ primary 
demands by tree diagram. Shahin and Chan (2006) argued that the different customers’ 
attributes can be used in classification, which is convenient for the organizations to perform 
QFD in customer identification. 
 
Ｉ II III IV 
 5
to be considered preferentially. So this research uses grading method to satisfy the demands of 
different stakeholders. At the deployment stage of multiple stakeholders, the demands of 
latent stakeholders (ultimate customer) are introduced to QFD at first and considered 
preferentially; then the expectant stakeholders’ demands will be introduced to QFD to identify 
that whether the plan for latent stakeholders fits for the expectant stakeholders or not. After 
this, the performance order of these plans will be identified at the deployment stage of 
definitive stakeholders’ demands.  
 
The revised QFD technique for considerations of multiple customers’ demands proposed 
in this research is a kind of grading systematic method to satisfy the customers’ demands 
orderly. It could satisfy customers’ demands by different types of stakeholders (latent, 
expectant and definitive stakeholders) from outside to inside. Specifically, the revised QFD 
technique will satisfy the demands of external customers (latent stakeholders) at first and then, 
will be evaluated to identify whether it satisfies the demands of internal customers (expectant 
stakeholders). After selection, the decision-makers of organizations (definitive stakeholders) 
will identify the priorities for the performances of these plans. The following parts describe 
the main contents of three deployment stages of revised QFD technology constructed in this 
research for considerations of multiple customers’ demands, as shown in Figure 3.  
 
 
3.1 Deployment stage of latent stakeholders’ demands 
 
The first deployment stage of latent stakeholders’ demands is for three kinds of latent 
stakeholders that hold any one of three attributes (power, legitimacy and urgency). This stage 
considers the demands of external customers (such as employees, volunteers and consumers) 
preferentially. Under the customer-oriented circumstances, companies shall consider the 
demands of the external customer groups preferentially. Via QFD, the project design for 
satisfaction of these stakeholders is proposed and then, identified that whether it satisfies the 
demands of latent stakeholders by related matrix of customers’ demands and project designs. 
After that, multiple the scores and weight that represent the strength of related matrix (times 
of related reports) and sort the calculated results. Finally, select the project that ranks 
preceding (e.g. ranks first one second or one third) as the initial project for the next stage 
(deployment stage of expectant stakeholders’ demands) and go forward.  
 
 
3.2 Deployment stage of expectant stakeholders’ demands 
 
The second deployment stage of expectant stakeholders’ demands introduces the 
demands of three kinds of stakeholders (dominant, dangerous and dependant stakeholders) 
that hold any two of three attributes to QFD. The expectant stakeholders represent the 
organization at the middle level (such as the labor union), which is also called internal 
customers. At the second stage, the projects designed for satisfaction of external customers’ 
(latent stakeholders’) demands will be identified whether it satisfies the internal customers’ 
(expectant stakeholders’) or not. Then, calculate the related matrix and weights and rank the 
results. Finally, as same as at the first stage, select the project that ranks preceding (e.g. ranks 
first one second or one third) as the initial project for the deployment stage of definitive 
stakeholders’ demands and go forward.  
 
 
 
 7
and the board) and have rights to perform the decisions. At this stage, the preferential order 
for the performance of projects will be ranked by relative degree between the definitive 
stakeholders’ demands and the projects selected out at last stage (deployment stage of 
expectant stakeholders’ demands), as well as the calculations of weights. Given the 
discussions stated above, the revised QFD in this research is a systematic method and 
primarily divided into three stages to satisfy multiple customers’ demands orderly. The final 
project for satisfaction of multiple customers’ demands is thus drafted by the selections and 
sorts at each stage. Compare with the traditional four-stage QFD, the revised QFD technology 
considers multiple customers’ demands at every stage and further, provides the selection order 
and identification method for customers’ demands. Through revised QFD technology, 
organizations are able to achieve the object of customer-orientation better in considering the 
products/services designs requested by multiple customers.  
 
 
4. Empirical Case Study 
 
4.1 Research case 
 
To demonstrate the application of the proposed model, a policy analysis was conducted 
on the construction of Taiwan’s No. 5 National Highway. The construction of the highway 
along the east coast of Taiwan is one of the country’s most significant national construction 
projects. Because the project has significant implications for the region’s economy, tourism, 
transportation, and environment, it is an appropriate case for this research. 
 
4.2 Data collection 
 
Newspaper reports on the interactions among stakeholders regarding the construction of 
the highway provided research data for the empirical study. The choice of newspapers as the 
basis for data collection was in accordance with the view of Becker (1979), who contended 
that newspaper reports provided better public information than television reports because the 
former were usually of greater depth than the latter. 
  
The three domestic newspapers with the highest readerships in Taiwan—the United 
Daily News (19.75%), Liberty Times (17.23%), and Chinese Times (17.10%)—were used for 
data-collection purposes (Rainmaker XKM, 2006). The news database of the Taiwanese 
National Library was searched for reports in these three newspapers related to the 
construction of No. 5 National Highway. 
 
As shown in Table 1, the study collected 516 news articles dated between 2003 and 2008. 
Of these 516 articles, 241 (47%) were from the United Daily, 159 (31%) were from the China 
Times, and 116 (22%) were from the Liberty Times. 
 
Table 1. Distribution of newspaper articles on project 
 
 United Daily News China Times Liberty Times Totals 
Number of articles 241 159 116 516 
Proportion of total 47% 31% 22% 100% 
 
 
 
 9
4.4 A public policy design to meet the needs of multiple customer groups 
 
This part mainly discusses multiple stakeholders＇ attitude and issues of concern on 
construction plan for National Highway No. 5 (Taiwan), and finds feasible project design. 
Compute mode of relationship degree of relation matrix of customers＇ demands and project 
design in QFD adopts level of strength of relativity considered to be able to be measured with 
this quantization scale (0, 1, 3, 9) in the research report in 1994 of American Supplier Institute 
(ASI). Project design at the stage of demand development of this research mainly takes 
substitute projects proposed by each stakeholder in relevant report as main resource. 
 
4.4.1 Deployment stage of latent stakeholders’ demands 
 
The first deployment stage of latent stakeholders＇ demands is for three kinds of latent 
stakeholders that hold any one of three attributes (power, legitimacy and urgency). In this case, 
types of these stakeholders include dormant stakeholders (e.g. scholar), discretionary 
stakeholders (e.g. masses) and demanding stakeholders (e.g. construction businessman). 
Although these stakeholders have one type of attribute, they have become the customer group 
requires special attention under the environment of pursuing the concept of customer first in 
modern democratic age. 
 
In demand development stage of latent stakeholders in Table 3, dormant stakeholders 
holding neutral attitude, discretionary stakeholders holding opposed attitude and discretionary 
stakeholders holding support attitude have most demand issues of concern, 4 issues of 
concern for each type. Second is dormant stakeholders holding opposed attitude have a total 
of 3 demand issues of concern. 
 
Demand issue has most report times is “Maintain natural environment＂ focused by 
dormant stakeholder holding opposed attitude, totalling 6 reports; issues with the second most 
report times are respectively issue “Develop tourism industry＂ focused by dormant 
stakeholders holding opposed attitude as well as issue “Maintain natural environment＂ 
focused by discretionary stakeholder holding opposed attitude, totalling 4 reports for each. 
 
Top 50% project with the highest total score in construction plan for National Highway 
No. 5 made by latent stakeholders in Table 3 are listed in Table 4, and these 9 project designs 
will be led in the next phase as the project design of demand development stage of expectant 
stakeholders. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 11
Table 4. Project design of construction plan for National Highway No. 5-latent stakeholder 
 
Project design of satisfying demand for latent stakeholder Score Rank 
Broaden existing highways 210 1 
Construct blue highways 198 2 
Purchase tilting trains 149 3 
Construct surrounding-town mini-trains 129 4 
Establish tourism facilities 126 5 
Plan for bus network 114 6 
Expand airport 114 6 
Construct agricultural biological scientific garden zone 78 7 
Promote cultural and artistic tourism 78 7 
 
 
4.4.2 Deployment stage of expectant stakeholders’ demands 
 
The second deployment stage of expectant stakeholders’ demands introduces the 
demands of three kinds of stakeholders that hold any two of three attributes to QFD. In this 
case, types of these stakeholders include dominant stakeholders (e.g. local government), 
dangerous stakeholders (e.g. environmental groups) and dependent stakeholders (e.g. local 
tourism association and consortium) usually own some authorities or influence. 
 
Table 5 is the demand development stage of expectant stakeholders, dominant 
stakeholders holding support attitude and dangerous stakeholders holding opposed attitude 
have most demand issues of concern, totalling 5 reports for each; the second most demand 
issues of concern is dependent stakeholders holding neutral attitude, totalling 4 reports; 
dominant stakeholders holding neutral attitude and dependent stakeholders holding support 
attitude focus 3 demand issues respectively. 
 
Issue with most news report times is issue “Enhance economic construction” focused by 
dominant stakeholders holding support attitude, totalling 8 times; the second most one is issue 
“Develop tourism industry” focused by dominant stakeholders holding support attitude, 
totalling 7 times; issue “Develop tourism industry” focused by dependent stakeholders 
holding support attitude is reported 6 times. 
 
Top 50% demand project design items after total score calculation and rank ordering in 9 
project designs in Table 5 are listed in Table 6, and will be taken as demand project design of 
definitive stakeholders in the next stage. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13
Table 6. Project design of construction plan for National Highway No. 5-expectant stakeholder 
 
Project design of satisfying demand for expectant stakeholder Score Rank 
Establish tourism facilities 327 1 
Broaden existing highways 315 2 
Construct blue highways 288 3 
Plan for bus network 234 4 
Expand airport 234 4 
 
 
4.4.3 Deployment stage of definitive stakeholders’ demands 
 
This stage mainly discusses the attitude and issues of concern on construction plan for 
National Highway No. 5 of definitive stakeholders (e.g. Central Government) owning 
attributes of all three types of stakeholders. Definitive stakeholders usually own big influence, 
as far as the case “construction plan for National Highway No. 5” in this research, definitive 
stakeholder is Central Government, because Central Government is the one in charge of the 
whole construction plan and priority of implementation of final plan design. 
 
The analysis of concerned issue quantity in Table 7 shows that the issues focused by 
definitive stakeholders holding neutral attitude are most totalling 7 items; second is definitive 
stakeholders holding support attitude totalling 6; the last one is definitive stakeholders holding 
opposed attitude totalling 5. In the aspect of relevant report times, “Emphasize environment 
assessment” has most report times totalling 18; the second is subject “Enhance economic 
construction” totalling 11; last one is “Maintain natural environment” totalling 10 times. 
 
Table 8 is implementation priority of project design determined according to sequence of 
total score made by definitive stakeholder concerning National Highway No. 5. These project 
designs are emphasized of three stakeholders at demand development stage and the project 
designs can be accepted by each type of stakeholders. The priority of the first three project 
designs are respectively “Broaden existing highways”, “Construct blue highways” and 
“Establish tourism facilities”. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 15
5. Discussion 
 
As democratic progress and growth of Taiwan, opinions of masses are emphasized more 
and more, and local opinions can often influence the implementation of central policy. Just 
because local opinions can influence the decision-making of central government, government 
authority is more required to consider the demand of different stakeholder groups when 
formulating public policy and comply with principle of fairness and justness. The revised 
QFD technique to meet the needs of multiple customer groups developed in this research 
analyzes from issues focused by different stakeholders and finally screens out 5 project 
designs can satisfy multiple stakeholders at the same time in public policy empirical case of 
construction plan for National Highway No. 5. 
 
Figures in Table 9 represent the importance ranking of different stakeholders in each 
kind of project design. For example, “Broaden existing highways” in project design is the 
most important for latent stakeholders and definitive stakeholders; “Establish tourism 
facilities” is the most important for expectant stakeholders. 
 
 
Table 9. Public policy analysis of satisfying stakeholders’ demands 
 
Project design for satisfying stakeholder demand Latent stakeholder Expectant stakeholder Definitive stakeholder
Establish tourism facilities 5 1 3 
Construct blue highways 2 3 2 
Plan for bus network 6 4 4 
Broaden existing highways 1 2 1 
Expand airport 6 4 4 
 
In these project designs, “Establish tourism facilities” is quite different in terms of 
importance for three types of different stakeholders (latent, expectant and definitive 
stakeholders), main reason may be in whole project design items, latent stakeholders consider 
level of support or importance for establishing tourism facilities to be less important than 
foundational traffic construction, expectant stakeholders (e.g. local government, 
environmental groups and local tourism association and consortium), however, attach great 
emphasis on developing eastern economy from point of view of tourism, in addition, 
established tourism facilities usually will not damage existing environment, which can avoid 
damaging existing tourism resource; definitive stakeholders (e.g. Central Government) mainly 
give priority to national development, so they support the items can develop eastern areas. 
 
Project “Construct blue highways” is focused by three types of stakeholders because 
latent stakeholders (e.g. masses, scholars and construction businessmen) may think this 
construction can help transport of economic objects and will not influence environment. 
Similarly, expectant stakeholders (e.g. local government, environmental groups and local 
tourism association and consortium) think “Construct blue highways” can not only drive 
tourism peak but also increase local sightseeing spots, importantly, will not destroy natural 
environment; as far as definitive stakeholders (e.g. Central Government), this is not only a 
traffic support plan acceptable to all, but also an opportunity can promote local development. 
 
And latent stakeholders (e.g. masses, scholars and construction businessmen) did not 
participate in “Plan for bus network” and it has not immediate influence on them; relatively, 
 17
Acknowledgments 
 
This study was funded by the National Science Council, Republic of China (Taiwan) 
(NSC 98-2221-E-412-001-MY2). 
 
 
References 
[1] Akao, Y. & Glem, H. M. (2003), “The Leading Edge in QFD: Past, Present and Future”, The 
International Journal of Quality & Reliability Management, 20(1), pp. 20-35. 
[2] Akao, Y. (1990), Quality Function Deployment：Integrating Customer Requirements into 
Product Design, Productivity Cambridge, MA. 
[3] American Supplier Institute (1994), Quality Function Deployment (Server QFD), 3-day 
Workshop; ASI Press: Dearborn, MI. 
[4] Becker, L. B. (1979), “Newspaper and Television Dependencies: Effects on Evaluations 
of Public Officials”, Journal of Broadcasting, 23 pp. 465-475. 
[5] Bouchereau, V. & Rowlands, H. (1999), “Analytical Approaches to QFD”, Manufacturing 
Engineer, 78(December), pp. 249-254. 
[6] Chan, L. K. & Wu, M. L. (2002), “Quality Function Deployment： A Literature Review”, 
European Journal of Operational Research, 143, pp. 463-497. 
[7] Chen, C. K., Yu, C. H. & Chang, H. C. (2005), “An Empirical Analysis of 
Customer-oriented Service Activities in the Taiwanese Public Sector”, Total Quality 
Management& Business Excellence, 16 (7), pp. 887-901. 
[8] Chen, C. K., Yu, C. H. & Chang, H. C. (2006), “ERA Model：A Customer-oriented Service 
Activities in the Taiwanese Public Sector”, Total Quality Management & Business 
Excellence , 17 (10), pp. 1301-1322. 
[9] Freeman, R. E. (1984), Strategic management：A stakeholder approach, Boston: Pitman. 
[10] Guinta, L. R. & Praizler, N. C. (1993), The QFD Book: The Team Approach to Solving 
Problems and Satisfying Customers through Quality Function Deployment, New York, 
Amacom. 
[11] Hill, C. W. L. & Jones, T. M. (1992), “Shareholder Value, Stakeholder Management, and 
Social Issues: What‘s the Bottom Line?”,. Strategic Management Journal, 22 pp. 125-139. 
[12] Hwarng, H. B. & Teo, C. (2001), “Translating Customers’ Voices into Operations 
Requirements- A QFD Application in Higher Education”, International Journal of Quality 
and Reliability Management, 18 (2), pp. 195-226. 
[13] Kamara, J. M., Anumba, C. J., Members, A. S. C. E. & Evbuomwan, N. F. O. (1999), 
“Client Requirements Processing in Construction: A New Approach Using QFD”, Journal 
of Architectural Engineering, 5(1), pp. 8-15. 
[14] Kaulio, M. A. (1998), “Customer, Consumer and User Involvement in Product Development: 
A Framework and a Review of Selected Methods”, Total Quality Management, 9, pp. 
141-149. 
[15] Lai, K. C. & Ming, L. W. (2002), “Quality Function Deployment: A Comprehensive Review 
of Its Concepts and Methods”, Quality Engineering, 15(1), pp.23-35. 
[16] Mitchell, R. K., Agle, B. R. & Wood, D. J. (1997), “Toward a Theory of Stakeholder 
Identification and Salience: Defining the Principle of Who and What Really Counts”, 
Academy of Management Review, 22(4), pp. 853-886. 
[17] Rainmaker XKM International Corp. (2006), Paper Readership Ranking in Taiwan in 
2005, from http://www.rainmaker.com.tw/mrd_np.htm. 
[18] Shahin, A. & Chan, J. F. L. (2006), “Customer Requirements Segmentation (CRS): A 
Prerequisite Technique for Quality Function Deployment (QFD)”, Total Quality 
Management, 17 (5), June, pp. 567-587. 
[19] Shen, X. X., Tan, K. C. & Xie, M. (2000a), “An Integrated Approach to Innovative Product 
 19
計畫成果自評 
 
在顧客導向的潮流下，政府機關在制定公共政策時必須同時關注與滿足不同利害關
係人的需求。本研究應用 Mitchell 利害關係人理論建構一套考量多元顧客需求之改良式
QFD 技術，分三個階段依序導入潛伏利害關係人、期待利害關係人與決定利害關係人之
需求。最後本研究以國道五號蘇花高速公路興建案為例進行分析，實證個案分析結果顯
示，本研究提出之考量多元顧客需求之改良式 QFD 技術，有助於確認公共政策制定時
多元利害關係人類型，以及瞭解各利害關係人群體對於公共政策之態度與關注議題，進
而透過品質機能展開的導入，篩選出滿足多元利害關係人需求之方案設計與方案執行優
先順序。本研究與過去的 QFD 四階段模式相比，除了考量多元顧客需求之外，亦提供
滿足多元顧客需求之優先順序與方向，從外部顧客、內部顧客到公司決策高層，逐步進
行利害關係人需求的確認與方案設計之篩選，讓組織考量多元顧客需求時更能達到顧客
導向的目的。 
最後，本研究僅以國道五號蘇花高速公路興建案此單一個案建構考量多元顧客需求
之改良式 QFD 技術，仍有一些後續議題值得探討。首先，本研究僅針對滿足多元利害
關係人之方案設計進行探討，如何深化與細部執行這些方案設計值得進一步探究。其
次，可針對不同公共政策進行實證分析，以增進此改良式 QFD 技術之實用性。最後，
可針對政府機關相關決策制定人士進行深度訪談，進一步了解此改良式 QFD 技術之可
行性與適用性，做為該技術修正之參考依據。 
 
 2
二、 與會心得 
此次會議藉由眾多來自品質管理領域的專家學者激發對於品質管理研究的熱忱與
討論未來品質的發展，目的是為了追求真理，以及理論與實務之結合。過去研討會舉辦
者在舉辦大型學術研討會時，有許多學界人士踴躍投稿，但礙於時間與場地的限制，無
法讓所有文章都能呈現在大家面前，因此往往只有忍痛做出取捨，如此一來，不免造成
遺珠之憾。有鑑於此，今年主辦國印度特別擴大海報論文發表之場次(Poster session)與
篇數。 
Poster Session 是把經過嚴格篩選後優秀的文章，讓發表人在屬於個人的發表場地裡
盡情地揮灑。發表人可以透過醒目的海報張貼，以及詳細的論文集供應，讓與會學者、
來賓得到完整的資訊。對於該文章有興趣的學者、來賓前往發表人的發表場地，進一步
詢問或者提供寶貴的意見。這是一種面對面的學術交流模式，發表人可能一對一或一對
多地向與會者闡述其論文內容、回應提問，進行學術上的切磋。此種論文發表形式可謂
打破了時、空的侷限性，延長了發表時間讓發表人可以清楚完整地闡述其論文內容，縮
短了發表人和與會者的距離，讓彼此可以面對面盡情地進行學術交流。 
此外，在會議過程中，不同國度的學者針對品質管理相關的主題皆進行廣泛且深入
的討論，藉以累積知識與促進人類的發展，令人獲益匪淺。其中在參與其它專家學者之
論文發表中，亦使本人了解在進行一學術論文中，所需注意之事項，包括表達的技巧與
學術研究之嚴謹性，希望還有類似的機會能前往不同國度追求學術的成長與增廣見聞。
三、 建議 
非常感謝行政院國科會能補助本人參與 The 8th Asian Quality Congress 2010 之差旅
費，亦感謝學校提供良好之教學與研究環境。「讀萬卷書，行萬里路」，參與國際會議不
但能開拓國內教師之國際視野，提升教師的學術水準，更能讓教師深刻體認國際上的研
究之潮流及方向。 
參與類似國外研討會的經驗非常難得，也非常的寶貴，希望諸如此類的經驗能夠分
享給大家，相互成長。其次建議國內大專院校可多辦理大型之國際研討會，不僅可提高
國內大專院校在國際上之能見度，也可讓國外的學術界乃至於業界人士，對國內大專院
校各該領域的發展狀況能夠有更多更深入的瞭解。 
此外，在參加這次國際會議的過程中，覺得自己的英語溝通能力不足，因為不同國
家的人會使用不同腔調的英語與我們溝通，所以如何聽懂別人的英語對我而言就構成一
項挑戰。建議學校能在網路上提供一些相關課程讓校內教師有機會在出國前自行作這一
方面的訓練，俾能減少和外國學術接軌的困擾。此外，如能更進一步提供英文論文編修
服務，將有助於教師從事學術論文之撰寫與發表。 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. The 8th Asian Quality Congress 2010 Program Book 
內容為研討會之會議議程與論文摘要。 
2. The 8th Asian Quality Congress 2010 Proceedings 光碟 
內容為參與本次會議發表之所有論文。 
 
 A Revised QFD to Meet the Needs of Multiple Customer Groups 
by Using Mitchell’s Stakeholder Theory 
 
Chang-Hsi Yu1*  Chi-Kuang Chen2  Wan-Hong Chen1  Hsiu-Chen Chang1 
1 Yu Da University, CSQ (Chinese Taipei), tony@ydu.edu.tw 
2 Yuan Ze University, CSQ (Chinese Taipei) 
 
Keywords 
Stakeholder Theory, Quality Function Deployment, Customer Satisfaction, Public Policy 
 
The objective of this paper is to develop a revised quality function deployment (QFD) to 
meet the needs of multiple customer groups by using Mitchell’s stakeholder theory. For the 
modern enterprise, the capability of providing customer-requested qualified products and 
services is one of their competition advantages. QFD was developed as a set of systematic 
tool to satisfy customers’ needs. However, most previous related studies of QFD deployment 
processes were only for the issue about how to satisfy the demands of single-customer groups 
and didn’t consider the way to satisfy the needs of multiple-customer groups or how to deal 
with this problem effectively. This study tries to develop a revised QFD technique in order to 
meet the needs of multiple customer groups by using Mitchell’s stakeholder theory. This 
revised QFD technique includes three deployment processes of multiple customers’ needs as 
follows: latent stakeholders, expectant stakeholders and definitive stakeholders. In order to 
demonstrate how the proposed technique works, an empirical case study is conducted. A 
policy analysis for the no.5 national highway construction in Taiwan is chosen as the subject 
of the empirical case study. 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：于長禧 計畫編號：98-2221-E-412-001-MY2 
計畫名稱：從顧客導向服務系統觀點與應用 QFD 探討公共政策分析與設計 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
