  
中文摘要 
覆蓋模式是最常運用於建構設施區位問題中，例如區位集合覆蓋問題、最大覆蓋區位
問題、最大期望覆蓋區位問題、區位備用覆蓋問題、考量設施固定成本最大覆蓋區位問題，
以及一般化最大覆蓋區位問題等等。本文主要目的在先檢閱過往設施區位覆蓋問題之重要
文獻，依據其文獻之模式建構一混合需求點備用覆蓋、部分覆蓋及考量設施不同固定成本
下之最蓋覆蓋區位多目標最佳化模式，所提出之模式整合一些眾所周知之設施區位覆蓋問
題，且其模式在部分變數或限制式變化下將可等同於原設施區位覆蓋問題。 
 
關鍵字：區位集合覆蓋問題；最大覆蓋區位問題；設施固定成本最大覆蓋區位問題；一般
化最大覆蓋區位問題 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
Covering models are the most widespread location models for formulating the facility 
location problems such as Location Set Covering Problem (LSCP, Toregas et al., 1971), Maximal 
Covering Location Problem (MCLP, Church and ReVelle, 1974), Maximal Expected Covering 
Location Problem (MEXCLP, Daskin, 1983), location backup coverage (Hogan and ReVelle, 
1986), Maximal Covering Location Problem with Fixed Costs (MCFix, Church and Davis, 1992) 
and Generalized Maximal Covering Location Problem (GMCLP, Berman and Krass, 2002) etc. 
The purpose of this paper is to review the past popular literatures of covering models in facility 
location. Base on the preceding review, the multiobjective optimization model with a hybrid with 
backup coverage of demands, partial coverage for each demand point, and fixed charge costs is 
presented in this paper. The proposed model is integrated with some well-known facility location 
covering problems and is equivalent as long as the variables and restrictions varied. 
 
Keywords: Location Set Covering Problem (LSCP); Maximal Covering Location Problem 
(MCLP); Maximal Covering Location Problem with Fixed Costs (MCFix); Generalized Maximal 
Covering Location Problem (GMCLP). 
 
I 
 customers instead of all coverage in which considers the efficient investment.  The coverage 
level of provided by facilities falls into a decreasing function of distance from facility to 
customer’s location.  In addition, the backup coverage is necessary in order to provide stochastic 
demands and maximum coverage level.  The purpose of this paper is to consider the maximal 
covering location problem of partial coverage of demand nodes and backup coverage in order to 
provide optimal service to maximal demands within the maximum response time.  The fixed 
charge of maximal covering location problem is considered in the proposed model as well. 
 
2. Past Research Review 
In this section, we will review some of the key references regarding the covering models 
applying in facility location.  Base on the above description, we will introduce Location Set 
Covering Problem (LSCP), Maximal Covering Location Problem (MCLP), MCLP of partial 
coverage for demand nodes, backup coverage and MCLP with fixed costs (MCFix), respectively. 
 
2.1 Location Set Covering Problem (LSCP) 
The purpose of Set covering problem (SCP) is to locate the minimum number of new 
facilities such that a prescribed distance constraint to existing facilities is not violated.  The 
earliest published use of set covering in location context is Hakimi (1965).  He found the 
minimal number of needed police so that every vertex of a highway network is within a specified 
distance of police protection.  Although Hakimi did not present the formulation, he 
demonstrated an approach using Boolean algebra to generate all coverings of a graph where all 
distances are integers.  Roth (1969), Toregas et al. (1971) and Toregas and ReVelle (1973) 
presented a linear integer programming model and can reduce the problem size so that it can be 
used branch and bound to solve easily. 
Toregas et al. (1971) is the first scholar to formulate Location Set Covering Problem (LSCP) 
in which is the application of set covering problem in location realms.  The LSCP seeks the 
minimum number of facilities and their locations such that all of the spatially distributed demand 
nodes are covered at least one facility within a specified distance standard.  LSCP has been 
made many extensions such as maximizing coverage (Church and ReVelle, 1974; Church and 
ReVelle, 1976), hierarchical coverage (Moore and ReVelle, 1982), multiple coverage (Berlin, 
1972; Storbeck, 1982), maximal expected coverage (Daskin, 1982, 1983), multiple objectives 
(Shobrys, 1981), multiple equipment (Charnes and Storbeck, 1980; Schilling et al., 1979) and 
weighted benefit (Church and Bell, 1981; Church and Roberts, 1983).  There have been many 
researches indicated by scholars.  White and Case (1974) have designated it as the total covering 
problem, which involves the determination of the minimum number and location of facilities such 
that all demand points are covered.  Berlin and Liebman (1974) used LSCP to locate ambulance 
stations at fire stations and then allocate ambulances based on the different response 
distances/times by running simulation process.  Caprara et al. (2000) surveyed the most recent 
and effective algorithms for set cover SCP, considering both heuristic and exact approaches, 
outlining their main characteristics and presenting an experimental comparison on the test-bed 
instances of Beasley’s OR Library. 
The Location Set Covering Location Problem (LSCP) is to minimize the number of facilities 
needed to cover all demand points which is formulated by Torgas et al. (1971).  Let  and i I  
be the index and set of demand points, j  and  the index and set of facility sites, J 1jx =  if a 
facility is sited at  and  otherwise,  the travel distance/time between  and , 
 the maximal covered distance/time of , and  the set of facility sites eligible to provide 
“cover” to  where 
j 0jx = ijd i j
iS i iN
i { }iiji SdJjN ≤∈= .  The LSCP is formulated as follows. 
 
j
j
Min x∑  
Subject to 
1
i
j
j N
x i I
∈
≥ ∀ ∈∑  
( )0,1jx j J∈ ∀ ∈  
2 
  
Max i i
i
a y∑  
Subject to 
i
j i
j N
x y i I
∈
≥ ∀ ∈∑  
j
j J
x p=∑  
∈
( ), 0,1 ,j ix y i I= ∀ ∈  j J∈
 
The objective is to maximize the total amount of population covered.  The first constraint 
ensures that demand node is to be covered at least one facility sited within the specified 
distance .  The second constraint requires  facilities to be sited.  Other constraint states 
the integer requirements of variables. 
 
.3 Maximal Covering Location Problem of partial coverage for demand nodes 
n
ints as a mean to assign those points to the nearest facility 
cations in a capacitated MCLP context.  The quality of service is to be controlled by the 
e relative to 
the m
 
ones
 
 node .  When the 
i  
iS p
2
The critical distance, which is the distance between demand points and the facility, is one of 
the major factors for location covering model.  Church and Roberts (1983) developed a model 
that addressed the relation between quality of service and distance (service time) to a limited 
extension using linear step function.  Pirkul a d Schilling (1991) used the quality of service 
delivered to the uncovered demand po
lo
distance to the facility, and all the uncovered demand points receive a level of servic
aximum of all distances between the facility locations and the demand points. 
Some of the literatures are dedicated on the various coverage levels of demand nodes.  For 
example, ReVelle et al. (1996) considered several versions of the “maximal conditional covering 
problem” where sought the minimum number of servers to cover all demand nodes and cover all 
servers with secondary coverage (covered by other facilities).  But it was still only one coverage 
level and radius.  Infante-Macias and Muñoz-Perez (1995) considered locating a single new 
facility on a plane with some pre-existing competing facilities.  They considered three possible 
coverage levels for each demand point: full (if the new facility is preferred to all the existing
), half (if the customer is indifferent between the new facility and some of the existing ones), 
and none (if the new facility is inferior to some existing facility).  Thompson (1982) presented 
the penetration curves of super-drugstore chain that the penetration levels were depend on the 
distance from the facility and city size.  Jones and Simmons (1993) provided an example of the 
“rules of thumb” for location of a retail facility that required a certain number of households with 
appropriate demographic characteristics in the immediate neighborhood (1 mile radius) of the 
proposed location, another requirement for a larger (5 mile radius) one.  Huff (1962, 1964) 
developed the dependence of coverage level on the distance to the facility explicitly recognized in 
spatial interaction models.  Ghosh et al. (1995) also presented a related literature. Berman and 
Krass (1998) introduced the algorithmic analysis.  In these models, the coverage levels are 
assumed to be decreasing with power of distance from the closest facility. 
Berman and Krass (2002) pointed out that the coverage level of retail market provided by 
the facility is typically viewed as a decreasing step function of the distance from facility to the 
customer’s location.  Customers go to supermarkets within 1-2 miles may be the “fully covered”. 
Since the distance with customers are further away from distances, it is assumed to be the 
“partially covered”.  They introduced the Generalized Maximal Covering Location Problem 
(GMCLP) in which was equivalent to the uncapacitated facility location problem with no fixed 
charges.  The coverage level is depended on the radius r  of demandi
closest facility is within the radius ir  of i , the coverage is denoted to be ( )i ia r .  They 
assumed that the coverage level is a decreasing step function of the distance to the closest facility.  
The approximate solutions are provided by the greedy heuristic and by the LP-relaxation of the 
strong IP formulation.  Karasakal and Karasakal (2004) extended the approach from Church and 
Roberts (1983) by relaxing the restriction on the coverage function in which handle the relative 
 i
4 
 backup coverage model to handle facility unavailability instead of four classical location 
models (location set covering, maximal location covering, p-median, and hierarchical location 
covering models) due to they do not account for queuing delays. 
There have been several researches of location backup coverage by past scholars.  Torega
(1970, 1971) defined the Multi-Level Location Set Covering Problem (ML-LSCP) as a search for
the smallest number of facilities needed to cover each demand a present number of times where
the need for coverage might vary between demands.  Some demand areas might need coverage
three times, others two times, some one time, etc.  The firstly work of backup coverage is
introduced by Berlin (1972).  He applied the LSCP to determine the location and minimum
number of ambulance dispatching sites and estimate ambulance u
s 
 
 
 
 
 
tilization with simulation model.  
Char
P1) and Backup Coverage Model 2 (BACOP2), respectively.  The proposed models can 
also 
nes and Storbeck (1980) presented two types of ambulances, Advanced Life Support (ALS) 
and Basic Life Support (BLS), where the BLS units were located to provide backup coverage 
when such coverage was not provided by an ALS unit.  Daskin and Stern (1981) formulated the 
location set covering model to a hierarchical multi-objective problem where minimizes the 
number of facilities needed that are required to cover all demand points while maximizes the 
secondary coverage simultaneously.  Hogan and ReVelle (1986), Benedict (1983) and Daskin 
(1983) developed maximal covering location models that contained a secondary 
“backup-coverage” objective, which is the probabilistic formulation of the server being busy 
exogenously.  Daskin et al. (1988) integrated four different coverage approaches, namely 
“multiple”, “excess”, “backup” and “expected” coverage.  “Multiple” coverage is counting the 
number of times in which each demand point is covered beyond the first coverage.  “Excess” 
coverage is the same as “multiple” coverage but the coverage level of each demand is weighted, 
which is as in Eaton et al. (1986).  “Backup” coverage allows additional coverage of each 
demand in a separate objective function as higher preferences for earlier levels of backup, which 
applies for Hogan and ReVelle (1986).  “Expected” coverage combines the additional coverage 
in a single objective but differentially weights them by the probability they will be needed, which 
introduces the Maximum Expected Coverage Location Problem (MEXCLP) by Daskin (1982, 
1983). 
When the unavailability of a facility at the time of request may cause demand points 
uncovered.  The situation was dealt with the development of back-up covering models.  Hogan 
and ReVelle (1986) extended the classical covering models (LSCP, MCLP) for multiple and 
backup coverage with multi-objective programming model that maximizes the backup coverage 
to some nodes in which has been provided nodes with primary coverage.  In this paper, they 
presented two models backup coverage formulations, called Backup Coverage Model 1 
(BACO
be extended to third and subsequent coverage as well.  Tzeng and Lin (1996) extended the 
BACOP1 model to BACOP1-m model, which indicates m backup facility demand scale, with the 
TOPSIS multi-objective programming approach to analyze the emergency facilities layout of new 
development planning area. 
When the facilities are busy, coverage may become inadequate.  A strategy that demand 
points are provided multiple coverage without increasing the number of facilities is considered.  
Hogan and ReVelle (1986) extended the Daskin and Stern (1981) and Berlin (1972) approaches to 
present two backup coverage models, BACOP1 and BACOP2, which maximize backup coverage 
subject to the constraint that all demand is covered at least once.  Let 1iu =  if a demand node 
i  is covered twice and 0iu =  otherwise, 1iy =  if a demand node i  is covered once and 
= 0  otherwise, and w  a weight varied between 0 and 1.  They did these two models with 
the following structures. 
 
BACOP1 
i i
i I
iy
Max a u
∈
∑  
ubject to 
1
i
j i
j N
S
x u i I
∈
− ≥ ∀∑  ∈
6 
 In addition, Church and Davis (1992) considered that the site costs in many applications are 
not equal.  They extended the classical MCLP to be the Maximal Covering problem with Fixed 
Costs (MCFix), which determine the number and locations of facilities that minimize site costs 
and maximize coverage.  The authors proposed the model in which combine MCLP and MCFix, 
which called Constrained MCFix with adding p-facility constraint or Expanded MCLP with 
adding term in the objective that minimizes the cost of the sites selected.  Denote jfthat  is the 
fixed cost of selecting site j , ia  measure of demand i , 1jx =  if site j  is selected for 
facility and 0jx =  otherwise, 1iy =  if demand i  is covered by a facility and 0iy =  
otherwise, and p  the number of facilities to be sited.  The proposed model is described as 
follows. 
 
i i
i
Max a y∑  
j j
j
Min f x∑
Subject t
 
o 
i
j i
j N
x y i
∈
≥ ∀ ∈∑  I
j
j
x p=∑  
( ), 0,1 ,x j iy i I j J∈ ∀ ∈ ∈  
In the model proposed by Church and Davis (1992), the first objective function is to 
maximize the demand covered by the located facilities and the second objective function is to 
minimize the total fixed cost of the sites chosen.  The constraints are defined as MCLP model. 
 
3. Proposed Model 
Consider the network  where 
 
( ),G N E= ( )N N n=  is the set of nodes, and E  is the set 
of edges.  The subset ,  I J  of N , which I N∈  and J N∈ , are the sets of demand point i  
and facility j , respectively.  The distance between demand point i  and facility j  denotes 
dij .  Dema l is re ted
.  The coverage level of dem  facility  denotes .  Assume 
is t   That
nd point is covered by facility and the coverage leve stric  the distance, denote 
iT and point i  covered by j ij ij
he decreasing linear function of distance  is, 
C C  
ijd . ( )=1 =1ij ijC C  when 0ijd , =0ijC  
when ij id T> and ( ) ( ),  0< 1ij ij ijC f d f d
=
, = <  when 0 ij id T< ≤ .  It is depicted as Figure 1. 
The purpose of this paper intends to select a given number ( p ) of facilities in order to cover 
aximum number of demand points.  That is, use the specified number of m J  to cov  
maximum 
er
I .  The demand point i  can be covered more tha y for bac ov . 
Since dif acility location ferent facility setup cost will be considered.  
objective is to maxi nd minim cility setup costs simultaneou
n e facilit kup c erage  
ferent f s var , the dif The 
mize the coverage level a ize the fa sly.  
This  
r t
 on
y
 circumstance can be applied in the practice such as the convenience stores deployment. 
When setup the convenience stores, the dispersal, coverage level of demand points and fixed 
charge costs of facilities are considered.  The higher the coverage level, the greate he service 
responsiveness and consuming sales.  However, customers would like to select the nearest 
convenience store.  That is, customers prefer to visit with shortest travel distance.  It means the 
positive coverage that customers select the nearest facility.  When the travel distance is 
increasing, the consumption level will be decreasing as well.  The consumption level can be 
accounted the coverage level.  Referring to Berman et al. (2003), the coverage level can be 
treated as the simple linear decay function.  We follow the assumption and define our coverage 
level ( ) i ijij ij
i
T d
C f d
T
−= =  when ](0,ij id T∈ .  In addition, considering the busy and capacity 
8 
 ij id T> , and ( ) ( ), 1i ijij
i
T
C f d
T
−= = <  when 0 ij id T 0<ij ij
d
f d < ≤ .  The proposed model is as 
follows. 
 
ij ij
i I j J
Max C x
∈ ∈
∑∑  
j j ij ij ij
i I j Jj J
Min f y
∈
∑
Subject to
u d x
∈ ∈
+∑∑  
 
j
j J
y p
∈
=∑  
,j ijy x i I j J≥ ∀ ∈ ∈  
( ), 0,1 ,ij ix y i I∈ ∀ ∈ ∈  j J
In the above model we propose, the first objective is to maximize the coverage level in the 
specified travel distance .  The second objective is to m ze the total fixed costs of site 
chosen and the transportation costs from selected f d demand points.  The 
first constraint indicates facilities to be sited.  The second constraint limits 
 
iT inimi
acilities to the covere
p  ijx  according to 
the facilities chosen.  The last constraint imposes binary restriction on the decision variables.  
Note that we remove the constraint 1ij
j J
x
∈
≤∑  in order to allow demand point can be covered more 
one facility.  It will be less complicated for BACOP model where denotes iy  for covered once 
and iu  for covered twic
 
4. Conclusion and Recommendation 
In this paper, we review the LSCP , MCLP of partial coverage for demand points, 
backup coverage and MCFix models to integrate and formulate the multiobjective fixed charge 
maxi al covering location problem
the c straints of the past m
e. 
, MCLP
m  of partial and backup coverage for demand points.  Some of 
on odels have been relaxed in order to simply the models to be more 
eneralized and easy to compute.  The proposed model can consider maximum coverage level 
and minimum fixed and t dition, the backup and partial 
cove
g
ransportation costs concurrently.  In ad
rage for demand points are included as well.  It will be closer to the real circumstance of 
practice.  We recommend the efficient algorithms can be developed in the future researches. 
 
 
REFERENCES 
 
1. Balas, E., and Padberg, M.W. (1976). Set partitioning: a survey, SIAM Review, 18(4), 
710-760. 
2. Batta, R., and Mannur., N.R. (1990). Covering-location models for emergency situations that 
require multiple response units, Management Science, 36(1), 16-23. 
(1972). Facility location and vehicle allocation for provision of emergency 3. Berlin, G.N. 
service, Ph.D. Dissertation, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. 
ocio-Economic Planning Sciences
4. Berlin, G.R., and Liebman, J.C. (1974). Mathematical analysis of emergency ambulance 
location, S , 8(6), 323-328. 
ce
5. Berman, O., and Krass, D. (1998). Flow intercepting spatial interaction model: a new 
approach to optimal location of competitive facilities, Location Scien , 6, 41-65. 
6. Berman, O., and Krass, D. (2002) The generalized maximal covering location problem, 
Computers & Operations Research, 29(6), 563-581. 
7. Berman, O., Krass, D., and Drezner, Z. (2003). The gradual covering decay location problem 
on a network, European Journal of Operational Research, 151(3), 474-480. 
10 
 34. Jayaraman, V. (1999). A multi-objective logistics model for a capacitated service facility 
problem, International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management, 29(1), 
35.
ical Services for Large-Scale Emergencies, USC-ISE Working paper #2005-01
65-81. 
 Jia, H., Ordóñez, F., and Dessouky, M. (2005). A Modeling Framework for Facility Location 
of Med , To 
36.
appear in IIE Transactions. 
 Jones, K., and Simmons, J. (1993). Location, location, location: analyzing the retail 
environment, Nelson, Canada. 
& Operations Research
37. Karasakal O., and Karasakal E.K. (2004). A maximal covering location model in the presence 
of partial coverage, Computers , 31(9), 1515-1526. 
38. Megiddo, N., Zemel, E., and Hakimi S.L. (1983). The maximal coverage location problem, 
SIAM Journal on Algebraic Discrete Methods, 4(2), 253-261. 
39. Mirzain, A. (1985). Lagrangian relaxation for the star-star concentrator location problem: 
approximation algorithm and bounds, Networks, 15, 1-20. 
40. Moore, G.C., and ReVelle, C.S. (1982). The hierarchical service location problem, 
Management Science, 28(7), 775-780. 
41. Nozick, L.K. (2001). The fixed charge facility location problem with coverage restrictions, 
Transportation Research Part E, 37(4), 281-296. 
gs of Tristan III (Transportation Science 
42. Nozick, L.K., and Turnquist, M.A. (1998a). Two-echelon inventory allocation and 
distribution center location analysis, Proceedin
Section of INFORMS), San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
 Nozick, L.K., and Turnquist, M.A. (1998b). Integrating inventory impacts into a fixed charge 
model for locating distribution centers, 
43.
rtation Research Part ETranspo , 31E(3), 173-186. 
44. Pirkul, H. and Schilling, D.A. (1991). The maximal covering location problem with capacities 
on total workload, Management Science, 37(2), 233-248. 
45. ReVelle, C.S., and Hogan, K. (1989). The maximum availability location problem, 
Transportation Science, 23, 192-200. 
46. ReVelle, C.S., Schweitzer, J., and Snyder, S. (1996). The maximal conditional covering 
problem, INFOR, 34(2), 77-91. 
47. ReVelle, C.S., Williams, J.C., and Boland, J.J. (2002). Counterpart models in facility location 
science and reserve selection science, Environmental Modeling and Assessment, 7(2), 71-80. 
48. Roth, R. (1969). Computer solutions to minimum cover problems, Operations Research, 3, 
455-464. 
49. Schilling, D.A., Elzinga, D.J., Cohon, J., Church, R.L., and ReVelle, C.S. (1979). The 
Team/Fleet models for simultaneous facility and equipment siting, Transportation Science, 
50.
Location Science
13(2), 163-175. 
 Schilling, D.A., Jayaraman, V., and Barkhi, R. (1993), A review of covering problems in 
facility location, , 1(1), 25-55. 
51. Sherali, H.D., Kim, S., and Parrish, E.L. (1991). Probabilistic partial set covering problem, 
Naval Research Logistics, 38, 41-51. 
52. Shobrys, D. (1981). A model for the selection of shipping routes and storage locations for a 
hazardous substance, Ph.D. Dissertation, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore. 
53. Storbeck, J. (1982). Slack, natural slack, and location covering, Socio Economic Planning 
Sciences, 16(3), 99-105. 
54. Thompson, J.S. (1982). Site selection, Lebhar-Friedman, N.Y. 
 Toregas, C. (1970). 55. ering formulation for the location of public service facilitiesA cov , M.S. 
Thesis, Cornell University. 
56. Toregas, C. (1971). Location under maximal travel time constraints, Ph.D. Dissertation, 
Cornell University. 
57. Toregas, C., Swain R., Revelle, C.S., and Bergman, L. (1971). The location of Emergency 
Service Facilities, Operations Research, 19, 1363-1373. 
58. Toregas, C., and ReVelle, C.S. (1972). Optimal location under time or distance constraints, 
Papers of the Regional Science Association, 28, 133-143. 
59. Torgas, C., and ReVelle, C.S. (1973). Binary logic solution to a class of location problem, 
Geographical Analysis, 5, 145-155. 
12 
