 - 1 -
低溫低壓奈米轉印技術及其在光電生醫領域之應用 
“Low-Temperature and Low-Pressure Nanoimprint Technology  
and Its Optoelectronic and Biomedecial Applications” 
計畫編號：94－2215－E－018－006 
執行期間： 94年 8月 1日 至 95年 7月 31日 
主持人：賴永齡 國立彰化師範大學機電工程學系副教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫已研究發展完成低溫低壓奈米轉
印微影技術以克服熱壓式奈米轉印微影術的
缺點，並將低溫、低壓奈米轉印微影技術應用
於光電、生醫領域上。本計畫已完成聚二甲基
矽氧烷模仁之奈米轉印技術。本計畫已應用聚
二甲基矽氧烷之軟模仁奈米壓印技術完成高
均勻度之光子晶體之週期性結構及生醫微流
道元件與生醫檢測元件。本計畫之完成有助於
國內光電與生醫相關奈米科技產業之發展。 
關鍵詞：奈米壓印微影術，光電，生醫，聚二
甲基矽氧烷 
 
英文摘要 
The project has developed a 
low-temperature and low-pressure nanoimprint 
lithography technology in order to overcome the 
disadvantages of the hot-embossing approaches 
and applies the low-temperature and 
low-pressure nanoimprint technology to 
optoelectronic and biomedecial areas. We have 
achieved a high-uniformity 
polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) nanoimprint 
technology. We have successfully fabricated IC 
dot arrays and MEMS microfluidic channels 
with high uniformity and high accuracy using 
the nanoimprint lithography. The success of the 
project will contribute the development of the 
nano technologies for IC and MEMS industries. 
Keywords: nanoimprint lithography, 
optoelectronic, biomedecial, 
polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
在光電、生醫及半導體製程中，微影
(lithography)技術都佔有舉足輕重的角色。根
據在半導體界中被認為是微影技術成長的金
科玉律-摩爾定律(Moore’s Low)[1]指出每十八
個月晶片上的元件數目會增加兩倍，IC產業為
了要維繫「摩爾定律」(Moore’s law)，就必須
不斷地設計新的製程技術，這其中最關鍵技術
即是微影技術[2]。微影技術從過去到現在一直
是半導體工業中關鍵的技術及驅動力，提昇微
影技術將可使IC上的電晶體數目增加，提高IC
的功能，並且降低成本。光電元件，如光子晶
體等，需要奈米的週期性元件結構，來增強或
抑制不同頻率與波長的光。生醫元件，如生醫
微流道元件與生醫檢測元件等，需要製作成極
小的尺寸，以處理微小的生物分子。隨著光
電、生醫及半導體科技的快速發展全世界各國
都積極開發新的光源及新的微影技術。其中受
矚目的有電子束微影術[1],[2]、X光微影術
[3]、與奈米轉印技術[4]-[7]，朝向奈米製程
的目標。 
奈米轉印微影術(nanoimprint lithography, 
NIL)是一種新的微影技術，具有高產能
(through put)、低成本(low coast)、高解析特
色，所以Technology Review在2003年 報導指
 - 3 -
 
圖二﹑  PDMS軟模仁轉印形成之光子晶體。 
 
細胞
樣品
入口
細
胞
樣
品
出
口
邊鞘流
光波導管
細胞樣品流
圖三﹑  細胞計數及分類晶片。 
 
圖四﹑  以 PDMS轉印微影術製作具微流道結
構。 
 
 
大等繁瑣的過程。微流道結構於不同方面的應
用。如圖三細胞計數及分類晶片，在細胞計數
晶片中的流體集中效應，是利用水力所引發。
其中晶片的結構，由三條平行的取樣管道、流
體噴嘴和集中流管道所組成。流體的運作是從
中間管道注入樣品，而緩衝液則由兩側管道注
入。兩側管道的流體，由流體噴嘴口擠壓中間
管道的樣品流，用以控制注入各管道流體的流
速。若是兩側包覆流的流速越快集中，則可以 
Substrate
Nanopillars
Antibody
圖五﹑  抗原與抗體在奈米柱狀物上的反應示
意圖。 
 
 
讓中間流體寬度變的更窄。在細胞計數晶片的
操作上，就是採用這種流體集中原理。圖四為
以 PDMS 軟模仁轉印微影術製作具微流道結
構之圖形。 
奈米壓印微影技術可以提供，大量製作生
醫晶片上所需的奈米柱狀物。由於生醫檢測，
是靠擴散與隨機碰撞來達成生醫反應，奈米柱
狀物能增加抗原與抗體反應的面積，並且可使
反應速率加快，因此能提供快速的檢測技術，
並正確的診斷病因。在圖五中，呈現出可運用
在生醫檢側的奈米柱狀物，其可使檢測面積增
加，提供更多的面積，讓抗原與抗體間的反應
加速。抗原與抗體間的反應，是指抗原與相應
抗體間，所發生的特異性結合反應。其特異性
的結合，是基於兩分子間的結構，其具有互補
性與親和性所產生的反應。抗原與抗體產生的
反應，可分為兩個階段。第一個階段，是抗原
與抗體分子的一級結構決定的，此階段反應
快，僅需幾秒至幾分鐘，但不會出現可見反
應。第二階段為可見反應，抗原與抗體複合
物，在環境因素(如電解質、PH、溫度、補體)
的影響下，進一步交聯與聚集，表現為凝集、
沉澱、溶解、補體結合介導的生物現象，而這
些現象是肉眼清楚可見的反應。此階段反應
慢，往往需要數分鐘至數小時。兩階段的反應
所需時間，受多種因素和反應條件的影響，若
在反應開始時，抗原與抗體的濃度較大，且兩
者比較適合，則很快能形成可見反應。為了進
一步使抗原與抗體，兩者之間的反應加速，可 
 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學人出席國際學術會議報告 
95年9月17日 
報 告 人 
姓 名 賴永齡 
服 務 機 構
及 職 稱
國立彰化師範大學
機電工程學系 
會 議 時 間 
地 點 
95年9月 12日至95年9月15日 
日本橫濱 
本 會 核 定
補 助 文 號
NSC 94-2215-E-018-
006 
會 議 名 稱 
(中文) 2006年固態電子元件及材料國際會議 
(英文) 2006 International Conference on Solid State Devices and 
Materials 
發表論文題目 
論文1 
(中文) 通訊系統射頻微機電開關之特性 
(英文) Characteristics of RF MEMS Switches for Communication 
Systems 
論文2 
(中文) 微波微機電開關結構之研究 
(英文) Investigation of Structures of Microwave MEMS Switches 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
二、與會心得 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 3
管上獲得，比如：較大的直徑。同時，具有較大能帶的單層奈米碳管，如：較小
的直徑可以很容易獲得單極性 p 型作用。為了獲得實用的元件，如：發光元件和
整流元件，必須要發展雙極性場效應電晶體的製程。最近也有報告指出，使用鈣
所製造出的 n 型單層奈米碳管場效應電晶體有和接觸電極一樣小的功函數。在這
個情況下，位於靠近傳導帶邊緣的源極的費碼能階和蕭特基電位障將會很低。在
這篇報告中，Hideyuki Maki 等人使用了了較小的(Mg)和較大(Ni)的功函數材料來
製造單層奈米碳管場效應電晶體，此外，純的和加入鉀的單層奈米碳管用在場效
應電晶體的通道，電極也同樣的使用單層奈米碳管。 
美國 Texas Instruments公司的 K. R. Udayakumar等人提出一個 8Mb Full-Bit 
Functional 嵌入式系統的鐵電隨機存取取記憶體(簡稱 eFRAM)的製造方法。其製
程為 130奈米、低損耗銅線的 COMS製程。為了大量製造和加大雜訊邊際，K. R. 
Udayakumar 等人使用 single-bit 代換的理論，將一小部份放在 low-end 的最初分
佈，以便改善信號的雜訊邊際。作者使用 eFRAM 的製程方法，製造一種數位信
號製程平台，而在測試數據後發現，這種數位訊號製程的工作頻率和 CMOS 的基
線十分接近，發展的製程和 eFRAM 相容，而且是能在極低電壓(0.05~0.25V)工作
的的元件。本篇論文中，介紹了 full-bit函數 8Mb eFRAM 和新型的 weal bit 替代
改善雜訊邊際的方法。 
瑞典 Lund University的 Lars-Erik Wernersson提出一個奈米線場效電晶體。金
屬線的放射狀張力鬆緩允許由一個不同成分材料集合和新穎異種結構去合併，也
許被用在改善接觸電阻和設計有最理想傳輸特性的通道材料。奈米線圈藉著化學
束磊晶系統 (chemical beam epitaxy, CBE)和電晶體藉著侵蝕和沈澱步驟而完成。
Lars-Erik Wernersson 證實 0.8 微米閘極長的電晶體有好的電流飽和與低飽和電
壓。 
日本 Matsushita公司的 Y. Kato等人提出 FeRAM的發展與挑戰。近年來隨著
半導體技術的進步，把電子元件整合在一個晶片上的技術(SoCs)已經越來越重要
了。直倒現在，鐵電隨機存取記憶體(FeRAM)技術已經比前緣 CMOS 技術落後
二、三個世代，不足以工作在 SoCs 上。Y. Kato 等人研究 FeRAM 技術上電流特
性。 
 
Characteristics of RF MEMS Switches for Communication Systems 
 
Yeong-Lin Lai and Yueh-Hung Chen 
 
Department of Mechatronics Engineering, National Changhua University of Education, 
Changhua 500, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Phone: 886-4-7232105 ext.7126  Fax: 886-4-7211149  E-mail: yllai@cc.ncue.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
Characteristics of capacitive radio-frequency (RF) 
microelectromechanical system (MEMS) switches have 
been investigated on the basis of the finite element method. 
The structures and the materials of the switches are the 
main factors for determination of switch performance. How 
the static and modal characteristics of the RF MEMS 
switches are affected by the structures and materials is 
investigated comprehensively. 
 
1. Introduction 
Microelectromechanical system (MEMS) technology 
has been proved to be a powerful tool for integration of 
mechanical and electronic systems. The MEMS technology 
can realize miniaturization of devices and systems such as 
actuators, sensors, transducers, and motors. The MEMS 
technology can also be applied to switching of 
radio-frequency (RF) signals to form devices, so-called RF 
MEMS switches [1-4].  
The RF MEMS switches are actuated by an applied 
electric voltage for signal switching. The operation of the 
RF MEMS switches relies on the structures and materials 
of the switches. The RF MEMS switches were mostly 
designed from an electromagnetic perspective. However, a 
successful design of the RF MEMS switches requires 
consideration from not only an electromagnetic standpoint 
but also a mechanical point of view. 
In this paper, design and analysis of RF MEMS 
switches have been developed by the finite element method. 
The structures and materials of the switches are studied 
from a mechatronic standpoint. 
 
2. Results and Discussion 
The three-dimensional structure of a capacitive RF 
MEMS switch is shown in Fig. 1. The switch is built on a 
silicon (Si) substrate with a thickness of 525 µm and a rela-
tive permittivity of 11.9. A layer of silicon dioxide with a 
thickness of 1 µm is used as an isolation buffer between the 
substrate and the switch metal and grown on the silicon 
substrate. The MEMS switch consists of a coplanar 
waveguide (CPW) transmission line, a silicon nitride di-
electric layer, and a metal membrane. The different struc-
tures and materials of the metal membranes are adopted. 
The connection beam widths (W) of the membranes range 
from 20 to 100 µm. Two kinds of metal materials, alumi-
num (Al) and gold (Au), are used for the MEMS switches. 
Aluminum has a Young’s modulus of 70 GPa, a Poisson’s 
ratio of 0.34, a density of 2700 kg/m3, and a yield strength  
Fig. 1. Three-dimensional structure of RF MEMS shunt switch. 
 
 
 
of 170 MPa. Gold has a Young’s modulus of 83 GPa, a 
Poisson’s ratio of 0.44, a density of 19320 kg/m3, and a 
yield strength of 324 MPa. 
The von Mises stress characteristics of the connection 
beams of the RF MEMS switches are studied. For the stress 
analysis, the applied uniform distributed force on the 
membrane of a switch is 10 µN. Fig. 2 shows the stress 
characteristics of the aluminum RF MEMS switches as a 
function of the connection beam width. The stress 
characteristics of the gold RF MEMS switches are also 
dependent on the switch structures. The maximum stress 
occurs at the junction between the connection beam and the 
ground post. Either an aluminum switch or a gold switch 
with the 20-µm connection beams suffers the highest stress 
in comparison with the switches with other beam structures. 
The maximum stress values of the aluminum and gold 
switches are 120 MPa and 123 MPa, respectively. They are 
less than their corresponding yield strength values. The 
smaller the width of the connection beam is, the larger the 
stress is. This is because the stress undertaken by the 
connection beam with the smaller area is larger. 
In addition to the stress characteristics, the modal per-
formance of the switches with different switch structures 
and materials are also studied. Fig. 3 shows the first-mode 
natural frequency characteristics of the gold RF MEMS 
switches. The first three modes of the natural frequency 
characteristics of the aluminum RF MEMS switches with a 
connection beam width of 40 µm are shown in Fig. 4. The 
switch with the 100-µm connection beams has the highest  
 
Investigation of Structures of Microwave MEMS Switches 
 
Yeong-Lin Lai and C. H. Lin 
 
Department of Mechatronics Engineering, National Changhua University of Education, 
Changhua 500, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Phone: 886-4-7232105 ext.7126  Fax: 886-4-7211149  E-mail: yllai@cc.ncue.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
The structures of the microwave 
microelectromechanical system (MEMS) switches are 
optimized in terms of the maximum displacement, the 
effective stiffness constant, the von Mises stress, and the 
natural frequency by the Taguchi method. The 
characteristics of the experiments are conducted by the 
finite element method. The responses of the signal-to-noise 
(S/N) ratios of the characteristics of the switches are 
investigated. 
 
1. Introduction 
Recently, remarkable advances have been made in the 
microelectromechanical system (MEMS) technology. In 
1979, the cantilever MEMS switch with low-frequency 
signal switching capability was reported [1]. Goldsmith et 
al. presented the membrane MEMS switch in 1995 [2]. 
MEMS switches have been successfully designed and 
fabricated for microwave applications [2-5]. The MEMS 
switches have advantages over the PIN diode and FET 
switches since their low series resistance and low drive 
power characteristics. The characteristics and the reliability 
of the switches are important issues in industry. Therefore, 
optimal design of the switches is critical and necessary.  
In this paper, an optimal design approach is developed 
to improve the characteristics and the reliability of the 
MEMS switches. The characteristics of the maximum 
displacement, the effective stiffness constant, the von Mises 
stress, and the natural frequency of the microwave MEMS 
switches are predicted using the Taguchi method. The 
geometrical structures of the switches are optimized. The 
signal-to-noise (S/N) ratios are obtained from the 
experimental results of the finite element method.  
 
2. Results and Discussion 
Fig. 1 shows the typical three-dimensional structure of 
the microwave MEMS switch. The fabrication layout of the 
switch is shown in Fig. 2. The switch has a metal bridge 
suspended over a dielectric layer which is deposited on the 
central part of the coplanar waveguide transmission line. 
The bridge is composed of a movable plate and two hinges. 
The two ends of the bridge are fixed to the ground 
conductors through the hinges. The movable plate is pulled 
down by the electrostatic force from the applied 
electrostatic potential. The distance between the movable 
plate and the ground conductor is 60 µm. The area of the 
movable plate is 100 × 100 µm2 and the thickness of the 
movable plate is 1 µm. The gap height is 3 µm.  
Ground
Ground
RF
Output
Movable
Plate
RF
Input Signal
Dielectric Layer
Fig. 1. Typical three-dimensional structure of microwave MEMS 
switch. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Fabrication layout of microwave MEMS switch. 
 
 
The geometrical dimensions of the bridge structure are 
optimized by the Taguchi method. Fig. 3 shows the 
geometrical dimensions and the optimization parameters of 
the switch. Four factors related to the optimization 
parameters are used for the improvement of the switch 
characteristics. There are three levels for each factor. The 
three levels for the factor A(ay) are 20, 30, and 40 µm, 
respectively. The remaining three factors include B(by), 
C(cy), and D(ax/bx/cx). The matrix experiments are 
described by the L9(34) orthogonal array with four columns 
and nine rows, as listed in Table I. 
The matrix experiments are simulated with the finite 
element method by the simulator ANSYS. The maximum 
displacement, the effective stiffness constant, the von Mises 
stress, and the natural frequency are studied. 
