 1
 
一､中文摘要 
光纖通信系統利用高密度分波多工技術來增加傳輸容量，有二個待克服的障
礙，其一是半導體雷射光源波長對溫度的漂移，因波長漂移會使傳輸波道間距增加，
造成系統上的串音，使傳輸性能 BER 劣化。因此設計及製造一種波長對溫度變化相
當穩定的半導體雷射模組，將是克服高密度分波多工器所面臨光源波長對溫度變化產
生漂移方法之一。其二是傳統所用 DFB 雷射價格昂貴，本計畫旨在研發低成本之 1.55 
µm 波長穩定之單頻半導體雷射模組，適用於都會網路分波多工(CWDM, DWDM)光纖
通信系統之應用，本計畫單頻波長穩定雷射模組的技術，係利用價格低廉之鍍 5×10-3
抗反射膜 FP 雷射與本研究計畫研製之高耦光率透鏡元件之組合，很明顯可提升國內
全光化網路關鍵性光電半導體零組件的自製率。網路公司可降低光通信元件成本，將
促成國內 FTTH 及 FTTB 全光化網路早日實現。 
最近的研究論文報導，以CO2 雷射顯微機械技術，直接在光纖末端製成雙曲線形
光纖透鏡，證實有90%之耦光效率。與目前較普遍的半球形光纖透鏡比較，半球形光纖
透鏡的最大耦合效率約為65%，本研究計畫研製之雙曲線光纖透鏡之高耦合性能表示光
纖透鏡的製造技術有很大的突破。根據幾何光學的原理，雙曲線透鏡將入射的球面波完
整的轉換成平面波，因此雙曲線形狀的光纖透鏡之高耦合效率，係由於在雷射光束及光
纖模態二者間之波前及光點大小有很好的匹配。因為光纖透鏡具有製造容易、構造簡單、
生產成本低及一次對準等特點，因此本計畫以蝕刻及熔燒錐形光纖之新技術製造雙曲線
光纖透鏡，與上述鍍反射膜FP雷射組合成低成本高性能之元件。 
本研究成果應用於光纖同步數位階層(SDH, Synchronous Digital Hierarchy) 2.5Gb/s
及10Gb/s系統之應用(本人前曾擔任中華電信訓練所高雄分所網路技術科主任18年，本實
驗有部分商借中華電信訓練所高雄分所高速光纖網路設備)，配合本研究計畫所購買之色
散補償光纖，摻鉺光放大器，在傳輸性能及光特性溫度響應之量測結果，皆能符合光通
訊系統之傳輸規定 。 
 
關鍵詞：雙曲線光纖透鏡，半球形光纖透鏡，光纖同步數位階層 
 
 
二､英文摘要 
  Using a temperature-insensitive and a low-chirp fiber Bragg grating reflector as the external 
cavity for the semiconductor gain element, fiber grating external cavity lasers (FGECLs) have 
been developed for 2.5 Gbit/s WDM with a low bit error rate penalty. However, the AR coating 
process on the fiber tips makes the fabrication process complicated, and raises the price of 
production. Therefore, a compact integration of the diode laser and the fiber grating external 
cavity, which allow the ease of optical coating and the reduction of back reflection from the fiber 
tip, is of great research interest for optimizing the FGECL performance. Fiber microlens which 
provides an efficient coupling mechanism as to match the spot size of the diode laser to the fiber is 
commonly used for optical alignment. 
In this study, we demonstrate that it is possible to fabricate FGECL modules in low cost while 
still maintaining a good performance by employing a low-cost AR coated (5×10-3) laser and a 
tapered hyperbolic-end fiber (THEF) microlens. Previously, the high-performance FGECL 
 3
建立雷射與光纖之耦合模型，以獲得雷射與光纖最大耦光效率之理論值，使實驗量測耦光
效率接近理論計算之最大值。在雷射模組構裝方面，將以雷射銲接技術固定光纖，使自製
1550nm FP雷射模組性能具有商業上推廣價值。 
本研究使用之鍍抗反射膜雷射為300 µm InGaAsP/InP MQW FP雷射,雷射半導體後端
鍍90%高反射膜,前端為鍍0.5%之抗反射膜，FP雷射銲裝於有溫度控制器之次載具上，FP
雷射發散角為25°×38°(水平×垂直)。光纖光柵之反射率為50%，中心波長為1539.15 nm， 
光纖光柵前端為低成本製程之無鍍抗反射膜之雙曲線光纖透鏡，並用光纖套管封裝後再利
用雷射銲封方式構裝於雷射模組上。 
4.結果與討論 
構裝完成之光纖光柵外部共振腔 FP 雷射蝴蝶式模組，其旁模壓抑比高於 44dB，輸出光
功率大於 2mW，並且工作電流範圍超過 50mA。並且研究結果證實鍍 HR/AR 雷射模組與雙
曲線光纖透鏡之組合，在直調式 2.488 Gb/s 及 10Gb/s 光傳輸系統，於 24km G.652-SMF 與
43km G.655-NZDSF non-EDFA optical fiber system 之應用，有極佳之比次誤碼率(BER)及低罰
損值。光纖光柵外部共振腔 FP 雷射模組之優越性能，主要係由於高耦光率之雙曲線光纖透
鏡較半球型光纖透鏡，在外部共振腔之光纖光柵有更高之回饋光功率所致。 
經本研究製成之光纖光柵外部共振腔 FP 雷射模組具優越之單縱模特性，在 20℃至 40℃
範圍之波長穩定性，其峰值波長之平均變化　∆λ/∆T 約為~ 0.0042 nm/℃，此值比 DFB 雷射
少一個級數。至於動態特性方面，2.488 Gb/s 之傳輸速率，以 223-1 (PRBS) NRZ 格式碼量測，
10 Gb/s 之傳輸速率，以 231-1 (PRBS) NRZ 格式碼量測，當調變電流為 20 mA，工作偏壓為
40 mA，量測環境為 25℃時，鍍抗反射膜(HR/AR)FP 雷射模組之性能遠優於無鍍抗反射膜
FP 雷射模組。 
由本研究成果得知，利用本研究成果最新技術之無鍍抗反射膜雙曲線光纖透鏡，及鍍抗
反射膜光纖光柵外部共振腔FP雷射，所構成之模組極適合於2.5 Gb/s光傳輸系統，都會網
路，分波多工及光纖到家系統之應用。本研究成果已投稿於OECC 2006 [參考文獻一]，
AOE-2006  Asia Optical Fiber Communication & Optoelectronic Exposition & Conference[參
考文獻二](於95年10月27日發表) ，並於95年4月投稿SCI，Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 刊登於96年3
月[參考文獻三] ，本研究成果最新技術之無鍍抗反射膜雙曲線光纖透鏡之製造技術刊登於
OECC 2007[參考文獻四] 。 
5.參考文獻 
[1] Huei-Min Yang, Chao-Wei Lee, Ming-Hung.Chen, Zong-Gin. Tsai, and Wood-Hi Cheng  
“Low-Cost Fiber Grating Laser Module PackageEmploying a Hyperbolic Fiber Microlens” 
 Active Photonic Modules,6B1-5, OECC 2006, Kaohsiung Taiwan, July 3-7 2006 
[2] Huei-Min Yang, et.al.“Low-Cost Fiber Grating Laser Module PackageEmploying a 
Hyperbolic Fiber Microlens” AOE-2006, Asia Optical Fiber Communication & 
Optoelectronic Exposition & Conference, 24-27 October 2006, Shanghai, China.  
[3] Huei-Min Yang, Chao-Wei Lee, Ming-Hung Chen, Zong-Jin Tsai, and Wood-Hi Cheng, 
“Low-Cost Fiber Grating Laser Module Package Employing a Hyperbolic Fiber Microlens” 
Japan. J. Appl. Phys, PT.1, vol. 46, no. 3A, Mar 2007. 
[4] .Huei-Min Yang, Wan-Yi Lin, Chung-Ting Chen, Hsing-Fu Liu ,Huan-Min Lin and Hung Yen    
     Lin, “A New Scheme of Hyperbolic-end Microlens Using Fusion Technology,” OECC/COIN   
     2007, Paper No. 264, Program No. 12C4-3, Yokohama Japan, July 9-13, 2007.  
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                            95 年 11 月 2 日 
報告人姓名  
楊 惠 民 
服務機構 
及職稱 
義守大學 通訊工程學系 
助理教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
民國 95 年 10 月 24 日起 
至 95 年 10 月 27 日止 
中國 上海 
本會核定
補助文號
 
NSC 95-2221-E-214 -067 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2006 亞洲光纖通訊與光電研討會 
 (英文) 2006 Asia Optical Fiber Communication & Optoelectronic Conference
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)應用雙曲線光纖透鏡構裝成高性能低成本之光纖光柵雷射模組 
 (英文) High Performance and Low-cost Fiber Grating Laser Module Package 
Employing a Hyperbolic Fiber Microlens 
一、參加會議經過 
(1) 10 月 23 日中午 11:10 於高雄搭乘港龍航空飛機經香港轉機，17:30 抵上海， 
    10 月 24 日上午報到後隨即參加研討會。10 月 27 日 11:20~11:40 發表論文後，搭乘
    當日 16:20 港龍航空飛機經香港回高雄 
(2)本研討會係亞洲最大規模之光纖通訊及光電元件研討會，世界各國專家學者發表及
研討之內容包含下列各項: 
(A) Optical Fibers, Cables and Fiber Devices 
- Special and novel fiber design, characterization and fabrication;  
- Couplers and fiber-based components;  
- Fiber gratings, fiber amplifiers and fiber lasers; 
- Polymer fibers and devices; 
- Nonlinear fiber optics and devices; 
- Photonic crystal structures and fibers;       
(B) Optical Passive Devices and Modules  
- Optical waveguide and integrated optics materials, fabrications; 
- Planar light-wave circuits (PLC), AWG; 
- Optical filters, interleavers and tunable filters; 
- WDM Mux and Dmux devices;  
- Wavelength lockers and optical attenuators;  
- Optical isolators and circulators; 
- Optical modulators and switches; 
- Micro-optics devices and modules; 
(C) Optical Active Devices and Modules  
- Semiconductor lasers, detectors and their arrays 
- Light emitting devices 
- Semiconductor optical amplifiers 
- Waveguide lasers and amplifiers 
- Optoelectronic/photonic integrated circuits 
- Optical logics, memories and other functional devices;  
- Optical MEMS and applications  
- Silicon photonic devices and integration 
- Organic photonic devices 
- Packaging, modules and related topics 
附件三
 
 2
(H) Displays 
- Flat panel displays (LEDs, PDPs, LEDs, OLEDs, FEDs, etc.) 
- Active matrix display 
- Projection displays for HDTV; 
- MEM (DMD, TMA, GLV, etc), LCOS and micro-displays 
- Light valves/Spatial Light Modulator (SLMs), 
- CRTs, VFDs, 3D displays, electronic paper 
- Materials, components and packaging 
- Optical design and modeling, 
- Display drivers, interfaces and systems 
- Manufacturing technology, reliability and testing 
(I) Biophotonics 
- Biomedical optical trapping, manipulation, diagnostics and sensing 
- Tissue optics and spectroscopy 
- Optical coherence tomography 
- Photon migration and diffuse optical imaging 
- Nonlinear optical microscopy 
- Latest biophotonics technology and applications 
(J) Lasers, Optical Sensors and Applications 
  - Lasers and laser equipment 
- Laser application in industry 
- Laser application in medical therapy 
- Laser application in science research 
- Laser application in military 
- Semiconductor lasers and Solid lasers  
- Gas lasers, CO 2 Lasers, Excimer lasers and Dye lasers  
- Optic sensors and sensor systems. 
- Fiber and waveguide optical sensors  
(3)本人發表之論文屬(C)項，提出應用於光通訊模組及光纖到家(FTTH)、光纖到大
樓(FTTB)之主動元件構裝之研究成果，主要利因，為可大大降低元件之成本，增
加資訊傳送之頻寬，提昇光通訊市場之競爭力。 
二、與會心得 
(1) 此次參與研討會中可瞭解目前光電元件及光通訊市場之研發能力及未來趨勢，
未來 10 年 3C (Computer, Communication and Consumer Electronics)之整合，必須
以光網路為核心建立寬頻骨幹網路，因此光電元件之發展願景甚可期待。 
(2) 光纖接取網路(FTTX)為寬頻網路之基礎，所涉及之光電技術及元件甚多，由此
次研討會所邀各國之 Plenary Keynote speech 及 Invited paper speaker 皆著重於上
述相關技術背景，根據 Corning CEO Mr. Kinlin 之演講，可作為未來學術研究之
參考。 
(3) Session Chairman 為 Prof. Xing-Zhi Qiu, Ghent University, Belgium. Dr. Qiu 的研
究團隊在光纖網路及光接取 Tranceiver module IC 電路的研發有很大之成就。 
(4) AOE 2006 general Chair for US & Canada, Dr. Jacek Chrostowski 目前是 technical 
editor of IEEE ComSoc magazine 及 Scheelite Technologies LLC 總裁，Aadjunct 
Professor at University of Ottawa, Canada. Dr. Jacek Chrostowski 在光通訊及
EDFA 曾獲傑出成就獎，在本人發表後給予甚多討論。 
 
 
 
 
High Performance and Low-cost Fiber Grating Laser Module 
Package Employing a Hyperbolic Fiber Microlens 
 
H.M. Yang1, C.W. Lee2, Z.G. Tsai2, and W.H. Cheng2 
1Department of Communication Engineering, I-SHOU University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
2Institute of Electro-Optical Engineering, National Sun Yat-sen University, Taiwan 
1No1, Section 1, Hsueh-Cheng Rd.,Ta-Hsu Hsiang, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 84008, R.O.C 
Tel: +86-7-6577711 ext 6767, Email: hmyang@isu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract This study demonstrates that it is possible to fabricate a fiber grating external cavity laser (FGECL) module 
with a low cost while still maintaining a good performance by using a low-cost AR-coated (5×10-3) laser and a tapered 
hyperbolic-end fiber (THEF) microlens.  
 
 
Introduction 
Using a temperature-insensitive and a low-chirp fiber 
Bragg grating reflector as the external cavity for the 
semiconductor gain element, fiber grating external 
cavity lasers (FGECLs) have been developed for 
2.5Gbit/s WDM with a low bit error rate penalty [1,2]. 
However, the AR coating process on the fiber tips 
makes the fabrication process complicated, and raises 
the price of production. Therefore, a compact 
integration of the diode laser and the fiber grating 
external cavity, which allow the ease of optical coating 
and the reduction of back reflection from the fiber tip, is 
of great research interest for optimizing the FGECL 
performance. Fiber microlens which provides an 
efficient coupling mechanism as to match the spot size 
of the diode laser to the fiber is commonly used for 
optical alignment [3,4]. 
 
In this study, we demonstrate that it is possible to 
fabricate FGECL modules in low cost while still 
maintaining a good performance by employing a 
low-cost AR coated (5×10-3) laser and a tapered 
hyperbolic-end fiber (THEF) microlens. Previously, the 
high-performance FGECL modules have only been 
available by using complicated AR-coated (1×10-5) 
laser process that lead to a high packaging cost [9]. 
The THEF has demonstrated up to 86% coupling 
efficiency which the FP laser beam has a far-field 
divergence of 25°×38° (lateral × vertical)..Low-cost 
FGECL modules with a good performance were 
achieved primarily due to the THEF microlenses.when 
compared to the currently available hemispherical 
microlenses having low coupling efficiency (typically 
50%) [5,6]. Therefore, the packaged FGECL module 
was suitable for use in low cost 2.5 Gbit/s lightwave 
transmission systems. 
 
Fiber grating external cavity laser (FGECL)  
structure 
The fiber grating used in the FGECL is comprised of a 
single-mode fiber grating, and of an uncoated THEF 
microlens. They are fabricated on the same  
 
 
photosensitive single-mode fiber of mode-field 
diameter of 9.6 µm at λ = 1.55 µm. Fig.1 shows an  
 
FGECL module configuration. The FGECL module 
consisted of an HR/AR-coated diode laser, a THEF 
microlens, a fiber grating, a photodiode, and a TE 
cooler, as shown in Fig. 1 (a). A laser welded 
butterfly-type FGECL module package is shown in Fig. 
1 (b). The FP laser diode has a 90% HR coating at the 
back facet, and a low-cost AR-coated front facet of 
0.5%, which was mounted on a TE cooler to  
change the substrate temperature.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 An AR-coated FGECL module, (a) a laser 
welded butterfly-type FGECL module,and (b) 
a THEF microlens. 
 
Performances of the fiber grating external cavity  
laser (FGECL) 
The AR-coated FGECL had a high SMSR at T from 
20  to 40 , as shown in Fig. ℃ ℃ 2. At 20  to 40 , the ℃ ℃
SMSR varies with a value from 38.5 dB to 47.4 dB. The 
FGECL module showed the extremely superior single 
longitudinal mode characteristic. In the range of T from 
20  to 40 , little variation of the ℃ ℃ λo was observed. 
The average variations of ∆λ/∆T ~ 0.0042 nm/ , for ℃
the temperature dependence of non-AR-coated 
FGECL.  
 
 
 
