of the mTSV structure for 
wafer-level 3D integration, feasibility study of the 
implementation of the novel process and mechanics 
comparisons of these two 3D chip stacking structures 
under thermal loading through finite element (FE) 
stress simulation are made. At last, both the thermal 
humidity (TH) test of 85 oC /85%RH and the 288 oC 
solder dipping test are carried out to demonstrate the 
interconnect reliability and the interface quality of 
the 3-D interconnect technology. 
 
 2
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
創新先進之矽通孔型態三維晶片堆疊構裝技術的設計、分析與製造(I) 
Design, Analysis and Fabrication of Advanced Through-Silicon Via 
Typed 3D IC Stacking Technology (I) 
計畫編號  ：NSC 99-2221-E-035 -021 
執行期限 ：99 年 08 月 01 日至 100 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人  ：鄭仙志 教授    
共同主持人  ：陳文華 教授    
計畫參與人員 ：江宗翰、王聖夫、連韋翔、林晉宇、沈里正、 
廖柔郡、簡建偉 
 
中文摘要 
因封裝面積縮減而造就晶片與晶片間的
走線大幅縮短，訊號延遲效應減小，加上低雜
訊、低電性損耗及高頻電性佳等優點，堆疊技
術已成為半導體業界所爭相關注的新寵兒，其
更是達成異質系統整合目前最有潛力且有效
之 技 術 選 項 。 有 鑑 於 傳 統 矽 通 孔 技 術
(Through-silicon vias, TSV) 型 態 三 維
(Three-dimensional, 3D) IC 技術於製程、接合
及設計上所面臨的技術瓶頸及困難，本計畫第
一年成功發展出一創新先進之TSV 技術與製
備 方 法 ， 以 利 Chip-to-chip (C2C) 、
Chip-to-wafer(C2W) 及Wafer-to-wafer (W2W)
同質/異質系統整合，特別是在高功率密度及高
速產品之應用上。本計畫同時應用相關理論分
析搭配各式實驗測試方法，成功驗證這些新製
程以及新結構設計於堆疊前/後之可行性。 
 
關鍵詞：矽通孔技術、3D IC 技術、有限元素
法、雙面金屬蓋結構、焊錫性試驗、熱濕測試 
 
Abstract 
 This study aims at developing an advanced 
clamped through silicon via (mTSV) 
interconnection technology for three-dimensional 
(3D) chip-to-chip or chip-to-wafer packaging. 
The special features of the mTSV technology 
include 1) the proposal of metal caps on the pads 
of the chip to form a nearly symmetric 
double-side-metal-cap structure that firmly 
clamps the vias on the chip, 2) the employment 
of a temporary conductive layer on the active 
side of the wafer as a seed metal layer during the 
electro-plating of metal caps, and 3) the 
introduction of a “via first redistribution” 
(Via-FR) concept in the mTSV process for 
heterogeneous 3D integration and maximal 
performance. Basically, the metal caps can act as 
a bonding layer for 3D chip stacking and also a 
protection stopper for backside drilling. The 
blind vias are created using a proven low-cost 
laser drilling process through the wafer backside 
with a laminated insulation layer on the via-hole 
wall. Unlike the typical TSV process, the present 
technology has no need to carry out the seed 
layer deposition and photo processes to facilitate 
the via-hole filling with metal through 
electro-plating, thus being more cost-effective. 
Besides, because of the structural symmetry and 
also the tightly-clamped via structure, it can 
potentially yield better bonding reliability for 
stacked chip bonding. To demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the mTSV structure for 
wafer-level 3D integration, feasibility study of 
the implementation of the novel process and 
mechanics comparisons of these two 3D chip 
stacking structures under thermal loading through 
finite element (FE) stress simulation are made. At 
last, both the thermal humidity (TH) test of 
85 Co /85%RH and the 288 Co  solder dipping 
test are carried out to demonstrate the 
interconnect reliability and the interface quality 
of the 3-D interconnect technology. 
 
Keywords: Through Silicon Via, 3D Chip 
Stacking, Finite Element Modeling, Double Side 
Metal Cap Structure, Solder Dipping Test, 
Thermal-humidity Test. 
 
I. Introduction 
As emerging electronic devices and 
applications with great functional diversification 
are increasingly demanded by customers, novel 
 4
deposition for blind-via plating, via-hole filling 
by plating, seed layer etching, backside grinding, 
and then die stacking. There are two key points 
needed to be particularly addressed. The first one 
is the blind-via plating process at Step 3. Since a 
seed layer has to be first deposited on the plating 
side prior to the process, it becomes increasingly 
challenging as the aspect ratio of the vias goes 
up. This also happens when TSVs are fabricated 
from the backside of wafer. In other words, the 
plating rates at the bottom of the vias, the via 
sidewall and the wafer surface have to be 
well-controlled so as not to induce voids or cause 
chemicals to be trapped inside the vias by 
sophisticated additives. The other to be 
considered is the stress issue. As illustrated at 
Step 5, the viaed wafer is ground from the 
backside and further etched back until the metal 
in the vias is fully exposed. It can be observed 
that the TSVs would no longer be structurally 
symmetric, which may tend to cause more severe 
internal thermal stresses due to CTE mismatch 
among materials, eventually resulting in the 
degradation of bonding reliability. 
To achieve TSVs with high aspect ratio and 
improved bonding reliability, a mTSV 
interconnect technology is illustrated in the 
paper. The fabrication process of the technology, 
as shown in Fig. 1, is briefed in the following:  
Step 1. Given a wafer with pads for TSVs, metal 
caps are firstly formed on those pads. 
Plating-Cu is used as the conductive 
layer for connecting the TSVs. These 
caps can be deposited through electroless 
plating such as electro-less Ni plating 
without photo-processes or 
electro-plating such as semi-additive Cu 
plating. At the end of this step, all these 
metal caps are temporarily electrically 
connected by a conductive layer. 
Step 2. The wafer is attached to a carrier using a 
UV releasable tape, and subsequently 
thinned down to a target thickness. 
Step 3. The wafer is drilled from the backside 
toward the caps, and then the sidewall of 
the vias is deposited with an insulation 
layer. The via drilling process could be 
performed by inductively coupling 
plasma (ICP), deep reactive ion etching 
(D-RIE), wet-etching, or laser, and etc. 
The insulation layer can be created by 
chemical deposition, coating, 
evaporation, or lamination plus drilling, 
etc. Note that the buildup material used 
here is the ajinomoto build-up film 
(ABF) GX3 type. The buildup process 
includes lamination at 100 Co by 8 Kgf 
for 100 seconds, and then final cure in 
oven by 150 Co  for 1 hour.  
Step 4. Metal columns are formed inside the vias 
by electro-plating, starting from those 
caps and growing toward the openings at 
the backside of the wafer, by an applied 
DC plating current through the 
conductive layer at the active side. The 
plating current is terminated when the 
wafer is eventually clamped by the metal 
columns through an isotropic plating 
treatment on the surface of the wafer 
backside. After that, another plating bath 
is used for plating of a bonding layer on 
the top of those columns. It should be 
noted that the brown process is applied to 
the insulation layer, i.e., ABF, to increase 
the surface roughness without using 
plasma surface treatment so that better 
adhesion between the Cu and ABF can be 
achieved. 
Step 5. Once the wafer is released from the 
carrier, the conductive layer, as deposited 
at Step 1, is removed so that all TSV 
pads are isolated, and next, a dicing 
process is performed to singulate the 
wafer into individual dies. 
Step 6. Singulated chips are stacked and bonded 
through the plated bonding layer, as 
plated at Step 4. The reflow temperature 
for the lead free solder is about 260 Co . 
 
 
 6
Table 1: The material properties of the chip 
stacking structure 
Materials 
Young’s 
modulus 
(GPa) 
Poisson 
ratio 
CTE 
(ppm/ Co ) 
gT  
( Co )
Silicon 130.0 0.30 2.7  
Cu 132.0 0.34 16.7  
Sn 30.0 0.35 24.0  
Al 69.0 0.33 23.0  
Underfill 
7.84/0.04 
(before 
gT /over gT ) 
0.33 
32.0/102.0 
(before gT /over 
gT ) 
80.0
ABF 3.5 0.27 
60.0/135.0 
(before gT /over 
gT ) 
153.
0 
 
Figure 3 schematically show the 
two-chip-stacked structures associated with the 
typical TSV interconnection technology 
fabricated using the wafer front side process (Fig. 
3(a)) and the Via-FR-based mTSV (Fig. 3(b)). 
The chips are stacked and bonded using an Sn 
solder, and an underfill material is used to fill the 
gap between the silicon chips so as to protect the 
solder joints. The thickness of the Al pads, the Sn 
solder joints, the metal caps, the ABF layer and 
the thinned silicon chips is 1, 5, 6, 20 and 50 
( m), respectively. The width of the metal caps 　
is 100 um and the pitch of the TSV interconnects 
is 250 um. The diameter of the TSV with the 
insulation layer is 70 um and that without is 50 
um (i.e., the diameter of the Cu columns). The 
associated material properties are listed in Table 
1. The corresponding 2-D plain strain FE models 
are shown in Fig. 4. For each two-chip-stacked 
case, only a half of the structure is considered in 
the modeling due to symmetry, and a symmetry 
boundary condition is imposed on the symmetry 
plane, i.e., the left-hand side, and in addition, the 
y-dir displacement in the bottom of the symmetry 
plane is constrained in order to prevent it from 
rigid body motion during the FE analysis. 
 
 
(a) The typical TSV technology through the 
wafer front side process 
 
(b) The Via-FR-based mTSV structure 
 
Fig. 3 The two-chip-stacked structures with a 
different TSV interconnection technology 
 
(a) The typical TSV technology 
 
(b) The Via-FR-based mTSV structure 
Fig. 4 2-D plain strain FE modeling 
 
 A few examples of the FE simulation 
results (i.e., the von Mises (VM) stress) at 
temperature 125 Co  associated with the Cu 
column, the Sn solder joint and the silicon chip 
are shown in Figs. 5-7, respectively. Figure 5 
shows that the maximum VM stress in the Cu 
column takes place in the neighboring area of the 
top corners of these two 3D chip stacking 
structures. In addition, the maximal stress (i.e., 
about 390 MPa) in the Cu column of the typical 
TSV structure tends to be more significant than 
that of the mTSV (i.e., about 320 MPa). Most 
importantly, the uniformity of the stress 
distribution in the mTSV structure outperforms 
that of the typical TSV.  
 
 
(a) Typical TSV    (b) Via-FR-based mTSV 
Fig. 5 The VM stress in the Cu column at 125 Co  
 
 
(a) Typical TSV   (b) Via-FR-based mTSV 
Fig. 6 The VM stress in the Sn solder joint at 
125 Co  
 
 8
shown in Fig. 11(b)) is generated due to the 
resolidification of the melted Si material, and this 
could upgrade the bonding strength between the 
via and the insulation material. 
 
Fig. 10 Optical micrograph of the drilled hole 
 
50um
(a)                    (b) 
Fig. 11 SEM inspection of the laser drilled holes 
 
To achieve an ultra-thin structure, the wafer 
is thinned and plasma treated down to 50 um. 
The thinned wafer is subsequently laminated with 
40 um ABF at both sides. Laminating parameters, 
such as the pressure, temperature and duration 
time, is well adjusted to attain robust interfacial 
strength and uniform thickness distribution 
across the entire wafer. Subsequent post-cure 
process is further performed at 150 oC to have the 
laminated ABF fully cured. Figure 12 shows the 
SEM inspection of the cross section of the ABF 
laminated wafer. It is found that the lamination 
process is capable of achieving impeccable 
bonding between the ABF and the wafer. In the 
measurement, the arithmetic mean value of the 
ABF thickness on both sides of the wafer is 33 
um together with a standard deviation± 1.6 um. 
The fair thickness uniformity is favorable to the 
subsequent via drilling and metallization 
processes. 
 
 
Fig. 12 The ABF lamination as an insulation 
layer on an Si wafer. 
 
 
(a)           (b) 
Fig. 13 Surface roughness of ABF (a) before and 
(b) after the desmear process 
 
The next focus of the evaluation is the 
metal-cap-on-pad process using electro-plating. 
A desmear process (KMnO4) is carried out to 
increase the roughness of the ABF surface for 
better adhesion with electro-less Cu. Morphology 
of the samples indicates that there is a more 
coarse ABF surface in the desmeared sample 
(Fig. 13(b)) than the undesmeared one (Fig. 
13(a)). It has been demonstrated that a rougher 
surface could accomplish high peeling strength 
between the ABF and Cu. Subsequently, metal 
caps are then plated up to 10 um by using this 
electro-less Cu as seed layer. Figure 14 shows the 
ABF-laminated, thinned wafer with through 
holes and Cu seed layer. It is found the through 
holes with a top diameter of 75 um and aspect 
ratio of 2 could be fully filled without trapping 
voids within the hole. It is also found that the 
laminated wafer is much easier to be handled 
because of stronger mechanical strength and less 
warpage. However, in the laser drilling process, 
some shortages can be also noticed. Fig. 14 
shows that an Si protuberance with about 5-7 um 
height is perceivable on the top Si surface (i.e., in 
the location “c”). Besides, the 3.0 Watt laser 
energy might also result in an Si burst, nearly 7 
um long, on the bottom surface of the silicon 
chip, as shown in the location “d” in Fig. 14. The 
effect of the laser thermal loading on the laser 
drilled TSV is suggested to be studied further.  
 
(a)          (b)          (c) 
Fig. 14 ABF lamination on a through-hole wafer, 
(a) Electro-plated Cu on a rough ABF surface     
(b) Si knob             (c) Si cut 
 
Step 4 presented in Fig. 2 is carried out and 
evaluated. The ABF-laminated, through-hole 
wafer is again laser drilled from the wafer 
backside toward the Cu cap, followed by metal 
column growth in Step 5. To realize the 
limitation of the metal filling in a 
high-aspect-ratio through holes in the proposed 
 10
Large Scale Integration (VLSI) Systems, Vol. 8, 
No.6, pp. 671-678. 
3. Hon, R., Lee, S. W. R., Zhang, S. X. and Wong, 
C. K., 2005, ”Multi-Stack Flip Chip 3D 
Packaging with Copper Plated Through-Silicon 
Vertical Interconnection,” Proc. 7th Electronics 
Packaging Technology Conference, Singapore, 
7-9 December, pp. 385-389. 
4. Nguyen, N. T., Boellaard, E., Pham, N. P., 
Kutchoukov, V. G., Craciun, G., and Sarro, P. 
M., 2002, “Through-wafer copper electroplating 
for three dimensional interconnects,” J. 
Micromechanics Microengineering, 12, pp. 
395-399. 
5. Dixit, P. and Miao, J., 2006, “Fabrication of 
High Aspect Ratio 35 μm Pitch Interconnects 
for Next Generation 3-D Wafer Level 
Packaging by Through-wafer Copper 
Electroplating”, Electronic Components and 
Technology Conference, 30 May-2 June, pp. 
338-393. 
6. Dixit, P., Chen, X., Miao, J., Divakaran, S., and 
Preisser, R., 2007, “Study of surface treatment 
processes for improvement in the wettability of 
silicon based materials used in high aspect ratio 
through-via copper electroplating”, Applied 
Surface Science, 253, No. 21, August, pp. 
8637-8646. 
7. Saadaoui, M., Wien, W., van Zeijl, H., van den 
Bogaard, A. and Sarro, P.M., 2007, 
“Improvement of wettability of silicon nitride in 
PECVD environment for copper 
electrodeposition in HAR vias”, Proc. Annual 
Workshop on Semiconductor Advances for 
Future Electronics and Sensors (SAFE), 
November 29-30, Veldhoven, The Netherlands. 
8. Wang, L., Nichelatti, A., Schellevis, H., de 
Boer, C., Visser, C., Nguyen, T.N., and Sarro, 
P.M., 2003, “High Aspect Ratio Through-Wafer 
Interconnections for 3D Microsystems,” Proc. 
16th IEEE International Conference on MEMS, 
Japan, Jan., pp. 634-637. 
9. Yeom, J., Wu, Y. and Shannon, M.A., 2003, 
“Critical Aspect Ratio Dependence in Deep 
Reactive Ion Etching of Silicon,” Proc. 12th 
International Conference on Transducers, 
Solid-State Sensors, Actuators & Microsystems, 
June, pp. 1631-1634. 
10. Lee, Ricky S.W., Hon, R., Zhang, Shawn X. D., 
Wong, C. K., 2005, “3D Stacked Flip Chip 
Packaging with Through Silicon Vias and 
Copper Plating or Conductive Adhesive 
Filling,” Proc. 55th Electronic Components & 
Technology Conference, Florida, May, pp. 
795-801. 
11. Sakuma, K., Andry, P.S., Tsang, C.K., Wright, 
S.L., Dang, B., Patel, C.S., Webb, B.C., Maria, 
J.,  Sprogis, E.J., Kang, S.K., Polastre, 
R.J.,  Horton, R.R., and Knickerbocker, J.U., 
2008, “3D chip-stacking technology with 
through-silicon vias and low-volume lead-free 
interconnections,” IBM Journal of Research and 
Development, Volume 52 ,  Issue 6, November, 
pp. 611-622 . 
12. Song, C., Wang, Z., Tan, Z., and Liu, L., 2009, 
“A Wafer-Level 3D Integration Using 
Bottom-Up Copper Electroplating and Hybrid 
Metal-Adhesive Bonding,” Proc. 2009 IEEE 
International Interconnect Technology 
Conference(IITC), pp. 163-164. 
13. Wang, Z., Wang, L., Nguyen, N.T., Wien, 
W.A.H., Schellevis, H., Sarro, P.M., and 
Burghartz, J.N., 2006, “Silicon micromachining 
of high aspect ratio, high-density through-wafer 
electrical interconnects for 3-D multichip 
packaging,” IEEE Trans. Advanced Packaging, 
29, pp. 615-622. 
14. Chien, C.W., Shen, L.C., Chang, T.C., Chang, 
C.Y., Leu, F.J., Yang, T.F., Ko, C.T., Lee, 
C.K., Shu, C.K., Lee, Y.C., and Shih, Y.C. , 
2007, “Chip Embedded Wafer Level Packaging 
Technology for Stacked RF-SiP Application”, 
Proc. 57th Electronic Components and 
Technology Conference, pp. 305-310. 
15. Chien, C.W., Yu, S.P., Lo, W.C., Chang, C.Y., 
Chen, S.L., Leu, F.J., Chen, Y.H., Ko, C.T., 
Chang, S.M., Hu, H.T., 2005, “3D Chip Stack 
with Wafer through Hole Technology”, Proc. 
SMTA Pan Pacific Microelectronics 
Symposium, pp. 21-26. 
 
 一、 參加會議經過 
 
ICEP2011 國際電子構裝研討會 (The 15-th International Conference on 
Electronics Packaging (ICEP) Conference)為亞洲電子構裝力學相關領域年度重要
之盛事，由日本 Japan Institute of Electronics Packaging (JIEP)以及 IEEE 
Components, Packaging and Manufacturing Technology Society Japan Chapter 所舉
辦，雖然是亞洲年度盛事，但是因為日本電子工業實力強大因此以往之研討會均
能吸引大量全球相關科技研究人員及學者/學生的熱列參與。今年會議日期為 4
月 13-15 日，會議地點於日本奈良市，會議主席是大板大學製造工程系教授
Keisuke Uenishi 博士。研究論文的走向代表日後幾年電子構裝力學研究重點及發
展趨勢。今年本會議之討論重點含四大領域：1) Interconnection(電信連結)，特別
是目前最熱門之研究話題 3D IC/TSV (矽穿孔 )，2)Design 、Modeling and 
Reliability，3) Manufacturing，4) Materials，5) Optoelectronics，6) MEMS， 7) 
Automotive Electronics，8) Advanced Packaging，9) Thermal Management，10)Radio 
Frequency，11) Printed Electronics。出席人員約 200 人較已往少，主要是因為受
到日本東北大地震及福島幅射外洩的影響，使得許多日本東北部企業工程研發人
員及大學學者/學生無法出席，更有許多國外原本投稿報名之學者專家臨時取消
出席此次會議，包含部份我國專家學者。今年台灣與會的人士約有 10 人左右，
含義守大學校長傅勝利校長、工研院顧問 Dr. John Lau、長庚大學蔡明義教授以
及學生、本人、清大學生、台灣 Gore Tech 分公司王丹青經理、力成科技的范文
正經理、張家維副理、工研院的楊琮富博士、謝心心…等。與其它電子構裝相關
研討會相較，此研討會最大之特色在於其能密切掌握工業界之脈動，參與者亦以
工業界代表居多。 
 
今年大會共有來自全世界超過十餘個國家，超過180篇之技術論文參與，其
中有約30篇Poster 場次其餘則為Oral 場次，並有5場Keynote speech演講，分別
是： 
1) Opportunities in the Brazilian Microelectronics Market, by Dr. Claudius Feger, 
IBM Watson Research Lab / U.S.A. 
2) Evolution and Outlook of 3D IC/Si, by Dr. John Lau, Electronics & 
Optoelectronics Labs (EOL)Industrial Technology Research Institute / Taiwan 
3) 3D Package for Mobile Application, by Dr. Sayoon Kang, Samsung Electronics / 
Korea 
4) Advanced Packaging the New Decade, by E.J.Vardaman, TechSearch 
International /U.S.A. 
5) Ultrafast Semiconductor Thermal Imaging, by Kazuaki Yazawa, University of 
California Santa Cruz / U.S.A. 
Consortium)技術發展聯盟，以及台積電之發展現況。第二場則是由工研院技術
顧問Dr. John Lau 主講工研院以及Ad-STAC 協會目前3D IC技術的開發進展
(Feasibility Study of a 3D IC Integration System-in-Packaging (SiP) from a 300mm 
Multi-Project Wafer (MPW))，無論是講題或是內容都相當引人入勝，獲得許多與
會學者之極大注意及回響。接下來則有另外兩篇論文，一是中正大學與南茂合作
關於3D IC TSV 之應力分析(Thermo-mechanical Stress Analysis of Though Silicon 
Via (TSV) by Finite Element Method)；另一篇則是工研院電光所關於20 μm 間距
微接點可靠度分析之論文(Reliability characterization of 20 μm pitch micro joints 
assembled by a conventional reflow technique)。但不知何故這兩篇論文作者皆未能
出席，使得台灣構裝場次雖成功於此研討會打響知名度，亦受到大會及與會人士
的重視，惜美中不足的是這兩篇論文缺席。 
 
此行之重點是口頭報告個人過去一年之研究心得，個人之報告是排在大會之
第三天上午場次” FA2:Interconnection-3”(April 15, 10:20~12:00AM)，個人之論文
與其他三篇分別來自美國 iNEMI (International Electronics Manufacturing 
Initiative )之 Dr. M. Tsuriya 所報告之論文”Highlight of 2011 iNEMI Technology 
Roadmap”、中正大學與南茂聯合發表之論文”An Experimental and Numerical 
Investigation into the Optimal Au-Sn Bonding Temperature Conditions for Chip- 
On-Film Packages” 、 日本 Fujikura 公司  Dr. Y. Amemiya 所報告之論
文 ”Development of Fine-Pitch Flip Chips Assembly on Flexible Printed Circuits 以
及個人與清大陳文華教授及工研院電光所陸蘇財博士合作之論文”Effects of 
Intermetallic Compound Thickness on Solder Bump Reliability of High-density 3D 
Chip-to-chip Interconnect Technology (其後因故改名為 Lead-Free Micro-Bump 
Reliability of a High-density 3D Chip-on-Chip Interconnect Technology: Numerical 
Simulation and Experimental Validation)”。 約有 25 位的聽眾前往聆聽，報告後接
受兩位日本學者的問題，會後有多位日本專家及學者留下與個人交換意件及名片
含 Tessera 的 Mr. Yoshikuni Nakadaira 以及 Tokyo Electron Ltd 的 Mr. Taki Shibata
等，展現對個人研究成果的極大興趣。會後返台，多位日本專家及學者含 IBM 
Research - Tokyo 之 Dr. Masao Tokunari 以及 Fujitsu 的 Dr. Chihiro J. Uchibori 等
來信連絡展現對個人研究成果的濃厚興趣。個人亦趁機推銷並邀請其出席今年由
IEEE CPMT、IMAPS Taiwan、ITRI、TPCA 等單位合辦之 IMPACT2011 國際研
討會。 
 
二、 與會心得 
 
1. 目前國際上科技先進國家以及我國已悄悄的進行 More Moore 與 More 
than Moore 技術的發展。主因在可預見很短的時間內，晶片製程標準很
快的就可能來到 More Moore 技術範疇，亦即 CMOS 製程的極限小於
Claudius Feger, IBM Watson Research Lab / U.S.A. 
 Evolution and Outlook of 3D IC/Si, by Dr. John Lau, Electronics & 
Optoelectronics Labs (EOL)Industrial Technology Research Institute / 
Taiwan 
 Advanced Packaging the New Decade, by E.J.Vardaman, TechSearch 
International /U.S.A. 
 
以及美國iNEMI (International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative )之Dr. 
M. Tsuriya 所 報 告 之 論 文 ”Highlight of 2011 iNEMI Technology 
Roadmap” 等多次提及台灣TSMC 公司之Roadmap，並以其為業界相關
半導體製程技術及3D IC/TSV 技術的指標，令個人感到相當榮幸得以
深歷其中，更深以為傲我國能有TSMC這樣受國際半導體科技業注目的
大公司。 
 
三、建議 
 
1. 出席國際性學術之研討會除了去吸取目前該領域之最新發展動態之
外，若能搭配論文之發表，除了可增加學校曝光度以及國家知名度，亦
可將個人之研究成果介紹給國外之研究學者，值得鼓勵。更應鼓勵國內
學者多參與此類中小型國際研討會，因此類研討會更精緻、實用、互動
更密切緊密且更能與各國參與之學者建立感情。 
2. 本次大會主辦單位特別邀請我國成立 Taiwan Packaging session，這是宣
傳以及打響我國半導體製造、構裝、測試研發能量及實力非常難得的好
機會，政府應更多鼓勵我國產官學研界積極參與或組織類似活動。 
3. 針對下世代半導體科技的演進歷程，More than Moore 是目前替代 More 
Moore 甚至 Beyond CMOS 最為可行方法之一，有機會使晶片複雜度
超越或維持 Moore’s 律之每 18 個月兩倍的速度。目前執行 More than 
Moore 最可行的技術方案為系統級封裝(SiP)，含先進 3D IC/TSV 技術
等。3D IC/TSV 技術是業界目前理想方案亦是急欲達成目標，但仍有許
多技術門檻及挑戰有待突破，且仍需時間方可達成。因此半導體產學研
界咸認為 2.5D IC 堆疊技術（內含 TSV 型式之 Silicon Interposer）才是
中間過渡替代方案或是短期較為可行方案，因此政府應更積極整合產官
學研全力發展相關技術以及相關智財權的布局，以保持我國在半導體技
術的領先。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
ICEP2011 論文集(CD) 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鄭仙志 計畫編號：99-2221-E-035-021- 
計畫名稱：創新先進之矽通孔型態三維晶片堆疊構裝技術的設計、分析與製造 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 2 50% 兩個計畫共同成果 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 50% 
篇 
兩個計畫共同成
果 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 1 1 20% 數個計畫共同成果 專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 100% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
