2 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
以超音波輔助電漿進行殺菌實驗 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 99－2221－E－146－002－ 
執 行 期 間：99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持人：陳志維 華夏技術學院化妝品應用系 
共同主持人：張木彬，陳錫圭 
計畫參與人員：李長峰，許家豪 
 
Chinese Abstract 
避免飲用水受微生物污染，目前並沒有一套統一最有效的淨水處理法廣為世界各國所採納。近年來廢
水的高級氧化技術(AOTs)越來越受到重視且蓬勃發展，特別是針對殺菌及生物難分解污染物的去除方
面。高級氧化程序種類很多，其中，非熱電漿技術在廢水處理的應用已被廣泛的應用於食品或液體的
殺菌、大氣的殺菌及去除有害化學物質。本研究將以非熱電漿技術進行液體的殺菌研究，並分別以 AC
電源供應器，利用氣-液混合式反應器對大腸桿菌及酵母菌進行實驗。 
AC液相電漿實驗結果，發現刷對面的實驗結果比針對面的實驗具有較佳的殺菌效果，可能是刷狀電極
在放電的過程中，產生較多的震波及自由基生成而使其殺菌效果較佳。以超音波結合電漿處理微生物
的實驗，因考量先前的測試結果將採用刷一面的反應器形式，另外，因為超音波機器為槽狀導致循環
設備無法使用，因此實驗將使用批次實驗，非(批次)循環式實驗。結果顯示大腸桿菌及酵母菌，超音
波、電漿，UV，及三者混合處理-超音波輔助電漿加 UV，而兩電極皆埋於液體中，兩電極的間距為
1mm，曝氣量為 0.4LPM，由結果發現除了 UV及超音波，其他 2種處理法的的殺菌效率皆相當接近，可
以發現電漿的殺菌效率比超音波及 UV 殺菌效率大很多。單看電漿處理效果，電漿對酵母菌的處理效
果較大腸桿菌的處理效果佳，其原因可能為此電漿系統兩電極皆在水中，其殺菌機制可能主要為高壓
電場。根據先前研究高壓電場對體積較大的微生物影響較大。因此，純電漿系統對體積較大的酵母菌
殺菌效果較好。此外，將電漿，UV及超音波的殺菌效率相加發現其大於混合處理的殺菌效率，因此在
純液相(兩電極均在水中)的曝氣電漿系統，再補以超音波並沒有發現有”加成效應”。另一方面未曝
氣系統，超音波輔助電漿加 UV 的殺菌效率大於三者系統單獨處理的殺菌效率相加，因此”加成效
應”發生在此一混合處理但未曝氣系統。在純液相系統且無曝氣時，沒有加成效應，其可能的原因為
曝氣所生成的氣泡尺寸及數量均大於空穴現象所生成的氣泡，因此超音波(或 UV)只些微的提升殺菌效
果。而在混合系統中，則因為電漿很容易的發生於氣相，且高電場發生於氣相的電極尖端，因此氣泡
無助於放電。 
再者，本研究嘗試以氣-液混合式放電形式進行實驗，即一電極在水中，另一電極在空氣中，空氣中
的電極距離水面 1mm，首先進行曝氣實驗，其結果發現以 UV處理的殺菌效率最低，而電漿的殺菌效率
近似於混合處理。三者單獨處理的殺菌效率之和遠大於混合處理，即表示此超音波輔助混合式曝氣電
漿加 UV系統並無”加成現象”。 
超音波輔助電漿加 UV 將可能是未來殺菌的新技術，相信此技術將可為廢污水及食物的殺菌效能帶來
更大的提升。 
 
關鍵字: 非熱電漿，廢水處理，消毒，紫外光，超音波 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
 
killing is mainly due to above effects to cause thinning of cell membranes, localized heating and production of 
free radicals [6]. That is why US treatment is classified as an advanced oxidation technology(Dadjoura et al., 
2006; Entezari et al., 2004). Its application has been reported. Dadjoura et al. (2006) indicated the presence of 
TiO2 significantly enhanced the disinfection power of the ultrasound in the absence of UV irradiation. 
Entezari et al. (2004) also found US, enzyme treatment, and a combination of the two processes can degrade 
phenol in aqueous medium. 
  US, pulsed electric fields (PEF), magnetic field (MF) and hydraulic high pressure (HHP) are defined as the 
non-thermal technologies for inactivation of microorganisms and have developed for several years. However, 
few studies (Mart´ın et al., 2001; Huang et al., 2006; Lee et al., 2003) have attempted to apply these 
treatments in combination. Mart´ın et al. (2001) found MF pulses did not have any significant effect in 
increasing the reduction achieved by the ultrasound treatment alone. This US-HHP combination (two stages 
treatment) caused a slightly increased extent of E. coli inactivation attributed to the additional effect of 
ultrasound, but the lack of increased microbial inactivation effects in this ultrasound-HHP combination 
(Huang et al., 2006). Huang et al. (2006) found both PEF–US and US–PEF (two stages combinations) 
resulted in less than the sum of the two treatments. Hence, there is few synergistic effect for above two stages 
combinations’ treatments. 
 Electrohydraulic discharge is defined as an advanced oxidation processing and a non-thermal technology. 
This plasma technology has attracted great attentions in inactivation of microorganisms recently. The 
electrical discharges (plasma) generated in water initiated various effects including shockwave, high electric 
field, UV radiation and formation of various highly chemically active species. These physical and chemical 
effects cause inactivation of microorganisms.  
  Although PEF is one of electrohydraulic technologies, it needs an expensive high-voltage pulsed power 
supply and it is not an advanced oxidation processing (that is no chemical effect). In previous study, AC 
discharge (13kV) was applied to evaluate the effectiveness in inactivation of microorganisms (Chen et al., 
2008). Hence, this (AC) plasma system will be combined with UV and US to kill microorganisms.  
  The research objectives for this study were: (i) to investigate the effects of process using UV, US and 
plasma(UUaP) on inactivating E. coli and Yeast in pure water; (ii) to observe synergistic effects of UUaP 
combination system. 
 
EXPERIMENT 
The experimental setup for electrical discharges is shown in Fig. 1. It consists of a reactor (treatment 
chamber),an AC power supply (13 kV), an UV light hood and an ultrasound bath (Branson 5210-DTH). The 
reactor had a volume of 84 ml and the amount of treatment liquid was 15 ml and the temperature of liquid in 
the tank was controlled at 20°C. The ultrasonic bath (140 w @ 47 kHz) with a working volume of 5L with 
temperature control unit is used. The UV light hood contains low-pressure mercury-vapor lamps emit about 
86% of their light at 254 nanometers (nm), which coincides very well with one of the two peaks of the 
germicidal effectiveness curve (i.e., effectiveness for UV absorption by DNA).. The electrical discharges were 
induced between two stainless steel electrodes, one was plate-type electrode submerged in water and the other 
was brush-type (~20 mm diameter) electrode in gas or liquid phase. For the tests, one was two electrodes 
submerged in water; the gap between the electrodes in the water was about 1 mm. For the other gas-liquid 
hybrid discharge test, the gap between the electrode in the air and water surface was about 1 mm. Two 
microorganisms, Escherichia coli (E. coli) and Yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae) were chosen as the targets. 
Those microorganisms bought from Bioresource Collection and Research Centre (BCRC) in Taiwan. E. coli 
(BCRC NO.10314) was cultured using plate count agar plate and Yeast (BCRC NO.15701) was cultured using 
YM medium plate. The cells of microorganisms were suspended in distilled water. The initial cell 
concentration was controlled at 10
6
-10
7
 CFU/ml (colony forming units per ml). The initial cell concentration 
and the survivability of the cell were measured by means of the cultivation method. A small amount of the 
liquid was sampled and implanted on the surface of malt agar culture medium in a Petri dish. The sample for 
PCA was incubated for 16-24 hours at 25 
o
C and for YM was incubated for 72 hours at 35
o
C, and then the 
number of colonies was counted. The results were expressed in the form of CFU/ml. The killing logarithm 
values (KLVs) at different times were calculated with the formula: KLV = (the logarithm of the living 
bacteria of the initial sample) – (the logarithm of the living bacteria of the experimental sample treated with 
UV, US or plasma) (Shi et al., 2006). (KLV30 means the KLV after 30 min treated.) For the aeration tests, the 
6 
 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
UV U P UaP UUaP
 
Fig. 3 KLVs of four treatments (UV, US, plasma and combination) for inactivation of E. coli with 
aeration 
(UV: Ultraviolet light U: ultrasound treatment, P: hybrid-plasma treatment, UaP: ultrasound and plasma 
treatment combinations, UUaP: UV light, ultrasound and plasma treatment combinations) 
 
In Fig. 4, KLV of Yeast after 30 min by UV, US, P, UaP and UUaP treatments were shown. KLV30 by 
plasma treatment were also higher than those by UV and US. Both inactivation efficiencies of UV, US and 
plasma for Yeast were slightly better than that for E. coli. After compared KLVs of UV+US+P and UUaP, the 
synergistic effects were not observed in KLV30. Both E. coli and Yeast cases with aeration, the synergistic 
effects were not observed after 30 min treated. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 KLVs of four treatments (UV, US, plasma and combination) for inactivation of Yeast with aeration 
(UV: Ultraviolet light U: ultrasound treatment, P: hybrid-plasma treatment, UaP: ultrasound and plasma 
treatment combinations, UUaP: UV light, ultrasound and plasma treatment combinations) 
 
Inactivation of E.coli and Yeast without aeration in UV, US, plasma and combinations 
 
In without aeration tests, KLVs of E. coli by UV, US, P, UaP and UUaP treatments were shown in Fig. 5. 
(Two electrodes were submerged in water) KLV30 by US treatment were higher than those by plasma. The 
inactivation efficiency of ultrasound was better than that of plasma on inactivation of E. coli. However, 
KLV30 by UV treatment was lower than those by US, plasma and two combination systems. That is different 
8 
 
 
For the following tests, one electrode submerged in water and another electrode in the gas phase. That 
electrodes’ setup with high voltage became the gas-liquid hybrid discharge (hybrid-plasma). In aeration tests, 
KLV30 of E. coli by P and UaP treatments were close (Table 1). The KLVs of UUaP were a little bit higher 
than the KLVs of USaP. There was no synergistic effect observed. The inactivation efficiency of 
hybrid-plasma was much better than that of US on killing E. coli. In the w/o aeration case, the results were 
similar with the aeration cases. 
 
Table 1. KLV30 of four treatments (UV, US, hybrid-plasma and combination) for inactivation of E. coli 
without aeration 
 UV U P UaP UUaP 
aeration 0.56 2.77  6.42  6.43  6.70 
w/o aeration 0.23 2.44  6.45  6.47  6.52 
      
(UV: Ultraviolet light U: ultrasound treatment, P: hybrid-plasma treatment, UaP: ultrasound and plasma treatment 
combinations, UUaP: UV light, ultrasound and plasma treatment combinations) 
 
Inactivation of E.coli and Yeast without aeration in UV, US, hybrid-plasma and combination 
 
In Yeast tests, KLV30 by P and UaP treatments were also similar (Table 2). No synergistic effect was 
observed in both aeration and w/o aeration cases. The inactivation efficiency of plasma was close to those of 
UaP and UUaP. The reason might be the gas-liquid hybrid discharge can produce more highly chemically 
active species (O, OH, HO2, O3, H2O2, and so forth) on water surface or in water. The hybrid-plasma can also 
produce UV and then those might show a synergistic lethal effect (Chen et al., 2008). 
 
Table 2 KLV30 of four treatments (UV, US, hybrid-plasma and combination) for inactivation of Yeast 
without aeration 
 UV U P UaP UUaP 
aeration 0.62 2.44  6.54  6.47  6.68 
w/o aeration 0.25 2.32  6.47  6.45  6.50 
      
(UV: Ultraviolet light U: ultrasound treatment, P: hybrid-plasma treatment, UaP: ultrasound and plasma treatment 
combinations, UUaP: UV light, ultrasound and plasma treatment combinations) 
CONCLUSION 
A reactor with brush-plate electrode was applied for inactivation of microorganisms treated by UV, US, 
plasma and two combinations (UUaP and UaP). Experimental results had been done accompanying with 
interpretations. Major findings of this study are highlighted as follows: 
 (a) In the no aeration system which two electrodes submerged in water, synergism might exist in two 
combination systems (UUaP and UaP). 
(b) In gas-liquid hybrid system with or without aeration, synergism did not happen. 
(c) In gas-liquid hybrid system with or without aeration, the inactivation efficiency of plasma treatment 
was close to that of UV, US, plasma and combination treatments. 
 
REFERENCE 
 
Butz P., Tauscher B. 2002 Emerging technologies: chemical aspects. Food Research International, 35, 
279-284 
Chen C. W., Lee H. M., Chang M. B. 2008 Inactivation of aquatic microorganisms by low-frequency AC 
discharges. IEEE Transaction of Plasma Science, 36(1), 215–219 
Dadjoura M. F., Ogino C., Matsumura S., Nakamura S., Shimizu N. 2006 Disinfection of Legionella 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以超音波輔助電漿進行殺菌實驗
計畫主持人: 陳志維
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-146-002- 學門領域: 環境工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
