2 
中文摘要 
傳統的螺旋槳式磁振造影技術收取多片槳葉資料，以達成無動作假影之效，與一般成像序列相
較，需要稍長的掃瞄時間，且成像過程中影像對比需保持相同，意即傳統的螺旋槳式磁振造影僅限於
靜態成像。在這個計畫中，我們根據 keyhole 技術的概念，將螺旋槳式磁振造影改進，使其擁有單張
槳葉影像的高時間解析度，以及螺旋槳式磁共振影像的高空間解析度，並稱之為「資料分享式螺旋槳
磁振造影技術」。除此之外，在影像重組的過程中，我們也提出了一項最新的演算法：「槳葉選取最佳
化」，來有效地去除外圍 k空間取樣不均勻所導致的假影，這個疊代法的技術對於每個像素獨立運作，
試圖尋找一組影像對比最接近的槳葉來重組影像。數值模擬與仿體實驗皆證實了此技術只需擷取部分
的 k空間資料，就可以重組出與完整資料幾乎無異之影像，加速比例至少可達五倍之多。 
 
關鍵字： 
資料分享，螺旋槳式磁振造影，動態對比顯像，槳葉選取最佳化。 
 
 
 
English abstract 
 
The PROPELLER technique was restricted to static imaging due to its multi-shot nature.  By 
introducing the concept of “keyhole”, images reconstructed by the view-sharing PROPELLER (VS-Prop) 
technique have the temporal resolution of the blades and the spatial resolution of the conventional 
PROPELLER images.  In addition, a novel method termed pixel-based optimal blade selection (POBS) to 
minimize reconstruction artifacts in dynamic contrast-enhanced (DCE) view-sharing PROPELLER imaging 
due to the under-sampled outer k-space data.  POBS is based on an iterative process to search for one set of 
blades exhibiting the closest image contrast with the target blade, on a pixel-by-pixel basis by least square 
error estimation.  Simulation and flow phantom experiments demonstrate that dynamic images showing 
behavior highly consistent with full k-space images could be obtained by VS-Prop without prominent 
artifacts.  Additionally, the reduction of reconstruction artifacts achieved by POBS visually perceivable 
with five-fold acceleration as compared with the fully sampled images.  
 
Key words: 
View-sharing, PROPELLER, dynamic contrast-enhanced, pixel-based optimal blade selection. 
 
4 
 
Fig. 1  Schematic demonstration of all six possible blade selection of 
view-sharing PROPELLER reconstruction in the case of 30% blade (phase 
encoding number is 30% of matrix size for square FOV) and a resulting Nb of six.  
With the central k-space only filled by the data from the target blade which is 
shaded by gray, six consecutive blades in the dash block follow the reconstruction 
procedure except spatial registration to obtain a VS-Prop image at k = 3.  Other 
combinations were sketched at the bottom. 
 
reconstruction procedure [1,2] except spatial registration to obtain a VS-Prop image at k = 3.  The step of 
bulk motion correction is skipped because the oversampled central k-space data which are used to monitor 
object motion in static PROPELLER imaging possibly no longer provide the identical image contrast during 
the series of dynamic imaging.  In our previously proposed data-sharing PROPELLER version [3], k is 
adapted around Nb/2 by instinct and kept constant for reconstruction of all time frames.  As a result, 
different choice of k might cause artifact on fine structures due to insufficient spatial resolution, which has 
been an obstruction in view-sharing technique.  For example, a small k could induce early enhancement of 
small vessels, which is not true and leads to erroneous diagnose.  It is also not reasonable to find an optimal 
k value for each time frame because the dynamic response should be spatially different.  The basic idea of 
POBS is to search for one (out of Nb) set of neighboring blades exhibiting the closest image contrast with the 
target frame, on a pixel-by-pixel basis by least square error estimation, to prevent from artifacts caused by 
inconsistencies of outer k-space data.  To optimize k for each pixel at position rv , a mathematical model 
based on least square error can be expressed as: 
⎪⎭
⎪⎬⎫⎪⎩
⎪⎨⎧ ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ −= ∑ −+=
+−=
kNni
kni
k
b
nrIirIrk
1
2)),(),((minarg)( vvv                           
where I( rv ,n) presents the signal intensity at position rv  in the n-th dynamic frame.  Since the true value of 
I( rv ,n) is unavailable due to under sampling of data, the VS-Prop image with k = Nb/2 was taken as the initial 
estimates of signal intensity.  After the first optimal set of blades was determined, each pixel was refreshed 
with the new k value to yield the second estimates of signal intensity.  The selection of composing blades 
for single pixel was repeated until the variation of signal is lower than a given threshold, let say, 0.5% of 
total signal intensity.  Notice that all VS-Prop images in the time-resolved data set have to be reconstructed 
with all possible k values before POBS implementation.  The iterative process of finding an optimal set of 
blade composition is performed on every pixel independently. 
 
6 
  
Fig.6  The time-intensity curves of different sizes of dynamic object were 
shown.  A circular ROI was placed on the entire object, which is a circle with 
diameter of 4% (circle), 6% (diamond), 8% (square), and 10% (cross) FOV, and 
measured in a series of 12 (Nb +1) VS-Prop images (15% blade size).  Each 
VS-Prop image was reconstructed using Nb-Na blades of “baseline” and Na ones 
of “activation” following behind with the index of target blade, k, being fixed at 
6.  The signal enhancement of dynamic objects was simulated as a step function, 
and the ideal value was shown in dot line. 
 
intensity of 4%, 6%, 8%, and 10% ROIs are shown in circle, diamond, square, and cross signs.  All values 
measured in the pre-contrast period (Na≦5) were close to the baseline value of 0.3 because the target blade 
was sampled from the “baseline” template.  On the contrary, once Na is larger than five, meaning the 
“activation” blade taken as target, the time-intensity curve would approach the “activation” state, which is 
0.9 in this case.  Besides, during the post-contrast period, one can observe that the more blades were 
obtained from “activation” (larger Na), the ROI mean is closer to the ideal value, and vice versa at 
pre-contrast.  The last but not the least, the time course measured from a larger dynamic object, for 
example, 10% FOV in diameter, is closer to the ideal curve than that of a smaller object given constant blade 
size.  This is reasonable since more k-space intensity was acquired by each blade for larger objects.   
 
 For each time-intensity curve, effective dynamic change (EDC) can be measured in percentage to 
characterize the efficiency of dynamic response in VS-Prop using 
 %100(%) ×Δ
−=
ideal
prepost
I
II
EDC                            
where Ipre and Ipost represent the signal intensity of the dynamic ROI right before and after the contrast 
enhancement, and ΔIideal is the ideal signal change.  For example, in the case of 15% blade VS-Prop on the 
4% ROI (circle in Fig.6), Ipre and Ipost are given by values at Na = 5 and 6 respectively, which are around 0.4 
and 0.8.  So the corresponding EDC would be 67%.  Figure 3 shows the EDC values as a function of 
blade size (from 10% to 30%).  Results of dynamic objects in size of 4%, 6%, 8%, and 10% FOV were 
shown in curves labeled by circle, diamond, square, and cross symbols.  For each curve, EDC percentage 
gets higher to close to the ideal 100% as the blade size increases, meaning more high-spatial-frequency  
8 
Figure 5 demonstrated six consecutive frames (the 13th to the 18th) in cropped views from the 24 
dynamics for the original full-sampled images (Fig.5a), low- resolution blade images (Fig.5b), VS-Prop 
images at k = 5 (Fig.5c), VS-Prop with POBS after three iterations (Fig.5d), and maps of POBS target  
index (k, Fig.5e), respectively.  Reduction of artifacts in POBS VS-Prop was visually perceivable around 
the dynamic objects (yellow arrows in Fig.5c vs. Fig.5d).  In Fig.5e, it can be found that the k-values at or 
near ROI 1 in the 17th frame are mostly one, which means that the data points were provided by VS-Prop 
reconstruction using the 17th blade (target) and the 18th~24th blades (neighboring).  Consequently, artifacts 
were largely suppressed since the template for all composing blades is the same (i.e., no enhancement in 
ROI 1).  Similarly, k-values for ROI 1 in the 16th frame are mostly 8 (16th blade as target and 9th~15th 
blades as neighboring, all enhanced in ROI 1), resulting in its superior performance in DCE MRI 
reconstruction. 
 
Fig.5  Six consecutive frames (13th to 18th) in cropped views from the 24 
dynamics were demonstrated for the original full-sampled images (a), 
low-resolution blade images (b, blade size: 256 × 52), VS-Prop images at k = 5 
(c, Nb = 8), VS-Prop with POBS after three iterations (d), and maps of POBS 
target index (k, e), respectively.  Reduction of artifacts in POBS VS-Prop was 
visually perceivable (yellow arrows in d vs. c).   
 
 In addition, EDC percentage of VS-Prop with POBS was also obtained as in last simulation.  Figure 6 
compares the results of VS-Prop without and with POBS at 20% blade size (256 × 52).  With the help of 
POBS, the EDC values were improved from 80% (default VS-Prop in circle) to 98% (VS-Prop with POBS 
in diamond) even for a small dynamic object as large as 10 pixels in diameter.  Similar results were found 
with different blade sizes from 10% to 30% (not shown).  It was therefore concluded that POBS is an 
effective adjunct for VS-Prop in DCE-MRI. 
 
10 
Discussions 
 Since a 2- to 3-fold acceleration brought by the keyhole-based techniques was promising in clinical 
routine [6,7], blade size larger than 30% turns not very beneficial.  Thus, VS-Prop with blade size of 
15%~20% is suggested for dynamic contrast-enhanced studies to shorten the acquisition duration of each 
frame to 5- to 6.7-fold retaining the spatial resolution.  As shown in our results, VS-Prop exhibits strong 
potentials in DCE-MRI with increased temporal resolution (by a factor of 5 in this study) when the 
reconstruction artifact was alleviated by POBS algorithm.  In the example of flow phantom, the acquisition 
time per frame for 256 × 52 blade has been reduced to one-fifth compared with a full k-space image, 
leading to better temporal resolution.  In addition, the pulse sequence of VS-Prop GRE is compatible with 
the acceleration of parallel imaging, which might further increase the combined acceleration rate to 20 fold.  
Considering the possible application on thoracic DCE scan, echo planar imaging is usually adapted as 
acquisition module due to its rapid scanning.  However, the geometric distortion could obstruct further 
diagnosis.  With the acceleration provided by VS-Prop, a gradient-echo based sequence can be used to 
substantially reduce geometric distortion at a cost of reasonable scanning time.  When cardiac gating is 
required, VS-Prop can also provide advantages in spatial coverage.  
 
Self evaluation 
 The achievement of this project is very valuable and plays an important role for the acceleration of 
dynamic MR scanning.  Part of our result of this project has been accepted as conference papers by Annual 
meeting of International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.  Students involved in this project 
have learned the knowledge of signal processing, image processing and experimental MR techniques.  On 
the other hand, our achievement offers more reliable and precious experience on diffusion imaging of human 
brain for advanced applications in clinics. 
 
Reference 
[1] Pipe JG. Motion correction with PROPELLER MRI: application to head motion and free-breathing 
cardiac imaging. Magn Reson Med 1999;42(5):963-969. 
[2] Wang FN, Huang TY, Lin FH, et al. PROPELLER EPI: An MRI technique suitable for diffusion tensor 
imaging at high field strength with reduced geometric distortions. Magn Reson Med 2005;54(5):1232-1240. 
[3] Chuang TC, Huang TY, Wang FN, Lin YR, Chung HW, Kwong KK. Data-sharing PROPELLER 
imaging for increased temporal resolution retaining spatial resolution and image contrast. Proceedings of 
International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine. Seattle, U.S.A.; 2006. p 2954. 
[4] van Vaals JJ, Brummer ME, Dixon WT, et al. "Keyhole" method for accelerating imaging of contrast 
agent uptake. J Magn Reson Imaging 1993;3(4):671-675. 
[5] Berstein MA, King KF, Zhou XJ, editors. Handbook of MRI pulse sequences: Elsevier Academics Press; 
2004. 
[6] Frydrychowicz A, Bley TA, Winterer JT, Harloff A, Langer M, Hennig J, Markl M. (2006): Accelerated 
time-resolved 3D contrast-enhanced MR angiography at 3T: clinical experience in 31 patients. Magma 
19(4):187-95. 
[7] Markl M, Hennig J. (2001): Phase contrast MRI with improved temporal resolution by view sharing: 
k-space related velocity mapping properties. Magn Reson Imaging 19(5):669-76. 
1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                             日期： 99 年 5 月 15 日 
一、參加會議經過 
 國際醫用磁共振年度學術研討會是磁振造影領域一年一度的最重要的會議，一向吸引
全球從事磁振造影研究人員與會。今年之第十八屆年會選於瑞典的首都斯德哥爾摩舉行，
與會人數與發表的論文數皆再創新高，總計本次參與的研究人員、醫師、廠商代表超過七
千人，會中發表的論文（包含口頭發表與海報）共超過五千一百篇。這次會議雖然需要十
四個小時的長途飛行，但或許受到北歐風光的吸引，這次從台灣前往與會的人數也有數十
位之譜，其中不乏北中南各國立大學和教學醫院的研究人員，顯示磁振造影技術的研究在
台灣受重視的程度與日俱增，而不再只是將一台造價動輒數千萬的儀器，用於臨床例行性
的基本造影檢驗而已。 
 
計畫編
號 
NSC 98－2221－E－110 －002 
計畫名
稱 
資料分享式螺旋槳磁振造影：應用於高解析度動態影像 
出國人
員姓名 莊子肇 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立中山大學 
助理教授 
會議時
間 
99年 5月 1日至 
99 年 5 月 7 日 會議地點 
瑞典 斯德哥爾摩 
會議名
稱 
(中文)第十八屆國際醫用磁振造影學術研討會 
(英文)The 18th Annual Meeting of International Society of Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine 
發表論
文題目 
Chuang TC, Huang SP, Yang P, Wu MT. “Inter-subject comparison of fractional 
anisotropy in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder”. 
 
Chang HC, Juan CJ, Chuang TC, Liu YJ, Lin CC, Chung HW. “Comparison of 
applying 1D phase and 2D phase N/2 ghost correction prior to PROPELLER-EPI 
reconstruction”. 
 
Chou MC, Cheng YW, Ko CW, Chuang TC, FN Wang, TY Huang, Chung HW. 
“Reduce blurring effects in PROPELLER QBI”. 
 
Chang HC, Juan CJ, Liu YJ, Lin CC, Shen H, Chuang TC, Chung HW. “ZOOM- 
PROPELLER-EPI: non-axial imaging at small FOV with PROPELLER-EPI”. 
附件四 
3 
 
三、建議 
 近年來，磁共振技術在國內的發展日趨蓬勃，各研究團隊（台灣大學、台大醫院、榮
民總醫院、三軍總醫院、中研院等）都有為數不少的成果在這次的會議中發表，論文數在
十篇以上的研究單位並不少見，可見近年來國內的確有越來越多的人力與資源投入。以現
況來說，在台灣每個醫學中心均設有醫療用磁振造影儀器，甚至地區醫院中也已經有為數
不少的設備，但是基於臨床穩定性的考量，大都僅限於基本的臨床使用，而無法進行新技
術的開發，實為可惜。這一兩年由於生醫產業的持續重視以及腦科學領域的發展，出現專
供學術研究使用儀器的契機（例如：國科會人文處的心智科學大型研究設備建置計畫），
未來的發展值得期待。然而，研究成果並非一夕之間就可水到渠成，長期的人才培育更是
重要的關鍵。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 本次參加會議攜回 DVD 一片，內含會議議程與本年度所有發表論文。 
五、其他 
本人共有四篇論文於會中發表，附上摘要如後。 
 
 
ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI: non-axial imaging at small FOV with PROPELLER-EPI 
 
H-C. Chang1,2, C-J. Juan3, Y-J. Liu4, C-C. Lin2,5, H. Shen6, T-C. Chuang7, and H-W. Chung2 
1Applied Science Laboratory, GE Healthcare Taiwan, Taipei, Taiwan, 2Institute of Biomedical Electronics and Bioinformatics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 
Taiwan, 3Department of Radiology, Tri-Service General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, 4Department of Automatic Control Engineering, Feng Chia University, Taichung, 
Taiwan, 5Department of Radiology, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan, 6Applied Science Laboratory, GE Healthcare, Beijing, China, People's 
Republic of, 7Electrical Engineering, National Sun Yat-sen University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
 
Introduction 
The PROPELLER-EPI (periodically rotated overlapping parallel lines with enhanced reconstruction using EPI as signal readout) has been shown useful for diffusion 
applications with reduced geometric distortion [1]. A modified reversed gradient (RG) EPI geometric distortion correction method helps further reducing image 
blurring for PROPELLER-EPI acquisition [2]. Current implementation of PROPELLER-EPI exhibits difficulty in small FOV or non-axial acquisition due to the 
aliasing artifact along the phase-encoding direction of each blade. In this work, we propose a ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI technique, which combines the reducing-FOV 
(rFOV) EPI [3, 4] to obtain sagittal images with a small FOV.  
Material and method 
We combined PROPELLER-EPI with three types of rFOV EPI technique based on inner volume excitation, which consisted of single spin echo (SSE) cross excitation 
(90˚z-180˚y, slice thickness of 180˚ = 55mm), dual spin echo (DSE) cross excitation (90˚z-180˚y-180˚y, slice thickness of 180˚ = 55mm), and SSE with a small tip 
angle between 90˚ and 180˚ slice selection gradient along phase encoding direction (tip angle = 8˚, slice thickness of 180˚ = 10mm), where the subscript of RF flip 
angle represents the slice selection gradient direction along with this RF. We first collected the ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI data of phantom on a 1.5T MRI scanner 
(Signa HDx, GE) with sagittal images and 8.5x8.5cm FOV. The three types of rFOV EPI techniques used for excitation in each rotating blade consisted of the following 
parameters: blade size 32*128 (ETL=32), rotating angle 15°, NEX 1, SSE/DSE TE 99.7ms/135.1ms, TR 4000ms, slice thickness 5mm, 12 blades for 180° k-space 
coverage. To verify the compatibility of ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI and RG correction method, the rotating angles of the blades covered a total of 360°, which fills the 
entire circular k-space and with a pair of opposite phase gradient polarity of each blade for processing RG correction. A sagittal cerebellum image was acquired using 
tip angle excitation ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI technique with diffusion weighting (b-factor 800 s/mm2) on a 3.0T MRI scanner (Signa HDx, GE): FOV 12x12cm, 
blade size 32*128 (ETL=32), rotating angle 15°, NEX 1, TE 76.8ms, TR 5000ms, slice thickness 4mm, gap 0.4mm, 24 blades for 360° k-space coverage (which became 
12 after applying the RG correction method).  
Results 
The results of phantom study using ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI to acquire sagittal small FOV image with different rFOV EPI techniques are shown in Figs.1a-1c. The 
full FOV of the phantom is shown in Fig.1d, where an image acquired using conventional EPI with reduced FOV shows severe aliasing artifact from objects outside the 
rFOV along the phase encoding direction. The results of sagittal cerebellum image using a combination of ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI and RG correction is shown in 
Fig.1e, and a localizer image is also shown on the right side. Both phantom and in vivo results demonstrated effectiveness of ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI.  
Discussion & Conclusion 
Although PROPELLER-EPI is compatible with different rFOV EPI techniques, these rFOV techniques have different effects on the slice profile and different 
capabilities of multi-slice acquisition. For rFOV using SSE cross excitation, the signal intensity decays exponentially [3] in multi-slice acquisition due to continuously 
inversion of 180° RF for inner volume excitation. In theory, rFOV using DSE cross excitation contains 
double inversion with two 180° RF and can be used for multi-slice acquisition, but the signal decay still 
exists due to imperfect slice profile of the 180° RF used for refocusing a thick inner volume (e.g., 
50mm thickness). In addition, DSE shows a decreased SNR due to prolonged TE for double refocusing. 
For rFOV using SSE with a small tip angle between 90˚ and 180˚ slice selection gradient, the signal 
decay in multi-slice acquisition can be controlled by the tip angle, slice gap, and the refocusing 
thickness [4], allowing the users to reduce the inter-slice interference in inner volume excitation by 
appropriately adjusting these parameters. However, the final excited slice profile of tip refocusing in 
SSE is in the shape of a parallelogram, which shows more signal decay near the edge of FOV 
comparing to the other two rFOV techniques (Fig.1c; white arrow). In conclusion, 
ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI is applicable to small FOV acquisition and compatible with the RG 
correction method, while the slice profile of inner volume excitation and multi-slice capability are 
affected by different rFOV techniques, both of which lead to signal loss near edge of FOV. The 
proposed method may find applications in non-axial high-resolution scans such as diffusion-weighted 
imaging of the cerebellum.   
Reference 
[1] Wang FN, et al. MRM 54:1232 (2005). [2] Chang HC, et al, ISMRM #1506 (2006). [3] Jeong EK, et al. MRM 54:1575 (2005). [4] Symms MR, et al, Proc ISMRM, 
#160 (2000). 
 
 
 
(e)
ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI 
DWI + RG correction
A
lia
si
ng
 
(a) 90˚z – 180˚y (b) 90˚z–180˚y–180˚y  (c) 90˚z – 180˚z(tip 8˚)
Aliasing 
image 
(d) PE 
Fig. 1. (a)-(c), showing the phantom images acquired by ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI with different rFOV techniques. (d) An example image showing the aliasing 
artifact of conventional EPI acquisition with rFOV. (e) A sagittal cerebellum image acquired by ZOOM-PROPELLER-EPI with RG correction method. 
Reduce blurring effects in PROPELLER QBI 
 
M-C. Chou1, Y-W. Cheng2, C-W. Ko1, T-C. Chuang3, F-N. Wang4, T-Y. Huang5, and H-W. Chung2 
1Computer Science and Engineering, National Sun Yat-sen University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 2Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, 
3Electrical Engineering, National Sun Yat-sen University, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 4Biomedical Engineering and Environmental Science, National Tsing Hua University, 
Hsinchu, Taiwan, 5Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
Background and purpose: Q-ball imaging (QBI) accelerated by PROPELLER EPI acquisition was demonstrated to be 
scan-time efficient and less susceptibility distortions [1]. In PROPELLER QBI, the reconstruction is based on keyhole 
technique which shares outer k-space with other blade DWIs for high resolution but preserves central k-space for diffusion 
contrast [2]. Although susceptibility distortion is substantially reduced by PROPELLER EPI acquisition [3, 4], the residual 
susceptibility distortions of blade DWIs will cause blurring effects in reconstructed PROPELLER QBI. Therefore, the 
purpose of this study was to reduce residual distortions by incorporating image registration in PROPELLER QBI 
reconstruction. 
Material and methods: In this study, data were collected from a healthy volunteer aged 27 y/o on a 3T MR system (Philips 
Achieva, Netherlands, Best) using eight-channel phase array head coil. PROPELLER QBI data were acquired by short-axis 
PROPELLER EPI with 75% reduction of frequency encoding and 25 degree rotation between blades. The acquired 252 
icosahedral diffusion directions were separated into 18 PROPELLER sets according to their diffusion directions. Other 
imaging parameters were: TR/TE = 1276/120 ms, b-value = 4,000 s/mm2, matrix size = 32x128, SENSE factor = 3, half 
Fourier = 0.647, FOV = 256x256 mm2, slice thickness = 5 mm, # slice = 10, total scan time = 12:34. In addition, QBI 
acquired by single-shot EPI were also obtained for comparison using the same imaging parameters except for TR=1833 ms, 
matrix size = 128x128, and scan time = 15:23. In PROPELLER QBI, the 14 blade EPIs of each PROPELLER set were first 
reconstructed to a high resolution PROPELLER EPI which serves a template for co-registration of 14 blade EPIs using 
diffeomorphic registration [5]. The displacement maps were then used to transform corresponding blade DWIs to reduce 
residual distortions. Subsequently, PROPELLER QBI was reconstructed to obtain generalized fractional anisotropy (GFA) 
and orientation distribution function (ODF). 
Results: Figs. (a) and (b) showed GFA map of PROPELLER QBI without and with image registration. In (a), due to residual 
susceptibility distortions, the white matter structure in frontal lobe was blurred as indicated by white arrowheads. By 
incorporating image registration, the blurring effects were substantially reduced in (b) showing fine structure of anterior 
corona radiata. In (c), GFA map obtained from conventional QBI showed elongated frontal lobe due to susceptibility 
distortions. The corresponding ODF maps of rectangular regions in (a), (b) and (c) were shown in Figs. (d), (e) and (f), 
respectively.  
  
 
(a) (b) (c) 
(d) (e) (f)  
Conclusions: With the 
aid of image registration, 
the PROPELLER QBI 
will be more suitable for 
clinical applications for 
its shorter scan time, 
less susceptibility 
distortion as well as 
capability of resolving 
intra- voxel fiber 
crossings. 
 
References:  
[1] MC. Chou, et.al., ISMRM, 
2006. 
[2] TC. Chuang, et. al., 
ISMRM, 2006. 
[3] FN. Wang, et. al., 
   MRM, 2005 
[4] S. Skare, et. al., MRM, 
2006 
[5] T. Vercauteren, et. al., 
Neuroimage, 2009 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：莊子肇 計畫編號：98-2221-E-110-002- 
計畫名稱：資料分享式螺旋槳磁振造影：應用於高解析度動態影像 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 已發表於第十八
屆國際醫用磁振
造影學術研討會 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
