 2 
Introduction 
Medical imaging plays an important role in clinical diagnosis and therapy. Many modern hospitals have 
constructed PACS (Picture Archiving and Communication System) for performing digitized and integrated 
image-examination processes. Conventionally, the structure of the PACS can be categorized into three main 
portions: modalities, repository, and a viewing system. Current PACS usually deploys the DICOM (Digital 
Imaging and Communications in Medicine) standard for integration. DICOM is a successful and widely 
accepted standard in the domain of radiography, and in other departments such as cardiology, pathology, and 
radiation oncology. All of the DICOM objects are stored in a DICOM repository and are accessed through 
DICOM query and retrieve. The physician can then inspect the images via a DICOM viewer. Although PACS 
with DICOM standard is successful in radiology department, current PACS architecture has the limitation 
when we expand the usage for handling more sophisticated image viewing requirements; As that in figure 1, 
physicians usually wish to have an single and unique interface for viewing and manipulating all clinical data 
generated in all healthcare processes. However, current DICOM image viewing systems can not fulfill this 
requirement. A general-purpose DICOM viewer can handle most 2D clinical images, such as those obtained 
from computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), computed radiography (CR), 
ultrasound, nuclear medicine, and endoscopy. Few DICOM viewers can handle overlaps and waveforms such 
as radiotherapy (RT) planning data and electrocardiogram (ECG) waveforms. Furthermore, lots of 
examinations, such as cardiology, dental, ophthalmology, and mammography, have domain specified image 
viewing and measurement requirements. With the rapid growth of DICOM objects in the DICOM standard, 
increasingly advanced medical images and display specifications will emerge in the near future, and this will 
further impede the development of a universal DICOM viewer. 
Under current PACS architecture, the physicians’ dream for creating a unique viewing system to deal all the 
medical images and related data seems to be impossible. However, the need for viewing all the healthcare 
information is the foundation for physicians to perform proper judgment for better healthcare. Integrating and 
viewing all medical exams data would be the first step of patient oriented healthcare. For viewing all clinical 
exam reports in a single user interface, the IHE proposed a simple RID (Retrieve Information for Display) 
profile for accessing clinical reports generated from various departments, which can utilize a single universal 
interface (a Web browser) to access and navigate all medical information. The IHE RID profile contains the 
Information Source, which provides the clinical examination results, and the Display, which supports the 
presentation of the results. The RID utilizes HTTP protocols to access clinical documents that are stored in 
Information Sources. Under RID specification, the clinical documents could be in PDF (Portable Document 
Format), or HTML (Hypertext Markup Language) or HL7 CDA (Clinical Document Architecture)
 
 formats. 
An example of an IHE RID profile for accessing clinical documents is shown in Figure 2. RID like wed 
solution would be a proper architecture for next generation of medical information systems. Currently, many 
hospitals have following similar web architecture for accessing clinical documents. The only shortage is that 
web solution usually has limited functionalities comparing with conventional window applications. However, 
the shortage has gradually overcome by more powerful web technologies (RIA: Rich Internet Application). 
Browser with RIA web pages could be a powerful and unique user interface for handling sophisticated data 
and applications. As such, it is worth investigating RIA applications for use in the field of healthcare. 
 4 
Web graphics functionality of Microsoft Silverlight 
There are several RIA technologies for drawing graphics in browsers, such as Microsoft Silverlight, Adobe 
Flash, and the World Wide Web Consortium Scalable Vector Graphics recommendation. Microsoft Silverlight 
is an RIA Web browser plug-in for handling animation, vector graphics, and audio/video that is compatible 
with various Web browsers [Microsoft Internet Explorer (IE), Firefox, and Safari). Our research adopted 
Silverlight vector graphics for two reasons: 
1. Testing revealed Silverlight to be the most stable vector graphics solution, especially for IE. 
2. Silverlight supports JavaScript events, which supports the Document Object Model for 
handling HTML and XML data. Consequently, we can design a set of JavaScript objects to handle 
waveforms and images generated from information systems in different clinical domains. 
Microsoft Silverlight uses XML-based tags, and Extensible Application Markup Language (XAML; named by 
Microsoft) data to define graphics drawn in a browser. Geometric shapes, animations, user interfaces, and 
trigger events can be defined in an XAML file. An example of an XAML program is shown in Figure 2a. The 
corresponding result is shown in Figure 2b. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 2. (a) Example XAML program for defining geometric shapes and JavaScript events. (b). Result 
corresponding to the XAML example in (a). 
As shown in Figure 2a, each XAML program has a root canvas, which may contain geometric shapes, images, 
videos, and a subcanvas. Silverlight uses JavaScript and HTML <div> for creating and rendering the XAML 
graphics in the browser (as in Figure 3b). We may define JavaScript events in the canvas in the form of 
XAML data subobjects (as in the example: MouseLeftButtonDown, MouseLeftButtonUp, and MouseMove in 
the subcanvas tag, and Loaded in the image tag). In addition, appropriate JavaScript codes corresponding to 
the events could be added, and then it could dynamically draw a line in the subcanvas using the three events 
(onMouseDown, onMouseUp, and onMouseMove). When the mouse left button is pressed, a line starting 
point (x1, y1) will be set by the JavaScript code defined for the onMouseDown function. The movement of the 
mouse will then continuously change the line ending point by the event function onMouseMove. Finally, the 
 6 
on the canvas. Each stroke contains the DrawingAttributes and StylusPoints attributes for defining drawing 
properties and the points of the curve. The drawing and refreshing of Silverlight objects may soon be the same 
as for conventional Windows applications. Consequently, the curves or waveforms can be updated 
continuously and smoothly, a function that can also be triggered by JavaScript events. 
Figure 4 presents a dynamic ECG waveform generated by a Silverlight Ink object. The ECG waveform is 
shifted and displayed smoothly, triggered by a JavaScript time event. As in Figure 4, we can also add 
measurements to the waveform using a JavaScript mouse-click event. The physiologic signal waveform can 
then be presented in the browser, which would be very useful for the real-time surveillance of a patient’s 
condition. 
 
Figure 4. Dynamic presentation of an ECG waveform using a Silverlight Ink object. 
 
Results 
The RIA medical image-viewing system is presented first, followed by 3D cross-section images as displayed 
in a Web browser. The RIA solution for presenting DICOM RT planning results is then described, and finally 
digital microscopy images are exhibited in a Web browser. 
RIA medical image-viewing system 
A Web-based PACS system supports DICOM query protocols for searching medical images stored on the 
servers, and for responding to search results in the browser. The functionalities provided by the developed 
RIA system are the same as those provided by Web-based PACS systems, as shown in Figure 10. Figure 10a 
presents the Web search page (in traditional Chinese characters) for assigning search conditions (patient name, 
identification number, gender, age, and modalities). In addition to being able to view all of the resulting 
images in the Web page, it is possible to select a specific image for further editing, by clicking the 
―Annotation‖ button near by each image, which initiates an HTTP request with image Service-Object Pair 
instance Unique Identifiers to the RIA Web server. The RIA server then responds another user interface, as 
shown in Figure 11, which handles the JPEG images and XML files generated from DICOM image objects, 
and provides the functionalities of viewing, editing, drawing, measureing, and rescaling, similar to a 
 8 
navigating icon is located on the upper-left corner, which represents the whole slide. A small rectangular area 
on the icon shows the current scope, and this can be changed by clicking the icon image or dragging the 
rectangular area. The resolution can be changed by selecting the required magnification number (40, 20, 10, 5, 
or 2.5) on menu bar. The developed virtual slide system is more powerful than conventional microscopy; for 
example, it provides dynamically added annotations on the viewing images. We refer the reader to our 
previous paper for details regarding handling and presenting huge microscopy images on the Web [8]. 
 
Figure 6. Silverlight RIA solution for presenting digital microscopy images. 
Conclusions 
This paper presents some demonstrations of the use of RIA Web solutions for the processing and presentation 
of clinical data in a Web browser. The developed Web RIA image-viewing system can accomplish all of the 
functionalities as using conventional PACS viewing systems. However, RIA Web interfaces can also readily 
present certain clinical data that are difficult to present using PACS viewing systems, such as ECG waveforms 
and virtual-slide microscopy images. We also have shown that domain-specific clinical data, such as RT 
planning results, can be handled by specially design Web servers. Web solutions are the current trend in 
clinical informatics. Although currently there are few clinical systems using RIA solutions, we believe that 
such Internet applications for use in the healthcare domain will experience explosive growth in the near 
future. 
References: 
1. HIMSS and RSNA IHE Integration Healthcare Enterprise. Available at: http://www.ihe.net 
2. W3C Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) recommendation Available at: http://www.w3.org/Graphics/SVG/ 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           98年  9 月  4  日 
報告人姓名  
蕭嘉宏 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
慈濟大學醫學資訊系 
 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
99/8/6-98/8/7 本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC98-2221-E-320-004-4 
會議 
名稱 
 (英文) The 9th Emerging Information and Technology Conference 
 
發表 
論文 
題目 
(英文)  Constructing a RIA(Rich Internet Application) framework of PACS 
 
 
心得報告內容: 
The 9th Emerging Information and Technology Conference (EITC-2009) was held at MIT with four 
parallel technical tracks that highlight the advancement of emerging technologies. The main mission of 
EITC is to strengthen the technical and business ties between Asian and North American universities, 
R&D institutions, and industries. This conference was initiated by visionary leaders who recognized that 
globalization is a driving force for accelerated intellectual and economic development. Interactions 
among Asian pacific and North American professionals are a catalyst for technology innovations. Since 
the inception of EITC, many outstanding academic and industrial leaders around the world contributed to 
the success of this conference and inspired many young scholars and professionals.  
The theme of this conference is “Advancing Technology Innovations through Collaboration”. This 
theme underscores the essence of what EITC is built on: interdisciplinary, intergenerational, and 
international collaborations. Many of us have witnessed the rapid expansion of information technology 
in the past two decades. The explosive growth of internet has brought the world together and now the 
enormous shifts in technology landscape require our swift adaptation to new technological advances. In 
the midst of many challenges ahead, let’s ask ourselves: What is the next transformational technology 
that will reshape the world, and how can we work collaboratively to advance this technology? We truly 
look forward to experts from Energy/Environment/Sustainability, Nanotechnology/NEMS/MEMS, 
Bioinfomatics/Biotechnology/Medicine/Public Health, and C4I (Content, Computer, Communication, 
Consumer Electronics, and Integration)/SoC (System-on-a-Chip) technical tracks to share their research 
and to stimulate discussions.   
心得(或對工作改善之建議)：（國內研習、受訓、講習至少 200 字；參加國際會議者至少 400 字） 
The main select I attended is Biomedical Imaging Technology. It contains 4 topics as following:  
 “Constructing a RIA (Rich Internet Application) framework for PACS”Prof. Chia-Hung Hsiao 
附
件
三 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月29日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
子計畫二:應用於癌病診治之RIA個人臨床資訊圖譜建構
蕭嘉宏
98 -2221-E -320 -004 - 醫學資訊
使用 silverlight 之DICOM 物件顯示模組
Source sodes about using silverlight to present DICOM objects
慈濟大學 蕭嘉宏
提供程式模組(C++)解讀 DICOM 影像、DICOM RT 物件，並產生對應之 XML 標
籤檔，便於 web  系統處理使用，提供SilveIight 模板呈現 2D醫學影像、影
像重疊後之3D切面影像、DICOM RT structure set 、EKG 、病理虛擬顯微影像
。提供對應之程式碼 (JavaScript, ASP.Net C#) 便於在瀏覽器當中動態地調
整顯示內容(如放大、縮小、明亮度調整)，以及顯示之影像或波形之標記注解
。
Provide C++ source code for parsing DICOM images and RT objects and
generating DICOM tag XML data for using on web. Provide SilveIight
templates for display 2D medical images, 3D cross section images,
DICOM RT structure set, EKG, and virtual slide pathology images.
Provide corresponding source code (JavaScript, ASP.Net C#) for
dynamically adjusting displayed results on browser, such as image
size adjusting, gray scale adjusting, image and waveform annotations.
研究發展服務業；資訊服務業
醫學影像系統, 醫療資訊系統
RIA 影像與波形顯示技術為開發下一代 PACS 系統重要關鍵，唯有引用 RIA web 方
案，XML 模式的電子病歷文件當中方可能呈現豐富之臨醫多媒體資訊，silverlight
是微軟主推之 RIA 方案。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
2009/12 計畫期間與影像協會合辦[智慧型醫療保健生活在花蓮] IHE-ITI  安
全可靠之醫療資訊整合架構應用探討 
2010/7 與日本 JIRA (Japanese Industry of Radiology Association) 於花
蓮慈濟舉辦中日影像病歷報告專家座談 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
