 i
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫 成果報告 
 
未來生活互動式溝通環境之建置 
子計畫六：具即時影音串流之居家安全監視與情境控制系統
研究成果報告(精簡版) 
 
 
計畫類別：整合型 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2220-E-224 -006 
執行期間：99 年 08 月 01 日至 100 年 07 月 31 日 
執行單位：國立雲林科技大學資訊工程系暨研究所 
 
 
 
計畫主持人：張慶龍 
 
計畫參與人員：張慶龍、蔡涵宇、洪彰炫、陳秋旗 
 
 
 
 
 
 
處理方式：本計畫涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，2 年後可公開查詢 
 
 
 
 
 
中 華 民 國 99 年 07 月 30 日 
 3
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
未來生活互動式溝通環境之建置 
子計畫六：具即時影音串流之居家安全監視與情境控制系統 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2220-E-224 -006 
執行期限：99 年 8 月 01 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：張慶龍    雲林科技大學資訊工程系 
Email: chang@yuntech.edu.tw 
 
摘要 
  居家環境除了提供最基本之遮風蔽雨、抵
擋日曬，免除暴露於外在惡劣環境外，如何讓
居住者住得安心、放心乃是重要考量。本計畫
主要是由居家安全角度著眼，開發一個具有實
用性、即時性、無所不在等特性之系統，擬採
用嵌入式系統技術，設計影音串流系統以達到
實用性與即時性之要求，整合無線網路、SIP
協定與 ZigBee/Ethernet 閘道器以及 PDA 系統
設計，提供無所不在的視訊監控、影音串流服
務以及情境控制需求。本年度以結合本土嵌入
式平台(凌陽 SPCE3200)，以低成本完成具影
音串流能力之多媒體通訊系統與視訊情境判
斷監控系統。 
關鍵字：嵌入式系統、SIP 協定、SPCE3200、
影音串流、eCos 
 
一、緣由與目的 
  隨著數位化與網際網路的蓬勃發展，即時
影音傳輸與安全監控是網路技術上一個熱門
的議題。在醫療方面的應用，許多的醫療器
材，都有加裝額外的感測裝置，來提高其利用
價值，如[1]中的病人心跳檢測儀，加上藍芽
功能，同時配合 SIP 協定[2]，建構出醫療安全
監控環境。在家庭安全方面的應用，傳統家庭
式自動監控系統(traditional home-automation 
system)，它只能提供簡單溝通服務，當有人按
下門鈴，使用者只能透過安裝於客廳的答錄機
來溝通，因此可能會發生陌生人利用門鈴來闖
空門。在[3]中，同樣應用於安全監視與情境
控制系統，使用者不只在家中或戶外，皆能即
時和來訪者做溝通。在視訊多方監控方面，如
[4]中，可同時觀看多方影像，因此可應用於
家庭看護。 
  針對居家環境，於嵌入式平台上整合了有
線/無線網路通訊技術、嵌入式系統、影像/聲
音串流、SIP 協定，設計出適合居家使用之嵌
入式視訊電話。圖一說明整個嵌入式視訊電話
系統應用環境及概念。於本系統，將透過 SIP
協定將所有的居家設備整合於一起，設備包含
嵌入式平台、個人電腦(PC)、智慧型手機(PDA)
等。當有訪客時，並啟動了門口視訊電話，透
過 SIP 協定之特性，會建立起一對多的連線。
門口視訊電話會與所有居家裝置同時建立起
多個連線。居家裝置包含視訊電話、個人電
腦、手機。此時，所有的居家裝置將會同時響
鈴。當有其一裝置被接起，門口視訊電話將會
與被接起的視訊電話建立起影像/聲音連線。
在嵌入式平台上我們將會有 CMOS censer 與
麥克風裝置，可擷取來訪者以及居家成員的影
像及聲音資料。因此，透過此平台除了可得知
來訪者是誰外，居家成員亦可透過視訊電話交
談，甚至撥打網路電話給在外的 PDA 使用者。 
於本系統應用中，歸納出下列幾種應用： 
 門鈴端應用 
 5
System) [5][6][7]為一自由軟體，可攜帶性，且
為免費版權的嵌入式即時系統。除了適合廣泛
的應用，像是消費者電子、通訊電子、車用設
備、手持設備等等，且核心的相關代碼非常
小，大約幾十到幾百 KB。
 
圖四 eCos 架構及元件組成 
  eCos 系統採用可配置元件設計，包含核
心軟體元件和 HAL(Hardware Abstraction 
Layer)。使用者可根據應用的需求，配置相關
的元件至核心，或者從核心移除不必要的元
件，其目的為提供使用者更彈性化的設計整個
eCos 的核心技術。藉由根據應用的環境創造
eCos 的映像檔，內容只包含相關的應用元
件，透過此方法可嚴格控制整個軟體代碼的大
小。與其他的嵌入式即時作業系統像是
uOSII、FreeRTOS 比較，在執行速度方面，透
過可配置元件設計，軟體應用將會更快速，因
為額外的、不需要的代碼將不會被執行。圖四
說明整個 eCos 系統的架構以及核心相關的元
件關係。 
三、系統介紹 
  於計畫中，系統可分為三個部分，SIP 伺
服器、視訊電話系統、居家使用者裝置。如圖
五所示為上述三個部分的關係圖。
 
圖五 系統關係圖 
  在本系統中，所有的設備包含視訊電話、
居家使用者裝置(PDA、PC)等，都建置於 SIP
的環境中，當系統設備與網路連線時，需發送
SIP REGISTER訊息至SIP 伺服器去告知目前
的網路位置。透過向 SIP 伺服器註冊，SIP 伺
服器會記錄所有在 SIP 環境的設備位置，所以
透過 SIP 伺服器，視訊電話系統可以更容易與
居家使用者裝置或者另一視訊電話系統達成
連線。 
1) 硬體平台 
  於視訊電話系統，硬體平台採用凌陽科技
Sunplus SPCE3200，核心採用 s+core7，且搭
配 eCos 即時作業系統。在此平台上，整合了
即時影像/聲音串流伺服器、影像編解碼技
術、聲音擷取以及 SIP 協定。SIP 伺服器建構
於個人電腦，作業系統使用 Linux，居家使用
者裝置如 PDA，作業系統使用 windows mobile 
6。 
2) 軟體平台 
  開發環境採用Sunplus提供之S+Core IDE
及 eCos Configuration Tool，透過 S+Core IDE
進行程式開發的撰寫以及根據功能應用透過
eCos Configuration Tool 對系統做核心的編
譯，編譯出合適的映像檔，使系統能更有效率
的使用系統資源。 
 7
利用示波器量測系統中，各執行緒的執行時間
及週期變化，如表 1 所示。 
表 1 執行緒執行時間及週期 
執行緒 執行時間 執行緒
Delay 
執行週期
Tx_V 70ms 0 70ms 
Rx_V 30ms 0 70ms 
Tx_A 10ms 20ms 30ms 
Rx_A 0.5ms 0 30ms 
 
  透過示波器可量測執行緒於系統中的時
間，且可量測出影像 Frame Rate 於有、無聲
音負載及單、雙向串流的表現情況，其 Frame 
Rate 如表 2 所示。 
表 2 不同組合下影像 Frame Rate 之表現情況 
組合情況 Frame Rate 
單向影像串流 14fps 
單向影音串流 9fps 
雙向影像串流 9fps 
雙向影音串流 5fps 
  圖十為單向影像串流其執行緒表現情
況，於傳送端含有 Tx_V thread，接收端含有
Rx_V thread，在運作中並不會有其他的執行
緒干擾運作。 
  圖十一為單向影音串流其執行緒表現狀
況，於傳送端包含 Tx_V thread、Tx_A thread，
於接收端包含 Rx_V thread、Rx_A thread，在
此情況下，從傳送端來看，因為 Tx_A thread
其優先權大於 Tx_V，所以每 30ms 就會執行
一次的 Tx_A thread 會 preemptive Tx_V thread
的執行，所以 Tx_V 的執行周期將會增加到大
約每 110ms 執行一次。 
  雙向影像串流其執行緒表現狀況如圖十
二為，於兩端各包含有 Tx_V thread 以及 Rx_V 
thread，因為 Rx_V thread 其優先權大於 Tx_V 
thread，所以當 Rx_V thread 運作時，將會
Preemptive Tx_V thread 的執行，等 Rx_V 
thread 執行完畢後，才會將 CPU 使用權交給
予 Tx_V thread 繼續未完成的動作，所以 Tx_V 
thread 之執行週期將會增大到 100ms 左右。 
  雙向影音串流其執行緒表現狀況如圖十
三，於兩端各包含有 Tx_V thread、Tx_A 
thread、Rx_V thread、Rx_A thread 四個執行
緒，其優先權順序為 Rx_A > Tx_A > Rx_V > 
Tx_V，其高優先權執行緒可 preemptive 較低
優先權執行緒，由圖 31 可觀察出，Tx_V 為最
低優先權執行緒，所以在運作過程中會被
Tx_A、Rx_V、Rx_A 所干擾，所以 Tx_V 之
執行週期將會增加到 200ms 左右。 
圖十 單向影像串流執行緒表現情況
t
t
. . . . . . .
(unit 10ms)
. . . . . . .
Tx_V
Tx_A
Rx_V
Rx_A
110ms100ms
100ms 110ms
One-way
transmit
圖十一 單向影音串流其執行緒表現狀況 
 9
Protocol”, IEEE ICIT’02, 2002. 
[6] Xiaojun Ruan, Shu Yin, Adam Manzanares, 
Jiong Xie, Zhiyang Ding, James Majors, 
Xiao Qin, “ECOS: An Energy-Efficient 
Cluster Storage System,” Performance 
Computing and Communications 
Conference (IPCCC), pp.79-86, Dec. 2009. 
[7] Anthony J. Massa, Embedded Software 
Development with eCos, Prentice Hall. 
[8] Edward L.Lamie, Real-Time Embedded 
Multithreading: Using ThreadX and ARM, 
CMPBOOKs. 
[9] Anthony J. Massa, Embedded Software 
Development with eCos, Prentice Hall. 
[10] Giovanni Gualdi, Andrea Prati, “Video 
Streaming for Mobile Video Surveillance,” 
IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, 
pp.1142-1154. Vol.10, No.6, Oct. 2008. 
[11] Hyun Jong Kim, Seong Gon Choi, “Design 
of Video Streaming Service Quality 
Control,” International Conference on 
Advanced Communication Technology 
(ICACT), pp.1738-9445, Feb. 2011. 
[12] Xun Zhu, Hongtao Deng, Zheng Chen, 
Hongyun Yang, “Design of Large-scale 
Video Surveillance System based on P2P 
Streaming,” International Workshop on 
Intelligent Systems and Applications (ISA), 
Jun. 2011. 
[13] M. A. Talaat, “Content-aware Adaptive 
Video Streaming System,” ITI 3rd 
International Conference on Information 
and Communications Technology, pppp. 
265-276, Dec., 2005. 
[14] H. Seferoughlu, O. Gurbuz, O. Ercetin, and 
Y. Altunbasak, “Video Streaming to 
Multiple Clients over Wireless Local Area 
Networks,” IEEE International Conference 
on Image Processing, pp. 1681-1684, Oct, 
2006. 
 11
workshop與technical sessions分別是關於Ubiquitous and Pervasive Computing議題之相關 , 
network security, network management, algorithm，mobile computing，embedded system與
middleware等議題。 
Keynotes Topic： 
1、Spatial Information Processing: Trends and Directions, Dr. David Taniar, monash 
university, Australia. 
2、Predicting the Spread of Contagious Diseases based on Telecom’s Mobility 
management, Prof. Yi-Bing Lin, National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan. 
    
本次於此會議所發表之論文” The Design of Video Door Phone and Control System for Home 
Secure Applications,”是被安排在 Practical Security on Internet Services 議程發表 (7 月 30 日
上午)。 
 
二、與會心得 
此次與會人員，來自多個國家，分別有美國、日本、中國大陸、澳洲、印度、葡萄牙、
韓國、香港、英國及台灣等國，幾乎世界主要國家皆有相關人員參與盛會。 
此次與會提供一個很好的場合可與其它國家在網路與資訊方面相關優秀人才互相討論，
瞭解目前相關研究內容，提供未來在這方面研究的很好參考方向，除了吸收相關專業知識外，
亦可與其它國家的研究人員互動，增加國際觀、吸取其它國的精華並能提升台灣能見度，期
能為未來國內產、官、學界注入更多新的思維。 
除了與多位台灣學者一同交流外，會議 Reception 期間，亦與韓國 Prof. Kangbin Yim
有較深入的交流。  
 
三、建議 
近幾年來，韓國、大陸很積極主辦與參與各種國際會議，台灣從以前至今乃至未來，
與韓國在各個領域都有激烈的競爭，此次造訪韓國，看到其進步之快，另人印象深刻。
台灣在產業方面已很努力在與韓國競爭，在學術方面，也希望教育部、國科會等單位
能重視此一部分，積極鼓勵相關學者多多參與/出席國際會議，提高台灣能見度。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
此次攜回之資料主要有 conference 之光碟、conference program。 
 13
 
會議之 Reception                        Reception 時與台灣學者合影 
 
Reception 時與韓國學者合影                    Seoul 火車站 
 
Seoul 火車站                         Seoul Tower 
The Design of Video Door Phone and Control 
System for Home Secure Applications 
 
Ching-Lung Chang 
Dep. of Computer Science and Info. Engineering 
National Yunlin University of Science & Technology 
Taiwan, R.O.C. 
chang@yuntech.edu.tw 
Han-Yu Tsai 
Dep. of Computer Science and Info. Engineering 
National Yunlin University of Science & Technology 
Taiwan, R.O.C. 
g9617725@yuntech.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—With the wide acceptance and development of 
the Internet, it is trend to integrate all of services into Internet. 
At the same time, the fast development of communication 
technology that is evolution from narrowband dial-up networks 
to current broadband networks, from fixed PSTN phone to 
mobile phone and from wired network to wireless network. In 
the visible future, the communication will be converged to IP 
centric networks to come up pervasive/ubiquitous network 
environments. In this paper, we integrate the SIP protocol, 
ZigBee networks, video/audio streaming, and remote control to 
realize a video door phone system and remote home appliance 
control, to enhance the home secure environment. At the same 
time, a low-complexity XOR-based FEC packet loss recovery 
scheme is developed to reduce the packet loss impact and to 
improve the video playback quality in client side. 
 
Index Terms—video streaming, embedded system, remote 
control, packet loss recovery. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Following with the advancements in digitization 
technology and broadband communication technology, 
real-time video/audio streaming and remote home appliance 
control become possibility and popularity in now. In the 
literature, the authors of [1] apply SIP (session initiation 
protocol) and Bluetooth technique to build a remote heart 
monitoring system. At the same time, a video door phone 
system is developed by [3], which allows the user can 
communicate with visitor in anywhere. In multi-point 
control field, paper [4] develops a four-way video 
surveillance system for home or factory secure environment.   
 Since he functions of living home are not only to 
shield from the rain and sunshine, but also to provide secure 
living environment. In this paper, we integrate the 
techniques of wired/wireless communication, embedded 
system, and remote appliance control to realize video door 
phone system and remote appliance control for 
secured-home living environment. At the same time, during 
the video streaming, the packets fragmented from video 
frames may incur packet error or packet loss in a lossy 
network environment (such as IP networks). Due to the high 
coding dependencies among video frames, the IP packet 
loss/error will impact the playback quality of video stream. 
For improving the playback quality, a low-complexity 
XOR-based FEC packet loss recovery scheme is developed 
to reduce the packet loss impact. Figure 1 illustrates the 
system concepts of the designed video door phone and 
control system for home secure applications. 
 
Fig. 1、System Concept 
In the system, we rely on the SIP protocol to integrate 
all of control message as well as the location of resident’s 
devices. In the remote home appliance control, a 
ZigBee/Ethernet gateway is developed in this system to 
provide protocol translation between IP network and ZigBee 
network. As the Fig. 1 shows, when a visitor presses the 
door phone, a 1-to-n connection function of SIP protocol [5] 
is applied. It tries to make concurrent connections from door 
phone to all of resident’s devices. The resident’s devices can 
be indoor video door phone, mobile phone, and personal 
computers. In this time, all of resident’s devices will hear a 
ring sound. Once the resident hangs off any one of devices, 
it makes a video/voice connection between door phone and 
hung off device. In this system, we have CMOS sensor and 
microphone in door phone to catch the visitor’s video and 
voice. Once the video/voice connection is established 
between door phone and resident’s device, the resident can 
watch the visitor’s video and converse with the visitor. Thus, 
no matter what the resident stays in home or not, the resident 
always can converse with the visitor. If the resident finds out 
the visitor is a stranger, the resident can use the remote 
appliance control via Internet/ZigBee networks to generate 
different scenarios. The purpose of the scenarios control is to 
cheat the visitor who does not understand whether have 
someone at home or not. We expect these scenario control 
can reduce the steal probability and increase the safe living 
factor. 
At the same time, when transmitting compressed video 
frames across the Internet, however, one of the main 
challenges is packet error/loss. High coding dependencies 
among video frames suffer from vulnerability to packet loss, 
This work was supported in part by National Science Council of 
Taiwan R.O.C. under Grant No. NSC 99-2220-E-224-006. 
Software Platform: 
Fig. 3 illustrates the associated software porting in 
different platform. Because the system is integrated by the 
SIP protocol, all of devices must realize the SIP protocol. 
Herein, the SIP protocol is based on the open source 
LibMySIP to develop. In the video streaming, we use the 
CMOS sensor to catch image is YUV420 format with 
QCIF(176*144) resolution. In the implementation, we adopt 
pen source LibXvid which is MPEG-4 video codec in our 
system. In the audio streaming, for reducing the data rate, we 
port open source Libg.711 to generate 32 Kbps voice data. 
All of these major software functions must be implemented 
in the platform of Linux, Windows XP, and Windows 
Mobile 6, respectively. 
 
Fig. 3 The software platform 
ZigBee/Ethernet Gateway: 
 
Fig. 4、Zigbee/Ethernet Gateway Hardware Architecture 
For realizing the remote home appliance control system, 
we design a ZigBee/Ethernet gateway to translate the SIP 
messages into ZigBee commands. Fig. 4 is hardware 
architecture of the ZigBee/Ethernet gateway. The CPU 
module of gateway uses the TI MSP430 which is a low 
power microcontroller to do the protocol translation between 
SIP message and ZigBee command. The ZigBee function 
also adopts TI CC2420 module which uses SPI interface to 
connection with CPU module. On the other hand, the 
Microchip Ethernet controller ENC28J60 with SPI interface 
is used in the gateway to provide the Internet connection. 
The software architecture of the ZigBee/Ethernet 
gateway is illustrated in Fig. 5. We realize the UDP/IP 
protocol stack for Internet accessing and ZigBee protocol 
stack for ZigBee network.  
 
Fig. 5 The software architecture of Zigbee/Ethernet gateway  
IV. XOR-BASED FRAME LOSS RECOVERY SCHEME 
In the IP-based video streaming, the video frame is 
packetized into multiple IP packets. Once any of the IP 
packets (carried partial video frame data) incurs errors, this 
IP packet is discard by IP protocol. Thus for mitigating the 
impact of packet loss in video streaming, applying IP-level 
packet loss recovery scheme is a practicable approach. 
In typical video codec system MPEG4/H.264, a video 
is encoded into many GOPs. Each GOP can be consisted by 
IPPPP frame pattern, IBPBP frame pattern, or IBBPBBP 
frame pattern. Since the losses of I-frame and P-frames will 
lead to error propagation and B-frames will not, we only 
consider the protection of I-frame and P-frame in this paper, 
as Fig. 6 depicts. 
 
Fig. 6 The typical IPPP frame pattern in GOP 
According to the relationship of spatial and temporal 
among frames, MPEG4/H.264 has a higher compression 
ratio in video sequences, but it makes the video sequence 
susceptible to error propagation due to inter-frame 
dependencies. The loss of an I-frame would suffer from 
higher degree of distortion than the loss of a P-frame [10]. 
The quality distortion caused by preceding P-frame loss is 
higher than the following P-frame. The damage of previous 
frame causes error propagation in the successive frames in 
GOP. 
Due to the limitation of packet length, the whole video 
frame might be segmented into few packets when the video 
frame is transmitted over the networks. During the 
transmission, the packets belonging to the same frame may 
 
Fig. 9 Comparison of successful GOP decoding rates 
VI. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, we integrate the video/audio streaming, 
ZigBee network, and SIP protocol to come out the door 
phone system and remote home appliance control for secure 
home environment. Based on this system, the resident can 
converse with the visitor in any where. At the same time, the 
resident can use the remote appliance control to generate 
different scenarios and to cheat the visitor whether have 
someone at home or not. Thus, we can use the remote 
appliance control to reduce the probability of someone to 
break into a home. At the same time, the video playback 
quality in client side can be significant improved by using 
the proposed a low-complexity XOR-based FEC packet loss 
recovery scheme which can protect I frame and any one of P 
frame in GOP.  
 
REFERENCES 
[1] K. Arabshian, H. Schulzrinne, “A SIP-based Medical Event 
Monitoring System,” In 5th International Workshop on Enterprise 
Networking and Computing in Healthcare Industry (HealthCom), 
Santa Monica, CA, June 2003. 
[2] A. Johnston, Steve Donovan, Robert Sparks, Chris Cunningham, and 
Kevin Summers, "SIP Basic Call Flow Examples," RFC 3665, Internet 
Engineering Task Force (IETF), Dec. 2003. 
[3] Yeon-Joo Oh, Eui-Hyun Paik, and Kwang-Roh Park, " Design of a 
SIP-based Real-time Visitor Communication and Door Control 
Architecture using a Home Gateway ", IEEE Transactions on 
Consumer Electronics, pp.1256-1260, Vol.52, No.4, Nov. 2006. 
[4] Intark Han, Hong-Shik Park; Young-Woo Choi; Kwang-Ro Park,” 
Four-way Video Conference and its Session Control Based on 
Distributed Mini-MCU in Home Server”,Consumer Electronics,2008 
ICCE 2008.Diqest of Technical Papers. International Conference on 
9-13 Jan. 2008, pp.1-2. 
[5] M. Handley et al., “SIP: Session Initiation Protocol”, RFC 2543, 
Internet Engineering Task Force, March 1999. 
[6] M. A. Talaat, “Content-aware Adaptive Video Streaming System,” ITI 
3rd International Conference on Information and Communications 
Technology, pp. 265-276, Dec., 2005. 
[7] H. Seferoughlu, O. Gurbuz, O. Ercetin, and Y. Altunbasak, “ Video 
Streaming to Multiple Clients over Wireless Local Area Networks,” 
IEEE International Conference on Image Processing, pp. 1681-1684, 
Oct, 2006. 
[8] Sunhun Lee,Kwangsue Chung;” Joint Quality and Rate Adaptation 
Scheme for Wireless Video Streaming,” International Conference on 
Advanced Information Networking and Applications, pp. 311-318, 
March, 2008. 
[9] K.K. Tan, H.L. Goh, “Session Initial Protocol”, IEEE ICIT’02, 2002. 
[10] T. Chiang and Y. Q. Zhang, “A new rate control scheme using 
quadratic rate distortion model,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video 
Technol., Vol. 7, pp. 246-250, Feb. 1997. 
[11] M.S. Koul and K.R. Rao, “An N+1 redundant GOP based FEC 
algorithm for improving Streaming Video Quality due to Packet Loss 
and Delay Jitter,” in IEEE Proc. ICET 2007, pp.102-107, Nov. 12-13, 
2007. 
[12] J. Wang, A. Su, Y. Chen, and J. Hwang, “Effective Congestion and 
Error Control for Scalable Video Coding Extension of the 
H.264/AVC,” IEEE Int. Conf. on High Performance Computing and 
Communications, pp. 625-628, 2008. 
[13] B. oh, G. Hua, and C. Chen, “Seamless Video Transmission over 
Wireless LANs based on an Effective QoS Model and Channel State 
Estimation,” Int. Conf. on Computer Communications and Networks, 
pp. 1-6, 2008. 
[14] B. Akabri, H. Rabiee, and M. Ghanbari, “ Packet Loss Recovery 
Schemes for Peer-to-Peer Video Streaming,” IEEE Int. Conf. on 
Networking and Services, 2007. 
[15] C. Lin, c. Shieh, n. Chilamkurti, C. Ke, and W. Hwang, “ A RED-FEC 
Mechanism for Video Transmission over WLANs,” IEEE 
Transactions on Broadcasting, Vol. 54, No. 3, pp. 517-524,Sep. 2008. 
[16] S. Sitharaman and K. Anantharaman, “ Impact of Retransmission 
Delays on Multilayer Video Streaming over IEEE 802.11e Wireless 
Networks,” Int. Conf. on Communication Systems Software and 
Middleware, pp. 1-12, 2007. 
[17] G. Sun, W. Xing, and D. Lu, “An Novel Loss Protection Scheme for 
H.264 Video Stream Based on Frame Error Propagation Index,” Int. 
Conf. on Communications and Networking, pp. 820-824, 2008. 
[18] Jae-Young Pyun, “Erro cencealment aware streaming video system 
over packet-based mobile networks,” IEEE Trans. on Consumer 
Electronics, Vol. 54, pp. 1705-1713, Nov. 2008. 
[19] D. Persson, T. Eriksson, and P. Hedelin, “Packet Video Error 
Concealment with Gaussian Mixture Models,” IEEE Trans. on Image 
Processing, Vol. 17, No. 2, pp. 145-154, Feb. 2008. 
 2
為期三天的會議，大會分別由澳洲與台灣邀請2位keynote speakers做專題演講，與多個
workshop與technical sessions分別是關於Ubiquitous and Pervasive Computing議題之相關 , 
network security, network management, algorithm，mobile computing，embedded system與
middleware等議題。 
Keynotes Topic： 
1、Spatial Information Processing: Trends and Directions, Dr. David Taniar, monash 
university, Australia. 
2、Predicting the Spread of Contagious Diseases based on Telecom’s Mobility 
management, Prof. Yi-Bing Lin, National Chiao Tung University, Taiwan. 
    
本次於此會議所發表之論文” The Design of Video Door Phone and Control System for Home 
Secure Applications,”是被安排在 Practical Security on Internet Services 議程發表 (7 月 30 日
上午)。 
 
二、與會心得 
此次與會人員，來自多個國家，分別有美國、日本、中國大陸、澳洲、印度、葡萄牙、
韓國、香港、英國及台灣等國，幾乎世界主要國家皆有相關人員參與盛會。 
此次與會提供一個很好的場合可與其它國家在網路與資訊方面相關優秀人才互相討論，
瞭解目前相關研究內容，提供未來在這方面研究的很好參考方向，除了吸收相關專業知識外，
亦可與其它國家的研究人員互動，增加國際觀、吸取其它國的精華並能提升台灣能見度，期
能為未來國內產、官、學界注入更多新的思維。 
除了與多位台灣學者一同交流外，會議 Reception 期間，亦與韓國 Prof. Kangbin Yim
有較深入的交流。  
 
三、建議 
近幾年來，韓國、大陸很積極主辦與參與各種國際會議，台灣從以前至今乃至未來，
與韓國在各個領域都有激烈的競爭，此次造訪韓國，看到其進步之快，另人印象深刻。
台灣在產業方面已很努力在與韓國競爭，在學術方面，也希望教育部、國科會等單位
能重視此一部分，積極鼓勵相關學者多多參與/出席國際會議，提高台灣能見度。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
此次攜回之資料主要有 conference 之光碟、conference program。 
 4
 
會議之 Reception                        Reception 時與台灣學者合影 
 
Reception 時與韓國學者合影                    Seoul 火車站 
 
Seoul 火車站                         Seoul Tower 
which impacts the playback quality of video stream. For 
reducing the packet loss impact a low-complexity 
XOR-based FEC packet loss recovery scheme is also 
proposed to improve the playback quality in this paper. 
The paper is organized as follows. The background 
information is introduced in Section II followed by the 
system implementations in Section III. The frame loss 
recovery scheme proposed for enhancing the video playback 
quality is described in Section IV. The Section V shows the 
performance evaluation. Finally we make a brief conclusion 
in Section VI. 
II. BACKGROUND 
A. SIP Protocol 
SIP protocol [5] is one of major signaling protocols used 
in Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) system, which is an 
application level signaling protocol for initiating, managing, 
and terminating multimedia sessions. The highly extensible 
and text-encoded nature of the SIP protocol enables people 
to read and analyze SIP messages directly. Hence, SIP 
prevails and is widely used to set up and tear down VoIP 
voice sessions. The SIP network system specified by RFC 
2543 [5] is composed of four types of logical entities, 
registrar server, proxy server, redirect server, and user agent 
(UA). Usually, the first three entities are integrated into a 
physical facility called the SIP Server during the 
implementation. Furthermore, the SIP-based VoIP system 
includes two entities called the SIP Server and the SIP User 
Agent (UA). The latter is assigned as the endpoint entity 
which initiates and terminates a session via the SIP protocol. 
The caller, denoted as the user agent client (UAC), issues an 
SIP method to the assigned user agent server (UAS) or 
callee in establishing a voice session. 
B. Zigbee Protocol 
ZigBee is a low-power, low-cost, wireless mesh 
networking protocol that target on the environments of home 
automation and wireless sensor network. The characteristics 
of low power-usage and low cost allow longer life with 
smaller batteries and widely deployment in monitoring 
applications and wireless control. At the same time, the mesh 
networking of ZigBee provides high reliability and more 
extensive range. ZigBee is defined by IEEE 
802.15.4 standard for Low-Rate Wireless Personal Area 
Networks (LR-WPANs). The technology defined by 
the ZigBee specification is intended to be simpler and less 
expensive than other WPANs, such as Bluetooth. The target 
applications of ZigBee is the requirement of a low data rate, 
long battery life, and secure networking. such as wireless 
light switches with lamps, electrical meters with 
in-home-displays, and consumer electronics equipment via 
short-range radio. 
C. Video Compression 
The technique of motion prediction is used in most 
modern video compression. In typical MPEG4 system, a 
video is encoded into many GOPs. Three types of frames are 
generated in each GOP. The intra-frame (I-frame) is 
intra-coded which is encoded and decoded by itself. The 
compression concepts of I-frame are similar to JPEG 
encoding.  Predication frame (P-frame) is inter-coded that 
is generated by referring to the previous I-frame or P-frame. 
And B-frame is similar to P-frame, which is encoded by 
referring to the preceding and following I-frame and P-frame, 
or an interpolation between them. Within a GOP, typically 
I-frame is the first frame followed by a series of P-frames or 
B-frames. The pattern of GOP can be in form of IPPPP, 
IBPBP, or IBBPBBP, etc.  
III. SYSTEM IMPLEMENTATIONS 
As the Fig. 2 depicts, the system can be divided into 
four parts. These are SIP server, resident’s devices, door 
phone system, and remote control system. The relationship 
among these four parts is shown in Fig. 2. 
The role of SIP server is management equipment. All of 
SIP devices must register its current location to the SIP 
Server when the device connects to the networks. The 
connection setup and tear down among the resident’s devices, 
door phone system, and remote control system are also 
relying on the SIP server. At the same time, the remote 
control message is implemented by the SIP Instant 
Messaging. The resident generates control signal via SIP 
Instant Messaging. The control message is received by the 
Ethernet/ZigBee gateway. The Ethernet/ZigBee gateway 
translates the SIP message into ZigBee command to control 
the associated ZigBee devices. 
 
Fig. 2、The relationship among SIP server, door phone 
system, resident’s devices, and remote control system 
Hardware Platform: 
In this system, the door phone is implemented by TI 
DAVINCI TMS320DM6446 ARM platform with 
MontaVista Linux 2.6.10. In this platform, we come out the 
functions of video/audio real-time compression, video/audio 
streaming function, audio decoding, and SIP user agent. The 
SIP server is implemented by the personal computer (PC) 
with Linux platform. At the same time, we also realize three 
types of resident’s device which are ARM-based embedded 
platform with Linux, PC platform with Windows XP, and 
smart phone with Windows mobile 6. 
1, 2, -1
i
-1
1
        max_  { .... }
        -  ( );  function ( ) returns the length of P  frame 
      *2 , {      }
       .
  
i
k
i i i
r
i i
k
xor i
i
j
Encoder
r length P P P
r r f P f P
P P i all of P frames in GOP
P P
Decoder P is
Δ
=
=
Δ =
= ∈
=∑
：
： assume 
{1,2,.... -1}-
   
      ( )
      - ( );
      *2 i
xor
i i
r
j i xor
i k j
the lost P frame
r f P
r r f P
P P PΔ
=
=
Δ =
= +∑
incur packet loss which will corrupt the whole frame. At the 
same time, the effect of lost packet will be propagated to the 
following frames. Therefore, although all of the packets 
belonging to the successive frames are received correctly, 
they also cannot be successfully decoded due to the previous 
lost packet. To reduce the impact of packet loss in the quality 
of the video stream, this paper refers to the results of [11] to 
protect each I-frame and proposes a simple XOR-based FEC 
scheme to protect all of P-frames in GOP. Furthermore, an 
adaptive frame copy scheme is applied to reduce the 
overhead of I-frame protection. Fig. 7 illustrates the 
proposed I-frame and P-frame protection scheme. 
 
Fig. 7 I-frame/P-frame Protection Scheme 
A. I-frame Protection 
Typically, the average size of an I-frame is greater than 
the size of P-frame. For reducing the I-frame protection 
overhead, [11] proposes GOP N+1 scheme which encodes 
extra P-frame for I-frame protection. The major concept of 
GOP N+1 is to encode the first frame of a GOP into twice. 
The first encoding encodes the original video frame into 
P-frame belonged to previous GOP, which is a redundant 
frame for I-frame protection. The second time encodes the 
original frame into I-frame. As illustrated in Fig. 7, the 
original frame F5 is encoded twice, once called I-P frame 
which belongs to the previous GOP and once is I-frame 
which is belonged to the current GOP. The I-P frame is a 
redundant frame for protection the next GOP’s I-frame. In 
the receiver side, if the decoder detects I-frame loss, it uses 
the redundant I-P frame to replace the lost I-frame. 
B. P-frame Protection 
At the same time, for the P-frame protection, we 
propose a low-complexity XOR-based FEC which generates 
one extra P-frame, called PXOR frame, to protect all of the 
P-frames in a GOP, as Fig. 7 shows. The value of the PXOR 
frame is derived by the computation of the XOR adder in all 
of the P-frames in a GOP. That is, 
∑−
=
=
1
1
k
i
ixor PP  
Where the value k is the GOP size in the encoder side, 
and Pi is the ith P-frame in GOP. The symbol ∑ is the XOR 
adder. To be note, the computation of PXOR doesn’t need to 
include the I-P frame. 
As Fig. 7 depicts, if the packets belonging to the ith 
P-frame encounter packet loss in the receiving side, the Pi 
frame can be completely recovered by using the following 
computation: 
          ∑
≠∈
+=
}     { iPframePofallj
jxori PPP  
Fig. 8 shows the algorithm of the XOR-based FEC 
scheme. In the encoder side, the value r is the maximum 
P-frame length in a GOP, and irΔ  is different between r 
and the length of the ith P-frame. Thus, iriP
Δ∗ 2  stands for 
the appending of irΔ zeros to the ith P-frame. In the decoder 
side, the value of r can be easily derived from the length of 
PXOR frame. 
 
Fig. 8、The XOR-based FEC Scheme Algorithm 
V. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 
In this section, we compare the performance in terms of 
successful decoding all of GOP(x) frames rate and PSNR 
using different frame loss recovery schemes. The test 
sequence is the QCIF Foreman YUV420 video, which is 
encoded by MPEG 4. The GOP size is 10, and the QP value 
is 5. The network packet size is 1400 bytes.  
As expected, it has lower successful GOP decoding rate 
for all schemes when increasing packet loss rate, as Fig. 9 
shows. In this experiment, there are 8.39%, 9.23%, and 
16.75% overhead generated by the schemes of GOP N+1, 
XOR-based, and GOP N+1 & XOR-based for packet loss 
protection, respectively. Apparently GOP N+1, XOR-based, 
and XOR-based with GOP N+1 are superior to GOP N which 
doesn’t apply any packet loss protection scheme. As Fig. 9 
illustrates, the XOR-based with GOP N+1 has best decoding 
performance comparing to other schemes. Because GOP N+1 
protects each I-frame and XOR-based protects one of P 
frames, it results in 18% and 51.6% greater successful GOP 
decoding rate than GOP N. Since XOR-based with GOP N+1 
combines the ability of GOP N+1 and XOR-based to protect 
each I frame and one of P frames simultaneous. The 
mathematic results show that XOR-based with GOP N+1 has 
72.7% performance improvement than GOP N at 5% packet 
loss condition.  
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/05
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫六:具即時影音串流之居家安全監視與情境控制系統(2/2)
計畫主持人: 張慶龍
計畫編號: 99-2220-E-224-006- 學門領域: 自由軟體暨嵌入式系統
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
2011/4/13 第一屆 智慧感知與辨識 領域專題成果發表觀摩會 多媒體應用組
手機隨拍—發票辨試系統  第三名 
2011/4/13 第一屆 智慧感知與辨識 領域專題成果發表觀摩會 網際服務應用
組 商場室內導航  第三名 
2011/4/29 第五屆凌陽盃系統晶片創意應用設計大賽         題目：居家安全
多點監控即時影像串流系統 優等 
2011/7/7 數位生活科技研討會 ’應用於高鐵列車之視訊串流代理伺服器設
計’ 論文佳作 
2011 第五屆波蘭沙華國際發明展 ’網路視訊門鈴與控制系統’ 銀牌獎 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
