摘要 
 
本計畫以高能隙透明氧化物半導體p-CuAlO2/n-ZnO異質接面元件為主要研究對象。我們以薄膜
反應法以高於1000oC 在空氣中快速退火成功地製作出單一相的CuAlO2薄膜，如此製備的
CuAlO2薄膜本身即為高電阻率材料且粗糙的薄膜表面也會引入一些散射中心導致接觸電阻提
高，因此有待以PLD鍍膜摻雜來解決此問題。然而我們所依賴由本校奈米核心設施提供的脈衝
雷射一直無法正常運作，以致脈衝雷射鍍膜製程無法進行，因此修訂本計畫之研究重點，而以
CuAlO2薄膜的光性與電性為主題。 
 
Abstract 
 
Single-phase CuAlO2 films were successfully prepared by thin-film reaction of an 
Al2O3/Cu2O/sapphire sandwich structure. In this work, we investigate the optical and electrical 
properties of CuAlO2 thin films.  
Optical gap of our films were determined to be 3.75 eV. Optical transmittance depended on the 
temperature of thin film reaction. The best transmittance obtained was 60 % by annealing at 1100
o
C 
in air. Photoluminescence and cathodoluminescence measurements showed that the two peaks 
obtained are around 3.4 eV and 1.8 eV corresponding to UV and red emission. As a result of CuAlO2 
has an indirect gap about 1.8 eV, therefore, the red emission of the film could result from the indirect 
gap of CuAlO2 by phonon association emission. 
The electrical conductivity of the film related to the oxygen content was investigated by the 
annealing experiments in oxygen-deficient (vacuum) and oxygen-excess (air) ambient. The sheet 
resistance of CuAlO2 increases consistently with an increase in the duration of the vacuum annealing. 
Further annealing in air restores the sheet resistance to the original value. The highest conductivity 
obtained in this work was 0.57 S/cm. 
 
1. Introduction 
  
 Recently, wide bandgap oxide semiconductors have attracted much attention for their 
applications in optoelectronic devices such as UV diodes [1], gas sensors [2], transparent thin film 
transistors [3] and photovoltaic devices [4].  To form all oxide semiconductor devices, an oxide 
material with p-type conductivity is necessary.  A few p-type oxide semiconductors have been 
identified, including CuAlO2 [5], SrCu2O2 [6], LaCuOSe [7] and As-doped ZnO [8].  Among them, 
CuAlO2 is a good candidate because of its p-type conductivity without intentional doping and the 
abundance of the constituent elements.  However, the preparation of single-phase CuAlO2 is 
difficult when using various film deposition techniques.  Second phases such as Cu2O, Al2O3 and 
CuAl2O4 were found in the CuAlO2 films grown by chemical vapor deposition (CVD) [9] and 
reactive sputtering [10]. 
 CuAlO2 can be formed by the reaction of Cu2O and Al2O3 at a temperature as high as 1000
o
C 
according to the Cu2O-Al2O3 pseudo-binary phase diagram.  Based on this idea, we have 
successfully developed a simple and reproducible method to prepare single-phase CuAlO2 films by 
rapid thermal annealing of an Al2O3/Cu2O/sapphire sandwich structure [11].  In this article, we 
describe how to prepare CuAlO2 without second phase with suitable annealing conditions. In addition, 
formation mechanism of CuAlO2 has also been studied.  
 
 
 
2. Experimental Procedures 
 
 Thin films of CuAlO2 were prepared by the deposition of Cu2O and Al2O3 precursor films on 
(0001) sapphire and followed by rapid thermal annealing (RTA) above 1000
o
C to promote the 
formation of CuAlO2 through the reaction of Cu2O and Al2O3. Since Cu2O was turned into liquid 
phase and could form liquid droplets on the substrate during the annealing process, a thin Al2O3 layer 
coated on Cu2O was thus necessary to preserve a continuous Cu2O film for successful thin-film 
reaction. The precursor films of Cu2O and Al2O3 were deposited subsequently by reactive magnetron 
crystal of CuAlO2 is expand and remaining voids on CuAlO2 surface. 
 Metal-semiconductor junction is one of device building blocks. Among metal-semiconductor 
junction, Ohmic contact allows electrical current to flow easily with a negligibly small voltage drop. 
Ohmic contacts metal of CuAlO2 has not been reported yet. However, several promising metals have 
been reported for p-type semiconductor oxides, such as Mg-doped CuCrO2 and p-type ZnO. We can 
refer to these papers to select the material of Ohmic contacts. According to semiconductor physics, 
the formation of Ohmic contact should be satisfying two conditions: heavy doping and similar to the 
work function between metal and semiconductor. In this thesis, Cu, Al, Ni and Au were used as metal 
contact materials for CuAlO2. These metal contacts were deposited by sputtering. Cu and Al metal 
contacts were deposited by 70 W rf-power in Ar ambient for 10 min while the Ni contacts was 
deposited by 150 W rf-power. Metal contacts were patterned with mica mask, seeing figure 5.  
 Figure 6 shows the current-voltage (I-V) characteristics from Au, Al, Cu and Ni contacts to be 
an Ohmic-like behavior at as-deposited state. The contact resistance of these metals in order of were 
Al < Cu < Ni < Au by calculation of the slope of I-V curves. In general, Ni is a good Ohmic contact 
for p-type GaN and p-type ZnO. However, the contact resistance of as-deposited Ni contact is 
inferior to Al and Cu.  
 In order to improve the contact resistance, metal contacts are annealed to form metallization 
with sample. In general, the metallization process by post-annealing could form an alloy with 
semiconductor at the interface leading to form a metal deficiency layer near the surface of 
semiconductor, for example Zn1-δO. This deficiency layer can be created many vacancies and the 
increase of surface carrier concentration. Higher surface carrier concentration will reduce the contact 
resistance.  
Figure 6, 7, 8 and 9 are showing the I-V characteristics that metal contacts were subjected to 
thermal anneal in air or vacuum. We found that contact resistance was increased for all metals 
whether they annealed in air or vacuum. Similar results were also reported from Lim et al. According 
to their study, they found that the oxygen content at near surface of CuCrO2 was decreased by Auger 
electron spectroscopy (AES) depth profile analysis. In spite of they did not report what phases were 
formed at the interface between metal contacts and CuCrO2. We speculate the contact resistance 
increasing that could result from that the hole concentration decreased at the surface or insulator 
compounds formed at the interface between metal contacts and CuAlO2. In fact, Al, Cu and Ni are 
formed oxide readily and aluminum oxide is electrical insulator and the others two are 
semiconductors. When metal contacts were post-annealed in vacuum, metal oxides could be formed 
between metal and CuAlO2 because these metals are to have higher electron affinity. Higher electron 
affinity means that these metals are strong reductants. The oxygen extracts from the near-surface 
region of CuAlO2 by Al, Cu and Ni that will lead to decease the hole concentration at the surface 
region. Further analysis should be performed to gives convincing evidence to support our statement.  
 
 
Fig. 3 SEM image shows the surface morphology of CuAlO2 post-annealing in air 
using the sample post-annealing in vacuum.  
 
 
 
Fig. 4 SEM image shows the surface of CuAlO2 (a) as-grown and (b) post-annealing 
in vacuum. Insert shows the voids formed after post-annealing in vacuum. 
 
Fig. 7 Influence of annealing temperature on the current-voltage characteristics from 
Al contacts to CuAlO2. 
 
 
Fig. 8 Influence of annealing temperature on the current-voltage characteristics from 
Cu contacts to CuAlO2.
4. Optical properties of CuAlO2 thin film 
 
 In this section, the optical properties of CuAlO2 thin film were studied, including transmittance and 
PL. In general, TCO thin film is almost colorless. However, the color of as-grown CuAlO2 thin film was 
blue-grayish. The origin of coloration of CuAlO2 could result from weak homoatomic d
10
-d
10
 interactions 
between copper ions. The transmittance of CuAlO2 thin films were measured by spectrophotometer. The 
optical transmission spectrum of the CuAlO2 thin films were recorded from 300 nm to 1000 nm 
wavelength range. In order to realize the effect of annealing condition on transmittance, three CuAlO2 
samples were prepared by temperature ramp rate 7.3
o
C/sec at in air for 60 min and they were annealed at 
1120
o
C, 1100
o
C and 1000
o
C, respectively. Figure 10 shows the optical transmission spectra that the 
samples were prepared at different annealing temperature in air. It is clear seen the transmittance of the 
sample annealed at 1000 
o
C to be lower than that of annealed at 1100
o
C and 1120
o
C. In contrast to n-type 
TCO, highest transmittance of CuAlO2 in our lab was about 65% that is lower than n-type TCO (above 
80%). Several optical scattering mechanisms can decrease the transmittance, including surface roughness, 
defects and anisotropic of crystal orientation. These scattering mechanisms change the refractive index, 
leading to change the optical transmission.  
In order to realize the cause of lower optical transmission, we inspected the surface morphology and 
crystal structure of the films. Scattering mechanism by surface roughness is excluded because all the 
samples were very rough by observation of SEM. In addition, the crystal orientation seems to be not the 
cause of the optical scattering because all of samples are prefer-orientation along c-axis by the 
measurement of XRD, seeing figure 6-20. Therefore, the low transmittance for the sample preparing at 
1000
o
C could result from the defects in thin film. Figure 11 shows that CuAlO2 thin film was 
polycrystalline by thin film reaction at 1000
o
C and crystal quality of the sample preparing at 1000
o
C is 
worse than 1100
o
C. Therefore, many defects were resided in worse crystallinity of CuAlO2 thin film and it 
could lead to create scattering or absorption center in film to decrease the optical transmission of CuAlO2 
thin film. 
The estimation of optical band gap value of CuAlO2 film used the Tauc plot.  As a result of the 
CuAlO2 is to have direct and indirect gap, the Tauc plot of CuAlO2 films (ahv)
1/n
 vs. hv were plotted for the 
value of n to be 1/2 and 2, respectively. Figure 12 and 13 are showing direct and indirect gap Tauc plot for 
various annealing temperature. For direct gap plot, figure 12 shows that CuAlO2 was prepared above 
1100
o
C to have direct gap value of 3.75 eV while the sample was prepared at 1000
o
C to have direct gap 
value of 3.45 eV. These values are larger than the value of 3.5 eV for literature except the sample was 
prepared at 1000
o
C 1. Similarly, the value of indirect gap was also larger than the value of 1.8 eV for 
literature that are 2.53 eV and 2.79 eV, respectively 1.  
Several researchers have been reported that the band gap shift of CuAlO2 toward to higher band gap 
value. Banerjee and Chattopadhyay reported that the band gap shift of CuAlO2 was resulted from the 
size-effect, i.e. quantum confinement effect. In contrast to nanocrystalline CuAlO2, the grain size of our 
film was larger than 1 m. Thus, the interpretation of quantum confinement effect is not suitable for our 
case. In addition, Cai and Gong were also reported that the band gap shift of CuAlO2 was resulting from 
the variation of Cu/Al ratio in CuAlO2 thin film. They found that the band gap of CuAlO2 was toward to 
blue shift when the Cu/Al ratio is larger than 1.4 and the band gap split to two gaps. Bouzidi et al has also 
been reported similar result. In our experiments, the origin of blue shift of CuAlO2 thin film is not clear yet. 
However, the most probable explanation could be the variation of Cu/Al ratio because high temperature 
annealing will lead to loss substantial materials.  
Since the CuAlO2 is a direct band gap semiconductor. In general, direct band gap semiconductors can 
emit photons through radiative recombination process. Therefore, we expect that CuAlO2 can luminesce 
under excitation. Banerjee and Chattopadhyay reported that the photoluminescence of nano-crystalline 
CuAlO2 depends on the size of CuAlO2 crystal, i.e. quantum size effect. The emission peak of the 
nano-crystalline CuAlO2 is around 3.60 eV at room temperature while no photoluminescence peak was 
observed when the thickness of CuAlO2 film was thicker than 90 nm. However, the photoluminescence 
phenomenon of CuAlO2 is still unclear yet. Therefore, we try to fine out the origin of photoluminescence 
for CuAlO2.  
The CuAlO2 which it was prepared by temperature ramp rate 7.3
o
C/sec at 1100
o
C in air for 60 min 
  
Fig. 10 Optical transmission spectra of annealing products obtained at different 
annealing temperature.  
 
Fig. 11 XRD data of thin film reaction products after annealing at different 
temperatures. 
 
 
Fig. 14 Photoluminescence spectra of CuAlO2 film was measured at room 
temperature. (a) as-grown sample; (b) post-anneal at 800
o
C for 20 min in air. 
 
 
 
Fig. 15 Photoluminescence spectra of CuAlO2 film was measured at room 
temperature. (a) as-grown sample; (b) HNO3 etching for 10 min. 
 
