 2 
rules to handle the ambiguous information and assist company to find their optimal pricing 
decision in a rational manner, under the assumptions that during the bargaining process, 
information of each party’s cost spent in the bid preparation and execution of work is already 
known, and each party’s demand for the project is not. 
There are many factors could affect company’s pricing on a specific project. However, 
previous research has pointed out that the outcome of a bargaining is highly influenced by stakes 
of the bargainers, the bargainer’s level of dependence on the outcomes of bargining.  
Accordingly, this research focused on the variable, demand for the project, which is used to 
represent company’s level of dependence on the proft from a JV project.  A sequential 
bargaining model is developed upon game theory, which is used to estimate acceptable prices in 
accordance with each party’s cost and demand for the project.  Furthermore, fuzzy logic is used 
to quantify company’s demand for the project, which always features a certain degree of 
uncertainty. 
 
2. Modeling the sequential bargaining process 
The bargaining between two parties of a JV team is modeled as a sequential bargaining 
process.  In this model, the participants are termed as “players”. 
 
2.1 Basic symbols in the model 
 k: Participants in the bargaining model, in which k=1 refers to player A while k=2 refers to 
player B. 
 n: Round of bargaining. 
 E: Total contract amount estimated through announced budget information and market price 
before negotiation.  The total contract amount is a fixed bidding price which is assumed to win 
the bid.  As agreement is reached, E=x
*
+y
*
, in which x
*
 refers to payment obtained by player 
A, and y
*
 refers to payment obtained by player B. 
 xn: Player A’s offer for its works in the n
th
 round. 
 yn: Player B’s offer for its works in the n
th
 round. 
 C
k
: Cost estimated by the player k according to individual work scopes (including bid 
preparation cost).  Since information associated with market prices of materials and labor is 
quite open, it is assumed that both parties in the bargaining can obtain clear awareness of each 
other’s cost. 
 F: Total profit of the project.  F=E-C
1
-C
2
. 
 Bc
k
: The bid preparation cost shared by player k. 
 P: Probability of failure in the bargaining.  In this model, the failing probabilities of each 
bargaining round are the same. 
 
k
nL ：Expected loss when agreement is not settled.  The “loss” includes the cost previously paid 
for bid preparation and potential profits in the project. 
 
2.2 The sequential bargaining model 
It is assumed that bargaining begins with the offer proposed by player A in round 1 (n=1), 
 4 
any price higher than xn- P 1nL  would be accepted by player A, player B’s offer in the (n-1)
th
 
round should be E-xn+ P 1nL .  Similarly, for player B, in the (n-1)
th
 round, the expected payoff in 
the (n-1)
th
 round should be E-xn+ P 1nL -P
2
1−nL .  In addition, since player A understands that, in the 
(n-2)
th
 round, any price higher than E-xn+P 1nL -P
2
1−nL  would be accepted by player B, player A’s 
offer in the (n-2)
th
 round should be xn-P 1nL +P
2
1−nL .  Table 2 shows the prices acceptable to player 
A and player B in the last three rounds as per induced by Backward Induction method. 
 
Table 2. Acceptable prices for player A and player B 
Round Acceptable price for player A Acceptable price for player B 
n-2 xn-P 1nL +P 
2
1−nL
 E-xn+P 1nL -P 
2
1−nL  
n-1 xn-P 1
nL
 E-xn+P 1nL  
n xn   
 
Based on the concept of equilibrium, a player cannot produce a better price from the one 
whoever found at n
th
 round.  Therefore, the equilibrium price can only be solved when player 
A’s offer in the n
th
 and (n-2)
th
 round are the same. 
2
1n
1
nnn PLPLxx −+−=  
2
1n
1
n LL −=⇒                                                              (1) 
 
3. Determining the JV equilibrium price function 
In this research, the expected loss ( k
nL ) includes the cost paid for bid preparation plus potential 
profits in the project.  However, the “situation theory” [6] of bargaining suggests that potential 
profits considered by a player in the bargaining should be the additional profit which can not be 
gained from other projects.  If a player has other opportunities that may earn the same amount of 
profit, there is no potential profit for this project.  Therefore, this research developed a variable, 
demand for the project (S
k
), to encompass the above concept. 
Losses expected by player A and player B are as follows: 
11
1n
11
n SCyEBcL )( −−+= −                                                    (2) 
22
1n
22
n SCxEBcL )( −−+= −                                                       (3) 
 
Value of S
k
 is assumed to fall between 0 and 1; the higher the value, the higher the demand for 
the project, and vice versa.  0 indicates that the player can earn the same profit from other 
opportunities and doesn’t need this profit at all. 
The values (0~1) of S
k
 are of relative ratio.  When player A and player B of the JV team invest 
in different scales, profits should be shared proportionally.  For example, if a construction 
project requires that player A is responsible for 60% of the total cost while player B takes charge 
of the rest 40%, then player A who invests more are expected to enjoy a higher amount of profit 
for the sake of fairness.  Thus, the scale of investment should be considered.  Player A’s 
 6 
“S” and thus forced to lower its offer for better opportunities.  On the contrary, if SR is reached, 
this company's “S” is relatively low.  In this research, the degree of “S” is regarded in terms of 
the company’s fulfillment of SR.  The lower the degree of reaching SR, the higher the 
company’s “S”.  The degree of fulfillment in SR is closely related to received revenues and 
potential business prospects in the future.  Moreover, future revenue is associated with future 
business opportunities and the level of competition.  Thus, three factors, “received revenues”(R), 
“future business opportunities”(F), and “level of competition”(L), are used to estimate a 
company’s “S”. 
 
4.2 Fuzzy sets and membership functions 
Both “R” and “F” are evaluated against the company's degree of fulfillment toward SR.  For 
example, if “R”/SR yields a value of 0.9 (covering 90% of its SR), it is suggested that this 
company’s “R” is rather high.  Both “R” and “F” may exceed SR, so values of these two items 
range between 0~2 and are further divided into three degrees of “High”, “Moderate”, and “Low”.  
As for the variable of “L”, the value is represented by “number of competitors”, which is the 
most frequently used criteria for measurement on competition level in previous research.  
According to the statistics of projects from traffic construction project supervising agencies in 
Taiwan, the “number of competitors” ranges from 3 to 13, and the average is 7 [8].  Therefore, 
this research ranges the value of “L” from 3 to 15 so as to include some extremely competitive 
cases (3 competitors is the minimum requirement for open bids); higher values indicate higher 
level of competition, which is also divided into three levels of “High”, “Moderate”, and “Low”.  
“S” is defined in the range between 0 and 1, and further divided into three levels of “High”, 
“Moderate”, and “Low”. 
Membership functions commonly used include triangular functions and bell-shaped functions 
[9].  To demonstrate the concept more efficiently, triangular functions are used in this research 
(see Fig. 1). 
 
0 1 2
0 1 2
3 7 15
0 0.5 1
0
1
0
1
0
1
0
1
H
H
HM
M
M
L
L L
HML
Demand for the Project
Received Revenues
Future Business Opportunities
Level of Competition
 
Fig. 1. Membership functions of each criterion and output 
 
4.3 The IF-THEN rules 
Company’s perceptions about the counterpart’s demand for the project can be grouped into 
three rule categories as follows: 
 If a company’s “R” is high, and: (a) “F” is high, then expected “D” will be low; (b) in other 
 8 
6. Reference 
[1] S.R. Norwood and N.R. Mansfield, “Joint venture issues concerning European and Asian 
construction markets of the 1990’s”, International Journal of Project Management, vol. 17, 
no. 2, pp.89-93, 1999. 
[2] H. Lai, A Theoretical Basis for Negotiation Support Systems, unpublished doctoral 
dissertation, University of Purdue, 1989. 
[3] H. Raiffa, The Art and Science of Negotiation, Mass: the Belknap press of Harvard 
University press, 1982. 
[4] B.R. Myerson, Game Theory, Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1991. 
[5] R. Gibsons, Game Theory for Applied Economist, Princeton University Press, Princeton, 
N.J., 1992. 
[6] S.B. Bacharach and J.L. Edward, Bargaining Power, Tactics and Outcome, San Francisco: 
Jossey-Bass, 1981. 
[7] R.I. Carr, “Competitive Bidding and Opportunity Costs”, Journal of Construction 
Engineering and Management, vol. 113, no. 1, pp. 151-165, 1987. 
[8] M.R. Yan, W. Lo, C.L. Lin, “Critical driving force for contractor’s opportunistic bidding 
behavior in public works”, Proc. of the first international conference on construction 
engineering and management, Seoul, Korea, 2005. 
[9] W.D. Yu, M.J. Skibniewski, “A neuro-fuzzy computational approach to constructability 
knowledge acquisition for construction technology evaluation”, Automation in Construction, 
vol. 8, no. 5, pp. 539-552, 1999. 
[10] W. Lo, M.R. Yan, A Sequential Bargaining Model for Pricing Decisions in Joint Venture 
Projects, The Fifth International Conference on Engineering Computational 
Technology(ECT), Las Palmas de Gran Canaria, Spain, September, 2006. 
[11] C.L. Lin, W. Lo, M.R. Yan, Bargaining Strategies for Construction Joint Ventures by Fuzzy 
Logic, 11th International Conference on Fuzzy Theory and Technology(FTT), Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan, October, 2006. 
 
 
2Abstract
As the modern construction market and environment encounter drastic changes, a
single company alone can no longer manage a complex project and satisfy project
owner’s needs.  Joint venture (JV) of companies, formed to integrate various 
expertises, becomes a necessity to obtain competitive advantages to ensure survival
in the fiercely competitive market. While two profit-oriented companies intend to
form a JV for a particular project, it is relatively easy to divide the work scope by
each party’s specialties, yet to reach an agreement on the sharing of rewards is
always a challenge. This research is designed to incorporate game theory and fuzzy
logic for the development of a sequential bargaining model, which can be used to
estimate acceptable prices of JV parties in accordance with each party’s cost and 
demand for the project. The research results can assist companies, which intend to
form a JV, to understand their bargaining positions and select the bargaining
strategy in a systematic and rational manner.
Keywords: bargaining, joint venture, game theory, fuzzy logic, pricing, model
1 Introduction
In recent decades, the construction projects have become larger and more complex,
and the application of alternative procurement systems such as design-build (DB)
and build-operate-transfer (BOT) have been increased. A growing number of
construction projects have exceeded the scope that can be handled solely by a single
company. More and more companies take parts in construction projects by means of
joint venture (JV) [1]. Through the manipulation of the appropriate resources, JV
may bring about different kinds of benefits to participating companies, such as
reduced cost [2], knowledge sharing [3], and resource complementarities [4]. JV has
become an important strategy for construction companies in response to the
A Sequential Bargaining Model for Pricing Decisions in Joint
Venture Projects
Wei Lo* and Min-Ren Yan+
*Department of Construction Engineering,
National Kaohsiung First University of Science and Technology, Taiwan
+Institute of Engineering Science and Technology,
National Kaohsiung First University of Science and Technology, Taiwan
42.1 Basic symbols and assumptions
It is assumed that the two players always try to maximize their payoffs and both
players are assumed risk neutral. The utility function can be used to modify this
model in cases of the players have other risk attitudes. Definitions of each basic
symbol and assumption in the model are as follows:
k = Players in the bargaining, k = a refers to player A while k = b refers to player
B.
n = Round of bargaining. Each player’s offer accounts for a round.
E = Total contract amount estimated based on announced budget information
and market price. The total contract amount is assumed the award price. As
agreement is reached, E=a*+b*, in which a* refers to payment obtained by
player A, and b* refers to payment obtained by player B.
an = Player A’s quotation for its work scope in thenth round. In this model,
player A makes the first offer, a1, in the 1st round for its work scope, leaving E-
a1 to player B. Further, since both parties take turns to offer a price, only when
the number of round is odd (n =1,3,5,…) can player A offer its price.
bn = PlayerB’s quotation for its workscope in the nth round. As assumed above,
first player A offers a1 in the 1st round for its work scope, and then player B may
make a counteroffer, b2, for its work scope, leaving E-b2 to player A. Since both
parties take turns to offer, only when the number of round is even (n =2,4,6,…) 
can player B offer its price.
Ck = Cost estimated by the player k according to individual work scopes. Ca
indicates player A's cost; Cb indicates player B's cost. Since information
associated with market prices of materials and labor is quite open, it is assumed
in this research that both parties in the bargaining can obtain clear awareness of
each other’s cost.
F = Total profit of the project. F=E-Ca-Cb.
P = Probability of failure in the bargaining. Since bargaining between players is
a repetitive process of offer-counteroffer, when the round of bargaining n→∞,
the P in each round will be very close. Thus, in this model, the probabilities of
failure in any bargaining round are assumed the same.
Lk(n) = The loss of potential profits when agreement is not settled.
2.2 Sequential bargaining process
In this model, it is assumed that bargaining begins with the offer proposed by player
A in round 1 (n=1), and there are three possible reponses from player B: (a) accepts
the offer, (b)rejects the offer and closes the bargaining, and (c)makes a counteroffer.
If player B makes a counteroffer, then similarly, player A may accept, reject, or
make a counteroffer to player B. Usually the bargaining is an offer-counteroffer
process till the nth round, an agreement is reached, or the bargaining is given up.
Accordingly, different rewards or loss in each round are expected (as shown in
6possessing the knowledge of the strategies of other players. In Nash equilibrium,
each player’s strategy shouldrespond to the other player’s strategy, and no player 
wants to deviate from the equilibrium solution [8]. Thus, the equilibrium price of
sequential bargaining process is a best price for both parties under the sets of
information and bargaining situation.
The equilibrium of sequential bargaining can be solved through “Backward 
Induction”method [9]. According to the method, whether a player accepts the
counterpart’s ofer depends on his expectation on the rewards in the next round.
Only when the reward offered by the counterpart exceeds or equals what is expected
would a player accept the offer and settle the agreement.
So, if player A offers the highest price of an at the nth round (n ≥ 3), a potential
loss, PLa(n), may be incurred, thus the expected payoff of player A in the nth round is
an- PLa(n). Furthermore, since player B knows that, in the (n-1)th round, any price
higher than an- PLa(n) would be accepted by player A, player B’sbest offer in the (n-
1)th round should be E-an+ PLa(n). Similarly, for player B, in the (n-1)th round, the
expected payoff in the (n-1)th round should be E-an+ PLa(n)–PLb(n-1). In addition,
since player A understands that, in the (n-2)th round, any price higher than E-an+
PLa(n)–PLb(n-1) would be accepted by player B, and player A’soffer in the (n-2)th
round should be an–PLa(n)+PLb(n-1). Table 1 shows the prices acceptable to player A
and player B in the last three rounds as per induced by Backward Induction method.
Round Acceptable price for player A Acceptable price for player B
n-2 an -PLa(n)+PLb(n-1) E-an+ PLa(n) -PLb(n-1)
n-1 an- PLa(n) E-an+ PLa(n)
n an
Table 1: Acceptable prices for player A and player B
Based on the concept of equilibrium, the player cannot produce a price better than
an. Therefore, the equilibrium price can only be solved when player A’s offer in the
nth and (n-2)th round are the same.
an = an -PLa(n)+PLb(n-1)
→La(n)=Lb(n-1) (1)
3 Equilibrium price function
In this research, Lk(n) is the loss of potential profits in the JV project. However, the
bargaining theory [7] suggests that potential profits considered by a player in the
bargaining should be the additional profit which can not be gained from other
projects. If a player has other opportunities that may earn the same amount of profit,
there is no potential profit for this project. Therefore, this research developed a
variable, demand for the project (Sk), to encompass the above concept. Losses
expected by player A and player B are as follows:
840.00
42.00
44.00
46.00
48.00
50.00
52.00
54.00
56.00
58.00
60.00
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
S a
a*
S2 is fixed as 0.1 S2 is fixed as 0.4 S2 is fixed as 0.7 S2 is fixed as 0.9
Figure 2: The impacts of Sa on a*
40.00
42.00
44.00
46.00
48.00
50.00
52.00
54.00
56.00
58.00
60.00
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
S b
a*
S1 is fixed as 0.1 S1 is fixed as 0.4 S1 is fixed as 0.7 S1 is fixed as 0.9
Figure 3: The impacts of Sb on a*
Ca+F
Ca
b b b Sb
Ca+F
Ca
a a a Sa
10
three degrees of “High”, “Moderate”, and “Low”.  As for the variable of “L”, the 
value is represented by“number of competitors”, which is the most frequently used
criteria for measurement on competition level in previous research. According to
the statistics of projects from traffic construction project supervising agencies in
Taiwan, the“number of competitors”ranges from 3 to 13, and the average is 7 [11].
Therefore, this research ranges the value of “L”from 3 to 15 so as to include some
extremely competitive cases (3 competitors is the minimum requirement for open
bids); higher values indicate higher level of competition, which is also divided into
three levels of “High”, “Moderate”, and “Low”. “S”is defined in the range between
0 and 1, and further divided into three levels of “High”, “Moderate”, and “Low”.
Membership functions commonly used include triangular functions and bell-shaped
functions [12]. To demonstrate the concept more efficiently, triangular functions are
used in this research (see Figure 4).
0 1 2
0 1 2
3 7 15
0
1
0
1
0
1
H
H
HM
M
M
L
L
L
0 0.5 1
0
1
HML
Demand for the Project
Received Revenues
Future Business Opportunities
Level of Competition
Figure 4: Membership functions of each criterion and output
4.3 The IF-THEN rules
Company’s perceptions about the counterpart’s demand for project can be grouped
into three rule categories as follows:
If a company’s “R” is high, and: (a) “F” is high, then expected “S”will be low;
(b) in other cases, the expected“S”will be moderate.
If a company’s “R” is moderate, and : (a) “F” is high while “L” is low, then the 
“S”will be low; (b)”F” is not high, then a high “S”is expected; (c) in other cases,
the expected“S”will be moderate.
If a company’s “R” is low, and : (a) ”F” is high while “L” is low, then the“S”
will be moderate; (b) in other cases, the expected“S”will be high.
12
Information Company A Company B
Estimated total amount of
the project (E) 3,229 million dollars
Work scope Station portion Tunnel portion
Estimated cost
(Ca and Cb)
1,180 million dollars 1,770 million dollars
Estimated total profit of
the project (F) 279 million dollars
Table 3: Information of the JV project
For the company A, the highest price is cost (Ca) + Estimated total profit (F)
=1,180 million dollars +279 million dollars =1,459 million dollars. On the other
hand, the highest price of company B is Cb + F =1,770 million dollars +279 million
dollars =2,049 million dollars. But in reality, these prices were hardly accepted by
both parties. Therefore, to expedite the bargaining and make a rational bargaining
strategy, both parties need to collect the information about each party’s demand for 
the project and estimate the values of Sa and Sb. Based on the information implied in
each party’s “received revenues”, “future business opportunities”, and “level of 
competition”, Sa and Sb estimated by company A are 0.58 and 0.83, respectively.
Then the company A that used the equilibrium price function may infer that it may
earn 1,316.22 million dollars while the company B may receive 1,912.78 million
dollars.
Figure 5: The suggested a* based on the estimation of company A
S a is fixed as 0.58
1150
1170
1190
1210
1230
1250
1270
1290
1310
1330
1350
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
S b
a*
(m
ill
io
n
da
lla
rs
)
