行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
多維度生理訊號診斷系統在創傷病患急救復甦之應用 
Apply Multi-Dimensional Physiological Signal Diagnosis System to Trauma 
Resuscitation 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 96-2221-E-002-305 
執 行 期 限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：韓吟宜   國立臺灣大學醫學院(附設醫院)創傷醫學部 
計畫參與人員：劉育瑋   元智大學機械工程研究所碩士班 
 
一、中文摘要 
意外事件為國人十大死因之一，以創傷佔其
中最大比例，故如何準確評估嚴重創傷患者身體
狀態，以降低嚴重創傷患者死亡率與併發症，一
直是醫療團隊努力的方向。 
研究的主要目的是希望利用工程分析理論，
建立創傷加護病房病患的診斷系統，來協助並指
導整個嚴重創傷病患之急救復甦流程。希望能利
用工程理論來建立血壓訊號與人體循環及各子系
統間的關係。但由於嚴重創傷病患病情複雜，為
避免過多無法控制的變數干擾研究的進行，因此
在研究的初期，我們希望先藉由較單純的“缺血－
再灌流”模型，來協助建立組織缺血指標。我們選
擇全膝關節置換術（Total Knee Replacement，簡稱
TKR）的病患來進行研究初期資料的收集與分
析，之後再進一步推展到較複雜的嚴重創傷病患。 
本研究內容，先以經驗模態分解法，將複雜
的血壓訊號分解成許多簡單部分，探討血壓訊號
與下肢組織缺血的相關性指標（Ischemia Index），
利用探究全膝關節置換術的病患下肢的缺血程度
及生理病理變化。 
關鍵詞：創傷急救、組織缺氧再灌流、經驗模態
分解法、全膝關節置換術 
Abstract 
The important purpose of this study is to design 
an online monitor system for the resuscitation of 
traumatic shock at the trauma intensive care unit. The trauma 
critical care presents a variety of challenges. The major 
causes responsible for the mortality in the 1st hour are head 
injury and hemorrhagic shock from thoracic vascular injury, 
and that for late mortality is multiple organ failure. One of the 
key factors for the progression from the initial tissue injury 
and hemorrhage to multiple organ failure is persistent tissue 
ischemia, which leads to death finally. It can’t be emphasized 
enough that to deliver an early and adequate resuscitation is 
very important to decrease the mortality and morbidity of 
major trauma patients. 
The physiological signals, including arterial blood 
pressure（ABP）, heart rate and arterial oxygen saturation, are 
the common monitoring for the critical illness. However, 
they can’t simply reflect the adequacy of tissue perfusion and 
oxygenation. But, the traumatic patients usually accompany 
other complications and clinical treatments. In the initial stage, 
the study takes the simple model which is total knee 
replacement（TKR）operation to avoid the uncontrollable 
factors which will influence the experiment. 
Hence ,in this study, ABP is analyzed with empirical 
mode decomposition in order to establish an effective 
ischemic index for accessing the pathophysiology of 
ischemia-reperfusion injury. 
Keywords：Trauma Resuscitation, Ischemia -Reperfusion Injury, 
Empirical Mode Decomposition, Total Knee Replacement 
1 
解法為主軸，來滿足訊號局部性的要求。並參考
其他分析理論，來建立此診斷模型。 
（A） 經驗模態分解法（Empirical  Mode 
Decomposition , EMD） 
美國太空總署的華裔科學家黃鍔博士於1998
年所發展出的一種非線性分析方法，原先的目的
主要是處理自然界中最為複雜的海浪波訊號
[4,5]。利用訊號中特徵時間尺度來定義其振動模
態，然後依據它來分解訊號，這是一個有系統的
方法用來解析出內建模態函數（Intrinsic Mode 
Function, IMF），又可稱為轉移過程（Shifting 
Process），此分解法分別地使用極大值包絡線與極
小值包絡線取得均值包絡線為m1 ，而原始訊號與
均值包絡線之差即是第一個分量，稱為 h1: 
       ( ) 11 hmtX =−
第二次轉移過程中，把 h1 當作是原來的訊
號，然後， 
        11111 hmh =−
（B） 固有模態分析法 ( Intrinsic Mode 
Analysis , IMA) 
依據經驗模態分析法分解原訊號結果，可
利用公式(1)(2)計算其模態函數(IMF)之能量
密度與平均週期大小。 
        
( )[∑
=
=
N
1j
2
nC
1E j
Nn
]         （1）    
     
1
,ln,ln
lnlnT
−
∫ ∫ ⎟⎠⎞⎜⎝⎛= T
TdSTdS nTnTn     （2）    
    Yeh et al[6]設計可利用能量密度與平均週
期大小來計算固有模態分析法中的相異度數
值 (公式 3)，將兩時間數列計算出來的值可代
表其兩數列之相異度，當數值越大時，表示兩
數列相異度越大。 
  
                                         
    展示了經過第二次轉移後即可得到更佳的結
果，現在所有的局部極大值都是正的，所有的局
部極小值都是負的，但是許多波仍然是不對稱
的。可以重複轉移的過程k次，直到h1k 是個 IMF。 
          ( ) kkk hmh 1111 =−−  
最後指定       
              
    整體來說，c 應該是包含訊號中最佳的時間尺
khc 11 =  
1
    轉移過程可以靠著決定的規範來停止，因為訊
度或者是最短週期的分量，可以從原來訊號中分
離 c1及餘數 r1，包含較長週期分量，所以它即被
當成新的資料並且再用上述相同的轉移過程來做
處理。 
( ) NN
1i
n rCtX += ∑
=
 
號都有一個趨勢（Trend），最後的餘數必須為單調
函數或常數。 
  （3）( ) ( )( ) ( )∑
∑
=
=
⋅−
⋅⋅−= n
k kk
kk
n
k kkD 1 ,,
EEn
EETT
SS
1 ,2,1
,2,121
21
1
lnln
,
 
四、結果與討論 
本研究至今量測病患下如表所示，針對
進行 TKR 手術病患作監測紀錄。 
 
■ 計劃成果自評 
從開刀房擷取病患的動脈血壓訊號資
料，由於每次手術的時間長度皆不同，初步先
將資料依每三十秒為單位分割，主要是為了觀
察每一短暫時間的變化，且由於過長的資料會
增加分析的複雜度。分割後的血壓訊號(如
Fig.4)，直接經由 EMD 解構成 8 個 IMF(如 Fig. 
5)，每個 IMF 均分布於不同頻寬處，且皆可
能隱藏其物理意義。 
 
Fig.4  30 秒動脈血壓訊號。 
3 
 A new approach of spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity based on  
detrended fluctuation analysis: methodology and an application 
Yin-Yi Han1, Jia-Rong Yeh2, Yu-Wei Liu2, Jiann-Shing Shieh2 
 
Obviously, both SAP and R-R interval are nonlinear and 
non-stationary physiological signals [6, 7]. However, Fourier 
transform applied in cross-spectral analysis is only suitable for 
linear systems [8]. Thus, in this investigation, we propose a 
different approach of evaluating the baroreflex mechanism 
based on an innovative signal analysis algorithm of detrended 
fluctuation analysis (DFA). DFA is a signal analysis algorithm 
applied in nonlinear and non-stationary systems [9]. In DFA, 
the time series of nonlinear and non-stationary signal is 
detrened by last square lines and the fluctuation is presented 
using the root-mean-square (RMS) energy of detrended time 
series. Different from the spectral analysis, DFA presents the 
relationship between the fluctuations of detrended time series 
and the timescales of trends. We proposed that the gain values 
between the detrended fluctuations of SAP and R-R interval are 
also a promising factor for evaluating the baroreflex response. 
Whereas this new analysis algorithm is based on DFA, it is 
named as DFA-based baroreflex sensitivity analysis. 
  
Abstract—Cardiac baroreflex function may be assessed from 
spontaneous fluctuation of systolic arterial pressure (SAP) and 
R-R interval. In previous studies, time-domain sequence and 
cross-spectral analysis had been applied to present the 
baroreflex response of cardiac system. Detrended fluctuation 
analysis (DFA) is also a promising algorithm to evaluate the 
fluctuations under various timescales. Thus, we proposed a 
new approach of spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity (SBR) 
analysis based on the technique of DFA. Meanwhile, the 
proposed methodology was applied to analyze the blood 
pressure signal during the surgery of total knee replacement 
(TKR) in this investigation. Analysis results show significant 
differences among the values of SBR under various stages of 
surgical operations. 
 
Keywords—Cardiac baroreflex function, systolic arterial 
pressure (SAP), detrended fluctuation analysis (DFA), 
sensitivity of  baroreflex (SBR), total knee replacement (TKR). In this study, we present an application of the DFA-based 
baroreflex sensitivity analysis in three surgical operations of 
total knee replacement (TKR). TKR is a common surgery for 
elder patients. During the process of surgical operation, the 
blood flow is blocked to reduce the leakage of blood. And, the 
blocking is relaxed after operation. Thus, we divide the process 
of TKR surgery to three stages (i.e., before operation, during 
operation, and after operation). It is obvious that a sequence of 
bio-chemical and physiological reactions happened during the 
process of TKR surgery. So, the changes of physiological 
mechanism are complex and unpredictable. Thus, the aim of 
this investigation is narrowed down to focus on the response of 
baroreflex mechanism.   
I. INTRODUCTION 
ardiac baroreflex may be assessed from beat-to-beat 
fluctuations of systolic arterial pressure (SAP) and R-R 
interval.  
Based on the baroreflex mechanism, baroreflex responses 
can be traced via sequences of three or more consecutive beats 
in which SAP and R-R interval changed in the same direction 
[1-3]. As a different approach of baroreflex response, the 
cross-spectral analysis of SAP and R-R interval had been 
proposed to derive the HF and MF gains between spectra of 
SAP and R-R interval [4, 5]. The beat-to-beat SAP and R-R 
interval data had been re-sampled at a rate of 4Hz. Furthermore, 
the trend of re-sampled data had been removed by Hanning 
window before spectral analysis. The analysis result of 
cross-spectral analysis shows baroreflex response can be 
observed in HF gains but not significant in MF gains.  
 
Manuscript received February 5, 2007: Revised version received November 
7, 2007.  This work was supported  by the National Science Council (NSC) of 
Taiwan (Grant Number NSC96-2221-E-002-305) 
Yin-Yi Han is with the Department of Trauma, National Taiwan Univ
Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan. She is also a Ph.D. student in the Electrical 
Engineering Department, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.  (e-mail: 
noviahan@ gmail.com).  
e rsity 
                 2.1 Spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity (SBR) 
Jia-Rong Yeh is with the Department of Mechanical Engineering, Yuan Ze 
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan (e-mail: s939205@mail.yzu.edu.tw). 
Yu-Wei Liu is with Department of Mechanical Engineering, Yuan Ze 
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan (e-mail: s965035@mail.yzu.edu.tw). 
    Jiann-Shing Shieh is with Department of Mechanical Engineering, Yuan Ze 
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan (phone: 886-3-4638800 ext:2470, fax: 
883-3-4558013, e-mail: jsshieh@saturn.yzu.edu.tw). 
According to the analysis results of DFA-based baroreflex 
sensitivity analysis, there are significant differences among 
three stages of surgery. However, the number of study cases is 
too less to derive a medical conclusion. And, the new approach 
ignores some critical assumption. Thus, the further 
investigation of both methodology and clinical applications 
should be conduct in the future works. 
II. METHODS 
Spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity is determined by the ratio 
between the changes of SAP and R-R interval. The calculation 
of SBR had originally proposed by Bertinieri et al. and further 
modified. Basically, the change of SAP triggers the change of 
R-R interval. The modified method traces the sequences with 
R-R interval lags of 0, 1, and 2. The heart beat in which SAP 
affects the R-R interval of the same beat is noted as lag 0. The 
C 
 
 down when the operation was completed and blocking of 
blood flow was relaxed. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 3  The data of SAP and R-R interval for one out of the 
three patients in this investigation. (a)  The R-R interval; (b) 
The SAP. 
 
IV. RESULTS 
The analysis results were presents in three parts. In the first 
part, we presented a complete analysis result for one out of the 
three cases. We also presented the final results of three cases 
in the second part. Finally, we make a table and take a 
comparison among the analysis results of three cases.  
Fig. 4 shows a complete analysis result for one study case. 
Fig. 4(a) shows the detrended fluctuations of R-R interval 
against their corresponding timescale for three stages. The 
scale of fluctuations of R-R interval at stage 1 is bigger than 
those at the other two stages. However, Fig. 4(b) shows a 
different result for SAP. We found the fluctuation of SAP at 
stage 3 is bigger than those at the other two stages. Moreover, 
Fig. 4(c) shows the final gain values between SAP and R-  
interval. In this case, the fluctuation of R-R interval is strong 
and the gain value shows a more sensitive baroreflex response 
at stage 1. Moreover, the gain values are low at both stages 2 
and 3. It presents a lower sensitivity of baroreflex response at 
stages 2and 3. 
Additionally, we conducted the same analysis to the second 
and third cases. The analysis results are shown in Fig. 5. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Fig. 4 A complete analysis result of one patient. (a) The plot 
of detrended fluctuation of R-R interval. (b) The plot of 
detrended fluctuation of SAP. (c) The gain values of 
fluctuation between R-R interval and SAP. 
R 
The analysis results of the other two cases are similar to 
those of the first case. The gain values at the stage 1 are always 
bigger than those at the other two stages. For different cases, 
the gain values distribute on various range. It shows the 
individual property of baroreflex mechanism. 
 
  
non-stationary time series analysis. Proc. R. Soc. Lond. 
A(1998); 454:903-995. 
[7] Costa M, Goldberger AL, Peng CK. Multiscale entropy 
analysis of complex physiologic time series. Physical review 
letters, 2002; vol. 89; No. 6. 
[8] Brockwell PJ, Davis RA. Time series: theory and methods. 
New York : Springer,1991. 
[9] Goldberger AL, Amaral LAN, Hausdorff JM, Ivanov PCH, 
Peng CK, Stanley HE. Fractal dynamics in physiology: 
Alterations with disease and aging. Proc Natural Acad. Sci. 
USA, 2002; 99:2466-2472. 
