 1
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 □期中進度報告
■期末報告
 
運用 GPS 衛星速度強化高精度 GPS 廣播星曆估算 
The Augmentation of GPS Broadcast Ephemeris Estimation with Using 
GPS Satellite Velocity 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-006 -103 - 
執行期間：100 年 8 月  1 日至 101 年 9 月 30 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立成功大學 航空太空工程學系 
 
計畫主持人：何慶雄 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：張玴華 郭家均 陳富坤 張躍騰 謝易宸 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國報告： 
□赴國外移地研究心得報告 
□赴大陸地區移地研究心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 一百零一年 十二月 二日 
附件一 
 3
of absolute location. To accomplish that, satellite absolute position (or orbit) is retrieved from satellite signals 
so as to compute user absolute position. The orbit is updated every two hours and is often referred to as 
broadcast ephemeris (BE). There are many approaches regarding the technique have been developed in 
improving satellite-based positioning. In [6], the iterative computation with bias model is adopted to improve 
location accuracy. The signal modulation in high order form with two-stage searching method is applied for a 
faster code acquisition [7]. To improve online efficiency for local tracking system, the semi-offline approach 
is utilized [5]. 
From the aspect of improving accuracy and latency in outdoor situation when using mobile devices, 
assisted-GPS (A-GPS) method has been under development [1]. A set of assistance data is computed (usually 
by a GPS service provider or mobile server) and transmitted to (or downloaded by) a cellular phone to 
enhance its GPS positioning computation. As a result, it alleviates the satellite-tracking and 
signal-demodulation load of mobile devices. Moreover, it reduces the location latency. 
Included in the assistance data is the broadcast ephemeris (BE) to compute satellite position [8]. The 
typical approach of obtaining GPS broadcast ephemeris is from the received satellite signal. The BE format 
with 15 parameters is adopted by A-GPS so that a user can download the data even before executing its 
positioning function [8].  
Some of GPS studies emphasize on the extension of GPS broadcast ephemeris [e.g. 9]. This study 
focuses on the improvement of GPS broadcast ephemeris accuracy in an attempt to improve UE position 
computation. Since the orbit format of A-GPS is in BE form, the approach by converting precise orbit into BE 
format has been proposed. At present, the International GNSS Service (IGS) opens for free downloading GPS 
precise orbit products [10]. The preliminary result in the previous study [11] shows that the approach is an 
effective method in reducing orbit error. This research enhances the computation with satellite velocity 
information to improve the A-GPS orbit accuracy and update latency. 
 
二、研究方法 
Among IGS precise orbits, the final orbit (igs) holds the best accuracy but the longest latency. Although 
the ultra-rapid orbit (igu) has the least accuracy in sub-meters, it contains a predicted orbit over 24-hour time 
span [12]. It has been found that if a shorten time span of predicted orbit arc is used, the better orbit accuracy 
can be achieved. So the strategy in this study is to use an orbit arc as short as possible in orbit conversion. As 
a result, including satellite velocity data is one of the possible approaches in attaining the strategy. 
A. High Precision SP3 Ephemeris 
The data format of precise IGS orbit is in so-called the standard product 3 (SP3) format which usually 
contains satellite three-dimension (3D) position (X, Y, Z) information in every 15 minutes. Since the SP3 data 
can be extended to include satellite three-dimension (3D) velocity (Vx, Vy, Vz) information [13], this research 
is intended to enhance the previous approach with SP3 satellite velocity. At present, the velocity data has not 
been published regularly by IGS. Therefore, the satellite position and velocity data of SP3 form have been 
simulated with the traditional orbit generation approach of full satellite dynamic model in this study.  
B. Orbit Conversion 
15 BE orbit parameters are semi-major axis (a), eccentricity (e), mean anomaly (M), argument of perigee 
 5
 
Figure 1a: ∆POS mean values of GPS BE          Figure 1b: ∆POS mean values of GPS igu 
B. 2-hour Precise Orbit Conversion 
 A set of 2-hour simulated data in five-minute sampling has been selected for the first orbit conversion 
experiment. Listed in Table I are the standard deviations (sigmas) results from the orbit conversion cases with 
GPS PRN#7, #8, and #9 satellites. The values in “pos” columns are the standard deviations (sigmas) of the 
associate BE parameter estimates computed with position (X, Y, Z) data only while those in “pos+vel” 
columns are with both position (X, Y, Z) and velocity (Vx, Vy, Vz) data. 
In the table, the average value of the estimated semi-major axis (a) of three satellites is over 40 meters 
with position data (“pos” case). The overall improvement with the additional velocity data (“pos+vel” case) is 
at least five times better. The similar improvement can also been found in BE parameters of radial corrections 
(Crs and Crc). Since, the actual orbit accuracy of a typical igu data is within 0.1 meters, the level within 100 
meters in semi-major axis sigma is selected as criteria in this study. 
The one-hour prediction from two-hour-fit BE has been computed. The position difference (∆POS) of the 
predicted one hour orbit against the true orbit for each satellite at each epoch has been calculated. Showing in 
Figure 2 is the orbit accuracy assessment with ∆POS in “pos＂ and “pos+vel＂ cases. The overall 
average of the predicted ∆POS values is around 0.2 meters in “pos＂ case and is around 0.3 meters in 
“pos+vel＂ case. In “pos+vel＂ case, there are nine ∆POS mean values over 0.7 meters while only two 
are over 0.7 meters in “pos” case. The additional velocity measurement does not bring up a better orbit in this 
test run. 
 7
fit are shown in Figure 4 for “pos” and “pos+vel” cases. The overall average of the predicted ∆POS values is 
over 0.4 meters in “pos” case and is within 0.2 meters in “pos+vel” case. There are ten mean values over 0.7 
meters in “pos” case while only one is over that threshold in “pos+vel” case. As a result, the additional 
velocity data become a key factor in the solution when the processed data arc is shortened. 
 
Table III: Sigma of 0.5-hour Orbit Conversion        Figure 4: predicted values from 0.5-hour Conversion 
 
四、結論與建議 
This study focused on the improvement of A-GPS orbit accuracy to enhance ubiquitous positioning. 
From the analyzed results, it was found that the proposed approach by converting precise orbit into precise BE 
was proved to be an effective method. The results from orbit conversion with one-hour arc of position and 
velocity data suggest that accuracy can be upgraded to less than 0.15 meters in average. The additional 
velocity improves the solution by reducing the data span in measurements to one hour without losing 
observability. From the point of view in corresponding standard deviation, the overall improvement with the 
additional velocity data was at least three times better. The velocity measurement is the key factor in solution 
accuracy if the data span is reduced to 0.5-hour long. 
 9
[13] S. Hilla, “The extended standard product 3 orbit format  (SP3-c),” 
http://www.ngs.noaa.gov/orbits/sp3c.txt, February12, 2007. 
[14] J. Zhang, K. Zhang, R. Grenfell, and R. Deakin, “GPS satellite velocity and acceleration determination 
using the broadcast ephemeris,” Journal of Navigation, vol. 59, issue 2, pp. 293-305, 2006. 
[15] Gelb, A., Applied Optimal Estimation, Massachusetts, U.S.A.: The M.I.T. Press, 1974. 
 11
    個人發表” GPS Broadcast Ephemeris Augmentation Using Satellite Velocity 
Information” 屬於無線行動通訊，此部份研究為目前行動通訊定位科技發展焦點之重
要領域。 
二、與會心得 
 個人發表有關衛星定位之軌道改善，與會人員皆認為是新發展領域，值得我行動
通訊界的注意，未來很可能成為新的電腦網路及行動通訊重要技術，他們認為極具
發展潛力，可成為無線行動通訊之高附加價值。這次有幸能夠獲得國科會補助，收
穫良多。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)  無 
四、建議 
 由於無線行動通訊的快速發展，尤其是智慧型手機領域，為提升我國電腦網路及
行動通訊之衛星定位技術，值得鼓勵國內相關研究專家學者每年參加此項國際會
議，且在國內做研究交流，整體發展。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
（一）ITC-CSCC2012 研討會論文集 
六、其他 
 
 
 2
    個人發表” GPS Broadcast Ephemeris Augmentation Using Satellite Velocity 
Information” 屬於無線行動通訊，此部份研究為目前行動通訊定位科技發展焦點之重
要領域。 
二、與會心得 
 個人發表有關衛星定位之軌道改善，與會人員皆認為是新發展領域，值得我行動
通訊界的注意，未來很可能成為新的電腦網路及行動通訊重要技術，他們認為極具
發展潛力，可成為無線行動通訊之高附加價值。這次有幸能夠獲得國科會補助，收
穫良多。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)  無 
四、建議 
 由於無線行動通訊的快速發展，尤其是智慧型手機領域，為提升我國電腦網路及
行動通訊之衛星定位技術，值得鼓勵國內相關研究專家學者每年參加此項國際會
議，且在國內做研究交流，整體發展。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
（一）ITC-CSCC2012 研討會論文集 
六、其他 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：何慶雄 計畫編號：100-2221-E-006-103- 
計畫名稱：運用 GPS 衛星速度強化高精度 GPS 廣播星曆估算 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
