-2- 
monitoring and dynamic tracking for object surveillance 
and to achieve the real-time system performance. More-
over, the feasibility evaluation of system performance is 
demonstrated and tested by integrating the reader, the sa-
vant, the ONS server, and the database/Web server into 
RFID network using internet protocol.[4]-[6] 
The organization of this paper is described as follows. 
Section I introduces the motivation and key issues in this 
study. The RFID system and network architecture is then 
introduced and interpreted in Section II. Section III de-
velops the prototyping design of RFID networking plat-
form. Furthermore, a surveillance system application on 
RFID network is demonstrated in Section IV. The RFID 
networking system is integrated to evaluate the feasibility 
of system platform via the internet. Finally, the conclusion 
is given in Section V. 
II. RFID SYSTEM AND NETWORK 
A basic RFID system consists of the tags, the readers, 
the computer host, and the applications. The tag data 
electronically programmed with unique information such 
as EPC. The antenna of readers emits the radio frequency 
signals to activate the tag and read/write data to it. There-
fore, the antenna acts as a conduit between the tag and the 
readers, which controls the system's data acquisition and 
communication. Through the contactless technologies of 
radio frequency sensing, the readers of RFID systems may 
take the multiple data of electronic tags at the same time, 
hence the performance of identification systems have 
greatly updated such as the reading velocity, capability, 
and distance. The electronic tags may store the bulk data 
and possess the long lifetime for using. The tolerance of 
tags and the identification ability of readers for the harsh 
environments are very superior. 
RFID system possesses the networking interrelation-
ship among the hardware, the software and some data in-
terfaces. The electronic product code (EPC) stored in tags 
may provide the precise identification for the ob-
ject-tracking and inventory management by the internet 
network to increase the transmission efficiency of products. 
In order to construct the RFID information system, the 
networking architecture is composed of these three exe-
cuting activities depicted as Figure 1 [8][9]. The EPC 
Global proposes the specific standards to support the op-
erating principles in the different layer. 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Three executing activities of RFID system [8]. 
The institutions of protocol specifications will provide 
the exchange standard of object information among users 
and play a key role for data communication. Furthermore, 
these standards also provide the architectural guidance to 
end users and commercial vendors seeking the proper so-
lution to implement RFID system. 
The networking architecture of RFID system based on 
EPC standards consists of the readers, Savant, PML Server 
and ONS Server depicted as Figure 2. Via the transmission 
protocol of radio frequency technology, the readers receive 
continuously the tag data in the front-end of RFID net-
working system. The received data are transfer to the sa-
vant computers. Since the bulk of tag data may contain the 
duplicated or invalid data, the Savant host plays a role of 
data filter to catch the significant information. By the ex-
traction of savant computer, the data quantity is decreased 
in the backend of network and the system performance is 
further increased [8][9]. 
Object Name Services (ONS) Server is used to look for 
the vendor information of products corresponding to re-
lated code in tag’s EPC like the function of Domain Name 
Services (DNS) by the standard of Uniform Reference 
Locators (URLs). In addition, the Physical Markup Lan-
guage (PML) Server is used to provide the package format 
of EPC data including the product database of vendors. 
When the Savant receives a tag data, through the trans-
formation of the vendor information in the EPC from the 
ONS Server, the significant EPC data will be sent to the 
correspondingly physical address of PML Server by the 
operation of Savant. 
 
 
Fig. 2. System architecture of RFID network based on 
EPC standards[8]. 
The integrated networking architecture of RFID system 
is described as the organized structure similar to treelike 
diagram. The readers get the tag data in the bottom layer of 
the tree and then send to the Savant host. The Savant 
computer deals properly with the received data of readers. 
The useful data be then packed by the PML format and 
sent to PML server. The PML serves are connected each 
other by local area network (LAN) and linked up the 
internet by the Gateway PML server regarded as the 
window to the outside world. Via the worldwide internet, 
the integrated RFID networks may construct a ubiquitous 
system platform to achieve the functions of data man-
agement and information communication [9]. 
III. STUDY AND DESIGN OF RFID NETWORKING 
PLATFORM 
The RFID system provides the excellent characteristics 
of the real-time tracking and high precision in the appli-
-4- 
and the channel to monitoring the reader and middleware 
in the remote network. The remote monitoring system is 
depicted as Figure 7 and consists of dynamical display and 
remote monitoring interfaces. The dynamical display and 
data tracking interface is responsible for access and proc-
ess the database data by using XML format, and show the 
real-time information from the Web server via the browser. 
The remote monitoring interface is used to communicate 
with the reader or middleware to execute the real-time 
control and adjust the system function and performance for 
the specific application. 
 
Fig. 7. Interfaces of remote monitoring system. 
D. SAVANT MIDDLEWARE 
In this section, according to the networking architecture 
of RFID system, the network protocol and system interface 
are proposed and adopted in this study. The system func-
tions and the application interfaces are designed and stated 
by way of the middleware and ONS for RFID system. 
The proposed Savant middleware is implemented by an 
embedded system and is integrated with one general reader 
into the intelligent reader. The embedded system is treated 
as the controller of RFID readers to perform the reading 
operation of tag data. The readers with embedded system 
must possess the built-in function of internet transmission. 
Via the internet media, the Savant may interpret the IP 
address of ECPIS stored in tag data by ONS server and 
control the data flow in RFID networking system. The 
received data of readers are then sent to the system data-
base named as ECPIS server or PML server. Thus the in-
telligent reader with embedded system plays the role of the 
Savant host in the whole RFID networking system. 
 
Fig. 8. System architecture of Savant middleware[8]. 
The related software and hardware of Savant middle-
ware are developed and integrated in this paper. The main 
functions of Savant are designed and composed of the 
reader and tag interface, the ONS interface, and the net-
working interface. The reader and tag interface is used to 
provide the connection standard with the reader and im-
plemented by the encoding format of tags and the com-
munication protocol of the reader. The ONS interface acts 
as the channel to translate the address code in the EPC 
received by the reader. In addition, the networking inter-
face is responsible for transmitting the valid data to the 
remote database/Web server by the format standard of 
XML [8]. The system architecture of Savant middleware 
depicted in Figure 8 explains the operating interactions 
between the reader and the other subsystems on RFID 
network. 
1) Reader and Tag Interface 
The electronic tags used in this study are followed by 
ISO-16000-Type B standard and contain the built-in 20 
Bytes memory to store the Unique Identifier (UID) and 
EPC code of tag data. The coding format of UID consists 
of the 8-byte tag UID (Byte0~Byte7), the 4-byte manu-
facturer and type code (Byte8~Byte11) and the 8-byte 
user-defined memory which will be used to implement the 
EPC standard [15]. 
The selected reader manufactured by Applied Wireless 
ID (AWID) company operates in the frequency range of 
UHF. The output of the reader is connected to the host 
computer by LAN port by way of Ethernet protocol. 
Therefore, the communication interface must be imple-
mented by TCP/IP standard to transmit the data packages 
into the internet and arrives at the destination of tag data 
[16]. 
2) ONS Interface 
The procedures of the ONS queries from the Savant 
middleware (Client side) are listed step by step as follows. 
i.  The Savant interprets the received EPC data into the 
data format of standard network, such as 
“urn:epc:id:type:0614141.0000024.400.” 
ii.  To execute the ONS queries, the network format is 
transformed into the Domain Name format. 
1. Removing the “urn:epc:” part, such as 
“id:sgtin:0614141.0000024.400.” 
2. Removing the Serial Number, such as 
“id:sgtin:0614141.0000024.” 
3. Replacing the symbol ‘:’ by ‘.’, such as  
“id.sgtin.0614141.0000024.” 
4. Reversing the order of previous step, such as 
“0000024.0614141.sgtin.id.” 
5. Appending the string “onsepc.com” to the last 
and then completing the standard ONS query, 
such as 
“0000024.0614141.sgtin.id.onsepc.com.” 
iii.  Finally, through the Savant interface, the standard ONS 
query is sent to ONS server and exchange the corre-
sponding IP address of the remote database. 
After the address transformation, the valid EPC data 
will be transmitted to and write into the remote database 
(EPC IS or PML server) by way of the Ethernet network. 
3) Networking Interface 
The TCP/IP is the most popular communication pro-
tocol in the internet. The core of TCP/IP protocol is based 
on the internet layer and the transport layer. The Internet 
Protocol (IP) is the transmission approach of TCP/IP and 
responsible for processing the data packet and deciding the 
transmitting path of the packet. The TCP protocol is re-
sponsible for the message division and provides the 
internet linkage for the data transmission. In this paper, to 
 
-6- 
 
Fig. 12. Networking architecture of surveillance system. 
 
B. INTERFACE IMPLEMENTATION OF SURVEILLANCE 
SYSTEM 
In this section, the system interfaces of surveillance 
system are implemented by the application programs of 
the middleware and database. Figure 13 represents the 
initial status and display windows of the savant middle-
ware. While one object with the tag passes one of the 
readers, the tag data is detected and transmitted to the 
system database after the suitable processes of  this mid-
dleware. The actual testing display for the reading data is 
depicted by Figure 14 in the middleware windows. At the 
same time, the monitoring interface of system center re-
freshes the real-time status of display windows for the 
surveillance tracking via the processed data recorded in 
the database as illustrated in Figure 15. 
 
C. SYSTEM INTEGRATION AND TESTING 
In this section, the overall system is integrated and 
tested to demonstrate the system feasibility and evaluate 
the system performance. Figure 16 presents the commu-
nication formats of RFID network proposed. Here, the 
Local Host is responsible for controlling the operations of 
Savant. On the other hand, Savant possesses the ability to 
execute the command from Local Host and pass to the 
reader. While the reader finishes the corresponding action 
of the command, the specific data is transmitted back to 
Savant. According to the type of received data, Savant will 
fulfill the corresponding data process. If the data type is 
UID code or the message of reader status, then the data is 
sent to Local Host. In the other, if the type is EPC data, 
then the data is transformed to the URL and XML format. 
Next, the URL data is translated the IP address of remote 
database by way of the query of ONS such that the XML 
data is successfully transmitted to the remote database 
through the Ethernet network. So the Savant plays a very 
important role in the RFID network, like as the pivot or 
engine of the overall system. The system integration and 
testing are discussed in the following. 
 
Fig. 13. Initial status and display windows of savant  
middleware. 
 
 
Fig. 14. Actual testing display for reading data. 
 
 
Fig. 15. Real-time status of display windows for  
surveillance tracking. 
Fig. 16. Communication formats of RFID networking. 
