 2
????????? 
(?) ?????????? 
Due to the advance of CMOS VLSI technology, the power consumption of electronic 
devices has been reduced considerably. The low power technology enables the development of 
such applications as wireless sensor networks [1] or personal health monitoring [2], where remote 
or independent power supply is critical for more compact or longer-life-time systems. In 
particular, energy scavenging from ambient natural sources, such as vibration [3], radioisotope [4] 
and ambient heat [5], is attracting many recent interests as the self-sustainable power source for 
these applications. Among various approaches, electrostatic vibration-to-electricity conversion 
using the micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) technology is chosen in this study due to its 
compatibility to IC processes and the ubiquity of the energy source in nature.  
The output power of a vibration driven converter is related to the nature of the vibration 
source. A typical vibration found in many household appliances has a peak acceleration of about 
2.25 m/s2 at about 120 Hz. Therefore, this vibration is used as the energy source for the design of 
the optimal converter. 
 
 (?) ?????????? 
1?Design  
 A variable capacitor Cv formed by an in-plane gap-closing comb structure is the main 
component in the energy converter [3, 6], as shown in Fig. 1. The energy stored in the capacitor is 
increased when the capacitance is changed from Cmax to Cmin by the external vibration.  Fig. 2 
shows a schematic circuit that can be used to extract the converted energy.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1 Variable capacitor schematic        Figure 2 Operation of the electrostatic 
energy converter 
The variable capacitor Cv is charged by an external voltage source Vin through the switch 
SW1 when Cv is at its maximum Cmax. When Cv is charged to Vin, SW1 is opened and then the 
Cmin 
Cmax 
displacement due   
  to vibration 
displacement due    
  to vibration 
y
 y
 
 z
 
 z
 
Vin Cv Cstor RL VL
SW1 SW2 
 4
1.1 Static analysis 
In Eq. (1), RL and Cstor can be choosen so that the discharging time constant τ = CstorRL is 
much larger than the conversion cycle time ∆t. The output voltage ripple in the steady state can 
therefore be neglected. The other circuit components can then be choosen so that Cstor >> Cmin 
and RLCmin << ∆t and Eq. (1) can be simplified as  
max in max in
sat L
min
L min
C V C V
V = R ,              (3)
t tC
R C
≈ ∆ ∆  
The power output becomes  
2
sat max in
out L2
L
V C V
P R ,              (4)
tR
 ≈ ≈  ∆   
For a typical low-power sensor node or module, the minimum output power requirement is 
about 200 µW. To be compatibile with the power management circuit, the maximum output 
voltage should be limited to about 40 V. Inserting these constraints into Eq. (2), one can obtain 
the range of RL:  
LR 8 MΩ≤ . 
Even though a smaller RL can be used, this would require increasing Cmax in order to satisfy the 
voltage and power requirement (Eqs. (3) and (4)), which in turn will have adverse effects in the 
dynamic behavior of the converter.  Therefore, RL = 8 MΩ and hence Cmax = 7 nF are used in the 
following calculation. 
The output power Pout for various Cstor and RL is shown in Fig. 5 for Cstor >> Cmin.  It can be 
seen that the output power does not depend on the storage capacitor Cstor when it is relatively 
large.  Nevertheless, a large Cstor will result in long initial charge time when the converter starts 
to work from a static status. Hence, a resonable Cstor of 20 nF is used. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Figure 5 Output power for various RL and Cstor 
From Eq. (1) and with the values of Cstor and RL  obtained from above, input voltage Vin of 
3.3 V, vibration frequency of 120 Hz, and chip area size of 1 cm2, Fig. 6 shows the calculated 
output saturation voltage and power as a function of the initial finger gap distance and the 
thickness of the silicon nitride layer. The finger thickness, length, and width are 200 µm, 1200 µm 
 6
From the Simulink simulation, a mass of 7.2 gram is required to achieve the maximum 
displacement of 34.8 µm according to the static design with a corresponding spring constant of 
4.3 kN/m. The output voltage as a function of time is plotted in Fig. 8. The charging-discharging 
cycles and voltage ripples are evident and the saturation voltage Vsat is close to the expected value 
of 40 V.  Table 1 summarizes the important device design parameters according to both the static 
and dynamic analyses.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 Output voltage vs. time 
Table 1 Design parameters of the energy converter 
Parameter Description  
W Width of shuttle mass 10 mm 
L Length of shuttle mass 8 mm 
Lf Length of finger 1200 µm 
Wf Width of finger 10 µm 
m Shuttle mass 7.2 gram 
d Initial finger gap 35 µm 
dmin Minimum finger gap 0.1 µm 
Cstor Storage capacitance 20 nF 
k Spring constant 4.3 kN/m 
t Dielectric layer thickness 500 Å 
εr Dielectric constant 7 (SiN) 
RL Load resistance 8 M? 
Vsat Output voltage ~ 40 V 
Pout Output power ~ 200 µW 
 
2?Fabrication 
A SOI wafer with a 200-µm-thick device layer is used for large capacitance. The oxide layer 
is 2 µm thick. Fig 9 shows the fabrication process. A steel ball is attached to the central plate to 
adjust the resonant frequency to match the vibration source and improve the conversion 
efficiency . The fabricated second-generation device is shown in Fig. 10 [7]. The width of the 
finger is reduced to 9.5 µm due to the tolerance in photolithography and RIE processes. 
 8
3  Measurement 
3.1 Mechanical measurement 
The mechanical measurement setup is shown in Fig 11.The displacement of the device 
without the attached mass was measured using a PROWAVE JZK-1 shaker. Since the mass was 
not attached, the vibration acceleration was increased to 40 m/s2 for easy observation. The 
maximum displacement is about 10 µm at 800 Hz, and the quality factor 0Q =  ω ∆ω is about 9.6, 
where 0ω  is the resonant frequency and∆ω is the resonant bandwidth shown in Fig. 12. The mass 
of the center plate is approximately 0.038 gram, thus the spring constant can be calculated as 
2
0k = ω m = 960 N/m .The measured spring constant is different from the design mainly due to the 
feature size shrink in the fabrication process, as shown in Fig 9(a). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To oscilloscope 
 
Camera 
Function  
generator 
(a)
Shaker 
(PROWAVE 
JZK-1) 
Optical microscope
Power amplifier Function generator 
Oscilloscope Accelerometer
Vibration
Device
Figure 11 (a) Schematic and (b) photograph of the mechanical measurement setup 
 
(b) 
Shaker 
Accelerometer
Device
Optical 
microscope 
 10
 
???? 
[1] J.M. Rabaey, et al., “Picoradio supports ad hoc ultra low-power wireless networking”, IEEE 
Computer, Vol. 33, pp. 42-48, 2000. 
[2] R. Tashiro, et al., “Development of an electrostatic generator that harnesses the motion of a 
living body: (use of a resonant phenomenon)”, JSME International Journal Series C, Vol. 43, 
No. 4, pp. 916-922, 2000. 
[3] S. Roundy, et al., “Micro-electrostatic vibration-to-electricity converters,” Proc. IMECE 
39309, 2002. 
[4] R. Duggirala, et al., “Radioisotope micropower generator for CMOS self-powered sensor 
microsystems”, Proc. PowerMEMS 2004, pp. 133-136, 2004. 
[5] T. Douseki, et al., “A batteryless wireless system uses ambient heat with a 
reversible-power-source compatible CMOS/SOI dc-dc converter”, Proc. IEEE International 
Solid-State Circuits Conference, pp. 2529-33, 2003. 
[6] C.B. William, et al., “Analysis of a micro-electric generator for microsystems”, Sensors and 
Actuators, A52, pp. 8-11, 1996. 
[7] Y.S. Chu, et al., “A MEMS electrostatic vibration-to-electricity energy converter”, Proc. 
PowerMEMS 2005, pp. 49-52, 2005. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
