Cabin Safety Communication: Factors Influencing Passenger Attention
to Airline Safety Briefings
Yueh-Ling Hsu1 Kuan-Nan Chen1,2
Department of Air Transportation In-Flight Service Division
Kainan University1 China Airlines2
Abstract
Various aviation organizations have recognized the primary factor in assuring the rapid and safe
evacuation of passengers from an aircraft emergency is the adequate transfer of passenger safety information,
of which airline safety briefing are an integral component. However, attention given to cabin safety
communication and safety briefing still remains limited. As such, the present study is intended to examine
the influential factors of passengers’intention towards safety briefings for effective cabin safety
communication. Keys issues and challenges facing cabin safety communication were firstly identified by a
wide review of research literature, and classified by the employment of Theory of Planned Behavior (TPB).
Based on the TPB model, a perception survey was developed to assess the influential factors as they relate to
cabin safety communication. 285 survey respondents were collected, and a principal component of factor
analysis followed by varimax rotation was performed on the questionnaire as well as multiple regression
procedure was used to interpreting the results. Specific factors revealed that “Safety briefing design and
media”, “Threat recognition”and “Self-efficacy”are the predictors of passenger intention towards safety
briefing. It is hoped that these findings will continue to the advancement of cabin safety communication for
all those involved in commercial aviation.
Keywords: Cabin Safety, Safety Briefings, Theory of Planned behavior (TPB), Factor Analysis, Multiple
Regression Analysis
客艙安全溝通成效評估:影響旅客注意安全提示之因素
許悅玲 1 陳冠男 1、2
開南大學空運管理研究所 1 中華航空公司空服處 2
摘要
包含我國在內之各國民航主管機關都要求航空公司在飛機上須提供安全提示，使乘客在飛航事
故中免受生命或傷害的威脅。然而，不少飛航意外事故調查單位均一致指出，至少一半以上的旅客
不注意起飛前之安全提示與安全提示卡，且有低估生還率與高估自身對安全提示記憶的能力，而這
些原因往往都是影響緊急逃生的關鍵因素。回顧關於客艙安全與生還因素的文獻，鮮少有關於客艙
安全溝通與影響旅客注意安全提示的研究。因此，本研究擬以旅客注意力為重心，首先蒐集並彙整
國內外客艙安全溝通與安全提示之現況與研究，並透過計劃行為理論(TPB)建構影響旅客注意客艙安
2009 中華民國航空太空學會/中華民用航空學會聯合學術研討會 台北市，中華民國九十八年十二月十二日
2009 AASRC/CSCA Joint Conference Taipei, 12 December 2009
國科會航太學門專題研究計畫成果發表會
1
manner [1]. It is thus concluded that an informed,
knowledgeable person has a much better chance of
surviving any life or injury-threatening situation
which could occur during passenger carrying
operations in civil aviation [5].
2.2 Effectiveness of Cabin Safety Briefing
However, passengers commonly underestimate
their chances of survival of aircraft accidents [8],
and in spite of crew briefings and briefing cards,
passengers in general demonstrate an
unpreparedness that leads to inappropriate action
[9]. Edwards [10] pointed out that key reasons for
this above statement include: (1) dangerous events
are perceived as unlikely to occur in the aircraft
cabin; (2) passengers assume a greater emergency
evacuation time than actual; (3) passengers perceive
acquiring safety information prior to an emergency
is a waste of time; and (4) passengers overestimate
the role and ability of the cabin crew to act in their
interests in an emergency situation.
NTSB investigated 46 evacuations that occurred
between September 1997 and June 1999 that
involved 2,651 passengers. Of 457 passengers who
returned the questionnaire, 54% reported that they
had not watched the entire briefing because they
had seen it before. Of 431 passengers who
answered the question relating to the safety card,
68% (293 people) said that they had not read it.
Even those passengers who do read the safety card
may not necessarily understand it [11].
ATSB [6] conducted a survey in 2006 and found
that most passengers agreed that paying attention to
safety communications is important. However,
passenger attention levels to safety communications
were generally low. While most passengers
surveyed reported paying at least ‘some’ atention 
to the safety briefing and crew announcements, far
lower attention levels were found for the safety
video and safety card. Meanwhile, analysis
identified that low levels of passenger attention to
safety communications results from overconfidence,
superficial familiarity with messages, issues
relating to the way safety content is presented,
perceptions of substitutability between the card and
briefing and social norms present in the aircraft
cabin. Given that the majority of passengers
reported not having read the safety card, results
suggest that the safety card is generally ineffective
as a means of delivering safety information.
2.3 Comprehensibility of Safety Briefing
Safety information on briefing cards is typically
presented graphically, using symbols, pictorials, and
pictograms, while some cards employ text as well.
The NTSB [12] concluded that many safety card
depictions were found to be confusing and
ambiguous. Fennell and Muir [13] who use the
mockup of transport airplane to conduct passengers’
comprehension of safety briefings and cards.
Research findings showed that the depictions of
multiple brace positions on the card were confusing.
46% of participants had trouble locating and
removing the lifevests from the packages, requiring
a full minute to complete the donning process.
Silver and Perlotto [14] conducted 40 pictorials
comprehension test and reported that responses
such as “stow away tables, no smoking in aisles,
exit in a sitting position, brace against seat in front
of you, and move away from the aircraft”receive
less comprehension rate. Caird, Wheat, McIntosh,
and Dewar [15] studied the comprehension of 36
airline pictorials and found that comprehension for
most of the pictorial information was uniformly low.
Corbett, McLean and Cosper [16] conducted a FAA
project to address the current state of the art for
airline safety briefing cards. They found
comprehension of pictorials/pictograms was related
3
employed in service industry, 27.3 % for business
and manufacture industry. Most of them (64.5%)
indicated that they travel for leisure purpose, 23%
for business.
4.2 Factor Analysis and Internal Reliability
In keeping with the aim of this research,
Principal Component Analysis, followed by a
varimax rotation, was performed on the 24-item
questionnaire data in AT, SN and PBC section from
285 respondents in order to examine the influential
factor structure. The data were deemed to be
suitable for the analysis, as indicated by the
Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin Measure of Sampling
Adequacy value of 0.7 for Attitude, SN and PBC
dimensions respectively.
The factor analysis yielded a seven-factor
solution. Since there were two items (at 6 and pbc 6)
with reliability test less than 0.4, they were deleted
for the further analysis. According to the grouped
items to those factors obtained with eigenvalues
greater than 1, each factor was labelled in terms of
its common underlying dimension nature. These
seven factors are: Threat recognition, Evaluation of
briefing, Friends and relative influence, Fellow
passengers influence, Safety briefing design and
media, Self-efficacy, and Crew and airline (see
Table 2). To judge the internal reliability of factors,
Cronbach’s Alpha statistics were calculated for the
factors. All factors demonstrated acceptable levels
of internal consistency above 0.7.
4.3 T test and One-way Analysis of Variance
across Demographics
In order to see whether these factors differed
across respondent demographics, T test and
one-way Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) were
conducted for each factor across gender, age,
profession, education level, number of flight,
purpose of flight and group/individual trip. The
results of T-test and ANOVA are summarized in
Table 3, which shows the groups within the factors
having mean difference significant at .05 levels.
4.4 Multiple Regression Analysis
The general purpose of multiple regression is to
learn more about the relationship between several
independent or predictor variables and a dependent
or criterion variable. Therefore this part of the
research was intended as a guide to indicate which
factors were the best predictors for the intention of
paying attention to cabin safety demo and safety
card.
By applying the standard multiple regression
analyses, the dependent variable was the intention
to watch safety demo video as well as to read safety
card, and the independent variables were the
influential factors. Table 4 and Table 5 show the
model summaries. The results of multiple
regression and variance accounted by the factor
scores in the regression equation were significant
(F3, 193= 44.63, P<0.05; and F3, 281= 28.13, P<0.05).
Table 2 Factor Analysis Result
Dimension Item Factor
at5
at4
at7
at3
Threat
recognition
at1
Attitude
at2
Evaluation of
briefing
sn5
sn6
sn4
sn3
Friends and
relative influence
sn2
Social
Norm
sn1
Fellow passengers
influence
pbc9
pbc8
pbc10
pbc7
pbc11
Safety briefing
design and media
pbc2
pbc3
pbc1
Self-efficacy
pbc5
Perceived
Behavior
Control
pbc4 Crew and airline
“Felow passengers influence”received a lower
score below 2.5, showing the respondents generally
disagreed that their intention to pay attention to
safety briefing was influenced by fellow passengers.
It also reflects the consensus that although safety
briefing was highly evaluated for its importance,
Self-efficacy for safety briefing is around the
average score (mean=3.65), showing the generally
ordinary attitude toward this factor.
Meanwhile, Table 6 shows the correlations
between Social norms and other three dimensions
are negative. It demonstrates that passenger
behaviors may not be negatively correlated with the
perceptions that it is socially undesirable to pay
attention to safety information. This finding is
interesting because Western research tend to show
that low levels of passenger attention to safety
briefing results from social norms present in the
aircraft cabin [17] [6]. The difference between
Western and Eastern samples remains to be solved
in this regard.
Table 6 Correlations of Dimensions
AT SN PBC I
AT 1
SN -.37** 1
PBC .38** -.07 1
I .43** -.15* .49** 1
Note: I=Intention, **= p<0.01 , *= p<0.05
5.2 Predictors for the Intention of Paying
Attention to Safety Briefing
According to the result of multiple regression
analyses, there are three factors: “Safety briefing
design and media”, “Self-efficacy”and “Threat
recognition”, which exert influence on the intention
to watch safety video and to read safety card
respectively. Knowing which factors are most
strongly related to the attention on safety briefing
not only suggests the relative importance of each
factor to the attention on safety briefing, but also
areas of focus to improve the deficiencies.
“Safety briefing design and media”is the most
important factor that both influence attention on
safety demo and safety card. FAA [18] pointed out
that every airline passenger should be motivated to
focus on the safety information in the passenger
briefing. One way to increase passenger motivation
is to make the safety information briefings and
cards as interesting and attractive as possible. The
terminology used and direction given in the safety
briefings should emphasize the importance of
listening to and observing safety briefings and
announcements, being aware of the location of
safety equipment (e.g. safety features cards, life
preservers, exits, seatbelts) and the reasons for their
active participation in safety. ANOVA results reveal
that “Safety briefing design and media”differed
across passenger age, education level and number
of flight. It echoes to Corbett, McLean and Cosper
[16], who conclude that safety briefing card
pictorials/pictograms need to be designed and
implemented with respect to novice passengers.
“Threat recognition”accounts for the second
and the third important factor for the attention of
safety briefing. Many air travelers hold a perception
that the majority of aviation accidents are not
survivable. In fact, almost 90 % aircraft are
survivable or technically survivable [2]. Passenger
perceptions about the usefulness of safety
information result from beliefs about probability of
occurrence and survivability of aircraft emergencies
[6]. Therefore, changing attitudinal beliefs
represents the greatest opportunity to improve
communication effectiveness.
“Self-efficacy”belongs to the dimension of
perceived behavioral control, which may be
affected by passenger perceptions of inability to
engage in tasks other than paying attention to safety
information. In accordance to table 6, it shows that
A Study on the Comprehensibility of Airline Safety Card
Pictorials and Pictograms *
Yueh-Ling Hsu **
Department of Air Transportation, Kainan University
No. 1 Kainan Rd., Luzhu, Taoyuan County 338, Taiwan, R.O.C.
ABSTRACT
Various aviation organizations have recognized the primary factor in
assuring the rapid and safe evacuation of passengers from an aircraft
emergency is the adequate transfer of passenger safety information, of
which airline safety cards are an integral component. However, few
researches are conducted for the safety card comprehension and cabin safety
communication. The present study is intended to address the current state of
the art for airline safety briefing cards and examines the efficacy of airline
safety cards to convey the meanings of safety and emergency information.
One-hundred and fifty participants were given a survey that tested the
comprehension of pictorials/pictograms on a A330 safety card. The results
indicate that comprehension for most of the pictorial information was
uniformly low. In addition, the improvement area of safety card
comprehension should focus on the pictorials/pictograms related to
Evacuation (both water ditching& land), Brace Position, Life vest used in
the water/night, and Fasten seat belt sign. Meanwhile, some textual
clarification is suggested to add so that safety information will be more
meaningful.
Keywords: Airline briefing card, Briefing card comprehension, Pictorial,
safty communication, Emergency evacuation
** To whom correspondence should be addressed, E-mail: irishsu@mail.knu.edu.tw
Journal of Aeronautics, Astronautics and Aviation, Series A, Vol.42, No.1 pp.31 - 38 (2010)
guidance in the development of cabin safety
communication.
II. METHOD
Given no previous study ever conducted for safety
card comprehension testing in Taiwan, this research is
served as a preliminary study within Taiwanese air
transport industry. To this end, age variable was
controlled. The sample participants are required to be
aged between 18-30 years old. It is not only because
there is a growing trend of young travelers, who have
better learning ability and not so many travel experiences,
but also for this design is motivated by the finding of
Corbett, McLean and Cosper [14], who recommended
safety card pictorials and pictograms need to be designed
and implemented for those passengers who do not have a
prepotent understanding of transport aircraft related
knowledge.
2.1 Participants
One hundred and fifty participants (57 males and 93
females) volunteered for the study. All participants were
undergraduates and postgraduates, and ranged in age
from 18-30 years old. 136 participants (91%)used to have
air travel experiences, while 14 (9%)had never flown. 65
participants (43%) reported having taken 1-2 flights over
the most recent two years, 37 participants (24.7%) had 0
flights, and 29 participants (19.3%) had 3-4 flights, 10
participants (6.7%) had 5-6 flights, 3 participants (2%)
had 7-8 flights, and 5 participants (3.3%) had more than 9
flights. In addition, 124 participants (83%) usually take
economy class. 67 participants (67/136=49.3%) flew with
China airlines in their last trip, 25 participants
(25/136=18.3%) took Eva Airways, and 15 participants
(15/136=11%) took Cathay Pacific Airways.
2.2 Stimulus Materials
According to Taiwan CAA AC121-001: “Passenger
Safety Information Briefing And Briefing Cards”, safety
briefing cards that provide information to passengers
should include following content: (1) Passenger
compliance with safety information, (2) Smoking, (3)
Seatbelts, (4) Floor proximity emergency lighting, (5)
Exit seating, (6) Exit location, (7) Exit operations, (8)
Evacuation slide/assist Means, (9) Overwing exit use, (10)
Carry-on baggage, (11) Brace position, (12) Individual
flotation equipment, (13) Oxygen mask, (14) Portable
electronic devices, (15) Supplemental information, (16)
Extended overwater operations. Accordingly, Taiwanese
international carriers usually present 8 functions on their
safety cards to include all these contents. These 8
functions are: 1.Takeoff & landing, 2.Seatbelt,
3.Emergency lighting, 4.Brace-for-impact position(safety
position), 5.Oxygen mask, 6.Life vest, 7.Land evacuation,
and 8.Water ditching.
To suite the need for this research, the requirements
of AC121-001 and the industry empirical practice were
combined, and 33 items were then classified according to
8 functions. These 33 items were meant to assess the
corresponding pictorials/pictograms for comprehension
evaluation (please refer to Table 2 for 33 items).
Meanwhile, as a preliminary study, this research selected
A330 safety card provided by one international carrier. It
is because the door and slide operations of A330 are
simpler than other aircraft type, such as 747-400 and
A340. Also, the popularity of A330 in worldwide airline
industry will facilitate further comparison research.
2.3 Procedure
A two-part survey was administered to participants.
Part one contained demographic information, including
gender, travel experience, number of flight over the past
two years, class and airline to take, and purpose of the
flight. Part 2 consisted of a full size and color print of
A330 safety card, and 8 blank columns. Instructions were
given to ask the participants to describe the meaning of
the pictorials/pictograms under the 8 functions shown on
the safety card, as well as provide their opinions and
suggestions. There was no time limit to complete the
survey. Most participants spent 30 minutes to 1 hour to
complete the survey depending on their level of
comprehension.
2.4 Data Collection and Analysis
The responses to the pictorials/pictograms were
usually lengthy and required manual scoring throughout.
Therefore, this study recapitulated the comprehension
test methodology of Corbett, McLean and Cosper [14].
The comprehension estimate related to each pictographic
element was based on the correctness of the responses to
items that had been addressed. These responses were
categorized as follows: certain = correct and complete,
likely = mostly correct but missing a key element(s),
arguable = contained words or ideas that indicated partial
correctness but were ambiguous or unclear, suspect =
contained words or ideas that were related but
misconstrued, wrong = response was wrong, none =
responsewas “don’t know,” and blank = no response was 
given. Then categorized responses were transformed by
using a weighting algorithm, to yield pictorial/pictogram
comprehension scores.
Frequency of responses in each comprehension
category was derived for each pictorial/pictogram. The
frequencies for each comprehension category were
divided by the 150 participants responding to get the
percentage of total responses for each category. These
percentages were multiplied by the comprehension
category weights as following: certain x 1.0, likely x 0.75,
arguable x 0.50, suspect x 0.25, wrong and none x 0.0
(blank response is equal to zero) , and summed to obtain
the pictorial/pictogram comprehension score, i.e. the
percentage of total comprehension for any particular
pictorial/pictogram[14].
III. Results
A matrix of the comprehension scores is displayed
in Table 1. Comprehension scores based on the item for
each pictorial/pictogram ranged from 3.5% (6.3 Use
lifevest in the water/night) to 67.5%(1.1 Carry-on
baggage), with a mean score of 22.37%. Composite
comprehension (function) score ranged from 10.63%
Table 2 Categories of scores
Category Lower limitof range (%) Item
Score
(%)
Certain-
Likely 100-75 Nil
1.1 67.50
3.1 65.67
5.4 65.67
Likely ~
Arguable 75-50
2.1 51.67
5.2 38.33
1.3 37.83
5.1 32.33
4.1 29.33
6.1 26.67
Arguable ~
Suspect 50-25
1.2 25.50
7.5 22.67
6.4 21.67
2.2 21.17
6.2 20.17
8.5 20.00
7.1 19.83
7.3 19.00
8.6 16.17
8.3 15.67
2.3 14.50
5.3 14.50
7.7 13.17
7.6 12.83
7.4 9.00
4.3 8.50
8.4 8.33
8.2 7.50
7.2 6.17
4.2 6.00
8.7 6.00
8.8 6.00
8.1 5.33
Suspect ~
Wrong/
Don't know/
Blank
25-0
6.3 3.50
In terms of ANOVA results, two out of 33 items
difered across “number of flight used to take”. The first 
item is 2.2 Open seatbelt (F=2.5, p<0.05). LSD indicated
that the variability may come from the difference
between 7-8 times and 1-2 times as well as 5-6 times (7-8
times> 1-2 times, 7-8 times> 5-6 times). The second one
is 8.1 Water ditching (location of every available exit)
(F=2.38, p<0.05), the variability may come from the
difference between 3-4 times and 0 time as well as 1-2
time (3-4 times>0 time, 3-4 times>1-2 times).
To provide further characterization of the
comprehension scores with respect to response with
Wrong, Don’t know and No response, the matrix of three 
level of negative comprehension is provided (see Table 3).
It is found that “8.7 Water ditching (no carry-on
luggage)” and “8.8 Water ditching (no high heels)” are
situated in the top of total negative comprehension (141),
folowed by “6.3 Life vest (use in the water/night)”(139), 
and “4.2 Brace-for-impact position (Pregnant
passengers)”(131). Besides, top 3 wrong responses is
“4.3 Brace position for passenger holding infants” (23), 
“4.1Brace position for adult”(22), and “4.2 Brace 
position for pregnant passengers” (20). Top 2 “don’t
know”response is from “8.6Water ditching(launch &
secure locations of slide/raft)”(9) and “7.4 Land 
evacuation (inflation of slide)”(8).
susceptible to being injured during an evacuation”. The
evacuation instructions are legally required to consist of
the location of exit, exit door operation, slide operation,
warning symbol and so on. Therefore,
pictorials/pictograms associated with evacuation usually
contain multiple elements or multiple actions, and/or
pictograms in which serial actions were not tightly
linked pictorially, no matter which airline or which
aircraft type. As such, participants often missed specific
details in certain pictorials, especially when the details
were not the main focus of the intended message, such
as no carry-on luggage, no high heels, etc. This finding
is similar to the study conducted by Cobett et al. in
2008 [14]. Meanwhile, items in Land evacuation and
Water evacuation are those which render the most
“don’t know”response within this study. In particular,
“inflation slide methods”, as well as “launching and 
securing locations of slide/raft” are the most
problematic items for participants. Some participants
were also confused about the arrows used in the
pictorials. According to AC121-001(Taiwan CAA) [16]
and AC121-24C (FAA) [4], “Ifall the emergency door
handles rotate toward the rear of the aircraft, this could
be explained on the cards. The cards could show that the
handles need to be rotated in the direction of the arrow”.
Therefore, the use of arrows in the pictorials should be
considered more user-friendly.
“Brace-for-impact position”is the function with
the second lowest score, and most importantly, all items
within this function rendered the highest number of
wrong responses. These wrong responses depicted the
timing of brace position as mainly during takeoff &
landing phase, normal flight or during turbulence. Apart
from that, the majority of participants can’t tell that the
brace positions should be different with low-density
seating or seats spaced relatively far apart. This finding
supports the notion of Fennell and Muir [10] that
multiple brace positions on the card were confusing. In
Chinese safety briefing card, brace position is often
translated as “safety position”, and it might cause the
confusion as a result too. To avoid the misunderstanding,
it is suggested to use the direct translation of
brace-for-impact position.
The lowest comprehension of pictorial appears to
be“Life vest (use in the water/night)”, and the mean for
“Life vest”function is below average score too. The
results show the participants’unfamiliarity about the
donning and method of inflation of these devices,
especially how to use when aircraft water ditching. An
accident illustrative of this life vest related problem was
the inadvertent water ditching of a National Airlines
Boeing 727 near Pensacola, Florida, on May 8, 1978.
The passengers had problems finding, donning, and
inflating the life vests, which were located under their
seats. Only 27 passengers indicated that they used the
life vests, and most of the life vests distributed by the
crewmembers. Twenty-two percent of the passengers
had never seen a life vest demonstration. No attempt
was made to deploy the emergency evacuation slides as
flotation devices [17]. Although NTSB suggested to
improve the inadequacy of the system of educating
passengers about airline safety features, it seems the
instructions of life vest remain problematical.
In addition, according to AC121-001(Taiwan CAA)
[16] and AC121-24C (FAA) [14], the importance of
“complying with the seatbelt sign” should be 
emphasized. However, Table 3 demonstrates “Fasten 
seatbelt sign”is situated in the top 10 of negative
comprehension. Despite the effort of Taiwan CAA
safety bulletin and cabin safety inspections, it is
apparent passengers are still unaware of the function
and existence of fasten seatbelt sign. The failure to
recognize this function also increases the possibility of
passenger injuries in the event of turbulence.
V. Conclusion
Various aviation organizations have recognized the
primary factor in assuring the rapid and safe evacuation
of passengers from an aircraft emergency is the
adequate transfer of passenger safety information;
however, most previous literature research shows that
the safety briefing card comprehension level is
unacceptably low. Schmidt and Kysor [18] put that the
implementation of accepted instructional design
techniques in passenger safety cards can potentially
impact both user preference as well as performance. The
international Flight Safety Foundation also suggested
that airlines need to use creative method to improve the
attention paid to safety briefings and demonstrations
prior to take-off [19].
As the first and preliminary study in the context of
Taiwan aviation industry, the goal of this research is to
examine the efficacy of airline safety cards and discover
how passengers actually comprehend the information
contained in the safety cards. It is found that the
comprehension score of pictorials/pictograms are quite
disappointing. This finding is not opposite to other
similar research, and it reconfirms the universal
situation that safety information is not well transferred
to passengers and potential passengers. In this research,
the open-ended responses allowed for deeper insight
regarding participants’ understanding. The results
indicate improvement of safety card comprehension
should focus on the pictorial/pictograms related to
Evacuation (both water ditching& land), Brace position,
Life vest used in the water/night, and Fasten seat belt
sign. Pictorial comprehension of Open seatbelt and
Water ditching(location of exit) are related to the
number of flight used to take. Meanwhile, participants
suggest to add some textual clarification to make safety
information more meaningful, which support the
findings of Schmidt and Kysor [18]and Corbett,
McLean and Cosper [14]. It is hoped that the present
work will generate interest in the designer and user for
providing guidance in the development of cabin safety
briefing card. For future research, other airlines’A330
safety may be selected to survey so that a comparison
can be made.
Comprehension of Safety Briefing Card Pictorials and Pictograms-
An Example of Boeing 747-400
Yueh-Ling Hsu1 Chun-Shan Liu1,2
Department of Air Transportation Passenger Service Division
Kainan University1 China Airlines2
Abstract
The present study is intended to address the current state of the art for airline safety briefing cards, and to
examine the efficacy of airline safety cards to convey the meanings of safety and emergency information.
Forty participants were given a survey that tested the comprehension of pictorials/pictograms on a Boeing
747-400 safety card. The results indicate that the universal situation that safety information is not well
transferred to passengers and potential passengers. Specifically the improvement of safety card
comprehension within the sample airline should focus on the pictorial/pictograms related to Land and
Water Evacuation, Fasten seat belt sign compliance and Life vest used in the water/night. It is hoped that
the present work will generate interest in the designer and user for providing guidance in the development
of cabin safety briefing card.
Keywords: Airline Briefing Card, Briefing Card Comprehension, Pictorial, Safety Communication,
Emergency Evacuation
航空公司乘客安全提示卡之理解力評估-以波音 747-400 為例
許悅玲 1 劉君祥 1、2
開南大學空運管理研究所 1 中華航空公司客運處 2
摘要
根據民航法規，商用航空器均須備有口語提示與提示卡二種乘客訊息系統。因此本文旨在針對國籍
航空波音 747-400 機型之旅客安全提示卡進行研究，透過旅客對於安全提示卡理解力的評估進而了
解客艙安全溝通之有效性。研究結果發現水上逃生、路上逃生、安全帶指示燈與水中救生衣之使用
的圖示理解力最低，顯示國籍航空在安全提示卡的內容不但部分不符合我國民航局之要求，且其設
計難以吸引旅客注意，甚至在圖片表達上無法讓不熟悉航空器與安全裝備的旅客暸解其內容意義。
研究亦指出東西方對於旅客安全提示卡的理解力十分類似，普遍具有偏低的傾向，值得航空公司與
民航主管機關做後續的探討。
關鍵詞：旅客安全提示卡、理解力評估、圖示設計、安全溝通、緊急逃生
2010 中華民國航太學會學術研討會 桃園，中華民國九十九年十二月
2010 AASRC Conference Taoyuan, December, 2010
The information on the card must apply to only
the type and model of aircraft on which it is used.
The method used to depict equipment and actions
can be pictures of people, diagrams, drawings,
words, or combinations of these. All depictions
should be easy to understand and not complex.
2.2 Comprehensibility of Safety Briefing
Despite significant volumes of research
existing in the areas of general aviation safety,
attention given to cabin safety communication
remains limited. Even less research exists regarding
comprehension levels and communication design of
passenger briefing card.
Safety information on briefing cards is typically
presented graphically, using symbols, pictorials, and
pictograms, while some cards employ text as well.
Fennell and Muir [9] were the few researchers who
use the mockup of transport airplane to conduct
passengers’comprehension of safety briefings and
cards. Research findings showed that the depictions
of multiple brace positions on the card were
confusing. 46% of participants had trouble locating
and removing the lifevests from the packages,
requiring a full minute to complete the donning
process. Over 50 percent of participants were wrong
or unable to provide the information about the
oxygen mask usage. Only 8% could correctly
describe how open the floor level exit quickly.
Other researchers used only questionnaires as the
comprehension test method. Jentsch [10]
investigated the comprehension of 13 aviation
safety pictograms and concluded that conveying
aviation safety information by pictorial means
appears to be effective.
Silver and Perlotto [11] conducted 40 pictorials
comprehension test and reported that responses
such as “stow away tables, no smoking inaisles,
exit in a sitting position, brace against seat in front
of you, and move away from the aircraft”receive
less comprehension rate. Caird, Wheat, McIntosh,
and Dewar [12] studied the comprehension of 36
airline pictorials and found that comprehension for
most of the pictorial information was uniformly low.
Specific comprehension difficulties associated with
emergency floor lighting and do not use electronics
during take-off and landing. Corbett, McLean and
Cosper [13] conducted a project to address the
current state of the art for airline safety briefing
cards. They found comprehension of
pictorials/pictograms was related to the familiarity
that cabin safety professionals and high flight-time
passengers have with safety briefings and briefing
cards. Results indicate that safety briefing card
pictorials/pictograms need to be designed and
implemented with respect to novice passengers who
do not have a prepotent understanding of the design
and operation of transport aircraft, emergency
equipment, and/or aircraft emergency procedures.
In terms of aviation authorities’report, in 2000
NTSB investigated 46 evacuations that occurred
between September 1997 and June 1999 that
involved 2,651 passengers. It concluded that many
air carrier safety briefing cards do not clearly
communicate safety information to passengers,
because the majority of the experiment subjects
failed to understand the meaning of most of the
images presented on the cards [14]. Australian
ATSB reported that the great variation exists in the
design and content of the safety cards and
comprehension of safety briefing cards remains
problematical [7].
III. METHOD
This research replicates the study of Hsu [15]
with a different stimulus material- aircraft type
B747-400. As such, the research methodology is the
same as Hsu [15] except adding one more
tourism purpose, study purpose > VFR purpose).
Table 1 Comprehension score of B747-400 safety card
Score (%)
Function Intended message
Item Function
1.1 Carry-on baggage 81.88
1.2 Tray table 36.88
1.Takeoff &
landing
1.3 Seat back 63.75
60.84
2.1 Fasten and tighten seatbelt 91.25
2.2 Open seatbelt 802. Seatbelt
2.3 Fasten seatbelt sign 2.5
57.92
3.Emergency
lighting 3.1 Floor Proximity Emergency Lighting 74.38 74.38
4.1 Adult position 58.75
4.2 Pregnant passengers position 33.13
4. Brace-for-
impact position
4.3 Passenger holding infants position 35.63
42.5
5.1 Location 6.25
5.2 Donning 65.63
5.3 Means for adjusting 43.13
5. Oxygen
Mask
5.4 Before assisting children 50.63
41.41
6.1 Stowage location 46.88
6.2 Usage 68.13
6.3 Use in the water/night 11.88
6. Life vest
6.4 Children life vest usage 30
39.22
7.1 Location of every available exit 16.25
7.2 Slide consistent with exits 2.5
7.3 Open emergency door 38.13
7.4 Inflation of slide 25
7.5 Use of slide 50
7.6 No carry-on luggage 50
7.7 No high heels 51.88
31.857. Land
evacuation
7.8 Overwing exit operation 21
8.1 Location of every available exit 37.5
8.2 Slide/raft slide consistent with exits 15.63
8.3 Open emergency door 1.25
8.4 Inflation of slide/raft 3.13
8.5 Use of slide/raft 35
8.6 Launch & secure slide/raft 53.75
8.7 No carry-on luggage 55
8. Water
ditching
8.8 No high heels 61.88
32.89
Mean 41.13 47.64
is a common observation passenger do not read
safety briefing card nor do they perfectly
understand the safety card in the seat pocket in
front of them.
The lowest comprehension of pictorial appears
to be the items of 8.3 (Water ditching) Open
emergency door (1.25 %), 2.3 Fasten seatbelt
sign (2.5 %), 7.2 Slide consistent with exits (2.5
%), and 8.4 (Water ditching) Inflation of
slide/raft (3.13%). It is noted that within the
sample airline’s safety card, there are no pictorials
or pictograms for item 8.3, 2.3 and 8.4, which
might directly result in the low comprehension
scores. The B747-400 safety card of this sample
airline is sized in A4 paper, and double-side
printed. With the limited space, it appears that the
presence of how to open emergency door in
Water ditching, how to inflate slide/raft during
Water ditching, and when to comply with the
fasten seatbelt sign is omitted. The omissions not
only prevent passengers from knowing the
information, but also offend the aviation
regulation in Taiwan.
Findings of this research also indicate that
comprehension of pictorials/pictograms related to
“Water ditching”and“Land evacuation”are lower
than 35%, especially with the item- 7.2 Slide
consistent with exits (2.5 %) and 8.2 (Water
ditching) Slide/raft slide consistent with exits
(15.63%). The results show the participants’
unfamiliarity about the evacuation procedures.
Evacuation related information is the most
important and the most complex on safety card.
NTSB study [3] suggested that “passengers who 
are not attentive to safety information are much
more susceptible to being injured during an
evacuation”. The evacuation instructions are
legally required to consist of the location of exit,
exit door operation, slide operation, warning
symbol and so on. Therefore,
pictorials/pictograms associated with evacuation
usually contain multiple elements or multiple
actions, and/or pictograms in which serial actions
were not tightly linked pictorially, no matter
which airline or which aircraft type. As such,
participants often missed specific details in certain
pictorials, especially when the details were not the
main focus of the intended message. This finding
is similar to the study conducted by Cobett et al. in
2008 [13].
Meanwhile, according to the regulation, the
importance of “complying with the seatbelt sign” 
should be emphasized. Yet Table 2 demonstrates
“Fasten seatbelt sign”is situated in the top one of
negative comprehension. It is apparent passengers
are unaware of the function and existence of
fasten seatbelt sign. The failure to recognize this
function also increases the possibility of passenger
injuries in the event of turbulence.
VI. CONCLUSION
The implementation of accepted instructional
design techniques in passenger safety cards can
potentially impact both user preference as well as
performance [16]. This research demonstrates the
similar finding with most previous literature
research that the safety briefing card
comprehension level is unacceptably low. It
reconfirms the universal situation that safety
information is not well transferred to passengers
and potential passengers. Specifically the
improvement of safety card comprehension within
the sample airline should focus on the
pictorial/pictograms related to Land and Water
Evacuation, Fasten seat belt sign compliance and
Life vest used in the water/night. It is hoped that
the present work will generate interest in the
designer and user for providing guidance in the
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本研究計畫提出改進安全提示卡的結論與建議，除了航空公司客艙安全可行性
策略外，並可提供給民航主管機關作為客艙安全政策制定與查核之參考依據。
因此對於業界具有實務上之貢獻 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
