是那麼多。在本計畫中，我們將設計一個極有效率的測試架
構，其包含了測試資料壓縮與解壓縮的結構，以達到降低測
試資料量的效果，並且試著找尋一個完整且低功率消耗的壓
縮技術。 
以下為本計畫之預期規劃： 
(1) 電路架構的整合以及廣泛探討 
(2) 時脈閘控技術分析 
(3) 提出時脈閘控制器架構並證明本架講之可行性 
(4) 演算法的分析與設計並證明本演算法之可行性 
 
中文關鍵詞： 測試, 低功率, 全掃描 
英 文 摘 要 ： Full scan testing, one of scan-based testing, is a 
strategy of changing all the register into scan cell 
and stitch them together to form to single or 
multiple scan register. There are two operation modes 
in full scan testing, shift operation and capture 
operation, respectively. In shift mode, the test 
vectors can be shifted into the circuit under test in 
serial way through the scan register. In capture 
mode, the test response are captured to outputs of 
each scan cell and shifted out at the next shift 
cycle. By this way, the test application time can be 
reduced and the fault coverage can be enhanced.  
As the complexity of VLSI continue to grow, test data 
volume and test power dissipation has increased 
dramatically. In order to be able to complete the 
testing of circuit design, we must generated the test 
set for testing in advance, and stores these test 
pattern in memory of automatic test equipment (ATE). 
One can imagine that test data volume augments as the 
integrated circuits became complex, yet the channel 
bandwidth and memory capacity of ATE is limited. 
Thus, it is difficult to transmit huge test data from 
ATE memory to SoC-chip. Test data compression is one 
of most often used methods to deal with this issue. 
This benefit not only reduces the amount of test 
data, it can shorten test application time 
simultaneously. However, the method which considers 
the reduction of test data and the achievement of low 
power consumption is not so much in recent research. 
In this proposal, we will design a very efficient 
低捕捉功率快速掃描測試架構之研究
計畫編號：NSC 100-2221-E-032-032 
主持人：饒建奇 單位：淡江大學電機系
E-mail: jcrau@ee.tku.edu.tw  電話: +886-2-26215656 ext 2729
近來隨著系統單晶片(SOC)革命性地發展，在功率消耗方
面，不論是在設計上，或者測試上，都帶來了許多新的挑戰。晶
片在測試模式(test mode)下所產生的切換動作(switching activity)通常
會比在正常模式(normal mode)產生更高的功率消耗[2]，尤其在高
密度與高速的積體電路，此情形會更加顯著[1]。在測試模式時，
過多的切換動作會產生過高的功率消耗，其將會提高晶片過熱與
毀損的風險。由此可知，在超大型機體電路(VLSI)的設計與測試開
發上，低功率將成為一個重要課題。
本計畫中，主要目標是要在不影響測試時間 (即不使用循序
式的捕捉時脈)，與不損失錯誤涵蓋率的情況下來降低捕捉功率。
我們的研究方向將分為兩項: (1)修改全掃描式架構 (2)發展出符合
功耗需求(Thermal-Safe)之系統晶片測試排程自動化工具，藉由這
套工具對適合的掃描細胞做閘控並可在不損失錯誤涵蓋率的情況
下來降低捕捉功率。
1. 測試資料壓縮
2. 低功耗測試電路設計
3. 鏈結串列測試考量
4. 可測試性(Design For Testability, DFT)設計
主要創新技術
1. 提出低功耗的測試資料壓縮技術，其適用於單一掃描鏈的架
構。(如圖一)
2. 提出掃描鏈重新排列的演算法來降低測試功率消耗。
3. 提出了測試片段差異(test slice difference, TSD)的技術，以減少
測試資料量。(如圖二)
研究項目應用範圍
論文發表
A. 期刊論文(Referred papers)
[1] Jiann-Chyi Rau, Po-Han Wu, and Wei-Lin Li , “Test Slice 
Difference Technique For Low-Transition Test Data 
Compression,＂ TamKang Journal of Science and Engineering 
accepted.
[2] Jiann-Chyi Rau and Po-Han Wu, “Power-Aware Multi-Chains 
Encoding Scheme for SoC in Low-Cost Environment＂, IET 
Computers and Digital Techniques, Issue 1, Vol. 5, pp. 25-35, 
Jan., 2011. (SCI, EI) (Impact Factor: 0.316)
[3]  Jiann-Chyi Rau and Po-Han Wu, “Power-Aware 
Compression Scheme for Multiple Scan-Chain,＂ Journal of 
the Chinese Institute of Engineers, Vol. 34, No. 4, pp. 515-527, 
Jun., 2011. (SCI, EI) (Impact Factor: 0.227)
B. 國際研討會論文(Conference papers)
[1] Kung-Han Chen, Jing-Tang Huang, Po-Han Wu, Jiann-Chyi
Rau , “Multiple Inputs Selector for High Speed Masking ＂, 
IEEE International Test Conference (ITC), Poster 26, 2011.
圖一 硬體架構
圖二 整體流程範例(a) initial test vector set (b) test 
slice groups (c) scan chain with scan cell inverted 
(d) after X-filling (e) TSG set and test vector 
reordering (f) test slice difference (g) Huffman table 
(h) encoded data information.
計畫成果
計畫簡介
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
                                                         
At-a-Glance Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses 
Technical 
Papers 
Special 
Tracks Intro  i 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Become an ITC corporate supporter or utilize marketing opportunities 
 
http://www.itctestweek.org 
 
 
www.twitter.com/itctestweek 
 
S
u
n
d
a
y
 
M
o
n
d
a
y
 
T
u
e
sd
a
y
 
W
e
d
n
e
sd
a
y
 
T
h
u
rs
d
a
y
 
F
ri
d
a
y
 
Twelve Full-Day TTTC Tutorials 
A great way to prepare for the ITC Technical program     
    
Test Clinic 
Learn how to test logic and memories in SOCs. 
      
Disney Institute       
Four Panels       
Plenary Session – Keynote Address       
Disney Imagineer       
Closing Keynote Address       
55 Technical Papers       
Poster Session       
Lecture Series and Advanced Industrial Practices 
Special sessions containing introductory and broadening material 
      
World-Class Exhibits 
Free exhibits-only admission on Wednesday afternoon and 
all day on Thursday 
      
Exhibits Passport Program 
Visit booths and be eligible for daily prize drawings 
      
Corporate Presentations 
The latest technical innovations from our exhibitors and 
corporate supporters 
      
Workshops 
Finish your Test Week experience with a choice of three 
      
ITC Welcome Reception       
Fringe Technical Meetings       
 At-a-Glance Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses 
Technical 
Papers Intro 
Special 
Tracks 
                                                        Welcome Message            
Test Week Highlights 
i 
ITC Test Week 2011 3 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER  21 – TECHNICAL SESSIONS 
8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m. Session 5 
Board Diagnosis and Safe 
Boundary-Scan Testing 
Session 6 
RF DFT and Test Cost 
Reduction 
Session 7 
Self-Testing and Test 
Compression Techniques 
Lecture 3 
Elevator Talks 
9:30 a.m.–4:30 p.m. Exhibits  
10:30a.m.–12:00 p.m. Panel 3 
In-Circuit Test (ICT): The King 
Is Dead; Long Live the King! 
Session 8 
BIST and Fault Tolerance for 
SRAM 
Session 9 
Defects! 
Lecture 4  
 Partner Conference Showcase 2 
 
12:00 p.m.–2:00p.m. Poster Session - Lunch 
2:00 p.m.–4:00 p.m. Session 10 
0< t >0 
Session 11 
Taming High-Speed Digital 
Interfaces > 10 Gbs 
Session 12 
Timing- and Power-aware DFT 
Session 13 
Microprocessor Testing 
4:30 p.m.–5:30 p.m. Disney Imagineer Manufacturing a Disney Spectacular 
 
 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 – TECHNICAL SESSIONS 
8:30 a.m.–10:00 a.m. Session 14 
DFT for Complex SOCs 
Session 15 
Learning from Data: Diagnosis and Data 
Mining 
Advanced Industrial  Practices 2 
Electrical Validation:  The First Chip Works, 
Now What? 
9:30 a.m. – 1:00 p.m.            Exhibits  
10:30 a.m.–12:00 p.m. Session 16 
Advanced Mixed-Signal Test 
Session 17 
Stacked Device Test 
Advanced Industrial  Practices 3 
Adaptive Test: Reducing Cost with Better 
Information  
 
12:00 p.m.– 1:00 p.m. Lunch  
1:00 p.m.– 2:00 p.m. Keynote  A Systems Perspective on the R&D of Industrial Technology 
2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. Panel 4   The Gap: Test Challenges from the Asia Manufacturing Field and Today's Tools  
 
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 22 – WORKSHOPS 
4:00 p.m. – 6:30 p.m. Testing Three-Dimensional Stacked ICs Silicon Debug and Diagnosis Defect and Adaptive Test Analysis 
 7:00 p.m. – 9:00 p.m. Workshop Reception 
 
FRIDAY,SEPTEMBER 23 – WORKSHOPS 
8:00 a.m. – 4:00 p.m. Testing Three-Dimensional Stacked ICs Silicon Debug and Diagnosis Defect and Adaptive Test Analysis 
  
 At-a-Glance Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses 
Technical 
Papers Intro 
Special 
Tracks 
                                                           Sunday–Tuesday          
i 
ITC Test Week 2011  5 
 Test Week At-a-Glance 
  
 
 
Sunday  8:30 a.m.– 4:30 p.m. 
 
TUTORIAL 4    
Power-aware Testing and Test 
Strategies for Low-Power Devices 
Presenters P. Girard, N. Nicolici,  
X. Wen 
Description Managing the power 
consumption of circuits and systems is now 
considered as one of the most important 
challenges for the semiconductor industry. 
Elaborate power management strategies, such 
as voltage scaling, clock gating or power 
gating techniques, are used today to control 
the power dissipation during functional 
operation. The usage of these strategies has 
various implications on manufacturing test, 
and power-aware test is therefore 
increasingly becoming a major consideration 
during design-for-test and test preparation for 
low power devices. This tutorial provides 
knowledge in this area. It is organized into 
three main parts. The first one gives 
necessary background and discusses issues 
arising from excessive power dissipation 
during test application. The second part 
provides comprehensive knowledge of 
structural and algorithmic solutions that can 
be used to alleviate such problems. The last 
part surveys low-power design techniques 
and shows how these low power devices can 
be tested safely without affecting yield and 
reliability. EDA solutions for considering 
power during test and design-for-test are also 
discussed in the last part of the tutorial.
 
 
 
 
 
 
TUTORIAL 5 
The Convergence and Inter-
relationship of Yield, Design-for-
Manufacturability and Test 
Presenters S. Venkataraman, R. Aitken  
Description The tutorial goal is to show how 
design-for-yield (DFY) and design-for- 
manufacturability (DFM) are tightly coupled 
into what we conventionally think of as test. 
As process geometries shrink, the line 
between defects and process variation blurs 
to the point where it is essentially non-
existent. As feature sizes reduced to 90 nm 
and below, systematic mechanism-limited 
yield loss began to appear as a substantial 
component in yield loss due to the interaction 
between design and manufacturing. The 
basics of yield and what fabs do to improve 
defectivity and manage yield are described. 
DFM techniques to analyze the design 
content, flag areas of design that could limit 
yield, and make changes to improve yield are 
discussed. In DFM/DFY circles, it is 
common to speak of defect-limited yield, but 
it is less common to think of test-limited 
yield, yet this concept is common in DFT 
(e.g. IDDQ testing, delay testing). Test 
techniques to close the loop by crafting test 
patterns to expose the defect-prone feature 
and circuit marginality through ATPG, and 
by analyzing silicon failures through 
diagnosis to determine the features that are 
actually causing yield loss and their relative 
impact are covered. This tutorial will provide 
background needed for DFT practitioners to 
understand DFM and DFY, and see how their 
work relates to it. The ultimate goal is to spur 
attendees to conducting their own research in 
the area, and to apply these concepts in their 
jobs. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                               Monday TTTC Full-Day      Wednesday Embedded 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Workshops Exhibits
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Pan ls Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses 
Technical 
Papers Intro 
Special 
Tracks Tutorials i 
                                                                 Monday Full-Day Tutorials    Test Clinic  Disney Institute 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
TTTC Full-Day Tutorials 
<  previous Sunday tutorials 
 
Discount Rates! 
Register by  
August 22 
ITC Test Week 2011  7 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Monday  8:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m. 
. 
 
TUTORIAL 10    
Statistical Adaptive Test Methods 
Targeting "Zero Defect" IC Quality 
and Reliability 
Presenters A. Singh 
Description Integrated circuits have 
traditionally all been tested identically in the 
manufacturing flow with little sharing of test 
results between the different test insertions. 
However, as the detection of subtle 
manufacturing flaws becomes ever more 
challenging and expensive in aggressively 
scaled nanometer technologies, innovative 
new statistical screening methods are being 
developed that attempt to improve test 
effectiveness and optimize test costs by 
subjecting ―suspect‖ parts to more extensive 
testing, and also adaptively bring in 
additional tests that target the suspected 
failure mode. The idea is analogous to 
selective security screening approaches 
applied at airports. Such statistical methods 
fall into two broad categories: those that 
exploit the statistics of defect distribution on 
wafers, and those that exploit the correlation 
in the variation of process and performance 
parameters on wafers. This tutorial presents 
test methodologies that span both these 
categories, and illustrates their effectiveness 
with results from a number of recently 
published experimental studies on production 
digital and analog circuits from IBM, Intel 
and LSI, Analog Devices and NXP 
Semiconductor. Commercial tools offered by 
a number of new companies that have 
emerged in the "Adaptive Test" space will 
also be discussed. Broadly, these aim to 
provide support for the sharing and 
leveraging of results from the different tests 
in the test flow for effective test adaptation 
and optimization. 
TUTORIAL 11  
The Economics of Test and 
Testability 
Presenters S. Davidson, H. Colby,        
L. Ungar  
 
Description Test economics provides a way 
of quantifying the costs and benefits of test, 
and helps a test engineer choose an effective 
test strategy. Classical microeconomics is far 
more sophisticated than what is found in test 
economics papers. Recent work in behavioral 
economics, known to the public through 
bestsellers such as Freakonomics and 
Predictably Irrational, has shown that 
classical assumptions about the behavior of 
economic actors are wrong. This tutorial will 
summarize existing work in test economics, 
provide background on microeconomic and 
behavioral economics concepts that are of 
interest to test and DFT engineers, and will 
show their applicability to test. The student 
will emerge with the ability to do traditional 
cost and benefit modeling, and with a deeper 
understanding of the economic principles that 
affect the cost and benefits of test. The 
researcher will emerge with the tools to make 
a much better case for the benefits of 
proposed research. 
 
TUTORIAL 12  
Testing Memories in the Nano-Era: 
Fault Models, Test Algorithms, 
Industrial Results, BIST and BISR 
Presenter S. Hamdioui,  
A.J. Van de Goor, S. Gregor 
Description The objective is to provide 
attendees with an overview of fault modeling, 
test design, BIST and BISR for memory 
devices in the nano-era. Traditional fault 
modeling and recent development in fault 
models for current and future technologies 
are covered. Systematic methods are 
presented for designing and optimizing tests, 
supported by industrial results from different 
companies (e.g., Intel, ST) and for different 
technology nodes (e.g., 0.13 um, 65 nm). 
Impact of algorithmic (e.g., data-background) 
and non-algorithmic (e.g., voltage) stresses is 
explored in order to get better insight in the 
test effectiveness. Novel BIST architectures 
are covered; special attention is given to the 
optimization of address generator designs as 
they typically consume considerable BIST 
area overhead. BISR and redundancy analysis 
are also discussed. Moreover, CPU based 
memory test—which is in some applications 
the only resource to perform at least the 
Power-on test is addressed. Finally, future 
challenges in memory testing are highlighted. 
 
 
  
6 
Venue 
<  previous Monday tutorials 
Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses 
Technical 
Papers Intro 
Special 
Tracks 
                                                            Sunday Full-Day Tutorials    Test Clinic   Disney Institute         
  
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Tutorials 
ITC Test Week 2011  9 
 TTTC Full-Day Tutorials 
 i 
  
                       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Exhibits hours: Tuesday 10:30 a.m. – 5:30 p.m.  
    Wednesday 9:30 a.m. – 4:30 p.m., Thursday 9:30 a.m. – 1:00 p.m. 
    
 
 
ITC is offering free exhibits-only registration to visit the exhibit hall during all exhibit hours. 
On-site registration for this special opportunity begins on Tuesday at the ITC registration  
area in the Disneyland Hotel Conference Center. 
 
 
Fill in your Exhibit Hall Passport for Prizes. 
 
All registered ITC attendee will receive a passport with their conference 
totes.  Get your passport stamped while visiting exhibitor booths, drop  
your completed passport into the box on the exhibit floor, and be eligible  
for daily drawings for an iPod and an iPod  Shuffle. Winners may choose 
instead a Disney store gift certificate of equal value. 
 
 
Visit the international exhibition that includes the latest 
high-technology test, design and service products. 
Venue 
                             Exhibitors       Corporate Presentations     
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
ITC Test Week 2011  11 
 
Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses 
Technical 
Papers Intro
Special 
Tracks i 
Exhibits 
  
 
 
 
                                                 
Tuesday    9:00 a.m. – 10:30 a.m. 
 
Opening Remarks 
      William Eklow, ITC General Chair 
 
ITC 2010 Best Paper Awards Presentation 
      Erik Volkerink, ITC 2010 Program Chair 
 
Keynote Address 
     Power, Programmability and Granularity: The Challenges of ExaScale Computing  
     Bill Dally, Bell Professor of Engineering, Stanford University, Chief Scientist, NVIDIA Corporation 
 
 
 
Reaching an ExaScale computer by the end of the decade, and 
enabling the continued performance scaling of smaller systems 
requires significant research breakthroughs in three key areas: 
power efficiency, programmability, and execution granularity. To 
build an ExaScale machine in a power budget of 20 MW requires 
a 200-fold improvement in energy per instruction: from 2 nJ to 
10 pJ.  Only 4X is expected from improved technology.  The 
remaining 50X must come from improvements in architecture 
and circuits.  To program a machine of this scale requires more 
productive parallel programming environments—that make 
parallel programming as easy as sequential programming is 
today.  Finally, problem size and memory size constraints prevent 
the continued use of weak scaling, requiring these machines to 
extract parallelism at very fine granularity—down to the level of 
a few instructions.  This talk will discuss these challenges and 
current approaches to address them.  
 
 
About the speaker: Dr. Dally is the Willard R. and 
Inez Kerr Bell Professor of Engineering at Stanford 
University and Chief Scientist at NVIDIA Corporation. 
Bill and his group have developed system architecture, 
network architecture, signaling, routing and 
synchronization technology that can be found in most 
large parallel computers today. While at Bell Labs, Bill 
contributed to the BELLMAC32 microprocessor and 
designed the MARS hardware accelerator. At Caltech he 
designed the MOSSIM Simulation Engine and the Torus 
Routing Chip which pioneered wormhole routing and 
virtual-channel flow control. While a Professor of EECS 
at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, his group 
built the J-Machine and the M-Machine, experimental 
parallel computer systems that pioneered the separation of 
mechanisms from programming models and demonstrated 
very low overhead synchronization and communication 
mechanisms.  At Stanford University his group has 
developed the Imagine processor, which introduced the 
concepts of stream processing and partitioned register 
organizations.  Bill has worked with Cray Research and 
Intel to incorporate many of these innovations in 
commercial parallel computers, with Avici Systems to 
incorporate this technology into Internet routers, co-
founded Velio Communications to commercialize high-
speed signaling technology, and co-founded Stream 
Processors, Inc. to commercialize stream processor 
technology.   He is a Member of the National Academy of 
Engineering, a Fellow of the IEEE, a Fellow of the ACM, 
and a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and 
Sciences.  He has received numerous honors including the 
ACM Eckert-Mauchly Award, the IEEE Seymour Cray 
Award, and the ACM Maurice Wilkes award.  He 
currently leads projects on computer architecture, network 
architecture, and programming systems. He has published 
over 200 papers in these areas, holds over 75 issued 
patents, and is an author of the textbooks, Digital Systems 
Engineering and Principles and Practices of 
Interconnection Networks. 
 
Registration Venue 
ITC Test Week 2011 13 
 
 
Plenary & 
Addresses 
                                                                                  Closing Keynote Address     Disney Imagineer 
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Technical 
Papers Intro 
Special 
Tracks 
Plenary & Keynote Address 
i 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wednesday   4:30 p.m. – 5:30 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
 
Manufacturing a Disney Spectacular 
 
Chuck Davis, Disney Creative Entertainment Senior Technical 
Director 
 
Chuck discusses the creation of the technical aspects of the 
spectacular show World of Color, which is performed nightly on 
Paradise Bay at Disney California Adventure. This 60-minute 
lecture will take participants on a little-seen journey through the 
design, fabrication, installation and mounting process of World of 
Color. We will discover how the teams use normal 
manufacturing principles and process to insure the eventual 
outcome is safe, reliable, maintainable, and financially viable, 
while still delivering on the highest of creativity. Participants will 
see how the show starts from a creative idea, imagined to provide 
an ―only at Disney‖ emotional experience. They will understand 
how this creative experience is the touchstone to which all project 
decision-making is derived, and how principles of high-
reliability, self-diagnostics, redundancy, self-healing, safety and 
leveraging cutting edge technology are spun together to support 
the show’s creation. We will also see how these systems are used 
to maintain the show, as well as keep the creative vision fresh 
and up-to-date. 
Please join us for a rarely seen backstage view of this truly 
unique nighttime spectacular. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
About the speaker:  Chuck began his Disney career in 
1996 after successful stints in the worlds of professional 
ballet and education. He currently serves as Sr. Technical 
Director for creative entertainment and is responsible for 
spectaculars, atmosphere and blue-sky projects. He has 
been a key player in the creation of many of the most 
technically sophisticated nighttime spectaculars Walt 
Disney Parks and Resorts has to offer worldwide. Chuck 
leads the automation and advanced technologies teams for 
DLR entertainment. Past projects include Remember 
Dreams Come True, Believe there is Magic in the Stars, 
Believe in Christmas Magic, Fantasmic, Innoventions and 
Disney in the Stars. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
Plenary & 
Addresses 
                                                      Plenary/Opening Keynote Address   Closing Keynote Address 
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Technical 
Papers Intro 
Special 
Tracks 
ITC Test Week 2011  15 
 Disney Imagineer  
i 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
8:30 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. 
 
SESSION 5 
Board Diagnosis and Safe Boundary Scan 
Testing   
T. Chakraborty, Qualcomm (Chair) 
 
5.1  Smart Diagnosis: Efficient Board-level 
Diagnosis and Repair Using Artificial 
Neural Networks 
Z. Zhang, K. Chakrabarty, Duke University; 
Z. Wang, Z. Wang, Cisco Systems, Inc.; 
X. Gu, Huawei 
5.2  Surviving State Disruptions Caused by 
Test: A Case Study  
K. Parker, Agilent Technologies; 
S. Kameyama, Fujitsu and Ehime University; 
D. Dubberke, Intel  
  
5.3  IEEE Std. 1581—A Standardized Test 
Access Methodology for Memory 
Devices 
H. Ehrenberg, GOEPEL Electronics; 
B. Russell, Technical Consultant 
 
SESSION 6 
RF DFT and Test Cost Reduction  
P. O'Brien, Analog Devices  (Chair) 
 
6.1  Multisite Test of RF Transceivers on 
Low-Cost Digital ATE 
I. Koren, B. Schuffenhauer, F. Demmerle, 
F. Neugebauer, G. Pfahl, 
D. Rautmann, Infineon Technologies  
6.2  Wafer Probe Test Cost Reduction of an 
RF/A Device by Automatic Testset 
Minimization—A Case Study 
D. Drmanac, L. Wang, University of 
California, Santa Barbara; 
M. Laisne, Qualcomm  
 
6.3  Accurate Signature-driven Power- 
conscious Tuning of RF Systems 
Using Hierarchical Performance 
Models 
A. Banerjee, A. Chatterjee, Georgia Institute 
of Technology  
 
SESSION 7 
Self Testing and Test Compression 
Techniques  
R. Parekhji, Texas Instruments (India), (Chair) 
7.1  Defect-oriented Cell-internal Testing 
E. Khayat Moghaddam, University of Iowa; 
J. Rajski, Mentor Graphics; 
S.M. Reddy, University of Iowa 
7.2  Partial State Monitoring for Fault 
Detection Estimation 
Y. Shi, Brown University; K. Kaewtip, UCLA; 
W-C. Hu, MStar Semiconductor; 
J. Dworak, Southern Methodist University 
7.3  Logic BIST Silicon Debug and Volume 
Diagnosis Methodology 
E. Amyeen, J. Andal, S. Venkataraman, 
S. Pathy, Intel 
 
10:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. 
 
SESSION 8 
BIST and Fault Tolerance for SRAM 
S. Hamdioui, Delft University of 
Technology (Chair) 
 
8.1  Generic, Orthogonal and Low-Cost 
March Element-based Memory BIST 
S. Hamdioui, A.J. van de Goor,  
H. Kunker, Delft University of Technology 
 
8.2  On Using Address Scrambling to 
Implement Defect Tolerance in SRAMs 
R. Alves Fonseca, L. Dilillo, A. Bosio, 
P. Girard, S. Pravossoudovitch, 
A. Virazel, LIRMM; N. Badereddine, Infineon 
Technologies   
 
8.3  A Fully Cell-based Timing Measurement 
Design for Memory 
S-Y. Huang, Y-C. Chang, C-W. Tzeng, 
 National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan;  
Y-J. Sue, J. Yao, Elite Semiconductor Memory 
Technology  
 
 
SESSION 9 
Defects! 
E. Amyeen, Intel (Chair) 
 
9.1   Cell-aware Analysis for Small-Delay 
Effects and Production Test Results 
from Different Fault Models 
F. Hapke, J. Schloeffel, W. Redemund, 
A. Glowatz, J. Rajski, Mentor Graphics; 
M. Reese, J. Rearick, J. Rivers, AMD  
 
9.2  Lithography-aware Critical Area 
Estimation and Yield Analysis 
V. Suresh, P. Vijayakumar, 
S. Kundu, University of Massachusetts 
 
9.3  Using Well/Substrate Bias Manipulation 
to Enhance Voltage-Test-based 
Defect Detection 
A. Gattiker, P. Nigh, IBM 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
                                                Tuesday      Wednesday P.M.     Thursday      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Invited Addresses   
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Technical 
Papers Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses Intro 
Special 
Tracks i 
ITC Test Week 2011 17 
 Wednesday A.M. 
 
Discount Rates! 
Register by  
August 22 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
8:30 a.m. – 10:00 a.m. 
SESSION 14 
DFT for Complex SOCs 
TBD, (Chair)  
 
14.1  EDT Channel Bandwidth Management 
in SOC Designs with Pattern-
independent Test Access Mechanism 
J. Tyszer, J. Janicki, Poznan University of 
Technology; A. Dutta, M. Kassab, 
G. Mrugalski, N. Mukherjee, J. Rajski, Mentor 
Graphics  
 
14.2  A Novel Test Access Mechanism for 
Failure Diagnosis of Multiple Isolated 
Identical Cores 
M. Sharma, A. Dutta, W-T. Cheng, 
B. Benware, M. Kassab, Mentor Graphics 
 
14.3  Techniques to Improve Memory 
Interface Test Quality for Complex 
SOCs 
VR. Devanathan, S. Vooka, Texas Instruments 
(India)  
 
SESSION 15 
Learning from Data: Diagnosis and Data 
Mining 
 V. Mehta, NVIDIA (Chair) 
 
15.1  Die-level Adaptive Test: Real-Time 
Test Reordering and Elimination 
K. Gotkhindikar, R. Daasch, Portland State 
University; K. Butler, J. Carulli, Jr., 
A. Nahar, Texas Instruments 
 
15.2  Forward Prediction Based on Wafer 
Sort Data—A Case Study 
N. Sumikawa,  D. Drmanac, L. Wang,  
UC-Santa Barbara; L. Winemberg, 
M. Abadir, Freescale Semiconductor 
 
15.3  Deterministic IDDQ Diagnosis Using a 
Net-Activation-based Model 
A. Kun, R. Arnold, P. Heinrich, 
G. Maugard, Infineon Technologies; 
H. Tang,  W. Cheng, Mentor Graphics 
 
 
10:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. 
 
SESSION 16 
Advanced Mixed-Signal Test 
N. Ben-Hamida, Ciena (Chair)  
 
16.1  A Novel Robust and Accurate Spectral 
Testing Method for Noncoherent 
Sampling 
S. Sudani, Iowa State University; 
M. Wu, Xi’an Jiaotong University; 
D. Chen, Iowa State University   
 
16.2  Application of a Continuous-Time 
Level-Crossing Quantization Method 
for Timing Noise Measurements 
T. Yamaguchi, Advantest Laboratories; 
M. Soma, University of Washington; 
T. Aoki, Tohoku University; Y. Furukawa, 
K. Degawa, Advantest; K. Asada, M. Abbas, 
S. Komatsu, University of Tokyo 
 
16.3  Adaptive Multidimensional Outlier 
Analysis for Analog and Mixed-Signal 
Circuits 
E. Yilmaz, S. Ozev, ASU; K. Butler, Texas 
Instruments 
  
 
 
SESSION 17 
Stacked Device Test 
TBD (Chair)  
 
17.1  Pre-Bond Probing of TSVs in 3D 
Stacked ICs 
B. Noia, K. Chakrabarty, Duke University 
 
17.2  Evaluation of TSV Probing for Wide I/O 
Testing 
K. Smith, P . Hanaway, M. Jolley, 
R. Gleason, E. Strid, Cascade Microtech; 
T. Daenen, L. Dupas, B. Knuts, 
E. Marinissen, M. Van Dieval, IMEC 
 
17.3  Post-Bond Testing of 2.5D-SICs and 
3D-SICs Containing a Passive Silicon 
Interposer Base 
C-C. Chi, National Tsing-Hua University; 
EJ. Marinissen, IMEC; SK. Goel, TSMC 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 
                                  Tuesday      Wednesday A.M.      Wednesday P.M.        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Invited Addresses   
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Technical 
Papers Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses Intro 
Special 
Tracks 
ITC Test Week 2011 19 
Thursday 
i 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The corporate presentation track allows you to stay on top of the latest commercial products in the semiconductor test industry and helps 
you understand how the innovations behind the products can add value to your work. The corporate track allows you to gain an in-depth 
understanding of how some of the technology innovations presented at ITC impact the product portfolios of companies. In this 
interactive forum, ITC exhibitors and supporters will make presentations describing their company, its products and product roadmaps. 
Company representatives are free to hand out relevant literature such as papers or marketing material. Typical presentations include case 
studies, best practices and testimonials. 
 
Corporate presentations are scheduled for Tuesday, September 20. Optimal Test, our Diamond Sponsor, will present from 11:00 a.m. to 
12:00 p.m. Afternoon presentations, 20 minutes in length each, will be given between 1:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. Check back in July for 
the detailed presentation schedule. 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Registration Venue 
 Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses Intro 
Technical 
Papers 
Special 
Tracks i 
                                                                     Lecture Series/Adv. Industrial Practices     Posters                                               
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Invited Addresses   
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
ITC Test Week 2011  21 
 Corporate Presentations 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Monday, 4:30 p.m. – 6:00 p.m. 
 
PANEL 1   Industry Leaders Panel―How Will Testing Change in the Next 10 Years?                                               
P. Nigh, IBM (Moderator/Organizer) 
We will ask a set of industry test experts to answer a set of questions to understand how the testing industry will change in the next 10 years. Fundamental questions will 
address how test equipment, design-for-test, EDA software, test steps/processes―and the companies that support these―will be changing. The discussion will start with a 
small set of questions that each panelist must address during their opening statements. Questions from attendees will be solicited before the session. What is the biggest 
problem in the industry that gets little discussion ? How will be requirements for ATE change in the next 10 years? How will fundamental design-for-test requirements 
change? What is the best area for creating a new business in the "test field"? Will design reconfiguration at test or new adaptive test applications change how we test? 
End-to-end testing (wafer probe through field)―will we develop methods to truly optimize across all steps? 
Panelists: B. Brown, LTX-Credence • B. Cory, Nvidia • W. Eklow, Cisco Systems • R. Kapur, Synopsys • R. Madge, Global Foundries  
• J. Rajski, Mentor Graphics • J. Rearick, AMD    
 
Tuesday, 4:00 p.m. – 5:30 p.m. 
 
PANEL 2  Challenges and Best Practices in Advanced Silicon Debug                                                              
J. Rearick, AMD (Moderator) • J. Zeng, AMD (Organizer) 
In the deep submicron technology node, it is impossible to bring a complex chip design to production without going through a number of respins. Silicon debug is 
becoming one of the most crucial stages that affect the time-to-market of semiconductor designs these days. Debug effort to improve performance and reduce power 
consumption is traditionally done based on functional/system tests, which can be very expensive. Structural testing, including at-speed scan tests and test-structure-based 
parameter tests etc, on the other hand, can provide useful information of the performance and power related issues that facilitate the post-silicon design optimization 
strategy of the design team. This panel will discuss whether structural-based tests, including at-speed scan tests, test-structure-based parametric tests etc., can have a 
greater role to play in debugging performance and power related issues. The advantages and disadvantages of system test versus structural test for validation will also be 
explored. 
Panelists: A. Abdo, AMD • W. Cheng, Mentor Graphics • G. Giles, AMD • T. McLaurin, ARM • P. Pant, Intel • R. Yavatkar, Intel 
 
Wednesday, 10:30 a.m. – 12:00 p.m. 
 
PANEL 3  In-Circuit Test (ICT): The King Is Dead; Long Live the King!                   
J. Grealish, Intel (Moderator) • B. Balangue, Agilent Technologies (Organizer) 
 
The objective of the panel is to have a good honest discussion from the board test industry experts about the future of ICT. The panel consists of experts from various 
parts of the industry and groups them according to the following: 1. board test managers/experts from the original equipment manufacturing (OEM),  contract 
manufacturing (CM) and original design manufacturing (ODM) side who strongly believe that the current ICT system is insufficient to test the new generation of PCBA; 
2. ICT marketing managers/experts from ICT suppliers (Agilent/Teradyne/TRI) that believe that the current ICT system has enough capabilities and features to maintain 
test coverage and cost needs for new generation of PCBA;  3. board test managers/experts at OEM/CM/ODM who are dependent on ICT system as their main board test 
manufacturing strategy and have invested substantial ICT equipment and infrastructure in their manufacturing. 
 
Panelists: S. Butkovich, Cisco Systems • P. Geiger, Dell  •  K. Parker, Agilent Technologies   •  R. Reinosa, Hewlett-Packard  
 
Thursday, 2:00 p.m. – 3:30 p.m. 
 
PANEL 4   The Gap: Test Challenges from the Asia Manufacturing Field and Today's Tools                                                           
X. Gu, Huawei Technologies (Moderator/Organizer) 
 
Today more and more electronic manufacturing is moving to Asia. Test, as one of the important parts of the manufacturing process, is used to guarantee the product 
quality and manufacturing smoothness. By presenting the gap between the test challenges that the Asian companies are facing and the tools they have available today, we 
hope to give the ITC community an opportunity to better understand the needs for innovation in test technologies and tools. 
 
Panelists: To be announced 
 
 
 
Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses Intro 
Technical 
Papers 
Special 
Tracks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Invited Addresses   
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
 i 
ITC Test Week 2011  23 
 Panels 
Registration Venue 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 3D-TEST: 2nd IEEE International Workshop on Testing Three-Dimensional Stacked ICs 
 
Scope: The second 3D-TEST Workshop focuses exclusively on test of and design-for-test for three-dimensional stacked ICs (3D-SICs), 
including systems-in-package (SIP), package-on-package (POP), and especially 3D-SICs based on through-silicon vias (TSVs). While 
3D-SICs offer many attractive advantages with respect to heterogeneous integration, smaller form-factor, higher bandwidth and 
performance, and lower power dissipation, there are many open issues with respect to testing such products. The 3D-TEST Workshop 
offers a forum to present and discuss these challenges and (emerging) solutions among researchers and practitioners alike. Topics to 
include: 
 
Defect due to wafer thinning 
Defect due to intro-stack interconnects 
DFT Architecture for 3D-SICs 
Failure Analysis for 3D-SICs 
Known-good die/stack testing 
Reliability for 3D-SICs 
Standardization for 3-D testing 
Test cost modeling for 3D-SICs 
Test flow optimization for 3D-SICs 
Tester Architecture for 3D-SICs 
TSV test, redundancy, and repair
 
General Chair: Yervant Zorian, zorian@viragelogic.com    
Program Chair: Erik Jan Marinissen, erik.jan.marinissen@imec.be 
 SDD: 7th IEEE International Workshop on Silicon Debug and Diagnosis 
Scope: Troubleshooting how and why systems and circuits fail is important and is rapidly growing in industry significance. Debug and 
diagnosis may be needed for yield improvement, process monitoring, correcting the design function, failure-mode learning for R&D, or 
just getting a working first prototype. This detective work is however very tricky. Sources of difficulty include circuit and system 
complexity, packaging, limited physical access, shortened product creation cycle and time-to-market. New and efficient solutions for 
debug and diagnosis have a much needed and highly visible impact on productivity. SDD is the seventh of a series of highly successful 
technical workshops that consider issues related to debug and diagnosis of semiconductor circuits and systems—from prototype bring-
up to volume production. Topics to include: SDD vs. Yield & TTM 
Debug techniques and methodologies 
Design and debug 
DFT reuse for debug and diagnosis 
Manufacturing and prototype environment 
Debug standardization 
Case studies 
Microprocessor, FPGA, IP, SOC debug 
Infrastructure IP for SDD 
System-level debug and diagnosis 
Emulation and hardware accelerator 
Cross-geography turn-on, debug & diagnosis 
SDD vs. Yield and TTM
 
General Chair: Teresa McLaurin, Teresa.McLaurin@arm.com  
Program Chair: Ismed Hartanto, Ismed.Hartanto@xilinx.com 
 
 
 DATA:  IEEE Workshop on Defect and Adaptive Test Analysis 
 
Scope: New initiatives in getting more out of testing have opened up new avenues of research and development in the areas of 
extracting information about defects and IC behavior through the use of innovative analysis techniques. As the need for these novel 
processes is becoming more widely accepted in the industry, new questions about how these techniques should be executed and 
controlled  in production, the types and sizes of database requirements, and even the format of test data and storage itself are being 
reviewed and discussed. The definition of what is ―Adaptive testing‖ is still being reviewed and defined. Closing the knowledge gap 
about these issues, the process, new test techniques, database requirements, and how defect models are being used to adapt test flows 
will be the goals of this year’s DATA workshop. Paper presentations on topics related to the topics listed below are expected to generate 
active discussion on the challenges that must be met to ensure high IC quality through the end of the decade. 
 
Outlier identification 
Data-driven testing 
Test data analysis 
Adaptive testing 
Data mining methods for test data processing 
High/low voltage and stress testing 
Noise and crosstalk testing 
Nanometer test challenges 
Defect coverage and metrics 
Mixed-current/voltage testing 
Economics of defect-based testing 
Fault localization and diagnosis
   
General Chair: Jeff Roehr, JLRoehr@Gmail.com 
Program Chair: Sankaran Menon, Sankaran.Menon@intel.com 
  
 Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses 
Technical 
Papers Intro 
Special 
Tracks 
                                                          Registration & Schedules        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Invited Addresses   
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Mon ay: 12 o 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Workshop Summaries 
i 
ITC Test Week 2011 25 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
ITC Welcome Reception 
Tuesday, September 20, 6:00 p.m. – 9:30 p.m. 
Disney California Adventure 
 
 
 
 
 
 The 2011 ITC Welcome Reception will take place at the Disney California Adventure, part of the Disneyland Resort. The 
evening begins in A Bugs Land, a popular attraction reserved for our exclusive use. Guests can socialize with friends old 
and new while enjoying food, drinks and fun elements of this attraction. The second part of the Welcome Reception will be 
a private showing of the spectacular World of Color, a new Disney nighttime show that premiered in June 2010. World of 
Color has more than 1,200 fountains and includes lights, water, fire, fog, and lasers, with high-definition projections on mist 
screens accompanied by musical scores. 
 
Each full-conference ITC attendee will receive one free admission to the event. For all other Test Week attendees and/or 
companions, the admission fee is $42 per person. Extra admissions may be purchased during online registration or onsite 
at the ITC registration desk. 
 
                      
 
                                                                              Fringe Technical Meetings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Invited Addresses   
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses Intro 
Technical 
Papers 
Special 
Tracks i 
ITC Welcome Reception 
ITC Test Week 2011  27 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Conference and 
Tutorials 
 
Workshops 
 
Exhibitors 
Sun, Sept 18 7:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.  7:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. 
Mon, Sept 19 7:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.  7:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. 
Tues, Sept 20 7:30 a.m. – 7:00 p.m.  7:30 a.m. – 7:00 p.m. 
Wed, Sept 21 7:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m.  7:30 a.m. – 5:00 p.m. 
Thurs, Sept 22 7:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m.  2:00 p.m. – 7:00 p.m. 7:30 a.m. – 1:30 p.m. 
Fri, Sept 23   7:30 a.m. – 10:00 a.m.  
 
Need More Registration Information?  
Contact the ITC office 
2025 M Street, NW, Suite 800, Washington, DC 20036, USA 
Tel. +1 202.973.8665    Fax. +1 202.331.0111 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
                                                     Categories & Fees        Publications           Hotel Reservations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Invited Addresses   
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses Intro 
Technical 
Papers 
Special 
Tracks 
Registration Hours 
i 
ITC Test Week 2011  29 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reserve a Disneyland Hotel room online by clicking the button above.  
 
1. Rooms may be reserved for the period from September 13, 2011 to September 27, 2011. 
 
2. All room must be guaranteed with a major credit card. 
 
3. Cancellation: Guests must cancel their reservation more than 72 hours prior to arrival (three full days prior 
to the scheduled date of arrival). Cancellations may be subjected to a penalty fee equal to one night’s room 
rate and tax if less than 72 hours notice is given.  
 
4. The reservation cutoff date is September 2, 2011 at 5:00 p.m. EDT. Reservations made after that date will be 
made at the ITC rate on a space-available basis. 
 
5. Discounted Disneyland theme park tickets may be purchased when you make your reservation. The online store for 
tickets closes September 12, 2011. Tickets are valid September 13 – 26. 
 
6. Parking for hotel guests is $15/night for self-parking and $22/night for valet parking. Follow the "Hotels" signs 
directly to your destination; do not park in a theme park lot. Those staying at the Disneyland Hotel should park in 
the Fantasy parking lot. 
 
7. Sleeping rooms provide free Internet access.                     
 
Click here for more hotel information, location and driving instructions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Disneyland Hotel Rate 
          (exclusive of taxes and fees)         
  
                 Standard Room  $169.00  
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
Message to Attendees: ITC has made every effort to secure the best possible group nightly room rate for you at this event. That rate results from a  
negotiated overall package of event  needs such as sleeping rooms, meeting room space and other requirements. Contracts with the venue include a  
provision to reduce event costs if ITC meets or exceeds its minimum sleeping room block guarantee. Conversely, event costs will increase if ITC falls  
short of its minimum room block guarantee. Please help ITC keep the costs of this event as low as possible by booking your housing needs at the  
designated host hotel and through the reservation process created by ITC. Reserving elsewhere means you are booking outside the contracted room  
block, jeopardizing ITC's ability to meet its contracted obligations and to keep registration fees to a minimum. ITC appreciates your support and  
understanding of this important issue. Thank you.  
 Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration Venue 
Plenary & 
Addresses Intro 
Technical 
Papers 
Special 
Tracks 
                                                     Categories & Fees       Registration Hours        Publications         
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Invited Addresses   
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
ITC Test Week 2011  31 
 
Online Hotel Reservations 
Hotel Reservations 
i 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. The Advance Program was generated with Adobe Acrobat 8.2.6 on 28-June-2011. 
 
2. The program will be updated periodically as new material is available—check back often. 
 
3. Navigate using the tabs at the top of each page. 
 
4. Use underlined links in the At-a-Glance to find specific items.  
 
5. Most of the papers have a ―summary.‖ Place your cursor over the paper number to see it. 
 
                           3.3 Paper Title 
 
 
 
6. For more information contact: 
 
 
Subject Contact Email 
Advance Program 
Don Denburg 
Scott Davidson 
testweek@rcn.com 
scott.davidson@oracle.com 
Advanced Industrial Practices Rob Aitken rob.aitken@arm.com 
Corporate Presentations Ken Mandl kenneth.mandl@teradyne.com 
Exhibits and Exhibiting 
Bill Lowd 
Mike Purtell 
bzintrnatl@aol.com 
m.purtell@ieee.org 
Fringe Technical Meetings Courtesy Associates ITC@courtesyassoc.com 
Hotels Connections Housing jay@connectionshousing.com 
Lecture Series Rob Aitken rob.aitken@arm.com 
Plenary and Invited Talks Tim Cheng timcheng@ece.ucsb.edu 
Registration Courtesy Associates timcheng@ece.ucsb.edu 
Support and Advertising Cassandra Koenig  Cassandra.koenig@verigy.com 
Technical Papers and Panels Shawn Blanton blanton@ece.cmu.edu 
TTTC Tutorials Yervant Zorian zorian@viragelogic.com 
Workshops Yervant Zorian zorian@viragelogic.com 
All Other Questions Courtesy Associates itc@courtesyassoc.com 
 
 
 
 i Tutorials Workshops Exhibits 
Ancillary 
Events At-a-Glance Panels Registration 
Plenary & 
Addresses Intro 
Technical 
Papers 
Special 
Tracks 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      Invited Addresses   
 
 
     Monday: 9 to 11      Monday: 12 to 16 
 
Sunday–Tuesday     Wednesday      Thursday-Friday      
Venue 
ITC Test Week 2011  33 
 Information 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：饒建奇 計畫編號：100-2221-E-032-032- 
計畫名稱：低捕捉功率快速掃描測試架構之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
