 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
以資訊市場機制為群體知識擷取與總合的研究與實做 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC  97－2221－E－001－014－MY3 
執行期間：   97 年 8  月 1   日至 100   年 7  月 31   日 
 
執行機構及系所：中央研究院 資訊科學研究所 
 
 
計畫主持人：陳孟彰 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：周子全、王智賢、陳君銘、黃意婷、張筱珮、陳盈盈、温存睿、
林炘彥 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
■赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
 3
(英文摘要) 
“Information market” is an emerging research area for information retrieval and aggregation of interactive 
trading. Participants of information markets “trade” for the outcomes of future events, or called “contracts”, a 
term borrowed from financial markets. The clearing prices of contracts are decided by the actual outcome of 
underlining events, or by the intentions of the majority participants if the events shall not have any definite 
outcomes (such as “What are the most influential technique in 2009?”). Information markets have been used 
to predict elections, movie box offices, product sales, project schedules, macroeconomic indicators and even 
international political and economic risks. Many multinational corporations, such as Google, Microsoft, Intel, 
Hewlett-Packard, Archelor and BP-Amaco, have started to apply the techniques of information market for 
forecasting and monitoring project schedules, facilitating new product development, and managing demand 
risk. The preliminary results in this area are quite promising, because the predictive accuracy of information 
markets continues to exceed traditional opinion polls. Scholars of politics, economics, sociology, psychology, 
finance, public policy, and information/computer science all began to investigate its theorems and models, and 
empirical evidences. This project focuses on the efficiency and efficacy of information markets based on 
information retrieval and aggregation, in both controlled and open environment. We will develop theoretical 
framework, build theoretical models, and conduct lab and field experiments. Our research covers the 
following topics: contract design and clearing rules, trading mechanisms, pricing, multi-dimensional, 
conditional contracts, contract clearing methods for preference contracts, trader information, trader behavior 
and market efficiency, trader risk attitude and behavioral analysis, market manipulations, price spreads and 
market efficiency, correlation between market prices and news events, and trader geo-location analysis. We 
expect to study information markets from the perspective of information science, and the applicability of 
information markets in event predictions and market preference surveys. 
Keywords: prediction markets, information extraction, event prediction, the wisdom of crowd, data 
mining, group decision-making 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5
C 研究方法與成果 
本計劃欲就【資訊市場的實證分析與本土應用】，【文字資料探勘的理論建構】，【資訊市場資訊結
構分析與交易模擬】三大方向，發展相關的資訊市場的理論分析與資訊分析技術，以提昇資訊市
場的的市場交易效能與預測的準確度。 
 
C.1 文字資料探勘的理論建構 
本領域我們探討幾個相關問題，所發表論文如下。 
z “Using Incremental PLSI for Threshold Resilient Online Event Analysis”, Tzu-chuan Chou 
and Meng Chang Chen, pp. 289-299, IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 
March 2008. 
The goal of on-line event analysis is to detect events and track their associated documents in 
real-time from a continuous stream of documents generated by multiple information sources. 
Existing approaches incorporate the handling of temporal relations among documents into the 
traditional text categorization methods for event analysis. However, those methods suffer from the 
threshold dependency problem that they perform well only for a narrow range of thresholds. In 
addition, when the contents of document stream change, the optimal threshold (i.e., the threshold 
achieves the best performance) often changes. In this paper, we propose a threshold resilient on-line 
algorithm, called Incremental Probabilistic Latent Semantic Indexing (IPLSI), which alleviates the 
threshold dependency problem, and in the same time, IPLSI also maintains the latent semantics 
continuity to better capture the storyline development of events. The IPLSI algorithm is 
theoretically sound, and efficient than effective in event analysis. The result of the performance 
evaluation based on the TDT 4 corpus show that the IPLSI algorithm reduces the cost of event 
analysis by as much as 15%~20% and increases the acceptable threshold range by 200% - 300%. 
 
z “An Adaptive Threshold Framework for Event Detection Using HMM-based Life Profiles”. 
Chien Chin Chen, Meng Chang Chen and Ming-Syan Chen, ACM Transactions on Information System, 
Feb. 2009  
When an event occurs, it attracts attention of information sources to publish related documents 
along its lifespan. The task of event detection is to automatically identify events and their related 
documents from a document stream, which is a set of chronologically ordered documents collected 
from various information sources. Generally, each event has a distinct activeness development so 
that its status changes continuously during its lifespan. When an event is active, there are a lot of 
related documents from various information sources. In contrast when it is inactive, there are very 
few documents, but they are focused. Previous works on event detection did not consider the 
characteristics of the event’s activeness, and used rigid thresholds for event detection. We propose a 
concept called life profile, modeled by a hidden Markov model, to model the activeness trends of 
events. In addition, a general event detection framework, LIPED, which utilizes the learned life 
profiles and the burst-and-diverse characteristic to adjust the event detection thresholds adaptively, 
can be incorporated into existing event detection methods. Based on the official TDT corpus and 
 7
C.2 資訊市場的實證分析與本土應用 
童振源*;林馨怡;林繼文;黃光雄;周子全;劉嘉凱,趙文志, 2009.11, "台灣選舉預測：預測市場的
運用與實證分析," 選舉研究, Vol.16, No.2, pp.131-166. 
 
 
Prediction Markets have been widely used abroad to forecast election results for many years. It has 
also been proved that such a mechanism can accurately predict election outcomes. Therefore, this 
paper would like to understand whether prediction markets can accurately predict Taiwan’s election 
outcomes. First, this paper introduces the mechanism of prediction markets and then applies the 
prediction market mechanism to predict Taiwan’s elections. According to the data provided by the 
Exchange for Future Events, we find that the prediction markets mechanism has accurately 
predicted the outcomes of Taiwan’s Taipei and Kaohsiung mayoral elections in 2006, and Taiwan’s 
presidential election and legislator election in 2008. For these three elections, the predictive 
accuracy of prediction markets is higher than (unweighted) opinion poll surveys conducted during 
the same period. This paper then discusses the differences between prediction market and opinion 
survey. 
透過預測市場的機制來預測選舉，在國外已經有相當豐碩的研究成果，也被證明具有很高的
準確度。因此，本論文要回答的問題是：預測市場是否可以準確預測台灣選舉結果？本論文
先介紹預測市場的機制，進而運用預測市場的機制來預測台灣的選舉。根據未來事件交易所
的資料顯示，我們發現預測市場機制運用於 2006 年北高市長選舉以及 2008 年台灣總統與立
委選舉同樣可以準確預測選舉結果。在這三次的選舉預測中，預測市場對選舉預測的準確度
均超過同一時間所進行（但尚未加權）的民意調查。對此，本論文也比較了預測市場和民意
調查的差異。 
 
 
 
C.3 資訊市場資訊結構分析與交易模擬 
“Nuggets of The Wisdom of Crowd in Information Market with Agent-based Simulation”, Chih-CHien Wang, 
Nai Shing Yen and Meng Chang Chen, 23rd Association for Psychological Science , May 2011. 
 
The wisdom of crowd is the result of the proper aggregation of local information from many 
individuals to generate an optimal global solution to a problem. One of the classic examples of 
"wisdom of crowds" is information market, where speculators can bet on the chances of future 
events, such as the outcomes of sports events or political elections. Conventionally, Sunstein (2004) 
sketches information from groups is provided in one of three ways: the statistical mean (for any size 
of group), group deliberations (if the group is small enough), and diverse independent decision 
(taking a vote or a poll). Market enables insights to be gathered from a diverse crowd of participants, 
and diversity has been shown to be important for group decision making (Page, 2007; Surowiecki, 
2004). A number of different types of traders exist in the market today, including experts and 
marginal traders, irrational traders, and newbie. If active traders are too few and the diversity of 
 9
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
;達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：;已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ;無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ;無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 100年 5月24 日 
一、參加會議經過 
    本次 IFIP Networking 2011 國際會議在西班牙瓦倫西亞市舉辦，時間為 2011 年 5 月
9日至2011年 5月 13日。其中5月 9日為Tutorials，5月 10日至 5月 12日為 Networking 
technical sessions，5 月 13 日為 NC-Pro、SUNSET、WCNS 及 PE-CRN 2011 等 Workshops。
發 表 論 文 ＂Adaptive On-The-Go Scheduling for End-to-end Delay Control in 
TDMA-based Wireless Mesh Networks＂。 
 
二、與會心得 
    在這三天的 technical session 中，分別邀請到了 Jose Duato、Jim Kurose 及 Antony 
Rowstron 三位國際知名的教授來做 Keynote speech。演講中對於目前網路技術的現況和
未來的發展均有精闢的見解，同時也介紹了他們團隊目前的研究狀況，以及與業界的合作
方式。在 Keynote speech 的 sessions 之後，此會議特別舉辦了名為 One Minute Madness 
(OMM)的 session。在 OMM sessions 中，當天要在會議中發表研究成果的各位學者會輪流
計畫編號 NSC  98-2221-E-001-005-MY3 
計畫名稱 在多段式/異質無線網路傳輸上之服務品質控制與移動管理 
出國人員
姓名 陳孟彰 
服務機構
及職稱 中央研究院資訊所 
會議時間 100年 5月 9日至 100 年 5 月 13 日 會議地點 西班牙  瓦倫西亞 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文) IFIP International Conferences on Networking 2011 
       (IFIP Networking 2011) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Adaptive On-The-Go Scheduling for End-to-end Delay Control    
       in TDMA-based Wireless Mesh Networks 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以資訊市場機制為群體知識擷取與總合的研究與實做
計畫主持人: 陳孟彰
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-001-014-MY3 學門領域: 資料庫系統及資料工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
