Tota
ARTICLE IN PRESShepatotoxicity (Fiorito et al., 1997;Wrbitzky 1999), male
reproductive cancers, possible embryotoxicity, teratoge-
nicity in humans and animals (Hansen and Meyer, 1990;
Anonymous, 1997; Fail et al., 1998), and sperm mortality
perturbation in humans (Chang et al., 2004a). Because it is
widely distributed in the general environment and is
profoundly toxic, DMF has been claimed as one of the
four chemicals with the highest priority for human field
study by the National Toxicology Program (NTP) at the
National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
(NIEHS) since 2001 (Moorman et al., 2000).
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that
over 16 tons of DMF were released from various industrial
locations in Canada in 2001. The WHO estimated that the
total worldwide emission rate could be alarmingly high
because Canada only consumed a relatively small amount
comparedwith other countries (WHO, 2001). Atmospheric
DMF could be further conveyed into surface water and/or
soil pore water from air during wet precipitation (US EPA,
1986). The skin is the major contact interface between
human and environmental toxic substances.
Skin absorption is one of the most important routes of
DMF exposure in addition to the inhalation route. Both
DMF vapor and liquid could be significantly absorbed
through the skin route. A human volunteer study report-
ed that about 40% and 60% of total DMF uptake was
contributed by skin and inhalation routes, respectively
(Nomiyama et al., 2001). However, human volunteers are
exposed to a well-controlled constant level for a certain
period and, normally, exposed to the chemical separately by
inhalation or skin. In contrast, humans in the natural
environment have substantially different exposure scenario
from that in the volunteer experimental settings. For
example, humans could be exposed to DMF vapor via
respiration and skin and also direct contact to DMF
liquid simultaneously in the actual environment (Mraz and
Nohova, 1992). Previous studies have shown that, in the
actual environment, skin exposure provides substantial
human internal burden and the repeated skin exposure
could result in an accumulation of human biomarker levels
(Chang et al., 2004b; 2005). Moreover, the workers could
be rotated at high-exposure tasks and low-exposure tasks
within the same day upon the manufacturing demand. Our
another field study found that, for the same DMF-exposed
manufacturing workers, skin exposure from liquid contact
as well as skin vapor could account for 60% of human
internal exposure dose in a low DMF exposure setting
(DMFb2 ppm), predominantly over that from inhalation
exposure of 15% during high-exposure task (Wang et al.,
2006). In general DMF vapor exposure via skin and
inhalation routes simultaneously occur in actual environ-
2 S.-M. Wang et al. / Science of thements and a great challenge to identify the individual
Please cite this article as: Wang S-M et al. Combining novel strategy with
skin exposure to N,N-dimethylformamide vapor. Sci Total Environ (2007uptake of respiratory DMF vapor exposure from dermal
route occurs. Moreover, the major concern of using the
DMF-derived metabolite levels in urine to evaluate the
contribution of DMF exposure, as shown in most previous
human studies is the substantial inter-individual variability
in physiological and biochemical aspects. DMF-derived
metabolite levels in urine could be seriously affected by the
uptake, excretion, and metabolism capability among
individuals. Therefore, the development of a true dose–
response relationship could be undermined owing to a
substantial inter-individual variability. However, the draw-
back of one urine measurement, as used in most of the
previous studies, is that it is not able to reflect the actual
exposure dose if exposure from different routes exerts
different kinetics and/or biomarker accumulation exists. A
novel approach: semi-actual exposure assessment is
introduced in this study to evaluate the respective
contribution of DMF vapor exposure to minimize
physiological and biochemical inter-individual variability
of subjects. The purpose of this study was to precisely
determine the contribution of skin vapor exposure and
respiratory vapor exposure in an actual exposure condition.
2. Materials and methods
2.1. Subjects
Six male human volunteers with the average age of
26.2±2.8 were invited to participate in this study. None of
them were alcohol drinkers and only one was a cigarette
smoker. None of them were diagnosed with diseases of
the liver, kidney and skin. The study protocol was ap-
proved by the Institutional Review Board of the Medical
College, National Cheng Kung University, before the
research started. Each participant read and signed the
consent forms before the study began.
2.2. Semi-actual exposure strategy
A semi-actual exposure strategy was conducted in this
study. In order to reflect the actual exposure of the workers
each volunteer was closely accompanied with a selected
worker away from the assembly line at the distance less
than 2 m for full work shift. Unlike the workers, the human
volunteers do not make contact with any machines.
Therefore, they were unlikely to have any exposure to
DMF liquid. In addition, to distinguish between the
respiratory and skin exposure contribution to the total
body burden a two-stage field studywas conducted. For the
first stage (# day 1) the volunteers were asked to wear
respirators (R95, 3M 8247. St. Paul, MN, USA). Their
l Environment xx (2007) xxx–xxxexposures are, therefore, only with entirely skin vapor
kinetic approach in the determination of respective respiration and
), doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2007.08.007
and 0.81) and the 1st stage (with respirator, Dayresp) of
9.9 and 8.1 ppmwere insignificantly higher (P=0.93 and
0.45) than the 2nd (without respirator, Dayno-resp) of 10.1
and 9.5 ppm (Table 1). Basically, the results revealed that
all the air DMF concentrations were comparable in the
comparison of day to day in different PPE conditions and
4-h vs. 8-h shifts.
3.2. Relative contribution after dermal and inhalation
exposure to DMF vapor using one urine sample
In general, the U-NMF concentrations in the post-
shift were consistently rough as four-fold of that at
noon for Dayresp (stands for exposure dose from skin,
(1) column in Table 2), Dayno-resp (stands for exposure
dose from skin+ inhalation, (2) column in Table 2), and
for that from inhalation route ((3) column in Table 2), and
all the differences were found significant (Pb0.01). The
significantly higher concentrations in the post-shift urine
than at noon finding suggested that dermal pathway for
occupational exposure to DMF might be predominated
given the air DMF concentrations in the morning were
Table 2
Comparisons on urinary NMF concentrations (mg/L) and total body
burden contribution of biomarkers after exposure to DMF via skin and
inhalation routes in one urine sample on 4-h basis and on 8-h basis in
two stages
(1) a (2) b (3) c= (2)− (1) (4)= (2)/(1)
Dayresp Dayno-resp Difference Ratio
During shift
Mean (SD) 1.1 (0.3) 3.5 (2.3) 2.5 (2.4) 3.2 (2.8)
Range 0.7–1.43 1.9–8.2 1.0–7.2 1.7–9.0
Post-shift
Mean (SD) 4.8 (1.7) 12.7 (5.9) 8.0 (4.5) 2.6 (0.7)
Range 1.9–6.9 4.8–20.1 2.6–14.4 1.7–3.5
Comparison d Pb0.01 Pb0.01 Pb0.01
Contribution (%)
U-NMF noon
(mg/L)
37.5 100 62.5
U-NMF post
(mg/L)
40.2 100 59.8
a stands for the administered exposure dose from skin.
b stands for the administered exposure dose from skin and inhalation.
c stands for the administered exposure dose from inhalation.
d by paired-t test.
4 S.-M. Wang et al. / Science of the Total Environment xx (2007) xxx–xxx
ARTICLE IN PRESSdifferent PPE (personal protective equipment) condi-
tions were monitored. In general, all A-DMF concen-
tration measurements were found around the permissible
exposure limit of 10 ppm although the concentrations in
the former 4-h (9.9 and 10.1 ppm) were insignificantly
higher than those in 8-h shifts (8.1 and 9.5 ppm) (P=0.33Fig. 1. First-order kinetic curve fittings of U-NMF concentrations for the ex
respectively since the end of exposure to 24-h after exposure. Among them,
inhalation and skin were based on the NMF concentration measurements in the u
kinetic approaches for the route of inhalation were based on the NMF concentra
subtract those collected from the Dayresp on the same time period on the abscis
Please cite this article as: Wang S-M et al. Combining novel strategy with
skin exposure to N,N-dimethylformamide vapor. Sci Total Environ (2007slightly higher than those in the afternoon (Table 1).
Given the A-DMF concentrations in two stages were
comparable, the urinary DMF exposure biomarker of U-
NMF were about 2.6–3.6 folds significantly higher in
the day without wearing respirator than the day with
respirator for both noon and post-shift urine samples
posure to DMF via skin alone, skin + inhalation, and inhalation alone,
kinetic approaches to skin alone exposure and combined exposure via
rine samples collected from the Dayresp, and Dayno-resp, respectively. The
tion measurements in the urine samples collected from the Dayno-resp and
sa.
kinetic approach in the determination of respective respiration and
), doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2007.08.007
Tota
ARTICLE IN PRESSOne difficulty in evaluating the total body burden of
a potential skin-penetrate like DMF was how to separate
the dermal vapor exposure and respiratory exposure
in an actual occupational setting because they always
simultaneously co-exist. In this study, a semi-actual
exposure approach was used. Exactly the same subjects
were monitored repeatedly between two stages to
minimize the inter-individual variability in the biolog-
ical monitoring. Moreover, because they wore a unified
clothing unit including the same clothing material and
the same uncovered skin regions on two comparable
DMF exposure surroundings, the calculation of the
contribution of the total body burden from different
exposure routes result can be performed on a basis that
other affecting factors are comparable. The exposure
estimates by semi-actual strategy could reflect the in-
ternal exposure proportion of skin vapor and respiratory
vapor as the actual exposure subjects although the ex-
posure estimates are lower than the actual because of the
longer distances from the exposure source. Therefore,
the semi-actual is a novel and acceptable alternative to
determine the respective contribution of total body
burden of the exposure to hazardous vapor in the actual
environment.
In this study we found that the approximately relative
contribution was consistently about 2:3 for the 4-h and
8-h shift bases (Table 2) on the one urine sample basis.
Our estimate is very close to the previous findings from
human volunteer studies in literature. Mraz exposed
human volunteers to DMF vapors for 4 h and they
found that the ratios of absorption through skin
and lungs were 0.13∼0.16:1 (Mraz and Nohova,
1992). Another human volunteer study was performed
by Nomiyama and they found that the skin to inha-
lation exposure was about 2:3 (40.36% vs. 59.64%)
(Nomiyama et al., 2001). All of the abovementioned
studies, along with the finding from our one urine
sample measurement concluded that the body burden
from DMF exposure via inhalation is 1.5-fold higher
than via skin exposure.
The total body burden estimate for DMF exposure via
skin route from 24-h consecutive urine revealed, on the
other hand, at least 2-fold higher than the inhalation;
possibly due to the longer elimination half-life of skin
pathway. The intercept of first-order kinetic stands for
the urinary NMF concentration at the time 0, i.e., at the
end of exposure, which is equal to the concentration at
post-shift. Compared with the intercepts from skin ex-
posure and from inhalation exposure, it showed that the
contribution from skin (1.59) is less than that from
inhalation (1.97), their ratio of 0.81 also indicated that
6 S.-M. Wang et al. / Science of thethe contribution from skin is less than that from in-
Please cite this article as: Wang S-M et al. Combining novel strategy with
skin exposure to N,N-dimethylformamide vapor. Sci Total Environ (2007halation, which is consistent with the findings from the
spot urine approach (Table 2). The calculation of the
respective contribution of DMF vapor exposure via
respiration and skin could be largely different between
one-spot urine and consecutive monitoring of urinary
specimen.
The area under the urine level-time curve, AUC, is a
measurement of the extent of xenobiotic bioavailability,
reflecting the total amount of active xenobiotic that
reaches the systemic circulation (Shargel and Yu, 1999).
Compared with the estimate from one urine sample
measurement, AUC is more capable to reflect the
amount of total uptake. In this study, the AUC estimate
from using the consecutive urinary specimen to calculate
the relative contribution of skin and inhalation was about
7:3, indicating that skin vapor would be a major source
of DMF exposure and that more attention should be paid
to prevent DMF vapor exposure from the dermal route.
In addition to an occupational setting the DMF skin
exposure that would come not only from vapor but also
liquid contact and skin contact with DMF liquid had
been demonstrated with significant skin absorption
(Mraz and Nohova, 1992). Our previous study per-
formed in an actual occupational exposure setting that
also supported that skin exposure is more important than
inhalation (Wang et al., 2006). Therefore, preventing
DMF skin exposure, including vapor and liquid, has
become more important than inhalation.
5. Conclusion
Semi-actual exposure assessment approach is a
novel and acceptable alternative to determine the
respective contribution of the total body burden of
the exposure to hazardous vapor in the actual
environment. First-order kinetic pattern was demon-
strated for the 24-h excretory U-NMF for skin,
inhalation and skin plus inhalation exposure routes.
Moreover, the elimination half-life after skin exposure
were higher than inhalation route, suggesting that the
exposure via dermal route should deserve more
attentions in the prevention of chemical hazards in
the exposed environment. Total body burden of con-
tribution on the basis of spot urine was not able to
reflect the actual total body burden of cumulative
exposure dose in the comparison of the basis of con-
secutive urine monitoring. Inter-individual variability
in the parameter estimates with respect to the excretory
elimination kinetics among humans was substantial;
indicating that the identification of the characteristics
affecting the kinetic behaviors like genetic polymor-
l Environment xx (2007) xxx–xxxphism is warranted in further studies.
kinetic approach in the determination of respective respiration and
), doi:10.1016/j.scitotenv.2007.08.007
