 2 
1. Introduction 
Unlike conventional aircrafts or UAVs (Unmanned 
Aerial Vehicles), MAVs (Micro Aerial Vehicles) 
have following features: small size, low flight speed 
and Reynolds number. MAVs include fixed-wing, 
rotary-wing and flapping-wing. In particular, 
flapping-wing MAVs are more complex in 
mechanism and have different source of lift 
generation from fixed-wing and rotary-wing ones. 
Flapping-wing MAVs can generate lift by a lot of 
vortices with phenomena such as delay stall, 
rotational effect, and wake capture [1].  
 
It also has been shown that conventional 
aerodynamic theory, which was based on steady 
flow condition, cannot explain the generation of lift 
by flapping insects. In the past year of studies, 
scientists have found that unsteady flow condition 
cannot be neglected in flapping motion. Early 
“quasi-steady assumption” tried to predict the 
unsteady and highly efficient flapping motion, 
hence the myth “bumblebees cannot fly”. The 
essence of quasi-steady analysis is an assumption 
that the instantaneous force on a flapping wing to 
be the same as that which would be experienced in 
steady motion at the same instantaneous velocity 
and angle of attack [2]. 
 
It is desired by DARPA (Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency) that MAVs with spans 
less than 15cm and flight speed under 10 m/s are of 
interest of military and civilian application [2]. The 
combination of small length scale and low velocity 
results in a regime with low Reynolds number. It 
places MAVs in a regime totally alien to the 
conventional aircraft. The gross mass of MAVs and 
other flying objects versus Reynolds number is 
shown in Figure 1 [3]. 
 
In recent years, there are renewed interests in the 
usage of flapping wing MAVs, especially for 
military, surveillance, and rescue missions [3]. But 
it is expected that all flapping wing MAVs should 
perform the mission in the calm and clear 
atmospheric conditions, i.e. no gust wind. For some 
time, our research group has investigated 
fixed-wing aircraft performance degradation effects 
under many severe weather conditions such as 
microburst, clear air turbulence, ice accretion, and 
heavy rain. Now the attention has shifted to 
flapping wing numerical study with severe weather 
conditions. For fixed wing machines, weather 
always plays an important role, especially in 
take-off and landing. However, flapping wing 
machines are much small than fixed wing machines, 
the weather influence will much important. 
 
2. Lecture Review 
Early, researchers used “quasi-steady” assumption 
to the lift produced by flapping flyers but they 
found the lift can’t keep the insect aloft. In 1973, 
Weis-Fogh first found the unconventional lift which 
called “clap and fling” [4] (as Figure. 2). He 
proposed that air rushing into the space created as 
the separated wings would form attached 
circulations which create large amount of lift, but it 
is limited to a few species of insects. Another 
famous unsteady lift enhancement mechanism is 
delayed stall due to the leading edge vortex (LEV). 
When insect wing translates at high angles of attack, 
a vortex forms on the leading edge of a wing that 
can generate forces in excess of those predicted 
under quasi-steady state conditions. 
 
In the mid 1980s, C.P. Ellington [2,5] observed the 
LEV by smoking visualization and started to 
investigate the different aspects of hovering insect 
flight. By using high speed camera, he observed 
flying insects and tried to use reverse engineering to 
figure out the mechanism of flapping wing. 
Gustafson and Leben [6,7] used a 2D Navier-Stokes 
solver to compute the unsteady flows around an 
airfoil undergoing plunging and pitching motions 
and obtained results very similar to those of a 2D 
wing model experiment by Freymuth [8]. 
Calculations of the 3D flow around flapping wings 
are also available with respect to time-dependent 
forces, but results for mean thrust output and 
efficiency are rarely found.  
 
In 1996, Vest and Katz [9] developed a potential 
flow, unsteady aerodynamic model of flapping 
wings and gives a good estimation of the pressure 
forces on the body and determines the valuable 
aerodynamic parameters like lift and drag. 
Navier-Stokes solutions for the viscous flow around 
2D wings have been presented by Wang [10] and 
found that the lift which produced by flapping wing 
can keep the insect aloft. Miao at el. [11] found that 
the thin airfoil can produce more lift and more 
efficiency. Liu and Kawachi [12] demonstrated the 
existence and stability of the unsteady leading edge 
vortex on a simulation of the hawkmoth wing.  
 
Recently, because CFD (Computational Fluid 
Dynamics) came to maturity, there are more and 
more researches using CFD technique to analyze 
flapping wing phenomenon. Sun, et al. used CFD 
 4 
Viscous shear stresses perform 
deformation work which increases 
the internal energy of the fluid at the 
expense of kinetic energy of 
turbulence. 
Continuum: Turbulence is a continuum 
phenomenon, governed by the 
equations of fluid mechanics. 
 
In real word, gust wind is highly nonlinear and very 
difficult to predict. To simply the phenomena, we 
use simply the gust wind in 2 dimensional and 
piecewise-linear shown as Figure 5 and 6. 
 
3.4 Heavy Rain Physics 
In experiment, rainfall’s intensity is measured in 
terms of the Liquid Water Content (LWC) of the air 
or the mass of the water per unit volume of air. The 
relationship between rail rate (R, mm/h) to LWC 
(g/m3) was determined by Dunham [18]. 
84.0054.0 RLWC =                     (4) 
Besides LWC, we also need to know the terminal 
velocity to simulate the real rainfall velocity. The 
terminal velocity of a water droplet in near ground 
is a function of droplet size and has been 
established by Markowitz [19], express as: 
⎪⎭
⎪⎬
⎫
⎪⎩
⎪⎨
⎧
⎥⎥⎦
⎤
⎢⎢⎣
⎡ ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛−−=
147.1
77.1
)(exp158.9)/( mmDsmVT   (5) 
In this study, we choose droplet size as 2.5mm as 
reasonable in real world. 
 
4. Result and Discussion 
Considering the wing thickness 1/8c and Re=157. 
In the thesis, the cases we calculated are in 3 
conditions with different wind profiles and another 
case with no wind. First, we discuss the case 
without wind in Re=157. During downstroke, we 
observed there are two rotating vortices on upper 
surface, which create a lower pressure area, and 
pressure difference generated which lead to lift. 
Before the vortices get rid of the wing surface, the 
delayed stall which discussed in Dickinson’s 
experiment [18] occurs because the lower pressure 
on upper wing surface (Figure 7). During upstroke, 
the wing also create a weaker vortices on lower 
surface, that lead to the wing generate thrust (Figure 
8). From Figure 8, we can observe that the wing is 
sufficiently far away from the strong vortices 
generated in the previous cycle and is ready to 
repeat the whole process without interfering with 
the previous vortices. 
 
We can integrate pressure on the flapping wing 
which created by vortices to get lift and drag in 
unsteady flow. Figure 9 and Figure 10 show the lift 
and drag over 10 flapping cycles. From the 1st 
period to 3th period, we observed that the curve is 
not stable because the flow starts from the rest and 
more unstable. After the fifth period, the curve 
becomes more stable. Table 1 shows the mean lift in 
different reference. For the first three periods is 
unstable, we choose the forth to thirteen period to 
take time integration and average.  
 
Figure 9 shows lift we calculated comparing with 
Wang [10] and Miao’s [11]. Our pattern is similar to 
Wang’s result, but the magnitude is similar to 
Miao’s result. Besides the difference of grids, 
numerical method is also different from Wang’s 
calculation which was using finite difference 
method. Comparing with Miao’s calculation, we 
also used the different boundary treatment. In 
pressure outlet boundary, Miao used rectangular but 
we used the circle one and far away the flapping 
wing. In our calculation, we found that if the region 
of mesh regeneration is too close pressure outlet 
boundary, the error could occur because the 
reversed flow from pressure outlet boundary. 
 
What we interest is flapping wing aerodynamics in 
gust wind. In Figure 11 and 12, we observed that 
the lift did change with wind and performance is 
much better than the case without wind. In Figure 
13 to 14, drag profiles also show the same trend as 
lift profile. As gust wind changes violently, lift and 
drag also change dramatically. 
 
In this study, heavy rain situation is also considered 
and simulated in fluent software by using DPM 
(Discrete Phase Model). Figure 15 and 16 show the 
lift and drag under the influence of the heavy rain. 
In this simulation, 1000mm/hr rain rate reduced 
almost 55% lift of flapping wing MAVs. While 
water droplet impacted the surface of flapping wing, 
it could change the phenomena of the local flow 
filed result in local pressure increasing. Finally, the 
pressure difference between the upper surface and 
lower surface reduce and the flapping wing is not 
sufficient to keep MAV aloft. 
 
We can conclude that the flapping wing is easily 
influenced by surrounding environment especially 
in gust wind and heavy rain. Even the gust wind 
only changed in small variation condition, it could 
lead to a huge calamity to insects. It also explained 
that why we rarely observed insect’s activities in 
environment with gust wind situation. Heavy rain 
also could lead flapping wing MAVs into disaster. 
This study also leads to the conclusion that severe 
gust wind condition is important consideration in 
designing the flapping wing MAVs and in the future 
 6 
module of 2-phase flow model. It is found that 
under 1000mm/hr heavy rain rate situation, the 
average lift does decrease, but the average 
thrust will increase. These results are new to 
the flapping aerodynamicist, and will be 
submitted to international journal. But in this 
research we failed to implement the flexible 
wing concept, while the ground effect can be 
easily computed, the flexible wing will be the 
next research topic to conquer. 
 
 
 
Table 1 Mean lift in numerical simulation. 
 Wang [10] Miao [11] Present study
mean lift 2.8e-2 N/m 3.083e-2 N/m 2.017e-2 N/m
 
 
 
Figure 1: Reynolds number for flight vehicles. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Weis-Fogh’s clap and fling. 
 
 
Figure 3: The position of flapping wing [10]. 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Grids and calculated field. 
 
 
 
t/T
w
in
d
sp
ee
d
(m
/s
)
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
 
Figure 5: Wind speed changes in X. 
 
 8 
t/T
Li
ft
0 5 10 15 20 25 30
-0.1
-0.05
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
 
Figure 12: Lift Profile during Gust Wind in Y 
 
出國報告書 
 
本人自 2006 年以來即擔任中華民國航空太空學會國際事務委員
會主任委員一職，平日除多方連絡國際各航太學術組織外，更想藉出
國開會或專程拜訪之機會，親自連繫美國各航太研發單位與學術機
構。此次於 2007 年 8 月 1日晚間搭機赴美，首先在德州達拉斯-福斯
堡(Dallas-Ft. Worth)機場轉機，即赴休士頓美國太空總署詹森太空
研究中心(NASA Johnson Space Center)參訪，達拉斯-福斯堡機場興
建於 1975 年，目前仍為美國佔地面積最大之空運中心，機場之軟硬
體設施完善，並為美國聯邦航空總署(FAA)之地區管制中心，1985 年
8 月 2 日之達美航空 191 班機失事事件即發生於此地，並針對低空風
切現象研發出閃避之道，在飛行安全與民航技術上有甚多可供觀摩之
處。休士頓太空中心為美國太空總署散佈於全美各地八大研究中心之
一，主要任務為太空工程及人為因素相關研究，並設有太空梭(Space 
Shuttle)升空後之控制中心，1969 年太空人阿姆斯壯登陸月球後所
講的第一句話＂Houston＂， 即指此研究中心。詹森研究中心另設有
各種衛星、火箭、太空生理及心理之研究設施或設備，凡研究航空太
空之專家學者，都必須到此參訪見學。本人除參觀其展示中心外，並
拜訪其太空通訊及材料研究單位，收穫甚豐。 
大戰之多種著名飛機、1986年不降落環繞全世界之巡航者號(Voyager)
飛機等等，館內面積廣而收藏豐富，亦為航空太空學者必到之處，我
曾於 1980 年及 1989 年前後造訪兩次，此次再度參訪發現有許多新的
軟硬體設施，溫故知新並蒐集了許多教學資料。更值得一提的是最暢
銷的空氣動力學課本之作者John Anderson自數年前從馬里蘭大學航
太系退休後，即轉至此 Air and Space 博物館專職研究員，並繼續其
專業書籍之寫作，Anderson 教授學養深厚，著作甚豐，且表達能力
超強，此番拜會頗有與君一席話勝讀十年書之感。 
駕車返回德州後，於八月下旬搭機赴北加州灣區再做停留，於
1980 年代曾求學於加州史丹佛大學(Stanford University)航太系，
並任教於加州州立科技大學 (California Polytechnic State 
University) 航空系，故利用此次機會赴此二所大學參訪，尋求並洽
談國際合作之機會。史丹佛大學航太系有三十餘位專任教師，及相當
具規模之研究所課程，但無大學部學生，每年畢業碩士生六十至七十
餘人，博士生二十至三十人，評鑑時與麻省理工學院航太系並列全美
第一，現任之系主任 Cantwell 教授曾教過我航空發動機及航太實
驗，事隔多年他居然還依稀記得我，但當年之許多位老教授已有部分
退休或過世，近十年內之新進教授研究成果依然豐碩，在計算流體力
學、奈米力學、材料結構、飛機設計及航管技術等領域大放異彩，我
