 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
高齡者用藥遵從行為之研究(Ⅰ) 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-224-025 
執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：李傳房  國立雲林科技大學工業設計系 
共同主持人：劉中賢   財團法人嘉義基督教醫院 
計畫參與人員：羅逸玲、蔡旺晉  國立雲林科技大學設計學研究所 
 
 
一、 中文摘要 
高齡人口急速增加與出生率降低，使我
國人口的扶養比逐年提升。若高齡者能自理
生活，將可減低青壯年的照顧負擔，然而多
數高齡者須面對慢性病與長期服藥的困擾，
因而衍生用藥遵囑性的問題；有效解決高齡
者用藥遵從行為的問題，是維護高齡者身心
健康與獨立生活的第一步。跳脫傳統以醫學
為中心的思考模式，從設計觀點探討高齡者
的用藥問題，提出並評估高齡者用藥遵從性
的改善方案，以降低高齡者因身心機能衰退
造成的用藥問題，進而提升其遵從醫囑使用
藥物的能力與意願，並促進高齡者身心健
康，達到自理生活的目標為本研究的目的。 
本研究以專家訪談、行為觀察、藥袋評
估、以及問卷調查等方法，探討高齡者用藥
行為的問題，進而提出高齡者用藥遵從性之
設計要點。研究發現藥袋的用藥資訊設計，
以斜體或加底線的提示方式，反而使高齡者
不容易閱讀藥袋的用藥資訊；各醫院藥袋排
版不一致也容易造成高齡者閱讀的困擾；繕
寫字與印刷字體的色彩過於接近也導致不易
辨識；這些問題將影響高齡者用藥的行為。
另一方面，統一藥袋圖示內容，並使用半具
象的線條圖示、不填色，字級 14pt 以上、字
體以明體、標楷體的藥袋設計，有助於高齡
者的用藥遵從行為。 
 
關鍵詞：高齡者、用藥遵從行為、藥袋 
 
Abstract 
As the numbers of the elderly people is 
increasing rapidly, the birth rate decline at the 
same time; so the dependency ratio increased in 
nowadays. If the elderly can take care of 
themselves, it would reduce the burden of care 
for young adults. However, most of the elderly 
have to face the plight of chronic disease and 
long-term medication treatment, the problem of 
medicine compliance is thus continuing 
existing. Effectively solve the problem of 
medicine compliance, is the first step to 
maintain health and independent living for the 
elderly.  
In this study, a new thinking mode from 
the design point of view would discuss some 
problems of the elderly medicine use, 
assessment for noncompliance behavior and 
make some proposal to reduce them. The 
medicine bag of this study was not only 
designed to improve the medication 
compliance of the elderly, but also improve the 
medication safety for the elderly. 
For the purpose, observation and interview 
to the elderly are carried out in this study, to 
explore the issue during medication process of 
the elderly; According to the results of 
interview, the universal design is regarded as 
the main concept to practically design drug bag. 
This idea will enhance the medicine-taking 
compliance of the elderly people. Some topics 
should be redesigned for the elderly, such as 
under lining subtitle on the patient’s name and 
diagnosis, and providing icons to help the 
elderly remember to take medicines on time. 
 
Keywords: The elderly, Medicine-taking 
compliance, Medicine bag 
 4
1. 藥袋上的印刷文字與色彩，會隨著病患用
藥需求不同而列印或手寫用藥資訊，當原
先的印刷色與後來的手寫字的顏色過於接
近時，會造成高齡者或照護者難以判讀，
此種狀況在塑膠材質的夾鍊型藥袋最為明
顯。 
2. 有關中小型診所的藥袋，有橫式與直式交
錯書寫的版面，容易造成使用者的困擾；
高齡者在認知過程也會因此混淆。 
3. 輔助用藥說明的圖示，含意不清或圈選不
清，容易造成高齡者及照護者的困擾。 
4. 高齡者在開啟藥袋或閉合夾鏈袋時，因為
視力退化與肌肉協調能力下降，使其不容
易開合夾鏈袋。 
5. 較小的尺寸無法將手指完全置入藥袋，造
成使用者取藥過程的不便，高齡者的肌肉
退化，精細動作較難維持，因此取放藥物
時會受限於藥袋尺寸而影響其用藥行為的
動作。 
6. 僅就藥品外觀難以辨識其功能，例如區分
錠劑或塞劑、皮膚用或眼藥膏等。 
7. 根據外籍照護者的訪談，藥袋上的文字若
缺乏完整的英文說明，也可能造成照護者
的困難，因為不同國家的文字無法全部都
被呈現在藥袋上。 
（三）藥袋評估 
收集台灣地區醫療機構之藥袋，包括大
型教學醫院、中小型診所、以及民間藥局。
以方便取樣為主，收集使用過的藥袋。總共
獲得 98 個藥袋樣本，包含 64 個較小型的、
塑膠材質的夾鍊袋，以及 34 個紙藥袋。根據
全民健康保險醫療法公佈的 13 項藥袋標示
項目，逐一比對樣本，並記錄樣本藥袋之字
型、圖示、排版與色彩。 
不同類別的醫療機構各自擁有不同材質
與大小的藥袋，功能取決於本身的長度與寬
度，會影響使用者的操作行為，藥品的取用
與存放動作需要較寬的藥袋，收納的藥袋隨
著藥品類別有所不同。如表 1 所示，最小的
藥袋為70x104 mm,主要放置眼藥水或較小的
藥丸，大型藥袋可達 210x254 mm，約為 A4
尺寸，除了收納較多的藥品(如慢性病處方藥)
之外，也可裝入中藥材使用。 
藥袋的資訊傳遞以文字為主，部分醫院
以圖示作為用藥資訊的提示，例如用藥頻
率、藥量、用藥方式等; 但限於藥袋空間有
限，圖示設計的藥袋目前並不普遍。 
表 1. 藥袋樣本特徵整理表 
大型醫院 中小型診所 民間藥局 
樣本
 
 
186x304 mm 100x138 mm 70x104 mm 
尺寸
210x254 mm 120x205 mm 178x254 mm
功能
 
長期性 
或慢性疾病 
較多量藥物 
散裝藥丸或
藥包 
小型藥丸 
眼藥水 
栓劑或塞劑 
法令
91% 83% 74% 
特點
 
較大, 
有較多容量
與說明空間 
空間稍小, 
資訊未能完
全呈現 
呈現狀況差
異大 
視個案而定 
愛盲
否 否 否 
材質
 
多數為單面
紙質,單面透
明塑膠紙 
塑膠材質夾
鏈袋 
塑膠材質夾
鏈袋 
部分為紙袋 
（四）問卷調查 
透過問卷深入探討高齡者不遵從用藥的
原因，以篩選顯著的影響因素作為其用藥行
為改善的依據。問卷形式採結構式問卷，單
面彩色輸出，由二名訪員進行問卷調查，每
份問卷約 15 分鐘內作答完成；於台灣地區北
部及中部的大型醫院門診區以便利抽樣選出
受測者。受訪高齡者共計 30 位；另有 30 位
的中高齡者為對照組，接受相同的問卷調
查。問卷內容共分為圖示與文字部分，以下
 6
型的藥袋則不易收納，間接影響用藥遵從
性。比較現有藥袋規格，其尺寸大小落差頗
巨，然至今未有研究或規範明確指出適當的
藥袋尺寸，應配合各醫療機構需求，在合理
範圍下調整藥袋大小，並配合『一藥一袋』
制度以促進用藥安全，並達到方便收納又容
易取放藥品的藥袋規格。 
此外，由於高齡者的精細動作與協調能
力退化，使其不容易打開或密合小型的夾鏈
袋；然而，大型未封口的藥袋雖沒有開合的
問題，卻因為缺少封口，容易造成藥物遺失
或掉落的問題。經專家訪談建議，對藥袋封
口重新設計，以符合更多族群與廣泛的使用
情況。 
高齡者因為生理與認知改變，不良的藥
袋設計讓高齡者困惑，間接降低用藥遵從
性。本研究藉由藥袋收集與行為觀察，探討
藥袋設計的良窳，也希望透過通用設計的原
則，除了檢驗原有的藥袋設計，進一步提出
適當的修正方案，改良藥袋以符合更廣泛的
使用族群，提高高齡者的用藥遵囑性，也讓
更多使用者受惠。 
成果自評 
本研究「高齡者用藥遵從行為之研究」
分兩年期計畫執行，本計畫為第一年期研
究；如上所述，已獲得影響高齡者用藥行為
的相關研究成果，可作為藥袋設計的參考與
第二年期研究的基礎。本研究的部分成果，
已發表在 2009 年 10 月於韓國首爾舉行的
International Association of Societies of 
Design Research（IASDR）國際研討會，發
表資料詳如附件；未來將再整理此研究的成
果，發表在設計之相關學術期刊上。 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1]  Tuljapurkar, S., Li, N., Boe, C., 2000, A universal 
pattern of mortality decline in the G7 countries, 
Nature 405(6788), pp.789-792. 
[2]  Engardio, P., Matlack, C., 2005, Global aging, 
Business Week, January 31, pp. 42-51. 
[3]  Ekberg, J., Roe, P., 2001, Guidelines for 
telecommunications, In Nicolle, C., and Abascal, J. 
(Eds.), Inclusive design guidelines for HCI , pp. 
167-177, Taylor & Francis, U.S.A. 
[4]  行政院經建會, 2004, 中華民國台灣民國 93 年至
140 年人口推測 , 行政院經濟建設委員會, 編
號：（93）042.804。 
[5]  內政部統計處，2005，民國 94 年高齡者狀況調
查報告，摘自
hhttp://sowf.moi.gov.tw/stat/Survey/94old.doc#a7
，最後上網日期：2007 年 7 月。 
[6]  羅莉雯、李傳房，2007，藥袋標示之用法圖示易
讀性研究，2008 中華民國設計學會第 13 屆設計
學術研究成果研討會，2008/05/17，桃園縣，長
庚大學；p.39（CD-ROM）。 
[7]  Lo Y.L & Lee C.F, 2008, A Study of the Drug Bag 
Design, IASDR 2009 Conference in Korea, p.104. 
 
 8
older people suffered from different diseases in Taiwan [4]. Since the physical functions decline of the elderly people, it 
is easier affected their health by misuse the drugs; however, the elders are also more vulnerable to improper use of 
drugs. The behavior of non-compliance not only affects the disease, but also seriously endangers their health and 
security [5~7]. The conduct of non-compliance with medication often happens to the elderly. 
Compliance can be defined as the extent to which a patient’s behavior corresponds to the physician’s therapeutic 
recommendations. Improvement of the medicine taking compliance would increase cost-effectiveness. Studies have 
demonstrated the prevalence of poor adherence across all types of regimens and diseases, including life threatening 
illnesses. For this reason, often caused by medication non-compliance with more discussion and concern [8].  
The non-compliance behavior of the elderly often cause from forgotten or misunderstanding; they probably do not 
know how to take medicine and they may also forgotten the right time to take medicine. Whether from large hospitals 
or small clinics in Taiwan, the patients would get a prescription drug bag after medical treatment, which includes the 
time and manner of medicine taking on the cover. Although the elderly will be able to find the information of the 
medicine by the bag, some details are still causing difficulties for their understanding. Such as the font is too small for 
the elders to read or the graphics are not appropriate for their reading abilities. 
1.2 Purposes of the Research 
There are much more information to be presented on the drug bag, however, there is no accurate way to be 
understood by all users. We would like to analyze the existing layout of the drug bag by collecting samples in this study 
and checking the improvable tips through the concept of universal design. 
Universal design is a process intended to promote the development of products or environments that can be used 
effectively by all without adaptation or stigmatization [9]. The UD concept is very similar to human factors engineering 
that it attempts to consider the abilities and limitations of users when developing a product or building an environment. 
To put it simply, describes universal design as “design for people of all ages and abilities” [10]. 
All we need to do is to provide some suggestions or ideas, which can improve the compliance of the elderly by 
supplying a more friendly medicine bag to more patients by the concept of universal design. 
2. Method 
For the purpose, the content of this study includes three aspects: literature review, expert interview and observation 
and interview to the elderly are carried out to primarily explore the issue about the medicine-taking compliance of the 
senior citizens; Semi-structured interviews were conducted with the elder interviewees in the Taiwan area for their 
long-term medication uses. With the expert interviews and literature review, we first got the reasons of medication 
non-compliance and the difficulties on medicine-taking process for the elderly. Secondly, we summarized a variety of 
drug information on drug bag by collecting medicine bags all over the Taiwan area. Lastly, according to the results of 
interview and investigation, the universal design is regarded as the main concept to inspect the existing drug bag 
design. 
2.1 Drug bag collection and literature review 
In this study, we collected some drug bag from the health- related treatment organization in Taiwan, including 
large- scale teaching hospitals, small and medium-sized clinics, and private pharmacies; provided medicine bag free of 
charge by volunteers. The ways of sampling are simple random sampling and convenience sampling, received a total of 
 10
Regulations: the “13 drug bags marked items” by National Health Insurance medical approach in Taiwan- Patient 
personal information, drug information, medical institutions, and warning. 
Functional operation: Additional features and behavior - reading, memory, open-and-close, pick-and-place. 
 
 
Figure 2.  The skeletons of drug bag study 
 
3.1 Analysis of the medicine bag 
This study will be in accordance with the medical sources of the drug bag is divided into large-scale hospitals, 
medium-sized clinics, and private pharmacies three categories. Different types of medical institutions have their own 
different material and size of the bag. As the size of drug bags will impact user’s behavior, the functions was based on 
the length and width; for example, the actions of pick-and-place by human fingers would need a wider drug bag, the 
categories of drugs would put into different bags.  Research and collation as the following table: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12
3.3.1. Equitable use: The design is useful and marketable to any group of users.  
Regarding the physical degradation of the elderly, light color contrast with the yellow color and the small font will 
result in reading difficulties; italics and underline text is also the reason for reading difficulties. 
According to an interview with a foreign caregiver, if they do not have a complete description in English on the 
drug bag, the language problems may also caused the difficult care process, because the languages in different countries 
cannot all be show on the drug bag. 
 
3.3.2. Flexibility in Use: The design accommodates a wider range of individual preferences and abilities. 
There are some original texts and colors printing on the drug bags. In order to suit for the patient’s diversity, extra 
information will be printed or hand-written in some color, while the original printing-color and handwriting-color was 
similar to the later attached ones. The similar colors make people difficult to read, especially in the zip-lock bag. 
While interview with professional pharmacist and nurse, when they have to deal with a large numbers of drug bags, 
lack of special personnel and contrast will be affected by the use and operation, thus increasing the user’s burden.  
For some clinics drug bags, the writing-style on the horizontal and vertical portion is a staggered layout. It will 
easily lead to user’s frustration; likewise, the elderly in the cognitive process will be confused. 
3.3.3. Simple and Intuitive Use: Use of the design is easy to understand, regardless of the users` experience, 
knowledge, language skills, or current concentration level.  
It is easier for senior citizens suffering from chronic disease, they also suffered from a wide variety of diseases. It 
is difficult to check medicine with its appearance for a variety of drugs in the medicine bag for senior citizens. 
Moreover, owing to the differences between trade names and scientific name of the same medicine, it also leads to 
misunderstanding. 
It is difficult to identify the effects only by drug’s appearance, or to distinguish such tablets from Cypriot agent, the 
eye ointment from cream. 
Whether the original icon design is friendly or not, owing to the icon concept is fuzzy or unclear, it will cause 
confusion for the elderly and other users. 
3.3.4. Perceptible Information: The design should present all necessary information effectively to the user, regardless 
of ambient conditions or the users’ sensory abilities. 
The layout of a medicine bag is various, there are many types in “one” bag, for example, word arrangement in 
straight or horizontal, the font are also different. if the elderly are change their hospitals or clinics, they have to learn 
the new layout of a new drug bag. 
3.3.5. Tolerance for Error: The design minimizes hazards and the adverse consequences of accidental or unintended 
actions.  
The drug warning information is insufficient, most of the medicine bag only provides telephone number, it could 
not provide emergency treatment, the elderly or their family may miss the golden time of rescue. 
It may be due to the disease itself, or the physical decline caused by aging, the elderly could not recognize their 
uncomfortable  feeling were came from drug effects or illness, so they need some notes of drug side effects on the 
 14
5. Conclusions 
Through the concept of universal design, it can help designers in the planning process be able to consider the wider 
needs of different users.  As a result of the physiological and cognitive changes, the elderly are challenged in daily life. 
One of which is derived from the use of drugs. Bad designs on the drug bag make the elderly to be easily confused. It 
also result in the non-compliance of medicine-taking. In this study, we try to explore the design of the drug bag by the 
preliminary data collection and interviews. A modified drug bag would be more appropriate to a wider range of user 
groups and improve the medicine compliance of the elderly. Through the seven principles of universal design, we hope 
to study the original medicine bag design and try to suggest more appropriate amendments to improve the drug bag. 
6. The directions of future research 
1. Continuation of this study has yet to be completed, such as the size of drug bag, the formatting, the pocket 
design … etc. 
2. Because of the racial difference and lifestyle, the cognitive and demands to drug bag are diversity. Based on the 
concept of universal design, it is necessary to add other messages or new functions on the drug bag to help users; in 
order to fit more people, the follow-up study will try to enhance the design concept. 
 
References 
[1] Anthony A. Sterns, 2005, Curriculum Design and Program to Train Older Adults to Use Personal Digital Assistants, 
The Gerontologist, 45, pp. 828-834. 
[2] Fisk, A.D., Rogers, W.A., Charness, N., Czaja, S.J., Sharit, J., 2004, Designing for older adults: principles and 
creative human factors approaches, CRC press, U.S.A. 
[3] Gravely, E.A., & Oseasohn, C.S., 1991, Multiple drug regimens: Medication compliance among veterans 65 years 
older. Research in Nursing &Health, 14, 51-58. 
[4] Lamy PP., 1992, The elderly, communications, and compliance. Pharm Times. 58:33. 
[5] Neely E, & Patrick, M., 1968, Problems of aged persons taking medicine at home. Nursing Research. Vol. 17, No.1: 
52-55. 
[6] Hamilton, G.. A., 2003, Measuring adherence in a hypertension clinical trial. European Journal of Cardiovascular 
Nursing, 2, 219-228. 
[7] Huang, L. H., 1996, Medication-taking behavior of the elderly. Kaohsiung of Journal Medical Science, 12, 423-433.   
[8] Conrad P., 2005, The Meaning of Medications: Another Look at Compliance. Sociology of health and illness- 
critical perspectives. 4th edition. 
[9] Beecher, V., Paquet, V., 2005, “Survey instrument for the universal design of consumer products”, Applied 
Ergonomics, Vol.36, No.3, pp. 363-372. 
[10] Tuljapurkar, S., Li, N., Boe, C., 2000, A universal pattern of mortality decline in the G7 countries, Nature 
405(6788), pp.789-792. 
[11] Coleman, R., and Myerson, J., 2001, “Improving life quality by countering design exclusion”, Gerontechnology, 
Vol. 1, No 2, pp. 88-102. 
[12] Sagawa, K., 2003, “Gerontechnology in standards”, Gerontechnology, Vol. 2, No 3, pp. 229-231.    
博士班研究生出國報告- 羅逸玲 G9730804 
 
2 
2009IASDR 研討會專題演講主題邀請五位著名設計領域學者，分別為： 
 
1. Donald A. Norman 教授：來自美國俄亥俄
州立大學(Northwestern University)大學電
機與資訊科學、心理學、認知科學學者 Norman
教授。今年在 IASDR 會場演講的主題是：
「Science and Design」。Norman 開門見山的
指出三個主要問題點：(1)科學化的設計是否
已存在? (2)科學化的設計是否可行? (3)科學
化的設計既不可能也不合適? Norman 認為設
計程序必需具有科學系統的方法來建立一個
可靠的、可查核的、可重複的和普及的知識架
構。Norman 並從發現生活中產品使用的現象
來談設計的應用層次與需求。 
 
2. Elizabeth B.-N. Sanders 教授：來自美
國俄亥俄州立大學(Ohio State University)
與英國丹地大學(Dundee Univeristy)設計學
學者 Sanders 教授。主要專長是人因介面設
計，她是是在設計領域中最早使用參與式研究
方法，並應用於產品設計。Sanders 教授的演
講主題是：「Co-creation through generative 
design thinking」。她認為設計團隊的協同創
意(Co-creation)是設計工作的重要方法。善
用創新的思維與應用新的工具、導入設計方
法，協同設計師以及非設計的非線性思考更能
產生創新設計思維。 
 
3. Kees (C.J.) Overbeeke 教授：來自
荷蘭愛因荷芬大學(Eindhoven University)
的工業設計教授。主要專長是工業設計，主要
研究設計和情感、美學的互動，並發表大量有
關於工業設計研究與書籍。同時也是國際設計
期刊的主編和編輯委員會成員。Overbeeke 教
授的演講主題是：「Eindhoven interaction 
design」。他提倡以設計系統(Design system)
為目標的設計程序。並特別指出，以系統為主
的設計程序關鍵在於必需融合學科的整合、設
計的教學和設計的研究。 
 
博士班研究生出國報告- 羅逸玲 G9730804 
 
4 
二、 與會心得 
 此次研討會除了極具指標性意義之外，同時這也是繼 2003 年日本、
2005 年台灣雲科大以及 2007 年香港理工大學之後，該組織第四次於亞洲
舉辦之研討會。學生參與此次於研討會的發表場次為 10/19(一)上午以
Universal Design 為主的場次，論文題目為「A Study of the Medicine Bag 
Design」，該研究為學生博士研究前期規畫的一部份。會議主持人為台灣
長庚大學工業設計學系陳俊文教授，會後並與主持人討論學生之研究成果
以及實驗設計的可行性：教授給予學生關於藥袋圖示選取方式的取樣標
準、同時提醒學生在實驗設計方面信效度的量測參考；並針對論文內容書
寫提出數點精闢的回應，令學生獲益良多。報告後同時獲得該場次先近的
建議，例如藥袋樣本抽樣方式、受訪者訪談記錄過程、以及後續研究發展
等議題，提供學生更多元完整的思考面向。此外，研討會參與過程中，學
生強烈感受到跨文化間對於設計思維與創新議題的些微差異，不變的是身
為設計人共同的熱情，在『異』與『同』之間也拓展了國際視野，並感受
到語言表達能力的基礎性與必要性。更加強了學生在未來求學規畫的研究
目標與學習藍圖。 
 
三、 建    議 
僅就此次參與研討會之心得，學生提出以下兩點建議： 
1. 推廣國內設計相關研究所碩士班與博士班學生，對於國際性設計研究議
題的潮流與認識。 
2. 聯合國內各設計研究之學術單位舉辦學術論壇，一方面可彼此交流研討
會心得，一方面相互切磋砥勵，多方合作可增進設計研究之水平，擴大
研究成果之影響力。 
 
A Study of the Drug Bag Design 
 
Yi-Lin Lo 
Chang-Franw Lee 
National Yunlin University of Science and Technology 
G9730804@yuntech.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
As the numbers of the elderly people is increasing rapidly, Taiwan has become an aging society since 1993. 
It is important and urgent to design appropriate products for elderly people. Because of physical and mental 
function degradation, the elderly have more difficulty in medicine-taking than the general adult, the problems 
also effect their medication compliance. There’re more than half of the elderly people suffered many diseases, so 
they have to take multiple medicines. There are too many things to recall for the elderly people, for example, 
they pay attention to complex medication-taking notes and they also have to remember taking medicines several 
times a day, these also increasing the risk of medication errors. As we know, the information on drug bag has 
been important information after seeing a doctor; therefore, if we can design an appropriate drug bag, it would 
help the elderly people to identify drug categories, and indicate when to take medicine. A good design for drug 
bag will help the elderly prevent from some risk of medication errors.  
For the purpose, observation and interview to the elderly are carried out in this study, to explore the issue 
during medication process of the elderly; According to the results of interview, the universal design is regarded 
as the main concept to practically design drug bag. This idea will enhance the medicine-taking compliance of the 
elderly people. Some topics were redesigned for the elderly, such as under lining subtitle on the patient’s name 
and diagnosis, and providing icons to help the elderly remember to take medicines on time.  
The medicine bag of this study was not only designed to improve the medication compliance of the elderly, 
but also improve the medication safety for senior citizens. The findings of the study refer to the application of 
related research, while expanding more users, the concept of universal design will make different groups in a 
more safety and more convenient environment.  
Keywords: Universal Design/Inclusive Design, The elderly, medication compliance, drug bag 
 
1. Introduction 
1.1 Background of the Research 
The problem of aging population is the trend all over the world [1] [2].Some countries, such as the western 
countries and Japan, have to deal with the aging phenomenon from the opinion of normalization and social 
well-being. It has become an aging society in Taiwan since 1993. If the senior citizens can take care themselves 
well in the daily living, it will be able to lower the care burden among younger generation; even if younger 
generation dedicated labor and production, they could maintain the productivity of whole society. If we can 
improve the compliance of medicine- taking, it will promote the physical and mental health of the senior citizens 
and assist them to live independently [3]. 
2.1 Drug bag collection and literature review 
In this study, we collected some drug bag from the health- related treatment organization in Taiwan, 
including large- scale teaching hospitals, small and medium-sized clinics, and private pharmacies; provided 
medicine bag free of charge by volunteers. The ways of sampling are simple random sampling and convenience 
sampling, received a total of 98 samples. Containing 64 smaller plastic bags with folder chain packaging, and 34 
paper drug bag. These samples will be used as data based on the following study. 
According to the “13 medicine bags marked items” by National Health Insurance medical approach in 
Taiwan, each sample is recorded and compared with the items. 
 
   
                        Figure 1.  The main drug bag forms in Taiwan 
2.2 Expert interviews 
This part includes a total of 4 experts, each belonging to 4 different fields. By different points of view, to 
discus the design can be improved. Digital voice recorder recorded procedures for one-on-one and face-to-face 
interviews. The main contents were then organized and put into writing. 
This study consist two aspects of expert interviews, one is health care level, and the other is the design level. 
Health care is divided into the nursing care and the Pharmacist prescription; the main idea is getting their points 
of view on clinical medical care by interviews. On the other hand, the design level is also divided into a 
Gerontechnology scholar and a Graphic designer; we visit the exports to get the suggestion of drug bag layout, 
which is suitable for the elderly to understand and read. 
2.3 User observation and interviews 
In this study, we selected 2 senior citizens and 1 foreign nurse to observe their behavior on medicine-taking 
process. Our purpose was to record the experiences of the users through observation and interviews. It also 
indicated the problems on using drug bag. 
At this stage, from the elderly remove the drug bag till taking medicine, the process was recorded by 
photograph and words. We also recorded the care steps of the foreign nurse in the same way. After observation, 
we asked questions about what we saw during the process. The users evaluated the drug bag design according to 
the UD 7 principles. 
Table 1.  Research and collation of drug bags 
Category 
 
Large-scale hospitals Medium-sized clinics Private pharmacies 
Pictures 
 
 
 
 
 
 
186x304 mm 100x138 mm 70x104 mm 
Size  
216x254 mm 120x205 mm 178x254 mm 
Function 
 
Chronic prescription drugs Normal medicine 
Herbal medicine 
Eye drops 
Small medicine tablet 
The 13 item 
pass rate 
 
91% 83% 74% 
Cause 
Analysis 
 
Larger, there is enough 
space 
Smaller, some information 
can’t be presented 
By case, 
Not all have the same 
Blind 
identification 
 
No No No 
Graphic 
information 
 
43% 0% 16% 
Grip 
 
No Some No 
Material 
 
Most are unclosed paper 
bag 
Most are plastic zip-lock 
bag 
Some are paper, 
some are plastic 
 
3.2 Organization of the interviews with experts and users 
The smallest drug bag is 70x104 mm, be used to incorporate a smaller pill or eye drops; the large drug bag 
up to about 210x297 mm, equivalent to A4 size. In addition to incorporating more drugs (prescription drugs such 
as chronic diseases), the larger drug bag was also used for Chinese herbal medicines. 
The information transfer of a drug bag depends on the main characters, some hospitals have their own 
graphic design (or icon), which will help people to know the medicine information, such as medicine-taking 
frequency, medicine dose, drug ways. Because of the limited space, the icon design is not universal information 
in drug bag. 
3.3 The seven principals of the Universal Design 
According to the results of the collection and analysis, this research makes a comparison with the existing 
regulations and studies. We will get a better design of drug bag to suit the elderly; Going through the observation 
and interviews, we will have the evaluations of existing drug bag by the user and designer. To summarize the 
The drug warning information is insufficient, most of the medicine bag only provides telephone number, it 
could not provide emergency treatment, the elderly or their family may miss the golden time of rescue. 
It may be due to the disease itself, or the physical decline caused by aging, the elderly could not recognize 
their uncomfortable  feeling were came from drug effects or illness, so they need some notes of drug side 
effects on the drug bag.  
3.3.6. Low Physical Effort: The design can be used efficiently and comfortably and with a minimal effort.  
Because visual degradation and the decline in the capacity of muscle coordination, senior citizens may not 
be able to finish successfully in the mission of open-or-closed the zip bags. 
3.3.7. Size and Space for Approach and Use: Appropriate size and space is provided for approach, reach, 
manipulation, and use regardless of the users’ body size, posture, or mobility. 
Our fingers cannot be placed in the small-size bag completely, causing the inconvenience for taking out the 
medicine. There is muscle degradation on the elderly, so their fine motion is more difficult to maintain. If the 
medicine bag were too small to use, it would have a more serious effect for the elderly. 
4. Discussions 
Through the collection and analysis of this study, we examined the existing design of the medicine bag in 
Taiwan. Through the seven principles of universal design into the comparison. 
Also summarize evaluation and demand of the medicine bag from the senior citizens and the general users; 
the following paragraph will show some discussion for this study. 
4.1 Significant graphic presentation 
With the declining vision causes by aging, the senior citizens’ ability to read is not so good as the past. The 
appropriate icon will help to assist senior citizens to obtain medical information from the medicine bag. There 
has been the study of a suitable medicine bag layout to senior citizens for the graphic and words should be mixed, 
and the icon should be designed of Semi-abstract; at a certain part of information convey, it should only show 
the necessary icon on the bag [11] [12]. However, it is not very common to use icon representation on the 
existing drug bag and the graphic designs also cannot achieve consensus. In addition, one study shows that the 
icon suitable for the elderly to read should be at least the size of 100x100 dpi, but they are often smaller. It is pity 
for small icons to the elderly, because the elderly only can “see” but “read”; once they don’t receive the 
information from graphics, simply be a waste of good intentions of the original icon. The idea of how to show 
the appropriate graphic layout within a limited space should be applied and modified in the further study. 
4.2 Pocket hole and store of the medicine bag 
According to the interview results, it is not convenient for the elderly to use a smaller medicine bag and it is 
also not suitable to store a big drug bag; both problems will indirectly affect medication compliance. 
In comparison with the current specifications of the drug bag, there are large gap of the size, but there has 
not any study or notion to clarify the appropriate size of the medicine bag until now. It should be corresponded to 
the needs of medical institutions and under a reasonable extent, to adjust the size of the drug bag, so as to 
achieve the targets of convenient collection and easy to pick-and-place. 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內研究生出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                                2009 年  10 月  27  日 
報告人姓名  
蔡旺晉 
 
就讀校院
（科系所）
                     ■博士班研究生 
國立雲林科技大學設計學研究所 
                     □碩士班研究生 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2009/10/18 
 
韓國首爾 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC-98-2922-I-224-038 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2009 國際設計研究協會研討會 
 (英文) 2009 International Association of Societies of Design Research Conference 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 
 (英文) Exploring the Benefits of Age-Specific Product Training Design 
(2)  Identifying fundamental knowledge for design  
(3)  Creating distance learning approaches for design  
(4)  Exploring industry-academia research partnerships  
4、 Social issues  
(1)  Controlling privacy  
(2)  Controlling environmental degradation  
(3)  Supporting human equality  
本次參加的博士生論壇(Doctoral Colloquium)，發表題目為 Exploring the Benefits of Age-Specific 
Electronic Product Training Programs，內容提及設計與訓練間的關係，以及訓練對於高齡者在操作
相關電子產品過程的影響與效益。本論壇共有來自不同國家的 17 位博士生共同分享彼此的論文
主題，早上簡短發表後，大會將 17 位博士生分成三組進行深度討論與意見交換；作者為 Human 
Computer Interaction 組別，由來自荷蘭 TU Delft 的 Paul Hekkert 教授、韓國 KAIST 的 Youn-kyung 
Lim 教授與日本 Chiba University 的 Kenta Ono 共同主持專題討論。本組別中的 7 位博士生研究領
域主要著重在人與機器的介面議題，來自 IIT 的 Dongwoo Oh 從 Incorporating Temporality 觀點探
討互動介面設計的方法可能性，期待可以藉於不同時間觀點的詮釋，發展有趣的介面方法。The 
University of York 的 Hyesook Kim，透過使用者參與與觀察的方式，利用科技聯繫家庭三代的情
感，增進人與人互動的交流，採用的概念可提供未來介面設計研究的參考。KAIST 的 Minjung 
Sohn，從永續設計的概念談論介面設計的方法論，繼而呈現介面互動與環境永續發展的可能性，
並引導出不同的介面設計概念。同樣來自 KAIST 的 Jinyung Jung，著重在 Humanoid Robot 的
Contextual Motion Design，透過實際的 case study，提出適合 Humanoid Robot 的設計準則，為未
來 Humanoid Robo 奠定厚實的發展基礎。另外，本次論壇中有 3 位以高齡者為研究對象，分別為
作者與來自 TU Delft 的 Thomas Visser、The University of Plymouth 的 John Vines 等，一起分享高
齡者相關的討論。其中 Thomas Visser 透過完整的產品設計流程，呈現概念性的互動產品，希望
增進高齡者與社會的互動性，降低自身孤寂感與強化個人與社會的親近關係。而 The University of 
Plymouth 的 John Vines 則是從社會科學的觀點，藉由適合高齡者操作的科技產品。會中荷蘭 TU 
Delft 的 Paul Hekkert 教授、韓國 KAIST 的 Youn-kyung Lim 教授與日本 Chiba University 的 Kenta 
Ono 也分別針對作者本身議題提出相關寶貴的意見，希望作者可以利用更多完整的案例，整合設
計與訓練的觀點，以強化兩者概念的不足與衝突性。整個討論過程進行約 4 個小時，透過與會人
員的激盪與意見表達，著實對作者本身的研究議題有很大的助益，也讓作者反思應如何加強研究
議題的理論基礎與應用層面，以臻論文的完整性。 
三、建議 
本次作者可以被甄選參加此次大會的博士論壇活動。著實受益良多。很可惜台灣其他設有博士班
學程的學校，並沒有相關人員出席參加。未來期許可以有更多國內博士生，更積極參與各類國際
學術組織與博士生研習活動，才能獲得不同國家博士生的意見與激盪，展現我國研究的成果，進
而推動國際化的研究交流活動，所以積極參與國際會議是必要的作為之一。下次 2011 IASDR 國
際研討會將在荷蘭的 Delft university of technology 舉辦，建議我國從事設計研究相關的學者專家
也應積極的參與。  
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 2009iasdr  Final Program 一冊。  
2. 2009iasdr 論文全文光碟一片。 
 
 
3. 論文集光碟(一份) 
 
 
 
 
4.研討會議程 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
 
Exploring the Benefits of Age-Specific Electronic Product 
Training Programs 
 
Wang-Chin Tsai* and Chang-Franw Lee ** 
 
* National Yunlin University of Science and Technology, Graduate School of Design 
Taiwan, piliwangwang@mail2000.com.tw 
** National Yunlin University of Science and Technology, Graduate School of Design 
Taiwan, leecf@yuntech.edu.tw 
 
Abstract: The present proposal explored advantages of age-specific electronic product training 
programs for older adults. With a rapid increase of an ageing population in Taiwan, the number of 
active older adults willing to interact with new electronic products is also growing. The ultimate 
goal is to develop a set of systematic and iterative training programs that could be used in the 
development of electronic product interfaces for older adults. The researcher explored three 
approaches in the dimensions of motor, sensory, and cognitive ability relevant to electronic 
product interactions and described how these could be used to apply to a given training design. 
Key words: training, older adults, user capability, product demand. 
 
1. Introduction 
With an increasing aging population, there is a growing recognition of the need to consider older adult users 
when designing products. In general, electronic products such as digital cameras, mobile phones, and multimedia 
players have not been designed in considerations of the needs of older adults and are usually difficult for older 
adults to use [5]. There are different approaches to improve the compatibility between technical devices and 
older adult users. One of the useful approaches is to bridge the gap and train the elderly to learn how to handle 
current technological devices. This proposal focused on the capability requirement and product demand to older 
adults and explored some benefits for this population in the training process. By means of adequate trainings, 
individual methods are activated and deficits are compensated. Elderly users would be able to transfer their 
knowledge and experience to other devices and be independent of specific electronic products [6]. The present 
research project aimed at assisting the elderly in learning to use electronic products successfully.  
There are several reasons why older adults tend to have more difficulties in learning to use electronic product 
interfaces. Many older adults have less experience using computers and technical devices than young adults, 
which decreases their opportunities for positive transfers. Older adults also generally demonstrate a tendency to 
have more difficulties than young adults in acquiring new technological skills [2, 4]. Their ability to operate 
electronic devices is more or less hindered by natural declines in psychomotor, processing speed, and verbal as 
well as visual-spatial working memory [3]. Interacting with electronic product interfaces (e.g., buttons for 
several context-dependent functions, small screens that limit the amount of information shown at once) may also 
be more complicated and laborious for older adults as it places demands on the user’s different capabilities. 
Therefore, the present research question was: What technology training is appropriate for older adult users with 
age-related decline in the use of electronic products? Take three case studies on older adults’ using of electronic 
products, including digital cameras, mobile phones, and multimedia players, as examples, the researchers 
investigated how older adult users could be supported from trainings to use technical devices. 
3 
 
familiar activities to understand components of the task being used in the training process. The empirical results, 
both objective and subjective, revealed that with the finger training programs, older adults performed better than 
before on tasks that highly demanded on hand dexterity. The training outcome exhibited decrease of numerous 
errors and problems when electronic products were used by older adults. Considered older users’ capabilities 
discussed in this research, the researchers retrieved small digital product implications for hand requirements and 
discovered that these could be used easily by hand operation training. 
 
3.2 Case Study 2- Developing a training program based on sensory capability and product demand 
Small touch screens are widely used in different products such as bank ATMs, point-of-sale terminals, ticket 
vending machines, mobile phones, and home multimedia in daily life. These devices are intuition-oriented and 
easy to operate. The performance of small touch screens can be affected by several elements. One of the 
essential parts is icon feedback. However, in order to achieve beautiful icon feedback appearance and create 
interesting interaction experience, many interface designers often neglect the real user needs. It is critical for 
designers to trade off the icon feedback type according to different users’ needs in the touch interaction. 
Therefore, it requires particular concern from designers to put older adults’ limited sensory capability into 
serious consideration. This research described a pilot study, which identified factors that were determinants of 
icon feedback training on small touch screens in four older adult visual attention groups. Forty-five elder 
participants were participated. Each subject was asked to complete a battery of visual attention tests and divided 
into four groups. In addition, each subject was requested to perform a set of ‘continuous touch practice’ training 
tutorials (with and without clue information) on mobile phones and provide comments on open-ended questions. 
Research results were discussed with respect to visual attention factors that influenced older adults in the 
practice of an icon feedback training program on small touch screens. The results also showed significant 
correlations between icon feedback training performance and factors of attention as well as concentration. Older 
participants were more sensitive and required shorter period of time to adapt to high-detailed icon feedback after 
training. The study indicated that with appropriate training methods, each older adult visual attention group 
successfully learned and well understood how to touch a mobile phone icon. These results were discussed and 
recommendations in terms of icon feedback training strategies were provided for interface designers and trainers. 
 
3.3 Case Study 3- Developing a training program based on cognitive capability and product demand 
This case study was grounded in the concept of representative working memory model as suggested by Baddeley. 
This study was conducted with a series of interface training programs to investigate the effects on interface mode 
performance related to working memory attributes, cognitive ability levels, and training methods. Eighty older 
adults participated and were asked to complete a single cognitive function test and were later divided into four 
groups with different working memory attributes and cognitive ability levels (higher/lower Digit Span and 
Spatial Span attribute groups) based on the test results. Each group was trained continuously with two training 
methods in order to examine the performance on the interface mode tasks. The findings revealed that training 
methods has primary effects on different multimedia interface mode operations in subjects with  different 
working memory attributes and cognitive ability levels. The major findings were as follows: (1) There was a 
significant effect of training methods on direct interface mode. Follow-up analyses of task time revealed that the 
benefit of procedural training method was significant for the spatial span attribute older adults, and the 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
（無） 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
