2The overall mechanical behavior of
engineering structures can be substantially
affected by irreversible evolution of multiple
distributed cracks. An important concern
for such multi-cracked problems is on
prediction of the associated effective stiffness
in the cracked solids. Studies related to this
issue have been extensively reported in the
past decades. Most of them are concerned
with degradation of material integrity (i.e.
material characteristic), especially in the field
of micromechanics (as reviewed by, e.g.
Kachanov (1992)).
In order to effectively characterize the
actual mechanical behavior of the
multi-cracked media, mutual interaction of
the cracks needs to be explicitly and
accurately accounted. To this end, a variety
of approaches in the context of material
characteristic have been introduced. On one
hand, for 'regular' distribution of cracks, the
mechanical properties of the cracked solids
can be modeled by a periodic medium which
consists of a collection of unit cells. Based
on this periodic feature, the material moduli
of the overall cracked medium are then
represented by those of the unit cell. With
this concept, the fracture behavior due to
interaction of the cracks contained in a unit
cell and, subsequently, in the periodic
medium can thus be properly simulated
either analytically or numerically (e.g.
Nemat-Nasser (1993), Huang et al. (1996),
Kushch and Sangani (2000), etc.). On the
other hand, for problems containing
irregularly or randomly distributed cracks,
the mutual interaction of the crack system
becomes too complicated to be simulated
analytically. Owing to this difficulty, a
number of approximate numerical schemes
have therefore been proposed (as reviewed
by, e.g., Chen (1995), and Petrova et al.
(2000)). In most of these schemes, solution
to the problem associated with interaction of
cracks was formulated in terms of a set of
integral equations. Such formulation leads
to a system of linear algebraic equations,
which may cost significant computational
effort when the number of cracks becomes
relatively large. Therefore, development of
alternative and efficient methods for
characterizing the interaction of multiple
cracks, especially in the case of high
concentration of cracks, is of considerable
importance.
The concept by using energy parameters
in fracture analysis is of practical interest,
especially in the condition when the stress
state in the near-tip region becomes too
complicated to be described. A well-known
parameter, the J-integral (Budiansky and
Rice (1973)), has been widely used for
evaluation of the energy release rate
corresponding to extending a single crack tip
in quasi-brittle materials. Nevertheless, it
was not until very recently has the M-integral,
another energy conservation contour integral
derived from Noether's theorem, been
applied in problems containing multiple
cracks. A series of studies were presented
by using the M-integral to characterize the
material damage level due to microcracking
in uniformly-loaded elastic infinite media
(Wang and Chen (2002), Tian (2004), etc.).
Also, a fracture parameter Mc is proposed by
the authors (Chang and Chien (2002), Chang
and Peng (2004)) to describe the degradation
of material and structural integrity caused by
irreversible evolution of multiple cracks.
An important feature addressed in these
works is on illustration of the physical
meaning of Mc, which evaluates twice the
surface energy associated with creation of all
cracks in the media. With such a feature, it
was thus suggested that the Mc-integral be
used as an energy parameter that measures
the damage level associated with stiffness
loss in both the multi-cracked materials and
structures.
This research is aimed to present a
simple and efficient method to determine the
effective elastic stiffness of multi-cracked
solids. Since the crack interaction is
characterized in terms of a scalar energy
parameter rather than the
conventionally-used algebraic matrix system,
implementation of the presented method
appears to be straightforward in practice. In
the first year, the contribution from
interaction of multiple randomly distributed
straight cracks is characterized through
definition of the M–integral, followed by
construction of the constitutive relation for
the effective stiffness. The presented
4material moduli associated with presence of
the set of multiple straight cracks in the
context of material characteristic, we further
delimit a subregion  as the representative
area element (i.e. the RAE, depicted as the
shaded region in Figure 4). Note that the
concept of RAE (i.e., by enclosing the
multi-cracked system in a specific local
region) is commonly used in micromechanics
for prediction of the effective fields.
Although no specific requirements have been
established for definition of RAE, it is
generally required that the size of  be
chosen large enough to enclose the whole set
of cracks. Also, the shape of  can be
specified either according to the statistical
distribution of crack orientations or by using
any other convenient selections. In the
present study, the subregion is schematized
as a rectangle, which is similar to those used
by some researchers. Other shapes, e.g.,
elliptical and circular unit, have also been
adopted in related research works.
In order to yield an estimation of the
effective elastic moduli by using the results
of the surface energy (i.e., the M-integral), an
appropriate expression for the effective
compliance tensor of the RAE is to be
determined. With this, constitutive relation
for the effective stiffness with the result of
the M-integral can then be constructed as
: [(H–Ho)–1:Ho+S]–1:Ho–1:=
Mc /A
where H is the effective elastic stiffness
tensor of the RAE (i.e., the inclusion), Ho is
the elastic stiffness tensor of the matrix
material, S is the Eshelby's tensor, and AW is
the area of the RAE. Expressions for S
associated with various shapes of inclusion
can be found in, e.g., Walpole (1969).
七、NUMERICAL EXAMPLE
The effective material moduli for a
homogeneously-stressed specimen (material
characteristic) is calculated in the example.
In the study, the integration of M is carried
out by using finite element solutions, where
quadratic elements are used for interpolation
of the displacement field. No particular
singular elements are used.
In this example, we consider a plane stress
isotropic specimen containing a family of
parallel one-sized cracks. These cracks,
each of length l, are located in a regular and
doubly periodic manner, where s and d
denote the spacings of neighboring cracks in
the parallel (x1-) and perpendicular (x2-)
directions. The crack distribution results in
orthotropic mechanical behavior in the
loading plane. The crack length l is
relatively small compared with the width w
and length B.
In the following study, two special
loading angles are taken, which correspond
to the loading conditions of uniaxial tension
and pure shear respectively. Also, two
crack systems are considered, where the
patterns of crack distribution are different.
The first system consists of 11x36 cracks and
are enclosed in a square shape of RAE, while
the second system contains 19x36 cracks and
are enclosed in a rectangular RAE.
Representations for the local finite element
meshes in the neighborhood of the first crack
systems (for the special geometric instance
with l= 0.6 cm) are shown in Figures 5.
Also depicted in the figure is the boundary of
the subregion RAE. Note that it is not
necessary to have very fine FE grids in the
near-tip areas in that they are not directly
used in evaluating the M-integral.
By arbitrarily choosing an integration
path Do that is far from the crack tips, the
results of M versus varying crack density
parameters under the two loading conditions
can be calculated. The results reveal that M
(i.e., the surface energy) is a monotonically
increasing function of the crack density.
Also, it depends upon the loading condition,
and the geometric pattern of the crack system.
Apparently. the surface energy generated by
the second crack system is significantly
higher than that by the first crack system due
to larger number of cracks contained in the
specimen.
Then, by using the results of M, the
associated effective material moduli of the
RAE can be evaluated. The normalized
effective Young's modulus E22/E versus the
crack density parameter are shown in Figure
6. While the results from the two crack
systems bear very similar trends versus
increasing values of crack density, some
6analysis in piezoelectric bimaterial solids.
International Journal of Fatigue 26 (8), 873-888.
Tsudrov, I. and Novak, J. (2004). Effective
elastic properties of solids with two-dimensional
inclusions of irregular shapes. International
Journal of Solids and Structures 41 6905-6924.
Walpole, L.J. (1969). On the overall elastic
moduli of composite materials, Journal of
Mechanics in Physics and Solids 17, 235-251.
Wang, D.F. and Chen, Y.H. (2002). M-integral
analysis for a two-dimensional metal/ceramic
bimaterial solid with extending subinterface
microcracks. Archives of Applied Mechanics 72,
588-598.
Figure 1
Figure 2
Figure 3
Figure 4
RAE
Figure 5
Figure 6
