project, the objectives of this research are (1) to 
design a sound-side reciprocating mechanism, (2) to 
study the biomechanical role of the sound-side driven 
reciprocating mechanism and the well-aligned hip 
joint, (3) to assess the performance of the sound-
side driven prosthesis. It is hypothesized that (1) 
the sound-side driven prosthesis allows patients to 
walk in a near-normal gait with lower energy cost 
than the Canadian prosthesis, (2) the sound-side 
driven reciprocating mechanism eliminates the 
detrimental trunk-pelvis thrust and reduces the 
energy cost, (3) the well-aligned joints allows a 
near-normal gait, and (4) the trunk/pelvis driven and 
mal-alignment practice used in Canadian prosthesis 
are the two key reasons causing the high energy cost 
and discomfort. 
 
In the first-year project, a biomechanical analysis 
was performed for the pathomechanical gait of a HD/HP 
patient with the Canadian prosthesis, where normal 
gait was used as a control. In addition, the 
prototype of a sound-side driven reciprocating 
mechanism that allows adjusting hip angles coupling 
ratio was designed and trial-tested.  In order to 
confirm the effectiveness of the sound-side driven 
mechanism, we had developed an energy flow model that 
can intuitively reveal the dominating factors on 
mechanical energy transfer during gait.  We have 
conducted a study utilized this energy flow model to 
successfully distinguish the energy transfer 
differences between elders and healthy adults in 
swing phase.  In the next-year project, we will 
continue using this model to explore the factors 
related to high energy cost in HD-HP patients as well 
as to justify the new sound-side driven prosthesis.  
 
英文關鍵詞： Hip disarticulation； Hemi-pelvectomy； Prosthesis； 
Canadian prosthesis； Sound-side driven prosthesis 
 
摘要	 
	 
	 
髖離斷與半骨盤切除患者使用加拿大型義肢已踰五十年。穿戴此型義肢
者，因義肢側過伸膝關節不齊(Hyperextended	 Knee	 Alignment)和在擺盪初期軀幹
骨盆驅動力(trunk-pelvis	 driven	 thrust)，呈現不自然步態。因此，引起患者背部
和截肢側坐骨結節和骻下之疼痛。造成棄用主因卻是高耗能與低步行速度。為了
除去軀幹骨盆驅動型式糾正關節不齊的問題，本研究擬就健側驅動之觀念深入探
討。	 
本研究使用之健側驅動義肢有兩項重要元件，其一為健側驅動交替式機
構，另一為對齊之髖關節。本三年期計畫旨在(1)設計健側驅動交替機構，(2)探討
健側驅動交替式機構與對齊之髖關節所扮演之人體力學角色，與(3)評估健側驅動
義肢之力學表現。針對四個問題提出解答：(1)健側驅動義肢是否使穿戴者走出近
乎正常的步態而且其耗能比加拿大型義肢低？(2)健側驅動交替式機構是否能除
去軀幹骨盆驅動之不當使力方式而減少耗能？(3)對齊之髖關節是否使穿戴者走
出近乎正常的步態？(4)軀幹骨盆驅動和關節不齊的問題是否是加拿大型義肢造
成耗能與不適的兩大關鍵原因？	 
本計畫第一年完成髖離斷與半骨盤切除患者穿戴加拿大型義肢之人體力
學步態分析；同時，同步進行健側驅動交替式機構之設計。	 
	 
關鍵詞：髖離斷；半骨盤切除；義肢;	 加拿大型義肢;	 健側驅動義肢。 
 
 We anticipate that this two-year project will continue to answer prominent 
questions for the prosthetic needs of HD/HP patients and position the biomechanical 
role of the sound-side driven prosthesis. 
 
 
Keywords: Hip disarticulation; Hemi-pelvectomy; Prosthesis; Canadian prosthesis; 
Sound-side driven prosthesis. 
 
 
Introduction 
In United States, either Hip-disarticulation (HD) or Hemi-pelvectomy (HP) 
amputees are about 1% of at least 1.5 million amputees (approximately more than 
15,000 people) and the main etiology of HP-HD was the malignant skeletal and soft 
tissue tumor[1-4].  The Canadian type prosthesis which designed in 1954 has been 
serving HD-HP amputees since then although there have been variations in 
componentry [4].  The design features of the Canadian type prosthesis (Fig. 1) are 
the total contact ischial bearing socket, anterior offset hip joint kept in extension, and 
the hyper-extended knee joint.  Due to the compromised prosthetic joint alignments, 
previous studies had shown that HD-HP amputees wearing Canadian type prostheses 
walk 40% slower and have significant gait deviations and energy cost of at least 80% 
greater than able-bodied subjects [4-6].  In addition, intolerable socket due to the 
pain over the ischial tuberosity and perineum on the prosthetic side as well as 
demanding at least one assistive device for functional ambulation had resulted in a 
high rejection rate of using prostheses.  Approximately, 50% of HD-HP patients do 
not use prostheses but hop around with two forearm crutches or choose wheelchairs. 
mentioned that adapting different alignment configuration would change the loads 
within the prosthesis but gave no discussion on how to achieve a better performance.  
 Undoubtedly, the gait characteristics of people with hip disarticulation are much 
different from normal.  A case study was reported with gait measurements on 
kinematics, ground reaction forces and metabolic energy rate of a soldier with a 
traumatic hip disarticulation [9].  They presented what the gait deviations were but 
still unclear on how to minimize these deviations by utilizing different prosthetic 
componentry and/or alignment principles. 
 
energy flows will be studied.  The biomechanical analysis will also be applied to a 
sound-side driven body-powered prosthesis which will be developed with 
incorporating two core elements: a sound-side driven reciprocal mechanism and a 
well-aligned hip joint.  These analyses are to confirm the sound-side driven 
mechanism and the alignment for the improvement of biomechanical behavior.  
Anticipated benefits of the developed prosthesis will be restoring near-normal 
alignment/gait, facilitating system stability/efficiency, reducing energy cost, and 
increasing walking speed, which grossly result in the improvements of patient 
discomfort and high rejection rate.  Clinical significance of HD-HP amputees using 
this prosthesis will then be thoroughly investigated by the biomechanical analysis of 
the gait. 
 
Research Hypotheses 
It is hypothesized that (1) the sound-side driven prosthesis allows patients to 
walk in a near-normal gait with lower energy cost than the Canadian prosthesis, (2) 
the sound-side driven reciprocating mechanism eliminates the detrimental 
trunk-pelvis thrust and reduces the energy cost, (3) the well-aligned hip joint allows a 
near-normal gait, and (4) the trunk/pelvis driven and mal-alignment practice used in 
Canadian prosthesis are the two key reasons causing the high energy cost and 
discomfort. 
We anticipate that the sound-side driven reciprocating mechanism, which 
eliminates the trunk/pelvis driven mode, can achieve a natural sagittal control with 
lower energy cost.  In addition, the near-normal alignment can be restored because 
the hip joint is properly aligned and required stability is maintained through the sound 
side.  Coupled with a multi-axis hip joint in the future development, this new 
prosthesis benefits the users in gait kinematics/kinetics, energy cost, walking speed, 
and socket compliance.  Hence, the sound-side driven HD-HP prosthesis can be 
expected to ameliorate discomfort and compliance and reduce the rejection rate since 
the trunk/pelvis driven and mal-alignment practiced in Canadian prosthesis are the 
two key reasons causing the high energy cost and discomfort. 
 
References 
 
[1] Dillingham TR, Pezzin LE, Mackenzie EJ. Limb Amputation and Limb 
Methods and Materials 
 
Device Description 
 
The prosthetic components of the sound-side driven body-powered prosthesis 
developed in this research (Figure 2) will include an ischial weight-bearing suction socket, 
a sound-side driven reciprocal mechanism, a single-axis hip, and a set of matched 
prosthetic knee and foot.  Special features of this prosthesis with respect to the Canadian 
prosthesis will be the sound-side driven reciprocal mechanism, and the prosthetic joint 
alignment.  
 
Figure 2  A schematic diagram of a sound-side driven prosthesis and a HD patient 
 
The sound-side driven reciprocal mechanism will be designed to allow a 
reciprocating gait where sound-side flexions and extensions drive a mechanism to 
produce reciprocating movements of the affected-side.  An orthotic example of the 
body-powered reciprocal mechanism is the reciprocal gait orthosis (Figure 3), which 
utilizes the hip flexion in one side to drive the hip extension in contra-lateral side or vice 
versa. In this research, the sound side hip joint power is the driving source for the 
prosthetic hip joint through a reciprocal mechanism that transforms the sound side 
movements into reversed prosthetic hip movements. Our research team with accumulated 
group [14], the prosthesis will work like a robot arm to manipulate the femur (imaginary) 
such that a desired anatomical movement can be duplicated (Figure 4). The hip joint 
could be multi-axial and have various types, either active or passive. The active hip joint 
is also called a motorized joint, which could be myoelectric or sensor based. The multiple 
axes of the joint could be either independent or mutually coupled. In our previous study, 
a coupled axis joint was investigated and this one degree of freedom joint allows the hip 
flexion/extension to take control of the hip movements in terms of hip rotations and 
abduction/adduction movements. In this research, our focus will be on the alignment and 
we will stay with a design of a single-axis hip joint. The multi-axial hip joint prosthesis 
will be left for future research.  
 
Figure 4  An illustration of a robot-arm-like hip joint 
 
 
Subjects   
One to five unilateral HD/HP amputees, age of 9 to 50, will be recruited.  The 
inclusion and exclusion criteria are as follows:  The patient 
1. should be able to follow experiment instructions.   
2. Should be unilateral and the sound side has no spasticity, contractures, and 
Experiment protocols  
Participants will be given instructions for the experiment.  Patient’s medical data 
such as diagnosis, onset, birth date, gender, height and weight will be taken and basic 
data of normal subjects’ will be collected as well.  Subjects will walk at their self 
selected speeds and complete at least three trials. The gait data will be collected, namely, 
motion data, forceplate data, heart rates and oxygen consumption.  Surface EMG 
electrode pairs will be placed on the skin over the muscle belly of the sound-side leg. The 
electrode sites will be the medial gastrocnemius, tibialis anterior, semitendinosis and 
rectus femoris. The kinematic, kinetic and EMG data will be collected simultaneously 
except the heart rates and oxygen consumption will be done separately. 
  
 
 
 
    
 16 
Figure 6  An example of energy flow at push off (the black single arrows are joint force power; double 
arrows are joint moment power and tailed single arrows are joint power) 
 The biomechanical behavior in initial contact, push-off power, floor clearance, foot roll-over shape and 
medial lateral stability will be evaluated.  The possible correction of the observed gait deviations will be 
proposed following the evaluation.  
 
First year results:  
In the first year project, we’ve shown the following results: 
(1) A biomechanical analysis was performed for the pathomechanical gait of a HD/HP patient with the 
Canadian prosthesis, where normal gait was used as a control. 
(2) The evaluation items included spatio-temporal parameters, kinematic and kinetic variables of 
lower-limb joints, coordination and energy flow. 
(3) The biomechanical behavior in various gait events such as initial contact, push-off, and floor 
clearance was evaluated. 
(4) The limitation and the benefits of using the Canadian prosthesis was re-examined and clarified. 
(5) A sound-side driven reciprocating mechanism that enabling adjusting hip angle coupling ratio was 
designed and trial tested. 
 18 
   
(a) 
  
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 7  Prosthetic alignment in terms of (a)hip alignment, (b)knee alignment, and 
(c)ankle alignment adopted in patient’s prosthesis 
 
 
Temporal-spatial parameters 
The measured temporal-spatial parameters (Table 1) showed that the relatively long period of double 
 20 
 (a) 
(b) 
 (c) 
Figure 8  (a)Hip flexion, (b)knee flexion, and (c)ankle dorsiflexion angles of the prosthetic 
leg and the sound leg in a gait cycle starting from the initial contact of the prosthetic foot. 
 22 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
Figure 10  Normalized (a)hip joint power, (b)knee joint power, and (c)ankle joint 
power of the prosthetic leg and the sound leg in a gait cycle starting from the initial 
contact of the prosthetic foot. 
 
Biomechanical characteristics of prosthetic leg during gait 
First double limb support (26% of gait cycle) 
During the first double limb support in prosthetic side, the prosthetic hip moved abruptly from 8 o flexion 
position to engage the hip extension stop and the posterior pelvic tilt angle reached the peak value (13.4o).  
This engaging process revealed the motion of the prosthetic hip was not well-controlled.  After the prosthetic 
foot flat, the sound-side push-off would transfer a substantial vertical load (Figure 11) to the prosthetic leg 
and induced the pelvis rotation toward anterior tilt in the subsequent mid-stance.  
  
 24 
extension stop. 
 In order to have a better understanding the biomechanical function of the pelvic thrust, an energy flow 
analysis (Figure 12) had been performed with regard to the peak sound hip power generation (119W) during 
the pelvic thrust.  A large amount of sound hip power (110W) was delivered to the pelvis whereas a small 
amount of sound hip power (9W) flowed into the sound leg.  After storing 2W in the sound thigh, the 
sound-leg energy combined with 3W sound-knee power generation flowed into the sound shank about 10W.  
Since there was no energy stored in neither the sound shank nor the sound foot, the sound ankle absorbed 
10W from the shank and 7W from the ground.  
 There were three divisions of the sound-hip energy which flowed into the pelvis in terms of 13W stored 
in the pelvis, 51W delivered to the Head-Arm-Trunk (HAT), and 46W flowed into the prosthetic leg.  After 
storing 17W in the prosthetic thigh, the prosthetic leg energy kept delivering energy into the prosthetic shank 
in spite of the 4W absorbed by the prosthetic knee.  All of the prosthetic-leg energy flowed into the shank 
was stored in the form of the shank segmental energy (17W) and the foot segmental energy (8W) since the 
prosthetic ankle did not generate or absorb power.  Based on the energy flow analysis, the primary expense 
of the prosthetic-leg energy delivered from the pelvic thrust was confirmed as storing the segmental energy 
for the subsequent swing phase. 
 26 
by the Canadian alignment for the stability in mid-stance, the pelvis would inevitably need to compensated the 
gait function of the hip joint in terms of anteriorly tilting the thigh by pelvic anterior tilt in stance phase, 
flexing the knee by pelvis thrust in terminal stance, and advancing the leg by pelvic posterior tilt in swing 
phase.  However, the unnatural and excessive pelvic excursions could be a critical contributor on the high 
energy consumption in the HD/HP amputees since the driving moment produced by the pelvic movement was 
limited and not biomechanical-efficient.  In addition, the excessive excursion of pelvic tilt together with the 
discrete-like hip motion would result in an unsatisfied walking cosmesis. 
 Based on our preliminary results, we believe that a sound-side driven hip prosthesis can be an ideal 
solution for the problems in the Canadian-type hip prosthesis.  The engagement of the prosthetic hip with an 
extension stop will be no longer necessary for the stability in mid-stance since the reciprocating mechanism 
connecting the sound hip and the prosthetic hip will stabilize the prosthetic hip in the position determined by 
the sound-hip angle and the mechanical coupling ratio.  In other words, the movement of prosthetic thigh 
during stance phase is controlled by the sound-hip rather than the exaggerated pelvic anterior tilt.  Hence, a 
natural prosthetic hip movement in stance phase can be achieved via a well-designed coupling ratio. 
The driving energy for initiating the knee flexion in terminal stance and limb advancement will be 
directly transferred via the sound hip in the sound-side driven hip prosthesis.  The benefit of without using 
the pelvic movement as the driving source in the sound-side driven hip prosthesis is not only biomechanical 
efficient but also easy to perform.  Therefore, the issue of the high energy consumption in HD/HP patients 
can be addressed since the critical factor, i.e. pelvic thrust, is no longer needed.  Like a normal hip, the 
prosthetic hip in the sound-side driven hip prosthesis will simultaneously flex together with the knee flexion 
in early swing phase. The hip-flexion/knee-flexion coupling movement can significantly help the toe 
clearance and therefore alleviate the compensation movements commonly seen in HD/HP patients such as 
vaulting, circumduction, or lateral trunk lean.  Consequently, the energy consumption can be further reduced.   
Gait smoothness of the sound-side driven hip prosthesis during swing phase will also be largely 
improved since the prosthetic hip flexes while the sound hip extends rather than “awaiting” the full knee 
extension.  Thus, the overall walking cosmesis can be restored to nearly normal and the energy consumption 
can be reduced to a minimal degree by two key design factors in the sound-side driven hip prosthesis, i.e. the 
coupling ratio and alignment of the prosthetic hip.   
 28 
 
(b) Sagittal View 
Figure 13  (a) Posterior view and (b)sagittal view of the prototype of the reciprocating mechanism 
specifically designed for the sound-side driven hip prosthesis.  The coupling ratio between hips is 
determined by the positions of the two slots in the back piece and therefore the coupling ratio can be 
prescribed to the value suggested by the future research results.  In addition, a parallel four-bar linkage is 
utilized to connect the prosthetic pylon and the reciprocating mechanism. 
 
Unlike the coupling ratio which is an explicit factor on prosthetic hip joint motion, the alignment of the 
prosthetic hip in the sound-side driven hip prosthesis is an implicit determinant on joint kinetics.  Because 
the prosthetic hip does not engaged to the extension stop any more, i.e. free hinge joint, the alignment of the 
prosthetic hip joint plays a crucial role on not only the magnitude but also the direction of the joint moment 
required to maintain the equilibrium during all the phases of gait.  In stance phase, the lever arm (distance) of 
the ground reaction force (GRF) to the prosthetic hip joint varies, which results in a dynamic load interacting 
with the sound hip.  However, the sound hip may not be able to counter the load if the alignment of the 
prosthetic hip joint is not in an ideal position.  Consequently, the prosthesis cannot be driven even though the 
coupling ratio is perfectly designed.  For example, the strength of the sound hip may be insufficient to 
stabilize the prosthetic hip if the prosthetic hip is aligned far from the GRF.  In another circumstance, the 
joint moment generated by the sound hip may not match to the direction required to counter the dynamic load.  
Unlike the RGO applications in which the orthotic hips have no choice but align to the anatomical hips, the 
prosthetic hip alignment can have a lot of freedom and can consequently have a crucial impact on the 
biomechanical performance such as the ease to maintain the stability and the overall energy consumption 
 30 
 
Figure 1  The designed sound-side driven mechanism 
 
 
Figure 2  Slot blocks 
 
 
Figure 3  Slot blocks on the pivoting piece 
 32 
 
Figure 5  Thigh cuffs that enable  hip transverse rotation 
 
Figure 6  The assembled sound-side driven mechanism 
 
 
 34 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
Figure 8  Biomechanical analysis of a subject during gait with (blue-line) and without (yellow-line) wearing 
the device (set in 1:1 coupling ratio).  Hip, knee, and ankle (a) angles, (b) normalized moments, (c) 
normalized powers, and (d) ground reaction forces were evaluated. 
 
Discussion 
 The designed device did not alter the pattern of each joint angle significantly.  The reason could be that 
the thigh fat tissues washed out the hip 1:1 flexion/extension restrictions.  Another reason was the 3-D hip 
motions were allowed in the designed mechanism so that the subject could perform nearly normal gait within 
the device.  However, there were two obvious differences caused by the device in terms of the peak knee flexion 
angle was 20 degrees smaller within the device and ankle moment/power at terminal stance was larger within the 
device.  We then speculate the restrictions caused by the device need to be compensated by ankle joint, which may 
be the reason for the poor gait performance in patients using reciprocating gait devices.  We will conduct similar 
trials for 1:2 hip coupling ratio in next-year project to see weather the limitations of the 1:1 ratio can be improved. 
 
Conclusion 
A healthy young adult could perform nearly normal gait within the device and the designed sound-side 
driven mechanism was potentially feasible in clinical use. 
 
Aging on Swing Leg Energy Transfer in Gait 
 
1. Introduction 
 36 
temporal-dependence, and high variability.  Principal component is a mathematical model that has been used 
to represent high-dimensional data set in only a few principal components.  By rotating the principal 
components, factor analysis can clarify the characteristics of a high-dimensional data set.  It can be utilized 
to give the insight of the neuromuscular adaptation by extracting energy flow characteristics in a gait phase.  
To our knowledge, a systematic approach for interpreting neuromuscular adaptation according to energy flow 
characteristics of gait phases has not been proposed. 
The purpose of this study was to investigate the neuromuscular adaptation on swing leg energy transfer 
in elders.   Research hypothesis was that aging would result in a different swing leg energy flow 
characteristics compared with young adults.  Gait trials of self-select and fast walking speeds were evaluated, 
respectively.  Swing leg energy flow characteristics were extracted via factor analysis on an energy flow 
model.  Clinical relevance of this study was to understand the neuromuscular adaptation due to aging, which 
can potentially contribute to the orthopedic treatments and rehabilitation interventions for elders. 
 
2. Materials and Methods 
Subjects 
10 healthy elders (mean age: 68±6.62 years; 6 females and 5 males) and 10 healthy young adults (mean 
age: 25±1.55 years; 2 females and 9 males) were recruited.  The inclusion criteria for the subjects were as 
follows: (1) Subjects could walk without any assistance or aids, (2) Subjects had no neuromusculoskeletal 
disorders, cardiopulmonary dysfunctions, or other diseases that can interfere normal gait pattern, and (3) 
Subjects were cognitively intact. All subjects had provided their signed informed consents proved by the 
Institutional Review Board of a medical center. 
 
Experimental protocol 
All subjects were asked to walk along a 10-meter walkway with shoes at self-select speed and fast speed, 
respectively.  Fast speed in this study was determined by simulating a functional task, i.e. crossing a street 
when the green light is about to turn red in 10 seconds.  Each subject completed at least three successful gait 
trails after 3-minutes practice.  There were 11 segmental landmarks tracked at 50 Hz by an optoelectric 
sensor (Optotrak Certus, Northern Digital Inc., Waterloo, Canada) for the three-dimensional gait analysis.  
 38 
flows into the corresponding segment.  Positive joint power represents that the 
energy flows into the correspond joint, i.e. power generation.  
 
The definition of segmental power (SP) is the rate of mechanical energy change of a segment.  
Mechanical energy refers to the summation of potential energy and the kinetic energy.  According to the 
rigid body dynamics, the segmental power also equals to the summation of segmental proximal flow and the 
segmental distal flow of a segment, i.e. .  This equation can help to explain the energy 
flowing across a segment.  For example, 50 Watts SPFthigh and -20 Watts SDFthigh represent that SPFthigh 
inputs 30 Watts to thigh and the rest 20 Watts flows out of thigh (Figure 1). 
In instrumented gait analysis, the joint power (JP) is usually calculated as follows:   where 
  is the angular velocity of a joint.  In the proposed energy flow model, the joint power also equals to the 
summation of SPF of the distal segment and SDF of the proximal segment, e.g.  .  
This equation can help to explain the energy flow across a joint.  For instance, 50 Watts SPFshank and -20 
Watts SDFthigh represent that 30 Watts is generated at the knee joint for inputting energy to the shank together 
with thigh distal flow (Figure 1). 
A complete energy flow model of one leg was shown in Figure 2.  Since there is no distal foot flow in 
swing phase, foot power is identical to the proximal foot flow.  Thus, all the energy flows of the swing leg 
were calculated for the statistical analysis except distal foot flow and foot power. 
 40 
coefficient was greater than 0.4, were kept for factor analysis.  In this study, factors were extracted by 
utilizing principal component method with varimax rotation.  Over 90% explained variance was the selection 
criteria of the factor number.  For each factor, significant energy flows, i.e. the absolute loadings are greater 
than 0.4, would be shown in an energy flow model while the sign of the loading determined the flowing 
direction of the corresponding energy flow.   Thus, swing leg energy flow characteristics can be clearly 
shown in energy flow models corresponding to the extracted factors.  The statistical analysis was performed 
on SPSS 17.0.  
 
4. Results 
The fast walking speed was significantly faster than the self-selected walking speed for both subject 
groups (Table 1).  In fast walking, the young adults walked significantly faster than the elders (Table 1).  
An example of the waveforms of energy flows was shown in Figure 3.  An example of the correlation matrix 
of the energy flows was shown in Table 2.  The ankle power showed a weak correlation with either energy 
flow.  In addition, the magnitude of ankle power in swing phase was too small (Figure 3c) to have significant 
influences on the adjacent energy flows, i.e. foot proximal flow and shank proximal flow.  Hence, the ankle 
power was excluded in the subsequent factor analysis. 
Two factors that can explain the most variance (1st factor) and the second most variance (2nd factor) 
were extracted for all test conditions.  The explained variances of the factors and the loadings of energy 
flows in each factor were listed in Table 3 and Table 4, respectively.  It was noticed that hip power and knee 
power played distinct roles in the two factors for all test conditions.  By referencing to the sign of the peak 
hip and knee power, the swing leg energy flow characteristics corresponding to each factor were shown in Fig. 
4.   
Table 1 
  Group means (SD) and statistical results of walking speed (N = 10) 
Parameter  Young Adults Elders P-value 
Self-Selected Speed (m/sec)  1.15 (0.24)a 1.11 (0.18)b 0.649 
Fast Speed (m/sec)    1.77 (0.15)a   1.56 (0.20)b  0.012* 
* P < 0.05 from independent-t tests 
a, b P < 0.05 from paired-samples tests 
 42 
Thigh Distal Flow  -0.750 -0.629 -0.799 -0.585  -0.652 -0.746 -0.878 -0.462 
Knee Power   0.954  0.129*  0.895 -0.243*   0.925 -0.138*  0.001*  0.899 
Shank Proximal Flow   0.873  0.486  0.898  0.437   0.810  0.586  0.783  0.622 
Shank Power   0.867  0.480  0.850  0.508   0.725  0.672  0.887  0.449 
Shank Distal Flow  -0.864 -0.484 -0.926 -0.365*  -0.861 -0.497 -0.648 -0.755 
Foot Proximal Flow   0.868  0.465  0.933  0.331*   0.873  0.459  0.623  0.771 
* Absolute loading < 0.4 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 44 
                  
                            (c)                                                                 
(d) 
Fig.4.  Swing leg energy flow characteristics corresponding to (a) 1st factor of 
self-selected speed and fast speed in young adults and 1st factor of self-selected speed 
in elders; (b) 2nd factor of self-selected speed in young adults, 2nd factor of 
self-selected speed in elders, and 1st factor of fast speed in elders; (c) 2nd factor of fast 
speed in elders; (d) 2nd factor of fast speed in young adults. 
 
5. Discussion 
This study had demonstrated a systematic approach to extract the energy flow characteristics of a gait 
phase via performing factor analysis on an energy flow model.  The proposed energy flow model can also be 
utilized to evaluate the role of joint powers in more details.  In literatures, the hip power generation in early 
swing and the knee power absorption in late swing were thought to be the driving energy source and the 
breaking energy source, respectively.  Nevertheless, neither hip power nor knee power solely played a 
dominant role on the pattern of energy flow.  In early swing, the downward driving energy flow started from 
the pelvis distal flow.  Pelvis distal flow joined the hip power generation augmented the downward driving 
energy flow.  It should be noticed that the magnitude of pelvis distal flow was larger than hip power in early 
 46 
elders adapting more conserving energy transfer strategy in swing phase.  The reason could be that the aging 
musculature would make elders putting more efforts on acceleration in order to maintain the walking 
performance.  Since the ability of power generation in elders is decreased, there was not as much needs in 
deceleration as in young adults. 
This developed energy flow model can open a new era of pathological gait analysis since it intuitively 
represents the coordination strategy in a graphical way.  In the next-year project, this model can help to 
explore the factors related to high energy cost in HD-HP patients as well as to justify the new sound-side 
driven prosthesis. 
Anticipated Results in the next year project 
 
A thorough gait evaluation of the Canadian prosthesis in its biomechanical performance in terms of 
primary and compensatory gait deviations, joint biomechanics, joint coordination, and energy flows will be 
accomplished in this research.  In addition, there will be scientific evidence to show that the trunk and pelvic 
driven and alignment principle used in Canadian prosthesis are the two key reasons to causing the high energy 
cost and discomfort. 
Upon finishing this research, there will be a set of new biomechanical principles of the new prosthesis 
for HD/HP amputees.  In the future development, a new choice for the prosthetic needs of HD/HP amputees 
will be developed, which features a new design for a sound-side driven reciprocal mechanism and a 
multiple-axis prosthetic hip. With the new prosthesis, HD-HP amputees will be able to walk safely with 
sufficient stability and walk efficiently with acceptable energy cost and speed.  The same ideas can also 
apply to orthotics for paraplegic or diplegic patients, where the key ideas would be residual function driven, in 
spite of the greater challenge in such a group. 
 48 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告	 
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 日期：2011年12月13日	 
	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	 	  
一、參加會議經過	 
	 
	 	 
	 	 
	 	 	 	 
	 	 3/15/2011	 Tuesday	 	 
	 	 早上搭聯合航空經日本先到DC,飛機上看了一部描述英國喬治六世國王口吃治療的過程,最終	 在英國
對德國宣戰的關鍵時刻,發表對全國人民的著名演說,The	 king's	 speech。很可惜,看到英國王室與上帝的
關係若能更親密,那該有多好!	 	 
	 	 Orlando下飛機約七時40分,轉搭Lynx公車111到旅館已約九時卅分。	 
	 	 3/16	 Wednesday	 	 
	 	 走到會場Caribe	 Royale。在展示場歡迎晚餐會看到一些熟人,卻不見吳教授、Mat,他們過去都會參加
年會的。	 	 
	 	 3/17	 Thursday	 	 
	 	 今天報告有關Hip	 Flexion/Extension	 Ratio的研究,得到一些回響。Brigid問到受測者骨盆傾斜、	 長短
計畫編號	 NSC	 99-2221-E-002-112-	 
計畫名稱	 
髖離斷與半骨盆切除截肢患者健側驅動之義肢系統	 
出國人員
姓名	 
章良渭	 
服務機構
及職稱	 
臺大醫工所副教授	 
會議時間	 
	 2011年3月16日
至	 
	 2011年3月19日	 
會議地點	 
Orlando,	 FL,	 US	 
會議名稱	 
(中文)	 美國義肢矯具學會年會	 
(英文)	 AAOP	 Annual	 Meeting	 	 
發表論文
題目	 
(中文)	 膝踝關節固定步態中髖部交互動作之比率	 
(英文)Reciprocating	 Hip	 Flexion/Extension	 Ratios	 in	 Fixed	 
Knee	 and	 Ankle	 Gait	 	 
 50 
 
 RECIPROCATING	  HIP	  FLEXION/EXTENSION	  
RATIOS	  IN	  FIXED	  KNEE	  AND	  ANKLE	  GAIT	  	  
Liang-Wey Chang, PhD, CO, PE, 	 
Associate Professor 
Rehabilitation Engineering Research Center 
Institute of Biomedical Engineering 
Colleges of Medicine and Engineering 
National Taiwan University 
 
AAOP	 Annual	 Meeting	 at	 Orlando,	 FL	 
March	 17,	 2011	 
Background	  
  Yang,	  et.	  al.	  (1996)	  had	  designed	  an	  assessment	  orthosis,	  
which	  allows	  various	  joint	  constraints	  and	  the	  reciproca,ng	  
hip	  ﬂexion/extension	  to	  be	  coupled	  at	  high	  (2:1)	  and	  low	  (1:1)	  
ra,os,	  to	  study	  the	  ra,o	  associated	  energy	  cost	  and	  walking	  
speeds	  for	  able-­‐bodied	  subjects.	  	  However,	  no	  search	  for	  
reasons	  was	  aQempted.	  
  To	  et.	  al.	  (2006;	  2008)	  had	  designed	  a	  variable	  hip	  coupling	  
mechanism	  to	  be	  incorporated	  into	  a	  hybrid	  RGO	  where	  the	  
coupling	  ra,o	  was	  made	  controllable	  for	  the	  purpose	  of	  
postural	  stability.	  	  No	  biomechanical	  guide	  was	  provided	  as	  to	  
the	  control	  of	  the	  hip	  coupling	  ra,o.	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
  The	  natural	  HFERs	  of	  the	  able-­‐bodied	  subjects	  have	  not	  been	  
explored	  and	  the	  ques,on	  in	  regard	  to	  what	  is	  the	  most	  
desirable	  coupling	  ra,o	  remains	  unanswered	  when	  designing	  
RGOs.	   
Hypotheses	  
  The	  HFER	  in	  ﬁxed	  knee	  and	  ankle	  gait	  would	  be	  
higher	  than	  that	  in	  normal	  gait	  
  	  The	  HFER	  would	  increase	  as	  the	  walking	  speed	  
reduces.	  	  
Mathematical	  Model	  
Reciprocating Gait Region – Regions 2&4 
Mathematical	  Model	  
-25	
-20	
-15	
-10	
-5	
0	
5	
10	
15	
20	
25	
-25	 -20	 -15	 -10	 -5	 0	 5	 10	 15	 20	 25	
Le
#
	  h
ip
	  jo
in
t	  a
ng
le
(d
eg
re
e)
	
Right	  hip	  joint	  angle	  (degree),	  ﬂexion(+)/extension(-­‐)	
Angle	  to	  angle	  diagram	  
Data	
Mathematical	  Model	  
  Deﬁne	  the	  x-­‐axis	  as	  the	  hip	  angle	  of	  the	  stance	  leg	  and	  the	  
y-­‐axis	  as	  the	  hip	  angle	  of	  the	  swing	  leg.	  	  y	  is	  a	  linear	  
func,on	  of	  x,	  i.e.,	  y	  =	  mx	  +b,	  where	  m	  is	  the	  slop	  of	  the	  
linear	  func,on	  and	  b	  is	  the	  y-­‐intercept.	  
	   	  	  	  
  The	  y-­‐intercept	  is	  the	  instantaneous	  hip	  ﬂexion	  angle	  of	  the	  
swing	  leg	  performing	  ﬂexion	  when	  the	  stance	  leg	  reaches	  
the	  hip	  neutral	  posi,on	  in	  mid	  stance.	  	  
  The	  x-­‐intercept	  can	  be	  found	  readily,	  i.e.,	  -­‐	  b/m.	  	  	  
  The	  x-­‐intercept	  is	  the	  instantaneous	  hip	  ﬂexion	  angle	  of	  the	  
stance	  leg	  performing	  extension	  at	  the	  end	  of	  loading	  
response	  when	  the	  swing	  leg	  reaches	  the	  hip	  neutral	  
posi,on.	  
€ 
HFER = dydx = m
Results	  
  From	  the	  spa,al-­‐temporal	  gait	  parameters,	  the	  speeds,	  
the	  step	  length	  and	  the	  cadence	  of	  the	  free	  joint	  gait	  are	  
signiﬁcantly	  higher	  than	  those	  of	  the	  ﬁxed	  joint	  gait.	  	  	  
  Within	  the	  free	  joint	  gait	  and	  ﬁxed	  joint	  gait,	  the	  stance	  
phase	  and	  double	  limb	  stance	  in	  the	  gait	  percentage	  
signiﬁcantly	  decrease	  as	  the	  speed	  gets	  higher.	  	  	  	  	  	  
Results	  
  The	  HFER	  is	  signiﬁcantly	  higher	  in	  free	  mo,on	  gait	  in	  each	  
of	  the	  three	  speed	  condi,ons	  than	  that	  in	  ﬁxed	  knee	  and	  
ankle	  gait.	  	  
  From	  the	  same	  ﬁgure,	  it	  was	  observed	  that	  the	  HFER	  has	  
a	  trend	  to	  decrease	  as	  the	  speed	  gets	  faster	  in	  both	  two	  
joint	  condi,ons.	  	  	  
Discussion	  
  The	  HFER	  values	  in	  able-­‐bodied	  subjects	  corresponding	  to	  
a	  speciﬁc	  walking	  speed	  could	  be	  viewed	  as	  naturally	  
generated	  values	  with	  which	  the	  energy	  cost	  could	  be	  
minimized	  in	  that	  walking	  speed.	  
  We	  can	  further	  hypothesize	  that	  the	  RGO	  design	  would	  
need	  to	  set	  the	  HFER	  as	  close	  as	  possible	  to	  the	  naturally	  
generated	  HFER	  corresponding	  to	  the	  set	  speed.	  	  	  	  	  
Acknowledgements	  
  Graduate	  Students:	  	  Chen,	  T.W.,	  MS	  and	  Huang,	  
S.M.,	  MS	  
  Experiment	  par,cipants	  
  Clinical	  Research	  Team	  at	  Na,onal	  Taiwan	  
University	  Rehabilita,on	  Engineering	  Research	  
Center	  (NTURERC)	  	  
Thank	  You	  
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：章良渭 計畫編號：99-2221-E-002-112- 
計畫名稱：髖離斷與半骨盆切除截肢患者健側驅動之義肢系統 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
