23.1 The feasibility test in the desalination of NaCl solution
Fig. 2 shows the change in the solution conductivity with increasing electrolysis time at different applied voltages. First, the
experiments were conducted in an open-circuit condition to test the effectiveness of the pure adsorption capacity for ACF.
The conductivity did not decrease as expected, but increased slightly from the initial value of 247.3μS cm-1 to 252.3μS cm-1
in 120 minutes. The possible reason was that some impurities that originally existed on the ACF surface dissolved gradually
to the solution, and thus the conductivity of the solution increased. The above consequence is different from the pure
adsorption results of some organics provided by the production company, as listed in table 1, or the results of investigating
the pure adsorption of the metal ions by ACFs in the literature [15]. Consequently, the result indicated that the ACFs can not
act as a potential material for pure adsorption in the desalination of NaCl solution. However, the conductivity of the solution
obviously decreased after applying 2 V, 3 V, and 4 V on the ACF electrodes. The higher the voltage applied, the faster the
conductivity decreased. Therefore, the desalination efficiency was greatly enhanced by electrosorption using ACF
electrodes.
3.2 The effectiveness of ACF in repeated electrosorption/desorption cycles
In order to examine the effectiveness of the ACF electrodes after several charging (electrosorption) / discharging (desorption)
cycles, we conducted 10 repeated continuous cycles in this work, charging for 120 minutes and discharging for 60 minutes
in each cycle. Fig. 3 demonstrates the changes of conductivity in the first three cycles. The decrease in the conductivity
resulting from 120-minute charging was almost recovered by discharging in 60 minutes. The results indicate that the rate of
desorption was faster than that of electrosorption. Furthermore, in order to investigate the effectiveness of the
electrosorption, the authors defined the desalination degree and recovery degree for each cycle as follows.
%100(%)degreeondesalinati
0
0 
C
CC m
100%(%)degreerecovery
0




m
mf
CC
CC

where C0 is the initial conductivity in each cycle, Cm the conductivity when discharging, and Cf the conductivity after one
cycle was conducted. The desalination degree and the recovery degree were calculated and are listed in Table 2 for each
cycle. It can be seen that the desalination degrees ranged between 51.2 % to 60.6 % and the recovery degree 95.1 % to 97.1
%. Although the desalination degrees decreased to some extent with increasing repeated electrosorption / desorption cycles,
as seen in Table 1, the effectiveness and activity of the ACF did not fall significantly after 10 cycles. Consequently, the ACF
was found to be an excellent electrode material in the desalination of NaCl solution.
3.3 Effect of applied voltage
High applied voltage/current is not suitable for electrosorption because it is a nonfaradaic process. The authors conducted
several experiments of different applied voltages on the ACF electrode to determine the highest adoptable voltage in this
work. We can observe that tiny bubbles appeared on the ACF surface when the applied voltage exceeded 6 V. The bubbles
were thought to be from the water decomposition on the ACF surface due to the faradaic electron transfer. Therefore, the
largest allowable applied voltage was 6 V in this study. Fig. 4 depicts the results of the desalination degree and recovery
degree at different applied voltages, ranging from 2 V to 6 V. The desalination degree increased with increasing applied
voltage (10.6 % at 2V, 23.7 % at 4v, 55.5 % at 6V). On other hand, the recovery degree approached 100 % in all cases.
Therefore, the electro-adsorbed ions resulting from the double layer charging can easily desorbed when discharging and
immediately re-enter into the solution with ACF electrodes.
3.4 Effect of the initial concentration
Similar to the adsorption theory, the initial concentration of the adsorbate can affect the effectiveness of the electrosorption.
In order to investigate the influence of the initial NaCl concentration on the desalination degree and the recovery degree,
different initial NaCl concentration, (50, 100, 200, and 300 ppm) were prepared. When the applied voltage exceeded 4 V,
bubbles due to the decomposition of water were obviously observed in the case of 300 ppm NaCl concentration. Therefore
the authors determined to employ 4 V in investigating the influence of the initial concentration. The results are shown in Fig.
5. The desalination degrees were calculated to be 23.2 %, 23.7%, 35.1%, and 24.2 % for the initial concentrations of 50, 100,
200, and 300 ppm, respectively. The desalination degree at low NaCl concentration was smaller than that at high initial
concentration. The result was probably explained by the decrease in concentration gradient and mass transfer rate with
decreasing the initial concentration. It was noted that the desalination degree dropped to 24.2 % at the initial concentration
of 300 ppm. This might be explained as follows. As the conductivity did not decrease significantly after 80 minutes in both
initial concentrations of 200 and 300 ppm, we could assume that the sites available for adsorption of ions on ACF surface
were nearly all occupied by the ions and water molecules with a 4 V driving voltage. The above assumption can be
confirmed, because the decreased amount of conductivity (C0–Cm) was almost the same, about 160μS cm-1 in both cases.
Hence, with regard to the definition of the desalination degree, it decreased with increasing initial concentration C0 when
the initial NaCl concentration exceeded 200 ppm.
3.5 Effect of HNO3 treatment
Surface treatment of the activated carbon fiber has been reported to be a good approach to modify the surface conditions in
