 2
中文摘要 
 
國內外有關構音及運動性言語障礙的研究大多集中在相關的聲學研究，然而隨著科技
的日新月異，國外已漸將這方面的研究重心轉向和說話相關的生理系統來瞭解正常與說話
障礙機轉。而在說話器官中以舌頭為最重要，舌頭在口腔內的運動可以發出不同的母音和
子音；但是對舌頭的瞭解仍停留在基本的味覺及肌肉的解剖構造無法對說話時的舌頭變形
提出有效的量化基礎。本計畫的主要目的在利用空間轉換技術來建立磁振影像為基礎的立
體舌頭圖譜，做為舌頭在正常與說話障礙機轉的影響以及舌頭之形態分析研究的基礎。過
去兩年（91，92）我們已依計畫蒐集相關方法、文獻、確立磁振影像蒐集的步驟、以及建
立四十位無構音障礙之大專生（男女各半）的口腔磁振影像資料庫，我們以單一個案影像
資料呈現口腔磁振影像之立體重建，另外我們也建立立體舌頭的解剖界標點，做為影像登
錄及立體舌頭圖譜準確度評估的依據。我們正運用我們所蒐集到的所有 MRI 資料分別為男
女去建立一個立體舌頭圖譜。我們考量的重點是以運算的複雜性、準確度、及統計分析的
可行性為主。今年的研究計畫中，我們將運用立體舌頭圖譜去進行舌頭之形態分析研究，
這包含個案與個案、個案與圖譜、以及男女之間的形態分析。本研究成果所建立的方法可
做為未來研究舌頭對正常與說話障礙機轉影響的基礎。而立體舌頭圖譜亦可以做為日後舌
頭的生物力學模擬之應用。 
關鍵詞：舌頭，空間轉換，磁振影像，說話，界標點 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
I Introduction 
 
The use of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques has been popular for visualizing the 
soft-tissue of human body for diagnostic purposes because of its noninvasiveness. It has been applied to 
anatomical and pathological studies of the tongue and oropharynx [1][2]. The tongue has been recognized 
to be the most important organ for the speech production process. Nevertheless, many reported studies of 
the tongue are either muscular anatomy oriented or related to the taste function. Recently MRI related 
research has been moved from the study of the vocal tract configuration [3][4][5] to the internal 
musculature deformation of the human tongue [6][7][8]. Problems of these studies are 1) single subject 
study [6][7][8], 2) lack of statistical analysis capability [6][7], and 3) with limited tongue muscles being 
assessed [6][7]. Image registration (or spatial transformation) is often necessary when two images 
obtained by different modalities of medical imaging techniques (e.g. CT and MRI) are integrated to 
provide complementary information for clinical diagnosis. It requires a mapping function that transforms 
the coordinates of each point in one image into those of the corresponding point in the other. A mapping 
function in the context of this proposal is a spatial transformation that maps a set of points from a 
biological configuration into corresponding points in its warped representation. The mapping methods can 
be affine, perspective, and polynomial transformations. Since affine and perspective transformations can 
be expressed as first-order polynomials (see Wolberg, [9]), they are thus subsets of polynomial 
transformations. A more complete review of the mapping functions is available in Toga [10]. Toga’s 
volume contains most of the updated warping approaches whose applications are mainly for the human 
brain atlas. The extreme complexity of the brain structure and function often needs cross-modality 
comparison and integration [11] to provide not only complimentary information but also the generation of 
atlases and maps [12][13][14]. Although these new brain imaging techniques allow better spatial 
resolution and interactive graphic tools for viewing and manipulating images, only few of them provide 
precision and reliability tests for their performance [15]. In Taiwan, these warping approaches or their 
combinations have been applied for lung nodule detection [16], visualization of human brain 
cortex [17], tissue motion estimation in ultrasonic images [18], and for integration of functional 
images in brain tumor analysis [19]. 
For the past two years (2002, 2003), we have established MRI protocol for data acquisition, 
and an orally-based MRI database of 20 male and 20 female college students without speech 
disorders. We also present a 3D reconstructed MRI image based on one of the subjects [20]. In 
addition, we have defined and selected landmarks for the 3D tongue [21]. Currently we are using 
our MRI database to build a 3D tongue atlas for male and female subjects, respectively, with a 
selected suitable spatial transformation technique that is determined by its complexity, accuracy, 
and statistical capability. This year’s project, we will use 3D tongue atlas for tongue 
morphometric study. This will include subject-to subject, subject-to-atlas, and male-to-female 
morphometric study. The result of this project will provide a substantive methodological 
preparation for future research, in the form of computational tools and example data, to 
investigate the phonetic characteristics of various articulations and their underlying physiological 
mechanism of normal and disordered speech production. A typical application is comparison of 
different vowel gestures by the same tongue (such as the same speaker) and by different tongues 
 6
C. Construction of 3D tongue atlas 
 
 To develop a new spatial transformation technique originally was not our major concern for this 
project. The axial MR images of the human tongue were first segmented with snakes active contour 
method, then the 3D tongues of each subject were reconstructed with morphology-based grey-level 
interpolation, The axial MR images of the human tongue were first segmented with snakes active contour 
method, then the 3D tongues of each subject were reconstructed with morphology-based grey-level 
interpolation [22], finally these 3D tongues were spatial transformed into a 3D tongue atlas with thin-plate 
spline method. Outline of image processing is shown in Fig. 2 [20]. The reconstructed 3D tongue from one 
of our subjects is shown in Fig. 3.  
 
 
 
      (a)                    (b)                     (c)                    (d) 
Fig. 3 (a) the original midsagittal slice of the subject, (b) corresponding reconstructed slice, (c) the 
reconstructed 3D tongue, (d) corresponding slice of the subject. 
 
D. Definition and selection of 3D tongue landmarks 
 
Landmarks are the homologous points that define locations having anatomical significance and 
identifiable geometric coordinates. Finding the homologous points in the paired data sets for tongue 
images is a difficult task, but it plays a crucial role in the mapping process. How good the mapping 
depends on how good the landmark points are. It is desirable that all landmarks are robust and easily 
Morphology-based 
grey-level interpolation 
3D tongue atlas 
Spatial transform with  
the thin-plate spline  
Correction of erosion for the  
interpolated images 
Segmented with Snakes 
algorithm 
Original axial MRI images
Fig. 2 Outline of image processing.  
 8
 
IV Conclusions 
 
The intended work to be finished at the end of the project are: 1) a MRI database of 40 college students 
specialized for speech organs; 2) a final 3D tongue atlas; 3) definition and selection of 3D tongue 
landmarks; and 4) methods to evaluate the selected landmarks. We have acquired a MRI database of 40 
college students specialized for speech organs and developed a morphology-based grey-level interpolation 
method to reconstruct our 3D tongue. We have defined 3D tongue landmarks and used the thin-plate spline 
method to build our 3D atlas from our female subjects. Although the final 3D tongue atlas is yet to be 
accomplished. Nevertheless, the current proposal will provide a substantive methodological preparation 
for future research, in the form of computational tools and example data, to investigate the phonetic 
characteristics of various articulations. 
 
V References 
 
[1] Lufkin, R.B.et al. (1986) Radiology, 161: 69-75. 
[2] Mckenna, K.M., B.A, Jabour, R.B. Lufkin, and W.N. Hanafee (1990) Topics of Magnetic Resonance 
Imaging, 2: 49-59. 
[3] Narayanan, S. S., A.A. Alwan, and K. Haker (1995) J. Acoust. Soc. Am., 98: 1325-1347. 
[4] Story, B., I. Titze, and E. A. Hoffman (1996) J. Acoust. Soc. Am., 100: 537-554. 
[5] Narayanan, S., D. Byrd, and A. Kaun (1999) J. Acoust. Soc. Am., 106: 1993-2007. 
[6] Stone, M. et al. (2001), J. Acoust. Soc. Am., 109: 2974-2982. 
[7] Takano, S. and K. Honda (2001) Spring meeting, J. Acoust. Soc. Japan. 
[8] Wu, Chao-Min (1996) Ph.D. thesis, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH. 
[9] Wolberg, G. (1990) Digital Image Warping. IEEE Computer Society Press, Los Altos, CA. 
[10] Toga, A. W. (1999) Brain Warping. Academic Press, San Diego, CA. 
[11] Christensen, G.E, S.C. Joshi, and M.I. Miller (1997) IEEE Trans. Med.Imaging, 16:864-877. 
[12] Thompson, M., R.P. Woods, M.S. Mega, and A.W. Toga (2000) Human Brain Mapping, 9:81-92. 
[13] Wood, R.P., M.Dapretto, N.L. Sicotte, A.W. Toga, and J.C. Mazziotta (1999) Human Brain Mapping, 
8:73-79. 
[14] Missimer, J,U. Knorr, R.P. Maguire, H. Herzog, R.J. Seitz, L. Tellman, and K.L.Leenders (1999) 
Human Brain Mapping, 8:245-258. 
[15] Fiez, J.A., H. Damasio, and T.J. Grabowski (2000) Human Brain Mapping, 9:192-211. 
[16]蘇振隆 民 90 影像處理在肺臟腫瘤偵測之應用, 行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫
成果報告 
[17] Sun, Y.-N., C.-H. Lin, M. C.-J. Lin (submitted), “Metamorphosis-based tissue motion 
estimation in ultrasonic images”. 
[18] Weng, T-L. and Y.-N. Sun (submitted), “Visualization of human cerebral cortex by flatten 
algorithms”. 
[19] 林康平 民 90 「統計模型技術於腦腫瘤功能性磁共振影像與正子斷層影像之整合分析
研究」，行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫。 
 10
posteriorly 
8 Top End SL Pt. 2 Location of SL’s 
most superoposterior 
pt. 
 
Ant.: Anterior; Pos.: Posterior; Lat.: Lateral; Pt.: Point; LS: Lateral Septum; PS: Paramedian septum; 
V: Verticalis; T: Transversus; SL: Superior Longitudinalis; IL: Inferior Longitudinalis; GG: 
Genioglossus; HG: Hyoglossus; SG: Styloglossus muscle. 
 
 
V 計畫成果自評： 
 
本計畫的主要目的在利用空間轉換技術來建立磁振影像為基礎的立體舌頭圖譜，做為舌頭
在正常與說話障礙機轉的影響以及舌頭之形態分析研究的基礎。本計畫最初的目標是要收
集四十位無構音障礙之大專生（男女各半）的口腔 MRI 資料，並對這些資料進行三維重建
舌頭，並由我們的 MRI 資料庫去定義與選取建立圖譜之界標點。並建立三維舌頭圖譜以利
後續之舌頭形態分析。而目前本計畫之研究成果已依計畫蒐集相關方法、文獻、確立磁振
影像蒐集的步驟、以及建立四十位無構音障礙之大專生（男女各半）的口腔磁振影像資料
庫，並運用我們發展的「三維灰階值內差法」為我們所蒐集到的 MRI 資料去呈現口腔磁振
影像之立體重建並建立 3D 的舌頭。另外我們也建立立體舌頭的解剖界標點，做為影像登錄
及立體舌頭圖譜準確度評估的依據並去建立女性三維舌頭圖譜。目前我們仍在評估我們所
選取的參考點之可靠性，並進一步去建立男性的三維舌頭圖譜。一但參考點的可靠性評估
完成後，我們將運用立體舌頭圖譜去進行舌頭之形態分析研究，這包含個案與個案、個案
與圖譜、以及男女之間的形態分析。本研究成果所建立的方法可做為未來研究舌頭對正常
與說話障礙機轉影響的基礎。而立體舌頭圖譜亦可以做為日後舌頭的生物力學模擬之應用。 
 
本計畫的研究結果產出碩士論文一篇以及國外研討會與國內研討會論文各一篇。目前正著
手在寫期刊論文以便投稿國外期刊。 
 
吳漢哲 民 95 「口腔核磁共振影像的分割與三維灰階值內插」，國立中央大學電機工程研
究所，碩士論文，中壢。 
吳漢哲, 吳炤民, 何玲玲，蘇志偉 (2005), “Mophology-Based Three-Dimensional Grey-Level 
Interpolation for Oral Magnetic Resonance Images”. 全國醫工研討會論文. 
C.-M. Wu and H. T. Goh (2006). An MRI-based 3D tongue atlas for tongue modeling, J. Acoust. 
Soc. Am., Vol. 124, No. 2,1304(A). 
