2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計劃成果報告
深次微米 ULSI 中受假性金屬線電荷堆積誘發鎢插拴腐蝕之研究
The study of dummy metal charging effect induced tungsten plug corrosion in
deep sub-micron ULSI technology
計劃編號︰94-2215-E-159-005
執行期間︰94/08/01-95/07/31
主 持 人︰陳啟文 明新科技大學電子系 副教授
協同主持：方炎坤 成功大學電機研究所 教 授
\
Ⅰ. Abstract (中文/英文)
本研究針對假性金屬線上電荷堆積誘發鎢插拴腐
蝕，作一系列深入之研究並提出改善的方法。鎢插拴腐
蝕可能發生於剝離高分子溶液中，甚至被這些溶液經由
電化學作用溶解掉。吾人經由 SEM 觀察化學機械研磨後
的樣品發現鎢插拴並沒有被掀舉，而證實鎢插拴腐蝕是
發生於前述剝離高分子製程中。此外，吾人發現利用過
蝕刻（Over Etch）或者灰化光阻（Photoresist Ash）中的
被電漿游離氣體分子，並無法釋放在假性金屬線上的堆
積電荷。唯有在剝離高分子製程前，另加水蒸氣的低溫
烘烤，才能有效消除鎢插拴腐蝕現象。
關鍵詞:鎢栓塞、假性金屬、過蝕刻、灰化光阻、腐蝕。
In this thesis, the tungsten plug corrosion induced by
the charges on dummy metal surfaces after metal etch
process was studied in detail. And, the improving method
was proposed. The tungsten plug corrosion can be induced
during polymer strip in solvent and even be almost
dissolved by electrochemical reaction. These phenomena
were evidenced by in-line inspections with wafer level
SEM scanning at the step of post tungsten CMP (Chemical
Mechanical Polish) and found no tungsten plug lifting.
Next, at the discharge step of post over etch or post
photoresist ash, the plasmolyzed gases not only can’t 
release charges on dummy metal surfaces, but also even
increase via failure rates. However, an extra added baking
in H2O vapor ambient prior to soak in polymer strip solvent
is a good approach to improve tungsten plug corrosion.
Keyword:Tungsten Plug, Dummy Metal, Over Etch,
Photoresist Ash,Corrosion.
Ⅱ. Introduction
The tungsten filled via plug process is commonly used
in deep sub-micron CMOS process technologies. Increasing
demands on the interconnection system to provide the
maximum density possible require the contacted metal
pitch to be push to the limits of the lithography process.
The worst misalignment and critical dimension
variation of interconnects and vias have the risk of damages
by post sequent fabrication process.Passive voltage contrast
SEM (Secondary Electron Microscope) imaging is used to
identify electrically open vias and to identify the location of
an open via in a chain of vias, as shown in fig. 2-1(A).
In fig. 2-1(B), it shows the cross-section of TEM
(Transmission Electron Micrograph) photo for tungsten
plug corrosion near dummy metal.
(A)Top view
(B)Cross-section
Fig. 2-1 The corrosion of tungsten plug near the dummy metal
In fabrication process, dummy metal is used for
reducing the micro loading effect of metal etching and the
4not immediate danger of corrosion when the wafer is
exposed to air.In the ex situ treatments, an aqueous organic
mixture with high value of pH (EKC) is used. The wet strip
treatment removes the sidewall polymer, residuals left on
the metal surfaces and further reduces the chlorine
concentration and finally rinses by the DI water. After these
sequent steps, metal surfaces must be free of residual
chlorine to prevent corrosion of the etched lines [1][2][4][9]
Sample Design
Two samples are designed in 0.15um technology to
investigate dummy metal charging effect induced tungsten
corrosion. In fig. 3-2, it shows that the chain of vias has no
dummy metal 2. However, it shows that the chain of vias
has dummy metal 2, as shown in fig. 3-3
Fig. 3-2 The pattern of chain vias has dummy metal 2
Fig. 3-3 Sample fabrication flow
Experiment
At the discharge step post over etch, in situ ionization
of N2 or Ar are to recombine charges on metal2 surfaces. At
the discharge step after ashing prior to soak in EKC solvent,
in situ ionization of N2 or O2 is to recombine charges on
metal2 surfaces. In addition, the overlay shift of metal2 and
Via1 or EKC effects on tungsten plug corrosion is also
investigated.
Measurement
HP4156 connected to port1 and port2 for samples is
used to measure I-V curves. Furthermore, the resistance of
single via is calculated that
Resistance per via =……………..(Ω/ea.) (3-3)
where n is totally amount of the chain of vias.
Ⅳ. Results and Discussions
Electrical Characteristics
In fig. 4-1, it shows the failure rate for a chain of vias
that have dummy metals. At in situ plasma discharge step
post over etch, it is found that the standard condition has
lower failure rate than others. Moreover, as increasing time
of discharge, the failure rate becomes larger. Ionizations of
Ar－or N2
＋are larger than the electrons on the metal surface
and on the contrary, the positive ions is induced on the
metal surface to cause worst failure rate. On the other hand,
it shows almost no failure rate for a chain of vias thatdon’t 
have dummy metal, as shown in fig. 4-2.
At in situ plasma discharge step post photoresist ash, it is
found that the standard condition has lower failure rate than
others, shown as in fig. 4-3. In the same discharge time, O2
plasma causes the worst failure rate. On the other hand, it
also shows almost no failure rate for a chain of vias that
don’t havedummy metal, as shown in fig. 4-4.
Fig. 4-1 Via failure rate in a via with dummy metal and after post metal2
over etch step discharge
6failures compared to standard condition. Moreover, in-line
inspections of the risk of AlCu eroded by HCl due to the
reaction of H2O and chlorine are not found. Therefore, extra
added H2O vapor prior to soak in polymer strip solvent is a
good approach to improve tungsten plug corrosion.
Fig. 4-7 Via failure rate in a via with dummy metal and after post metal2
photoresist ash step discharge.
Furthermore, in fig. 4-8, H2O vapor is added to release
charge prior to soak in polymer strip solvent and the
overlay shift of metal2 and via1 has no effects on via failure
rate. It means that the overlay shift to exposure tungsten
does not react directly with the polymer strip solvent
induced tungsten plug corrosion.
Fig. 4-8 Via failure rate VS. overlay shift in a via with dummy metal and
H2O vapor post metal2 photoresist ash step.
Conclusion
The chain of vias with dummy metals have higher
failure rate than that without dummy metals. At the
discharge step of post over etch or post photoresist ash, the
plasma gases can’t improve charges issue on dummy metal 
surfaces, and even increase via failure rates.
By using probe to release charge post photoresist ash
and no inlet discharge gas, it proves that charges are surely
existed on dummy metal surfaces.Therefore, extra added
H2O vapor prior to soak in polymer strip solvent is a good
approach to improve tungsten plug corrosion.
Furthermore, by using H2O vapor to release charges,
the overlay shift to exposure tungsten does not react
directly with the polymer strip solvent. Therefore, the
overlay shift of metal2 and via1 is not the the factor of
the polymer strip solvent induced tungsten plug corrosion.
Acknowledgment
The authors would like to thank the National Science
Council of the Republic of China for partial financial
support under contract No. NSC-94-2215-E-159-005. Also
we would like to thank both Dr.M.S.Liang of the R&D
division in Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., Ltd.
and members of thin-film Lab. In National Cheng-Kung
University for their help in this study.
Reference
[1] Ephraim G. Mammo, N. Singh, R. C. Manaquil, D. R. Mers,
“Optimization of Resist Strip Recipe for Aluminum Metal 
Etch Process,” IEEE/SEMI, Advanced Semiconductor
Manufacturing Conference and Workshop, pp. 376 –380, 30
April-2 May 2002.
[2] Hua Li, Mikhail Baklanov, Werner Boullart, Thierry Conard,
Bert Brijs, Karen Maex, and Ludo Froyen, “Analyses of Post 
Metal Etch Cleaning in Downstream H2O-Based Plasma
Folowed by a Wet Chemistry,” Journal of The 
Electrochemical Society,Vol. 146, Issue 10, pp. 3843-3851,
October 1999.
[3] R. Carel, W.S. Blackley, E.E. Thompson, J. Chen, “Process
trends for DPS metal etch: a case study for Al-1%Cu logic
devices,” IEEE/SEMI, Advanced Semiconductor
Manufacturing Conference and Workshop, pp. 246 –251,
10-12 Sept. 1997.
[4] Michael A. Lieberman, Alan J. Lichtenberg, “Principles of 
Plasma Discharges and Materials Processing,” JOHN WILEY 
& SONS, Canada, pp.507-510, 1994.
[5] S. Bothra, H. Sur, V. Liang, “A new failure mechanism by
corosion of tungsten in a tungsten plug process,”IEEE,
Reliability Physics Symposium Proceedings, pp. 150 –156, 31
March-2 April 1998.
[6] James D. Plummer, Michael D. Deal,Peter B. Grifin, “Silicon 
VLSI Technology: Fundamentals, Practice and Modeling,” 
Prentice Hall, New Jersey, pp.84-90, 2000
[7] Leong-Tee Koh, Kho-Liep Chok, He Ming Li, Simon
Y.M.Chooi, “Titanium corosion in 0.25 μm metal 
interconnects,” IEEE International Conference, pp. 47-49,
24-26 May 1999.
[8] S. Bothra, H. Sur, V. Liang, R. Annapragada, J. Patel,
“Corrosion of tungsten due to plasma charging in a metal
plasma etcher,” IEEE International Symposium on Plasma 
Process-Induced Damage, pp. 227 -230, 4-5 June 1998.
[9] C.Y. Chang, S.M.Sze, “ULSI Technology,” McGRAW-HILL,
Singapore, pp. 333-334, 1996.
[10] Jang-Eun Lee, Ju-Hyuk Chung, Heungsoo Park, Tae Wook
