基於分形理論之變壓器局部放電檢測研究 
The Research of Power Transformer Partial Discharge Recognition Based on Fractal Theory 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-167-027 
 執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主  持  人：陳鴻誠 國立勤益科技大學電機工程系 
共同主持人：王孟輝 國立勤益科技大學電機工程系 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Partial discharge (PD) pattern recognition is an 
important tool in HV insulation diagnosis. A PD 
pattern recognition approach of HV power 
transformers based on a neural network is 
proposed in this paper. A commercial PD 
detector is firstly used to measure the 3-D PD 
patterns of epoxy resin power transformers. 
Then, two fractal features (fractal dimension 
and lacunarity) extracted from the raw 3-D PD 
patterns are presented for the 
neural-network-based (NN-based) recognition 
system. The system can quickly and stably learn 
to categorize input patterns and permit adaptive 
processes to access significant new information. 
To demonstrate the effectiveness of the 
proposed method, the recognition ability is 
investigated on 150 sets of field tested PD 
patterns of epoxy resin power transformers. 
Different types of PD within power 
transformers are identified with rather 
encouraged results. 
 
Keywords: Partial Discharge, Pattern 
Identification, Neural Network, 
Fractal Dimension, Lacunarity. 
 
1.  Introduction 
Power transformers play a crucial role in 
operation of transmission and distribution 
systems. A dielectric failure in a power 
transformer could result in unplanned outages of 
power systems, which affects a large number of 
customers [1]. Therefore, it is of great 
importance to detect incipient failures in power 
transformers as early as possible, so that they 
can be switched safely and improve the 
reliability of the power systems. Partial 
discharges phenomenon usually originates from 
insulation defects and is an important symptom 
to detect incipient failures in power 
transformers. Classification of different types of 
PDs is of importance for the diagnosis of the 
quality of HV power transformers. PD behavior 
can be represented in various ways. Because of 
the randomization of PD activity, one of the 
most popular representations is the 
statistics-based φ-Q-N distribution, i.e., the PD 
pattern is described using a pulse count N versus 
pulse height Q and phase angle φ diagram. 
Previous experimental results have adequately 
demonstrated that φ-Q-N distributions are 
strongly dependent upon PD sources, therefore 
the 3-D patterns can be used to characterize 
insulation defects [2]. This provides the basis 
for pattern recognition techniques that can 
identify the different types of defects. 
The automated recognition of PD patterns has 
been widely studied recently. Various pattern 
recognition techniques have been proposed, 
including expert systems [3], fuzzy clustering 
[4], and neural networks (NNs) [5], [6]. The 
expert system and fuzzy approaches require 
human expertise, and have been successfully 
applied to this field. However, there are some 
difficulties in acquiring knowledge and in 
maintaining the database. NNs can directly 
acquire experience from the training data, and 
overcome some of the shortcomings of the 
expert system. However, the raw values of 3-D 
patterns were used with the NN for PD 
recognition in previous studies [7], the main 
drawbacks are that the structure of the NN has a 
great number of neurons with connections, and 
time-consuming in training. To improve the 
performance, two fractal features that extract 
relevant characteristics from the raw 3-D PD 
patterns are presented for the proposed 
the shape of 3-D PD patterns acquired using 
digital PD detector. This complex nature of the 
PD pattern shapes and the ability of fractal 
geometry to model complex shapes, is the main 
reason which encouraged the authors to make an 
attempt to study its feasibility for PD pattern 
interpretation. 
 
3.2  Calculation of Fractal Dimension 
While the definition of fractal dimension by 
self-similarity is straightforward, it is often 
difficult to estimate/compute for a given image 
data. However, a related measure of fractal 
dimension, the box dimension, can be computed 
more easily. In this work, the method suggested 
by Voss [9] for the computation of fractal 
dimension D from the image data has been 
followed. Let p(m,L) define the probability that 
there are m points within a box of size L (i.e. 
cube of side L), which is centered about a point 
on the image surface. P(m,L) is normalized, as 
below, for all L. 
∑
=
=N
m
Lmp
1
1),(  (1) 
where N is the number of possible points within 
the box. Let S be the number of image points 
(i.e. pixels in an image). If one overlays the 
image with boxes of side L, then the number of 
boxes with m points inside the box is 
(S/m)p(m,L). Therefore, the expected total 
number of boxes needed to cover the whole 
image is 
∑ ∑
= =
== N
m
N
m
Lmp
m
1SLmp
m
SLN
1 1
),(),()(  (2) 
Hence, if we let 
∑
=
= N
m
Lmp
m
1LN
1
),()(  (3) 
This value is also proportional to L-D and the 
box dimension can be estimated by calculating 
p(m,L) and N(L) for various values of L, and by 
doing a least square fit on [log(L), - log(N(L))]. 
To estimate p(m,L), one must center the cube of 
size L around an image point and count the 
number of neighboring points m, that fall within 
the cube. Accumulating the occurrences of each 
number of neighboring points over the image 
gives the frequency of occurrence of m. This is 
normalized to obtain p(m,L). Values of L are 
chosen to be odd to simplify the centering 
process. Also, the centering and counting 
activity is restricted to pixels having all their 
neighbors inside the image. This obviously will 
leave out image portions of width = (L – 1)/2 on 
the borders. Additionally, the computation time 
grows with the L value. Hence, L = 3, 5, 7, 9 
and 11 were chosen for this work. 
 
3.3  Calculation of Lacunarity 
Theoretically, ideal fractal could confirm to 
statistical similarity for all scales. However, it 
has been observed that fractal dimension alone 
is insufficient for purposes of discrimination, 
since two differently appearing surfaces could 
have the same value of D. To overcome this, 
Mandelbrot [l0] introduced the term called 
lacunarity Λ, which quantifies the denseness of 
an image surface. The basic idea is to quantify 
the ‘gaps or lacunae’ present in a given surface. 
One of the useful definitions of this term as 
suggested by Mandelbrot [l0] is 
( ) 2
22
))(((
))(()(
LM
LMLML −=Λ  (4) 
where 
∑
=
= N
m
LmpmLM
1
),()(  (5) 
∑
=
= N
m
LmpmLM
1
22 ),()(  (6) 
From the definition, we can obtain the idea that 
lacunarity reflects the density of fractal surfaces, 
namely the extent to which the density is. The 
smoother the surfaces, the less the lacunarity 
Λ(L). 
 
4. Discharge Experiments 
In this paper, the tested object is an cast-resin 
HV power transformers that uses epoxy resin 
for HV insulation. The rated voltage and 
capacity of the tested HV power transformers 
are 12 kV and 2kVA, respectively. For testing 
purposes, four experimental models of power 
transformers with artificial insulation defects 
were purposely manufactured by an electrical 
manufacturer. The four PD models, including 
no defect, HV corona discharge, low voltage 
(LV) coil PD, and high voltage (HV) coil PD, 
are named Type I, II, III, and IV, respectively. 
In the testing process, all of the measuring data 
are digitally converted in order to store them in 
the computer. Then, the PD pattern classifier 
can automatically recognize the different defect 
types of the testing objects. 
The individual 3-D PD patterns (stored as a 
 
Fig. 6  Fractal dimension and lacunarity of 
different discharge models. 
 
5. Recognition Results and Discussion 
Three neural network paradigms, back 
propagation network (BPN), probabilistic neural 
network (PNN), and learning vector 
quantization (LVQ), are utilized to classify PD 
pattern of the models. Four layers feed forward 
structure is used for the pattern recognition 
system. Its topological structure is shown in Fig. 
7. The neuron number of its input is determined 
by the number of fractal features, viz., fractal 
dimension and lacunarity. The neuron number 
of both hidden layers is 6. The neuron number 
of output layer is determined by the number of 
patterns to be identified, which is 4 in this study. 
To demonstrate the recognition ability, 150 sets 
of field test PD patterns are used to test the 
proposed PD recognition system. The four 
defect models of 12-kV epoxy resin power 
transformers include the no-defect, HV corona 
discharge, LV coil PD, and HV coil PD, 
respectively. The NN-based PD recognition 
system randomly chooses 80 instances from the 
field test data as the training data set, and the 
rest of the instances of the field test data are the 
testing data set. Table 1 shows the recognized 
results of the proposed system with different 
input patterns. The recognition rates of the 
proposed system are quite high with about 
100%, 94% and 98% for BPN, PNN, and LVQ, 
respectively. It is obvious that the NN-based PD 
recognition system has strong generalized 
capability. 
The field test data would unavoidably 
contain some noise and uncertainties which 
originate in environmental noise, transducers, or 
human mistakes. To evaluate the fault tolerance 
ability, total 150 sets of noise-contained testing 
data are generated by adding ±5% to ±30% of 
random, uniformly distributed, noise to the 
training data to take into account the noise and 
uncertainties. The test results with different 
amounts of noise added are also shown in Table 
1 for the different neural networks. Usually, the 
noise-contained data indeed degrade the 
recognition abilities in proportion to the 
amounts of noise added. This table shows that 
all these neural networks rather withstand 
remarkable tolerance to the noise contained in 
the data. The proposed recognition systems 
show good tolerance to added noise, and have 
high accuracy rates of 78%, 72% and 70% in 
extreme noise of 30%. 
Fractal
Dimension
Lacunarity
Input layer Two hidden layer Output layer
Type I
Type II
Type III
Type IV
 
Fig. 7  Topology structure of NN-based pattern 
recognition system. 
 
Table 1.  Recognized performances of 
different neural networks with various of noise 
added. 
 
Recognition rate (%)
Proportion of noise
Back Propagation Network 
(BPN)
Probabilistic Neural network 
(PNN)
Learning Vector Quantization
(LVQ)
±0%
±5%
±10%
±15%
±20%
±30%
100%
92%
88%
86%
80%
80%±25%
78%
94%
92%
90%
90%
88%
78%
72%
98%
98%
94%
94%
90%
78%
70%  
 
6. Conclusions 
A method to analyze a PD pattern and identify 
the type of discharge source is an important tool 
for the diagnosis of HV insulation system. A 
NN-based PD pattern recognition method for 
HV power transformers, that uses fractal 
features to highlight the more detailed 
characteristics of the raw 3-D PD patterns, is 
proposed. This uses a fractal theory to extract 
the fractal dimension and lacunarity from the 
raw 3-D PD patterns. These fractal features are 
then applied to a neural network that performs 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-167-027 
計畫名稱 電力設備局部放電檢測研究(III)--子計畫四：基於分形理論之變壓器局部放電檢測研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳鴻誠 
國立勤益科技大學電機工程系副教授 
會議時間地點 Hangzhou, China, April 15-17, 2007 
會議名稱 6th WSEAS International Conference on INSTRUMENTATION, MEASUREMENT, CIRCUITS and SYSTEMS (IMCAS '07) 
發表論文題目 Partial Discharge Classification Using Neural Networks and Statistical Parameters 
 
一、參加會議經過 
    本會議為第六屆 WSEAS 儀表量測電路及系統國際研討會，是有關儀表量測電路設計研
究的大型國際會議，除了專題演講外，計有口頭發表論文近五十篇，聚集各種理論及應用專
家於一堂。4/14日報到，4/15及 4/16日邀請多位國際知名專家學者舉辦三場專題演講，發表
最新研究成果，4/15~4/17口頭發表論文共分為下列 7個主題：1. Electronic Circuits Design 2. 
Electrical and Electronic Measurement 3. Instrumentation and Circuits Design 4. Applications on 
Telecommunications 5. Design of CMOS Circuitry 6. Advances on Circuits & Systems 7. 
Theoretical Approaches on Hardware Systems。 
 
二、與會心得 
此次會議規模雖然不算龐大，但與會之專家非常踴躍，所發表的論文亦非常深入，探討
範圍也很完備。值得注意的是，儀表量測電路設計的軟硬體實現技術的發展，都有令人感到
興奮的進展。國內在部分軟硬體實現技術方面起步較晚，今後應多投入一些人力，從事軟硬
體實作研發。積極參與此種國際大型重要會議，有助於技術及經驗的交流。 
 
 
significant new information. To demonstrate the 
effectiveness of the proposed method, 120 sets of field-
test PD patterns from high-voltage epoxy resin power 
transformers are tested. Results of the studied cases 
show that different types of PD within power 
transformers are identified with rather encouraged 
results.   
 
2 Partial Discharge Experiments and 
Pattern Processing  
In this paper, the tested object is an cast-resin high-
voltage power transformers that uses epoxy resin for 
high-voltage insulation. The rated voltage and capacity 
of the tested HV power transformers are 12kV and 
2kVA, respectively. For testing purposes, four 
experimental models of power transformers with 
artificial insulation defects were purposely 
manufactured by an electrical manufacturer. The four 
PD models, including high voltage (HV) coil PD, low 
voltage (LV) coil PD, HV corona discharge, and no 
defect are named Type I, II, III, and IV, respectively. In 
the testing process, all of the measuring data are 
digitally converted in order to store them in the 
computer. Then, the PD pattern classifier can 
automatically recognize the different defect types of the 
testing objects. 
The individual 3-D PD patterns (stored as a 256x256 
matrix) are plotted. The x and y axes correspond to the 
phase and amplitude (or charge), respectively. The 
matrix elements correspond to the pulse count data (or 
the z axis of the 3-D pattern). An example 3-D plot of 
the pattern from each one of the four types is given in 
Fig. 1. In order to simplify the extraction of the 
statistical features, a real gray-scaled image would be 
utilized instead of 3-D patterns. The amplitude values 
are linearly mapped to the varying intensities of the 
white color (uniformly mapped to one of the 16 gray 
colors in this work). This gray image is then converted 
to gray intensity histogram for further statistical 
analysis. An intensity histogram is a graph. The 
histogram of an image normally refers to a histogram of 
the pixel intensity values. This histogram shows the 
number of pixels in an image at each different intensity 
value found in that image. For a 4-bit gray-scale image 
there are 16 different possible intensities, and so the 
histogram will graphically display 16 numbers showing 
the distribution of pixels amongst those gray-scale 
values. Fig. 2 shows the corresponding gray-scaled 
image and gray intensity histogram of HV coil PD 
(Type I) in Fig. 1(a). 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
(c) 
 
(d) 
 
Fig. 1  Four typical defect types of PD pattern. (a) HV 
coil PD (Type I). (b) LV coil PD (Type II). (c) HV 
corona discharge (Type III). (d) no defect (Type IV) 
 
Proceedings of the 6th WSEAS International Conference on Instrumentation, Measurement, Circuits & Systems, Hangzhou, China, April 15-17, 2007      85
types of field-test PD patterns are calculated and shown 
in Fig. 3. Starting with PD patterns on different types of 
specimens, a suitable set of statistical parameters are 
determined and then used as input variables to a neural 
network foe the purpose of classifying the defects 
within the insulation. 
0
50
100
150
200
250
Type I
Type II
Type III
Type IV
 
 SK KU CV r 
Type I 3.9176 19.604 2.9684 0.3337
Type II 5.2253 38.587 3.5955 0.0602
Type III 10.452 183.23 7.2656 0.3576
Type 
IV 
13.154 224.66 10.637 0.2321
Fig Average values of statistical parameters of four 
   Recognition Results and Discussion  
of 
ould unavoidably contain some 
no
. 3  
types of field-test PD patterns 
 
4
The problem in this paper is how to classify the type 
defect that produced those PD data. In this aim, a 
multilayer artificial NN could appear certainly as the 
best solution that is possible to find. A back 
propagation neural network (BPNN) has been chosen 
because it is simple and easy to change the number of 
hidden layers and the number of neurons [10]. The 
BPNN utilized to classify PD pattern of the models is 
shown in Fig. 4. Four layers feed forward structure is 
used for the pattern classification system. A multilayer 
perceptron NN with two hidden layers can design 
arbitrary classification regions, the approximation being 
related to the number of hidden nodes [11]. The 
architecture of the BPNN is the result of many tests 
performed, and varying the number of neurons in the 
hidden layers. The neuron number of its input is 
determined by the number of statistical features, viz., 
skewness, kurtosis, coefficient of standard deviation, 
and correlation coefficient. The neuron number of both 
hidden layers is 6. The neuron number of output layer is 
determined by the number of patterns to be identified, 
which is 4 in this study. To demonstrate the 
classification ability, 120 sets of field test PD patterns 
are used to test the proposed PD classification system. 
The four defect models of 12-kV epoxy resin power 
transformers include the no-defect, HV corona 
discharge, LV coil PD, and HV coil PD, respectively. 
The NN-based PD classification system randomly 
chooses 80 instances from the field test data as the 
training data set, and the rest of the instances of the 
field test data are the testing data set. Table 1 shows the 
classified results of the proposed system with different 
input patterns. The recognition rates of the proposed 
system is quite high with 100%. It is obvious that the 
NN-based PD classification system has strong 
generalized capability. 
The field test data w
ise and uncertainties which originate in 
environmental noise, transducers, or human mistakes. 
To evaluate the fault tolerance ability, total 120 sets of 
noise-contained testing data are generated by adding 
±5% to ±30% of random, uniformly distributed, noise 
to the training data to take into account the noise and 
uncertainties. The test results with different amounts of 
noise added are also shown in Table 1 for the BPNN. 
Usually, the noise-contained data indeed degrade the 
classification abilities in proportion to the amounts of 
noise added. The proposed classification system shows 
good tolerance to added noise, and has high accuracy 
rates of 80% in extreme noise of 30%. This table shows 
that the BPNN rather withstand remarkable tolerance to 
the noise contained in the data. 
 
Type I
Type II
Type III
Type IV
skewness
kurtosis
standard deviation
correlation coefficient
two hidden 
layer
input layer output layer
 
Fig. 4  Topology structure of back propagation NN-
Table 1  Classified performances of the BPNN with 
Proportion of noise Recognition rate (%)
based pattern recognition system 
 
various noise added 
± 0 100.0 
± 5 97.5 
± 10 92.5 
± 15 90.0 
± 20 85.0 
± 25 82.5 
± 30 80.0 
Proceedings of the 6th WSEAS International Conference on Instrumentation, Measurement, Circuits & Systems, Hangzhou, China, April 15-17, 2007      87
