摘要 
 
This project presents an analytical model for the electromagnetic radiation in multi-microstrip 
lines covering the frequency range from 30MHz to 1GHz.  The radiated emissions of 
multi-microstrip structure can be divided into the summation of radiated emissions of 
multi-individual microstrip structures. It is done by modeling the imperfect ground effect of the 
PCBs. Here we present a circuit model based on traditional transmission lines (TMLs) model.  
For more accurate analysis of the imperfect ground effect in multi-microstrip lines, we will divide 
the equivalent circuit model into N sections, based on transverse electromagnetic (TEM) 
assumption, to estimate the electromagnetic interference (EMI) of multi-microstrip lines. The 
quantitative value of induced current distribution along the ground return path depends on the 
physical size, geometry and length of ground trace. Measured data are presented to confirm the 
results of numerical analysis and the computer simulations with a software package based on the 
Finite Element Method. A knowledge of EMI source mechanism and their relationship to layout 
geometries is necessary to determine the essential features that must be modelled to estimate 
emissions in PCBs design. 
 
Keywords: radiated emissions, imperfect ground, multi-microstrip lines, TMLs, EMI 
 
 
 
前言 
隨著科技的進步,行動電話的功能愈來愈多,外形也愈加輕薄短小;因此,也使得行動電話的
電路板的佈線更趨密集,而造成更複雜的電磁干擾問題。印刷電路板的佈線,是電磁干擾的
根源[1-5]。有別於一般的電子產品,行動電話是使用天線來作為能量發射與接收的媒介,
更為電磁干擾源提供了路徑。天線的型式,有外露式及隱藏式等型態,行動電話的電路板上,
因佈線所引起的電磁干擾效應,會隨天線的饋入位置,而將干擾能量從天線輻射出去;相對
的,行動電話外在的入射電磁波,亦會從天線進入行動電話內部形成干擾源,造成訊號的破
壞。要針對這些現象提出改善措施,必須從電路板的佈線、主動元件積體電路的配置及天線
等相關方面着手。已有若干文獻從入射電磁波對電路板佈線所造成的電磁感應現象進行研
究,亦有文獻是從靜電放電方面來探討。但,這些研究,都很難含蓋產品本身的天線所造成的
影響,而且要將來自於密集的佈線與複雜的干擾來源,作統合且一致性的分析也不容易,更
遑論改善策略的實用性。本計劃,針對行動電話的電磁干擾現象,從天線的型式與饋入點的
位置及電路板的非理想接地效應進行研究,並建立干擾行為的等效電路,務必使得在改善行
動電話電磁干擾問題時,(尤其是採用隱藏式天線的行動電話),在如何能夠不影響行動電話
的通訊效能的前題下,進行深入研究。 
 
研究目的: 
在兼顧行動電話產品能夠通過電磁干擾認證並維持良好通訊效能的前提下,從行動電話電
路板佈線的方式及天線饋入點的位置,去改善電磁干擾的問題。本研究將從天線對電路板佈
線所造成的電磁感應現象、佈線及主動元件積體電路所造成的空間輻射與天線的饋入點的
關係等方向進行研究,進而將研究成果實用化。 
common-mode radiation, respectively [8]-[10]. Generally, ideal models such as the 
transmission-line（TML） models will predict only these differential-mode currents. That is 
because the return path of TML was assumed to be a perfectly ground plane；Hence, it could 
source or sink as much current as necessary and still remain at the zero voltage [9]. In fact, the 
ground trace of PCBs is finite size and similar to an imperfect ground plane. The behavior of any 
conductor used for ground path must be known from dc up to the highest frequency of concern. 
Every conductor of a grounding system has resistance, capacitance and inductance. The inductive 
reactance of imperfect ground trace is a significant EMI component. The current flowing along a 
signal trace on PCBs returns to the ground trace directly beneath the signal trace. However, these 
currents give rise to voltage drop in the ground trace. This effect can be particularly troublesome 
in digital circuit where the ground carries current pulses with fast edges. Furthermore, charge 
storage by signal-line to ground-line capacitance can cause the peak value of the current pulses to 
be substantially more than the quiescent currents drawn by the logic gates [11]-[18]. In generally, 
A knowledge of EMI source mechanisms and their relationship to layout geometries is necessary 
to determine the essential features that must be modeled to estimate emissions and provide 
direction for reducing EMI in a design [19]. An EMI problem can be characterized in terms of 
[6]: 
(a). a specific differential-mode source; 
(b) an EMI antenna; 
(c) an EMI source mechanism; 
(d) a coupling path. 
 
研究方法: 
Concerning radiated emissions from PCBs, there are quite a few studies on both theoretical 
mechanism and practical measurements in recent years [5]-[12]. An EMI noise-source is defined 
as an unintentional voltage that drives an EMI antenna and results in radiation. The fundamental 
EMI source mechanisms that result in common-mode current on imperfect ground to a PCBs is a 
well-known problem but are not well understood. One may utilize electric dipole and magnetic 
dipole model to analyze radiated emissions from electrically small PCBs. However, because of 
theory, differential-mode current and common-mode current can be obtained. The common-mode 
currents are problematic because they flow in a common direction and produce fields that tend to 
add up. Hence, a common-mode current can be several orders of magnitude less than a 
differential-mode current, but it can produce the same level of radiated emission [7]. Therefore, to 
model imperfect ground effect of PCBs, and to analyze the flowing path of the common-mode 
current, and then to evaluate the radiated emissions from PCBs, that are useful technique for the 
investigation of EMC problem. 
There are three different geometries of PCBs (coplanar strips, parallel-plate strips and 
microstrips) will be introduced. In Chapter 3, based on the imperfect ground of PCBs, we present 
a Gaussian filter structure to modeling antenna with finite size ground-plane. The Thevenin 
equivalent circuit is used to get the transfer function, and then to make the numerically 
calculation for estimating the impedance bandwidth of antenna. In Chapter 4, there are five 
miniaturized, low profile printed antenna types were presented to verify the effect of imperfect 
ground-plane to the performance of printed antenna. The impedance bandwidth and far field 
radiation pattern of antenna versus ground-plane size is discussed. The physical measurement 
experiment will be introduced to verify the varieties of impedance bandwidth due to the different 
size ground-plane.  
1 Estimating the radiation emissions of PCBs 
The printed circuit boards (PCBs) are the roots of most emissions; hence, properly designed 
PCBs can achieve EMC compliance. Some studies on radiated emission from PCBs demonstrated 
that a current in a circuit could be decomposed into differential-mode current and common-mode 
current contributing to differential-mode and common-mode radiation, respectively [1], [5]-[7]. 
Ideal models such as the TML (transmission line) model will predict only these differential-mode 
currents. That is because the ground-return path of TML was assumed to be a perfectly ground 
plane; hence, it could source or sink as much current as necessary and still remain at the zero 
voltage. The differential-mode currents on a two-wire configuration are equal in magnitude but 
oppositely directed. Therefore, the radiated electric fields due to differential-mode currents will 
also be oppositely directed, and will tend to cancel out. In fact, the rectangular geometry of IC 
package is inherently unbalanced; it is virtually impossible to construct balanced circuits on a 
PCB using ground-trace, because the ground-trace of PCBs is finite and similar to an imperfect 
section. We then have 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ),,,,, tzzI
t
zgLtzIt
zsLtzzUtzU Δ+∂
∂Δ+∂
∂Δ=Δ+−                (2.1) 
and 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ Δ+∂
∂Δ+Δ+∂
∂Δ=Δ+− tzzI
t
zLtzzU
t
zCtzzItzI g ,,,,          (2.2) 
, where sL , gL and C are the per-unit-length parameters of the circuit. sL is the inductance of signal 
trace, gL  is the inductance of ground trace and C is the capacitance of signal-line to ground-line. 
On the limit as 0→Δz , for harmonic time dependence, the use of phasor notation simplifies 
Eqs. (2.1) and (2.2) to ordinary differential equations for phasors ( )zU  and ( )zI . Hence, we 
can get the current distribution on such a transmission line. And the characteristic impedance CZ  
of the line is 
.
C
gLsL
cZ
+=                     (2.3) 
In this modified transmission-line model, all the loop current (that sL  and gL  have be taken 
into account) and per-unit parameters such as R, L, C and G can be obtained under the TEM 
assumption, just like the traditional transmission-line model does. Hence, we also take into 
account the mechanism that introduces the continuous infinitesimal voltage sources along ground 
trace in our model. In particular, we use a transmission line model to obtain the differential-mode 
current. The voltage drops of ground trace are then obtained from the relevant values of 
differential-mode currents. 
 
zLS Δ
zLgΔ
zΔ
zCΔ
),( tzI ),( tzzI Δ+
),( tzzV Δ+),( tzV
+ +
− −
(a)
zΔ zΔ zΔ
0=z l=z
V s
Rs
RLzLgΔ
zCΔ
zLS Δ
zLgΔ
zCΔ
zLS Δ
zLgΔ
zCΔ
zLSΔ
(b)
 
Figure 1  The per-unit-length equivalent circuit of a two-conductor line for the TEM mode of 
propagation:  
similar to that of the antenna current and as a consequence, this set of currents will radiate energy 
very well. 
+
- -      +-      +  -   +-   +-   +
zΔ
(a)
+
-
(b)
SR
SR
LR
LR
I d'
I d'
II cd ,''
)(zE
Us
Us
 
-      +-      +  -   +-   +-   +
(c)
SR
)(zUΔ
R L
II cd ,''
 
Figure 2  Circuit Model 
(a). The asymmetrical TML with imperfect ground. The TML will excite both differential-mode 
current Id and common-mode current Ic. 
(b). Schematic of an ideal two-wire line driven by source at one end with differential-mode 
current Id’.  
(c). Continuous distribution of voltage source along the imperfect ground line. 
 
 
-      +-      +  -   +-   +-   +
SR LR
(a)
)(zUΔ
II cd ,''
 
,2
2
2
xW
I
sJ
−
=
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛π
                                       (2.8) 
and gJ are the current density of the ground plane 
,
2
21tan
2
21tan ⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ ⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ +−+−−=
h
xW
h
xW
W
I
gJ π                      (2.9) 
where x is the distance measured from the center of the signal trace. zA  is the magnetic 
potential produced by both the signal trace and ground plane current densities, which is 
determined from a standard quasistatic Green’s function approach 
( ) ( ) ( )zyxgzAzyxszAzyxzA ,,,,,, +=                                   (2.10) 
where ( )zyxszA ,,  is the portion of the total potential produced by the current flowing on the 
signal trace 
( ) ( )∫
−=′
∫=′
′′=′′′′= 2
2
0
,,,,,0
W
Wx
z
zdxdhyyzzxxGxsJ
s
zA
lμ                        (2.11) 
and ( )zyxgzA ,,  is the portion of the total potential produced by the current flowing on the 
ground trace 
( ) ( )∫ ∫=′ ′′=′′′′= =
x
xx z
zdxdyyzzxxGxgJ
g
zA
2
1' 0
0,,,,,0
lμ                        (2.12) 
where 0μ  is permeability of free space and G  is the free space Green’s function given by 
( ) ( ) ( )222
1
4
1
zzyyxx
G
′−+′−+′−
= π                              (2.13) 
 
ε r
t h
h
W g
W
Ground
X
Y
Z
X
y=0
y=h
X1 X2
 
Figure 4  Illustration of planar transmission lines on PCBs: Microstrips. 
4. Modeling of common-mode current 
As mentioned previously, when signal current encounters the net inductance of ground trace, 
it will cause voltage drops that act as sources of common-mode currents [15], [22]-[24]. From the 
concept of distributed circuit, based on antenna-mode condition, there are continuous distributive 
dividing the conductor strip into finite number of equal length subsections and employing method 
of moments, we can obtain the current value in each subsection. In this paper, the length is 
divided into eighteen subsections, and we let the boundary condition I(- l )=0 and I( l )=0. Once 
the current distribution is obtained, we then compute common-mode radiation cE  from 
common-mode current, [11], [19], [24]. The overall response of two parallel traces is the 
summation of the radiated emission from each trace. We then get                                     
(2.17) 
where f is the signal frequency, oβ  is the phase constant of free space, r is distance from the 
wire traces to observation point and S is the separation distance between two conductor traces. 
Note that Eq. (2.17) is valid when l is much smaller than the wavelength and l>>r . The 
response of entire line is proportional to the integration of the current distribution of wire traces. 
Many studies had demonstrated that cI dominate the entire radiation. Hence, in order to 
adequately predict radiation from printed circuit boards, it is necessary to accurately evaluate the 
common-mode current. In this section, we assume that the voltage drop of ground trace acts as 
the source that generates common-mode current. As a consequence, this circuit model of 
common-mode current is derived from static field consideration that substantially diminishes the 
coupling effect of two conductor wires. In particular, numerical simulations would be pursued to 
test measurement results of physical circuit structure. 
( ) ( )
r
SozdzI
f
sojezdzcI
sojezdzcI
ojeoo
Z
jE
c
c
)
2
1cos(
0
)(
104
|
0
2
1
0
2
1
4|
7
max,
β
π
ββ
γ
γβ
π
β
∫
⎟⎟
⎟
⎠
⎞
⎜⎜
⎜
⎝
⎛
∫∫
′′
×=
′′+
−
′′
−
=
−
l
ll
l
,)/( mU
3.4=ε r
Ground Plane
mmW g 30=
SMA
Conector
RF Power
86 dBuV
Through Hole
(Via)
Resistor
Ω= 330RL
mmmmW 152,635.0 == l
Signal Trace
(a)
 
Anechoic
Chamber
3m
0.8m
SMA PCB
Turn
Table
1m
BI-LOG
Antenna
to Signal
Generator
to Spectrum
Analyzer
(b)  
Figure 6  (a). The PCB model used for experiment. (b). The experimental setups. 
 
For the microstrips configuration, two parallel lands are on opposite sides of the board, as 
shown in Fig. 4. A signal current may follow on the top side of the board and then move to the 
bottom side through a metallic hole on the board. The signal trace width W is 0.635mm and 
ground trace width Wg is 30mm. The net inductance of this structure can be obtained by using 
Eqs. (2.6) and (2.7), and the characteristic impedance is 103Ω. The common-mode current is 
obtained by using Eq. (2.16), and the radiated emissions due to common-mode current is obtained 
by using Eq. (2.17). Note that, the trace spacing s is equal to the board thickness h on this 
structure. Now the traces spacing is h, so that we get the following expressions for the radiated 
fields, 
 (2.18) 
The common-mode current along both signal and ground trace for two different frequencies 
is shown in Fig. 7(a). Both computation results and measurement results of radiated emissions are 
shown in Fig. 7(b) as a function of signal frequencies. In this experiment, the computation result 
is very close to the measurement result. As expected, imperfect ground induces common-mode 
current, which could dominate entire radiated emissions. The key to reduce common-mode 
radiation is to keep ground trace inductance as small as possible. In other words, we should widen 
the ground trace to reduce net inductance of ground [5], [18]. The elaboration of TML geometry 
r
hzdzI
fE
c
c
)
2
1cos(
0
)(
104
7
max,
β
π
∫ ′′
×= −
l
)./( mU
Overhead Wires,” IEEE Trans. Electromagn. Compat., Vol. EMC-31, No. 4, Nov, 1989. 
4. Neff, H. P., and D. A. Reed, “The effects of secondary Scattering on the Induced Current in 
an Infinite Wire over an Imperfect Ground from an Incident Electromagnetic Pulse,” IEEE 
Trans. Antennas Propag., Vol. AP-37, Dec, 1989. 
5. R.F. German, H.W. Ott and C.R. Paul. “Effect of an Image Plane on Printed Circuit Board 
Radiation,” IEEE International Symposium on Electromagnetic Compat. Washington, 
pp.284-291, Aug. 1990.  
6. David M. Hockason, James L.Drewniak, Todd H. Hubing, Thomas P. Van Doren, Fei Sha 
and Micheael J. Wilhelm. ”Investigation of Fundamental EMI Source Mechanisms Driving 
Common-Mode Radiation from Printed Circuit Boards with Attached Cables,” IEEE Trans. 
Electromagn. Compat., vol. 38, pp.557-565, Nov. 1996.   
7. R.W. Dockey and R.F. German. “New techniques for Reducing Printed Circuit Boards 
Common-Mode Radiation,” IEEE Procs. Electromagn Compact. Soc., Dallas, Tx, 
pp.334-339, Aug. 1993. 
8. Paul, C. R., “Transmission Line Modeling of Shielded Wires for Crosstalk Prediction,” IEEE 
Trans. Electromagn. Compat., Vol. EMC-23, pp. 345-351, Nov. 1981. 
9. Clayton R. Paul. “A Comparison of the Contributions of Common-Mode and 
Differential-Mode Currents in Radiations,” IEEE Trans. Electromag. Compat., vol.31, 
pp.189-193,May. 1989. 
10. Frederick M. Tesche, Michel V. Ianoz and Torbjorn Karlsson. “EMC Analysis Methods and 
Computational Methods,” John Wiely & Sons, Inc., 1997.  
11. David K. Cheng. “Field and Wave Electromagnetics,” Addison Wiely, Inc., 1989. 
12. M. I. Montrose, “Printed circuit board design techniques for EMC compliance”, IEEE Press, 
2000. 
13. Gravelle, L. B., and P. F. Wilson, “EMI/EMC in Printed Circuit Boards: A literature 
Review,” IEEE Trans. Electromagn. Compat., Vol. EMC-34, pp. 109-116, May. 1992.  
14. Clayton R. Paul “Analysis of Multiconductor Transmission Lines,” John Wiley & Sons, Inc., 
1994.   
15. C. L. Holloway and E. F. Kuester. “Net and Partial Inductance of Microstrip Ground Plane,” 
IEEE Trans. Electromag. Compat. , vol.40, pp.35-45, Feb. 1998.   
16. F. B. Leferink and M, J. C. M. van Doorn. “Inductance of Printed Circuit Board Ground 
Plane,” in Proc. 1993 IEEE Int. Sypm. Electromag. Compat. , Dallas, TX, pp.327-329, Aug. 
1993.  
17. Sergey L. Loyka. “A Simple Formula for the Ground Resistance Calculation,” IEEE Trans. 
Electromag. Compat. , vol.41, pp.152-154, May. 1999.   
18. Michel Mardiguian. “A Handbook Series on Electromagnetic Interference and 
Compatibility,” Interference Control Technologies, Inc., vol.2, 1988.   
19. D.M. Pozar. “Microwave Engineering,” Addison-Wesley., 1990. 
 
計畫成果自評: 
本研究針對印刷電路板非理想接地效應所引起的電磁干擾輻射效應，提出模組化的構想； 
並針對輻射干擾源作深入的研究。在電磁理論中，有限面積的接地導線不是零電位，而是
具有電感抗效應；當迴路電流經過接地導線電感抗，將導致地線電壓降，形成電磁輻射干
