the proposed method again. 
 
Introduction 
 The chloride diffusion in concrete immersed in salty water can be described by 
Fick's diffusion law which defines the diffusion rate is proportion to the derivative of 
concentration slope and the proportional constant is the diffusivity. The concentration 
distribution function in the concrete can be derived according to its geometry [1-6], if 
the environmental condition and the property of the concrete remain unchanged. As a 
result, the chloride concentration in the concrete asymptotically approaches to a 
saturated concentration, which can be treated as the amplitude of the function. 
 In this study, the saturated chloride concentration in concrete is assumed to be 
proportional to the chloride concentration of the water, which must be verified 
experimentally prior to further theoretical analysis. Once the assumption is accepted, 
the chloride concentration function in concrete is proportional to the chloride 
concentration of the water. If the concentration of the water varies, the diffusion rate 
must be perturbed. When the chloride concentration of the water is constant, the 
chloride concentration function in concrete is a monotonically increasing function 
with some saturated concentration. When there is a perturbation in the chloride 
concentration of the water, it induces another monotonically increasing function with 
the amplitude proportional to the perturbation. The concentration function after this 
perturbation should be the superimposition of these two functions. When there are a 
series of changes in the chloride concentration of water, the chloride concentration of 
the concrete should be the summation of the concentrations induced by the changes 
those already happened. When the change in the chloride concentration of water is 
continuous, the chloride concentration in the concrete is the integration of the 
concentration function induced by the derivative of the chloride concentration of 
water with respect to immersion duration. 
 This proposal contains two parts each takes one year. 10cm×10cm×10cm 
concrete specimens will be made. In the first year, the first group of specimens will be 
immersed in salty water with different chloride concentration, and tested for their 
chloride concentration to verify that the saturated concentration in concrete is 
proportional to the chloride concentration of water. The second group of specimens 
will be immersed in salty water with variable chloride concentration for verifying the 
validation of the proposed method. In the second year, the specimens will be 
immersed in a river close to coastal where chloride concentration is continuously 
variable to verifying the validation of the proposed method. 
 
Theory 
