 2
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98 年 10 月 30 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：奈米複合材料之合成與特性質研究 
計畫主持人：林鴻明 
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－036－022－MY3 學門領域： 
技術/創作名稱 奈米複合材料之合成與光學特性質開發 
發明人/創作人 林鴻明 
中文： 
    奈米碳管和量子點都是奈米尺度之中的新興材料，其中最為著
名的就是其半導體性質。將兩種材料所形成的複合物，將兩者優點
達到相輔相成的地步，而在光學上面達到更進一步的優點。 
    本篇以三種不同的合成方法：台灣新竹國家同步輻射中心的
hard X-ray 為光源進行合成（光束線 1A）、 EDC reaction 反應、
Schotten-Baumann 反應，來合成「奈米硒化鎘/硫化鋅/奈米碳管」
的複合材料。 
技術說明 
英文： 
    Carbon nanotubes and quantum dots are nanoscale of Novel 
materials.  Most famous of novel materials is Semiconductor property. 
It is hoped that achieves the merits of carbon nanotubes and quantum 
dots merits, therefore it was synthesized CdSe/ ZnS/ CNT 
nanocomposites.  It is hoped that the nanocomposites can get better
properties in optics. 
    In this study it was used there different method to synthesize
CdSe/ ZnS/ CNT nanocomposites : The measurements are performed 
at Taiwan Synchrotron Radiation Research Center (SRRC), the 1A 
beamline is a high energy SGM beamline a semi-white-light hard 
X-ray. EDC reaction, and Schotten-Baumann reaction. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可利用之產業：光電產業 
可開發之產品：發光光源、顯示相關產品 
技術特點 藉由奈米碳管和量子點兩種材料所形成的複合物，將兩者優點達到相輔相成的地步，而在光學上面達到更進一步的優點。 
推廣及運用的價值  
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 4
the world【3】. 
 
Figure 1  Carbon nanotubes. 
 
2.1.1 Types of Carbon Nanotubes 
    The unique electrical, mechanical, and chemical properties of carbon nanotubes have made 
them intensively studied materials in the field of nanotechnology.  A number of device 
applications of these nanoscale materials have been envisioned.   
    Single-walled carbon nanotubes (SWCNTs) and multiwalled carbon nanotubes (MWCNTs) 
under special conditions have been shown to possess ballistic conduction behavior, which makes 
them attractive candidates for field-emission devices.  SWCNTs indicated either metallic or 
semiconducting behavior depending on their chirality and radial dimension. 【4】 
 
 
Figure 2  Carbon nanotubes, first directly observed by TEM. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3  Single-walled carbon nanotubes. 
 
    Although the electronic properties of MWCNTs are less well known, they have been shown 
to exhibit either metallic or semiconducting properties depending on their outermost shell.  
    Nanotubes form different types, which can be described by the chiral vector (n, m), where n 
 6
The sequential addition of C2 dimers results in continuous growth of the nanotube.  What keeps 
the nanotube open ended is unknown, creating a serious problem for this model.  One 
suggestion is the high electric field in the region of tube growth.  In the carbon arc method the 
voltage between the electrodes is generally on the 20 volts.  A 1 mm separation distance creates 
an electric field of 20000 V/m.  But the temperatures involved ionize the carbon atoms, thus 
creating some shielding from the electrodes.  This may reduce the effective separation distance 
to the order of a few microns subsequently increasing the field strength.  A field this high could 
prevent the closure of the nanotube ends. 
 
2.1.2.2 Laser Vaporization Synthesis Method【6】 
   Initially, the carbon arc method was developed to produce C60 fullerenes.  This method 
creates nanotubes through the arc-vaporization of two carbon rods placed end to end separated by 
approximately 1mm.  A direct current of 50 to 100 A driven by approximately 20 V creates a 
high temperature discharge between the two electrodes.  The discharge vaporizes one of the 
carbon rods and forms a small rod shaped deposit on the other rod.  Producing nanotubes in high 
yield depends on the uniformity of the plasma arc and the temperature of the deposit form on the 
carbon electrode.  
 
2.1.3 Application of Carbon Nanotubes【7】  
    The unusual properties of carbon nanotubes make possible many applications ranging from 
battery electrodes, to electronic devices, to reinforcing fibers, which make stronger composites.   
 
2.1.3.1 Field Emission Shielding 
   When a small electric field is applied parallel to the axis of a nanotube, electrons are emitted 
at a very high rate from the ends of the tube.  This is called field emission.  This effect can 
easily be observed by applying a small voltage between two parallel metal electrodes, and 
spreading a composite paste of nanotubes on the electrode.  A sufficient number of tubes will be 
perpendicular to the electrode so that electron emission can be observed.  One application of this 
effect is the development of flat panel display.  Television and computer monitors use a 
controlled electron gun to impinge electrons on the phosphors of screen, which then emit light of 
the appropriate color.   
     The high electrical conductivity of carbon nanotubes means that they will be poor 
transmitters of electromagnetic energy.  A plastic conductivity of carbon nanotubes means that 
they will be poor transmitters of electromagnetic radiation.  This is matter of much concern to 
the military, which is developing a highly digitized battlefield for command, and communication.  
The computers and electronic devices that are a part of this system need to be protected from 
weapons that emit electromagnetic pulses.   
 
2.1.3.2 Computers 
     The feasibility to designing field-effect transistors (FETs), the switching components of 
computers, based on semiconducting carbon nanotubes connecting two gold electrodes, has been 
demonstrated.  An illustration of the device is shown in Fig.5.  When a small voltage is applied 
to the gate, the silicon substrate, current flows through the nanotube between the source and the 
drain.  The device is switched on when current is flowing, and off when it is not.  It has been 
found that a small voltage applied to the gate can change the conductivity of the nanotube by a 
factor of > 6101 −× , which is comparable to silicon field-effect transistors.  It has been estimated 
that the switching time of these devices will be very fast, allowing clock speeds of a terahertz, 
which is 410 times faster than present processors.  The gold source is deposited by lithographic 
methods, and the connecting nanotube wire is less than one nanometer in diameter.  This small 
size should allow more switched to be packed on a chip.  
 8
when NO2 bonds to the carbon nanotube, charge is transferred from the carbon nanotube to the 
No2, increasing the hole concentration in the carbon nanotube and enhancing the conductance. 
 
 
Figure 7  Plot of current versus voltage for carbon nanotube field effect transistor before (line a) 
and after (line b) exposure to NO2 gas.  These data were taken for 4V gate voltage.  
 
2.2 Quantum Dot 
     Colloidal semiconductor nanocrystals, also known as quantum dots (QD), are of 
tremendous functional and technical interest due to their application as light-emitting devices, 
lasers, and biological labels.  Owing to their size-dependent photoluminescence(PL) tunable 
across the visible spectrum, CdSe/ZnSe nanocrystals have become the most extensively 
investigated QDs【8】. 
     Effective inorganic-passivation can form core-shell structured QDs (such as CdSe/ZnS) 
that are more robust than the organic-coated QDs against chemical degradation or 
photo-oxidation. 
 
2.2.1 Conduction Electron and Dimensionality【7】  
     It was accustomed to studying electronic system that exists in three dimensions, and are 
large or macroscopic in size.  In this case the conduction electrons are delocalized, and move 
freely through the entire conducting medium such as a copper wire.  It is clear that all the wire 
dimensions are very large compared to the distance between atoms.  The situation changes when 
one or more dimensions of the copper becomes so small that it approaches several times the 
spacing between the atom in lattice.  When this occurs, the delocalization is impeded, and the 
electrons experience confinement.  For example, consider a flat plate of copper that is 10 cm 
long , 10 cm wire, and only 3.6 nm thick.  This thickness corresponds to the length of only 10 
cm unit cells, which means that 20 % of the atoms are in unit cells at the surface of the copper.  
The conduction electrons would be delocalized in the plane of the plate, but confined in the 
narrow dimension, a configuration referred to as a quantum well.  A quantum well is a structure 
such a copper that is long in one dimension, but has a nanometer size as its diameter.  The 
electrons are delocalized and move freely along the wire, but are confined in the traverse 
directions.  Finally, a quantum dot, which might have the shape of a tiny cube, a short cylinder, 
or a sphere with low nanometer dimensions, exhibits confinement in all three spatial dimensions, 
so there is no delocalization.  Figure 8 and 9, as well as Table 1, summarize these cases. 
 
 
Figure 8.  Progressive generation of rectangular nanostructures. 
 10
three-dimensional coordinate space are the length, area, and volume given in the first column of 
Table 2.  Column 2 of the table gives the size of the unit cell in reciprocal or k space, and 
column 3 gives the size of the Fermi region that is occupied by the delocalized electrons, where 
the Fermi energy EF has the value m2kE 2F
2
F h= , and in this region FEE < .  Column 4 gives 
expression for k2 in the three systems.  The numbers of electrons N in the occupied region of 
column 3 at the temperature of absolute zero, as well as the density of state D(E) defined by the 
expression dE)E(dN)E(D = , are given in Table 3. 
 
 
Table 3  Number of electrons N(E) and density of states dE)E(dN)E(D =  as function of 
energy E for electrons delocalized in one, two, and three spatial dimensions, where 2LA =  and 
3LV = . 
 
2.2.3 Partial Confinement 
     The conduction electrons in nanostructures can be partially confined and partially 
delocalized, depending on the shape and the dimensions of the structure.  One limiting case is a 
quantum dot in which they are totally confined, and the other limiting case is bulk material, in 
which they are all delocalized.  The intermediate cases are a quantum wire, which is a flat plate 
nanosized in thickness and much larger in length and delocalization in one dimension, and the 
quantum well reverse these characteristics.  Table 4 lists the number of electrons.  Figure 10 
shows plots of energy dependence N(E) and the density of states D(E) for the four types of 
nanostructures listed in Table 5. 
 
 
 
Table 4  Nuber of electrons N(E) and density of state dE)E(dN)E(D =  as function of energy 
E for electrons delocalized/ confined in quantum dots, quantum wires, quantum wells, and bulk 
material 
 12
that takes place within the quantum well, and Fig. 11b shows a transition from bound state to 
continuum.  In fig. 11c the continuum begins at the top of the well, so the transition is from 
bound state to quasi-bound state.  Finally in Fig. 11d the continuum band lies below the top of 
the well, so the transition is from bound state miniband. 
     The responsivity of the detector is the electric current (amperes A) generated per watt (W) 
of incoming radiation.  Fig. 12 shows a plot of the dark-current density (before irradiation) 
versus bias voltage for a GaAs/ AlGaAs bound state-continuum photodetector, and Fig. 13 shows 
the dependence of this detector’s responsivity on the wavelength for normal and °45  incidence.  
The responsevity reaches a peak at the wavelength m4.9 μ=λ , and Fig. 14 shows the 
dependence of this peak responsevity Rp on the bias voltage.  The operating bias of 2V was 
used to obtain the data of Fig. 12 because, as Fig.13 shows, at that bias the responsevity has 
leveled off at a high value.  This detector is sensitive for operation in the infrared wavelength 
range from 8.5 to m10μ . 
 
 
Figure 11  Schematic conduction band (shaded) and electron transition schemes (vertical arrows ) 
of the following types: (a) bound state to bound state; (b) bound state to continuum; (c) bound 
state to quasi-bound; (d) bound state to miniband, for quantum-well infrared photo-detectors.   
 
Figure 12  Dark-current density versus bias voltage characteristics for a GaAs/AlGaAs 
quantum-well long-wavelength infrared (LWIR) photodetector measured at three indicated 
temperature.  A 300-k background current plot (BG , dashed curve) is also shown.  
 
Figure 13  Peak responsivity versus wavelength at 77K for a 2-V bias at normal and °45  
angles of incidence 
 14
cadmium selenide (CdSe) nanocrystals, capped with mercaptothiol derivatives, as well as with 
titanium dioxide (TiO2) nanocrystals, functionalized with 11-aminoundecanoic acid to form 
nanoscale heterostructures, characterized by transmission electron microscopy and infrared 
spectroscopy.  The reaction with acid-terminated CdSe nanocrystals and acid-terminated tubes 
was facilitated with the aid of intermediary linking agents, such as ethylenediamine and 
semicarbazide, in an amideforming reaction in the presence of 1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) 
carbodiimide hydrochloride, EDC.  Sketches of EDC reaction are presented in Fig. 16 and 
Fig.17. 
 
Figure 16  Schematic of the addition of titanium dioxide nanocrystals to oxidized single-walled 
carbon nanotubes (OCNTs).  (a) Raw SWNTs (I) were treated in a permanganate-sulfuric acid 
mixture to create opened, oxidized carbon nanotubes [SWNT-COOH] (II).  Amineterminated 
TiO2 nanoparticles (III) were prepared by the forced hydrolysis of titanium(IV) isopropoxide in 
the presence of 11-aminoundecanoic acid.  (b) (II) and (III) were linked in the presence of EDC 
to form the adduct (IV).  The bonds at the interfaces are not drawn to scale. 
 
Figure 17.  Schematic of the addition of CdSe nanocrystals to OCNTs.  TOPO capped 
nanocrystals  (V) were prepared by established methods using organometallic precursors.  (a) 
TOPO capping was substituted by a thiol ligand to form an acid-terminated CdSe nanocrystal  
(VI). Substituted thiocarboxylic acids used included p-mercaptobenzoic acid, thioglycolic acid, 
and 3-mercaptopropionic acid, as represented by different R groups shown.  (b)  (VI) was 
linked to OCNTs (II) by an ethylenediamine linker (VII) in the presence of EDC to form the 
adduct (VIII). The bonds at the interfaces are not drawn to scale. 
 
 16
Figure 18  Schematic illustrating various steps in the growth of the nanotube-nanocrystal 
heterostructure.  Pristine nanotubes are oxidized to generate functional groups at the nanotube 
ends and at a few defect sites.  CdTe nanocrystals are then grown in situ by coordination of Cd 
and injection of a Te solution as described in the Experimental Section.  TDPA ligands to the 
CdTe are omitted for the sake of clarity. Probable structures for junctions between multiple tubes 
are also depicted. 
 
2.4 SWLS White-light Beamline 
    Ultrafast characteristic and continuum hard X-rays (a few keV to a hundred keV) have been 
generated with high-intensity lasers, and these X-rays have been used in ultrafast X-ray 
absorption and diffraction experiments.  Many studies have been carried out to investigate hard 
X-ray generation mechanisms.  Although solid density targets are normally used, it has been 
generally considered that ultrafast hard X-rays are emitted via interactions of electrons 
accelerated outside the solid region of the targets with the solid material in the targets.  In 
contrast, less energetic X-ray radiation (<1 keV) is considered to be generated from highly 
charged ions in a hot plasma target【13】. 
    This is a semi-white-light hard X-ray (  4 keV) beamline, which is reserved for future ≧
developments in X-ray image applications. A channel-cut crystal and a pair of Kirkpatrick-Baez 
(K-B) mirrors will be developed for micro-beam experiments such as micro-tomography and etc
【14】.  This semi-white-light hard X-ray was used in below experiment, and the detailed 
specifications were showed in below chapters. 
 
3. Experimental 
3.1 Sample Preparation 
    The purified multiwalled carbon nanotubes produced by using chemical oxidation.  Liu et 
al. reported that 342 HNO/SOH  of a 3:1 volume ratio concentrated mixture was used to cut the 
highly tangled long ropes of SWNTs into short, open-ended pipes and thus produced many 
carboxylic groups at the open end【15】.  
    As a result of the chemical oxidation, the ends and walls of the nanotubes are covered with 
oxygencontaining groups such as carboxylate groups, ether groups, and so forth.  The presence 
of oxygenated groups on nanotubes is important both for the fundamental research of nanotubes 
and their applications in electronic devices【15】. 
    The first direct covalent functionalization method was based on the acid oxidation of CNTs.  
In this present study, it systematically investigated the effect of chemical oxidation using 
concentrated of HNO3 (16M) on the structure of multiwalled carbon nanotubes with the aid of 
infrared spectroscopy , SEM and TEM. 
    The acid etching multiwalled multiwalled carbon nanotubes were then functionalized with 
thionyl chloride in order to combine withHAD capped CdSe/ZnS.  The acid etching and 
functionalized with thionyl chloride multiwalled carbon nanotubes were employed to three 
different experimental methods, and the detailed steps were showed in below tables and sections. 
 
3.1.1 Preparation of MWCNTs-COOH from MWCNTs 
    MWCNTs-COOH was prepared as follows: 1000mg of multiwalled carbon nanotubes was 
refluxed in 50 mL of 16M HNO3 for 24 h.  The solid was collected on the filter papers and 
rinsed with deionized water.  The schematic diagrams of refluxing system and the filter system 
are shown in in Figure 20 and 21.  The flow chart of experiment procedure is shown in Figure 
22.  The structures were characterized by scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron 
microscopy, FT-IR, HRTEM, and NSRRC. 
 
 18
 
 
Figure 25  Flow chart of MWCNTs-COCl from MWCNTs-COOH procedure. 
 
3.1.3 Synthesis of CdSe/ ZnS -NH2 Initiators from CdSe/ ZnS 
    In this study, it was reported for the synthesis of compound with controlled conjugation of 
water stabilized, amine-terminated, ZnS-coated CdSe QDs (QD-NH2) onto the acid-treated ends 
of MWCNTs-COOH.  
    ZnS-capped CdSe QDs (Nanoco Technologies Limited) were used in the functionalization of 
the MWCNTs. The quantum yield of a CdSe core QDs coated by ZnS will be improved by 
passivating the surface dangling bonds (carrier trap sites) and also eliminates the toxic nature of 
the CdSe core, enabling them for use in bio-systems.  To prepare water stabilized QDs 
(QD-NH2), ZnS-capped CdSe nanocrystal was suspended in chloroform by sonication for 30 min.  
Equal volume of 1.0 M 2-aminoethane thiol hydrochloride (AET) was added to this QD solution. 
This resulted in a two-phase mixture with the aqueous aminoethane thiol forming an immiscible 
layer above the organic chloroform-QD suspension.  The mixture was stirred vigorously on a 
magnetic plate for 4 h, after which it was allowed to settle down for a few minutes. Phosphate 
buffer saline (PBS, pH=6.8) was added to the solution in a 1:1 volume ratio. This was then mixed 
again in a vortex mixer for 1 h.  The water stabilized QD was separated from AET by 
centrifuging and suspending the solution in PBS a couple of times.  The flow chart of 
experiment procedure is shown in Figure 26. 
 
MWNT-COOH SOCl2 (containing DMF) 
reflux 24h at 65℃ 
After centrifugation, the supernatant was decanted 
The remaining solid was dried at room temperature 
under vacuum.   (sample number : MWNT-COCl) 
Experiment 2 
Experiment 3 
FT-IR 
NSRRC 
SEM 
TEM 
HRTEM 
 20
 
 
Figure 28  Flow chart of experiment 1. 
 
3.3 Experiment 2  
    The QD-NH2 (preparing from section 3.1.3) was extracted for the use in the EDC reaction.  
For the CNT-QD heterostructure, the two-step coupling procedure is as followed. 
    1-ethyl-3-(3-dimethylaminopropyl) carbodiimide HCl (EDC) in the presence of 
Nhydroxysuccinimide (sulfo-NHS), and the reaction was carried out in PBS.  Here, the EDC 
reagent activated the terminal carboxylic groups of the CNTs forming a highly reactive 
o-acylisourea intermediate, which underwent rapid hydrolysis to form the acid again. However, in 
the presence of sulfo-NHS, a more water soluble sulfo-succinimidyl intermediate was formed.  
This intermediate readily underwent nucleophilic substitution with primary amines on the QD 
surface, forming the amide linkages. 
    The EDC reaction was carried out for 8 h at 50 °C under continuous mixing.   The flow 
chart of experiment procedure is shown in Figure 29.  The structure was characterized by 
scanning electron microscopy, transmission electron microscopy, HRTEM, and PL. 
 
 
Figure 29  Flow chart of experiment 2. 
 
3.3 Experiment 3 
(1) CdSe/ ZnS QD (Nanoco Technologies Limited) were suspended in chloroform. 
(2) MWCNTs-COCl were suspended in chloroform. 
(3) QD solution and MWCNTs-COCl solution were mixture in the round bottom and stirred for 5 
h at 0~10 °C. 
MWNT-COCl were suspended in 
chloroform 
CdSe/ ZnS QD were suspended in 
chloroform 
Mixed in the sample holder 
and stirred 5 hr. 
It was collected the experimental solution each two hours.  
The remaining solid was dried at room temperature 
under vacuum. 
HRTEM TEMPL
It was collected the experimental solution each two hours.  
The EDC reaction was carried out for 8 h at 50 °C 
under continuous mixing. 
HRTEM TEMPL 
 22
SOCl2 lets MWCNTs-COOH form better reactivity MWCNTs-SOCl.  The SEM images of 
non-prepared MWCNTs, MWCNTs-COOH and MWCNTs-COCl are shown in Figure 32, 33 and 
34. 
 
  
Figure 32  SEM images of as-prepared MWCNTs. 
 
  
Figure 33  SEM images of MWCNTs-COOH. 
 
  
Figure 34   SEM images of MWCNTs-COCl. 
 
    TEM analysis showed that oxidation and etching removed most of the amorphous carbon 
and metal catalyst particles.  The remaining tubes obtained, for the most part, were relatively 
free of impurities, such as particulates, and either one or both of the tube caps were opened.  The 
tubes were also substantially shortened after acid etching, ranging in length from 5 to 20 μm and 
in diameter from 10 to 40 nm.   The TEM and HRTEM images of MWCNTs, MWCNTs-COOH, 
MWCNTs-COCl and CdSe/ZnS are shown in Figure 35 through 42. 
    Especially notable is the contrast between the “clean” tube image, seen in TEM and SEM. 
The TEM and SEM images are showed the clearly, visible edges of walls.   It can be observed 
that the CdSe/ ZnS is about 3~5 nm, and it is indicated by red circle. 
 
 24
 
 
 
Figure 38  TEM image of MWCNTs-COOH. 
 
 
Figure 39  TEM image of MWCNTs-COCl. 
 
 26
 
    Nitric acid was also used to purify the MWCNTs on the basis of its selective oxidation of 
carbon amorphism.  The nitric acid reflux digested the surfactant, and in the meantime, it etched 
the carbonaceous particles that were shelled off from the MWCNTs and thus further purified the 
MWCNTs.  Because of the relatively is higher reactivity of the caps and some defects in the side 
walls of the nanotubes, MWCNTs was also consumed during this process, which resulted in 
partial opening of the tubes.  In the micro-IR spectrum of the MWCNTs refluxed in HNO3 for 
24h (Figure 43), compared with the non-prepared MWCNTs, a new peak around 1520~1750 cm-1 
appeared and could be assigned to conjugation of C=O with C=C bonds or interaction between 
localized C=C bonds and carboxylic acids and ketones.  After HNO3 reflux, very broad bands 
also appeared in the  range of 3230~3500 cm-1 and are identified with O-H stretching modes.  
It was suggested that longer acid treatment will introduce more -COOH and -OH groups to the 
tube walls and ends 
In the Macro-IR spectrum of the MWCNTs-COOH refluxed in SOCl2 for 24h(Figure 
44),Compared with the as-prepared MWCNTs, a new peak around 863.81 cm-1 appeared and can 
be assigned to the OCl group of –COOCl in the free state. 
 
500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 4000
-0.10
-0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
A
bs
or
ba
nc
e
1
 MWNT-COOH
 MWNT
 
Figure43  Macro-IR spectrum of the MWCNTs refluxed in HNO3 for 24h. 
 
    The measurements were performed at Taiwan Synchrotron Radiation Research Center 
(SRRC). The 20A beamline is a high energy SGM beamline, which covers photon energies from 
110 to 1500 eV with an average energy resolving power more than 6000.  The carbon K-edge 
and nitrogen K-edge XANES were done at this beamline.  The carbon K-edge of the 
MWCNTs-COOH and MWCNTs-COCl is shown in Figure 45.  The C K-edge spectrum was 
measured at 0.284 and 0.287 keV.   The features  0.284 and 0.287 keV are present as a result 
of different process on the nanotubes.  The π*(ring) transitions are indicated in the range from 
about 284 to 287 eV.  The σ*(ring) transitions are in the range from 292 to 294 eV. 
    Figure 46 shows the nitrogen K-edge of the MWCNTs-COOH and MWCNTs-COCl.  The 
weaker peak at 400.06 keV of the N K-edge, and suggests that the N content within MWCNTs, 
MWCNTs-COOH and MWCNTs-COCl were very low. 
 
3230cm-1 3500cm-1 
1520cm-1 
1750cm-1 
 28
390 400 410 420 430 440
0.50
0.55
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80
N
or
m
 In
te
ns
ity
 
Photo Energy (keV)
 MWNT
 MWNT-COOH
 MWNT-COCl
 
Figure 46.  Nitrogen K-edge of the MWCNTs-COOH and MWCNTs-COCl. 
 
4.2 Hard X-ray 
    The TEM images of MWCNTs-QD synthesized by hard X-ray for 1 hr (Figure 47) and 3 hr 
(Figure 48) indicate that the MWCNTs were possibly filled with QD.  The HRTEM image of 
MWCNTs-QD is shown in Figure 49.    It can be observed that the CdSe/ZnS QDs (red crosses) 
are in the carbon nanotube.  The photoluminescence Spectroscopy is shown in Figure 50.  
Along with the time increases, the amount of CdSe/ZnS filled in carbon nanotubes also gradually 
increases.  After illumination by photo source for 5 hours, it can be observed that there was a 
long CdSe/ ZnS bar filling of carbon tube.  However, for the photoluminescence Spectroscopy, 
it’s obvious that only pure QD has a characteristic peak at 600nm.  It may be caused by the 
reason that only very little amount of QD attached in the nanotubes, the shell effect of nanotubes 
or the aggregation of nanoparticles. 
 
(a)
(c)  
(b) 
Figure 47  TEM images of MWCNTs-QD synthesized by hard X-ray for 1 hr. 
 
400.06kev 
 30
200 300 400 500 600 700
-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
PL
 In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
Wavelength (nm)
 CdSe/ ZnS
 CdSe/ ZnS/ carbon nanotube
 Carbon nanotubes
 
Figure 50  Photoluminescence Spectroscopy of nanocomposites produced by hard X-ray 
method. 
 
4.3 EDC Reaction 
    It was indicated that filling of MWCNTs possibly with QD.  The HRTEM of 
MWCNTs-QD is shown in Figure 51.  It can be observed that the CdSe/ZnS QD (red cross) in 
carbon nanotubes, and QD in carbon nanotube is about 3×14 nm.  The photoluminescence 
Spectroscopy is show in Fig 52.  The peak in the PL spectra is located at the same position as 
that of CdSe/ZnS. 
 
Figure 51  HRTEM image of MWCNTs-QD. 
 
 32
200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
 CdSe/ZnS in CHCl3
 MWCNT-Cl in CHCl3
 MWCNT-CdSe/ZnS in CHCl3
A
BS
nm
  
Figure 54  UV-Vis Spectroscopy for the nanocomposites produced by Schotten-Baumann 
Reaction. 
 
 
4.5 Discussion 
 
QD Figure Sketch 
CdSe/ZnS 41 
 
CdSe/ZnS/CNTs 
nanocomposites Figure Sketch 
Hard X –ray 49 
 
EDC reaction 51 
 
Schotten-Baumann 
Reaction 53 
 
Table 6  Sketches of pure QD and CdSe/ZnS/CNTs nanocomposites by different synthesized 
methods 
 
3nm 
