2前言
無線通訊的應用日益蓬勃是有目共睹的。十幾年來，手機產業的發展，除了本身在通訊
規範標準不斷地演進(從 2G 轉到 GPRS 或 CDMA 及未來之 3G) ，傳輸速率不斷地提升外(藉由
系統線性度的改善與訊號調變技術的改進)；更帶動其他更多無線通訊的應用發展(例如：全
球定位系統(GPS)；藍芽無線傳輸 Bluetooth，和無線區域網路 WLAN，及射頻辨識系統 RFID
等)。
綜觀上述之種種無線通訊之應用，射頻收發器(RF transceiver)儼然是一個不可或缺的
電路區塊(circuit block)。其功能主要負責把資料轉成高頻電磁波，藉電磁輻射傳播出去，
或是接受電磁波之訊號還原其傳播資料。
對一個收發器(transceiver)電路而言，振盪器提供局部振盪訊號(LO signal)做混頻工
作將資料訊息作頻率的平移。對於數位電路而言，振盪器則是提供一個時脈訊號(clock
signal)使得整個系統得以在正確的時間點上作切換(switching)工作。簡言之，振盪器電路
所扮演之角色猶如電路之心臟，目的在提供一規律之脈動使得電路得以正常操作。嚴格來說，
因應用頻率範圍不同，振盪器電路架構亦不同。
幾年前振盪器線路受限於製程技術的被動元件(特別是電感元件)的 Q值(Quality
factor) ，而無法整合於積體電路中。近年來，由於製程技術之演進與改善，國內兩大積體
電路製造公司(tsmc 與 UMC)以提供了射頻積體電路製程，藉由較高較厚的金屬層次，實用的
電感元件已可整合於積體電路上。
4路設計。其設計結果，可調變的頻率範圍可擴大到 450MHz 的調變範圍(＠1.8GHz)。由於可切
換電容的分支 Q 值劣化的程度較為單顆可變電容值的 Q 值劣化程度緩和，所以在可調變頻率
範圍和相位雜訊特性劣化的折衷設計範圍無形中可以增加；是以在合理的相位雜訊特性下我
們可以得到較大的頻率調整範圍。利用可切換式電容的技巧，往往只可能包含在某一特定規
範標準下(例如 GSM1800)的操作頻帶範圍，要利用此振盪器電容完成滿足多標準
(multi-standards)的規格，實有先天上的限制。
b.) 利用可切換式電感元件的振盪器電路：[3-5]
2001 年 Prof. Kenneth K.O.[3]等論文，首先展示出利用可切換式電感元件設計出來的
振盪器電路其應用在雙頻(900MHz 及 1800MHz)操作下，提供相位雜訊分別在-125 及
-123dBc/Hz＠600KHz O.F.；可調變頻範圍分別在 44MHz 及 174MHz。2004 年，台大劉深淵教
授亦提出利用可切換式電感與電容之電路架構成功地展示在 2.4GHz 及 5GHz 雙頻下之振盪器
電路應用[4]。其相位雜訊分別是-109dBc/Hz＠600KHz O.F.與-96dBc/Hz＠1MHz O.F.；可調
變範圍分別是 290MHz 及 1480MHz。同時 prof. Kenneth K.O. [5] 等人亦提出相類似的論文，
利用 PMOS 元件及可切換式電感電容元件達到相位雜訊優於-126dBc/Hz＠1MHz O.F.於 2.4GHz
和 5GHz 頻帶。綜觀上述參篇研究論文，我們知悉利用可切換式電感之振盪器電路是滿足多標
準多頻段操作模式的可行辦法。然而在上述的論文研究中，仍有兩點是其沒有考慮到的地方：
一是電感與開關元件的安排，仍在晶元的面積消耗上佔有相當大的比例；另一是尚未考慮製
程參數偏移時，振盪中心頻率與可調變頻率範圍將改變的事實。
c.) 具自動校正頻率之振盪器電路：
利用可切換式電容組來增加振盪器可調變頻率的範圍，是主要的功能。由於要克服振盪
器受製程參數的變動而導致振盪中心頻率偏移的問題，也是需要靠較寬的可調變頻率範圍。
故此兩類問題，可同時考慮利用可切換式電容的架構來解決。論文[6]是一篇探討可調整振盪
器振盪頻率的鎖相迴路電路。藉由一個參考頻率(fref)和頻率誤差偵測電路(Frequency
Error Detector)及初始參考電壓(Vconst) ，該電路完成預設次振盪頻帶(sub-oscillation
band)的選擇。利用此電路，我們可以重新思考其在修正製程參數偏移而導致振盪中心偏移的
可行性。就本人所知，此一概念已應用在 Silicon Laboratories 公司的一顆商用產品[1]，
其目的在校正由 bonding wire 電感所造成之振盪頻率偏差，使其產品之量率提昇。然而在該
電路所缺乏的是該振盪器電路仍然只有屬於單一應用頻帶的振盪器電路。
研究方法
A. 差動式可切換式電感之研製:
配合本計劃所規劃的差動式振盪器的電路設計, 我們將提出一個改良式的差動式可切換
電感的設計。如圖一所示為此差動式可切換式電感的示意圖。當 MOS 元件開關開啟時, 由於
MOS元件未導通而形成高阻抗狀況, 所以我們可以得到L1+L2的感值; 若當NMOS元件關閉時,
由於 P 點與 Q 點短路形成共模點(common node), 則兩個 L2 所形成的網路對其振盪頻率沒有
貢獻。適當的設計 L1 和 L2 的感值, 我們可以讓切換前後的頻率作用在不同的通訊標準的頻
6結果與討論
本計劃執行的成果,目前已完成差動式切換電感與多標準多頻帶壓控振盪器的電路設
計。並已於今年九月在 CIC 晶片中心下線(T18-94E-158t/T18-94E-23)測試鍵。預估明年一月
可量測實驗數據。此外,針對差動式切換電感的模擬設計結果,我們已將資料總結整理並將發
表於今年(2005)民生電子暨訊號處理研討會[7].論文內容請見附件二。
關於自我頻率校正迴路的電路設計部份, 現以初步完成一鎖相電路迴路設計。除上述的
8圖五 鎖相迴路模擬電路圖(包括多標準多頻帶壓控振盪器電路在內)
圖六 鎖相迴路暫態響應模擬結果(預計鎖定 1.8GHz)
參考資料
[1] http://www2.silabs.com/, Si4133 Data Sheet.
[2] A Kral, F.Behbahani, and A.A.Abidi, “RF-CMOS Oscillators with Switched Tuning,”IEEE
1998 Custom Integrated Circuits Conference, pp.555-558, 1998.
[3] Seong-Mo Yim and Kenneth K.O., “Demonstration of a switched Resonator Concept in a
Dual-Band Monolithic CMOS LC-tuned VCO,”IEEE 2001 Custom Integrated Circuits Conference,
pp.205-208, 2001.
[4] Chun-Yi Kuo, Che-Fu Liang, and Shen-Iuan Liu, “A 5.8-/5.2-/2.4-GHz SiGe LC VCO with
Wide Tuning Range,”IEEE 2004 VLSI/CAD, Taiwan, 5.2, 2004.
[5] Zhenbiao Li and Kenneth K.O., “A 1-V Low Phase Noise Multi-band CMOS Voltage Control
Oscillator with Switched Inductors and Capacitors,”2004 IEEE Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit
Symposium, pp.467-470, 2004.
[6] Takeshi Yasunaga, et. al., “A Fully Integrated PLL Frequency Synthesizer LSI for Mobile
Communication System,”2001 IEEE Radio Frequency Integrated Circuit Symposium, pp.65-68,
2001.
[7] Gia-Shiang Wang, Shin-Hau Chang, Tzuen-Hsi Huang, Yi-Hsing Pang, Szu-Hsieng Wu, and
Tzuyi Yang, “Demonstration of an Area-cost-efficient Switched Differential Inductor for VCO
Circuit Applications,”accepted by Workshop on Consumer Electronics and Signal Processing,
WCEsp2005, Taiwan, November 2005.
10
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
■ 可申請專利 ■ 可技術移轉 日期：94 年 10 月 15 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：具有自我頻率校正功能的多標準多頻帶壓控振盪器
計畫主持人： 黃尊禧
計畫編號： NSC 94-2213-E-006-038 學門領域：電磁
技術/創作名稱 差動式切換電感
發明人/創作人 黃尊禧、王家翔
中文：利用傳統的積體電路差動式電感再輔以 MOS 開關元件以組合
成一新型的切換式電感; 與傳統式切換電感的比較是在於消耗的
晶片面積較少, 遂節省成本。
技術說明
英文：A new type of switched inductor is composed of a
traditional differential on-chip inductor layout structure
and MOS switch transistors; its feature as compared with the
conventional switched inductors is the less area consumption
and thus cost saving.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
無線通訊 IC 設計產業;
射頻前端電路
技術特點
1. 可切換電感值;
2. 較小的晶片面積消耗.
推廣及運用的價值
無線通訊 IC 射頻前端電路之關鍵元件
附件一
12
ABSTRACT
An area-cost-efficient on-chip switched differential inductor is proposed. Almost over 50% area shrinkage can be achieved
using this layout scheme and thus cost reduction. Verified by a quasi 3-D EM simulator, Mometum, the structure has been
proved to be workable for the switching tuneable inductance, based on tsmc’s 0.18um RF CMOS technology file. The
simulated Qmax are 13/6 as the switch is OFF/ON. Co-simulated with the circuit simulator ADS, it has been justified that this
new layout structure can be applied not only to the multi-standard multi-band VCO circuit application but also to the use of
tuning range widening. The simulation results show that, for example, the VCO circuit can exhibit a frequency range in
1.5GHz(GPS)/1.8GHz(GSM) band as the MOS switch OFF/ON. Based on this proposed inductor layout, a design of over 80%
tuning range widening can be achieved. The design issues for such switched inductors are addressed in this paper.
1. Introduction
In recent years many RF circuits for tuneable frequency applications are presented by using switched capacitors [1]-[2]
and/or switched inductors [3]-[6]. Among them, the usage of switched inductors shows off the great potential in the integration
design of a dual-band VCO [3]-[5]. One of the reported benefits is in the capability of trade-offs between gain and power
consumption by an optimal composition of the inductance and the capacitance values in the resonator, especially for the
dual-band circuit design. Another benefit is to provide the possibility of circuit integration for the multi-standard system, which
is requested from the view point of cost. However, the switched inductors in the previous papers [3]-[6] occupy a relatively
large chip area. In [7], the authors introduce a new layout scheme to reduce the area consumption of the switched inductor
greatly. Therefore achieved is an area-cost-efficient on-chip integrated inductor via a differential structure with a MOSFET
switch.
Such switched differential inductors are studied in this paper. Its schematic is shown in Fig.1 (A). Based on the concept of
new layout scheme, two types of inductor structures are proposed for the multi-band and the tuning range widening
applications, as shown in Fig.2 (A) and (B) respectively. Using a quasi 3-D EM simulator, Mometum [8], both structures have
been simulated and proved to be workable for the switching tuneable inductance. As compared with the traditional layout, it is
noted that the area consumption is reduced evidently. Over 50% area shrinkage is achievable as illustrated in Fig.1 (B).
However, like a traditional one, these switched differential inductors also suffer from the Q-factor degradation when the
turn-on resistor of the switch is not negligible. Besides, a new degradation mechanism is observed. We will discuss the design
key points of such inductors as well as the problems could be encountered.
In the Section 3, by co-simulation with a circuit simulator ADS [9], it can be proved that this new layout structure can be
applied not only to the multi-standard/multi-band VCO circuits but also to the tuning range widening use. In the first case, a
VCO circuit is constructed for a changeable oscillation frequency in 1.5 GHz and 1.8 GHz bands for either GPS or GSM
application. The second case given is a VCO circuit with a wider tuning operation frequency by usign this switched inductor in
a single-band application. Some other circuit performances evaluated by the simulator are also given. Via the demonstration of
these two examples, it is evident that the proposed inductor structure can be successfully used for the VCO circuit applications.
Conceptually, this kind of inductor can also be used for other differential RF building blocks.
14
3. Simulation Results
Using a quasi-3D EM simulator, Momentum [8], the proposed inductor structures, as shown in Fig.2 (A) and (B), are
constructed and simulated. We apply the one-port s-parameter analysis to characterize the switched differential inductors by
co-simulation with a circuit simulator, ADS [9]. The simulated differential inductance values and the corresponding Q-factors
are given in Fig.3 (A). The structure of Fig.2 (A) shows the inductance of 3.5nH as the switch is off and of 2.0nH as the switch
is on when operated at 1.8GHz. The corresponding Q-factors are about 10.0 and 3.3, respectively. The ON/OFF ratio makes
Lout : Lin = 1 : 0.75, which is helpful to the utilization of multi-band applications. On the other hand, the designed inductance
values of 2.64nH (OFF) and 2.15nH (ON) are suitable for the tuning range widening application, since the Lin value is quite
small. In this section we would like to demo the examples for both the multi-band and the tuning range widening applications.
However, these inductors are not yet optimized for low-GHz application. The Qmax of 6 occurs at above 6GHz, rather than at
1.8GHz.
As mentioned in the previous study [3], the Q-factor of the switched inductor is degraded due to the Ron resistance of the
switch transistor. Therefore an ultra large transistor size over 2,000 um-wide is suggested [3]. In our study case, a transistor of
W/L = 480um/0.18um is used as a switch, which is shunt with the differential inductor structure. From the simulated results in
Fig.3 (B), indeed we find the degradation of Q-factor is significant. However, we find another degradation mechanism from the
EM simulation results. Fig.4 (A) and (B) show respectively the instantaneous current flow direction on a test two-turn inductor
structure (a square hollow with outer loop dimension of 184um 184um) by either shorting the inner turn or not. When the
inner turn is not shorted, as shown in Fig.4 (A), the current flow direction on the inner turn follows that on the outer turn. In
Fig.4 (B), however, the current flow direction on the inner turn is opposite to that on the outer turn. The shorted inner turn
forms a close conducting loop in which an opposite current flow (eddy current) is induced by the changing magnetic flux
generated by the outer turn current. According to Lenz’s law, the opposite direction current cancels a part of the magnetic flux
thus makes the self-inductance value of the outer turn reduced. The Q-factor thus degrades. In Table I we summarize the
Q-factor degradation effect due to eddy current. Three inductor structures with only-one-turn, two-turns but the inner turn
shorted loop, and three-turns but two inner turns shorted loop are investigated. It is obvious that both the inductance values and
the Q-factor become degraded as the number of inner turn increases. The more closed-looped inner turns exist, the more
degradation occurs.
We demonstrate the application of such switched differential inductors for VCO circuits in the following three examples.
VCO_A is a circuit which utilizes the inductor structure shown in Fig.2 (A) and shows off the multi-band application. Though
the ON/OFF inductance ratio is 1:0.75, we make use of the switched capacitance branches to adjust the centre frequency to the
desired target bands–GPS band (1,559 MHz ~ 1,610 MHz) and GSM band (RX: 1,805 MHz ~ 1,880 MHz). The schematic of
oscillator core circuit is shown in Fig.5. It is found that VCO_A can cover the GPS band completely and cover almost the
GSM RX band. In these design examples, the junction varactors are adopted for the tuning component. According to our
experience, using the MOS varactor, the tuning range could be widened (because of greater ON/OFF capacitance ratio) and
supposed that it will cover the band successfully. VCO_B is a circuit which uses the structure in Fig.2 (B). To ensure the
sub-bands be overlapped by switching the inductor, the Lin value is expected to be quite a small value intentionally. However, it
becomes hard to control the exact value of inductance precisely. In practice, let Lin is limited to around 0.4~0.5 nH. Technically,
we can adopt the switched capacitance branches to adjust the centre frequency to make sure the overlap of the sub-bands
controlled by the switched inductor. A contrastive circuit VCO_C with a fix inductor is taken as a reference circuit. In Table II,
16
[8] Agilent Technologies, Inc., EDA tool: Momentum.
[9] Agilent Technologies, Inc., EDA tool: ADS.
Fig.1 (A) The schematic of a switched differential inductor; and (B) Comparison of area consumption between a
traditional and the proposed differential layout.
Fig.2 The proposed switched differential inductor layouts for (A) the multi-band/multi-standard application and (B)
the tuning range widening use.
