lithography and can shrink the optical simulation 
time of the model-based OPC procedure. To avoid the 
alignment problem from the conventional partition 
techniques； our approach will consider the pattern 
integrity, which can overcome the alignment problem. 
Our method will combine rule-based and model-based 
OPC, and adopt the advantage of them. Then 
integrating parallel processing techniques into our 
program, which considers the situation of competing 
sharing resource, to accelerate the runtime and 
efficient. 
 
英文關鍵詞： Optical Proximity Correction,  mask, parallel 
process, partition, alignment  problem 
 
‐2‐ 
二、計畫緣由與目的 
A. Introduction 
  Over the last few years, optical lithography 
processes improved from G-line (436nm), 
I-line (365nm), KrF (248nm) process to the 
current ArF (193nm) process technology. The 
feature size of IC has been smaller than the 
wavelength of the mainstream ArF 193nm 
lithography based on Moore's Law [7]. 
Therefore, consideration of the aspect of 
physical optics, it might make a severe impact 
on the IC manufacturing process regardless of 
any slight change [6][14]. 
What has to be noticed is the process 
variation, which may incur latent process 
hotspots and yield loss [8]. Hence, there are 
some approaches applied to mitigate the effects 
of the lithographic process, which are also 
called resolution enhancement technology 
(RET). Those techniques, such as phase-shifted 
mask (PSM), e-beam proximity effect 
correction, off-axis illumination (OAI) [3] and 
various methods of optical proximity correction 
(OPC) [1][4][12]. In semiconductor 
manufacturing, OPC is a common way used in 
optical lithography to improve the imaging 
variation problem and improve layout mask 
quality [5]. 
B. Previous works 
  The two main classifications of OPC are 
rule-based and model-based. Rule-based OPC 
is a simpler technique, which is to obtain the 
reliable geometry data of the pattern features, 
and then apply to the layout mask by looking 
up the bias table [9]. The model-based OPC 
(MBOPC) considers several process effects and 
optical parameters to simulate the layout 
pattern and apply a feedback system back and 
forth to end up with an optimal result. MBOPC 
is more complex and time-consuming. 
However, the reliability and accuracy of the 
results are significantly improved than those of 
Rule-based OPC. 
In this work, we primary use the 
model-based OPC to complete the whole OPC 
flow, and adapt fast lithography simulation 
techniques from Cobb and Yu [3][11], and use 
it to reduce the computing time of convolution 
for the mask pattern simulation. Furthermore, 
we define a set of hotspot detection formulas to 
determine the Hotspot_cost value of each 
sub-area, and then use the Hotspot_cost value 
as the reference data for compensating mask 
pattern in our hybrid OPC System. 
C. Problem Formulation 
The problem inputs are mask design (GDS 
file or CIF file) and lithography model [1]. The 
lithography model includes parameters of 
lithography process and manufacturability 
constraints. The lithography model is the sum 
of coherent system (SOCS) method as formula 
(1) and (2). 
(1)
(2)
To develop an efficient and accurate OPC 
method to correct original mask design, we 
consider the following problem. Our objective 
is to modify the conventional MBOPC to 
overcome the time-consuming problem. 
Moreover, we propose an effective hotspot 
detection method to locate the critical area, and 
utilize the feedback system to correct critical 
area. 
三、研究方法 
The flow of our approach is shown in Figure 1, 
it can be divided into four main parts below 
A. Partition (Grid-based partition). 
B. Parallel Process. 
C. Hotspot Estimation. 
‐4‐ 
B. Parallel Process 
In the modern manufacturing design, the 
time consumption of pattern simulation 
considerably increased concerning to the great 
amount of pattern numbers. For this reason, we 
utilize parallel processing techniques in our 
program to accelerate the pattern analysis.  
Here we define the sub-window set: 
{( , ) | 0 , 0 , , , , }G x y x X y Y X Y x y     N            and n is 
the total sub-window number,  ,n X Y G n   N   
We define the number of threads as  , 
1,  N  ;  n    is the workload from the 
first thread to the 1    and the last thread is 
( 1)nn       . 
The starting position ( , )i ix y  of thread i is 
defined as below: 
(0, 0), 0
( , )     
( , mod ), 0
where      0  ,  
i i
i
x y n i n i Y i
Y
i i
               
   N
   
       
     (4)  
 
The example of using parallel process 
method is given in Figure 5 with thread 
number=2, and the index volume of 
sub-window is defined with X=8, Y=10. After 
the partition-step divides the whole layout into 
sub-windows, as shown in Figure 5(a), if the 
program assign random sub-window to each 
thread, and then it may have a highly 
possibility to occur the situation of competing 
sharing resource as shown in Figure 5(b); 
therefore, the system requires a lot of time to 
handle the coordination between threads and 
the problem of competing sharing resource. 
In order to speed up the process of analysis, 
it is a critical issue to properly assign the task 
for each thread; we proposed a method called 
Distributed Parallel Process in Figure 5(c), 
which can evenly assign the sub-window set to 
each thread and decrease the frequency of 
competing sharing resource.  
By our defined Distributed Parallel Process 
method, the starting position of each thread is 
easily located according to the given formula; 
Figure 5(c), we respectively get the position 
(0,0) and (4,0) as the starting position from 
i-thread and j-thread,  and then execute the 
pattern analysis on sub-window line by line. 
According to our experimental results, if we 
create too much number of thread in the 
program, it will cause huge time consumption 
on dealing share resource competing; when 
thread number is less than 
1
2 min{X,Y}, it will 
greatly reduce the collision scope of sharing 
resources between threads and then speed up 
the program. 
C. Hotspot Estimation 
In semiconductor manufacturing process, the 
hotspots usually cause defects of chip. Such 
that, we develop a set of estimation method 
called Hotspot Estimation. Our estimation 
incorporates two effective measuring methods, 
the edge placement error and the bitmap error 
as the basis for MBOPC.  
Figure 5. The discussion of Distributed Parallel Process 
method. 
(a) At the first, we divide the entire domain into sub-windows. 
(b) The situation of competing sharing resource may occur     
frequently, if multi-thread adopts Undistributed Parallel       
Process method in the program.  
(c) Distributed Parallel Process method. 
‐6‐ 
control points. Obviously, the value of 
avg_EPE is the same during the #iteration 6 
and 7(Figure 8. (c) and (d)). As our experience, 
the MBOPC will be stopped and produce worse 
results (Figure 8.(c)) if we only took the 
avg_EPE as our Hotspot_cost function. 
Therefore, we proposed the Hotspot_cost (4), 
then our MBOPC can take the BME into 
consideration and get better results (Figure 
8.(d)). Finally, Figure 9 and Figure 10 is 
comparison of the SDFFR_X1 circuit before 
and after our OPC. 
五、計畫成果自評 
In this year, we introduce an effective OPC 
System for correcting mask patterns. The OPC 
System uses our defined hotspot estimation to 
determine the Hotspot_cost value within each 
sub-area. When the Hotspot_cost value can’t be 
improved we can enhance the mask resolution 
by the step of adding more control points. The 
experimental results show that we can correct 
the mask design of the test case, the avg_EPE 
within the marked area can be decreased from 
259.76um to 7.24um, and BME within the 
marked area can be decreased from 20.01% to 
3.15%. 
六、參考文獻 
[1] http://cad_contest.cs.nctu.edu.tw/cad11/Pr
oblem/99/CAD2011_ProblemB1_update20110
221.pdf 
[2] http://www.layouteditor.net/ 
[3] K. Agarwal, “Frequency Domain 
Decomposition of Layouts for Double Dipole 
Lithography,” in Proceedings of ACM/IEEE 
DAC,  pp. 404–407, June 2010. 
[4] N.B. Cobb, “Fast Optical and Process 
Proximity Correction Algorithms for Integrated 
Circuit Manufacturing,” PhD Dissertation. 
Dept. Electrical Engineering and Computer 
Science, University of California at Berkeley, 
1998. 
[5] K. Cao and J. Hu, “ASIC design flow 
considering lithography-induced effects,” in 
Proceedings of Circuits Devices & Systems IET, 
pp.23-29, February 2008. 
[6] L.R. Harriott, “Limits of lithography,” in 
Proceedings of  IEEE, pp.366–374, March 
2002. 
[7] T. Jhaveri, V.Rovner, L. Liebmann, L. 
Pileggi, A.J. Strojwas and J.D. Hibbeler, 
“Co-Optimization of Circuits, Layout and 
Lithography for Predictive Technology Scaling 
Beyond Gratings,” in Proceedings of IEEE 
Trans. on  Computer-Aided Design of 
Integrated Circuits and Systems, Vol. 29, 
pp.509–527, April 2010. 
[8]  R. Raina, “What is DFM & DFY and 
Why Should I Care ?” in Proceedings of ITC,  
pp.1-9, October 2006. 
[9] J.S. Park, C.H. Park, S.U. Rhie, Y.H. Kim, 
M.H. Yoo, J.T. Kong, H.W. Kim and S.I. 
Yoo, ”An Efficient Rule-based OPC Approach 
Using a DRC Tool for 0.18μm ASIC,” in 
Proceedings of ISQED, pp. 81–85, March 
2000. 
[10] R. Shi, Y. Cai, X. Hong, W. Wu and 
C.Yang, “The Selection and Creation of the 
Rules in Rules-Based Optical Proximity 
Correction,” in Proceedings of  International 
ASIC Conf, pp. 50–53, October 2001. 
[11] M.D. Stewart, G.M. Schmid, S.V. 
Postnikov and C.G. Willson, “Mechanistic 
Understanding of Line End Shortening,” in 
Proceedings of SPIE, vol. 4345, pp.10-18, 
August  2001. 
[12] P. Yu, S.X. Shi, D.Zi Pan, “Process 
variation aware OPC with variational 
lithography modeling,” in Proceedings of 
ACM/IEEE  DAC, pp.785-790, July 2006. 
[13] S.M. Yu and Y. Li, “A Pattern-Based 
Domain Partition Approach to Parallel Optical 
Proximity Correction in VLSI Designs,” in 
Proceedings of  IPDPS, pp.4-8, April 2005. 
[14] Y.S. Tong, S.J. Chen, “An Automatic 
Optical Simulation-Based Lithography Hotspot 
Fix Flow for Post-Route Optimization,” in 
‐8‐ 
參加國際會議心得 
 
此計畫執行投稿至一個國際會議，ASQED 2012。為使參與學生能有機會參加國際會議。
以下是學生參加的心得報告，從報告中我覺得使學生與世界各國研究人員交流，能增長他們
的國際觀，也會與其他未參與的學生互相激勵，此外，參與國際會議，我們更能獲得最新研
究的資料，有助日後的研究。 
 
 
會議：Asia Symposium on Quality Electronic Design (ASQED 2012) 
題目：Clock Tree Construction Using Gated Clock Cloning 
學生：洪瑞鴻，陳文翰，張新鴻 
心得： 
這次投稿的論文被接受為 speaker，主要要感謝指導老師謝財明教授的細心指導，使得論
文能順利地被接受，讓我們有出國報告的機會，而在準備報告的過程中，老師訓練我們的口
條以及表達能力，對於投影片的製作以及報告內容的修改，也都提出很棒的建議，真的很感
謝老師的耐心以及指導。 
此篇論文被接受後，審稿者提供了我們很多的建議，所以我們的報告主要針對論文中盲
點的部分，做分析以及整理，希望能在報告過程中對於審稿者所提出的問題加以說明。會議
當天，洪瑞鴻學長和陳文翰同學努力練習，希望能在主辦單位限制的時間內報告完，而也因
為反覆的練習，本次報告也十分順利。此外我們也參觀了 poster session，觀看其他人的研究
與作品，並且嘗試用英文跟作者交流。 
在這次會議中，我發現自己的英文需要再做加強，看到報告者英文能力以及臨場反應，
對於台下的提問也以簡單明瞭的方式解釋，讓我十分佩服。 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                             2012 年  7  月  15 日 
報告人姓名  
謝財明 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
中原大學資訊工程系 
教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2012.7.10-12 
Penang, Malaysia 
本會核定 
補助文號 
計畫編號: 
NSC100-2221-E-033-054 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 
 (英文) ASQED 2012(4th  Asia Symposium on Quality Electronic Design) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 
 (英文) Clock Tree Construction using Gated Clock Cloning 
 
   我們在 2012 年 5 月 24 日收到 ASQED 2012 大會通知，我們的論
文 
   “Clock Tree Construction using Gated Clock Cloning” 
被大會接受。 
 
   我 7 月 9 日下午搭乘國泰航空 CX-421 班機出發，經香港轉 
CX-693 班機，於當日下午抵達馬來西亞 Penang，7 月 14 日返國。 
 
   此會議是 2012 年 7 月 10 日至 12 日在馬來西亞 Penang 的 Eastin 
Hotel 舉行。此次大會接受論文共 60 篇，期中 Oral presentation 有
45 篇，15 篇為 Poster paper。根據大會資料，本次會議論文接受率低
於 48%。 
 
   10 日大會開始，10 日及 11 日上午分別有 2 場 KEYNOTE 
 
2. Design, Fabrication and Reliability of Through Silicon Via (TSV) 
and Silicon Interposer for Robust 3D IC Integration 
  by Farhang Yazdani, Founder and President,  
Broadpak, USA. 
3. Low Power Techniques for Nanometer VLSI Circuits and 
Challenges 
   by Dr. Rajiv Joshi, IEEE Fellow, ISQED Fellow,  
IBM, USA. 
4. Manufacturing Testing of VLSI Circuits with Close Focus on 
Scan-Based Testing 
  by Prof. Ozgur Sinanoglu, Computer Engineering Department,  
New York University Abu Dhabi, USA. 
5. Advanced DFT and BIST Techniques for The Nano-Era 
by Dr. Adam Osseiran, Managing Director at NNTTF,  
A/Prof at Edith Cowan University, Australia. 
 
 
    論文發表分兩天進行，60 篇論文共分 11 oral sessions 每 session
有 3 至 5 篇論文發表，共有 45 篇論文，其餘 15 篇論文在一 Poster 
session 發表。 
     我們的 paper 安排在 7 月 10 日 3:30 PM -5:00PM, Session 2A。
此 Session 主題為 Device Modeling and Automation for Physical Design, 
Pgrgram chair 為 Young Hwan Kim, POSTECH University, Korea。此
session 共有 4 篇論文，我們的 paper 是第一篇發表，同一 Session，
其他 3 篇分別是台灣的交大、中央大學及交大與工研院師生的論文。 
 
    從此次大會所安排的 Tutorials，Keynote Speech, 及各 sessions 所
發表的論文看，有關 Analog Circuit Design, Sensor, Nanoelectronics,  
來源: eebermak@ust.hk  
收信: hsieh@cycu.edu.tw  
副本: eebermak@ust.hk , ali@isqed.org  
日期: Thu, 24 May 2012 10:13:12 -0700  
標題: Your ASQED 2012 Submission (Number 82)  
 
Dear Prof. Tsai-Ming Hsieh: 
 
On behalf of the ASQED 2012 Program Committee, I am delighted  
to inform you that the following submission has been accepted  
as a regular paper for oral presentation at the conference: 
 
 Clock Tree Construction Using Gated Clock Cloning 
 
The Program Committee worked very hard to thoroughly review 
all the submitted papers. I hope that you would respect these efforts by  
considering the suggestions of the reviewers when you revise your paper. 
 
To upload your final manuscript, please visit the following  
site: 
 
 https://www.softconf.com/c/asqed2012/ 
 
and, on the left-hand side of the page, enter the passcode  
associated with your submission.  Your passcode is as follows: 
 
 82X-J7P8C8C9E2 
 
Alternatively, you can click on the following URL, which will take you  
directly to a form to submit your final paper: 
 
 https://www.softconf.com/c/asqed2012/cgi-bin/scmd.cgi?scmd=aLogin&passcode=82X-J7
P8C8C9E2 
 
The reviews and comments are attached below. Please try to follow 
the advice of reviewers when you revise your paper.  
 
Please note the following important dates: 
  
Clock Tree Construction using Gated Clock Cloning 
 
Wun-Han Chen1, Hsin-Hung Chang1, Jui-Hung Hung2, Tsai-Ming Hsieh1 
1Department of Information and Computer Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chung-Li, 
Taiwan, R.O.C 
2Department of Electronic Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chung-Li, Taiwan, R.O.C 
{ g9977036, g9977012, g9777036, hsieh } @cycu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract 
Clock gating is one of the important techniques to 
achieve low power and small area in high-performance 
synchronous circuit design. In this paper, we propose a 
three-phase clock gating optimization methodology by using 
clustering and merging algorithm to construct a gated clock 
tree with minimal number of clock gating cells and buffers. 
In addition, according to the fan-out numbers of a clock 
gating cell, we derive a parameter γ that may be used to 
adjust the tradeoff between clock gating cell and buffer. The 
experimental results show that the number of clock gating 
cells and buffers reduced in each phase in our algorithm. 
Our solutions are better than greedy approach.   
Keywords 
clock tree, clock gating, setup time 
1. Introduction 
In high performance VLSI design, the power 
consumption is always a big challenge. In earlier 
synchronous circuit design, while flip-flop doesn’t load new 
data value, the data value of the flip-flop is reloaded from 
output of flip-flop to multiplexer by feedback circuit. This 
structure may cause a power consumption problem. 
Previous researches have presented a various approaches 
for optimizing power consumption, such as clock gating [1, 
2], buffer insertion [3, 4], multi-supply voltage (MSV) 
designs [5], Globally Asynchronous Locally Synchronous 
(GALS) [6], and parallelism and pipeline [7]. Among these 
approaches, clock gating technique has been used widely in 
high performance VLSI design to reduce clock network 
power consumption. 
In this way, we can achieve power saving by shutting off 
a part of clock gating cells during the idle state. Clock gating 
is normally constructed by an AND gate. Recently, 
researches on clock gating have established a various 
approaches. [2] modified the traditional zero-skew clock tree 
pairing algorithms to include considerations of the clock 
gating groups and distribution. [8] presented a top-down 
methodology by splitting each fan-out region of clock gating 
cell to satisfy the setup time constraint. [9] used splitting and 
merging algorithms to reduce the dynamic power 
consumption and static power consumption  respectively. 
In this paper, we focus on the clock gating methodology 
using gate cloning technique [11] to construct a gated clock 
tree with minimal number of clock gating cells and buffers.   
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. 
Section II formulates the problem. Section III presents our 
proposed algorithm. Section IV reports the experimental 
results, and conclusion is given in Section V. 
2. Problem Formulation 
In this paper, we consider the problem of construct a 
gated clock tree with minimal number of clock gating cells 
and buffers. 
 
Figure 1: (a) The circuit is original design. (b) The clock 
is new design using gated clock cloning. The delay is 
represented by the number which is attached to the line 
segment. 
Given a clock tree where the locations of flip-flops have 
been determined, a synchronous enable logic, and a set of 
clock gating cells, our algorithm should determine the 
number of clock gating cells and buffers required in a new 
design. In order to meet the setup time constraint and 
minimize the skew, the new location of clock gating cells 
and buffers is also detemined. 
Let Si be the delay from the clock root to the i-th clock 
gating cell CGi, and Li be the delay form CGi to leaf flip-flop. 
Thus, SLmax = max{ Si+Li | i = 1, 2, ..., n } represents the 
logic delay of this design. On the other hand, SLmin = 
min{ Si+Li | i = 1, 2, ..., n }, the skew of the design is 
defined Lmax-SLmin. The delay from the enable logic to the 
clock gating cell CGi is denoted by Ei, and the delay of the 
enable logic itself is defined as E0. The setup time constraint 
can be described as follow:  
SLmax + E0 + Ei +skew ≤ P0 + Si (1)
Delay lookup tables for computing the delay values of Si, 
Ei and Li are provided respectively. Besides, a buffer lookup 
table for determining the number of buffer needed to be 
inserted is also given. All the tables can only be indexed by 
two variables. Table I is a template to show the delay of Si 
and Ei, Table II shows the delay of Li, and Table III shows 
the number of buffers Li. For example, as shown in Fig. 1(a), 
the delay is represented by the number which is attached to 
the line segment. There is one clock gating cell and eight 
flip-flops, the length of S1 is 10, and we assume the number 
of inserting buffer is 1. So we can get the number of 
insertion buffer by Table III, the number of insert buffer is 1. 
Then we can get the S1 value is 172 by Table I, we also can 
get the L1 value is 173 by the Table II. Note that, in Table II, 
This work was partially supported by NSC of Taiwan under Grant No
NSC 100-2221-E-033-054 
978-1-4673-2688-9/12/$31.00 ©2012 IEEE                               54                   4th Asia Symposium on Quality Electronic Design
  
According to equation (6), our new parameter γ can 
increase dynamically with the fan-out number, and we can 
ensure that the cost function f can be reduced while 
clustering more than two flip-flops. Note that, when fan-out 
is 2, the value of γ is equal to β which means (6) is equal to 
(5). 
As we know, controlling the skew can make the circuit 
satisfy the setup time constraint (2) simply. Hence, in Phase 
1, we primarily control the max delay, and utilize the 
parameter γ exported by α to control the clustering 
limitation. Through Phase 1, Phase 2 can get an initial 
solution, and it will adjust all the paths to satisfy the setup 
time constraint by merging clock gating cells. Moreover, we 
relocate clock gating cell to adjust the minimum delay. After 
Phase 2, all the clock gating cells are satisfied the setup time 
constraint and the value of maximum delay and minimum 
delay are determined. Phase 3 merge clock gating cells 
which delay (Si+Li) is smaller than maximum delay (SLmax). 
The number of clock gating cells and buffers will decrease 
obviously after phase 3. We introduce our algorithm for 
each phase in detail in the following sections. 
3.1. Flip-Flop Clustering 
Based on our look-up table, the delay value increased 
proportionally with the wirelength. As shown in Fig. 3, 
Delay_Range represents these regions are determined by the 
value which is on the top of a slowly rising curve in delay 
table. Length_Boundary represents these regions are 
determined by the value which is the upper limit of 
wirelength according to delay table. For this reason, we split 
the die into three regions, each region use different 
clustering strategy and clock gating cell locating methods.  
1) Inside Delay_Range: For the balance of Si+Li, we can 
clustering more flip-flops at the section from clock root to 
DelayRange. As shown in Fig. 3, we use parameter γ to 
determine how many fan-out flip-flops should a clock gating 
cell be connected. By doing this, we can ensure that our cost 
function f will reduce in each merging. After clustering, the 
location of clock gating cells is also important. According to 
the setup time constraint (2), a smaller delay value of Ei can 
satisfy the setup time constraint effectively, so we determine 
the location of clock gating cell at the minimum delay value 
of Ei inside fan-out region. 
Figure 3: Example of our clustering method in each section. 
 
2) Inside Length_Boundary: In this section, we also 
consider the balance of Si+Li, so we connect each clock 
gating cell with only one flip-flop. The location of clock 
gating cell is also at the minimum delay value of Ei inside 
fan-out region for satisfying the setup time constraint 
effectively.  
3) Outside Length_Boundary: The delay value of Si shall 
be greater than the above two sections, and the wirelength of 
Si may be out of limitation according to our look-up table. 
So the locating method of clock gating cell is different in 
this section for the above consideration. The location of 
clock gating cell inside this section is determined by the 
minimum delay value of Si+Li on the die. The reason is 
smaller maximum delay (SLmax), and our program will be 
more flexible with any further flip-flop. 
After all the flip-flops are clustered or connected by 
clock gating cells, phase 1 is finished. But the setup time 
constraint is still a problem, we’ll solve this in the next 
phase. 
3.2. Clock Gating Cell Legalization 
After phase 1 is ready, we proceed to satisfy the clock 
gating circuit with setup time constraint. As described in (2), 
reducing skew is an effective method to satisfy the setup 
time constraint. 
We propose a setup time constraint satisfying flow using 
merging nearby flip-flop cluster by one clock gating cell and 
relocate the location of clock gating cells. In each iteration, 
we’ll find the clock gating cell which has the minimum 
delay (SLmin) at first. After that, we use two methods to 
increase the minimum delay (SLmin) for the clock gating cell. 
We detail these two methods in the following sections. 
1) Merging: In this section, we use the concept of 
gravity to determine the location of each flip-flop cluster. By 
doing this, we can control the fan-out region of clock gating 
cell more effective. Our program will check if this clock 
gating cell can reduce the cost function f by merging with its 
nearby flip-flop cluster. If the cost function f can’t be 
reduced, our program will jump to the next section. After 
this merging, the previous two clock gating cells will be 
deleted and our program will clone a new clock gating cell. 
The location of the new clock gating cell is determined by 
the maximum delay value of clock signal (Si) and minimum 
delay of enable logic(Ei). By this merging method, the skew 
of our clock gating circuit is reduced and the clock gating 
cell will satisfy the setup time constraint and also reduce its 
cost function f. 
2) Relocation: If clock gating cell can’t satisfy the setup 
time constraint, our program will expand a region of clock 
gating cell and flip-flops to increase delay. The location of 
the new clock gating cell is determined by the maximum 
delay value of clock signal (Si) and minimum delay of 
enable logic(Ei). 
3.3. Solution Refinement 
In the final phase, we shall reduce the cost function f by 
merging clock gating cells with nearby clock gating cells in 
condition. In Phase 2 we expand the fan-out region to satisfy 
the setup time constraint may cause a great amount of fan-
  
6. References 
 [1] L. Benini, G. De Micheli, "Automatic synthesis of 
low-power gated-clock finite-state machines," in 
Proceeding Computer-Aided Design of Integrated 
Circuits and Systems, vol.1 5, no. 6, pp. 630-643, Jun 
1996. 
[2] D. Garrett, M. Stan, A. Dean, "Challenges in 
clockgating for a low power ASIC methodology," in 
Proceeding Low Power Electronics and Design, pp. 
176- 181, 1999.   
[3] S. A. Tawfik, V. Kursun, "Buffer Insertion and Sizing 
in Clock Distribution Networks with Gradual 
Transition Time Relaxation for Reduced Power 
Consumption," in Proceeding Electronics, Circuits and 
Systems. ICECS’07, pp. 845-848, 11-14 Dec. 2007. 
[4] A. Vittal, M. Marek-Sadowska, "Low-power buffered 
clock tree design," in Proceeding Computer-Aided 
Design of Integrated Circuits and Systems, vol. 16, no. 
9, pp. 965-975, Sep. 1997. 
[5] V. Chickermane, P. Gallagher, J. Sage, P. Yuan, K. 
Chakravadhanula, "A Power-Aware Test Methodology 
for Multi-Supply Multi-Voltage Designs," in 
Proceeding International Test Conference. ITC’08, 
pp.1-10, 28-30 Oct. 2008. 
[6] A. Hemani, T. Meincke, S. Kumar, A. Postula, T. 
Olsson, P. Nilsson, J. Oberg, P. Ellervee, D. Lundqvist, 
"Lowering power consumption in clock by using 
globally asynchronous locally synchronous design 
style," in Proceeding Design Automation Conference. 
36th, pp. 873-878, 1999. 
[7] R.K. Megalingam, T.S. Hassan, P. Vivek, A. Mohan, 
M.T. Rao, "Power consumption reduction in CPU 
datapath using a novel clocking scheme," in 
Proceeding Computer Science and Information 
Technology. ICCSIT’09, pp. 529-533, 8-11 Aug. 2009. 
[8] S.K. Teng, N. Soin, "Regional clock gate splitting 
algorithm for clock tree synthesis," in Proceeding 
Semiconductor Electronics. ICSE’10,   pp.131-134, 
28-30 June 2010. 
[9] S.K. Teng, N. Soin, "Low power clock gates 
optimization for clock tree distribution," in Proceeding 
International Symposium on Quality Electronic Design. 
ISQED’10, pp. 488-492, 22-24 March 2010. 
 [10] W. X. Shen, Y. C. Cai, X. L. Hong, J. Hu, "Gate 
planning during placement for gated clock network", 
in Proceeding International Conference on Computer 
Design. ICCD’08, pp. 128-133, 12-15 Oct. 2008. 
[11]  http://cad_contest.cs.nctu.edu.tw/cad11/Problem/99/         
         Gated_Clock_Cloning_for_Timing_Fixing_12_16.pdf 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：謝財明 計畫編號：100-2221-E-033-054- 
計畫名稱：混合式光學鄰近效應修正之平行處理演算法 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
