■成果報告 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫
□期中進度報告
 
在移動式隨意網路中以IEEE 802.11為基礎之同時具有延遲保證與節省電池能
量的分散式排程 
 
計畫編號：NSC  97-2221-E-343 -006 - 
執行期間：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98  年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：吳建民 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：王士彥、莊東霖、蔡志汶、李欣鴻、李宏緯、范雅絜、 
簡岳生、黃百昆、林明鋒、陳清益、吳松展 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：南華大學 
 
中   華   民   國   98  年  10   月   23   日 
 2
throughput when stations are saturated. 
In this paper, we present the results of a 
simulation study that characterize the energy aware, 
packet delivery ratio, end-to-end delay, and 
throughput of multihop ad hoc networks. In particular, 
we use the CBR connection numbers as the main 
varying parameters for the above performance 
metrics. If the backoff scheme donot consider the 
battery power of a node, this may cause some nodes 
premature death than other nodes. And this situation 
will affect the establishment of a route and degrade 
the performance of the entire network. In order to 
save the power, if a node has lower battery power, the 
node should have lower backoff time and higher 
priority to transmit its packets. On the other hand, if a 
node has higher battery power, the node should have 
higher backoff time and lower priority. Therefore, we 
redefine the backoff mechanism in IEEE 802.11 DCF 
as an energy aware backoff scheme. 
 
2. IEEE 802.11 Medium Access Schemes 
 IEEE 802.11 is a standard for wireless ad hoc 
networks and infrastructure LANs [7] and is widely 
used in many testbeds and simulations in wireless ad 
hoc networks researches. IEEE 802.11 MAC layer 
has two medium access control methods: the 
distributed coordination function (DCF) for 
asynchronous contention-based access, and the point 
coordination function (PCF) for centralized 
contention-free access. In this paper, we consider the 
IEEE 802.11 DCF MAC protocol as the medium 
access control protocol in wireless multihop ad hoc 
networks. 
 The DCF access scheme is based on a carrier 
sense multiple access with collision avoidance 
(CSMA/CA) protocol [8]. Before initiating a 
transmission, a station senses the channel to 
determine whether another station is transmitting. If 
the medium is found to be idle for an interval that 
exceeds the distributed inter-frame space (DIFS), the 
station starts its transmission. Otherwise, if the 
medium is busy, the station continues monitoring the 
channel until it is found idle for a DIFS. A random 
backoff interval is then selected and used to initialize 
the backoff timer.  This timer is decreased as long as 
the channel is sensed idle, stopped when a 
transmission is detected and reactivated when the 
channel is idle again for more than a DIFS. When a 
receiver receives a successful data frame then it sends 
an acknowledgement frame (ACK) after a time 
interval called a short inter-frame space (SIFS) to the 
sender. 
 The integer number of backoff time slots is 
uniformly drawn in an defined interval called 
contention window. The algorithm used by 802.11 to 
make this contention window evolving is called 
Binary Exponential Backoff (BEB). After each 
successful transmission, the contention window is set 
to [0, CWmin-1] (its initial value). When node 
successive collisions occur, the contention window is 
set to [0, min(1024, 2^i*CWmin-1)]. i is the number 
of retransmission. If i > 7, the contention window is 
set to its initial value. It is the retry limit of the BEB 
algorithm[9]. 
 Following equation is the backoff mechanism 
for IEEE 802.11. 
 
Backoff=INT(CW*Random())*SlotTime  
Where 
CW = an integer between CWmin and CWmax, 
Random = real number between 0 and 1, 
 SlotTime = transmitter turn-on delay +                           
medium propagation delay +                              
medium busy detect response time. 
 
3. Energy aware IEEE 802.11(E802.11) 
3.1 Energy aware back off mechanism 
The objective of the energy aware backoff 
procedure is to save the power for a node with respect 
to those nodes in two-hop contention area of the node. 
Let Power be the remaining power of a node, i denote 
the number of retransmission attempts made for a 
packet, and i_max represent the maximum number of 
retransmission attempts permitted. 
Our proposed energy aware backoff mechanism 
is defined as follows. 
 
Backoff=RPP*CWmin+Uniform[0,(2^{i}*CWmin)-
1)] 
Where 
RPP indicates the remaining percentage of the 
power=(the remaining energy of the node/the initial 
energy of the node) *100%, 
Uniform[*] is the random number generation 
function with uniform distribution. 
 
If a node has the lowest energy in its two-hop 
contention region, then it has the lowest backoff 
period according to our energy aware backoff 
mechanism. Otherwise, it will have higher backoff 
period. 
 
3.2 Examples for data transmission using 802.11 
and E802.11 
In Fig. 1, nodes A, B, C, D and E are neighbors 
in two-hop contention area. In the beginning, node A 
has the right to access the medium, and nodes B, C 
and D want to access the medium during the 
transmission period of node A. When the 
transmission period of node A finished, nodes B, C 
and D wait for a DIFS time and create their backoff 
time using IEEE 802.11 backoff mechanism. Let the 
backoff time for B,C and D be 18, 10, 15 secµm , 
respectively. Among nodes B, C, and D, the backoff 
time of node C is the shortest one. In such a case, 
node C has the right to access the medium and 
transmit its frame. When the transmission period of 
node C is ended, nodes B and D must decrease their 
backoff time by the backoff time of node C. If node E 
wants to transmit data during the transmission period 
of node C. Node E should create its backoff time 
after waiting for a period of DIFS. Let the backoff 
time of node E be 7 secµm . Then, the transmission 
 4
obtained by CBR connections. 
End-to-end delay per packet: the total delay 
experienced by a packet that successfully reached the 
destination node. 
End-to-end delay per hop: the average delay per 
hop that experienced by a packet that successfully 
reached the destination node. 
Energy dissipation per packet: the average energy 
dissipation experienced by a packet that successfully 
reached the destination node. 
Energy dissipation per hop: the average energy 
dissipation per hop that experienced by a packet that 
successfully reached the destination node. 
Received packet per energy dissipation: the 
number of received packets per energy dissipation. 
 
5. Performance Evaluations 
In this section, we evaluate the impact of the 
residue power for a node on the performance of the 
wireless multihop ad hoc networks. 
 
5.1  Hop-put 
In Fig. 3, we plot hop-puts (number of radio 
transmissions) vs. connections. Both the fruitful 
hop-put and the wasted hop-put are shown. We can 
see that 802.11 has bigger differences in the fruitful 
hop-put and the wasted hop-put than E802.11. In 
other words, more successful radio transmissions are 
spent on packets that do not reach their final 
destinations. The reason that some packets cannot 
reach their destinations is due to the increased traffic 
loading at the MAC layer. In addition, E802.11 takes 
the remaining energy as the metric of backoff scheme 
and this will decrease the congested nodes. When the 
energy is included in backoff scheme (near a 
distributed network), more successful radio 
transmissions create more successful CBR packet 
delivery. The network waste less network resource 
and this will improve the network performance. This 
shows that E802.11 achieves better network 
performance than 802.11. 
 
 
5.2  End-to-end goodput 
Fig. 4 shows the end-to-end goodput versus the 
connections for 802.11 and E802.11. And we know 
that the end-to-end goodput for E802.11 is much 
higher than that for 802.11. In Fig. 4, as the number 
of CBR connections increases, the end-to-end 
goodput increases. When the number of connections 
is large, the end-to-end goodput suffers from the 
traffic increase due to the increased connections. 
Nonetheless, given a particular CBR connection 
number, the goodput for E802.11 is still higher than 
802.11. 
 
 
5.3 End-to-end delay 
From Tables I and II, we see that E802.11 there 
is slightly larger than 802.11 for end-to-end delay per 
packet or per hop. In order to save energy, E802.11 
takes the energy into consideration at backoff 
mechanism. In E802.11, the increase in the power 
saving is achieved by using the energy aware backoff 
mechanism, but adding certain quantity of delay. 
 
5.4 Energy dissipation 
Fig. 5 shows the energy dissipation per packet 
versus the connections for 802.11 and E802.11. And 
we know that the energy dissipation per packet for 
E802.11 is much lower than that for 802.11. 
 
 
Fig. 6 shows the energy dissipation per hop 
versus the connections for 802.11 and E802.11. We 
see that the energy dissipation per hop for E802.11 is 
much lower than that for 802.11. 
In Fig. 5 and 6, as the number of CBR 
connections increases, the energy dissipation 
increases. When the number of connections is large, 
the energy dissipation increases. Nonetheless, given a 
particular CBR connection number, the energy 
dissipation per packet or per hop for E802.11 is still 
lower than 802.11. 
From Table 3, we see that E802.11 is higher 
than 802.11 for received packets that has same 
