 2
的高分子中，去增加材料的硬度和生物活性，譬如，將 HA 或是 TCP 加入具有生物活性的高
分子基材中(例如 PS 或是 PHB)，去開發成骨骼的替代物。 
 
組織工程提供一種新的方法進行骨骼修復，將活細胞移到身體裡面不僅提供一個適當的
環境給損壞的或病害的組織，而且刺激組織的修復和再生，以便恢復正常功能。應用於組織
工程的支架在設計上必須是 3D 結構，高孔隙率及良好的孔洞連結性，有利於細胞的貼附及
擴散，並且擁有符合細胞機械性質的完整結構，以及提供合適的孔洞分佈作為營養物和代謝
物的運輸。 
 
為鞏固支架的物理和機械性能，因此加入添加劑。氫氧基磷灰石(Hydroxyapatite HA)在
臨床實驗上已使用多年，由於它的化學組成與人體的骨骼類似，因此擁有良好的生物相容性。
多孔型的 HA 在生物醫學上有極大的應用，例如骨組織再生、細胞擴散及藥物傳送。在骨骼
組織工程上，HA 被應用在修補缺陷骨骼的填料、人造骨骼的移植材料以及義肢修復手術。 
 
PEEK 是一種多芳香族的半結晶熱塑性聚合物。玻璃轉移溫度和熔點分別為 145℃和
343℃，它是一個適合在高溫處理並且穩定的聚合物。它是一個強度、硬度、和韌性的優越組
合。它也有好的化學和疲勞抗性，高溫耐久性，和塗裝性。它是一種最高性能的機械性熱塑
料，它被廣泛的使用在航空和海洋產業的結構和承載應用上。 PEEK 聚合物複合材料由於它
的生物協調性和優越的機械性能應用在承載方面獲得重視。而且它可一再的在蒸氣或是輻射
中消毒也不會有明顯的退化。這種聚合物可用射出成型、壓製或者用機器製造，並且可熱塑
成適合骨骼的形狀。PEEK 在生物醫學的應用上還有一項好處就是電波是無法穿透的，因此
被植入的支架可使用 X 光檢測。 
 
生物活性材料共同的特點是它們可以透過當浸泡在模擬體液(Simulated body fluid,SBF)
中時所生成的磷灰石(hydroxyapatite；HA)層與人體骨骼結合，藉以增加材料的生物相容性。
本研究之目標為製造可承受荷重之多孔形HA/PEEK生物複材應用於骨組織工程上，希望結合
此生物複材之加工性、物理、機械特性，及生物相容性等相關研究成果，提供國內業界生產
此多孔形生物複材之寶貴資訊。 
 
四、材料與方法 
1.製備 HA/PEEK 複合材料所需之藥品： 
PEEK (Polyetheretherketone),HAP (Hydroxyapatite , Fluka/USA),發泡劑 (Blowing 
agent,C2H4N4O2 , 塑德公司)。 
 
2.配製模擬體液所需之藥品： 
Sodium chloride (NaCl , MERCK),Potassium chloride (KCl , MERCK),Calcium chloride 
(CaCl2 , MERCK),Sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO3 , MERCK),Sodium phosphate dibasic 
(Na2HPO4 2H‧ 2O , MERCK),Magnesium chloride (MgCl2 6H‧ 2O , MERCK),Kotassium 
dihydrogen phosphate (KH2PO4 , MERCK),Magnesium sulfate (MgSO4 , MERCK),Glucose 
(MERCK)。 
 
3.多孔型 HA/PEEK 複合材料製備： 
取適量的 PEEK、HAP 粉末以及發泡劑，依照所須之比例含量將其加入酒精中，以攪拌
器均勻攪拌一個小時之後再使用超音波水浴槽震盪 10 分鐘；隨後過濾取其粉末。 
將過濾之後得到的粉末放置在烘箱中烘乾約一小時，之後將烘乾後的粉末以油壓機押錠成型
(10mm diameter with 3mm height)，最後將其放置入高溫爐中以365℃的溫度燒結一個小時即
得。 
 
4.模擬體液配製方法： 
如表一所示[2][5]，在 37℃下加入表中所列之藥品於蒸餾水中，並且調整 pH 值至 7.3~7.5
即得。 
 
5.HA/PEEK 複合材料浸泡模擬體液步驟： 
將多孔形純 PEEK 複合材料以及各種不同 HA 含量比例的多孔形 HA/PEEK 複合材料以
切割處理去除表面皮層後，在 37℃下將其個別浸泡在 30ml 的模擬體液中，浸泡的天數則為
7、14、21、28 天。 
 
6.FE-SEM 表面型態觀察準備步驟： 
將浸泡過模擬體液的多孔形純 PEEK 複合材料以及各種不同 HA 含量比例的多孔形
 4
 
六、結論： 
本研究成功製備出多孔形 HA/PEEK 複合材料。隨著材料中 HA 含量的上升以及浸泡在
模擬體液中的天數增加，材料表面上所生成的磷灰石晶體顆粒數量也會隨之增加，並且晶粒
尺寸也會較大。 
由 FE-SEM 照片結果可清楚觀察，當浸泡模擬體液的天數超過 21 天後，材料表面所生成
的磷灰石晶體顆粒有聚集的現象，並且會沉積覆蓋於材料的表面上，部分區域會有鈣化現象
的形成。 
純 PEEK 為生物惰性材料，將其浸泡在模擬體液中不會反應生成 HA 晶體顆粒。 
由 XRD 分析的結果，我們發現隨著材料浸泡在模擬體液中的天數增加，以及材料中 HA
含量比例的提昇，PEEK 的繞射峰會有強度減弱的趨勢。 
由機械性質的結果得知，隨著材料中所添加的 HA 含量比例提昇，導致材料的孔洞尺寸
變大，機械性質會有下降的結果，但卻更接近人體骨骼的機械性質。 
 
七、參考文獻： 
1. 蔡健民，以奈米粉體強化之高性能高分子 PEEK 製成與機械性質分析，國立中山大學材料
科學研究所，中華民國九十二年七月。 
2. Shucong Yu, Kithva Prakash Hariram, Rajendra Kumar, Philip Cheang,Khor Khiam Aik, In 
vitro apatite formation and its growth kinetics on hydroxyapatite/polyetheretherketone 
biocomposites,Biomaterials 26 (2005) 2343–2352. 
3. I. Sopyan,_, M. Mel, S. Rameshc, K.A. Khalid ,Porous hydroxyapatite for artificial bone 
applications, Science and Technology of Advanced Materials 8 (2007) 116–123. 
4. Hirotaka Maeda, Toshihiro Kasuga, Masayuki Nogami, Minoru Ueda, Preparation of bonelike 
apatite composite for tissue engineering scaffold, Science and Technology of Advanced 
Materials 6 (2005) 48–53. 
5. S. Tamilselvi, V. Raman, N. Rajendran, Corrosion behaviour of Ti–6Al–7Nb and Ti–6Al–4V 
ELI alloys in the simulated body fluid solution by electrochemical impedance spectroscopy, 
Electrochimica Acta 52 (2006) 839–846. 
6. M.S. Abu Bakar, M.H.W. Cheng, S.M. Tang, S.C. Yu, K. Liao, C.T. Tan,K.A. Khor, P. Cheang, 
Tensile properties, tension–tension fatigue and biological response of 
polyetheretherketone–hydroxyapatite composites for load-bearing orthopedic implants, 
Biomaterials 24 (2003) 2245–2250 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
 
 
 
 
 
      
圖一.多孔形純 PEEK 材料(a)浸泡在 SBF 溶液前以及(b)浸泡在 SBF 溶液中 28 天後的 FE-SEM 表面照片 
 
10 20 30 40 50
 
2θ
 0 DAYS
 28 DAYS
 
圖二.多孔形純 PEEK 材料(a)浸泡在 SBF 溶液前以及(b)浸泡再 SBF 溶液中 28 天後的 XRD 繞射圖 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)(a) 
 8
     
   
圖四.多孔形 HA/PEEK 浸泡在 SBF 中 14 天的 FE-SEM 照片(a)2%、(b)4%、(c)6%、(d)8%、(e)10% 
 
 
     
   
圖五.多孔形 HA/PEEK 浸泡在 SBF 中 21 天的 FE-SEM 照片(a)2%、(b)4%、(c)6%、(d)8%、(e)10% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) (b) (c) 
(d) (e) 
(a) (b) (c) 
(d) (e) 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖八.多孔形 HA/PEEK 複合材料機械性質測試圖 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S
tre
ss
(M
P
a)
0
10
20
30
40
50
Pure PEEK
2% HA/PEEK
4% HA/PEEK
6% HA/PEEK
8% HA/PEEK
10% HA/PEEK
S
tra
in
(%
)
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
Pure PEEK
2% HA/PEEK
4% HA/PEEK
6% HA/PEEK
8% HA/PEEK
10% HA/PEEK
El
as
tic
(M
P
a)
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
Pure PEEk
2% HA/PEEK
4% HA/PEEK
6% HA/PEEK
8% HA/PEEK
10% HA/PEEK
CS-1:2007 CRS conference abstract 
Water-soluble Chitosan-PAA Nanosuspension for Ophthalmic Delivery of Pilocarpine 
Hong-Ru Lin1, Shi-PingYu1, Yiu-Jiuan Lin2 
1Southern Taiwan University of Technology, Tainan 710, Taiwan 
hrlin@mail.stut.edu.tw 
2Department of Nursing, Chung Hwa College of Medical Technology, Tainan 707, Taiwan 
  
ABSTRACT 
Chitosan-poly(acrylic acid) (CS-PAA) nanoparticles 
were successfully prepared by template polymerization.  
The chitosan was depolymerized to cut down its molecular 
weight to improve the performance of the carrier in the 
higher pH value environment. Both in vitro and in vivo 
studies were conducted to confirm the controlled-release 
property of the nanoparticles.  
 
INTRODUCTION 
Nanoparticles have been revealed to be efficient as 
ocular drug delivery systems by prolonging the duration of 
the action of drugs [1-5]. In the previous studies [6], we 
have successfully prepared chitosan-poly(acrylic acid) 
(CS-PAA) nanoparticles with exceptional 
controlled-release properties using template 
polymerization, but the application of the carrier was 
limited due to the characteristics of chitosan. Solubility of 
chitosan tends to decrease in mediums with pH higher than 
6. Under such circumstances, the polysaccharide chain of 
chitosan will start to aggregate and precipitate, eventually 
leading to the breakup of the core-shell structure. To avoid 
this phenomenon, modification of chitosan is required. In 
this paper we use hydrogen peroxide to depolymerize 
chitosan [7]. By severing the long polysaccharide chain, 
molecular weight of chitosan was decreased, which in turn 
increased its water solubility and tolerance of pH values. In 
addition, the iv vitro and in vivo pilocarpine released from 
the nanosuspension was evaluated.     
 
EXPERIMENTAL METHODS 
0.5g chitosan was completely dissolved in 100 ml 
0.5% acetic acid solution under magnetic stirring and 5 ml 
H2O2 aqueous solution of various concentrations was then 
added dropwise to depolymerize chitosan. The molecular 
weights (Mv) of the modified chitosan were determined 
using a viscometric method. 0.5 g low Mv chitosan was 
completely dissolved in 100 ml 0.5% acetic solution and 
diluted NaOH solution was slowly added to adjust the pH. 
The pH value from which chitosan began to precipitate 
was recorded. The desired amount of the modified chitosan 
was completely dissolved in acrylic acid aqueous solution 
(pH 4.0) and 0.1 mmol of K2S2O8 as an initiator was added 
to prepare the CS-PAA nanoparticles. Dried CS-PAA 
nanoparticles were dispersed in simulated tear fluids (STF). 
Pilocarpine powder was then added to the nanosuspension 
to prepare the drug-loaded CS-PAA nanoparticles. In vitro 
and in vivo studies were conducted to evaluate the drug 
release profile and pharmacological response of the 
nanosuspension. 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
Hydrogen peroxide was successfully used to 
depolymerize chitosan. Increase of hydrogen peroxide 
concentration decreased the molecular weight of chitosan 
and improved its pH endurance (Table 1). The same effect 
was also found with the increase of depolymerization time. 
Thus, according to Tables 1 and 2, the reaction time and the 
concentration of hydrogen peroxide both played a critical 
role in determining the molecular weight of the products, 
and lower Mv means better solubility.  
Pilocarpine release was evaluated at 37°C in 
simulated tear fluid (pH 7.4). The release profiles of 
pilocarpine in STF and of commercial eye drops 
(pilocarpine-loaded) were similar, and the release rate of 
both carriers was very fast: almost 95% of the pilocarpine 
was released into the medium within 5 min (Figure 1). The 
release profile of pilocarpine-loaded nanoparticles (with an 
encapsulation efficiency of 71%), however, showed an 
initial burst of release followed by a slow release. Only 
about 40% of the drug was released within the first 15 min, 
and then 80% of the drug was released within 6 h. The 
initial burst of released pilocarpine came from the water 
phase on the withdrawn nanodispersion and the surface of 
the nanoparticles. They dissolved quickly into the medium 
once the dispersant was added to the STF solution. The 
remaining fraction of the drug was encapsulated in the 
core-shell structure of the CS-PAA nanoparticles and was 
slowly released into the medium. The modified 
nanoparticles (M-NP) have the same release profile as that 
of unmodified nanoparticles (NP). This comparison 
between nanoparticles with pilocarpine in STF and 
pilocarpine in commercial eye drops demonstrated that the 
nanoparticles were better able to retain pilocarpine.  
From in vivo drug release, after 45 min, all four 
carriers had produced the maximum decrease in pupil size, 
the maximum pharmacological response (Figure 2). Then, 
because some of the formulation was eliminated from the 
precorneal area because of lacrimal secretion and 
nasolacrimal drainage, pupil size began to increase. In the 
rabbits treated with the pilocarpine-containing STF 
formulation, pupil size reached baseline after 90 min and 
remained that way for the next 270 min, which indicated 
that the pilocarpine had been completely released from the 
STF formulation after 90 min. Pupil size in the rabbits 
treated with the pilocarpine-containing commercial eye 
drops formulation showed almost the same 
pharmacological response as in the 
