 
 
   
 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
應用於行動隨意網路之複合式快取機制 
A Compound Caching Mechanism for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2218－E－251－002 
執行期限：96年8月1日至 97年7月31日 
主持人：趙志峯 國立屏東商業技術學院 資訊工程系 
計畫參與人員：鄭昆玠、蘇柏銘、李牧謙 
 
中文摘要—行動隨意網路（Mobile ad 
hoc network，MANET）藉由有效率的動態路
由協定的協助，不需基地台或擷取點的協調
或是廣播網路拓樸訊息，就能讓行動節點彼
此間相互通訊。完全依靠行動節點自行組成
一個動態的網路拓樸，所以，行動隨意網路
的網路拓樸會因為其行動節點的移動而隨時
自行調整。本計畫提出了一個運用於行動隨
意網路之複合式快取機制，藉由此機制的輔
助，重複出現在行動隨意網路中的資料可以
被快取在某些特定的行動節點上，藉此以提
高資料的重複使用率，進而達到節省網路傳
輸頻寬以及行動節點電池能源的消耗；此
外，資料的存取路徑也能同時被快取，以縮
短存取資料路徑，進而加快資料的存取時
間。此外，本計畫同時亦開發了一個模擬的
環境以進行各種快取機制的測試，藉以了解
各種快取機制的效果與缺失來進行參考及改
進。透過數據結果之分析得以顯示出本機制
所提出之快取機制與其他機制相較下之優
點。 
 
Abstract-- Mobile ad hoc networks (MANETs), 
enabling multi-hop communication between mobile nodes, are 
characterized by variable network topology and the demand for 
efficient dynamic routing protocols. MANETs need no 
stationary infrastructure or preconstructed base station to 
coordinate packet transmissions or to advertise information of 
network topology for mobile nodes. The objective of this 
project is to provide MANETs with a compound caching 
mechanism, which could cache the repetition of data and data 
path, shorten routes and time span to access data, and enhance 
data reusable rate to further reduce the use of bandwidth and 
the consumption of power. In addition, this project also 
develops a simulated environment to process various cache 
mechanism simulations to understand different cache 
mechanism effect and drawbacks for references and 
improvements. In the mean time, the strengths of compound 
cache mechanism may appear as comparing to other 
mechanisms by using data result analysis. 
 
Keywords：ad hoc networks, cache, caching mechanisms, 
manet, wireless networks. 
  
1 Introduction 
    Mobile ad hoc network is part of infrastructureless 
wireless networks. Mobile ad hoc network does not rely on 
base station for data transmission, and the data packet depends 
on the relay between mobile nodes. Because it abandons 
construction for base station, therefore mobile nodes must 
recover this part of capability. Mobile ad hoc network is 
featured by its dynamic structure [1-3], which provides low 
stabilized transmission to mobile nodes for sending and 
receiving messages，and thereby any mobile ad hoc network 
could achieve self-organization and adjust to the variability of 
mobile nodes. Hence, mobile ad hoc network may be used for 
certain severe environment, such as war battle, remote areas, 
rescue locations and temporary meeting places. 
 
Most studies of mobile ad hoc networks focus on finding 
shortest path or increasing to maximum bandwidth [4], while 
there were fewer studies looking into increase of data reusing 
rate and decrease of data volume such resource consumption 
categories [5-10]. Nevertheless, mobile node itself is subject to 
hardware limitation and thereby has less resources, 
accompanied with there is no base station for mobile ad hoc 
network, thus mobile nodes must recover this part of capability. 
Since it will consume more resources than network framework 
with infrastructure. Therefore, all kinds of resources relatively 
become very precious. Meanwhile, the studies of reducing 
resources consumption are also very important. 
 
By processing various cache mechanism simulation under 
simulated environments, we might recognize the effects and 
drawbacks of different cache mechanism for future references 
and improvement. By processing various cache mechanism 
simulations in simulated environment, we may recognize the 
effects and drawbacks of different cache mechanism for 
references and improvements. Meanwhile, we may analyze the 
    
 3
to K among K, K and D, and the record data source closing to 
D is D.  
 
Comparing with data path cache mechanism, Compound  
cache mechanism has more outstanding effect regarding 
decrease of path length, data source scatteration and increase of 
average file transmission speed. In respect of resource 
consumption, there is only a node would be data cache node on 
the path regardless path length, therefore it could avoid 
disadvantage of mass resource consumption. Comparing to the 
resource consumption of data path cache mechanism, 
compound cache mechanism only consume slightly more 
resources than cache mechanism 
 
3.2 Data Cache Node Effect Consideration  
During design process of compound cache mechanism, by 
consideration that bad effect of using data cache node if path is 
too short, we simply use data path cache within compound 
cache mechanism when the path is too short, instead of adding 
data cache test to understand whether it will affect the effect 
that initial compound cache mechanism intends to reach after 
adding this limitation.  
 
The reason of bad effect occurred when path is too short 
is that data cache node has following three functions: 
1. Scatter data resources（prevent too busy data source 
node） 
2. Cache shooting average（request file node itself as the 
data cache node of this file） 
3. Reduce path length（avoid probability of crisscross 
path） 
 
3.2.1Scatter Data Source 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. The influence dispersing of scatter source 
resources 
 
According to the shortest path, only the M2 area between 
centerline of S and C and centerline of C and D will request C 
for the file. The shorter the path is, the closer the distance 
within S、C、D, and the smaller ratio the M2 area occupying 
entire domain, and therefore the smaller opportunity of C 
becoming data source. Therefore, the effect making C as data 
cache to scatter data sources is not good if the path is too short. 
 
3.2.2Cache Shooting Average 
For increasing the cache shooting average that asks file 
node to be exactly the data cache node, the quantity of data 
cache nodes must be increased. However, this also signifies 
synchronized growth on resource consumption; therefore, it 
costs too much for the expectation of cache shooting average. 
 
3.2.3Decreasing Path Length 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. The influences on path length with or without data 
cache nodes within compound cache mechanism 
 
C is the data cache node on the path established by S and 
D, Y1 is the centerline of S and D, R is the mobile node located 
on Y1. |SC|>=|CD|, |SR|-|RC| represents if C is the difference 
between path length of data cache nodes. Where C overlap with 
R, |SR|-|RC| （if C is the difference between path length of 
cache）would have maximum value |SD|/2. The longer the 
distance is from R to S and C, the smaller the |SR|-|RC|. 
Therefore, the possible maximum path distance variance 
caused with or without cache node under compound cache 
mechanism is （N-1）× maximum communication distance）
/2. Hence, the smaller is the path length, the smaller effect with 
or without cache node to shortening path length. In addition, 
the bigger is the mobile ad hoc network scale; the shortening 
effect of too closed S and D data cache nodes toward path 
length is almost zero. 
 
3.2.4Use the Path Length of Data Cache Node to Segment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Bandwidth for Transmission Data Packet 
 
When data is relayed through middle node, the maximum 
bandwidth usage is only half because the middle node must 
process input and output actions at the same time. If there is no 
middle node, then it may use entire bandwidth because the 
source node and target node relay to each other directly. 
 
 
 
 
M1 M2 M3 
S D C 
S D C 
Y1 
R 
Input：bandwidth /2 
Output：bandwidth/2 
Input: bandwidth 
Output: bandwidth 
    
 5
the first node is initial data source node, and the rest selections 
are nodes sending file request from this test. Each cache mode 
will finish test under condition of same file requesting node by 
each test. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 9. Main Flowchart of Simulation Test 
 
5 Simulation Result 
In this section we will analyze data of simulation 
result.There are comparsion of average path length ，
comparison of accumulated average resource consumption and 
comparison of average file transmission speed. 
 
5.1 Comparison of Average Path Length 
Under smaller size condition, the path length of 
compound cache mode is shorter than data path cache mode 
and between data cache mode and data path cache mode. If it 
only uses data path cache when the path length of compound 
cache mode is less than 5, the effect of shortening path will 
also be better than data path cache mode, but worse than initial 
compound cache mode.  
 
Figure 10. The Scale Map of Path Length Under 50 Mobile 
Nodes 
 
Figure 11. The Scale Map of Path Length Under 200 Mobile 
Nodes 
However, you must notice that the average path length is 
shorter because it is small mobile ad hoc network. By 
proportion, whether compound cache mode limits the use of 
data cache by path that is too short and results in the difference 
of path nodes only existing between 1~2 nodes. 
Within larger size condition, the ratio of path length under 
compound cache mode is still shorten than data path cache 
mode and between data cache mode and data path cache mode. 
But as to the shortened node number, the variances will be 
enlarged since entire mobile ad hoc network size is expanding. 
What you need to pay attention is that compound cache mode 
only uses data path cache if the path length is less than 5. The 
influence on path length shortening of initial compound cache 
mode will not enlarge along with the expansion of mobile ad 
hoc networks. After size expansion, the compound cache 
mechanism limiting the use of data cache will have almost the 
identical effect to path shortening with initial compound cache 
mode. 
 
5.2 Comparison of Accumulated Average Resource 
Consumption 
Resource consumption test indicates the number of files 
copied in the whole mobile ad hoc network. Consumed 
resources means data storage space. As to the data source 
recorded by data path cache, it could be ignored because that it 
only occupies very small data storage space. 
Figure 12. The Accumulated Chart for Average Resource 
Consumption Under Size of 50 Mobile Nodes 
Establish new test 
project 
Random distributed 
mobile nodes 
M = M + 1 
Randomly select 
N sets of test 
nodes 
T = 1 
Test Tth set of nodes Gather statistics and 
record test result 
M>Scheduled test 
numbers? 
Whether all cache 
mechanisms tests 
are achieved 
Whether all selected 
node tests are 
completed(T>N) 
T = T + 1 
Yes 
No 
M = 1 
Finish 
No
Yes 
Yes
No
    
 7
can use simply use data path cache under initial compound 
cache mechanism if the path length is less than 5 nodes, 
compound cache mechanism only needs to cost a little bit more 
of resource consumption comparing to data path cache 
mechanism to gain better effect on path shortening, data source 
distribution and increase of file downloading speed than data 
path cache mechanism. 
With mobile ad hoc network, the mobile learning, mobile 
commerce and mobile entertainment [11-13] will be getting 
popular. However, following competitions of all kinds of 
service commercialization, the transmission file size and 
quantities surely will increase gradually in order to provide 
better service and more beautiful images.  
Within mobile ad hoc network, the entire network 
structure will continuously change due to the movements of 
mobile nodes. In this case, the bigger the file size, the longer 
the downloading time, while the interference is getting bigger 
for ongoing changes of the path. The file size must be reduced 
in order to improve this problem. We may consider dividing the 
file into certain parts with specific size to reach certain ongoing 
sending effect when it is found the file size exceeding some 
limit as certain node requesting for files. It allows resource 
consumption to be more equally distributed in the whole 
mobile ad hoc network and break the limitation that only half 
bandwidth could be used for the relay via the middle node. 
 
References 
[1] S. Corson and J. Macker,"Mobile Ad hoc Networking
（MANET） : Routing Protocol Performance Issues and 
Evaluation Considerations, " IETF RFC2501, Jan. 1999. 
[2] E.M. Royer and C.K. Toh, "A Review of Current 
Routing Protocols for Ad Hoc Mobile Wireless 
Networks, " IEEE Personal Communications, Vol. 6, No. 
2, Apr. 1999, pp.46-55. 
[3] S.J. Lee, M. Gerla and C.K. Toh, "A simulation study of 
table-driven and on-demand routing protocols for mobile 
ad hoc networks, " IEEE Network, Volume 13, Issue 4, 
Jul.-Aug. 1999, pp.48-54. 
[4] T. Bemers-Lee, R. Cailliau, A. Luotonen, H. Nielsen, 
and A. Secret, "The World-Wide Web, " Commun. ACM, 
vol. 37, no. 8, Aug. 1993, pp. 76-82. 
[5] A. Alwan, R. Bagrodia, N. Bambos, M. Gerla, L. 
Kleinrock, J. Short and J. Villasenor,"Adaptive Mobile 
Multimedia Networks, " IEEE Personal Commun., Apr. 
1996, pp. 34-51. 
[6] Hari Balakrishnan, V. N. Padmanabhan, S. Seshan, and 
Randy H. Katz, "A Comparison of Mechanisms for 
Improving TCP Performance over Wireless Links, "  
IEEE/ACM Trans. On Networking, vol. 5, no. 6, Dec. 
1997, pp. 756-769. 
[7] David Kidston, J.P. Black, Thomas Kunz, "Transparent 
Communication Management in Wireless Networks," 
The Seventh Workshop on Hot Topics in Operating 
Systems, 1999, pp. 64 -69. 
[8] Li Fan, Pei Cao, Jussara Almeida, and Andrei Z. Broder, 
"Summary Cache: A Scalable Wide-Area Web Cache 
Sharing Protocol, " In Proceedings of ACM SIGCOMM, 
Sept. 1998, pp. 254-265. 
[9] Chunhung Richard Lin and Mario Gerla, "Real-time 
Support in Multihop Wireless Networks, " IEEE 
Wireless Networks, 1999, pp. 125-135. 
 
[10] Chunhung Richard Lin and Jain-Shing Liu, "QoS 
Routing in Ad Hoc Wireless Networks, " IEEE Journal 
on Selected Areas in Communications, Vol. 17, No. 8, 
Aug. 1999, pp. 1426-1438. 
[11] T. Plagemann, V. Goebel, C, Griwodz, and P. Halvorsen, 
"Towards Middleware Services for Mobile Ad-hoc 
Network Applications, " Proceedings of the Ninth IEEE 
Workshop on Future trends of Distributed Computing 
Systems, May 2003, pp. 249-255. 
[12] M. Milenkovic, S.H. Robinson, R.C Knauerhase, D. 
Barkai, S. Garg, V. Tewari, T.A. Anderson, and M. 
Bowman, " Toward Internet Distributed 
Computing,"Computer, Vol.36, No.5, May 2003, pp. 
38-46. 
[13] A. Fuller, P. McFarlane, D. Saffioti, "Distributed, 
collaborative learning environments using ad hoc 
networks, " Proc. IEEE Int'l Conf. Advanced Learing 
Technologies, 30Aug.-1Sept. 2004, pp. 705-707. 
[14] Liangzhong Yin, Guohong Cao, "Supporting 
Cooperative Caching in Ad Hoc Networks, " IEEE 
Transactions on Mobile Computing, Volume 5,No. 1, Jan. 
2006,pp.77-89 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
計畫編號 NSC 96－2218－E－251－002 
計畫名稱 應用於行動隨意網路之複合式快取機制 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 趙志峯 助理教授，國立屏東商業技術學院資訊工程系 
會議時間地點 July 7-9, 2008, Seoul, South Korea 
會議名稱 International Conference on Business And Information 2008 
發表論文題目 A Study on Organizational Change within Higher Education 
Institutions from the Perspective of Social Exchange Theory 
 
一、參加會議經過 
承蒙國科會工程處專題研究計畫經費的補助，本次得以參加由Academy of Taiwan 
Information Systems Research所舉辦之 International Conference on Business and 
Information（BAI2008），BAI2008是第五屆商業與資訊國際研討會，今年的舉辦場地是
韓國首爾市的JW Marriott飯店，會議期間為2008年7月7日至7月9日。 
為了能夠於時間內參加 7月 7日的議程，本人選擇搭乘 7月 6日立榮航空公司由高
雄小港機場的航班前往韓國首爾仁川機場。到達仁川機場後，先搭乘公車至住宿飯店
check in，並於隔日早上搭乘公車抵達研討會會場完成報到與註冊手續。當天並抽空閱
讀研討會之議程手冊以及研討會場地配置，以了解研討會每天之各項活動的地點與時
間。 
BAI2008總共接收到39個國家所寄出約700份的投稿，主辦單位共接受了465份論
文，正式會議報告每天有4個時段進行報告，並分別在7個會議場舉辦。報告時間，每個
人約20分鐘的時間進行口頭論文發表；在結束一位完整的報告後，大約會有5至10分鐘
的時間，留給聽眾與報告者作簡單的討論。 
 
二、 與會心得 
BAI2008 主要目的在於藉此機會，邀請國際上各商務與資訊領域的學者與實務上企
業的菁英齊聚ㄧ堂，共襄盛舉這場會議，分享在資訊科技技術、企業管理、經濟、行銷、
人力資源等領域的相關課題以及探討在未來能夠進行的研究方向。 
在會議進行過程，與其他與會專家學者互動過程，了解到欲有效實現產學合作所帶
來的效益，學術單位必須積極整合教學資訊，藉此達到產業協同之目的，以培育有用、
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
計畫編號 NSC 96－2218－E－251－002 
計畫名稱 應用於行動隨意網路之複合式快取機制 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 趙志峯 助理教授，國立屏東商業技術學院資訊工程系 
會議時間地點 July 7-9, 2008, Seoul, South Korea 
會議名稱 International Conference on Business And Information 2008 
發表論文題目 A Study on Organizational Change within Higher Education 
Institutions from the Perspective of Social Exchange Theory 
 
一、參加會議經過 
承蒙國科會工程處專題研究計畫經費的補助，本次得以參加由Academy of Taiwan 
Information Systems Research所舉辦之 International Conference on Business and 
Information（BAI2008），BAI2008是第五屆商業與資訊國際研討會，今年的舉辦場地是
韓國首爾市的JW Marriott飯店，會議期間為2008年7月7日至7月9日。 
為了能夠於時間內參加 7月 7日的議程，本人選擇搭乘 7月 6日立榮航空公司由高
雄小港機場的航班前往韓國首爾仁川機場。到達仁川機場後，先搭乘公車至住宿飯店
check in，並於隔日早上搭乘公車抵達研討會會場完成報到與註冊手續。當天並抽空閱
讀研討會之議程手冊以及研討會場地配置，以了解研討會每天之各項活動的地點與時
間。 
BAI2008總共接收到39個國家所寄出約700份的投稿，主辦單位共接受了465份論
文，正式會議報告每天有4個時段進行報告，並分別在7個會議場舉辦。報告時間，每個
人約20分鐘的時間進行口頭論文發表；在結束一位完整的報告後，大約會有5至10分鐘
的時間，留給聽眾與報告者作簡單的討論。 
 
二、 與會心得 
BAI2008 主要目的在於藉此機會，邀請國際上各商務與資訊領域的學者與實務上企
業的菁英齊聚ㄧ堂，共襄盛舉這場會議，分享在資訊科技技術、企業管理、經濟、行銷、
人力資源等領域的相關課題以及探討在未來能夠進行的研究方向。 
在會議進行過程，與其他與會專家學者互動過程，了解到欲有效實現產學合作所帶
來的效益，學術單位必須積極整合教學資訊，藉此達到產業協同之目的，以培育有用、
