2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
Intelligent TGARCH 模型應用於台灣加權指數波動傳遞之實證分析
(Intelligent TGARCH Model Applied to Taiwan Weighted Index of 
Transmissions that Volatility) 
計畫編號： NSC －95-2221-E-275-004- 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：洪瑞鍾     執行機構及單位名稱：嶺東科技大學資訊科技系
 
中文摘要 
從第一期計畫初步證實結果可知，台灣市場
在門檻GARCH 模型(Threshold GARCH 
Model)中之參數估計值均符合模型之穩定條
件，且顯示出市場存在資訊不對稱與槓桿效
應(leverage effect)的現象，本計畫案第2 期主
要是納入波動傳遞效應具有非線性且時變的
特質與波動不對稱的假設，提出Intelligent 
TGARCH 模型，其設計主要概念是將門檻值
以非線性時變函數表示。而Intelligent 
TGARCH 模型是以人工智慧方式來描述非
線性且時變的波動傳遞特性應用於TGARCH 
模型中，此種 Intelligent TGARCH 模型應會
有不錯的波動描述效果，以降低投資者風險。 
本期計畫主要成果是將人工智慧的門檻設計
結合基因演算法，利用基因演算法特性，平
行處理及較易趨向整體最佳化的特性，來設
計調整門檻值的變化，相關計畫成果已發表
於International Conference on Convergence 
Information Technology 2007(ICCIT07)並收
錄於IEEE Computer Society(EI)。  
 
關鍵詞： 波動傳遞,基因演算法,槓桿效
應，人工智慧,GARCH 模型。 
 
Abstract 
 
This plan considers that transmissions of 
volatility are time-vary and asymmetric. 
Generally, there are many and complex 
reasons that can affect transmissions of 
volatility such as good news and bad news, etc. 
In this situation, the model estimation is more 
difficult to solve and becomes a highly 
nonlinear with many local minima problem. 
For these reasons, we adopt the method of 
artificial intelligence to propose an ITGARCH 
(Intelligent Threshold Generalized 
Autoregression Conditional Heteroscedasticity) 
model. In this paper, we would modify the 
threshold value by using the rule of intelligent. 
The ITGARCH model, which combines the 
advantages of the GA (Genetic Algorithm) and 
Fuzzy theory to describing time-vary and 
asymmetric properties of volatility. The results 
indicate the transmission of volatility for stock 
markets are time-vary nonlinear and 
asymmetric. The transmissions of volatility in 
propose model is exactly performance.  
 
1. Introduction 
 
The data analysis for time sequence, it is 
often the case that the conditional variances 
unmatched the assumption of homogeneity 
according to traditional econometrics models, 
especially in financial data [1]. The financial 
data would be easily subjected to the positive 
or negative information; the markets are existed 
the asymmetric. Bollerslev [2] proposed the 
generalized autoregressive conditional 
heteroscedasticity (GARCH) model. The model 
would not recognize the transmissions of 
volatility from the positive or negative 
information. Therefore, it is not described well 
when the market is asymmetric. Nelson [3] 
proposed the Exponential GARCH (EGARCH) 
model and Zakoian [4] proposed the Threshold 
GARCH (TGARCH) made use of the threshold 
values to discriminate the volatility function 
between some regimes. In general, the 
threshold values in TGARCH model are always 
assumed the constants, but the phenomenon of 
where tI is a binary time-varying sequence 
such that 
1,
0,
t d t
t
t d t
if y r
I
if y r
−
−
≥⎧
= ⎨
<⎩ ` 
  (4)
     
In order to estimate the parameters, tI  
would be satisfied with these assumptions as 
follows: 
1. The sequence tI  is assumed to 
asymptotically stationary of 
independent . Furthermore, they are 
mutually independent ( ). 
tε
( )t tE Iε =
4 
0
2. p is the probability of tI  ( 1r tP I p= =⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦ ), 
which is constant and independent of time 
( ). ( )tE I p=
In equation (4),  is the threshold value, 
which is a time-varying nonlinear function. 
Generally, the threshold value is usually 
complex and indescribable. Therefore, we use 
the method of combines the Fuzzy rule and GA 
to obtain it. 
tr
ITGARCH model is based on the Fuzzy 
rules and GA to adjust the threshold value for 
positive or negative information. The Fuzzy set 
we used the triangle membership functions to 
deal with the time-varying nonlinear system. 
According to the triangle membership function, 
we separate into three parts such as fall, same, 
and raised. The triangle membership function is 
in Figure 1. 
The triangle membership function is 
defined as 
( ) /( )
( ) /( )
1 , , ;
t t
d t t
t t t
y a b a if a y b
y b c b if b y c
if y a b c y a y c
μ
− − < <⎧⎪
= − − < <⎨⎪
= <⎩ ; >
            
 (5) 
where a, b, and c are constant which are 
based on the Fuzzy rules and GA. They stand 
for fall, same, and raised, respectively. 
In this paper, we present the transmissions 
of volatility for the market index and the last 
local market index. The volatility effects are 
based on the Fuzzy rules as follows: 
1. If the last market index would fall then the 
probability of fall will increase in the 
market index. 
2. If the last local market index would be 
same then the probability of same will 
increase in local market. 
3. If the last local market index would rise 
then the probability of rise will increase 
in local market. 
A simple genetic algorithm is in Figure 2. 
It is used to estimate value of a, b, and c. It is 
an iterative procedure, which maintains a 
constant size population of candidate solutions. 
In each generation, the genetic algorithm is 
composed of three operators: (1) reproduction, 
(2) crossover, and (3) mutation [7-9].  
Reproduction is based on the principle of 
survival of the fitness. The fitness of the ith 
string is assigned to each individual string in 
the population. These strings with large fitness 
would have large number of copies in the new 
generation. Once the strings are reproduced or 
copied for possible use in the next generation, 
they are reproduced in a mating pool where 
they await the action of the other two operators, 
crossover, and mutation (Figure 2). 
 Reproduction directs the search toward 
the best existing individuals but does not create 
any new individuals. By the second operator 
(i.e., crossover), strings exchange information 
via probabilistic decision. Crossover provides a 
mechanism for strings to mix and match their 
desirable qualities through a random process. A 
commonly used method for crossover is called 
one-point crossover. The method proceeds in 
three steps. First, two newly reproduced strings 
are selected from the mating pool produced by 
reproduction. Second, a position along the two 
strings is selected uniformly at random. 
Although using random choice, crossover 
should not be thought as a random walk 
through the search space. Crossover is an 
effective means of exchanging information and 
combining portions of high-quality solutions, 
when combined with reproduction, it is an 
effective mean of exchanging information and 
combing portions of high-quality solutions. The 
third step of the crossover operation may or 
may not be able to apply to all parents; here we 
do only to some selected pairs. The selection is 
determined by crossover rate  , which 
controls the frequency by applying the 
crossover operator. The crossover rate in our 
cP
respectively. The empirical results show that 
the parameter estimates are all tally with stable 
conditions. Moreover, we detect that the market 
exists asymmetric and leverage effect.  
The daily closing stock-price index of Taiwan 
weighted index is in Figure 3. That is a 
probability distribution of Taiwan weighted 
index in Figure 4. It is shown that Taiwan 
weighted index is not only fat trial but also 
excess kurtosis. The cost function via the 
proposed algorithm is shown in Figure 5. 
Inspection of Figure 5, the cost function 
converges exponentially. The Figure 6 is 
represent that the threshold value is a function 
of time and nonlinear; not the constant. The 
sum of square innovations in GARCH model is 
64603, and ITGARCH model is 3074. The 
empirical result indicates that the stock markets 
of Taiwan weighted index is asymmetric and 
time-vary nonlinear. Due to the innovations 
and explanations of the ITGARCH model are 
much better than others.  
 
5. Conclusion 
 
Zakoian proposed the TGARCH model to solve 
that the information existed asymmetric in 
financial markets. In general, there are many 
and complex reasons that can affect the 
transmissions of volatility. They keep the 
characteristics of nonlinear and time-vary. For 
these reasons, this paper considers that the 
method of artificial intelligence to propose an 
ITGARCH model. We investigate the 
transmissions of volatility of the stock market. 
 By using ITGARCH model, the empirical 
results indicate the transmissions of volatility 
for market index are time-vary nonlinear and 
asymmetric. We also detect the ITGARCH 
model, which owns the effect of description 
much better than TGARCH model. 
 However, there are a lot of theories and 
models to research the financial markets. This 
paper is only using intelligence (combines the 
GA and Fuzzy theory) and time-vary nonlinear 
to investigate. In future, we could consider 
other methods and dynamic to research. We 
wish develop a suitable. 
 
6. References 
 
[1] Fuller, W. A., Introduction to statistical 
time series, Weley: New York, 1976. 
[2] Bollerslev, T.,”Generalized 
Autoregressive Conditional 
Heteroskedasticity”, Journal of 
Econometric, 31, 307-327, 1986. 
[3] Nelson, D. B., “Conditional 
heteroskedasticity in asset returns: a new 
approach”, Econometrical Theory, 59, 
347-370, 1991. 
[4] Zakoian, J.M., “The Threshold 
Heteroskedastic Models “, Journal of 
Economic Dynamics and Control, Vol. 18, 
pp. 931-995, 1992. 
[5] Fang-Yu Hsu, Yung-Lieh Yang, and 
Jui-Chung Hung, “Fuzzy-Switch 
TGARCH Model Applied to Stock Market 
of NASDAQ Index and Taiwan Weighted 
Index.”, Emerging Financial Markets & 
Services in Asia-Pacific Conference 2004, 
Sydney. 
[6] Zadeh L. A. Fuzzy set. Information and 
Control, Vol. 8, 338-353, 1965. 
[7] Holland, “Outline for a logical theory of 
adaptive systems,” J. ACM, vol. 3, pp. 
297-314, 1962. 
[8] B. P Buckles and P. E. Petry (Eds.), 
Genetic Algorithms, IEEE Computer 
Society Press. , 1992. 
[9] Jui-Chung Hung and Bor-Sen Chen, 
``Genetic algorithm approach to 
fixed-order mixed 2 /H H∞  optimal 
deconvolution filter designs,'' IEEE 
Transactions on Signal Processing, vol. 
48, no. 12, pp. 3451-3461,2000.  
6 
