 II
（二） 計畫英文摘要。 
 
Key words: aluminum, emissivity, temperature measurement, surface roughness, 
   MRT (multispectral radiation thermometry) 
 
Many processes in aluminum manufacturing are required to accurately measure the 
temperature of the aluminum alloy surface in order to attain desired mechanical properties, 
ensure product quality and reproducibility, as well as reduce cost.  The thermocouple or other 
types of contact thermometers are very commonly used to measure the surface temperature in 
industry.  However methods of contact temperature measurement are undesirable because the 
physical contact may not be feasible in moving material situations and may change the surface 
physically or chemically.  Therefore, the accurate, noncontact radiation thermometry is highly 
desired for aluminum production. 
All the radiometric methods are sensitive to changes in the spectral emissivity of the 
material and they also require some knowledge of the surface emissivity.  Therefore, the precise 
experimental measurement of the emissivity that lead to well understand the emissivity behaviors 
of the materials will be very important and helpful to develop an emissivity compensation 
algorithm which can accurately infer the temperature. 
Comprehensive emissivity characteristics of polished and roughened aluminum alloy 
surfaces were examined in author’s previous studies.  The parametric effects of sample 
temperature, wavelength, heating time, alloy and surface roughness on spectral emissivity were 
explored. 
The experimental results were also used to assess the accuracy of popular multispectral 
radiation thermometry (MRT) emissivity models for temperature measurement.  It clearly 
 1
Suitability of a Multispectral Radiation Thermometry (MRT) 
Emissivity Model to Predicting Surface Temperature of 
Aluminum Alloys 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 Introduction 
Many processes in aluminum manufacturing, such as extruding and rolling, are required 
to accurately measuring the temperature of the aluminum alloy surface in order to attain desired 
mechanical properties, ensure product quality and reproducibility, as well as reduce cost.  The 
thermocouple or other types of contact thermometers are very commonly used to measure the 
surface temperature in industry.  However, in some processes, methods of contact temperature 
measurement are undesirable because the physical contact may not be feasible in moving 
material situations and may change the surface physically or chemically.  Therefore, the accurate, 
noncontact radiation thermometry is highly desired for aluminum production. 
Determining the temperature can be accomplished by three categories of radiation 
thermometry which utilize radiance measurement at different number of wavelength: spectral, 
dual-wavelength and multispectral.  Spectral radiation thermometry requires the radiance 
measurement at one wavelength and a constant emissivity value to infer the surface temperature.  
Dual-wavelength radiation thermometry (DWRT) utilizes the radiance measurements at two 
distinct wavelengths and an emissivity compensation algorithm to obtain the surface temperature.  
Multispectral radiation thermometry (MRT) employs the radiance measurements at three or more 
discrete wavelengths and an emissivity model to determine the surface temperature.  Due to the 
complex nature of emissivity behaviors in aluminum alloys, the spectral and dual-wavelengh 
radiation thermometry methods have limited use in specific applications and well defined 
situation [1].  Therefore, in this study, only MRT will be considered. 
 3
2 Experimental Methods 
The experimental apparatus were mainly comprised of the spectrometer, the sample 
heating assembly, the power controller, the digital thermometer, the power supply, the translation 
stage, and the data acquisition system.  Most of the apparatus was mounted atop a two-shelf 
welded steel cart.  
A Fast Infrared Array Spectrometer (FIAS) Model ES100 made by Spectraline Inc. was 
optically aligned in front of the test module.  It was used to simultaneously measure 160 discrete 
spectral radiation intensity values from the wavelength ranges 1.8 to 4.9 µm.  The radiation 
intensity from the target is incident on the entrance slit, and then ultimately dispersed over a 
staggered 160 element linear array PbSe detector.  The voltages and pixel numbers provided by 
the linear array are converted into wavelengths and intensities using pre-installed calibration 
curves.  In addition, an alignment HeNe laser can be installed to point the spectrometer at a 
desired target that is far away from the spectrometer.  The data acquisition is controlled by the 
drive circuit on the spectrometer.  A Windows based GUI, Infraspec Version 2, designed by 
Spectraline Inc is available for basic spectrometric functions.  The output can either be displayed 
on the Windows based GUI or stored onto the computer memory for data analysis. 
The sample heating assembly which includes four cartridge heaters, the aluminum 
heating block, the ceramic fiber blanket insulation, and the insulating flange are shown in Figure 
1.  The whole sample heating assembly was situated on a two- dimensional translation stage.  In 
order to minimize the temperature gradient, the aluminum heating block was fabricated from 
aluminum and surrounded by the ceramic fiber blanket insulation.  Four cartridge heaters as the 
heat source were embedded in the aluminum heating block and a power controller was used to 
manipulate the power into the heater.  The aluminum test sample was held in contact with the 
aluminum heating block by the insulating flange made of alumin silicate for insulation.   
Four test samples, Al-1100, Al-2024, Al-7075, Al-7150, covered a broad range of 
applications, including aerospace structures, truck wheels and window frames and also the wide 
ranges in emissivity variation were used to develop and evaluate the emissivity compensation  
 5
algorithms for predicting the surface temperature. The schematics of the test sample are shown in 
Figure 2.  The testing surface area is only 15 X 15 mm2.  A thermocouple hole was drilled from 
the back of the sample with an angle of 37 degree at 1mm under the measured surface.  The 
temperature gradient between the exposed thermocouple bead and the sample test surface is 
negligible due to the high conductivity of the aluminum samples. 
Five different types of surface conditions were examined.  The Extruded and Saw-cut 
aluminum samples were supplied directly from the plant and machined to the desired size.  The 
other types of surface finishes, polished, roughened with 14 µm grit paper and roughened with 
cloths containing 6 µm diamond compound, were applied to various aluminum samples after 
they were cut and milled to size.  The flat mirror-like polished surface was created with a series 
of five polishing wheels with increasing finer grit and particle size (320 grit SiC, 400 grit SiC, 
600 grit SiC, diamond compound, Gamma alumina).  The other two surface finishes were 
created with the 600 carborundum grit paper and with cloth containing 6 µm diamond compound, 
respectively. 
After machining the sample and creating its specific surface finish, the tested surface was 
cleaned in succession with acetone and methanol to get rid of the oils, grease, or dirt.  The tested 
samples were handled with great care and wrapped in fine tissue to assure their surfaces were 
free from contact with roughening agents following the surface preparation. 
Then the aluminum heating block was preheated to a temperature slightly above the 
anticipated one before heating the test sample.  Next, a single Chromel-Alumel (Type K) 
thermocouple was pressed into the sample’s thermocouple hole which was prepacked with boron 
nitride powder of high thermal conductivity to ensure a good thermal contact between the 
exposed thermocouple bead and the sample.  The test sample was then placed into the insulating 
flange and mounted against the preheated aluminum heating block to heat up the test sample.  
The desired temperature was achieved by manipulating the controller.  Once the temperature of 
the sample was stabilized, the intensity and temperature data were ready to be collected.  The  
 7
sample temperature, measured by the thermocouple, was recorded manually from t an Omega 10 
channel digit thermometer. 
 
 
3 Application of MRT Emissivity Model 
Two different mathematical techniques of multispectral radiation thermometry are used 
to infer the temperature.  The first method is the exact technique which employs an emissivity 
model with n unknown coefficients and radiation intensity measurements at n + 1 wavelengths to 
infer temperature.  Coates [4] and Doloresco [5] concluded that the exact technique might cause 
over-fitting and result in large errors for using more than three wavelengths.  The other method 
which can overcome the over-fitting problem is the least-squares technique.  It employs least-
squares fitting of the measured intensities to simultaneously deduce the best-fit values of 
emissivity and temperature.  The least-squares technique requires spectral intensity 
measurements at a minimum of N = n + 2 wavelengths to use an emissivity model with n 
unknown coefficients.  This technique is commonly used in MRT.  A modified linear least-
techniques technique is used to simplify the calculations if the emissivity models have the 
exponential form. 
The emissivity model 9-1, 
 ελ = exp a0 λ( ) (1) 
is the exponential of linear first order function of squared root of wavelength.  The rationale of 
the linear least-squares technique is to determine the inferred temperature and the unknown 
emissivity coefficients by minimizing the chi-squared ( χ2) value in the following equation, 
 χ 2 = ln Lλ ,meas,i − ln Lλ ,gen,i( )2
i=0
n∑  (2) 
 9
 
52
12 2
01
0 1
0 2
N
,meas ,i i
i
i i i
L c cln a T
T c
λ λ∂χ λ∂ λ λ
−
−
=
   = = − +     ∑ . (6) 
From Eq. (5) and (6), the unknown coefficient a0 and T can be found by solving the following 
system of linear algebraic equations, 
 
5
2
10
2 1 5
22 2
1
,meas ,i ii i
i
,meas ,i i
iii
c L
ln
ca
T L cc c ln
c
λ
λ
λλ λλ
λ
λλλ
−
   −       ⋅ =          −       
∑ ∑ ∑
∑∑ ∑
. (7) 
 
 
4 Results and Discussion 
Table 1 illustrate the absolute errors in the inferred temperatures using MRT emissivity 
model 9-1 for polished surface and 14 µm roughened surface.  Missing values in the table are 
corresponding to errors beyond ± 50 K and serve to help point out any useful trends in the 
inferred temperature.  The table includes results for four aluminum alloys: AL 1100, AL 2024, 
AL 7075 and AL 7150 at temperatures 600 and 700 K, for three different numbers of 
wavelengths, and for three spectral ranges between 2.05 to 4.72 µm.  The required minimum 
number of wavelengths, N, which is equal to the number of unknown coefficients in the 
emissivity model plus two, are examined first.  Then, one and two more wavelengths are added 
to inspect the effects of the number of wavelengths.  The measured wavelength ranges were 
carried out for a short range of wavelengths, 2.05 – 3.43 µm, and a long range, 3.50 – 4.72 µm, 
and the combined range, 2.05 – 4.72 µm.  All wavelengths corresponding to the CO2 and H2O 
bands are excluded from the examined wavelength range.  A discussion of the effects of spectral 
range, number of wavelengths, number of unknown coefficients, temperature, alloy composition 
and surface roughness as they relative to temperature prediction for the MRT emissivity models 
were discussed in previous studies [2-3].  Here, the MRT emissivity model 9-1 that overall 
 11
 provides the best compensation for different alloys at temperature 600K in the combined 
spectral range (i.e. 2.05 – 4.72 µm) and at temperature 700K in the shorter spectral range (i.e. 
2.05 – 3.43 µm) will be further investigated in this study. 
The theoretical emisivity principles are generally categorized by the optical roughness, 
the ratio of root-mean-square (rms) surface roughness (σ) and wavelength (λ).  Two broad 
categories of surfaces are identified: optically smooth (ideal) and rough (real).  For any given 
surface roughness, two limiting wavelength spectral regions, specular region and geometric 
region, are discriminated.  The specular region corresponds to 0 < σ/λ < 0.2 and the geometrical 
region σ/λ > 1.  A third intermediate region corresponds to 0.2 < σ/λ < 1. 
In previous study [2-3], the optical roughness of our tested 14 µm roughened aluminum 
sample is located in the specular region (0 < σ/λ < 0.2).  In most theoretical studies on this 
region, the reflection of incident radiation is assumed to be specular, i.e., the angle of reflection 
is equal to the angle of incidence, and the diffraction theory is used to predict the effects of 
surface roughness on emissivity [6-8].  For a Gaussian distribution of surface heights, the 
relationship between reflected radiation and optical roughness has been shown both theoretically 
[9-10] and experimentally [11-12] to follow an exponential decay function relative to σ/λ. 
 RS = RO ⋅ exp − 4 ⋅π ⋅σλ
 
  
 
  
2 
   
 
   , (8) 
where Rs is the specularly reflected radiation for a rough surface and Ro the specularly reflected 
radiation for a polished surface.  As shown in Eq. (8), the amount of specularly reflected 
radiation increases with increasing wavelength.  This relationship also shows surface roughness 
can be estimated from the measured ratio of specularly reflected radiation.  Figure 3 shows a 
curve fit of experimental results for the ratio of normal-hemispherical reflectance for a real 
surface to that for a smooth surface versus optical roughness for aluminum-coated ground glass 
[13].  The root-mean-square surface roughness σ was determined from the measured specularly 
reflected radiation ratio Rs/Ro. Since the normal-hemispherical reflectance, ρ(0, 2π), is equal to 
1- εn, where εn is the normal emissivity, Figure 4 provides significant implications regarding the 
 13
Fig. 5 Present normal hemispherical reflectance values versus optical 
roughness for different alloys at 700 K compared with Eq. (9). 
 15
provide the best compensation for different aluminum alloys at temperature 600K in the 
combined spectral range (i.e. 2.05 – 4.72 µm) and at temperature 700K in the shorter spectral 
range (i.e. 2.05 – 3.43 µm).  This study shows why it can well predict the surface temperature is 
because it effectively represents the actual emissivity distribution in the tested wavelength range.  
This consistency is also observed for hemispheric reflectance with respect to optical roughness.  
Overall, good agreement is achieved between the experimental data and predicted values from 
emissivity model 9-1 for different alloys and different temperatures in this specular region (0 < 
σ/λ < 0.2).  Also, the reflectance ratio of experimental data and predicted values from emissivity 
model both decrease with increasing optical roughness and this trend agrees with the theoretical 
and experimental distributions found in early studies.  Through the examination in this study,  we 
undestand why this model well compensates the variations of AL emissivity. Above all, it 
provides a fundamental insight into the development of a more accurate emissivity model that 
could handle the diverse operating environment of AL processing plants. 
 
 
 
 
Nomenclature 
a0  Empirical coefficient in MRT model 
c1  First thermal radiation constant 
c2  Second thermal radiation constant 
Lλ,b  Spectral intensity of blackbody radiation 
Lλ,gen  Generated spectral radiation intensity 
Lλ,meas  Measured spectral radiation intensity 
n  Number of unknown coefficients in emissivity model 
N  Minimum number of wavelengths required in MRT model 
T  Surface temperature 
