 2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-149-010- 
執行期限：99年 08月 01日至 100年 07月 31日 
主持人：王俊嘉   北台灣科學技術學院資訊管理系 
 
Abstract 
E-Learning makes it possible for learners to study at 
any time. With the improvement of ubiquitous 
technologies and corresponding devices, learners can 
conduct their learning activities without any 
limitations from the environment. Instructors can 
utilize various kinds of resources to create more 
plentiful learning materials for learners. In this 
situation, instructors or learners have to spend more 
time on collecting relevant resources for a specific 
purpose. In our previous works, we utilized the 
geographical information and RFID (Radio Frequency 
Identification) to develop an outdoor adventure game 
to support learning procedures. In this project, we go 
further to propose and develop a resource retrieval 
mechanism to assist learners in collecting relevant 
learning resources. This mechanism can be regarded 
as a search procedure. We aim at providing search 
results in the order of relevant degree based on 
learners’ current geographical information. It can 
make resource retrieval more efficient in ubiquitous 
learning environments. 
中文摘要 
數位學習可使得學生隨時隨地學習。隨著無所不在
技術與相關設備的進步，學習者可以在沒有任何限
制的環境下，進行自己的學習活動。教師可以使用
各式各樣的資源，創造出豐富的學習教材，以提供
給學習者學習。然而，在這種情況下，教師或學習
者必須花更多的時間，開發與收集相關的學習資源。
之前，我們曾提出相關論文，利用地理資訊系統和
RFID 技術之整合，發展一套戶外冒險式遊戲來支
援學習過程。在本研究計畫中，將提出和開發一套
資源檢索服務機制，協助學習者更有效地收集相關
的學習資源。此資源檢索服務機制也可以被當作是
一搜尋程序。本研究計畫之目的是基於學習者所在
之地理資訊，以提供學習者所滿足的搜尋結果。在
無所不在的學習環境中，此計畫可以使學習資源更
有效地被檢索。 
 
1. Introduction 
 
With the development of Internet technologies, 
there are lots of research organizations make efforts in 
developing relevant systems to meet the needs of e-
learning environment. E-Learning indeed makes it 
possible for learners to study at any time. With the 
improvement of ubiquitous technologies and 
corresponding devices, learners can conduct their 
learning activities without any limitations from the 
environment. In current learning environment, 
instructors can utilize various kinds of resources to 
create more plentiful learning materials for learners. 
For example, instructors can benefit from the 
multimedia such as pictures, interactive videos, 3-D 
virtual objects, and so on. It is quite different from the 
traditional teaching/learning process. 
With the advanced mobile hardware and 
communication technologies, the GIS (Geographical 
Information System) and GPS (Global Position System) 
make it possible for instructors to provide context 
awareness information to learners. Accordingly, an 
emerging learning paradigm, known as the u-learning, 
has grown up and makes the learning activities 
available without any limitations from the environment. 
Though e-learning or u-learning can take 
advantages of utilizing these technologies and devices, 
it still faces some major challenges while retrieving the 
necessary and relevant learning resources. It is lack of 
adaptive search mechanisms for users to get learning 
resources efficiently. In traditional e-learning 
environments, users can only search for resources 
through parameters and their corresponding categories 
like language, resource format, resource type, and etc. 
Besides, this kind of search mechanism has to work 
with specific e-learning standards. It is difficult to 
users who are not experts in this domain. Furthermore, 
the search results can only represent in a specific order. 
Users still have to spend time on selecting resources 
relevant to their current needs. 
In our previous works [15], we utilized the 
geographical information and RFID (Radio Frequency 
Identification) to develop an outdoor adventure game 
to support learning procedures. In this paper, we go 
further to propose a re-ranking mechanism for 
retrieving the learning resources. It includes two main 
parts: Personal Profile Management, and Search 
Wrapper. The personal profile can assist users in 
getting appropriate services in our system. The search 
wrapper provides the re-rank algorithm, and it returns 
the results in the order of relevant degree based on 
original search results and learners’ geographical 
information. Moreover, this mechanism can be taken as 
a kind of service. It can serve any systems not only 
limited in e-learning environment. 
 4 
learning services: task management service, learning 
history management service, resource searching 
service, and collaborative environment management 
service. The third one is working as the entry portal 
and external service access portal. The entry portal is 
for the internal user registration and authentication, and 
the another one provides the portal for users to interact 
with external services provided by others. 
 
3.1. Profile Management Module 
 
In order to implement the ubiquitous personal 
learning environment, it is necessary for our system to 
provide a well-organized personal profile management 
service. There are two standards to serve this goal. One 
is the LIP (Learner Information Packaging) [16] 
proposed by IMS and the other one is the PAPI 
(Personal and Private Information) [17] proposed by 
IEEE. A lot of systems adopt the LIP specification to 
record the learning history and the training history for 
users and assist users to achieve lifelong learning 
process. In addition, there are more and more web-
based systems that have been developed their 
functionalities as separate services. This approach can 
help reduce the limitation of environment for both 
stand-alone and ubiquitous devices. With the 
development of services on the internet, it has become 
difficult for users to manage their identification in 
commonly used services. Fortunately, the OpenID 
project [18] provides a good solution to solve this issue. 
 
 
Figure 2. The workflow of profile management module 
 
In our proposed personal profile management, we 
not only integrate the LIP specification into OpenID 
mechanism but also utilize the non-synchronization 
data caching mechanism to update the learning history 
and personal profile. 
For example, the learners can download the learning 
materials into their ubiquitous devices, such as Apple 
iPhone, from our server through internet. After that, 
they can continue their learning activities. The 
ubiquitous devices can record learners’ learning history 
and update them to our back-end profile database. In 
this situation, we cannot ensure that learners’ devices 
can always be connected to the internet. Our system 
provides a non-synchronization data caching 
mechanism to meet this purpose. Learners can conduct 
the learning activities through offline devices and 
update the data as soon as the devices have internet 
connection. 
After that, the LIP parser in the personal profile 
management will transfer the necessary information to 
the OpenID format. The personal OpenID information 
will always synchronize and keep the information both 
in the learners’ devices and in back-end database. This 
information can also be exchanged with others under 
the mutual agreement. 
 
3.2. Search Wrapper Module 
 
In the ubiquitous environment, the resource format 
has become more and more plentiful. The learning 
resources can represent as web pages, videos, 3-D 
virtual objects, and so on. In the current web-based 
search mechanism, they provide lots of search rules for 
assisting learners in finding out what they need. To 
take Google for example, after learners input specific 
query terms, or named keywords, Google will list the 
results based on their page ranking algorithm. No 
matter what kinds of situations learners are in, the 
same query terms will lead to the same results. The 
results seem not very useful in this situation. Learners 
have to spend a lot of time in filtering search results to 
meet their different needs. 
 
 6 
4. System Implementation and Use Scenarios 
 
In this section, we create a scenario for learners to 
find out learning resources through our search service. 
In our proposed system, our ranking algorithm will 
affect by learners’ personal profile and geographical 
information. It is difficult to evaluate performance with 
two variables. Thus, we assign one student to go to 
different location in Taipei, Taiwan. Figure 4, Figure 5, 
Figure 6, and Figure 7 represent the different search 
results while student is in Tamkang University, 
National Taiwan University, Taipei 101, and Chiang 
Kai-Shek Memorial Hall through the same query term. 
To take Figure 4 for example, the interface can be 
separated into four parts. No. 1 is the search bar where 
learners can input the keywords. No. 2 represents the 
learners’ personal information and their current 
geographical information. No. 3 will automatically 
generate the pagers for the results. The search result 
will be shown in No. 4. It represents the content of 
search results including the file format and the 
functionalities. 
 
 
Figure 4. The search results in Tamkang University 
 
 
Figure 5. The search results in National Taiwan 
Univerisy 
 
 
Figure 6. The search results in Taipei 101 
 
 
Figure 7. The search results in CKS Memorial Hall 
 
5. System Evaluation 
 
We aim at evaluating the optimal threshold value 
for alpha and beta. We will provide this information to 
the learners as reference information when they utilize 
our search service. We first evaluate the beta value 
based on precision of AEC. Then, we make use of the 
beta value in RC and utilize nIAP (Non-Interpolated 
Average Precision) [20] as the evaluation methodology 
for ranking results to get the optimal alpha value. 
 
 
Figure 8. The evaluation of βthreshold 
 8 
[13].  Wartena, C.; Brussee, R., “Topic Detection by 
Clustering Keywords,” The 19th International 
Conference on Database and Expert Systems 
Application, pp.54-58, 1-5 September 2008 
[14].  IMS Common Cartridge specification v1.0, available 
on http://www.imsglobal.org/commoncartridge.html, 
retrieved 16 July 2009. 
[15].  Ming-Jhe Yang, Jui-Hung Chen, Louis R. Chao, 
Timothy K. Shih, “Developing the Outdoor Game-
based Learning Environment by Using Ubiquitous 
Technologies,” The 9th IEEE International 
Conference on Advanced Learning Technologies, Riga, 
Latvia, July 14-18, 2009. 
[16].  IMS Learner Information Packaging (LIP), available 
on http://www.imsglobal.org/profiles/index.html, 
retrieved 5 July 2009. 
[17].  IEEE Public And Private Information (PAPI), 
available on http://jtc1sc36.org/doc/36N0186.pdf, 
retrieved 10 July 2009. 
[18].  OpenID Project, available on http://openid.net/, 
retrieved at 20 July 2009. 
[19].  [19] G Salton, A Wong, CS Yang, “A vector space 
model for automatic indexing,” Communications of 
the ACM, vol. 18, no. 11, pp. 613-620, 1975. 
[20].  K. Järvelin, and J. Kekäläinen, “IR evaluation methods 
for retrieving highly relevant documents,” The 23rd 
annual international ACM SIGIR, 2000. 
 
計畫成果自評 
1. 本計畫研究內容與原計畫完全相符，
亦達成預期申請之成果目標。 
2. 本計畫研究成果已發表於學術會議上
(ICCRD 2011)。 
3. 預計將此計畫做更深入的研究與撰寫，
進而投稿至國際學術期刊。 
 
2 
 
等等，其中令我最感興趣的部分為網路科技、雲端運算與數位學習領域。在我所發
表的論文中，會議主持人給予了許多寶貴的意見，然而在與其他與會者的問答之間，
也讓我明白自己的研究仍有不足之處，還有部份需要加強與改進的地方；在同場會
議之中，來自中國幾篇論文是有關於數位學習之研究，因為我本身對數位學習也稍
有涉略，所以在會後有頻繁的互動與交流，也跟許多學者留下了聯絡的方式。二天
下來的與會行程，對我來說實在是一次非常難得的經驗。而這次的參與經驗對我來
說，可以說是一次終身受用的經驗，感謝國科會給予我這次出國參與會議之補助，
除了心懷感激之外，也期許自己在未來之研究計畫道路上，能夠更加努力持續向前，
以不負國家對研究學者之期望，盼能繼續爭取下一次出國參與研究會之機會。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
前往杭州浙江大學參訪。 
四、建議 
未來應可以集中國內學者火力，爭取國內舉辦此重要之國際盛事。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
攜回大會本次大會的論文集，本人論文於第二卷第1頁至5頁刊登。 
六、其他 
無 
2011 3rd International Conference on Computer Research and Development (ICCRD 2011) 
 
- 2 - 
6. Send your final papers (both .doc and .pdf format), filled registration form (.doc format), copyright form (.jpg format) 
and payment proof * to us at iccrd@vip.163.com. (Before December 15, 2010) 
*If you pay by on-line Credit Card Payment, please fill your confirmation number in the registration form after paying. 
*If you pay by bank transfer, please scan the payment slip as the payment proof for checking. 
ICCRD 2011 will check the format of all the registered papers first, so the authors don’t need to upload the paper 
to the IEEE. After the registration, we will send all qualified papers to the IEEE for publishing directly. 
If the above requirements are met by the set deadlines, the paper will be included in the ICCRD 2011 
conference proceeding, and will be included in the IEEE Xplore, and indexed by the Ei Compendex , 
Thomson ISI (ISTP),and INSPEC 
Maybe some unforeseeable events could prevent a few authors not to attend the event to present their papers, so 
if you and your co-author(s) could not attend ICCRD 2011 to present your paper for some reasons, please inform 
us. And we will send you, the official receipt of registration fee, proceedings, after ICCRD 2011 free of charge.  
Please strictly adhere to the format specified in the conference template while preparing your final paper. If you 
have any problem in preparing the final paper, please feel free to contact us via iccrd@vip.163.com. For the 
most updated information on the conference, please check the conference website at 
http://www.iccrd.org/.The Conference Program will be available at the website in Middle Feb, 2011. 
Finally, we would like to further extend our congratulations to you and we are looking forward to meeting you in 
Shanghai, China 
Yours sincerely, 
 
ICCRD 2011 Organizing Committees 
http://www.iccrd.org/ 
Shanghai, China 
  
other standards. The main problem that arises is that every 
individual LMS does not have a capability to share learning 
object directly with other LMS. Therefore, there is a need to 
propose an interoperable way to improve learning object 
interoperability among these e-Learning standards such that 
educators and learners are greatly benefited in the content 
generation and content aggregation phases. 
 
B. Cloud Computing 
Cloud computing has become one of the hottest 
buzzwords in the IT area over the past years. Many 
companies, institutes, and researchers are trying to define 
clouds and provide solutions on clouds to enlist their help in 
computer work. 
“Cloud computing” is used to describe both a system 
platform and a type of application in IBM’s technical white 
paper [6]. A cloud is a type of distributed data center which 
delivers infrastructures as services. That is to say, it consists 
of massive resources and offers mechanisms to provide, 
re-image, workload rebalance, de-provide, and monitor 
those resources. In other words, it represents as one or more 
unified resource entities, and renders users/applications 
with services to access those resources without knowing the 
detailed information [10]. Therefore, in the Cloud 
computing platform, the servers can be physical or virtual 
servers. One of the most important characteristics behind 
Cloud computing is scalability, and the key technology 
which makes it possible is virtualization [5]. Virtualization 
automates the management of those resources as a single 
entity through hypervisor technologies such as VMs [7]. 
The features and advantages of Cloud computing are 
as follows [12]: 
1. Cloud provides powerful computing and storage 
capacity. It makes the support of varies of 
applications convenient and rapid to retrieve the 
powerful computing and storage resources. 
2. Cloud provides high resources availability. It provides 
real-time configuration and utilization information, 
allocates resources on-demand, and improves the 
usage rate of available resources. 
3. Cloud provides high security. It guarantees the users’ 
data security to the greatest possible degree by relying 
on one or more data center. 
4. Cloud provides virtualization. Each application 
deployment environment and physical platform is 
managed, expensed, migrated, and backup through 
virtualization platform.  
 
III. A Sharable e-Learning Architecture Based on Cloud 
Computing Infrastructure 
A. System Architecture 
A sharable e-Learning architecture based on Cloud 
computing infrastructure is composed of three layers: 
Infrastructure layer, Middleware layer, and Application 
layer as shown in Figure 1. 
Infrastructure layer is used as the e-Learning 
resource pool that includes hardware and software 
virtualization technologies to ensure the stability and 
reliability of the infrastructure. At the same time, this layer 
supplies the computing and storage capacity for the higher 
level. 
Middleware layer mainly supplies a sharable 
platform. The sharable platform consists of two modules: 
CNRI’s (Corporation for National Research Initiatives) 
Handler System Module [8] and Metadata Transformation 
System Module [11]. The former is utilized to record the 
metadata description and physical resources in teaching 
resources. The latter illustrates a flow chart of metadata 
transformation for a variety of e-Learning standards.  
Application Layer is the last application platform to 
supply services for learners. At this layer, Cloud computing 
provides convenient access to the e-Learning resources, 
such as authoring tool and content repository. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Architecture of a Sharable e-Learning Based on Cloud 
Computing. 
 
B. CNRI’s Handler System Module 
     An identification mechanism called Handler System 
is proposed by Corporation for National Research 
Initiatives. Handler system can be considered as an 
indexing method for general purposes which provide 
efficient, extendable, and secure Name Service. The 
Handler System in our work aims to provide a resolution 
service in the back-end learning content repository. Figure 2 
shows the registration process and the returned parameters. 
 
 
 
Metadata Transformation 
Content Repository Authoring Tool 
CNRI Handler Middleware Layer 
Cloud Computing 
Infrastructure Layer 
LMS SCO 
Repositor
y 
LMS SCO 
Repositor
y 
LMS SCO 
Repositor
y 
2
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. The re-Writing Process of TW LOM. 
 
A program re-aggregates the learning resources in the 
original learning content after the modification of metadata 
description, and then follows a new e-Learning standard’s 
specification to generate the content organization. For 
example, the SCORM-based learning content and metadata 
description is represented at the top of Figure 6. The 
metadata transformation result of our proposed flow is 
based on IMS Common Cartridge shown at the bottom of 
Figure 6. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV. CONCLUSION 
In the Cloud computing infrastructure, the sharable 
e-Learning platform was proposed to provide a good 
learning environment for learners. We proposed a 3-layer 
architecture of the e-Learning platform to facilitate the 
sharing, reusing learning objects and interoperability among 
various learning content efficiently. The middleware layer 
imports an indexing module and a metadata transformation 
module to complete metadata exchange among 
acknowledged e-Learning standards. Therefore, learners 
can make use of available learning objects without having 
to be affiliated with other LMS. In other words, the 
proposed e-Learning platform based on Cloud computing 
infrastructure would allow the independent LMS embedded 
in different e-Learning standards to share the learning 
objects. Finally, in this paper, a huge amount of learning 
objects can be accessed reliably, flexibly, and availably over 
the Internet by means of Cloud computing technology. 
 
REFERENCES 
 
[1] Advanced Distributed Learning – Home. 
http://www.adlnet.org/. 
[2] IEEE 1484.12.1-2002 Standard for Learning Object 
Metadata (LOM), Technical Report (2002), Retrieved 
March 31st, 2008. http://ieeeltsc.org/. 
[3] IMS Global Learning Consortium. Common Cartridge 
Draft Documentation. Retrieved May 17th, 2008. 
http://www.imsglobal.org/specificatoins.html 
[4] IMS Global Learning Consortium. IMS Question and 
Test Interoperability v1.2. Retrieved May 21st, 2008. 
http://www.imsglobal.org/question/index.html/. 
[5] Tim Jones M., Cloud Computing with Linux, 10 
September, 2008. 
http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/library/I-cloud-c
omputing/. 
[6] Boss Greg, Malladi Padma, Quan Dennis, Legregni 
Linda, and Hall Harold, Cloud Computing[OL]. IBM 
White Paper, 2007. 
http://download.boulder.ibm.com/ibmdl/pub/software/d
w/wes/hipods/Cloud_computing_wp_final_8Oct.pdf. 
[7] Boss Greg, Malladi Padma, Quan Dennis, Legregni 
Linda, and Hall Harold, Cloud Computing. 
http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/websphere/zones
/hipods/. 
[8] Corporation for National Research Initiatives, 
Retrieved December 16th, 2006. 
http://www.cnri.reston.va.us/. 
[9] Bohl, O., Scheuhase, J., Sengler R., and Winand, U., 
The sharable content object reference model (SCORM) 
– a critical review, Proceedings of the 2002 
International Conference on Computers in Education, 
pp. 950-951, December, 2002. 
[10] Dong Bo, Zhang Qinghua, Yang Jie, Li Haifei, and 
Qiao Mu, An E-learning Ecosystem Based on Cloud 
Figure 6. Learning Content Organization and Metadata Description. 
4
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/09/21
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 利用資源檢索服務機制增進無所不在學習環境之研究
計畫主持人: 王俊嘉
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-149-010- 學門領域: WEB 技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
