  
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
使用三倍頻發射相位法於超音波組織諧波強度之調變(I) 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-011-143 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：沈哲州    國立台灣科技大學電機系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
本研究是對醫學超音波影像中的組織
諧波信號相關問題進行討論。當聲波穿越
人體時會因有限振幅失真現象使得組織諧
波信號逐漸累積產生，組織諧波的特色是
其信號強度微弱而影響影像的靈敏度以及
穿透度﹔但對於對比劑諧波影像而言過強
的組織諧波信號反而會影響微氣泡區域的
影像對比，因此抑制組織諧波的技術也有
其必要性。在本論文中我們提出＂三倍頻
發射相位法＂以調整第二組織諧波信號的
強度，其原理是藉由改變頻率合成分與頻
率差成分之間的相位差以增強或者抑制組
織諧波信號。由實驗與模擬的結果來看，
利用三倍頻發射相位法來增強組織諧波可
以有效提升諧波信號強度且不會造成對比
解析度的下降，組織諧波的抑制方面雖然
會使波束的旁瓣上升但並不會影響到對比
劑諧波影像中因背景組織諧波強度下降所
造成的的影像對比提升。 
 
關鍵詞：超音波影像、組織諧波、三倍頻
發射相位法、對比劑諧波影像 
 
Abstract 
 
    Tissue harmonic imaging suffers from 
low signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) under typical 
imaging conditions. On the contrary, 
presence of strong tissue harmonics also 
degrades microbubble detection in contrast 
harmonic imaging. Therefore, a novel 
approach for both enhancement and 
suppression of tissue harmonic signal is 
developed by phasing transmit signal at 3f0 
frequency. Results indicate that the relative 
phasing between the frequency-sum 
component and the frequency-difference 
component markedly changes the amplitude 
of the second harmonic signal over a wide 
range of axial depths. For harmonic 
enhancement, approximate 6 dB increase of 
second harmonic amplitude can be achieved 
with improved lateral harmonic beam pattern. 
For harmonic suppression, the second 
harmonic signal can be significantly reduced 
by about 11 dB. Hence, the method of 3f0 
transmit phasing has potentials both for 
improving SNR in tissue harmonic imaging 
and for enhancing image contrast in contrast 
agent imaging by suppression of tissue 
harmonic background. 
 
Keywords: tissue harmonic; contrast agents; 
contrast imaging; harmonic suppression; 
harmonic enhancement 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
Tissue harmonic generation relies on 
finite amplitude distortion of propagating 
waveform and is characterized by the 
generation of harmonic signals at multiples 
of the original transmit frequency [1, 2]. 
Tissue harmonic imaging which is based on 
backscattered tissue harmonic signal has 
become popular due to its clinically superior 
image quality even on technically difficult 
bodies because of the reduced reverberation 
artifact and sidelobes level [3]. Therefore, 
contrast resolution can be significantly 
improved in tissue harmonic imaging. 
 it can be shown that the phase of the 
frequency-sum and the frequency-difference 
component can be 180° out of phase for 
second harmonic suppression with the 
following phase relation: 
 
Similarly, for the enhancement of second 
harmonic amplitude, the two components 
should be in-phase to be constructively 
combined: 
 
Experimental methods 
Hydrophone measurements were 
performed to study effects of 3f0 transmit 
phasing on second harmonic generation. An 
arbitrary function generator 
(Hewlett-Packard, Palo Alto, CA, U.S.A.) 
was used to generate the transmit pulse 
which contains both a 1.25-MHz 
fundamental sinusoid and a 3.75-MHz 3f0 
sinusoid. The length of the transmit pulse is 
chosen to be 10 µs. Both the 3f0 phase and 
amplitude can be programmed relative to the 
fundamental sinusoid. The transmit pulse 
was sent to a 25A250A power amplifier 
(Amplifier Research, Souderton, PA, U.S.A.) 
to drive a 2.25 MHz focused transducer 
(Panametrics, Waltham, MA, U.S.A.). 
Acoustic waveform in water was measured 
by a PVDF needle hydrophone (Force 
Technology, MH28-6, Brøndby, Denmark). 
The received signal was then sent to a 
PR5072 ultrasonic receiver for filtering and 
amplification (Panametrics, Waltham, MA, 
U.S.A.) and digitized at 20 MHz with an 
E1429A digitizer (Hewlett Packard, Palo 
Alto, CA, U.S.A.). 
B-scan images were also constructed using 
similar experimental setup except that the 
transducer was operated in the pulse-echo 
imaging mode and the transmit waveform 
was a Gaussian pulse with length of about 5 
µs. The fundamental frequency is set to be 
1.5 MHz. A gelatin-based ultrasound 
phantom with uniform distribution of glass 
beads was used. There was also a cylindrical, 
anechoic cyst parallel to the surface of the 
phantom. To form two-dimensional 
cross-sectional images, the transducer was 
mechanically scanned in a direction parallel 
to the phantom surface and perpendicular to 
the axis of the anechoic cyst. The received rf 
data at each transducer position were 
demodulated and low-pass filtered before 
envelope detection and logarithmic 
conversion. 
Simulation methods 
 The model approximates acoustic 
diffraction using incremental field 
propagation of sound beam. Arbitrary 
transmit waveforms can be simulated using 
spectral decomposition into discrete 
frequency components. For each frequency 
component, linear propagation for an axial 
increment is modeled using the angular 
spectrum method [8, 9]. For the nonlinear 
propagation in each increment, the 
finite-amplitude-distortion-based harmonic 
generation is simulated by substituting the 
spectral components into (1) to produce the 
frequency-sum and the frequency-difference 
components of the second harmonic signal. A 
64-channel linear array with 55-mm transmit 
focus is assumed in the simulations. The 
array had a 0.3 mm pitch. The homogeneous 
propagating medium has a parameter β of 3.5 
approximating the nonlinear property of 
water [10]. In the simulations, the 
fundamental transmit frequency is at 2 MHz 
and the frequency response of the transducer 
is not considered. Transmit signals of both 
continuous wave (CW) and pulse wave (PW) 
are considered. For a CW case, the 
fundamental signal and the second harmonic 
signal are respectively represented as the first 
and the second spectral components of the 
Fourier series of the transmit waveform in 
the simulation. For a PW case, on the other 
hand, the fundamental signal is extracted by 
low-pass filtering with a flat frequency 
response between 1 MHz and 3 MHz and the 
second harmonic signal is extracted by band 
pass filtering with a flat frequency response 
between 3 MHz and 5 MHz. For both CW 
and PW transmit, the peak acoustic pressure 
πφθ += f2 (2) 
fφθ 2= (3) 
 also becomes shorter due to the relatively 
strong focusing of the frequency-difference 
component.  
 
Figure 3.  Simulated axial second harmonic amplitudes. 
The radiation patterns of the second 
harmonic signal are also compared in Fig. 4. 
For harmonic enhancement, the mainlobe of 
the radiation beam pattern remains similar to 
that without 3f0 transmit while the sidelobe 
levels are reduced. The reduction of sidelobe 
levels is a consequence of the lower 
sidelobes of the frequency-difference 
radiation pattern. In other words, with the 
increase in SNR of tissue harmonic signal, 
the spatial resolution in the lateral direction 
is kept unchanged and the contrast resolution 
is also improved. On the other hand, the CTR 
with 3f0 transmit phasing can be improved 
because of the suppression of tissue 
harmonic signal in the background. 
 
Figure 4.  Simulated second harmonic lateral beam patterns. 
Note that the inclusion of 3f0 transmit 
signal has nearly no influence on the axial 
fundamental beam and hence, the acoustic 
illumination of microbubbles remains 
unchanged in contrast harmonic imaging.  
Experiments 
The measured second harmonic 
amplitude along the beam axis with 3f0 
transmit phasing is illustrated in Fig. 5. Only 
the axial amplitudes with optimal 
enhancement and maximal suppression are 
shown. The corresponding radiation patterns 
at focus are also measured and compared. Fig. 
6 shows the harmonic beam patterns. Fig. 5 
and Fig. 6 demonstrate clearly that the 
intensity of tissue harmonic signal can be 
enhanced without degrading the contrast 
resolution. On the other hand, the tissue 
background in contrast harmonic imaging is 
suppressed with the cost of elevated 
harmonic sidelobe levels. Nevertheless, the 
improvement of CTR is still promising 
because the characteristics of fundamental 
beam are not affected by 3f0 transmit 
phasing. 
 
Figure 5.  Measured axial second harmonic amplitudes. 
 
Figure 6.  Measured second harmonic lateral beam patterns. 
Fig. 7 shows the tissue harmonic 
B-scan images with harmonic suppression 
using 3f0 transmit phasing, without 3f0 
transmit phasing and with harmonic 
enhancement using 3f0 transmit phasing, 
respectively from the left to right. For 
comparison, the corresponding fundamental 
images are also shown in the lower panels. 
Images are all normalized to the maximum 
brightness in the enhancement case and are 
all displayed with a 30 dB dynamic range. 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-011-143 
計畫名稱 使用三倍頻發射相位法於超音波組織諧波強度之調變(I)  
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
沈哲州   國立台灣科技大學電機系 助理教授 
會議時間地點 美國紐約  10/28~11/4 
會議名稱 2007 IEEE International Ultrasonics Symposium 
發表論文題目 
1. Speckle Suppression using Maximal-Brightness-Difference-Based Adaptive 
Median Weighting 
2. A Feasibility Study of Tissue Harmonic Generation with 3f0 Transmit 
Phasing 
3. Coded Excitation and Nonlinear Pulse Compression in Pulse-Inversion 
Fundamental Imaging 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
本人這次利用國科會的補助經費參加 2007 年在美國紐約舉行的 IEEE International 
Ultrasonics Symposium 研討會一共發表了三篇壁報論文，由於本會是超音波工程學界的
年度重要會議，因此本人事前的準備均力求完善並順利完成論文的報告，此外藉由和與
會者之間的互動與詢答可以感受到他們對於本人之研究均有相當的興趣與肯定，令人感
到十分興奮。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
本次出國開會也遇到同來開會的一些國內專家學者，並也和一些在美國超音波領域工
作的相關專家有許多互動，在這些討論中可以看出在日漸成熟的超音波產業其實越來越
趨向於有特定臨床應用的影像技術發展，例如分子影像相關的高頻技術與對比劑特性仍
是被廣泛探討的主流領域，而另一大類崛起中的光聲影像也同樣都是應用導向的研究為
主，能了解這樣的發展趨勢對本人未來的研究相信很有正面的幫助! 
此外本人也利用會餘時間對俗稱大蘋果的紐約市略加遊歷，相較於 10 多年前初次到紐
