排列所造成。將非結晶性高分子 phenoxy 添加入 PEA 材料
後，在低的結晶溫度條件下，因為 phenoxy 將存在於 PEA 晶
板與晶板間或其纖維與纖維間，誘導出比較疏鬆的 edge-on
晶板，進而阻撓 PEA 原先傾向進行規律彎曲的晶板，而導致
晶板排列以維持 edge-on 晶板為主。另外，龐大的 phenoxy 
鏈團與 PEA 之間可能存在有氫鍵作用力，此亦將阻撓徑方向
與切線方向的 PEA 晶板排列規律被中斷，而展現較為 zig-
zag 走向的晶板排列。 
中文關鍵詞： 生物可分解類高分子、球晶、塊材、原子力顯微鏡 
英 文 摘 要 ： Lamellae arrangements by melt crystallization at 
different crystallization temperatures of PHA and its 
blend with 20 wt % PVME under thin film state were 
studied by using POM and AFM. Depending on Tc, three 
types of spherulitic morphologies are observed in the 
blend, with a sharp and clear optical birefringence 
reversion being observed in PVME/PHA 20/80 blend 
within 1 oC difference. More abundant edge-on 
lamellae effected by the amorphous PVME on PHA 
crystals led to such birefringence diversity in the 
blend, which was assessed to be one of the main 
factors contributing to the alteration and 
diversification of the signs of spherulites in this 
blend. 
Micro-lamellar patterns and orientation-induced 
micro-voids in spherulites are probed in step-
crystallized blends of two crystalline polymers: PEO 
and low-molecular-weight PLLA in different weight 
fractions, using POM, and SEM with water-etching 
technique. It is revealed that blend composition led 
to entirely different PLLA lamellar regularities and 
void patterns. Water-etching into interiors of 
PEO/PLLA blends show 3D assembly of PLLA lamellae 
patterns. It is an important datum for structure 
modeling of banded polymer spherulites in bulk state. 
Surface morphology of positively or negatively 
birefringent spherulites in melt-crystallized neat 
PEA vs. PEA blend with phenoxy was examined using 
AFM,SEM, POM, thermal analysis, and wide-angle X-ray 
techniques. Top-surface lamellar assemblies in 
positive/negative types of ringless spherulites and 
also double-ring-banded spherulite of PEA/phenoxy 
 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
□期中進度報告 
■期末報告 
 
結晶性高分子於薄膜與塊材狀態下之特殊自組裝結晶形貌、晶
態結構與熱行為探討 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99－2221－E－006－014－MY3 
執行期間： 101 年 08 月 01 日至 102 年 07 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立成功大學  化學工程學系(所) 
 
計畫主持人：吳逸謨 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：謝雅婷、劉麗霞、王廣弘、楊俊彥、張詩敏 
 
 
 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另含下列出國報告，共 _2_ 份： 
□移地研究心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  102  年  10  月  30 日 
II 
 
 
中文摘要 
Poly(1,6-hexamethylene adipate) (PHA) 和其與  20 wt% 非結晶性高分子  poly(vinyl 
methyl ether) (PVME) 的摻合體在薄膜狀態下於不同結晶溫度 (38-48 °C) 進行熔融結晶之晶
板排列方式，在本研究中透過偏光 (POM) 及原子力顯微鏡 (AFM) 進行分析。透過改變結
晶溫度，將可在摻合體材料中發現三種不同的球晶形貌 (不具有環帶的、具有不規則環帶的，
以及具有花瓣狀形貌的球晶)，且在只有 1 °C 的溫度變化區間中觀察到球晶光學特性上明顯
的轉變 (正負型球晶的轉換)。純材料 PHA 在薄膜狀態下改變結晶溫度仍只能生成正型球
晶，然而透過 PVME 的添加可使得大量的 PHA 晶板以 edge-on 方式進行排列，進而導致
光學特性的轉變，因此 PVME 的添加是造成 PVME/PHA 20/80 摻合體中光學特性轉換及球
晶形貌多樣性增加的主要原因之一。  
 
 兩結晶性高分子 poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO) 及低分子量的 poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) 透
過不同程度混摻及階段性的結晶程序，在本研究中以 POM 及掃描式電子顯微鏡 (SEM) 結
合蝕刻技術，對 PLLA 微觀尺度下的晶板排列及因其晶板排列方式導致球晶中所形成的微孔
洞 (裂縫) 進行探討。研究顯示混摻組成改變將使得 PLLA 在微觀尺度下的晶板排列規律程
度及孔洞樣貌出現完全不同的變化。透過蝕刻 PEO/PLLA 摻合樣品的內部使得 PLLA 三維
的晶板結構得以顯現，這將是環帶狀球晶在厚膜狀態建立結構模型時的重要基準。透過厚膜
樣品的球晶內部剖析將在本研究中進一步微孔洞/裂縫樣貌及晶板排列方向的機理。 
 
Poly(ethylene adipate) (PEA) 高分子與 PEA/phenoxy 摻合體的球晶具有正型與負型兩種
光學性質，在此研究中利用 AFM 、 POM 與 SEM 進行球晶表面形貌觀察，並進一步利用
微分掃描熱卡計 (DSC)、廣角 X光繞射儀分析其熱性質與結晶態。PEA/ phenoxy混摻系統在
結晶溫度 (Tc = 0, 15, 20, 40 oC) 時所生成的非環帶狀正型或負型球晶，以及在結晶溫度為 28 
oC時生成的具顏色交替之雙重環帶狀球晶，皆在本研究中以 AFM 進行上表面晶板排列的形
貌分析。研究結果發現樣品上表面的球晶形貌之晶板排列方式恰能良好的對應各自相反的光
學特性。而球晶之所以出現正型與負型雙折射現象的差異，主要來自其內部晶板排列不同而
非結晶晶格所造成。負型球晶主要由徑方向的 edge-on 晶板組成，正型球晶則由彎曲或捲曲
的 edge-on晶板所組成。然而具顏色交替之環帶狀球晶能同時具有負型及正型的雙折射現象，
是由於其球晶為高分子晶板出現沿徑方向及切線方向的晶板交替排列所造成。將非結晶性高
分子 phenoxy 添加入 PEA 材料後，在低的結晶溫度條件下，因為 phenoxy將存在於 PEA 晶
板與晶板間或其纖維與纖維間，誘導出比較疏鬆的 edge-on晶板，進而阻撓 PEA原先傾向進
行規律彎曲的晶板，而導致晶板排列以維持 edge-on晶板為主。另外，龐大的 phenoxy 鏈團
與 PEA 之間可能存在有氫鍵作用力，此亦將阻撓徑方向與切線方向的 PEA晶板排列規律被
中斷，而展現較為 zig-zag走向的晶板排列。 
 
關鍵字:生物可分解類高分子、球晶、塊材、原子力顯微鏡 
1 
 
Introduction 
Biodegradable polymer materials have attracted great scientific and technological interest at 
many application areas, such as packaging, biomedical material [1, 2]. For the packaging and 
medical applications, poly(lactic acid) (PLA) has one of the highest potentials among biopolyesters 
[1]. To tailor its crystallization behavior, degradation rate and other material properties for the 
applications, blending PLA with other biocompatible polymers is a practical and economical 
approach. PLA also is the one of the interesting polyesters in issues of chiral effect, crack and ring 
patterns, and spherulitic morphology in polymer physical research [3-7]. 
 
A polymer spherulite is an optically birefringent circular crystalline entity (viewed in 2-D) 
with two refractive indices: radial (nr) and tangential (nt). A negative-type spherulite has nr<nt, 
which is distinguished from a positive type with nr>nt. Both types show a superficially same 
Maltese-cross pattern with a maximum light transmittance at 45o to polarizer/analyzer. However, 
with a thin plate on polarized light, these two types of spherulites show opposite color contrasts on 
the vertical and horizontal quadrants. Lamellar packing and orientation obviously are responsible 
for the types of spherulites. Lamellar structures and their top surface morphologies related to 
different types of spherulites have not been as widely studied as those in ring-banded patterns in 
crystalline polymers, although both are similarly related to lamellar assembly driven by 
kinetic/thermodynamic forces. Regular Maltese-cross spherulites with negative or positive types of 
birefringence, or ring-banded spherulites with negative birefringence in poly(ethylene adipate) 
(PEA), as revealed in polarized optical microscopy (POM) graphs, have been sporadically reported 
[8]; yet the mechanisms are not fully expounded. 
 
 
Research Objectives 
In first part of this study, poly(vinyl methyl ether) (PVME) was used to form mixtures with 
poly(1,6-hexamethylene adipate) (PHA) for two reasons: (1) PVME could induce alteration of the 
spherulites types in PHA; (2) PVME, after forming lamellae with PHA crystallization, could be 
easily extracted out using water without altering the already fixed PHA crystal morphology, thus 
making it easier to analyze the location of PVME aggregation during crystal growth. More in-depth 
analyses of lamellar assembly corresponding to the spherulitic morphologies of neat PHA and 
PVME/PHA mixtures were aimed in this study by using atomic force microscopy (AFM) and 
wide-angle X-ray diffraction (WAXD). 
 
In second part of this study, objectives were to utilize a technique of selectively removing the 
poly(ethylene oxide) (PEO) component for exposing the cross-sectional surfaces of bulk-form 
samples for dissecting the inner poly(L-lactic acid) (PLLA) lamellae to probe the correlations 
between inner cracks and outer ring bands in PEO/PLLA blend’s crystal phases. Lamellar patterns 
and ring-band types in blends were found to vary with respect to blend compositions. The PEO 
3 
 
questions have not been answered directly and with sufficient attention to all spherulite-forming 
materials. Similar dilemmas also exist in various issues of polymer spherulites. For example, it has 
not been fully understood why some polymers easily form ring-banded spherulites, but other 
polymers never form ring bands, giving the same circumstances causing ring bands in other 
polymers. PHA and poly(ethylene succinate) (PESu) are two polyesters, for example, that never are 
packed into ring-banded spherulites at any crystallization temperature (Tc) [26, 27]. 
 
PHA is an aliphatic polyester with lower glass transition temperature (Tg) and melting 
temperature (Tm) than the widely studied poly(lactic acid). PHA is thus relatively less studied. 
However, the crystal form of PHA had been revealed as an orthorhombic unit cell only, with 
parameters a = 1.008 nm, b = 1.464 nm, and c = 1.683 nm as reported by Aylwin and Boyd in 1984 
and Gesti ́ et al. in 2006 [28, 29]. For the miscibility of PHA with other polymers, PHA is known to 
be miscible with poly(vinyl phenol) [30] and PVME [13], but PHA is immiscible with 
poly(ethylene oxide) [31] and poly(propylene glycol) [32]. Phase behavior of water-soluble PVME 
blends with PHA was investigated earlier, and quantitative DSC analysis reveals interaction 
parameter (χ12) = −0.21 between PHA and PVME, indicating a miscible phase but with moderately 
weak strength [13]. Spherulite growth has also been investigated by using the Lauritzen and 
Hoffman secondary nucleation theory in PHA and its blend (PVME/PHA = 20/80) [13]. Neat PHA 
at Tc = 30−43 oC exhibits Regime-II growth of the Lauritzen− Hoffman secondary nucleation theory, 
where the diffusion rate equals the nucleation rate. At Tc = 43−48 oC, regime-I growth in PHA 
exists, where the diffusion rate is greater than the nucleation and the polymer chains are more 
orderly folded into lamellae. Neat PHA is ringless at all Tc’s; PVME/PHA 20/80 blend could be 
crystallized into ring-banded spherulites at around Tc = 42 oC, but remained ringless at other 
temperatures outside this narrow range. 
 
PEO, a water soluble polyether, possesses good biocompatibility and has very low toxicity in 
bio-medical applications [33, 34]. Phase behavior and biocompatibility of blends of PEO/PLLA has 
been studied [17, 35-36], and partial miscibility with phase domains in blends of PEO with PLLA 
of high molecular weights has been claimed. However, PEO also has been proven to be miscible 
with low-molecular-weight PLLA in our previous work [9]. An early pioneering work by Lustiger 
et al. [37] dealt with interior morphology correlating with surface ring bands in polyethylene (PE) 
bulk samples. In that work, the fracture surface as examined by SEM was exposed to reveal a 
central hole (on nuclei center) in banding PE spherulites. However, the interior morphology for 
general lamellar textures is not clear enough, as comparison to much better resolved top-surface 
rings and their lamellae patterns. Analyses of bulk PE were thus mainly based on the top-surface 
morphology, leaving issues of the interior lamellar assembly in banding spherulites still unresolved. 
This work, using PEO/PLLA blend as a model, intended to probe further, focusing on interior 
lamellae assembly in correlation with surface/interior cracking and banding by taking advantage of 
the water-soluble property of PEO under water-etching treatment. Such 3D dissection approach was 
also successfully adapted to interpret the correlation between the inner lamellar assembly, outer 
surface banding and 3D banding spheroids in PEA crystallized at Tc = 28±1 oC [38]. 
5 
 
 
Experimental Section 
Materials and Preparation 
PVME/PHA blend system 
PVME was obtained from Scientific Polymer Products, Inc. (New York, USA), with Mw = 
96,700 g mol−1, polydispersity index PDI = 1.8, Tg = −22 oC. PHA was supplied by Aldrich 
Chemical Co., Inc. (USA), with Mw = 11,000 g mol−1, PDI = 1.5, Tg = −65 oC, Tm = 55 oC. 
Tetrahydrofuran (THF) was used as solvent for blending (Mallinckrodt Baker, Inc., Canada), with 
Tb = 66 oC. Blend samples of PVME/PHA were prepared using solvent mixing (2 wt% solution), 
followed by film casting. PHA was purified prior to solvent mixing.  
 
Solvent in polymer mixtures during film casting was first allowed to evaporate by convection 
under hood for 24 h at 45 °C. The blend films were further dried in vacuum at 50 oC for 72 h to 
drive off residual solvent. Samples film thickness was 2−3 μm. Thermal treatments on blends or 
neat polymers were as follows. Sample films on glass were heated to Tmax (90 oC) for 2 min, 
quickly replaced to a hot stage set at a predesignated Tc for full crystallization. After full 
crystallization, a set of blend samples were etched using deionized water to strip off the PVME 
component from PHA lamellae. Samples on glass slideswere tilted at an angle; deionized water was 
sprayed on the sample films to drip off PVME slowly. This procedure was repeated several times; 
then samples were dried properly in a vacuum oven. 
 
PEO/PLLA blend system 
PEO with Mw = 20,000 g mol−1, PDI = 1.16, Tg =–60 oC and Tm = 64 oC, was obtained from 
Aldrich (USA). PLLA was purchased from Polysciences, Inc. (USA), with Mw = 11,000 g mol−1, 
PDI = 1.11, Tg = 45.3 oC and Tm = 155 oC. Materials were used as received without further 
purification. Blends sample films of PLLA with PEO were prepared by solution-casting using 
chloroform as solvent. Two polymers of intended compositions were dissolved in solvent with a 
concentration of 4 wt%, well stirred, and cast onto micro glass slides at 45 oC. The solvent in blend 
films was first evaporated and dried at 45 oC for 24 h, and then further dried in vacuum at ~40 oC 
for several days. Blend samples were pressed as thin films between two micro glass slides to obtain 
uniform film thickness (~10 µm) on a heating stage.  
 
Crystallization of blend samples was done at isothermal 110 oC (crystallization temperature, Tc) 
by quenching from the molten state at maximum melting temperature (Tmax) = 190 oC. Degradation 
of neat PLLA under static air was analyzed using thermogravimetric analysis (TGA). In air, 
degradation of neat PLLA initiated at ~200 oC. As a result, 190 oC was used as Tmax in this study. 
As PEO in blends is easily water soluble, PEO could be water-etched from PEO/PLLA blends, 
leaving the PLLA lamellae unaltered by dripping deionized water on to tilted sample. For this 
purpose, an easily releasable polyimide (PI) film was used for temporary covering the samples 
during crystallization; after crystallization and cooling, PI film was peeled off from blend samples. 
7 
 
Fourier-Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR). FTIR (Nicolet Magna-5600, Wisconsin, USA) 
was used to analyze the water-etched components from crystallized PVME/PHA blends of various 
compositions. All spectra were recorded at a resolution of 4 cm−1 with accumulation of 64 scans in 
the range 500−4000 cm−1. Crystallized blends were etched using water, and then the solution 
containing the water-etched-off constituents from the blends or the residual blends were carefully 
collected, dried, and redissolved in THF, and then the etched solutions were cast on KBr pellets for 
IR characterization. Washing of samples using water was to confirm the chemical species of the 
amorphous species (PVME) that had been etched off by water from the crystallized PVME/PHA 
blends. 
 
Differential scanning calorimeter (DSC). DSC (Diamond, Perkin-Elmer Corp., USA) equipped with 
an intracooler for quenching and cooling was used to characterize the thermal transitions of a 3 mg 
sample of PEA and PEA/phenoxy blend samples crystallized at different Tc values from 0 to 40 oC 
(0, 15, 20, and 40 oC) to represent ringless morphology with positive or negative birefringence and 
28 and 30 oC to represent ring-banded morphology. For the measurement of melting temperatures, a 
scanning rate of 10 oC min−1 was used. A continuous nitrogen flow in the DSC sample cell was 
maintained. 
 
Wide-Angle X-ray Diffraction (WAXD). X-ray analysis was performed on a Shimadzu XRD-6000 
with Cu Kα radiation (30 kV and 40 mA) and a wavelength of 0.1542 nm. The scanning 2θ angle 
range was from 10o to 28o with a scanning rate of 2o min−1. 1D diffraction patterns of film samples 
at various Tc’s were measured for comparison. 
 
 
Results and Discussion 
PART I Microscopic Lamellar Assembly and Birefringence Patterns in Poly(1,6-hexam- 
ethylene adipate) Packed with or without Amorphous Poly(vinyl methyl ether) 
Figure 1a shows POM graphs of neat PHA crystallized at various Tc’s = 38−46 oC. Neat PHA 
can form positive-type ringless spherulites (blue color in first quadrants) only in thin-film state at all 
Tc. The spherulites become increasingly dendritic at higher Tc, but they remain to be positive-type 
birefringence at all Tc’s (38−46 oC). Figure 1b shows POM graphs of PVME/PHA 20/80 blend 
crystallized at various Tc’s = 38−48 oC. In this study, PVME/PHA 20/80 blend was chosen because 
of the most obvious changing in the spherulitic morphology compared with the other blend 
compositions. POM morphology was analyzed for evaluating the effect of incorporation of PVME 
on PHA crystallization and for searching the temperature range at which the birefringence would be 
reverted from negative to positive type. PVME/PHA (20/80) exhibits all ringless spherulites at Tc 
lower than 42 oC. At Tc = 42−44 oC, spherulites are irregular ring-banded; at higher Tc (46−48 oC), 
the pattern is ringless again and becomes increasingly dendritic. The spherulitic pattern of 
PVME/PHA 20/80 blend differs with respect to Tc. In addition, the spherulites of PVME/PHA 
(20/80) are negative type in birefringence when crystallized at Tc = 38−45 oC, but they become 
9 
 
oval shape, and for the dendritic spherulites at Tc = 46 oC, the AFM images show that they are 
oriented in radial direction, that is, along the dendritic direction. The flat oval-shaped crystal 
platelets are quite similar to the PHA single crystals obtained from dilute n-hexanol solutions at the 
Tc above 30 oC as earlier reported by Gesti ́ et al. [29], and higher aspect ratio of the single-crystal 
shape can be seen at higher crystallization temperatures. 
 
 
Figure 2. AFM images confirming all flat-on lamellae in ringless and petal-patterned spherulites of 
neat PHA crystallized at (a, b) 43 oC and (c, d) 46 oC. (a, c) Height images; (b) and (d) are enlarged 
phase images of the area marked by a square in (a) and (c), respectively. 
 
It would be of interest to compare the micromorphology of the positive-type spherulites to that 
of negative-type ones. However, neat PHA does not form negative-type spherulites in the wide 
temperature range investigated. Attempts were made to explore whether or not negative-type 
spherulites might be induced by incorporation of miscible diluents such as PVME. Figure 1b 
reveals that PVME was capable of inducing negative-type ringless spherulites when crystallized at 
Tc lower than 42 oC and negative-type irregular ring band at Tc = 42−44 oC. Water-etching process 
to strip off the PVME component from PHA lamellae was further provided for knowing the 
characteristics of PVME in blend during various crystallization temperatures. Figure 3 shows OM 
graphs of the spherulites of PVME/PHA 20/80 blend isothermally crystallized at 38, 42, and 46 oC: 
(a) sample before water etching and (b) sample after water etching. By comparing the two graphs of 
Figure 3a with Figure 3b, only minor crevices with radial direction appear on the water-etched 
samples. For samples crystallized at Tc higher than 46 oC, a clearer contour of the spherulitic 
morphology could be seen. That is, amorphous PVME will be included in interlamellar bundles or 
interlamellae of PHA spherulite during crystallization at lower Tc (<46 oC), but may be excluded 
11 
 
spectra of PVME and PHA, respectively, are similar to those in previous studies by Bhutto et al. 
and Goodman et al.[46, 47]. Water etching was performed on PVME/PHA 50/50 blend to collect 
sufficient amount of extraction portion from the blend for IR characterization. More sensitive 
signals by the FTIR spectrum for the water-etched sample were expected to yield a better clue. 
Figure 4d shows the FTIR spectrum for the water-extracted portion, which matches the spectrum 
for neat PVME (Figure 4a), indicating that the extract by water is mainly composed of only the 
PVME constituent and that none or very little of PHA crystals was etched out as the FTIR spectrum 
for the extract shows no traces of FTIR peak at 1732 cm−1 related to the PHA C=O absorbance. 
Figure 4e shows the FTIR spectrum of the residual blend; the FTIR peak at 1090 cm−1 related to the 
PVME C−O absorbance is still  appearing, which indicates little amounts of PVME remain in the 
blend. That might be because the water-etching process can remove only the PVME at the 
interspherulite region or the interlamellar-bundle region near the top surface of the PHA spherulites. 
That is, this etching method could remove a part of PVME from blends but not all of the PVME in 
the blend samples.  
 
From the AFM phase and height analyses on lamellar dendrites of PVME/PHA (20/80) blend 
crystallized at 46 oC, each of the lamellar petals measures about 10 µm in width and 150 µm in 
length. The flower-petal-like lamellae are designated as macroassembly. Morphology of 
macrolamellar assembly remains the same, but the depth change increases dramatically after water 
etching (from 0.3 µm for unetched samples to 0.6 µm at least for the water-etched samples), 
indicating that most of the amorphous and noncrystallizing PVME chains were expelled to 
interpetal regions.  
 
On the surface of each of the petal-like crystal plates, there is even smaller morphology 
domains with distinguished patterns, that is, nanometer platelets of apparently flat-on orientation as 
shown in Figure 5, which shows more detailed morphology in AFM images for water-etched 
PVME/PHA 20/80 blend crystallized at 46 °C. The earlier POM graphs have shown that the 
spherulites in the PHA blend are of positive-birefringence type. The surface morphology of these 
positive-type spherulites of PVME/PHA (20/80) blend was analyzed using AFM height and phase 
imaging to correlate with their optical birefringence and microlamellar shape or orientations inside 
the macrolamellar plates. As discussed earlier, on the surface of each of the crystal petals, there are 
even smaller morphology domains. These smaller domains are further revealed by zoom-in using 
the AFM image analyses to examine these nanometer platelets of flat-on orientation. These 
nanometer platelets are all flat oval-shaped and point in the radial direction. The microlamellar 
morphology of PVME/PHA (20/80) blend crystallized at Tc = 46 oC is similar to that of neat PHA 
crystallized at the same Tc = 46 oC in shape and orientation, except that the microlamellar 
nanometer platelets are smaller than those in neat PHA. AFM morphology and microscopic 
assembly on the surface of each macropetal (flower-like dendrites) remain the same after water 
etching, indicating that PVME is not present in the petal-like lamellae, samples, (b,d) water-etched 
samples. In 38 oC crystallized PVME/PHA (20/80) blend, on zooming in of the spherulites under 
AFM phase imaging, it can be clearly seen that both edge-on and flat-on lamellae are the main 
13 
 
 
 
Figure 7. AFM images of water-etched PVME/PHA 20/80 blend crystallized at 43 oC of (a) height 
image and (b) phase image. 
 
Among the negative-type Maltese-cross spherulites and positive-type dendritic/petal-patterned 
spherulites, PVME/PHA 20/80 blend also can form negative-type irregular ring-band morphology 
at Tc = 42−44 oC. Figure 7 shows AFM images of water-etched irregular ring band of PVME/PHA 
20/80 blend crystallized at 43 oC: (a) height image; (b) phase image. After water-etching procedure 
on samples, the surface of spherulite becomes rougher especially in edge-on lamellar assembly 
portions. Because of the characteristics of irregular ring band, the boundary between ridge (bright 
band) and valley (dark band) is obscure. Therefore, the dashed lines in Figure 7b are meant only for 
rough markings to distinguish the main borders between the ridge and valley regions of the 
spherulites. Figure 7b shows that the edge-on lamellae are dominant in the ridge region of 
spherulites but they are almost or entirely absent in the valley region. It may be expected that if 
these microlamellae of edge-on and flat-on types were to be aligned in an orderly pattern along the 
alternating circumferential direction, they would have formed ring bands rather than radiating 
straight petals. 
 
In general, in polymer crystals, the main chains have strong covalent bonds along the chain 
axes (c-axis) in comparison with lateral cohesion of polymer chains in crystals having only weaker 
van der Waals force or at most hydrogen-bond interactions. Polymer chains in crystals are highly 
anisotropic in electron density at the c-axis in comparison to that along the b- or a-axis. This 
anisotropy is commonly used to explain the change of a refractive index and the color of 
birefringence in the spherulite. That is, the information of the orientation for the molecular chain in 
the spherulite can be obtained from the optical sign of the spherulite. The correlation between 
lamellar orientation and the optical sign of spherulite is demonstrated  
by many related studies [45, 48-50]. 
 
Figure 8 shows schematic summaries of the possible lamellar orientations for negative-type 
and positive-type spherulites. The polymer chain direction is usually called c-axis and the crystal 
15 
 
 
Figure 9. (a) AFM phase image of neat PHA crystallized at Tc = 46 oC; (b) and (c) height profiles 
of lines 1 and 2 in graph (a), respectively. 
 
PART II Lamellar Assembly and Orientation-induced Internal Micro-voids by 
Cross-sectional Dissection of Poly(ethylene oxide)/Poly(L-lactic acid) Blend 
POM and optical microscopy (OM) characterization was performed on the 110 oC-crystallized 
PEO/PLLA blends of several PEO-rich compositions (PEO ≧ 50 wt%) for further clarifying the 
correlations between the patterns of the crystalline ring bands and cracks. During the two-stage 
crystallization (first at crystallization temperature Tc = 110 oC then cooling to ambient temperature) 
of the PEO/PLLA blends, the pre-formed PLLA ring-banded lamellae at Tc serves as nucleating 
templates for the later-crystallizing PEO species upon cooling to ambient temperature, and then the 
cracks could be observed after the PEO crystallizing. Figure 10 shows with increasing of the PEO 
content, the PLLA optical ring bands became less ordered. Under in-situ observation by using POM, 
long cracks always took place at the impingement of PEO spherulites with the preformed PLLA 
crystals. At 80 wt% of PEO in the PEO-rich blend, the PLLA optical ring bands in the spherulites 
are not distinct or entirely disrupted at all, as shown in the POM graph of Figure 10c. And, the crack 
pattern was changing from the long radial type to the short irregular type as the content of PEO 
increase to 80 wt%. There could be found a transition stage of the crack patterns at PEO/PLLA 
(70/30) blend which had both the radial and the irregular cracks on one sample. Cooling-induced 
thermal shrinkage due to directional CTE difference alone may not be sufficient in fully accounting 
for the cracks of these different types. 
 
Figure 11 shows the POM and OM graphs of the water-etched PEO/PLLA blends after the 
two-stage crystallization. Upon water-etching, it was found that PEO was dominantly and 
selectively removed from the ridge bands to expose the inner PLLA crystals underneath the ridges. 
As will be shown in latter results/discussion, PLLA lamellar crystal plates in the ridge region are 
perpendicular to top surface of the samples, and PEO component tends to aggregate between the 
17 
 
 
Figure 11. POM (left) and OM (right) graphs of PEO/PLLA blends (water-etched) crystallized at 
Tc = 110 oC then cooled to ambient temperature (25–28 oC) of compositions: (a) 60/40, (b) 70/30, 
and (c) 80/20. 
 
In addition, the fractured and water-etched interiors of PEO/PLLA (50/50) blend also expose 
interesting correlations between the lamellar plates and crack orientations. Lenticular-shaped voids 
on the top surface are oriented in the radial direction between the perpendicular edge-on 
micro-lamellae in the ridge band (bright bands). The schemes, reflecting the actual fractured 
morphology in SEM graphs shown earlier in Figure 12, show that the voids are not only on the top 
surface but also on the hidden interior exposed by the fracture surface, as indicated by the arrow 
marks.  
On the other hand, with increasing PEO contents in PEO/PLLA blends, the water-etched 
PEO/PLLA (70/30, 80/20, and 90/10) blends exhibit more irregular twisting PLLA micro-lamellae, 
resembling seaweeds. The top surface observation results of water-etched PEO/PLLA (70/30, 80/20, 
and 90/10) blends by using SEM are shown in the Figure 13. As the PEO content increases even 
higher to 80 or 90 wt%, only the irregularly twisting microlamellae were present, and the 
micro-lamellae are in less dense assembly. In Figure 13b and 13c, some connected voids appear, 
similar to the OM-revealed result as shown earlier in Figure 11c. 
 
19 
 
blend are horizontally oriented, but the horizontal orientation is less ordered than that in the 50/50 
blend. By comparison, for the PEO/PLLA blend with a higher PEO content at 70 wt%, the lamellar 
patterns on the top surface are seen to be more irregular and the voids increase in number in 
comparison to the morphology in the water-etched PEO/PLLA (50/50) blend. The top surface still 
exhibits lenticular-shaped voids, but as the packing density of the lamellar crystals are smaller and 
less regularly positioned, the voids diminish in size. 
 
 
Figure 14. (a) SEM graph and (b) scheme for the fractured surface of the water-etched PEO/PLLA 
(70/30) blends crystallized at Tc = 110 oC then cooled to ambient temperature (25–28 oC). 
 
Overall, the PEO/PLLA 50/50 blend exhibits more ordered lamellar plates underneath the 
ridge and valley bands; as a result, the unetched 50/50 blend sample exhibits the long radial cracks 
on the ridge bands when viewed from the top. By contrast, in interior of the PEO/PLLA blends of 
PEO-rich compositions (PEO content above 70 wt%), the lamellar plates are increasingly less 
ordered, and only irregular cracks of smaller sizes are present. From the 3D interior dissecting 
analyses into the interior morphology, it then became easy to comprehend the lamellar assembly 
and cracks seen in ringed spherulites of the top surface of thin-film PEO/PLLA samples. Schemes 
of micro-lamellar orientation and cracks are summarized in Figure 15, which illustrates how 
micro-lamellar plates interact with crack/ring formation mechanisms in the PEO-rich PEO/PLLA 
blends of compositions: (a) 50/50, and (b) 80/20 as examples. Ideally, etching of PEO would be 
more complete if etching was performed at Tm of PEO. Thus, etching by warm water was 
performed on crystallized blends of several compositions. However, results were not suitable for 
analysis owing to several reasons. Rings/PLLA lamellae in warm water etched samples were highly 
disrupted to extents of hardship in subsequent analysis on PLLA morphology. Films would be 
disintegrated, floated from glass substrate, and bulk samples would be crumbled into irregular 
particles. 
 
The diagrams on top the schemes are SEM top-surface morphology for PEO/PLLA (50/50 and 
80/20) blends. For the PEO/PLLA (50/50) blend, the ridge bands are PLLA lamellae that are 
oriented perpendicular to the substrate, though with some occasional twist/bending. When the blend 
was crystallized at Tc = 110 oC, PEO remained molten; but as temperature was cooled to ambient, 
PEO started to crystallize along the pre-crystallized PLLA crystals. 
21 
 
PART III Lamellar Assembly Corresponding to Transitions of Positively to Negatively 
Birefringent Spherulites in Poly(ethylene adipate) with Phenoxy 
Optical microscopy at lower magnification was first performed to identify the birefringence 
types and patterns of PEA/phenoxy spherulites with respect to Tc. In neat PEA vs. PEA/phenoxy 
blend, they both showed upon increasing Tc, the birefringence of spherulites shifted from negative 
at 0 oC to positive, then negative, but eventually back to positive at high Tc. After POM 
characterization on samples, AFM was then performed on interested areas of the spherulites with 
various types depending on the Tc used. AFM characterization was thus performed on ringless 
Maltese-cross spherulites of positive and negative types for comparing the top morphology 
differences. POM characterization was performed on neat PEA samples crystallized at various Tc 
(0–40 oC). Birefringence patterns and ringless/ring-banded patterns were found to vary with respect 
to Tc. Figure 16 summarizes the POM images of birefringent types (positive and negative) and ring 
band in spherulites of neat PEA crystallized at various Tc starting from 0 to 40 oC. Exactly speaking, 
neat PEA spherulites in POM crystallized at Tc = 0–4 oC show negative birefringence; with 
increasing Tc to 6 oC; the pattern changes to neutral birefringence, but it becomes positive 
birefringence when crystallized at Tc = 8–23 oC. Crystallization of neat PEA at Tc = 24–33 oC 
shows double-ring-banded pattern with dominantly negative birefringence, and 34 oC is the 
transition temperature at which the spherulites change into ringless and positive birefringence at 35 
oC and above. 
 
5 10 15 20 25 30 35
Bi
re
fr
in
ge
nc
e o
f S
ph
er
ul
ite
s
 Tc (oC)
15oC 23oC 40oC6oC
34oC0oC 28oC
POSITIVE
NEGATIVE
 
Figure 16. Schemes of morphology transformation of neat PEA crystallized at different Tc (scale 
bar = 20 µm). 
 
Incorporation of amorphous phenoxy into crystalline PEA was found to affect the shift of 
transition temperatures of birefringence patterns. Figure 17 shows the scheme of POM images of 
birefringent types (positive and negative) and ring-band patterns in spherulites of PEA/phenoxy (80/ 
20) crystallized at various Tc from 0 to 40 oC. PEA/phenoxy (80/20) blend in POM exhibits 
23 
 
crystallized at 0 oC (a, b) and 15 oC (c, d). The white arrow mark on the graphs indicates the radial 
direction of spherulites. AFM phase images of 0 oC-crystallized blend show that the surface of 
negatively birefringent spherulites is composed of edge-on lamellae arranged on the radial 
directions surrounded by flat-on lamellae. The 15 oC-crystallized blend has a larger spherulite size 
than the same blend crystallized at 0 oC. The larger spherulite size of the 15 oC-crystallized 
PEA/phenoxy blend made it easier to discern better resolution of the lamellar patterns. AFM 
characterization for the general features of negatively birefringent spherulites in PEA/phenoxy 
blend crystallized at 15 oC is dominated by the edge-on lamellae twisted in radial direction and 
flat-on platelets.  
 
 
Figure 18. AFM height and phase images of negatively birefringent spherulites in PEA/phenoxy 
(80/20) blend crystallized at 0 oC (a, b) and 15 oC (c, d). 
 
 
Figure 19. AFM images of positively birefringent dendritic spherulites in neat PEA crystallized at 
Tc = 15 oC: (a) height image, (b) phase image of square region. 
25 
 
enlarged regions all reveal that the morphology is characterized with edge-on lamellae bended from 
radial to tangential directions for positive spherulites, which differs from the negatively birefringent 
spherulites at 0 and 15 oC-crystallized blend sample filled with only radially arranged edge-on 
lamellae. Obviously, for spherulites to be positively birefringent, it only needs a certain portion of 
lamellae to assemble as edge-on fibrillae and orient/arrange in the tangential direction. The 
mechanism of orientation of polymer chains and anisotropic interactions with the optical photons 
leading to positive birefringence will be discussed later. 
 
The positively birefringent spherulites of PEA/phenoxy crystallized at 40 oC were also 
characterized with flat-on lamellae mixed with edge-on lamellae. Interestingly, the lamellar 
assembly in the spherulites (positive type) crystallized at 40 oC is dramatically different from that of 
other positively birefringent spherulites crystallized at 20 oC (discussed earlier). The AFM graph 
reveals that the morphology is mainly spread with numerous streaks of edge-on lamellae coiled up 
making an 8-shaped and dendrite-like pattern, but these edge-on lamellae are also surrounded by 
some flat-on lamellae, which appear to be imbedded among these edge-on crystals. Some of the 
edge-on dendritic lamellae are aligned roughly in the radial direction, but some of the remaining 
8-shaped edge-on lamellae appear to intertwine among neighboring flat-on ones in a nonorderly 
pattern. Note also the numerous tiny corolla petal-shaped cavities in the AFM graphs (Figure 20e), 
formed by crystal densification and partially by rolling/curving of the edge-on lamellae, as has been 
observed and reported earlier in neat PEA as well [41]. 
 
At high crystallization temperatures, the PEA lamellar crystals are indeed elongated in the 
radial direction. Han et al. [45] discovered that at higher Tc, PMMA/PEO is growing in radial 
direction and negative spherulites appear as the result. Interestingly and by contrast, upon being 
crystallized at a high Tc (>35 oC), PEA spherulite shows an opposite birefringence to that of 
PMMA/PEO, while its lamellae in the spherulites are clearly seen to radiate out straightly from its 
nuclei using SEM observation on bulk-form PEA specimens crystallized at 35 oC [38]. There must 
be explanations why the edge-on fibrillae or lamellae display two opposite birefringence (blue and 
orange) when viewed in POM with tint plates. AFM observations in this study pointed out that the 
edge-on lamellae display periodical beta-sheet bending/coiling/twisting. The perpendicularly 
intersecting lamellae interact with polarized light. This bending and coiling phenomena might have 
occurred due to the low diffusion rate at high Tc; the molecule attachment kinetics is so slow and 
the crystal will crystallize in a more perfect way. 
 
The arrangement of lamellae within the spherulite represented by surface height and phase 
images obtained from AFM apparently gives an insight in understanding the negative–positive 
birefringence. The arrangement of edge-on lamellae on the surface of thin-film samples (thickness 
below 5 µm) influences the spherulites’ birefringence patterns within the samples. When edge-on 
lamellae are arranged in radial direction, the spherulite exhibits a negative birefringence, and when 
edge-on lamellae are much arranged in the tangential direction, the spherulite exhibits a positive 
birefringence. Birefringence pattern appears only when there is anisotropic lamellar crystal in 
27 
 
a positive-birefringence pattern. This view is now further strengthened by the direct lamellar 
assembly evidence of the AFM results in this study. 
 
The crystallization mechanism of ring-banded spherulite has long been debated during many 
decades. There are two major views long being tested as working mechanisms for ring-banded 
spherulite formation: rhythmic growth theory [42-44, 56] and lamellar twisting theory [3, 22, 45, 
57]. Recently, some additional research has been conducted on crystallization polymers via solvent 
evaporation which induced ring-banded patterns and suggests the rhythmic growth combined with 
lamellar twisting as the formation mechanism. Wang et al. [58] have succeeded to obtain a novel 
hierarchical nested ring-banded structure via controlling the solvent evaporation rate in PEA 
solution. A newly proposed mechanism [38] based on the studies on PEA has revealed that the 
interior lamellar assembly of mutually perpendicular intersection is more convincingly correlated to 
the top surface ring patterns and that broader perspectives are required to understand that the 
mechanisms for alternating repetitive lamellar assembly should be more delicately examined from 
interior lamellae. 
 
 
Figure 22. AFM images of negatively birefringent ring-banded spherulite in neat PEA crystallized 
at 28 oC: (a) height image (100×100 µm), (b) height profile along white marked line, (c) phase 
image zoomed in to square area (10×10 µm), and (d) height profile along the white arrow in (c). 
 
PEA is known to exhibit double-ring-banded spherulite (alternating blue/orange colors in 
every quadrant observed by POM) when crystallized at Tc = 24–33 oC, with the most 
regular-ring-band pattern when crystallized at 28 oC. Neat PEA sample crystallized at 28 oC 
showing double-ringbanded (i.e., blue/orange bands in successive order) pattern with dominantly 
negative birefringence was further characterized using AFM. Corresponding to the results of POM 
micrographs, the inter-ring spacing in neat PEA is known to be about 6.0-6.5 µm (containing 
blue/orange bands in successive order). Figure 22 shows AFM images of negatively birefringent 
ringbanded spherulite in neat PEA crystallized at 28 oC: (a) height image (100×100 µm), (b) height 
29 
 
tangential direction, and these two types of arrangement directions are mutually perpendicular to 
each other. By comparing the previous analyses based on 3-D dissection into banded spherulites of 
bulk PEA, the lamellae in the alternating valley and ridge can be better visualized in 3-D pictures. 
The valley region of banding is filled with lamellae aligned in the radial direction, like the fluting 
layer in corrugated board structure. By contrast, the straight sticks with tapering needle ends are 
actually edge-on lamellae aligned in the tangential direction (perpendicular to the fluting lamellae), 
which form a skin interlayer between two valley flat-on lamellae (in fluting layers). Furthermore, 
the scheme of lamellae assembly in Figure 23b shows that as the inner lamellae come to the top 
surface, these edge-on tangential lamellae (in skin layer) are forced to bend and the tapered ends 
appear as they reemerge periodically into the next valley region. Actually, they are the end of 
tangential lamellae as these lamellae come from bottom to the surface. They then are bent from 
original tangential to radial direction at the surface, as shown in the SEM micrographs (Figure23a). 
These alternating layers in pleated sequences of radial and tangential lamellae meet at roughly 
perpendicular joints, which account for the alternating stripes of both blue and orange colors in the 
same quadrant of spherulite. The valley region, composed by radially arranged edge-on lamellae, 
appears as negatively birefringent. The ridge region, composed by edge-on lamellae arranged in 
tangential directions, appears as positively birefringent. The coexistence of radial and tangential 
lamellae thus can explain the appearance of dual birefringence of ring-banded pattern in neat PEA. 
 
 
Figure 24. Image of negatively birefringent ring-banded spherulite in PEA/phenoxy (80/20) blend 
crystallized at 28 oC: (a) AFM height image, (b) phase image of (a), (c) height profile along white 
marked line in (a). 
 
The details of lamellae packing and effect of phenoxy on the PEA crystal assembly were 
further revealed using AFM. Inclusion of amorphous phenoxy in PEA does not change much the 
crystallization temperature range at which ring bands appear, which remains at Tc = 24–33 oC for 
the PEA/phenoxy (80/20) blend. This range remains to be similar to the temperature range of Tc = 
31 
 
peak appearing at 50 oC, showing that amorphous phenoxy may have disrupted this feature. For 
positively and negatively birefringent spherulites, they do not show much difference in the thermal 
behavior, indicating that there is no different crystal types or lamellar patterns formed in the 
spherulites, with only the crystal arrangements differing among the negative to positive spherulites. 
 
In addition, crystal packing or orientation was investigated. Figure 25b shows X-ray diffraction 
analyses for PEA/phenoxy (80/20) blend melted at 90 oC for 2 min then crystallized at various Tc = 
35, 30, 28, 20, 0 oC, covering various spherulite types: ringless positive birefringent, ring-banded 
and negatively birefringent, and ringless negatively birefringent types. Similar to the X-ray results 
for neat PEA earlier reported [38], the intensity of (111) plane diffraction at 2θ = 20o for the 28 
oC-crystallized PEA/phenoxy blend (with ring-banded spherulites) is depressed in comparison to 
the PEA/phenoxy samples crystallized at Tc = 0, 20, or 35 oC (ringless spherulites), indicating that 
the orientation and order of lamellae in rings which lead to much diminished signal of (111) plane 
diffraction is true in neat PEA and PEA/phenoxy blend as well. For the blend system, the 
broadening of (110) diffraction peak is only observed in the sample crystallized at 28 oC but not in 
the sample crystallized at 30 oC, indicating that phenoxy has disrupted the tangential lamellar 
arrangement. Again, the positively and negatively birefringent spherulites do no show different 
crystal lamellae forms, but only the lamellar assembly or arrangement differs among the negative to 
positive spherulites. 
 
Conclusions 
Internal and top-surface lamellar assembly responsible for birefringence patterns in spherulites 
has been illustrated and exemplified using a polyester polymer (PHA) in the presence or absence of 
an amorphous and miscible diluent (PVME). This study found that PHA, crystallized without an 
amorphous and miscible PVME constituent, is packed into positive-type ringless spherulites under a 
thin-film state (thickness 2−3 µm) at all Tc, which is packed only by flat-on lamellae with slight 
tilting (forward or backward to the center of the spherulite). Diversification of birefringence 
patterns resulted from introducing the amorphous and miscible PVME into PHA. By contrast, upon 
introduction of 20 wt % PVME into PHA, the lamellae in the PVME/PHA blend could be packed 
into negative-type ringless spherulites at lower temperatures, and then they formed and assembled 
into irregular ring-banded spherulites at Tc = 42−44 oC. The spherulites in the PVME/PHA blend 
then turned back to a positive-type ringless pattern at higher temperatures (Tc > 44 oC).   
 
Such mechanism was probed by examining internal and top-surface lamellae assembly inside 
or on spherulites. Apparently, inclusion of PVME (20 wt%) into PHA upon crystallization leads to 
PHA lamellae being able to preferentially form an edge-on type at Tc < 46 oC under a thin-film state. 
Moreover, if these edge-on and flat-on lamellae were to be aligned in orderly patterns and in 
periodically circumferential modes, they would have a chance to form regular ring-banded 
morphology. The correlation between internal and top-surface lamellar crystal plate orientations and 
the optical birefringence was delicately proven and described in detail. 
33 
 
spherulites turn to a ring-banded pattern showing alternating negative and positive birefringence 
due to the alternating radial and tangential lamellar arrangements which intersect with each other. 
When crystallized at Tc higher than 35 oC, the lamellae of PEA tend to coil up. In optical features, 
the polarized light photons in the radial direction are retarded, and as a result, the spherulites appear 
as positively birefringent. 
 
[Note: Portions of the texts/results in this report are also published in 
SCI-indexed journals. All papers published in the duration of the project 
funding are listed in the end of the reports.] 
 
 
References 
[1] Fortunati E., Armentano I., Zhou Q., Iannoni A., Saino E., Visai L., Berglund L. A., Kenny J. 
M.: Multifunctional bionanocomposite films of poly(lactic acid), cellulose nanocrystals and 
silver nanoparticles. Carbohydrate Polymers, 87, 1596–1605 (2012). 
[2] Yu H. Y., Qin Z. Y., Wang L. F., Zhou Z.: Crystallization behavior and hydrophobic 
properties of biodegradable ethyl cellulose-g-poly(3-hydroxybutyrate-co-3-hydroxyvalerate): 
The influence of the side-chain length and grafting density. Carbohydrate Polymers, 87, 
2447–2454 (2012). 
[3] Maillard D., Prud’homme R. E.: Crystallization of ultrathin films of polylactides: From chain 
chirality to lamella curvature and twisting. Macromolecules, 41, 1705–1712 (2008). 
[4] Fraschini C., Plesu R., Sarasua J. R., Prud’homme R. E.: Cracking in polylactide spherulites. 
Journal of Polymer Science Part B: Polymer Physics, 43, 3308–3315 (2005). 
[5] He Y., Fan Z., Wei J., Li S.: Morphology and melt crystallization of poly(L-lactide) obtained 
by ring opening polymerization of L-lactide with zinc catalyst. Polymer Engineering and 
Science, 46, 1583–1589 (2006). 
[6] Nurkhamidah S., Woo E. M.: Effects of crystallinity and molecular weight on crack behavior 
in crystalline poly(L-lactic acid). Journal of Applied Polymer Science, 122, 1976–1985 (2011). 
[7] Nurkhamidah S., Woo E. M.: Correlation of crack patterns and ring bands in spherulites of low 
molecular weight poly(L-lactic acid). Colloid and Polymer Science, 290, 275–288 (2012). 
[8] Murayama E.: Optical properties of ringed spherulites. Polymer Preprints Japan, 51, 460–462 
(2002) 
[9] Hsieh Y. T., Nurkhamidah S., Woo E. M.: Lamellar orientation and interlamellar cracks in 
co-crystallized poly(ethylene oxide)/poly(L-lactic acid) blend. Polymer Journal, 43, 762–769 
(2011). 
[10] Hsieh Y. T., Kuo N. T., Woo E. M.: Thermal analysis on phase behavior of poly(L-lactic acid) 
interacting with aliphatic polyesters. Journal of Thermal Analysis and Calorimetry, 107, 
745−756 (2012). 
[11] Kim K. S., Chin I. J., Yoon J. S., Choi H. J., Lee D. C., Lee K. H.: Crystallization behavior and 
mechanical properties of poly(ethylene oxide)/poly(L-lactide)/poly(vinyl acetate) blends. 
35 
 
nanocomposite. Polymer, 50, 4635−4643 (2009). 
[28] Aylwin P. A., Boyd R. H.: Aliphatic polyesters as models for relaxation processes in 
crystalline polymers: 1. Characterization. Polymer, 25, 323−329  (1984). 
[29] Gestí S., Almontassir A., Casas M. T., Puiggalí J.: Crystalline structure of poly(hexamethylene 
adipate). Study on the morphology and the enzymatic degradation of single crystals. 
Biomacromolecules, 7, 799−808 (2006). 
[30] Chiang C. P., Woo E. M.: Solvent effects on phase behavior with false UCST in blends of 
PVPh with aliphatic polyesters. European Polymer Journal, 42, 1875−1884 (2006). 
[31] Lin J. H., Woo E. M.: Correlation between interactions, miscibility, and spherulite growth in 
crystalline/crystalline blends of poly(ethylene oxide) and polyesters. Polymer, 47, 6826−6835 
(2006). 
[32] Hashida T., Jeong Y. G., Hua Y., Hsu S. L., Paul C. W.: Spectroscopic study on morphology 
evolution in polymer blends. Macromolecules, 38, 2876−2882 (2005). 
[33] Lee J. H., Kim K. O., Ju Y. M.: Polyethylene oxide additive-entrapped polyvinyl chloride as a 
new blood bag material. Journal of Biomedical Materials Research, 48, 328–334 (1999). 
[34] Ma G., Fang D., Liu Y., Zhu X., Nie J.: Electrospun sodium alginate/poly(ethylene oxide) 
core–shell nanofibers scaffolds potential for tissue engineering applications. Carbohydrate 
Polymers, 87, 737–743 (2012). 
[35] Nakafuku C.: Effects of molecular weight on the melting and crystallization of poly(L-lactic 
acid) in a mixture with poly(ethylene oxide). Polymer Journal, 28, 568–575 (1996). 
[36] Nijenhuis A. J., Colstee E., Grijpma D. W., Pennings A. J.: High molecular weight 
poly(L-lactide) and poly(ethylene oxide) blends: Thermal characterization and physical 
properties. Polymer, 37, 5849–5857 (1996). 
[37] Lustiger A., Lotz B., Duff T. S.: The morphology of the spherulitic surface in polyethylene. 
Journal of Polymer Science Part B: Polymer Physics, 27, 561–579 (1989). 
[38] Woo E. M., Wang L. Y., Nurkhamidah S.: Crystal lamellae of mutually perpendicular 
orientations by dissecting onto interiors of poly(ethylene adipate) spherulites crystallized in 
bulk form. Macromolecules, 45, 1375–1383 (2012). 
[39] Frömsdorf A.,Woo E. M., Lee L. T., Chen Y. F., Förster S.: Atomic force microscopy 
characterization and interpretation of thin-film poly(butylene adipate) spherulites with ring 
bands. Macromolecular Rapid Communications, 29, 1322–1328 (2008). 
[40] Woo E. M., Wu P. L., Wu M. C., Yen K. C.: Thermal behavior of ring-band versus 
Maltese-cross spherulites: case of monomorphic poly(ethylene adipate). Macromolecular 
Chemisitry and Physics, 207, 2232–2243 (2006). 
[41] Meyer A., Yen K. C., Li S. H., Förster S., Woo E. M.: Atomic force and optical microscopy 
investigations on thin-film morphology of spherulites in melt-crystallized poly(ethylene 
adipate). Industrial & Engineering Chemistry Research, 49, 12084–12092 (2010). 
[42] Wang Z., Hu Z., Chen Y., Gong Y., Huang H., He T.: Rhythmic growth-induced concentric 
ring-banded structures in poly(ε-caprolactone) solution-casting films obtained at the slow 
solvent evaporation rate. Macromolecules, 40, 4381–4385 (2007). 
[43] Wang Z., Alfonso G. C., Hu Z., Zhang J., He T.: Rhythmic growth-induced ring-banded 
37 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本研究計畫主旨為結晶性高分子於薄膜與塊材狀態下之特殊自組裝結晶
形貌、晶態結構與熱行為探討，研究中除了對具有特殊球晶形貌之晶板排列
方式進行探討，也將結晶性高分子在球晶排列方面的研究由薄膜狀態進一步
提升至塊材狀態，進行球晶內部三維結構的分析，並對其晶態變化及其熱行
為進行研究討論。在球晶內部三維結構的分析研究方面，本研究在材料斷截
面的制作及蝕刻技術與手法上，有相當高的水準和值得信賴的研究成果，藉
由後續之晶態結構與其熱行為表現分析，加以推敲各類球晶形貌其高分子球
晶成長的機制。在本研究報告及年度內於國際期刊之發表內容皆有助於增進
高分子領域在球晶成長研究方面的認識與觀念突破。而本研究報告中所討論
的研究成果，皆獲得學術界肯定並發表於國際學術期刊 eXPRESS Polymer 
Letters、Colloid and Polymer Science、Industrial & Engineering Chemistry 
Research 等國際期刊中，年度內之論文發表及國內、國際會議論文發表狀況
亦將整理於後續附錄。 
 
39 
 
4. G. Lugito and E. M. Woo*, “Lamellar Assembly Corresponding to Transitions of Positively to 
Negatively Birefringent Spherulites in Poly(ethylene adipate) with Phenoxy”, Colloid Polym. 
Sci., 291, 817-826 (2013). SCI/i.f.: 2.161. (2013/04) 
5. Y. T. Hsieh and E. M. Woo*, “Microscopic Lamellar Assembly and Birefringence Patterns in 
Poly(1,6-hexamethylene adipate) Packed with or without Amorphous Poly(vinyl methyl 
ether)”, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 52, 3779−3786 (2013). SCI/i.f.: 2.206. (2013/03) 
6. S. Nurkhamidah and E. M. Woo*, “Unconventional Non-birefringent or Birefringent 
Concentric Ring-banded Spherulites in Poly(L-lactic acid) Thin Films”, Macromol. Chem. 
Phys., 214, 673−680 (2013). SCI/i.f.: 2.386. (2013/03) [Front Cover] 
7. C. C. Su*, E. M. Woo, and Y. T. Hsieh, “Perpendicularly Oriented Lamellae in 
Poly(3-hydroxybutyric acid-co-3-hydroxyvaleric acid) Blended with an Amorphous Polymer: 
Ultra-thin to Thick films”, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.,15, 2495-2506 (2013). SCI/i.f.: 3.829. 
(2013/02) 
8. G. Lugito and E. M. Woo*, “Crystal Polymorphism and Spherulites in Poly(butylene adipate) 
Diluted with Strongly Versus Weakly Interacting Amorphous Polymers”, Macromol. Chem. 
Phys. 213, 2228-2237 (2012). SCI/i.f.: 2.386. (2012/11) [Back Cover] 
2012 
9. L. T. Lee*, E. M. Woo*, and Y. T. Hsieh, “Macro- and Micro-lamellar Aassembly and 
Mechanisms for Unusual Large-pitch Banding in Poly(L-lactic acid)”, Polymer, 53, 5313-5319 
(2012). SCI/i.f.: 3.379. (2012/10) 
10. S. Nurkhamidah, E. M. Woo*, and K. Tashiro, “Optical Birefringence Patterns and 
Corresponding Lamellar Alteration Induced by Solvent Vapor on Poly(L-lactic acid) Diluted 
with Poly(1,4-butylene adipate), Macromolecules, 45, 7313-7316 (2012). SCI/i.f.: 5.521. 
(2012/09) 
11. Auliawan A. and E. M. Woo*, “Crystallization Kinetics and Degradation of Nanocomposites 
Based on Ternary Blend of Poly(L-Lactic Acid), Poly(methyl methacrylate), and Poly(ethylene 
oxide) with Two Different Organoclays”, J. Appl. Polym. Sci., 125, E444-E458 (2012). 
SCI/i.f.: 1.395. (2012/09) 
12. E. M. Woo* and Y. H. Wang, “New Complex Crystals of Chiral Poly(L-Lactic acid) and 
Different Tactic Poly(methyl methacrylate)”, Macromol. Chem. Phys., 213, 1688-1696 (2012). 
SCI/i.f.: 2.386. (2012/08) 
13. L. Y. Wang, G. Lugito, E. M. Woo*, and Y. H. Wang, “Phase Behavior, Polymorphism and 
Spherulite Morphology in Poly(1,4-butylene adipate) Interacting with Two Structurally 
Similar Acrylic Polymers”, Polymer, 53, 3815-3826 (2012). SCI/i.f.: 3.379. (2012/08) 
 
國際及國內會議論文發表 [含碩博學生、國際生參與國際會議 做口頭報告] 
1. E. M. Woo, “Lamellar Nano-Assembly Habitat Leading to Various Morphological or 
Birefringent Patterns in Polymer Spherulites”, 5th Nanoscience and Nanotechnology 
Symposium (NNS2013), Surabaya, Indonesia, October 23-25, 2013. [Plenary speaker] 
2013 
2. S. Nurkhamidah1 and E. M. Woo2, “Effect of Sample Thickness and Crystallization 
41 
 
14. G. Lugito and E. M. Woo*, “Ring-banded Spherulites in Poly(ethylene adipate): Interior 
Architecture for Alternating Birefringence-Color Bands”, 中華民國高分子學會年會, Jia-Yi, 
Taiwan, January 25-26 (2013). [Oral presentation contest in English by G. Lugito] 
15. H. Ni'mah and E. M. Woo*, “Morphological Diagram of Multiple Spherulites Types in 
Poly(ethylene succinate)/Poly(4-vinyl phenol) Blend Ultrathin Films”, 中華民國高分子學會
年會, Jia-Yi, Taiwan, January 25-26 (2013). [Oral presentation contest in English by H. 
Ni'mah] 
16. Y. T. Hsieh and E. M. Woo*, “Thermocycle-Induced Banded Spherulites of Alternating 
Birefringence Colors in Poly(1,6-hexamethylene adipate)”, 中華民國高分子學會年會, Jia-Yi, 
Taiwan, January 25-26 (2013). [Oral presentation contest in English by Y. T. Hsieh] 
 
17. G. Lugito and E. M. Woo*, “Lamellar Assembly of the Positive-Negative Birefringence 
Spherulites in Poly(ethylene adipate) and Its Blend with Phenoxy”, The 9th SPSJ International 
Polymer Conference (IPC2012), Kobe, Japan, December 11-14 (2012). [Oral presentation by 
G. Lugito] 
2012 
18. H. Ni’mah, E. M. Woo, “Effects of chain configuration on crystalline lamellae and amorphous 
phase behavior in poly(3-hydroxy butyrate) blends with tactic poly(methyl methacrylate)”, The 
9th SPSJ International Polymer Conference (IPC2012), Kobe, Japan, December 11-14 (2012). 
[Oral presentation by H. Ni’mah] 
19. E. M. Woo, “Nano-Patterns of Lamellar Assembly in Chiral Poly(L-lactic acid) under Various 
Conditions”, 海峽兩岸研討會議 , Hua-Lien, Taiwan, November 4-6 (2012). [Invited 
speaker]. 
20. E. M. Woo, “Nano-Patterns of Lamellar Assembly in Poly(L-lactic acid) with Crystalline or 
Amorphous Polymers”, Japan-Taiwan Bilateral Workshop on Nano-Science 2012 
( JTBW2012), Osaka, Japan, December 4-6 (2012). 
21. Y. T. Hsieh and E. M. Woo*, “Lamellar assembly in poly(1,6-hexamethylene adipate) packed 
with or without amorphous poly(vinyl methyl ether)”, Japan-Taiwan Bilateral Workshop on 
Nano-Science 2012 ( JTBW2012), Osaka, Japan, December 4-6 (2012). [Poster presentation 
by Y. T. Hsieh] 
22. E. M. Woo, “Nano-Patterns of Lamellar Assembly in Poly(L-lactic acid) Melt-Crystallized 
with Crystalline or Amorphous Polymers”, International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry 
(IUPAC), Xian, China, October 15-19 (2012). [Invited speaker] 
 
 2 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
101年 10月 29日 
報告人姓名 吳 逸 謨 服務機關及
職稱 
成功大學化學工程學系 
教授 
時間 
會議地點 
101年 10月 14日至 20日 
共 7日 (實際參會 3天, 
10/16-18, including 
reception on first night) 
 
本會核定 
補助文號 NSC99-2221-E-006-034-MY3 
(註:)  A99M3-104(B or C) 
會議 
名稱 
IUPAC 8th International Conference on Novel Materials and their 
Synthesis (NMS-VIII) & 22nd International Symposium on Fine 
Chemistry and Functional Polymers (FCFP-XXII) 
發表論 
文題目 
Nano-Patterns of Lamellar Assembly in Poly(L-lactic acid) 
Melt-Crystallized with Crystalline or Amorphous Polymers 
 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議心得 
二、與會心得 
三、考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
六、其他 
 4 
研究課題，仍是「奈米材料科技」，現已轉向太陽能光電材料。參加國際學術會議，
除了增加國際觀及研究交流以外，也能進一步的瞭解到高分子科學研究的趨勢及
最新方向。 現今高分子領域已愈來愈廣泛，不論是材料的設計製備、加工的方法
技巧、功能性高分子材料之應用、分子修飾甚或是應用到生物應用及藥物釋放的
研究。而這一次會議更聆聽到來自各個不同國家的高分子教授學者，他們研究的
成果報告可謂一大享受及新科技研究之吸收學習(如附圖)。  
 
本人邀請報告排在周四(10/17) 10:30-16:50 (20 min) 並聆聽所有場次。 
聆聽場次 
Oct. 17 (Thurs evening) :下午 6:00pm大會晚晏,在會場地表演會廳。 
Oct (Friday): 大會 City tour and visit to the hosting university new campus (Xi’an 
Technology University)。October 20 (Sunday) – Departure.  Flight back home. 
 
三、建議 
大陸(中國)近年來經濟突進，學術研究經費，人力素質、硬體精進神速，並以
大經費延攬國外人才回國。值得我審慎看待其強力競爭優勢將超越(或已超越)我
國。由其參會人員實力與十年前翻數倍，可看出。未來國內相關學術單位能藉國
際學術會議，跨領域學習，積極提昇台灣在整體學術、科學領域及科技研發的地
位。新區建築，引入人才 短期內發展快速 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
本次參加會議帶回 Conference schedules (printed schedules, and abstracts)。 
五、感謝 
此次兩年一度的國際會議，與會人士皆為國際知名之專業人士或中國內之翹
楚，所發表之論文亦具有專業深度。並看到大陸(中國)近年來經濟突進，學術研
究經費、硬體設備精進神速，值我方警惕 提升競爭力。本人參與會議學習有助提
升學術寬度。 感謝國科會補助計畫經費的執行 得以參與會。
 6 
 
主辦大學 主辦人晚宴致詞    參會本人 
 
 
 8 
Invitation letter from Yuping Wu 
Cochairmen of the Organization Committee 
Department of Chemistry, Fudan University 
 
Dear Prof. Dr. Woo: 
We are very glad to understand your excellent research work during the passed MAM-08 Meeting, 
which was successfully organized in Duesserdolf, 2008. 
Here on behalf of the Organizing Committee, we are pleased to invite you to deliver an Invited 
Lecture during the coming IUPAC 8th International Conference on Novel Materials and their 
Synthesis (NMS-VIII) & 22nd International Symposium on Fine Chemistry and Functional 
Polymers (FCFP-XXII), which is to be held in Xi’An from 14 to 19 October, 2012 
(www.nms-iupac.org).  
Xi’An is a city filled with Chinese tradition. It was the first capital of China. Many interesting 
stories happened then. We will arrange one day free tour including Emperor Qin Shihuang’s 
Mausoleum and the Terra-cotta Warriors and Horses Museum (www.bmy.com.cn) on 19 October, 
2012 and other free programs. A lot of uniques are waiting for your joining with us.  
 
We feel very regretful that no funds will be available from the Organizing Committee to assist in 
your expenses due to limit support from the local government (the average income of Chinese is 
still very low). We can only discount your registration fee from 4000 RMB to 3000 RMB (about 
500 USD). In addition, we will give a gift to express our gratitude for your active support and 
participation. Furthermore, the banquets, dinners and the arranged social program during the 
Conference will be free to you.  
 
If your graduates or Ph. D. students would like to join with us, we will be pleased to provide them 
free dining, banquets and social programs during the Conference. Their registration fee is 2000 
RMB (about 320 USD). 
Your understanding and kind support for keeping a high-level Conference in the area of your 
research activity is greatly appreciated.  
Some important deadlines for the Conference are as follows:  
Second circular: April, 2012 
Abstract submission: 31 July, 2012 
Official form to apply for entry visa: 31 August, 2012 
Payment for early bird registration: 31 August, 2012 
Arrival and pick-up: 14 October, 2012 
Conference opening: 15-18 October, 2012 
City tour: 19 October, 2012 
Post-Conference: 20-21 October, 2012 
If you need an electronic version with signature or hard copy for the invitation letter, please tell us 
in time so that we can email or mail to you as soon as possible. 
 1 
File: EP-2013-rpt (2013/08/31) 
 
出席會議報告 
(EP-2013) 
 
 6
th 
INTERNATIONAL SYMPOSIUM ON  
Engineering Plastics (EP-2013)  
 
August 25- 28, 2013,  
Xiamen, China  
 
(Held at International Conference Center at Xiamen)  
國際會展中心 
---------------------------------------------------------- 
吳 逸謨 教授       
國立成功大學 化學工程系   
〒701台南市大學路 1號   
Phone : +886 (06) 275-7575 Ext.62670     Fax: +886 6 234-4496  
< emwoo@mail.ncku.edu.tw> 
 3 
一、參加會議經過  
 
 
Introduction 
於2013年08月25日至8月28日 應邀 (invited speakers) 出席國際會議  
EP-6，為中國科學院北京化學所高分子化學組負責主辦，兩年一次之國際
會議。 英文演講，參會代表，來自二十餘國家。此次為第六屆。本人為邀請演
講，免註冊費，演講時間三十分鐘。 
會議涵蓋主題繁多，Nanocomposites, membranes, biomedical materials, 
biodegradable polymers (如附件示) 。 
symposia分成三場(Session-A, Session-B, Session-C) 在三個會議室 同時進行. 
 
二、與會心得 
此次參加國際學術會議，於 Hotel 會議中心舉行 (如附圖)。主題是工程高
分子，第六屆。 
Aug. 25 (Sun) 2013  Reception 6: 00 pm.  
Aug. 26 (Mon) 2013.  8:00 開幕式Opening Ceremony 外 有 
Xinde Feng Polymer Award Ceremony   
是 資助獎勵發表於 Polymer之優良論文 
有三場 Plenary speeches (Aug. 26 Monday), 如下: 
08:45 Plenary Session 1 DPI: An Internationally Renowned 
Platform for Polymer Science & 
Technology  
Jacques G. H. Joosten, DPI/The 
Netherlands  
16  
Plenary Session 2  
Chairman: Prof. Jens Rieger  
10:00  Some New Polymer Products 
from Lab to Industry  
Jinliang Qiao, SINOPEC Beijing 
Research Institute of Chemical 
17  
 5 
育新秀。與我國中研院，閉鎖於所謂「中央」總統府下，年耗巨資，也沒訓練
學生，也讓普羅大眾看不出中研院搞什麼，兩相對比，有巨大落差。 
除此之外，大陸(中國)近年來經濟突進，學術研究經費，人力素質、硬體精
進神速，並以大經費延攬國外人才回國。值得我審慎看待其強力競爭優勢將超
越(或已超越)我國。由其參會人員實力與十年前翻數倍，可看出。更以「千人計
畫」，跳出國內薪給制度，給房、給錢、與經費，引入國際人才，短期內發展快
速，其競爭力 已倍數提升。 
未來國內相關學術單位能藉國際學術會議，跨領域學習，積極提昇台灣在整
體學術、科學領域及科技研發的地位。 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
本次參加會議帶回 Conference schedules (printed schedules, and abstracts)。 
 
五、感謝 
此次兩年一度的國際會議，與會人士皆為國際知名之專業人士或中國內之
翹楚，所發表之論文亦具有專業深度。並看到大陸(中國)近年來經濟突進，學
術研究經費、硬體設備精進神速，值我方警惕 提升競爭力。本人參與會議學習
有助提升學術寬度。 感謝國科會補助計畫經費的執行 得以參與會。
 7 
13:30  Free Discussion  
 
1.  會議中心圖片   2. 演講摘要    3. 會議 Programs 
 
 
 
 9 
邀請函: 
Dear Professor Woo, 
On behalf of the organizer of Sixth International Symposia on Engineering Plastics (EP’2013), I 
would like to extend our invitation cordially to you to attend this symposium as one of the invited 
speakers.  
 
EP’2013 is the sixth of a series of international symposia on polymeric materials held in China. Its 
previous ones include successfully held EP’2001 Beijing (September 2001), EP’2004 Lanzhou 
(August 2004), EP’2007 Urumqi (August 2007), EP’2009 Dalian (August 2009) and EP’2011 
Kunming (August 2011). EP’2013 will be held in Xiamen, China, August 25-28, 2013. Its topics 
will be on polymeric materials, retaining its abbreviation EP actually over “engineering plastics” 
and been transformed into a logo of a platform exchanging recent progress, deep consideration and 
future development about polymeric materials. In addition to the basic topics for R&D of polymeric 
materials, this time special focus will be on “polymeric materials: from laboratory to industry”. The 
organization committee cordially invites scientists, engineers, and students involving in polymer 
synthesis, physics, processing and materials, to attend this symposium. It will supply a 
multi-disciplinary forum for participants to discuss further development of polymeric materials face 
to face. 
 
EP series has some features such as a medium scale less than 200 participants staying in the same 
hotel, and about 90% oral presentations consisting of invited lectures with accumulated results and 
extracted ideas from the past to the future. As one of the invited speakers, your registration fee will 
be waived. We would very much appreciate if you could accept this invitation and inform us the 
(tentative) title of your lecture before September 30, 2012 for the editing of the Second Circular. 
Your support to EP’2013 will be invaluable to its success. We look forward to meeting you in 
August 2013.  
 
Sincerely yours, 
  
Professor Dr. Jiasong He 
Chairman, Sixth International Symposium on Engineering Plastics (EP’2013) 
 
Key Laboratory of Engineering Plastics 
Institute of Chemistry 
Chinese Academy of Sciences 
Beijing 100190, China 
Tel/Fax: +86-10-6261 3251 
E-mail: hejs@iccas.ac.cn 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/10/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 結晶性高分子於薄膜與塊材狀態下之特殊自組裝結晶形貌、晶態結構與熱行
為探討
計畫主持人: 吳逸謨
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-006-014-MY3 學門領域: 高分子物理
無研發成果推廣資料
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
成果之重要性[國際知名期刊，以本研究室研究成果，做為期刊封面，如下] :
Macromol. Chem. Phys. Volume 214, Issue 6 2012/March (page 633) [Front 
Cover] 
Macromol. Chem. Phys. Volume 213, Issue 21 2012/ November (page 2320) 
[Back Cover] 
本研究在材料斷截面的制作及蝕刻技術與手法上，有相當高的水準和值得信賴
的研究成果，藉由後續之晶態結構與其熱行為表現分析，加以推敲各類球晶形
貌其高分子球晶成長的機制。在本研究報告及年度內於國際期刊之發表內容皆
有助於增進高分子領域在球晶成長研究方面的認識與觀念突破。而本研究報告
中所討論的研究成果，皆獲得學術界肯定並發表於國際學術期刊 eXPRESS 
Polymer Letters、Colloid and Polymer Science、Industrial & Engineering 
Chemistry Research 等國際期刊中，年度內之論文發表及國內、國際會議論文
發表狀況亦將整理於後續附錄。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
