 2
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 1.  (a) Artist's conception of the ALMA 
antennas in a compact array. (Courtesy of 
NRAO/AUI and ESOALMA) (b) Block diagram of 
the ALMA band-1 heterodyne receiver front-end in 
this study.  
     
(b) 
Fig. 2.   Photograph of the fabricated WR22 
waveguide bandpass filter. (Outer dimensions: 
30mm×30mm×40mm.) 
/sub-millimeter wave interferometer to be 
located at an altitude of about 5000 meters in 
Llano de Chajnantor, Chile. To be the most 
sensitive and highest spatial resolution radio 
interferometer in the world, ALMA covers the 
frequency range of 31 to 950 GHz, which is 
divided into 10 bands coinciding with those 
transparent atmospheric windows. This division 
also allows the optimization of both noise 
performance and optical coupling. The ALMA 
band-1 receiver, which set the RF frequency 
range from 31.3 to 45GHz, is believed to be 
capable of solving important scientific topics 
including high-resolution Sunyaev- Zel＇dovich 
effect imaging, cosmic microwave background, 
high-redshifted extragalactic CO lines, and 
probing of magnetic field strength via Zeeman 
measurements [1].  
Shown in Fig. 1(b) is the front-end block 
diagram of ALMA band-1 receiver, and the 
detail system specification can be found in [1]. 
The main purpose of the bandpass filter is to 
reject the lower side band from 15.3 to 29GHz 
by at least 25dB so as to ensure single sideband 
operation. The required performance on in-band 
(31.3 to 45GHz) insertion loss is within 1dB, 
with a return loss better than 15dB and a group 
delay variation within 0.25ns. Originally the 
bandpass filter is designed using the WR22 
rectangular waveguide structure as shown in   
Fig. 2 and demonstrated in [1]. Considering the 
requirement of dual-polarization, 2-stage 
cascade RF amplifier modules plus the mixer 
and waveguide bandpass filter, then the 
mechanical size and weight will be larger than 
the upper limit of the receiver cartridge [1]. In 
addition, since the RF LNA and mixer at the 
input and output of the bandpass filter are all 
based on GaAs MMICs, two additional 
microstrip-to-waveguide transitions are required 
to connect them to the WR22 waveguide 
bandpass filter. This introduces additional loss 
by about 1dB, not including the possible 
mismatch loss at the junctions. 
On the other hand, on-chip planar filter 
realization will reduce the complexity of module 
assembly effectively by implementing the 
receiver in the multi-chip module (MCM) design. 
Also, both the size and weight of receiver 
module can be largely reduced in this way at the 
expense of higher insertion loss compared to 
waveguide filter design. Some previous works 
on the design of on-chip millimeter-wave 
bandpass filter have been done in [3]-[5]. 
Although very compact circuit sizes can be 
achieved, the selectivity of them is not so good. 
In this work, two Q-band bandpass filters based 
on GaAs process are proposed. The design goal 
is to achieve very compact circuit size as well as 
excellent selectivity such that they can meet the 
 4
LCc
L Cc
13/λ≈13/λ≈ 13/λ≈
Via
W2 S2
L2
S3
L3
W6 L6
L1
W1
W4 L4
S5
L5
W3
W5
(a)
(b)
 
Fig. 6.  (a) Layout and (b) circuit model of 
proposed Type-II microstirp bandpass filter of 
4th-order. (W1=40, L1=154, W2=28, L2=203, S2=14, 
W3=65, L3=173, S3=23, W4=22, L4=179, W5=5, 
L5=7.7, S5=5, W6=10, and L6=187. Units in μm.) 
 
Fig. 7. Chip photograph of the Type-II microstrip 
bandpass filters in GaAs process. The chip size is 
1.5×1mm2. The filter size is 1.1×0.63mm2, not 
including the input and output pads. 
 
Fig. 8.  Measured and simulated results for the 
proposed Type-II microstrip bandpass filter in 
GaAs process. 
 
including the input and output pads. 
B. Type-II 
To further reduce the filter size and loss, the 
Type-II design shown in Fig. 6 is also 
implemented. Since the receiver specification 
only requires the rejection of lower side band, a 
cascade trisection filter that exhibits one 
transmission zero at the lower stopband can be 
adopted. In this way, the required rejection can 
be obtained with lower filter order, such that 
both the filter size and loss can be reduced. The 
Type-II filter in is also based on an extension to 
the 4th-order parallel-coupled bandpass filter 
with λ/4 resonators [6], with the input and output 
couplings modified to tapped-input form. Again, 
the inductive loaded coupled-line is used to 
reduce the circuit size. In addition, two 
cross-coupling capacitors Cc are introduced 
between resonator pairs (1, 3) and (2, 4) through 
microstrip gaps so as to achieve transmission 
zeros at the lower stopband.  
The chip photograph of the Type-II filter is 
shown in Fig. 7. The measured and EM 
simulated results are shown in Fig. 8. The 
measured in-band insertion loss is less than 
2.68dB, with a minimum insertion loss of 
0.84dB at 42.9GHz. The in-band return loss is 
better than 13.5dB. Two transmission zeros in 
the lower stopband are observed at 20GHz and 
29GHz, which are due to the two cross-coupling 
capacitors Cc. The rejection below 29GHz is 
better than 29.1dB. The filter size is only about 
1.1×0.63mm2. Note that both the insertion loss 
and filter size are improved compared to the 
Type-I filter. 
 
四、 結果與討論 
Fig. 9 compares the measured insertion loss 
responses of the two proposed GaAs bandpass 
filters with the 9th-order WR22 waveguide 
bandpass filter in Fig. 2 [1]. Their in-band 
insertion losses are all within 3dB. The 
rejections at 29GHz for these three filters are 
about the same and all meet the requirement of 
ALMA band-1 receiver. Although the insertion 
 6
Wireless Comp. Lett. vol. 18, no. 4, pp. 254-256, 
April 2008. 
[7] Y.-S. Lin, H.-M. Yang, and C. H. Chen, “Miniature 
microstrip parallel-coupled bandpass filters based on 
lumped-distributed coupled-line sections,” in IEEE 
MTT-S Int. Microwave Symp. Dig., pp.691–694, June 
2005. 
[8] R. Phromloungsri, M. Chongcheawchamnan, and I. D. 
Robertson, “Inductively compensated parallel coupled 
microstrip lines and their applications,” IEEE Trans. 
Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 54, no. 9, pp. 3571–3582, 
Sep. 2006. 
[9] WIN Semiconductor Corporation. 
http://www.winfoundry.com/. 
[10]  Y.-S. Lin, Y.-S. Hsieh, C.-C. Chiong, and Y.-J. 
Hwang, “Q-band GaAs bandpass filter designs for 
ALMA band-1,” IEEE Microwave Wireless Comp. 
Lett., vol. 19, no. 6, pp. 353-355, June 2009. 
[11]  Y.-S. Lin, W.-H. Liao, and Y.-S. Hsieh, “Q-band 
GaAs bandpass filter designs in heterodyne receiver 
for radio astronomy,” in 2009 Int. Symp. on Remote 
Sensing (ISRS), Oct. 2009. 
 
 
 
Figure 1.   Block diagram of the Q-band heterodyne receiver. In order to 
ensure low receiver noise temperature, the operating 
temperature of the LNAs, mixers and bandpass filters are all 
keep in 20K cryogenic operating temperature. 
Q-Band Bandpass Filter Designs in Heterodyne 
Receiver for Radio Astronomy 
 
Yo-Shen Lin and Yu-Shu Hsieh 
Department of Electrical Engineering, 
National Central University 
Chungli 320, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
yslin@ee.ncu.edu.tw 
Yuh-Jing Hwang and Chau-Ching Chiong 
Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics 
Taipei 106, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
 
 
Abstract—This paper presents two Q-band bandpass filter 
designs that are targeted for application in the Atacama Large 
Millimeter-wave and Submillimeter-wave Array (ALMA) radio 
telescope. The bandpass filter is required to reject the lower side 
band from 15.2~29GHz and retain minimum loss across the 
passband of 31.3~45GHz. The bandpass filter based on WR22 
waveguide is first presented. Specifically, the measured in-band 
insertion loss is around 0.4 dB, and the rejection of lower 
sideband is better than 34dB. To further reduce the circuit size 
and to ease the integration with other MMICs in the receiver, a 
planar filter design based on GaAs process is also demonstrated. 
It will be applied to the multi-chip module version of the 
heterodyne receiver design to achieve more compact module size. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The Ka-band (26.5-40GHz) and Q-band (33-50GHz) are 
two of the important atmospheric windows for lower 
frequency millimeter-wave astronomical observations. Many 
radio astronomy telescopes operated in millimeter-wavelength 
equipped with low-noise heterodyne receivers for these bands, 
including Very large Array (VLA) [1], Very Long Baseline 
Array (VLBA) [2], Green Bank Telescope (GBT) [3], Korean 
VLBI Network [4], VSOP [5], and Australia Telescope 
National Facility Compact Array [6]. The important scientific 
topics in these bands include high resolution, Sunyaev-
Zel’dovich effect imaging [7], cosmic microwave background, 
high-redshifted extragalactic CO lines [8], and probing 
magnetic field strength via Zeeman measurements [9-10]. 
Besides the existing millimeter-wave telescopes, the Atacama 
Large Millimeter-wave and Submillimeter-wave Array 
(ALMA) constructed on 5000-meter high-altitude plateau in 
Northern Chile will provide a much more powerful tool for 
observation. ALMA is an interferometer array composed by a 
baseline array with fifty 12-meter antennas, and a compact 
array with four 12-meters antennas and twelve 7-meter 
antennas. The receiver front-end system is divided into 10 
bands to cover the atmospheric windows with frequency range 
from 31.3 to 950GHz. The development of band 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9 
are undergoing in several different astronomical institutions 
worldwide [11-16]. However, it is believed that the ALMA 
Band-1 which covers 31.3-45GHz frequency range will be 
capable to solve the important scientific problems listed 
above. 
In this paper, bandpass filter designs for ALMA Band-1 
heterodyne receiver is presented. The main purpose of this 
bandpass filter is to reject the lower side band with minimum 
passband insertion loss. The rectangular waveguide bandpass 
filter design using WR22 waveguide is first presented, which 
exhibits the desired transmission and rejection responses for 
ALMA Band-1 receiver and is implemented in the first 
receiver module prototype. In order to reduce the receiver 
module size by higher level of integration, a planar filter 
design based on GaAs process is then proposed. It will be 
further integrated with the MMIC mixer so as to achieve more 
compact receiver module prototype design. 
II. SYSTEM DESIGN CONSIDERATION 
The proposed heterodyne receiver is to cover the wide 
frequency coverage over the Q-band. The existing receivers 
with widest frequency coverage for this band are with 30-
50GHz RF frequency range [6]. The ALMA band-1 receiver, 
which is in the same frequency range, set the RF frequency 
range to 31.3-45.0GHz. The detail system specification is 
listed in [17]. Fig. 1 shows the receiver front-end block 
This work is supported in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan, 
R.O.C. under Grant NSC 96-2221-E-008 -118 – and Grant 96-2911-M-001-
005-MY3. 
 
(a) 
M
18/λ 18/λ
8/λ
12/λ 12/λ
 
(b) 
Figure 5. Proposed microstrip coupled-line bandpass filter. 
(a) Filter structure and (b) circuit model. 
 
Figure 6. Chip photograph of proposed microstrip coupled-line 
bandpass filter using GaAs process. The chip size is 
2mm×1mm. 
 
 
Figure 7.   Measured and simulated responses of the proposed microstrip 
bandpass filter using GaAs process. 
about 1dB, not including the possible mismatch loss at the 
junctions of the two transitions. 
On the other hand, if the filter can be realized in planar 
form, or even be implemented in MMIC chip, it will largely 
reduce the complexity of module assembly and receiver 
module size by realizing the receiver in the multi-chip module 
(MCM) design. For the MCM receiver design, only the 
essential waveguide devices like the horn antenna and the 
orthomode transducer are fabricated separately. The 
waveguide-to-microstrip transitions, Q-band 1st- and 2nd-
stage LNAs, bandpass filter, balanced diode mixer, and 4-
12GHz IF amplifiers are all connected by bonding wires in the 
same bottom block. Both the size and weight of receiver 
module will be largely reduced in this way. 
To achieve this goal, a planar bandpass filter design using 
commercial GaAs semiconductor process is proposed. Shown 
in Fig. 5 are the filter structure and circuit model of proposed 
microstrip coupled-line bandpass filter. This filter is based on 
an extension of the filter structure in [19], which is basically a 
parallel-coupled bandpass filter based on quarter-wavelength 
(λ/4) resonators. Since the required passband bandwidth is 
around 37%, the input and output coupling are realized in 
tapped-input form so as to achieve larger amount of coupling. 
In addition, because the filter is going to be implemented in 
MMIC chip, the circuit area should be as small as possible so 
as to reduce the cost. Therefore, the capacitive and inductive 
loaded coupled-line structures in [20]-[21] are adopted and the 
length of coupled-line can be reduced to around λ/12~λ/18. 
The loading capacitors and inductors are realized by 
microstrip open- and short-stubs, respectively. 
To meet the required rejection of 30dB below 29GHz, two 
additional transmission zeros are introduced by enhancing the 
magnetic cross-coupling M between the two microstrip short-
stubs for coupled-line section 2 and 4. In this way, the signal 
through the open-ended parallel-coupled line (section 3) 
would cancel with the one through the cross-coupled path 
between the two coupled short-stubs at two frequencies. As a 
result, two transmission zeros will be obtained at those two 
frequencies [19]. The filter selectivity can then be improved. 
The bandpass filter structure in Fig. 5 is designed 
according to the same specifications for the waveguide 
bandpass filter. Due to the additional transmission zeros, the 
filter order is set as 6, which is smaller than 9 for the 
waveguide filter and will help reduce the circuit size and 
insertion loss. The design parameters can be obtained from the 
filter specifications according to similar design procedure in 
[19]. The filter is implemented using the WIN semiconductor 
GaAs 0.5μm E/D-mode pHEMT process [22], and the chip 
photograph is shown in Fig. 6. The chip is measured using a 
vector network analyzer through on-wafer-probing, and the 
measured and simulated filter responses are shown in Fig. 7. 
Good agreement between is observed. The measured passband 
insertion loss is less than 2.44dB, with a minimum insertion 
loss of 1.2dB at 38GHz. The measured passband return loss is 
better than 15.7dB. Two transmission zeros at 27.4GHz and 
51.4GHz are observed as expected. The rejection below 
29GHz is better than 26.7dB.  
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC97－2221－E－008－034－ 
計畫名稱 積體化之微波與毫米波濾波器 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
林祐生 中央大學電機系副教授 
會議時間地點 2009 年 10 月 28 日至 10 月 30 日，韓國釜山 
會議名稱 2009 International Symposium on Remote Sensing - ISRS 2009 
發表論文題目 Q-band GaAs bandpass filter designs in heterodyne receiver for radio astronomy 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
2009 International Symposium on Remote Sensing 係為亞太地區主要之遙測相關研
討會之一，每年於韓國舉辦一次，2009 年 ISRS 於 10 月 28 日至 10 月 30 日在韓國釜
山舉行，會議領域包括遙測數據分析、地理資訊、遙測硬體、衛星酬載等等，本次主要
隨中央大學太空與遙測中心研究團隊一同附會，探求將個人研究領域拓展至太空、遙測
之機會。本人於 10 月 28 日出發參加此會議，於 10 月 30 日返國。本次會議並發表近來
於積體電路實現毫米波濾波器方面的研究成果。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
本次會議所發表論文為：Q-band GaAs bandpass filter designs in heterodyne receiver 
for radio astronomy，為近來在以砷化鎵積體電路製程開發微小化毫米波濾波器，以實現
電波天文望遠鏡接收機中的鏡像濾波器之改良設計的成果，電路面積可較先前設計更進
一步的縮小。本論文所提之濾波器架構具有微小之電路面積與高選擇度，並將應用於中
研院天文所開發之 ALMA Band-1 電波天文望遠鏡接收機，以達到大幅減小接收機體積
與重量的優點，並簡化其封裝方式，以利採用多晶片模組方式實現接收機模組。 
有鑑於有鑑於遙測技術於環境議題的高度相關性，此次會議頗受韓國環境部的重
視，韓國環境部長與釜山市長均親自出席，並有環境部之主管於 Keynote Session 發表
演講。會議亦安排多個餐會提供國際交流之機會，席間並與韓國衛星公司Satrec Initiative
之 CEO Dr. Sungdong Park 相談，對於韓國能有自製衛星並外銷中東與亞太國家的技術
能力相當令人驚豔。此外，亦與研發韓國第一個微波遙測衛星酬載 Dual-channel 
Radiometers for Earth and Atmosphere Monitoring (DREAM)的團隊會面，著實感到其對於
自身技術能力的自信。相對來說，國內於太空、衛星等領域投入亦甚久，但仍未有同等
技術實力。整體而言，參加此會議增加了與國外學術界人士交流的機會，藉此創造國際
合作與彼此互訪的機會，是增進國際視野與提昇國際能見度的良好機會。 
 
