this cross section definition, a computable model 
can be constructed because adjacent cross sections 
never overlap if the tube radius is smaller than that 
of curvature at the local point. The diameter of the 
tube was assumed to be uniform. The diameters of 
AA, BA, CA, and SA were 2 cm, 1 cm, 0.7 cm, and 
0.7 cm, respectively. The model is shown in Fig. 1. 
The three branches were overlapped with the aortic 
arch model at the parts of those inlet sections as 
shown in Fig. 1 using a chimera meshing technique. 
A commercial CFD program, CFX version 5.5 was 
used for the computations. The following 3-D 
unsteady Navier-Stokes equations were solved: 
boundaries: (1) the inlet of the arch model, (2) the 
outlet of each model, (3) the wall regions which do 
not overlap with other model, and (4) the 
overlapped regions which are embedded in other 
model. 
The following conditions for these boundaries 
were used: 
(1) A MRI scan inflow rate at the inlet.  
(2) Zero pressure and zero velocity gradients at 
the outlet of aorta.  
(3) No-slip at the wall regions.  
(4) MRI scan outflow rate are assumed at the 
outlet of three branches. The properties of water 
were used for the working fluid. The Reynolds 
number defined using the diameter, and the inflow 
velocity was 5000. Also, the three-dimensional, 
time-dependent, incompressible Navier-Stokes 
equations are solved by means of a commercial 
CFX5 package. It adopts a SIMPLE type finite 
volume method with a third-order accurate QUICK 
differencing scheme for all equations. The flow was 
assumed to be incompressible and Newtonian with 
turbulence assumption and the walls were rigid with 
no slip conditions. 
 
4. Results and Discussions 
 
In this part, an unstructured mesh approach is 
used together with body fitted meshes to model the 
flow in the aorta arch, and the following four 
separate computational meshes have been employed: 
one for the region spanning the ascending aorta 
along with the aortic arch and a portion of the 
descending aorta, and one of each of the three 
branches-the BA, CA and SA. The unstructured 
mesh allows for each section of the geometry to be 
meshed independently, and the individual meshes 
are subsequently coupled together by CFX-BUILD. 
We also assume the mesh is stationary in this case, 
and total grid numbers are 668764. The flow model 
is supposed be incompressible flow, unsteady flow 
and Newtonian flow, and we calculated the flow 
field in the aortic arch model with physiologically 
relevant Reynold’s number of Re=5000. According 
MRI data, one cycle of heartbeat is 0.855 seconds, 
so we set a cycle as same as MRI data in numerical 
simulation. The calculations were performed a 
finite-volume formulation of the Navier-Stokes 
equations by the CFX5 Flow packages based on 
unstructured grids. The velocity field was found to 
satisfy the convergence criterion after starting the 
computation with zero velocity.  
Figure 5 present the wall shear stress 
distributed. It is demonstrated that wall shear 
stresses were highly dynamic, but were generally 
high along the outer wall in the vicinity of the 
branches and low along the inner wall, particularly 
in the descending thoracic aorta. The maximum 
wall shear stress distribution is presented on the 
aortic arch in the late systole. According to previous 
researches, the position which has more changes of 
wall shear stress were occur the vessel pathological 
changes. 
Figure 6 shows stream line distributed. We can 
clearly observe the blood flow through aorta and 
inner fluid field of aorta. When t = 2/6 T, we can 
find the vortex appears in the CA and SA, and it 
disappears after t = 3/6 T. We also can find the 
violent rotation in BA during 3/6 T and 4/6 T. 
Because flow rate is very lower in the late diastole, 
fluid field of blood does not have obvious change.  
Figure 7 show the velocity vectors on the 
cross sections of the aorta at different time 
period. Extensive secondary flow motion was 
observed in the cross section D,F,G,H in the t = 
3/6 T , and the structure of these secondary 
flows was influenced considerably by the 
presence of the branches. Also, it is observed 
that clockwise secondary flow recirculation 
appears in the downstream of aortic arch in the 
late systolic and turn out to be a pair of 
counter-clockwise vortex appearing in the 
turning corner of the aortic arch in the early 
diastole. However, the counter-clockwise 
vortex disappears in the upstream of the aorta 
arch and moves to the downstream of the 
descending aorta in the late diastole. These 
findings are largely consistent with previous 
experimental measurements in a model human 
aortic arch in which secondary flow structures 
coincides with as same as measurement of P. J. 
Kilner, et al.[1].   
Also the cross section velocity vectors in 
the ascending aorta measured from MRA are 
shown in Figures 2. We can see the formation 
of a clockwise vortex is appearing in the late 
systole and in the whole diastole. The 
oberservations on the vortex in the ascending 
aorta is similar to the numerically predicted 
results in Figure 7 in which the clockwise 
 
 
Figure 3. An entrance blood flow rate of Aorta 
measured from MRI 
 
 
 
Figure 4. A diagram of inner and outer wall 
along Aortic Arch 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. Wall shear stress distributions in a 
pulsatile cycle 
(□—outer wall  ○—inner wall) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Stream line in aorta arch in a pusatile 
cycle 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Velocity vectors on cross sections in a 
pusatile cycle 
 
 
PCFD 2006 International Conference 
Busan, Korea 
 
Numerical Simulation of A Realistic Aortic Flow with 
MRA on Parallel Computers 
 
Yang-Yao Niu1 , Chin-Hung Chang1,  Wen-Yih I. Tseng2 Hsu-Hsia Peng2 and Shou-Cheng Tcheng3  
 
1. Institute of Mechanical Engineering, Chung Hua University Hsin Chu, Taiwan , ROC 
2. National Taiwan University Hospital Taipei , ROC 
3., The National Center for High-Performance Computing, Hsinchu, Taiwan ROC: 
yniu@chu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract  A prototype, multi-scale, computational hemodynamic model is developed  to 
predict blood flow patterns and wall stresses in a realistic human aorta. The three-
dimensional model is utilized for  blood flow simulation, which is based on Roe and 
HLLC type incompressible full Navier-Stokes equations and one-dimensional systematic 
arteries network models will be embedded into the future work.   In this study, two- and 
three-dimensional secondary flows and vessel wall shear stress distributions in a human 
aortic arch have been predicted numerically for a Reynolds number of 5000 at entrance 
based on the techniques of  CFD and MRA. The simulated geometry was derived from 
the three-dimensional reconstruction of a series of two-dimensional slices and several 
flow rates at different cross sections of aorta with the tree branches obtained from MRI. 
Numerical results demonstrate wall shear stresses were high along the outer wall in the 
vicinity of the branches and low along the inner wall, particularly in the descending 
thoracic aorta. The maximum wall stress distribution is presented on the aortic arch in the 
systole. Extensive secondary flow motion was observed in the aorta, and the structure of 
these secondary flows was influenced considerably by the presence of the branches. 
Within the aorta, both numerical results and MRI data observed that clockwise secondary 
flow recirculation appears in the upstream of aortic arch in the late systolic and turn out 
to be a pair of counter-clockwise vortex in the downstream of the arch in the early 
diastole. In addition, three-dimensional particle trace plots observe the secondary flows in 
middle and right branches and violent rotation in left branch.The original FORTRAN 
code is converted to the MPI code and tested on 32-CPU IBM SP2 Power 3 and Power 4 
parallel computers and two 32-node PC Clusters. 
 
Keywords; Aortic Flow Model, Riemann Solvers, Blood flow, MRI 
 
Acknowledgements 
 
The authors wish to acknowledge the NSC grants under NSC 94-2213-E-216-025, also the 
supports of the computing facility of National Center for the High-Performance Computing, Taiwan, ROC. 
                                                          
 
 
 
