 2 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
時-空-頻三維 CDMA編碼之研究(3/3) 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-006 -346 
執行期限：96年 8月 1日至 97年 7月 31日 
主持人：陳曉華, 國立成功大學工程科學系（所） 
 
 
一、中文摘要 
在本研究計劃中，研究之重點放在設計一個
適用於未來新世代無線通訊系統的新型分
碼多工物理層。所採用的新型分碼多工技術
將建構在時-空-頻三維展頻編碼的基礎之
上，以提供傳統的分碼多工技術無法得到的
優良性能，例如極低干擾、高頻帶利用效
率、高信號檢測效率、特別適合於高速封包
交換傳輸及易實現傳輸速度之改變。 
 
在未來的無線通訊系統中所提供的通訊服
務內容與目前第二及第三代行動通訊系統
有很大的不同。首先，第四代無線通訊系統
將為靜態用戶提供至少達 1 Gb/s 的傳輸速
率。同時也將為高速行動用戶支援高達 10 
Mb/s 的傳輸速度。其次，在未來的無線通
訊系統中，通道中傳送的資料將主要由十分
短暫的”封包”串所組成，而並非如目前在第
二及第三代行動通訊系統中所傳送的長資
料串。而且，第四代無線通訊系統將採用高
速封包交換(packet switching)的方式來實現
無線傳輸，故用戶在發送資料之前並非需要
先建立 end-to-end的連線。相反地，目前的
第二及第三代行動通訊系統基本上仍運作
於線路交換(circuit-switching)的模式，故在
其系統設計（尤其在物理層的架構）上之考
量與第四代無線通訊系統有相當大的不
同。例如，為了適應未來第四代無線通訊系
統中的高速封包交換工作模式之需求，新一
代的分碼多工物理層必須要俱備十分靈活
的運作能力或具有相當的”彈性”（如，在變
更傳輸速率、展頻系數時），以便在很短（與
封包長度相當）的時間之內能迅速完成信號
檢測的全過程：如速率匹配、通道偵測、干
擾消除及有用資料之重建等。而目前現有的
分碼多工技術，其系統架構之設計普遍地都
比較僵硬，無法實現在一個短短的封包時間
中快速而有效地完成資料檢測的全過程。而
且，現有的分碼多工技術均採用性能不甚理
想的展頻用戶碼。在這些碼的設計過程中並
未考慮到在第四代無線通訊系統中占主導
地位的高速封包交換的運作模式，故他們的
部份相關特性是完全無法預測的。事實上，
這些常用的分碼多工碼的部份相關函數非
常糟糕。另一方面，在所有目前的第二及第
三代行動通訊系統中，展頻用戶碼的設計完
全 沒 有 任 何 diversity-gain 之 考 量 。
Diversity-gain 之獲得都需要依賴外加的
space-time 編碼方式。故他們在快衰減多重
路徑通道中的工作效能極低。 
 
在本研究計劃中，我們針對未來無線通訊系
統運作的需求，提出了適用的分碼多工物理
層之設計。整個研究計劃共花了三年時間，
以期對該領域之相關課題作一較為深入而
全面之研究。我們的研究重點是採用時-空-
頻三維展頻編碼新技術，設計一個全新的分
碼多工物理層之架構，以供未來無線通訊系
統之用。本研究計劃之主題是由主持人在多
年從事相關頷域之研究基礎之上所提的，故
具有相當之前瞻性和成功之把握。採用時-
空-頻三維展頻編碼新技術之獨特優點是可
以將”展頻編碼”與時空diversity-coding巧妙
的結合起來，從而不僅可大大提昇整個分碼
多工物理層的頻帶利用效率並使之特別適
用高速封包交換的運作模式，同時也提高了
diversity-gain。這對提高整個分碼多工系統
物理層在快衰減多重路徑通道中的工作效
率無疑是一個極為重要的進步。 
 
關鍵詞：新世代無線通訊, 時空頻三維編碼, 
分碼多工, 物理層設計。 
 4 
initial investigation on three-dimensional 
spreading coding, as specified in the proposal 
of this research project. This is a wonderful 
opportunity for us to search for some 
important and meaningful research results for 
the overall benefit of the community. 
 
三、計畫成果自評 
This project was proposed as a 3-year project 
and now we are at the end of the last year 
research. What we can say about the project at 
this moment is that everything has been going 
very well. All proposed research topics have 
been under very active investigation in the 
project. We have obtained some very exciting 
results as expected in the proposal of this 
research project. Some results in fact have 
been achieved much earlier than expected in 
the research proposal. Some publications 
related with this research project have been 
listed at the end of this technical report, as 
[1]-[79]. It is noted that some publications 
were not the direct results from this research 
project, but we have used part of the funding 
from this project to carry out the researches 
listed at the end of this report. Therefore, we 
still put them together here.  
 
Probably, one of the most interesting results 
we obtained so far during the execution of this 
research project is that we have been 
successful in using three-dimensional 
spreading coding schemes to achieve a very 
good separation for different signals sent from 
different antennas in a transmit antenna 
diversity architecture. This important research 
result has paved a way for our research work 
in the next phase, to verify the performance of 
the proposed space-frequency-time spreading 
coding scheme in a real wireless channel 
environment. Also with this interesting result, 
we are very confident about the much more 
good results to be obtained from the near 
future. Therefore, we are very positive to say 
that we will achieve our main objectives, 
should NSC give us continuously strong 
support in the years to come.  
 
四、附錄 
In this appendix, we include a paper published 
in IEEE Wireless Communications Magazine 
[78] as one of the direct outcomes from this 
research project. Please note that this paper 
addresses the issues on the design 
methodology for next generation CDMA 
codes, and it may not directly discuss about 
the issues on three-dimensional code design. 
However, the basic ideas to design the 
three-dimensional codes stem from the REAL 
approach. Therefore, we choose this paper for 
this report is logically right. Another reason 
we do not show our work done on three 
dimensional coding is that the papers are still 
in preparation stage, and they have not been 
published yet.   
 
“Orthogonal complementary codes for 
interference-free CDMA technologies”, 
IEEE Wireless Communications, pp. 68-79, 
February, 2006, by Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
Hsin-Wei Chiu and Mohsen Guizani 
 
Abstract 
This paper addresses the issues on next 
generation CDMA technologies for B3G 
wireless communications. To engineer a 
CDMA system, whose performance will no 
longer be interference-limited, many 
challenging issues should be tackled, such as 
novel CDMA code sets, efficient spreading 
and carrier modulation schemes, signaling 
format for high-speed burst traffic, etc. This 
paper will review our ongoing research on 
next generation CDMA technologies. In 
particular, we will propose a new CDMA code 
design methodology, namely Real 
Environment Adapted Linearization (REAL) 
approach, which can generate CDMA code 
sets with inherent immunity against multipath 
interference and multiple access interference 
for both up-link and down-link transmissions. 
It will also be shown that an interference-free 
CDMA can only be implemented with the 
help of orthogonal complementary codes 
(OCCs). The paper will go further to reveal 
that cell-wise capacity for such an 
interference-free CDMA is equal to the 
number of element codes assigned to each 
user, making OFDM a natural choice to 
implement an interference-free CDMA. 
Several other issues on the OCC-CDMA, such 
as its system implementation and performance, 
will also be addressed in this paper. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Code division multiple access (CDMA) has 
emerged as the most important multiple access 
technology for the second and third 
 6 
neither of those CDMA sub-systems is simple, 
which not only increases overall 
implementation cost, but also makes it very 
hard to further miniaturize mobile terminals. 
Their existence also increases power 
consumption of mobile handsets as well. Thus, 
the new generation CDMA technologies 
should offer a superior performance and yet a 
relatively low implementation complexity. 
 
We have to note that all aforementioned 
problems associated with next generation 
CDMA technologies are closely related. 
Therefore, they should be taken into account 
as a whole rather than individually. Whenever 
a conflict occurs, to achieve a good balance or 
trade-off is the key to an excellent overall 
system design. In this paper, the issues on the 
next generation CDMA architecture will be 
addressed from the perspectives of spreading 
and carrier modulation techniques, CDMA 
codes design approach and other system 
implementation versus performance issues. 
The paper will start with a generic CDMA 
system model, for which the choice of 
spreading and carrier modulation schemes, 
CDMA codes and other implementation issues 
will be discussed. We will further demonstrate 
why only orthogonal complementary codes 
are suitable to implement an interference-free 
CDMA with the help of the REAL approach, 
which reveals an important conclusion that 
cell-wise capacity of such an orthogonal 
complementary code (OCC) based CDMA 
system is equal to the number of element 
codes assigned to each user. In fact, this paper 
presents some follow-up work of our earlier 
study [1] and will address the issues that were 
not tackled then. 
 
II. ASSUMPTIONS AND SYSTEM 
MODEL 
Several assumptions should be made to 
facilitate the discussions carried out in this 
paper. First, we should consider a CDMA 
system that uses short codes (with chip width 
being Tc) to spread data bits. The code length 
is exactly equal to the data bit duration (Tb). 
Second, the wireless system under 
consideration consists of mobile terminals and 
a base station (BS). We will focus on 
intra-cell physical layer architecture of a 
CDMA system and will not address any upper 
layer issues of a mobile network, neither those 
involving different cells in a mobile network. 
Third, in this paper all CDMA codes are 
classified into two categories, unitary codes 
and complementary codes [6] - [10]. The 
former includes almost all traditional 
spreading codes, such as Gold [2], Kasami [4], 
Walsh-Hadamard [5] and OVSF codes, etc., 
which work on a one-code-per-user basis. The 
latter forms another group of CDMA codes 
working in a flock of codes basis. Each user in 
such complementary code based CDMA 
systems should be assigned a flock of M 
element codes, which ought to be sent via 
different channels (either in frequency or time) 
to a specific receiver for complementary auto- 
and crosscorrelation functions reconstruction. 
Obviously, the unitary codes are only a special 
case of the complementary codes with M=1. 
Fourth, our discussion on the CDMA codes 
will not be limited to any specific chip value, 
either complex, real or binary, to make it as 
general as possible. 
 
Let us consider a generic K-user CDMA 
system, where each user is assigned one 
unique flock of M codes (ck;1; ck;2;… ; ck;M ) 
for CDMA purpose. Each code ck;m consists of 
N chips, where 1£k£K and 1£m£M. Assume 
that the signal of interest is from user 1. If 
M=1, then the system model is just equivalent 
to a traditional unitary code based CDMA 
system; otherwise, If M>1 it makes a 
complementary code based CDMA system. 
Therefore, the discussions followed in this 
paper will make sense in general for the 
systems using either unitary or 
complementary codes. 
 
III. SPREADING AND CARRIER 
MODULATIONS 
The most important role of spreading 
modulation is to achieve a processing gain 
(PG) to ensure many operational advantages 
over a non-spread-spectrum communication 
system. On the other hand, carrier modulation 
functions as a vehicle to send user data to a 
receiver through RF transmission. They work 
together closely and thus should be considered 
jointly in a CDMA system design. The major 
concern in the design of spreading and carrier 
modulations for the next generation CDMA, 
similar to all traditional CDMA, is centered on 
bandwidth efficiency and power efficiency. 
Obviously, they form a dual, which very often 
 8 
digital modem, such as M-QAM, M-PSK or 
M-PAM, etc., where M³DOS and DOS is 
always an odd number, as shown in Figure 1. 
Also note that appearance frequencies for 
different levels in the composite multi-leveled 
signal are different, with zero appearing most 
frequently if n<N. The greater the absolute 
value of a level is, the less frequently it 
appears. Thus, the histogram for the different 
levels gives a Gaussian-shaped envelope with 
its center or the mean value being zero. If an 
M-QAM modem should be used to map each 
level to a particular constellation point in its 
2-dimensional constellation plan, then comes 
an interesting design problem on how to 
minimize the average symbol or bit error rate 
with respect to the ways to map all DOS levels 
onto the same number of constellation points, 
which can be placed onto any points in an X-Y 
plan. 
 
Therefore, the use of OS-spreading can 
enhance bandwidth efficiency due to its very 
high SE approaching to one for n=1. However, 
realization of this high bandwidth efficiency is 
conditioned on a relatively low power 
efficiency of an M-ary modem. If the latter 
fails to perform satisfactorily in a channel 
where many impairing factors such as 
multipath interference and noise may exist, its 
bandwidth efficiency will become a problem. 
On the other hand, DS spreading can never be 
comparable with the OS-spreading in terms of 
bandwidth efficiency with its SE being only 
1/N , where N is the element code length. 
However, the output signal from 
DS-spreading forms a binary bit stream, 
which can be modulated via extremely power 
efficient BPSK or QPSK scheme. Therefore, 
the overall performance difference between a 
DS-spreader cum BPSK/QPSK modem and an 
OS-spreader cum M-QAM modem in varying 
circumstance is an interesting topic of study. 
Therefore, the final selection for either 
DS-spreading or OS spreading should be 
exercised very carefully, depending on the 
nature of operation environment. 
 
IV. CODE DESIGN ISSUES - THE REAL 
APPROACH 
The characteristic features of a CDMA code 
set will govern performance and limitations of 
a CDMA system. For instance, the use of 
orthogonal variable spreading factor (OVSF) 
codes in UMTS-UTRA and W-CDMA 
standards requires that a dedicated 
rate-matching algorithm has to be used 
whenever transmission rate changes to match 
a specific spreading factor, or the system 
wants to admit as many users as possible in a 
cell. In addition, the rate change in 
UMTS-UTRA and W-CDMA can be made 
only at the multiples of two, meaning that 
continuous rate change is impossible. This 
requirement is a direct consequence from the 
OVSF code generation tree, where the codes 
in upper layers bear lower spreading factors; 
whereas those in lower layers offer higher 
spreading factors. Therefore, occupancy of a 
node in the upper layers effectively blocks all 
nodes in the lower layers such that less users 
can be accommodated in a cell. The rate 
matching algorithms also consume a great 
amount of hardware and software resources 
and affect the overall performance, such as 
increased battery consumption and processing 
time latency, etc. Therefore, the choice of 
CDMA codes is extremely important and 
should be exercised very carefully at the early 
stage of a CDMA system design; otherwise 
shortcomings of a system will carry on 
forever. 
 
The search for promising CDMA codes or 
sequences used to be a very active research 
topic. Numerous candidates have been 
proposed and their performance and possible 
applications in a CDMA system were 
investigated extensively in the literature [2]- 
[5]. Almost all of those popular CDMA codes 
involved in the current 2-3G systems are 
unitary codes, meaning that they work on a 
single-code basis. All those unitary codes can 
be further classified into two sub-groups, one 
being quasi-orthogonal codes (such as 
m-sequences [3], Gold codes [2], Kasami 
codes [4], etc.) and the other being orthogonal 
codes (such as Walsh-Hadamard Sequences 
[5], OVSF codes, etc.). In addition to those 
commonly used unitary CDMA codes, there 
are many other less widely quoted ones, such 
as GMW codes, No codes, Bent codes, etc. 
 
Another group of the CDMA codes is 
complementary codes. They were first studied 
by Golay and Turyn [6]- [7] for their 
applications in radar systems. Later on, there 
came some sporadic research on the 
 10 
consecutive bits) are from up-link 
asynchronous transmissions. In the REAL 
approach, both EPACFs and OPACFs should 
be taken into account at the same time to 
ensure that they should work properly in any 
working conditions. Thus, letting correlation 
function between the 
local correlator and the first row indicated 
by ”0 chip delay” be NM (which in fact yields 
auto-correlation peak), and correlation 
functions between the local correlator and all 
the rest rows be zero, we obtain a non-linear 
equation set with in total 2N-1 non-linear 
equations and NM unknown chips or variables 
to determine. 
 
Now we introduce the second code y to the 
system. Thus, observing at a receiver tuned to 
y, we can establish 2N-1 non-linear equations 
also from Figure 3(b) due to the incoming 
code x, where all cross-correlation functions 
(both even periodic cross-correlation functions, 
EPCCFs, and odd periodic cross-correlation 
functions, OPCCFs) caused by all possible 
multipath returns and transmission modes, 
either up-link or down-link, have been 
considered. Of course, code y itself should 
also satisfy the conditions for an ideal 
auto-correlation functions (for both EPACFs 
and OPACFs), similar to what shown in 
Figure 3(a) but with x been replaced by y. It 
should be noted that the non-linear equations 
established by EPACFs and OPACFs in fact 
specify the conditions for isotropic MI-free 
operation, and those established by EPCCFs 
and OPCCFs specify the conditions for 
isotropic MAI-free operation. Thus, the 
solutions, if any, to all those non-linear 
equations will yield the code sets that 
guarantee isotropic MI-free and MAI-free 
operation in a CDMA system. 
 
Similarly, we can establish more non-linear 
equations for the third code, say z and so on. 
The procedure can be repeated until all K 
codes of interest have been introduced, 
resulting in K(N/2+(N-1)/2+1)+(2N-1)K(K-1)/ 
2 non-linear equations, which contain MNK 
unknown variables for a code set size of K. It 
is possible that those nonlinear equations 
might be solvable if the inequality K(N/2 + 
N-1/2 + 1) + (2N-1)K(K-1)/2³MNK is 
satisfied, which is only a necessary, rather 
than a sufficient, condition. The solutions to a 
non-linear equation set are not guaranteed 
even if above inequality is held. Fortunately, 
all the nonlinear equations established with 
respect to CCFs between x and y can in fact 
be transformed into a homogenous linear 
equation set if x is already known. We will 
take this known first code x as a seed code, 
which itself should satisfy all conditions for 
MI-free operation or both periodic and 
aperiodic out-of phase auto-correlation 
functions of the code should be zero. If so, we 
readily have a linear equation set from Figure 
3(b) for us to solve the second code y jointly 
with those equations specifying its own 
MI-free condition. The solution to those 
equation sets or the code y must have already 
satisfied the MAI-free and MI-free conditions. 
The same procedure should be repeated until 
all codes in the set are determined. It is noted 
here that an original nonlinear equation set has 
been converted into a linear one with the help 
of the seed code. That is the reason why we 
call the algorithm as Real Environment 
Adapted Linearization (REAL) approach. 
 
Two important conclusions can be made from 
the REAL approach (for DS-spreading only): 
1) To ensure an MAI-free and MI-free 
operation in a DS-CDMA system, the flock 
size M of the CDMA codes must be greater 
than one (or M>1). In other words, only 
complementary code sets can possibly achieve 
perfect periodic and aperiodic auto-correlation 
and crosscorrelation functions simultaneously. 
2) To generate an orthogonal complementary 
code set with its set size being K, whose 
member codes should retain perfect periodic 
and aperiodic auto-correlation and 
crosscorrelation functions, the flock size M of 
the codes must not be less than the set size K, 
or M³K. Usually, M=K suffices. 
 
From the second conclusion, a CDMA code 
set obtained from the REAL approach can 
support as many as K=M users. As PG of a 
complementary code set is MN, we have 
K=M=PG if N=1. It means that an OC code 
set (with isotropic MI-free and MAI-free 
properties) so generated can support as many 
as K=M=PG users (if N=1), which is much 
larger than any other complementary codes 
reported in the literature [8]- [10]. Also, to 
achieve a cell-wise capacity of K=M=PG 
users, all of which can operate in an 
 12 
illustrated in Table I (b). 
 
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND 
PERFORMANCE ISSUES 
The implementation issues of an OCC-CDMA 
system as well as its performance are 
discussed next. 
 
A. FDM versus TDM for Element Code 
Division 
To implement an OCC-CDMA system, an 
important requirement is to send M element 
codes, which are assigned to a specific user, 
via separate channels to an intended receiver, 
where each element code should be de-spread 
separately and their outputs should be 
combined to form a decision variable. The 
most straight-forward way to implement 
element codes division in an OCC-CDMA 
system is to use frequency division multiplex 
(FDM) method, in which M element codes are 
sent through M different carriers fm, where 
1£m£M. In this way, an OCC-CDMA system 
looks just like a multi-carrier (MC) CDMA 
scheme. However, the major difference 
between an OCC-CDMA/FDM system and a 
traditional MC-CDMA lies in the fact that the 
former uses different carriers to convey 
different information without providing any 
diversity in frequencies, while the latter 
usually does. 
 
Obviously, another scheme to implement 
element code division in an OCC-CDMA is to 
send element codes in different time slots or 
simply via time division multiplex (TDM) 
method. The FDM and TDM implementations 
of element code division offer distinct system 
operational advantages. One of the benefits 
for using FDM is to allow an OCC-CDMA 
system to work harmonically with frequency 
division duplex (FDD) operation mode used in 
most mobile cellular standards, such as 
W-CDMA, cdma2000, etc. On the other hand, 
the TDM implementation can fit TDD mode 
naturally, but the TDD operation suits only for 
covering a relatively small cell size. 
 
Another salient feature for the FDM option is 
to reduce overall hardware complexity with 
the help of OFDM technology. Similar to any 
MC-CDMA system, an OCC-CDMA/FDM 
system can also be implemented in an OFDM 
architecture, which can transform a 
complicated multi-carrier RF transmission 
system into a base band signal processing unit. 
 
B. With or Without RAKE? 
All current CDMA systems have to use 
RAKE receiver to mitigate otherwise 
formidable MI, which is due to imperfect 
auto-correlation function of the CDMA codes 
used. Theoretically speaking, the orthogonal 
complementary codes virtually do not produce 
any auto-correlation side lobes if 
DS-spreading is considered, and thus an 
MI-free operation is guaranteed for either 
up-link or down-link transmissions. However, 
if OS-spreading is used in an OCC-CDMA 
system, it is not always sure if an MI-free 
operation can be achieved, depending on the 
values of relative offset chips n and delay 
spread of a multipath channel, as shown in 
Figure 4. Another alternative way to mitigate 
MI in an OS-spreading OCC-CDMA system 
is to use a recursive filter with the help of 
adaptive channel estimation and pilot signal, 
as suggested in [1]. To illustrate clearly how 
an OCC-CDMA system with DS-spreading 
can overcome MI without the help of a RAKE 
receiver, we plot Figure 5, where a 3-bit data 
burst is sent into a 2-user and 2-path up-link 
asynchronous CDMA channel. The inter-path 
and inter-user delays are only 1-chip for 
illustration simplicity (same result will be 
given if any other delays are applied). A 
simple correlator receiver is used to detect 
incoming burst in the presence of both MAI 
and MI. It is seen from the figure that the 
correlator can successfully recover the 
original data information (+- +) without any 
impairment caused by either MAI or MI. 
Similarly, we can show the same result for a 
down-link multipath channel, which usually 
causes much less problems than an up-link 
channel. 
 
Thus, a simple correlator can solve MI and 
MAI problems in an OCC/DS-CDMA system. 
It should be noted that the save of a RAKE 
receiver is significant as it paves a way for an 
OCCCDMA receiver to work in a truly blind 
fashion without need of any prior channel 
information. On the other hand, a RAKE has 
to acquire virtually all channel information, 
such as delays and amplitudes of all multipath 
returns, for its maximal-ratio-combining 
(MRC) operation, whose impact on 
 14 
The OS-spreading also helps to support 
asymmetrical transmissions in up-link and 
down-link channels, pertaining to thriving 
Internet applications (such as web browsing, 
etc.). The data rates in up-link and down-link 
can be made truly scalable, such that the 
rate-on-demand is achieved by simply 
adjusting relative offset chips between two 
neighboring spreading modulated bits. It 
should be stressed that such an agile 
rate-matching property for an 
OCC/OS-CDMA system can never be made 
possible if using any other traditional unitary 
codes, such as Gold codes [2], OVSF codes, 
Walsh-Hadamard codes [5], etc. 
 
Yet another advantage of the rate-change 
scheme implemented in OCC/OS-CDMA is 
that the same processing gain will apply to 
any different transmission rates. However, the 
rate-matching used in the UMTS-UTRA and 
W-CDMA standards is processing gain 
dependent; the slower the transmission rate is, 
the higher the processing gain or spreading 
factor will be, if transmission bandwidth is 
kept constant. To maintain an even detection 
efficiency for different rates at a receiver, the 
transmitter has to adjust its transmitting power 
for different rate services. 
 
G. The Issues to Be Explored Further 
As mentioned previously, a CDMA system 
based on OC codes needs different channels to 
send different element codes assigned to the 
same user. In general, either frequency or time 
can be used to separate the element codes, 
resulting in an either FDM or TDM scheme. 
For an OCC-CDMA system based on the 
FDM scheme, we should be very careful with 
the ways how to minimize the impact of 
frequency-selectivity or variable propagation 
losses in different carriers that send different 
element codes. A receiver may fail to 
reconstruct ideal correlation properties if no 
other effective measure is taken to mitigate 
the frequency dispersion problem. In [1], it 
was suggested to use a pilot-aided approach to 
overcome the problem with the help of 
adaptive channel estimation techniques, 
although other techniques may also be used. 
On the other hand, if TDM is used for element 
code separation, an OCC-CDMA system may 
operate sensitively to time-selective fading as 
long as channel coherent time becomes 
comparable to a symbol duration, which spans 
at least over a length of M element codes. The 
use of a high data rate may help to alleviate 
the problem, but at a price of worsened 
inter-element-code interference, which may 
impair the performance dramatically. 
Therefore, the TDM scheme is not preferred 
for its use in an OCC-CDMA system unless 
some more cost-effective measures can be 
found. 
 
VI. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, we have discussed various issues 
related to the CDMA architecture for future 
Gigabit wireless applications. To search for 
better CDMA codes, we have proposed 
the ”Real Environment Adapted 
Linearization” (REAL) approach, which takes 
into account major impairing factors, such as 
multipath interference, asynchronous 
transmission, random symbol sign changes, 
etc., in its code generation process. It has been 
shown that obtained OC code sets could offer 
MAI-free and MI-free operation for 
DS-spreading under a channel with any delay 
spread, and for OS-spreading if the relative 
offset chips can be made at least two chips 
larger than delay spread of a multipath 
channel. Two important conclusions have 
been observed from the REAL approach. First, 
an interference-free CDMA is possible if and 
only if using some proper OC code sets. 
Second, the maximum number of users in a 
cell in such an interference-free CDMA can 
be as large as M, where M is the flock size of 
the OC code sets. It is concluded that 
numerous desirable features of the 
OCC-CDMA architecture make it a very 
competitive candidate for future Gigabit 
wireless communications. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] H. H. Chen, J. F. Yeh & N. Seuhiro, 
(2001). A Multi-Carrier CDMA Architecture 
Based on Orthogonal Complementary Codes 
for New Generations of Wideband Wireless 
Communications, IEEE Communications 
Magazine, vol. 39, no. 10, pp. 126-135, 
October 2001. 
[2] R. Gold, (1968). Maximal recursive 
sequences with 3-valued recursive 
cross-correlation functions, IEEE Trans. On 
Information Theory, vol. IT-14, pp. 154-156, 
January 1968. 
 16 
 
 
Fig. 4. The widths of auto-correlation interference-free 
window (ACIFW) and cross-correlation interference-free 
window (CCIFW) in an OCC/OS-CDMA system versus n, 
where n is relative offset chips between two consecutive bits, 
as shown in Figure 1. Obviously, if n=N, an OCC/OS-CDMA 
system will become a OCC/DS-CDMA system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Illustration of MI-free and MAI-free operation for a 
2-user OCC/DS-CDMA system in asynchronous up-link 
channels, where a two-ray multipath channel is considered 
with both inter-path delay and inter-user delay being one chip 
for illustration simplicity. The parameters of the OC codes 
used in this figure are K = M = 2 and N = 4. The 3-bit data 
information sent is (+ - +). 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. Illustration of inherent near-far resistance for an 
OCC-CDMA system, where performance for a conventional 
DS-CDMA system based on Gold and Walsh-Hadamard 
codes under the near-far effect is also plotted. Four users are 
present in the system and the signal of interest is from user 1. 
An up-link asynchronous multipath channel with its path gain 
being [0.8557, 0.5134, 0.0642] is considered. Inter-path and 
inter-user delays are one and three chips, respectively. The 
parameters of the OC code are K=M=4, N=4, and thus the PG 
is MN=16. The length of the Gold and Walsh-Hadamard 
codes is 15 and 16, respectively. 
 
五、參考文獻 
1. Zhuo Chen, Lingyun Wang, Xinbing 
Wang, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2008). 
Voice over Internet Protocol over IEEE 
802.11 Wireless Local Area Networks and 
effective admission control with 
transmission interval adaptation, Int. J. 
Autonomous and Adaptive 
Communications Systems, Vol. 1, No. 1, 
2008, pp. 82-105. 
2. Bo Rong, Yi Qian, Kejie Lu, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen and Mohsen Guizani, (2008). CALL 
ADMISSION CONTROL 
OPTIMIZATION IN WIMAX 
NETWORKS, IEEE Transactions on 
Vehicular Technology, Volume 57, Issue 4, 
Pages: 2509-2522, July 2008. (This paper 
was ranked as the most popular online 
IEEE TVT paper in August 2008. 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/topAccessed
Articles.jsp?punumber=25). 
3. Stamatios V. Kartalopoulos, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, Mario Freire, Liwen He and 
Pramode Verma, (2008). “Security in 
Mobile Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks (Part 
II)” (Editorial), IEEE Communications 
Magazine, Volume 46, Issue 4, 
Page(s):86 – 87, April 2008. 
4. Stamatios V. Kartalopoulos, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, Mario Freire, Liwen He and 
Pramode Verma, (2008). “Security in 
 18 
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 
Volume: 57, Issue: 4, page(s): 2387-2394, 
July 2008.  
20. Kejie Lu, Yi Qian, Mohsen Guizani, and 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2008). A framework 
for distributed key management scheme in 
heterogeneous wireless sensor networks, 
IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 
639-647, February 2008. 
21. Sghaier Guizani, Habib Hamam, 
Xiaojiang (James) Du and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2008). Ad hoc systems backboned 
by fibers: Limitation and solutions, 
International Journal of Sensor Networks 
(IJSNet), ISSN (Online): 
1748-1287 - ISSN (Print): 1748-1279, 
http://www.inderscience.com/ijsnet. Vol. 4, 
No. 4, 2008. 
22. Hairong Yan, Jie Li, Guoji Sun, Sgahier 
Guizani, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2008). An 
optimistic Power Control MAC Protocol 
for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks, 
International Journal of Sensor Networks 
(IJSNet), ISSN (Online): 
1748-1287 - ISSN (Print): 1748-1279, 
http://www.inderscience.com/ijsnet. Vol. 4, 
No. 4, 2008. 
23. Xiaomei Zhang, Liansheng Tan, Jie Li, 
Sufen Zhao, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2008).  
ATBAS: An Efficient Fair Bandwidth 
Allocation Approach for Multi-hop 
Wireless Ad Hoc Networks, International 
Journal of Sensor Networks (IJSNet), Int. 
J. Sensor Networks, Vol. 3, No. 2, pp. 
134-140, 2008. ISSN (Online): 
1748-1287  -  ISSN (Print): 1748-1279, 
http://www.inderscience.com/ijsnet 
24. Mohsen Guizani, Xiaojiang (James) Du, 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen and Peter Mueller, 
(2007). Security in Wireless Mobile Ad 
Hoc and Sensor Networks, IEEE Wireless 
Communications (Editorial), pp. 4-5, 
October 2007. 
25. Wei Wang, Dongming Peng, Honggang 
Wang, Hamid Sharif, and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2007). Energy-Constrained Quality 
Optimization for Secure Image 
Transmission in Wireless Sensor Networks, 
Hindawi - Advances in Multimedia, 
Volume 2007, Article ID 25187, 9 pages, 
doi:10.1155/2007/25187, 2007. 
26. Yan Chen, Guanding Yu, Zhaoyang 
Zhang, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, and Peiliang Qiu, 
(2007). On Cognitive Radio Networks 
with Opportunistic Power Control 
Strategies in Fading Channels, IEEE 
Transactions on Wireless Communications, 
vol. 7, no. 7, pp. 2752-2761, July 2007. 
27. Kun Yang, Shumao Ou, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
and Jianhua He, (2007). A multihop peer 
communication protocol with fairness 
guarantee for IEEE 802.16 based vehicular 
networks, IEEE Transactions on Vehicular 
Technology, vol. 56, no. 6, pp. 3358-3370, 
2007. 
28. Tao Jiang, Weidong Xiang, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen and Qiang Ni, (2007). Multicast 
broadcast services support in 
OFDMA-based WiMAX systems, IEEE 
Communications Magazine, Volume: 45,  
Issue: 8, page(s): 78-86, August 2007. 
29. Jianhua He, Ken Guild, Kun Yang and 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2007). Modeling 
Contention based Bandwidth Request 
Scheme for IEEE 802.16 Networks, IEEE 
Communications Letters, vol. 11, no. 8, pp. 
698-700, August 2007. 
30. Guojun Wang, Jie Ouyang, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, Minyi Guo, (2007). Efficient Group 
Key Management for Multi-Privileged 
Groups, COMPUTER 
COMMUNICATIONS, Elsevier, Vol. 30, 
Issue 11-12, pp. 2497-2509, 10 September 
2007.  
31. Sghaier Guizani, Hsiao-Hwa Chen and 
Peter Mueller, (2007). Security on 
Wireless Ad Hoc and Sensor Networks, 
COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS, 
Elsevier, (Editorial), Vol. 30, Issue 11-12, 
pp. 2311-2313, 10 September 2007. 
32. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Xi Zhang, and Wen Xu, 
(2007). Next Generation CDMA vs. 
OFDMA for 4G Wireless Applications 
(Editorial), IEEE Wireless 
Communications, Volume: 14,  Issue: 3, 
On page(s): 6-7, June 2007. 
33. Yang Xiao, Hui Chen, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
Bo Sun and C. L. Philip Chen, (2007). 
Optimal Utilization and Effects of 
Inaccurate Estimation in Mobile Database 
Failure Restoration, IEEE Transactions on 
Wireless Communications, pp. 2086-2095, 
vol. 6, No. 6, June 2007. 
34. Ganlin Ye, Jing Li, Aiping Huang, and 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2007). A novel ZCZ 
code based on m-sequences and its 
applications in CDMA systems, IEEE 
 20 
Mobile Computing Journal, Volume 8, 
Issue 6, Pages 733 - 744, Jun 2007.  
49. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Yu-Ching Yeh, Qi Bi 
and Abbas Jamalipour, (2007). On a 
MIMO-based open wireless architecture: 
space-time complementary coding, IEEE 
Communications Magazine, vol. 45, no. 2, 
pp. 104-112, February 2007. 
50. Xiaojiang Du, Yang Xiao, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, and Mohsen Guizani, (2007). Two 
Tier Secure Routing Protocol for 
Heterogeneous Sensor Networks, IEEE 
Transactions on Wireless Communications, 
vol. 6, no. 9, pp. 3395-3401, September 
2007. 
51. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Mohsen Guizani, 
Cheng-Hsiun Tsai, Yang Xiao, Romano 
Fantacci, Hamid R. Sharif, (2007). Pulse 
waveform dependent BER analysis of a 
DS-CDMA UWB radio under multiple 
access and multipath interferences, IEEE 
Transactions on Wireless Communications, 
pp. 2338-2347, vol. 6, no. 6, June 2007. 
52. Hsiao-Hwa Chen and Mohsen Guizani, 
(2007). Computer & Network Security, 
International Journal of Security and 
Networks (Editorial), InderScience 
Publishers, Vo.2, Nos.1/2, 2007. 
http://www.inderscience.com/. 
53. Ruidong Li, Jie Lix, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
(2007). DKMS: Distributed hierarchical 
access control for multimedia networks, 
International Journal of Security and 
Networks, Vol. 2, No.1/2  pp. 3 - 10, 2007. 
http://www.inderscience.com/. 
54. Xiaojiang Du, Yang Xiao, Mohsen 
Guizani, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2007). An 
Efficient Key Management Scheme for 
Heterogeneous Sensor Networks, Elsevier 
AD HOC Networks Journal. Vol. 5, issue 
1, pp. 24-34, ISSN 1570-8705. 
(http://www.elsevier.com/locate/adhoc/), 
January 2007. 
55. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Daniel Hanky, Mario E. 
Magana, and Mohsen Guizani, (2007). 
Design of next generation CDMA using 
Orthogonal Complementary Codes and 
Offset Stacked Spreading, IEEE Wireless 
Communications, Volume: 14, Issue: 3, 
page(s): 61-69, June 2007. 
56. W. Stewart, Y. Xiao, B. Sun and 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2007). Security 
Mechanisms and Vulnerabilities in the 
IEEE 802.15.3 Wireless Personal Area 
Networks, International Journal of 
Wireless and Mobile Computing (IJWMC), 
Special Issue on Security of Computer 
Network and Mobile Systems. Vol. 2, No. 
1, pp. 14-27, 2007. 
http://www.sitacs.uow.edu.au/ijwmc/ 
57. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Shin-Wei Chu, N. 
Kuroyanagi and A. J. Han Vinck, (2007). 
An Algebraic Approach to Generate 
Super-Set of Perfect Complementary 
Codes for Interference-Free CDMA, 
Wiley's Journal of Wireless 
Communications and Mobile Computing 
(WCMC), Pages: 605 - 622, Volume 7, 
Issue 5, June 2007. 
58. Bo Rong, Yi Qian, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
(2006). Adaptive power allocation and call 
admission control in multiservice WiMAX 
access networks, IEEE Wireless 
Communications, vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 14-19, 
February 2006. (This is was ranked as No. 
82 among the Top 100 Documents 
Accessed in all IEEE papers in July 2007. 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/Xplore/toparticle
s.jsp) 
59. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2006). The REAL 
Approach to Generate Orthogonal 
Complementary Codes for Next 
Generation CDMA Systems, 
Interdisciplinary Information Sciences, 
Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 1–15 (2006), Graduate 
School of Information Sciences, Tohoku 
University, Japan, 
http://www.is.tohoku.ac.jp/publication/IIS.
html 
60. Rahul Khanna, Huaping Liu, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2006). "Self-organisation of sensor 
networks using genetic algorithms," 
International Journal of Sensor Networks 
2006 - Vol. 1, No.3/4 pp. 241 - 252. 
http://www.inderscience.com/ijsnet. 
61. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Yang Xiao, Jie Li and 
Romano Fantacci, (2006). Challenges and 
futuristic perspective of CDMA 
technologies: the OCC-CDMA/OS for 4G 
wireless networking, IEEE Vehicular 
Technology Magazine, IEEE Vehicular 
Technology Magazine, vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 
12-21, September 2006, 
http://www.ieeevtc.org/vtmagazine/index.
html. 
62. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Daniel Wong, and Peter 
Mueller, (2006). Evolution of 
Air-Interface Technologies for 4G 
 22 
Vinck, (2006). Generalized Pairwise 
Complementary Codes with Set-Wise 
Uniform Interference-Free Windows, 
IEEE Journal of Selected Areas in 
Communications, VOL. 24, NO. 1, 
January, pp. 65-74, 2006. 
78. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Hsin-Wei Chiu and 
Mohsen Guizani, (2006). Orthogonal 
complementary codes for interference-free 
CDMA technologies, IEEE Wireless 
Communications, pp. 68-79, February, 
2006. 
79. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Cheng-Hsien Cai, 
Chien-Yao Chao and Yu-Hsin Lin, (2006). 
Synthesization of Pulse Shaping 
Waveforms for Spectral Efficient Digital 
Modulations–Some Practical Approaches, 
European Transactions on 
Telecommunications (ETT), vol. 17, pp. 
99-110, 2006.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
