中英文摘要與關鍵詞 
本研究將結合量子物理的不確定性概念與蒙地卡羅法的隨機漫步概念，對機器視覺的影像多重解
讀，色盲判讀，色盲圖形合成，迷彩判讀與迷彩圖形合成的問題，加以分析、解決。我們將上述
問題轉化成一個量子物理的過程，以光子和束縛電子發生交互作用，若達共振條件，則該空間域
的像素或幾何圖形的基底圖形就被視為激發而突顯此區域。顯然的，不同的量子條件與隨機過程
會有不同的共振圖形。我們在利用這些共振圖形去處理影像多重解讀，色盲判讀，色盲圖形合成，
迷彩判讀與迷彩圖形合成的問題。 
關鍵詞: 隨機漫步，多重解讀、色盲研究、迷彩研究 
The study integrates the uncertainly principle of quantum physics and random walks by Monte-Carlo algorithm to 
do the image understanding including multi-interpretations, color blindness judgment, color blindness synthesis, 
camouflage detection, and camouflage pattern synthesis. The proposed method recruited the quantum model of 
the photon and bounded electron interaction to simulate the problem. Basically, the different sampling patterns will 
introduce the multiple comprehensions. The sampling pattern is taken as the quantum photon cluster then uses the 
interactions between photons and bounded electrons to simulate the image processing of pattern classifications. 
The properties of resonance map; e.g. spatial isotropic, spatial homogenous, geometric condition, gray level 
distribution; could be taken as the significant features. Consequently, the various resonance maps could deliver 
the valuable information to make the multi-understanding, color blindness judgment, and camouflage detection 
possible.  
Keywords：random walk, multi-interpretations, color blindness, camouflage
photon casting process of the proposed method, random-walk concept was involved. It determines how the random position 
vector is cast by photons.  
A photon casting on the position (x,y) of a 2D image could be describe as a vector: 
 
x
y
 
  
 
x
 
(2) 
Two conditions of photon casting were defined as below. 
The first condition of photon casting is an uniform casting. The corresponding probability density function is shown in 
(3). 
1/ ,if {desire region}
( )
0, otherwise
a
f

 

x
x
 (3)
 
Where a is the number of pixels in the desired region and ( ) 1f 
x
x . 
Another condition of the photon casting is the Gaussian casting, and whose probability density function is described as 
follows, 
1
1/ 2/ 2
1 1
( ) exp ( ) ( )
2(2 )
T
n
f

   
 
x x -μ Σ x -μ
Σ
 (4) 
where x is a 2-component column vector, that is the 2-component mean vector, Σ is a 2 x 2 covariance matrix. An uniform 
photon casting was applied to multi-gray-level character images and the Gaussian photon casting was applied to 
single-gray-level character images.  
The principle concept is the random sampling by color space transformation and mapping, so as to generate the testing 
color seeds. Finally, “confined” random fill color seeds to the desired zone, and the synthesis patterns are obtained. 
The CIE XYZ space defines all visible colors by three primary stimuli X, Y, and Z. The CIE xyY chromaticity diagram 
represents colors in a 2D space by normalizing the XYZ values. However, the RGB color space is the most commonly used 
color model. The main primary spectral components are red, green, and blue. All the RGB values are in the range [0, 1]. The 
linear conversion of the RGB space and tristimulus value of XYZ are shown as follows: 
R 3.2406 -1.5372 -0.4986 X
G -0.9689 1.8758 0.0415 Y
B 0.0557 -0.2040 1.0570 Z
     
     
     
          
 (5) 
The resonant condition in equation (1) is applied to the color testing images to verify the validity of the proposed 
multi-interpretations. Basically, a color image which has three color components (RGB) is different from the gray image. By 
knowing that hue is related to the angular component of the color system based on polar representation, equation (1) was 
modified to equation (6) to reduce the variables of color and also fit in with equation (1): 
255,if ( , ) '
( , ) , 1,2,3...
0,  otherwise             
n
n
x y E T
R x y n
  
 
 (6) 
 
1( , ) tan ,   ( , )RGB xyY
ab
x y x y
ba
  
  
     
   
I O
(7)
 
where En' is a Gaussian random variable with mean En and variance σ
2
.  ( , )RGB xyYx y I  is a (x,y) position in the CIE 
xyY chromaticity diagram of a color pixel. O is a reference center point for the polar coordinate. Generally, the D65 point is 
employed as a reference point of origin.  
To further verify the relationship between the concept of the proposed multi-interpretations and color blindness, the 
synthesis color testing pattern is necessary. In the study, the pattern of Ishihara-test-like tests pattern is utilized. Next, the 
synthesized pattern is used in the resonance testing and then the comparison between Ishihara-test-like color tests and 
standard Ishihara color tests is made. 
There are two processes to complete the synthesis of Ishihara-test-like color tests including the random circles 
generation to generate a specific color set and to extract the colors from the confusion lines and its neighboring region. 
Clearly, a color blindness examiner can not separate the colors from the same confusion line, so we fill the colors extracted 
CONCLUSION 
The study proposed the pixel resonance viewpoint to assess the corresponding multi-outputs of color blindness patterns. 
Principally, the characteristics of human vision include uncertainty, fuzzy, imagination, confinement, etc. The study utilized 
the properties of uncertainty and confinement for image understanding and interpretations. Based on this concept, the 
meaningful selection of the pattern recognition becomes practicable. 
In simulation, a transformation of color space to a color angle in the chromatic diagram is used before applying the 
modified pixel resonance computation. Meanwhile, color blindness is briefly explained and the pixel resonance and 
multi-interpretations are discussed according to how someone with normal vision and color blindness sees a color image. To 
verify the proposed method validity, the Ishihara-test-like color tests are adopted in this study, the original RGB is first 
converted into the CIE color space, and then the random walk concept is used to choose the color element; consequently the 
synthesis of color blindness patterns are generated. In addition, four different resonance images are analyzed from different 
center points of the polar system in the CIE color domain. We found that multi-interpretations of images are valuable to assist 
the design of a red-green deficiency (protanopic and deuteranopic) study. Another interesting finding is that the proposed 
multi-interpretation is slightly affected by stochastic resonance. The purified background with a certain noise, i.e. the 
standard deviation of Gaussian noise, will improve the recognition of color blindness. Therefore, to design a testing pattern to 
identify which color blindness the examinee belongs to; the stochastic resonance effect might be concerned, too. On the other 
hand, this study also delivers multi-interpretations according to different color assessments this means the property could 
quantitatively describe the color sensing defects of the patients by using only one color atlas. We hope the proposed quantum 
resonance concept might be valuable to comprehend or to map the vision of human beings.  
REFERENCES 
K. N. Kay, T. Naselaris, R. J. Prenger, and J. L. Gallant, "Identifying natural images from human brain activity," Nature, vol. 452, pp. 352-U357, Mar 20 
2008. 
I. Biederman, "Recognition-by-components: A theory of human image understanding," Psychological Review, vol. 94, pp. 115-147, 1987. 
M. V. Peelen, L. Fei-Fei, and S. Kastner, "Neural mechanisms of rapid natural scene categorization in human visual cortex," Nature, vol. 460, pp. 94-U105, 
Jul 2 2009. 
C.-W. Hsieh, Y.-C. Hsu, and T.-L. Jong, "Image Interpretations Based on Quantum Resonance Concept," in Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering, 2009. 
MUE '09. Conference on, 2009. 
F. H. G. Pitt, "The nature of normal trichromatic and dichromatic vision," Proceedings of the Royal Society of London Series B-Biological Sciences, vol. 132, 
pp. 101-117, Mar 1944. 
D. Malacara, Color vision and colorimetry: theory and applications, vol. 42: SPIE press, 2002. 
W. D. Wright, "The Characteristics of Tritanopia," Journal of the Optical Society of America, vol. 42, pp. 509-521, 1952. 
R. W. G. Hunt, "Colour Science : Concepts and Methods, Quantitative Data and Formulas," Journal of Modern Optics, vol. 15, pp. 197 - 197, 1968. 
F. Vienot and H. Brettel, "Color display for dichromats," in Proceedings of SPIE, the International Society for Optical Engineering, 2000, vol. 4300, pp. 
199-207. 
B. Dougherty and A. Wade. Vischeck. [Online]. Available: http://www.vischeck.com. 
Specification of sRGB. [Online]. Available: http://www.color.org/sRGB.pdf. 
 
Normal      Protanope  Deuteranope  Tritanope Normal      Protanope  Deuteranope  Tritanope ( a) Normal (b) Protanope (c) Deuteranope (d) Tritanope
 
( a)
Normal
(b)
Protanope
(c)
Deuteranope
(d)
Tritanope
 
Fig. 1. The proposed simulation of color deficiency interpretations. In complex number series, there is only character 3 is 
identified in tritanope case that means a color testing pattern might be generated by the complex number with different 
copunctal points and to identify the type of color blindness by making only one test. 
 8 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99年 09月 20日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
8/20: 自嘉義前往桃園機場，先搭機到南京，夜宿南京。第一天因為時程關係，沒
有安排活動。 
8/21：自南京搭巴士到揚州市，參加上午議程，下午發表論文。 
8/22: 參加議程，下午離開，前往南京，夜宿南京。 
8/23：離開南京，返國。 
二、與會心得 
（1） 該會議很大，也屬於 EI index, 屬於國際機構認可的研討會。但是似乎主辦
流程不太順暢，有很多細節沒有考慮。 
（2） 很多大陸的報告者都缺席，反倒是遠從其他地方來會議的人，都準時出席。報
告時程，隨意更動，覺得不很尊重會議參加者。 
（3） 台灣的 PAPER數目不多。我們有水準以上的表現。 
（4） 本次研討會，主要是讓我認識了許多大陸籍科學家，也交換了名片。我將於適
當的時間，邀請相關學者，來台演講，交換意見。嚴格說來，反而私下交流比會議
上所得還多。 
（5） 謝謝國科會的計畫補助 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議: 無 
計畫編號 
NSC  99-2221-E-007-103 
計畫名稱 利用隨機漫步概念的色盲與迷彩影像研究 
出國人員
姓名 
謝奇文 
服務機構
及職稱 
嘉義大學電機系 
會議時間 
2010.08.20 ~ 
2010.08.22 
會議地點 中國大陸，揚州市 
會議名稱 
 2010 International Colloquium on Computing, Communication, Control, 
and Management 
發表論文
題目 
 Color Deficiency Using Graylevel Matching Resonant Concept 
附件四 
 
Official Acceptance and Invited Letter 
 
Thank you for your submission to CCCM 2010. We are pleased to inform you that your paper 
 
Paper id: 963 
Title: Color Deficiency Using Graylevel Matching Resonant Concept 
Contact Author: Chi-Wen Hsieh 
 
Due to review of CCCM 2010 Committees, your paper was accepted as a regular paper in CCCM 
2010 .Your paper will be published in CCCM 2010 book proceedings of with the Publishing 
Services of the IEEE, which will be indexed by EI Compendex and ISTP. Please do take into 
account in the revision to further improve the English quality of your paper. The length of the 
paper should not exceed 4 pages without extra pages fees.  
 
In order to make high quality of CCCM 2010 proceedings, the camera-ready version should 
follow IEEE format strictly. If your paper not follow IEEE format strictly, your paper will be 
not indexed by EI and ISTP. Kindly send your Final paper to CCCM2010reg@163.com before 
May 20, 2010. 
 
All accepted papers should submit the copyright to CCCM2010reg@163.com before May 20, 
2010. If the copyright not be submitted; your paper will not be included in IEEE Xplore and 
Indexed by EI and ISTP. 
 
Registration Fees: The registration will be opened in April.1, 2010; you can download the 
registration form in the website and send us before May 20, 2010. Sorry for the so tight time. 
 
We hope to see you in Yangzhou, China, August, 2010. 
 
 
phenomenon of multi-interpretations. The different color 
patterns are constructed by the resonant color pixels under 
given color constraint conditions. 
MATERIALS 
Suppose En and I(x,y) denote the energy of an incident 
photon and the energy gap of a bonded electron with 
position (x,y) (i.e., the gray level of a pixel at (x,y)), 
respectively. According to quantum mechanics, the closer 
the energy difference between En and I(x,y), the greater the 
resonance probability is. We can use a Gaussian random 
variable together with a threshold to model such 
probabilistic resonance conditions in the random walk 
concept as follows. 
Let En' be a Gaussian random variable with mean En 
and variance σ2 and T be a threshold to be used in the 
resonance determination. The criterion of the resonance 
condition can be written as follows: given probing photon 
energy En, the resonance state of the pixel at (x,y) is 
determined probabilistically by: 
, when ( , ) '
( , ) , 1,2,3,...
0,         otherwise             
n n
n
E I x y E T
R x y n
  
 
  (1) 
where I(x,y) is the gray level at image coordinates (x,y) 
and En' is a random variable of Gaussian distribution of gray 
levels with mean En and variance σ
2
, T is the threshold for 
single pixel resonance criterion, and Rn(x,y) is the pixel 
resonance map. 
Humans usually focus on some particular positions on 
the image while viewing. This mechanism could be the 
result of the fixation in the movement. The effect is similar 
to a spotlight projecting on the image, or a mask on the 
image [8, 9]. In the photon casting process of the proposed 
method, random-walk concept was involved. It determines 
how the random position vector is cast by photons.  
A photon casting on the position (x,y) of a 2D image 
could be describe as a vector: 
 
x
y
 
  
 
x
 
(2) 
Two conditions of photon casting were defined as 
below. 
The first condition of photon casting is an uniform 
casting. The corresponding probability density function is 
shown in (3). 
1/ ,if {desire region}
( )
0, otherwise
a
f

 

x
x
 (3)
 
Where a is the number of pixels in the desired region and 
( ) 1f 
x
x . 
Another condition of the photon casting is the 
Gaussian casting, and whose probability density function is 
described as follows, 
1
1/ 2/ 2
1 1
( ) exp ( ) ( )
2(2 )
T
n
f

   
 
x x -μ Σ x -μ
Σ
 (4) 
where x is a 2-component column vector, that is the 
2-component mean vector, Σ is a 2 x 2 covariance matrix. 
An uniform photon casting was applied to multi-gray-level 
character images and the Gaussian photon casting was 
applied to single-gray-level character images.  
The principle concept is the random sampling by color 
space transformation and mapping, so as to generate the 
testing color seeds. Finally, “confined” random fill color 
seeds to the desired zone, and the synthesis patterns are 
obtained. 
The CIE XYZ space defines all visible colors by three 
primary stimuli X, Y, and Z. The CIE xyY chromaticity 
diagram represents colors in a 2D space by normalizing the 
XYZ values. However, the RGB color space is the most 
commonly used color model. The main primary spectral 
components are red, green, and blue. All the RGB values are 
in the range [0, 1]. The linear conversion of the RGB space 
and tristimulus value of XYZ are shown as follows [11]: 
R 3.2406 -1.5372 -0.4986 X
G -0.9689 1.8758 0.0415 Y
B 0.0557 -0.2040 1.0570 Z
     
     
     
          
 (5) 
The resonant condition in equation (1) is applied to 
the color testing images to verify the validity of the 
proposed multi-interpretations. Basically, a color image 
which has three color components (RGB) is different from 
the gray image. By knowing that hue is related to the 
angular component of the color system based on polar 
representation, equation (1) was modified to equation (6) to 
reduce the variables of color and also fit in with equation 
(1): 
255,if ( , ) '
( , ) , 1,2,3...
0,  otherwise             
n
n
x y E T
R x y n
  
 
 (6
) 
 
1( , ) tan ,   ( , )RGB xyY
ab
x y x y
ba
  
  
     
   
I O
(7)
 
where En' is a Gaussian random variable with mean En 
and variance σ2.  ( , )RGB xyYx y I  is a (x,y) position in the 
CIE xyY chromaticity diagram of a color pixel. O is a 
reference center point for the polar coordinate. Generally, 
the D65 point is employed as a reference point of origin.  
To further verify the relationship between the concept 
of the proposed multi-interpretations and color blindness, 
the synthesis color testing pattern is necessary. In the study, 
the pattern of Ishihara-test-like tests pattern is utilized. Next, 
the synthesized pattern is used in the resonance testing and 
Based on this concept, the meaningful selection of the 
pattern recognition becomes practicable. 
In simulation, a transformation of color space to a 
color angle in the chromatic diagram is used before applying 
the modified pixel resonance computation. Meanwhile, 
color blindness is briefly explained and the pixel resonance 
and multi-interpretations are discussed according to how 
someone with normal vision and color blindness sees a 
color image. To verify the proposed method validity, the 
Ishihara-test-like color tests are adopted in this study, the 
original RGB is first converted into the CIE color space, and 
then the random walk concept is used to choose the color 
element; consequently the synthesis of color blindness 
patterns are generated. In addition, four different resonance 
images are analyzed from different center points of the polar 
system in the CIE color domain. We found that 
multi-interpretations of images are valuable to assist the 
design of a red-green deficiency (protanopic and 
deuteranopic) study. Another interesting finding is that the 
proposed multi-interpretation is slightly affected by 
stochastic resonance. The purified background with a 
certain noise, i.e. the standard deviation of Gaussian noise, 
will improve the recognition of color blindness. Therefore, 
to design a testing pattern to identify which color blindness 
the examinee belongs to; the stochastic resonance effect 
might be concerned, too. On the other hand, this study also 
delivers multi-interpretations according to different color 
assessments this means the property could quantitatively 
describe the color sensing defects of the patients by using 
only one color atlas. We hope the proposed quantum 
resonance concept might be valuable to comprehend or to 
map the vision of human beings.  
REFERENCES 
 
K. N. Kay, T. Naselaris, R. J. Prenger, and J. L. Gallant, "Identifying 
natural images from human brain activity," Nature, vol. 452, pp. 
352-U357, Mar 20 2008. 
I. Biederman, "Recognition-by-components: A theory of human image 
understanding," Psychological Review, vol. 94, pp. 115-147, 1987. 
M. V. Peelen, L. Fei-Fei, and S. Kastner, "Neural mechanisms of rapid 
natural scene categorization in human visual cortex," Nature, vol. 460, 
pp. 94-U105, Jul 2 2009. 
C.-W. Hsieh, Y.-C. Hsu, and T.-L. Jong, "Image Interpretations Based on 
Quantum Resonance Concept," in Multimedia and Ubiquitous 
Engineering, 2009. MUE '09. Conference on, 2009. 
F. H. G. Pitt, "The nature of normal trichromatic and dichromatic vision," 
Proceedings of the Royal Society of London Series B-Biological 
Sciences, vol. 132, pp. 101-117, Mar 1944. 
D. Malacara, Color vision and colorimetry: theory and applications, vol. 42: 
SPIE press, 2002. 
W. D. Wright, "The Characteristics of Tritanopia," Journal of the Optical 
Society of America, vol. 42, pp. 509-521, 1952. 
R. W. G. Hunt, "Colour Science : Concepts and Methods, Quantitative 
Data and Formulas," Journal of Modern Optics, vol. 15, pp. 197 - 197, 
1968. 
F. Vienot and H. Brettel, "Color display for dichromats," in Proceedings of 
SPIE, the International Society for Optical Engineering, 2000, vol. 
4300, pp. 199-207. 
B. Dougherty and A. Wade. Vischeck. [Online]. Available: 
http://www.vischeck.com. 
Specification of sRGB. [Online]. Available: 
http://www.color.org/sRGB.pdf. 
 出國報告(出國類別：參加國際研討會) 
 
2010 International Colloquium on Computing, Communication, Control, and 
Management 
(CCCM 2010) 
August 20-22, 2010, Yangzhou China. 
 
服務機關：國立嘉義大學 
姓名職稱：謝奇文 助理教授 
研討會地點：中國大陸，揚州市 
會議期間：2010.08.20 ~ 2010.08.22 
 
發表論文名稱：Title: Color Deficiency Using Graylevel Matching Resonant Concept 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 利用隨機漫步概念的色盲與迷彩影像研究
計畫主持人: 鐘太郎
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-007-103- 學門領域: 影像處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
積極與廠商洽談色盲紅綠燈的開發案 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
