 2
Abstract 
We propose a QPM waveguide incorporated with power management technology and input 
time delay to achieve a maximum conversion efficiency by 2.32 times compared with a normal 
QPM waveguide with 0.6 ps pulsewidth and 100 pJ energy. 
 
摘 要 
我們提出一個準相位匹配波導結合功率管理及時間延遲的技術，使得在 0.6ps 及 100pJ
情形下的高功率的訊號輸出與一般正常的準相位匹配波導相比提高的 2.32 倍。 
 
關鍵詞(keywords)：Nonlinear optics, devices, Nonlinear optical devices 
 
1. Introduction 
Quasi-phase-matched waveguide (QPM) devices such as periodically poled lithium niobate 
waveguides have been applied in optical sampling system [1] and all-optical logic process [2]. 
Such optical sampling system and all-optical logic process are based on a specific cascaded 
quadratic nonlinear process (2): (2) in a QPM waveguide to induce cascaded second-harmonic 
generation (SHG) and difference-frequency generation (DFG). In cascaded SHG+DFG process, a 
launched pump wave (P wave) generates its second harmonic wave (PP wave), and then the 
second-harmonic wave immediately interacts with another launched signal wave (S wave) to 
generate a conversion wave (C wave). When the phase difference between the conversion wave 
and its coupling component is out of phase, the coupling component destructively interferes with 
conversion wave and reduces the energy of conversion wave. The process by which pulse energy 
of the conversion wave declines is called back-conversion which, apparently, reduces the 
conversion efficiency of the conversion wave of the cascaded SHG+DFG [3-4].  
 
The back-conversion process is described as follows: the conversion wave interacts with the 
signal wave to generate the second-harmonic wave by sum-frequency generation. Therefore, both 
of the energies of conversion and signal wave decline. The affecting factors of such 
back-conversion have been investigated which include the dispersion, pulse duration and peak 
power [4]. When the peak power is low, material dispersion strongly affects the back-conversion 
phenomena; whereas, if the input power is high, the magnitude of power will dominate the 
back-conversion effect. A chirp QPM waveguide has been proposed to reduce the 
back-conversion effect and enhance the cascaded SHG+DFG for a low-power case [4]. But, such 
chirp QPM waveguide is not suitable for high-power situation. In this paper, we proposed a 
power management technology which can break the mechanism of back-conversion by removing 
the signal wave [5]. However, the back-conversion process will not occur if signal wave doesn’t 
participate. Coupled band-pass filters are arranged at proper propagation distance to reflect the 
signal waves and pass through others. Because the back-conversion process has been eliminated, 
the second-harmonic wave can continuously couple its energy to both of signal and conversion 
waves. Therefore, the energy of conversion wave can increase continuously. 
 4
proposed device case, respectively. The simulation results represent that the average time center 
and the pulse duration of proposed device is more stable than the normal QPM waveguide case. 
 
 
 
Band-pass 
filter coating
P, P
P, S
, C
S
P, P
P, C
X
Y
Z
 
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of proposed device 
 
 
……
P,S
S
P, PP, C
S S
Anti-reflection 
Coating
Band-pass 
Filter Coating
P, PP, S, C
X
Z
 
Figure 2. Side view of proposed device 
 
 
0 2 4 6 8 10
Propagation distance X (mm)
0
10
20
30
PE
C
(x
) /
 P
E P
(0
) 
%
(A)
(B)
(C)Filter-1
Filter-2
PE
C
(x
) /
 P
E P
(0
) 
%
 
Figure 3. Power management technology 
 6
97-2221-E-214-016.  
 
 
4. Reference 
 
[1] S. Kawanishi, T. Yamamoto, M. Nakazawa and M. M. Fejer, “High sensitivity waveform 
measurement with optical sampling using quasi-phasematched mixing in LiNbO3 
waveguide,” Electron. Lett. 37, 842-843 (2001). 
 
[2] C. Langrock, S. Kumar, J. E. McGeehan, A. E. Willner and M. M. Fejer, “All-Optical Signal 
Processing Using 　(2) Nonlinearities in Guide-Wave Devices,＂ IEEE J. Lightwave. Tech., 
24, 2579-2592 (2006). 
 
[3] Shih-Chiang Lin and Nai-Hsiang Sun, “Enhanced Cascade χ(2) SHG+DFG Interactions Based 
on Chirp Period Quasi-Phase-Matched Waveguide,” CLEO, JWA43, Baltimore, Maryland, 
U.S.A., (2007) 
 
[4] Shih-Chiang Lin Nai-Hsiang Sun and Jung-Sheng Chiang, “Enhanced Cascaded SHG+DFG 
Process of Femtosecond Pulses Using Chirp Quasi-Phase Matching Waveguide,” IEEE J. 
Lightwave Tech., 26, 3090-3098, (2008) 
 
[5] Shih-Chiang Lin, Nai-Hsiang Sun, Huei-Min Yang and Shih-Kun Liu, “Enhanced Cascade 
SHG+DFG Process by Using Power Management Technology and Time Delay,” Nonlinear 
Optics (NLO), JTuB23, Hawaii, USA, (2009) 
 
計畫成果自評 
計畫執行與當初申請計畫時之申請書所規劃的內容與時程大致吻合。本計畫是個理論
分析的研究計畫，針對準相位匹配波導，在高功率情形下發生串接二倍頻與差頻之理論研
究，為了克服在高功率的情形下之反耦合現像，我們提出功率管理技術來提高元件的功率
輸出。本計畫成果我們已經發表期刊一篇： 
 
Shih-Chiang Lin Nai-Hsiang Sun and Jung-Sheng Chiang, “Enhanced Cascaded SHG+DFG 
Process of Femtosecond Pulses Using Chirp Quasi-Phase Matching Waveguide,” IEEE J. 
Lightwave Tech., 26, 3090-3098, (2008) 
 
及國際研討會一篇： 
 
Shih-Chiang Lin, Nai-Hsiang Sun, Huei-Min Yang and Shih-Kun Liu, “Enhanced Cascade 
SHG+DFG Process by Using Power Management Technology and Time Delay,” Nonlinear 
Optics (NLO), JTuB23, Hawaii, USA, (2009) 
義守大學  
赴國外出席國際會議返國會議報告  
單    位 通訊工程學系  職   稱 副教授  姓   名 林士強  
國    別 美國  
城   
市 
名   
稱 
夏 威 夷 ，
檀香山  
出席會議
起迄時間
民國 98 年 07 月 13 日起 
至 98 年 07 月 16 日 止  
出席會議 
名    稱 OSA Optics & Photonics Congress : Nonlinear Optics (NLO)  
發表論文 
名    稱 
Enhanced Cascade SHG+DFG Process by Using Power Management Technology and 
Time Delay 
檢附資料確認欄（確認請打勾）： 
□ 已核准之申請表及附件 
□ 會議論文集（若僅有光碟，須列印其會議手冊封
面、論文發表場次頁面，及論文內容） 
□ 登機證影本 
 
 
□ 其他：                             
原因：                             
（未附上上列文件，請檢附相關附件，並說明之）
註：申 請 人 需 於 返 國 後 2 個 月 內 繳 交 返 國 報 告，
逾 期 恕 不 受 理 申 請 。  
 
申請人確認後簽名：林士強           
申請日期：   年    月    日 
院 意 見  系所意見  
研發處審核： 
1. 研發處收件日期： 
 
2. 是否已備齊相關文件？ 
□ 是   
□ 否，原因：                           
補 件 期 限 ：                
研 發 長  研發處 學術發展組  
副 校 長  
校長批示  
1. 教師赴國外出席國際學術會議，需於返國後2個月內向學校提出參加會議報告；寒暑假期間出席國際會議者，
最遲請於學期開學後第一週繳交報告。若有積欠報告、延遲交件或補件，將不得申請補助。 
2. 陳核准後請影印一份交至研發處學發組留存。 
3. 赴國外出席國際學術會議為本校補助款，依稅法規定為薪資一部份，故為應稅所得。
晚學回國後，將根據 M. M. Fejer 院士之意見作部分研究內容修改。我們將針對 M. M. Fejer
院士之意見作更實際考量，考量實做中可能的耦光損失，波導不匹配的光能量損失，甚至於
光學鍍膜對光訊號強度及相位的影響，進而做出比較接近真實狀況的模擬，以便讓其他實驗
的團隊可以快速進行實驗。 
 
利用 LiNbO3 作為非線性光學基版製作 QPM Waveguide 是目前的主流技術，但其實 LiNbO3
的非線性係數沒有 GaAs 高，利用 GaAs 製作 QPM waveguide 的研究其實也將近 20 年了，但
受限於半導體製成技術，其 QPM Grating Period 要製作到 20 m 左右有其困難，但隨著各種
新製作技術的提出，以 GaAs 作 QPM Waveguide 的議題再度受到關切，因此這個議題可以成
為晚學的下一個理論研究課題。 
 
四、建議之工作計畫 
隨著大環境之惡化，國科會通過計劃的難度越來越高，即便計劃申請通過，其出差補助也大
幅縮水。出國參加研討會雖然還是會動用自己的荷包的錢，但是學校的補助宛如雪中送碳，
給於有心作研究的老師一個很實質的鼓勵。出國開會除了增廣見聞外，也給自己一個認識世
界一流學者的機會，俗話說”見面三分情”，下次說不定該知名學者審到晚學投稿之論文時或
許可以手下留情，並給於實質之意見，這也是出國參加研討會的最大收穫之一。 
 
光纖通訊逐漸在復甦中，一步一步將通訊工程學系，關於光纖通訊的實作能量建立起來，除
了作為研究的平臺外，也讓有意參加研究所考試的學生有實作題目的機會，並在畢業成果展
中讓家長驗收成果。 
 
這幾年參加國際研討會，根據晚學的觀察，利用電腦作模擬的學者有增加的趨勢，這其實跟
大環境經濟惡化有關，不少學者開始用工業級軟體來進行創意模擬，藉以取代昂貴的實驗設
備。本校或許可以考量，把光電相關的老師整合，設備整合、共用，研究議題分享。作模擬
的老師把模擬出來的點子與實作的老師分享，合作研究共同把研究的餅作大。本校材料系、
電機系、電子系、醫工系及通訊系都有光電背景的老師，能整合的空間很大。將來如果還有
機會，光電教師成長團體能繼續運作，這樣的目標就會越來越實際。 
 
