 2
奈米線之製備與相關元件之研製與分析 
“Preparation and Device Fabrication of Si Nanowires” 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2215-E-009-073 
執行期間：94 年 8 月 1 日 至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：林鴻志 交通大學電子工程系副教授 
 
一、摘要 
中文摘要 
本專題計畫提出一種成本不高、製程步驟
簡易的新穎矽奈米線之製備方式，目的為改善
一般由 top-down 製造矽奈米線的主要缺點：
製程設備昂貴或流程複雜。此方法主要是在矽
晶圓上沉積薄絕緣層，利用 I-line stepper 微影
和化學濕蝕刻方式將此絕緣層微縮至奈米級
大小。以此微影蝕刻後之絕緣層當作硬遮蔽層
(hard mask)，再乾蝕刻矽基板，便可使形成奈
米線結構。此製備方式除了製程簡單和低成本
之優點外，其所形成之奈米線的直徑、長度和
晶格座向更可精確地控制。此外，經由穿透式
顯微鏡(TEM)之分析，可證實所製備出來之矽
奈米線擁有良好之結晶特性。因此，相信本製
造方法可提供再現性高和可靠度佳之矽奈米
線，以應用至相關之元件產品。 
英文摘要 
In this project, a novel approach for 
preparation of silicon naonwires (SiNWs) via 
straightforward and economic process is 
proposed and demonstrated. This technique 
utilizes non-critical photolithography and 
etching steps to define the NWs with good 
control over the structural parameters such as the 
orientation, diameter and length. It is superior to 
conventional top-down manners in terms of 
lower cost and simplified process flow. In this 
process, I-line photolithography is used to define 
the original diameter of hard mask patterns to a 
sub-micrometer feature size. By using chemical 
wet etching, the size of hard mask is further 
shrunk to sub-100 nm. With this nano-scale hard 
mask, SiNWs can be acquired after an 
anisotropic dry etching of Si substrate, albeit no 
expensive lithography tool is involved in the 
process flow. 
二、計畫的緣由與目的 
矽奈米線結構近來已受到各個研究團隊
的矚目。藉由其高表面積/體積比，奈米結構
表面的狀況將會對奈米線內部的載子傳導有
深切的影響。利用此性質，奈米線對於感測元
件應用可提供相當高的偵測靈敏度[1]。一般製
備 奈 米 線 的 方 式 主 要 分 為 兩 類 ， 一 是
bottom-up [2]，另一為 top-down [3]。在大部份
bottom-up 的方式中，以金屬催化成長來形成
奈米線是最為常見的。此法可用來製備不同材
料的奈米線，除了矽奈米線外，還有鍺(Ge)奈
米線[4]、磷化銦(InP)奈米線[5]等。因此這個
方式為各個相關研究機構主要的研究方法。但
是金屬催化成長目前仍有一些問題存在，如奈
米線的長度、直徑和晶格座向皆無法受到良好
的控制，以及在晶圓上無法準確地定位，這意
味其有著再現性不高的疑慮。同時，金屬奈米
粒子的使用亦是一個潛在污染的議題。所以，
這些問題的存在，將會限制一要求高性能表現
之奈米線電子元件的製作。一般以 top-down
製作奈米線的方法，如使用 deep UV [6]和
e-beam [7]等曝光設備，或許可以解決這些課
 4
 
 
圖三、不同直徑之矽奈米線 SEM 影像 (a) 1.3 µm，
(b) 40 nm，(C) 30 nm，(d) < 30 nm。 
 
當奈米線蝕刻完成後，我們將含有矽奈米
線之矽基板浸入乙醇中，利用超音波震盪使奈
米線根部與矽基板分離(圖四)。之後將矽基板
從溶液中移除，此時乙醇溶液中的矽奈米線可
藉由一般排列對準方式[9-10]，放置到不同之
基板上，使形成不同種類之電子元件，如矽奈
米線場效電晶體[11]和矽奈米線感測器[12]。
另外值得注意的是將奈米線移除後之矽基
板，後續仍可用來進行另一批次的矽奈米線之
製備，故可降低材料之消耗和成本。 
 
圖四、利用超音波震盪將矽奈米線採收下來，並
可保存於乙醇(ethanol)中。 
 
圖五(b)為一矽奈米線之高解析度 TEM 及
其繞射圖。由此結果我們可得知矽奈米線在經
過蝕刻和採收後，並無受到很大之製程傷害，
而仍保有良好之結晶特性。因此，本研究計畫
所提出之奈米線製備方式相信可提供高品質
的矽奈米線，進而能應用到相關元件之製作，
以達高性能之表現。 
 
 
圖五、(a) 矽奈米線之側視 TEM 圖，(b) 矽奈米線
高解析 TEM 影像及繞射圖。 
 
四、結論與討論 
在此研究計畫中，我們已完成並證實一以
簡易步驟和低成本之方式來製作矽奈米線。以
此方式所製作出之奈米線具有單晶性質，以及
其直徑、長度和晶格座向可良好地受到控制，
同時具有再現性高之特性。利用此矽奈米線，
可有效地應用到奈米線相關電子產品之製
作，如場效電晶體和生物化學感測器，相信必
能有高可靠度之表現。 
此外，本計畫之研究成果已於 2006 年 9
月在日本橫濱舉行的國際固態元件與材料
(Solid State Devices and Materials, SSDM)會議
中發表[13]，如附件。 
 
 
32 nm 
(a) 
(b) 
A Novel Method for the Preparation of Si Nanowires 
Raymond Lin1, Horng-Chih Lin1, 2, *, Jung-Yen Yang1,  
Shih-Wen Shen1, and Chun-Jung Su2  
1National Nano Device Laboratories 
2Department of Electronics Engineering and Institute of Electronics Engineering, National Chiao Tung University 
1001 Ta-Hsueh Road, Hsinchu, Taiwan 300, ROC 
*Phone: 886-3-571-2121 ext:54193, Fax: 886-3-572-4361, E-mail: hclin@faculty.nctu.edu.tw 
 
1. Introduction 
Si nanowire (SiNW) structures have recently attracted a lot 
of attentions. By taking advantage of the high 
surface-to-volume ratio inherent in the structure, NWs can 
provide high surface sensitivity for sensing device 
applications [1], [2]. The preparation methods of NWs could 
be categorized into two types, namely, top-down and 
bottom-up [3]. Among a number of bottom-up approaches, 
catalytic growth is probably the most popular. This method 
is suitable for preparing various kinds of NW materials and 
can even be applied for forming NW heterostructures [4]. It 
is thus very flexible and suitable for the feasibility study in 
laboratories. However, there also exist some issues, such as 
the difficulty in controlling the NW dimensions including 
length and diameter, as well as the NW orientation [5]. 
Moreover, the use of metal nano particles as the catalyst 
represents a potential contamination issue. These issues may 
hinder practical applications. Besides, the manufacturing of 
NW devices may suffer from the uncontrollability of 
structural parameters such as NW’s length and diameter. 
Thus the precise positioning of the NWs represents another 
major obstacle for reliable device fabrication. These issues 
probably could be overcome by using the top-down 
approaches that usually rely on advanced lithography tools, 
like the DUV steppers and e-beam lithography technique [6], 
to form the NW structures. Nevertheless, the process cost 
could be high owing to the use of costly lithography tools.   
In this work we proposed and demonstrated a simple 
and promising approach that could effectively address the 
above issues. This approach belongs to the top-down 
category albeit no costly lithography step is involved.  
 
2. Preparation and Characterization of SiNWs 
Detailed process sequence is illustrated in Fig. 1. 
Firstly, the starting Si wafers were oxidized, then a g-line 
stepper was used to form periodic PR patterns on the surface. 
The PR patterns were transferred to the underlying oxide 
layer by a plasma etch step. Oxide trimming was 
subsequently performed in an HF solution to further shrink 
the dimension of the oxide structure. This step allows us to 
scale the patterns into nano-scale dimension without 
resorting to expensive equipments. With careful tuning of 
the etching conditions, the precise control over the structural 
dimensions is feasible. After the oxide trimming, the PR 
patterns were stripped off, followed by a Si etch step 
performed in a high-density plasma etcher with the 
remaining oxide structures as the hardmask.  
Figure 2 shows several Si pillar structures having a 
height of around 2 µm. Figure 2(a) shows a sample that did 
not receive the oxide trimming treatment and the diameter is 
1.3 µm. Figure 2(b)~(d) are the formed NW structures with 
diameter of 40, 30, and <30 nm, respectively. Note that the 
structure becomes very flexible when scaled below 30 nm.  
Using the above samples, we’ve also developed a 
method to prepare a solution that contains Si NWs, as shown 
in Fig. 3. Wafers were then immersed in the solution and 
treated with megasonic oscillation to break the NWs from 
their root. Afterwards, wafers were removed and the solution 
was harvested. The solution could then be used as a source 
for forming aligned Si NWs on many kinds of substrates for 
electronic applications [7], [8].   
Figure 4 shows the TEM image and the corresponding 
diffraction pattern of a SiNW structure. It is seen that good 
crystallinity could be retained.  
 
3. Conclusion 
In conclusion, we have proposed and demonstrated a 
very simple and low-cost method to fabricate silicon nano 
wires without resorting to expensive tools or complex 
processes. Besides, the processed wafers could be recycled 
and reused after suitable treatment. In contrast to the 
conventional approach using metal catalytic growth, the new 
method is essentially metal free and provides good control 
over the NW length, diameter, and orientation. 
 
Acknowledgments 
The authors would like to thank the staff at National Nano 
Device Laboratories (NDL) for assistance in device fabrication. This 
work was supported in part by the National Science Council of the 
Republic of China under contract number NSC- 
94-2215-E-009-073.  
附件
