- 2 - 
 
 
 
Abstract 
Medical records collect the details of a patient’s illness and treatment process. In 
order to protect individual privacy, during the treatment, a patient must be able to decide 
whether or not his previous medical records should be viewed by the medical staff. To 
the medical personnel, studying medical records is an important channel through which 
they can raise the quality of their clinical medical researches. Hence, without affecting 
the rights and interests of a patient, medical records need to be suitably open to access 
by the doctors so as to perform medical researches. Focusing on the above two 
viewpoints, this project proposes a new electronic medical record system, which not 
only maintains the privacy of medical records, but also provides the doctors with the 
ability to access medical records. In this project, to maintain the privacy and 
confidentiality of medical records, the contents of the medical record will be encrypted 
using the symmetric encryption method so that only authorized doctors with the 
decryption key can look at the contents. To make the system more practical, a new 
conference key agreement protocol is proposed, letting several authorized doctors be 
able to obtain the same secret key, and decrypt the medical records of a patient so as to 
look up the medical history. 
 
Index Terms: Privacy, electronic medical records, medical system security, 
privacy-preserving cryptographic techniques, conference key. 
 
- 4 - 
different departments but of the same hospital depending on one’s symptoms and illness. 
To a patient, a medical record records his past and present illnesses and the treatment 
processes. Therefore, a medical record is extremely private personal information. 
Unless necessary, a patient is usually unwilling to let others or those doctors not in 
charge know about his medical history or certain peculiar diseases. For example, a 
sterile patient might not be willing to, as well as not needed to, let his dentist know 
about his sterility. Therefore, while maintaining personal privacy but without affecting a 
doctor from making a correct diagnosis, individual medical record should be suitably 
encrypted, and accessible only to the authorized personnel. In other words, for a doctor 
to command a patient’s complete medical records, he ought to be able to view the 
patient’s medical records related to his department as he is in, including those made by 
other doctors of his department. However, the patient can keep the medical treatment he 
has received secret in other medical departments when the medical condition is not in 
the doctor’s specialized field. Unless after the communication between the patient and 
the doctor, the patient feels that there is a need for the doctor to consult his medical 
records, then he can authorize the doctor to view his medical records related to other 
medical departments. To maintain confidentiality of medical records, and to allow the 
doctors of the same department to view records made by other doctors, the doctors of 
the same department can share a secret key. In this way, the doctors can use a symmetric 
cryptosystem to encrypt the medical records of patients, so as to guard against snoopers 
from stealing and leaking the contents of a medical record. This study employs the 
concept of conference key agreement which allows members of the same group to 
jointly establish a secret key. Although to a patient, the content of his medical record is a 
secret, but to the hospital, it is a clinical asset, which could be used by the doctors in 
their researches to develop better medical techniques. Hence, this study proposes a 
complete electronic medical record system that maintains privacy rights of a patient, as 
well as allows the doctors to view the patient’s medical record after examining a patient, 
so as to perform clinical researches. 
 
1.1. Related laws and researches 
In a democratic society, an individual’s right to privacy is protected by the law. 
Therefore, for the emerging medical information system, the United States has a special 
bill for medical information security. This bill was legislated in 1996, and is known as 
the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) [2, 3]. The essence of 
the HIPAA bill lays in the stimulation and development of the medical information 
system, which can be used to accelerate the improvement in the efficiency of the 
healthcare system. A medical organization could be punished on account of profit, 
personal goals, malice, or purposely spreading a patient’s personal medical information. 
The institution that divulges the patients’ information risks losing its reputation. 
- 6 - 
of participants in a conference key system hold a conference using a shared secret 
conference key has always been a widely discussed subject, generally known as the key 
establishment problem. 
Two types of conference key protocol have been developed to improve the above 
problem. One is the key distribution protocol [1-4, 5, 6]. The conference key is 
generated by the chairperson of the conference and securely sent to the other 
participants. In this type of protocol, the conference key can be efficiently sent to all 
participants, but the conference chairperson will have greater authority than the other 
participants, which means that the chairperson has knowledge to the value of the 
conference key before the others; at the same time the chairperson will also have a 
greater burden than the other participants. The other participants must be able to trust 
the conference chairperson completely, which means that during the establishment of 
the conference key, the chairperson plays the role of a central server with public trust. 
The other type of protocol is the key agreement protocol [16-22]. The conference key of 
this type of protocol is jointly decided by all participants of the conference, and not by 
any single participant. The value of the conference key is jointly calculated and 
generated by all participants during the conference. In the conference key agreement, all 
participants are needed to cooperate to establish the conference key; therefore this type 
of protocol is slightly inferior to key distribution protocol in terms of efficiency, but 
because the value of the conference key is jointly generated by all participants, it has 
better security. 
Most current conference key agreement protocols emphasizes the privacy of 
conference key and message efficiency under the framework of different network 
connections; therefore they do not have fault tolerant ability to detect malicious 
participant deliberately upsetting the key generation process causing other participants 
to obtain different conference keys. Tzeng [16] proposed a conference key agreement 
protocol with fault tolerance in recent years. The protocol can still correctly establish a 
conference key even if there are several malicious participants among the conference 
participants. In Tzeng’s protocol, each participant chooses, signs, and broadcasts a 
subkey to the other participants. Then, each participant verifies the validity of the 
signature on the subkey; if a participant attempts to send erroneous message to others, 
he will be identified during the signature verification process, and removed. Finally, 
only honest participants are left; the honest participants combine their verified and 
lawful subkey to form the conference key. Although Tzeng’s protocol can detect and 
remove malicious participants and establish a lawful conference key, the method 
requires each participant to create n n-power polynomials, where n is the number of 
participants; this is a serious encumbrance to efficiency. Hence, in later sections, we 
propose a more efficient and fault tolerant conference key agreement protocol. 
- 8 - 
Step 2: Randomly select a line )(xL : 
qCKxcxL ii    mod     )(   (2.2) 
where pgc iai mod  and iCK  is the subkey that iU  offers to share 
with the other participants; 
Step 3: Calculate the values jid   and ' jid  using the session key jik   and the 
polynomial )(xL : 
njqkLd jiji  1   ,   mod    )(     (2.3) 
njdkd ijjiji  1  ,     '    (2.4) 
Step 4: Randomly select an integer *qi Zr  , and generate the individual digital 
signature  ii SR ,  on the subkey iCK  using the individual private key 
ix : 
pgR iri mod  (2.5) 
qRrTCKHxS iiiii    mod   )  ||(    (2.6) 
Step 5: Broadcast the message  ',,',',,,,  21 iniiiiii dddcSRTM  . 
 
2.1.3 Subkey Computation and Verification Phase 
Each participant UU i   recovers the subkey jCK  using the received message 
 ',,',',,,,  21 jnjjjjjj dddcSRTM   according to the following steps: 
Step 1: Check the time stamp T in advance, if it is invalid, terminate the subkey 
computation and verification phase; 
Step 2: Calculate the common session key ijk   shared with all other participants 
jU  using the individual private key ix  and the value jc : 
njqpck ixjij  1  ,modmod  (2.7) 
Step 3: Calculate the subkey jCK  using the session key ijk  , the values ' ijd  and 
jc : 
njkdd jiijij  1  ,    '     (2.8) 
njqkcdCK ijjijj  1  ,   mod        (2.9) 
Step 4: Check whether the data  jj SR ,  on jCK  is the right signature made by 
- 10 - 
as follows: 
qKCKCKCCK m   mod       ) ( 21    (2.11) 
 
2.2 Security Analysis 
This section analyzes possible attacks on the protocol and fault tolerance capability 
of the conference key agreement protocol. The analysis proves the protocol to be 
fault-tolerant and secure against attacks. The following proves the protocol capable of 
fault tolerance. 
 
【Lemma 2.1】 
Malicious participants iU  attempting to use different iCK s to dupe honest 
participants are removed from the set of participants. 
【Proof】 
There are two methods of attack. One, the malicious participant iU  sends a 
“wrong” message iM , so the two honest participants jU  and mU  will obtain two 
different subkeys iCK  due to the “wrong” message iM . Take one of the honest 
participants jU  for example, he sends a message ""  failurev ij   since one signature 
 ii SR ,  cannot belong to two different subkeys at the same time. On receiving the 
message, iU  broadcasts the value ia  and subkey iCK  for validation. All honest 
participants apply ia  in the equation pgc
ia
i mod  to validate ia ; next, they apply 
ia  and ic  in equations (2.1) ~ (2.4) to verify whether the resulting value is the same 
as ' jid , and then check whether the signature  ii SR ,  is actually generated for the 
subkey iCK . Since jU  declared iCK  to be faulty, at least one of the three 
verification steps shown above cannot hold. Thus, iU  will be removed from the set of 
participants. The other method of attack is, iU  sends out the message ""  failurev ji   
and declares jU  who is actually honest as a malicious one. In response to the situation, 
jU  broadcasts the value ja  and his subkey jCK  for validation. iU  will be proved 
to be the malicious one when jU  passes verification, and he is then removed from the 
set of participants. 
 
【Lemma 2.2】 
No honest participant shall be excluded from the set of participants. 
- 12 - 
【Attack 3】 
An attacker attempts to obtain the subkey iCK  of user iU  through transmitted 
message  ',,',',,,,  21 iniiiiii dddcSRTM  .  
【Analysis of situation 3】 
An attacker first computes the session key jik  , and uses the obtained 
information— the message  ',,',',,,,  21 iniiiiii dddcSRTM   to obtain the subkey 
iCK . However, the operation of session key jik   requires using the private key ix  of 
user iU . As shown in the analysis of situation 2, the private key of user cannot be 
obtained through unfair means. Hence the attack is infeasible. 
 
2.3 Performance Analysis 
The method of Tzeng [16] was declared efficient. A comparison of the proposed 
method with Tzeng’s method is made to analyze efficiency. The analysis of performance 
is divided into analyses of computation costs and transmission costs.  Computation 
costs include cost of calculating the conference key message and cost of executing fault 
detection using other participants’ subkeys. Transmission costs include transmission 
load of messages broadcasted by each participant. Modular addition, modular 
subtraction, and exclusive OR operations have lower computation costs in opposed to 
modular multiplication or modular exponential operations; hence their computation 
costs are ignored to make efficiency estimation easier. The mathematical notation is as 
follows: 
Table 1: Definitions of Mathematical Notation 
Notation Definition 
TL(n) 
the time for establishing an n-power Lagrange polynomial 
interpolation 
Tp(n) the time for calculating the output of an n-power polynomial 
TEXP the time for the modular exponential operation 
TMUL the time for the modular multiplicative operation 
TH the time for executing the adopted one-way hash function H 
TINV the time for modular inverse operation 
|x| the bit length of x 
n the total number of participants 
 
- 14 - 
medical records left by the patient who was diagnosed and treated in the department. 
Only then can a patient be sure to receive appropriate treatment. But a patient has the 
right to decide whether or not to tell the doctor about his medical records in other 
departments. However, to improve the quality of medical treatments in hospitals and to 
promote the professional skill of doctors, doctors must have the rights to view the 
medical records, without betraying the right to privacy of a patient as a prerequisite 
condition, and to perform medical researches. Focusing on the above concepts, this 
section analyzes the rights and restrictions of doctors consulting medical records and 
proposes a new electronic medical record system that protects the privacy of patients. 
 
3.1 Proposed Protocol 
In this section, the proposed electronic medical record system is explained in detail, 
which contains four main entities. The roles and responsibilities of the four entities are 
defined as follows. 
(1) Patient PT 
The patient is the entity that is being diagnosed and prescribed medicine. 
During the entire medical treatment process, the medical record is encrypted for 
protection to maintain personal privacy, and is consulted only by authorized 
personnel. Therefore, under needed circumstances, a patient must help the doctor to 
decrypt the encrypted medical record. When picking up the prescription, a patient 
does not disclose his identity, but uses the prescription number given by the doctor 
to collect the prescribed medicine. 
 
(2) Doctor DR 
The doctor is the entity that prescribes medicine and makes medical records. 
He is required to sign the prescription and medical records to declare his 
responsibility to both. After finishing composing a medical record, the doctor must 
encrypt the contents so as to protect the privacy of the patient. Afterwards, the 
doctor can consult parts of the medical records to perform medical researches. 
 
(3) Medical Records Office MRO 
The medical records office is the entity that is responsible for loan and 
preservation of medical records. During a diagnosis, the MRO sends out the 
medical records of a patient depending on the doctor’s request. Afterwards, the 
correctness and integrity of the medical record filled out by a doctor is verified and 
stored. After clinical treatment, when a doctor desires to view a medical record, the 
MRO first checks the department to which the doctor belongs, and sends only 
- 16 - 
medical process. The preparation includes establishing necessary keys and 
obtaining personal smart card. 
Patient PT applies for a personal smart card with his health insurance company. 
The health insurance company generates a private key PRPT and a public key PUPT 
for PT, it stores the two keys in PT’s smart card, and sends the smart card to PT via 
a secure channel. The doctor DR has to join a health care organization that issues 
the DR certification and authority to diagnose illnesses and prescribes medicine. 
The health care organization generates a private key PRDR and a public key PUDR 
for DR, it stores them in DR’s medical professional’s master smart card, and sends 
the smart card to DR via a secure channel. 
(M1) Department  MRO: deptTK  
(M2) PTMRO: PTPU  
 
The doctors of the same department use the method introduced in Section 2.1 
to establish a secret key CKdept shared by all doctors of the same department. A DR 
stores the secret key CKdept in his medical professional’s master smart card.  In M1, 
the head of the department calculates the public key pgTK deptCKdept mod , and 
sends it to the MRO for preservation. In M2, a new patient sends his public key 
PUPT to the MRO for storage so that it could be used for decrypting his medical 
records in future. 
 
(2) Phase 2: Request Medical History 
When a patient PT is visiting the clinic, MRO sends the attending doctor DR 
his personal information and lists the names of the departments PT has visited in 
the past along with the dates on which the visits were made. DR selects from the list 
the medical record he wishes to consult, and requests MRO for it. MRO sends DR 
the desired medical record. Since the prescription pad and other things related to the 
record in every medical record is encrypted with the session key held by the patient 
and the doctor who prescribed the treatment, DR wishing to read encrypted records 
must use the secret key shared by doctors of his department or the patient’s public 
key to calculate the session key and then decrypt the contents of the medical 
records. If the requested medical record does not belong to the doctor’s department, 
then DR must, with the agreement and assistance of PT, use the private key of PT to 
decrypt the medical record. Only then could DR view medical records of other 
departments. The above process can be described as follows. 
(M3) MRODR:  EDR(K1),  
1
    ,_  ,_ KListVisit_InfoPTNoChart  
- 18 - 
the medical record HRi'，i=1, 2, 3, …, as shown in M5'. DR must obtain agreement 
and assistance from PT to decrypt the encrypted medical record {Rx, other 
records}Y ' in the diagnosis information Mi '. If PT agrees to the decryption, then PT 
uses his private key PRPT and pgKT dept
KC
dept mod

  to calculate the session key 
pgKTY deptPTPT KCPRPRdept mod

 , and then decrypts the ciphertext {Rx, other 
records}Y '. Consequently, DR can read other department’s medical records HRi' of 
PT. 
 
(3) Phase 3: Case Report Preparation 
DR makes a diagnosis after consulting the medical records of PT and the 
present condition of PT’s health. Then he generates an electronic prescription pad 
and completes other records. There is no information in the prescription pad or in 
the record that could discern the patient’s identity. Soon after, DR reports the latest 
diagnosis of the patient to the MRO to archive it into the patient file. 
 
(M6) DRMRO:  
1
  KHR  
where HR = (M, SignDR (M)), 
M = (Chart_No, PT_Name, date, dept, {Rx, other 
records}Y). 
 
While DR is generating the prescription pad Rx, he also randomly selects a 
unique number Prescription_Id for picking up the prescription for PT, and records 
it in Rx. To achieve privacy of the record of the diagnosis of PT, DR uses the 
session key Y generated in the previous stage to encrypt the prescription pad Rx and 
other records. To prevent the contents of medical records from being modified and 
to ensure that doctors are responsible for their diagnoses, DR uses his private key to 
sign the diagnosis information M of PT with digital signature SignDR(M). The 
diagnosis information M includes the chart number, patient name, date, department, 
encrypted prescription pad and other records of PT. In M6, DR sends the record of 
the latest diagnosis of PT to MRO. To prevent HR from being leaked, DR uses the 
secret key K1 which he shares with MRO to encrypt HR. MRO on receiving 
 
1
  KHR , first decrypts it to obtain HR, then verifies the signature SignDR (M) to 
confirm the integrity and correctness of M, and at the same time also checks 
whether or not the message was sent by DR. After completing verification, MRO 
adds HR to the medical record database. 
- 20 - 
where HRi = (Mi, SignDR i (Mi)), 
Mi = (Chart_No, PT_Name, date, dept, {Rx, other 
records}Y). 
 
In M9, DR signs his list of desired medical records Req_List with the digital 
signature SignDR(Req_list), and sends the request for medical records RM to MRO. 
The Req_List includes the Chart_No of PT and the list of requested medical history 
records of PT. In M10, MRO encrypts the medical records HRi and public key PUPT 
of PT with a randomly chosen secret key K3 and sends them to DR. DR can use the 
secret key shared by doctors of his department CKdept and the public key PUPT of 
PT to calculate the session key pgPUY deptPTdept CKPRCKPT mod . With key Y, DR 
can decrypt and read the encrypted portion in medical records HRi. MRO saves the 
medical record request RM of DR in the database; and only allows the PT to check. 
If the content of the medical records is maliciously leaked or leaked due to 
carelessness, it can be used as a reference during investigation by the judiciary. 
 
3.2 Analysis of the privacy of medical records 
In this section, we will explain in detail how the proposed electronic medical 
record system meets the privacy of medical records without affecting a doctor’s 
diagnosis and the operation of the hospital. We shall also analyze some problems that 
the system might face in reality.  
 
(1) Privacy 
To preserve the privacy of patient medical records, unauthorized personnel 
should not be allowed access to the contents of medical records, and pharmacies 
should not be able to discern a patient’s identity through his prescription. After a 
doctor DR diagnoses a patient PT, composes a prescription Rx, and records the 
medical case, he uses the session key Y to encrypt only the part that contains the 
medical condition of the patient, leaving out the basic medical information 
(Chart_No, PT_Name, date, dept) of PT which is needed by MRO for sorting out 
medical records. Hence, although MRO has all medical records of a patient, it has 
no access to the record of the medical condition of the patient. In the pick-up 
prescription phase, pharmacy PH obtains the prescription pad Rx of PT sent by DR. 
Since there is no information about the identity of PT on the prescription pad Rx, 
and PT picks up his medicine from the pharmacy according to the Prescription_Id 
chosen randomly by DR and stored in his smart card. Hence, PH cannot discern a 
patient’s identity from the prescription pad Rx. 
- 22 - 
medical records HRi ' is obtained by an eavesdropper because the eavesdropper has 
neither the private key PRPT of PT, nor the secret key deptKC   of the department, he 
cannot calculate the session key pgY deptPT KCPR mod

  needed to decrypt the 
ciphertext {Rx, other records}Y '. Hence, the privacy of PT’s medical records is 
preserved. 
 
(4) Promoting the level of privacy 
To protect the privacy of patients with special identity, the doctors need to be 
classified according to the limitations of their rights, such that only a few specific 
doctors have the rights to read the medical records of patients with special identity. 
Most big hospitals have a VIP clinic with fixed doctors for seeing patients with 
special identity. The privacy of medical records of these patients is  especially 
important. To promote the level of security, the conference key agreement protocol 
introduced in Section 2.1 can be applied to establish a participant set U, whose 
members consist of the doctors seeing VIP patients. The doctors in the set U jointly 
establish a secret key CKVIP for use for VIP clinic. The session key 
pgY VIPPTCKPRVIP mod  used to encrypt the medical records of the patients can be 
calculated by using the secret key CKVIP and the public key pgPU PT
PR
PT mod  
of the patient. Therefore, doctors who not do belong to the set U cannot obtain the 
medical records of VIP patients. 
 
4. Conclusion 
In the E-prescription system in [10], a patient uses a pseudonym to conceal his real 
identity so as to attain personal medical privacy. Although it is mentioned in the article 
that a patient can change his pseudonym to protect his privacy, but before the patient 
changes his pseudonym, anyone can make the connection between prescriptions via the 
same pseudonym. On a certain level, personal privacy is a form of danger. Besides, in 
[10], a smart card is used to store the personal medical information of a patient. A 
doctor needs only to read the smart card to obtain the medical history of the patient, thus 
speeding up a doctor’s diagnosis but exposing all medical records of the patient. The 
patient could not decide which record he would like to keep private. Therefore, in the 
proposed method, through encryption of medical records, the privacy of patient medical 
records is preserved, and the patient can decide whether or not to let a doctor view his 
medical records of another department. Hence, the proposed method meets complete 
privacy. 
In related researches [9, 10], requests to view medical records for research 
purposes after clinical services were not emphasized, but this is a very important part of 
- 24 - 
Patient's Records in a Tele-Referring Group,” In Proceedings of the 2005 IEEE 
Engineering in Medicine and Biology 27th Annual Conference, pp. 2219-2223, 2005. 
[13] G. Yee, L. Korba and R. Song, “Ensuring Privacy for E-Health Services,” In Proceedings 
of the First International Conference on Availability, Reliability and Security, 2006. 
[14] D.P. Lorence and R. Churchill, “Incremental Adoption of Information Security in 
Health-Care Organizations: Implications for Document Management,” IEEE Transactions 
on Information Technology in Biomedicine, Vol. 9, No. 2, pp. 169-173, 2005. 
[15] S. Gritzalis, C. Lambrinoudakis, D. Lekkas and S. Deftereos, “Technicl Guidelines for 
Enhancing Privacy and Data Protection in Modern Electronic Medical Environments,” 
IEEE Transactions on Information Technology in Biomedicine, Vol. 9, No. 3, pp. 413-423, 
2005. 
[16] W.G. Tzeng, “A Secure Fault-Tolerant Conference Key Agreement Protocol,” IEEE 
Transactions on Computers, Vol. 51, No. 4, pp. 373-379, 2002. 
[17] W.G. Tzeng, “Corrections to A Secure Fault-Tolerant Conference Key Agreement 
Protocol,” IEEE Transactions on Computers, Vol. 51, No. 12, pp. 1462, 2002. 
[18] B.E. Jung, “An Efficient Group Key Agreement Protocol,” IEEE Communications Letters, 
Vol. 10, No. 2, pp. 106-107, 2006. 
[19] P.P.C Lee, J.C.S. Lui and Yau, D.K.Y. Yau, “Distributed Collaborative Key Agreement and 
Authentication Protocols for Dynamic Peer Groups,” IEEE/ACM Transactions on 
Networking, Vol. 14, No. 2, pp. 263-276, 2006. 
[20] W.H. Kim, E.K. Ryu, J.Y. Im and K.Y. Yoo, “New Conference Key Agreement Protocol 
with User Anonymity,” Computer Standards & Interfaces, Vol. 27, pp.185-190, 2005. 
[21] Y. Kim, A. Perrig and G. Tsudik, “Group Key Agreement Efficient in Communication,” 
IEEE Transactions on Computers, Vol. 53, No. 7, pp. 905-921, July 2004. 
[22] M. Steiner, G. Tsudik and M. Waidner, “Key Agreement in Dynamic Peer Groups,” IEEE 
Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, Vol. 11, No. 8, pp. 769-780, 2000. 
 
 
 
近五年已發表之相關期刊及研討會論文 
(A) 期刊論文 
1. Y. F. Chung, Z. Y. Wu, and T. S. Chen, "Unconditionally secure cryptosystems based 
on quantum cryptography," Information Sciences, Vol. 178, No. 8, April 2008, pp. 
2044-2058. (SSCI, SCI, EI) ( Impact Factor：3.095) 
2. Y. F. Chung, H. H. Lee, F. P. Lai, and T. S. Chen, "Access control in user hierarchy 
based on elliptic curve cryptosystem," Information Sciences, Vol. 178, No. 1, Jan. 
2008, pp. 230-243. (SSCI, SCI, EI) ( Impact Factor：3.095) 
3. Y. F. Chung, and K. H. Huang, "Chameleon Signature with Conditional Open 
Verification," Journal of Innovative Computing, Information and Control, Vol. 5, No. 
- 26 - 
Vol. 29, No. 6, Sep. 2007, pp. 601-604. (SCI, EI) ( Impact Factor：1.074) 
14. Y. F. Chung, Y. L. Yu and Y. T. Chen, "A Study on Efficient Group-oriented Signature 
Schemes for Realistic Application Environment," Communications of IICM, Vol.11, 
No.1, March 2008, pp. 31-42. 
 
(B) 研討會論文 
1. F. G. Jeng, T. L. Chen, and T. S. Chen, "A Blind Signature Scheme Based on Elliptic 
Curve Cryptosystem," 2009 Fifth International Joint Conference on INC, IMS and 
IDC, Seoul, Korea, 25-27 August 2009, pp. 2044-20498. 
2. Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, Y. T. Chen, C. C. Lee, and S. W. Wang, "An Agent-Based 
English Auction Protocol Using Elliptic Curve Cryptosystem for Mobile Commerce, 
" ICA3PP’09, LNCS 5574, pp. 214-225, 2009.(EI) 
3. Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, C. C. Ho, Y. H. Yeh, and H. C. Ko, "Hierarchical 
Time-Bound Key Management for Mobile Agents, " ICA3PP’09, LNCS 5574, pp. 
242-253, 2009.(EI) 
4. C. H. Liu, Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, and S. D. Wang, "Access Control and Key 
Management Scheme based on Bilinear Pairings over Elliptic Curves for Mobile 
Agent," The 3rd International Conference on Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering, 
Qingdao, China, 4-6 June 2009, pp. 189-196. 
5. Y. F. Chung, C. H. Liu, and T. S. Chen, "Efficient Hierarchical Key Management 
Scheme for Access Control in the Mobile Agent," Proceedings of the IEEE 22nd 
International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications, 
Gino Wan, Okinawa, Japan, 25-28 March 2008. (EI) 
6. Y. F. Chung, C. H. Liu, F. P. Lai, and T. S. Chen, "Threshold Signature Scheme 
Resistible for Conspiracy Attack," Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on 
Parallel and Distributed Computing, Applications and Technologies, Taipei, Taiwan, 
4-7 Dec. 2006, pp. 479-483. (EI) 
7. Y. F. Chung, Z. Y. Wu, F. P. Lai, and T. S. Chen, "Unconditionally Secure 
Cryptosystem based on Quantum Cryptography," Proceedings of the 9th Joint 
Conference on Information Sciences, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, 8-11 Oct. 2006, pp. 
763-766. (EI) 
1 
出席國際會議報告 
2009 年 08 月 25~27 日 
報告人姓名 陳澤雄 職稱 資管系教授兼系主任 
會議期間 2009.08.25 至 2009.08.27 
會議地點 南韓首爾 
會議名稱 5th International Joint Conference on INC, IMS and IDC (NCM 2009) 
發表論文題目 A Blind Signature Scheme Based on Elliptic Curve Cryptosystem 
與會心得 
5th International Joint Conference on INC, IMS and IDC (NCM 2009)是於2009年8月25日至
8月27日在南韓首爾舉行，與會的學者將近有百人之多，本研討會旨在藉邀請各方資安研究人
員、電腦工作者、系統發展者、及決策者齊聚一堂，以交換心得並共同研習資安相關重大課
題的最新發展。 
本年研討會邀集在資安領域德高望重的專家及學者來討論有關於網路及分散式資訊分享
的環境等重要議題。而我所參與的Workshop為2009 International Workshop on Mobile 
E-commerce, Mobile Payment, Mobile Content Service Systems and Technologies, Security Issues 
and Applications，本Workshop之主要目的在於讓行動商務、行動付款與行動內容服務等相關
之資訊安全與通訊應用等領域的各界先進菁英與會共襄盛舉，介紹最近的研究趨勢與方向，
並互相討論、促進學術與資訊交流。 
議程中安排我發表論文的時段為27日下午1點30分至3點15分，報告是在NCM 2009 main 
conference，場次為Session 47：2009 International Workshop on Mobile E-commerce, Mobile 
Payment, Mobile Content Service Systems and Technologies, Security Issues and Applications，由
Dr. Hsing-Chung Chen擔任主持人，該場次總共安排7篇paper發表，我發表論文順序為第一位，
報告時間約15分鐘，報告內容主要是闡述如何將盲簽章與橢圓曲線密碼系統結合在一起，以
提高盲簽章的安全性，論文發表完畢後，會中主持人及與會學者士提出許多問題討論，會場
之討論氣氛相當的熱烈，大家也彼此交換研究心得，增廣見聞並獲取新知，對所有與會的學
者來說真是受益不少。 
3 
A Blind Signature Scheme Based on Elliptic Curve Cryptosystem 
 
Fuh-Gwo Jeng 
Department of Applied Mathematics 
Chiayi University 
Chiayi, Taiwan 
e-mail: fgjeng@mail.ncyu.edu.tw 
Tzer-Long Chen 
Department of Information 
Management 
Taiwan University 
Taipei, Taiwan 
e-mail: d97725005@ntu.edu.tw 
Tzer-Shyong Chen 
Department of Information 
Management 
Tunghai University 
Taichung, Taiwan 
e-mail: arden@thu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract－Cryptography is increasingly used in E-commerce, 
especially in untraceable payment system and electronic 
voting system. Protocols for these systems require 
anonymous digital signing, and blind signature is the answer 
to it. Chaum stated that every blind signature protocol 
should hold two fundamental properties, blindness and 
intractableness. All blind signature schemes proposed so far 
are based on one of the following: integer factorization 
problem, discrete logarithm problem, and quadratic 
residues. However, Lee et al. declared that none of the 
schemes is able to meet the two fundamental properties 
above. This paper proposes an elliptic curve based blind 
signature scheme that possesses both the above properties. 
Keywords: Elliptic curve cryptosystem; Blind signature; 
Electronic voting system; Cash payment system. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The concept of blind signature was first presented by 
Chaum [1] in 1982. Two problems, secure automated 
payment systems and electronic voting systems, were 
taken into considerations. Chaum pointed out that the 
multiplicity and growth of electronic services may have 
an impact on consumers’ privacy and extent of criminal 
use. Thus, blind signature cryptosystem, a fundamentally 
different kind of cryptography, was proposed. This new 
cryptosystem is designed to protect customer’s privacy 
during the use of secure electronic payment systems by 
upholding the anonymity of participants. 
A blind signature scheme is, basically, a protocol for a 
group of requesters and a signer. Each requester sends the 
signer an encrypted message and obtains a valid signature 
from him. Note that the signer only signs the message and 
does not decrypt it. Later, the signer can verify the 
genuineness of the signature whenever he sees the 
message-signature pair; however, he cannot link the 
message-signature pair to the particular phase of the 
signing protocol that has led to this pair. A special 
characteristic of blind signature is, protecting the 
requester’s identification from disclosure. Therefore, 
Chaum states two properties that a blind signature scheme 
should hold. 
A. Digital signature 
Anyone using the signer’s public key can verify 
whether the signature is genuine or not, and no one else 
can forge a signature as the signer’s to pass the 
verification phase. A short illustration of digital signature 
is described in the following. 
1)  Signing phase: A sender lets his message or data 
as the input of a hashing function so as to produce its 
corresponding message digest. The message digest is 
encrypted by the private key of the sender. Thus, the 
digital signature is done. Then the sender sends his 
message or data as well as its digital signature to a 
receiver. 
2)  Verification phase: When the receiver gets them, 
he inputs the message into the hashing function same as 
the sender’s so as to get the first version of the message 
digest. Then he decrypts the digital signature by the 
sender’s public key to get the second version of the 
message digest. Finally, he verifies both of the message 
digests. If they are the same, the signature is valid; 
otherwise, the signature could be forged. 
B. Blind signature 
The signer signs the requester’s message and knows 
nothing about it; moreover, no one knows about the 
correspondence of the message-signature pair except the 
requester. A short illustration of blind signature is 
described in the following and is shown in Fig.1. 
1)  Blinding phase: A sender firstly chooses a random 
number called a blind factor to mess his message such 
that the signer will be blind to the message. 
2)  Signing phase: When the signer gets the blinded 
message, he directly encrypts the blinded message by his 
private key and then sends the blind signature back to the 
sender. 
3)  Unblinding phase: The sender uses his blind factor 
5 
operation. 
In the finite field Zp, defined modulo a prime p, an 
elliptic curve is represented as Ep(a, b) : y2 = x3 + ax + b 
(mod p), where (a, b) ∈ Zp and 4a3 + 27b2 mod p ≠ 0. The 
condition, 4a3 + 27b2 mod p ≠ 0, is necessary to ensure 
that y2 = x3 + ax + b (mod p) has no repeated factors, 
which means that a finite abelian group can be defined 
based on the set Ep(a, b) [19]. Included in the definition 
of an elliptic curve is a point called the zero point denoted 
as O. The point O at infinity is the third point of 
intersection of any straight line with the curve. Thus there 
are points including (x, y), (x, –y), and O on a straight 
line. 
For points on an elliptic curve, we define a certain 
addition, denoted “+”. The addition rules are given below. 
1)  O + P = P and P + O = P, where O serves as the 
additive identity. 
2)  – O = O. 
3)  P + (– P) = (– P) + P = O, where – P is the 
negative point of P. 
4)  (P + Q) + R = P + (Q + R). 
5)  P + Q = Q + P. 
For any two points P = (xp, yp) and Q = (xq, yq)  over 
Ep(a, b), the elliptic curve addition operation, which is 
denoted as P + Q = R = (xr, yr), satisfies the following 
rules. 
pyxxλypxxλx prprqpr  mod ) - ) - ((  ; mod ) -  - (  2 ==  























=
+
≠
−
−
=
QPp
y
ax
QPp
xx
yy
λ
p
p
pq
pq
 if , mod 
2
3
 if , mod 
 where 2
 
Given an equation of the form denoted as E11(1, 1) : y2 
= x
3
 + x + 6 mod 11, a = 1, b = 1 ∈ Zp, , and 4a3 + 27b2 = 
31 mod 11 ≠ 0, points over the elliptic curve E23(1, 2) 
are shown in Table 1 [20]. 
TABLE I. POINTS OVER THE ELLIPTIC CURVE E11(1, 1) 
(2, 4) (2, 7) (3, 5) (3, 6) (5, 9) (5, 9) 
(7, 2) (7, 9) (8, 3) (8, 8) (10, 2) (10, 9) 
 
III. OUR BLIND SIGNATURE SCHEME 
In our scheme, an elliptic group Ep(a, b) is formed as 
y2 = x3+ax+b (mod p), where 4a3+27b2 ≠ 0 mod p such 
that the elliptic group Ep(a, b) is proper for cryptography. 
And then a base point G = (x, y) on Ep(a, b) is determined 
whose order is a very large value n such that n× G = O. 
Two parties, namely a group of requesters, {Ri | 1≤ i ≤ n, 
n ∈ N}, and a signer, are the participants in our blind 
signature scheme. For requester Ri, he randomly selects a 
secret key ni ∈ Zp, and generates his corresponding public 
key Pi  ≡ ni×G (mod p). Similarly, the signer selects a 
random element ns ∈ Zp as his secret key, while his 
corresponding public key is Ps ≡ ns×G (mod p). 
Suppose message m is to be signed. Requester Ri 
firstly generates a blinding factor (ni × Pi) and sends the 
blinded message α to the signer, where α ≡ m× (ni × Pi) 
(mod p). The factor (ni × Pi) is called a blinding factor 
because the signer knows nothing to message m after the 
computation of m× (ni × Pi). 
For each blinded message α asking for being signed, 
the signer randomly selects an element nv ∈ Zp as a 
second blinding factor and generates a pair of blind 
signatures (r, s) where r ≡ nv × α (mod p) and s ≡ (nv + 
ns)× α (mod p). Note that ns is the secret key of the signer. 
Forward the message-signature pair (α, (r, s)) to requester 
Ri. It is suggested that the signer should keep a record of 
(α, nv) in the signer’s database from collision. Though the 
possibility is little for two identical messages applied by 
the same blinding factor nv, a way to solve the situation is 
to keep a record so as to assign distinct blinding factors 
for the identical messages. 
When requester Ri receives the message-signature pair 
(α, (r, s)), he strips the signature (r, s) by applying his 
own secret key ni, along with the public key Ps of the 
signer to yield a stripped signature s′, where s′≡ s − m× ni 
× Ps (mod p). And then requester Ri computes a 
corresponding number m′ from m such that m′ = ni (ni 
−1)⋅m. 
Finally, requester Ri publishes the triple (m′, s′, r) and 
anyone can use the signer’s public key Ps to verify the 
authentication of the stripped signature by checking 
whether the formula r ≡ s′− m′× Ps (mod p) holds. 
A short illustration of our blind signature protocol is 
described in the following and is shown in Fig.2. 
1)  Requester Ri holds message m, forms α ≡ m× (ni × 
Pi) (mod p), and sends α to the signer. 
2)  Signer signs α by randomly selecting a number nv, 
and checks whether (α, nv) in his database. If yes, 
signer selects a distinct number nv for the 
in-coming identical blinded message. Then he
 
computes r ≡ nv × α (mod p) and s ≡ (nv + ns)× α 
(mod p) and returns the message-signature pair (α, 
(r, s)) to Requester Ri. 
3)  In case, he keeps (α, nv) in his database. 
4)  Requester Ri strips s in (r, s) by applying his own 
secret key ni and the public key Ps of the signer to 
yield s′≡ s − m× ni × Ps (mod p). And then 
requester Ri computes m′ = ni (ni −1)⋅m. 
7 
IV. SECURITY ANALYSIS AND DISCUSSIONS 
In this section, we would like to examine that our 
scheme satisfies the properties that a blind signature 
should hold. 
 
A. Property of digital signature 
1)  The authentication of the stripped signature s′ can 
be verified by anyone using the signer’s public key 
Ps as shown in Theorem 3.1. 
2)  No one else can copy the signed matter (r, s) as the 
signer’s so as to pass the verification phase 
because copying a signed matter is equivalent to 
solve the elliptic curve discrete logarithm problem. 
Vanstone [11] has pointed out,” the elliptic curve 
discrete logarithm problem is believed to be harder 
than both the integer factorization problem and the 
discrete logarithm problem modulo p.” 
B. Property of blind signature 
1)  As the blinding factor r to Chaum’s blind 
signature scheme, so is the elliptic curve point (ni 
× Pi) to our scheme. The blinded message α of our 
scheme is generated as α = m × (ni × Pi) mod p.  
The signer is unable to derive the message m 
without the value ni. By the way, our scheme is 
satisfied the blindness property since the signer 
signs the blinded message and knows nothing 
about the true message. 
2)  The signer in our scheme also has no ideas on the 
correspondence between the signed matter s and 
the stripped signed matter s′ since s and s′ are two 
distinct points on the elliptic group Ep(a, b). The 
signer also can not trace s′ from s since s′ is 
yielded by applying the secret key ni of requester 
Ri. 
3)  According to Camenisch’s definition of the 
blindness for a signature scheme, a unique 
blinding factor is required for a valid 
message-signature pair (m, s(m)). The number nv 
in our scheme serves the job. Note that for each 
blinded message asking for being signed, the 
signer randomly selects nv as the blinding factor 
and for two identical messages, the signer will 
apply two distinct factors to yield totally distinct 
signatures. 
Next we would like to discuss the computational 
complexity of our scheme. The efficiency of ECC totally 
depends on the fast calculation of Q = k × P by giving a 
number k and a point P on the curve. The process of 
adding elliptic curve points requires a few modular 
addition calculations only. Obviously, the kernel 
operation makes our scheme advantageous for the sake of 
ECC giving the benefits of higher speed, lower power 
consumption and code size reduction. 
Finally, we discuss the storage required in our scheme. 
Only two keys namely the secret key and public key have 
to be stored for each participant in our scheme. The signer 
requires more extra storage for recording pairs of (α, nv). 
Fortunately, Stallings [13] estimated that a key length of 
4096 bits for RSA gives the same level of security as 313 
bits in an elliptic curve system. Therefore, our scheme is 
sure to be secure by setting up the size of the prime p in 
Ep(a,b) to be 300 bits. As a result, the storage required in 
the proposed scheme is fixed and small in comparison to 
those schemes mentioned above based upon either integer 
factorization systems or discrete logarithm systems, 
whose prime is required with 100 digits for secure. 
 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
So far, only three classes of public key cryptosystem 
are considered secure and efficient. They are Integer 
Factorization Systems, Discrete Logarithm Systems, and 
Elliptic Curve Cryptosystem. Vanstone pointed out that 
ECC provided the greatest efficiency among the three, 
with order of magnitude roughly 10 times greater than the 
others. 
Our scheme shows efficiency owing to lower storage 
requirements and computational overhead, which is due 
to the use of ECC. Compared to other blind signature 
schemes, which are based on either of the two other 
public-key cryptosystems, our scheme offers equal 
security but much smaller key sizes. Therefore, there are 
less computational overheads in our scheme. Besides, our 
scheme also satisfies the requirements of a blind signature 
scheme. Therefore, our proposed scheme can be 
efficiently applied to electronic cash payment systems or 
anonymous voting systems. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This work was supported partially by National 
Science Council of Republic of China under Grants NSC 
97-2221-E-029-015. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] D. Chaum, “Blind signatures for untraceable payments,” Advances 
in Cryptology, CRYPTO’82, pp. 199-203, 1982. 
[2] D. Chaum, “Blind signatures system,” Advances in Cryptology, 
CRYPTO’83, pp. 153-156, 1983. 
[3] H. Y. Chien, J.K. Jan, and Y.M. Tseng, “RSA-based partially blind 
signature with low computation,” IEEE 8th International 
