中文摘要
本計畫針對線性、連續時與離散時 Takagi-Sugeno 模糊系統模型的穩定性分析提出嶄新的演
算法。吾人將使用切換系統文獻中近年來所得結果為本計畫立論的基礎。對二階、連續時
的 T-S 模型，我們先找出對應模糊法則諸系統間的最糟切換法則；再確認增益是否小於一。
對任意階數，離散時的 T-S 模型，我們使用源自 linear inclusion 文獻之 joint spectral radius
的概念來判斷穩定性。未來，吾人希望透過這個研究，至少對更多以 T-S 模型表達的系統，
能獲致穩定性結論。
關鍵詞：Takagi-Sugeno 模型，切換系統，最糟切換法則、聯合譜半徑
Abstract
In this project report, new algorithms to examine the stability of Takagi-Sugeno fuzzy models are developed.
We adopt an approach based on recent development in switched linear systems literature, instead of the conventional
quadratic Lyapunov function-based one. Both continuous-time and discrete-time models are treated. For
continuous-time T-S models with linear planar systems, the worse-case switching law, which is constructed
according to the polar angular derivative of the normalized state vector magnitude in each vector field, is rigorously
proved and leads to a stability criterion. We also find that such stability criterion no longer holds when considering
the switching among higher order continuous-time linear systems. In discrete-time cases, the joint spectral radius of
the matrices associated with the systems specified in the fuzzy rules determines the stability. We show through
examples that the proposed algorithms effectively reduce the conservatism of the existing methods.
Keywords: T-S fuzzy systems, switched systems, worse-case switching law, joint spectral radius.
type of discrete-time switched systems and the T-S fuzzy models. We will further devise an
algorithm for T-S model stability based on the concept of joint spectral radius in this paper.
Through illustrative examples, we shall show that our algorithms, continuous-time and
discrete-time alike, are all less conservative than the existing ones.
Continuous-Time Cases
We consider continuous-time T-S fuzzy models with linear planar systems as the following:
Rule i: (If z1 is F1i, And,…, And zn is Fni ) Then   ix t A x t , i=1,2,…, l.
Here x = [x1, x2]T is the 2-dimensional state; Ai are Hurwitz 2 2R  system matrices. z(t) = [z1, z2,…,
zp]T is the p-dimensional input to the fuzzy system. When singleton fuzzification is used,
 
1 1 
 
l l
i i i
i i
x t w A x t w
Where 1 ( ( ))
n i
i k k kw F z t is the firing strength of rule i. Let 1/ li i i ih w w  , the equation
above can be expressed as

1
( ) ( )
l
i i
i
x t h z A x t

 (1)
with
1
( ) 1
l
i
i
h z

 , 0 ( ) 1ih z  .
We also need to consider a switched linear system switching among   ix t A x t , i=1,2,…, l.
Here x = [x1, x2]T is the 2-dimensional state, Ai are Hurwitz 2 2R  system matrices. Furthermore,
there is a finite number of switching in a finite time, and the system state x(t) remains continuous
before and after the switching.
As we indicated in the Introduction, the inspiring work by Greco et al. examined the stability of
switched linear planar systems and developed an algorithm of stability check, which also serves
as a sufficient and necessary condition for switched linear planar systems stability. The stability
analysis in their algorithm consists of three phases: 1) finding the existence of a sequence
yielding divergent confined motion in a conic sector, 2) checking if the worst switching sequence
among systems with clockwise rotation has a gain larger than 1 when the state trajectory arrives
at the same polar angle as that of the initial state, 3) repeating 2) for systems with
counterclockwise rotations. In spite of their undoubted originality and contributions, we find the
specifics on why the greatest cosine criterion leads to the worst switching sequences lacking. In
the crucial sentence explaining greatest cosine criterion, which is placed before Definition 5 of
their paper in page 749, the authors simply remarked“it is straightforward to see that the previous
trajectories (with the greatest departure from the origin) are produced by the following switching
Proof:
Because systems considered here have the same rotational direction, for a given conic sector in
the state vector trajectory plane that starts from0 and ends atf,
0
0
cot( )
( )
ln( ),
( )
f
i
f
d
r x
r x


 


where x0 and xf are the starting state and the final state, respectively. If the system with the
greatest cotangent value is always chosen, the greatest ratio of r(xf) to r(x0 )is guaranteed. Thus,
this particular switching law yields the state trajectory that goes the furthest possible from the
origin. □
We now present the algorithm to check the stability of the continuous T-S model. “Stability”
here means the property that the origin is asymptotically stable. This algorithm is basically the
same one presented in (Greco et al., 2006). Brief explanations are presented after each algorithm
step below. Please refer to (Greco et al., 2006) for further details.
Algorithm 1
Step 1: Check the phase portrait rotation directions for systems   ix t A x t ,
i = 1,2,…, l.
At x, according to Figure 1-a and Figure 1-b, Ifi =0, the state is going radially outward
(ro); ifi =, the state is going radially inward (ri). If the vector xpoints to the right
of x, the corresponding phase portrait is rotating clockwise; If the vector xpoints to
the left of x, the corresponding phase portrait is rotating counterclockwise.
Step 2: Check if any divergent confined motion in a conic sector exist. If yes, the system is
unstable; else, go to step 3.
At x, a divergent confined motion exists when Ak and Aj are of different rotation
directions and j k    . Here, of course, , {1,..., }k j l .
Step 3: For each rotational direction, partition the R2 space into conic sectors according the
worse-case switching law using the greatest cosine criterion.
Two worst state partitions Pcw and Pccw are the results of this step. In each conic sector
of Pcw, the system with clockwise rotating state trajectory and the greatest cotangent
value therein will be active. Same reasoning applies to the formation of Pccw.
Step 4: For Pcw and Pccw, check if the worse-case switching law yield gains (of state vector
magnitude) less than 1 in one rotation. If both are affirmative, the system is stable; else,
the system is unstable.
i = 1, 2,…, l.
Step 2: Let the set formed by the Ai with nonzero hi at some x in the first quadrant of R2 be Q1.
Repeat this process and form Q2, Q3 and Q4.
Step 3: Check if any divergent confined motion in a conic sector exists in the first quadrant
considering only systems in Q1. Repeat this process for the other 3 quadrants. If any
divergent confined motion exists, the system is unstable; else, go to step 4.
Step 4: For each rotational direction, partition the first quadrant into conic sectors according the
worse-case switching law using the greatest cotangent criterion with only systems in Q1.
Repeat this process for the other three quadrants using Q2, Q3 and Q4, respectively.
Two worst state partitions cwPand ccwP are the results of this step. In each conic sector
of cwP, the system with clockwise rotating state trajectory and the greatest cosine value
therein will be active. Same reasoning applies to the formation of ccwP .
Step 5: For cwP and ccwP constructed in Step 4, check if the worse-case switching law here
yields gains (of state vector magnitude) less than 1 in one rotation. If both are
affirmative, the system is stable; else, the system is unstable.
Because in step 4, only subsets of { |ix A x i=1, 2,…, l} are considered in forming the
worse-case switching sequence, the gains obtained for cwPand ccwP will be less than or equal to
those for Pcw and Pccw.
Theorem 2 If algorithm 2 reaches a conclusion indicating stability, then the corresponding T-S
model is stable.
Proof: The proof can be easily obtained by following similar reasoning as that indicated in the
proof for Theorem 1. □
We now present two examples to demonstrate that Algorithm 1 and Algorithm 2 are capable
of determining the stability for T-S models for which the conventional approaches are not.
law are shown in Figure 3. The boundaries of conic sectors corresponding to different systems
are drawn with solid lines. The gain for one rotation is 0.596468. The T-S model is stable.
Example 2 Consider the T-S model in example 1 with xi = zi and F1i remain unchanged. Certainly,
conventional stability analysis will still be inconclusive, due to the inexistence of a common
quadratic Lyapunov function. When the state x is in the first or the fourth quadrant, h1(x) = 0;
only A2 and A3 need to be considered in forming the worst switching sequence. Similarly, when x
is in the second or the third quadrant, h3(x) = 0; only A1 and A2 are considered. We form ccwP ,
which is shown in Figure 4, according to algorithm 2. Again, the boundaries of conic sectors
corresponding to different systems are drawn with solid lines. The gain in one single rotation is
0.367758. The T-S model is stable. Given the same system matrices, it is natural to expect a
smaller gain from algorithm 2. This is also consistent with the assertion that making use of the
structural information results in a less conservative algorithm.
One natural question to ask here is that, what are the possible extensions for these two
algorithms to include continuous T-S models with higher order linear systems? Our finding so far
indicates that greatest cotangent criterion no longer holds. Th e following example illustrates this.
Discrete-Time Cases
We consider the discrete-time T-S fuzzy model:
Rule i: If (x1 is F1i AND,…, AND xn is Fni ) Then   1 ix k A x k  , i=1,2,…,l. (2)
Here x = [x1, x2,…, xn]T is the system state; iA are stable system matrices of proper dimension, i.e.,
the spectral radii of iA are all less than 1. Note that we do not set any restriction on n. Also of
our interest is the discrete-time switched linear system described by
  1 ( )x k A k x k  , (3)
where ( ) { | 1, , }iA k A i l   .
Again, “Stability”here refers to the property that the origin is asymptotically stable.
(Thathachar and Viswanath, 1997) showed that for all possible fuzzy sets Fji, (2) is stable if and
only if (3) is stable. In page 94 of (Blondel et al., 2005-2), a brief yet useful collection of classic
results regarding the stability of (3) originated from the discrete linear inclusion literature was
given. The following theorem can be easily deducted from those results.
Theorem 3 If the joint spectral radius of { | 1, , }iA i l  is less than 1, then (3) is stable.
(Blondel et al., 2005-1) proposed a procedure to approximate the joint spectral radius based
on the kronecker products. In the same paper, Blondel remarked that joint spectral radius is
longer leads to the worst-case switching law for higher order systems.
Our algorithm for discrete-time T-S model does not impose any restriction on the system
order, unlike its continuous-time counterparts. If the joint spectral radius of the linear systems
associated with the fuzzy rules is less than one, then the T-S model is stable. The approximation
of joint spectral radius can be extremely challenging. Illustrative examples show that our
algorithms are less conservative than the existing quadratic Lyapunov function-based ones.
References
Blondel, V.D., and Nesterov, Y. (2005), “Computationally efficient approximations of the joint
spectral radius,”SIAM Journal on Matrix Analysis and Applications, 27, 256-272.
Blondel, V.D., Nesterov, Y., and Theys J. (2005), “On the accuracy of the ellipsoid norm
approximation of the joint spectral radius,”Linear Algebra and its Applications, 394, 91-107.
Dayawansa, W.P., and Martin C.F. (1999), “A converse Lyapunov theorem for a class of
dynamical systems which undergo switching,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 44,
751-760.
Greco, L., Tocchini, F., and Innocenti, M. (2006), “A geometry-based algorithm for the stability
of planar switching systems,” International Journal of Systems Science, 37, 747-761.
Johansson, M., Rantzer, A., and Årzén, K.-E. (1999), “Piecewise Quadratic Stability of Fuzzy
Systems,” IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, 7, 713-722.
Kim, E., and Lee, H. (2000), “New approaches to relaxed quadratic stability condition of fuzzy
control systems,”IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, 8, 523-534.
Margaliot, M., and Langholz, G. (2003), “Necessary and suficient conditions for absolute 
stability: The case of second-order systems,” IEEE Transactions on Circuits Systems-I:
Fundamental Theory and Applications, 50, 227-234.
Margaliot, M. and Yfoulis, C. (2006), “Absolute stability of third-order systems - a numerical
algorithm,” Automatica, 42, 1705-1711.
Margaliot, M. (2006), “Stability analysis of switched systems using variational principles: an
introduction,”Automatica, 42, 2059-2077.
Pang, C.-T., and Guu, S.-M. (2003), “Sufficient conditions for the stability of linear
Takagi-Sugeno free fuzzy systems,”IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, 11, 695-700.
Tanaka, K., Ikeda, T., and Wang, H. O. (1996), “Robust stabilization of a class of uncertain 
nonlinear systems via fuzzy control: quadratic stabilizability, H∞ control theory, and linear matrix
