前言、研究目的、文獻探討： 
L10 ordered FePt has been proposed to be a promising candidate as an ultrahigh-density 
perpendicular recording medium due to its high magnetocrystalline anisotropy [1]. Perpendicular 
magnetocrystalline anisotropy of FePt films is strongly associated with the formation of 
(001)-oriented L10 FePt film. The epitaxial FePt films with (001) oriented L10 grains can be 
grown at 300℃ on (200) Ag underlayers, and the strain energy originating from the lattice 
mismatch between films and underlayers accelerated the FePt ordering during depositions. The 
perpendicular coercivity was about 4000 Oe [2]. By using non-epitaxial underlayer of 
(200)-textured CrRu, FePt films with high perpendicular anisotropy (Hc,P ~ 3700 Oe) can be 
grown at 400℃[3]. 
The issue of the low-temperature ordering of the high-anisotropy L10 FePt phase has been 
extensively studied in recent years. Previous studies reported that ordering temperatures of FePt 
can be significantly reduced by addition of the third element, such as Zr [4]. In addition, an Ag 
top layer [5], ion irradiation [6], and forming-gas annealing [7], are effective approaches in 
reducing the ordering temperature of FePt. Stress-induced low-temperature ordering of FePt has 
also been studied.  The adequate in-plane tensile stress induced by the CrRu underlayer was 
proposed to accelerate phase transformation of FePt at a low temperature [3]. Furthermore, the 
dynamic-stress induced by formation of Cu3Si during an annealing process can effectively reduce 
ordering temperatures [8]. Recently, reduction of FePt ordering temperatures by using an AuCu 
underlayer was reported [9]. The ordering of AuCu underlayers at relatively low temperatures 
coherently induced the ordering of FePt. The stress evolution during an annealing process of FePt 
films has also been studied [10]. A stress relaxation accompanying the FePt L10 
phase-transformation was observed. 
In order to get perpendicular FePt recording media, we use CrMoMn as the underlayer. 
CrMo-based films have been used as buffer layers in Co-based longitudinal recording media [11].  
Since a highly (200) preferred orientation of the CrMoMn layer can be obtained on glass or SiO2 
substrates [11], the CrMoMn layer may be used for growing (001)-textured FePt films. We have 
successfully demonstrated that L10 ordered FePt films with high perpendicular coercivity (8400 
Oe) can be obtained by using Cr65Mo15Mn20 underlayer and forming-gas annealing [12]. In order 
to get higher coercivity at low temperature, we use PtMn underlayer. 
The ordered phase of antiferromagnetic PtMn is also L10 phase. A typical annealing 
temperature to achieve the ordered phase of PtMn (250℃) [13] is much lower than an ordering 
temperature of FePt (500℃) [14], and the c/a ratio of PtMn is 0.92 which is lower than the ratio 
of FePt (0.96) [15]. The a-axis lattice constants of the ordered PtMn and FePt are 0.40nm and 
0.387nm, respectively. The larger lattice constants and lattice deformation during phase 
transformation of PtMn may promote ordering of FePt at reduced temperatures. Moreover, 
because of a lower L10 ordering temperature of PtMn, PtMn is expected to be an ideal underlayer 
to induce ordering of a L10 FePt phase at a low temperature, as reported in the AuCu/FePt case 
[9]. In addition, the exchange coupling between antiferromagnetic (AFM) PtMn and 
ferromagnetic (FM) FePt may introduce extra anisotropy, and thus may further enhance 
coercivity of FePt. Last but not the least, since PtMn have the same crystal structure as FePt, the 
PtMn can easily grow on the CrMoMn based on the pervious study. Thus, by using these two 
single layer FePt, there is no major change before and after annealing, indicating a low degree of 
ordering. On the contrary, for FePt films grown on PtMn underlayers, both of (111) peaks of FePt 
and PtMn shift to higher angles after annealing, indicating that phase transformations of FePt and 
PtMn occur during annealing. This result suggests that ordering of PtMn at a low temperature 
accelerates ordering of FePt. When annealing temperature reaches the ordering temperature of 
PtMn, the a-axis of PtMn is expanded and the c-axis is compressed. These lattice changes of 
PtMn layers may induce the corresponding changes of disordered FePt lattices, which may 
promote ordering of FePt at reduced temperatures. 
 
 
FIG 2. XRD results of the as-deposited and annealed FePt (50 nm) films with or without PtMn 
underlayers. Samples are annealed at 300℃ for 2 hrs. The lines were used to show the peak shift. 
 
A PtMn underlayer increases coercivity of FePt in two ways. The ordering of PtMn 
enhances the ordering of FePt; therefore, the coercivity is increased due to a higher degree of 
ordering, suggested by the peak shift in Fig. 2. Another origin of enhanced coercivity arise from 
exchange coupling between PtMn and FePt. This exchange coupling increases the effective 
anisotropy of FePt. To investigate the effects of the exchange coupling, the samples with the 
structure Si//SiO2/Fe 1/Pt 9/PtMn 50/FePt 10-50 (nm) were annealed with or without an in-plane 
field at 325℃ for two hours. Samples annealed in a field show significantly enhanced coercivity 
at FePt thickness of 10 and 15 nm, shown in Fig. 3. Exchange fields of 554 and 415 Oe were 
obtained for 10 and 15 nm FePt, respectively. The differences in coercivity become insignificant 
for 35 and 50 nm FePt films annealed with or without a field. Low exchange fields (<100 Oe) 
were observed in both samples. Notice that a huge coercivity of 10500 Oe can be obtained for 35 
nm FePt grown on PtMn after 325℃ annealing. The ordering factor S, estimated from the 
integrated peak-intensity ratio of superlattice (001) peak to fundamental (200) peak of 
grazing-incidence XRD scans, is 0.79. The grain size of FePt in this sample, calculated from 
plane-view TEM images, is around 27 nm. Since the exchange bias between FM and AFM is an 
interfacial coupling, an exchange field is reduced with increasing thickness of FePt. At low FePt 
thickness, the magnetization of field-annealed FePt films was partially aligned and pinned by the 
interfacial spins of PtMn. Consequently, the field-annealed samples exhibited much enhanced 
coercivity. On the other hand, it has been reported that the coercivity of FePt increases with 
increasing thickness after the same annealing procedure [7,9]; therefore, the magneto-crystalline 
might alter coercivity of FePt. Recent studies showed that adding more than 1% Mn into FePt 
films may reduce the coercivity of FePt [16.17]. However, the Mn doping in FePt nanoparticles 
resulted in an enhanced coercivity of FePt [18]. Composition depth-profiles were taken by using 
SIMS of the sample Si//SiO2/Fe 1/Pt 9/PtMn 50/FePt 50 (unit: nm) annealed at 300℃ for two 
hours. The result, shown in Fig. 5, indicates that Mn diffusion occurs only at the interface. Mn 
diffusion at interface might behave as pinning sites but its effects need to be further investigated.  
However, Fig. 3 shows that the field-annealed and zero-field-annealed samples indeed exhibit 
different coercivity at thin FePt thickness. This result implies that Mn diffusion may not be a key 
factor to determine coercity because both samples have the same degree of Mn diffusion. 
 
 
FIG 5. SIMS results of the structure Si//SiO2/Fe 1/Pt 9/PtMn 50/ FePt 50 (nm). Samples were 
annealed at 300℃ for 2hrs. 
 
結論： 
Although this research shows enhancement of in-plane FePt coercivity, the same concept 
can be applied to increase perpendicular coercivity at low annealing temperatures if a proper 
underlayer, such as Cr-based alloy or MgO, was deposited prior to deposition of PtMn to develop 
a (002) texture of FePt. 
In summary, low-temperature ordering of FePt can be achieved by using PtMn underlayers.  
Since PtMn is ordered at a lower temperature than FePt, lattice changes of PtMn during annealing 
induce ordering of FePt at low temperatures.  Furthermore, PtMn may provide extra anisotropy 
energy due to exchange-bias coupling.  This enhancement is quite significant at FePt thicknesses 
less than 15 nm. 
 
