2 
 
 
geometric flow for different image regions, and perform Warp Transform based on the geometric flow 
to simplify the analysis domain and make the wavelet coefficients centralized and disperse. The 
bandelet processing is also applied to noise reduction and image retrieving. Since the bandelet 
transform can effectively describe the direction of the high-frequency texture of an image, we apply 
the superiority of bandelet transform to image inpainting. Here, we propose a novel bandelet-based 
image inpainting algorithm (BII) by using the geometric flows of images to transform different regions 
into a simple analysis domain, and the decomposition of texture and outline is performed based on the 
bandelet concept. Finally, the affine searching method is utilized to repair the damaged regions and 
restore the image. Section 2 introduces the geometric flow, bandelet transform, and affine searching 
method. The proposed new inpainting algorithm is introduced in section 3. The experiment is 
implemented in section 4. The results are discussed in Section 5 with some possible directions for 
future research. 
 
2. PREVIEWS 
The merit of inpainting algorithm can not be easily detected when the repaired district is very 
small. For larger damaged district inpainting algorithm will determine the quality of repaired result in 
image contour from the viewpoint of human visual system (HVS) [10][11]. Thus, in order to improve 
the defects, many researchers have proposed different progressive image repairing rules. In general, 
the rough contours of image are repaired first and then process the local fine texture regions. They take 
the neighboring blocks of damaged data as effective reference data. When pixel loss increase, a large 
amount of both global and local reference data will be also lost, then it may lead to bad repairing 
results. Therefore, this study proposes a novel method to prevent such incorrect inpainting by 
considering three steps: One is estimating geometric flow to indicate the image contour or the rough 
flow of texture. The other is using bandelet transform as analysis method to reduce the complexity of 
neighboring blocks of damaged data and to improve the quality of repairing results. Finally, the pixels 
are refilled considers the affine matching method to searching similar texture as repairing references. 
2.1 Geometric flow 
Traditional image inpainting methods used highly reliable neighboring image data as the basis to 
repair image. If these reliable information are insufficient then the repairing results will produce wrong 
inpainting, as shown in Fig.1. The problem with incorrect repairing method is particularly obvious 
when the image is complex. In order to solve this problem, many researchers proposed multiple-scale 
analysis algorithm which can decompose complex images into hierarchies with different compositions. 
Thus, in each hierarchy the local (high-frequency data) and global (low-frequency data) reference data 
of images can be simultaneously considered and also maintain the correlation of each hierarchy. Such 
as wavelet pyramid [12] and Laplacian Pyramid [13], and Gaussian Pyramid [14], features are 
analyzed to avoid the repaired error to be detected from global geometry viewpoint to local geometry. 
Hence, better repairing result can be achieved in HVS. Errors that are resulted from neglecting the 
global image geometry (low-frequency composition) are the main factor of affecting the inpainting 
result of large damaged regions, as shown in Fig.2. In order to obtain the correct prediction for the 
inpainting in the rough contour of an image, establishing the geometric flow as the repairing reference 
is an important technique. 
 
 
4 
 
 
The band height 2a  and 2b  are chosen so that a neighborhood of C is included in B. 
 
 
Fig. 3 The image is divided into three categories: non-geometric flow, single geometric flow, and 
multiple geometric flows 
 
Geometric flow is a kind of geometric shape by describing an image with geometric vector lines. 
The vector lines define the local direction with regular changes in images. The decomposition of the 
analyzed image will obtain the parallel geometrical flow in each sub-block. In each block, the 
geometric flows are represented by vector field of measured direction. In the same direction of any 
block the geometric flow should have regular changes. If the block has no specific geometric flow, the 
binary system decomposition will be performed to the block. The decomposed block can be classified 
into three categories, which are non-geometric flow, single geometric flow, and multiple geometric 
flows, as shown in Fig. 3. 
 
2.2 Bandelet transform 
Wavelet-based image decomposition has been extensively studied in recent years, giving rise 
among other applications to some of the most advanced image processing techniques available today. 
Let Ω  is the image region decomposed in the separable wavelet basis of )(L2 Ω  in 
Ω∈
⎪⎭
⎪⎬
⎫
⎪⎩
⎪⎨
⎧
Immjmjmj
mjmj
mjmj
xx
xx
xx
),,(2,1,
2,1,
2,1,
2121
21
21
)()(
)()(
)()(
ψψ
φψ
ψφ
                                  (3) 
Where j ,m1 and m2 are the coefficients of wavelet transform. The coefficient j is the scale level, m1 is 
the translation in horizontal direction and m2 is the translation in vertical direction. ΩI is an index set 
that depends upon the geometry of the boundary of Ω , and ( 21 x,x ) are the pixel 
coordinates, )x(ψ)x(φ 2m,j1m,j 21 , )x(φ)x(ψ 2m,j1m,j 21 , and )x(ψ)x(ψ 2m,j1m,j 21  are horizontal, vertical and 
diagonal direction of the high-frequency sub-band signals separately. Among )x(φ  is scaling function 
and )x(ψ  is wavelet function. However, one of the known limitations of the wavelet transform when 
applied in signals with dimensions higher than one, is their inability to deal with higher order 
singularities, as is the case of contours in images. In order to resolve this problem, Peyre and Mallat 
proposed the bandelet transform [8] for image to improve the condition. The bandelet transform can be 
viewed as an adaptive wavelet basis transform [7]-[9], which is warped according to flow vector. Fig.4 
shows the result that texture is transformed to vertical level direction after warping. The bandelet basis 
is derived from the warped wavelet basis which can be written 
 
6 
 
 
If the boundary of image f is a αC curve then one would like to find a geometric approximation Mf  
from M elements such that  
 
EDR= α2M CMff −≤−                                           (6) 
 
Where EDR is error decay rate, Mf  is the M-term separable wavelet approximation, C is a constant 
and α  is a priori unknown and specifies geometric image regularity [8].  
Fig.6 shows different texture in the same geometric flow to bandeletization process. According to 
the texture characteristic in each band, we reconstruct the repaired regions correctly. The main concept 
of bandelet is to define the geometric features of an image to be the vector field, instead of being 
regarded as an ordinary edge set. Vector fields represent the local regular direction of gray scale 
variations in image space. Therefore, these coefficients after bandelet transform are centralized along 
the geometric flow. This property is benefit for image inpainting. The details of bandelet transform 
refer to reference [8]. 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Aiming the different characteristics of image information to bandeletization. 
 
2.3 Affine Matching 
In order to reconstruct the damaged pixel value, this section goes on to look at how to repair 
missing patches in images containing geometrical graphics. The image pixel restoration algorithm 
looks at how to use the effective data in the surrounding area and the inpainting decisions to 
reconstruct the fringe values. A review of the early research papers showed that commonly used 
inpainting methods included extrapolation, double curve and projection. For small areas of damage and 
non-geometric graphics these all provided effective reconstruction pixel value estimations and good 
inpainting results. When these methods are applied to images containing geometric shapes, the 
reconstruction of missing pixels usually result in obvious repair errors because geometric shapes have 
a set of patterns and the human eye picks up the slightest deformations in the reconstructed image. To 
achieve reconstructions of geometric images that satisfy the exacting standards of human perception, 
this study proposed a novel repairing algorithm for lost pixels. This method uses the self-similarity of 
fractal geometry to strengthen the image inpainting results for geometric shapes [16]-[18]. 
In image compression and comparison applications, the fractal image processing is one of the 
more effective methods. This method carries out image compression using similar blocks in the image 
and substitutes the comparison value for the original image pixel value. This reduces the amount of 
8 
 
 
In fact, not every region can be decomposed into a single geometric flow through binary 
decomposition, i.e. binary decomposition cannot unlimitedly be performed. Here, the minimum range 
of the final region is set to be 4X4. After completing the binary decomposition process, these 
decomposed image regions become the basis for inpainting. These regions are classified into three 
parts, which are non-geometric flow (smoothing regions without edge or texture), single geometric 
flow (definite edge or texture regions), and multiple geometric flows (complex edge or crossed texture 
regions), as shown in Fig. 3. These three regions have their corresponding features analysis and 
repairing way. 
First, the non-geometric flow regions does not represent contour or texture component, and they 
are the smoothing areas. They can be easily repaired by using the traditional image inpainting method. 
In this paper, we use gradient method which was simplified from the PDE method [1] to repair the 
damaged image by estimating the gradient variation of gray scale values around the damaged region. 
That is 
 ( )),(),(),( lkflkfjif ∇⋅=  rd BlkBji ∈∀∈∀ ),(,),(         (9) 
 
where )j,i( and (k,l) are the pixel coordinates, dB  is the the damaged image, rB  is the confident 
reference area around the boundary of dB  and ( ))l,k(f∇  is the gradient variation of )l,k(f of the 
reference block.  
 
 
 
Fig. 7 Flowchart of the proposed inpainting method 
 
10 
 
 
geometric flow in different bandelets domains. Furthermore, according to the defined main contour 
line the superior similar pixel is found to complete the image inpainting, as shown in Fig.9. 
 
 
(a)                          (b)                        (c)                       (d)                       (e) 
 
Fig. 9  The result of image inpainting . (a)Damaged image. (b)Zoom-in the damaged block. 
(c)Warping damaged block. (d)The repaired  result using proposed method. (e)The repaired 
result re-rotation with the geometric flow. 
 
4. Performance Evaluation 
To test the efficiency of the proposed image inpainting method, the advantages of the method are 
analyzed first. Considering the geometric flow of the test image contour, two methods are compared. 
One directly extends the high frequency texture of the neighboring damaged regions to repair the 
damaged test image. The other BII method processes the composition along the horizontal or vertical 
directions after performing the bandelet transform based on the geometric flow. The result is shown in 
Fig.9. The experimental results showed that the proposed method could repair detailed texture, as 
compared to the direct inpainting method, and the proposed method is superior to the direct inpainting 
method. 
To compare with the existing inpainting method, we try to repair the geometric-type and periodic-
type test images. The geometric-type test image with the pure geometric contour is used. If a test 
image is used with multiple complex textures, which includes both complex outline and texture in a 
single region, it is difficult for observers to identify the correct change of the repaired image or texture. 
In addition, repairing errors could not be easily estimated. Therefore, geometric images with definite 
contour change were used for testing. Comparing the square shape with variations of simple straight 
lines and the circular shape with unchanged flow, first we select the ellipse with variations of multiple 
geometric flows as test image, and the repaired results are shown in Fig.10. Different damaged 
positions are designed for testing the damage ranges and geometric flow with different variation 
degrees. For the damage range testing, the damaged range is enlarged. The results suggest that the 
repair result is acceptable when the referable data is sufficient from the damaged to the neighboring 
regions. However, when the neighboring data is completely lost, the repaired result obviously leads to 
error. 
 
 
12 
 
 
Comparing the inpainting results of these two images above, we find that the global and local 
texture variations are considered simultaneously in the proposed method. We avoid the problem of 
only considering the global variation and ignoring the local variation, and it will cause the correct 
direction of main trend and achieve wrong details, and vice versa. 
Finally, we use the common image “Barbara” as the test image for inpainting. This test mainly 
focuses on the texture part of image, because this type of damaged regions cannot be repaired well 
using the current image inpainting methods. In Fig.12 (b), we can easily find the errors of the repairing 
result using the PDE method. However, based on Fig.12(c) and (d), which are implemented by PII [6] 
method and BII method, respectively, it’s hard to tell the difference in visual. We use the zoom-in 
images to compare these two repairing results, which are shown in Fig.13(b) and (c). We can clearly 
find that the repairing result of BII method is more precise than that of BII method in texture variation. 
As far as the BII method is concerned, although the characteristic of the multi-resolution of wavelet 
transform can simplify the complexity of each frequency components of the image, it’s not suitable for 
large variation of the texture image without the aid of the direction of geometric flow. We compare the 
inpainting results of Fig.12 as Table 1. It shows that the proposed method is better than others. 
 
       
(a)                                                             (b) 
       
(c)                                                            (d) 
Fig. 12 Experimental results from utilizing different methods: (a)The damaged image (b) The PDE 
method (c) The PII method (d) The BII method. 
 
14 
 
 
[8] E. Le Pennec and S. Mallat, “Sparse geometrical image representation with bandelets,” IEEETrans. 
Image Process., 14 (2005), pp. 423–438.  
[9] E. Le Pennec and S. Mallat “Bandelet image approximation and compression,”SIAM J. 
Multiscale Simul., vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 992–1039, 2005.  
[10] P. Grattoni, E. Pollastri, A.Premoli, “A Contour Detection Algorithm Based on the Minimum 
Radial Inertia (MRI) Criterion,” CVGIP(43), No. 1, July 1988, pp. 22-36. 
[11] R. Eslami and H. Radha, “Wavelet-based contourlet transform and its application to image 
coding”, IEEE intl. Conf. on Image Processing, 2004, pp. 3189-3192. 
[12] B.A. Olshausen, P. Sallee, and M.S. Lewicki, "Learning sparse image codes using a wavelet 
pyramid architecture," in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 13, MIT Press: 
Cambridge, MA, 2000, pp. 887-893.  
[13] P. J. Burt and E. H. Adelson, “The Laplacian pyramid as a compact image code,” IEEE Trans. 
Commun., vol. 31, no. 4, pp. 532~540, April 1983. 
[14] E.H. Adelson, C.H. Anderson, J.R. Bergen, P.J. Burt, J.M. Ogden, "Pyramid methods in image 
processing," RCA Engineer, vol.29, no.6, pp.33- 41, 1984. 
[15] D. Donoho, “Wedgelets: Nearly-minimax estimation of edges,” Ann. Statist., 27 (1999), pp. 353–
382. 
[16] K. Belloulate and J. Konard, “Fractal Image Compression with Region-Based Functionality,” 
IEEE Trans on Image Proc., Vol. II, No.4, 2002, pp. 345-350. 
[17] Y. Fisher, “Fractal image compression, “ Springer-Verlag, New York, 1995. 
[18] I. A. El Rube , M. Ahmed , M. Kamel, “Coarse-to-Fine Multiscale Affine Invariant Shape 
Matching and Classification,” Proceedings of the Pattern Recognition, 17th International 
Conference on (ICPR'04) Volume 2, p.163-166, August 23-26, 2004.  
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
