results. Since the detector response functions are 
also included into image reconstruction, it is 
anticipated that the proposed PET system will have 
uniform spatial resolution isotropically across the 
entire field-of-view 1 mm^3. We also propose fast and 
stable iterative algorithms for efficient image 
reconstructions for the animal system. With 
appropriate image reconstruction capability, the new 
and versatile dual-panel animal PET system will 
become a more cost-effective alternative to the 
dedicated PET scanners. 
英文關鍵詞： Dual-Penal Animal PET, Statistical Image 
Reconstruction, Fourier Rebinning, Detector Response 
Modeling. 
 
 
Key Words: Dual-Penal Animal PET, Statistical Image Reconstruction, Fourier Rebinning, Detector 
Response Modeling. 
 
 
1. Introduction（前言） 
There have been substantial advances in imaging technology especially for small-animal imaging in recent 
years. These advances have been an important driving force in establishing the field of molecular and 
genomic imaging. Traditional radiological imaging modalities such as PET, SPECT, CT, and MRI have been 
redesigned as tools for the modern scientist to track laboratory animal models of disease in a non-invasive 
manner. A large number of improvements such as resolution, sensitivity and quantitative accuracy for 
small-animal imaging have been observed during last decade [1--8]. The importance of these instruments will 
greatly increase even for the future nano-technology in medical imaging [9]. As there have been considerable 
developments in human and small animal PET systems, the majority of PET systems is designed to meet with 
certain general clinical goals (like resolution and sensitivity). However, a design of PET system which can 
achieve certain level of flexibility (like accommodation of objects with different sizes) while maintaining 
adequate spatial resolution and reasonable cost remains unaddressed. 
 
For commercial PET scanners available for routine molecular/functional imaging for small animal, these 
scanners usually have been optimized to the best spatial resolution and system sensitivity based on their own 
individual hardware designs [2, 3, 5]. However, these scanners usually are dedicated machines which have 
fixed and limited field-of-view (FOV) based on their designs. That is, there exists a fundamental limitation 
on the animal size. For larger animals (like primate, rabbits), one can either use these dedicated scanners to 
image a portion of the animal, or use human scanners which usually are too large and have lower spatial 
resolution and sensitivity. 
 
In addition to the demand for more flexible imaging settings, the cost-effectiveness is also another motivation 
for the development of dual-penal animal PET. The system uses two large FOV detector heads which can 
image multiple small animals at one single scan, unlike the dedicated ones can only scan one animal at a time. 
It is possible to improve the throughput of the animal scans which is another attractive feature for drug 
screening studies. Since these detector heads can be mass-manufactured for both clinical and animal scanners, 
the cost for such a dual-penal system can be more economic than those dedicated ones. 
 
 
2. Research Goals（研究目的） 
To obtain a higher sensitivity small-animal PET system, two main improvements shall be considered: the 
geometric efficiency and intrinsic detector efficiency. Higher geometric efficiency permits more γ-photons to 
be intercepted, and higher intrinsic detector efficiency permits more intercepted photons be registered by the 
PET system. Thus these two efficiencies are the primary factors to instrument a prototype system to yield a 
high-sensitivity performance. 
 
Increase Geometric Efficiency. It is favored by a design of a small animal PET to exploit small separation 
between detector pairs to improve the geometric efficiency; and small separation also reduces the 
Accurate System Model for Iterative Reconstructions. The DHAPET image reconstruction seeks to 
reduce the resolution degradations due to the parallax error in the data generated, and to achieve an image 
resolution that is necessary for the small-animal imaging. We will use an iterative PET image reconstruction 
approach with using accurate system response matrix of DHAPET. 
 
The system matrix was derived from a Monte-Carlo (MC) simulation which simulates the DHAPET scanner. 
To compute system response matrix by using MC simulation is a great challenge due to the extreme high 
demands in computation and storage. The crystal size of the prototype is 2.4mm, which suggests an intrinsic 
spatial resolution of ~1mm FWHM. As a rule-of-thumb, the voxel size is applied so as to the FWHMis 2-3 
times of voxel size. If the voxel is 0.6×0.6×0.5mm3 (approximately one quarter of crystal size), and if 
field-of-view (FOV) is the entire volume between the two HRRT heads, the image size is about 
300×400×120. The DHAPET system has 4 × (104× 72)× (104 × 72) LORs. The system response matrix H, 
therefore, can be as large as (2.2 × 108) × (1.2 × 107). 
 
The storage of the matrix is also a tremendous problem. If the matrix elements are four-byte floating value, 
the total matrix size will be ~2500TByte (1 TByte = 240 Byte). We have to identify the symmetry properties 
of DHAPET which can be utilized to effectively address the above tremendous matrix in computation and 
storage. The symmetry properties of the DHAPET include shift invariance, axis interchangeability, and 
axis-reflection invariance. When using appropriately sized and positioned image voxels, we also consider the 
symmetry properties equivalent to the above symmetry for image volume. 
 
 
4. Experiments Results and Discussion（結果與討論） 
To observe the distortion correction along the y direction, Fig.1 showed a digital cylinder phantom in the 
image domain 60 x 40 x 30 with diameter of 2.0 cm background volume and with a hot insert of diameter 1.0 
cm. The intensity ratio of hot to background is 5:1. The distance between the pair of detector planes was 
3.0cm. Poisson noise model and attenuation model were considered to observe the stability of different 
weighted methods. To compare the recovery rate of hot area and background, the average intensities were 
calculated in VOIs with 0.2cm x 0.2cm x12.0cm for both the central hot and background areas respectively. 
The recovery rate was computed by dividing the reconstructed value to the true value. 
 
 
Fig. 1. (a) A simulated dual-head planar PET system with a cylinder phantom with 
hot-cylinder insert along the x-direction. (b) Rectangular ROI of hot (solid red circle) 
and background (dash blue circle) along whole x axis. 
 
 
Fig 3. The 5×7 DRFs: 2D slices at the x = 0 p-plane (a)-(b); contour images (c)-(d); profiles (e)-(f). The 
sub-figure (a), (c) and (e) are for MC; others are for raytracing. The profiles are plotted along the bottom 
row (at z ≈ 1.2 mm). 
 
We have demonstrated a system design strategy to develop a high-sensitivity small-animal PET. The holistic 
system design strategy integrates two parts, costeffective hardware instrumentation to yield high sensitivity 
and the advanced reconstruction approach to correct the image resolution degradation by the pronounced 
Thus, for the resolution phantom, the prototype with the ability to reduce the parallax error is characterized 
with better image resolution than a system without this ability. Moreover, this ability to correct the parallax 
error is much more important for the image resolution along the x direction than on the p-plane. 
 
 
Fig. 5 The reconstruction results of numerical micro-Derenzo phantom by the MC and RAY reconstruction 
methods. All (a)-(d) displaying scales are [0, 1500]. The rods are in x direction of DHAPET, and 5-minute 
scan is applied. 
 
A 5-minute scan was applied for the numerical micro-Derenzo phantom by using numerical DHAPET. When 
the rods along the x direction, a total of 1.8×106 true events was acquired from the front-front layers; when 
the rods along the y direction, the total number of true events is 1.7 × 106. During five minutes, 1.462 × 5 × 
60 = 438.6 annihilation photons in each voxel were contributed to the acquired data. The Poisson noise of 
each voxel is estimated to be 4.7%. 
 
Fig. 5 shows the resulting images with the rods in the x direction. All resulting images were obtained by 
using 72 subsets and 10 iterations. Fig. 5 (a) and (b) show the p-plane slices at x=0 of resulting image yielded 
by the MC and RAY methods, respectively; and Fig. 5 (c) and (d) show the p-plane slices at x=2.5mm of 
resulting image yielded by the MC and RAY methods, respectively. Six segments from 2.4mm rods to 
0.75mm rods in each sub-figure are arranged in the anticlockwise order respectively. 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                                100年 11月 14 日 
報告人姓名  
黃柏嘉 
 
就讀校院 
（科系所） 
                     ■博士班研究生 
國立清華大學生醫工程與環境科學系 
                     □碩士班研究生 
     時間 
 
會議地點 
10/22~10/29 
 
西班牙瓦倫西亞 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 電機電子工程師學會醫學影像年會 
 (英文) IEEE MIC 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 
 (英文) An Efficient Voxel-Driven System Model for Helical Pinhole SPECT 
一、參加會議經過 
電機電子工程師學會醫學影像年會於 10月 21日到 29日在西班牙瓦倫西亞舉行，主要是針
對醫學影像相關的議題進行討論。此次會議的主要會議重點包含： 
(一) 多重成像系統建構 (Multi-modality system) 
(二) 醫學影像於重粒子治療之應用 (Hadron therapy and imaging in radiotherapy) 
(三) 高解析度影像與近臨床成像系統 (High resolution and pre-clinical imaging system) 
(四) 模擬、模型與偵檢器設計 (Simulation, modeling and detector design) 
(五) 正子發射斷層掃描影像 (Positron emission tomography) 
(六) 正子發射斷層掃描資料校正 (Data correction of Positron emission tomography) 
(七) 單光子發射電腦斷層掃描影像 (Single photon emission computed tomography) 
(八) 單光子發射電腦斷層掃描資料校正(Data correction of single phantom emission 
computed tomography) 
(九) 影像重建 (Image reconstruction) 
(十) 其他影像技術 (Other imaging technologies) 
分為 23個區段進行討論。 
 
 
An Efficient Voxel-Driven System Model for
Helical Pinhole SPECT
Po-Chia Huang, Ching-Han Hsu, Member, IEEE Ing-Tsung Hsiao, Member, IEEE, , and Kurt M. Lin
Abstract—Conventionally, a pinhole SPECT acquires data by
rotating the Gamma-camera in a circular orbit. However, such
a acquisition method could merely scan a very limited field-
of-view (FOV). For a longer object, it requires several circular
acquisitions over various bed positions to cover the entire object.
Multiple-bed acquisition also requires a high accurate movement
control to avoid the overlapping or gap between any adjacent
bed positions. In this work, we propose a voxel-driven (VD)
system model (projection matrix) for iterative helical pinhole
SPECT image reconstruction. The photon detection along helical
trajectory can reduce acquisition time without multiple-bed over-
lapping and gap problems. However, the most challenging part
for helical pinhole SPECT is the increase in image volume. For
efficient computation and matrix storage reduction, the geometric
symmetries derived from helical trajectory shall be fully utilized.
By using a 16-fold symmetry derived from helical trajectory,
the system matrix requires only 90 degrees information of
projection geometry. A multi-threaded code can be implemented
to accelerate the projection computation. The result for a two
line sources phantom study shows that the VD model is efficient
and suitable for iterative helical pinhole SPECT. The VD matrix
could model the helical trajectory pinhole SPECT efficiently and
handle a longer object without increasing any storage space of
system matrix. The proposed model is also ready to be extended
multiple-pinhole system for to better sensitivity as well as other
fast reconstruction algorithms.
Index Terms—Pinhole SPECT, Voxel-Driven Model, Helical
Pinhole SPECT, Iterative Image Reconstruction.
I. INTRODUCTION
DUE to the magnification property of pinhole, singlephoton emission computed tomography (SPECT) using
pinhole collimator has been widely used as a high-resolution
molecular imaging tool for small lab animals [1, 2]. Although
a pinhole SPECT can greatly improve the spatial resolution, it
also suffers from the limited field-of-view (FOV). Convention-
ally, the pinhole SPECT acquires data by rotating its gamma
camera in a circular orbit. For a longer object, the system
has to acquire data for a complete circle at one bed position,
and then move the camera to the next bed position to acquire
another data. It usually requires several bed positions so that
the accumulated FOV can cover the entire object. Such a
data acquisition requires additional movement control to avoid
overlapping and gap between two adjacent bed positions. The
P.-C. Huang and C.-H. Hsu are with the Department of Biomedi-
cal Engineering and Environmental Sciences, National Tsing Hua Uni-
versity, 101, Section 2, Kuang-Fu Road, Hsinchu, Taiwan 30013. e-mail:
(cghsu@mx.nthu.edu.tw).
I.-T. Hsiao is with the Department of Medical Imaging and Radiological
Sciences, Chang Gung University, Taiwan.
Kurt M. Lin is with the Division of Medical Engineering Research National
Health Research Institutes Zhunan Town, Miaoli County, Taiwan
Manuscript received November 15,2011.
overlapping lowers detection efficiency, while the gap leads to
image truncation (similar to Kirillov-Tuy conditions in cone
beam CT) [3, 4], as show in Fig. 1. However, if the SPECT
system could rotate along a helical trajectory, it can more
effectively acquire data for long-axial objects. In this work, we
propose a voxel-driven (VD) system model (projection matrix)
for iterative helical pinhole SPECT image reconstruction.
(a)
(b)
Fig. 1: A schematic scan diagram of multiple bed positions
using a pinhole SPECT. Movement between adjacent beds
requires additional care. (a) If the movement is too short,
this will cause the overlapping and decrease the efficiency of
detector usage. (b) If the movement is too far, it could lead to
data truncation.
II. METHOD
A. The Voxel-Driven (VD)Model
The VD model is derived using the geometric configuration
of a pinhole SPECT system [5, 6]. Each image voxel is
considered as a point source and use the cone section to
estimate the detection probability. There are three types of
cone section in a pinhole SPECT system. If the plane which
Fig. 5: The movement symmetry, after each 360 degree
rotating. The relative position of pinhole and object is just
a shift
C. Experimental Design
We consider the following helical pinhole SPECT. The
radius of rotation is 45.0 mm and the distance between the
pinhole plane to detection plane is 126.5 mm. The size of
detector is 256 × 256 with element width 1.0 mm. We only
consider a single pinhole in this feasibility study. The pinhole
diameter is 1.5 mm and the number of projections is 160
for 1440 degrees. We construct a phantom with two line
sources. Its helical projection data are shown in Fig. 6. One
line source is located close to the rotation axis and the other
is off-centered. The off-centered line source is still parallel to
the rotation axis with distance 7.5 mm. The image volume
is reconstructed by using maximum likelihood expectation
and maximization (MLEM) with 40 iterations. The size of
reconstructed image is 128× 128× 320 with voxel width 0.4
mm.
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
The reconstructed images are shown in Fig. 7. The direct
storage of the original system matrix requires storage space
up to 200 TB. Due to the sparseness of the system matrix is
sparse, only those non-zero elements are recorded. Then the
storage size will reduce down to 30 GB. These two storage
sizes are totally impossible for image reconstruction. With
16 folds symmetry, the storage size can be reduced to 1.89
GB. This becomes an acceptable storage size and can be
used for reconstruction. The system matrix only record the
projection angle starting from 360 degrees to 450 degrees. The
other projection angles can be directed calculated by changing
indices based geometric symmetries easily. This model can
be also extended to multi-pinhole SPECT system to further
improve detection sensitivity with the increase of the storage
size proportional to the number of pinholes.
Furthermore, for a longer object, the size of the original
system matrix will increase by several order. By the use of
the rotational and translational symmetries, the size of system
matrix can be maintained at a manageable amount. Because
the 16-fold symmetries are independent to each other, the
projection operations can implemented in a multi-threaded
machines for fast image reconstruction algorithm. The image
results are reconstructed by using an Intel i7-2600 (3.4GHz)
with 16GB RAM. The MLEM reconstruction of 40 iterations
takes about 12 minutes.
IV. CONCLUSION
In this study, we have investigated the feasibility of iterative
image reconstruction for a helical pinhole SPECT. In the
design of the system matrix, we use the voxle-driven (VD)
model to describe the projection mechanism at each location
along the trajectory. Due to the geometric symmetries, the
system model only requires to store 90 degrees of system in-
formation. For a longer object which requires longer trajectory,
these will be no additional requirement for matrix storage. In
addition, the parallelism among projection operations can be
implemented by using multi-treaded codes for faster numerical
computation, as well as for being incorporated into other fast
iterative algorithms like OSEM. The proposed system matrix
based on the VD model is suitable for iterative helical pinhole
SPECT. Due to the independence between pinholes, the system
matrix cab directly expanded for multi-pinhole helical SPECT.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
This work has been supported by the grants, NSC-99-2221-
E-007-001- and NSC-100-2221-E-007-032-, from the National
Science Council, Taiwan.
REFERENCES
[1] K. Vunckx, D. Beque, M. Defrise, and J. Nuyts, “Single
and multipinhole collimator design evaluation method for
small animal spect,” Medical Imaging, IEEE Transactions
on, vol. 27, no. 1, pp. 36–46, Jan. 2008.
[2] J. Nuyts, K. Vunckx, M. Defrise, and C. Vanhove, “Small
Animal Imaging with Multi-pinhole SPECT,” Methods,
vol. 48, pp. 83–91, 2009.
[3] H. K. Tuy, “n Inversion Formula for Cone-Beam Recon-
struction,” Applied Mathematics, vol. 43, no. 3, pp.546-
552, 1983
[4] S. D. Metzler, S. Vemulapalli, R. J. Jaszczak, G. Akabani,
and B. B. Chin, “Feasibility of WholBody Functional
Mouse Imaging Using Helica Pinhole SPECT,” Molecular
Imaging and Biology, vol. 12, pp.35-41, 2010
[5] C. H. Hsu, P. C. Huang, “A geometric system model of
finite aperture in small animal pinhole SPECT imaging,”
Computerized Medical Imaging and Graphics Vol. 30,
No. 3, pp.181-185, 2006
[6] P.-C. Huang, C.-H. Hsu, I.-T. Hsiao, and K. M. Lin,
“An accurate and efficient system model of iterative
image reconstruction in high-resolution pinhole SPECT
for small animal research,” Journal of Instrumentation,
vol. 4, no. 06, p. P06007, Jun. 2009.
[7] V. Israel-Jost, P. Choquer, S. Salmon, C. Blondet,
E. Sonnendrucker, and A. Constantinesco, “Pinhole
SPECT Imaging: Compact Projection/Backprojection
Operator or Efficient Algebraic Reconstruction,”, IEEE
Transaction on Medical Imaging, Vol. 25, No. 2,
pp.158-167, 2006.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/02/04
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 可調式雙面板小動物正子影像重建系統(II)
計畫主持人: 許靖涵
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-007-001- 學門領域: 醫用電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
