行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
應用於無線網狀網路使用前向糾錯控制技術結合多路徑傳輸機制之研製
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-507 -002
執行期間：98 年 8 月 01 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日
主持人: 柯志亨 國立金門技術學院資工系助理教授
Email: smallko@gmail.com
摘要
在無線網路環境中，多重路徑傳輸技術已經廣泛被用於提升端點到端點間間的傳輸效
能。然而傳輸過程中，封包的遺失會影響傳輸影像的品質，因此傳統的方法是藉由前向錯
誤更正技術來修補傳輸過程中的封包遺失。但是先前的相關研究並沒有考量每一條傳輸路
徑可允許的傳輸速率以及合適保護資料的冗餘封包數量，所以在一些傳輸路徑上，可能會
因為頻寬不足，造成路徑擁塞，封包被丟棄，最後降低了傳輸品質。所以在本論文中提出
了一個前向錯誤更正技術結合多路徑傳輸機制用來解決此問題。此機制在傳送封包時，會
考量適當的傳輸速率以及合適保護資料的冗餘封包數量，所以並不會造成路徑的擁塞，且
能有效恢復遺失的封包資訊。經實驗的結果，證明我們所提出的方法不管在封包遺失率，
影像傳輸品質都比傳統的前向錯誤更正技術結合多路徑傳輸機制來的好。
關鍵詞: 多重路徑傳輸、多重路徑傳輸、多媒體傳輸
Abstract
Concurrent multipath transmission has been used in wireless networks in order to improve
the performance of end-to-end transmission. However, the lost packets limit video quality. Hence,
a Forward Error Correction (FEC) mechanism has been proposed to recover lost packets.
Previous research didn’t select an appropriate transmission rate or FEC redundancy on each path.
Hence, congestion packet losses became critical when the available bandwidth wasn’t enough on 
some paths. In order to solve this problem, we propose Concurrent Multipath Transmission with
FEC (CMT-FEC) mechanism involving a mathematical analytical model with which the
appropriate transmission rate and FEC redundancy on each path in a multipath environment can
be determined. Hence, the CMT-FEC mechanism doesn’t cause the self-induced congestion effect
to impede the timely recovery of video information. The experimental results obtained show that
the CMT-FEC mechanism has better performance in terms of effective packet loss rate and peak
signal to noise ratio than conventional concurrent multipath FEC mechanisms.
Keyword: Concurrent Multipath Transmission, Forward Error Correction, Video Streaming.
1. Introduction
With the rapid development of multimedia and network technologies, various video
applications are proliferating on the Internet, including voice/video over IP, video conferencing,
massive multi-player online gaming, and distance learning. These applications are changing the
way that people communicate and access information. The high bandwidth consumption
properties of such applications necessitate stringent requirements with respect to delay,
2. Related Studies
2.1. FEC Mechanism Concept and Recovery Performance
The FEC mechanism is commonly used to handle losses in real-time communication. An (n, k)
block erasure code converts k source packets into a group of n coded packets such that any k of
the n encoded packets can be used for reconstructing the original source packets as shown in
Figure 1. The remaining (n –k) packets are referred to as parity packets. Usually, FEC
mechanism codes are able to correct both errors and erasures in a block of n packets. In coding
theory, an error is defined as a corrupted packet in an unknown position, whereas an erasure is a
corrupted packet in a known position. In the case of streamed media packets, loss detection is
performed on the basis of the sequence numbers in Real-time Transport Protocol [9] packets.
Figure 1: FEC mechanism concept
In order to analyze the recovery effects of FEC mechanism, for the sake of simplicity, the
transmission of packets is regarded as a series of independent Bernoulli trials. Therefore, the loss
recovery function of the FEC mechanism can be modeled as equation (1).
   


n
ki
inin
ieryre ppCpknFEC 1,,cov , (1)
where p is the average packet loss rate. The FEC mechanism recovery rate can thus be attained by
calculating the probability that more than k packets out of n are successfully received, given the
degree of redundancy h. Depending on the selection of h, the FEC mechanism recovery
performance model could achieve the desired quality of service level for robust video
transmission.
2.2. Conventional Concurrent Multipath FEC Mechanisms
Figure 2: Path-dependent multipath transmission
One of the conventional concurrent multipath FEC mechanisms employs a path-dependent
multipath transmission mechanism is shown in Figure 2 [2]. In this mechanism, the applications
send source data to different paths, and then the FEC encoder encodes the redundancy for each
path. The loss patterns of each path are different and independent. Hence, different paths have a
different number of redundancies. This mechanism can result in reducing packet losses for each
individual path. The path-independent multipath transmission mechanism is shown in Figure 3. In
this mechanism, the sender encodes the redundancy and sends all data over multiple paths [7], [8].
This mechanism can reduce the packet losses on all multiple paths because the receiver is able to
observe the average losses on multiple paths.
increases to protect the source packets when the source data packets over the path have a higher
packet loss rate. Hence, in the CMT-FEC mechanism, the selection of the path with smallest
average packet loss rate is a top priority in order to reduce FEC redundancy. Accordingly, the
CMT-FEC mechanism not only doesn’t cause congestion losses but also can select the
appropriate FEC redundancy on each path.
Figure 5: Multipath environment
Consider a video streaming that requires a requested bandwidth of RBW bps. The
transmission ratio of source data packets on each path p is Sp. The transmission rate of source
data packets on each path p can be calculated according to equation (4).
RBWS p , (4)
where the sum of all Sp is 1. When the available network bandwidth on each path p is ABWp bps,
we can calculate the congestion packet loss rate on each path p, Cp, from the various values of Sp
according to equation (5).











k
h
RBWS
ABW
k
h
RBWS
C
p
pp
p
1
1
, (5)
where the h/k is FEC coding rate. Furthermore, the unsuccessfully recovered rate after the FEC
recovery mechanism, Fp, for each path’s average packet loss rate, lossp, can be calculated
according to equation (6).
 


 
1
0
1
k
i
i
p
in
p
n
ip losslossCF . (6)
However, the receiver can still receive (k –1) or fewer source data packets under the
unsuccessfully recovered FEC blocks. These source data packets can still transmit to the
application layer for video decoding. Hence, the unsuccessfuly recovered rate doesn’t necessarily 
provide a true indication of the average packet loss rate following the FEC decoding operation.
The effective packet loss rate needs to be subtracted from the remaining source data packets after
unsuccessful recovery. Hence, the effective packet loss rate after the FEC decoding process,
Peffective_p, can be estimated as equation (7).
 
hk
ilosslossC
FP
k
i
i
p
in
p
n
i
ppeffective 






1
0
_
1
. (7)
Furthermore, the successful transmission rate needs to be subtracted from the effective
packet loss rate after the FEC decoding process and congestion losses data packets from the
transmission rate of source data packets on each path. Hence, the appropriate transmission ratio
of Sp and FEC redundancy on each path can be found to rely on the calculation of the maximum
successful transmission rate, SCMT_FEC, as equation (8).
In this paper, we compare the conventional concurrent multipath with the CMT-FEC
transmission mechanism in terms of goodput and PSNR value. Tables 1 and 2 are shown a
comparison of the transmission goodput between the conventional concurrent multipath and our
CMT-FEC transmission mechanism. Tables 3 and 4 are shown a comparison of the PSNR value
between the conventional concurrent multipath and our CMT-FEC transmission mechanism. In
the experimental results, for example, the average packet loss rate is 4% in path 1 and 2% in path
2. The path-dependent multi-path transmission mechanism encodes FEC redundancy depending
on the average packet loss rate on each path. Hence, the FEC redundancy cannot recover the lost
source packets on the other paths. The path-dependent multipath transmission mechanism
transmits half the source data packets, 400 kbps, and approximately 16 kbps (400 × 0.04) FEC
redundancy on path 1 and transmits the other half of the source data packets, 400 kbps, and
approximately 8 kbps (400 × 0.02) FEC redundancy on path 2. The path-independent multipath
transmission mechanism encodes FEC redundancy by relying on the average packet loss rate on
all paths. Hence, the FEC redundancy can recover the lost source packets on other paths. The
path-independent multi-path transmission mechanism transmits half the source data packets and
FEC redundancy, 412 kbps ((800 + (800 × ((0.04 + 0.02) / 2))) / 2) on each path. However, the
path-dependent and path-independent multipath transmission mechanisms do not consider the
available bandwidth on path 2. Both path-dependent and path-independent multipath transmission
mechanisms cause very critical congestion loss problems in path 2. Moreover, the goodput and
PSNR value of the path-independent multi-path transmission mechanism is better than for the
path-dependent multi-path transmission mechanism because the FEC redundancy can recover the
lost source packets on the other paths.
Table 3: Variation in PSNR with average packet loss rate for conventional and CMT-FEC concurrent multipath
transmission. (Note: The packet loss rate is more in the case of path 1 than in the case of path 2.)
PSNR (db)
Path 1 =
4%
Path 2 =
2%
Path 1 =
5%
Path 2 =
3%
Path 1 =
7%
Path 2 =
5%
Path-dependent 17.3 15.3 13.1
Path-independent 19.1 17.5 15.8
CMT-FEC 31.5 30.1 29.7
Table 4: Variation in PSNR with average packet loss rate for conventional and CMT-FEC concurrent multipath
transmission. (Note: The packet loss rate is less in the case of path 1 than in the case of path 2.)
PSNR (db)
Path 1 =
2%
Path 2 =
4%
Path 1 =
3%
Path 2 =
5%
Path 1 =
5%
Path 2 =
7%
Path-dependent 17.5 15.5 13.3
Path-independent 19.5 17.9 15.9
CMT-FEC 31.6 30.3 29.9
The CMT-FEC mechanism can dynamically adjust the transmission rate and FEC
redundancy on each path. Hence, the CMT-FEC mechanism will not cause congestion packet
losses on path 2. For example, the average packet loss rate is 4% in path 1 and 2% in path 2. The
CMT-FEC mechanism selects the path 2 transmitted data first because the average packet loss
rate is the lowest. The CMT-FEC mechanism transmits 345 kbps source data packets and
approximately 5 kbps FEC redundancy on path 1 and transmits 455 kbps source data packets and
approximately 15 kbps FEC redundancy on path 2. Hence, the CMT-FEC mechanism not only
doesn’t cause congestion loss problems but also FEC redundancy is less than the path-dependent
and path-independent multi-path transmission mechanisms. Therefore, the CMT-FEC mechanism
performs better than the conventional concurrent multi-path transmission mechanism in terms of
throughput in Table 1 and PSNR in Table 3. Even when the packet loss rate is less in the case of
path 1 than in the case of path 2, the CMT-FEC mechanism still outperforms the conventional
concurrent multi-path transmission mechanisms in term of throughput in Table 2 and PSNR in
Table 4. Moreover, FEC redundancy in the conventional concurrent multipath transmission
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估
■ 達成目標
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限）
□ 實驗失敗
□ 因故實驗中斷
□ 其他原因
說明：
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形：
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無
其他：（以 100 字為限）
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限）
論文研究成果已發表
C. H. Ke, D. J. Deng, K. W. Lin, M. F. Tsai, “Concurrent Multipath Transmission with Forward Error Correction
Mechanism for Video Streaming in Wireless Networks”,Journal of Internet Technology, vol. 11, no. 4, pp. 491-497,
August 2010 (SCI)
附件二
一、參加會議經過
6 月 30 日
出發：
台灣----香港----巴黎
6 月 29-7 月 2 日
IWCMC 2010 (6th International Wireless Communications and
Mobile Computing Conference)
Caen, France
Houssem Assadi, IWCMC 2010 Honory General Chair
7 月 1 日 Session co-chair:Mobile P2P Ad-Hoc Networks and Applications (Mobile P2P)
7 月 2 日
與大會執行主席 Prof. Mohsen Guizani 及各國學者餐敘
大會結束
二、與會心得
Session Title: Mobile P2P Ad-Hoc Networks and Applications (Mobile P2P)
2009/06/30 16:00~18:00
這場會議的主持人是中正大學的黃仁竑教授，本人則是擔任共同主持
人，但黃教授因有事無法前往，故由本人主持會議。本場 Session 共有七篇
paper，分別為Design and implementation of P2P Multimedia System on Taiwan
Advance Research and Education Network, P2P SVC-encoded Video Streaming
based on Network Coding, Gender Activities in Mobile Internet, Research
Hypotheses for Gender Activities in Mobile Internet, Authorized File-Sharing
System on P2P Networks, Hybrid Intelligence Techniques for Multiuser
Detection in DS-CDMA UWB Systems, On the Convergence of Adaptive Power
Control Algorithm for Cellular Systems，以下將逐一介紹。
1) 講 題：Design and implementation of P2P Multimedia System on Taiwan
Advance Research and Education Network
演講者：S-Y. Chang
本研究設計在台灣先進研究和教育網絡實現了跨平台、跨網域的 P2P
多媒體分享系統。該系統允許用戶方便地訪問多媒體資源的整個網絡從任
何網絡節點，所有的多媒體供應商可以共享本地的多媒體資源從任何位置
在整個網絡。此外這是一個對等網絡傳輸體系結構模型為基礎，因此用戶
動網路。收集到 343 個受訪者在台灣進行了測試研究模型，對採用結構方
程建立研究模型方法。結果表明，業績預期，預期的努力，社會影響，知
覺價值與小型電腦自我效能有顯著性因素的行為意圖使用行動網路。
5) 講 題：Authorized File-Sharing System on P2P Networks
演講者：Y-R. Lin
Bit-Torrent是一個著名的高可擴展性P2P應用程式用來交換數位內容。
然而很多用戶沒有得到授權，透過 Bit-Torrent 傳輸非法的文件。在本論文
中，我們提出了一個數位版權管理系統，是適合 Bit-Torrent 環境，保護版
權，還可以改善以前所提出的版權演算法。
6) 講 題： Hybrid Intelligence Techniques for Multiuser Detection in
DS-CDMA UWB Systems
演講者：C-H. Cheng
Direct-sequence code division multiple access ultra-wideband（DS -
CDMA 系統 UWB）是由美國聯邦通信委員會（FCC）提出作為備用物理
層通信平台的無線感測器網絡（WSN）。在這篇 paper 中，將考慮多重存取
高擾（MAI）和符號間干擾（ISI）在 DS - CDMA UWB 系統上所遇到的問
題。本論文設計基於仿生學上專門為智慧型計算技術應用的方法，解決多
用戶偵測（MUD）的難題，此設計能夠取消所謂的麥達到低誤碼率可以接
受的計算複雜度。我們應用混合的方法，採用了 Hopfield 神經網絡（HNN）
和 particle swarm optimization（PSO）混合方是，為解決 MUD 在 DS - CDMA
UWB 系統上的問題。實驗表明，HNN embedded PSO technique（HNNPSO）
技術，不僅可以找到近日研究中最優或近乎最佳解的解決方案，而且同時
獲得比現有演算法更好的機制。
7) 講 題： On the Convergence of Adaptive Power Control Algorithm for Cellular
Systems
演講者：Y-L. Chen
我們提出一個利用 local information和 predictive model提供一個回饋式
的命令進行電源調整。此外，結合所收到的載波干擾比 carrier-to-interference
ratio (CIR)將會在短時間 Fadding。所收到的 CIR 提供了一個步進的方式調
整功率的功能，而此功能將和目標 CIR 相符。最後模擬的結果證明了理論

98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：柯志亨 計畫編號：98-2221-E-507-002- 
計畫名稱：應用於無線網狀網路使用前向糾錯控制技術結合多路徑傳輸機制之研製 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 0 100% 
Chih-Heng Ke, 
Der-Jiunn Deng, 
Wei-Cheng Lin, 
and Ming-Fong 
Tsai. Concurrent 
Multipath 
Transmission 
with Forward 
Error Correction 
Mechanism for 
Video Streaming 
in Wireless 
Networks. 
Journal of 
Internet 
Technology, 
Volume 11, Issue 
4, pp. 491-497, 
August 2010. 
(SCI) 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 0 100%  
博士生 2 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
國外 
專利 申請中件數 0 0 100% 件  
 
