行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
遊憩區專案的設施開發規模最佳化之研究 
The study of optimizing facility development scale of a recreational area project 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2218－E－197－002 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：李欣運      執行機構及單位名稱：國立宜蘭大學土木工程學系 
 
摘要 
遊憩區開發專案的時程經常長達數十年，需要投入資金、土地等各種不同的資源。不
當的設施投資規模將導致主題樂園專案的失敗。雖然遊憩區設施投資規模係以潛在的
遊客量作為評估依據，但是在漫長的專案開發時程中，各項設施的興建成本及營運效
益包含著不斷變動的風險；設施之間也存在資源的供需關係。由於必須同時考慮許多
的變動因子，規劃者很難在眾多可能的設施與進度組合中找出最佳的開發投資規模，
且投資者經常過於樂觀忽略風險，導致開發專案經常過度膨脹、規模過大而最終失
敗。本研究首先調查國內外各主要的遊憩區開發專案，探討分析遊憩區的專案特性與
規模之規劃。本研究將考量各活動可為專案帶來之直接及間接期望價值，以專案效益
的高低判斷投資規模方案的優劣，並從風險管理的角度提出投資規模最佳化模式。進
而以所建立的模式進行應用程式系統的實作，並且進行案例測試與驗證。研究的預期
成果可作為開發策略供投資者之決策參考，提供專案投資規模之最佳方案建議，以期
提高專案實際投資開發時的價值。  
 
關鍵字：遊憩區、開發規模、基因演算法、模擬分析 
 
 
Abstract 
Most recreational areas are developed in multiple phases over a period of years. The 
portfolio and the development order of the facilities have a great impact on the 
attractiveness of a recreational area. Examples of such facilities are attractions, food service, 
accommodation, and supporting facilities. Some of these facilities although highly 
profitable, cannot attract visitors on their own, while others may boost the visitor count, yet 
by themselves do not make a profit. Some of the attractions, like a roller coaster, provide 
direct income; while some facilities, like roads, may not yield direct revenue but instead 
facilitate the smooth operation of the facilities that bring income. This research considers 
the value and risk that the development of each facility brings to the project, and optimizes 
facility development scale alternatives based on their net present values. The proposed 
model will search the optimal portfolio and development scale of facilities. The resulting 
plan provides investors with systematic and quantitative information that will help them 
achieve more profits and reduces the risk of losing attractiveness or lacking resources due 
to poor planning.  
 
Keywords: Recreational area; Development level; Genetic algorithms; Simulation 
 
 I
Food services, accommodations, and commodity sales are other substantial sources of 
profit in addition to the attractions. Accommodations, such as hotels and villas, may yield 
significant profits when there are sufficient attractions to entertain the customers for more 
than one day. However, on the other hand, the profits from food services, commodity sales, 
and accommodations are determined by the amount of tourists and the time they spend in 
the recreational area, which means they are greatly influenced by the overall 
customer-drawing capability of these amenities. Thus, the construction and operation of 
food services, commodity sales, and accommodations must be in line with the development 
levels of customer-drawing amenities to prevent wasting resources because of a too rapid 
development progress.  
The infrastructure refers to the amenities used by the tourists that are not of a 
recreational nature. It maintains the operation of the entire recreational area. Most of these 
amenities do not yield income, but they are crucial to the sound operation of the attractions, 
the food services, the commodity sales, as well as the accommodations. Usually, most of 
these amenities, such as roads, are necessary for the proper operation of recreational area, 
but can be constructed stage by stage and in accordance with the development of the scale 
of the recreational area.  
3.2 Development planning of amenities 
Planning the development of the amenities in a recreational area consists of the 
development schedule and the investment level of the amenities. First, development must 
be timed such that the cost of constructing the amenities is balanced by the revenue 
generated (Mill, 2001). A cycle of “develop – operate, sell and rent – create income - invest 
income in further development” is created in the project scheduling in order to achieve 
optimal profits for the whole project. Thus, a good amenity development plan also requires 
a carefully-designed schedule.  
 
四、研究方法 
4.1 Simulation technology support 
Similar to most previous researches on portfolio selection (e.g. Ye & Tiong, 2000; 
Terceno et al., 2003), we also use the net present value (NPV) for the decision support of 
recreational area development level. In this work we model the simulation networks are 
based on the CYCLONE (Cyclic Operations Network), a simulation methodology proposed 
by Halpin (Halpin, 1974) specifically designed for construction. There are several 
implementations of CYCLONE as software tools. STROBOSCOPE (Martinez, 1996) is 
another one of these tools that has additional programming capability, which makes 
dynamic activity prioritization possible, which is an important modeling technique required 
to make this research realistic.  
4.1.1 Marina simulation network for example 
The simulation network in Fig. 1 is designed for project activities involving a marina. 
The main elements of the simulation network are Queue and Combi. Queues hold the 
resources that are idle. Each Queue is associated with a particular resource type, and 
provides a position that allows units to be delayed pending Combi activities. Combis 
represent tasks that start when certain conditions are met. At appropriate moments during 
simulation, Combis are scanned (examined one by one) to determine if the necessary 
conditions exist for them to start (Martinez, 1996). Units arriving at Combi will be 
processed if units are available in each preceding Queue node (Cheng & Feng, 2003). The 
duration of each Combi in this figure occurs in the same time unit, which can be set as one 
month, one quarter, or one year.  
< Fig. 1. Simulation network of a marina > 
 2
is thus constructed. If a project spans a period of m time units (such as 120 months, 40 
quarters, or 10 years) in total, then the genetic encoding of the priority value sets at each 
time unit combines into a polyploidy with multiple chromosomes, which can be used to 
describe the priority value of the resource utilization of each activity at each time unit, as 
shown in Fig. 2.  
< Fig. 2. Genetic code of priority value sets > 
In a polyploidy GA, the priority value sets undergo selection, crossover and mutation, 
so as to produce priority value sets of the next generation. Dzeng and Lee (2007) applied 
the uniform-point crossover and time unit crossover of polyploidy GA for optimizing a 
theme park project schedule. In most cases, the crossover in a haploid may be performed in 
a one-point crossover, two-point crossover or uniform-point crossover, in which the 
exchange between each gene is independent from each other. In addition to the crossovers 
in the haploid GA, the time unit crossover can be executed in the polyploidy GA. The time 
unit crossover is a kind of crossover performed by all chromosomes at the same time unit. 
The priority values of the same time unit became a chromosome of polyploidy, and their 
comparative size determines the order in which Queue provides resources to activities in 
this particular time unit. After several generations, some of the priority value sets in a 
certain time unit of an individual generation may have been excellent. A time unit crossover 
can maintain these superior chromosomes and prevent the chromosomes from being broken 
during crossover.  
4.2.2 The flowchart of Model 
Model integrates the dual-loop optimization model, GAs and simulation. The 
following illustrates the operation of Model, as shown in Fig. 3.  
< Fig. 3. The flowchart of Model > 
(1) The user inputs the project data and the preferred optimization parameters: project 
total duration and discounting rate, amenities and their feasible ranges of level, 
activities of amenities, resource requirements, and optimization parameters.  
(2) The system constructs a simulation network based on the data user input, and then 
randomly generates amenity development level sets to be the first generation in the 
second loop GA. The first loop GA searches the near-optimal NPV for each amenity 
development level set in the second loop GA. So the system randomly generates 
activity priority value sets to be the first generation in the first loop GA. The numbers 
of the first generation depend on the population sizes user input.  
(3) In the first loop, simulations are executed to estimate the NPV. Then the GA process, 
including selection, crossover, and mutation, is applied repeatedly until the max NPV 
satisfies the GA convergence conditions. The system alternates the uniform-point 
crossover and time unit crossover to improve the optimization efficiency.  
(4) When the first loop has found the near-optimal NPVs for each amenity development 
level set of a generation, these NPVs become the fitness value in the second loop GA. 
Similar to the first loop, the GA process is then applied repeatedly until the max NPV 
satisfies the GA convergence conditions.  
(5) Through the dual-loop optimization, the near-optimal amenity development level set 
with the max NPV is found. This will be valuable advice and decision support for the 
user during project planning.  
4.3. Evaluation of the Model 
To evaluate the performance of the Model, we used a simplified version of the 
Dapeng Bay resort development project, located in the south of Taiwan, to compare the 
performance of the Model with human experts. The resort project consists of six main 
amenities, marina, indoor water park, lido facilities, hotel, retails stores, and the 
infrastructure. Table 1 is the amenities' feasible range of development level, activities, and 
 4
GAs, a new crossover method, the time unit crossover, is applied to improve the efficiency 
of optimization.  
We also evaluated the Model using a realistic project and compared it with the 
planning carried out by five human experts. The results showed that the Model can propose 
a better plan faster than the human experts. With regards to the dynamics of resources and 
activities, the human experts couldn’t provide a thorough consideration in their planning, 
while the Model provided a fully integrated proposal. Because the complex calculations are 
done by the system instead of by the planner, and because the planning advice is proposed 
by the system, the decision making process of amenity planning has become substantially 
easier.  
 
參考文獻 
Better, M., & Glover, F. (2006). Selecting project portfolios by optimizing simulations. The 
Engineering Economist, 51(1), 81-97. 
Carlsson, C., Fuller, R., Heikkila, M., & Majlender, P. (2007). A fuzzy approach to R&D 
project portfolio selection. International Journal of Approximate Reasoning, 44(2), 
93-105. 
Cheng, T.M., & Feng, C.W. (2003). An effective simulation mechanism for construction 
operations. Automation in Construction, 12(3), 227-244. 
Dzeng, R.J., & Lee, H.Y. (2007). Activity and value orientated decision support for the 
development planning of a theme park. Expert Systems with Applications, 33(4), 
923-935. 
Goldberg, D.E. (1989). Genetic algorithms in search, optimization and machine learning. 
Addition-Wesley, Reading, MA. 
Gori, E. (1996). Portfolio selection of capital investment projects in the Durban 
Metropolitan region. Construction Management and Economics, 14(5), 451-456. 
Halpin, D.W. (1974). CYCLONE - a graphical method for simulation modeling of 
construction operations, Proceedings of the Second Inter-American Conference on 
Systems and Informatics (pp.15), Mexico City, Mexico. 
Holland, J. (1975). Adaptation in natural and artificial system. University of Michigan Press, 
Ann Arbor, MI. 
Hsieh, T.Y., & Liu, H.L. (1997). A multi-objective heuristic approach for infrastructure 
portfolio with limited resources. Journal of Infrastructure Systems in Civil 
Engineering, 3(4), 134-142. 
Martinez, J.C. (1996). STROBOSCOPE: state and resource based simulation of 
construction processes. PhD Thesis, Department of Civil Engineering, University of 
Michigan, MI. 
Mill, R.C. (2001). Resorts: management and operation. John Wiley & Sons. 
Phillips, P.L. (1995) Developing with recreational amenities – golf, tennis, skiing, marinas. 
The Urban Land Institute, USA. 
Sandsmark, M., & Vennemo, H. (2007). A portfolio approach to climate investments: 
CAPM and endogenous risk. Environment Resource Economics, 37(4), 681-695. 
Terceno, A., Andres, J.D., Barbera, G., & Lorenzana, T. (2003). Using fuzzy set theory to 
analyse investments and select portfolios of tangible investments in uncertain 
environments. International Journal of Uncertainty, Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based 
Systems, 11(3), 263-281. 
Vail Resorts, Inc. (2006). Vail resorts 2005 annual report. Vail Resorts, Inc. (pp. 21-30), 
USA. 
Wu, M.D., & Sun, C.T. (2002). Fuzzy modeling employing fuzzy polyploidy genetic 
algorithms. Journal of Information Science and Engineering, 18, 163-186.  
 6
 
Fig. 3. The flowchart of Model 
Table 1 
The amenities' feasible range of development level, activities, and estimated durations 
Amenity Feasible range of development level Activity Duration (Month) 
M1: Marina A1 Planning and design of marina 6 
 A2 Construction of marina Integer of [10+0.05x M1Level]
 
M1Level: 40~120 
(No. of boat seats) 
A3 Operation of marina - 
M2: Indoor water park A4 Planning and design of indoor water park 12 
 A5 Construction of indoor water park Integer of [16+0.01x M2Level]
 
M2Level: 300~700 
(Visits /day) 
A6 Operation of indoor water park - 
M3: Lido facilities A7 Planning and design of lido facilities 3 
 A8 Construction of lido facilities 6 
 
M3Level: 200~800 
(Visits /day) 
A9 Operation of lido facilities - 
M4: Hotel A10 Planning and design of hotel 10 
 A11 Construction of hotel Integer of [18+0.05x M4Level]
 
M4Level: 65~400 
(No. of rooms) 
A12 Operation of hotel - 
M5: Retails stores A13 Planning and design of retails stores 10 
 A14 Construction of retails stores 18 
 
M5Level: 10~60 
(No. of stores) 
A15 Operation of retails stores - 
M6: Infrastructure A16 Planning and design of infrastructure 6 
 A17 Construction of infrastructure 11 
 
M6Level: 1,800~9,000
(Visits /day) 
A18 Operation of infrastructure - 
 8
