2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
新式結構與高介電常數閘極介電層在複晶矽薄膜電晶體之
應用(2/2) 
The Study of New Structure and High-k Gate Dielectric for Poly-Si 
TFTs Application 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-009-004 
執行期限：98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：雷添福   交通大學電子研究所教授 
 
一、中文摘要 
在系統面板(System-On-Panel)與三維
主動元件整合上，低溫複晶矽薄膜電晶體
被認為是非常具有吸引力與潛力的元件。 
在第一年報告中，我們整合氮化鈦金
屬閘極和高介電常數氧化鐠閘極介電層來
發展高效能之固相再結晶複晶矽薄膜電晶
體。在第二年報告裡，我們更進一步利用
氟離子佈值方式改善複晶矽薄膜電晶體之
特性，結果顯示出利用氟離子佈值的確可
以提升元件本身之特性與元件操作之可靠
度表現。 
應用氧化鐠閘極介電層可得到較高的
閘極電容密度和較薄的等效氧化層厚度，
因此可提高薄膜電晶體之驅動電流。利用
離子佈值方式將氟離子摻雜入複晶矽薄膜
將可有效的修補薄膜中之缺陷以及氧化鐠/
複晶矽之表面態位，進而改善元件特性，
其 中 包 括 了 降 低 臨 界 電 壓 (Threshold 
voltage) 、 較 陡 峭 之 次 臨 界 擺 幅
(Subthreshold swing)、提高載子遷移率，降
低漏電流進而提升開關電流比。同樣的利
用氟離子佈值的方式還可以有效的改善元
件之可靠度，由於可提供較強鍵結之矽-氟
鍵結，因此可以有效克服熱載子所造成的
影響，最後我們所提出的這個技術將可以
有效的利用在高性能及高可靠度之薄膜電
晶體元件上。 
關鍵詞: 複晶矽薄膜電晶體；高介電常數閘
極介電層；氧化鐠；氟離子佈值；氮化鈦             
Abstract: 
Poly-Si TFTs are very attractive for 3D 
integration of active devices and system on 
top of the panel (SOP) as devices 
performances improve further.  
High-performance SPC poly-Si TFTs 
integrated with TiN metal gate and high-k 
Pr2O3 gate dielectric have been demonstrated 
in the first year. In the second year, we used 
fluorine ion implantation to improve the 
electrical characteristics of poly-Si TFTs. 
The results indicated that using fluorine ion 
implantation can enhance the characteristics 
and improve the reliability of the devices. 
Using the Pr2O3 gate dielectric can 
obtain a high gate capacitance density and 
thin equivalent-oxide thickness, exhibiting a 
greatly enhancement in the driving capability 
of TFT device. Introducing fluorine ions into 
the poly-Si film by fluorine ion implantation 
technique can effectively passivate the trap 
states in the poly-Si film and at the 
Pr2O3/poly-Si interface to improve the device 
electrical properties. The Pr2O3 TFTs 
fabricated on fluorine-implanted poly-Si film 
exhibit significantly improved electrical 
performances, including lower threshold 
voltage, steeper subthreshold swing, higher 
field-effect mobility, lower off-state leakage 
4 
氧化層，之後分別以 BOE 及 H2SO4/H2O2
溶液蝕刻二氧化矽和氧化鐠薄膜以定義接
觸窗孔。最後形成鋁電極以完成元件製
作。另外利用相同的閘極介電層但無氟離
子佈值的元件做為我們此次實驗之對照
組，元件皆無後續電漿處理或是任何燒結
(sintering)方式。 
(2)高介電常數氧化層多晶矽薄膜電
晶體材料分析與電性結果 
  圖一(b)為穿隧電子顯微鏡所拍攝之元件
截面圖，其中氧化鐠薄膜以及氟離子佈值
之複晶矽薄膜厚度分別為 40 nm 及 48 
nm，並且在兩層薄膜中間有一層約 1.5 nm
的漸變層 (interfacial layer)薄膜。圖二為電
容-電壓特性圖，氧化鐠閘極介電層於聚集
區  (accumulation) 之 電 容 值 為 463 
nF/cm2，等效氧化層厚度為 7.4 nm。氧化
鐠薄膜的有效介電質常數 (kPr2O3) 可由公
式(1)求得[13]。 
EOT = Tinterfacial-SiO2 + (kinterfacial-SiO2/kPr2O3 ) × 
TPr2O3 (1) 
其中 kPr2O3 與 kinterfacial-SiO2 分別為氧化鐠薄
膜與漸變層的有效介電質常數，TPr2O3 與
Tinterfacial-SiO2 為氧化鐠薄膜與漸變層的物理
厚度。由公式(1)的關係可計算出 kPr2O3 為
26 (假定 kinterfacial-SiO2為 3.9)。此外，在經
過±4V 正反電壓加壓 (stress) 100 次之後，
氧化鐠絕緣層約有 7.2 mV 的變化量，此一
低電荷捕獲特性 (low charge-trapping) 表
示氧化鐠薄膜有相當好的絕緣特性。從插
入的另一張電場-電流圖可以看出氧化鐠
之崩潰電場為 6.7-6.8 MV/cm，較傳統之電
漿化學氣相沉積氧化層之崩潰電場 5.4 
MV/cm 來的高 [17]。因此我們認為此具有
高電容密度、低電荷抓取能力以及高崩潰
電場之氧化鐠材料，將是一可以取代二氧
化矽成為複晶矽薄膜電晶體閘極介電層之
材料。 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
圖一 (a) 氮化鈦金屬閘極及氧化鐠絕緣層多晶矽薄膜電
晶體流程示意圖(b)穿隧電子顯微鏡所拍攝之閘極結構
截面圖 
 
圖二 氧化鐠絕緣層經過±4V 正反電壓加壓 100 次
之後所量得之電容-電壓特性圖，插入之圖為 X 射
線光電子能譜對氧化鐠薄膜所做之化學組成分析
及電場-電流對應圖。 
6 
 
(b) 
圖四 氟離子摻雜於無氟離子摻雜之氧化鐠多晶矽薄膜
電晶體的(a)電性轉換特性曲線(IDS–VGS)與(b)輸出特性
曲線(IDS–VDS)，元件尺寸為(W/L) =10 μm/5 μm。 
圖五 具有氟離子摻雜於無氟離子摻雜之氧化鐠多晶矽
薄 膜 電 晶 體 在 高 閘 極 電 壓 下 萃 取 之
ln[IDS/(VGS−VFB)]-1/(VGS−VFB)2圖。 
 
圖六 具有氟離子摻雜於無氟離子摻雜之氧化鐠多晶矽
薄膜電晶體在熱載子效應下之臨限電壓偏移 
 
(3)結論 
在第二年研究中，我們針對同一材料元件
做更進一步的研究，利用離子佈值的方式
改善複晶矽通道的特性然後搭配氧化鐠材
料，結果顯示出在經過離子佈值過後之氧
化鐠閘極介電層複晶矽薄膜電晶體與未經
過佈值之元件相比可達到更低的臨限電
壓，更小的次臨限擺幅，更高的場遷移率
與趨動電流以及更好的可靠度表現。我們
認為利用高介電常數閘極介電層搭配離子
佈值的方式所製作之複晶矽薄膜電晶體將
可以有效的應用在高效能與低功率之元件
上。 
四、成果自評 
本次計畫之執行，皆達預期成果，並已在
相關學術期刊上發表論述，茲列於下： 
[1] Shih-Chieh Wu, Rong-Chia Yen, Chih-Kang 
Deng, Tien-Sheng Chao, Shiow-Huey Chuang, 
and Tan-Fu Lei, “Characterization of 
Polycrystalline Silicon Thin-Film Transistors              
With Nickel-Titanium Oxide Gate Dielectric 
Coating by Sol-Gel Method,” Int. conf. on Solid 
State Devices and Materials (SSDM), 2009. pp. 
583-584 
[2] Jiun-Jia Huang, Guan-Liang Lin, Chih-Wei Kuo, 
Wei-Chen Chang and Tuo-Hung Hou,” 
Rom-Temperature TiOx Oxide Diode for 1D1R 
Resistance-Switching Memory”, Int. 
Semiconductor Device Research Symp. 2009. 
五、參考文獻 
[1] H. Ohshima and S. Morozumi, “Future trends 
for TFT integrated circuit on glass structure,” in 
IEDM Tech. dig., 1989,pp. 157-160 
[2] K. Yoneda, R. Yokoyama, and T. Yamada, 
“Development trends of LPTPS TFT LCDs for 
mobile application,” in Symp. VLSI Circuit, Dig. 
Tech. Papers, 2001, pp. 85-90. 
[3] T. Serikawa, S. Shirai, A. Okamoto, and S. 
Suyama, “Low-temperature fabrication of 
high-mobility poly-Si TFT for large-area 
LCDs, ” IEEE Trans. Electron Device, vol. 36, 
no. 9, pp. 1929-1933, Sept. 1989. 
[4] A. Takami, A. Ishida, J. Tsutsumi, T. Nishibe, 
and N. Ibaraki, “Threshold voltage shift under 
the gate bias stress in low-temperature 
poly-silicon TFT with the thin gate oxide film,” 
in Proc. Int. Workshop AM-LCD, Tokyo, Japan, 
Jul. 2000, pp. 45-48. 
[5] S. B. Samavedam, H. H. Tseng, P. J. Tobin, J. 
Mogab, S. Dakshina-Murthy, L. B. La, J. Smith, 
J. Schaeffer, M. Zavala, R. Martin, B. Y. 
Nguyen, L. Hebert, O. Adetutu, V. Dhandapani, 
T-Y. Luo, R. Garcia, R. Hegde, S. Bagchi, E. 
Luckowski, V. Arunachalam, M. Azrak, “Metal 
Gate MOSFETs with HfO2 Gate Dielectric,” in 
Symp. VLSI Circuit, Dig. Tech. Papers, 2002, 
pp. 24-25. 
[6] Y. Liu, S. Kijima, E. Sugimata, M. Masahara, K. 
Endo, T. Matsukawa, “Investigation of the TiN 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-009-004 
計畫名稱：新式結構與高介電常數閘極介電層在複晶矽薄膜電晶體之應用(2/2) 
發表論文名稱: Room-Temperature TiOx Oxide Diode for 1D1R Resistance-Switching Memory 
報告類別：出席國際會議研究心得報告及發表論文 
博士班學生: 黃俊嘉 
指導教授: 雷添福 博士 
一、 參加經過 
本次參加的研討會在美國靠近華盛頓特區的馬里蘭大學園區舉辦。由於國際盛名的研討會 IEDM
也在鄰近的地點巴爾的摩舉行，所以這次參加的過程為 12/7~12/8 先到巴爾的摩參加 IEDM。在 IEDM
參加過程中，遇到的人物大都是在這個領域有突出研究的，所發表的論文也很有前瞻性與創新，可
說是一個很有指標性的研討會。之後 12/9~12/11 參加 ISDRS，我的口頭報告時間是 12/9 下午兩點半，
報告時間是 20 分鐘。由於在台灣有先經過基本的口語演練，所以上台時間大約 15 分鐘左右講完，
之後有四個人(歐美人士)針對我報告的內容提出他們的疑問與興趣。在白天的口語部分結束後，晚
上是壁報展示與餐點時間，讓參與人員可以進一步的互相認識與交流。在壁報的部份，我針對幾個
有興趣的主題去詢問作者。下面這張照片是與研究主題為 Scaling down 相關的作者合照。 
 
在會議的第二天，持續進行口語的報告並將所有報告分次四個會議同時進行，所以可以針對想
要的主題進行聆聽。我主要的聆聽項目是，Nanoelectronics 部分的 Resistive Memories、Nano CMOS
與 Dielectric Stacks。第三天會議中，參與的人數感覺比較少了，不過我也全程參與這次的研討會到
4. III-V 與 Ge 部分:III-V transistor、HEMT、Strain Silicon、Ge transistor。 
5. Special session: 是CMOS持續縮小到22nm的相關議題以設計者還有 foundry的觀點去探討。 
我主要聆聽的項目是 CMOS 部分的 high-k/metal gate 技術與 RRAM 部分。在 high-k 部分，由於
現在的 EOT 已經越縮越小 0.42nm，所以 IL 區域所造成的 dipole 也越來越明顯，這將會對電晶體的
Vt 造成很大的影響。所以利用參雜一些 La 或 Al 去調控 dipole 的大小是一個很重要的工作，因為也
會影響到電晶體的 mobility 特性。 
  另外，在新世代記憶體中，由於 PCM 與 RRAM 的小面積與低耗電，所以被譽為下一代最有可
能取代現有 Flash memory 的記憶體元件。在這個部份，我去聆聽 RRAM 部分的報告。其中有工研院
的 32nm 的 contact hole size，台積電的 S/D contact hole 的 RRAM 而形成 1T1R 結構。令我印象比較
深刻的是二氧化矽氧化層利用 NiSi 閘極經由氧化層崩潰後而發現到的電流轉換行為，這是第一次在
傳統的電晶體上發現到類似 RRAM 行為的電流轉態。作者有針對他們觀察到的行為去做解釋，是由
於氧離子會與 NiSi 閘極的 Ni 發生反應，隨著外加的偏壓使氧離子往 SiO2 移動或 NiSi 移動進而使閘
極電流增加或減少，而這種行為也類似 NiO 氧化物在 RRAM 所觀察到的行為類似。 
  在 ISDRS 的會場，是接續著 IEDM 舉辦，很明顯的發現參與的人數少很多。雖然不是最頂尖的
會議，但是仍有許多國際知名的學校學生投稿，比如劍橋大學、或者加州大學。令我映像最深刻的
是學生作者的指導教授也會參予壁報的展示，並且還參予發問者與學生之間的討論(指導教授的年紀
已經很大了)，我想這個現象在台灣是比較少見的。在壁報的部份，經由詢問問題，我認識了很多歐
美國家的研究生(由於不像 IEDM 這麼拘謹)，也了解到其實國內的研究設備是很不錯的，如果努力
我們的成果是不會輸他們的。另外，這一次發現大陸的參與人員明顯的變多，他們也有相當多的留
學生在美國就讀。相對的，遇到的台灣留學生就少很多，我想隨著對岸的進步台灣應該要有所警惕。
在會議中，除了一般的學校單位之外，最大的不同就是認識了美國的 NIST 協會，是屬於台灣的儀科
中心的國家型研究單位，他們這次不管是個人投稿或相關共同作者均佔很大的一部份。他們擁有許
多先進的奈米科技的貴重儀器與設備，並且幫美國國內大學院校做很多量測服務與分析，我想以後
如果有機會到那裡交流也是不錯的。整體而言，本次研討會的過程中，讓我學習到很多固態電子領
域的相關知識與上台口頭報告經驗，並且也與許多歐美學生交流，也感謝學校補助我出國發表相關
Room-Temperature TiOx Oxide Diode for 1D1R Resistance-Switching Memory 
 
Jiun-Jia Huang, Guan-Liang Lin, Chih-Wei Kuo, Wei-Chen Chang and Tuo-Hung Hou 
 Institute of Electronics, National Chiao-Tung University, Taiwan, chunggod.ee93g@nctu.edu.tw   
Resistive-switching behaviors in transition metal oxides, such as NiO and TiO2, have attracted 
great attention recently due to the potential for the next-generation nonvolatile memory applications [1, 2]. 
However, read disturbance due to the cross-talk among neighboring cells is a serious issue for the 
implementation of large memory array as shown in Fig. 1 [3]. Traditionally, a transistor can be added as a 
selection element in the memory cell, the so-called 1T1R (one transistor one resistor) cell, to prevent 
undesirable cross-talk, but at the expense of increasing cell size and high thermal-budget. Nevertheless, it is 
unfavorable in the high-density memory array where the unit cell size and the low-temperature 
three-dimensional stacking is of the concern.  Recently, a compact 1D1R cell, which utilizes an 
oxide-based diode as the selection element to cut off the parasitic cross-talk, has been realized [4]. The 
ratifying pn junction formed by two different oxide layers, one n-type and one p-type, provides sufficient 
on-off ratio and current density, but the high turn-on voltage and high ideality factor are less than ideal. In 
this study, we demonstrate a high forward-current TiOx diode fabricated at room temperature by a very 
simple process. Finally, the switching behavior of the 1D1R cell will be discussed. 
The oxide diode composed of the 80nm Pt bottom electrode, the 20nm TiOx oxide barrier and the 
30nm Ti top electrode was deposited by an electron-beam evaporation system on the Ti/SiO2/Si substrate. 
Before capping the top electrode, some TiOx/Pt samples were subjected to an additional 400oC annealing in 
O2 ambient. In addition, to make the NiO memory cell, 50nm NiO was deposited on the Pt/Ti/SiO2/Si 
substrate by dc reactive sputtering. During sputtering, oxygen content of (Ar+O2) gases was kept at 5% at 
room temperature. The Pt top electrode was deposited on NiO by electron-beam evaporation to form the 
Pt/NiO/Pt structure. 
The inset of Fig. 2 shows the cross-sectional transmission electron microscope (TEM) image of the 
fabricated oxide diode. In order to elucidate the effects of the oxygen vacancies in TiOx, X-ray 
Photoelectron Spectroscopy (XPS) has been performed to study the non-lattice oxygen and lattice oxygen. 
As shown in Fig. 2, the non-lattice oxygen, which increases both the density of oxygen interstitial and 
vacancy, exists in the as-deposited TiOx film. After 400oC annealing, the binding energy of oxygen peaked 
at 531 eV and the broaden tail from the non-lattice oxygen vanished. The oxygen vacancy acts as n-type 
dopant in TiOx and its concentration may significantly modulate the transport characteristics through the 
metal/oxide Schottky barrier [5]. Therefore, the as-deposited TiOx was employed in the diode to provide 
higher current density necessary for the NiO memory cell.  
Considering the n-type behaviors of TiOx and the work function (WF) difference between Ti and Pt, 
a high forward current over 4 A/cm2 was achieved at a forward bias of 1V as shown in Fig. 3. TiOx forms 
Ohmic contact at the interface with Ti and Schottky contact at the interface with Pt. Under forward bias, 
electrons inject easily through the Ti/TiOx interface, but are blocked due to the Schottky barrier at the 
TiOx/Pt interface under reverse bias. Clear ratifying characteristics with a rectification ratio of ~104 at ±1 V 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-009-004 
計畫名稱：新式結構與高介電常數閘極介電層在複晶矽薄膜電晶體之應用(2/2) 
報告類別：出席國際會議研究心得報告及發表論文 
博士班學生: 吳仕傑 
指導教授: 雷添福 博士 
一、 參加會議經過 
    這次的 2009 年國際固態元件及材料研討會是在日本仙台舉行，此會議提供固態元件及材料領域
的科學家及工程人員相互討論新的發現、新的現象、及最新的技術。並著重於讓研究元件、材料、
電路、系統、和封裝方面的人們相互了解。此會議也是目前在日本舉辦的眾多會議裡最重要的一個，
所探討的議題包括： 
Area 1 Advanced Gate Stack/Si Processing Science 
Area 2 Characterization and Materials Engineering for Interconnect Integration 
Area 3 CMOS Devices/Device Physics 
Area 4 Advanced Memory Technology  
Area 5 Advanced Circuits and Systems  
Area 6 Compound Semiconductor Circuits, Electron Devices and Device Physics 
Area 7 Photonic Devices and Device Physics  
Area 8 Advanced Material Synthesis and Crystal Growth Technology  
Area 9 Physics and Applications of Novel Functional Materials and Devices 
Area 10 Organic Materials Science, Device Physics, and Applications 
    我報告的論文是屬於 Physics and Applications of Novel Functional Materials and Devices 的 poster 
session，除了貼海報外另外還有 short presentation，報告時間是三分鐘，在 poster room 的時候與不少
參與會議的學者或學生針對報告內容進行討論及交換意見，因為各方面的人才會提出不同的看法，
所以能從不同的角度去探討一些從沒想過的問題。過程十分順利。 
二、 與會心得 
    學生這次有一篇論文入選該會議，論文題目為”Characterization of Polycrystalline Silicon 
Thin-Film Transistors with Nickel-Titanium Oxide Gate Dielectric Coating by Sol-Gel Method”，論文以壁
報的方式發表。 
Characterization of Polycrystalline Silicon Thin-Film Transistors              
With Nickel-Titanium Oxide Gate Dielectric Coating by Sol-Gel Method 
Shih-Chieh Wu1, Rong-Chia Yen2, Chih-Kang Deng1, Tien-Sheng Chao2, Shiow-Huey Chuang3, and Tan-Fu Lei1 
1Institute of Electronics, National Chiao-Tung University, Taiwan  
2 Institute of Electrophysics, National Chiao-Tung University, Taiwan 
3Department of Applied Chemistry, National University of Kaohsiung, Taiwan 
Phone: +886-3-5712121 ext 54219; Fax: +886-3-5724361; E-mail: sjwu.ee94g@nctu.edu.tw 
1. Introduction 
Polycrystalline silicon thin-film transistors (poly-Si TFTs) 
have attracted much attention because of their various 
applications, such as driving circuits of active matrix liquid 
crystal displays (AM-LCDs) and those of active matrix 
organic light emitting diode displays (AM-OLEDs) [1] [2]. 
Solid-phase crystallization (SPC), a traditional method of 
fabricating poly-Si TFTs, however, could not satisfy the 
demands with scaling SiO2 gate dielectric [3]. In order to 
overcome the issues, poly-Si TFTs with metal gate on high 
dielectric constant (high-κ) gate insulator have drawn a lot of 
attention to maintain higher gate capacitance density, lower 
gate-leakage current, and more carriers in channel [4]. In this 
paper, a novel high dielectric constant (high-κ) material of 
NiTiO3 was used as gate dielectric of poly-Si TFTs by sol-gel 
spinning coating. The performances of the capacitors and the 
TFT devices with nickel-titanium Oxide (NiTiO3 gate 
insulator treated at various temperatures were discussed. 
2. Device Fabrication and Experimental Procedures 
Fig. 1(a) illustrates the cross section of the high-κ NiTiO3 
capacitor. The p-type silicon substrate was subjected to RCA 
clean. And then, NiTiO3 film was deposited by spin-coating on 
a 5-nm SiO2 layer and then baked at 200°C for 5 min to 
remove the solvent. The NiTiO3 spin process was repeated for 
5 times to get a NiTiO3 film thickness of around 70 nm on Si 
substrate. After the thermal treatment at 400°C in an N2/O2 
ambient for 10 min, the samples were annealed at 500°C, 
600°C, and 700°C for 30s in N2 ambient by rapid thermal 
annealing (RTA) process. Finally, the TaN electrodes were 
deposited by sputter system and defined by shadow masks. 
The cross section of the poly-Si TFT with TaN metal gate 
and NiTiO3 gate dielectric is shown in Fig. 1(b). First, a 50-nm 
amorphous silicon was deposited on 500-nm wet oxidized Si 
wafers by low-pressure chemical vapor deposition (LPCVD) 
at 550°C. The active regions were defined after the SPC 
annealing at 600°C for 24 h in N2 ambient. The source and the 
drain were implanted and activated at 600°C for 24 h. Then, a 
70-nm NiTiO3 film was deposited by the same method with 
the capacitor. After the deposition of a TaN film, the gate 
electrode was defined by plasma etching. Finally, a 400 nm 
passivation SiO2 was deposited by plasma-enhanced chemical 
vapor deposition (PECVD), and the contact holes were etched 
by buffered oxide etch (BOE). Finally, aluminum was 
sputtered and defined as metal pads.   
3. Results and Discussion 
Fig. 2 shows the C-V characteristics of NiTiO3 capacitors 
annealed at various temperatures, and the insert is the 
transmission electron microscope (TEM) image of one layer 
NiTiO3 film of 14-nm thickness on a 5-nm SiO2. The C-V 
curves of 70-nm NiTiO3/5-nm SiO2/Si substrate capacitors 
annealed at 500°C and 600°C present steeper slope than that at 
700°C, considering a better interface between NiTiO3 and Si. 
As RTA is at 700°C, the C-V curves degrade because of the 
interface-oxide growth. The dielectric constant of NiTiO3 can 
be extracted the value of 37.9, which matches the value of the 
oxidized Ni/Ti films [5].  
Figs. 3(a) to 3(c) illustrate the atomic force microscope 
(AFM) images of NiTiO3 films annealed at 500°C, 600°C, and 
700°C. Many precipitations of the film lead to significant 
surface roughness especially for annealing at 700°C. The 
root-mean-square (rms) values of the films annealed at 500°C, 
600°C, and 700°C are 0.348 nm, 0.671 nm, and 2.501 nm, 
respectively. The serious surface roughness of NiTiO3 films 
may cause leakage current and worse capacitance with 
increasing RTA temperature. Fig. 4 presents the grazing 
incident X-ray diffraction (GI-XRD) spectra of the NiTiO3 
films annealed at various temperatures. No significant signals 
could be found the samples annealed at 500°C and 600°C. 
When the sample was annealed at 700°C, the NiTiO3 film was 
crystallized and the peak was appeared at (104), (111), (113), 
(116), (214), and (300). The results suggest the NiTiO3 thin 
films annealed at 500°C remain amorphous phase. 
Fig. 5 shows the transfer characteristics for the poly-Si 
TFTs with NiTiO3 gate dielectric annealed at various 
temperatures. The driving current of poly-Si NiTiO3 TFT at 
500-°C RTA is found to be the best one compared with that at 
higher temperature because of better capacitor performance of 
500°C RTA. Gate-induced drain leakage (GIDL) of poly-Si 
NiTiO3 TFT at 500-°C RTA is also the best of the three. The 
output characteristics of poly-Si NiTiO3 TFT annealed at 
various temperatures were inserted in Fig. 5. The driving 
current enhancement of the high-κ TFTs results from the high 
capacitance density induced higher mobility and smaller 
threshold voltage.  As being seen, the driving current of 
poly-Si NiTiO3 TFTs annealed at 500°C is larger than that of 
those annealed at 600°C and 700°C. 
 The threshold-voltage roll-off properties are shown in 
Fig. 6. The threshold voltage of the poly-Si TFTs with 70-nm 
TEOS gate dielectric is decreased with scaling down channel 
length due to the reduction of grain-boundary trap states. On 
the other hand, the poly-Si TFTs with NiTiO3 gate dielectric 
demonstrate high gate capacitance density to quickly fill up 
the grain-boundary trap states and have better turn-on 
characteristics. Therefore, the threshold-voltage roll-off 
properties could be controlled well. 
4. Conclusions 
In this paper, capacitors with high-κ NiTiO3 gate 
dielectric using sol-gel spin-coating and Poly-Si TFTs with 
NiTiO3 gate dielectric and TaN metal gate, have been 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
