 1
1. 中文摘要 
  在實際的物理系統中，受控系統大部份是非線性的。受控系統時常遭到外在
環境的干擾，系統本身的參數會變動，模型誤差等雜訊。這些干擾及雜訊，可以
用隨機訊號來描述。這些隨機干擾對系統的影響很大，因此非線性隨機系統的控
制設計是控制界困難且重要的問題。有其學術理論及實際應用的雙重價值。 
  根據這些分析，本整合型計劃考慮到非線性系統的理論分析及實際設計應用
兩個層面。一方面從理論層面來分析非線性隨機系統的可穩定度、可觀性等問題，
及其後來的混合 H2/H∞非線性隨機系統的輸出控制理論問題。另一方面希望用
LMI 及模糊控制方法來簡化其控制設計。因此本研究理論與實務兼顧，學術與工
業應用並重；來提升台灣在控制理論的學術水準及控制設計能力。現已發表相關
多篇論文發表，並應用到分子生物系統及電子電力系統上。 
 
關鍵詞：非線性隨機系統、隨機穩定度、混合 H2/H∞控制、模糊控制、LMI 控制。 
 
 
2. 英文摘要 
    In practical physical systems, the controlled systems are always nonlinear. The 
controlled systems are always suffered from external disturbances, modeling errors and 
noises. Some interferences, uncertainties and noises may be modeled by stochastic 
signals. These interferences and noises have more influences on the performance of 
system designs. Therefore, the nonlinear stochastic control design is a difficult but 
important topic in control society, from both theoretical and practical point of view.  
 
    Based on the above analysis, the integrated program project considers the design 
problem from two perspectives, i.e., theoretical analysis and practical design. We first 
discuss the stability and observability of nonlinear stochastic systems and develop the 
mixed H2/H∞  output feedback control of nonlinear stochastic systems from the 
theoretical perspective. Then use employ the LMI technique and fuzzy scheme to 
simplify the control design problem of nonlinear stochastic system from the practical 
perspective. Therefore, the integrated program project incorporates theoretical analysis 
and practical design, and bridges the gap between the academic research and industrial 
application. We hope this integrated program project could upgrade the research and 
design ability of control in Taiwan. Actually, we have published a lot of papers in 
nonlinear stochastic system, with application to molecular biological system and 
electronic power control systems. 
 
Keywords: nonlinear stochastic system, stochastic ability, mixed H2/H∞ control, LMI. 
  
 
