  2
films are probably due to very slow migration 
characteristics of surface adatoms during growth. 
These vertical striations could result in a 
significant degradation in the optical and 
electrical properties of nitride-based devices. The 
migration of surface adatoms during growth 
plays an important role in determining the 
flatness of the heterojunction interfaces, as well 
as the grown quality of the epitaxial layers. 
However, an artificial enhancement of surface 
migration is very difficult, especially at low 
temperature, since the migration of surface 
adatoms is an inherent characteristic of materials. 
Therefore, the low-temperature (LT) growth 
technique is expected to realize sharp impurity 
profiles and also makes it possible to grow high 
quality of InGaN [9, 10]. 
Migration enhanced epitaxy (MEE) [11], 
which is based on an alternate supply of 
constituent elements to the substrate surface, 
seems to be one possible solution to this problem 
since the adsorption of supplied molecules is 
expected to be perfectly saturated after 
one-monolayer adsorption is completed. In this 
study, the GaN layers grown at low temperature 
of 600oC by MEE are investigated. The structural, 
electrical and optical properties of LT-GaN layers 
will be reported.  
 
三、研究方法 
Epitaxial GaN predeposited by MOCVD on 
sapphire is used as a substrate to grow LT-GaN 
layers in this study. The 2-µm-thick epitaxial 
GaN substrate is fabricated after the growth of a 
30 nm low-temperature GaN buffer layer at 
550oC by MOCVD. The electron concentration 
of the epitaxial GaN substrate as determined by 
Hall measurement is 1.2×1012 cm-2 at room 
temperature. MEE growth for LT-GaN layer is 
carried out by a RF plasma assisted MBE system. 
Prior to the MEE growth, the GaN substrate 
temperature is raised to 750oC for thermal 
cleaning in the growth chamber. The change of 
the reflective high-energy electron diffraction 
(RHEED) pattern confirms the evaporation of 
surface oxides after thermal cleaning. We then 
cool down the substrate temperature to 600oC to 
grow the GaN layers. The N2 gas flow rate and 
RF power are fixed at 8 sccm and 400 W, the Ga 
cell temperature is 1000 oC (Ga flux is 4.7×10-7 
Torr). MEE growth is performed by using 
3000~4000 shutter cycles with an alternate 
supply of 1s-Ga and 1s-nitrogen beam. The 
samples A, B, and C denote the MEE grown 
GaN layers with 0.12, 0.20 and 0.30 µm in 
thickness, respectively. For comparison, LT-GaN 
layers with 0.30 µm thickness grown by 
conventional MBE method under the same 
growth conditions are also prepared. The 
crystallinity is characterized by X-ray diffraction 
(XRD). Scanning electron microsocopy (SEM) 
and atomic force microscopy (AFM) observations 
are used to evaluate the surface morphologies 
and structure of the LT-GaN films. In addition, 
the electrical and optical properties are 
investigated by Hall and Photoluminescence (PL) 
measurements.   
 
四、主要結果 
Figure 1 shows the XRD spectra of the 
LT-GaN layers grown by MBE and MEE. The 
full-width-half-maximum (FWHM) of MEE 
grown GaN (0002) peak nearly continuously 
decreased with increasing film thicknesses and 
achieved the smallest value of 11.9 min for 
sample C. Such a value is much smaller than the 
13.3 min XRD FWHM observed from the MBE 
grown LT-GaN layer. The much smaller XRD 
FWHM suggests that we can achieve a better 
crystalline quality by MEE growth. The 
improved crystal quality of the LT-GaN layer 
grown by MEE can be attributed to the enhanced 
migration of surface adatoms during growth. 
To evaluate the surface inequality in detail, 
surface morphologies were observed by SEM 
and by non-contact mode AFM. Figure 2 shows 
the SEM photographs of MBE and MEE grown 
GaN surfaces with different film thickness. A few 
pits were observed on the surface of GaN grown 
by a standard MBE and had an average diameter 
of 40 nm. On the other hand, the number of pits 
on MEE grown GaN layers gradually decreased 
with film thickness increased and eventually was 
less than that of MBE grown GaN layer. The 
average diameters of the pits on the MEE grown 
sample A, B and C were estimated to be about 20, 
50 and 44 nm, respectively. Figure 3 show AFM 
  4
quality LT-GaN layers can be achieved by MEE 
method. These results can all be attributed to the 
occurrence of a step flow growth in MEE at low 
growth temperature and promote films quality, 
which is essentially related to the GaN epitaxy 
layer thickness.  
 
 
 
Fig. 1 XRD spectra of the LT-GaN layers 
grown by MBE and MEE. 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 SEM surface morphologies of the MBE 
and MEE grown GaN layers with different film 
thickness. 
 
Fig. 3 AFM images of the MBE and MEE GaN 
layers with different film thickness. 
 
 
Fig. 4 The film thickness dependence of PL 
spectra in MBE and MEE grown GaN layers 
measured at 10K. 
 
 
 
 
六、計畫成果自評 
本計畫已達成預期目標，提出一些頗具學術與
實用價值的方法： 
MBE grown GaN 
MBE grown GaN     MEE grown sample A
 
MEE grown sample B  MEE grown sample C
PL
 In
te
ns
ity
 (a
. u
.) 
MBE grown GaN     MEE grown sample A 
MEE grown sample B   MEE grown sample C
