前言 
 The accurate assessment of lung perfusion is important to understand the 
physiology and pathophysiology of the lung. Changes in regional lung perfusion can 
be observed in several pulmonary diseases, including lung cancer, pulmonary 
embolism. It can also be observed in cardiovacular diseases, such as pulmonary 
stenosis. Accurate assessment of pulmonary perfusion is especially important for 
many cardiopulmonary disorders, especially complex congenital heart diseases that 
involve complicated interactions between the systemic and pulmonary circulations. 
Dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI (DCE-MRI) of the lung via injection of 
paramagnetic contrast agents has been used to obtain relative quantitative perfusion 
parameters [1]. Research studies have shown that DCE-MRI is able to detect 
perfusion deficits such as pulmonary embolism and lung cancer [2]. This study aims 
to develop a protocol which provides quantitative perfusion parameters analysis. The 
developed protocol will be used on the analysis of patients with congenital heart 
diseases. 
 
研究目的 
The development of process protocol includes a home designed program which 
provides graphic user interface for perfusion analysis. Since the project will proceed 
in the KHVGH, the development of a user friendly, graphic operated tool is important. 
The tool includes the basic function to calculate the perfusion index of TTP, uptake 
slope and MSE, as well as functions to do the gamma variate fitting and then calculate 
the perfusion index of PBF, PBV and MTT. To quantitatively analyze perfusion 
parameters, accurate definition of region of interests (ROIs) is necessary. ROIs are 
usually done by manual selection, however it is time consuming and selected ROIs 
are subjective to operator. Therefore, we also proposed a fully automated 
segmentation method for DCE-MRI. 
 
文獻探討 
Among these related researches on the segmentation of medical image in the past 
ten years, Bram-van and Bart is the first to study this topic in 1999 [3]. They utilized 
rule-based segmentation algorithm combined with pixel classification to discriminate 
the lung segmentation on the thoracic cavity image automatically. But the effect was 
imperfect, and the high quality of the image, SNR and image contrast was requested. 
 Nilanjan-Ray brought up a method in 2003 [4]. He adopted multi snake model 
Furthermore a large ratio of the lung area determined by naked eyes is based on 
the discontinuity of image. Owing to the lung area is darker than the other areas, the 
difference between areas of internal organs and other bones, skeleton and muscle can 
be discriminated clearly by contrast –enhance map as shown in the following figure. 
Hence the above two sets’ data can be adopted to detect the location of lung area. 
 
 
 
Fig 3. Location result. 
With the assumption that all signal-intensity time (SI-time) curves showed 
similar shapes for bolus passage except for a time shift between them due to different 
bolus-arrival times, pixels of lung parenchyma reaches maximum signal intensity at 
similar time points [5]. Therefore reference SI-time curve of correlation can be 
derived by temporal cluster analysis. Nmax(t) represents the number of pixels reaches 
maximum at the time t, and Nmax(t) is expected to reach its maximal value at the 
pulmonary parenchyma phase. Consequently reference curve is defined as average of 
pixels reach maximum at such time. Pixels are considered as lung parenchyma when 
the following conditions are reached, including high correlation coefficient, low 
signal intensity baseline, and high signal enhancement. 
The previous steps can exclude most of the area not belonging to lung tissues, 
but also delete parts of the area belonging to lung tissues. Then a fractured boundary 
could be obtained. Therefore this method adopts multi-snake model in order to get a 
smooth boundary [6]. Before conducting GVF Snake model, a gradient map should be 
acquired to calculate the external force. This method adopts Sobel operator to do the 
edge detection and to get edge map, then computes the gradient map, and where the 
place is closer to edge, there exists bigger force. Initial boundary of sake model has a 
great effect on the algorithm result, and an accurate initial location is also important. 
A single initial boundary has a great risk for the wrong initial boundary will result in 
 
 
Fig 6. The histogram of perfusion image. The distribution of signal intensity of blood 
vessels and lung tissue is near and hard to distinguish. 
 
Fig 7. The squeezed histogram and resultant classification of vessels. 
 
 
Fig 8. Thresholding Result. (Left) Proposed method (Right) Otsu threshold 
 
 To validate the proposed auto-segmented method, an objective automated 
boundary. 
 
 
 
 
The total process time is on the order of a few minutes, which greatly reduce the 
process time and required manpower. In this study, the proposed auto-segmentation 
technique has been demonstrated to be feasible and successfully appli
Fig 11. Simulation result show by SNR 
  
ed to DCE-MRI 
 purpose of quantitative analysis of pulmonary perfusion. 
考文獻 
 ultrafast magnetic resonance imaging. Magn Reson 
ldseth 
ion imaging of lung--a 
 
. 
etric 
based lung 
er eating 
data for the
  
參
 
1. Levin DL, Chen Q, Zhang M, Edelman RR, Hatabu H. Evaluation of regional 
pulmonary perfusion using
Med 2001;46(1):166-171. 
2. Amundsen T, Kvaerness J, Jones RA, Waage A, Bjermer L, Nilsen G, Hara
O. Pulmonary embolism: detection with MR perfus
feasibility study. Radiology 1997;203(1):181-185. 
3. Bram van G, Bart MtHR. Automatic Segmentation of Lung Fields in Chest 
Radiographs. In:Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Medical
Image Computing and Computer-Assisted Intervention: Springer-Verlag, 1999
4. Ray N, Acton ST, Altes T, de Lange EE, Brookeman JR. Merging param
active contours within homogeneous image regions for MRI-
segmentation. IEEE Trans Med Imaging 2003; 22:189-199. 
5. Liu Y, Gao JH, Liu HL, Fox PT. The temporal response of the brain aft
revealed by functional MRI. Nature 2000 Jun 29;405(6790):1058-62. 
1行政院國家科學委員會出席國際會議補助報告
國際醫用磁共振學會第十七屆年會
2009/4/18~2009/4/24, Honolulu, Hawaii, America
林益如 助理教授 台灣科技大學電子系
一、參加會議經過
本人於 4月 19日從桃園中正機場出發，搭乘華航與達美航空公司的聯營直
飛班機前往檀香山。會議時間是從四月十八日禮拜六開始，到四月二十四日禮拜
五結束，但因為台灣直飛檀香山的航班選擇有限，並且有學校授課考量，本人選
擇了禮拜天出發，禮拜天回程的班機，因此在檀香山所待的天數與會議時間略有
差異。檀香山為旅遊勝地，飯店住宿與飲食等消費水準不低，因此開會期間本人
與相關研究伙伴一同租用在會場附近的公寓大樓，該大樓生活設施包含廚房客廳
等，讓本人得以自行開伙準備餐點，以節省生活開銷。本次與會人士，台灣方面
有超過五十名教授、醫師、研究員、學生等參與，參與人員來源包括大學院校如
台大、陽明、清華、中山、台科大、長庚、國防大學等，醫學中心如台大醫院、
榮總、長庚醫院等，以及中研院等研究單位。本人在此次會議共發表兩篇論文。
二、與會心得
會議於檀香山之 Convention Center舉行， Scientific Meetings 總共約有一千
場之 oral presentations，以及近三千篇的 poster presentations。ISMRM的演講安
排，有在大會議廳舉行的 plenary lectures，以及分多廳平行進行、依領域分類的
一般 sessions，在大堂課中，這次邀請了耶魯大學的 Prof. Robert Shulman來發表
演講。Prof. Shulman以他在神經生理方面多年的研究，在大腦神經活躍與能量的
