 2
neath the membrane, and then collapses again.  The col-
lapse breaks the middle fluid and produces an emulsion drop 
with smaller droplets inside. 
 
 
Figure 1: Illustration of the proposed metering scheme. 
 
 
Figure 2: Illustration of the double emulsification scheme. 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Simulation results of the flow behaviors around a 
bypassing channel. 
 
FABRICATION PROCESSES 
As illustrated in Figure 4, a three-layer molding and 
bonding process is employed to fabricate the devices, and a 
fabricated microstructure is shown in Figure 5.  First of all, a 
layer of 25 µm thick positive photoresist (9260, AZ Elec- 
tronic Materials) is spin-coated and patterned on top of a 
clean silicon wafer to fabricate the mold used for the dupli-
cation of flow-channel layer.  Afterward, the patterned 
photoresist layer is baked at 120 ºC for 30 min, during which 
the photoresist reflows and its profile became rounded.  
Meanwhile, the mold used for the duplication of con-
trol-channel layer is fabricated by coating and patterning a 10 
µm thick layer of negative photoresist (SU-8, MicroChem) on 
top of a clean silicon wafer.  After the two photoresist molds 
are fully cured, they are placed in a desiccator under vacuum 
for 3 hours with a vial containing a few drops of 
1H,1H,2H,2H-perfluorooctyl-trichlorosilane (Fluka) to si-
lanize the surfaces. 
A mixture of 10:1 PDMS pre-polymer and curing agent 
(Sylgard 184, Dow-Corning) is stirred thoroughly and then 
degassed under vacuum to remove entrapped air bubbles.  
About 1/3 of the PDMS mixture is poured onto the flow- 
channel mold, degassed, and cured for 15 minutes at 85ºC.  
Meanwhile, another 1/3 of the PDMS mixture is poured onto 
the control-channel mold, degassed, cured for 1 hour at 85ºC, 
and then peeled off from the mold.  Afterward, the con-
trol-channel layer is pressed and bonded on top of the 
flow-channel layer, and left undisturbed for at least 1 hour at 
85ºC for the bonding to take effect.  The bonded, two-layer 
PDMS structure is then peeled off from the silicon wafer, and 
punched through with a sharp metal-tube array to fabricate 
the holes for multiple inlets and outlets.  Afterward, it is 
cleaned in an ultrasonic bath to remove residual debris from 
its surface.  In order to raise the height of flow channel, a 
second flow-channel layer, which is actually the bottom half 
of the flow channel, is fabricated using a similar process.  
The surfaces of the two flow-channel layers are then treated 
with a hand-held corona treater (BD-20AC, Electro-Technic 
Products), which ionizes surrounding air and creates local-
ized plasma to activate the surfaces for irreversible bonding.  
The corona-treated surfaces are then pressed together and left 
undisturbed for at least 1 hour at 85ºC for the bonding to take 
effect.  At the end, multiple PTFE tubes are inserted into the 
punched holes to build the necessary interconnection for 
sample injection and discharge. 
 
 
Figure 4: Three-layer PDMS molding and bonding process. 
 
 
Figure 5: Micrograph of a multiple emulsification device. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS 
In the prototype demonstration, water-in-oil-in-oil (W/ 
O/O) double emulsions are produced using de-ionized (DI) 
water, oleic acid (Aldrich) with 5 wt% PGPR 90 (Danisco), 
and silicone oil (Dow-Corning) as inner, middle, and outer 
 4
 
Figure 11: Resulting adjacent drops with varying (a) overall 
sizes, (b) droplet sizes, and (c) numbers of droplets. 
 
CONCLUSION 
This paper presents an active, 2-step emulsification 
scheme that is capable of producing double emulsions with 
desired geometries and compositions on demand.  PDMS 
microstructures with pneumatically actuated mem-
brane-valves constructed on top of specially designed flu-
idic-channels are utilized to meter and shape immiscible 
fluids into double emulsions.  By varying the timings of 
membrane actuation, the structures of resulting dou-
ble-emulsions can be adjusted in a real-time manner.  In the 
prototype demonstration, a three-layer PDMS molding and 
irreversible bonding process is employed to fabricate the 
proposed microfluidic devices.  It has been demonstrated 
that (1) the inner and outer diameters can be controlled in-
dependently, (2) volume ratios (droplet to drop) ranging 
from 0.01 to 0.4 can be readily achieved, and (3) adjacent 
drops with varying sizes, droplet diameters, and numbers of 
droplets inside can be produced on demand.  Currently the 
demonstrated devices can only generate W/O/O double 
emulsions.  We are working on the modification and pat-
terning of PDMS surfaces, and trying to generate patterns 
capable of facilitating the formation of W/O/W double 
emulsions.  As such, the proposed emulsification scheme 
could potentially realize the real-time controllability on 
emulsion geometries and compositions, which is desired for 
a variety of applications. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] S. Okushima, T. Nisisako, T. Torii and T. Higuchi, 
“Controlled Production of Monodisperse Double Emul- 
sions by Two-Step Droplet Breakup in Microfluidic 
Devices,” Langmuir, 20, pp. 9905–8, 2004. 
[2] A.S. Utada, E. Lorenceau, D.R. Link, P.D. Kaplan, H. A. 
Stone and D.A. Weitz, “Monodisperse Double Emul-
sions Generated from a Microcapillary Device,” Science, 
308, pp. 537-41, 2005. 
[3] M. Seo, C. Paquet, Z. Nie, S. Xu and E. Kumacheva, 
“Microfluidic Consecutive Flow-Focusing Droplet Ge-
nerators,” Soft Matter, 3, pp. 986–92, 2007. 
[4] F.-C. Chang and Y.-C. Su, “Controlled Double Emulsi- 
fication Utilizing 3D PDMS Microchannels,” J. Micro- 
mechanics and Microengineering, 18, #065018, 2008. 
[5] B.-C. Lin and Y.-C. Su, “On-Demand Liquid-in-Liquid 
Droplet Metering and Fusion Utilizing Pneumatically- 
Actuated Membrane Valves,” J. Micromechanics and 
Microengineering, 18, #115005, 2008. 
 
 
 
Part II: A Random-Access Droplet Storage Array for 
Programmable Reaction Screening 
 
This paper presents a microfluidic array that is capable 
of randomly storing and discharging droplets on demand.  
A microdevice with multilayer fluidic channels dynamically 
reconfigured by diaphragm valves is used to realize the ran-
dom access process.  In the prototype demonstration, drop-
lets with desired geometries and compositions are generated, 
selectively stored, and discharged from a 4×4 array, which 
employs just 4 (=2×log24) control inputs for the operation.  
With droplets functioning as micro-reactors, the proposed 
random-access storage array could potentially serve as a 
platform for parallel and multi-step reaction control, which 
is desired for high-throughput screening applications. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Among the various types of high-throughput, microflu-
idic screening systems, droplet-based systems have recently 
attracted significant interest because of their potential im-
pacts on diverse chemical and biological applications [1-2].  
By compartmentalizing reactions into tiny droplets, the 
miniaturization and parallel processing of reactions, which 
are desired for applications involving the investigation of 
huge parameter spaces, could eventually be realized.  The 
resulting low sample consumption and high reaction 
throughput are expected to significantly accelerate the pro-
gress in drug discovery, protein crystallization, and various 
chemical and biological screening and synthesis.  To ad-
dress the need for controllability on parallel and multi-step 
reactions, this paper presents a PDMS micro-array that is 
capable of randomly storing and discharging droplets on 
demand.  Three accomplishments have been achieved: (1) a 
bi-directional diaphragm valve, (2) a pneumatic inverter, and 
(3) a random-access droplet storage array utilizing minimum 
control inputs.  As such, droplet reactors could be tempo-
rarily stored, re-injected, monitored, or discharged for fur-
ther processing, all in desired and programmable manners. 
 
 
Figure 1: Schematic illustration of the storage array 
 6
illustrated in Figure 6, re-injection of materials into a droplet 
reactor could be realized by the controlled coalescence of 
droplets.  The opening of the front door will bring the flow 
and therefore the coming droplet in, while the closing of the 
back door will entrap the droplet but not block the flow.  
The flow bypasses the blockage turning up- and downwards.  
All the back door valves are governed by one extra control 
input.  When these valves are closed and opened, the array 
is ready for droplet storing/re-injection and discharging, re-
spectively.  Figure 7 illustrates a recorded random storing 
and discharging sequence.  Droplets are dragged from left 
to right, and stored following the 1 to 8 order labeled on the 
figure.  It is noticed that all diaphragm valves switch 
smoothly, and droplets move into assigned storage units just 
as planned.  Meanwhile, it is also demonstrated that the 
stored droplets could be discharged in an arbitrary order.  
For example, droplet discharging in an order of 5-6-7-8- 
1-2-3-4 is illustrated in Figure 7.  As such, droplet reactors 
could be temporarily stored, re-injected, monitored, or dis-
charged for further processing, all in desired and program-
mable manners.  In addition to the three-layered process, 
we have further developed a four-layered fabrication process.  
A flow-channel is sandwiched by upper and lower con-
trol-channels, whose pressurization would cause the dia-
phragms to collapse down- and upwards, respectively, and 
block the flow-channel.  With the addition of one more 
structure layer, the design and integration of pneumatic logic 
components and systems could be greatly simplified.  We 
are currently working on the integration of sorting and os-
cillation functions into the system and trying to reduce the 
overall volume at the same time.  As such, this droplet 
storage array could potentially serve as a platform for paral-
lel, multi-function, and multi-step reaction control, which is 
desired for high-throughput screening applications. 
 
 
Figure 6: Illustration of a storage unit with two valves 
 
CONCLUSION 
We have successfully demonstrated a microfluidic array 
that is capable of randomly storing and discharging droplets 
on demand.  A PDMS microdevice with multilayer flu-
idic-channels dynamically re-configured by diaphragm 
valves is utilized to realize the random-access process.  In 
the prototype demonstration, droplets with desired geome-
tries and compositions are generated, selectively stored, and 
discharged from a 4×4 array, which employs just 4 
(=2×log24) control inputs for the operation.  With droplets 
functioning as micro-reactors, the proposed random-access 
storage array could potentially serve as a platform for paral-
lel, multi-function, and multi-step reaction control, which is 
desired for high-throughput screening applications. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Song H, Chen D, and Ismagilov R 2006 Reactions in 
droplets in microfluidic channels ANGEW CHEM INT 
EDIT 45 7336 
[2] Kelly B, Baret J, Taly V, and Griffiths D 2007 Minia-
turizing chemistry and biology in microdroplets CHEM 
COMMUN 18 1773 
[3] Lin B and Su Y 2008 On-demand liquid-in-liquid 
droplet metering and fusion utilizing pneumatically 
actuated membrane valves J MICROMECH 
MICROENG 18 #115005 
[4] Lin H, Chang S, and Su Y 2010 On-demand double 
emulsification utilizing pneumatically actuated, selec-
tively surface-modified PDMS micro-devices 
MICROFLUID NANOFLUID, Published online 
 
 
Figure 7: A captured sequence of random storing and dis-
charging utilizing the droplet storage array 
 
 
PART III: On-Demand Micro Encapsulation Utilizing 
On-Chip Synthesis of 
Semi-Permeable Alginate-PLL Capsules 
 
This paper presents an on-demand, multi-step synthesis 
scheme that is capable of forming semi-permeable micro-
capsules on an integrated microfluidic chip.  Three-layered 
PDMS devices with pneumatically actuated dia- 
phragm-valves constructed on specially designed fluidic- 
channels are utilized to realize the encapsulation process.  
In the prototype demonstration, Na-alginate droplets are 
metered, trapped, and then drawn into CaCl2 droplets, while 
they react and form solid Ca-alginate microcapsules on the 
interfaces.  In addition, entrapment and transfer of the re-
sulting capsules can also be performed on the same micro-
fluidic chip to further process Ca-alginate into semiperme-
able alginate-PLL.  As such, the demonstrated on-chip 
synthesis scheme could potentially fulfill the real-time con-
trollability on micro-encapsulation, which is desired for a 
variety of biological and medical applications. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Because of the strong application potential, considerable 
attention has been attracted to the development of controlla-
ble and reliable double emulsification schemes.  Recently, 
researchers have demonstrated double emulsification in 
 8
agent (Sylgard 184, Dow-Corning) was stirred thoroughly 
and then degassed under vacuum to remove entrapped air 
bubbles.  The casting and bonding process started with the 
deposition of a thin PDMS mixture layer on top of the top 
flow-channel mold.  About one tenths of the PDMS mix- 
ture was spin-coated on the mold at 2000 rpm for 30 seconds, 
which yielded a thickness of roughly 50 µm, and cured for 
15 minutes at 85ºC.  Meanwhile, about half of the PDMS 
mixture was poured onto the control-channel mold, degassed, 
cured for 15 minutes at 85ºC, and then peeled off from the 
mold.  Afterwards, the control-channel layer was pressed 
and bonded on top of the 50µm-thick top flow-channel layer, 
and left undisturbed for at least 1 hour at 85ºC for the bond-
ing to take effect.  The bonded, two-layer PDMS structure 
was then peeled off from the silicon wafer, and punched 
through with a sharp metal-tube array to fabricate the holes 
for multiple inlets and outlets.  Meanwhile, the left PDMS 
mixture was poured onto the bottom flow-channel mold, 
degassed, cured for 1 hour at 85ºC, and then peeled off from 
the mold.  The surfaces of the two-layer PDMS structure 
(on the flow channel side) and the duplicated bottom flow- 
channel layer were then treated with a hand-held corona 
treater (BD-20AC, Electro-Technic Products), which ionizes 
surrounding air and creates localized plasma to activate the 
surfaces for irreversible bonding.  The corona-treated sur-
faces were then pressed together and left undisturbed for at 
least 1 hour at 85ºC for the bonding to take effect.  At the 
end, multiple PTFE tubes were inserted into the punched 
holes to build the necessary interconnection for compressed 
air supply and fluidic sample injection and discharge. 
 
 
Figure 3: A 3-layered, PDMS molding and bonding process 
 
EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS 
The operation of the presented integrated system is il-
lustrated in Figure 4.  An air compressor (Model 3-4, 
Jun-Air) with its output set at 500 kPa was employed as the 
single pressure source to drive the operation.  Each liquid 
sample was stored in a separate plastic container, which was 
fed with pressurized air from the top to drive the sample 
flowing through the bottom tube and into the downstream 
microfluidic devices.  The actual driving pressure applied on 
each container was adjusted independently by a separate 
pressure regulator (IR1000-01G, SMC).  Meanwhile, the 
actuation of each diaphragm valve was controlled inde-
pendently by a separate electromagnetic valve (VK332- 
5G-M5, SMC), whose action was governed by a computer 
controlled relay circuitry.  A governing program developed 
and executed under a software environment (LabVIEW, 
National Instruments), cooperating with a set of hardware 
adapter and connector (PCI-6220 + CB-68LP), was employed 
to coordinate the actuation of the prototype system.  As such, 
the operation can be either pre-programmed or responding to 
demand in a real-time manner.  The emulsification and en-
capsulation processes were observed under an optical mi-
croscope and the images were recorded using either a stan-
dard CCD camera (SSC-DC80, SONY) or a high-speed 
digital camera (SR series, KODAK Motion Corder Analyzer), 
which was also connected to the computer.  The resulting 
droplets and capsules were driven into a 200 μm deep res-
ervoir, where droplets and capsules would be perfect spheres 
without unwanted deformation.  The volumes of the droplets 
and capsules were estimated based on the observed spherical 
diameters. 
 
Figure 4: Experimental setup of the encapsulation scheme 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The injection of a relatively small Na-alginate droplet into 
a relatively large CaCl2 droplet is the most critical step in the 
proposed encapsulation process.  Figure 5 shows images of 
two injection sequences with Na-alginate droplets of 150 and 
100 µm in diameter.  Concentration (and consequently the 
viscosity) of the left-hand side Na-alginate droplet is found to 
dramatically affect the shape of the resulting Ca-alginate 
capsule.  With a Na-alginate concentration of 1 wt%, the 
shapes of the resulting Ca-alginate capsules, as shown in 
Figure 5, are sickle like.  Since the viscosities of Na-alginate 
and calcium chloride solutions are around the same order, in 
these cases the Na-alginate droplets are greatly deformed by 
the flow inside the calcium chloride droplets.  In around 10 
(Figure 5-a) and 5 (Figure 5-b) milliseconds, the interfaces 
between Na-alginate and calcium chloride droplets solidify 
and Ca-alginate capsules are formed.  However, the appli-
cation of these capsules would be limited because of their 
sickle like shapes.  Fortunately, it is also found that with a 
concentration higher than 3 wt%, the viscosity of a 
Na-alginate solution becomes much higher than that of a 
calcium chloride solution with a concentration remaining at 
 10
and D. Weitz, “Monodisperse double emulsions gen- 
erated from a microcapillary device”, SCIENCE 308, 
537-41, 2005 
[3] C. Liao and Y. Su, “Formation of biodegradable micro-
capsules utilizing 3D, selectively surface modified 
PDMS microfluidic devices”, BIOMED MICRO- 
DEVICES 12, 125-33, 2010 
[4] Y. Morimoto, W. Tan, Y. Tsuda, and S. Takeuchi, 
“Monodisperse semi-permeable microcapsules for con-
tinuous observation of cells”, LAB CHIP 9, 2217-23, 
2009 
[5] M. Joanicot and A. Ajdari, “Droplet control for micro-
fluidics”, SCIENCE 309, 887-8, 2005 
[6] B. Lin and Y Su, “On-demand liquid-in-liquid droplet 
metering and fusion utilizing pneumatically-actuated 
membrane valves”, J MICROMECH MICROENG 18, 
#115005, 2008 
 
計畫成果自評 
本計畫成功開發多功能微液滴操控平台，把耗費大
量空間、時間、與人力的化學與生物反應程序，濃縮在
一塊佈滿微流道的晶片上自動執行，透過尺度效應與系
統整合，大幅提升整體效率並創造全新功能。分散於液
態介質中的微液滴擁有良好的空間隔絕特性，具高表面
積/體積比能快速傳熱，可容納少量樣本進行快速且多樣
化的反應，實現個別反應操控與高度平行處理的目標，
使有限樣本發揮最大功效，在最短時間內取得最多資訊
以供分析。本計畫透過氣壓驅動軟質彈性薄膜，精確且
即時地操控微流道中流體的運動，搭配特殊設計的流道
幾何，創造出微液滴產生/定量、融合/混合、多重乳化/
結構控制、篩選/置換、暫存/取出、樣本擷取、與檢測等
功能。相較於傳統透過驅動壓力/速度控制的做法，彈性
薄膜的往復運動可由數位的時序訊號自動控制，透過與
電腦軟硬體的整合，不僅設計難度降低，系統運作的可
靠度和擴充性也有顯著的提昇。以上述功能為基礎，本
計畫成功開發適用於生醫檢測與功能材料合成等應用的
陣列式反應器系統。個別反應物先形成體積最小可達兆
分之ㄧ公升的液滴，多重液滴在融合/混合成具特定反應
物濃度與比例的單一液滴後開始反應，後續可再：(1)融
合/混合液滴以終止或進行多步驟反應，反應時間可精確
控制到十分之ㄧ秒，(2)執行多步驟乳化程序以形成多重
核/多層殼狀結構，或(3)暫存於陣列中長期觀察，依需要
取出進行後續處理。此外本計畫也進行細部功能開發、
系統軟硬體整合、與效能最佳化等工作，並積極尋求技
術與產業發展的新契機。 
快速樣本製備與反應條件篩選技術的發展將會為生
化檢驗相關研究帶來多方面的衝擊。以本計畫主要的應
用領域，奈米粒子與觸媒合成、蛋白質晶體成長與分析、
藥物與細胞/微生物包埋、以及生醫檢測等應用而言，在
生活上生醫檢測所需的時間可以被縮短，檢查的項目可
以增加，在產業上材料或藥物的開發週期將可以被有效
的縮減，成本可以大幅降低，並且迅速的累積在藥物設
計與測試等各方面的經驗。在學術上，新技術將可以取
代目前一般實驗室中所使用，以人工處理樣本，既緩慢
又會消耗大量載具與樣本的實驗程序，有效的加速實驗
流程、降低成本、擴展研究範圍，並且提升實驗的整體
效能。初步成果已經發表在三篇碩士學位論文，四篇國
際研討會論文(MicroTAS and Transducers)，以及三篇SCI
期刊論文(Nanofluidics and Microfluidics and JMM)。透過
逐步建立的基礎，投入人力進行深入研究，陸續將有更
多更有價值的成果可以被發表於期刊與國際會議。 
 
隊值得我們學習的是其長期的投入，與因此而產生的成熟工藝與系統完整度，在實用性方面的表現最為
傑出。不過這次因震災與海嘯的緣故，參加的人數相對減少。美國研究團隊值得我們學習的則是其源源
不絕的創意，與龐大研究組織與資源的分配與應用，以及將成果商品化的優越能力，這次與會者不只來
自大學與研究單位，也有很多業者參加。在與會的七百多篇論文當中，有相當多是集中在幾個熱門的跨
領域研究課題，即使處理的問題相同，但是因為訴求與強調的重點不同，各自所提出的作法也大異其趣。
針對目前蓬勃發展的跨領域研究，研究人員除了必須具備個別領域的專業技術之外，還必須不斷的充實
本身對研究課題各方面的認知，透過學習與討論，以產生周密且最佳化的方案。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
    這項會議每年輪流在歐、美、亞三洲舉行，很高興獲知三屆後的會議將在台灣高雄主辦，相信這對
我國微機電系統研究的國際知名度將會有很大的助益。由於參加人數眾多，必須有能容納上千人的國際
會議廳，與旅館及餐廳等相關配合，懇請國科會與各相關單位提供必要支援以辦好這項會議，將能有效
提升我國的知名度與形象。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
    近年來大會已不主動提供厚重的會議論文集和光碟資料片，而是改發載有完整會議資料的隨身碟，
大大降低了攜帶的負擔與使用上的不便。 
六、其他 
    這是報告人第四次有機會參訪北京這個城市，先前都是單純與北京清大工物系交流，這次才有較多
時間與機會體驗北京這個城市的生活，感謝國科會與清大校方的補助報告人才能順利成行並有豐富的收
穫。 
 
附件：論文海報兩份。 
 
 
 
 
ON-DEMAND MICRO ENCAPSULATION UTILIZING ON-CHIP SYNTHESIS OF 
SEMI-PERMEABLE ALGINATE-PLL CAPSULES 
 
S.C. Chang, J.J. Wang, C.W. Chang, and Y.C. Su* 
Department of Engineering and System Science 
National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
 
ABSTRACT 
This paper presents an on-demand, multi-step syn- 
thesis scheme that is capable of forming semi-permeable 
microcapsules on an integrated microfluidic chip.  Three- 
layered PDMS devices with pneumatically actuated dia- 
phragm-valves constructed on specially designed fluidic- 
channels are utilized to realize the encapsulation process.  
In the prototype demonstration, Na-alginate droplets are 
metered, trapped, and then drawn into CaCl2 droplets, 
while they react and form solid Ca-alginate microcapsules 
on the interfaces.  In addition, entrapment and transfer of 
the resulting capsules can also be performed on the same 
microfluidic chip to further process Ca-alginate into semi- 
permeable alginate-PLL.  As such, the demonstrated on- 
chip synthesis scheme could potentially fulfill the real- 
time controllability on micro-encapsulation, which is de- 
sired for a variety of biological and medical applications. 
 
KEYWORDS 
Encapsulation, Droplet, Alginate, On-Chip Synthesis 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Because of the strong application potential, consid- 
erable attention has been attracted to the development of 
controllable and reliable double emulsification schemes.  
Recently, researchers have demonstrated double emulsifi- 
cation in various microfluidic devices utilizing two-step 
breakup [1] and 3D flow focusing [2].  In addition, it has 
also been demonstrated that the middle liquid in a double 
emulsion can be further processed into a solid capsule [3].  
For example, polymeric materials can be dissolved in the 
middle organic solvent, and solidified into microcapsules 
once the solvent is extracted.  Meanwhile, microcapsules 
can also be fabricated by forming emulsion droplets with 
microfluidic devices first, and then collecting and trans- 
ferring them into specific medium for sequential reactions 
on the droplet interfaces [4].  Most microfluidic emulsifi- 
cation utilizing passive schemes, which are capable of 
producing continuous droplet streams, but insufficient for 
adjusting droplet size and manipulating droplet move- 
ment in a real-time manner [5].  For multi-step processes 
such as encapsulation and sequential surface 
modification, off-chip operation is usually required.  To 
address the need for real-time controllability on 
micro-encapsulation, this paper presents an integrated 
microfluidic system that could form semi-permeable 
micro-capsules with desired geometries and compositions 
on demand.  Emulsion droplets functioning as templates 
and reactors are employed to realize the synthesis process.  
Devices with pneumatically actuated diaphragm-valves 
constructed on specially designed fluidic-channels are 
utilized to control the droplets, and consequently the 
encapsulation process.  Three accomplishments have 
been achieved: (1) a dia- phragm-actuated emulsification 
and entrapment device that can produce monodisperse 
droplets with desired sizes, and selectively entrap droplets 
and solid capsules in a real-time manner; (2) a multi-step 
reaction scheme can be performed on droplet-in-droplet 
interfaces to synthesize alginate-poly-L-lysine (PLL) 
capsules; and (3) an active, integrated microfluidic 
system that can produce semi- permeable microcapsules 
with desired sizes and com- positions on demand.  
Superior to the previously-reported double-emulsification 
and multi-step synthesis schemes, the demonstrated 
microfluidic devices could potentially fulfill the real-time 
controllability on micro-encapsulation, which is desired 
for a variety of applications. 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Schematic of the proposed encapsulation scheme 
 
OPERATING PRINCIPLE 
A schematic illustration of the proposed micro en- 
capsulation scheme is shown in Figure 1.  A three-layered 
microfluidic chip with pneumatically actuated dia- 
phragm-valves built on specially designed microfluidic- 
channels is utilized to perform the multi-step synthesis 
process.  The complete collapse of a diaphragm on the 
central flow-path stops the droplets and results in the 
merger into a double-emulsion structure (Figure 1-a).  
Two droplets containing aqueous Na-alginate and CaCl2 
solutions individually react on the interface to form a 
solid Ca-alginate capsule (Figure 1-b) as the following: 
 
Na-alginate + CaCl2 → Ca-alginate + NaCl 
 
The diaphragm-valve is then partially opened, which 
allows outer un-reacted CaCl2 solution to pass while the 
solid capsule remains trapped (Figure 1-c).  The trapped 
capsule is rinsed by an incoming buffer droplet and then 
W3P.064
978-1-4577-0156-6/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE Transducers’11, Beijing, China, June 5-9, 20112227
The operation of the presented integrated system is 
illustrated in Figure 4.  An air compressor (Model 3-4, 
Jun-Air) with its output set at 500 kPa was employed as 
the single pressure source to drive the operation.  Each 
liquid sample was stored in a separate plastic container, 
which was fed with pressurized air from the top to drive 
the sample flowing through the bottom tube and into the 
downstream microfluidic devices.  The actual driving 
pressure applied on each container was adjusted inde- 
pendently by a separate pressure regulator (IR1000-01G, 
SMC).  Meanwhile, the actuation of each diaphragm 
valve was controlled independently by a separate electro- 
magnetic valve (VK332-5G-M5, SMC), whose action 
was governed by a computer controlled relay circuitry.  A 
governing program developed and executed under a 
software environment (LabVIEW, National Instruments), 
cooperating with a set of hardware adapter and connector 
(PCI-6220 + CB-68LP), was employed to coordinate the 
actuation of the prototype system.  As such, the operation 
can be either pre-programmed or responding to demand in 
a real-time manner.  The emulsification and encapsulation 
processes were observed under an optical microscope and 
the images were recorded using either a standard CCD 
camera (SSC-DC80, SONY) or a high-speed digital 
camera (SR series, KODAK Motion Corder Analyzer), 
which was also connected to the computer.  The resulting 
droplets and capsules were driven into a 200 μm deep 
reservoir, where droplets and capsules would be perfect 
spheres without unwanted deformation.  The volumes of 
the resulting droplets and capsules were then estimated 
based on the observed spherical diameters. 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Experimental setup of the encapsulation scheme 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
The injection of a relatively small Na-alginate droplet 
into a relatively large CaCl2 droplet is the most critical 
step in the proposed encapsulation process.  Figure 5 
shows images of two injection sequences with Na- 
alginate droplets of 150 and 100 µm in diameter.  Con- 
centration (and consequently the viscosity) of the left- 
hand side Na-alginate droplet is found to dramatically 
affect the shape of the resulting Ca-alginate capsule.  
With a Na-alginate concentration of 1 wt%, the shapes of 
the resulting Ca-alginate capsules, as shown in Figure 5, 
are sickle like.  Since the viscosities of Na-alginate and 
calcium chloride solutions are around the same order, in 
these cases the Na-alginate droplets are greatly deformed 
by the flow inside the calcium chloride droplets.  In 
around 10 (Figure 5-a) and 5 (Figure 5-b) milliseconds, 
the interfaces between Na-alginate and calcium chloride 
droplets solidify and Ca-alginate capsules are formed.  
However, the application of these capsules would be 
limited because of their sickle like shapes.  Fortunately, it 
is also found that with a concentration higher than 3 wt%, 
the viscosity of a Na-alginate solution becomes much 
higher than that of a calcium chloride solution with a 
concentration remaining at 1.5 wt%.  When a highly vis- 
cous Na-alginate droplet is drawn into a dilute calcium 
chloride droplet (as illustrated later in Figure 6), it re- 
mains intact and solidifies to form a circular-shaped Ca- 
alginate capsule. 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Captured sequences of droplet coalesce with droplet 
diameters of 150 µm (a) and 100 µm (b) 
 
Controlled encapsulation was successfully demon- 
strated using the fabricated microfluidic devices, and a 
captured encapsulation sequence is shown in Figure 6.  
First of all, Na-alginate and CaCl2 droplets are metered 
and selectively trapped in front of a collapsed diaphragm, 
whose movement further results in the merger of droplets 
into a double-emulsion structure.  The retreat of the dia- 
phragm (Figure 6-b~c) causes a negative pressure gra- 
dient, which sucks in the liquids and in turn accelerates 
the draining of the liquid film between the trapped 
droplets.  Meanwhile, the re-collapse of the diaphragm 
(Figure 6-e~f) remains the double-emulsion structure 
trapped in front of the diaphragm.  In the demonstration, 
overall three solid Ca-alginate capsules are formed in a 
CaCl2 droplet (Figure 6-g) using the same approach.  
Afterwards, the diaphragm valve is partially opened.  The 
solid capsules remain trapped (Figure 6-h~i), while 
un-reacted CaCl2 solution is dragged away by the con- 
2229
ON-DEMAND MICRO ENCAPSULATION UTILIZING ON-CHIP 
SYNTHESIS OF SEMI-PERMEABLE ALGINATE-PLL CAPSULES 
Results
•With a deformable area of 150 µm x 250 µm and a 
diaphragm thickness of 25 µm, the diaphragm
collapses with the  increase of pneumatic pressure
Operating Principle
• The complete collapse of a diaphragm stops the 
droplets and results in a double emulsion
• Droplets containing Na-alginate and CaCl2 react 
on the interface to form a Ca-alginate capsule
• The diaphragm-valve is partially opened, which 
allows outer un-reacted CaCl2 to pass
• The trapped capsule is rinsed by an incoming 
buffer droplet and then re-suspended into PLL
• Once an alginate-PLL capsule is formed, it is re-
suspended into sodium-citrate to dissolve 
unreacted Ca-alginate gel inside the capsule
• An alginate-PLL capsule with liquid core is 
formed and released for sequential processing
Conclusions
•An on-demand, multi-step synthesis scheme that is 
capable of forming semi-permeable microcapsules
on an integrated microfluidic chip
•Na-alginate droplets are metered, trapped, and then 
drawn into CaCl2 droplets, while they react and form 
solid Ca-alginate microcapsules on the interfaces
• In addition, entrapment and transfer of the resulting 
capsules can also be performed on the same 
microfluidic chip to further process Ca-alginate into 
semi-permeable alginate-PLL
•The demonstrated on-chip synthesis scheme could 
potentially fulfill the real-time controllability on 
micro-encapsulation, which is desired for a variety of 
biological and medical applications
Acknowledgement
This work is supported by the National Science
Council of Taiwan (NSC 99-2628-E-007-028)
Experimental
• A PDMS molding and irreversible bonding pro-
cess is employed to fabricate the devices
• A LabVIEW program cooperating with a set of 
hardware adapter, circuitry, and electromagnetic 
switches is employed to coordinate the operation
• 4 aqueous solutions (sodium alginate, calcium 
chloride, poly-L-lysine, and sodium citrate) were 
dispersed into the continuous-phase oleic acid
S.-C. Chang, J.-J. Wang, C.-W. Chang and Y.-C. Su
Department of Engineering & System Science
National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan
•The injection of a small Na-alginate droplet into a 
large CaCl2 droplet in the encapsulation process 
t = t0 t = t0 + 2 ms t = t0 t = t0 + 1 ms t = t0 + 2 ms t = t0 + 5 ms
(b)
t = t0 + 7 ms t = t0 + 12 ms
(a)
PIEZOELECTRIC PDMS FILMS FOR POWER MEMS 
 
J.J. Wang, J.M. Hsieh, R.W. Tsai, and Y.C. Su 
Department of Engineering and System Science 
National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
 
ABSTRACT 
We have successfully demonstrated the fabrication of 
piezoelectric PDMS films utilizing casting, stacking, and 
micro plasma discharge processes.  To realize electro- 
mechanical sensitivity, PDMS structures with micro- 
meter-sized cells are implanted with positive and negative 
charges on the opposite internal surfaces of each cell, 
which behaves just like a dipole.  In the prototype demon- 
stration, multilayer PDMS films with inner cells of 
50×50×50 μm3 are fabricated and charged under electric 
fields up to 40 MV/m.  The resulting cellular PDMS films 
show an elastic modulus of at least 12% lower than solid 
ones and a piezoelectric coefficient (d33) up to 182 pC/N, 
which is about 10 times higher than that of common 
piezoelectric polymers (e.g., PVDF).  As such, the de- 
monstrated piezoelectric PDMS films could serve as soft 
and sensitive electromechanical transducers, which are 
desired for a variety of sensor and energy har- vesting 
applications. 
 
KEYWORDS 
Micro Plasma Discharge, Cellular Polymer, Energy 
Harvesting, Piezoelectric Material 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Electrets, the electrostatic equivalents of permanent 
magnets, are dielectric materials that have quasi-per- 
manent electric charges or dipole polarization [1].  They 
function as permanent sources of electric fields, which are 
employed to act on objects, interact with other physical 
fields, or induce AC current.  Conventionally, electrets 
are made up of certain dielectrics with charges stored 
mostly on their surfaces.  The electret effects are usually 
resulted from dipolar polarization, charge displacement 
inside molecules or domains, and the formation of spatial 
or surface charges.  To fabricate electrets, dielectrics are 
placed in electric fields and subjected to additional 
physical actions, which either reduce dipolar relaxation or 
accelerate the migration of charged particles. 
Ferroelectrets, which are polymer foams with bipolar 
charges stored in each cell, have recently been dem- 
onstrated to be highly efficient in charge storage and 
showing unexpected piezoelectricity [2-4].  Surprisingly, 
completely non-polar materials without any molecular 
dipoles can behave almost like ferroelectrics.  Unfor- 
tunately, it is difficult to control the sizes and geometries 
of ferroelectrets, or integrate them with microsystems.  To 
address these fabrication issues, this paper presents 
controlled foam forming, casting, stacking, surface mod- 
ification, and micro plasma discharge processes that 
could readily produce piezoelectric PDMS electrets with 
desired geometries and properties.  In addition, these 
processes should be compatible with common MEMS 
fabrication.  As such, the proposed piezoelectric PDMS 
electrets could be readily integrated and serve as soft and 
sensitive electromechanical transducers, which are de- 
sired for a variety of MEMS sensor and energy harvesting 
applications. 
 
 
Figure 1: Schematic of electret structure and piezoelectricity 
 
OPERATING PRINCIPLE 
To obtain electromechanical sensitivity, multilayer 
PDMS structures with micrometer-sized cells are im- 
planted with positive and negative charges on the 
opposite internal surfaces of each cell, which behaves just 
like a dipole.  The charging of the cells is realized by 
placing cellular PDMS films in strong electric fields, 
which eventually cause the air inside the cells to break 
down.  When performed between two parallel plate elec- 
trodes, the breakdown criteria can usually be predicted by 
the Paschen’s law [5], while fails for gaps smaller than 10 
μm in air at one atmosphere [6].  Generally, the required 
breakdown fields are higher for smaller cells.  Once 
broken down, micro plasma discharges are generated 
inside the cells and then self extinguished because of the 
deposition of charges on the internal surfaces of each cell.  
The charged PDMS foams are flexible and highly po- 
larized.  Up-on the application of mechanical or electrical 
stresses, the quasi-dipoles inside PDMS electrets change 
their dimensions and dipole moments, which results in the 
desired piezoelectricity as illustrated in Figure 1.  The 
application of a force to a PDMS electret is expected to 
induce additional charges on the top and bottom elec- 
trodes.  Overall, the piezoelectricity of a cellular PDMS 
structure is dependent on its porosity, elastic modulus, 
cell size, and surface charge density. 
W3P.163
978-1-4577-0156-6/11/$26.00 ©2011 IEEE Transducers’11, Beijing, China, June 5-9, 20112622
 Figure 5: Experimental setup for piezoelectricity 
characterization 
 
 
 
Figure 6: Photograph of an employed charge amplifier 
and its equivalent circuit 
 
 
Figure 7: Measured charge variation of a closed-cell type 
PDMS structure 
 
 
Figure 8: Measured charge variation of an open-cell type 
PDMS structure 
 
EXPERIMENTAL AND RESULTS 
The piezoelectricity of fabricated and charged PDMS 
films were characterized using a setup illustrated in 
Figure 5.  A force is applied periodically by a pneumatic 
cylinder to the tested sample, which is clamped on a 
customized fixture.  The elastic modulus of the cellular 
PDMS films is estimated to be at least 12% lower than 
that of solid ones, while the measured value is 510 kPa.   
Meanwhile, electrodes of the tested sample were con- 
nected to a charge amplifier (as shown in Figure 6), which 
converts sensed charge variations into amplified voltage 
outputs.  In our trials, a 40 N force, which corresponds to 
an air pressure of 1 kgf/cm2, was applied on each of the 3 
cm × 3 cm large tested sample.  Under this condition, a 1 
mV voltage output is estimated to indicate an 82.3 pC 
charge induction on the electrodes.  Figure 7 shows the 
measured piezoelectricity of a closed-cell type PDMS 
structure.  The application of a 40 N force actually results 
in a 4120 pC charge variation, which corresponds to a 
piezoelectric coefficient (d33) of 103 pC/N.  As illustrated 
in Figure 8, a open-cell type sample shows a 7310 pC 
charge variation, which corresponds to a piezoelectric 
coefficient (d33) of 182 pC/N, which is about 10 times 
higher than that of common piezoelectric polymers (e.g., 
PVDF).  Meanwhile, the elastic modulus of the open-cell 
type samples is estimated to be at least 32% lower than 
that of solid ones.  It was observed during the charging 
process that the required breakdown field for closed-cell 
type samples was higher than that for open-cell type 
samples.  Under the same electric field, the resulting 
breakdown current and therefore the piezoelectricity of an 
open-cell type sample is distantly higher than that of a 
closed-cell type one. 
One severe drawback of the presented fabrication 
scheme is that the life-time of the implanted charge is 
mostly in the range of days to weeks.  Therefore, the 
resulting piezoelectricity lasted only for a relatively short 
period of time.  This issue could potentially be solved by 
the deposition of extra semi-crystalline polymers or di- 
electric nanoparticles on cell surfaces.  As already men- 
tioned, surface deposition of materials capable of storing 
charges stably could improve the piezoelectricity and its 
life-time.  Currently we are studying the effects caused by 
the deposition of semi-crystalline polypropylene (PP) and 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE).  Open cell structures are 
filled with polymer solutions, and eventually deposited 
with thin polymer layers once solvents evaporated.  Fur- 
thermore, mainly by increasing the number of layer of the 
cellular structures and the field for charge implantation, 
the resulting piezoelectricity can be improved as well. 
 
CONCLUSION 
This paper presents the fabrication of piezoelectric 
PDMS structures utilizing casting, stacking, and micro 
plasma discharge processes.  In order to acquire electro- 
mechanical sensitivity, PDMS structures with micro- 
meter-sized closed and open cells are implanted with 
positive and negative charges on the opposite internal 
surfaces of each cell, which behaves just like a dipole.  
Upon the application of mechanical or electrical stresses, 
the quasi-dipoles inside a cellular PDMS structure change 
their dimensions and dipole moments as well, which 
results in the desired piezoelectricity.  In the prototype 
2624
PIEZOELECTRIC PDMS FILMS FOR POWER MEMS
Results
•Stacks of two layers of inner cells with overall thick-
ness about 250 ~ 300 µm were formed
Operating Principle
• The charging of the cells is realized by placing 
cellular PDMS films in strong electric fields, 
which eventually cause the air inside the cells to 
break down
• Upon the application of mechanical or electrical 
stresses, the quasi-dipoles inside PDMS films 
change their dimensions and dipole moments, 
which results in the desired piezoelectricity
Acknowledgement
This work is supported by the National Science
Council of Taiwan (NSC 99-2628-E-007-028)
Fabrication
• Casting, stacking, and micro plasma discharge
processes are utilized
• Both closed and open cell structures were fab-
ricated and characterized
• With open cell structures, surface deposition can 
be realized to include extra semi-crystalline poly-
mers or dielectric nanoparticles, which are 
capable of storing charges stably and therefore 
improving the piezoelectricity
• Charge voltages were triangular waves with 
amplitude between 1 and 10 KV and frequencies 
of less than 0.2 Hz, while the charged PDMS films 
were heated up to 140 ºC
J.-J. Wang, J.-M. Hsieh, R.-W. Tsai and Y.-C. Su
Department of Engineering & System Science
National Tsing Hua University, Taiwan
•Open cell: The application of a 40 N force results in 
a 4120 pC charge variation, which corresponds to a 
piezoelectric coefficient (d33) of 103 pC/N
•Closed cell: The application of a 40 N force results 
in a 7310 pC charge variation, which corresponds to 
a piezoelectric coefficient (d33) of 182 pC/N, about 10 
times higher than that of common piezoelectric 
polymers (e.g., PVDF)
•A 40 N force, which corresponds to an air pressure 
of 1 kgf/cm2, was applied on each of the 3 cm × 3 cm
large tested sample
• The elastic modulus of the open-cell type sample is 
21% lower than the solid ones
Abstract
• PDMS films function as piezoelectric materials 
that are capable of converting mechanical move-
ment into electric potential
• Multilayer PDMS structures with inner cells of 
50×50×50 µm3 are fabricated and charged under 
electric fields up to 40 MV/m to implant positive 
and negative charges on the opposite internal 
surfaces of each cell, which behaves like a dipole
• The resulting cellular PDMS films show an elastic 
modulus of at least 21% lower than solid ones 
and a piezoelectric coefficient (d33) up to 182
pC/N, which is about 10 times higher than that of 
common piezoelectric polymers (e.g., PVDF)
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：蘇育全 計畫編號：99-2628-E-007-028- 
計畫名稱：多功能微液滴操控平台與陣列式反應器系統的開發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 2 3 80% 碩士論文 
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 3 80% 
Nanofluidics 
&amp ；
Microfluidics 
and JMM 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 80% 
篇 
MicroTAS and 
Transducers 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
