 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
相機模組 - 一種高對比且抗雜訊的高動態範圍影像顯示技術之 
開發與研究 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99－2221－E－262－018 
執行期間：99年 8月 1日至 100年 7月 31日 
 
執行機構及系所： 
 
計畫主持人：林學億 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：王建樺、盧奕宏、林士源、王柏晟、黃千格 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 100 年 10 月 7 日 
II 
 
 
英文摘要 
 
With the advance of mobile computing platform and the maturity of image sensing 
technology, the development of consumer electronics gradually shifts its goal toward 
hand-held multimedia systems. A hand-held system greatly benefits from its 
compact-size, multi-functionality, reliability, low-cost, and easy-to-use in design. 
Nowadays, one of the most popular hand-held multimedia systems is a system 
integrated with mobile phone and digital camera, which provides users with a 
convenient way of capturing images and videos. Meanwhile, establishment of mobile 
networking environment not only brings a variety of applications and services into life 
at a fast speed, but also demands a great amount of marketing for 
communication-related applications. 
Nowadays, the acquisition of HDR scenes/images becomes easier and more popular 
due to the advance of digital photography techniques. For example, an HDR scene can 
be acquired using high-cost HDR sensors. In regard to CCD or CMOS sensors used in 
camera/mobile phone, their output format has been raised up to 12-14 bits/channel. 
Moreover, an HDR scene can be reconstructed from several pictures taken under 
different exposure times and/or shutter speeds. However, how to display an HDR image 
on an LDR device still remains as a fundamental and challenging problem. In the past 
fiscal year, we devoted ourselves to developing a new technique for displaying HDR 
images on an LDR device. More specifically, a noise-insensitive contrast enhancement 
technique for rendering HDR images has been proposed. 
 
Keywords: Tone reproduction; high dynamic range compression; contrast 
enhancement. 
 
2 
enhancement system)。如圖表 2所示，前端成像處理系統的主要目的是將色彩濾波器上的畫素陣列(即
貝爾圖樣)轉換為亮度均勻、色溫穩定、清晰且可供後端處理的 RGB 影像。而後端影像處理系統的主
要目的是校調影像色彩、調整解析度、擴增影像可見度(visibility augment)、高動態範圍(high/wide 
dynamic range，簡稱 HDR)、加強影像細節表現以及伽碼校正(gamma correction)等，以提供顯示、壓
縮或儲存設備使用。本計畫在一年執行期內，已完成研究與開發一種高對比且抗雜訊的 HDR 影像顯
示技術。接下來，我們將詳述 HDR 影像顯示技術之背景及重要性。 
 
圖表 2：相機模組的成像流程示意圖。 
 
2. 研究目的 
傳統的數位相機已可與人眼的色彩感知與空間解析度相互匹敵，但是仍無法像眼睛一樣控制對比
度。對於影像感測元件、顯示設備或人眼感知的對比率(contrast ratio)可定義為最深黑色與最亮白色之
比率。如圖表 3 所示，人眼所能感知的對比率遠大於典型數位相機對比率。因此，以典型數位相機來
說，即使在正確曝光的相片中，陰影通常太暗而明亮區太亮，導致損失大量細節。不過，以現今的技
術來說，HDR 影像的擷取不再是件困難的事。除了可以由電腦繪圖(computer graphics)技術產生 HDR
影像以外，還可以透過價格昂貴的 HDR影像感測器(HDR sensors)來取得(備註：現今照像手機所採用
的 CCD 或 CMOS 影像感測器模組已達 12-14 bits 數位輸出)。此外，我們還可以結合人眼色彩感知
模型與單一場景的多重曝光影像來重建 HDR影像(例如：Devebec 及Malik 於 1997 年提出的方法[4]
或台灣大學資工系莊永裕教授於 2009 年提出的方法[3])。儘管如此，現今的數位相機系統仍面對一個
重大的議題與挑戰，此一議題為：如何在諸如電腦顯示器等低動態範圍(low dynamic range，簡稱 LDR)
設備上顯示 HDR 影像？解決此一議題的技術即稱為「HDR 影像顯示技術」。 
 
4 
景中視覺性重要特徵(visually significant components)的能力。 
為了改善視覺保真度(visual fidelity)，TROs 方法(如文獻[1,2,7,9,16,20,21])運用空間非一致性映射
函數(spatially non-uniform mappings)來實現 HDR 壓縮；換言之，原影像中不同位置但相同照度值
(luminance value)的像素可能被轉換成相同的像素值。事實上，TROs 方法都根基於人類認知心理學，
試圖仿效人類視覺感知系統，以區域性方法去理解或組織視覺內容，進而萃取影像空間中的結構而避
免區域對比的折損。也因此，TROs 方法都能有效地保留原始影像中顯著的視覺細節內容。現今已有
許多仿效人類視覺感知系統的計算處理方法被提出，包括：兩階段式的分解方法 (two-scale 
decomposition)[7] 、 gradient-domain Poisson solver[9] ， 多 重 解 析 分 解 法 (multi-resolution 
decomposition)[16,20]，以及基於影像切割的稀疏表示法(spare representation via image segmentation)[1]，
都達到類似人眼區域適應性(local adaptation)的效果。儘管既有的 TROs 方法都能夠壓縮動態範圍後，
仍保留重要的影像細節。但是，目前的 TROs 方法仍無法顯著地強化影像的區域對比。再者，當影像
區域對比或細節對比被強化時，仍有必要同時解決影像雜訊的問題。為了解決上述問題，在本計畫中
我們提出了一種能強化局部和細節對比並且能抑制雜訊的 HDR 影像顯示技術。 
 
4. 研究方法 
給予一張高動態範圍影像，第一個步驟是將高動態範圍 RGB 影像轉換為高動態範圍亮度影像。
常使用的 RGB轉亮度公式為： 
ܮሺݔ, ݕሻ ൌ 0.21216ܴሺݔ, ݕሻ ൅ 0.7152ܩሺݔ, ݕሻ ൅ 0.0722ܤሺݔ, ݕሻ，(1) 
該(x, y)為單一圖素在影像中的座標位置，該 R、G和 B分別表示高動態範圍的 RGB影像，該 L則為
轉換後之亮度影像。圖表 4 所示係我們所提的高動態範圍影像之顯示系統。如圖表 4 所示，該輸入
之高動態範圍亮度影像即為經上述公式轉換後的亮度影像。當輸入高動態範圍亮度影像經我們所提的
高動態範圍影像顯示系統處理後，即可得到一張低動態範圍亮度影像。而利用此一低動態範圍亮度影
像和原高動態範圍亮度影像每一圖素所形成的對比比例，便可將高動態範圍 RGB 影像轉換為低動態
範圍 RGB影像，以提供低動態範圍設備顯示或後置處理。 
 
圖表 4：我們所提出的高動態範圍影像顯示系統之流程圖。 
請參閱圖表 4，自然對數亮度計算模組 10 係將高動態範圍亮度影像轉換成自然對數亮度影像，
藉此模擬人類視覺系統(human visual system)的對比感知能力。給予輸入亮度影像的一圖素，該自然對
數亮度可計算如下： 
ܮ෨ሺݔ, ݕሻ ൌ ݈݋݃ ሺܮሺݔ, ݕሻ ൅ ߜሻ，                (2) 
該 ݈݋݃ ሺ. ሻ將每一圖素的亮度值轉換成所謂的自然對數亮度值(log-luminance values)，該ߜ係一極小值用
來避免亮度值為零的奇異情況(singularity)。 
請參閱圖表 4，低通濾波模組 11 係擷取並保留自然對數亮度影像中的低頻影像內容物。低通濾
波模組 11 是利用一個具保留邊緣能力的低通濾波器(edge-preserving low-pass filter)，以擷取高對比
6 
  
圖表 6：習知色調轉換函數的一實施例。 
 
圖表 7：習知色調轉換函數的另一實施例。 
 
請參閱圖表 4、圖表 5和圖表 6，影像對比增強模組 14係增強可顯示低頻影像內容物的對比度。
其運作原則是：雖然該高動態壓縮模組 13 能有效地降低動態範圍以產生可顯示影像，但此一壓縮過
程仍不可避免地折損了高對比或大尺寸內容物的對比度。因此，我們提出在該高動態壓縮模組 13 後
加上一影像對比增強模組 14，以提升低頻可顯示影像(即大尺寸內容物)的對比度。給予一低動態範圍
的可顯示影像ܸ′(經高動態範圍壓縮模組 13得到)，該影像對比增強模組 14的一實施例係先將該影像ܸ′
分割成數個不同的區塊(tiles)，爾後再建立每一區塊的色調轉換函數(tone mapping function)，以增強區
塊或局部的對比度。但是，由於每一區塊所建立的色調轉換是個別獨立且與鄰近區塊無相關性，因此
在重製色調(tone reproduction)後將產生明顯可見的邊界現象(visible border effects)。為了消除邊界現象，
該影像對比增強模組 14 的實施例係利用鄰近四個區塊的色調轉換函數重製圖素的色調轉換函數。請
參閱圖表 5，假設鄰近四個鄰近區塊的色調轉換函數為ܯ஺, ܯ஻, ܯ஼ܯ஽，該 A、B、 C和 D分別為四個
區塊的中心位置。為簡化符號表示法，底下的描述將省略圖素座標位置(x, y)。給予一圖素值ܸ′(如圖
表 5中白色圓點)，該影像對比增強模組 14的實施例係利用下列公式計算新的圖素值ܸ ′′： 
ܸ ′′ ൌ ሺ1 െ ݄ሻሾሺ1 െ ݓሻܯ஺ሺܸ ′ሻ ൅ ݓܯ஻ሺܸ ′ሻሿ ൅ ݄ሾሺ1 െ ݓሻܯ஼ሺܸ ′ሻ ൅ ݓܯ஽ሺܸ ′ሻሿ，               (8) 
該 w係ܸ′與 A間的水平距離，該 h是圖素 ܸ′與 A間的垂直距離。該影像對比增強模組 14的實施例可
視為基於四個鄰近區塊之色調轉換函數的雙線性內差處理(bilinear interpolation)，藉此得到一新的色調
轉換函數，用以消除邊界現象。請參閱圖表 6，習知之色調轉換函數的一實施例係利用統計方法建立
區塊內所有圖素亮度的直方圖(即機率分佈函數，如圖表 6 (a)所示)，爾後經正規化轉換得到的累積分
佈函數即為該區塊的色調轉換函數(如圖表 6 (b)所示)。圖表 7係習知之色調轉換函數的另一實施例。
請參閱圖表 7，該色調轉換函數的一實施例係先利用一裁切值(ClipLimit)限制直方圖的高度，並將大
8 
其中 ෨ܸ ′′ ൌ ݈݋݃ ሺܸ ′′ ൅ ߜሻ係經影像對比增強模組 14處理後的自然對數亮度影像。 
請參閱圖表 4，自然對數亮度逆計算模組 17 係將對比增強後之自然對數亮度影像轉換成可顯示
亮度影像。假設ܮ′ሺݔ, ݕሻ係對比增強後的可顯示亮度影像，該自然對數亮度逆計算模組 17 可藉由
ܮ′ ൌ ݁ݔ݌ሺܮ෨ ′ሻ予以實施。 
 
5. 結果與討論 
 根據前一節所提出的研究方法，我們得到兩項具特色的研究成果：(1)具雜訊抑制能力的細節強化
技術和(2)具對比強化能力的高動態範圍影像顯示技術。茲就這兩項研究成果分述如下： 
圖表 8 所示係比較不同細節增強技術處理後的結果。圖表 8(a)係無細節強化處理，而圖表 8(b)
係不具雜訊抑制能力的細節強化處理結果。由圖表 8(b)可發現，影像中的雜訊很容易在細節強化過程
中被放大，因而造成影像中原本的平滑區域(如女孩的臉部和頸部等)呈現大量且不自然的顆粒現象。
圖表 8 (c)所示係經由我們所提出的具雜訊抑制能力之細節強化處理結果。圖表 8 (c)所示，我們所提
出的方法除了能增強影像細節部位(如樹葉和樹幹表面等)的對比效果，還能有效地抑制雜訊。 
 
 
(a)                    (b)                    (c) 
圖表 8：不同細節增強的結果比較：(a)無細節強化處理；(b)不具雜訊抑制的細節強化處理；(c)具雜訊
抑制的細節強化處理。 
 
另一項具特色的研究成果係整合前述細節強化技術，進而發展出一套具對比強化能力的高動態範
圍影像顯示技術。圖表 9所示係比較不同高動態範圍影像顯示技術處理後的結果。圖表 9(a)是目前文
獻中能夠呈現最佳影像對比的高動態範圍影像顯示技術[9]。觀察圖表 9(a)不難發現，整張影像在不同
明亮區域都有極佳的對比及可見度(visibility)表現。圖表 9(b)係我們所提出的高動態範圍影像顯示結果
圖。觀察圖表 9(a)和(b)，我們所提出的方法能大大地提升影像對比度，而同時避免影像雜訊(如教堂
地板和階梯等)。圖表 9 (c)的上方圖係圖(a)於圓屋頂的放大圖，而下方圖係圖(b)於圓屋頂的放大圖。
比較上下方圖不難發現，我們所提出的方法大大地強化了影像的局部細節表現，如窗戶的肋和牆上畫
作等。 
10 
[10] R. D. Gow, D. Renshaw, K. Findlater, L. Grant, S. J. McLeod, J. Hart, and R. L. Nicol, “A 
Comprehensive Tool for Modeling CMOS Image-Sensor-Noise Performance,”IEEE Trans. Electron 
Devices, Vol. 54, No. 6, pp. 1321-1329, Jun. 2007. 
[11] D.-Y. Hsiao and H.-Y. Mark Liao, "Target Region-Aware Tone Reproduction," Proc. IEEE International 
Symposium on Circuits and Systems, Seattle,Washington, USA, May 2008. 
[12] D.-Y. Hsiao and H.-Y. Mark Liao, "Smart Tone Reproduction," Proc. IEEE International Conference on 
Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, Las Vegas, USA, March 2008. 
[13] G.W. Larson, H. Rushmeier, and C. Piatko, “A Visibility Matching Tone Reproduction Operator for 
High Dynamic Range Scenes,” IEEE Transaction on Visualization and Computer Graphics, vol. 3, No. 4, 
pp. 291–306, 1997. 
[14] P.-Y. Lu, T.-H. Huang, M.-S. Wu, Y.-T. Cheng, and Y.-Y. Chuang, "High Dynamic Range Image 
Reconstruction from Hand-held Cameras," Proc. of IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition (CVPR’09), pp. 509-516, June 2009, Miami, USA. 
[15] S.M. Pizer, E.P. Amburn, J.D. Austin, R. Cromartie, A. Geselowitz, B. ter Haar Romeny, J.B. 
Zimmerman, and K. Zuiderveld, “Adaptive Histogram Equalization and Its Variations,”Computer Vision, 
Graphics, and Image Processing, Vol. 39, pp. 355-368, 1987. 
[16] E. Reinhard,M. Stark, P. Shirley, and J. Ferwerda, “Photographic Tone Reproduction for Digital Images,” 
Proceedings of ACM SIGGRAPH, pp. 267–276, 2002. 
[17] Samsung Techwin, http://www.samsungtechwin.com/. 
[18] J. Tumblin, J.K. Hodgins, and B.K. Guenter, “Two Methods for Display of High Contrast Images,” 
ACM Transactions on Graphics, Vol. 18, No. 1, pp. 56–9, 1999. 
[19] J. Tumblin and H.E. Rushmeier, “Tone Reproduction for Realistic Images,” IEEE Computer Graphics 
and Applications, vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 42–48, 1993. 
[20] J. Tumblin and G. Turk, “LCIS: A Boundary Hierarchy for Detail-Preserving Contrast Reduction,” 
Proceedings of ACM SIGGRAPH, pp. 83–90, 1999. 
[21] J. Zhang and S.-I. Kamata, “Adaptive Local Contrast Enhancement for the Visualization of High 
Dynamic Range Images,” Proc. IEEE International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR’08), 
2008. 
[22] K. Zuiderveld, “Contrast Limited Adaptive Histogram Equalization,”Graphics Gems IV, Morgan 
Kaufmann, pp. 474-485, 1999. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
two-scale contrast reduction 
scheme [1], is capable of 
preserving details during the 
HDR compression process, it 
cannot be used to enhance the 
local contrasts of image 
contents. Moreover, the effect of 
noise artifacts cannot be 
eliminated when the detail 
manipulation is subsequently 
performed. We propose a new 
tone reproduction scheme, 
which incorporates the local 
contrast enhancement and the 
noise suppression processes, 
for the display of HDR images. 
Our experimental results show 
that the proposed scheme is 
indeed effective in enhancing 
local contrasts of image 
contents and suppressing noise 
artifacts during the increase of 
the visibility of HDR scenes. © 
2010 IEEE.
Number of references: 6
Main heading: Pattern recognition
Controlled terms: Luminance
Uncontrolled terms: Compression process  -  Contrast 
Enhancement  -  HDR image  - 
 High dynamic range images  - 
 Image content  -  Image 
contrasts  -  Local adaptation  - 
 Local contrast  -  Local Contrast 
Enhancement  -  Luminance value
  -  Noise artifacts  -  Noise 
suppression  -  Suppressing noise  
-  Tone reproduction
Classification code: 716 Telecommunication; Radar, 
Radio and Television  -  741.1 
Light/Optics
DOI: 10.1109/ICPR.2010.656
Database: Compendex
Compilation and indexing terms, 
© 2011 Elsevier Inc.
  Full-text and Local Holdings Links
SDOS
About Ei  -  About Engineering Village  -  Feedback  -  Privacy Policy  -  Terms and Conditions 
© 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.
Page 2 of 2Quick Search Detailed Format
Figure 1. The proposed noise-insensitive contrast enhancement scheme for rendering HDR
images.
where log takes the natural logarithm of a luminance
value and δ = 10−6 is used to avoid the singularity
when taking the logarithm of a black value. The edge-
preserving low-pass filter (such as fast bilateral filter
in [1]) is intended for extracting large-scale contents
from the log-luminance image. The small-scale detail at
a pixel (x, y) can be extracted from the original image
by H(x, y) = L(x, y)/V (x, y), where V (x, y) is the
luminance value derived by the edge-preserving filter.
To perform HDR luminance compression, we adapted a
modified version of the luminance compression method
as follows:
V ′(x, y) =
(
Vs(x, y)
1 + Vs(x, y)
)γ
, (2)
where γ is mainly used to boost the visibility of dark
regions. Vs is a scaled luminance value of V and has
the following forms [2]:
Vs(x, y) =
aV (x, y)
V
, V = exp(
1
N
∑
x,y
V˜ (x, y)). (3)
In Eq. (3), V can be regarded as the log-average lumi-
nance and a is the key value used to map the log average
to different values.
2.1. Review of AHE and CLAHE
In this section, AHE (Adaptive Histogram Equal-
ization) and CLAHE (Contrast-Limited Adaptive His-
togram Equalization) are reviewed for the completeness
of algorithm description. In AHE [4], given an image to
be processed, it is first divided into several contextual
regions. Then, HE (Histogram Equalization) is individ-
ually applied to each region so that the visibility of the
image can be maximized on a region-by-region basis.
Because such an HE process lacks of correlation be-
tween neighboring regions, the resultant image contains
visible borders. To eliminate the border effect, in AHE,
four neighboring TRCs are utilized to reproduce the in-
tensities of pixels within the contextual region. Refer-
ring to Fig. 2, assume that the four neighboring TRCs
Figure 2. Illustration of the bilinear in-
terpolation of neighboring TRCs used in
AHE [4] for reproducing the intensities of
the pixels within the rectangle formed by
A, B, C, and D.
are denoted as MA, MB , MC , and MD, where the sub-
scripts A, B, C, and D represent the centers of the four
neighboring regions, respectively. Let V ′ denote the in-
tensity value of a pixel being processed. Then, the re-
produced intensity value of the pixel, V̂ , can be calcu-
lated as follows [4]:
V̂ = (1− h)[(1− w)MA(V ′) + wMB(V ′)] +
h[(1− w)MC(V ′) + wMD(V ′)], (4)
where w stands for the horizontal distance between V ′
and A and h the vertical distance between V ′ and A.
In [6], Zuiderveld introduced CLAHE to alleviate
the noise problem in AHE. In CLAHE, the histogram
of a region is clipped according to a maximum num-
ber of pixels in each of the histogram bins. For later
use, let lmax denote the maximum number of pixels in
each of the bins associated with the histogram. Af-
ter clipping the histogram, the pixels that exceed lmax
(i.e., were clipped) are evenly redistributed over the en-
tire histogram to keep the total pixel count identical.
Moreover, as lmax decreases, the slopes of local his-
tograms become low and therefore result in limited con-
trast enhancement. A very high value of lmax avoids
the redistribution of histogram bin values. Neverthe-
26698177
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
(e) (f) (g)
(h) (i)
Figure 5. The HDR rendering results ob-
tained by the proposed tone reproduction
scheme.
3. Experimental Results
A series of experiments were conducted to test the
performance of the proposed method. All of the param-
eters in our experiments were empirically determined
and set as follows: γ = 0.65, a = 0.18, σc = 10,
kmax = 5, σd = 10. As shown in Fig. 5, the pro-
posed tone reproduction scheme not only can maintain
the overall impression on luminance, but also can in-
crease the contrasts for both small-scale and large-scale
contents in an image. In particular, our HDR rendering
results have the following visually qualitative charac-
teristics: adaptively enhancing local contrasts of HDR
scenes and eliminating noise artifacts according to the
strength of noise in imaging sensors. In Fig. 6, we com-
pared the HDR rendering results obtained from the pro-
posed method with the gradient-domain approach [5].
It can be seen from Fig. 6 that the overall impression
on contrasts have been greatly improved and the image
details look more prominent and visually pleasing.
(a) (b) (c)
Figure 6. Comparison of the HDR render-
ing results obtained from (a) the gradient-
domain approach [5] and (b) the proposed
tone reproduction scheme. The top and
bottom figures of (c) correspond to the
enlarged portions of the dome in (a) and
(b), respectively.
4. Conclusions
The proposed scheme has three remarkable features:
(1) the regional luminance statistics is used as a guide to
increase local contrasts of an image; (2) the strength of
noise in imaging sensors characterized over the entire
luminance range is used as a guide to enhance contrasts
of image details; and (3) the visual quality of render-
ing HDR scenes benefits greatly from the incorporation
of contrast enhancement into the tone reproduction pro-
cess. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first tone
reproduction scheme that not only increases the local
contrasts for image contents and details, but also sup-
presses the effect of noise artifacts resulting from imag-
ing sensors.
References
[1] F. Durand and J. Dorsey. Fast bilateral filtering for the
display of high-dynamic-range images. Proceedings of
ACM SIGGRAPH, pages 257–266, 2002.
[2] P. S. E. Reinhard, M. Stark and J. Ferwerda. Photo-
graphic tone reproduction for digital images. Proceed-
ings of ACM SIGGRAPH, pages 267–276, 2002.
[3] H. R. G. W. Larson and C. Piatko. A visibility match-
ing tone reproduction operator for high dynamic range
scenes. IEEE Transaction on Visualization and Computer
Graphics, 3(4):291–306, 1997.
[4] S. M. Pize. Intensity mappings for the display of medi-
cal images. Functional Mapping of Organ Systems and
Other Computer Topics, 1981.
[5] D. L. R. Fattal and M. Werman. Gradient domain high
dynamic range compression. Proceedings of ACM SIG-
GRAPH, pages 249–256, 2002.
[6] K. Zuiderveld. Contrast limited adaptive histogram
equalization. Graphics GEMS IV, pages 474–485, 1994.
2671839
Computational approaches for
rendering HDR scenes
Global methods Local methods
Previous work Gamma compression,
[Larson et al., 1997] [Tumblin & Turk, 1999],[Reinhard et al., 2002],
[Duran & Dorsey, 2002],
[Fattal et al., 2002]
Advantages Fast and easy to realize
Noise‐insensitive Detail‐preserving
Disadvantages Loss of local contrast  Higher complexity
and details Loss of local contrast
Noise‐sensitive
Dept. of Comp. Info. and Net. Eng.
Lunghwa Univ. of Sci. and Tech. We attempt to improve!3
O h O iur approac :  verv ew
• The proposed work flow
HDR scene LDR picture
(i.e., radiance map)
Noise‐Insensitive
Detail Enhancement
(i.e., displayable image)
Computation of
Log‐Luminance Edge‐PreservingFiltering HDR Luminance Compression Luminance‐Driven CLAHE Inverse ofLog‐Luminance
– Enhance local contrast and details     
– Eliminate the effect of noise artifacts
Dept. of Comp. Info. and Net. Eng.
Lunghwa Univ. of Sci. and Tech. 4
L i D i CLAHEum nance‐ r ven 
• For each region, R, it is 
individually associated with
Adaptive weight function used in luminance-driven CLAHE
 
sigmac = 30     
lR for clipping the histogram 
as follows: 0.8
1
m
en
t
sigmac = 60
sigmac = 90
0.6
tr
as
t 
en
ha
nc
em
),(max ccR Rweightll 








2
5.0exp),( cc
RRweight  0.2
0.4
D
eg
re
e 
of
 c
on
c
0 50 100 150 200 250
0
   yxVRR ),(1
Average luminance value of a tile being processedRyx ),(
Dept. of Comp. Info. and Net. Eng.
Lunghwa Univ. of Sci. and Tech. 7
Qualitative Evaluation
Original AHE
Dept. of Comp. Info. and Net. Eng.
Lunghwa Univ. of Sci. and Tech.LDCLAHE CLAHE 8
Q lit ti E l tiua a ve  va ua on
/ d t ilw o e a
enhancement non-adaptive adaptive
Dept. of Comp. Info. and Net. Eng.
Lunghwa Univ. of Sci. and Tech. 11
O lt 1/3ur resu s –
[Renhard et al., 2002]Our result[Ward et al., 1997]
Dept. of Comp. Info. and Net. Eng.
Lunghwa Univ. of Sci. and Tech. 12
[Renhard et al., 2002]Our result[Ward et al., 1997]
Dept. of Comp. Info. and Net. Eng.
Lunghwa Univ. of Sci. and Tech. 15
O lt 3/3ur resu s –
Our result
[W d t l 1997][T bli t l 1997]
Dept. of Comp. Info. and Net. Eng.
Lunghwa Univ. of Sci. and Tech.
ar  e  a ., um n e  a ., 
16
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 8 月 31 日 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議一同前行的台灣教授有中研院資訊所的廖弘源教授、孫士偉博士及蘇志
文博士、海洋大學資工系的謝君偉教授兼主任及鄭錫齊教授、清華大學電機系的黃
仲陵教授等等。對我來說，很難得能夠在這場國際知名的會議中遇見這些台灣的資
深學者，藉此促成彼此交換學術經驗和心得的機會。圖一是註冊當日的狀況，人相
當多，但註冊會場很有秩序。所有註冊的人都依姓分類處理，相當有效率。圖二則
是各個會議室的標示說明，會場的會議室安排相當得當，在人數和座位的配置上也
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－262－018 
計畫名稱 相機模組 - 一種高對比且抗雜訊的高動態範圍影像顯示技術之開發
與研究 
出國人員
姓名 
林學億 
服務機構
及職稱 
龍華科技大學，資訊網路工程系 
會議時間 
99 年 8 月 23 日至 
99 年 8 月 26 日 
會議地點 
土耳其，伊斯坦堡 
會議名稱 
(中文) 國際圖形識別會議 
(英文) International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 一種高對比且抗雜訊的高動態範圍影像顯示技術 
(英文) Noise-Insensitive Contrast Enhancement for Rendering 
High-Dynamic-Range Images 
 3
  
圖四：Nayar 博士本人照片    圖五：Nayar 博士分享早期相機的建構原理 
 
三、考察參觀活動 
本次 ICPR 會議中，第二天的 Keynote Speech 是由哥倫比亞大學的 Nayar 博士講演
有關現今計算攝影機(Computational Cameras)的研究及發展。Nayar 博士在計算攝影
學(Computational Photography)這個領域相當傑出，在這場 Keynote Speech 中，Nayar
博士也分享他在哥倫比亞大學所從事最新的研究成果，例如：360 度魚眼式的環場影
像建立、透過人眼瞳孔建構環場影像的方法等等。能夠在這場 Keynote Speech 中看
到這些新的環場影像建構技術和展示，真的是值回票價也難能可貴。圖三是 Nayar
博士這場 Keynote Speech 演講的盛況，參加的人相當的多而會場也足以容納 7、8 百
人。圖四是 Nayar 博士在講台上的照片，圖五是 Nayar 博士再分享早期相機的建構原
理。 
 
四、建議 
 International Conference on Pattern Recognition (ICPR)會議每兩年舉辦一次，為圖形
識別會議領域中頗負盛之國際會議，每年匯集逾千名學者專家與會，彼此交流多媒
Search History  -  Selected Records  -  My Profile  -  My 
Alerts
Abstract  -  Detailed  -  
             
  
Record 1 from Compendex for: ((Noise-Insensitive Contrast Enhancement for Rendering High-Dynamic-Range Images) WN All 
fields), 1969-2011
Check record to add to Selected Records
1. Accession number: 20104613390066
Title: Noise-insensitive contrast 
enhancement for rendering 
high-dynamic-range images
Authors: Lin, Hsueh-Yi Sean1 
Author affiliation: 1 Department of Computer 
Information and Network 
Engineering, Lunghwa 
University of Science and 
Technology, Taoyuan 
County, 33306, Taiwan
Corresponding author: Lin, H.-Y. S. 
(seanlin@mail.lhu.edu.tw) 
Source title: Proceedings - International 
Conference on Pattern 
Recognition
Abbreviated source title: Proc. Int. Conf. Pattern 
Recognit.
Monograph title: Proceedings - 2010 20th 
International Conference on 
Pattern Recognition, ICPR 2010
Issue date: 2010
Publication year: 2010
Pages: 2676-2679
Article number: 5596007
Language: English
ISSN: 10514651
CODEN: PICREG
ISBN-13: 9780769541099
Document type: Conference article (CA)
Conference name: 2010 20th International 
Conference on Pattern 
Recognition, ICPR 2010
Conference date: August 23, 2010 - August 26, 
2010
Conference location: Istanbul, Turkey
Conference code: 82392
Publisher: Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers Inc., 445 
Hoes Lane / P.O. Box 1331, 
Piscataway, NJ 08855-1331, 
United States
Abstract: The process of compressing the 
high luminance values into the 
displayable range inevitably 
incurs the loss of image 
contrasts. Although the local 
adaptation process, such as the 
Add a tag  
 
 
  
Public
    
del.icio.us
Page 1 of 2Quick Search Detailed Format
Noise-Insensitive Contrast Enhancement for Rendering
High-Dynamic-Range Images
Hsueh-Yi Sean Lin
Department of Computer Information and Network Engineering
Lunghwa University of Science and Technology, Taoyuan County, 33306 Taiwan
seanlin@mail.lhu.edu.tw
Abstract
The process of compressing the high luminance val-
ues into the displayable range inevitably incurs the
loss of image contrasts. Although the local adapta-
tion process, such as the two-scale contrast reduction
scheme [1], is capable of preserving details during the
HDR compression process, it cannot be used to enhance
the local contrasts of image contents. Moreover, the
effect of noise artifacts cannot be eliminated when the
detail manipulation is subsequently performed. We pro-
pose a new tone reproduction scheme, which incorpo-
rates the local contrast enhancement and the noise sup-
pression processes, for the display of HDR images. Our
experimental results show that the proposed scheme is
indeed effective in enhancing local contrasts of image
contents and suppressing noise artifacts during the in-
crease of the visibility of HDR scenes.
1. Introduction
Creation of still or moving pictures can be done by
painting and photography. In particular, photography
gained the interest of many scientists and artists from
its inception. With advances in digital imaging tech-
nologies, digital photography has greatly benefited a
variety of applications. Moreover, these new technolo-
gies bring new challenges to existing photography and
image processing techniques. One of the fundamental
and challenging problems is how to faithfully reproduce
the high-dynamic-range (HDR) radiance in real-world
scenes on a low-dynamic-range (LDR) display device.
There have been a considerable number of tone re-
production algorithms for the display of HDR images.
In literatures, tone reproduction algorithms are mainly
categorized into two groups: tone reproduction curves
(TRCs) and tone reproduction operators (TROs). In the
pioneer work [3], Ward Larson et al. proposed to it-
eratively adjust image histograms, in such a way that
an image-dependent TRC can be generated for reduc-
ing scene contrasts to display contrasts. The technique
works efficiently and reasonably well on a wide variety
of images. However, the existing TRCs trade off the
distortion of image contrasts for the HDR compression,
which to some extent limits the power of representing
the visually significant components of the HDR scene
on an LDR device.
To improve visual fidelity, several computational
processes, including two-scale decomposition [1], a
gradient-domain Poisson solver [5], and multiresolu-
tion decomposition [2], have been proposed and shown
to achieve remarkable success in mimicking the local
adaption in human visual system. Although the existing
TROs are well able to preserve details during the HDR
compression process, none of them can be used to en-
hance the local contrasts of image contents. Moreover,
the effect of noise artifacts cannot be eliminated when
the detail manipulation is subsequently performed.
2. Noise-Insensitive Contrast Enhancement
for Rendering HDR Images
To tackle with the aforementioned problems, we pro-
pose a new tone reproduction scheme, which incorpo-
rates the contrast enhancement and the noise suppres-
sion processes, for rendering HDR images. As shown
in Fig. 1, given an HDR scene, its luminance values
are converted into the so-called log-luminance values.
Let L(x, y) and L˜(x, y) denote the luminance value
and the log-luminance value of a pixel (x, y), respec-
tively. Then, the computation of log-luminance can be
expressed as
L˜(x, y) = log(L(x, y) + δ), (1)
2010 International Conference on Pattern Recognition
1051-4651/10 $26.00 © 2010 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/ICPR.2010.656
26688076
(a) The original image (b) (c) (d) (e)
Figure 3. Comparison of the LDR contrast enhancement results obtained from (b) AHE, (c)
CLAHE, (d) the luminance-driven CLAHE, and (e) the proposed tone reproduction scheme.
less, there are some drawbacks in CLAHE: as shown
in Fig. 3(c), for dark regions (such as the girls’ sweater
and neckerchief), CLAHE is well capable of increasing
their local contrasts; however, for bright regions (such
as clouds and grass), some undesired artifacts (like dirts
and spots) are produced in the resultant image.
2.2. Luminance-Driven CLAHE
In the luminance-driven CLAHE, for each contextual
region, R, the region is individually associated with lR
for clipping the local histogram. More specifically, lR
is defined as follows:
lR = lmax · weightc(R, σc), (5)
weightc(R, σc) = exp(−0.5
(
R/σc
)2
)), (6)
R =
1
|R|
∑
(x,y)∈R
V ′(x, y), (7)
where |R| is the number of pixels in the region R.
σc is used to control the degree of local contrast en-
hancement. Accordingly, Eqs. (5)-(7) together work as
follows: for dark regions, because their average lumi-
nance values are low (yet their weights are high), the
luminance-driven CLAHE intentionally increases their
contrasts. As for bright regions, the contrast enhance-
ment process is performed as less as possible.
2.3. Noise-Insensitive Detail Enhancement
To suppress the noise artifacts, we propose to formu-
late the noise-insensitive detail enhancement process as
follows:
Ĥ = H˜max
[
1− exp(−kH˜)
1 + exp(−kH˜)
]
, (8)
where H˜ and H˜max represent the extracted detail value
(i.e., H˜ = log(H+δ)) and the maximum absolute value
among all of the detail values, respectively, and Ĥ is
(a) w/o enhancement (b) non-adaptive (c) adaptive
Figure 4. Comparison of the results de-
rived by the non-adaptive and the adap-
tive detail enhancement processes, re-
spectively.
the enhanced detail value. k is used to manipulate the
magnitude of a detail value regardless of the sign of the
value. To make k adaptive, we propose to parameter-
ize k in accordance with the strength of sensor noise as
follows:
k = kmax · weightd(V ′, σd), (9)
where kmax represents the maximum degree of detail
enhancement. weightd is the adaptive weight function
used to guide the detail enhancement process, which is
defined as
weightd(V
′, σd) = exp
(
−0.5(V
′
max − V ′
σd
)2
)
, (10)
where V ′max is the maximum luminance value and σd is
used to control the shape of the Gaussian-based func-
tion. Unlike the guideline used in the luminance-driven
CLAHE, the weight function defined in Eq. (10) is de-
signed based on the principle that a pixel with low lumi-
nance value invokes less detail enhancement process to
suppress the noise effect, while for bright pixels, the de-
tail enhancement process can be performed as much as
possible (up to kmax). Fig. 4 shows the resultant images
after the non-adaptive and the adaptive detail enhance-
ment processes were applied, respectively.
2670828
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/06/09
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 相機模組 - 一種高對比且抗雜訊的高動態範圍影像顯示技術之開發與研究
計畫主持人: 林學億
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-262-018- 學門領域: 影像處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
