21
2
4(Device) [2]
1 OSI [2]
OSI FTP
Telnet E-mail
Encrypt Compress [2]
TCP/IP Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol
2 OSI
Application Layer
Presentation Layer
Session Layer
Transportation Layer
Network Layer
Data Link Layer
Physical Layer
62. Distribution of Processes
client/server server client server
Server
clients server
peer-to-peer client
client client
hybrid systems
servers server peer-to-peer
server clients
peer-to-peer client/server
client/server
Unicast Broadcat
3
3
client server
client server User
Interface UI UI Unicast
Broadcat
84
4
Main main function
ClientFrame client
MainTcpClient
-host String
-port int
-isConnect boolea
n
+receiveMsg()
+sendMsg()
+closeConnection()
ClientFrame
- tcpClient TcpClient
-writeMsg()
ProtocolProcess
-isEndCustomer boolean
-msgNumber int
+receiveMsgFromeServer()
-sendMsgToServer()
UtilityTool
+serialize()
+deserialize()
NewOrder
-type char
-duedate int
+snedNewOrder()
Confirm
-type char
-duedate int
+orderConfirm()
Cancel
-type char
-duedate int
+orderCancel()
OrderInfo
+order Vector
+orderCount int
+orderSate int
+purchase Vector
+purchaseCount in
t
+purchaseSate int
10
ListenServer
TcpServer
java.net ServerSocket
TcpServer
ListenServer
java.net Socket
12
3.
E F
server
6
6 E F
Main
MainFrame
- tcpClient TcpClient
- listenServer ListenServer
-writeMsg()
ProtocolProcess
-isInitialSupplier boolean
-msgNumber int
+receiveMsgFromeClient()
-sendMsgToClient()
UtilityTool
+serialize()
+deserialize()
ListenServer
-port int
-tcpServer[ ] TcpServe
r
+receiveMsg()
+sendMsg()
+closeListen()
TcpServer
-index int
-isConnect boolea
n
+receiveMsg()
+sendMsg()
+closeConnect()
Accepted
-type char
-duedate int
-releaseTime Strin
g
+accepted()
MaterialDate
-type char
-duedate int
+materialInfo()
OrderInfo
+order Vector
+orderCount int
+orderSate int
14
1.2.2
A
A 8
Server Client
Server tool bar
Client
8 A
1. Server 9
Client
16
1.3
1.3.1
Factory A
Factory B Factory C Factory D Factory E Factory F sever
9
9
Factory A X Y
1 2
IP 140.128.118.20
3
Customer
IP 140.128.118.20
1
Factory A
Port 123
Factory F
Port 234
IP 140.128.118.15
3
Factory E
Port 456
IP 140.128.118.9
Factory D
Port 567
Factory C
Port 345
Factory B
Port 678
IP 140.128.118.3
IP 140.128.118.15
6
IP 140.128.118.20
2
18
1.3.2
client server 10
sever client Factory
A 123 Customer
10 client/server
Customer X 10 Factory A Factory
A
11 Customer client Factory
A server
20
13 01
Factory A
Customer
14
14 01
22
16 01
17 01
Customer
18
24
19
Factory A server
Customer
IP
20
20
26
22 02
Factory A server
Customer
Factory A
23
23
28
25 02
26 Customer Factory A Factory E
Factory A 02
01
26 02
30
28
29
Factory A
Customer Customer
30
32
Factory A Factory B Factory C
client server 32
Factory A
33
32
33
34
35
Factory A
Factory A
36
36
36
1.3.5
Customer Factory A Factory B Factory
C Factory D Factory F
Customer X 13
Factory A
Customer Factory D
m 7 Factory D
Factory A
Factory F p 3
Factory F
Factory F
Factory E
Factory B Factory C Factory
C 15 Factory E Customer
Customer Factory A Factory C
Factory D
Factory D Factory F
Factory F
Factory
D Factory A
38
40 05 Factory A
41 05 Factory B C
40
1.
Addison Wesley, Inc, 1999.
2. Java -TCP/IP Internet Programming
2002
3. : A Collaborative Multi-
Proceedings VRML 99 of the fourth symposium on The virtual reality
modeling language, pp.35-42, 1999.
2Designated Communication for Collaborative
Production: Theorems and Principles
Abstract
Communication plays a critical role in collaborative production because it
fundamentally supports collaborative activities. Communication is basic to the
strategic thinking of any company. Various intents, expectations, and costs are
inherent in an initiative of communication. No fundamental guidelines have been
proposed for the design of collaborative production even though various designs have
been investigated.
The purpose of this study is to determine and propose fundamental guidelines
(theorems and principles) regarding communication. This research defines a
communication triangle that confines communication in three dimensions:
collaborative organization, production requirement, and organizational
communication. Six elements affecting communication behavior are examined based
onthethreedimensions;collaborative emergence, partner dynamics, bilateral
relationship, communication cost, transaction cost, and communication timing. This
research develops five lemmas and six theorems with the triangle. The study deduces
and illustrates nine communication principles. The principles present the knowledge
of communication that has not been organized to date. Further communication design
details may be developed based on the principles.
Keywords: collaborative organization, communication principles, organizational
communication, partner dynamics, production requirement, transaction cost
4orderly flow of information that describes the coordination mechanism.
3. Justification Layer: Companies need to determine the relationship between
communicating entities, the content of collaboration, and the resources of sharing
to determine collaborative activities.
(Insert Figure 1 Here)
Data transmission in the data layer is the physical transfer of data over a
point-to-point or point-to-multipoint transmission medium. Communication between
different application systems usually requires complicated data format conversion in
the syntax layer.
Communication benefits companies and incurs costs. The justification layer of
communication determines the value of a communication method for a specific
collaborative organization. Thus, the development of justification criteria is crucial for
the evaluation of communication design in collaborative production. Theorems or
principles of communication have to be investigated to help build the justification
criteria.
1.2 Elements of communication triangle
The diverse production requirement will form different patterns of collaborative
organization in collaborative production (Balakrishnan et al. 1995, Yoon et al. 2010).
The collaborative organization requires communication to coordinate resource
allocation and achieve a common goal (Villa et al. 1994, Yoon and Nof 2010). Three
dimensions of collaborative production for communication are specified;production
requirement, collaborative organization, and organizational communication. The three
6secure the capacity or materials from the suppliers on-line when it uses a real-time
information system.
The three dimensions have distinct influences on communication for
collaborative production. The production requirement and collaborative organization
are different approaches to rearranging collaborative production. The strength of
collaboration as an organism, function and structure, is organizational communication.
There are six elements which affect communication behavior;collaborative
emergence, partner dynamics, bilateral relationship, communication cost, transaction
cost, and communication timing. These elements are the building blocks for the
communication principle of collaborative production.
1.3 Objective of the research
Cooperation involves not only information exchange and alignment of activities,
but also sharing resources for achieving compatible goals (Camarinha-Matos and
Afsarmanesh 2007). Communication between collaborators is an activity not only a
state of behavior. It is a process of transmitting or receiving information by means of
information carriers in formats of data and syntax from one individual to another. The
objective of this study was to establish criteria by means of theorems and principles to
judge and determine suitable communication. The study examined communication
lemmas, theorems, and communication principles based on the communication
triangle in Figure 2,
This paper is organized as follows: Section 2 summarizes the information
communication technologies for sharing and exchanging information. Section 3
explores the power influence on bilateral relationships and presents hyperarchical
organization communicating based on organizational power structures. Section 4
8machines, robots, tele-operations, and sensors. These technologies also increase the
ability of producers, suppliers, distributors and customers to exchange information
(Nof 2003, Yoon and Nof 2010).
Collaborative and information integration in manufacturing systems are
characterized by autonomy, distribution, communication, and collaboration (Nof 1994,
Nof 2007). Those characteristics are enabled by ICT. Communication between
collaborators is increased in regard to the amount of information and frequency of
interaction if there is an increase of coordination and cooperation. Communication
protocols keep this communication to a minimum through structures of dialogues and
protocols to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of communication (Huang et al.
2009).
Collaborative organization can apply advanced ICT linking collaborative
members to speed up communication and enhance autonomous decision-making. A
disadvantage of the autonomous collaboration system is its uncertainty controls. The
uncertainty occurs when the distribution of control information differs from where the
control decisions are actually made (Lesser and Corkill 1981). Other types of
uncertainties are more severe including the reliability of information, the imprecision
of representation of that information, the incompleteness of the information, and the
aggregation of information from multiple sources (Bonissone 1986, Bonissone and
Decker 1986). Some of these communication problems occur because the
collaborative members lack motivation to expend the additional effort that is required
to resolve the problems. Effective communication for collaborative production
consequently requires a fundamental guideline to develop a communication
environment among collaborative members.
10
3.2 Hyperarchical organization of collaborative production
Collaborative production involves tasks, projects, plans, and goals. Collaborative
members exchange information, negotiate planning, and make decisions. The members
must coordinate their various schedules, resources, and motivations so that the group
can make a decision, generate a product, and achieve a common goal. Any
collaborative organization has specific communication requirements. The relationship
between different companies will affect the mode of communication. Each
collaborative organization in these bilateral relationships can be either hierarchical or
nonhierarchical (Evans and Wurster 1997, Jagdev and Thoben 2001). Evan and
Wurster (1997) and Jagdev and Thoben (2001) illustrate the network organization of
inter-company interactions and interdependencies in t .
The hyperarchical organization consists of a network of independent companies,
suppliers, customers, competitors, linked together to share skills, costs, and access to a
market. This network comprises a group of units of different firms that have joined in
an alliance to exploit complementary skills in pursuing common strategic objectives.
Hyperarchical organizations need not be permanent. Participating companies may be
involved in multiple alliances at any one time.
4 Economic issues of collaborative production
4.1 Cost of communication
The company must assess many attributes of decision variables to reduce the
transaction cost and maximize profit in determining a collaborative partner. Barua et al.
(1997) propose effective supplier selection strategies that complement information
technologies to lower the expected cost to the buyer, to evaluate more suppliers, and to
selecting better suppliers. They divide the supplier selection cost into three basic
12
Lemma 3 IT reduces communication cost among collaborative partners.
Proof. Appendix A3.
Theorem 3 Communication between companies requires a connected information
system with IT to reduce communication cost and increase the efficiency
of information transmission.
Proof. Appendix B3.
Lemma 4 A company establishes a pool of candidate partners with a good reputation
for future collaborative production. A company could reduce selection cost
if a partner was selected from the pool because the evaluation cost is
reduced.
Proof. Appendix A4.
Theorem 4 Buyers of customized products intend to select collaborators with goodwill
and a good reputation based on their previous transactions.
Proof. Appendix B4.
Collaborative producers will require frequent communication for a complicated
product and will collect more product attributes, A. High communication and
evaluation cost, E result from a complicated product. The ability to customize
important product or service characteristics inherent in explicit coordination decreases
the benefits of the search (Clemons et al. 1993).
4.2 Transaction cost economics
Collaborative production attempts to increase resource utilization and value
14
cooperation, are dependent on reputation building and the spread of information about
the reputation of others in the industry (Bravo and Tamburino 2008).
Evans and Wolf (2005) point out that the information flow is important to the
level of trust. The opportunity for one company to exploit the ignorance of another
company is diminished. People are less likely to act opportunistically when their
reputation is at stake. Companies that reciprocate often gain a reputation that results in
greater perceived trustworthiness. These companies are more likely to be honored by
other companies (Sommerfeld et al. 2008). These factors enhance trust, the
fundamental requirement of collaborative production.
4.2.3 Trust reduces transaction cost
Trust is similar to decisions about taking risky choices in collaborative
production (Msanjila and Afsarmanesh 2008). Collaborators are motivated to
establish trust relationships with each other in order to either maximize the expected
gains or minimize the expected losses from their transactions (Josang and Lo Presti
2004). The incentive of a retailer to coordinate order is less if there is a lack of trust
(Mohtadi and Kinsey 2005).
Nakayama (2000) finds that information exchange plays a role in the power
relationship between supermarkets and their suppliers, which impacts their mutual trust
and the sharing of information technology among companies. The component suppliers
of Toyota share process knowledge daily. They trust that Toyota will not use it to beat
down prices. Linux hackers trust one another to make uncoordinated and simultaneous
emendations in the code base. Agreements are enforced neither by the sanction of a
legal contract nor by the authority of a boss but by mutual trust-lowering transaction
costs in the Linux and Toyota communities (Evans and Wolf 2005). Large-scale trust
drives down transaction costs. Low transaction costs enable many small transactions,
16
coordinates itself more through formal communication than through informal
communication modes (Jablin 1990). Formal communication is a protocol governing
the exchange of messages through interactions of communication software modules
(Huang et al. 2008, Chen et al. 2009). Informal communication is a substitute for an
inadequate formal system. Informal communication systems arise when information
transmitted through the formal system is either insufficient or ambiguous (Walton
1961).
A company requires formal communication to ensure information flows
effortlessly, precisely, and timely. Formal communication usually is described in terms
of the three directions of message flow within a hierarchical system;downward
communication, upward communication, and horizontal communication (Daniels and
Spiker 1994).
Communication between collaborators has to establish an information link as a
communication channel. Bridge links communication is a pattern of horizontal
communication between different collaborative members and organizational units
(Albrecht and Ropp 1982). Bridge links seldom appears in formal organization
communication. The link facilitates information sharing between collaborative
members reducing the information filtering and distortion. The delay in the
transmission of information occurs because of fewer levels of horizontal
communication structure within a company. Research indicates that linkers identify
more closely with the collaborator, have a stronger connection between their tasks and
self-concepts, think of their tasks in terms of collaboration and effectiveness, see a
closer connection between their tasks and their benefits, and are less frustrated than
nonlinkers (Albrecht 1984).
Lemma 5 Collaborators may establish horizontal bridge links to communicate
18
consciousness is consistent based on Theorem 3. Lemma 3 suggests that introducing
information technology could reduce communication cost. The link of the information
system between collaborators should connect with IT based on Lemma 2. Figure 3
shows the deductive map of Principle I.
(Insert Figure 3 Here)
II. Principle of information sharing/exchange
Collaborators try to maximize profit and minimize cost, Lemma 1. The elimination of
uncertainty between collaborators can result in substantial cost saving for the entire
collaborative organization according to Theorem 2.
III. Principle of integrating information system
Collaborative members have to create horizontal bridge links that permit collaborators
at the same level to communicate directly. Theorem 3 suggests that communication
technology enables electronic communication. However, compatible information
between two enterprises is required according to Theorem 2. Different information
systems in enterprises must be integrated. Modern protocol technology that enables
effective collaboration tasks is a typical example (Nof 2003). Figure 4 shows the
deductive map of Principle III.
(Insert Figure 4 Here)
IV. Principle of intercompany trust
Trust is related to information security, confidentiality, and the reputation of the
business. Decisions about trust are similar to decisions about taking risky choices in
economics (Msanjila and Afsarmanesh 2008). The trust of a collaborative organization
20
between collaborative members. By Theorem 6, successful inter-organizational
coordination requires the members to share profits and risks, in addition to sharing
information.
VII. Principle of referent
A company collaborating with other companies increases its ability to make profit and
increase survivability, Theorem 6. Google combines HTC, a hardware producer, and
Android, a software company, introducing the Nexus One phone during 2010. A
company finds other partner companies, which create profits without increasing the
operation and opportunism risks, Lemma 1. Figure 5 shows the deductive map of
Principle VII.
(Insert Figure 5 Here)
VIII. Principle of expert
A company that has core technology is an expert in the industry. The company
possesses some special knowledge or ability (expert power) to solve a problem,
perform a task, or explore a new market. This ability becomes a brand and goodwill
referent power in the market. A company who selects a goodwill partner could reduce
its searching cost because of the reduced evaluation cost. An expert company with core
technologies is attractive for collaborative production. Figure 6 shows the deductive
map of Principle VIII.
(Insert Figure 6 Here)
IX Principle of relationship duration
A long-term relationship can reduce transaction cost between two companies. It is
22
method for collaborative production requires studying inter-organizational
relationships. Transaction cost economics is the motive behind these relationships.
The principles in this research play the role of auditing the performance of
communication in collaborative production. Ford and ABB found after they surveyed
the ineffective communication between partners that they need deeper intercompany
trust (Principle IV) (Frey and Schlosser 1993). The principles may be applied to guide
the communication design for an emerging collaborative organization. Wal-Mat, may
want to share the customer requirement information with its suppliers to reduce
inventory and cost, and speed deliveries. Wal-Mart requires a linking information
system with its suppliers (Principle I). A communication system can be improved by
EDI for quick and secure information exchange (Principle II). A POS system for the
transparency of stock level and replenish schedule may be introduced (Principle IV).
Complex and dynamic collaborative organizations have a strong need for
systematical guidelines for communication design. Industries such as searching
partners for new market opportunities with broadly scattered and highly specialized
companies can benefit from the guidelines. Guidelines are important because the
collaborative production system has to be formed and operated instantaneously. The
principles allow collaborative members to develop a better communication design in
collaborative production. The principles highlight the importance of linking the
information system between collaborative members. Analysis of the partners indicates
that trust and specialization need to be developed.
Acknowledgements
The authors are thankful for the support from research project NSC
98-2221-E-029-019, National Science Council, Taiwan.
24
Many researchers agree that IT can decrease the costs accumulation, communication,
and processing of information (Malone et al. 1987, Bakos 1991a, Bakos 1991b,
Clemons and Row 1992, Strader and Shaw 1997). The IT investment cost among
collaborators is mainly the hardware and software costs of the Internet
(Garcia-Dastugue and Lambert 2003). A fundamental economic characteristic of IT
investment is that fixed costs are high and marginal costs are low. (Clemons and Row
1992). Because IT is able to increase information availability and processing capacity
(Clemons et al. 1993), as the amount of information increases the unit cost of
communicating and information processing is consequently reduced.
Appendix A4: Proof of Lemma 4
The evaluation cost for supplier selection is the product of the number of suppliers to
be evaluated (N), and the number of attributes (A). A pool of candidate partners will
help reduce N by ruling out the unqualified suppliers which do not pass the
requirements. These requirements include delivery time, service backup, maintenance
requirements, and a minimum level of expertise. A smaller number of N will lead to a
lower transaction cost for the buyer and will speed up the selection process. The
company incurs less search cost if it searches for a new supplier in the pool. The
company may incur some risk (cost) that the supplier overcharges if the company
directly negotiates the change with existing suppliers in the pool. However, the cost
may be less expensive if there is a high levels of explicit coordination (Clemons et al.
1993). Therefore, a company selects its partners from the pool of good reputation
because it can reduce selection cost.
Appendix A5: Proof of Lemma 5
Three major characteristics of communication content are described that affect
26
Information sharing at the inventory level by a retailer can reduce the uncertainty for
the vender of the forecasted demand and variation. Inventory cost saving results from
information sharing in the supply chain (Lee et al. 2000, Xu et al. 2001). Yao and
Dresner (2008) also demonstrate that inventory cost saving can be achieved through
sharing of real-time inventory data by the retailer, no matter what the customer demand
is stable or highly variant. However, the retailer does not receive any benefit from
sharing either the projected net requirement or future planned order information with
the supplier (Zhao and Xie 2002), because the retailer does not eliminate uncertainty
through the sharing of information. Besides, clairvoyance of uncertainties has synergy
effect. Howard (1966) proves that we have a basis for investing in uncertainty
reduction when we know the benefit of reducing uncertainty.
Appendix B3: Proof of Theorem 3
The uncertainties of collaborative production between companies may cause (1) a lack
of information necessary to make a decision, (2) a lack of knowledge for the
perceived risk associated with a decision, or (3) a lack of understanding the root cause
of a problem in collaborative production (Balakrishnan et al. 1994). Communication
reduces or at least copes with uncertainty (Weick 1979). However, communication
also increases the cost of production. An individual collaborative member pursues its
own maximal benefit and averts any possible risk based on Lemma 1. Communication
with IT reduces coordination cost between companies, Lemma 2. Therefore,
collaborative companies require IT to reduce communication cost and increase
efficiency of information transmission.
Appendix B4: Proof of Theorem 4
28
retailer feels the transaction is not equitable or there is a lack of reciprocity, Theorem
5. The other company may provide a way of inducing changes in sharing information
if the collaborative organization is valuable to continuous, financial incentive and
bonuses (Domberger 1998). Hence, the collaborative members must share values
obtained from the collaborative activities to increase motivation to share information.
References
Albrecht, T.L., 1984. Managerial communication and work perception Beverly
Hills, CA: Sage.
Albrecht, T.L. & Ropp, V.A., 1982. The study of network structuring in
organizations through the use of method triangulation. Western Journal of
Communication. 162-178.
Alexander, R.D., 1987. The biology of moral systems New York: Aldin de Gruyter.
Bakos, J.Y., 1991a. Information links and electronic marketplaces: The role of
interorganizational information systems in vertical markets. Journal of
Management Information Systems, 8, 31-52.
Bakos, J.Y., 1991b. A strategic analysis of electronic marketplaces. MIS Quarterly,
15, 295-310.
Balakrishnan, A., Kalakota, R., Ow, P.S. & Whinston, A.B., 1995.
Document-centered information-systems to support reactive
problem-solving in manufacturing. International Journal of Production
Economics, 38 (1), 31-58.
Balakrishnan, A., Kalakota, R., Whinston, A.B. & Ow, P.S., 1994. Designing
collaborative systems to support reactive problem-solving in
manufacturing. In Nof, S.Y. ed. Information and collaboration models of
integration. The Netherlands: Kluwer.
Barua, A., Ravindran, S. & Whinston, A.B., 1997. Efficient selection of suppliers
over the internet. Journal of Management Information Systems, 13 (4),
117-137.
Benslimane, Y., Plaisent, M. & Bernard, P., 2005. Investigating search costs and
coordination costs in electronic markets: A transaction costs economics
perspective. Electronic Markets. 213-224.
Blau, P.M., 1964. Exchange and power in social life New York: Wiley.
Bonissone, P.P., 1986. Plausible reasoning: Coping with uncertinty in expert
systems New York: Wiley.
30
Evans, P.B. & Wurster, T.S., 1997. Strategy and the new economics of information.
Harvard Business Review. 70-82.
Foa, U.G. & Foa, E.B., 1971. Resource exchange: Toward a structural theory of
interpersonal relations New York: Pergamon Press.
Forsyth, D.R., 2006. Group dynamics, 4 ed. Belmont, CA: Brooks/Cole
Publishing Company.
French, J.R.P., Jr. & Raven, B.H., 1959. The bases of social power Ann Arbor:
University of Michigan Press.
Frey, S.C.J. & Schlosser, M.M., 1993. Abb and ford: Creating value through
cooperation. Sloan Management Review. 8.
Garcia-Dastugue, S.J. & Lambert, D.M., 2003. Internet-enabled coordination in
the supply chain. Industrial Marketing Management, 32 (3), 251-263.
Goldhaber, G.M., 1993. Organizational communication (6th ed.) Dubuque, IA:
Brown & Benchmark.
Homans, G.C., 1974. Social behavior: Its elementary forms San Diego: Harcourt
Brace Jovanovich.
Howard, R.A., 1966. Information value theory. IEEE Transactions on Systems
Science and Cybernetics. 22-26.
Huang, C.Y., Ceroni, J.A. & Nof, S.Y., 2000. Agility of networked enterprises -
parallelism, error recovery and conflict resolution. Computers in Industry,
42 (2-3), 275-287.
Huang, C.Y., Huang, C.C. & Liu, C.Y., 2008. Order confirmation mechanism for
collaborative production networks. International Journal of Production
Research, 46 (3), 595-620.
Huang, C.Y., Huang, T.S. & Chen, W.L., 2009. Communication protocols for
order management in collaborative manufacturing. International Journal
of Production Economics, 122 (1), 257-268.
Huang, C.Y. & Wu, Y.W., 2003. Decision model for partnership development in
virtual enterprises. International Journal of Production Research, 41 (9),
1855-1872.
Huang, C.Y., Yang, T.T., Chen, W.L. & Nof, S.Y., 2010. Reference architecture for
collaborative design. International Journal of Computers Communications
& Control, 5 (1), 71-90.
Ishii, K., Ichimura, T. & Mihara, I., 2005. Information behavior in the
determination of functional specifications for new product development.
International Journal of Production Economics. 262-270.
Jablin, F.M., 1990. Task/work relationship: A life-span perspective New York:
Longman.
32
1291-1298.
Ohtsuki, H. & Iwasa, Y., 2006. The leading eight: Social norms that can maintain
cooperation by indirect reciprocity. Journal of Theoretical Biology.
435-444.
Ring, P.S. & Vandeven, A.H., 1992. Structuring cooperative relationships between
organizations. Strategic Management Journal. 483-498.
Sommerfeld, R.D., Krambeck, H.J. & Milinski, M., 2008. Multiple gossip
statements and their effect on reputation and trustworthiness. Proceedings
of the Royal Society B-Biological Sciences. 2529-2536.
Strader, T.J. & Shaw, M.J., 1997. Characteristics of electronic markets. Decision
Support Systems. 185-198.
Terwiesch, C. & Loch, C.H., 2004. Collaborative prototyping and the pricing of
custom-designed products. Management Science. 145-158.
Thibaut, J.W. & Kelley, H.H., 1959. The social psychology of groups New York:
Wiley.
Trivers, R.L., 1971. The evolution of reciprocal altruism. The Quarterly Review of
Biology.
Velasquez, J.D. & Nof, S.Y., 2009. Collaborative e-work, e-business, and
e-service. In Nof, S.Y. ed. Handbook of automation. Springer, 1549-1576.
Victor, R.L., Daniel, D.C. & Edmund, H.D., 1987. An update on the distributed
vehicle monitoring testbed.
Villa, A., Brandimarte, P. & Calderini, M., 1994. Meta-models for integrating
production management functions in heterogeneous industrial systems
Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Kluwer Academic Publishers.
Viswanathan, S., Widiarta, H. & Piplani, R., 2007. Value of information exchange
and synchronization in a multi-tier supply chain. International Journal of
Production Research. 5057-5074.
Walton, E., 1961. How efficient is the grapevine? Personnel. 45-49.
Weick, K., 1979. The social psychology of organizing 2nd ed Reading, MA:
Addison-Wesley.
Williamson, O.E., 1998. Transactioncosteconomics:Howitworks;whereitis
headed. Economist. 23-58.
Xu, K.F., Dong, Y. & Evers, P.T., 2001. Towards better coordination of the supply
chain. Transportation Research Part E-Logistics and Transportation
Review. 35-54.
Yao, Y.L. & Dresner, M., 2008. The inventory value of information sharing
continuous replenishment, and vendor-managed inventory. Transportation
Research Part E-Logistics and Transportation Review. 361-378.
34
Table 1 Principle deductive map
Information Transfer Methods and Tools
Data transmission E-mail, Fax, Telephone
Communication Linking System
Protocols: VMI, CPFR Contract Net, RosettaNet
Relationships between Collaborators
Collaborative organization Communication requirement
Justification Layer
Syntax Layer
Data Layer



 ________________________________________ 
†: Corresponding Author 
Open Architecture for Collaborative Design
Chin-Yin Huang†
Department of Industrial Engineering and Enterprise Information
Tunghai University, Taichung 407, TAIWAN
Email: huangcy@ie.thu.edu.tw
Tung-Ting Yang
HTC Corporation
No.23, Singhua Rd., Taoyuan City, Taoyuan 330, TAIWAN
Email: anne7349@hotmail.com
Wu-Lin Chen
Department of Computer Science and Information Management
Providence University, Taichung 407, TAWIAN
Email: wlchen@pu.edu.tw
Shimon Y. Nof
School of Industrial Engineering,
Purdue University, 315 N. Grant Street, W. Lafayette, IN 47907-2023, USA
Email: nof@purdue.edu
Abstract. Issues and themes of Collaborative Design (CD) addressed by researchers done so far are so
extensive that when running the project of collaborative design, people may lack the directions or guidelines
without the whole picture. Hence, developing an Open Architecture (OA) for CD is important and necessary
in the academic and empirical field. An OA provides the elementary skeleton and can be extended and
adapted to diverse, changing environment. The OA provides a comprehensive framework and makes practices
implemented more thoroughly and easily. The OA developed in this research is formed by three dimensions:
decision aspect, design stage, and collaboration scope. There are five aspects in the dimension of decision
aspect: (1) participant, (2) product, (3) process, (4) organization, and (5) information. The dimension of
design stage includes three stages: (1) planning and concepting, (2) system-level design and detail design,
and (3) testing and prototyping. The dimension of collaboration scope includes three types of situations: (1)
cross-functional, (2) cross-company, and (3) cross-industry. Because of the three dimensions, a cubic
framework is developed. The cubic framework helps decision-makers in dealing with implementing a CD
project or activity. It also serves as a guideline for CD system developers or people involved in the design
collaboration to figure out their own functions and their relationship with other members. Demonstrations of
how to use the framework in developing design collaboration activities and specifying the details of various
types of CD are also provided in this research.
Keywords: communication, design management, design stage, information system, reference model
1. COLLABORATIVE DESIGN
1.1 Definition and Issues
Researches regarding collaboration activities have
become popular issues from 1990s, and also have
developed into many schools and research branches of this
domain for recent years. Collaboration is an extensive
domain that includes domain issues from product
development collaboration to even e-commerce. Hence, the
core arena of this research would focus specifically on
Collaborative Design (CD) under the key subject of product
development collaboration. “Collaboration is a process in
which entities share information, resources and
responsibilities to jointly plan, implement, and evaluate a
series of activities to achieve a common goal. It implies a
  
2.1 Elementary Factors
Two substances taken into consideration are industry
characteristics and the infrastructure of information
system. The former indicates that involved participants
focus more on the product and process aspect in improving
efficiency and effectiveness of design process for instance.
The latter one means level or completeness the
infrastructure of IT can support. The IT infrastructure
primarily aims at fundamental information system such as
PDM or Collaborative Product Definition Management
(CPDM) and adoption of software like CAD, CAPP to
facilitate design process.
2.2 Qualified Factors
Based on the elementary, four CD qualified factors are
considered in this research:
1. Data repository or database with profound
contents: which stores the entities of the virtual
world together with their attributes, and the
database should include the functions like
information storage and data retrieval.
2. 3D virtualized tool for product design: such as
Dynamic UI Generation, CAD-CAE System, and
3D editor. This tool is a virtual product manager
that provides the user with a desktop GUI.
3. Connecting systems for communication and
interchanges: indicate systems connected with one
another via LAN or internet. Therefore internet,
web browser or process diagram tool which is
used to model a product realization process, and
then invoke the available agents integrated into the
framework may be practical tools of CD. The
cooperative support platform is another
connecting system (Luo 2007).
4. Powerful Application Service Provider (ASP)
Server or core application, which provides
functionality for loading, processing and saving
the objects of the virtual world.
2.3 Advanced Factors
With basic equipment as elementary and qualified
factors, discussions of CD will be pulled into another
confine. The CD Cube, which composed of three key
dimensions, we proposed in the next section, will focus
more on the advanced factors to implement CD. In decision
dimension, five deciding elements would be mentioned; in
design stage dimension, we will find out different
characteristics of CD following classification of each stage;
finally, in collaboration scope dimension, models of CD
would be defined and discussed with various boundaries set
of scope.
3. OPEN ARCHITECTURE FOR
COLLABORATIVE DESIGN
At first, a conceptual introduction of the contents and
dimensions to model a CD activity is introduced (see
Figure 1). To structure a CD framework, we first clarify the
situation of proposed CD, including the actors involved, the
target objectives for collaboration, our competences in the
CD activity, and the resources we have.
After that, we need to make sure we are acknowledged
with our CD process model, corresponding CD
organization type to carry out the project smoothly,
information interchange mechanism, and the collaborative
design stage and scope we are involved in. Considering all
of these issues, we can build up CD framework containing
taxonomy of each composing elements, principles for CD
initiator to take into account, and so on.
Figure 1 Conceptual introduction of CD Open Architecture
3.1 CD Framework
Based on the previously mentioned background, a
3*5*3 CD framework is developed (Figure 2). With which,
we can figure out our current status of collaboration, or to
see if we have already taken all details into considerations.
For example, once the CD of product concept design is
decided to be originated across two extended companies,
then we would know that circumstances taken into
considerations should fall on to the left bar of middle
surface of the cube. In addition, if the CD is carried through
the product design lifecycle from planning to production
ramp-up, then the middle level surface would be our
proposed boundary.
CD structuring
framework
Purposes
Constructs & tools
Structure
Taxonomies
Rules
Processes
Ontology
Principles
Resources
Functions
Contents of CD
WHAT about our CD?
-Who are the participants & roles & relationships?
-What is our collaboration objectives?
-What is our competences in CD activities?
-What are the resources for CD do we have?
HOW do we manage our CD?
-What is our CD process model?
-What is our corresponding organization?
-How do we interchange information with each other?
-What is our communication architecture?
-To what level & stage will CD take place?
  
Deepness
E
xt
en
si
ve
ne
ss
Shallow Deep
A
dv
an
ce
d
Li
m
ite
d
Contractual
agreement
e.g. General/ routine
NPD, OEM/ODM
Integrated company,
JV, EE
e.g. Fundamental NP
Virtual Enterprise
(VE), VO
e.g. Dominant tech.
applied, professional NP
Minor player
Compatible player Major player
Niche player
Contractual
agreement
e.g. specific customized
NP, Foxconn
cooperators with limited extensiveness of proposed
collaboration. This kind of participant has the most
potential risks in being replaced by competitors easily for
lack of the sustainability with each other of close relations
or extraordinary capability. They usually participate in
general/ routine NPD or take the OEM role to their
ODM/OBM customers.
Figure 3 CD participant classification matrix
3.2.2 Product
We define the vertical axis represents the market status
consisting of current market and new market, and the
horizontal axis represents the current technology and new
technology. In the very first place, we hypothesize our
product in the status of current market using current
technology. Then we can define four main product types in
the view of product development projects under this
structure, as shown in Figure 4. When corporation strategy
is the current market-current technology, incremental
improvement to existing products would be the product
type. When corporation strategy is the new market-current
technology, derivative of existing product platforms would
be the product type. When corporation strategy is the
current market- new technology, new product platforms or
new product generation/upgrade would be the product
type. In this region, we may still in the same product family
but using different product platform in product realization.
On the other hand, we also introduce the new product
generation/upgrade type in this corner, for this is also
fitting in the conditions of under the same product family
with different or update technology. When corporation
strategy is the new market- new technology, fundamentally
new products would be the product type.
Figure 4 Strategy of product type
3.2.3 Product
After reviewing so many researches regarding process
types of design, product development and collaboration, we
try to give an overview aspect of design process strategy.
Under the design strategy domain, we barely conclude four
perspectives (activity-based, evolution, knowledge-based,
and decision-based) in the design process of CD (Figure 5).
Figure 5 Taxonomy of design process strategy
3.2.4 Organization
A structured organization can facilitate design
communication and consequently contribute to the success
of the design project (Chiu 2002). With different kinds of
CD cooperation, organizational changes are necessary to be
adopted for better fitness of design process rearrangement
and coordination between entities of collaboration.
Combining theories proposed by Hayes (Hayes et al.
1988), Ulrich and Eppinger (Ulrich and Eppinger 2004)
and Chiu (Chiu 2002), taxonomy of CD organization is
Technology
M
ar
ke
t
Fundamentally
new products
New product
platforms
Derivative of
existing product
platforms
Origin
Incremental
improvement to
existing products
NewCurrent
N
ew
New product
generation/ upgrade
C
ur
re
nt
Design Process
Strategy
Activity-based
perspective
Evolution
perspective
Knowledge-based
perspective
Decision-based
perspective
Sequence design
Set-based design
Use of
surrogate models
Parallel iterative
design
Functional evolution
Evolution of
product states
Flow dependence Anti- dependence
Output dependence Input dependence
Codependence
Control flow
dependence
Template-based
Model-based
  
2. The iterative design process: which is best suited to
medium-risk projects such as radical improvements
and adopted innovations.
3. The visionary design process: in which the problem
cannot be defined precisely and is, perhaps vague at
best.
Borja de Mozota (Borja de Mozota 2003) gives a more
precise viewpoint on activities of design which is taken as a
creative process, and divides it into three main phases: an
analytic stag of widening the observation field, a synergic
stage of idea and concept generation, and a final stage of
selecting the optimal solution. The creative process
corresponds to five phases, each of which has a different
objective and correspondents to the production of more and
more elaborate visual outputs.
3.3.1 Planning and Concepting
 
In the first design stage, collaboration is basically
focusing on the preparation stage ahead of the precise
designing practical tasks before next stage. Thus issues of
this part are primary about the coordination related to CD
project/process planning and product concept developing
containing design tasks such as identification of user needs,
technical factors, the diverse requirements of the operating
environment, product exploration, and concept
development. Detailed tasks include initial design idea
collection, information pooling from present market,
confirmation of customer needs, assessment of new
technologies and needs, assessment of market demands,
application for forming the design project, gaining
permission for triggering following activities, consider
product platform and architecture, and proposals of product
concept designing. Keinonen (Keinonen 2006)
demonstrates the concept design process consists of a series
of stages, containing information gathering, brainstorming,
scenario creation, concepts, formalization, evaluation, and
final integration with project planning. Basically, the
planning and concepting stage is composed of three sub-
categories namely background research, concept
generation, and concept evaluation.
3.3.2 System-Level Design and Detailed Design
In the second design stage, subjects being focused are
primarily about the specified design tasks regarding
product structure and architecture. CD issues of this stage
would be the most complex one for coordination is related
to the design activity itself. Combining propositions recent
researches, the second stage contains major design tasks
such as product material and technology defined, new
product design specifications, system-level design, detailed
designs, resource allocation, selected concept design
confirmation, current product analysis and market survey,
and so on.
Conflicts and arguments involved of stage two may fit
in the scenario proposed by Liu et al. (Liu et al. 2007).
They define the components of the design argumentation
may include stakeholders, requirements, conflicts, design
issues, parts, alternatives, arguments, ands decisions.
3.3.3 Testing and Prototyping
In the third stage, major activities involve pre-empt
production, manufacturing validation, marketing
experiments, prototyping production, product evaluation,
product refinement, and so on. This is the last step along
the product design process, but does play an important role
to fill up the existing gaps between design and
manufacturing stages. To facilitate the integration of
different experts and enhance the efficiency of the iterative
phases, prototypes are used as cost-efficient visual models.
The use of virtual prototypes is especially in the early
phases of product development, enable time- and cost-
efficient decision making (Bullinger et al. 2001). However,
prototyping can be categorized into physical and digital
two kinds (Bullinger et al. 2001).
Physical prototyping is well-known for the name rapid
prototyping (RPT) for making it possible to produce
physical artifact directly from CAD model without any
tools. The most common technique today, like stereo-
lithography (STL), selective laser sintering (SLS), solid
ground curing (SGC), and fused deposition modeling
(FDM), are mainly used to produced design or geometrical
prototypes. To accelerate the development processes,
technical and functional prototypes are of great importance.
Rapid tooling offers the possibility to build functional
prototypes, and it is possible to build tools rapidly and
inexpensively for prototypes parallel to the product
development process.
However, physical prototypes are often time and cost
intensive and thus need to be reduced to a minimum. By the
combining of CAD technologies, rapid prototyping, virtual
reality, and reverse engineering, prototypes can be
produced faster and more cheaply than before. The digital
demonstration allows early modification and optimization
of the prototype. Furthermore, it leads to a cost-saving
increase in the variety of prototypes. Additionally, faults
concerning fabrication or the product itself can be detected
in the early development phase and thus be eliminated
without great expenditures.
An important component of digital prototyping is the
digital mock-up (DMU), a purely digital test model of
technical product. The objective of the DMU is the current
  
Architecture design team, Lisbon
Core Data Repository
Internet
Communication network
3D virtualized tool
ISDN
LAN
Data Repository
Structure design team, Portugal
LAN
Data Repository
Water & sewage engineer, Palma de Mallorca, Spain
LAN
Data Repository
Energy supply engineer, Barcelona
LAN
Data Repository
Web browser
Web browser
Web browser
Web browser
????
Cross-functional
design
collaborative
???
Cross-company
design
collaborative
Figure 8 Communication reference framework within the
cross-industry scope
Figure 9 Communication reference framework with third-
party database/ repository
4. COLLABORATIVE DESIGN REFERENCE
MODEL FOR CROSS-INDUSTRY
By slicing the framework in Figure 2 into a smaller
portion, a reference model may be developed for a specific
application domain. Due to space limit, only a cross-
industry reference model is illustrated.
4.1 Definition
Cross-industry CD can be taken as the special case of
cross-company CD illustrated in last section. Most of the
cases focus on pursuing function-oriented collaboration
partnership and is more like VE; once the CD project is
accomplished the organization would be released (Huang
and Wu 2003). Usually, the primary actor of cross-industry
CD tries to collaborate with the secondary for particular
capability for whom can provide. The cross-company CD
dimension is as shown in Figure 10.
Figure 10 Reference model for cross-industry design
collaboration
4.2 Decision Aspect
Following the five CD decision aspects, contents
applied for cross-industry CD are typically the same as
illustrate in section 3.2. What we want to emphasize is the
individual functions each participant can provide. Although
we focus on the collaboration of purely the domain of
design, literally speaking, we can classify the function of
each kind of design tasks play, and compress it into three
main parts, namely pure design segment, manufacturing
segment, and marketing segment. The segment of pure
design we defined here is about the product concepting,
physical product structure design, etc, which are more close
to “design” itself. The portion of feasibility assessment 
design, DFX (design for X), and so on belongs to the
manufacturing segment. The last one is the marketing
segment representing the portion of CD planning design,
designs for project execution, or for the supporting of
administration system.
Typical empirical instance of cross-industry CD is the
case of product named City Storm® by Giant®, the top
three bicycle brand in USA, and DEM inc., the design
corporation. Giant used to be OEM for brand name bicycle
companies, while now become ODM even OBM of the
industry. However, case of NPD as City storm focusing on
its characteristics of luxury goods, fine art but function-
oriented product make Giant have to collaborate with
professional design companies such as DEM inc. cross two
industries of bicycle and design.
The information frameworks and contents are almost
the same as described in section 3.2, but only have to
emphasize the information sharing platform or repository
have to be run by the third-party or with the guaranteed of
them for the sake of reliability and justice, which is the
most significant difference between cross-company and
Architecture design team, Lisbon
Core Data Repository
Internet
Communication network
3D virtualized tool
ISDN
LAN
Data Rep ositor y
Structure design team, Portugal
LAN
Data Rep ositor y
Water & sewage engineer, Palma de Mallorca, Spain
LAN
Data Repository
Energy supply engineer, Barcelona
LAN
Data Rep ositor y
Web browser
Web browser
Web browser
Web browser
Architecture design team, Lisbon
Core Data Repository
Internet
Communication network
3D virtualized tool
ISDN
LAN
Data Rep ositor y
Structure design team, Portugal
LAN
Data Rep ositor y
Water & sewage engineer, Palma de Mallorca, Spain
LAN
Data Rep ositor y
Energy supply engineer, Barcelona
LAN
Data Rep ositor y
Web browser
Web browser
Web bro wser
Web browser
Planning &
concepting
System-level design
Detailed design
Testing &
Prototyping
Design stage
Participant
Product
Process
Organization
Decision
aspect
Cross-
industry
design
collaborative
Cross-
industry
design
collaborative
Cross-
industry
design
collaborative
Information
  
Methodologies and Applications (Springer London), 37-
58.
Luo, Y. (2007) Cooperative Design in Building
Construction In W. D. Li, S. K. Ong, A. Y. C. Nee, and C.
McMahon (ed.), Collaborative Product Design and
Manufacturing Methodologies and Applications (London:
Springer), 93-108.
Mahesh, M., Ong, S.K., Nee, A.Y.C. (2007) A web-
based framework for distributed and collaborative
manufacturing. In W. D. Li, S. K. Ong, A. Y. C. Nee, and C.
McMahon (ed.), Collaborative Product Design and
Manufacturing Methodologies and Applications (London:
Springer), 137-148.
Msanjila, S.S., Afsarmanesh, H. (2008) Trust analysis
and assessment in virtual organization breeding
environments. International Journal of Production
Research, 46, 1253-1295.
Noori, H., Lee, W.B. (2004) Collaborative design in a
networked enterprise: The case of the telecommunications
industry. International Journal of Production Research, 42,
3041-3054.
Panchal, J.H., Choi, H.J., Allen, J.K., McDowell, D.L.,
Mistree, F. (2007a) A systems-based approach for
integrated design of materials, products and design process
chains. Journal of Computer-Aided Materials Design, 14,
265-293.
Panchal, J.H., Fernández, M.G., Paredis, C.J.J., Allen,
J.K., Mistree, F. (2007b) Leveraging Design Process
Related Intellectual Capital – A Key to Enhancing
Enterprise Agility. In W. D. Li, S. K. Ong, A. Y. C. Nee, and
C. McMahon (ed.), Collaborative Product Design and
Manufacturing Methodologies and Applications (London:
Springer), 201-208.
Pappas, M., Karabatsou, V., Mavrikios, D.,
Chryssolouris, G. (2006) Development of a web-based
collaboration platform for manufacturing product and
process design evaluation using virtual reality techniques.
International Journal of Computer Integrated
Manufacturing, 19, 805-814.
Pilemalm, S., Lindell, P.O., Hallberg, N., Eriksson, H.
(2007) Integrating the Rational Unified Process and
participatory design for development of socio-technical
systems: a user participative approach. Design Studies, 28,
263-288.
Robin, V., Rose, B., Girard, P. (2007) Modelling
collaborative knowledge to support engineering design
project manager. Computers in Industry, 58, 188-198.
Robin, V., Sperandio, S., Blanc, S., Girard, P. (2005)
Interactions modeling between factors influencing
performance of the design process. International
Conference on Engineering Design, ICED 2005,
Melbourne.
Tang, D.B. (2004) An agent-based collaborative
design system to facilitate active die-maker involvement in
stamping part design. Computers in Industry, 54, 253-271.
Thomas, J.P., Baker, K.D. (1991) Knowledge
representation for design. 1991 IEEE International
Conference on Decision Aiding for Complex Systems,
Charlottesville, VA
Trappey, A.J.C., Hsiao, D.W. (2008) Applying
collaborative design and modularized assembly for
automotive ODM supply chain integration. Computers in
Industry, 59, 277-287.
Ulrich, K.T., Eppinger, S.D. (2004) Product design
and development. 3rd. McGraw-Hill/Irwin, Boston.
Ulrich, K.T., Eppinger, S.D. (2008) Product design
and development. 4th. McGraw-Hill Higher Education,
Boston.
Wang, C., Li, K., Ghenniwa, H., Shen, W., Wang, Y.
(2007) Real Time Distributed Shop Floor Scheduling: An
Agent-Based Service-Oriented Framework. In W. D. Li, S.
K. Ong, A. Y. C. Nee, and C. McMahon (ed.), Collaborative
Product Design and Manufacturing Methodologies and
Applications (London: Springer), 175-197.
Witzerman, J.P., Nof, S.Y. (1995) Tool Integration for
Collaborative Design of Manufacturing Cells. International
Journal of Production Economics, 38, 23-30.
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1. 由本計畫經費支持參加國內研討會 2009 CIIE (報名費), 讓本人與學生得
到當年度的論文佳作獎.  
2. 由本計畫之國際差旅費支持參加 2009 APIEMS 使本人獲選為 IFPR-APR 
Elect-Chairman 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
