 2
目   錄 
 
一、摘要 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 3 
二、動機與目的 ------------------------------------------------------------------- 4 
三、文獻探討 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 5 
四、研究方法 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 8 
五、成果與討論 ------------------------------------------------------------------- 16 
六、結論與建議 ------------------------------------------------------------------- 22 
七、誌謝 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- 24 
八、參考文獻 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- 24 
九、相關著作發表表列 ---------------------------------------------------------- 27 
十、可供推廣之研發成果資料表 ---------------------------------------------- 28 
 
 
  
 4
questioner in the CoP has to “wait” for the “solution knower” to respond (or reply). Previous 
research indicated that the RPS approach may suffer in poor time and cost effectiveness. This 
research proposes a Construction Business-based Professional Service Platform (CBI-PSP) 
approach for problems encountered in construction engineering and management. Unlike RPS, 
the CBI-PSP proactively solves the problem based on lessons learned from previous projects. 
Should the solution is not available; the CBI-PSP dispatches the problem to the most appropriate 
domain experts so that the problem can be tackled timely and efficiently. A case A/E firm is 
selected for implementation of the proposed CBI-PSP to demonstrate its applicability. It is shown 
that the proposed CBI-PSP improve more than 85.5% efficiency both for timeliness and 
cost-saving of problem-solving. The proposed CBI-PSP demonstrates great potentials for 
improvement of emergent problem solving and enhancement of market competitiveness. 
 
Keywords: Knowledge management, problem-solving, knowledge map, lessons-learned, 
proactive system.   
二、動機與目的 
 
Problem-solving is the center of daily operations for construction organizations [1]. Since 
Construction Engineering is an experience-based discipline, knowledge accumulated from 
previous projects provides the key to solve similar problems encountered in the future projects. 
Current practice of knowledge management system (KMS) has established operational 
framework and platform for problem solving in construction engineering and management [2]. 
The KMS approach for problem solving poses several desirable features over other methods 
(such as systems engineering) including: (1) the experienced-based solutions that were 
implemented and verified in real world cases are more realistic and practical than theoretical 
solutions generated by analytic methods; (2) the collective intelligence supported by domain 
experts in CoP provides a broader knowledge base and diverse perspectives to generate a more 
effective solution; (3) the KMS records all discussions while deriving the solution in CoP, so that 
the “experiences” of problem solving are automatically stored for future use. 
Although the KMS approach poses many desirable features for construction problem solving, 
there are also essential drawbacks exists in the traditional KMSs. The most critical disadvantage 
of KMS for solving emergent problems is its nature of “reactive mode” of KM (referred hereafter 
as Reactive Problem-Solver or RPS). That is, the problem raised by the questioner has to wait 
 6
functions to tackle the special characteristics of construction problems identified by Li and Love. 
However, some essential drawbacks (such as “reactive mode” of problem solving) exist in the 
traditional KMS, which may cause poor performance of timeliness and cost effectiveness. 
 
3.2 Knowledge Classification and Knowledge Map 
While applying KMS for construction problem solving, the storage and retrieval of previous 
lessons-learned are crucial. Such issues become critical as the number of historic lessons grows. 
As a result, the methods of knowledge classification or knowledge map are developed. Kim et al. 
[3] proposed a practical method for capturing and representing knowledge that is critical in 
knowledge management. The method employs a knowledge map as a tool to represent knowledge 
of the firm. Their procedure consists of six steps: (1) defining organizational knowledge; (2) 
analyzing process map; (3) extracting knowledge; (4) profiling knowledge; (5) linking knowledge; 
and (6) validating map knowledge. Effective knowledge maps help identify intellectual capital, 
socialize new members, enhance organizational learning, and anticipate impending threats and/or 
opportunities [4]. Caldas et al. [5] proposed an automatic document classification method based 
on text mining. Their work successfully classified 4,000 documents automatically with the 
Construction Document Classification System (CDCS) they developed. Although the 
abovementioned methods provide feasible alternatives for knowledge classification of the 
previously accumulated knowledge, none of them addresses the consideration of business domain 
and the organizational structure of the firm that may significantly affect the effectiveness of 
classification of knowledge for problem solving. 
 
3.3 Automatic Answering System (AAS) 
Automatic Answering System (AAS) serves as a domain expert who is able to answer the 
questions posed by the questioner instantly. Various types of AAS’s have been developed in 
construction industry. The Advanced Construction Technology System (ACTS) was developed in 
University of Michigan at Ann Arbor by Ioannou et al. [6]. ACTS provides a technology 
information system for construction planners and managers to select the most appropriate 
state-of-the-art construction technologies during the project planning stage. More than 400 
technologies are recorded with 25 attributes such as general description, cost benefit, construction 
constraints, special application, operation environment, test criteria, etc. The Architecture and 
Engineering Performance Information Center (AEPIC) was developed by Loss at the University 
of Maryland [7]. The AEPIC provides information of failures so that the mistakes won’t be 
repeated again. The On-Line Reference Library (OLRL) was developed by Bechtel Inc. to 
provide engineers with real-time reference manuals of SPECs. The Civil Engineering Information 
 8
evaluation of solution—assessment of the effects and benefits resulted from the lesson-learned. 
Compared with the other methods mentioned above, the CII’s LLF is more suitable for 
construction problem-solving due to two reasons: first, more technical and procedural details are 
provided so that it is easier for users to apply the LLF; moreover, the LLFs are verified and 
assessed before compilation, so that solution stored in the LLF is more reliable and practical. 
 
四、研究方法 
 
CONSTRUCTION BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE-BASED PREOFESSIONAL SERVICE 
PLATFORM (CBI-PSP) 
 
4.1 Description of Required Functions 
According to the problem statement and literature reviews, several functionalities are identified 
for the proposed CBI-PSP, including: (1) a knowledge classifications scheme (namely Knowledge 
Map or KMap) that appropriately represents the lessons-learned of the organization and 
accurately defines problem encountered; (2) a descriptive scheme for the expertise of the domain 
experts (namely Expert Map or EMap), which properly reflects knowledge (expertise) of the 
domain experts accumulated previously; (3) a set of algorithms for retrieval of the most relevant 
lessons-learned in repository; (4) a problem dispatching mechanism for diverting the posed 
problem to the most appropriate domain experts; and (5) a repository of lesson-learned files 
(LLFs) from previous projects and the required functions of lesson learning.  
Four modules are proposed to fulfill the functionalities identified above: (1) the 
Knowledge/Expert Map (K/EMap)—providing classification scheme for knowledge and 
expertise of the domain experts; (2) Automatic Problem Answering (APA) module—solving the 
posed questions automatically based on the historic LLFs; (3) Automatic Problem Dispatching 
(APD) module—dispatching the posed problem to the most appropriate domain expert when the 
problem is unsolved by APA; (4) Lesson-Learned Wizard (LLW)—accumulating historic LLFs 
based on the classification scheme of K/EMap. 
 
4.2 Knowledge/Expert Map (K/EMap) 
The proposed CBI-PSP is kernelled with the knowledge and the expert holding the knowledge. In 
CBI-PSP, the domain knowledge is classified by Knowledge Map (KMap); while the domain 
experts are characterized by Expert Map (EMap). The KMap and EMap provide the ontology for 
modeling the knowledge and human assets of the construction firm.  
 10
EMap. 
Similar to KMap, the Knowledge Capacity Matrix (KCM) is adopted for representing the 
expertise of the domain experts. The KCM describes the knowledge capacity of a domain expert 
with a row vector containing three dimensions: (1) Seniority—recording the professional 
seniority (in years) of the expert, which reflects how experienced the domain expert is in a 
specific technical area; (2) Intensity—recording the intensity of work (work hours/ seniority years) 
of a specific technical domain, which reflects the strength of expertise of the expert in a specific 
domain; (3) Enthusiasm—recording the historic performance of the expert in participation of KM 
activities automatically provided by the KMS, which reflects what technical domain the expert is 
especially interested in. The second (Intensity) and the third (Enthusiasm) dimensions are 
characterized with the MKO described above, so that the specific technical domain of knowledge 
that the domain expert associated with is identified. The KCM adopts a nested row-vector 
representation scheme. An example of KCM is shown in Figure 2. In Figure 2, the Seniority 
dimension consists of the experience records (in years) of three fields: Design, (Construction) 
Supervision, and Project Management. The other two (Intensity and Enthusiasm) dimensions are 
represented with the values of expertise intensity and knowledge value adding (KVA) [14] scores 
characterized with MKO. 
 
MKC=((Dept., ID),(Seniority),(Intensity),(Enthusiasm))
((Design),(Supervision),(Project Mgmt))
Li
fe
cy
cl
e 
co
de Product code
Te
ch
n
ic
al
 c
od
e
Li
fe
c y
cl
e 
co
de Product code
Te
ch
ni
ca
l c
od
e
MKO MKO
 
Figure 2 Representation of Knowledge Capacity Matrix (KCM) 
 
With schemes of KMO and KCM, a domain expert is characterized according to his/her 
experiences, not only by a specific technical field but also by how experiences and intensively 
he/she was involved and how enthusiastic he/she is in that area. 
 
4.3 Automatic Problem Answering (APA) Module 
The Automatic Problem Answering module (APA) is an automatic answering system (AAS) that 
searches the solution database to retrieve the most appropriate answer for the questioner. Several 
requirements are expected for an ideal AAS [15]: (1) tolerance of simple errors; (2) embodiment 
 12
where IMFij is the weighting of the jth term in the ith question (Qi) of the LLF repository; Lj is 
the length of the jth term; Li,max is the maximum length of terms in Qi; TFij is the number of 
occurrences for the jth term in Qi; TFi,max is the maximum number of occurrences for the terms 
in Qi; N is the number of LLFs in the repository; and Cij = 1 if Qi contains term j, Cij = 0, 
otherwise. 
 
The CV of question Qi can be represented with the following equation: 
 
)},(),...,,(),...,,(),,{()( 2211 innijjiii wkwkwkwkQCV = ,     (2) 
where CV(Qi) is the characteristic vector of the ith question; Kj represents jth keyword; and Wij 
is the weighting value of Kj in question Qi. 
 
2. A new question posed by the questioner is transformed into CV using the similar method of 
Step 1. 
3. The CV of the posed question is compared with all historic CV’s stored in the LLF repository 
using the inner product similarity measure described in the following equation: 
( )∑
=
×=
n
j
ijji WWS
1 ,           (3)
 
where Si is the similarity between question Q and the problem description of the ith LLF; Wj is 
the weighting of the jth element of the CV(Q); Wij is the weighting of the jth element of the 
problem description of the ith LLF, i.e., CV(Qi).  
 
4. The LLFs with higher similarity are considered more relevant to the question Q posed by the 
questioner, thus they are recommended as the solutions to the posed quation. 
 
If the solution is found (according to a predetermined similarity threshold), it is replied to the 
questioner. However, if the solution is not found, the problem is unsolved and diverted to APD 
module. 
 
4.4 Automatic Problem Dispatching (APD) Module 
Figure 4 shows the conceptual design of the APD module. In figure 4, the unsolved problem is 
posed to the CoP of the KMS as an emergent problem and diverted simultaneously to APD 
module at the same time. In APD module, the problem characteristics is analyzed and used to find 
the most appropriate domain experts based on the Expert Map (EMap) described previously. 
Then, the problem is dispatched to the most related domain experts for possible solution. Finally, 
 14
where W11, W12 and W13 are arbitrarily determined weightings for Design, Supervision and PM 
experiences, respectively; Design_Experience is the seniority of the design experience for the 
domain expert measured in years; Supervision_Experience is the seniority of the construction site 
supervision experience for the domain expert (in years); PM_Experience is the seniority of the 
project management experience for the domain expert (in years). 
 
Similar to Equation (4), the questioner can determine the weightings (W11, W12 and W13) 
arbitrarily according to his/her understanding of the characteristics or nature the question. 
 
4.5 Lessons-Learned Wizard (LLW) 
The LLF repository required in APA module is constructed by a Lessons-Learned Wizard (LLW) 
proposed by the Construction Industry Institute (CII) [11].The LLW captures lessons-learned 
right after a problem is solved in the KMS. The LLW is integrated with an internet questionnaire 
surveying system that allows the questioner to evaluate the solution he/she obtains. The LLF 
associated with the problem contains the following information: (1) the subject of the 
problem—titling the problem; (2) the description of the problem—detailed descriptions of the 
posed question; (3) the questioner—the name and department of questioner; (4) the 
solution—detailed descriptions of the suggested solution; (5) the responder—the name and 
department of the responder who provided the suggested solution; (6) attachments—the 
supplementary materials for the solution; (7) benefits evaluation—assessments of all benefits 
resulted by the solution including time, cost, quality, technical improvement, regulation impacts, 
etc. The LLFs stored in the LLF repository are classified with the MKO scheme of KMap. 
 
4.6 Integrated Model of Proactive Problem Solving (MPPS) 
The integrated framework of MPPS is depicted in Figure 5. In the integrated framework, MPPS 
solves construction problems in two modes: (1) Automatic problem answering mode (APA 
mode)—the problem-solving process is shown in Figure 5 as bold solid arrows, where the 
solution is searched automatically from LLF repository according to the problem characteristics; 
(2) Automatic problem dispatching (APD) mode—the problem-solving process is shown in 
Figure 5 as dashed arrows, where the unsolved problems (by APA mode) is automatically 
dispatched to the most relevant domain experts according to the problem characteristics and the 
Knowledge Capacity Matrix (KCM). The functions of problem solving in the traditional KMS is 
preserved and exercised in MPPS as shown in Figure 5 where the unsolved problem is posted in 
the CoPs of the KMS before entering the APD mode. 
 
 16
responses from the “solution knower” to provide his/her solutions. Such “passive” mode of 
problem solving assumes that the domain experts can “see” the problem and respond with their 
solution timely. However, previous research found that such RPS approach has caused 
inefficiency of timeliness and cost-effectiveness of the KMS [2]. A proactive problem-solving 
approach should be developed. 
 
5.1.2 System implementation 
The proposed MPPS has been implemented with the SOS system of CECI. A System named 
CBI-PSP is developed and tested. The prototype CBI-PSP consists of all four required elements 
of MPPS: (1) K/EMap—a knowledge map (KMap) is constructed based on the MKO scheme and 
an Expert Map (EMap) is constructed based on KCM scheme; (2) APA module—the APA module 
is developed to perform the APA problem-solving mode (APA mode); (3) APD module—the APD 
module is developed to perform the APD problem-solving mode (APD mode); (4) LLW—the 
LLF repository is established consisting of 908 historic problem-solving LLFs of SOS system 
accumulated in the last three years.  
 
5.2 System Testing and Performance Evaluation 
In order to verify the proposed CBI-PSP, system evaluation experiments are designed and 
conducted. The experiments consist of two parts: (1) effectiveness test—testing the validity of 
MPPS and correctness of CBI-PSP in finding the solutions for the posed questions; (2) efficiency 
test—testing the timeliness and cost-saving performance of CBI-PSP compared with the 
traditional approaches. 
 
5.2.1 Data collection and experiment design 
The testing data were collected from real world emergent problem-solving cases of the case A/E 
firm, CECI, from 2005/01 to 2009/08. Totally 908 historical cases and the associated LLFs are 
collected. The major problem categories and their associated percentages of the 908 cases are: 
Architectural (14.76%), Civil (13.51%), Structural (13.51%), Geotechnic (10.04%), Electrical 
(7.16%), Railway (5.76%), Environmental (4.80%), Mechanical (4.72%), Highway (4.43%), 
Materials (3.47%), Hydraulic (2.58%), and Others (15.26%).  
Assume that every problem-solving case has one “correct” (most relevant) solution, which is 
stored in the LLF repository. The experiments are designed to test CBI-PSP with two sets of data: 
(1) Original Set—testing the capability of CBI-PSP to retrieve the correct solution for a specific 
question with the original question description as the LLF; and (2) Similar Set—testing the 
capability of CBI-PSP to retrieve the correct solution for a specific question with the modified 
Similar (but literally different) question description from the original one of the LLF. If the 
 18
 
Figure 6 Comparison of Recall (Original vs. Similar Set) 
 
It is found from Figure 6 that the Recall of Original Set is very close to 1 (100% correct), while 
the Recall of Similar Set is over 85% after as n =10. 
 
5.2.3 Testing of efficiency 
The two indexes of efficiency for CBI-PSP are the timeliness and cost-saving of the system. 
According to previous research by the authors, the average cost for solving (finding preliminary 
solution) a single problem by the traditional KMS is TWD 4,075 (USD 123.5) [21]. With aid of 
CBI-PSP, the cost for retrieving the relevant LLF, if it exists in the LLF repository, is almost zero. 
Thus, the cost-saving efficiency of CBI-PSP over the traditional approach is verified. 
In regard to the timeliness of CBI-PSP, three components of time required for problem-solving 
with CBI-PSP are identified:  
(1) Processing time of CBI-PSP (S) 
Assume that S is the system time required to search the relevant LLFs with CBI-PSP. It is 
considered constant for all questions. By monitoring the execution time of CBI-PSP, the 
average duration of S is about 3.2 seconds. 
(2) The processing time of questioner  
The time required for the questioner to find out the really relevant LLF from all LLFs 
retrieved by CBI-PSP. Assume F seconds are required to process one LLF, then m LLFs 
require F×m seconds. In the present research, F is assumed to be 10 seconds.  
(3) The time required to generate solution manually (p) 
As the APA is unable to retrieve the relevant solution (it may be due to that there is no 
relevant LLF or CBI-PSP is unable to identify the relevant LLF), the solution need to be 
generated manually by the domain experts. Assume that it takes time p to generate solution 
manually. According to the previous research of the authors [21], the average time required to 
generate the solution for a posed question is 2.68 days. This time is required only when there 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
Original 0.97 0.99 0.99 0.99 1 1 1 1 1 1
Similar 0.61 0.72 0.77 0.78 0.81 0.82 0.83 0.84 0.84 0.85
0.60 
0.65 
0.70 
0.75 
0.80 
0.85 
0.90 
0.95 
1.00 
A
ve
ra
ge
 R
ec
al
l (
R n
)
n
 20
99.99% for Original Set and 85.5% for Similar Set. Moreover, the problem-solving is almost 
costless if the relevant historic LLFs exist. Nevertheless, the improvement of timeliness in 
problem-solving by CBI-PSP should enhance the competitiveness of the firm in the market since 
it equip the firm with a powerful tool to react with all kinds of emergent issues happen in the 
firm’s daily business operations. Any of the issues can become a trouble source of increased costs 
or time delays if it is not tackled properly. 
An advantage of the proposed CBI-PSP over the traditional KMS is that it facilitates the 
intellectualization of the firm’s implicit and explicit knowledge assets. Refer to Figure 5, the 
historic lessons-learned for solving construction problems need to be compiled into LLFs; KMap 
and EMap are then constructed to visualize the firm’s intellectual assets. The top management 
can plan the firm’s knowledge management more effectively based on the profile of the firm’s 
intellectual assets. Moreover, the proposed CBI-PSP provides a mechanism to incorporate the 
implicit knowledge of all staffs of the firm to generate solutions for the posed questions. Such 
mechanism offers a perfect environment for the Nonaka’s knowledge creation spiral so that 
Medici’s Effect [25] can take place. As a result, the knowledge creation of the firm is expedited 
and more fruitful. 
 
5.3.2 Potential extensions and applications of CBI-PSP 
The proposed CBI-PSP has demonstrated its potentials in emergent problem solving for 
construction. Some future extensions may be pursued. An application of CBI-PSP is to help 
engineers in preparation of the proposals. A critical component (may be the most important one) 
of the proposal is “Critical issues analysis”. The CBI-PSP can provide solutions to those issues 
addressed in the request for proposal (RFP).  
A second extension of the current research is to integrate CBI-PSP with the ubiquitous 
technology to enhance the real time problem solving. For example, the wireless communication 
technology provides possibility of accessing CBI-PSP anytime anywhere. Such technology is 
very desirable especially for emergent problem solving on construction site. The integration of 
the two technologies will enable the site engineers/managers to fully utilize the advantages 
CBI-PSP. 
The methodology developed in the current research can also be applied to problem-solving of the 
other domains. For example, the legal affairs and management consulting are two promising 
areas for application of the proposed CBI-PSP. Extensions to other fields such as disaster rescue 
and prevention are also possible, as long as the nature of problem solving remains the same. 
 
5.3.3 Limitations and suggestions 
One major limitation of the proposed CBI-PSP is the requirement of the historic LLFs. 
 22
(EMap), an Automatic Problem Answering (APA) module for retrieval of historical 
Lesson-Learned Files (LLFs), Automatic Problem Dispatching (APD) module for diverting 
unsolved problems to the most appropriate domain experts of the firm, and a repository for 
storing the historical Lesson-Learned Files. From the case study results of a local leading A/E 
consulting firm of Taiwan, it is found that both timeliness and cost-saving performances are 
significant. The Recall ratio of correct answers is 85% for Similar Set (similar but differently 
literal questions) as the number of retrieved LLFs is 10. The timeliness efficiency of problem 
solving is improved for 85.5% for Similar Set. With the proposed CBI-PSP, the problems 
encountered by construction engineers and managers in their daily operations and works can be 
solved more efficiently and effectively. It is concluded that the proposed CBI-PSP has great 
potential for improvement of construction problem solving. 
Although CBI-PSP shows promising potentials, the case study also found some limitations of the 
present version of CBI-PSP including: (1) the keyword database is not construction-specific, 
which causes the incorrect retrievals of historic LLFs; (2) the scope of historic LLFs is limited to 
a special CoP (SOS) of the case A/E firm, it should be expanded to include other CoPs; (3) only 
the historic LLFs is employed for problem solving, other explicit knowledge documents (e.g., 
project final reports, plans, proposals, etc) should be included to build the historic LLFs; (4) 
misclassifications of knowledge documents and timesheets are commonly found, a more accurate 
technical classification system should be implemented. 
Future extensions of the proposed CBI-PSP are also identified such as integrating with the 
ubiquitous technology to enhance the real time problem-solving, application of CBI-PSP to 
proposal preparation, application of similar methodology to problem-solving in other fields (e.g., 
legal affairs, disaster rescue, etc.) Ambitious researchers are encouraged to pursue in those 
directions. 
 
七、誌謝 
 
The valuable case study information presented in this paper was provided by CECI, Taipei. The 
authors would like to express sincere appreciations to Mr. Chen, G. L., and other staffs of the 
Department of Business and Research and Department of Information Systems, China 
Engineering Consultants, Inc., Taipei, Taiwan.  
 
八、參考文獻 
 
 24
[15] Waltz, D. L. (1978). An English language question answering system for a large relational 
database, Comm. ACM, Vol. 21, No.7, pp.526-539. 
[16] Tseng, J. C. R. and Hwang, G. J. (2007). Development of an Automatic Customer Service 
System on the Internet, Electronic Commerce Research and Applications, No. 6, pp. 18-29. 
[17] Wu, J. W., Tsou, Y. H., Chiou, C. K., and Tseng, J. C. R. (2007). Development of a 
Ubiquitous Virtual Tutoring Assistant System, Proceedings of the 2007 World Conference on 
Educational Multimedia, Hypermedia & Telecommunications (ED-MEDIA), Vancouver, 
Canada, June 25-June 29, 2007, 8 pp. 
[18] Salton, G., Wong, A., and Yang, C. S. (1975) “A Vector Space Model for Automatic 
Indexing”, Communications of the ACM, Vol. 18, No. 11, pp. 613-620. 
[19] Salton, G. and McGill, M. (1983). Introduction to Modern Information Retrieval, 
McGraw-Hill, NY, USA. 
[20] Ma, W. Y. and Chen, K. J. (2003). “Introduction to CKIP Chinese Word Segmentation 
System for the First International Chinese Word Segmentation Bakeoff,” Proceedings of the 
Second SIGHAN Workshop on Chinese Language Processing, Sapporo, Japan, July 11~13, 
2003, pp. 168-171. 
[21] Yu, W. D., Chang, P.L. and Liu, S.J. (2006). “Quantifying Benefits of Knowledge 
Management System: A Case Study of an Engineering Consulting Firm,” Proceedings of 
International Symposium on Automation and Robotics in Construction 2006 (ISARC 2006), 
Session A4—Planning and Management (1), Oct. 3~5, 2006, Tokyo, Japan, 6 pp. 
[22] Cleverdon, C.W. (1967). The Cranfield tests on index language devices. Aslib Proceedings, 
No. 19, pp. 173–192. 
[23] Lin, J. and Katz, B. (2006), Building a Reusable Test Collection for Question Answering, 
Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology, 57(7), 851-861. 
[24] Sun, B., Tan, Q., Mitra, P., and Giles, C. L. (2007), “Extraction and Search of Chemical 
Formulae in Text Documents on the Web,” Proceedings of the 16th international conference 
on World Wide Web (WWW'07), Banff, Alberta, Canada, pp. 251~260. 
[25] Johansson, F. (2002). The Medici Effect: Breakthrough Insights at the Intersection of Ideas, 
Concepts, and Cultures, Harvard Business School Press, Cambridge, MA, USA. 
[26] Nonaka, I. (1994). “A dynamic theory of organizational knowledge creation.” 
Organization Science, 5(1), pp. 14-37. 
[27] Fisher, D., Deshpande, S., and Livingston, J. (1998) “Modelling the Lessons Learned 
Process,” Research Report 123-11, Construction Industry Institute, Austin, TX, USA. 
[28] Yu, W. D., Wei, Y. T., Liu, S. J., and Chang, P. L., “Preliminary study on the automatic 
lessons-learned file generator,” Proceedings of International Symposium on Automation and 
 26
Knowledge Community of Practice in an Engineering Consulting Firm,” paper 
submitted to the Journal of Management in Construction, ASCE, for review and possible 
publication, 40 pp., 2008/8. 
 
十、可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98 年 09 月 28 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：營建企業智能為基礎之專業服務平台技術研究—以工程
顧問緊急問題解決為例 
計畫主持人：余文德 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-216 -039 學門領域：土木(營建) 
技術/創作名稱 營建企業智能為基礎之專業服務平台模式暨系統 
發明人/創作人 余文德、曾秋蓉、劉沈榮 
技術說明 
中文： 
本｢營建企業智能為基礎之專業服務平台模式暨系統｣結合知識分
析、專家人力分析、資訊再取、問題分派以及經驗學習等功能，成
為一具有主動問題能力之企業智能系統。本系統對於營建產業(含
工程顧問業)業務執行過程所遇到之問題的解決效率甚具提升效
益，對於產業競爭力之提升亦具成效。 
英文： 
The proposed Construction Business Intelligence-based Professional 
Service Platform Model and System combines knowledge analysis, 
expertise analysis, problem answering, problem dispatching module, 
and a lessons learning. Such a system has been proved to be very 
beneficial for construction firms (including engineering consultants) in 
improving their problem-solving capability and efficiency, and thus 
enhancing their competitiveness. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本產品可以結合現有之知識管理系統(KMS)或獨立開發成為一網路
服務系統(Web Service System)，可以輔助營建產業之業務執行(含
緊急問題解決、備標、估價、監造…等)功能，亦可獨立開發成為
單一專業服務功能(例如估算、求償、工程法律諮詢等)之系統。 
技術特點 
具有知識分析、專家人力分析、資訊再取、問題分派以及經驗學習
等五大功能模組，可分析組織之智慧資產、人力資產，具有累積與
再利用過去經驗與知識之功能，並能連結具有相關知識之專家的能
力。 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           98 年  7 月  23 日 
報告人
姓名 
 
吳誌銘  
(本計畫研究助理代替計畫主持人
進行論文報告) 
服務機構 
及職稱 
 
中華大學科技管理研究所博士生 
 
時間 
會議 
地點 
2009/7/10~2009/7/13 
美國佛羅里達州，奧蘭多市 
本會核定 
補助文號 
NSC-97-2221-E-216-039 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第二屆國際多領域工程與技術創新研討會 
 (英文) The 2nd International Multi-Conference on. Engineering and Technological 
Innovation(IMETI) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 系統化技術創新流程（STIP）於道路人孔之創新 
 (英文) INNOVATING ROAD MANHOLE TECHNOLOGY WITH SYSTEMATIC 
TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION PROCESS (STIP) 
  
Please leave Footer Empty 
Innovating road manhole technology with Systematic Technology 
Innovation Process (STIP) 
 
Wen-der Yu 
Professor,  
Institute of Const. Mgmt.,  
Chung Hua Univ., Taiwan 
wenderyu@chu.edu.tw 
 
Chih-ming Wu 
Ph.D. Student,  
Institute of Tech. Mgmt.,  
Chung Hua Univ., Taiwan 
d09603004@chu.edu.tw 
 
and  
 
Wen-chin Chen 
President,  
Li-Tai Inc., San-shing, Yilan, Taiwan 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The technology innovation is recognized as a main driver 
for the advancement of construction industry. Due to the 
lack of systematic innovation method, the advancement of 
construction technologies was slow compared with the 
other industries, e.g., ICT and Biotech Engineering. This 
paper proposed a Systematic Technology Innovation 
Process (STIP) for innovation of construction technologies 
to speed up the technology innovation in construction 
engineering. The STIP method integrates several 
techniques adopted for product research and development 
in other fast innovating industries including patent 
mapping, root cause analysis, TRIZ, function modelling, 
simplify design, etc. Details of the proposed STIP method 
are described. The construciton technology for road man-
hole work is selected for case study. A step-by-step 
application of the proposed STIP method to the selected 
construction technology is demonstrated. Deliverables 
obtained from each step of STIP is reviewed and evaluated 
via a technology stage gate (TSG) process, which is 
commonly adopted in high-tech manufacturing industry. 
Finally, an innovative design of a new man hole repairing 
technology is developed. Verification and testing of the 
developed innovative technology is also conducted to 
ensure its feasibility.  
 
Keywords: Technology innovation, patent analysis, TRIZ, 
construction engineering 
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
Construction technology was defined as “the combination 
of construction methods, construction resources, work 
tasks, and project influences that define the manner of 
performing a construction operation” [1] to “accomplish a 
desired aim necessary for human sustenance and 
comfort” [2]. Robert Harris pointed out that “…there is 
more to the construction process than just 
management…there is more to the construction process 
than just structural design or geotechnical 
evaluation…[We need] to create better methods for 
construction…”[3]. Technology innovation can result in 
revolutionary advancement in construction practice that 
traditional management techniques and other skills cannot 
achieve. Therefore, it becomes the critical component for a 
company’s long-term competitive strategy [4]. 
However, the innovation of construction technologies has 
been slow compared with other areas in Civil Engineering 
and other industries, e.g., Information and Communication 
Technology (ICT), Bio Genetic Technology, Nano 
Materials, etc. (Nam and Tatum, 1989).  One of the critical 
reasons and maybe the most important one is the lack of a 
systematic approach for fast innovation [5]. As pointed out 
by Daniel Halpin in his speech of the Seventh Peurifoy 
Construction Research Award: “…we need a common 
framework—a common language” [6]. 
A  Systematic Technology Innovation Process (STIP) is 
proposed to respond the appeals posed by previous 
researchers. The goal of STIP was to provide a common 
framework for fast innovation of construction technologies 
based on modern product innovation methods adopted in 
other highly innovative industries. In this paper, the STIP 
method is demonstrated with the innovation of a new 
manhole technology for road construction work. 
2. INNOVATION OF CONSTRUCTION 
TECHNOLOGIES  
 
Innovation of construction technologies has resulted in 
dramatic revolutions in construction practice. For example, 
 Innovator™ can help the innovator in generating 
technology solutions. Other approaches for Method 
Design include brain storming, focus group, and expert 
interviews when the CAI is not available [18]. 
7. Prototyping 
The Prototyping step implements the innovated 
technology generated in the last step with the available 
resources and methods. The implementation is 
experimental rather than formal. The objective is to test 
the feasibility of producing physical and practical methods 
that can be experimented or tested in the next step. This 
step is associated with the Prototyping stage of the R&D 
PM Process.  
8. Experiment and Testing 
The last step of STIP method is Experiment and Testing. 
In this step, the prototyped technology is tested with real 
world scenarios to verify its feasibility and applicability. 
Design of Experiment (DOE) can be adopted to plan the 
experiments for testing. Modifications and adjustments 
may be made to the previous steps (Method Design and 
Prototyping) if the experiment results show potential 
problems of the prototype technology. 
 
 
Figure 1 STIP procedure 
 
4. CASE STUDY  
The proposed STIP method has been applied to the 
innovation of a new road manhole construction technology. 
As Taiwan has become a developed country, many 
infrastructure systems are aging, including highways, 
utilities (e.g., electricity, water supply, and gas), sewage, 
communication (e.g., TV, telephone) conduits, etc. As 
common conduits are rarely adopted in Taiwan, most of 
the pipeline conduits are constructed separately under 
roadways in the urban and suburban areas. Manholes are 
constructed in order to maintain the utility pipelines. It is 
found that the average lifecycle of traditional manhole is 
less than two years. Such damaged manholes have become 
one of the major causes of deterioration of road pavement, 
see Figure 2.  
 
 
Figure 2 deteriorated pavement surrounding manholes 
Moreover, the deteriorated pavement surrounding 
manholes has contributed significant part of car and 
motorcycle accidents annually. There are more than seven 
millions constructed manholes in Taiwan. As a result, 
improvement of the lifecycle of manhole can not only save 
great amount of budget for public construction but also 
defer the deterioration of road pavement and improve the 
safety of road users. It is very desirable for public road 
agencies to develop an improved manhole construction 
technology so that the lifecycle of manhole is prolonged, 
the quality of road pavement surface is improved, and the 
lifecycle cost of manhole is reduced. In the case study, the 
STIP method is applied to improve the traditional manhole 
technology to achieve three objectives: (1) a longer 
lifecycle; (2) a better evenness of pavement surface 
surrounding the manhole; and (3) a lower lifecycle cost. 
1. Scope of Case Study 
The case study was conducted in Taiwan to innovate the 
manhole construction technology for asphalt concrete (AC) 
road pavement. Due to the limitation of time, the scope of 
patent search was limited to USTPO [19]. 
2. Application of STIP Method 
(1) Root Cause Analysis (RCA) 
By interviews with the experienced engineers of road 
maintenance, major cause for manhole deterioration is the 
re-leveling of manhole covers due to re-pavement of road. 
As the limited time allowed for concrete curing, the 
structure strength of manhole is not fully developed before 
undertaking the loads of traffics. The structure is cracked 
inside the manhole (see Figure 3) and the surrounding 
soils of the base layer could flew into the manhole with 
water when it rains. As a result, the base layer of road is 
damaged and the road pavement is deteriorated. The root 
causes of manhole damaged are shown in Figure 4. 
3 
 
  (5) Alternativ
The alternativ
the domain
constructabili
results are s
employs labo
bed on site. T
result, the fun
However, th
equipment an
cost, and thus
 
Table 2 Evalu
Criterion 
Functionalit
Constructab
Cost effectiv
(6) Method D
In this step, 
innovative te
Innovation (C
again to gene
of the innovat
‘45’ indicate 
adjust the lev
that provides 
of surroundin
 
Figure 7 
e Evaluation
e evaluation 
 experts 
ty, and cost 
hown in Tab
rers to constr
hey are repl
ctionality and
e innovative
d precast uni
 is inferior co
ation of the in
Trad
y Poor
ility Med
eness Good
esign 
implementati
chnology is d
AI) tool, Go
rate design sc
ive method is
the ‘adjustm
el of manhol
a block to th
g base layer w
Modified FM
 
is performed
in terms 
effectivenes
le 2. The t
uct the manh
aced by prec
 constructab
 method re
t, which will 
st effectivene
novative tech
Technolog
itional Inn
 Go
ium Go
 Me
(hig
cos
on method f
esigned. The
ldfire Innovat
enarios. The 
 shown in Fig
ent ring’ tha
e; ‘42’ show
e drainage ch
ould not flow
 
 qualitatively
of function
s. The evalu
raditional me
ole seat and 
ast structure. 
ility are impr
quires addit
increase the i
ss. 
nology 
y 
ovative 
od 
od 
dium 
h initial 
t) 
or the conce
 Computer A
or™, is empl
schematic dia
ure 8. In Figu
t can be us
s the ‘frame 
annel so that
 into manhol
5 
 
 with 
ality, 
ation 
thod 
cover 
As a 
oved. 
ional 
nitial 
ptual 
ided 
oyed 
gram 
re 8, 
ed to 
base’ 
 soils 
e. 
Figu
 (7) P
The 
prod
 
Figu
 (8) E
Expe
techn
the r
by th
 
re 8 Schemati
rototyping
prototype o
uced and asse
re 9 Productio
xperiment an
riment and t
ology for the
equirement o
e governmen
13
4
42
45
5 
 
c diagram of 
f the innova
mbled in the 
n of prototyp
d Testing 
esting was co
 compression
f regulations a
t agencies, se
2 Cover seat
1 Neck ring 
 Frame base 
 Adjustment 
Manhole 
innovative m
tive technolo
plant, see Fig
e product in p
nducted for t
 strength in o
nd SPECs of
e Figure 10. 
 
ring 
ethod 
gy has been
ure 9. 
lant 
he innovative
rder to fulfil
 public work
 
 
l 
s 
 
