2 
一、 報告內容 
1   Introduction 
“User friendly” has been commonly used as the criterion to guide user interface design. However, 
what do people really mean by saying an interface is user-friendly remains vague. In order to 
achieve successful user interface design, the requirements have to be precise and well-documented 
for designers. Therefore, the objective of this research is to identify the features that contribute to 
friendly user interfaces. In order to identify the features of friendly user interfaces, the author 
started with a survey of user experiences to collect the cases of interactions and the emotional 
responses of users. Hierarchical features that would contribute to positive emotions were then 
identified using protocol analysis and Principal Component Analysis. Detailed procedures were 
discussed in the following sections. 
2   Literature Review 
User interface usability is always an important issue for practical designers. In order to ensure 
usability, many scholars have developed design principles and rules for UI designers to follow at 
the design stage [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6]. These principles and rules of user interface design were 
summarized in Table 1. Although there were many in common, some principles differed in not only 
the point of views but also the level of abstraction. As emotional concerns in user experiences 
become more and more important [7], whether these principles and rules are enough to address the 
emotional perspectives of user interface design is an issue deserving much research efforts. 
Table 1. Principles and rules of user interface design. 
Literature Principles and Rules 
[1] Suitability, Legibility, Self-descriptiveness, Learnability, Familiarity, Semantic 
language, Feedback, Understandability, Affordance, Feed-forward, Constraints, 
Prioritization, Grouping, Consistency, Transparency, Error tolerance, Satisfaction 
 
[2] Simplicity, Structure, Consistency, Tolerance 
 
[3] Predictability,  Learnability,  Structure,  Consistency,  Memorability,  
Familiarity,  Recognition,  Visibility,  Simplicity,  Subsitutivity,  Feedback,  
Error indication,  Synthesizability,  Responsiveness,  Recoverability,  
Flexibility,  User control,  Customizability,  Effectiveness,  Efficiency,  
Effort Minimization 
 
[4] Visibility, Feedback, Constraints, Consistency, Affordance 
 
[5] Visibility, Consistency, Familiarity, Affordance, Navigation, Control, Feedback, 
Recovery, Constraints, Flexibility, Style, Conviviality  
 
[6] Strive for consistency, Cater to universal usability, Offer informative feedback, 
Design dialogs to yield closure, Prevent errors, Permit easy reversal of actions, 
Support internal locus of control, Reduce short-memory load 
  
4 
Table 3. User experiences with negative emotion responses. 
Emotion 
Responses 
Cumulated 
Percentage 
Representative User Experiences 
Upset 8% No response after pressing a button and waiting for 
a long time while sending personal and private data 
through the internet; 
   
Confused 5% Unnatural mapping among switches on the wall and 
lights in the room; 
  Accidently inserting the power charging connector 
to the earphone hole on an electronic dictionary; 
  Difficult to recognize the graphics of icons; 
   
Annoyed 8% Too many windows are triggered automatically and 
overlapped to each other while interacting with a 
website; 
  No information about the remaining time for 
downloading a webpage; 
   
Anxious  3% Don’t know how to start using a system at the first 
time under time pressure; 
  The time for confirming the account number and 
amount of money for transferring through ATM is 
not long enough; 
   
Embarrassing 4% Struggle to switch a mobile phone to the silent 
mode while it is ringing in a meeting or a quiet 
library; 
   
Frustrated 2% Not easy to scroll to the expected position in a 
document; 
 
4   Identification of Features 
After protocol analysis of the above data, twenty features that could contribute to positive emotions 
were identified. Furthermore, a questionnaire survey of 66 respondents was conducted to obtain the 
response about the degree of importance of these features using 7-point scales. Principal 
Component Analysis was then used to extract six major factors (Table 4). They cumulatively 
explained, 72.32% of the total variance. These factors were named as Ease of use, Reliability, 
Inclusiveness, Tolerance, Considerateness and Attractiveness (Table 5). Ease of use included Low 
Mental Workload, Low Physical Workload, Informative Feedback, and Sense-of-Achievement 
Experience. Reliability consisted of Robustness, Ease of Navigation, Intuitive and Natural Control, 
as well as Safety. Inclusiveness consisted of Appropriate Notification, Adaptivity, Accessibility, 
and Pleasurable Experience. Tolerance consisted of Predicable Output, Error Recovery, Error 
Prevention, and No Time Pressure. Considerateness included Real-Time Help Instruction, 
Maintaining Privacy, and Flexibility. Attractiveness included Elegant Design, which was the only 
feature in this category. The factors and features within two levels of hierarchy could serve as a 
checklist to guide design. The checklist is expected to help designers to develop a user interface that 
invokes positive emotion responses and reduces the possibility of causing negative emotions. 
6 
Table 5. Features of friendly user interfaces. 
Factor Level Feature Level 
Applicable to 
User Input or  
System Output 
Ease of Use Low Mental Workload Input and Output 
 Low Physical Workload Input 
 Informative Feedback Output 
 Sense-of-Achievement Experience Input and Output 
   
Reliability Robustness Input and Output 
 Ease of Navigation Input and Output 
 Intuitive and Natural Control Input 
 Safety Input and Output 
   
Inclusiveness Appropriate Notification Output 
 Adaptivity  Input and Output 
 Accessibility Input and Output 
 Pleasurable Experience Input and Output 
   
Tolerance Predicable Output Output 
 Error Recovery Input 
 Error Prevention Input 
 No Time Pressure Input 
   
Considerateness Real-Time Help Instruction Output 
 Maintaining Privacy Input and Output 
 Flexibility Input and Output 
   
Attractiveness Elegant Design Input and Output 
 
5   Case Study 
Furthermore, the checklist was applied to a case study, in which a bar table prototype with a 
multi-touch screen was evaluated by a focus group with one experienced designer, one professor, 
and one university staff without professional training in design. They all had more than ten years of 
working experiences. This interactive table was initially designed to provide the service of drink 
ordering and entertainment in bars. The surface of the touch screen was made by silicone, which 
was surrounded by two arrays of infrared light sources. There was an infrared camera mounted in 
the chamber of the table. This chamber included a computer, a projector, and a glass to reflect the 
image coming out from the projector. People could use mugs or bottles with different numbers of 
contact points at the bottom to trigger corresponding digital contents. In addition, users could 
interact with the digital contents with gestures applied on the surface.  Figure 1 demonstrated the 
experiments of system functions in a design exhibition. The equipments of the system and the 
maintenance situation were shown in Figure 2. Taking the comments collected from the participants 
of the experiments as the initial data, the focus group evaluated the prototype again with the 
8 
Table 6. The requirements of improvement for the multi-touch table. 
Categories Requirements of design improvement 
Ease of Use (1) Low Mental Workload: Enlarge the graphic icons and 
text for senior users; Reduce the cases of using short 
term memory while operating the system; 
 (2) Low Physical Workload: Improve the UI for 
maintaining the equipments under the table; Provide the 
shot-cut UI on the cover so that people can calibrate the 
system conveniently from outside; 
 (3) Informative Feedback: Provide distinguishable sounds 
and animations while touching different elements on the 
screen; 
 (4) Sense-of-Achievement Experience: Provide the UI to 
dynamically display the rank of customers based on the 
degree of contributions to the club or to the other 
members; 
  
Reliability (5) Robustness: Water-proof touch screen; Ensure stable 
response of digital contents when many users are 
interacting with the system at the same time; 
 (6) Ease of Navigation: Limit the structure of menus into 
two levels of hierarchy; Group the items based on 
familiar categories and list them alphabetically; 
 (7) Intuitive and Natural Control: Ensure natural mapping 
among gestures and state changes of the contents; 
 (8) Safety: Prevent customers from contacting the heated air 
emitted from the projector under the table; 
  
Inclusiveness (9) Appropriate  Notification: Provide the ingredient 
immediately at the moment of ordering drinks; 
 (10) Adaptivity: Maintain the personal profile of favorite 
drinks for quick ordering; 
 (11) Accessibility: Provide the voice control and auditory 
feedback for visually impaired people; 
 (12) Pleasurable Experience: Provide entertainment games to 
facilitate social interactions among customers; 
  
Tolerance (13) Predicable Output: Ensure the contact points of mugs or 
bottles trigger the correct digital content every time; 
 (14) Error Recovery: Provide the return button to get back to 
previous steps; 
 (15) Error Prevention: Provide the confirmation page for 
order summary before submit it; Adjust the sensitivity 
of touch to ensure stable inputs; 
 (16) No Time Pressure: User-controlled paces; No time limit 
if no one is waiting for using it; 
  
Considerateness (17) Real-Time Help Instruction: Provide the help for 
recommending drinks based on the collaborative 
filtering of popularity and special tastes; 
 (18) Maintaining Privacy: Need password to access personal 
accounts of club members; 
 (19) Flexibility: Provide the short-cut for experienced 
customers and step-to-step procedures for novices; 
  
Attractiveness (20) Elegant Design: Enhance the appearance of menu icons 
with animations; 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
  ■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用
價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）
（以 500 字為限） 
 
 本研究藉由收集用戶在互動過程中的情感反應語彙，藉由因素分析法，
歸納出六個主要的情感指標。並由此定義出二層的階層式設計檢核表，此
套有關互動設計之情感向度的評價指標因子，將可作為互動設計師在介面
設計時之參考。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
內容點出 Social Media 與 Interfaces 的趨勢對現今社會的影響以及未來可研究
的議題等。Dr. Ben Shneiderman 不愧為人機介面研究的前輩，演說中流露出他
對研究的熱情與活力，值得大家學習。 
  科技輔具使用者介面的相關研究為本人最感興趣的主題，在聆聽不同場
次的論文發表後，對於以下幾個研究單位的論文印象深刻，也曾與作者進行討
論並交換意見。Boston University 的教授 Margrit Betke 所帶領的團隊利用臉部
辨識的技術來發展科技輔具並幫助身障者操控電腦。此外西門子(SIEMENS)的 
Sam Zheng 則利用最新的 Eye-tracking 設備發展出 Eye-typing 技術並提出具體
的實驗結果。這些論文除了對相關研究領域頗具貢獻之外，其研究方法也相當
值得學習。 
二、建議 
HCI International 為人機互動領域重要的國際研討會，與會人員來自於世界
各國的學術研究機構與業界公司。此外，根據本人觀察，國內各大學院校設計
學院教師與學生的參與人數逐年增加，今年也有國內大廠宏達電(HTC)及華碩
(ASUS)研發人員參與。隨著科技產品的普及化，人機互動的議題更不容忽視，
未來建議國內科技廠商多派員參加，不但可了解世界各國實驗室最新的研究成
果，也可增強研發人員國際化的能力。 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
(1)2011 年人機互動國際研討會(HCI International 2011)論文集光碟。 
(2)人機互動實驗設備儀器簡介資料。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/22
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用於互動設計之階層性情感向度指標與評價方法研究
計畫主持人: 朱柏穎
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-036-033- 學門領域: 人因工程與工業設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
計畫共同主持人陳立杰副教授於代表本計畫參與國際研討會期間，與 Boston 
University 的教授 Margrit Betke 所帶領的團隊利用臉部辨識的技術來發展科
技輔具以幫助身障者操控電腦的情感互動認知上，有相當程度的興趣與深入的
討論，也計畫未來進一步合作之可能。另巧遇國內 HTC 與 ASUS 互動設計研發部
門人員，雙方對互動設計之情感向度的評價指標，也認為未來有進一步合作之
空間與機會。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
