further determines the validity of cues by 
calculating Mann-Whitney U value and running AHP 
(Analytic Hierarchy Process) method. This study finds 
that the decision-making factors include transaction 
cost, mutual trust, strategic cooperation, 
complementary, knowledge sharing, experience of 
cooperation, business conception, delivery accuracy, 
quality assurance, and cooperation degree. Finally, 
this study interview the company to design the 
Decision systems analysis (DSA) flowchart that know 
the each factor detail flow. This study discovered 
that the major decision-making factors for selecting 
partners within industrial cluster collaboration are 
quality assurance and transaction cost, due to the 
emphasis of keeping long-term relationships. 
英文關鍵詞： industrial cluster, cluster collaboration, fast-and-
frugal tree, take-the-best, Mann-Whitney U value, 
AHP, DSA 
 
 2 
A Study of Decision-Making in Interfirm Industrial-Service 
Flexibility and Cooperative Network 
 
摘要 
本研究第二年之研究著重於討論決策的關鍵因素，以及對台灣中部機械產業的群聚合
作進行深入的研究和調查。中台灣一直是台灣機械產業的重鎮，同時也提供了獨特且完整
的產業供應鏈環境。不論是群聚合作的外包、策略聯盟、或其他競爭類型之項目，中部機
械產業在產業群聚的雙邊合作條件下，已逐漸步發展成型。本研究根據 Gigerenzer (2001)
“快速簡要決策樹”(Fast-and-Frugal Decision Tree, FFDT)的方法，採用最少數量的決策點
和涉及所有可用的線索，來探討中部機械產業群聚合作的決策因素。同時本研究以“最佳
採用”(take the best)的方法來收集最有效的決策因素與線索的概念，並進一步採用
Mann-Whitney U 值計算以及 AHP (層級分析法)方法找出有效的線索。本研究發現，決策的
因素包括「交易成本」、「互信」、「策略合作」、「優勢互補」、「知識共享」、「合作的經驗」、
「經營理念」、「交期準確」、「品質保證」和「合作程度」。最後，本研究利用決策系統分析
(Decision System Analysis, DSA)方法，訪談中部機械產業之決策者以得知並繪製每個因素的
決策流程圖。本研究發現，基於維持長期的合作關係，在產業群聚內選擇合作夥伴的決策
主要因素為「品質保證」和「交易成本」兩因素。 
關鍵詞：產業群聚、群聚合作、快速簡要決策樹、最佳採用、Mann-Whitney U 值、層級分
析法、決策系統分析 
 
Abstract 
The second year of this study focuses on the discussion of key decision-making factors and 
industrial cluster collaboration in middle Taiwan’s machinery industry as an in-depth research 
and survey. Middle Taiwan has been headquarter of machinery industry and provides a unique 
and complete industrial supply-chain environment. Cluster collaborations of outsourcing, 
strategic alliances and other types of emerging competitive alternatives are developed under the 
framework of bilateral cooperation. This study explores company's decision-makings of cluster 
collaboration mainly based on Gigerenzer’s (2001) interpretation of "fast-and-frugal tree 
decision-making method” (FAFT), which uses a minimum number of question nodes and 
involves all available cues. This study also adopts the concept of “take-the-best” method to 
collect the most effective degree of decision factors as cues and further determines the validity of 
cues by calculating Mann-Whitney U value and running AHP (Analytic Hierarchy Process) 
method. This study finds that the decision-making factors include transaction cost, mutual trust, 
strategic cooperation, complementary, knowledge sharing, experience of cooperation, business 
conception, delivery accuracy, quality assurance, and cooperation degree. Finally, this study 
interview the company to design the Decision systems analysis (DSA) flowchart that know the 
each factor detail flow. This study discovered that the major decision-making factors for selecting 
partners within industrial cluster collaboration are quality assurance and transaction cost, due to 
the emphasis of keeping long-term relationships. 
Keywords: industrial cluster, cluster collaboration, fast-and-frugal tree, take-the-best, 
Mann-Whitney U value, AHP, DSA 
 
1. Introduction 
In today’s fast changing environment, high-tech industries like the machinery tools and 
precision machinery industry are currently facing an environment of fierce competition. When 
faced with changes in technology and varied customer demands, if machinery firms want to 
 4 
machinery, and mechanical components of a number of retail categories. The machinery industry 
can be described as the "mother of the industry", since it is also the foundation for other 
industries, such as electronics, optoelectronics, semiconductors, materials, technology, and a key 
to the development of other industries. Most countries measure their level of industrialization and 
industrial capacity to determine their competitiveness and a country's economic competitiveness 
is closely related to its industrial level. Nowadays, the machinery industry is very important to 
the Taiwanese economy. In the past, it developed slowly, but now, it is facing a totally different 
situation of rapid change. Consumers’ habits are changing fast and shorter product lifecycles have 
caused the machinery industry to accelerate its R&D and industrial upgrading, and transform 
itself to meet the current market demand. 
 Lai and Wang (2009) point out that the Taiwanese machinery industry faces several 
problems, as follows: (1) The key ability of components is relatively inadequate. (2) There is a 
lack of senior technical personnel and new staff. (3) Homogeneity is high and many mechanical 
products lack product differentiation. (4) There is a shortage of integration and design capabilities. 
(5) There is a lack of large-scale industry support equipment and development (6) International 
marketing has not been completely established (7) There is still a gap between Taiwan and other 
countries in terms of the quality and service of mechanical components. Furthermore, the overall 
performance of supply chains and collaboration is affected by problems of cooperation. One 
example is the collaboration between systems, since contact is not easy and information 
asymmetry causes a bullwhip effect. Other issues include excessive inventory or materials, 
machine types not fit for purpose, a lack of quality control, etc. 
Decision-making is faster and an effective cooperation model can determine the benefit of 
the company's decision-making and help to make the right decisions to guide inter-industry 
enterprises to become more competitive. On the other hand, according to Hoch (2000) and 
Sivadas & Dwyer (2000) et al., companies use a cooperative strategy to reduce costs and promote 
innovation, and resource and risk-sharing help enterprises to increase their technological 
knowledge and continue to innovate in order to overcome the never-ending challenges in the 
external environment. Most machinery industry enterprises cannot afford sufficient resources for 
invention and innovation. In addition to the cost, the investment of time in R & D is too long. 
Integrating their technological knowledge with that of business partners is an effective way to 
continue innovation and the company's innovative performance can be regarded as being a new 
mode of cooperation. Quick decision-making can explore how to cooperate with other companies, 
reduce information barriers and make use of the maximum amount of resources within the cluster, 
seeking help to not only sell products or find opportunities, but also create a competitive 
advantage for the company. A faster decision-making process and a frugal cooperation model can 
determine the benefit of the company’s decision-making and help it to move toward greater 
inter-industry competitiveness. 
 
2.1.1 Machinery industrial cluster 
Before attempting to understand the machinery industrial cluster, this study investigates 
various scholars’ definitions of cluster. For example, what is the effect of a cluster? This study 
has collected many scholars’ definitions of clusters and many integrated theories in an attempt to 
explain it. The features of industrial clusters gradually change from static advantages to dynamic 
capabilities, from the cluster's formation mechanism to its dynamic mechanism. Then, the 
cluster's production system significantly turns to its knowledge systems. The study of clusters can 
be divided into several parts, such as the cluster's mechanism, the cluster's competitive 
advantages, the relationship between clusters and innovative processes, and so on. Marshall 
(1920) believed that industrial clusters are caused by the external economy, and Weber (1929) 
illustrated how industrial clusters can be divided into two stages, with enterprise expansion 
 6 
Table 1: The Machinery industrial cluster in Central Taiwan 
Location Industrial cluster 
Taichung city 
Taichung industrial Park 
Precision Machinery Technology Innovation Park 
Central Taiwan Science Park in Taichung Park 
Central Taiwan Science Park Houli Park 
Fengzhou Technology Park 
Changhua Country 
Erlin Precision Machinery Park 
Zhangbin Industrial Park 
 
2.2 Decision-Making 
In uncertain situations, decision-makers require information and cooperation is required to 
achieve undetermined objectives and ideals. Before cooperating, possible outcomes can only be 
speculated, but they can be realized after a period of collaboration unless uncertainty has taken 
hold and the emergence of the situation is not clear. Since there is no way of calculating how 
much both sides in the machinery industry collaborate to make decisions, this study will use 
non-parametric statistical methods with a Mann-Whitney U test by Gigerenzer, et al., (1991) to 
establish the validity of the cues by calculating the effectiveness of cooperation factors. It will 
then calculate the degree of effectiveness to filter the application to the machinery industry. 
 
2.2.1 Fast and frugal Heuristic tree 
Fast and frugal heuristics refer to simple, task-specific decision strategies. These are parts of 
a decision-maker’s or a company's cognitive strategies for performing judgment and decision 
tasks (Gigerenzer, Todd, & the ABC Research Group, 1999). Fast and frugal heuristics are simple 
to execute because the decision-maker needs to decide from a limited information search which 
does not involve much computation. Unlike many decision-making models in the behavioral 
sciences, fast and frugal heuristics not only describe the outcome of the decision-making process, 
but also the process itself. Fast and frugal heuristics are composed of simple building blocks that 
specify how the information in the study was researched, when the information search stopped, 
and the information taken into account in the decision-making process. The term “heuristic” is of 
Greek origin, meaning “to find out” or “to discover.” This concept of heuristics differs from 
approaches that define heuristics as rules of thumb or irrational shortcuts that result in decision 
bias. Fast and frugal heuristics yield decisions that are ecologically rational rather than logically 
consistent. 
Most of time, humans have to make decisions quickly based on sparse information. Time 
constraints and knowledge and computational capacities need to be taken into account when 
modeling real-time decision-making. Also, if companies want to cooperate when they need to 
make a decision and they want to save time and cost, they will need to be fast and frugal. There 
are many ways and tools for decision-making, but which of them is best for firms? There is a 
simple rule for searching: “Take the Best” (TTB). Gigerenzer & Goldstein (1996) and Gigerenzer, 
Hoffrage & Kleinbo  ¨lting (1991) criticize the search rule of TTB because its stopping rule and 
decision rule are not discussed and the recognition is heuristic. This is a lexicographic strategy 
which was established by Gigerenzer and Goldstein (1996) and refers to a study by L. Martignon 
& U. Hoffrage, 2002. The study will be based on this literary manner to calculate the cue. The 
numerator corresponds to the well-known U-value of the Mann-Whitney test and the 
denominator corresponds to R+W. On the other hand, the equation of U and Mann-Whitney U is 
different. The Mann-Whitney U is a statistical value, and the literature points out the U value and 
the U test manner are different. This study does not use the Mann-Whitney U to test different 
groups, but only just uses the manner to calculate and rank the cues, so that it can determine the 
importance of the cues. The validity of a cue is predictive accuracy, and the computation of 
 8 
organization aims to engage resources in the environment arising from transactions costs, and 
will manage the costs incurred within the exchange to minimize them (Williamson, 1975, 1979). 
The organization’s choice of governance mechanisms can decide whether the transaction costs 
are high or low. The key constructs of trust include communication and coordination. Trust is 
always put together with these variables, and these variables are hard to measure. If an 
improvement occurs in firms’ relationship, this could be a great help in a business-to-business 
setting. Trust, communication and coordination are considered to be the core of relationship 
marketing. Mutual trust influences the buyer’s choice of sellers (Ganesan 1994), and trust is the 
key driver in this process. Indeed, communication, coordination and trust are critical in any 
discussion of business relationships because they encourage exchange partners to work at a stable 
relationship and achieve mutual gains (Morgan and Hunt 1994). It is claimed that communication, 
coordination and trust will produce efficiency, productivity and effectiveness, all of which are 
essential for any long-term project. Once trust has been established, a high level of mutual trust 
may positively impact sales (Garver and Flint 1995). Mutual Trust is defined as being 
“confidence in an exchange partner’s reliability and integrity” (Morgan and Hunt 1994, p. 23). 
Mutual trust is also a component of communication and coordination (Morgan and Hunt 1994) 
and is identified in services marketing as being important to create a successful opportunity 
(Berry and Parasuraman 1991). The dimensions of mutual trust include expertise, reliability and 
internationality (Rotter 1967), and relationship communication and coordination is defined in the 
literature as “an enduring desire to maintain a valued relationship” (Morgan and Hunt 1994, 23). 
The concept of communication and coordination is business-to-business cooperation. Many 
scholars define mutual trust as being when a manufacturer and its trading partners rely on each 
other (Mooreman, Zaltman, and Deshpande, 1992). 
 
2.3.2 Strategic Cooperation 
According to Kogut (1988), the company composition of a strategic partnership is to avoid 
potential competitors entering the market, or to weaken the position of competitors. Kanter (1989) 
considers that a business relationship between companies provides a potential source of 
competitive advantage, especially for suppliers and consumers. Kogut compares strategic costs 
and transaction costs, and the difference between the two costs in the different selection criteria 
of the cooperative activities and partnership of machinery manufacturing firms. The motivation 
for strategic costs is the pursuit of long-term profit, and the goal of transaction costs is a very 
small production and transaction cost. When selecting a partner, the strategic focus is on a 
competitive position related to competitors or consumers in a competitive position. On the other 
hand, transaction costs mainly emphasize the minimum cost for the test volume. Porter (1980) 
proposes that a company's general competitive strategy is composed of the following three basic 
strategies: (A) the overall cost leadership which is primarily attained through economies of scale, 
the category of the economy and the concept of a learning experience curve to control the costs to 
obtain a price advantage. (B) Differentiation is committed to producing unique products and 
services by means of special product quality and good service, so that the company can establish 
a competitive advantage. (C) Focus means that the business operation focuses on in a particular 
market segment or specific product lines to meet customers’ needs by having the appropriate 
resources to gain competitive advantage. 
2.3.3 Knowledge sharing 
Steensma (1996) observes that, when companies have the opportunity to cooperate with 
others, they acquire an important source of knowledge or skills. With the opportunity to 
implement activities with partners, both partners can have access to embedded knowledge. 
Therefore, the firms have the opportunity to learn new knowledge and capabilities (Crossan and 
Inkpen, 1994). Although cooperation is not necessarily established for the purpose of learning, 
 10 
to form a league of competitive advantage. Enterprises' corporate culture, management practices, 
strategic orientation and technical systems are very different, so both partners may lack an 
understanding of each other. This would mislead and undermine the partnership, resulting in 
ineffective co-operation (Das and Teng, 2000). Therefore, it is essential to choose complementary 
partners for business operations (operational fit) (Niederkofler, 1991). A good operational fit, 
including complementary implementation methods and tools, is beneficial for both partners to 
create and maintain operations with the appropriate method and eliminate any incompatibility 
between them. 
2.3.5 Experience of cooperation 
If a company has cooperated before, the assessment could be based on past experience and 
record of cooperation, and the same way can be used to search for a partner next time. However, 
a company culture of group knowledge is difficult to change or share, and enterprises must 
consider this when attempting to assess the impact of different organizational cultures. 
International strategic alliances especially require more wisdom to overcome cultural differences 
and organizational cultural differences. To reduce these barriers, more attention must be paid to 
resources to maintain a balanced cooperation.  Size and commitment have already been 
mentioned as being vital for a compatible partnership. In this study, these elements will be 
considered as co-factors for integration, mainly within the culture of the company which is 
making the decision, so the breakdown of the factors will be based on this. 
2.3.6 Business concept 
Each member organization's characteristics, such as size, technical capability, management 
philosophy, corporate culture, or similar properties regard the business partners’ features to be 
one of the factors for consideration. The criteria for selecting a business partner should include 
the following: 1. the ability to provide important resources in order to effect a professional 
division of labor, resources, and complementary functions; 2. similar characteristics, philosophy, 
and strategic-orientation: the scale of cooperation between members, technical competence, 
management philosophy, corporate culture. Also, the operation of a large network system would 
be useful in order to maintain a long-term partnership; 3. the existence of an informal relationship 
between companies: In addition to members complementing each other, mutual motivation is an 
important force to maintain cooperation, like the members of informal relationships that exist 
between Chinese people involve a similar relationship of trust formed with friendship and the 
same moral code. 
2.3.7 Accurate Delivery  
Accurate delivery is an essential cooperation factor for businesses to consider. It is essential 
that delivery can be affected within a limited time; therefore, this study must understand 
procurement, since the procurement system plays a very important role in the supply chain. 
Effective procurement operations can enhance product quality and also contribute to shortening 
product delivery times. Today's information technology is totally different, and the development 
of e-procurement through the internet has enabled all the tedious work to be done by computer. 
This has increased the accuracy of information on procurement and reduced the transaction time, 
contributing to a delivery time without delay. To date, there are no overall performance 
evaluation standards of accurate delivery, or how to select the appropriate measure of 
performance indicators, particularly in e-procurement. However, it is worth noting that 
companies that can switch upstream and downstream suppliers can achieve an accurate delivery 
performance. According to Meyer et al (1997) enterprises with defined strategic objectives can 
achieve a high level of performance, although it is difficult to obtain data at the transaction level 
to measure such a performance because of different dimensions of knowledge. Non-financial 
indicators and financial indicators can be used to differentiate the factors of cost and strategies, 
and according to Leenders et al (1989) an accurate delivery performance can be measured as 
 12 
be determined by a verbal contract and an assurance of the full cooperation of all the departments 
in both companies to share a common goal and reduce mistakes when reaching for that goal. 
According to Blenknorn and Noori (1991), and McCutcheon et al. (1997), a good cooperative 
relationship between parties will create more ideas and integration, and the fast communication 
of information will facilitate greater environmental adaptability and flexibility. On the other hand, 
according to the company interviews, a high degree of cooperation and coordination, and 
partners’ ability to change processes/products will enable the maintenance of a long-term 
relationship. Some SEMs in the machinery industry willingly deal with their partner’s rush orders 
and are happy to change the steps of their manufacturing product line to coordinate and cooperate 
with their partner. If companies have goodwill and a flexible ability to coordinate with each other, 
this will enhance their opportunity to successfully cooperate. 
 
3. Research Method 
This study uses three research tools, one of which is the Mann-Whitney U test & V value, 
while the others are an Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) and Decision Systems Analysis (DSA). 
This study presents a literature review and interviews with related companies to confirm the 
research motivation and purpose, so that factors can be selected to establish the research process. 
Figure 1 shows the flow of the research method, and since this study involves two groups of 
participants, different decision-makers from qualitative and quantitative groups will complete the 
questionnaire. 
 
Figure 1: Research method flow 
3.2 Mann-Whitney U test & V value 
Although this study does not U test different groups, the U test has some limitations which 
need to be observed. Therefore, the study adopts a Mann-Whitney U test definition. As a first step, 
the Mann-Whitney U test, which is a non-parametric statistical test, was performed in order to 
calculate the V value, and therefore obtain cues to the real effective value. To perform the test, all 
the observations were firstly arranged into a single ranked series. This meant ranking all the 
observations without regard to which sample they were in, and the following formula was used 
for larger samples: 
1. Add up the ranks for all observations from sample 1. The sum of ranks in sample 2 is 
calculated, since the sum of all the ranks equals N(N + 1)/2 where N is the total number of 
 14 
D risk should be taken into account when making a decision for enterprise 
collaboration. 
Complementa
ry 
Before cooperation, firms should understand each other’s complementary 
differences, and degree of similarity. This includes complementary targets, 
operating philosophy and corporate culture. Enterprises cannot afford to 
risk failure. Survival depends on the supply of external environmental 
resources, while the external environment responds to enterprises’ needs. 
Cooperative behavior means the sharing of responsibility, risks and 
rewards, but business independence is retained. 
Harrigan (1988b) Mowery 
(1996) Pfeffer and Salancik 
(1978) 
Experience of 
cooperation 
This is based on past experience of cooperation and friendship. There must 
be no communication barriers between cooperating companies that prevent 
them from achieving their reach the goal. This will be one of the factors to 
consider the next time they seek a cooperative relationship. 
Fon (2000) 
Business 
concept 
If the business concepts and technological capabilities of partners 
complement each other, or their corporate cultures are similar, they are 
better able to maintain a long-term relationship. 
Wu (2000) 
Accurate 
Delivery  
Companies must consider the cost of production delays, i.e. on-time 
delivery without delay to the time of the next plant products. Accurate 
delivery ensures that the production line is not stagnant, and this is one of 
the factors to consider when seeking cooperation. 
Interview of companies, 
Meyer et al (1997), 
Leenders et al (1989), 
Buxmann and Gebauer 
(1999), Jahnukainen and 
Mika (1999) 
Quality 
Assurance 
Companies want to maintain their product standards to reinforce their 
competitive advantage. If the standard falls, they will both lost their 
competitiveness. They need to be strong in cooperative relationships in 
order to establish a good reputation within the cluster. 
Deming (1982), Juran 
(1986), Feigenbaum (1989), 
Rooney (1994) 
Degree of 
Cooperation 
There must be a good understanding between the parties and a willingness 
to meet a high level of cooperation between the two sides of the demand. 
This would enable them to maintain long-term cooperation. 
Interview of companies, 
Noori (1991) McCutcheon 
et al.(1997) 
 
After designing the questionnaire and arranging the companies to rank the factors,  it is 
difficult to explain each of the many factor of cooperation in this research. Therefore, only the 
factors accepted by U test> 0.5 values will be explored, and the six most important factors of 
cooperation will be calculated by using a U test and V value.  
  
3.3 Analytical Hierarchy Process 
 After the factors have been filtered and the questionnaire has been designed, the importance 
of the factors considered by decision-makers can be compared. The analysis method used to 
calculate the weight of the factors is AHP, which will rank the factors and describe the FAFT. The 
Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP) is a structured technique for organizing and analyzing 
complex decisions. This was developed by Thomas L. Saaty in the 1970s based on mathematics 
and psychology, and has been extensively studied and refined since then. It can particularly be 
applied to group decision-making, and is used around the world in a wide variety of decision 
situations, in fields such as government, business, industry, healthcare, and education. The AHP 
helps decision-makers to make the decision that best suits their goal according to their 
understanding of the problem. It provides a comprehensive and rational framework for 
structuring a decision problem, for representing and quantifying its elements, for relating those 
elements to the overall goals, and evaluating alternative solutions. The AHP first decomposes the 
decision problem into a hierarchy of more comprehensive sub-problems, each of which can be 
analyzed independently. The elements of the hierarchy can relate to any aspect of the decision 
problem, tangible or intangible, carefully measured or roughly estimated, well or 
poorly-understood; in fact, anything at all that applies to the decision at hand. Once the hierarchy 
has been built, the decision-maker systematically evaluates its various elements by comparing 
 16 
flowcharts can be adapted as a follow-up to decide the cooperation factors when charting the 
participation of managers and individuals from different groups (Ronkainen, 1985). 
Semi-structured interviewing procedures (Hulbert et al., 1972) are especially useful for creating a 
series of detailed flowcharts describing manufacturing process decisions. This study uses DSA to 
know the details of each factor so that the FAFHT model will be more correct. 
 
4. Findings and Discussions 
This study is exploratory in nature, and not only makes use of a U test & V value and AHP, 
but also conducts a study of a machinery manufacturer’s cooperative relationship, including 
in-depth interviews with executives responsible for product innovation in the case study company, 
in order to understand the relationship between them. The research methodology is described in 
the following sections. This study focuses on Central Taiwan’s machinery companies and designs 
the questionnaire to allow the decision-maker to decide the cooperation factors and then calculate 
the weight of the cues. In addition, the FAFHT is set up and interviews with the company to learn 
the detailed process of each facto when decision-makers consider which factors to choose.  
 
4.1 Data analysis of U test and V value 
This study use Tables 4 and 5 to display the data and calculate the data results in Table 6. 
The study collected data from 21 companies that manufacture tool machinery, precision 
machinery, plastics machinery, and hand tool machinery (Figure 2), and questionnaires which 
were completed by the companies’ decision-makers, including the CEO, Inventory Manager, 
Project Manager and General Manager (Figure 6). The study provides information for each of the 
decision-makers in Table 3, which shows that they are distributed throughout the machinery 
industry and all have the power to make decisions. 
 
Figure 2: Structure of machinery industry 
 
Figure 3: Decision-makers 
 
Table 3: Decision-maker information 
No Name Industry Company product 
Professional 
Title 
1 Mr. Yang 
Machine Tools 
Industry 
Circulation hot air drying room, Drum belly special 
purpose spraying machine, Painting equipment legend, 
CEO 
 18 
21 Mr. Lin 
Hand Tools 
Industry 
Air Wrench, Air Grinder, Air Sander, Air Polisher, Air 
Wet Stone Tools, Air Hammer. 
General 
Manager 
 
This study has collected the data and organized the key points. Because the U test has a 
limited sequence, it was necessary to organize the key points for the questionnaires according to 
the ranking of the interview companies. (Tables 2 and 3) The study uses code numbers to define 
the factors. Where CR: Company Rank; A: Quality Assurance; B: Degree of Cooperation; C: 
Mutual trust; D: Delivery accuracy; E: Transaction costs; F: Strategic Cooperation; G: 
Complementary; H: Experience of cooperation; I: Business concept; J: Knowledge sharing. 
 
Table 4: Sorted data 
CR 
F 
17 12 10 15 18 11 21 20 5 9 
A 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
B 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
C 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
D 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
E 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 
F 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 0 
G 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 0 0 
H 0 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 1 0 
I 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 
J 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 
 
Table 5: Sorted data 
CR 
F 
13 14 2 8 3 6 16 19 7 1 4 
A 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 
B 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 
C 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 
D 1 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 1 1 0 
E 0 1 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 
F 0 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 
G 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 1 1 1 1 
H 0 0 1 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 
I 1 1 1 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 0 
J 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 1 0 
 
Table 6: Results of V value 
F A B C D E 
U1 17 47 48 61 61 
U2 3 21 20 35 47 
V 0.85 0.69 0.70 0.63 0.56 
 
F F G H I J 
U1 32 58 35 50 38 
U2 70 50 73 59 52 
V 0.31 0.53 0.32 0.45 0.42 
 
Having calculated the V value from the filtered six factors, this was followed by Transaction 
costs, Mutual trust, Complementary, Delivery Accuracy, Quality Assurance and Degree of 
Cooperation. However, the factors are not listed according to their degree of importance, so the U 
 20 
 
Figure 4: AHP design questionnaire research framework 
 
4.2.1 AHP questionnaire design and survey 
The study focuses on exploring the critical success factors of cooperative relationships 
between firms in Taiwan’s mechanical industry. Personal visits were made to industry experts and 
a questionnaire survey was conducted. To increase the sample representativeness, the experts 
were sent a questionnaire on behalf of manufacturers of machine tools, precision machinery, 
rubber and plastic, hand tools and woodworking tools. Before distributing the questionnaires, a 
personal visit was made to explain the purpose of the study and advise the participants how to 
complete the questionnaire. A total of 21 questionnaires were distributed and 20 were recovered. 
In addition, the personal information of each decision-maker is provided in Table 7 and 
illustrating that they were taken from various parts of the machinery industry and that they all 
have the power to make decisions on behalf of the company. Some data could not be used in this 
study and it is identified by a star sign. 
 
Table 7: Distribution of Decision-makers throughout the machinery industry 
No Name Industry Company product 
Professional 
Title 
1 Mr. Lin 
Machine Tools 
Industry 
High Precision CNC Machining Center( HT-400, HT-500), 
Tapping Center ( TC-510/ TC-710), Vertical Machining 
Center ( MT-800P, MT-1400) 
CEO 
2 Mr. Chen 
Machine Tools 
Industry 
Vertical, Double-column, Horizontal, High speed 
double-column 
CEO 
3 Mr. Lu 
Machine Tools 
Industry, 
Precision 
machinery 
Industry 
CNC Machining Center, CNC Hi-Speed Machining 
Center, CNC Double Column Machining Center, Vertical 
Turret Milling Machining. 
CEO 
*4 Mr. Lin 
Precision 
machinery 
Industry 
Flanged End Valves, Thread End Ball Valve, Multi Thread 
End Valve, Sanitary Ball Valves, Special Valves, Stainless 
Steel Needle Valves 
CEO 
5 
Ms. 
Chang 
Precision 
machinery 
Industry 
Chuck, Rotating-cylinder, Hydraulic-cylinder, others 
CEO 
 
6 Mr. Li 
Precision 
machinery 
Industry 
Drill (Standard Drill, Micro, Large Under Cut, Slot Router 
Bits) 
CEO 
7 Mr. Yang 
Precision 
machinery 
Industry 
Vertical Turing, Horizontal, Turning, Swiss Turning, 
Automation 
CEO 
8 
Mr. 
Cheng 
Hand Tools 
Industry 
Pneumatic Clip Ring Tools, Fasteners 
General 
Manager 
9 Mr. Jin 
Machine Tools 
Industry 
Multiple Spindle Machine Head, Drilling Machine, 
Tapping Machine, Circulated Coolant Tank 
Project Manager 
10 Mr. Kei Machine Tools Leather Cutting& Clipping machine, Machineries for General 
 22 
making a cooperation decision in the machinery industry, the experts believe that the "quality 
assurance" dimension is relatively important, with a 27% highest importance, while the 
importance of the "transaction costs"  dimension accounted for a ratio of  18.5%, and the 
importance of the dimension of "degree of cooperation" accounted for 17.7% of the total 
proportion of 63.7%. In the aspect of factor weights, the experts believed that "quality assurance", 
"transaction costs" and "degree of cooperation" were the key success factors from the six 
dimensions which affect the decision-making in the machinery industry in relative rank of 
importance. Since the experts’ choice of the key success factors of six dimensions in 
decision-making for cooperation in the machinery industry showed the paired comparison matrix 
that calculated C.I. = 0.000813285, C.R. = 0.000655875 are less than 0.1, which fits Saaty’s 
requirement for consistency, the results of the weight can be regarded as being reasonable. Also, 
the weight calculation of “quality assurance” in relation to other dimensions is most important, 
because the interviewees from the manufacturers declared that, in times of both growth and 
economic recession, quality assurance is the first factor they consider. However, in an economic 
recession or instability, “delivery accuracy is also a key consideration. Most companies also think 
about the economic environment when considering making a decision to cooperate, even though 
this factor was ranked fourth. This is because an unstable economy does not affect the provision 
of components or materials or the manufacture of products, but wastes costs. Also, whether or not 
companies can deliver the goods on time in an unstable economy is also an important factor, but 
since this study does not consider economic turmoil, delivery accuracy was ranked fourth. On the 
other hand, the machinery industry is not concerned about complementarity because 
manufacturers think they can obtain any parts or information by visiting other companies, so 
complementarity is not a requirement. Also, the company interviewees indicated that the mutual 
trust factor applies to developing new clients and it takes a long time to trust the other side, and 
sometimes, a probationary period is not long enough. In order to produce the results for analysis, 
this study uses factor weights to set up a FAFHT model, show in Figure 5, and an AHP analysis 
to know the sequence of the factors. Quality is the first factor that most companies in the 
machinery industry use in their decision-making to cooperate with others, and this is followed by 
transaction costs and so on. The companies care about quality assurance, so if the partner 
company manufactures sub-standard products, the decision-makers will not collaborate with them, 
even if the transaction costs are low because they will not risk having their reputation destroyed. 
So, after considering the quality assurance, decision-makers think about the transaction costs. No 
matter which industry it belongs to, a company will collaborate with others for cost 
considerations because it wants to reduce its cost and increase its profits. Decision-makers do not 
only care about the money in the transaction costs, but also the time spent negotiating the 
cooperation contract, which may be detailed and involve a lot of reading time. According to the 
interviewees, if a company has good experience of matching up with others, this can increase its 
willingness to cooperate. In addition, most of the decision-makers said that they consider the 
degree of cooperation, but simultaneously think about delivery accuracy, although they believe 
that if the cooperating partners have a highly flexible degree of cooperation, they should be able 
to deliver on time. Comparatively, the decision-makers in the machinery industry do not consider 
trust to be a more important factor than quality. According to the filtered questionnaires, the 
decision-makers decide the factors for cooperation, but managers pointed out that mutual trust 
needs more time to negotiate the establishment of a good relationship and then they decide 
whether or not to cooperate. In the short-term, mutual trust is not a major factor but they need to 
be able to communicate well with the partner if the cooperation is to endure, so the 
decision-maker has to select trust if looking for a long-term partnership. If a company wants to 
expand the market or learn new technology, it will cooperate with others.  
 24 
manufacturing each machine to the product standard to avoid using the wrong product 
specification. According to the interviews, the most important factor of cooperation considered 
by many professional staff and managers is quality. It is not so easy to maintain a high quality of 
products in the machine industry, so decision-makers need to know if companies have 
well-trained workers, but also high quality equipment. A competitive company must have a 
powerful supply chain, which should include activities from the selection of the material to the 
finished product. Building a strong and powerful supply chain is the best competitive advantage a 
firm can have.  
 The biggest part of the cost in the machinery industry is the cost of materials, and if their 
material supplier is sub-standard, firms can waste a great deal of time and money. Losing time 
means delays in the production time of products and if firms miss the delivery of an order, they 
may be fined and will certainly lose customers. Therefore, this study suggests that companies 
should have their own rules for selection, such as inner and outer diameter, thickness, length they 
should be built roughly. The study also uses measuring tools to measure the products. By 
developing standard forms, they could reject any defective items. Having obtained good material 
with a good price, the next consideration is location. If a firm chooses a partner which is in close 
proximity to itself, it will have a fast commutation channel. The machinery industry is different 
from other industries in that it needs to discuss any problems immediately. Therefore, the close 
location would reduce travel time and costs, and any orders received could be processed 
immediately. The cluster in central Taiwan brings all firms together. If one of them in this study 
was more convenient, it would be in a good position to provide core technology. Besides material 
cost, there are many costs involved in searching for a partner, such as product warranties and 
after-sales service, and these costs are referred to as transaction costs. Companies initially need 
people to help them to find a good partner, so they need to spend time and money on human 
resources. Under time pressure, decision-makers have limited time to decide whether to 
cooperate or not. If they make the wrong decision, the company will have lost valuable time or 
their competitive advantage. Therefore, before decision-makers decide to find another company 
to cooperate, they should evaluate the transaction costs. Having acquired a partner, the firm 
should acknowledge the differences between themselves and their partner, so that the gap 
between themselves and their partner becomes the degree of cooperation, which refers to the way 
in which they cooperate, and this all depends on the experience of the decision-maker. When 
decision-makers have their own ideal, they find it hard to accept other people’s opinion, and this 
could harm the partnership and reduce the degree of cooperation. So, how could the degree of 
cooperation be reinforced? Most decision-makers only consider increasing their companies’ 
profits, but if both partners can put each other’s profits first, they will enjoy a good long-term 
partnership and achieve a win-win situation. Then they can build an instant communication 
channel, so that it any procedure has a problem, they can obtain an immediate response. This will 
help both partners to sustain a good relationship. 
    When decision-makers have decided to cooperate, they need a good flexible system to 
enable a fast supply chain for every part of the business. So, why do they need effective 
flexibility? The answer is because businesses are facing a rapid changing world. They need a fast 
response to prevent or resolve something that has just happened or might happen. Not only does 
the IT (information technology) industry have to build high manufacturing flexibility, but also the 
machinery industry. As soon as firms receive orders, they need to be able to start working on 
them immediately, which is why flexibility needs to be high on the list of the required factors 
when seeking a partner for cooperation. Staffs in public enterprises need to spend a great deal of 
time communicating between sections, but this is not a good idea in a competitive company. 
Whenever a decision made, it needs a fast top-down channel to communicate it. Thus, companies 
usually assign experienced and professional staff to run their projects. These people need to have 
 26 
good attitude and reputation. The decision-makers interviewed in this study pointed out that 
reputation today has visible and invisible elements, such as company impression, professional 
field, product, resources, and so on. A good reputation can win the trust of both companies and 
consumers and help to spread the firm’s fame all over the world. So, how can a firm build a 
reputation? Most managers would say that it should focus on high quality and keeping costs 
down without hesitation once it finds that it has no competitive advantage, and this could be the 
reason the company has lost its fortune. There are two steps such a company could follow, one of 
which is to turn the risk into an advantage, while the other is to immediately cut the section that 
has no potential. This will give it more resources to improve its processes and develop new key 
technology. If rebuilding its professional technology and improving every part is still not enough 
to maintain its reputation, cooperating with a company which has a good reputation will be 
extremely beneficial.  
   Before beginning to cooperate, there is one more thing firms should consider. Are their 
potential partners qualified? What can decision-makers do if their potential partners are unable to 
match their standard? Can their partners meet the decision-makers demand and delivery on time? 
Do they have enough capital to purchase new equipment? These questions would be troublesome 
all the time, and professional decision-makers should consider these problems first. Fortunately, 
middle Taiwan machinery has its cluster, so it is easy for decision-makers to find good partners. 
If they are the same as them, they have the advantage of location; otherwise, they need to spend 
more time searching for a qualified partner. After so many rules, there still some suggestions 
firms should follow when searching for a partner, such as what kind of resources they need and 
what complementary technology they want. In the past, some companies have cooperated for the 
wrong reasons and they have failed. They forgot why they were cooperating. The mistake most 
decision-makers make is lacking a clear goal. They do not really understand what they want. In 
this study, a lot of managers emphasized “doing one thing at a time, focusing on your 
professional abilities and your profession will bring success”. They could even develop the 
partnership themselves. If they lack core technology, how can they obtain this key resource? 
What complementary elements can be applied in the cooperation? Generally speaking, companies 
usually acquire a key resource by means of merger and acquisition (M&A), but most businesses 
in Taiwan are small and medium-sized enterprises, so they are too small-scale to effect an M&A 
with other companies. Thus, the most comment solution is to build a resource-sharing platform 
and create an opportunity for cooperation. They share their core technology in return for some 
product procedure or supply chain to maintain their competitive advantage. On the other hand, 
mutually developing their core technology raises the barriers to entry. Lastly, whichever way 
firms fellow, they should always remember to retain their own ability. They must feel that they 
are irreplaceable. Finally, this study draws a DSA flowchart and uses expert interviews to check 
the DSA concept. The experts provided some advice for the DSA flowchart. First of all, the 
decision-makers decided which factors to use for the DSA and randomly went from each node to 
get onto the flowchart. Secondly, the decision-makers chose a partner that had cooperation 
experience and possessed professional technology. The decision-makers’ search conformed to 
partners’ experience and the company’s use of technology find an opportunity to cooperate. 
 28 
5. Conclusions 
According to government development policies, the machinery industry is one of the key 
industries in Taiwan. The government intends to focus on the development of the machinery 
industry in the future, and the machinery industry has a complete industrial cluster to face future 
challenges. With the emergence of China and developed countries, it will be harder for Taiwan to 
maintain its competitive advantage. Thus, the government and the industries must pay more 
attention and devote more resources to improving the country’s economic outlook, whether in 
technological innovation or school education. Above all, they must consider the long-term 
prospects. However, now this study presents a brand new quick solution to cut the time when 
seeking new business partners. The worst problem for all decision-makers is finding a partner 
which has cooperated before or which does not have limited time and resources. They simply 
have to depend on their cooperation experience or their search rules. However, it is not so easy to 
search. The cluster has no flat information plan, and it is not as easy to obtain information as the 
decision-makers in this study believe. Decision-makers may find a partner, but they cannot judge 
whether or not the partner is worth cooperating with. Besides, decision-makers only consider one 
factor. They should take all factors into account, including material, business culture, technology 
and so on. This study not only wants to find some regulations to help decision-makers when they 
need to find a new partner, but also develop some searching rules. The industry experts also 
provided some reasons from their perspective and these are described below. 
Firstly, this study takes Gigerenzer & Goldstein (1996) and Gigerenzer, Hoffrage, 
Kleinbolting’s (1991) Take The Best (TTB) for a formal calculation. This makes it easy to 
calculate the cue value. It then builds a standard to select the factors, and this study finds ten 
factors, including visible and invisible by adopting this standard. When the managers were 
interviewed, they presented many hard and puzzling issues, but they insisted that they would 
rather cooperate with firms which have a good reputation than any other. According to the factor 
weights, the experts recognize that quality assurance is a company’s first consideration in terms 
of cooperative factors. This study finds two reasons for this, one of which is that China’s 
machinery industry has become famous in recent years for not only being cheaper than Taiwan, 
but also having gradually improved technology. Therefore, this study finds that the machinery 
industry tends to have gradually refined its quality. The machinery industry has gradually begun 
to stop using cheap cost to sell to the market. Taiwanese firms are focusing on developing 
technology by turning to learn new technology from Germany, Japan and America, and all the 
companies in the industry care about cost. Companies are cooperating with other companies, and 
considering the transaction costs, which include costs before and after the transaction. According 
to the experts interviewed in this study the cost of manufacturing products may be high, but the 
quality is extremely good. If companies do not produce good quality products, decision-makers 
are disinclined to cooperate with them because they do not want to destroy their good reputation. 
Bad reputations spread fast in the machinery industry, and this means that companies lose the 
opportunity to cooperate. This is why most companies still choose quality while cost is ranked as 
the second consideration. 
By interviewing companies and asking them to complete a questionnaire, this study has 
found many cooperative factors, but most managers point to a rapidly changing economic 
environment as the reason to cooperate. Because of the global economic recession, most 
companies consider that deliver accuracy is more important than the degree of cooperation. Also, 
many of the experts indicated that the degree of cooperation and delivery accuracy is associated. 
If a company has a good degree of cooperation, it can deliver its products on time. In the 
machinery industry, companies find it hard to develop technology because the R&D costs are too 
expensive for SMEs. After selecting the cooperation factors, the validity of every factor was 
calculated and these factors were proved to be right or wrong. According to the scholars’ thesis, a 
 30 
cue as the decision-makers considered them. The AHP was calculated to develop the FAFT model 
so that the decision- makers chose partners by using the process of the new thinking model. In 
fact, this is not simple, as there are many possible problems, like the standards of quality of the 
decision-makers and product distribution, as well as the distribution of power. However, the DSA 
resolves these problems by providing a new plane, so that decision-makers can more easily 
understand the problems and know how to prevent them in advance. Many decision-makers tend 
to think too much and ignore the many problems that may occur or rely on previous experience, 
which can lead to difficulties or even failure and a waste of the company’s resources. Then, they 
lose their competitive advantage. The DSA is a way to think about a flexible framework of 
cooperation. Decision- makers can better understand the whole process of cooperation and be 
more flexible. In terms of the allocation of resources, this would be more efficient because both 
partners would have the ability to complement each other's weaknesses, thereby strengthening 
their cooperation. However, decision-makers must understand that different times have different 
backgrounds, and even Mike Potter will, from time to time, have to modify his theories to fit the 
trend, to ensure that the enterprise and the entire cluster will maintain its core competitiveness, 
and thus achieve the industry goal. 
Nowadays, industry emphasizes the importance of cooperation, but the machine industry 
does not simply focus on cooperation, and there is insufficient literature to provide information 
about the types of cooperation in this study. Therefore, the study focuses on a topic of discussion 
that has not yet been adequately explored. The points this study emphasizes have been obtained 
from interviews with experts and include the dimensions of cooperation and each cooperation 
process.  
1. The research target is Taiwan’s machinery industry, and the recommendations are made for 
this particular industry because of the sample of the study. Future studies can be based on this 
model and can further focus on other industries to see if they have the same cooperation 
factors.  
2. According to the expert interviews, this study focuses on the factors decision-makers use to 
decide to cooperate in Taiwan’s machinery industry, and each factor is detailed in a DSA 
flowchart. However, there are other cooperation types to be discussed, such as outsourcing and 
strategic alliances, and how to maintain long-term relationships is an important issue. 
3. Future study can provide a case study analysis of a realistic structure model to complete the 
study.  
 
References 
1. Anderson. J & Weitz, B. (1989), “Determinants of Continuity in Conventional Industrial 
Channel Dyads,” Marketing Science, 8, 310-323. 
2. Anderson, J. C. and Narus, J. A., (1990), “A model of distributor firm and manufacturing 
firm working partnerships,” Journal of Marketing, 54 (2), 42-58. 
3. Anderson, G. (1994), “Industry Clustering for Economic Development,” Economic 
Development Review, Spring, 26-32. 
4. Berry, L, and A Parasuraman, (1991), “Marketing Services,” New York: The Free Press. 
5. Blenkhorn, D.L., & Noori, A.H. (1991), “What is Takes to Supply Japanese OEMs,” 
Industrial Marketing Management, 19(1), 21-30. 
6. Bucklin, L. P., & Sengupta, S. (1993), “Organizing Successful Co-Marketing Alliances,” 
Journal of Marketing, 57(4), 32-46. 
7. Burgeson, C. D., (1998), “American, Japan, and Europe-which Have the Edge in Customer 
Satisfaction and Why,” IEEE/SEMI, 216-220. 
8. Butler, J. K., (1995), “Behavior, Trust, and Global Achievement in A Win-Win Negotaition 
Role Play,” Group and Organization Management, 20(4), 486-501. 
 32 
10-14. 
32. Harrigan, K. R., (1988b),”Strategic Alliances and Partner Asymmetries,” Management 
International Review, 28, 53-72. 
33. Harrison, B., (1991), “Industrial Districts: Old Wine in New Bottles”, Regional Studies, 
26(5), 469-483. 
34. Harvey, M. G. & Ronkainen, I. A., (1985), ”International Counterfeiters: Marketing Success 
Without the Cost and the Risk,” Columbia Journal of World Business, 20(3), 37-45. 
35. Heide, J. B., (1994), “ Inter-Organizational Governance In Marketing Chanel,” Journal of 
Marketing, 58(2), 71-85. 
36. Herrmann, A., Huber, F. & Braunstein, C., (2000), “Market-Driven Product and Service 
Design: Bridging the Gap Between Customer Needs, Quality Management, and Customer 
Satisfaction,” International Journal of Production Economics, 66(1), 82. 
37. Hill, C. W. L. & Jones, G. R., (1995),”Stratigic Management Theory, 3rd ed,” Boston: 
Hongton Mifflin. 
38. Hoch, D. J., Roeding, C. R., Purkert, G., Lindner, S. K. and Muller, R., (2000), “Secrets of 
Software Success”, McKinsey & Company, Inc. 
39. Hoffrage, U., & Gigerenzer, G. (1996). “The impact of information representation on 
Bayesian reasoning” In G. Cottrell (Ed.), Proceedings of the Eighteenth Annual Conference 
of the Cognitive Science Society (pp. 126-130).Mahwah, NJ:Erlbaum. 
40. Howard, J. A., & Morgenroth, W. M., (1968), “Information Processing Model of Executive 
Decision,” Management Science, March, B416-428. 
41. Hultink, E. J., & Schoormans, Jan P. L., (1995), “How to Launch a High-Tech Product 
Successfully: an Analysis of Marketing Managers’ Strategy Choices,” The Journal of High 
Technology Management Research, 6, 229-242. 
42. Hughes, C. E., (1996), “Designing Products for Maximum Customer Satisfaction,” IEEE, 
1-5. 
43. Jahnukainen J. and M. Lahti, (1999), ” Efficient Purchasing in Make-to-order Supply 
Chains,” International Journal Production Economics, 59, 103-111. 
44. Juran. J. M., (1986),” A Universal Approach to Managing for Quality,” Quality Process, 
19-24. 
45. Kogut,B., H.Singh (1988),“Entering the United State by Joint Venture Competitive Rivalry 
and Industry Structure,” In F.J. 
46. Kogut, B. (1988), “Joint Venture: Theoretical and Empirical Perspectives,” Strategic 
Management Journal, 9, 319-332. 
47. Kanter, R. (1989), "When Giants Learn to Dance,” London: Smion and Schuster Press. 
48. Kohler, J. C., (1992), “Total Customer Satisfaction,” IEEE, 1139-1143. 
49. Lai, W.H., Wang, H. Y. (2009), “Natures of Supply Chain Cooperative in Taiwan's Machine 
Tool Industry”, Journal of Economics and Management, 5(1), 111-133. 
50. Lai, W.H.; Chang, P.L., (2010), “Corporate Motivation and Performance in R&D Alliances,” 
Journal of Business Research, 63(5), 490-496. 
51. Lambert, M., Emmelhainz, Z., & Gardner, T., (1996) “Developing and implementing supply 
chain partnerships.” , International Journal of Logistics Management Journal, 7(2), 1-17. 
52. Leenders, M.R., Fearon,H.,& W.B. England, (1989), ”Purchasing and Materials 
Management, ” Irwin, 8th edition, 610-618. 
53. Lewis, J. D., (1990), “Partnership For Profit-Structuring and Managing Strategic Alliance,” 
Free Press. 
54. Marshall, A., (1890), “Principles of Economics,” London: Macmillan. 
55. Marshall, A., (1920), “Industry and Trade- A Study of Industrial Technique and Business. 
Organization; and of Their Influences on the Condition of Various Classes And Nation,” The 
 34 
78. Sivadas, E. and Dwyer, F. R. (2000), “An Examination of Organizational Factors Influencing 
New Product Success In Internal and Alliance-Based Processes,” Journal of Marketing, 64(1), 
31-49. 
79. Smith, J.B.& Barclay, D. W. (1997), “The Effects of Organizational Differences and Trust 
On The Effectiveness of Selling Partner Relationships,” Journal of Marketing, 61(1), 3-27. 
80. Snow, Charles C., Raymond E. Miles, and Henry J. Coleman Jr. (1992), “Managing 21st 
Century Network Organizations,” Organizational Dynamics, 20（Winter）, 5-19. 
81. Steensma, H. K. (1996), “Acquiring Technological Competencies Through 
Inter-Organizational Collaboration: An Organizational Learning Perspective,” Journal of 
Engineering and Technology Management, 12, 267-286. 
82. Turpin, Dominique V., (1995), “Japanese Approaches to Customer Satisfaction: Some Best 
Practices,” Long Range Planning, 28, 84-90. 
83. Williamson, O.E. (1979), “Transaction cost economics: the governance of contractual 
relations,” Journal of Law and Economics, 22(2), 233-261. 
84. Williamson, O.E. (1975), “Markets and Hierarchies: Analysis and Antitrust Implications,” 
New York: Free Press. 
85. Williamson, O.E. (1985), “The Economic Institutions of Capitalism: Firm, Market 
Relationship Contracting,” New York: Free Press. 
 
  
 Photo by Wen-Hsiang Lai 
Session [B4]  16:10 – 18:00 at Raffaeollo II 
Theme: Operation Management and Industrial Engineering 
Session Chair: Wen-Hsiang Lai Feng Chia University 
 
1. The Exploratory Research on Strategic Supplier Positioning and Selection with Integrating the 
Perspectives of Demand and Supply 
Chun-Ying Shen, Ching Yun University 
Kun-Tzu Yu, Tzu Chi College of Technology 
2. A Reflection-Based Variance Reduction Technique for Sum of Random Variables 
Guangwu Liu, City University of Hong Kong 
3. Cost Analysis of the Working Vacation Queue with N-Policy and Server Breakdowns 
Dong-Yuh Yang, National Taipei College of Business 
Chia-Huang Wu, National Chiao Tung University 
4. Random Control of the N-Policy Discrete-Time Queueing System 
Tsung-Yin Wang, National Taichung University of Science and Technology 
Fu-Min Chang, Chaoyang University of Technology 
5. Process Flexibility and Firm-Level Decision Making 
Wen-Hsiang Lai, Feng Chia University 
6. The Impact of Uncertainty and Transshipment on a Retail Supply Chain under Various 
Transshipment Policies and Costs 
Kamolwon Cha-Ume, Thammasat University 
Navee Chiadamrong, Thammasat University 
implemented strategies of operations, confirmation research of the benefits of DSA and of the 
critical nature of flexibility is necessary before viewing these findings to be relevant to other 
industries and national contexts. The present study applies DSA on production process flexibility in 
the Taiwan MTI. From the literature and expert opinions, three dimensions of manufacturing 
processes are identifiable, namely external flexibility, internal flexibility, and participation in a 
cooperative network. As Figure 7 shows, internal flexibility divides into workforce availability and 
machine availability. External flexibility is classifiable as modification ability and delivery ability.  
The cooperative network dimension consists of ability to maintain relationships and ability to 
coordinate actions. 
From the viewpoint of internal flexibility, the utilization and management of firm-level 
resources are the primary elements of flexibility. Firm-level resources, such as labor, machines, and 
materials, provide the multifaceted support that is necessary to maintain each product’s quality, 
price, and delivery time. Each enterprise distributes appropriate tasks to each of its departments; the 
firm exercises its manufacturing flexibility by this work assignment process. Since the resources of 
labor, machines, and material are multi-functional, and because each enterprise has a strong ability 
to deploy and to mobilize these resources, the enterprise’s internal flexibility can handle uncertainty 
in its internal production process. Because MTI companies have flexible internal infrastructures, 
production is maintained with high quality, low costs, and short delivery times - three key factors by 
which the MTI achieves competitive advantage. The unpredictable demands of customers test the 
external flexibility of SMEs. Typical requests include orders of new products, modifications to 
products, changed volumes, and changed delivery times. MTI firms can respond rapidly to such 
requests; after confirming the situation and the final output status, these firms deploy and distribute 
their resources so as to meet customer requests with the current internal manufacturing structures. 
External flexibility affects internal flexibility. External flexibility is the term applied to a company’s 
ability to reduce the risks that external uncertainty poses to production. Typical production risks 
include modifications to product specifications, delivery times, quality levels, and volumes. 
The cooperative network is the intermediary agent that balances each MTI firm’s external and 
internal flexibilities. The cooperative network forges unbreakable links between companies 
throughout the supply chain: upstream companies are connected to downstream companies, and the 
entire supply chain is interwoven with the production and marketing system. The cooperative 
network is home to both competition and cooperation; this provides a salutary encouragement to the 
cooperative relationship between each central factory and its satellite factories. The cooperative 
network increases the productivity of all the firms in its web; the cooperative network enhances its 
companies’ management teams, technological capabilities, and global competitiveness levels. 
Peripheral industries strongly support central factories and satellite factories and give the Taiwan 
MTI great flexibility and powerful production advantages. Taiwan MTI SMEs use their network of 
relationships to cope with competitive market conditions, to benefit their international endeavors, 
and to enhance their managerial performance levels. Flexibility is a core ability of manufacturing 
firms. Each enterprise must achieve and sustain high flexibilities to survive in the global economy. 
Taiwan’s manufacturing industries survive and thrive by means of such high flexibilities. 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：賴文祥 計畫編號：100-2628-E-035-004- 
計畫名稱：企業間「產業服務彈性」與「協力網絡」決策分析模式之研究(2/3) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
The second year of this study focuses on the discussion of key decision-making 
factors and industrial cluster collaboration in middle Taiwan’s machinery 
industry as an in-depth research and survey. Middle Taiwan has been headquarter 
of machinery industry and provides a unique and complete industrial supply-chain 
environment. Cluster collaborations of outsourcing, strategic alliances and other 
types of emerging competitive alternatives are developed under the framework of 
bilateral cooperation. This study explores company's decision-makings of cluster 
collaboration mainly based on Gigerenzer’s (2001) interpretation 
of ’’fast-and-frugal tree decision-making method’ (FAFT), which uses a minimum 
number of question nodes and involves all available cues. This study also adopts 
the concept of ’take-the-best’ method to collect the most effective degree of 
decision factors as cues and further determines the validity of cues by calculating 
Mann-Whitney U value and running AHP (Analytic Hierarchy Process) method. This 
study finds that the decision-making factors include transaction cost, mutual 
trust, strategic cooperation, complementary, knowledge sharing, experience of 
cooperation, business conception, delivery accuracy, quality assurance, and 
cooperation degree. Finally, this study interview the company to design the 
Decision systems analysis (DSA) flowchart that know the each factor detail flow. 
