to satisfactory spatial and temporal resolution, 
high tissue contrast, and no ionizing radiation, 
MRI is advantageous over other imaging 
modalities in guiding, monitoring, and 
controlling the HIFU treatment, and has 
therefore been used for pre-heating localization 
of the targets or post-heating evaluation of the 
treatment effect (3). Several MR parameters, 
such as equilibrium magnetization M0, T1, T2, 
and diffusion coefficient of water molecules, are 
known to exhibit temperature dependence 
(4-10). The temperature sensitivity of these 
parameters, however, is tissue-dependent, 
nonlinear, or varies with tissue conditions such 
as thermal coagulation or denaturation (5, 11, 
12). Currently, the MR parameter that is 
sensitive to temperature and stable under 
various tissue conditions is the water proton 
resonant frequency (PRF) shift (5). The method 
of PRF shift determines temperature change 
according to the chemical shift of water protons 
(5). Using a RF-spoiled gradient-echo sequence, 
the change in temperature ∆T can be determined 
from the difference in phase of the MR signal 
∆φ between the current image and a reference 
(baseline) image (5, 13): 
TE
T ⋅⋅⋅
∆=∆ πωα
φ
20
    [1] 
where ω0 is the Larmor frequency and TE is the 
echo time. The index α is the temperature 
dependent coefficient of the water chemical 
shift in unit of ppm/C (or equivalently, ppm/K). 
It is well known that α for the pure water is 
about -0.01 ppm/C (ppm/K) (14) and it is almost 
independent of tissue compositions (15). Owing 
to linear and stable temperature sensitivity, the 
PRF shift method appears to be a reliable 
method for monitoring temperature change 
during thermal therapy (12). 
 During HIFU treatment, it is important to 
correctly estimate the damage made to the target 
tissue and to the surrounding normal tissue. To 
date, the degree of tissue damage is inferred by 
an empirical function which relates thermal dose 
with the history of tissue temperature (16-19). 
Estimating tissue damage based on the empirical 
function is indirect and does not account for 
individual variations (20, 21). Moreover, when a 
region of treatment is much larger than the beam 
focus, separate sonications on an array of targets 
have to be applied sequentially (22). Owing to 
heat dissipation and the subject’s involuntary 
motion, the measured temperature or the 
computed thermal dose may not be able to mark 
accurate locations of the previously treated spots, 
making sonication of the next target somewhat 
difficult. Therefore, another index that does not 
rely on accumulated temperature measurements 
and can assess the tissue damage independently 
is highly desirable. 
 It is possible to apply some other MR 
imaging sequences, such as T2-weighted or 
post-contrast T1-weighted imaging, to evaluate 
the extent or the degree of tissue damage after 
completing the entire HIFU heating procedure. 
The use of additional sequences to monitor 
tissue damage, however, prolongs the HIFU 
treatment when multiple heating spots are 
needed, and cannot be performed in a real-time 
fashion during the heating procedure. 
Consequently, a method that enables continuous 
and simultaneous measurement of tissue 
temperature and tissue damage during HIFU 
heating would potentially improve the treatment 
efficiency and efficacy. 
 The change in magnetization transfer (MT) 
contrast of tissues after heat treatment has been 
reported previously (23, 24). A possible contrast 
mechanism of magnetization transfer for MRI 
was first proposed by Wolff and Balaban (25, 
26). The theory of MT was described based on a 
model of two proton pools in biological tissue: 
protons in relatively immobile macromolecules 
and protons in mobile water molecules. The T2 
of the immobile protons is so short that the 
signal from these protons is hardly detectable 
directly by MRI. Coupling between two pools of 
protons allows the spin state of the immobile 
protons to influence the spin state of the mobile 
protons through an exchange process (27). In 
the frequency domain, the broad bandwidth of 
the immobile protons contrasts with the narrow 
bandwidth of the mobile protons. This 
phenomenon enables one to selectively saturate 
the immobile protons by applying off-resonance 
RF pulses and leaves the mobile protons 
unsaturated. Subsequent exchange of 
magnetization between two proton pools results 
in signal suppression of the mobile protons (28). 
It has been shown that the amount of MT in 
protein solutions increases with the 
concentration of the proteins, partly due to the 
proportionality between exchange rate and 
protein concentration (28-30). Therefore, MT 
mm2, matrix size = 128x96 (68.8% partial 
Fourier), slice thickness = 3 mm, and the 
off-resonance frequency of MT pulse = -1200 
Hz (Gaussian shape off-resonant pulse, pulse 
duration = 10 msec, effective flip angle = 500°) 
as determined from the phantom validation 
experiments. An effective temporal resolution of 
about 1.92 sec was achieved for simultaneous 
temperature and MTR monitoring. 
Several regions of interest (ROIs) were 
selected for analyses in the heated, sub-heated 
(15 mm from heated area), and non-heated areas 
(20 mm from the heated area) on the phase and 
MTR images to characterize the time course as 
well as spatial distribution of temperature and 
MTR changes with respect to the heating time. 
To further enhance visualization of the heated 
spots, we subtracted the baseline MTR values, 
which were calculated from the mean of all 
pre-heating MTR maps, from the instantaneous 
MTR values to yield series of ∆MTR maps. In 
addition, a temporal mean filter was applied to 
smooth the fluctuation noise in the ∆MTR maps. 
 
四、結果與討論 
 
Figure 3 shows the time course of 
temperature changes of hot water, as 
simultaneously measured by the PRF shift 
method and by the thermal meter. There was 
high consistency between the PRF shift method 
and the thermal meter, indicating that the 
designed sequence is suitable and accurate for 
continuous temperature monitoring. 
For MT measurements, we evaluated the 
off-resonant RF saturation effects by plotting 
the signal intensity of images with MT pulses 
relative to images without MT pulses (MMT/M0), 
as a function of the saturation frequency offset 
relative to the water peak frequency, 
conventionally referred to as the z-spectra. The 
values of CNR were roughly 2.0 if the offset 
frequency was chosen either in the range 
between 1000 ~ 2000 Hz or between -400 ~ 
-2000 Hz. For the ex vivo experiments 
performed in this study, therefore, we chose an 
offset frequency of -1200 Hz for the MT pulse 
used in porcine muscle. 
In one of the single spot experiments, the 
measured temperature change (∆T), thermal 
dose (TD), MTR, and ∆MTR were rendered in 
pseudo-color maps (Fig.4). On these maps, the 
HIFU beams were directed upwards from 
bottom. The maps of ∆T showed a successive 
change in the distribution of temperature, 
arising from pre-heating (t = 6 sec), heating (t = 
65 sec, 103 sec), to post-heating (t = 123 sec, 
308 sec) phases. The maps of the thermal dose 
calculated by Eq.[3] are shown in Fig.4b. In 
Fig.4c, the MTR maps showed a gradual 
increase of elevated MTR after 65 sec. More 
conspicuous contours of spots were shown in 
the maps of ∆MTR after subtracting the 
pre-heating baseline MTR values (Fig.4d). 
In Fig.4e, the optical image of the cut face 
showed well-demarcated whitened areas, 
indicating the damage of the heated tissue. The 
necrotic area of the porcine muscle, defined as 
TD > 240 minutes (32) on the thermal dose map, 
is shown in Fig.4f. The MTR and ∆MTR maps 
after 300 sec of turning off the HIFU sonication 
showed similar size and shape of the necrosis as 
compared to the optical image (Figs.4g and 4h). 
The time courses of temperature change 
and ∆MTR are shown in Fig.5. The ROIs 
chosen as the heated spot, sub-heated area, and 
non-heated area are indicated in Fig.5a. As 
shown in Fig.5b, the temperature increase in the 
heated area reached a peak at around 40oC at the 
end of heating procedure, whereas in the 
non-heated areas, the temperature changes 
remained zero during the entire course. As 
shown in Fig.5c, after 92 sec of HIFU heating, 
∆MTR in the heated spot had reached 5%, 
which continued to increase gradually to about 
10% in the next 60 seconds, and stayed 
unchanged thereafter. 
In the sub-heated area, the temperature 
increase reached the maximum at around 20oC 
only. After turning off HIFU pulses, the 
temperature decreased gradually. The time 
course of temperature returning was slow; even 
5 minutes after turning off the HIFU, there was 
still a residual temperature elevation of 
approximately 8oC in the heated and sub-heated 
regions. Such amounts of residual temperature 
elevation were substantial as compared with the 
very slight drifting of temperature in the 
non-heated region (Fig.5b). In the sub-heated 
region, ∆MTR changed slightly to 5%. This 
change could not be detected on the thermal 
dose map (Fig.4f), possibly due to the fact that 
relatively low temperature elevation (about 
20oC at maximum in this case) contributed 
project, the concept of rapid gradient-echo MR 
imaging has also led to many investigations 
related partially to bSSFP imaging, such as 
those shown in Fig.6 (34) and Fig.7 (35), both 
published in Magnetic Resonance in Medicine.  
Overall, the project has generated about ten 
conference papers each year, all presented in the 
Annual Meeting of the International Society of 
Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, which raised 
substantial attention from many international 
research teams.  The original goals of bSSFP 
fMRI, although showing somewhat less 
progress than our first expectation, still have 
been executed to certain extents under our 
supervision (Fig.8).  In short, we have 
confidence that the execution of our three-year 
project can be regarded as highly successful, 
with positive impact on further imaging 
technical developments and better utilization of 
MRI in routine clinical practice. 
 
六、參考文獻 
 
1. Cheng SQ, Zhou XD, Tang ZY, et al. 
High-intensity focused ultrasound in the 
treatment of experimental liver tumour. J 
Cancer Res Clin Oncol 1997; 123:219-223. 
2. Yang R, Reilly CR, Rescorla FJ, et al. 
High-intensity focused ultrasound in the 
treatment of experimental liver cancer. Arch 
Surg 1991; 126:1002-1009; discussion 
1009-1010. 
3. Vykhodtseva N, Sorrentino V, Jolesz FA, 
Bronson RT, Hynynen K. MRI detection of the 
thermal effects of focused ultrasound on the 
brain. Ultrasound Med Biol 2000; 26:871-880. 
4. Dickinson RJ, Hall AS, Hind AJ, Young 
IR. Measurement of changes in tissue 
temperature using MR imaging. J Comput 
Assist Tomogr 1986; 10:468-472. 
5. Ishihara Y, Calderon A, Watanabe H, et al. 
A precise and fast temperature mapping using 
water proton chemical shift. Magn Reson Med 
1995; 34:814-823. 
6. Knuttel B, Juretschke HP. Temperature 
measurements by nuclear magnetic resonance 
and its possible use as a means of in vivo 
noninvasive temperature measurement and for 
hyperthermia treatment assessment. Recent 
Results Cancer Res 1986; 101:109-118. 
7. Le Bihan D, Delannoy J, Levin RL. 
Temperature mapping with MR imaging of 
molecular diffusion: application to hyperthermia. 
Radiology 1989; 171:853-857. 
8. McDannold N. Quantitative MRI-based 
temperature mapping based on the proton 
resonant frequency shift: review of validation 
studies. Int J Hyperthermia 2005; 21:533-546. 
9. Parker DL, Smith V, Sheldon P, Crooks LE, 
Fussell L. Temperature distribution 
measurements in two-dimensional NMR 
imaging. Med Phys 1983; 10:321-325. 
10. Youl BD, Hawkins CP, Morris JK, 
DuBoulay EP, Tofts PS. In vivo T1 values from 
guinea pig brain depend on body temperature. 
Magn Reson Med 1992; 24:170-173. 
11. Graham SJ, Bronskill MJ, Henkelman RM. 
Time and temperature dependence of MR 
parameters during thermal coagulation of ex 
vivo rabbit muscle. Magn Reson Med 1998; 
39:198-203. 
12. Weidensteiner C, Quesson B, Caire-Gana 
B, et al. Real-time MR temperature mapping of 
rabbit liver in vivo during thermal ablation. 
Magn Reson Med 2003; 50:322-330. 
13. De Poorter J, De Wagter C, De Deene Y, 
Thomsen C, Stahlberg F, Achten E. 
Noninvasive MRI thermometry with the proton 
resonance frequency (PRF) method: in vivo 
results in human muscle. Magn Reson Med 
1995; 33:74-81. 
14. Lutz NW, Kuesel AC, Hull WE. A 
1H-NMR method for determining temperature 
in cell culture perfusion systems. Magn Reson 
Med 1993; 29:113-118. 
15. Peters RD, Hinks RS, Henkelman RM. Ex 
vivo tissue-type independence in 
proton-resonance frequency shift MR 
thermometry. Magn Reson Med 1998; 
40:454-459. 
16. Germain D, Chevallier P, Laurent A, 
Saint-Jalmes H. MR monitoring of tumour 
thermal therapy. Magma 2001; 13:47-59. 
17. Quesson B, de Zwart JA, Moonen CT. 
Magnetic resonance temperature imaging for 
guidance of thermotherapy. J Magn Reson 
Imaging 2000; 12:525-533. 
18. Dewhirst MW, Viglianti BL, 
Lora-Michiels M, Hanson M, Hoopes PJ. Basic 
principles of thermal dosimetry and thermal 
thresholds for tissue damage from hyperthermia. 
Int J Hyperthermia 2003; 19:267-294. 
19. Sapareto SA, Dewey WC. Thermal dose 
determination in cancer therapy. Int J Radiat 
七、圖表 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. (a) Dual gradient-echo sequence with interleaved measurements, one with and one 
without off-resonance MT pulses. The second gradient echoes were reconstructed to phase images 
to estimate PRF shift. The magnitude images reconstructed from the first gradient echoes of two 
consecutive measurements were used to calculate MTR. (b) The computing process of MTR maps. 
A moving-window-like method was used. Gray and white rectangles denote measurements with and 
without irradiation of offset MT pulses, respectively. Each pair of images with MT and without MT 
is used to calculate a MTR map. 
 
 
Figure 2. Experimental set-up of HIFU transducer and targeted tissues immersed in 20oC degassed 
water. The porcine muscle was held by a plastic holder. HIFU transducer transmitted ultrasound 
beams from foot (F) to head (H) direction in the scanner coordinates. Both the porcine muscle and 
HIFU transducer were. HIFU transducer transmitted ultrasound beams from P to A. 
 
 
Figure 5. (a) Regions of interest selected in heated, sub-heated, and non-heated areas in the porcine 
muscle. The time curves of the temperature change (b), and ∆MTR (c) in these three regions. In the 
heated spot ∆MTR elevated to 5% and increased gradually to about 9% and then stayed rather 
constant (mean±STD = 8.97±0.17% during final 70 sec). The ∆MTR in the sub-heated area rised 
gradually to about 5% and decreased gradually (3.29±0.31% during final 70 sec). The mean value 
of ∆MTR in non-heated region is 0.037±0.16% (dashed lines: duration of HIFU heating). 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Spectra obtained in the presence of motion from non-water-suppressed (a) and 
water-suppressed (b) acquisitions before (bottom) and after (top) time-domain motion corrections. 
The sideband artifacts due to gradient oscillations (arrows) as seen on the NWS spectra (dotted line 
in (a)) were removed with additional postprocessing. Spectra before phase/frequency corrections 
show severely broadened linewidth. The non-water-suppressed spectrum after time-domain 
correction has narrower line width (full width at half maximum ~10 Hz). 
 
1 
 
 
國科會 
 
補助出席國際會議報告 
 
 
 
 
 
The Eighteenth Annual Meeting of the International 
 
Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine 
 
“國際醫用磁共振學會第十八屆年會” 
 
 
 
 
會議報告 
 
 
 
 
鍾孝文教授 台大電機系 
 
九十九年六月一日 
3 
 
會議於斯德哥爾摩市的 Convention Center舉行，位於該市邊陲地帶（相對地
理位置類似台北市南港展覽館），每天均需以火車通勤前往會場。議程共分五天
進行，之前再外加兩天的 educational courses。論文總數較之去年的約四千八百
篇又整整成長了一千多篇左右，史無前例地達到將近六千篇！單是五天內的 
Scientific Meetings 總共有約八百場的  oral presentations、以及為數驚人之
traditional posters 和 E-poster presentations，參加人數約七千人則與往年相當。場
地空間相當大：演講集中在兩層樓，壁報展示與 E-posters 則和廠商展示攤位集
中於同一處，除此之外仍有不少多餘空間可提供其他展覽活動。會場內部咖啡座
提供漢堡之類的簡餐，便利性尚可。對東方人而言較為親切的是握壽司相當普
遍，應是北歐盛產鮭魚的原因，可以減輕水土不服的影響。可惜的是食物價格方
面大約都是台灣的四倍左右。本人研究群為節省公帑，仍舊比照往年模式租用
weekly rental的一般公寓共計六間予三十多人分攤，大部分位於斯德哥爾摩舊市
區內，除價格遠低於一般旅館外，在人數眾多的情形下也得以節約住宿支出。此
外，由於公寓內廚房器具一應俱全，在三餐上亦均選擇自行烹煮，進一步節約經
費。 
 
 
 
本人與研究生等人於瑞典分租之短期公寓內自行以超市購買之食材烹煮晚餐一
景。照片中除本人（左）外，另有（左起）台科大電子系林益如教授、中山大學
電機系莊子肇教授、博士班研究生程正傑、以及長庚大學電機系蔡尚岳教授（背
對鏡頭者）等人。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
 本年度會議特別請到瑞典皇后做開場演說以及獎項頒授（註：本年度 Gold 
Medal Award 由以往服務於美國賓州大學、現則於紐約大學醫學院專攻臨床神經
放射線學的 Dr. Robert Grossman 獲得），並且進一步留在現場參與 Mansfield 
Lecture 等兩場演講。皇室成員所到之處均由主辦單位事先提醒，在演講中途的
門禁較以往略為嚴格（例如中途禁止離席、並禁止遲到者進入等等），以顯示對
於皇室家族之尊重。但嚴格之餘仍有彈性，不給人過度拘束的感覺。而皇室成員
的造訪除了讓與會學者以一般民眾之身份一睹皇室風采之外，也顯現地主國主辦
單位對於此次活動的重視。 
 
5 
而言，6-point acquisition 耗時不貲，疊代運算對於 real-time image reconstruction 
也有一定程度的傷害，是否能廣獲使用仍是未知數。 
 
 
 
The basic idea using a 6-point acquisition for water-fat separation with T2* correction.  
The cost function curves of the two models are shown for a water pixel (a) and a fat 
pixel (b).  For the water pixel, the multi-peak model results in higher residual at the 
solution that leads to identification of a “fat pixel” (i.e. Rmp > Rsp, arrows), therefore 
fat likelihood = –0.86.  The fat likelihood value can be calculated on a pixel-by-pixel 
basis, forming a fat likelihood map (e).  See ISMRM Abstract entitled Exploiting the 
spectral complexity of fat for robust multi-point water-fat separation by Yu H from GE 
Healthcare, Menlo Park, CA, U.S.A. 
 
 
先進硬體的研發趨勢方面，3.0 Tesla MRI 已成為臨床標準儀器，並逐漸引
入 multiple transmission RF coils 以持續改善激發磁場 B1 之均勻度。目前個人
觀感是 multiple transmission RF coils 在 3.0 Tesla MRI 上投資過鉅，使用上又需
注意相當多細節，加以原本的 single transmission system 並未對臨床診斷構成嚴
重影響，因此建議此時國內不宜貿然投入。 
 
7.0 Tesla MRI（或稱 ultra-high field MRI；UHF MRI）則繼續進展。國際間
擁有足夠財力採購 whole-body size 的 7.0 Tesla MRI 團隊已愈來愈多，原本在
較低磁場曾經做過的研究課題也紛紛在 7.0 Tesla 上再次提出報告。鑑於高磁場
在信號雜訊比的持續提升上貢獻有限，本年度大多數報告並不特別引人矚目。比
較具有特色的，大部分是 susceptibility effects 放大之後所能得到的明顯正面效
益，例如 micro-hemorrhage、blood oxygen level dependent fMRI、高解析度靜脈
攝影、或者是含氧量相關的腦部影像等等。下圖是一個利用受試者呼吸純氧前後
所進行的高空間解析度大腦血量（cerebral blood volume；CBV）定量影像，便是
利用高磁場的優勢，放大 deoxy-hemoglobin 的 magnetic susceptibility effects 所
完成。該報告雖然只是一位受試者的結果，仍不足完全採信作為確定的發展方
向，但由 superior sagittal sinus 靜脈所得到的 signal-time curve 品質而言，應已
具有足夠的說服力，作為腦功能相關研究者之參考。 
 
7 
 
三、考察參觀活動 
 
本年度由於台北與斯德哥爾摩間無國內航班飛機，因此選擇搭乘泰航班機，
出發日期配合該公司航班提早於週四晚間起飛，因而時間上相對充裕，得以偷閒
前往波羅地海對岸的愛沙尼亞（Estonia）首都塔林市（Tallin）參訪。週五會議
結束後則直接返台。 
 
 
 
 
本人於會前與畢業學生共五人自費自助前往愛沙尼亞塔林市，觀賞市區內教堂建
築之一景。 
 
 
四、建議 
 
 近五年來，本人於台大電機系與三軍總醫院、台大醫院、高雄榮民總醫院等
醫學中心合作的研究成績均達到每年約二十篇論文上下，單以數量而言，已經蔚
為一股旺盛的研究風氣。更可喜的是本人至今累計已畢業超過十名博士生，大多
數服務於學術界，繼續帶領自己的研究團隊，以台大醫學院（吳文超）、清華大
學（王福年、彭旭霞）、中山大學（柯正雯、莊子肇）、逢甲大學（劉益瑞）、台
灣科技大學（黃騰毅、林益如）、長庚大學（蔡尚岳）、高雄醫學大學（周銘鐘）、
國防醫學院（阮春榮）等國內本土的角色出發走向國際，與世界一流研究群分庭
抗禮，足見國內團隊在醫用磁共振領域研究中，已不再缺席。唯有長期在教育與
學術上的辛勤耕耘，才能夠有此成效。國內其他其他單位總數發表約十篇之學者
亦不乏其人，往後預期將成為國內另一波主力。 
 
在本人過去幾年的報告中，曾經多次提及資源分配與研究成就互成反比的弔
詭現象。不知是否因為有人聽見，本年度本人研究生全數獲得國科會之出國經費
補助。雖然並非全額，亦不無小補。在此感謝國科會鼎力支持。畢竟，出國參加
9 
quantifications for the parotid glands in dynamic contrast-enhanced MRI, in 
International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 18th Annual Meeting, 
#1732, Stockholm, Sweden. 
8.  Peng HH, Huang TY, Chung HW, Chen PC, Ding YH, Ju SY, Yang YH, Tseng 
WYI, Chen WS (2010) Three-slice MR pre-treatment temperature mapping and 
spherical model estimation for accurate localization of the heating focus before 
high-intensity focused ultrasound treatment, in International Society of Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine, 18th Annual Meeting, #1809, Stockholm, Sweden. 
9.  Peng HH, Huang TY, Chung HW, Ju SY, Yang YH, Chen PC, Ding YH, Chen 
WS, Tseng WYI (2010) Simultaneous monitoring of temperature and 
magnetization transfer during HIFU transmission: in vivo rabbit investigations, 
in International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 18th Annual 
Meeting, #1812, Stockholm, Sweden. 
10.  Lai PH, Chang HC, Chung HW (2010) Multi-layer appearance of abscess 
capsule on post-Gd SWI images: effects of filtering and phase mask, in 
International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 18th Annual Meeting, 
#2187, Stockholm, Sweden. 
11.  Liu YJ, Juan CJ, Huang TY, Chung HW, Chen CY (2010) Cerebral blood flow 
change in one heart beat by CO2 concentration using retrospective PC MRI 
measurements, in International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 18th 
Annual Meeting, #2250, Stockholm, Sweden. 
12.  Cheng CC, Juan CJ, Chung HW, Jen YM, Chiu SC, Chang HC, Chiu HC, Hsu 
CH, Huang GS, Chen CY (2010) Parotid sparing volume-dependent perfusion 
characteristics of acute radiation injury: investigated by fat-saturated dynamic 
contrast-enhanced MRI, in International Society of Magnetic Resonance in 
Medicine, 18th Annual Meeting, #2415, Stockholm, Sweden. 
13.  Juan CJ, Chang HC, Chen CY, Kao HW, Hsueh CJ, Wang CW, Cheng CC, Chiu 
SC, Chung HW, Huang GS (2010) Oral tongue squamous cell carcinoma 
evaluated by PROPELLER and echo-planar diffusion-weighted imaging, in 
International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 18th Annual Meeting, 
#2418, Stockholm, Sweden. 
14.  Chang HC, Juan CJ, Liu YJ, Lin CC, Shen H, Chuang TC, Chung HW (2010) 
ZOOM- PROPELLER-EPI: non-axial imaging at small FOV with 
PROPELLER-EPI, in International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 
18th Annual Meeting, #2902, Stockholm, Sweden. 
15.  Chu ML, Hsu JS, Chung HW (2010) On motion estimation and compensation 
baseline estimations in dynamic imaging: a comparative study with cine cardiac 
and contrast-enhanced lung imaging, in International Society of Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine, 18th Annual Meeting, #3049, Stockholm, Sweden. 
16.  Chu ML, Hsu JS, Chung HW (2010) Reconstruction exploiting phase-correlation 
motion estimation and motion compensation methods for cine cardiac imaging, 
in International Society of Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, 18th Annual 
Meeting, #3078, Stockholm, Sweden. 
17.  Tsai PH, Chung HW, Huang TY (2010) Optimization of human meniscus 
imaging using minimal phase RF pulse, in International Society of Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine, 18th Annual Meeting, #3181, Stockholm, Sweden. 
Fig.1. A sphere model represents
the heated region for
determination of the position (p)
of central focal slice. The distance
between other centers of circles of
off-centered slice (pn) and p can
be related as Eq. (1). In Eq.(2), the
radius of off-center circle (rn) can
be derived from the area of heated
region (An). 
Fig.2. ΔT maps and C.C. maps overlapped on
magnitude images (t=94sec) of two trials. In these
maps, the HIFU pulses were applied from the bottom
upward. (a) The asymmetry of the areas of the 1st
and 3rd slices indicates that the focal point might
have deviated to the direction of the 1st slice. The
focal point was estimated as -16.28. (b) The areas of
the 1st and 3rd slices were relatively symmetric
suggesting that the focal point is around the position
of -16 (estimated as -16.41). 
Fig.3. The magnitude images with and without off-resonant MT pulse as well as
the calculated MTR maps after transmitting a continuous wave 40 Watt
sonication for 41 sec. The symmetry of the ablated regions shown in position = -
18.25 and -15.25 indicates that the focal point might locate around -16.75 which
is close to the estimated focus in trial 2 (position = -16.41). 
Three-slice MR pre-treatment temperature mapping and spherical model estimation for accurate localization of the heating 
focus before high-intensity focused ultrasound treatment 
 
H-H. Peng1, T-Y. Huang2, H-W. Chung3, P-C. Chen4, Y-H. Ding4, S-Y. Ju2, Y-H. Yang2, W-Y. I. Tseng5,6, and W-S. Chen4,7 
1Department of Biomedical Engineering and Environmental Sciences, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, 2Department of Electrical Engineering, 
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, 3Department of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, 
4Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, 5Center for Optoelectronic Biomedicine, Medical College 
of National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, 6Department of Medical Imaging, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, 7Division of Medical 
Engineering Research, National Health Research Institutes, Miaoli, Taiwan 
 
Introduction: Recent development of high intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) technology has offered a potentially 
noninvasive approach for local deposition of thermal energy deep inside the body [1]. During the past few years, temperature 
measurement procedure using MR phase mapping was developed based on the temperature dependence of the water proton 
chemical shift [2]. This is called the proton resonance frequency (PRF) shift method. During HIFU treatment, the focus of 
ultrasound (US) beams is arranged to the targeting region determined in advance. In practical treatments, however, the focus 
might be deviated due to the complex path (tissue-bone interface or tissue-air interface) of US beams. For safety considerations, 
accurate localization of heating focus is particularly important before performing HIFU pulses with high power. In this study, a 
spherical model is proposed to estimate the real position of the focus of US beams from images obtained in low power pre-
treatment experiments [3] performed on ex vivo porcine muscle. The estimated focus position was verified via magnetization 
transfer (MT) images in response to tissue damaged zone after a high power HIFU transmission.  
 
Theory: The ablated spot and the temperature distribution in HIFU treatment is usually in a spindle-like shape. To simplify 
matters, a spherical model of heated region is proposed for determination of the position of focal point. As shown in Fig.1, the 
area of central circle represents the temperature increasing region at central focal plane during HIFU transmission, and the center 
of the circle (p) is the position of the plane. If the imaging slice located at position pn, the distance between the two points, pn and 
p, can be written as Eq.(1) (shown within Fig.1) where rn is the radius of the off-center circle and can be derived from the area of 
temperature increasing region (An) of the circle. The focal position of p can be derived if three slices were acquired. To 
objectively and quantitatively evaluate the values of An, a temporal sliding-window step function was used to calculate the 
correlation coefficient map (C.C. map) with the ΔT map in a pixel-by pixel manner. 
 
Methods and Materials: A single-element focused piezoelectric transducer (central frequency 1.85 MHz, 10 cm diameter, 12.5 
cm curvature, Imasonic, Besancon, France) was immersed in 37 oC degassed water and was used as the source of sonication. 
Continuous wave HIFU pulses with a low power of 8 Watt were first performed on porcine muscle tissue. MR images were 
acquired continually at pre-heating (t=0~47 sec), heating (t=48~94 sec) and post-heating time (t=95~110 sec). All MR images 
were acquired on a 3T clinical imager (Siemens Trio, Erlangen, Germany) with a flexible receiving surface 
coil on the top of porcine muscle. The pulse sequence used a gradient-echo sequence whose phase was used 
to estimate PRF shift in response to temperature change (ΔT). Imaging parameters were TR=81 ms, TE=7.86 
ms, flip angle=20o, FOV=240x240 mm2, matrix size=128x96, slice thickness=3 mm. Three slices were 
acquired for each trial. After the first 8 Watt transmission, the phase images were exported out to a stand-
alone computer and the ΔT map was calculated by Matlab code. The temperature increasing region was 
determined by the C.C. map. The position of focal point was estimated according to the spherical model 
described above. In the second trial, the position of the middle of the three slices was shifted to the focus 
determined in the first trial. The same calculating procedure was repeated until the desired focus was found, 
followed by 40 Watt high-power HIFU ablation for 41 sec. To verify the position of focus, the ablated region 
after high-power HIFU sonication was examined using MT imaging. MT imaging was done using a 3D 
gradient echo sequence with and without MT pulse performed consecutively (TR/TE=35/4.15 ms; slice 
thickness=1.5mm; offset frequency = –1200 Hz). The MT ratio (MTR) was calculated using the formula: 1-
(MMT/M0), where MMT and M0 are the signal intensity of magnitude images with and without off-resonant 
MT pulse, respectively.   
 
Results: Fig.2 shows ΔT maps and C.C. maps overlapped on magnitude images (t=94sec) of two trials. In 
these maps, the HIFU pulses were applied from the bottom upward. The tables in Fig.2 showed the slice 
positions and areas of  the temperature increasing regions, chosen automatically with C.C. > 0.9. In the first 
trial (Fig.2(a)), the temperature increased slightly (ΔT ~ 8 oC) at the 1st slice only, with smaller temperature 
changes shown at the 2nd and 3rd slices. The area in C.C. maps (C.C. > 0.9) were 110.63, 69.38, and 3.75 
mm2 for the three slices, respectively. The asymmetry of the areas of the 1st and 3rd slices suggests that the 
focal point might deviate to the direction of the 1st slice. The spherical model estimated the focal point to be at -
16.28 (negative sign: off-centered toward the foot direction in the patient’s coordinate).  The second trial shifted 
to slice positions at -19, -16, and -13 (Fig.2(b)), showed that the heated areas of the 1st and 3rd slices (165 and 
120 mm2) are relatively more symmetric than in the trial 1 (110.63 and 3.75 mm2), suggesting that the focal 
point should be around the position of the 2nd slice (-16), highly consistent with the estimate from the first trial 
(-16.28). Fig.3 shows the magnitude images with and without MT pulse, as well as the calculated MTR maps 
after transmitting a continuous wave 40 Watt sonication for 41 sec. The symmetry of the ablated regions shown 
in position = -18.25 and -15.25 plus the largest area of ablation at slice = -16.75 were in very good agreement 
with the spherical model estimation.   
 
Discussion and Conclusions: HIFU treatment provides local energy deposition 
within a targeting region during a short exposure of US beams. For safety 
considerations, accurate localization of the true focal point is important before a 
high power sonication. In this study, a spherical model used on pre-treatment 
experiments was applied to estimate the position of heating focus with slight 
elevation in temperature, using two three-slice trials at 8 Watt sonication. The 
estimated focal point was verified by the MTR map after a continuous wave 40 
Watt ablation. In our experience on porcine muscle experiments, 2~5 trials usually 
suffice in finding out the focus with satisfactory accuracy. In summary, performing 
pre-treatment experiments before high power HIFU treatment is able to provide the 
information of real US focal position using the simple spherical model. The 
proposed method has potential avoiding erroneous ablation of healthy tissues in 
high-power HIFU treatments.  
 
References:  
[1] de Senneville BD et al. MRM 2007; 57(2): 319-310.  [2] Ishihara et. al, MRM  
1995; 34: 814-823.  [3] Hynynen K et al. Radiology 1997;204(1):247-253. 
 
Fig.1: Sampling pattern:  
Ny/R central phase 
encoding lines are obtained 
for R-fold acceleration 
Fig.2: Multiple peaks in correlation map
Fig.3: 8-fold accelerated selected images and x-t spaces of the indicated region of interest 
reconstructed by phase-correlation (a), k-t FOCUSS (b), k-t BLAST (c), BM (d), and 
non-accelerated reference (e). 
(a)            (b)       (c)       (d)            (e)   
Systole 
Diastole 
x  
t 
 
Fig.4: RMS error from acceleration of 3 to 10 within full FOV (left) and within myocardium 
(right) of the proposed method (blue), k-t BLAST (red), and k-t FOCUSS(green). 
Reconstruction Exploiting Phase-Correlation Motion Estimation and Motion Compensation Methods for Cine Cardiac 
Imaging 
 
M-L. Chu1, J-S. Hsu1, and H-W. Chung1 
1Graduate Institute of Biomedical Electronics and Bioinformatics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
Introduction 
Motion estimation (ME) and motion compensation (MC) are both essential to video compression [1], which have also been successfully applied to dynamic MRI 
with reduced k-space acquisition as baseline estimation adjunct for enhancing image reconstruction. [2] However, ME and MC have not been exploited as a 
standalone approach for direct dynamic MRI reconstruction. The current main challenges come from the absence of full-resolution frames. To address this issue, 
this work proposes a reconstruction technique based solely on the phase-correlation ME method [3] to estimate the motion vectors (MVs) needed for reconstruction, 
without incorporating extra computational routines as in previous works. [2,4] The experimental results show that the proposed method successfully reconstructs 
full-resolution dynamic frames at substantially reduced acquisition time without incurring aliasing artifacts and loss of object motion information. The performance 
is competitive even with acquisition of only the central k-space for most of the frames. 
 
Theory  
k-t FOCUSS successfully utilizes block-matching method (BM), which is the most popular 
ME technique in video compression [5], for baseline estimation to sparsify the residue [2]. 
However, reconstructing dynamic images solely by BM suffers from inaccurate ME due to 
absence of the full-resolution frame, as BM estimates MVs according to mean square 
errors of pixel intensity. Therefore, BM is not directly applicable for reconstruction with 
reduced k-t space sampling. 
On the other hand, the phase-correlation method [3] directly measures the movement 
between two blocks (i.e., sub-regions in the image) from their phases. Assuming a 
translation between two blocks, 
                     si = sj(x+dx,y+dy)                              (1), 
where dx and dy are the translation between block i and block j. According to the Fourier 
shift property, the shift in spatial domain is reflected as a phase change in the spectral 
domain. We obtain the phase of cross-power spectrum between two blocks:  
                 Φ[ Ci,j (fx,fy) ] = exp [ -j2π(fx dx+fy dy) ]                     (2), 
where Ci,j is the cross-power spectrum of blocks i and j. The 2-D inverse Fourier transform is given by a correlation map:  
ci,j(x,y) = δ(x- dx ,y- dy )                               (3). 
Therefore, we can obtain the displacement, which is the MV, by finding the peaks in Eq. (3) corresponding to the maximal correlation. The MVs can then be used 
to recover full-resolution frames in a block-by-block manner. The phase-correlation method estimates the MVs accurately since translation of blocks remains 
identical even at low spatial-resolution. Furthermore, the phase-correlation method is relatively insensitive to changes in contrast, since Fourier phases are not 
affected by shift or multiplication of the image contrast.  
 
Methods 
With a given accelerating factor, the sampling pattern in k-t domain is depicted in Fig.1. Down-sampled image frames at low spatial resolution are used as training 
data (called the P frames). Several full-sampled frames are used as reference frames (called the I frames). In our testing series containing 30 time frames, 5 
reference frames are picked up. Typical implementation, divides each P frame into small blocks 4x4 pixels in size, with the blocks extended to 8x8 pixels centered 
around them for estimating MVs because increased overlapping area leads to better estimation. A 2-D Hanning window is applied to each 8x8 block to increase the 
weight of the formerly defined 4x4 region, to which an MV will be assigned. Phase-correlation ME is then performed between corresponding 8x8 blocks on two P 
frames. In general, the motion is not purely translational, which results in multiple peaks in cross-power spectrum as shown in Fig.2. While the highest peak in 
correlation map usually provides the best displacement match between the 8x8 blocks, it may not necessarily be the best for the smaller 4x4 block. Therefore, 
several candidates are selected instead of just one highest peak. The candidate with highest image correlation [4,5] would best represent the MV for the 4x4 block. 
The reconstruction employs MC by applying MVs on the blocks of each I frame to obtain the compensated frames, with the residue compensated as well. Results 
from different acceleration factors are compared with their counter-part using k-t BLAST [4] , k-t FOCUSS[2], and BM for benchmarking.  
 
Results and Discussion 
Four sets of cine cardiac images have been tested with the proposed 
method. Short-axis 2D TrueFISP with ECG gating was performed on  
a Philips Achieva 3T scanner with matrix size 256x256, 32 cardiac 
phases, 35˚ flip angle, and 10mm slice thickness. The reconstructed 
images are illustrated in Fig.3. Images reconstructed by BM suffered 
from lost details and blurring, and variations in x-t space were not 
preserved. Other reconstruction methods revealed slight blurring in 
the myocardium in the systolic phase. As for the temporal change for 
myocardium, the dynamics of myocardium reconstructed by k-t 
BLAST were somewhat weakened (x-t space at bottom of Fig.3), 
while our method and k-t FOCUSS preserved the dynamics as 
indicated by the arrows. In addition, k-t BLAST and k-t FOCUSS 
led to temporal smoothing in x-t space, while temporal variation is 
largely preserved with the proposed method.  
Root mean square (RMS) error is shown in Fig.4. BM reveals high 
RMS error. The proposed method is comparable to k-t FOCUSS in 
terms of RMS error and provides improved reconstruction when 
compared with k-t BLAST. Moreover, the reconstruction time of 
phase correlation remains comparable to that of k-t FOCUSS, while 
the sampling trajectory and underlying sequence programming is 
relatively straight-forward.  
 
Conclusion 
A robust method for directly reconstructing dynamic images by ME 
and MC without incorporating extra reconstruction routine was 
presented in this study. The experimental results indicate that the 
proposed method can achieve improved temporal resolution and 
leads to reduced artifacts even from substantially down-sampled 
k-space data. The principle can theoretically be extended to other 
dynamic imaging, such as functional MRI or contrast-enhanced MRI 
and is not restricted to cardiac applications. 
 
References 
[1] D. Le Gall, Communications ACM 1991;34:46-58. 
[2] H. Jung et al., Magn Reson Med 2009;61:103-116.  
[3] H. Foroosh et al., IEEE T Image Proc, 2002;11:188-200. 
[4] J. Tsao et al., Magn Reson Med, 2003;50:1031-1042. 
[5] J. Watkinson, The Engineers’ Guide to Motion Compensation, Snell and Wilcox, 1994. 
Does the measurement of liver and vertebral fat content influenced by R2* effect in T2*-IDEAL: A comparison study with 
3-point IDEAL and MRS in healthy volunteers 
 
C-J. Juan1, H-C. Chang2,3, C-Y. Yu1, C-H. Liou1, C-Y. Chen1, C-J. Hsueh1, H-W. Kao1, C-W. Wang1, H-W. Chung1,3, and G-S. Huang1 
1Department of Radiology, Tri-Service General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan, 2Applied Science Laboratory, GE Healthcare Taiwan, Taipei, Taiwan, 3Institute of Biomedical 
Electronics and Bioinformatics, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan 
 
Introduction 
Three-point Dixon IDEAL (iterative decomposition of water and fat with echo asymmetry and least-squares estimation, 3-pt IDEAL) techniques have been used to 
estimate liver fat content [1]. A multi-echo reconstruction technique, T2*-IDEAL, allows simultaneous measurement of water content, fat content, and T2* [2]. The 
T2*-IDEAL technique is able to estimate fat-content of liver in the presence of iron overload. The effects of T2* on the signal intensity of fat and water and subsequent 
fat content calculation on liver and vertebra have not been investigated yet. In this study, we aimed to verify the measurement difference of T2*-IDEAL on signal 
intensity and fat content of liver and lumbar vertebra compared to the 3-pt IDEAL.  
Material and method 
This preliminary study enrolled 13 healthy volunteers (7 men, 6 women, 44.1 ± 15.9 years) who 
were free any hepatic disease or iron deposition-related disease. 3D SPGR sequence was used for 
sequential acquisitions at three TEs (1.68/3.24/4.80 ms) for 3-pt IDEAL reconstruction with 
scanning parameters including TR (7.55 ms), matrix (256 × 128), BW (62.15kHz), slice thickness 
(8mm), slice number (8) and scan time (19 seconds). A multi-echo 3D SPGR sequence with flyback 
gradient readout was used to acquire six TEs (1.63/4.49/7.35/10.21/13.07/15.93 ms) for T2*-IDEAL 
reconstruction, with scanning parameters including TR (18.18 ms), slice thickness (8mm), slice/slab 
number (8). Two sets of images were acquired for T2*-IDEAL reconstruction using matrix size of 
256 × 128 and 256 × 224 with a scan time of 9 seconds and 17 seconds, respectively. Three sets of 
images including fat-only, water-only and fat-fraction images were calculated form aforementioned 
protocols (Fig. 1). R2* maps were calculated from T2*-IDEAL reconstructions. For comparison, an 
additional H1 MRS scan (TE/TR: 30/3000ms, voxel size: 1x1x2cm3) was also performed for fat 
content estimation. For measurements of fat content and R2* values, five ROIs were placed in the 
periphery of the right lobe liver parenchyma and another ROI was placed in the marrow of the 
lumbar vertebra as illustrated (Fig. 1). The H1 MRS is processed using SAGE (research software of GE, US) for 
calculating the area of fat peak at 1.3 ppm and the area of water peak at 4.7ppm. Statistical analyses were performed by 
using SPSS 13.0 (SPSS, Chicago, Ill). Normality of the perfusion parameters was examined using Q-Q plots and 
Kolmogorov-Smirnov tests. Student t test was used for group comparisons of ADC. Linear regression analysis was used 
for correlation analysis of liver fat content measured by IDEAL versus MRS. A P value of less than 0.05 was considered 
as statistically significant. 
Results:  
The liver fat contents measured by 3-pt IDEAL and T2* IDEAL were significantly correlated with that measured by 
MRS with a correlation coefficient higher than 0.95 (P < 0.005) (Fig. 2). The R2* value was significantly higher in 
vertebra (127.98 ± 53.23) than in liver (34.61 ± 14.10) (P < 0.005). The liver fat content (7.03 ± 5.11%) was 
significantly lower than the vertebral fat content (46.25 ± 8.75%) (P < 0.005) (Fig. 3). In the liver, there was no 
difference regarding the signal intensity of fat, the signal intensity of water and the fat content measured by 3-pt IDEAL 
and T2* IDEAL (all P > 0.05). In the vertebra, the signal intensity of fat and water measured by T2* IDEAL was 
significantly lower than that measured by 3-pt IDEAL (P < 0.005), while the fat content measured by 3-pt IDEAL was 
in consistent with that measured by T2* IDEAL (all P > 0.05) (Fig. 3).  
Discussion & Conclusion: Our results show that both 3-pt IDEAL and T2* IDEAL as suitable as MRS in measurement of fat content in both liver and vertebra. The 
higher R2* value of the vertebra is responsible for the lower signal intensity of both fat and water than the liver on T2* IDEAL. Our study suggests that T2* IDEAL is 
superior to 3p-IDEAL by providing more information of R2* effect, allowing either larger spatial coverage or higher resolution without compromising the fat content 
measurement. In conclusion, T2*-IDEAL is at least as good as 3-pt IDEAL and MRS in fat measurements in both liver and vertebra disregarding the R2* effect.  
Reference: [1] Hyeonjin K, et al, MRM, 59:521(2008). [2] Huanzhou Yu, et al, JMRI, 26:1153(2007). 
 
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
0% 10% 20% 30%
MRS fat fraction
ID
E
A
L 
fa
t f
ra
ct
io
n
3TE 128
6TE 128
6TE 224
 
Fig. 2. Correlations between IDEAL 
versus MRS in liver fat content.  
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
3TE 128 6TE 224 6TE 128
fa
t f
ra
ct
io
n
Liver
VB
Liver
0
50
100
150
200
250
water signal Fat signal
Si
gn
al
3TE 128
6TE 224
6TE 128
VB
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Water signal Fat signal
Si
gn
al
3TE 128
6TE 224
6TE 128
Fig. 3. Signal intensity of water, fat and fat fraction of the liver and vertebra (VB) measured by 3-pt IDEAL (3TE) and T2* IDEAL (6TE). 
 
Water Fat Fat fraction
3 
TE
 
6 
TE
 
Fig. 1. Illustrations of water and fat images and fat content map.
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鍾孝文 計畫編號：96-2628-E-002-006-MY3 
計畫名稱：平衡穩定態磁振造影之功能性神經影像 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 30 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
