commercial process in the mid-1980s. These alternatives can be divided into three 
groups: (1) Pd Colloidal System (2) Conductive Polymer System (3) Carbon Colloid 
System [2]. The third system uses carbon black or graphite as medium for copper 
depositing.  
Shadow Process 
This process belongs to the carbon colloidal systems. It uses graphite as medium 
for copper depositing to connect inner layer lines and outer layer lines. The flow chart 
[3] is shown as follows: 
 
Fig. 2-2. The procedures of Shadow processes. 
 
Both carbon black and graphite are composed of carbon. The newly developed 
material, carbon nanotube (CNT) is also a carbon compound. CNTs were well known 
since the announcement by Iijima [4] in 1991. CNTs have been extensively researched 
in various fields. CNTs attracted a great deal of attention because of their unique 
physical and chemical properties. 
Recently, the metallization of CNTs has been studied by many researchers. Most 
studies focus on how to increase the surface active sites and improve bonding between 
metallized nanotube and resin. It is just a kind of surface modification of CNTs to be 
impregnated in the composites. Until now, researches seldom explored the application 
of CNT to direct plating. Owing to the unique electronic properties of CNTs, it may 
be used for copper deposition in PTH processes.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4.1 Comparison the Resistance between CNT and Graphite 
These experiments were performed on PCB samples with drilled holes. Before 
PTH process, the resistance between the upper copper side and the lower copper side 
was over MΩ, because there was a dielectric substrate between them. After PTH, the 
two copper sides were connected with the conductive layer. 
  Before copper plating, there was only a thin conductive layer (CNT/Graphite) on 
the hole wall in the sample, then we used two point probes to measure the resistances 
between copper sides. We found that if the colloids contained only CNT, the 
resistance was the smallest compared to others. If the colloids contained only graphite, 
the resistance was the largest than others. The resistances were listed in Table 4-1. 
 
Table 4-1 Different colloids (CNT. Graphite and their combination) have different 
resistance 
Colloids CNT  
2 wt% 
CNT 1.9wt% 
+Graphite 1.9wt% 
Graphite  
3.8wt% 
Resistance 18~36 Ω 28~55 Ω 170~280 Ω 
    It seems that CNT coating layer has the best conductivity, and pure graphite has 
the lowest conductivity. If we used CNT to replace half of graphite, the resistance 
would be significantly decreased. But this intermixture solution had some problems. 
The first one was that the components adsorbed on the FR-4 could not be controlled, 
so it had poor reproducibility. The second one is that after immersing many samples, 
they would take away some CNT and graphite, but it was difficult to know which one 
should be added more and how much they should add. Besides it did not show any 
distinct advantage conductivity, so it was abandoned in the later experiments. 
 
4.2 Copper Electroplating on CNTs 
     In this section, a FR-4 substrate (planar specimen) was used as substrate for 
CNTs adsorption and the copper was deposited on CNTs by electroplating. Fig. 4-1 (a) 
shows the SEM morphology of FR-4 substrate. FR-4 is composed of resin and the 
surface is rough. It is full of holes and its shape looks like aggregation of lotus roots. 
Fig. 4-1 (b) shows the image of CNTs adsorption on the FR-4. It is still rough and full 
of holes in the form of nests. In order to distinguish if the surface morphology would 
affect the adsorption pattern, we used another substrate- steel plate (Fig. 4-1 (c)) to 
adsorb CNTs. We find that arrangement of CNTs on steel plate is also in disorder, but 
it does not look like nests (Fig. 4-1 (d), (e)), which means that the adsorption 
configuration of CNTs is dependent on the morphology of a substrate.  
Fig. 4-2 (a) to (d) show SEM photographs of electrodeposits formed at various 
electrical charges, 0.5 C cm-2, 1.5 C cm-2, 2.5 C cm-2 and 5 C cm-2, respectively. 
Results and Discussions 
4.3 Process for CNTs Adsorption 
    Samples were made by the process described in Section 2-Shadow process and 
we varied some experimental conditions as listed in Table 4-2: 
 
Table 4-2 Various conditions of Cleaner/ Conditioner step 
No. A B C D 
Cleaner/ 
Conditioner 
Room 
temperature 
x 52°C Different type 
(ML371)60°C 
Other than these specimens made according to Table 4-2, a blank sample was 
made for comparison. This blank sample did not go through the above process, so 
there was no CNT absorbed on the holes. The resistance between two copper sides of 
this blank sample was nearly infinite because there was an insulator layer (epoxy and 
glass mat) between them.  
Those samples were copper deposited by either- chronocoulometry or 
chronopotentiometry. By chronocoulometry method, the potential was held at -0.26 V 
vs. SCE; by chronopotentiometry method, the current density was held at 15 ASF. The 
duration of plating was 5 minutes. After plating, optical microscopy (OM) was 
utilized to observe the back-light performance. 
 
4.3.1 Electroplating Method- Chronocoulometry 
Several models have been proposed for the nucleation and growth of metal 
deposits on heterogeneous surface. Among them the most widely used for describing 
the current-time transient is the progressive and instantaneous nucleation model [5-7]. 
    The result of Cu deposition on CNTs adsorbed surface is showed in Fig. 4-3. The 
blank sample had naturally a very low current due to its extremely high resistance. 
Copper was only deposited on the copper sides of samples rather than on the hole 
because it is an insulator. Copper is a good conductor so the current of blank sample 
could remain nearly constant at -0.16 V.  
The initial decrease of these negative currents is due to charging of double layer 
and the formation of first nuclei on CNT part of the working electrodes. When the 
active sites usually located at the defects become diminished, the nucleation process is 
slow down as illustrated by the decrease of current. Then the crystal growth process 
starts, rendering an increase of current. When the surface is covered with compact 
copper deposit, the total surface areas consequently decrease, causing a gradual 
decrease of the total current. This is followed by increase in negative current leading 
to a maximum value, which is attributed to the three-dimensional growth of a copper 
metal over the nuclei resulting in increase of surface area. After reaching maximum, 
the current decayed, which was related to the increasing overpotential. The total 
transient current reflected the growth of a copper layer.  
    Sample B showed a different shape form others. From this curve, it was not 
surface conditioning. This also reflects the importance of conditioner to enhance 
adsorption of CNT or graphite. For the other three curves, the negative potential 
increased from the rest potential to the value that the reaction at the electrode surface 
was thoroughly diffusion controlled. The curves exhibit a single wave associated to 
the reduction of copper ions into metal in the same potential range. Then increased 
rapidly again to the catholic limit of potential. 
From Fig. 4-6, the back-light performances of samples are all above 8 except 
Sample B. It means that Sample A, C, D had good back-light performance. This result 
was the same as in Section 4.3.1. It means that either chronocoulometry or 
chronopotentiometry can not improve the deposition condition if the adsorption of 
CNTs is poor. Therefore, how to make efficient adsorption of CNT is the first critical 
step. 
0 50 100 150 200 250 300
-0.10
-0.12
-0.14
-0.16
-0.18
-0.20
-0.22
-0.24
-0.26
-0.28
-0.30
 
 
E 
vs
. S
CE
 (V
)
Time (s)
 blank
 A
 B
 C
 D
 
Fig. 4-5. Different conditions of cleaner/ conditioner step resulted in 
chronopotentiometry. 
No. A B C D 
Degree 8 4 8 8 
 
  
Fig. 4-6 Chronopotentiometry with different choices of cleaner/conditioner step 
resulted in back-light performance.  
 
In order to distinguish which condition is favorable for CNT adsorption, we 
changed some factor to find a suitable process. These conditions were listed on Table 
4-3.  
 
 
 
(a) (b) 
  
(c) (d) 
  
(e) (f) 
  
(g) (h) 
 
Fig. 4-7 Various conditions of Cleaner/ Conditioner and Fixer steps (a) CCIII 30℃, (b) 
CCIII 50℃, (c) CCIII 60℃, (d) CCIII 60℃+ Fixer, (e) ML371 30℃, (f) ML371 50℃, 
(g) ML371 60℃, (d) ML371 60℃+ Fixer. 
    
No. A B C D 
Degree 7~8 7~8 8 7 
 
  
No. E F G H 
Degree 8 8~9 9 7~8 
 
  
Fig. 4-8 The back-light performance of various conditions of Cleaner/ Conditioner 
and Fixer steps (a) CCIII 30℃, (b) CCIII 50℃, (c) CCIII 60℃, (d) CCIII 60℃+ Fixer, 
(e) ML371 30℃, (f) ML371 50℃, (g) ML371 60℃, (d) ML371 60℃+ Fixer. 
4.4.2 Back-Light Performance with different electroplating method 
In Section 4.4.1, we measured the deposition weight on planar samples. In this 
section, we used the same conditions in drilled holes samples and the issue is not 
deposition weight but the back light performance. Besides, we used a blank sample 
without any conductive coating and a PCB with adsorbed graphite as conductive 
material to compare the deposition properties.  
The back-light performances (Fig. 4-11) of CNTS series are above 8, proving 
that high current can make better back-light performance. But high current may 
produce deposit of large crystals, leading to a rough surface. 
 
Voltage   
(vs. SCE) 
-0.26 V -0.28 V -0.30 V -0.32 V 
Degree 8~9 9~10 9~10 9~10 
 
  
Fig. 4-11. The back-light performance of drilled hole samples with various potentials 
(-0.26, -0.28,-0.3,-0.32 V vs. SCE) 
We not only used different potentials to deposit copper, we also compared 
different conductive media-graphite and CNTs at the same potential (Fig. 4-12). There 
are some inhibitor and accelerator in the plating bath and the inhibitor would adsorb 
in the surface of the copper, it would increase the deposition potential. Otherwise, the 
first horizontal line is for copper crystals growth on the graphite or CNTs and the time 
for graphite is less than for CNTs. It is because the total current for them was the same, 
but the surface area of graphite is less than CNTs, in other words, the current density 
of graphite is larger than CNTs. Thus the time for copper nucleation on graphite is 
short.  
Fig. 4-13 shows the back-light performance of drilled holes samples under 
various current-density conditions. When the current densities were over 20ASF, the 
back-light performances were above 8 and improved as the current density increased. 
Comparing these two methods- chronocoulometry and chronopotentiometry, we find 
that constant potential plating can provide better back-light performance than constant 
current plating. But it is difficult for constant potential method to control deposition 
quantity. Hence, they usually use constant current in industry. In order to make copper 
surface more smoothly, they would use low current density to deposit. Therefore, we 
still use 15 ASF for plating in the next section.  
 
(a) (b) 
 
Fig. 4-14. The morphologies of new CNTs (a) thin CNTs film, (b) thick CNTs film. 
     
4.5.2 Back-light Performances and SEM morphologies of different types of CNTs 
We put all samples through PTH process and observed the back-light 
performance by OM. The results are showed in Fig.4-15. 
Material Normal CNTs Thin CNTs Thick CNTs 
Degree 7 7 7 
 
Degree 7~8 8~9 8~9 
 
Fig. 4-15. The back-light performance of three kinds of carbon nanotubes (normal, 
thin and thick CNTs). 
We can see that the back-light performances were all above 7, but it was not 
stable. Even for the same kind of CNT; the back-light performance still had variation. 
We had predicted that short CNTs (thin CNTs) might have better back-light 
performance. But from this table, it was not better than others. In order to distinguish 
why it had so many holes after electroplating, SEM was utilized to observe the 
morphologies. The samples must go through PTH but before electroplating.  
The results are showed in Fig. 4-16. It shows the profile of a hole on a PCB (Fig. 
4-16 (a)). This insulator was composed of glass mat and epoxy. In the epoxy region, 
the structure is solid; in the glass mat region, most glass fibers are vertical and few are 
horizontal, thus it may have some holes between glass fiber and glass fiber. In other 
words, it is not all solid in the glass-mat region. In Fig. 4-16 (b), thin CNT filled with 
whole place and a nest structure was formed according to the original morphology of 
epoxy. In the glass mat region (Fig. 4-16 (c)), though these short CNTs could stick to 
 
Fig. 4-17. The morphologies of (a) thick CNTs adhered to the epoxy; (b) thick CNTs 
adhered to the glass fiber. 
  
    To determine whether short CNTs or long CNTs have their own features, we tried 
to combine their advantages, so we prepared samples to go through PTH twice with 
CNTs. We hope thick CNTs can bridge fibers in glass mat and thin CNTs can fill the 
holes between thick CNTs. The experiments consist of three groups. In the first group, 
the order of CNTs was thick CNTs first, then thin CNTs. For the second group, only 
thick CNTs were used but dipped twice. The final group was thin then thick 
combination.     
Experiments were performed to test our hypotheses. However, from those 
back-light performance summarized in Fig. 4-18, there were still a lot of holes. To 
understand the cause of this outcome, we used SEM morphologies and 
electrochemical analysis to observe the differences between them. 
 
Material in 
order 
Thick CNT→  
Thin CNT 
Thick CNT→  
Thick CNT 
Thin CNT→  
Thick CNT 
Degree 7 8 9 
 
Fig. 4-18. The back-light performance of twice dipped carbon nanotubes (the 
combination is as following: thick-thin, thick-thick and thin-thick CNTs). 
 
    Let us analyze the coalition of thick-thin group; we thought this kind of group 
would be the best choice, but actually, its back-light performance did not meet 
requirement. The SEM pictures of thick-thin CNT are showed in Fig.4-19. From 
4-19(a), the film is smoother than thick CNT only film and the external is partially 
covered with thin CNT. Thick CNTs may cover with thin CNTs. Though this film is 
flat, it still has some pin holes. When we enlarge the pin hole circled by a frame, we 
(a) (b)
appearance is like thick-thick combination, with thick CNTs on outside and thin CNTs 
inside. Even though it also had many cavities and roughness outside, there was the 
smooth thin CNTs layer inside the thick CNTs layer, implying is a nearly continuous 
layer under the thick CNTs layer and it is good for plating. The benefit of thick CNTs 
is that if there is any aperture on the thin CNTs layer, the above thick CNTs layer may 
cover them. So this kind of collocation combines advantage of both two types CNTs.  
  
Fig. 4-21. SEM morphologies of (a) the cross-section view of a PCB hole which 
covered with thin-thick CNTs in epoxy region, (b) thin-thick CNTs film in fiber 
region. 
     
 
    From Fig. 4-19, we know the thickness of thin CNTs film is very thick. In order 
to decrease the properties of copper falling down; we need to reduce the thickness of 
carbon layer. Hence, we reduce the concentration of thin CNTs to 1% and from the 
back-light performance; it is acceptable to reduce the thin CNT to half.  
 
 
(a) (b)
