行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告
 
（計畫名稱） 
使用離散曲波轉換的步態特徵進行身分辨識 
 
計畫類別： 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC99-2221-E-431-005- 
執行期間： 2010 年 8 月 1 日至 2011 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：佛光大學學習與數位科技學系 
 
計畫主持人： 莊啟宏 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員： 李俊傑、吳宗鑫、盧婕雯、羅桀尹 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)： 精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
         □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
中   華   民   國  100  年  10  月   25   日 
sequences so as to fitting a model to the image data to 
get a set of accurate model parameters. 
Most of recently developed gait recognition 
technologies are model-free. In contrast to model-based 
approach, model-free schemes usually analyze the 
captured gait sequences directly by moving trace and 
describe the entire motion patterns by representative 
templates. However, direct use of pixel values in 
templates as features is not feasible due to the high 
dimensionality of these templates. One way to deal with 
high dimensionality problems is to utilize a dimension 
reduction technique. 
In this paper, an effective model-free, template-based 
method is proposed for gait recognition. Given a 
segmented moving foreground sequence as input, a 
pre-processing step including sequence-based silhouette 
normalization and alignment is first applied to it. Two 
types of frame difference history image (FDHI) 
templates, called step-forward and step-following 
templates, are then synthesized from a gait cycle. The 
resulting templates are further processed by a connected 
component analysis and a small isolated region 
removing task. Next, both template sets are separately 
processed by a PCA/LDA reduction procedure and 
subsequently classified using nearest neighbor 
classifiers. Finally, the ultimate classification result is 
made by a decision-level fusion technique. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. The 
details of our proposed method are described in next 
section. In section 3, experimental results are 
demonstrated to exhibit the performance of our 
proposed method. Finally, concluding remarks are given 
in section 4. 
三、研究方法 
 
 
Figure 1. The flow diagram of the proposed method. 
 
In general, a sequence of silhouettes is extracted from  
videos to reduce the effects like clothing. Then, 
temporal templates are usually synthesized from this 
silhouette sequence to succinctly represent the static and 
dynamic information of gait in images on which the 
pixel values can be regarded as function of time. 
Recently, several template-based methods [4-10] were 
proposed. Drawing from those successful temporal 
template-based methods employed in gait recognition, 
we develop a gait recognition method that bases on 
template matching strategy as well but applied different 
pre-processing and additional post-processing steps 
within the process of templates construction. Figure 1 
shows the flow diagram of our proposed method. 
Details of our approach are described in the following 
subsections. 
3.1 Pre-processing 
   
(a) 
   
(b) 
Figure 2. A lateral view video sequence with segmented 
silhouettes. (a) Examples of well-segmented silhouettes. 
(b) The left two silhouettes are poorly segmented, and 
their corresponding heights of bounding boxes will be 
rectified in the pre-processing step. 
 
  Commonly, preprocessing step includes smoothing 
using averaging filters, small and isolated noises 
elimination using morphological operations such as 
dilations/erosions, and followed by size normalization, 
and alignment. In previous literatures, the bounding box 
of segmented foreground was normalized according to 
the height of the largest connected component, or the 
extent from top pixel to bottom pixel of the segmented 
foreground. In our approach, we employ a different 
normalization and alignment method that takes into 
account the entire silhouettes sequence which can 
improve the effectiveness of constructing temporal 
templates, especially in the case of low quality video or 
incomplete silhouettes. 
Given a video, the foreground subjects are firstly 
extracted using background subtraction techniques and a 
sequence of corresponding bounding boxes are acquired. 
In each video sequence, we assume that the subject 
walks at consistent direction with constant pace on flat 
surface and the heights of the bounding boxes should 
appear as a time series data with somewhat steady 
3.3 Post-processing 
In order to alleviate the effect of incomplete or over 
segmentation, an additional post-processing step is 
further applied for filtering out smaller regions through 
a connected component analysis. Only those connected 
components whose size are over a predefined threshold 
will be retained and regarded as the representative gait 
features. 
3.4 Gait classification 
The static body shape and dynamic motion trace of 
walking person can be apparently represented by 
step-forward templates and step-following templates. 
The discriminating features embedded in these 
templates are further extracted by a dimensionality 
reduction technique, i.e.,  Principal Component 
Analysis (PCA) followed by Linear Discriminant 
Analysis (LDA). The transformed feature vectors are 
then respectively classified by individual K-Nearest 
Neighbor (KNN) classifiers. Finally, the recognition 
result is fused together by weighted voting. 
 
四. 實驗結果 
 
To justify the discriminating capability of our proposed 
FDHI templates, a series of gait recognition experiments 
were conducted based on CASIA gait dataset A. In this 
dataset, twenty persons who walk four times on a 
straight line in outdoor environment and captured at 
three different angles per walking case. CASIA gait 
datasets also provide the preliminary segmented 
foreground sequences. In order to demonstrate the 
strength  of our pre-processing and post-processing 
steps when dealing with incomplete segmentation, the 
lateral view sequences which  contain some poorly 
segmented silhouettes are adopted in our experiments. 
Three sequences of each person are used as gallery set 
and the rest is used as probe set. The size of silhouette is 
normalized to 128×88 in the experiment. The 
comparison of correct classification rate (CCR) between 
our proposed method and other template-based methods 
is tabulated in Table 1. The CCR of our proposed 
method is 100% which excels the performance of other 
template-based methods. 
TABLE 1.  PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF VARIOUS METHODS 
Template-based 
Methods 
GEI[4] GHI[5] FDHI 
CCR 85% 90% 100% 
 
 
五、結論 
In this paper, an effective template-based human gait 
recognition method is proposed. The static body shape 
and dynamic motion trace of walking person can be 
effectively represented by two types of FDHI, said 
step-forward templates and step-following templates. A 
sequence-based size normalization, alignment 
pre-processing step and connected component analysis 
post-processing step are applied before and after the 
construction of templates respectively. The 
discriminating features embedded in these two sets of 
templates are extracted separately by PCA/LDA and 
classified individually by KNN classifiers. Final 
recognition outcome is determined by fusion. 
Experimental results demonstrate the promising 
discriminating capability of our method. In spite of 
encouraging results conducted on CASIA gait dataset A, 
more extensive experiments on large and realistic gait 
datasets are still required. 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
本計畫研究內容與原計畫完全相符，未來將
結合大樓智慧型監控系統，做有效的身份分
析，目前此論文已經開始撰寫成期刊格式準
備投出。 
 
參考文獻 
[1] L. Lee and W.E.L. Grimson, "Gait analysis for 
recognition and classification", Proc. IEEE Int. 
Conf. Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition, 
Washington, DC, pp. 148–155, May 2002. 
[2] P.S. Huang, C.J. Harris, M.S. Nixon, "Recognising 
humans by gait via parametric canonical space", 
Artificial Intelligence in Engineering 13, pp. 
359-366, 1999. 
[3] Liang Wang, Tieniu Tan, Huazhong Ning and 
Weiming Hu, "Silhouette Analysis-Based Gait 
Recognition for Human Identification", IEEE T. 
PAMI, Vol. 25, No. 12, pp. 1505-1518, 2003. 
[4] J. Han, B. Bhanu, "Individual Recognition Using 
Gait Energy Image", IEEE T.PAMI, Vol. 28, No. 2, 
pp. 316-322, February 2006. 
[5] J. Liu, N. Zheng, "Gait history image: a novel 
temporal template for gait recognition", IEEE 
ICME, Beijing, China, July 2007. 
[6] Qinyong Ma, Shenkang Wang, Dongdong Nie, 
Jianfeng Qiu, “Recognizing Humans Based on 
Gait Moment Image”, in IEEE ACIS, 2007. 
[7] X. Yang, Y. Zhou, T. Zhang, E. Zheng and J. Yang, 
“Gabor phase based gait recognition”, Electronics 
Letters, Vol. 44 No. 10, pp. 620-621, 8th May 
2008. 
[8] X. Yang, Y. Zhou, T. Zhang, G. Shu, J. Yang, “Gait 
recognition based on dynamic region analysis”, 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價值
（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適合在
學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價值（簡
要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以 500 字為限） 
 
在一些非公共的環境中，如何有效的限制人物的進出(身分認證)是一個非常重要的議題。因
此，最常使用的方法便是利用生物的特徵(例如:指紋，聲音，人臉等)來辨識此人是否可以進
出此空間，但上述的這些方法都有一個共同的缺點，就是受測者必須非常的接近測試機器，
因此對於隱私權便有很大的影響。所以，如何用遠距離的方式來進行身份辨識便是重要的討
論議題。本計畫以視訊為基礎，提出了一個簡單但有效的人類身分辨識方法，藉由從統計每
個歷史的框架影像差異方法(frame difference history image) (FDHI)提取出的步態特徵來達到
人類身分辨識的目的。此方式是利用人在走近目的地的距離內，進行身分的辨識，受測者並
不需要非常的接近測試機器。此外，本研究提出的方法也克服的受測者的測試角度問題。受
測者即使受測角度有偏差，此方法仍然可以辨識成功。此方法可以與智慧型大樓監控系統進
行合併，以達到安全監控的效果。 
 
        
Browse > Conferences> Machine Learning and Cyberneti ... 
INDEX TERMS
Frame difference history image for gait recognition 
 
Chun-Chieh Lee;   Chi-Hung Chuang;   Jun-Wei Hsieh;   Ming-Xuan Wu;   Kuo-Chin Fan;    
Dept. of Comput. Sci. & Inf. Eng., Nat. Central Univ., Jhongli, Taiwan  
This paper appears in: Machine Learning and Cybernetics (ICMLC), 2011 International Conference on  
Issue Date: 10-13 July 2011  
On page(s): 1785 - 1788  
Location: Guilin  
ISSN: 2160-133X  
Print ISBN: 978-1-4577-0305-8  
INSPEC Accession Number: 12268826  
Digital Object Identifier: 10.1109/ICMLC.2011.6017007   
Date of Current Version: 12 ä¹  æ  2011  
ABSTRACT
In this paper, we propose a simple but effective human identification method based on gait features using frame difference history image (FDHI). 
Before constructing the FDHI feature, a sequence-based silhouette normalization scheme and an alignment pre-processing step are applied. After 
that, a post-processing step is devised for getting more representative gait signatures for human identification. Two types of FDHI templates are then 
extracted and represented more compactly by a dimensionality reduction technique, i.e., Principal Component Analysis (PCA) followed by Linear 
Discriminant Analysis (LDA). The transformed feature vectors are then respectively classified by individual K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) classifiers. 
Lastly, the final classification decision is made by a fusion technique. Experimental results are provided to prove the superiority of the proposed 
method.
IEEE terms  
Biometrics , Computational modeling , Feature extraction , Humans , Image recognition , Legged locomotion , Load modeling 
•
INSPEC •
Controlled Indexing 
gait analysis , image classification , image fusion , image sequences , object recognition , principal component analysis , statistical analysis , video 
surveillance 
◦
Non Controlled Indexing 
FDHI templates , KNN , LDA , PCA , alignment pre-processing step , dimensionality reduction technique , feature vectors , frame difference history 
image , fusion technique , gait recognition , human identification method , k-nearest neighbor classifiers , linear discriminant analysis , principal 
component analysis , sequence-based silhouette normalization scheme , video surveillance systems 
◦
Author Keywords 
Gait recognition , PCA/LDA , Video Surveillance 
•
 
© Copyright 2011 IEEE – All Rights Reserved
Page 1 of 1IEEE Xplore - Frame difference history image for gait recognition
2011/10/31http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpls/abs_all.jsp?arnumber=6017007
  
synthesized from a gait cycle. The resulting templates are 
further processed by a connected component analysis and a 
small isolated region removing task. Next, both template 
sets are separately processed by a PCA/LDA reduction 
procedure and subsequently classified using nearest 
neighbor classifiers. Finally, the ultimate classification 
result is made by a decision-level fusion technique. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. The 
details of our proposed method are described in next section. 
In section 3, experimental results are demonstrated to 
exhibit the performance of our proposed method. Finally, 
concluding remarks are given in section 4. 
2. The proposed method 
In general, a sequence of silhouettes is extracted from  
videos to reduce the effects like clothing. Then, temporal 
templates are usually synthesized from this silhouette 
sequence to succinctly represent the static and dynamic 
information of gait in images on which the pixel values can 
be regarded as function of time. Recently, several 
template-based methods [4-10] were proposed. Drawing 
from those successful temporal template-based methods 
employed in gait recognition, we develop a gait recognition 
method that bases on template matching strategy as well but 
applied different pre-processing and additional 
post-processing steps within the process of templates 
construction. Figure 1 shows the flow diagram of our 
proposed method. Details of our approach are described in 
the following subsections. 
 
 
Figure 1. The flow diagram of the proposed method. 
2.1. Pre-processing 
Commonly, preprocessing step includes smoothing 
using averaging filters, small and isolated noises 
elimination using morphological operations such as 
dilations/erosions, and followed by size normalization, and 
alignment. In previous literatures, the bounding box of 
segmented foreground was normalized according to the 
height of the largest connected component, or the extent 
from top pixel to bottom pixel of the segmented foreground. 
In our approach, we employ a different normalization and 
alignment method that takes into account the entire 
silhouettes sequence which can improve the effectiveness 
of constructing temporal templates, especially in the case of 
low quality video or incomplete silhouettes. 
Given a video, the foreground subjects are firstly 
extracted using background subtraction techniques and a 
sequence of corresponding bounding boxes are acquired. In 
each video sequence, we assume that the subject walks at 
consistent direction with constant pace on flat surface and 
the heights of the bounding boxes should appear as a time 
series data with somewhat steady relationships. For 
example, the heights of bounding boxes should remain 
almost the same continually if lateral view video sequences 
are captured, see Figure 2(a) for an example. In the similar 
manner, the heights of bounding boxes will increase 
linearly when subject approaches the camera, decrease 
linearly when he/she walks away. Based on these 
observations, the relations of the steadily linear varying or 
non-varying characteristic is estimated by calculating the 
top-slopes of successive top-middle points and the 
bottom-slopes of successive bottom-middle points of the 
bounding boxes on the image plane separately. 
 
   
(a) 
   
(b) 
Figure 2. A lateral view video sequence with segmented silhouettes. (a) 
Examples of well-segmented silhouettes. (b) The left two silhouettes 
are poorly segmented, and their corresponding heights of bounding 
boxes will be rectified in the pre-processing step. 
In some cases, parts of the body silhouettes will be 
missed in the resulting segmented foreground due to the 
1786
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011
  
2.5. Gait classification 
The static body shape and dynamic motion trace of 
walking person can be apparently represented by 
step-forward templates and step-following templates. The 
discriminating features embedded in these templates are 
further extracted by a dimensionality reduction technique, 
i.e.,  Principal Component Analysis (PCA) followed by 
Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA). The transformed 
feature vectors are then respectively classified by individual 
K-Nearest Neighbor (KNN) classifiers. Finally, the 
recognition result is fused together by weighted voting. 
3. Experimental results 
To justify the discriminating capability of our 
proposed FDHI templates, a series of gait recognition 
experiments were conducted based on CASIA gait dataset 
A. In this dataset, twenty persons who walk four times on a 
straight line in outdoor environment and captured at three 
different angles per walking case. CASIA gait datasets also 
provide the preliminary segmented foreground sequences. 
In order to demonstrate the strength  of our pre-processing 
and post-processing steps when dealing with incomplete 
segmentation, the lateral view sequences which  contain 
some poorly segmented silhouettes are adopted in our 
experiments. Three sequences of each person are used as 
gallery set and the rest is used as probe set. The size of 
silhouette is normalized to 128×88 in the experiment. The 
comparison of correct classification rate (CCR) between 
our proposed method and other template-based methods is 
tabulated in Table 1. The CCR of our proposed method is 
100% which excels the performance of other 
template-based methods. 
Table 1.  Performance comparison of various methods 
Template-based 
Methods 
GEI[4] GHI[5] FDHI 
CCR 85% 90% 100% 
4. Conclusions 
In this paper, an effective template-based human gait 
recognition method is proposed. The static body shape and 
dynamic motion trace of walking person can be effectively 
represented by two types of FDHI, said step-forward 
templates and step-following templates. A sequence-based 
size normalization, alignment pre-processing step and 
connected component analysis post-processing step are 
applied before and after the construction of templates 
respectively. The discriminating features embedded in these 
two sets of templates are extracted separately by PCA/LDA 
and classified individually by KNN classifiers. Final 
recognition outcome is determined by fusion. Experimental 
results demonstrate the promising discriminating capability 
of our method. In spite of encouraging results conducted on 
CASIA gait dataset A, more extensive experiments on large 
and realistic gait datasets are still required. 
References 
[1] L. Lee and W.E.L. Grimson, "Gait analysis for 
recognition and classification", Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. 
Automatic Face and Gesture Recognition, 
Washington, DC, pp. 148–155, May 2002. 
[2] P.S. Huang, C.J. Harris, M.S. Nixon, "Recognising 
humans by gait via parametric canonical space", 
Artificial Intelligence in Engineering 13, pp. 359-366, 
1999. 
[3] Liang Wang, Tieniu Tan, Huazhong Ning and 
Weiming Hu, "Silhouette Analysis-Based Gait 
Recognition for Human Identification", IEEE T. PAMI, 
Vol. 25, No. 12, pp. 1505-1518, 2003. 
[4] J. Han, B. Bhanu, "Individual Recognition Using Gait 
Energy Image", IEEE T.PAMI, Vol. 28, No. 2, pp. 
316-322, February 2006. 
[5] J. Liu, N. Zheng, "Gait history image: a novel 
temporal template for gait recognition", IEEE ICME, 
Beijing, China, July 2007. 
[6] Qinyong Ma, Shenkang Wang, Dongdong Nie, 
Jianfeng Qiu, “Recognizing Humans Based on Gait 
Moment Image”, in IEEE ACIS, 2007. 
[7] X. Yang, Y. Zhou, T. Zhang, E. Zheng and J. Yang, 
“Gabor phase based gait recognition”, Electronics 
Letters, Vol. 44 No. 10, pp. 620-621, 8th May 2008. 
[8] X. Yang, Y. Zhou, T. Zhang, G. Shu, J. Yang, “Gait 
recognition based on dynamic region analysis”, 
Signal Processing 88, pp. 2350-2356, 2008. 
[9] Chang-hong Chen, Jimin Liang, Heng Zhao, Haihong 
Hu, Jie Tian, “Frame difference energy image for gait 
recognition with incomplete silhouettes”, Pattern 
Recognition Letters 30, pp. 977-984, 2009. 
[10] Erhu Zhang, Yongwei Zhao, Wei Xiong, “Active 
energy image plus 2DLPP for gait recognition”, 
Signal Processing, Volume 90, Issue 7, pp. 2295-2302, 
July 2010.  
[11] K. Kim, et al., “Real-time Foreground-Background 
Segmentation using Codebook Model,” Real-time 
Imaging, vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 172-185, June 2005. 
[12] http://www.cbsr.ia.ac.cn/english/Gait%20Databases.a
sp 
1788
Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, Guilin, 10-13 July, 2011
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：莊啟宏 計畫編號：99-2221-E-431-005- 
計畫名稱：使用離散曲波轉換的步態特徵進行身分辨識 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
