Fabricating Textile-Bricks: Learning Parametric Design by Simulating 
Natural Patterns 
 
Hao-Hsiu Chiu 
Assistant Professor, Department of Architecture, Tunghai University  
hchiu@thu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
This research explored the principles and techniques, by which participants can 
learn parametric design effectively with the understanding and reproduction process 
of natural pattern rules. In the natural world, combined derivative forms of inartificial 
textures include repetition, randomness, symmetry, continuous variation, and contrast. 
Based on simple geometric and generative rules, these forms can achieve the 
functional efficiency and aesthetical complexity. This study applied the parametric 
design tool Grasshopper for Rhinoceros in practical teaching of parametric modeling 
in architecture to simulate organic patterns of natural artifacts. The process relies on 
digitally constructing parametric relevance of geometric elements by describing 
mathematical rules of natural phenomena. The formal output of digital models was 
then fabricated into wooden textile-bricks by milling techniques of computer aided 
manufacturing, bringing into the consideration of materiality and limits of structure. 
Learners can directly experience the operational mechanism, construct techniques and 
principles of aesthetics of complex natural geometries through this design-to-build 
digital process. The research results identify several fundamental linkages between 
nature and algorithm and distinctions between traditional liner design process and 
non-liner associative modeling process to help better understand parametric design 
method. 
 
Keywords: parameter design, associative-design method, digital fabrication 
 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Geometry is dynamic. The principles of proportions in ancient Greek architecture 
are determined by relative positions of visual points or lines (Balmond, 2004). In 
any generative system of natural forms, the geometries are not in the status of 
immobility. DNA in gene is a kind of molecule that gives genetic instructions, 
which guides diverse biological developments and operations of vital 
functionality. The autopoiesis of generation, translation, division, duplication, 
recombination and interaction of genes makes possible the richness of living 
forms with precise orders. This mechanism also exists ubiquitously in all kinds of 
phenomena in the natural world, in which simple rules trigger complex forms and 
static nodes generate dynamic networks. With the application of current digital 
visualization and parametric techniques, the design can gradually exceed the 
linear thinking and operation process, and be inspired by such dynamics of 
natural creations. In this way, the design will surpass mere simulation of natural 
patterns (formal metaphor) in the past, and begin to emulate the efficiency 
(functional/structural imitation) and even the morphogenesis (mechanism 
imitation) of natural systems. Therefore, investigation on the boundary line and 
 
(3)  Geometric Evaluation – A parametric model is virtually the description of 
implicit relationships of geometries instead of pre-determined design 
form, which allows geometric and property changes by dynamically 
regulating parameter relations or decrease, and increase of the values in 
number. Therefore, the real-time evaluation of design forms can be done 
after the completion of basic parametric model with the help of 
parametric input/output components, such as Number Slider or Graph 
Mapper in Grasshopper. Different design conditions therefore can be 
added, changed, or removed at anytime during the process in a way that 
its visual consequence can be simultaneously reproduced, explored and 
evaluated. The limits and possibilities of geometric aesthetics and 
efficiency can be thoroughly considered and tested in this step. 
Participants generally realized the concepts and potential of such an 
open-ended and non-linear design process of parametric design 
operations.  
 
(4)  Digital Fabrication – After the optimization of parametric model in the 
previous phase according to aesthetical needs and construction limits, 
(material properties of wood and capability of milling tool, etc.…), the 
resulting digital model can be exported and fabricated by using CNC 
(computer numerical control) milling machine. Apart from learning the 
fabrication techniques, participants can generally identify the issues and 
problems translating a virtual model to into its physical counterpart in the 
process, understanding the potentials, constraints, and interactions of 
geometrical complexity and material capacity for further modification. 
This helps keep balance between aesthetical expression and effective 
performance. 
 
 
 
3.  Processes and findings of parametric modeling of textile brick 
 
3.1 Cases of parametric experiments 
 
The design process requires participants to have hands-on practices through 
the visual parametric software: Grasshopper, exercising definition of 
parameters, dataflow control, operation of algorithmic components, and 
writing scripts to construct parametric geometric models, then bring the digital 
models into physical artifacts via fabrication. The final outcome is that by the 
application of different selected patterns, each participant makes a textile brick 
with the dimension of 20x20x5cm in wooden material as the basic unit with a 
potential to assemble a fabric wall. The assembled wall with different 
textile-bricks would help, on one hand, demonstrate morphogenetic aesthetics 
with the application of generative and parametric design and on the other hand, 
discover algorithmic similarities and differences among patterns. Analyses of 
this “parameterization” process are made on the following charts to compare 
representative models of four texture patterns. And the relevance of patterns in 
geometry and algorithm is also discussed.  
Geometric rules In certain range, linear section (lower right 
figure) of sine wave is firstly formed by a 
series of points and then the 
two-dimensional wave revolves (upper 
right figure) to form the surface of a 
ripple. 
 
Algorithmic logic 
and parametric 
flows in 
Grasshopper  
Sine curve: Points in the range from 
numeric series, graph Mapper of 
trigonometric functions, 2D curves 
connected by points. 
Surface constitution: Revolution of 
curves (recCrv) 
 
 
 
 
Case 3  Cellular Pattern – “Voronoi Cells”  
Pattern description Cell is the basic unit of biological 
composition. In the limit area, each cell 
strives for the maximal living space and 
highest density under the principles of 
equality. The seemingly random cells 
correlate with each other in a packed 
mathematical order called Voronoi.  
 
 
Geometric rules Place a certain amount of randomly 
distributed points in certain area, connect 
the points with line segments and draw 
their secant perpendicular bisectors. The 
junction figure of these perpendicular 
bisectors is the resulting cell pattern. The 
changes of pattern can be made by 
adjusting the locations of individual 
points.   
 
Algorithmic logic 
and parametric 
flows in 
Grasshopper  
Scattered points: Randomly output the 
numerical values in certain range and 
transform them into the point locations. 
Perpendicular bisector: Apply the 
built-in module of Voronoi components. 
Cell Thickness: Extruded height of 
curved live rector  
 
Figure 3. Case 3 - Parametric operation for cell texture 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Case 2 – Parametric Operation for ripple texture  
algorithm. The diversity and orders of natural patterns can therefore be 
generated by the reconstruction of expected or unexpected geometries with 
fundamental elements like points, lines, and surfaces. For this reason, the 
modeling tools with the extensive capability of parametric design such as 
Grasshopper have the following advantages: (1) intuitive visual interface to 
control dataflow and define relevance. Participants can manipulate algorithmic 
logic without the need to learn the complex programming language; (2) the 
real-time interaction between (input) data and (output) geometries can make 
possible to visualize corresponding relationships on implicit rules of logics 
and explicit forms. This enables recursive design process of creation and 
evaluation in a non-linear way; (3) complex forms may be produced by simple 
rules. This cannot be easily achieved by using traditional tools. These features 
are the important elements that attract participants and inspire them to 
understand the potential and principles of parametric design. 
 
3.2. Processes and findings of fabricating textile bricks 
 
After the establishment of digital parametric models, the actual production 
conditions must be added to evaluate the feasibility of manufacturing their 
physical counterparts for further modifications. These production conditions 
include the hardness of wood, boundaries of actual output in right dimensions, 
size constraint of CNC milling machine, limits of milling depth, proceeding 
time of milling, etc. Thus, the density, depth of simulated pattern and even the 
shape of the model must be adjusted accordingly to avoid possible failure of 
manufacturing. After familiarizing with the materiality and basic limits of the 
machine, participants will have to return to Grasshopper for direct 
modification of parametric models or correct their “baked” output Rhino 
model to conduct these amendments. For example, at the beginning some 
participants’ patterning models have grooves along Z axis on the side. As the 
provided CNC milling machine is the 3-axis machine type (with X, Y and Z 
axis), it cannot process the cupped places on the side. Thus, forms need to be 
adjusted under the principles of same algorithmic logic to avoid the 
unpredicted output results or even failure of fabrication. Changing the 
parameters or parametric relations can solve most manufacture-related 
problems to optimize forms. The correction process allows students to 
understand the characteristic of real-time changeability between design 
requirements and the output geometric forms by the parametric method.  
 
Upon the completion of digital model of textile brick, it can be exported into 
the computer aided manufacturing software to determine the size of milling 
drill for calculation and simulation of the routing path. After identifying the 
accuracy of size and position of the physical timber materials, it can be milled 
by the CNC milling machine along the original textile surface to finish the 
physical model (Figure 10). This procedure of “digital fabrication” is 
convincing in design for the participants who used to take digital model only 
as presentation or representation media. It allows them to be aware of the 
potential of integration in parametric design with digital fabrication in the 
following aspects:  
  
means the new X position is the former X position plus a random integer 
within 100. This expression in geometry can be interpreted as the direction 
and range of the new point is under control and predictable, but it may drop in 
any position within the range. In lower case (Figure 6), there are 40 points as 
the control points of a curve in the fixed cubical range. The relative positions 
of these points are randomly decided and only the cardinal number of the 
parameter can be changed to alter the locations of control points to form 
different curves each time. This confined probability of randomness allows 
formal production to be controlled by certain design conditions (environments) 
and rules (genes), but also allows exploration of unpredicted forms, which is 
in line with the principle of “diversity of affinity” in nature. For example, the 
trees of a kind have the same genetic rules, but they grow in different ways.   
 
 
 
 
 
(2) Continuous Variability:  
 
 
 
 
Most natural forms are generative geometries of self-similarity along the 
change of time. They duplicate basic units with a geometric rule, but vary in 
degree of other attributes (e.g., direction, dimension, quantity, etc.) The two 
expressions of xNxtSize = 1.2 * xSize, and xAngle = xAngle + 5 can generate 
a simple form with such gradual deviations. In this example, the dimension of 
next cuboid unit is 1.2 times of the former unit and the spinning angle is the 
result of former angle with the rotation of 5 degree. If the two expressions are 
Figure 7. Gradual change parametric model by using 
cuboid as the duplication  
Figure 8. Gradual change 
of petals 
Figure 6. Pipes formed by random control points  
 
(genes), and handles the emergence and control of design process on form 
scale, such as the duplication of thousand similar cubic units in certain arrange. 
With combination of “relevance” and “scale” control ways, designer can 
transform the orders behind natural forms, search for its limits, operability and 
application potentials, and construct “making” mode that can be specifically 
revised in the next stage.  
 
(5) Difference of Linear and Non-linear Design 
The parametric design process is proved to be a non-linear method in this 
experiment because of its feedback mechanism. Participants can dynamically 
control related parameters of a design to juggle between production 
performances and geometrical forms in real-time at a regular basis. Input of 
design conditions and the corresponding output of forms are visually 
connected. This allows designers to create, evaluate and modify their design 
forms more effectively based on the criteria of performance through defined 
parametric relationships, not simply to decide forms according to 
pre-determined aesthetics and functions in a traditional design process. Upon 
our observation during the experiments, the distinctions of linear and 
non-linear parametric design methods are listed below: 
 
Traditional linear design method Non-linear parametric design 
method 
Try and error –  
Forms are determined and testified 
by designer’s experience 
Recursive evolution –  
Design conditions are translated into 
parametric definition to dynamically 
modify and evaluate forms on 
demand  
Result oriented –  
Design geometries and model must 
be redone if a major design 
condition is changed 
Process oriented –  
Design geometries can be quickly 
re-generated based on parametric 
rules   
Abstract compositional logic –  
Various elements to form a unified 
whole 
Emergent generative logic –  
Simple rules to generate complex 
forms 
Absolute design languages –  
Meaning of geometric languages is 
more important than their relative 
properties  
Relative design semantics –  
Property semantics and relational 
rules are more important than the 
production of end form 
  
 
  
5. Research Summary  
Parametric design has played an increasingly significant role of exploration in 
architecture and design education in recent years. Its application has not only 
enhanced the productivity in creative form finding, but also shown its potentials 
to better integrate tectonics, analysis, as well as design from conception to 
production. This study conducts preliminary exploration on the understanding 
of natural patterns and simulates the process of its reproduction using 
Table 1. Comparison of linear and non-linear design methods 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 從自然形態規則模擬中學習參數式設計方法之研究
計畫主持人: 邱浩修
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-029-030- 學門領域: 建築都巿
無研發成果推廣資料
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
