researches developed micro-GC system with MEMS 
(Micro-Electromechanical Systems) technologies, but 
most of the micro-columns were etched by dry etching 
machines which are expensive and unreliable 
equipments. In the previous studies, we have 
developed the micro-fabrication technologies of 
micro-columns which could act as the commercial 
capillaries to separate gases and semiconductor types 
of gas sensor to detect formaldehyde and TVOCs. In 
the study, experimental methods will be used to form 
a platform technology of GC-MOX gas sensor to 
suitably elute and detect TVOCs in building 
materials. The procedure is:  
(A) Design, fabrication and test of micro-columns. 
(B) Design, fabrication and test of metal MOX gas 
sensor chip. 
(C) Integration of GC- and MOX gas sensor chips.  
 
英文關鍵詞： healthy building materials, TVOCs, formaldehyde, 
MEMS, GC 
 
整合氣相層析及半導體感測方式之健康綠建材指標污染物偵測系統之開發
(II) 
李佳言 
國立屏東科技大學車輛工程系 
摘 要 
   ”健康綠建材” 係指對人體健康不會造成危害的低逸散、低污染、低臭氣、低生理
危害特性之建築材料。傳統上”健康綠建材”對於其指標性污染物(如總揮發性有機化
合物<TVOCs>,甲醛…等)的檢測都需於建材使用現場採樣並攜回實驗室進行化驗(使用
GC-MS或GC-FID…) 。雖然其檢測結果信賴度高，但往往因為其曠日費時且分析成本
較高，導致推廣之成果受限。本計畫擬利用微機電製程技術，設計並製作出一種具有氣
相層析儀所使用氣相分離毛細管相同效果的封閉型微流道晶片 (GC <Gas 
Chromatography> Chip)，並於其後端接上具有可偵測甲醛與各式TVOCs之半導體式氣體
感測晶片(MOX <Metal Oxide Semiconductor> Gas Sensor Chip)，以整合成為一平台技
術。此平台技術可進行甲醛（HCHO）及總揮發性有機化合物（TVOC：苯、甲苯、對
二甲苯、間二甲苯、鄰二甲苯及乙苯）於GC 晶片中的分離與MOX氣體感測晶片中的偵
測，並進行上述晶片之整合連結，成為可用於現場即時對於檢康綠建材指標性污染物進
行檢測之偵測系統，將可有利於”健康綠建材”概念的推廣與落實。本計畫已於第一年
之研究中成功地完成單向蛇狀微流道之設計與製作，並建立一實驗系統，完成單一氣體
之濃縮測試，也進行了對於多種混合TVOCs氣體之初步層析測試分析。第二年將第一年
與本人前數年國科會研究案成果進行整合，形成一個具有恆溫加熱系統及氣體分離系統
之封閉型微流道晶片(GC Chip)與另一具有微型加熱器與半導體式氣體感測層之微流道
晶片(MOX Gas Sensor Chip)之整合型TVOCs層析與偵測平台技術，此平台包含  
(1)  GC封閉微流道晶片設計、製作與測試。 (2)  MOX氣體感測晶片之設計、製作與
Introduction 
 
    The presence of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) in indoor environments can cause irritation of 
the ears, nose and throat and may produce an unpleasant odor. Of these VOCs, benzene, toluene and 
xylene arouse particular concern due to their toxicity and carcinogenic properties. VOCs are generally 
detected using some form of conventional gas chromatography (GC) technique combined with mass 
spectrometry (MS). However, such methods are unable to provide VOCs information on a real-time basis. 
Gas chromatography (GC) is an important analytical tool in a variety of disciplines, including 
environmental monitoring and pollution management. In GC, the sample is dissolved in a mobile phase (a 
gas) and is then forced through an immobile, immiscible stationary phase carefully chosen to provide a 
different degree of solubility for each of the different components within the sample. Those components 
with a high solubility travel through the stationary phase more rapidly than those with a lower solubility, 
and thus a separation of the various components occurs. In conventional GC techniques, the sample is 
forced through narrow columns packed with stationary phase via the continuous addition of mobile phase 
(a process known as elution) and the average rate at which each analyte moves through the column is 
determined by the time it spends in the mobile phase.   
In 1958, Golay et al. (1958) showed that a long capillary tube with a thin coating of stationary phase 
applied to its inner surface provided a significantly better resolving power than a conventional packed 
column. Moreover, a height-equivalent-to-a-theoretical-plate (HETP) parameter was established to 
provide a theoretical measure of the separation performance of the column. However, conventional 
large-scale GC systems are not only bulky and fragile, but also have a slow response time. As a result, 
they are poorly suited to many practical applications, in which portable, low-cost solutions are required 
for gas separation and detection purposes. Since the original development of micro-GC systems by Terry 
in 1979, the emergence of micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) technology has led to the 
realization of a broad range of chemical analyzers characterized by a low cost, a small size, a low power 
consumption, a rapid response time, a simple operating procedure, and a high degree of portability. In 
2006, Sanchez et al. (2006) fabricated GC columns with dimensions of 2 m x 50 μm x 40 μm (length x 
width x depth) using both wet-etching (KOH) and DRIE methods, respectively. It was shown that while 
the columns were capable of separating benzene, toluene, p-xylene and o-xylene at a working temperature 
of 303 K, the theoretical plate number was less than 100 and was therefore too low for most practical 
applications. In addition, although the wet-etching method raised the possibility of a low-cost 
batch-fabrication production mode, the use of an anodic bonding technique to bond the etched substrate 
and the cover plate increased both the cost and the complexity of the fabrication procedure. Various 
micro-GC columns have been presented in recent studies in which theoretical plate numbers of more than 
10000 were achieved through the use of a longer column length. However, the micro GC systems 
proposed in these studies were fabricated using the DRIE technique and an anodic bonding process, 
thereby preventing the potential for batch fabrication.  
    Over the past decade, MEMS technologies and micromachining techniques have facilitated the 
miniaturization of all manner of devices, including gas sensors. The advances made in MEMS technology 
now enable the acquisition of sensing information at a micro-scale level. Many researchers have 
demonstrated the suitability of thin or thick tungsten trioxide films as sensing layers for gas monitoring 
applications. Wang et al. (1995) fabricated monolithic thin-film metal-oxide gas sensor arrays to detect 
the presence of VOCs. In their study, microfabrication techniques and a reactive radio frequency (RF) 
sputtering process were used to deposit SnO2, ZnO and tungsten trioxide sensing layers on silicon 
substrates to monitor the concentrations of benzene, toluene and methanol, respectively, in air. Penza et al. 
(1998) also presented a NOx gas sensor featuring a tungsten trioxide sputtered thin film. In this case, it 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1: Schematic illustration of traditional GC system 
Results and Discussion 
 
    A systematic investigation of the MEMS-based GC column integrated with MOX gas sensors was 
conducted. The performance of MEMS-based GC column was observed using a conventional GC system  
( HP6890, HP, USA )  with its capillary replaced by fabricated columns. With the sample gas, the 
experimental results of the whole set of commercial system were also compared with those eluted by the 
proposed column. All of the eluted sample gases were detected by a FID and a MOX gas sensor 
incorporated in the GC system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)                                  (b) 
Fig. 2: Schematic overview of fabrication process used to accomplish MEMS-based (a) GC and (b) MOX 
gas sensor.  
 
  
00.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
10 15 20 25 30
Concentration(ppm)
(R
o
－
R
i)
/R
o
benzene
totulene
ethylbenzene
m-xylene
GC column SS gas sensors
LCR
m-xylene
ethylbenzene
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
(b) (d) 
Fig. 4: Sensing results for gas samples with concentrations of at 10, 20 and 30 : (a) benzene, (b) toluene, 
(c) ethylbenzene and (d) m-xylene. (Note that micro-heater temperature is 30
o
C in every case.) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5: Nondimensionalized measurement results of WO3 gas sensor for different aromatic hydrocarbons 
at different concentrations. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
               
                 (a)                                                                
(b) 
Fig. 6: (a) Schematic illustration of the integration test of the GC-MOX gas sensor chips and (b) eluted 
and detected results of sample gases formed of ethylbenzene and m-xylene. 
成效與貢獻 
SCI/EI 期刊論文發表(published, accepted and submitted) 
1. Yung-Tai Huang, Yaw-Kuang Chen, Cheng-Chen Chen, Che-Ming Chiang and Chia-Yen 
Lee, “Environmental Test Chamber Elucidation of Ozone-Initiated Secondary Pollutant 
Emissions from Green Building Materials,” Building and Environment, 50, 135-140, 
2011(corresponding author) (EI, SCI, Impact Factor = 2.131). 
2. Chin-Lung Chang, Meng-Hung Tsai, Chia-Yen Lee, “ Coloration of Stainless Steel Utilizing 
Fiber Laser Oxidation,” Applied Mechanics and Materials, 121-126, 70-74, 2011 
(corresponding author) (EI). 
3. Yu-Hao Su, Chia-Yen Lee, Ruey-Jen Yang, “ Analysis of Aromatic Volatiles Utilizing a 
MEMS-based Gas Chromatography Column,” Advanced Materials Research, 295-297, 
2642-2646, 2011 (corresponding author) (EI). 
4. Chia-Yen Lee, Ming-Tsun Ke, Chin-Lung Chang, Chien-Hsiung Tsai, Lung-Ming Fu, 
Chiu-Feng Lin, “ Optimal Piping Design for Enhanced Energy Saving in District Cooling 
System – A Case Study,” Advanced Materials Research, 354-355, 744-752, 2012 (EI). 
5. Wei-Jhong Ju, Ting-Fu Hong, Ruey-Jen Yang, Lung-Ming Fu and Chia-Yen Lee, “Rapid 
Fabrication of Glass-Based Microfluidic Chips Utilizing a Femtosecond Laser,” Advanced 
Science Letters, 5, 1-5, 2012 (corresponding author) (EI, SCI, Impact Factor = 1.253). 
6. Chia-Yen Lee, Jik-Chang Leong, Lung-Ming Fu, Yao-Nan Wang and Sih-Jia Chen, “A 
Circular Ferrofluidic Magnetic Micropump for Variable-Flow-Rate Applications,” Japanese 
Journal of Applied Physics, 51, 047201, 2012 (EI, SCI, Impact Factor = 1.024 ). 
7. Ming-Tsun Ke, Jian-Hao Zhong and Chia-Yen Lee, “Electromagnetically-actuated 
Reciprocating Micropump for High-Flow-Rate Microfluidic Actuation,” submitted to 
Sensors and Actuaors: B. Chemical, 2012. (corresponding author) (EI, SCI) 
8. Yi-Chun Kuo, Che-Ming Chiang, Po-Cheng Chou, Hsuan-Jui Chen, Chia-Yen Lee, 
Chi-Chang Chan, “Applications of Building Integrated Photovoltaic Modules in a 
Greenhouse of Northern Taiwan,” accepted, Journal of Biobased Materials and Bioenergy, 
2012 (EI, SCI, Impact Factor = 1.360).  
9. Ming-Tsun Ke, Chia-Yen Lee, “Formaldehyde Gas Sensors: A Review,” submitted to 
Sensors and Actuaors: B. Chemical, 2012. (corresponding author) (EI, SCI) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                         100 年 12 月 7  日 
報告人姓名 
 
李佳言 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
國立屏東科技大學 
車輛工程系 
教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2011/11/28 – 2011/12/1 
紐西蘭帕摩斯敦 
本會核定 
補助文號 
補助編號 
NSC -2221-E-020-028 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2011 年第五屆感測技術國際會議 
 (英文) 2011 Fifth International Conference on Sensing Technology 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 可偵測芳香烴之三氧化鎢薄膜微型氣體感測器 
 (英文) A Micro Gas Sensor Based on a WO3 Thin Film for Aromatic 
Hydrocarbon Detection 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
於此次會議中,本人於”氣體感測器”論文分場中發表上述論文,與會者多為對此領域涉
獵極深之學者專家,亦不乏專業製造相關偵測系統之國際知名學者,於本人報告之後提出
了許多相關意見與問題,經本人解釋後始充分了解此提出之氣體反應偵測系統確實具備
極高之性能表現,對未來量測科學領域的發展將會有一定的貢獻. 
 
二、與會心得 
微感測器領域為一新興之科技領域,國際間已逐漸體認的此領域於商業活動及學術研究
表現上的蓬勃發展,乃於 2007 年開始舉辦此次感測器國際會議. 於此次會議中全世界共
有超過 200 篇論文進行投稿,其中的 150 篇獲選為接受發表之論文(包括本篇), 於本次會
議中共分為微奈米技術,機器人用感測器,圖形感測器,磁力感測器,氣體感測器,感測器在
生醫,介電量測,農漁業之應用,溫溼度感測器,厚薄膜感測器,光纖感測器,溼度感測器,電容
感測器,電子鼻舌,建物構造之健康診斷,環境監測,化學與生物感測器等十餘種領域,代表
未來感測器領域之研究開發與商業化對人類之科技文明將有其不可忽視之影響. 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
無 
 
四、建議 
台灣共計有十二篇論文於此會議發表,與以往相較已有成長,但仍少於其他亞太國家,未來
實應鼓勵國內相關研究人員投入此領域之研究,以順應世界潮流. 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
ICST 2011 Abstract CD ROM: 本次會議中所有發表論文全文 
 
六、其他 
無 
 
表 Y04 
Abstract 
In the study, a novel gas sensor is presented for detection of aromatic hydrocarbons (benzene, 
toluene and xylene), consisting of a quartz substrate, Pt electrodes and a WO3 thin film. Oxidation 
occurs on the heated WO3 sensing layer as an aromatic hydrocarbon is present in the atmosphere, 
which causes a resistance variation of the WO3 thin film. From the measured resistance change, the 
aromatic hydrocarbon  concentration is then computed. It is found that the crystalline structure is 
more perfect as the as-sputtering substrate temperature is 300°C, the WO3 thin film is annealed and 
the sputtering time is more than 6 hrs. At the optimal working temperature of 300°C, the 
experimental results show that the sensor has a rapid response time and a high degree of sensitivity 
for detection of benzene, toluene and xylene. 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：李佳言 計畫編號：100-2221-E-020-028- 
計畫名稱：整合氣相層析及半導體感測方式之健康綠建材指標性污染物偵測系統之開發(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 11 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 1 1 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 8 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 1 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 ■洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
＇健康綠建材＇ 係指對人體健康不會造成危害的低逸散、低污染、低臭氣、低生理危害
特性之建築材料。傳統上＇健康綠建材＇對於其指標性污染物(如總揮發性有機化合物
<TVOCs>,甲醛⋯等)的檢測都需於建材使用現場採樣並攜回實驗室進行化驗(使用GC-MS或
GC-FID⋯) 。雖然其檢測結果信賴度高，但往往因為其曠日費時且分析成本較高，導致推
廣之成果受限。本計畫擬利用微機電製程技術，設計並製作出一種具有氣相層析儀所使用
氣相分離毛細管相同效果的封閉型微流道晶片(GC <Gas Chromatography> Chip)，並於其
後端接上具有可偵測甲醛與各式 TVOCs 之半導體式氣體感測晶片(MOX <Metal Oxide 
Semiconductor> Gas Sensor Chip)，以整合成為一平台技術。此平台技術可進行甲醛（HCHO）
及總揮發性有機化合物（TVOC：苯、甲苯、對二甲苯、間二甲苯、鄰二甲苯及乙苯）於 GC 
晶片中的分離與 MOX 氣體感測晶片中的偵測，並進行上述晶片之整合連結，成為可用於現
場即時對於檢康綠建材指標性污染物進行檢測之偵測系統，將可有利於＇健康綠建材＇概
念的推廣與落實。本計畫已於第一年之研究中成功地完成單向蛇狀微流道之設計與製作，
並建立一實驗系統，完成單一氣體之濃縮測試，也進行了對於多種混合 TVOCs 氣體之初步
層析測試分析。擬於第二年將第一年與本人前數年國科會研究案成果進行整合，形成一個
具有恆溫加熱系統及氣體分離系統之封閉型微流道晶片(GC Chip)與另一具有微型加熱器
與半導體式氣體感測層之微流道晶片(MOX Gas Sensor Chip)之整合型 TVOCs 層析與偵測
平台技術，此平台包含(1)GC 封閉微流道晶片設計、製作與測試。(2)MOX 氣體感測晶片之
設計、製作與測試。(3)GC-MOX 晶片之聯結與系統之整合。 
