 ii
中文摘要： 
B-factor 為反應蛋白質結構波動性的一個重要指標，對於一個未知的蛋白質，預測它的
B-factor 對於分析結構相當有幫助。在本計畫中，我們使用 Radial Basis Function 網路的
迴歸模式來預測 B-factor，從而決定一個殘基(residue)是否落在一個多汰鏈(polypeptide)
序列的規則區塊或不規則區塊(disorder region)。實驗結果顯示我們的結果在三種測量方
式包括 Pearson 相關係數(Pearson correlation coefficient)、MAE 及 RMSE 皆得到比以往結
果較佳的表現。 
 
關鍵詞: RBF 網路、機器學習、生物資訊 
 
 1
 
一、前言 
Protein structures are not static and rigid. The polypeptide backbones and side chains of 
proteins are constantly moving due to thermal motion and the kinetic energy of the atoms. Protein 
internal motion or flexibility is highly correlated with protein functions. The structural flexibility 
that enables this motion has been associated with various biological processes such as molecular 
recognition and catalytic activity. Flexible region can be predicted from sequence. In silico 
studies have attempted to characterize and predict flexible regions from the amino acid sequence. 
Different groups used different definitions for flexibility. 
B-factor, which is also known as temperature factor or Debby-Waller factor, is an important 
structural flexibility index of a protein. It reflects the local flexibility of the protein tertiary 
structure and recent studies have shown that it is highly related to protein functions including 
antigenic region [5, 22], enzyme active site [24], and nucleotide binding site [4], etc. As a result, 
prediction of B-factor has been an active research issue in recent years. 
 
二、研究目的 
One interesting observation regarding the distribution of B-factors is that it exhibits a 
bimodal profile [11]. This observation has been exploited in some of the latest studies on 
prediction of B-factor. For example, in the study conducted by Schlessinger et al. [15], the 
predicted solvent accessibility was employed to partition the residues into two groups and 
distinctive machine learning models were incorporated to predict the B-factors of the residues in 
different groups. One can easily conceive that the effectiveness of the multiple-model approach 
stems from how we partition the residues and how we develop corresponding machine learning 
models accordingly. 
The radial basis function (RBF) network is a special type of neural networks with several 
distinctive feature. A RBF network consists of three layers, namely the input layer, the hidden 
layer, and the output layer. The input layer broadcasts the coordinates of the input vector to each 
of the units in the hidden layer. Each unit in the hidden layer then produces an activation based on 
the associated radial basis function. Finally, each unit in the output layer computes a linear 
combination of the hidden unit activations. How a RBF network reacts to a given input stimulus 
is completely determined by the activation functions associated with the hidden layer and the 
weights associated with the links between the hidden layer and the output layer. 
In [10], we have proposed a learning algorithm for constructing data classifiers with RBF 
networks. The results revealed that the RBF networks constructed with the proposed learning 
algorithm generally achieve the same level of classification accuracy as SVM.  
In this study, we have investigated the effects of exploiting the multiple-model approach 
with the residues partition based on whether they are located in short disordered segments of the 
polypeptide sequence or not. As discussion in section 4, the regression models are constructed 
 3
 
The second stage of the proposed predictor consists of two distinctive function regression 
models. When the prediction of the B-factor of a residue is to be made, one of the two distinctive 
regression models will be invoked depending on the prediction made by the first. Both regression 
models are constructed with the radial basis function (RBF) network. The mathematical 
expression of a RBF network is as follows: 
∑
=
−=
k
i
iiiwf
1
)||;(||)(ˆ σφ μxx  
where )(ˆ xf  is the regression function and is a linear combination of k radial basis functions 
centered at μ1, μ2, …, μk with widths σ1, σ2, …, σk. The Cholesky decomposition is used to 
optimize following objective function. 
∑∑
==
+−
k
i
i
n
j
jj wff
1
2
1
2)]()(ˆ[ λss  
where {s1, s2, …, sn} is the set of training samples and λ is the regularization parameter, which is 
to be set through cross validation. 
 
五、成果與討論 
The experiment reported in this article have been conducted with the training and testing 
datasets described in the following. The training dataset has been generated based on the 766 
protein chains extracted by Yuan et al. [23] from the protein data bank (PDB). The tertiary 
structures of all the 766 protein chains employed to generate the training dataset have resolution 
smaller than 2.0 Å2 and R-factors smaller than 0.2. Furthermore, every pair of the 766 protein 
chains has a sequence identity lower than 25% and every chain contains no less than 60 residues. 
Each instance in the training dataset corresponds to a residue in the 766 protein chains. The 
feature vector of a training sample is the position specific scoring matrix (PSSM) computed by 
the PSI-BLAST software package and each sample is associated with the B-factor of the residue, 
which has been normalized based on the following procedure: 
)(B
BBBnorm σ
−=  
where B  and σ(B) are the mean and standard deviation of the B-factors in the protein chain, 
respectively. 
The independent testing dataset has been generated based on the 1304 protein chains 
extracted by Peng et al. [13] from the PDB entries deposited between September 1, 2004 and 
December 21, 2005. Each of the 1304 protein chains has a sequence identity lower than 25% 
when aligned with the protein chains employed to generate the training dataset of the VSL2, 
which is the predictor of disordered segments incorporated in the first stage of our predictor as 
shown in Figure 1. 
 5
Bioinformatics, 24(4), pp. 521-528, 2008. 
[4] E.E. Huston, J.C. Grammer, and R.G. Young, "Flexibility of the myosin heavy chain: direct 
evidence that the region containing SH1 and SH2 can move 10 A under the influence of 
nucleotide binding," Biochemistry, 27(25), pp. 8945-8952, 1988. 
[5] P.A. Karplus and G.E. Schulz, "Prediction of chain flexibility in proteins, a tool for the 
selection of peptide antigens," Naturwissenschaften, 72, pp. 212-213, 1985. 
[6] S. Kundu, J.S. Melton, D.C. Sorensen, and G.N. Phillips, "Dynamics of proteins in crystals: 
comparison of experiment with simple models," Biophisical Journal, 83(2), pp. 723-732, 
2002. 
[7] D. Ming, Y.F. Kong, M.A. Lambert, Z. Huang, and J.P. Ma, "How to describe protein 
motion without amino acid sequence and atomic coordinates," PNAS, 99(13), pp. 
8620-8625, 2002. 
[8] Z. Obradovic, K. Peng, S. Vucetic, P. Radivojac, and A.K. Dunker, "Exploiting 
heterogeneous sequence properties improves prediction of protein disorder," Proteins: 
Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics, 61(S7), pp. 176-182, 2005. 
[9] Y.Y. Ou, "QuickRBF," http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~yien/quickrbf. 
[10] Y.J. Oyang, S.C. Hwang, Y.Y. Ou, C.Y. Chen, and Z.W. Chen, "A novel learning algorithm 
for data classification with radial basis function networks," Proceedings of 9th 
International Conference on Neural Information Processing, 2002. 
[11] S. Parthasarathy and MRN Murthy, "Analysis of temperature factor distribution in 
high-resolution protein structures," Protein Science, 6, pp. 2561-2567, 1997. 
[12] S. Parthasarathy and MRN Murthy, "Protein thermal stability: insights from atomic 
displacement parameters (B values)," Protein Engineering, 13(1), pp. 9-13, 2000. 
[13] K. Peng, P, Radivojac, S. Vucetic, A.K. Dunker, and Z. Obradovic, "Length-dependent 
prediction of protein intrinsic disorder," BMC Bioinformatics, 7, pp. 208, 2006. 
[14] P. Radivojac, Z. Obradovic, D.K. Smith, G. Zhu, S. Vucetic, C.J. Brown, J.D. Lawson, and 
A.K. Dunker, "Protein flexibility and intrinsic disorder," Protein Science, 13, pp. 71-80, 
2004. 
[15] A. Schlessinger and B. Rost, "Protein flexibility and rigidity predicted from sequence," 
Proteins: Structure, Function, and Bioinformatics, 61(1), pp. 115-126, 2005. 
[16] C. H. Shih, S. W. Huang, S. C. Yen, Y. L. Lai, S. H. Yu, and J. K. Hwang, "A simple way to 
compute protein dynamics without a mechanical model," Proteins: Structure, Function, and 
Bioinformatics, 68, pp. 34-38, 2007. 
[17] D.K. Smith, P. Radivojac, Z. Obradovic, A.K. Dunker, and G. Zhu, "Improved amino acid 
flexibility parameters," Protein Science, 12, pp. 1060-1072, 2003. 
[18] C.T. Su, C.Y. Chen, and Y.Y. Ou, "Protein disorder prediction by condensed PSSM 
considering propensity for order or disorder," BMC bioinformatics, 7, pp. 319, 2006. 
[19] T.H. Tahirov, E. Inagaki, N. Ohshima, T. Kitao, C. Kuroishi, Y. Ukita, K. Takio, M. 
