 
從生物文獻資料擷取蛋白質與基因名稱 
Extracting protein/gene names from the biological literature 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-008 -037 - 
執行期限：94 年 08 月 01 日至 95 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：何錦文 國立中央大學資工所 
 
Figure 1 中英文摘要 
 
近年來生物技術逐漸進步，大型實驗產生相當大量的資料與文件，
如何在這些使用自然語言(如英文)的文件中萃取出有用的資訊，使得這些
萃取出來的資料可以進一步分析變的越來越重要。 
 無論我們感興趣的是想從文件中了解生物體內每個環節的交互作
用亦或是生物物質的註解，這項研究的第一步就是要先能讓電腦辨識出
文件中，我們感興趣的物質名稱。這個研究即是在生物文件中，辨識出
所有蛋白質的名稱。我們提出了一個系統來辨識出蛋白質或基因的名
稱。這個系統主要依據人訂的規則，外加機器學習機制讓系統表現的更
好。這個系統在這個研究領域有名的文件集 Yapex 上，達到了 F-score 
73.8%的水準。 
 
關鍵字：自然語言處理，文件探勘 
 
Abstract: 
 
New high-throughput technologies have increased the accumulation of 
data about genes and proteins. However, such data is stored in natural 
language text. Further processing and integrating data into more complete and 
useful knowledge become harder for researchers because of tremendous 
amount of literature. Therefore, automatic literature mining is more and more 
important in recent years. 
The first step to extract knowledge from natural language text is to 
extract the named entities out of text, and then the relation between named 
possible. But identifying named entities is not enough; we should classify 
these named entities into correct name classes. For example, in biology 
domain, the name classes can be names of proteins, names of genes, names of 
cells…, etc. 
To process text easily, researchers who work on text mining in biological 
domain usually utilize electronic versions of journal abstracts from 
MEDLINE online database 
(http://www.nlm.nih.gov/pubs/factsheets/medline.html). MEDLINE is the 
U.S. National Library of Medicine’s premier bibliographic database that 
contains approximately 13 million references to journal articles in life science 
with a concentration on biomedicine. Characters in those abstracts are 
encoded as ASCII code, and thus computer programs can manipulate those 
characters and words. 
It is a challenge task to tag named entities out of biological literatures 
which are written in natural language, because they lack of standard naming 
convention. A chemical substance named “N-acetylcysteine” may be found 
with various spelling forms, e.g., “N-Acetyl-Cysteine”, “NAcetylCysteine”… 
etc, and they all refer to the same chemical substance. In such case, even we 
have a “name dictionary” contain an entry “N-acetylcysteine”; we still have 
possibility to miss this named entity if it comes out with “N-Acetyl-Cysteine” 
in text. 
There are some named entities consist of common English words such as 
“parathyroid hormone – related protein” and “guanine nucleotide binding 
protein”. The former is tagged by domain experts as a protein named entity, 
while the latter is not. They have almost the same grammar structure and are 
all composed by common English words, but the latter denotes a large group 
of proteins. Therefore the latter one is not tagged as a protein name. It’s a hard 
task for a non-domain expert to tell the generality of a biological term. 
The abbreviations of named entities are frequently used in biological 
domain but many of them are formed quite irregularly. For example, 
abbreviations can be a subset of syllables from extension form, e.g. a protein 
named “Interleukin 2” has an abbreviation named “IL-2” or contiguous 
characters from extension form, e.g. “PAL” for “palate”. So when we 
From an extensive survey, we observe that systems utilize machine learning 
methods plus heuristic rules on pre-processing or post-processing perform 
better than pure dictionary-based systems or pure rule-based methods. But the 
results are not outstanding while comparing with information extraction 
systems in newswire domain (Finkel et al., 2004). 
In order to understand what strings we need to tag as protein names, we 
carefully inspecting all strings that tagged as protein names by Yapex corpus. 
We found that large amount of protein names are abbreviations (e.g., 
“PTHrP”, “Pac”, “DOR”…) and the remaining protein names usually are 
proper nouns of proteins or long strings that refer to protein entities (e.g., 
“glutathione S-transferase”, “apohemoglobin”,” delta-, mu-, and kappa-opioid 
receptors”, “ribosomal protein L22”…). We name these long strings that refer 
to protein entities descriptive names, since they can be understood by just 
watching them without looking them up in other text that has the definitions 
of them (e.g., the “parathyroid hormone-related protein” string stands for a 
protein that is related to parathyroid hormone). 
Descriptive names usually have an important token which is a noun and 
this noun refers to the role of this named entity such as “activator”, 
“modifier”, “receptor”, “protein”… We call it “head noun”; other tokens 
around it are modifiers of that head noun; e.g. “protein” is a head noun of 
“parathyroid hormone-related protein”, and “parathyroid hormone-related” is 
a modifier. 
There are lots of names that have special suffix like –ase or –in (e.g. 
“protein kinase C” and “presenilin 1”). These names with special suffix are 
often succeeded by labels or abbreviations (e.g. “DNA topoisomerase II”, 
“interleukin (IL)-6”). Abbreviations of protein names are often capitalized, 
short, and do not look like common English words. 
We find that some characteristics of protein names would cause 
classification errors of machine learning classifiers. For abbreviations, the 
misclassifications are due to almost the same appearance of non-protein 
abbreviations and protein abbreviations (e.g. “HLA” is not a protein name and 
“HSV” is a protein name, but they have the same character number and all 
three characters are capitalized). For descriptive names, words like “protein” 
  
四、結果與討論 
 
The document set of Yapex corpus was obtained by posing the query 
“protein binding [Mesh term] AND interaction AND molecular” with the 
parameters “abstract”, “English”, “human”, and “publication date 1996-2001” 
to MEDLINE. From this set 99 abstracts were drawn randomly to form the 
training set. The remaining 48 abstracts as well as 53 randomly selected from 
GENIA corpus that was retagged form the 101 abstracts testing set (Olsson et 
al. 2002). 
Our system is developed in Yapex Corpus. For SVM module, we use the 
Yapex training set to train the SVM module and evaluate SVM module in 
Yapex testing set. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2 The comparison chart in exactly match criterion 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3 The comparison chart in partial match criterion 
extraction: identifying protein names from biological papers. Pac. Symp. 
Biocomput. 1998:707-18.  
Hanisch, D., Fluck, J., Mevissen, H. and Zimmer, R. 2003. Playing biology’s name 
game: identifying protein names in scientific text. Pac. Symp. Biocomput., 8, 
403–41.  
Joachims, T., Schölkopf , B., Burges, C. and Smola, A. (ed.) 1999. Making 
large-Scale SVM Learning Practical. Advances in Kernel Methods - Support 
Vector Learning, MIT-Press. 
Kazama, J., Makino, T., Ohta, Y. and Tsujii, J. 2002. Tuning support vector 
machines for biomedical named entity recognition. In Proc. of ACL-02 
Workshop on Natural Language Processing in the Biomedical Domain, pages 
1-8.  
Klein, D., Smarr, J., Nguyen, H. and Manning, C. D. 2003. Named Entity 
Recognition with Character-Level Models. In Proceedings of CoNLL-2003.  
Krauthammer M., Rzhetsky A., Morozov P. and Friedman C. 2000. Using blast for 
identifying gene and protein names in journal articles. Gene, 259, 245–252.  
Lee, K. J., Hwang, Y. S. and Rim, H. C. 2003. Two-phase biomedical NE 
recognition based on SVMs. Proceedings of the ACL 2003 Workshop on 
Natural Language Processing in Biomedicine, pages 33-40, 2003.  
Lin, Y. F., Tsai, T. H., Chou, W. C., Wu, K. P., Sung, T. Y., Hsu, W. L., 2004. A 
Maximum Entropy Approach to Biomedical Named Entity Recognition. 
Proceedings of 4th ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Data Mining in Bioinformatics 
(BioKDD), 2004.  
Liu, H., Aronson, A.R. and Friedman, C. 2002. A study of abbreviations in 
MEDLINE abstracts. Proceedings of the American Medical Informatics 
Association Symposium 2002. PA, USA, pp. 327-332.  
Mika, S. and Rost, B. 2004. Protein names precisely peeled off free text. 
Bioinformatics. 2004 Aug 4; 20 Suppl 1:I241-I247. Ohta, T., Tateisi, Y., Mima, 
H. and Tsuiji, J. 2002. GENIA corpus: an annotated research abstract corpus in 
molecular biology domain. In Proceedings of the Human Language Technology 
conference, pages 73-77.  
Olsson F, Eriksson G, Franzen K, Asker L, Liden P. 2002. Notions of correctness 
when evaluating protein name taggers. In: Proceedings of the 19th International 
Conference on Computational Linguistics. pages 765-71.  
