鐵和鎳氧化物磁性奈米線合成及元件製作與應用量測 
“Synthsis of iron and nickel magnetic nanowires and its application in nanodevices” 
計畫編號：NSC94-2215-E-007-019 
執行期間：94 年 8 月 01 日 至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：周立人 教授  清華大學材料科學與工程研究所 
 
一、 中文摘要 
以磁性材料而言，當尺寸小到一定的程度時，
高亂度的magnetic domain 會變成single 
domain，即磁區大小跟晶粒的尺寸一樣，此
時，磁化之作用則由磁區壁(domina-wall 
rotation)之反轉變成由磁矩反轉(spin 
rotation)產生最大的矯頑磁力Hc 
(coercivity)，然而當尺寸更小時，會使得單
一磁矩變的更小，在一定的溫度下會有自發性
磁化的行為發生，大大地減小Hc 使得材料出
現超順磁現象，因此我們可以利用這些有趣的
奈米特性來進行許多應用的可能性。本計劃利
用氣相反應或是液相反應途徑成長鐡或鎳氧
化物磁性奈米線，前半年以合成高密度、高結
晶性之鐡或鎳氧化物磁性奈米線為本計畫之
首要目標，後半年為將所合成之鐡或鎳氧化物
磁性奈米線進行元件上的製備及應用量測。 
英文摘要 
Growth of aligned and uniform α-Fe2O3  
nanowire (NW) arrays has been achieved by a 
vapor-solid process. We have systematically 
investigated the experimental conditions, such as 
type of substrates, local growth and geometrical 
environment, gas flow rate and growth 
temperature, the high density α-Fe2O3 NW 
arrays were grown by a vapor-solid route via the 
tip-growth mechanism. The density of α-Fe2O3 
can be enhanced by increasing the concentration 
of Ni atoms inside the alloy substrate. The 
synthesized temperature can be as low as 400 ℃. 
Fe3O4 NWs were produced by converting 
α-Fe2O3  NWs in a reducing atmosphere at 450 
℃. The transformation of phase and structure 
were observed by in-situ TEM. The magnetic 
and field-emission properties of the NWs 
indicate their potential applications in 
nanodevices. 
 
二、 計畫的緣由與目的 
Nanowires (NWs) with different physical 
properties and structure characteristics can be 
used for a wide range of application. Metallic 
NWs are applicable as interconnects for 
nanodevices; semiconductor NWs can be used to 
fabricate transistors and electric-optical 
devices;[1-3] and magnetic 1-D nanomateials have 
received much attention because of their 
potential applications in perpendicular data 
recording and spintronic devices.[4, 5] Among 
magnetic materials, iron oxides, such as α-Fe2O3 
and Fe3O4 are the most popular materials that 
possess many advantages in technological 
application. In these structures of hexagonal or 
cubic close packed, Fe ions are partially filled in 
the octahedral or tetrahedral coordination.[6-9] 
α-Fe2O3 is an n-type semiconductor with small 
band gap of 2.1 eV. The crystal structure of 
α-Fe2O3 is identical to corundum (space group = 
R3c) and can be described as hcp system with 
oxygen ions stacking along the [001] direction, 
namely, planes of anions are parallel to the (001) 
planes (it can also be index in rhombohedral 
system), with lattice constant of α-Fe2O3 is a0 = 
0.5034 nm and c0 = 1.375 nm.[10] So far, NWs of 
including the definition of electrodes by 
electron-beam lithography, metal evaporation, 
and device evaluation. The cold field-emission 
scanning electron microscope (SEM 
FEI-SIRION) with nano pattern generation 
system (NPGS) was utilized for these purposes. 
A LabView program was used to control the I-V 
testing process. 
 
三、 研究方法及成果 
The first set of condition to be changed is the 
substrate used for the growth. Figure 1(a)-(d) 
show the morphologies of NWs taken from the 
central area of the substrates but for differently 
alloyed substrates, including Fe0.5Ni0.5, 
Fe0.64Ni0.36, Fe foil, and Fe film. The substrates 
were placed vertically standing on an alumina 
stage so that the vapor phase flows directly 
against the surface of the substrate. The growth 
was conducted at 400  for 10 h in an Ar ℃
ambient of 100 sccm. It is found that the density 
of NWs is significantly increased with the 
increase of Ni concentration inside the alloyed 
substrates. From the previous reports, the growth 
mechanism of the α-Fe2O3 is quite different from 
other one-dimensional nanomaterials due to two 
important characteristics: the growth of 
micro-/nanostructures from the alloy substrate 
with taper-like feature and enlightening of the 
diameter at high temperature and long growth 
time.[16] This well-know growth mechanism is 
called the tip-growth mechanism proposed by 
Takagi et al., in which the surface defects inside 
the iron- substrate plays an important role to 
lower the energy barrier so as to server as the 
nucleation sites for NW growth.[17] In addition, 
the surface defects can display various defects 
such as linear and planar defects, resulting in 
different morphologies of Fe2O3 nanostructures 
under different growth parameters.[12] During the 
growth of one-dimensional iron oxide 
nanostructure, the several iron oxide layers with 
the thickness of at least several micrometers are 
subsequently formed before the growth of NWs. 
These iron oxide layers including FeO, FexO (x 
> 1), Fe3O4, and Fe2O3 layers are formed below 
the surface of the alloy substrate and can serve 
as the reactants for interdiffusion after the 
growth at high temperature so that the iron atoms 
can constantly diffuse to the surface and form 
the nucleation sites for Fe2O3. Thus, the growth 
of the NWs is mainly dominated by surface 
diffusion and internal diffusion.[17]  
For the iron film deposited on Si substrate, 
the thickness of the iron film is only 1-2 µm so 
that most of the iron films are oxidized during 
the growth process, resulting in insufficient iron 
atoms from the substrate to proceed the growth 
of NWs. This is why that the density of NWs on 
iron film deposited on Si substrate is 
significantly decreased (Fig. 1d). In addition, the 
increase of the Ni atoms inside the Fe based 
alloy can enhance the self-diffusion of Fe atom 
inside the alloy substrate, resulting in increased 
density of NWs during the growth of NWs.[18-20]  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1SEM images of α-Fe2O3 NWs synthesized 
Fig. 2. (a) and (b) the TEM images of the sample 
grown on Fe0.64Ni0.36 at 400  for 10 h in Ar ℃
ambient. Inset in (a) shows the corresponding 
diffraction pattern. (c) The diffraction pattern 
with [001] zone axis is extracted from (b). The 
extra spots with five time of )033( can be 
obviously found and illustrated in (d). (e) The 
high resolution TEM image recorded from (b). It 
is distinct that the regular lines can be observed. 
(f) The corresponding high resolution TEM 
image. The bard ball model is matched the 
relative atomic position. Inset shows the 
Fast-Fourier transform (FFT), which is 
consistent with the diffraction pattern [Fig.2(c)]. 
(g) The Fourier filtered image by removing the 
extra reflection spots. Inset shows the 
corresponding FFT image without the extra 
spots. 
 
In previous studies, the electric resistivity of 
the bulk Fe3O4 crystal at room temperature was 
about 19000 µΩ-cm. Figure 3(A) shows a SEM 
image of the nano-devices; an enlarged image 
for one of the devices from Fig. 3(A) is shown in 
Fig. 3(B). Due to the contact problem of the 
rigorous device fabrication, a huge increase in 
the total resistances was found,. The two-point 
I-V measurements were performed in a 
Lab-View controlled measurement system in 
atmosphere at room temperature. The linear I-V 
curves [as shown in the Fig. 3(C)] indicate that 
the characteristics fit well to Ohm’s law. The 
zero-field resistances of the nano-device were 
estimated by the following equation: R= ρL/A 
( ρ: resistivity, R: resistance, A: cross section 
area, L: length of the NW). The diameter and 
length of the measured NW were 25 nm and 
0.7526 µm, respectively. Assuming that the 
Fe3O4 NWs were of a circular cross-section, the 
obtained resistivity was 10.30 Ω-cm. It was 
about three orders of magnitude larger than that 
of the crystallized magnetite thin films. The 
large difference in the measurements between 
the NWs and the thin film may have been due to 
the contact resistance or modulation of the 
oxygen vacancy of the NW, which hindered the 
electron transport. However, the surface 
scattering mechanism, based on the 
Fuchs-Sonderheimer (FS) theory, indicates that 
the surface to volume ratio is an important factor 
to the total resistance of the nanostructures. This 
study also shows that the resistivity of the 
nanowire increases with the increase in width of 
the wire; this indicates the surface scattering is 
the dominated mechanism.[21] The positive 
slopes of the curves for the temperatures versus 
resistances indicated that the larger the surface 
scattering was, the higher the temperature. 
However, in our case, the curves as shown in Fig. 
3(D) did not show this trend. The extraordinary 
high resistivity may not be due to the surface 
scattering mechanism.  The Verwey transition, 
which was reported by Verwey and Haayman, is 
a special theory to describe the charge 
transportation mechanism for Fe3O4.[22] 
Theoretically, the magnetite is a mixed valent 3d 
transition metal compound, in which one third of 
the iron ions occupy the tetrahedral A sites (all 
Fe3+), and two thirds of the iron ions occupy the 
octahedral B sites. (One-half is Fe2+ and the 
other half is Fe3+, both in B2 and B3 sites) The 
Verwey transition may be related to the ordering 
of the Fe irons, while the mechanism is still 
controversial. The DC-conductivity increased 
abruptly by two orders of magnitude [from 10-1 
to 101 (ohm-cm)-1] as the measured temperature 
