 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
由粉末偏析控制功能性梯度材料梯度至粉體大小程度之研究 
The control of the gradient of a functionally graded material via a powder segregation fabrication route 
 
計劃編號 : NSC 96-2221-E-182-029 
執行期限 : 2007 年 8 月 1 日至 2008 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：郭修伯 副教授 
研究生：黃安婗、潘士盟 
執行機構 : 長庚大學化工與材料工程學系 
一、中文摘要 
本計畫以粉體偏析-燒結方式製備銅-氧化鋁-
銅功能性梯度材料。應用奈米級氧化鋁粉末先
造粒為微米級二次粒子，再與微米級銅粉在部
分充填之滾動鼓中進行偏析操作。所得之偏析
結構包含床體表面之帶狀結構與床體內部之
核狀結構。所得之偏析結構進ㄧ步進行壓密與
燒結。在 1100 ºC 燒結條件下，可得三維之銅-
氧化鋁-銅功能性梯度材料。此偏析材料進行
軸方向之電阻值量測，此塊材之導熱區與電絕
緣區呈現梯度變化偏析結構，可應用為熱電模
組之輔助層。 
 
關鍵詞：偏析、滾動鼓、功能性梯度材料、熱
電模組 
二、英文摘要 (Abstract) 
Cu/Al2O3/Cu functionally graded materials were 
processed using the segregation–sintering 
processes. Nano-sized Al2O3 powders were 
granulated and mixed with micron-sized Cu 
powders in a partially filled rotating drum. 
Segregated patterns were obtained at the bed 
surface and within the bed. The segregated bed 
structure was compressed and sintered at 1100ºC. 
The obtained three-dimensional Cu/Al2O3/Cu 
functionally graded material shows good 
conducting and insulation properties and can be 
applied to the thermoelectric module application 
as the compliance pad. 
 
Keywords: segregation, rotating drum, 
functionally graded materials, thermoelectric 
module 
三、本文 
1. Introduction 
In industry, a rotating drum is frequently 
used for mixing, drying, granulation and other 
unit operations. When mixing binary mixture 
with different particle sizes in a partially filled 
rotating drum, the particles tend to segregate. In 
the radical direction, the smaller particles are 
collected in the vicinity of the center of particle 
bed, called the segregation “core” [1]. In the 
axial direction, bands of high concentration 
smaller particles and bands of high concentration 
larger particle bands appear alternately and form 
“band” segregation patterns [2]. 
When mixing binary mixture of two 
different sizes glass beads at 50% filled level in a 
horizontal rotating drum at different rotational 
speeds, Shih reported that the gradient of the 
large/small particle concentration transition 
between the two alternative bands was varied 
with rotating speed as shown in Fig. 1 [3]. She 
proposed a method to fabricate the so-called 
functionally graded materials (FGM) using the 
segregated structure shown in Fig. 1. 
 
 
Fig. 1 The segregation patterns at the surface of 
the drum with 50% filled level, speeds rotating 
from left to right were 10 rpm, 20 rpm and 30 
rpm (white: 350μm; red: 700μm) [3]. 
 
 4
(a) (b) 
(c) 
(a) (b) 
The coke formation was probably attributed to 
the fact that the molecule of gas phase wax was 
too big to be removed from the interstitial space 
in the Al2O3 nano-structure. 
 
Fig. 3 The sintered Cu/Al2O3/Cu band interface 
from 50nm Al2O3 wax-binding granules and 
210~250 μm Cu powders segregated patterns. 
 
From the sintered structure shown in Fig. 3, 
there are two major problems needed to be 
solved before fabricating a successful 
Cu/Al2O3/Cu FGM. One is to avoid the coke 
formation in Al2O3 bands and the other is to 
increase the sintering temperature and/or the 
sintering time since the Cu powders in Fig. 3 
remain as grains. 
To avoid the formation of coke, the 
molecular size of the binder liquid has to be 
reduced. Al2O3 nano powders were granulated 
using di-water as the binder liquid. To sinter the 
Cu powders, the sintering temperature was 
increased to 1050ºC. Besides these improvement 
procedures, we raised the fill levels to 40% in 
order to increase the compression ratio of the 
segregated structure in the compression step in 
the following studies. The segregated patterns at 
different speeds of rotation using 50nm Al2O3 
water-binding granules and 210~250 μm Cu 
powders are showed in Fig. 4.  
 
   
  
Fig. 4 The segregated patterns using 50nm Al2O3 
water-binding granules and 210~250 μm Cu 
powders at (a) 10 rpm, (b) 30 rpm (c) 50 rpm. 
The de-binder process was conducted by 
raising the temperature of the sample from the 
room temperature to 250ºC with the rate 2ºC/min 
and holding at 250ºC for 0.5 hour. Although the 
sintering temperature was in creased to 1050ºC 
and the Al2O3 band become a rigid ceramic, Cu 
powders was still in granular form. 
We then attempted to sinter Cu powders in 
the air atmosphere since the melting point of 
CuxO was as low as 1235-1326ºC and the 
oxygen molecules could further occupy the space 
between Cu powders. Following the de-watering 
and the sintering processes in the previous 
paragraph and sintering the segregated sample at 
1100ºC in the air atmosphere; the sintered 
sample is showed in Fig. 5.  
 
    
Fig. 5 (a) the photo of the sample sintered at 
1100ºC in the air atmosphere; (b) the magnified 
picture of Al2O3 segregation band in (a). 
 
In Fig. 5, although the CuxO bands were 
sintered as bulk materials, there were many 
cracks in the surface of Al2O3 segregation band, 
indicating that the temperature increasing in the 
sintering process was probably too fast. The 
sample in Fig. 5 was further reduced at 500 ºC in 
H2 atmosphere; however, the CuxO reduction 
reaction was poorly conducted. 
Fig. 6 shows the improved de-watering and 
sintering process by controlling the amount of O2 
addition in the oxidation step and lowering the 
sintering temperature to 1050ºC. The segregated 
Cu/Al2O3/Cu structure was successfully sintered 
as a FGM. Fig. 7 shows the sintered sample after 
FGM surface polishing. 
 
 6
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 
 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                         日期：97 年 10 月 31 日 
 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：由粉末偏析控制功能性梯度材料梯度至粉體大小程度之研究
計畫主持人：郭修伯         
計畫編號： NSC 96-2221-E-182-029 
學門領域：化工學門 
技術/創作名稱    
發明人/創作人  
本計畫以粉體偏析-燒結方式製備銅-氧化鋁-銅功能性梯度材料。應
用奈米級氧化鋁粉末先造粒為微米級二次粒子，再與微米級銅粉在
部分充填之滾動鼓中進行偏析操作。所得之偏析結構包含床體表面
之帶狀結構與床體內部之核狀結構。所得之偏析結構進ㄧ步進行壓
密與燒結。在 1100 ºC 燒結條件下，可得三維之銅-氧化鋁-銅功能
性梯度材料。此偏析材料進行軸方向之電阻值量測，此塊材之導熱
區與電絕緣區呈現梯度變化偏析結構，可應用為熱電模組之輔助
層。 技術說明 
Cu/Al2O3/Cu functionally graded materials were processed using the 
segregation–sintering processes. Nano-sized Al2O3 powders were 
granulated and mixed with micron-sized Cu powders in a partially 
filled rotating drum. Segregated patterns were obtained at the bed 
surface and within the bed. The segregated bed structure was 
compressed and sintered at 1100ºC. The obtained three-dimensional 
Cu/Al2O3/Cu functionally graded material shows good conducting and 
insulation properties and can be applied to the thermoelectric module 
application as the compliance pad. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
可應用於粉體系統之混合單元開發，如食品業、醫藥業、水泥業、
高分子工業等粒子混合單元設計。 
技術特點 應用粒子偏析於製備梯度材料。 
推廣及運用的價值 
本研究應用滾動鼓中的偏析結構，在特殊設計之燒結氣氛與程序
中，成功製備銅-氧化鋁-銅功能性梯度材料。此塊材之導熱區與電
絕緣區呈現梯度變化偏析結構，可應用為熱電模組之輔助層。 
 
 
