 2 
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年 ■二年後可公開查詢 
 
 
執行單位：崑山科技大學 
中   華   民   國  98  年 10 月  1  日 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 
 
壹、前言 
 
近年來，人們最關心的議題不外乎是環保與健康。在環境方面，由於國際能源短缺，
石化燃料將面臨枯竭，能源危機正步步逼近，因此具有潔淨、低溫室氣體排放及自然能源
特性的潔淨能源將為人類未來的主導能源［1］。為了達到節能減碳與健康休閒…等目的
，已經有越來越多人提倡以自行車來代步，但是卻忽略了人力也是自然能源的ㄧ種。若能
在我們騎車的同時，將此機械能轉換成電能，並且儲存起來應用在生活中小家電上，對節
能減碳亦有不少的貢獻。因本研究提供一種新型的「行星式發電機構發電裝置」，以取代
傳統自行車的發電裝置。 
 
傳統的自行車發電裝置是利用車輪帶動一個類似酒瓶且與車輪接處的摩電機發電，即
利用車輪帶動發電機的軸心，軸心轉動產生的磁通量變化，進而產生電壓電流，這種方式
對自行車的阻力非常大，且發電量又不高［2-3］。另一種方式是將發電機置於自行車踏
板軸心處，此動力來源是自行車踏板的轉動帶動轉子迴轉而產生電力，由於踏板轉速不夠
快，不但效率不佳而且費力，若在下坡路段踏板齒輪不轉動時更無法發電［4-5］。此外
傳統的發電裝置其輸出電壓的大小取決於感應線圈中磁通量對時間的變化量，因此欲增加
輸出電壓則需增加磁場大小，感應線圈數目，置入矽鋼片，加裝變速齒輪箱…等。然而，
這些方式卻會造成發電機軸承荷載增加，並產生磁拉力，使轉子不易驅動、能量損耗與機
械磨損，甚至引起機件過熱而發生危險，故不利於運用潔淨能源作為其驅動來源。 本文
所研製之「行星式發電機構」乃是將固定體固定於車架上，在於其上設置複數線圈；及一
固定於輪軸上之迴轉體設置複數磁鐵，可藉輪軸轉動帶動轉盤上之磁鐵，快速通過感應線
圈產生電流［6］。由於車輪轉速遠大於踏板齒輪，因此可更有效率的利用此機械能轉變
為電能，在車子行進同時，可獨立產生電壓，對電子產品充電，而不需再由沉重的蓄電池
提供，以達節能的效果，更可改善車行下坡時不能充電之問題。 
 
經測試結果得知，本裝置之最大輸出功率可達90 W，在一般下坡路段自然行駛速率為
60 km/hr時，輸出功率約為70 W，即使在一般平地行駛速率為20~30 km/hr的情形下，輸出
電壓為150~200 V，輸出電流約為0.2 A，輸出功率為25~40 W，非常適合一般小家電用品
使用。此外，其輸出為交流電可直接外接收音機或是MP3等電子產品收聽音樂，並可直接
在發電裝置外接變壓器，讓高功率之LED照明燈具發光，以便夜間騎車，同時可外接儲能
裝置，達到蓄電之效果。 
 
貳、研究方法 
 
本研究提供一種新型的「行星式發電機構」設計，乃利用一個圓形碟盤固定於轉軸之
上，碟片周緣以永久磁鐵以磁極極性交錯方式呈行星式環狀排列於碟盤周緣以構成磁場，
並於永久磁鐵外圍兩側設置與磁場可交互作用的感應線圈。只要驅動碟盤旋轉，即可直接
帶動碟盤四周的永久磁鐵快速通過感應線圈，產生磁通量變化而在感應線圈上產生感應電
壓。可輕易的藉由水力、火力、風力、熱對流、人為動力或與其他轉動機具結合來驅動。 
裝置，達到蓄電之效果。 
 
 
圖三﹒所研製之發電裝置之原型 
 
參、結果與討論 
 
 
圖四為我們在不同的轉速下，以不同方式串聯或並聯每個獨立的感應線圈，以獲得
不同的總輸出電壓與總輸出電流，對單層（上層）的感應線圈碟盤而言有以下結果。 
 
 
圖四. 串聯電路輸出電壓 
 
 6 
圖六﹒行進速率與輸出電流、電壓 
 
 
圖七﹒行進速率與輸出功率 
 
此外若將自行車外加裝訓練台，即可充當健身車使用，可以一邊健身一邊聽音樂，不
需再耗費金錢購買跑步機即可達到休閒健身的目的（圖八）。在健身運動的同時更達到產
能與儲能的效果，大大提升產品的附加價值，並解決自行車數位化電源不足的問題。此外
由於結構簡單，若是裝置於跑步機、健身車上，只需調整磁控式轉盤與線圈之距離，即可
以控制運動健身時所需要的各種程度之阻力，不需要額外的輔助裝置，因此可以有效減少
其所佔據之體積與重量，同時收納方便、拆卸容易便於隨身攜帶。 
 
圖八﹒加裝訓練台 
 
肆、結論與建議 
 
本文提供一種新型的「行星式發電機構」，以取代傳統自行車的發電裝置。將固定體
固定於車架上，在於其上設置複數線圈；及一固定於輪軸上之迴轉體設置複數磁鐵，可藉
輪軸轉動帶動轉盤上之磁鐵，快速通過感應線圈產生電流，由於車輪轉速遠大於踏板齒輪
，因此可更有效率的利用此機械能轉變為電能，在車子行進同時，可獨立產生電壓，以達
 8 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                  日期：98 年 10 月 10 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：行星式發電機構之研製 
計畫主持人：謝明君 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-168 -035 -            
學門領域：能源科技 
技術/創作名稱 高功率 HPEG 休閒健身兩用車 
發明人/創作人 謝明君、翟大鈞 
技術說明 
中文： 
傳統的自行車發電裝置是利用車輪轉動帶動一種類似酒瓶的
摩電機發電，即利用滾輪去帶動發電機的軸心，軸心一轉，產生
的磁通量變化，進而產生電壓電流，這種方式阻力大，發電量又
不高。本研究提供一種新型的「行星式發電發電裝置」，以取代
傳統自行車的發電裝置。我們以固定體固定於車架上且呈不動狀
，在於其上設複數線圈；及一固定於輪轂座上之迴轉體設複數磁
鐵，可藉輪軸轉動帶動轉盤上之磁鐵，快速通過感應線圈產生電
流，由於車輪轉速遠大於踏板齒輪，因此可更有效率的利用此機
械能轉變為電能，如此一來在車子行進同時，可獨立產生電壓，
來對電子產品充電，而不需再由沉重的蓄電池提供，以達省油的
效果，進而節能，更可改善車行下坡時不能充電問題。 
經測試結果，我們所研製之來電車最大輸出電壓為最大輸出
電壓為390 V，最大輸出功率可達84 W，在下坡路段自然行駛速率
為 60 km/hr時，輸出功率約為70 W，即使在一般平地行駛速率為
20~30 km/hr的情形下，輸出電壓為 150~200 V，輸出電流約為 
0.2 A，輸出功率為 25~40 W，非常適合一般小家電用品使用。所
輸出之交流電可直接外接電子產品或外接變壓器，讓高功率之
LED照明燈具發光，亦可外接儲能裝置，達到蓄電之效果。 
 
會議名稱 : Symposium on Design, Test, Integration and Packaging (DTIP) of MEMS/MOEMS 
 
發表論文 : The Development of The High Performance Parallel-Stacked RF Spiral Inductor  
 
 
報告人：崑山科技大學電子系  副教授 謝明君 
 
一、參與會議經過 
DTIP2009 of MEMS & MOEMS 今年是第十次舉辦， 這個學術性的研討會是由 IEEE 
Computer Society Test Technology Technical Council 、TIMA Laboratory 及 IEEE Component， 
Packaging and Manufacturing Technology Society 及 SPIE The International Society for Optical 
Engineering and IEEE Circuits and System Society 等多個著名世界組織所共同主辦，會議時間
自 4 月 1 日至 4 月 3 日共 3 日。本次會議計有逾百篇之論文發表於不同之 Paper Session，
presentation 的會場約可容納三百人（太小了，有不少晚到的人沒有座位，必須用站的聽），之
後的 sessions 有五部分：Invited Talk, CAD, Design and Test 與 Microfabrication Integration and 
Packaging 及海報張貼，除了 Invited Talk 外，會場被切分為二個房間（每個大約可容納一百
五十人），兩兩同時進行，所以只能選擇兩者之一來參加。我參加了 CAD, Design and Test 那
個場次。其中多人於報告後與本人在利用微機電技術設計問題上做了相當深入的討論與交
流，並於休息時間亦參觀參展廠商之展覽。此行不只在專業領域上與各國的先進討論，獲得
相當多的收穫。 
 
二、與會心得 
非常感謝國科會能補助教師出國參加學術會議，讓職有機會能出國參加此次在瑞士舉辦
之 DTIP2005 國際會議，本次會議之主題分別為 CAD, Design and Test 與 Microfabrication, 
Integration and Packaging，此次會議有相當多在奈米與微系統技術之研究上十分著名的國際級
大 師 與 會 ， 在 Invited Talk 部 分 共 邀 請 了 三 位 分 別 來 自 日 本 的  T. Ono 博 士
﹙ Micro/Nanomechanical Instrumentations for Nanoengineering ﹚、 瑞 士 的 Renaud 博 士
﹙Microfluidic Cell Manipulation and Modification Devices﹚與德國的 Harald Schenk 教授
﹙Microsystems for Light Processing﹚對本次會議主題演講與目前相關領域最新的研究發展，
此外還有一場關於 Design Approaches for MEMS organized by NEKUS 之專題討論，在與會期
間聆聽各國先進的研究成果發表，使本人受益良多，對日後在研究工作及思考上有相當大的
幫助。此外，於會議期間與各國先進的交流亦是幫助我進入國際的研究領域之重要關鍵。國
科會能補助教師出國參加學術會議是一項很好的措施。可以加速校內教師對專業新知、技術
發展及新的研究方法之瞭解，幫助學生成長藉以提昇本校學術之國際地位與促進國際文教交
流。 
由此次之議程與參與來看，近年在微(光)機電技術應用及能源科技方面發展非常迅速， 在微
系統的設計、製作、整合與封裝等部份，仍為論文與專題討論之主要重心，對亟於邁向奈米
科技及能源科技發展的我們，確實有諸多值得參考之處。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1-3 April, Rome, Italy 
©EDA Publishing/DTIP 2009  ISBN:  
The Development of the High Performance  
Parallel-Stacked RF Spiral Inductor  
 
D.K. Jair1, M. C. Hsieh2, C. S. Lin3, S. M. Chen4 and Y. H. Chen1 
 
1  Department of Mechanical Engineering, Kun Shan University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
2  Department of Electronic Engineering, Kun Shan University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
3  Department of Electronic Engineering, Fortune Institute of Technology, Kaoshiung, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
4  Institute of Microelectronics, National Cheng Kung University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
Abstract- In this work, deep sub-micron CMOS process 
compatible high Q on chip spiral inductors with air- gap structure 
and parallel stacked inductor have been fabricated with 0.18μm 
CMOS compatible process. In the design the electromagnetic 
solver, SONNET, and the finite element program, ANSYS, were 
used for electrical-characteristics and maximum mechanical 
strength, respectively. Experimental results show that measured 
peak Q and peak-Q frequency attain 7.06 and 1.8GHz for the 
structure of four metal layers parallel and metal width of 15um at 
5.5 turns, respectively and 5.2 and 1.6GHz for the suspending 
spiral inductor. Besides, the experimental results also shows the 
parallel stacked structure saves the chip area significantly and 
reduces resistance to obtain high Q value at low frequency 
significantly. 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
 On-chip inductor has been widely used in integrated radio-
frequency (RF) CMOS circuits as on-chip matching network, 
inductive load, passive filter, transformer, etc. [1]. For these 
applications, the most issue is the large silicon substrate losses 
[2], which will limit the performance of inductors at higher 
frequencies. Research has focussed on improving the Q factor 
of CMOS inductors by using custom process modules. In the 
past, many high performance structures on Si substrates have 
been proposed to overcome this issue [1][2][3]. These include 
fabrication of inductors with thick copper layers on Saphire 
substrates, and removal of the underlying silicon by 
wetetchants. With the continuing reduction of the chip size, the 
unit-current-gain (ft) of device in CMOS technology has 
exceed 10 GHz [4]. Therefore, CMOS technology has been 
widely used on various CMOS RF applications. However, the 
poor characteristics of the passive devices, especially the on-
chip inductors become the greatest topics in real applications.  
One of the most important characteristics of the inductor is 
quality factor (Q). The Q factor significantly affects the 
performances of the RF circuits and systems, such as the 
gain/power ratio of the LNA[5], and the phase noise of the 
VCO[6]. Since the inductors possess poor Q factor due to the 
substrate loss and higher resistance in RF frequencies. 
Therefore, to realize high Q on-chip inductor in the standard 
CMOS process is one of the major challenges for CMOS RF 
applications. In the past, on-chip inductors include flatness and 
stacked structures. In a conventional RF on-chip planar spiral 
inductor that is embraced by the SiO2, the capacitive and 
substrate losses can result in interference with other devices 
through substrate coupling due to its large area, thus making it 
difficult to integrate a high energy RF power amplifier and a 
sensitive RF receiver circuit on the same die, because it is 
necessary to keep each planar on-chip inductor away to lower 
the substrate coupling noise. Recently, the CMOS process 
compatible RF inductors with air gap structure and laterally 
laid out structure were introduced to reduce the substrate loss 
for obtaining high Q has been reported [7][8]. Although the on-
chip air gap inductors possess higher Q, but the structures are 
suffering to vibrate and complicate process compared with 
conventional process. With the continuing reduction of the chip 
size, the metal thickness become more and more thin thus 
result in the higher resistance which degrade the Q value. The 
series structure inductors not only have higher resistance but 
also consume area. It is well known that the lower resistance 
will promote the Q factor in low frequency [4].  
In this paper, on-chip suspended spiral inductor and parallel 
stacked structure inductors with CMOS process compatible 
was implemented. We use the mature CMOS technology 
compatible processing and air gap structure to reduce substrate 
losses and parallel stacked structure to reduce the resistance, 
thus can promote the Q factor.  
 
II .  DESIGN AND FABRICATION 
The samples in this study were prepared by using 
conventional 0.18μm  full eight-level Cu metal/FSG 
(fluorinated oxide) low-k IMD CMOS process technology on 
silicon substrate with a field oxide of 0.4um thickness as 
shown schematically in Fig.1(a) (top view) and Fig.1(b) (side 
view). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig1.(a) The schematic diagram of the on-chip suspended 
spiral inductor (left) and parallel stacked structure (right)  
 
 
 
 
1-3 April, Rome, Italy 
©EDA Publishing/DTIP 2009  ISBN:  
 
 
 
 
 
III.  RESULT AND DISCUSSION  
Fig.3 presents the measured Q as a function of frequency for 
the different parallel metal layers with the number of turns, 
radius, spacing and metal width of 5.5 turns, 30um, 3um, and 
15um, respectively. From the Fig.3, the peak Q value increases 
with increasing the parallel layer numbers. This is because of the 
reduction of resistance which promotes the quality factor at low 
frequency. A comparison of the quality factor of the suspended 
spiral inductor and the parallel-stacked structure is shown in 
fig.4. The measured maximum Q and peak-Q frequency for 
maximum Q of suspended spiral inductor and parallel-stacked 
structure are 7.3, 2.1GHz and 7.06, 1.8GHz, respectively. Since 
the dimensions of the suspending spiral inductor and parallel 
stacked inductor are about 210×210 um2, 117×117 um2, 
respectively. The chip area can be reduced significantly for the 
parallel stacked structure and the resistance can be reduced by 
using the parallel stacked structure thus results in an obviously 
improving of the Q at low frequency. Furthermore, comparing to 
the parallel stacked structure, the thickness of suspended spiral 
inductor’s metal wire is very thin (0.4um), so that the 
mechanical stability of the suspended structure, especially for 
the inductor with large number of turns, may still be vulnerable 
or distorted by it’s own gravity. The maximum impact force for 
the parallel stacked structure is much higher than the suspended 
spiral with air-gap structure [11]. Fig.5 show the measured Q 
and L as a function of frequency for the parallel stacked inductor 
with using the top and bottom signal pad with the number of 
turns, radius, spacing and metal width of 5.5 turns, 30um, 3um, 
and 15um, respectively. The measured peak Q and peak-Q 
frequency for top and bottom signal pad are 7.06, 1.8GHz and 
6.65, 1.6 GHz. It can be clearly found that the top signal pad 
structure has lower capacitance between the metal wire and 
substrate thus increasing the quality factor.  
 
Fig.6 (a) and (b) present the measured Q and inductance as a 
function of frequency for the 5.5 turns inductor with metal width 
of 6um, 9um and 15um, respectively. The measured peak Q and 
peak-Q frequency with metal width of 6um are 6.5 and 6GHz, 
respectively. The peak Q decrease with increasing the metal 
width due to the increase of capacitances from the metal layer to 
the substrate and the fringing capacitance between the upper and 
lower metal lines. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig.4 The quality factor o  the suspended spiral inductor 
and the parallel-stacked structure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
IV .  SUMMARY 
f Fig.5 the measured Q and inducta ce as a function of frequency 
for the parallel stacked inductor with using the top and bottom 
signal pad 
n
Fig.6 The measured Q as a function of frequency for the 5.5 
turns inductor with metal width of 6um, 9um and 15um, 
respectively.  
In this study, a deep-submicron CMOS process compatible 
parallel stacked inductor has been successfully developed. 
Experimental results evidence that by using the parallel stacked 
structure, the chip area can be reduced significantly for the issue 
of continuing reduction of the chip size. Furthermore, the 
resistance can be reduced by using the parallel stacked structure 
and thus results in an obviously improving of the Q at low 
frequency. The measured peak Q and peak-Q frequency with the 
parallel metal layer of M8//M7//M6//M5 are 7.06 and 1.8GHz, 
thus enhancing its applications for higher frequency RF IC. 
Therefore, the developed deep-submicron CMOS process 
compatible parallel stacked inductor is suitable for CMOS RF 
integrated circuit applications.  
會議名稱 : Symposium on Design, Test, Integration and Packaging (DTIP) of MEMS/MOEMS 
 
發表論文 : The Development of The High Performance Parallel-Stacked RF Spiral Inductor  
 
 
報告人：崑山科技大學電子系  副教授 謝明君 
 
一、參與會議經過 
DTIP2009 of MEMS & MOEMS 今年是第十次舉辦， 這個學術性的研討會是由 IEEE 
Computer Society Test Technology Technical Council 、TIMA Laboratory及 IEEE Component， 
Packaging and Manufacturing Technology Society 及 SPIE The International Society for Optical 
Engineering and IEEE Circuits and System Society等多個著名世界組織所共同主辦，會議時間
自 4 月 1 日至 4 月 3 日共 3 日。本次會議計有逾百篇之論文發表於不同之 Paper Session，
presentation的會場約可容納三百人（太小了，有不少晚到的人沒有座位，必須用站的聽），之
後的 sessions有五部分：Invited Talk, CAD, Design and Test與Microfabrication Integration and 
Packaging及海報張貼，除了 Invited Talk外，會場被切分為二個房間（每個大約可容納一百
五十人），兩兩同時進行，所以只能選擇兩者之一來參加。我參加了 CAD, Design and Test 那
個場次。其中多人於報告後與本人在利用微機電技術設計問題上做了相當深入的討論與交
流，並於休息時間亦參觀參展廠商之展覽。此行不只在專業領域上與各國的先進討論，獲得
相當多的收穫。 
 
二、與會心得 
非常感謝國科會能補助教師出國參加學術會議，讓職有機會能出國參加此次在瑞士舉辦
之 DTIP2005 國際會議，本次會議之主題分別為 CAD, Design and Test 與 Microfabrication, 
Integration and Packaging，此次會議有相當多在奈米與微系統技術之研究上十分著名的國際級
大師與會，在 Invited Talk 部分共邀請了三位分別來自日本的  T. Ono 博士
﹙Micro/Nanomechanical Instrumentations for Nanoengineering﹚、瑞士的 Renaud 博士
﹙Microfluidic Cell Manipulation and Modification Devices﹚與德國的 Harald Schenk 教授
﹙Microsystems for Light Processing﹚對本次會議主題演講與目前相關領域最新的研究發展，
此外還有一場關於 Design Approaches for MEMS organized by NEKUS之專題討論，在與會期
間聆聽各國先進的研究成果發表，使本人受益良多，對日後在研究工作及思考上有相當大的
幫助。此外，於會議期間與各國先進的交流亦是幫助我進入國際的研究領域之重要關鍵。國
科會能補助教師出國參加學術會議是一項很好的措施。可以加速校內教師對專業新知、技術
發展及新的研究方法之瞭解，幫助學生成長藉以提昇本校學術之國際地位與促進國際文教交
流。 
由此次之議程與參與來看，近年在微(光)機電技術應用及能源科技方面發展非常迅速， 在微
系統的設計、製作、整合與封裝等部份，仍為論文與專題討論之主要重心，對亟於邁向奈米
科技及能源科技發展的我們，確實有諸多值得參考之處。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
