行政院國家科學委員會 
九十四年度專題研究計畫成果報告 
適應電壓位置控制用於多相式電壓調整模組之研究 
Compensator Design for Adaptive Voltage Positioning (AVP) for Multiphase VRMs
計畫編號：NSC 94－2213－E－002－122－ 
執行期間：94年 8月 1日至 95年 10月 31日 
計畫主持人：陳德玉 國立台灣大學電機工程研究所 
計畫參與人員：王珽弘、李忠樹等 
 
摘要 
為了以回授控制設計固定輸出阻抗來實現電壓調整的功
能，並同時考慮系統穩定度，電路模型的建立與分析結果提
供了進一步的設計參考依據。補償器的雜訊抑制極點與輸出
電容造成的零點位置接近時，對系統穩定度及輸出阻抗有不
良的影響。這種情況實際上會發生在使用陶瓷電容時。分析
結果經由數學證明並以 SIMPLIS 驗證。 
 
關鍵字: 適應電壓位置控制、電壓調整器 
 
Abstract—In an AVP scheme, feedback compensation design 
is crucial to achieve a desirable constant converter output 
impedance while maintaining converter stability. The model 
proposed and the analysis given provides insightful view of 
the interaction of the two performances. Depending on the 
relative location of the noise-suppressing compensation pole 
with respect to the capacitor ESR-zero frequency, the 
performance of output impedance and stability margin can 
be vary a great deal. If the two frequencies are too close to 
each other, the stability margins get small, and Zoc exhibits a 
spike /dip at the ESR-zero frequency. This happens in a 
realistic case, when ceramics capacitors are used and 
switching frequency is set high. This conclusion is verified in 
a SIMPLIS simulation of a practical 4-phase VRM. 
Key words: Adaptive Voltage Position, VRMs 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Adaptive Voltage Positioning (AVP) scheme has been 
used in multiphase synchronous rectifier buck converter 
topology for satisfying the power requirement of Intel’s 
CPUs [1]. Use of such a scheme normally leads to lower 
power dissipation in the CPU and smaller output 
capacitors required in the power converter circuit. 
It has been pointed out that to achieve AVP the 
closed-loop small-signal output impedance of the 
converter circuit should be a constant value which is 
specified by Intel’s requirements [2-3]. The goal of the 
feedback design is therefore to achieve a desirable output 
impedance characteristic while still maintaining feedback 
stability margin. 
Figure 1 shows a simplified diagram of a AVP control 
scheme to achieve active droop control. It has been 
pointed out that by proper switching-frequency and 
component scalings, the control behavior of a multiphase 
converter can be represented by a simplified single-phase 
control circuit shown in Fig.1 [4]. In the diagram, the 
sensed output inductor current information is subtracted 
from the reference voltage and fed into the non-inverting 
terminal of the error amplifier EA. And the output voltage 
signal is fed into the inverting terminal. This scheme 
allows the converter characteristic of output voltage 
declining with increasing load current as AVP requires. 
In this paper, the small-signal average model of buck 
converter circuit will be reviewed first. A model will then 
be developed for the AVP control scheme shown in Fig. 1. 
Investigation will be conducted to the compensator design 
for a variety of circumstances. Simulations will be used to 
verify the results. Practical conclusions will be drawn 
from the investigation. 
S.R. Buck VRM
Power Stage
Zf
Z2
Ri1
iL
vo
vdroop
RoVg d
vc
Zoi
Vref
EA
Fm
Zoc
VP
 
Fig. 1. VRM buck Controller with AVP control. 
 
II. CONTROL BLOCK DIAGRAM 
A. Compensator transfer functions 
From Fig.1, the diagram around the error amplifier EA 
is isolated and redrawn in Fig. 2. From this figure, one 
can derive that: 
vc
Zf
Z2
− vo vdroop+( )⋅ vdroop−   ( 1 ) 
 
From this equation, the equivalent circuit of the error 
amplifier compensation circuit is shown in Fig.3. The 
voltage droop caused by changing the Vref voltage has 
been represented by adding the two Vdroop inputs in the 
circuit shown in Fig.3 
Resr : output capacitor ESR. 
Ro : load resistance. 
Resl : output inductor resistance. 
 
Zoi : output impedance with Ti closed and Tv opened. 
Zoc : output impedance with both Ti and Tv closed. 
 
fzc : frequency of compensation zero. 
fpc : frequency of switching-noise-suppressing 
compensation pole. 
 
 
The diagram in Fig. 4 is further simplified into that in 
Fig. 5, where 1+ Gcom
-1 is the equivalent transfer 
function when Sumer B in Fig. 4 is eliminated. 
    
 
Fig. 5. Equivalent control block diagram of that shown in Fig. 4. 
C. Useful Equations 
Loop gains: 
From Fig. 5, two loop gain functions, Ti and Tv, are 
defined as followed: 
Tv s( ) Fm Gvd s( )⋅ Gcom s( )⋅≡    ( 2 ) 
Ti s( ) Fm Gid s( )⋅ Ri1⋅ 1 Gcom s( )+( )⋅≡  ( 3 ) 
By applying the Mason’s gain formula, the two loop gain, 
T1(s) and T2(s), evaluated by X and Y respectively, are  
shown as below: 
T1 s( ) Ti s( ) Tv s( )+     
( 4 ) 
 
T2 s( )
Tv s( )
1 Ti s( )+      
( 5 ) 
Converter output impedance transfer functions: 
The output impedance transfer function with current 
loop closed and voltage loop opened is expressed as: 
Zoi s( )
Zo s( ) 1 Ti s( )+( ) Fm Gii s( )⋅ Gvd s( )⋅ Ri1⋅+
1 Ti s( )+
( 6 ) 
The output impedance transfer function with both the 
current and the voltage loop closed is expressed as: 
Zoc s( )
Zo s( ) 1 Ti s( )+( ) Fm Gii s( )⋅ Gvd s( )⋅ Ri1⋅+
1 Ti s( )+ Tv s( )+
( 7 ) 
The relationships between Zoc(s) and Zoi(s) can be 
derived as: 
Zoc s( )
Zoi s( )
1 T2 s( )+
    ( 8 ) 
Fig. 6 shows the comparison plots of │Zo│ and │Zoi│. 
It can be seen the current loop actually increases the 
output impedance. Only when the voltage loop is closed 
will the output impedance be brought down. If a proper 
T2 is used, the output impedance can be brought to a 
constant output impedance shown by the “desirable Zoc”. 
III. DESIGN FOR A CONSTANT OUTPUT IMPEDANCE FOR 
AVP 
It has been pointed out that a constant output 
impedance is required to accomplish AVP [5]. In this 
section, discussion will be given to feedback control to 
accomplish such a goal. As results of accomplishing this 
goal, other converter performances such as converter 
stability and audio-susceptibility are affected. These 
performances will be taken into considerations in the 
discussion. 
A. Desirable T2(s) to accomplish a constant output 
impedance 
Using (2), (3), and (5), if │Ti│>>1, and │Gcom│>>1, 
T2 is approximated as follow: 
R
esr
i
o
s
s
R
RsT
ω
ω
+
+
⋅≅
1
1
)(
1
2
     ( 9 ) 
To achieve a constant Zoc as shown in Fig. 6, T2 must 
satisfy the following two conditions: 
(a) Ri1 is set to be Resr in (9). 
(b) │T2│>>1  for  f < fesr. 
It can be seen that T2 is independent of Gcom as long as 
the two assumptions, │Ti│>>1 and │Gcom│>>1, hold. 
Therefore, one can use compensation function Gcom to 
shape T2 and T2 stability margin without much affecting 
the output impedance performance. 
The two assumptions, │Ti│>>1 and │Gcom│>>1, are 
generally true for frequency much lower than fesr because 
a compensating pole is normally placed at dc frequency. 
This will be explained later in Section III-B. 
B. Compensation design for AVP 
Beside output impedance, two other key issues, i.e. the 
stability and the audio-susceptibility, need to be taken 
into considerations. As described previously, T2 is 
unchanged by the compensation Gcom as long as │Gcom│ 
and │Ti│ are both much greater than 1. Therefore, a low 
frequency compensation pole (integrator) can be used in 
Gcom to boost the low-frequency gain of Ti and Tv and 
consequently T1 so that audio-susceptibility performance 
can be improved without much affecting T2 
characteristics and the close-loop output impedance 
performance Zoc. A compensation zero, fzc, should also 
be placed near the resonance frequency fo to stabilize the 
loop gain T1. Finally, a compensation pole fpc is normally 
used to suppress switching-frequency noise. Placement of 
fpc is flexible, depending on the amount of the noise 
Ti
1+Ti
1+Ti
Ti
1 1  
Fig. 8. Vector summation of 1+Ti. 
D. Behavior of Zoc, T2, and T1 near fesr 
Near fesr, the amplitude of Ti is nearly unity. However, 
because of vector summation, │1+Ti│ can vary from 0 to 
2 depending on ∠Ti at that frequency. Fig. 8 shows two 
examples of 1+ Ti. If ∠Ti =90 degree, then │1+Ti│= 2 . 
If ∠Ti =120 degree, then │1+Ti│ =1. For any frequency 
at which ∠Ti >120 degree, then │1+Ti│<1 Therefore, 
│T2│ function may shows a spike near the fesr according 
to (5). And the ∠T2 is the difference of ∠Tv and 
∠(1+Ti). By the same argument, T2 phase angle at f = 
fesr affect Zoc near fesr also according to (8). 
E. Effects of switching-noise-suppressing compensating 
pole fpc on Zoc, T1 and T2. 
As mentioned in Section III-B, a compensation pole fpc 
may be used to suppress hardware switching frequency 
noise in the circuit. To be effective, fpc must be 
significantly ωpc lower than the switching frequency. If 
fpc >> fesr, then the use of fpc has no direct effect on T2 
and Zoc behavior. However, if fpc is close to or even less 
than fesr, then that may significantly degrade T2 stability 
margin and Zoc may exhibit a spike near fesr. This is 
because fpc significantly affects Ti and Tv phase angle at f 
= fesr, which affects Zoc and T2 at that frequency 
according to the discussion given in Section III-D. 
F. Compensation for circuit using ceramic capacitaors 
Capacitor ESR zero, fesr, for ceramic capacitors is 
normally much larger compared with a electrolytic 
capacitors such as a commonly used OSCAN capacitors. 
Therefore, fesr is much closer to or even greater than 
switching frequency. This means that fpc in such a case is 
close to or even less than fesr. Similar to the case 
mentioned in Section III-E, T2 and Zoc behavior would be 
degraded. In other words, T2 stability margin would be 
reduced and │Zoc│ would display a spiking behavior. 
Two practical examples will be shown in the next section 
to illustrate the point. 
 
IV. DESIGN EVALUATION AND SIMULATION RESULTS 
Using the model and the expressions given above, T2 
and Zoc functions will be plotted for two practical cases. 
In case I, large OSCAN capacitors were used in which 
fesr is relatively small compared to switching frequency. 
In case II, small ceramics capacitors were used in which 
fesr is close to switching frequency. 
 In both cases, a noise-suppression compensation pole 
fpc was used. To be effective, fpc must be significantly 
below switching frequency. The exact component values 
of the two cases are listed in TABLE II. 
 
TABLE II  KEY COMPONENT PARAMETERS 
Circuit Parameters 
CASE I. using large capacitor type 
Co :Oscon, (820 μF/ 12 mΩ) x12 → 9,840 μF/ 1 mΩ, 
fesr=16.17 kHz. 
Lo :470 nH, per-phase 
fsw :300 kHz 
fpc :100 kHz 
CASE II. using ceramic capacitors 
Co :Ceramic, (100 μF/ 1.5 mΩ) x2 → 200 μF/ 0.75 
mΩ, fesr=1.1 MHz. 
Lo :100 nH, per-phase 
fsw :1 MHz 
fpc :300 kHz 
Lo : output inductance 
Co : output capacitance 
Resr : capacitance ESR 
 
In both cases, SIMPLIS simulations were run for a 
practical 4-phase VRM to verify the results [6]. The 
circuit diagram for a SIMPLIS simulation is shown in Fig. 
9. From Fig.10 to 14 shows the T2 and Zoc plots for the 
two cases. Results obtained both the theoretical 
average-model calculation and the SIMPLIS simulations 
are shown. The agreement between the calculated and the 
simulated is generally good. It can also be seen that 
│Zoc│ exhibits a large spike /dip near f = fesr which leads 
to less ideal step-load response. Fig.14 and Fig. 15 show 
the load-step response for the two cases. It can be seen 
that case I gives a better step response because of no 
voltage overshoot at step instant. 
 
 
Fig. 9. Circuit diagram of SIMPLIS simulations for a 4 phase VRM 
buck converter 
 
 
13-(b) 
Fig. 13.  Simulated Zoc plots for (a) CASE I and (b) CASE II. 
 
 
 
Fig. 14.  Simulated step-load transient response for CASE I. 
 
 
 
Fig. 15.  Simulated step-load transient response for CASE II. 
 
 
V. CONCLUSIONS 
A Small-signal model was developed for a multiphase 
synchronous buck converter with AVP control. Based on 
the model, various compensation design issues were 
explored. Depending on the relative location of the 
noise-suppressing compensation pole frequency with 
respect to the capacitor ESR-zero frequency, the 
performance of converter output impedance Zoc and 
stability margin near the cross-over frequency may vary a 
great deal. If the two frequencies are closer to each other, 
the stability margin get smaller, and Zoc is more likely to 
exhibit a spike/ dip at the ESR frequency and step-load 
response gets overshoot. This happens in a realistic case 
when ceramics capacitors are used. This conclusion is 
verified in a SIMPLIS simulation of a practical 4-phase 
VRM. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] M. Zhang, “Powering Intel Pentium 4 processors,” Intel 
Technology Symposium, 2000. 
[2] K. Yao, Y. Meng P. Xu and F.C. Lee, “Design considerations for 
VRM transient response based on the output impedance,” in Proc. 
IEEE APEC, 2002, pp. 14−20 
[3] K. Yao, Y. Meng and F.C. Lee, “Control bandwidth and transient 
response of buck converters,” in Proc. IEEE PESC, 2002, pp. 
137−142. 
[4] P.L. Wong, “Performance improvements of multi-channel 
interleaving voltage regulator modules with integrated coupling 
inductors,” Dissertation of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State 
University, March 2001. 
[5] R.B. Ridley, B.H. Cho and F.C. Lee, “analysis and interpretation 
of loop gains of multiloop-controlled switching regulators,” IEEE 
Trans. Power Electron., vol. 3, pp. 489−498, Oct. 1988. 
[6] B. Wang, S. Wang, D. Chen, K. Huang, B. Tai and E. Tseng, 
“Practical Simulation of Control Characteristics of a 
Current-Mode DC/DC Converter,” in Proc. IEEE PESC, 2006. 
 
計畫成果自評 
本計畫之目的要以控制迴路設計為基礎實現適應輸
出電壓調整，採用電流訊號回授至補償器正端控制方
式，藉由補償器極、零點的設計來對電路參數包括輸
出電容 ESR 零點，及高頻頻寬與不同電容形式做比較，
並達到固定輸出阻抗。從分析結果來看本計畫所提正
端輸入控制迴路設計，可達到固定輸出阻抗、適應輸
出電壓調整，同時具有快速暫態響應，此計畫證明應
用上有高度的設計參考價值。 
 
 
