  
一、 中文摘要 
踝關節扭傷是最常見的運動傷害，而外側踝關節扭傷的機率為最高，外側踝扭傷的
機制目前被認為是著地時腳踝處於蹠曲角度(plantarflextion)以及承受過大的內翻應力
(inversion stress)所造成的。最常見的踝關節扭傷症狀，是慢性的踝關節不穩定、本體感
覺障礙，並可能發生神經肌肉的順應現象。因為扭傷後的關節不穩定及本體感覺受損，
會致使足部動作感覺與位置感覺的異常，造成足部在著地時，可能無法正確調整足部的
受力位置，因而造成足部的重複性扭傷。在踝關節扭傷的患者中，常會因為踝關節扭傷
所造成的踝關節本體感覺受損而再次受傷。踝關節的本體感覺可以提供大腦感覺回饋來
認知踝關節的空間位置，本體感覺與平衡的機制有關。因此，踝關節扭傷後維持平衡的
策略應當也會受到改變。 
 
動作分析業已被廣泛應用於神經-肌肉-骨骼疾病的診斷及後續治療的規劃與評估。
分析中樞神經系統受傷患者在不同功能性活動的表現，將有助於了解神經-肌肉-骨骼系
統該活動所採取的機制與控制策略。 
 
本研究計劃藉由力學、運動學與肌電圖等方法來作為評估依據，以生物力學的角度
瞭解正常垂直落地的模式，並比較重複性踝關節扭傷患者與正常受試者垂直落地的差
異，以釐清重複性踝關節扭傷對患者在日常活動上的影響，及動作上的適應方式，並對
日後臨床決策有所助益。本計劃比較了重複性踝關節扭傷之患者與正常受試者之間，不
同高度衝擊時的運動控制策略。透過運動學、力動學與肌電圖的分析，以瞭解重複性韌
帶損傷後運動控制策略的改變，提供對於踝關節重複性扭傷患者之運動控制策略的全面
性了解。 
 
關鍵詞：重複性踝關節扭傷、生物力學、動作分析、垂直落地
  
三、報告內容：包括前言、研究目的、文獻探討、研究方法、結果與討論（含結
論與建議）⋯等。 
 
BACKGROUNG AND PURPOSES 
 
Background 
 
Ankle sprain 
 
Ankle sprain is common injury in sports, such as occurred in basketball (45%), soccer, volleyball, 
and all sports combined 
1
. It accounts for 20% of total sports injuries in the emergency station and 
clinics and the injury rate was about 1/ 10,000 populations per day 
3
. Lateral type is most common 
(85%) in ankle sprain and most of these individuals would get recurrently ankle sprain 
1-3
. However, 
until now, no standard clinical assessment technique to evaluate and quantify the inversion injury 
and diagnostic methods have remained controversial . Because the mechanism causing individuals 
recurrently sprain is still faint, a biomechanical analysis will make clear the mechanism of recurrent 
ankle sprain. The ankle is a hinge joint that demostrate not only highly mobility but also functional 
stability. Cause ankle joint bears great stress when participate sports-related activities, it highly 
susceptible to injury. Due to insufficient realize of ankle injuries, it often leads to failure care. 
 
The anatomy of ankle joint includes the distal part of the tibia and fibula, the lateral and medial 
malleolus, which forms a socket for the talus, is known as the ankle mortise 
1
. There are three 
ligaments stabilize the lateral side of ankle joint, which are anterior talofibular ligament (ATFL) 
passes from the lateral malleolus to the talus; the posterior talofibular ligament (PTFL) passes from 
the posterior fibular malleolus to the talus and the calcaneofibular ligament (CFL) passes from the 
inferior fibular malleolus to the calcaneous (Fig 1). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig 1. The ligaments of the ankle. 
 
Because of highly mobility of the ankle inversion, the lateral ligament of ankle are separate and 
susceptible to injury. Nevertheless, the medial ligament is deltoid ligament. It is a flat, triangular 
ligament that extends from the medial malleolus to the navicular, talus, and calcaneus bone. Due to 
its strong structure, the medial side is less injured. Recently, some studies had shown that 90-95% 
ankle sprains are inversions and causing partial or complete rupture over anterior talofibular 
  
 
 
Fig. 2. the standard gait or motion analysis lab 
 
 
The musculoskeletal system is generally modelled as a multi-link chain with each body segment as 
a rigid link 
3
. An array of at least three markers per segment is needed for the definition of a 
segment-embedded reference frame that represents the pose of the segment 
33
. Due to the relative 
movement of the skin markers and the underlying bone, the calculated bone poses can be with 
significant errors 
34
. Spatial reconstruction of the musculoskeletal system and calculation of its 
kinematics and kinetics via a skin marker based multi-link model should therefore take account of 
skin movement artefacts 
9,35
. However, most commercial systems fail to consider skin movement 
artifacts in their models, nor do they attempt to model the motion of the bones, muscles and 
ligaments (Fig 3).   
 
 
Fig. 3. The biomechanical skeletalmuscular model of lower extremity combine with the muscle 
attachments and direction. 
 
  
METERIALS AND METHODS  
 
Subjects  
 
Twenty subjects will be recruited from National Taiwan University Hospital and all of them had 
history of unilateral recurrent lateral ankle sprain. Recurrent lateral ankle sprain is defined as more 
than two times of ankle sprain over the same side during past six months and definitely diagnosed 
by a doctor. Twenty volunteers with normal ankle will also be recruited as control group from the 
campus of National Taiwan University and Taipei Physical Education College. During the testing 
session, all subjects have no acute signs, such as swelling or constant pain that would influence the 
study. 
 
Procedures 
 
All the subjects will be informed about the procedures and object of this study , then sign agreement 
consent before the test. Subjects were evaluated and examined by a clinician, including the past 
history, injured mechanism, treatment procedure, physical examination and the dominant leg. The 
physical examination of the ankle joint was measurement of ankle joint circumference, pain, leg 
length , ecchymosis around the ankle , the ROM of plantar/dorsiflexion, inversion/eversion and 
abduction / adduction and the ligament laxity and instability test of the ankle, which include the 
anterior drawer test to exam the anterior instability, which is sensitive to the ATFL and the talar tilt 
test to evaluate the talocrual instability (Fig 4). 
 
 
Fig 4. Anterior drawer test and talar tilt test. 
 
Tests  
Subjects will perform movement tests at the Movement Analysis Laboratory at the Institute of 
Biomedical Engineering, National Taiwan University. Passive infrared retroreflective markers will 
be attached to the skin of the body segments for the description of their spatial positions. A 
video-based motion data acquisition system,  
The selection of the marker size is to reduce the interference between markers close together, 
especially around foot and ankle. Marker balls will be placed using double-sided self-adhesive tapes 
on the skin above the bony landmarks normally used in standard clinical gait analysis, including the 
ASIS's, PSIS's, greater trochanter, medial and later epicondyles, head of fibula, medial and lateral 
malleolus, navicular tuberosity, 1
st
 and 5
th
 metatarsal head, 5
th
 metatarsal base and heel. EMG 
activity from five major lower limb muscles (gluteus maximus, vasti, lateral hamstrings, 
gastrocnemius and tibialis anterior) will be monitored. Surface electrodes (Motion Lab Systems, 
Inc., U.S.A.) will be prepared and applied according to Basmajian and De Luca (1985). Muscle 
function testing will be performed to confirm the placement of the surface electrodes. 
 
  
 
Fig. 5 Marker placements in the study (A) Anterior view (B) Posterior view. 
 
 
 
2. Electromyography  
 
Electromyography system (Motion Lab.) will be used to record the activity of muscles. The analog 
data of forceplate and EMG data will be digitized using a 12-bit A/D card, with a sample frequency 
of 1080 Hz. The EMG signal will be fully rectified and the linear envelope will be calculated at a 
cut-off frequency of 9 Hz. The EMG amplitude will be normalized to the average value of each 
stride for the respective muscle and subject. Hence, the EMG signals will be expressed as 
percentage of the mean. 
 
 
Data Analysis  
 
Kinematic data collected with the VICON 512 motion analysis system at 120 Hz, and with 
dual AMTI force platform system the ground reaction force of both limb will be collected at 
sampling rate of 600 Hz. Activities tested will be analysed using inverse dynamics techniques, 
giving intersegmental forces and moments at each joint. To define the position and attitude of each 
part of lower limbs in space, we select a Cartesian coordinate system, defined by at least three 
markers on local segment. We calculate joint angles with ZYX sequence (flexion, rotation, 
abduction). Joint angle convention proposed by Grood and Suntay (1983) will be used. Segmental 
masses will be estimated using Dempster’s coefficients (Winter, 1990). Inertial parameters will be 
determined after Yeadon and Morlock (1989). The electromyographic data will be collected with 
MA-300 EMG system at 1000 Hz; the linear envelopes of EMG data will be calculated and used to 
indicate muscle on/off status. The landing phase is defined as starting at the first contact with force 
plate and end at the maximum knee flexion angle to investigate the response to this impact activity. 
The kinematic variables including maximum joint angle and time to maximum angle, kinetic 
variables including maximum joint moment will be analyzed and compared between groups. All the 
variables were analyzed using 2-way ANOVA with independent variables of groups and heights. A 
significance level of α=0.05 was set for all statistical tests. All statistical analyses were conducted 
with SPSS (Version 11, Chicago, IL). 
 
 
  
Fig.2 Ground reaction force (GRF) in both groups in four different heights. 
 
 
Discussion 
 
The shorter landing phase duration in subjects with RAS may result from bigger impact and 
insufficient shock absorption, which may be the reason why the ankle joints tend to get injured 
recurrently.  
 
 Meanwhile, the GRF returned smoothly to its body weight level after maximum knee flexion in 
the normal group, suggesting that normal adults tried to keep a constant deceleration of center of 
mass (COM) to counteract the downward acceleration caused by gravity.  However, the patterns of 
the sprain group showed that the GRF recovered to body weight level before the maximum knee 
flexion occurred.  It could be a protection mechanism providing a buffering effect to prevent the 
musculoskeletal system from bearing a changing acceleration (jerk). 
 
 
Conclusion 
 
The current results revealed the biomechanical adaptations in individuals with RAS when 
performing drop landing.  Future rehabilitate intervention may take the current findings into 
account. 
 
 
Acknowledgtment 
This study was supported by the grant NSC98-2221-E-131-023 from the National Science Council, 
Taiwan. 
 
 
Referneces 
  
1. Ekstrand,J., Gillquist, J. (1983 ) Soccer injuries and their mechanisms: a prospective study. Med. 
Sci. Sports Exerc. 15, 267-270. 
2. Wright, I.C., Neptune R.R., van den Bogert A.J., Nigg B.M.  The influence of foot positioning 
on ankle sprains. J Biomechanics 2000; 33: 513-519. 
3. Robbins S., Waked E., and Rappel R. Ankle taping improves proprioception before and after 
exercise in young men. Br J Sports Med 1995; 29: 242-247. 
4. McNitt-Gray, JL. Kinematics and impulse characteristics of drop landings from three heights. 
Int J Sport Biomechanics 1991; 7: 201-224. 
5. McNitt-Gray, JL. Kinetics of the lower extremities during drop landings from three heights. J. 
Biomechanics 1993; 9: 1037-1046. 
6. McCaw, S.T. and Cerullo, J.F. Prophylactic ankle stablilizers affect ankle joint kinematics 
during drop landings. Med Sci Sports Exerc 1999; 31: 702-707. 
7. Challis J.H. An investigation of the influence of bi-lateral deficit on human jumping. Human 
Mov Sci 1998; 17: 307-322 
8. Ruda S.C. Common ankle injuries in the athlete. Nursing Clinics of North America 1991; 26: 
167-180. 
9. Kerkhoffs G.M., Blankevoort L., van Poll D., Marti R.K., van Dijk C.N. Anterior lateral ankle 
ligament damage and anterior talocrural-joint laxity: an overview of the in vitro reports in literature. 
Clin Biomechanics 2001; 16: 635-643. 
10. Dufek, J.S., Bates, B.T., Stergiou, N., James, C.R. Interactive effects between group and 
single-subject response patterns. Human Mov Sci 1995; 14: 301-323. 
  
四、計畫成果自評部分：請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、
研究成果之學術或應用價值(簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一
步發展之可能性)、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有
關價值等，作一綜合評估，並請至本會網站線上製作。（格式如附件二） 
  
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
 
  
一、參加會議經過 
2010年10月17日經由桃園、日本大阪機場抵達日本京都，參加第七屆日本骨科
國際研究會議〞The 7th Combined Meeting of the Orthopaedic Research Societies Kyoto， 
Japan， Oct. 16-20， 2010〞，會議時間為99年10月16-20日。發表＂Landing Patterns 
in Subjects with Recurrent Ankle Sprain Determined Using Three-Dimensional Motion 
Analysis (重複性腳踝扭傷患者著陸特性之三維運動分析)＂。 2010年10月21日會議結
束後經由日本大阪機場返抵桃園中正機場。 
 
  10月17日早上四點半從明志出發，早上五點於桃園中正機場和共同研究團體
師生會合，搭乘早上八點長榮航空飛往大板關西機場。輾轉搭乘飛機、火車，終於下
午4點左右抵達京都車站。由於會場京都國際會議廳在市郊，距離京都車站還有一段
距離，隔天才知道會場位於地鐵站最後一站。18、19、20日參加第七屆國際骨科研究
研討會會場演講、論文展覽與產品展覽，如下列各圖。10月21日早上八點從京都出發，
經大板關西機場，搭乘中午13:30長榮航空返回桃園機場。  
 
 
圖 1第七屆國際骨科研究研討會會議會場 
            
圖 2、圖 3第七屆國際骨科研究研討會會議 poster 會場 
 
圖 4論文 poster 
  
2. 聽國際級研究人員演講 
3. 多家骨科國際研究公司發表產業成果 
4. 深入了解醫療輔具研究與功能 
5. 深入了解人工膝關節研究與功能 
6. 深入了解脊椎關節研究與功能 
7. 希望能在明志科大機械系設立” 醫療輔具暨運動工程實驗室” 
 
 
 
 
六、其他 
  
level before the maximum knee flexion 
occurred.  It could be a protection mechanism 
providing a buffering effect to prevent the 
musculoskeletal system from bearing a 
changing acceleration (jerk). 
 
CONCLUSION 
The current results revealed the biomechanical 
adaptations in individuals with RAS when 
performing drop landing.  Future rehabilitate 
intervention may take the current findings into 
account. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This study was supported by the grant 
NSC98-2221-E-131-023 from the National Science 
Council, Taiwan. 
 
REFERENCES  
21. Ekstrand,J.,Gillquist, J. (1983 ) Soccer 
injuries and their mechanisms: a 
prospective study. Med. Sci. Sports Exerc. 
15, 267-270. 
22. Wright, I.C., Neptune R.R., van den Bogert 
A.J., Nigg B.M.  The influence of foot 
positioning on ankle sprains. J 
Biomechanics 2000; 33: 513-519. 
23. Robbins S., Waked E., and Rappel R. Ankle 
taping improves proprioception before and 
after exercise in young men. Br J Sports 
Med 1995; 29: 242-247. 
24. McNitt-Gray, JL. Kinematics and impulse 
characteristics of drop landings from three 
heights. Int J Sport Biomechanics 1991; 7: 
201-224. 
25. McNitt-Gray, JL. Kinetics of the lower 
extremities during drop landings from three 
heights. J. Biomechanics 1993; 9: 
1037-1046. 
26. McCaw, S.T. and Cerullo, J.F. Prophylactic 
ankle stablilizers affect ankle joint 
kinematics during drop landings. Med Sci 
Sports Exerc 1999; 31: 702-707. 
27. Challis J.H. An investigation of the 
influence of bi-lateral deficit on human 
jumping. Human Mov Sci 1998; 17: 307-32
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：99年 10 月 30 日 
一、參加會議經過 
2010年10月17日經由桃園、日本大阪機場抵達日本京都，參加第七屆日本骨科國際研究
會議〞The 7th Combined Meeting of the Orthopaedic Research Societies Kyoto， Japan， Oct. 
16-20， 2010〞，會議時間為99年10月16-20日。發表＂Landing Patterns in Subjects with Recurrent 
Ankle Sprain Determined Using Three-Dimensional Motion Analysis (重複性腳踝扭傷患者著陸特
性之三維運動分析)＂。 2010年10月21日會議結束後經由日本大阪機場返抵桃園中正機場。 
 
  10月17日早上四點半從明志出發，早上五點於桃園中正機場和共同研究團體師生會
合，搭乘早上八點長榮航空飛往大板關西機場。輾轉搭乘飛機、火車，終於下午4點左右抵達
京都車站。由於會場京都國際會議廳在市郊，距離京都車站還有一段距離，隔天才知道會場位
於地鐵站最後一站。18、19、20日參加第七屆國際骨科研究研討會會場演講、論文展覽與產品展
覽，如下列各圖。10月21日早上八點從京都出發，經大板關西機場，搭乘中午13:30長榮航空
返回桃園機場。  
 
計畫編號 NSC 98 － 2221 － E － 131 － 023 － 
計畫名稱 踝關節外側重複性扭傷患者垂直落地之生物力學分析 
出國人員
姓名 胡志中 
服務機構
及職稱 明志科技大學機械系講師 
會議時間 99年 10 月 17 日至 99年 10 月 21 日 會議地點 日本京都 
會議名稱 
(中文)第七屆日本骨科國際研究會議 
(英文) The 7th Combined Meeting of the Orthopaedic Research Societies 
Kyoto， Japan， Oct. 16-20， 2010 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)踝關節外側重複性扭傷患者垂直落地之生物力學分析 
(英文) Landing Patterns in Subjects with Recurrent Ankle Sprain Determined Using 
Three-Dimensional Motion Analysis 
 3
    
圖 8、圖 9骨科相關研究廠商展覽 
 
圖 10第七屆國際骨科研究研討會會議演講會場 
 
 
二、與會心得 
與會中見到多位國際研究學者，同時有多家骨科國際研究公司發表產業成
果，讓本計畫研究人員深入學習國際研究趨勢與業界況。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無是項活動，略。 
四、建議 
感謝國科會補助本計畫出國研習，讓研究者深入學習國際研究趨勢與業界
況。在國家財政許可下，懇請國科會大力補助出國研習計畫。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 會議論文集 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 踝關節外側重複性扭傷患者垂直落地之生物力學分析
計畫主持人: 胡志中
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-131-023- 學門領域: 生物力學
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
