中文摘要 
mRNA 衰減在基因表現的機制上扮演重要的角色。mRNAs 在穩定狀態下所表現
的高低是由轉錄子的合成和衰減的差值。一般由生物微陣列晶片所觀察到為 mRNA 在
穩定狀態表現量的相對強弱，在大部分的分析計算方法中，並不考慮 mRNA 在轉錄子
的合成和衰減表現量的差異。在這個計畫中，我們研究 mRNA 衰退速率大小對時間序
列的基因表現資料的分析時的影響。我們計畫藉由最近發表在文獻上不同物種 mRNA
衰退速率的實驗數值，運用計算的方法，從微陣列晶片所量測到時間序列的表現變化量
曲線，回推 mRNA 在轉錄子的合成量上的變化，我們稱為轉錄變化量曲線。由於不同
的衰退速率會使得相同的表現量變化曲線，計算出不同的轉錄變化量曲線，因此我們進
一步想探討以轉錄變化量曲線為基礎的分析結果會跟以表現變化量曲線為主的分析結
果有何差異，而這些差異在的生物學上所扮演的意義和造成的影響又是如何。我們發現
mRNA 衰退速率的差異對於細胞週期的基因表現，並沒有顯著的影響。相反地， 
glucose-limitation 的轉譯速率曲線對於 mRNA 衰退速率的變化確有相當大的影響。因此
我們可以推論 mRNA 衰退速率在分析 glucose-limitation 的資料時扮演重要的角色，但
在分析細胞週期的基因表現時，只是扮演次要的角色。 
 
 
Introduction 
 
At the steady-state of the mRNA expression level of a gene, the rate of mRNA synthesis and 
the rate of mRNA decay maintain the equilibrium [1]. The mRNA decay rate, therefore, 
determines how quickly the expression level of an mRNA species can move to a new 
steady-state level after a change in transcription level [3]. Several experimental studies of the 
mRNA decay rate in E. coli [3], yeast [4], and mammals including human [1, 5] have been 
reported recently. Within the same species, the decay rates of mRNAs belonging to different 
functional categories can vary from several times to over 100-fold. Among species, the half 
lives of mRNAs are from 3 minutes to 469 minutes in yeast [4], while those in mammalian 
cells are from 20 minutes to 24 hours [6]. These data all suggest that the mRNA decay rates 
significantly contribute to determining mRNA expression levels [2]. 
Reconstructing gene regulatory networks is a challenging task in computational biology. 
Recently, several quantitative approaches to studying regulatory networks from expression 
data have been proposed [7-10]. In these approaches, the dynamics of a gene transcription 
process is modeled by a first-order nonlinear differential equation in which the changing rate 
of the mRNA level is the difference between the transcription rate and the natural decay rate 
of the mRNA transcript [7]. From the mRNA expression data and experimentally derived 
decay rates, the transcription rates of genes in yeast can then be determined by either a linear 
combination of time dependent switch functions [7] or a non-linear Michaelis-Menten form 
[10]. However, in Wang et al.’s data (2002), the most commonly used decay rate dataset of 
the yeast, the decay rates of some important genes, such as Swi4, are not available due to 
either poor signals or bad spots on array. Thus, it is necessary to statistically estimate these 
unavailable decay rates so that the transcription rates can be calculated [7]. Nevertheless, how 
estimation errors or different decay rates of mRNAs influence the computational predictions 
of transcription rates has not been reported. Moreover, whether the decay rates of expression 
data play a critical role in the quantitative analysis has also not been studied. 
 
Methods 
Dynamic gene regulation model 
Given a gene gi, its regulation process can be simply formulated by a first-order differential 
equation [7-9, 11, 12]: 
)()()()( ttXtGtX iiiii ξλ +⋅−=& ,                             (1) 
where Xi(t), Gi(t), λi, and ξi(t) represent the expression level, the mRNA synthesis rate, the 
decay rate, and the noise, respectively. )(tX i&  is the first derivative of Xi(t). The term Gi(t) 
represents a complex function of the relevant biological factors, including the abundance of 
transcription factors, enzymes, energetic resources of the cell such as external physical and 
where [B]i,j = bj,4(ti). By using a least-square method to solve the matrix equation, we can 
have C = (BTB)-1BTXN. Thus, ∑
=
=
m
i
ii tbCty
1
4,  )()( is a cubic B-spline representation of XN. The 
first derivative of y(t) can also be obtained by the similar approach. More details are presented 
in [16, 18]. Having expression data and decay rates, we can calculate the transcription by 
Equation (2) directly. 
 
Results and Discussion 
We will first briefly introduce our approach to computing the transcription profile using a 
dynamic model. Then, we will examine the influences of decay rates on the computational 
analysis of transcription rates using two sets of simulated expression data and two sets of 
experimental data. 
Transcription profile calculation 
Given a gene gi, its regulation process can be simply formulated by a first-order differential 
equation as follows [7-9, 11, 12]: 
                    )()()()( ttXtGtX iiiii ξλ +⋅−=& ,                         (10) 
where Xi(t), Gi(t), λi, and, ξi(t) represent the expression level, the mRNA synthesis rate, the 
decay rate, and the uncertain factors (random errors), respectively. )(tX i&  is the first 
derivative of Xi(t). In general, we can assume that Xi(t) and Gi(t) are the measured expression 
level and the transcription rate, respectively. Rearranging the terms in Equation (1), we can 
write Gi(t) as the following equation: 
                      )()()()( ttXtXtG iiiii ξλ −⋅+= & .                           (11) 
Thus, if the decay rate is zero, Gi(t) is, on average, equal to )(tX i& . In this case, any 
change in the expression level is a response to a change in the transcription rate. However, 
mRNAs will be degraded eventually, so that a change in the mRNA level may arise from 
either a change in the transcriptional rate or a change in the degradation rate or both. Thus, 
two genes with the same expression level may actually have different transcription rates. 
Because time series data are sampled at discrete time points and may include sampling 
errors or missing data points, using continuous curves to represent discrete time data can 
reduce noises and fill most missing data points.  More details of this part are introduced in 
the method.  
Effects of different decay rates on transcription rate estimation 
Let g1 and g2 be two different genes but with the same expression level E(t). Let r1 and r2 be 
the mRNA decay rates of g1 and g2, respectively. The transcription rates G1(t) and G2(t) of 
these two genes are, respectively, 
                     )()()( 11 tErtdEtG ⋅+=                                  (12) 
GS(t) = dES(t) + r⋅ ES(t).                         (18) 
In Figure 1(d), we use four different decay rates to calculate the transcription profiles. The 
curves in blue, green, red, and cyan colors are the transcription rates G(t)s with the decay rates 
0.0, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.3, respectively. Interestingly, we find that there are no significant 
differences between these transcription profiles calculated from some sharply change area in 
the expression data. However, when the expression level changes smoothly, the estimated 
transcription profiles become dissimilar for different decay rates. 
Refined cell cycle data 
In what follows, we will examine two different types of real gene expression data in yeast cell 
cycle [13] and diauxic shift (glucose-limitation) (Brauer et al.2005), for comparing the 
difference between the expression profiles and the transcription rates by using different decay 
rates. The cell cycle dataset possesses the characteristic of periodicity and the glucose-limited 
dataset is characterized by significant swapping of expression levels. 
In Yeung et al.’s data (2001), 384 genes were refined out of the expression profiles by Cho 
et al.’s cell cycle data (1998). However, only 222 genes are considered in this project because 
only their decay rates are also available in Wang et al. data (2002), in which 4,687 decay rates 
of mRNAs were experimentally measured in the yeast. 
Firstly, the expression profiles of 222 cell cycle genes are classified into five 
phases-specific groups based on Yeung et al.'s data (2001). We also calculate their 
transcription rates by the measured decay rates. In Figures 2(a) and (b), the expression 
profiles and their transcription rates at different cell cycle stages are represented in blue color 
while the thick lines in red color represent the mean curves of these profiles at each stage. 
As shown in Figure 2, some profiles are inconsistent with the peak of the mean cure for 
each phase-specific group, both in the expression profiles and in the transcription profiles. For 
example, several expression profiles grouped together at the early G1 phase, as shown in the 
extreme left one in Figure 2(a), are also highly expressed at the other phases as well. In 
general, the shapes of the expression profiles in each group appear to be inconsistent, 
especially for those genes grouped at the early G1, S, and G2 phases. The same problem also 
occurs in the transcription rates. To avoid ambiguity in our analysis, we remove these 
inconsistent expression data by visual inspection and call the remaining genes the refined data, 
consisting of 159 genes. The most mRNA decay rates of these genes are less than 0.1 and 
larger than 0.02 on averages. In other words, the half lives of most genes for cell cycle are 
longer than 7 minutes (t1/2 = ln2/0.1) and may be up to 70 minutes (t1/2 = ln2/0.02). The 
expression profiles of the refined data at each phase-specific group are illustrated in Figure 
3(a) and their corresponding transcriptional rates calculated based on the dynamic model are 
illustrated in Figure 3(b). This result clearly demonstrate that the peak timing of transcription 
profiles are still keeping consistency for those genes whose expression profiles are grouped 
together. In addition, the magnitudes of the peak transcription profiles are similar for the 
Another well understood gene, PDC5 controlling the flow of metabolites to ethanol 
during fermentation, which decreases threefold or more in its expression after the diauxic shift 
(Fig. 4a, down-left panel). And its corresponding transcription rates (Fig. 4b, down-left panel) 
give an example to elucidate the highly dependence on the decay rate. In a similar manner, 
gene HXK2 shows the relatively low expression followed by a glucose concentration 
diminishing at the time of 555 min (9.25 h). The down-right panel of Fig. 4a and Fig. 4b 
demonstrated roughly consistent with gene PDC5. According to the observations described 
above, the transcription rate has much strong dependence on the decay rate for the 
glucose-limitation. This result allowed us to presume that the decay rate plays a critical role in 
the estimation of the transcription rate computationally, especially for the condition-specific 
genes (the stress-regulated genes). 
. 
Conclusions  
In this project, we have proposed a quantitative analysis to exploring the impacts of the decay 
rates on the computational estimation of transcription rates. We examine two sets of simulated 
expression data, one set of cell cycle data and one set of glucose-limitation data to analyze 
whether the decay rate of mRNAs causes inconsistency between the expression profiles and 
their corresponding transcription profiles. In the case of cell cycle data, the profiles of 
transcription rates at each cell cycle stage are similar as well as their expression profiles in the 
expression level. Thus, the decay rates seem not to influence the results of such periodic 
expression data. By contrast, the glucose-limitation data are characterized by rapid growth or 
decrease of their expression profile within a fixed transition stage instead of periodic changes. 
The magnitudes and shapes of their transcription rates are significantly dependent on the 
variation of decay rates. Thus, we may conclude that the decay rate play a significant role in 
the computational analysis of the glucose-limitation data while it is a minor factor in the 
analysis of periodic expression data.  
 
References 
 
1. Raghavan A, Bohjanen PR: Microarray-based analyses of mRNA decay in the 
regulation of mammalian gene expression. Brief Funct Genomic Proteomic 2004, 
3(2):112-124. 
2. Khodursky AB, Bernstein JA: Life after transcription--revisiting the fate of messenger 
RNA. Trends Genet 2003, 19(3):113-115. 
3.   Bernstein JA, Khodursky AB, Lin PH, Lin-Chao S and Cohen N: Global analysis of 
mRNA decay and abundance in Escherichia coli at sigle-gene resolution using two-color 
16. Bar-Joseph Z, Gerber GK, Gifford DK, Jaakkola TS, Simon I: Continuous 
representations of time-series gene expression data. J Comput Biol 2003, 
10(3-4):341-356. 
17. Luan Y, Li H: Clustering of time-course gene expression data using a mixed-effects 
model with B-splines. Bioinformatics 2003, 19(4):474-482. 
18. Rogers DF: An Introduction to NURBS: With Historical Perspective: Morgan Kaufmann; 
2000. 
 
Figures 
    
(a)                               (b) 
    
(c)                                 (d) 
Figure 1  - Two simulated expression data 
Two simulated expression data, (a) and (c), and their possible transcriptional rates calculated 
by different decay rates, (b) and (d), respectively. 
 
 
PUT1                                 GDH3 
 
PDC5                             HXK2 
(a) Expression profiles. 
 
PUT1                                   GDH3 
 
PDC5                             HXK2 
(b) Transcription profiles. 
Figure 4  - Brauer et al.'s glucose-limitation data 
Four examples from Brauer et al.'s glucose-limitation data. 
