1新型之異質結構光電元件之設計與研製
“Design and fabrication of new heterostructural optoelectronic device”
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-013-004
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 96 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：郭德豐 空軍軍官學校電子系教授
共同主持人：劉文超 成功大學微電子所教授
I. ABSTRATE
In order to achieve high optical sensitivity
and low holding power, a wide-gap carrier
confinement layer was introduced into the
collector region of an npn-heterostructure
optoelectronic switch in this project. A similar
device without the confinement layer was also
fabricated to demonstrate the performance
improvement. Both devices were found to have
bistable electrical states: a high-impedance OFF
state connected to a low-impedance ON state by
a region of negative differential resistance
(NDR). The functional characteristics were
based on avalanche multiplication.
Keywords: confinement, optoelectronic, switch
II. INTRODUCTION
The optoelectronic switch is a device with
two distinct stable states, i.e., a high-impedance
OFF and a low-impedance ON states. Switching
from one state to the other can be induced by
either optical or electrical input [1-5]. In
two-dimensional arrays for parallel optical
information processing, the optoelectronic
switch is a primary device [6, 7]. To avoid the
excess heat dissipation, low holding power is
required in the characteristics of the device. To
achieve the high optical fanout, high light output
and high optical sensitivity are also essential.
Since the light output is limited by the heat
dissipation, improving the optical sensitivity is
optimized [8]. With high gains and high-speed
operations, npn heterostructures can be used to
produce promising optoelectronic switches
[9-12]. In this project, npn heterostructures are
exploited as optoelectronic switches. To improve
the device performance, a wide-gap carrier
confinement layer is introduced into the collector
region of one of the studied devices. The device
with the confinement layer presents a lower
holding power and a higher optical sensitivity
than the one without the confinement layer.
III. EXPERIMENTS
The structure of the device with a
confinement layer in the collector region,
numbered device G220, consisted of a 300nm
n -GaAs ( )3 1018 3 cm buffer layer, a 200nm
i-GaAs layer, a 50nm N- Al Ga As0 4 0 6. .
( )8 1017 3 cm confinement layer, a 50nm
n-GaAs ( )8 1017 3 cm layer, an 80nm
p -GaAs ( )8 1018 3 cm layer, a 200nm
N- Al Ga As0 4 0 6. . ( )5 10
17 3 cm layer and a
200nm n -GaAs ( )3 1018 3 cm cap layer.
The structure of the device without the
confinement layer, numbered device G330, was
the same as that of device G220 except that the
3lines) under a positive CEV voltage. As photons
with energies higher than the band-gap energy of
GaAs inject into the cap layer, electron-hole
pairs will be photogenerated in both devices. The
holes photogenerated in the n -GaAs layers on
both sides of the devices could be neglected, as
those holes will be recombined in the dense
surrounding electron gas. In the emitter region,
the photogenerated electrons will transport
toward the base, and holes will move in opposite
direction for the forward biasing in the E-B
junction. In the base and collector regions, the
photogenerated electron-hole pairs will be
separated by the existing electric field. The
photogenerated holes will move down to well A,
and then be confined in well A or charge the E-B
junction, as shown in figure 2. Owing to the
present of the E-B valence-band discontinuity,
the holes in well A will experience more
effective confinement. On the other hand, the
photogenerated electrons will move toward the
substrate. For device G220, part of the electrons
will be confined in well B, as shown in figure 2,
due to the existence of the wide-gap AlGaAs
layer in the collector region, and others will be
collected by the electrode. The holes charging
the E-B junction and the holes confined in well
A will lower the potential barrier of the base for
both devices. If the CEV voltage is high enough,
the breakdown will occur in the 200nm i-GaAs
layer in the collector region. The multiplied
holes will also be confined in well A or charge
the E-B junction to lower the barrier, and then
the electrons emitted over the barrier from the
emitter to the base will be increased. This
positive feedback process will result in an
S-shaped NDR performance in the
current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of both
devices. Because the characteristics of both
devices are influenced by the input-light power,
the switching is controllable by changing the
input-light. Because the photogenerated electrons
confined in well B will increase the voltage drop
across the 200nm i-GaAs layer in the collector
region, the switching characteristics of device
G220 will exhibit a higher optical sensitivity and
a lower holding power than that of device G330,
which will be discussed in the following.
The experimental I-V curves of devices
G220 and G330 under dark and illumination at
300K are shown in figures 3 and 4, respectively.
The illumination characteristics were obtained
under a tungsten lamp as the light source. The
incident optical power was measured from the
photocurrents of the devices. It is estimated that
the illumination power was 100nW. From
figures 3 and 4, it is observed that with
increasing illumination, the switching voltage
SV is reduced for both devices. This is
attributed to the photogenerated carriers to
increase the current gain, especially at low
currents. At low collector currents, because the
photogenerated holes charging the E-B junction
and holes confined in well A will lower the
potential barrier of the base, the current gain 
will increase with the signal level. As 
increases, the breakdown condition 1M
will appear at a lower value of M, which implies
a lower CEV voltage is sufficient to cause the
breakdown. Thus the SV under illumination is
smaller than that under dark for both devices.
The light input lowers the SV about 1.9V for
device G220 and about 0.9V for device G330, as
shown in table 1. The higher optical sensitivity
of device G220 is due to the photogenerated
electrons confined in well B to increase the
5Table 1. Switching parameters of devices G220
and G330 at 300K.
Figure 1. Cross-sectional view of devices G220
and G330. The structure of device G330 is the
same as that of device G220 except that the
50nm N- Al Ga As0 4 0 6. . ( )8 10
17 3 cm layer is
replaced by a 50nm n-GaAs ( )8 1017 3 cm
layer.
Figure 2. Band diagrams of devices G220 (solid
lines) and G330 (dotted lines) under a positive
CEV voltage.
7計畫成果自評：本計畫之主要研究方向為改變
npn光電元件之集極結構以提高其光電特性，
原試圖在npn光電元件之集極區域設計一多重
障壁所形成之多重量子井結構以達計畫之目
的，然為簡化元件結構之複雜度並有效提升元
件之特性，基於模擬之基礎，則將npn光電元
件之集極區域設計為單一障壁所形成之單一
量子井結構以達計畫研究之目的，經實驗之證
實，該元件非但簡化npn光電元件之結構以減
少其製程外，更有效提升其光電特性，諸如提
高其光靈敏度及降低其操作功率等，評估其研
究內容與原計畫相符程度應有達80%之程
度，並有效達成預期之目標。
本計劃之光電元件與光檢測器、光發射器單石
積體化後，可應用於光通訊與邏輯，亦可作為
optical dynamic memory 、 optical crossbar
interconnect、digital optical computer之邏輯元
件，相關於本計劃之研究成果已發表於J.
Electrochemical Society, vol. 154, pp. H13-H15,
2007。
間有幾位參觀之學者專家對本論文頗有興趣，佇足詢問，筆者除解說外，並與他們共同討
論一些可增進本論文中元件特性及有待繼續克服之技術問題，希望除闡揚元件之設計理念
外，亦希望能吸取與會之專家學者之研究經驗。
筆者十餘年來於學術界主要從事於化合物半導體元件之研製，其中包含了異質接面雙
極性電晶體(Heterojunction Bipolar Transistors)、異質結構場效應電晶體(Heterostructure
Field Effect Transistors)、及光電元件 (Optoelectronic Devices)等，在經由分子束磊晶
(Molecular Beam Epitaxy)、有機汽相沉積(Metalorganic Chemical Vapor Deposition)等所成
長之材料系統方面，如 AlGaAs/GaAs，GaAs/InGaP，AlInAs/GaInAs，InP/InGaAs…等，
亦有一定之研究經驗，參加這次會議除了發表自己之研究成果外，也希望吸收他人之研究
心得，尤其是在元件結構之設計上，若能得到其他與會專家學者之指教，則對日後自己之
新型元件之研究必會有相當助益。
光電科技為目前我國之重點科技之發展方向之一，近年來，政府投入不少相關經費
於人材之培育、科技之研發、及產業之發展，期能將國內之相關科技及產業推向世界之
舞台；但是，光電科技一日千里、日新月異，稍一不慎即有可能被潮流所淘汰，所以學
術界與產業界必需能不斷地吸收新知、戳力以赴，才能與世界潮流並駕齊驅，甚至居於
領導地位；然在物價飛漲、台幣貶值之際，除了鼓勵參與國際性學術活動外，希望國科
會能提供足夠之經費，以使國內之學術研究界能支應參與國際學術性活動之開銷，諸如
機票、生活費及註冊費等，除此之外，更希望能積極鼓勵及補助研究生參加國際性學術
活動，以開拓他們之視野，因為這群莘莘學子將是我國未來於學術界及產業界之棟樑，
讓他們了解及參與國際科技之發展，日後將對我國光電科技之發展提供相當之助益，因
此，除了補助研究生參與國際性學術活動之機票費外，希望國科會更能斟酌補助其國外
之生活費用，使其能無後顧之憂地專心參與活動，提昇研究生參與國際性學術活動之成
效。
