2 
Introduction 
 
Diffusion MR imaging is becoming an important clinical routine in diseases involved in the 
central nervous system, such as multiple sclerosis [1] and acute ischemic stroke [2].  The 
quantitative values of diffusion parameters such as the apparent diffusion coefficient (ADC) and 
the fractional anisotropy (FA) have been used to examine the longitudinal evolution of ischemic 
infarct [3] or to investigate pathologically related demyelination processes [4].  Since diffusion 
imaging often uses echo-planar imaging (EPI) for signal readout, the images frequently show 
strong geometric distortions arising from susceptibility effects and eddy currents [5]. 
 
Eddy-current induced effects are specifically related to the use of diffusion sensitizing 
gradients.  In diffusion imaging, the effect of random motion of water molecules is enhanced 
through the manipulation of diffusion sensitive gradients.  To properly estimate the signal 
attenuation due to the slow diffusion motion, the gradient waveform with high amplitude and 
long duration is usually demanded, accompanying relatively large eddy currents.  In the 
conventional “Stejskal-Tanner” spin-echo design, the eddy current is built up upon switching the 
diffusion-weighting gradients.  When the eddy-current decays slowly at a specific exponential 
rate, the residual gradient field may not be eliminated before data acquisition.  This can cause 
various geometric distortions dependent on the direction of diffusion-encoding gradients when 
using the off-resonance-sensitive EPI as readout module [5].  To avoid spatial distortion in the 
diffusion weighted images, the twice-refocused spin-echo (TRSE) method with two refocus 
pulses has been proposed to null the residual gradient fields [6].  By preventing eddy-current- 
induced image distortions from affecting the estimation of diffusion parameters with no loss of 
scanning efficiency, the TRSE sequence has been successfully applied in clinical multidirectional 
diffusion imaging.  
 
Despite the improvement made by the TRSE sequence, we found that compared with 
published results [7-9], a mis-estimation of diffusion indices might occur on some commercial 
systems that employed the TRSE technique.  For example, the mean ADC of white matter of our 
healthy subjects was measured around 1.2 ~ 1.5×10-3 mm2/sec while the reported value in the 
literature was 0.7 ~ 0.9×10-3 mm2/sec [7-9], with subsequently under-estimated FA.  We think 
that the formation of stimulated echo is one possible origin that could exhibit substantial 
influences on the estimation of diffusion parameters.  Therefore, the purpose of this study is to 
investigate the possible origins and the potential remedies of the erroneous estimations of these 
diffusion parameters. 
 
Materials and methods 
 
The formation of stimulated echo in TRSE sequence 
A stimulated echo is known to occur after a series of three or more RF pulses.  In the TRSE 
sequence, the stimulated echo forms at half TE1 (time of the first echo) following the third RF 
pulse (Fig.1), particularly as the flip angles of the two refocusing RF pulses deviate from 1800.  
When TE2 (time of the second echo) is set equal to twice of TE1, the stimulated echo occurs at the  
4 
 
( )αα ++⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛=⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛ +⋅=⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛=⋅ 1ln
)(
)0(ln
)(
)1()0(ln
)(
)0(ln'
bI
I
bI
I
bI
I
G
GD
G
Gb
SE
SE
SE
SE
T
v
v
v
v
      
After some matrix operation, the relationship between the true tensor matrix (D) and the 
estimated one (D’) can be simplified as  
 
( ) 31ln1' IbDD ⋅++= α                                          
where I3 is a 3-by-3 identity matrix.  By diagonalizing the diffusion tensor matrix, three pairs of 
eigenvectors and eigenvalues can be obtained, corresponding to the directions and diffusion 
coefficients along the three axes of the ellipsoid in diffusion space.  Given iλ  and 
}3,2,1{, ∈ieiv , which are eigenvalues and eigenvectors of D, respectively, then  
 
( ) ( ) iiiii ebeIbeDeD
vvvv ⋅⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ ++=×⋅++×=× αλα 1ln11ln1' 3
                 
Thus, the eigenvalues ( 'iλ ) and eigenvectors ( 'ie
v
) of the calculated tensor D’ in TRSE method 
can be obtained as below. 
 ii ee
vv ='                                                           
 
( )αλλ ++= 1ln1'
bii                                                
Namely, the diffusion coefficient along every direction, which is estimated with the presence of 
stimulated echo, would be increased equally by a certain value, while the major direction of fiber 
bundle remains unaltered.  As a consequence, the computation of ADC is anticipated to be 
over-estimated, with the percentage error especially prominent for voxels of low ADC value.  
Meanwhile, an overall under-estimation of FA values is also expected, especially in anisotropic 
regions. As a final note, conventional diffusion-weighted images using one single refocusing RF 
pulse do not suffer from this ADC over-estimation, because no stimulated echo is formed. 
 
Possible remedies 
Since the origin of inevitable mis-estimation of diffusion parameters may be the undesirable 
stimulated echo as explained above, one remedy would be to defocus the stimulated echo from 
the b=0 images by inserting a pair of crusher gradients immediately before and after every 
refocus pulse as shown in Figure 2.  Notice that the crusher pairs arranged around two inversion 
pulses should be opposite in polarity to intentionally dephase the stimulated echo.  Besides, the  
 
Fig.2 The pairs of crusher gradients (shaded in 
gray) are inserted immediately before and after the 
1800 RF pulses in the TRSE sequence.  The 
opposite polarities are intentionally designed to 
dephase the stimulated echo in the b0 images. 
 
 
6 
 
Fig.3  The b0 (left column) and diffusion-weighted (right column, b = 1000 
sec/mm2) images acquired without (a and b) and with crushers (c and d) 
displayed at the identical window level.  Notice that there is essentially no 
visually perceivable difference in the b=1000 images (b versus d).  However, 
in the b=0 images, one can see prominently higher signal intensity for the gray 
matter, white matter, and even cerebrospinal fluid throughout the entire slice in 
(a) as compared with corresponding regions in (c). 
 
Color mapping was used to enhance the reduction of FA values in all brain tissues in the absence 
of crusher gradients.   
 
Quantitative comparison of ADC and FA in selected ROIs was further demonstrated in Fig.6 
and Fig.7, respectively.  Here the height of each bar and the error bar represent the mean and 
standard deviation of values in pre-selected ROI, respectively.  In Fig.6, it was obvious that all 
ADC values were higher without the insertion of crushers no matter in white matter or gray 
matter ROIs.  Compared with previous publications, our ADC values estimated with crushers,  
 
Fig.4 From left to right column, the maps of ADC value and three eigenvalues 
(λ1, λ2, and λ3 in descending order) of the diffusion tensor matrix are shown.  In 
each column, it can be observed that the map obtained with crushers (lower row) 
have lower values than that without crushers (upper row). 
8 
 Current study Hunsche [7]  Snook [8] Huisman [9] 
 wo/crushers w/crushers (n=7) 
ADC 
 
FA 
(n=28)
ADC 
 
FA 
(n=12) 
ADC 
 
FA ADC FA ADC FA 
Genu of corpus callosum 1.447 0.567 0.735 0.863 0.913 0.72 0.75 0.78   
Splenium of corpus callosum 1.364 0.661 0.783 0.862 0.802 0.75 0.75 0.81 0.724 0.764 
Bilateral corona radiate 1.175 0.432 0.712 0.665   0.69 0.62   
Internal capsule 1.225 0.500 0.742 0.713   0.72 0.70 0.713 0.681 
Medial frontal gyrus 1.417 0.111 0.948 0.154       
Cuneus 1.433 0.165 0.946 0.232       
Table 1 Comparison of ADC (10-3 mm2/s) and FA measured in this study, and results from Hunsche [7], 
Snook [8], and Huisman [9]. Note that all data were obtained at 1.5 Tesla. 
 
Discussions 
 The results from this study demonstrated that the formation of stimulated echo in the TRSE 
diffusion imaging technique can lead to substantial ADC over-estimation and the consequent 
regional under-estimation in FA.  While the over-estimation of diffusion coefficient is to be 
largely equal along all directions, the under-estimation in FA is particularly evident in areas with 
highly anisotropic diffusion tensors.  The conditions of the signal addition effects from 
stimulated echo occur only under the situation that: (a) the crusher gradients are missing or are of 
identical polarity and similar amplitude and (b) TE2 is equal to or close to twice of TE1. However, 
whether these conditions are fulfilled is likely unknown during the operation of the scanning 
process, because no prominent artifacts are seen other than the increased signals in the b = 0 
images.  Therefore, although TRSE DTI could resolve the eddy-current-induced distortions [6], 
we recommend a calibration of the ADC values using phantoms with known diffusion parameters 
before attempting quantitative investigations. 
 
The amplitude of stimulated echo is a function of the RF flip angles, theoretically being 
close to zero when the flip angles are 90-180-180 degrees and reaching maximum at 90-90-90 
[10].  In our study, the RF flip angles were automatically calibrated using the routine procedure.  
Thus, the formation of stimulated echo in our study reflects the distribution profile of flip angle 
within a finite slice thickness, which is known to be far from ideal especially for the refocusing 
pulses.  In other words, even if the flip angles have been calibrated for data acquisition, 
erroneous estimations of diffusion parameters in TRSE may still persist due to non-ideal slice 
profiles. 
 
Even if the remedy by using crusher gradients seems to be a simple and straightforward 
approach commonly seen in general MR imaging sequences, the phenomena of erroneous 
estimation of diffusion parameters in TRSE sequence should not be de-emphasized.  In fact, it 
was due to the observation of such phenomena on a clinical scanner with TRSE installed as a 
commercial package that inspired this study.  Note that the stimulated echo is actually frequently 
used in routine imaging techniques such as the fast spin-echo sequences as a means to retain 
image SNR at reduced RF specific absorption rate (SAR).  Via a reduction of flip angles for the 
refocusing pulses from 1800 to, for example, 1300, the amplitude of the primary spin echoes 
1 
國科會 
 
補助出席國際會議結案報告 
 
(補助編號：NSC98-2218-E-110-002 ) 
 
 
 
The Seventeenth Annual Meeting of the International 
Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine 
國際醫用磁共振學會第十七屆年會 
2008/04/18~2008/04/24, Honolulu, Hawaii, U.S. 
 
 
會議結案報告 
 
 
 
 
 
莊子肇  助理教授   
國立中山大學電機工程學系 
 
 
 
 
 
