 2
以二維電極架構微流體肝癌幹細胞快速篩選裝置之研究 
A microfluidic device for sorting liver cancer stem cell in a continuous biological fluid 
 
亞東技術學院機械工程系 
王明文 
 
    為能有效了解與發現促使肝癌細胞凋亡機制，確實達成癌症治療之目的，從原生肝細胞組織樣本
中將正常細胞、肝癌細胞與肝癌幹細胞等作精確的分離篩選，再針對肝癌幹細胞來進行促使凋亡之各
種治療研究方法測試是相當必要的；故本研究針對原生細胞組織中的正常細胞、幹細胞、肝癌細胞與
肝癌幹細胞等樣本以一微小、構造簡單之平面非對稱電極細胞篩選晶片裝置進行介電性質影嚮測試，
當含有多樣性細胞溶質流體導入篩選晶片裝置當中時，具異質介電特性之肝癌活體幹細胞組織將會被
分出而收集；經由肝癌幹細胞介電性質測試與微電極電場強度分佈模擬所設計出的二維曲線電極佈
局、操作電壓與頻率以及介質流體特性等操作參數，在不需要昂貴的抗原接著篩選技術以及離心與洗
滌等程序之下，就能夠直接利用局部交流電荷作用之介電場將特定肝癌幹細胞以選擇性吸引之方式從
複雜的生醫樣品流體當中篩選出來。 
 
ABSTRACT 
    In order to make possible the selective sorting of hepatocellular carcinoma stem cells (CD133+ HCCSCs) 
in biofluids without to use an antigen-antibody reaction to attach antibody-immobilized nanobeads to the 
surfaces of HCC SCs. The unique dielectric properties of HCC SC has been tested and obtained by the 
applying AC electrical field with various frequency and strength between an planar microelectrodes. 
Eventually, the HCC SC can be manipulated and separated from the mixture by applying specific 
dielectrophoretic force dependent upon unique dielectric properties of HCC SCs. Creating the HCC SCs make 
this subsequent separation possible. To effect the actual separation, a micro channel with two dimensional 
electrodes has been designed on a Pyrex glass substrate and fabricated with micro fabrication technology. A 
local dielectrophoretic force, obtained from non-uniform electric fields, was used for manipulating the unique 
HCC SCs in a continuous flow. By the experimental studies that the homogenizered tumor cell specimens 
incur a local dielectrophoresis field when they are suspended in a continuous buffer fluid (flow velocity v = 
0.1 cm/s) and exposed to RF electric fields at specific frequency (13.56 MHz). Using this device, the 
microchannel with planar microelectrodes provides a local dielectrophrosis field strong enough to manipulate 
the mobility of HCC SCs in a continuous biological fluid. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common primary malignancy of the liver in adults. It is also 
the fifth most common solid cancer worldwide and the third leading cause of cancer-related death.1 Current 
research supports that HCC derived from malignant transformation of hepatic progenitor cells (HPC). There 
may be at least three distinct cell lineages with progenitor cell properties susceptible to neoplastic 
transformation: hepatocyte, oval/hepatic progenitor cells, and bone marrow-derived stem cells. In 
hepatocarcinogenesis, multiple signaling transduction pathways, important for HCC stem cell (SC) 
proliferation and differentiations, are deregulated. Strategies are being developed to identify and characterize 
 4
biological fluid flow, a microfluidic component of a microchannel with planar microelectrodes has been 
designed and fabricated by photolithographic process. A local dielectrophoretic force obtained from 
nonuniform electric fields was elected to manipulate and sort HCC SCs in a continuous BPS flow. The 
experimental studies indicate that the HCC SC undergoes weak positive dielectrophoresis and the normal 
HCC cell undergoes strong negetive dielectrophoresis when suspended in a continuous flow and exposed to 
RF/AC fields. Through this device, the sorting accuracy of HCC SCs is better than traditional magnetic 
selection strategy and up to 60% in a continuous flow was less than 0.1 cm/s, based on an applied power of 
10Vpeak-peak and a frequency of 13.56 MHz AC field. Under those circumstances, identification and sorting of 
HCC SCs can be achieved in a short time. Giving the current problems in successfully treating HCC, we can 
find novel therapeutic strategies. Understanding and unravelling the characteristics of SC biology in HCC 
pave the way to such novel strategies. 
 
THEORETICAL MODEL 
 
Dielectrophoresis Force Calculation 
Previously, the classical dielectrophoretic model has been utilized for a spherical cell manipulation. In 
this work, due to the nature of the cell membrane and morphology, the classical spherical model must be 
modified in order to describe the polarization mechanics of real HCC SCs.26 A real HCC SC can be described 
as an oblate sphere of highly conductive cytoplasm surrounded by a thick membrane. For a thick layer shell 
cell, the procedure is to start with the innermost sphere and the layer enclosing it, and to define an effective 
permittivity c’. The thick layer shell cell is thus replaced by an equivalent, homogenous sphere with a radius 
equal to that of the outermost shell. As the CM factor, K（）, used in the DEP force expression is valid only 
for homogeneous spherical cells, it is necessary to modify this factor taking into account both the spheroidal 
shape and low-conductive cell membrane of the HCC SC. Irimajiri27 had modified a model with a 
multi-shelled Maxwell-Wagner (MW) theory in order to approximate the dielectric polarization of biological 
cells suspended in an electrolyte solution. Here, we better approximate the biconcave shape of a liver stem 
cell as an oblate spheroid. For the case a single-shell oblate spheroid with major axis aligned parallel with the 
applied field, the CM factor can be shown to be  K（）MW = Vc m (c’-m*) / [(c’-m*) Aop+m*]. The 
parameter Aop describes the geometry specific degree to which the exterior of the cell, from the outer 
membrane edge to infinity, depolarizes along the principal axis, Vc represents the cell volume, and c’ is the 
effective permittivity of the cell given by c’ = mem {mem +(cyto - mem)[ Aip +v(1- Aop)]} / {mem +(cyto - 
mem)[ Aip - vAop]}, where mem and cyto are the complex permittivity’s of the cell membrane and cytoplasm, 
respectively, Aip describes the depolarization from just the membrane to infinity, v (which is v = r2c / [(r + d)2 
(c + d)] ) is the volume ratio of the cell exterior to interior, r the cell radius, c the cell half-length, and d is the 
membrane thickness. In the case of an erythrocyte cell, d is approximately three orders of magnitude less than 
r and c, and thus the approximation that Aop = Aip can be made, and a useful expansion of this factor can be 
expressed in terms of  = c/r as Aop = Aip = {1+[3(1---2 )/5]+ [3(1---2 )2/7]+ …} / 3-2. For a sphere particle,  
= 1, and thus Aop = Aip = 1/3, which forces this model to converge to the well known spherical CM factor. 
However,  does not equal unity for a liver stem cell, and unless otherwise stated, the time-averaged 
dielectrophoretic force acting a cell is give by the single-shelled MW theory, FDEP = (2/3)r2cmRe{Vc m 
(c’-m*) / [(c’-m*) Aop+m*]}▽Erms2 = (2/3)r2cmRe{K（）MW }▽Erms2 where r is the radius of the cell, 
 6
injection sites to confirm that there was no tumor development. Xenograft tumors were minced into 1-mm3 
pieces and incubated with tissue cell homogenizer for 20 minutes at 37°C under constant rotating conditions. 
The HCC cell suspension was obtained by filtering the supernatant through a 100m and 40m cell strainer 
(BD Biosciences). A specimen was decentralized into the phosphate buffered saline (PBS) for next sorting 
experiment.  
 
Setup of Flow Visualization 
For clear probing HCC cells fluidic transport, a high-power infrared radiation illuminated imaging flow 
visualization system with a long working distance objective-imaging system was set to measure the path of a 
microfluid flow inside the microfluidic device.30 The fluid was driven by pressurized air and regulated by 
precise valves. A microflow meter is used for measuring flow rate. An infrared radiation diode laser 
(720-1024 nm, 10W) applied to illuminate the microfluidic chamber. Clear-cut cell images were captured 
using a camera via a dark field filter equipped with objective lens (M plan Apo Series M=100, numerical 
aperture NA = 0.42). In order to achieve high speed frame rates and obtain high-quality images, the camera 
was equipped with a complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor (CMOS) image sensor and a 
high-performance processor (1k×1k pixels, 12-bit grayscale, and 5000 frames/s, Fastcam SA1, Photron Ltd., 
Japan) that offered an outstanding light sensitivity and a high image quality that relies on USB2.0 connected 
to a PC. Its resolution and decay time were 32l p/mm and 2s, respectively. In this work, a filtered illuminant 
with a wavelength of  = 860 nm was used to display the cells flow; the diameter of cell (dc ≈ 20-30 m) was 
larger than the wavelength of illuminant, i.e., dc > . In this regime, it is easy to image the HCC cells using 
normal elastic scattering techniques. For best results, the rule of thumb in setting the axial distance between 
slices is to have this distance equal to the Rayleigh depth of field (DOF), as given by the following equation: 
DOF = sin2 [0.5 sin-1 (NA/where is the wavelength, is the refractive index of the medium (1.0 
for air), and NA is the numerical aperture of the objective lens.31 Therefore, the DOF was calculated to be 
about 8 m. 
 
Microfluidic Device 
The microfluidic device with the microelectrodes shown in figure 1 was fabricated by bonding a polydimethyl 
siloxane (PDMS) replica and a Pyrex glass chip. The cross-sectional average size and streamwise length of 
the channel were 500×300 m2 and 5 mm (W×H×L), respectively. In the fabrication of the PDMS replica, a 
microstereo lithography (-SLA) system rapidly directs the focused radiation of an appropriate power onto 
the surface of a liquid photopolymer resin, forming patterns of the solidified photopolymer. The feature size 
of the fragment is determined by the diameter of the focused laser spot on the photopolymer surface.32 After 
forming, the master was cleaned with alcohol and deionized water for the easy removal of the PDMS replica 
from the master after curing. The prepolymer of PDMS and a curing agent were mixed at the ratio of 10:1 and 
then degassed in a vacuum chamber. The polymer mixture was poured onto the master, and then cured at 65℃ 
for 1 hr. After cooling, the PDMS replica was peeled off from the master. In accordance with the lithography 
techniques, the symmetric curvilinear microelectrodes, 200 Å Cr and 1000 Å Au, were deposited on the 
surface of the Pyrex glass using a magnetism DC sputtering coater, which provided precise and fast electrodes 
formation. The microfluidic device will connect to an AC power with 13.65MHz frequency and performance 
10 Vpeak-peak (Agilent 33220 Function Generator), and the maximum electric field should occur in the vicinity 
 8
13.65MHz, the force on the normal HCC cell remains strong negative, whereas for HCC SC remains weak 
positive, so that the two HCC cell types respond in completely different directions to the electric field, with 
normal HCC cell experiencing negative DEP and HCC SC experiencing positive DEP, implying that the 
spatial separation of the two species should be possible in a continuous biological flow. 
 
Additional forces effect 
The actual electric field generated in a stasis medium fluid will induce high Joule heating, which leads to a 
rapid temperature rise and induces fluid flow. Local temperature variations in the stasis liquid will also bring 
about permittivity and conductivity inhomogeneities in the medium, which will produce a force to activate the 
medium fluid.38 Rather than focus in the traditional manner on aspects of cells trapped in a static medium, this 
project is primarily concerned with the way continuous fluidic flow evokes rapid heat dispersion followed by 
a continuous flow. 
According to the simplified heat transfer equation U·▽T = (k /m cp)▽2T + (E2/m cp), the change of 
temperature in the fluid, induced by advection in the continuous flow, can be estimated as ∆Tadv ~ V2/m cp U. 
The number is bigger than that of conduction ∆Tcond ~ V2/k. For the PBS medium conductivity m = 1.24 
Sm-1, m= 1.001×103 kg/m3, cp= 4.182 kJ/kg．K, V=10Vpp, U = 0.1 cm/s, k =0.6W/m．K, the order analysis is 
∆Tcond ~ O(2) and ∆Tadv ~ O(-1), and small gradients in temperature produce smaller gradients in permittivity 
and conductivity in the medium fluid. According to the results in a stasis medium, the change of temperature 
in the fluid approximates 10℃ so that the change of temperature in the continuous fluid should be less than 1
℃. A general expression of the electrical force per unit volume on an imcompressible liquid is FDEP net = 
FDEP – Felectro-thermal , and Felectro-thermal = Erms2 (1/)( ∂∂T )/2 39 Since the continuous flow does not increase 
instantaneously in response to the increased temperature, the electro-thermal force will have a minimal effect 
on continuous flow. 
 
Dielectrophoretic manipulation 
The observations indicate the conditions under which a HCC SC and normal HCC cell separation can be 
obtained. At suitable frequency and applied potential, it was possible to provide a local dielectrophrosis field 
strong enough to spatially manipulate and separate a mixture of HCC SCs and normal HCC cells into two 
distinct direction in a continuous biological flow (flow velocity v = 0.1 cm/s). This can clearly be observed in 
figure 4, which indicates the conditions under which HCC SCs sort can be achieved at an applied power 10 
Vpeak-peak. At a PBS medium conductivity of 1.24 Sm-1 and frequency of 13.56 MHz, the normal HCC cells 
experience a strong negative dielectrophoretic field, so that the normal HCC cells move toward the direction 
of sidewall in the biological fluid flow where the dielectrophoretic force is weakness. Relatively, the HCC SC 
experiences weak positive dielectrophoretic field, so that the SCs still moves toward the direction of 
downstream in the central of main fluid flow where the dielectrophoretic force is strong. The images show 
that the HCC SCs are steady moving in the central of the medium flow, and the normal HCC cells flow out of 
the central region of tips of the asymmetric saw microelectrodes. The moving velocity of normal HCC cells 
should be proportional to the time-averaged dielectrophoretic force, U = FDEP/, then Uc = (2/3)r2cmRe{K
（）MW }▽Erms2/(reff K’) (reff described a sphere of equivalent radius reff = (r2 cK’ is the modify 
friction factor K’ =8(1-2) / 3{{[(22-3)/(1-2)1/2] tan-1(-2-1)}--2} for an oblate spheroid in the direction of 
▽Erms2. 
 10
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
Reference 
1. J. M. Llovet, A. Burroughs, Bruix J. Hepatocellular carcinoma. Lancet：362, 1907 (2003). 
2. S. Ma, K. W. Chan, and L. Hu, Gastroenterology 132, 2542 (2007).  
3. Z. F. Yang, D. W. Ho, and M. N. Ng, Cancer Cell 13, 153 (2008).  
4. Z. F. Yang, P. Ngai, and D. W. Ho, Hepatology 47, 919 (2008).  
5. T. Yamashita, M. Forgues, and W. Wang, Cancer Research 68, 1451 (2008). 
6. T. Chiba, K. Kita, and Y. W. Zheng, Hepatology 44, 240 (2006). 
7. N.G. Green, A. Ramos, and H. Morgan, J. Phys. D: Appl. Phys. 33, 632 (2000). 
Figure 4  A microchannel with asymmetric 
plane electrodes provide a strong local 
dielectrophrosis field to sort the cancer stem 
cells in a continuous biofluid flow. 
Flow  Direction 
Micro Channel  
Electrodes  
Figure 3  Frequency dependence of the 
Clausius-Mossotti factor (CM Factor) for the 
HCC cells. 
Figure 6  Flow cytometry histogram 
analysis.
Figure 5  Deviation angle of the normal HCC 
cells flowing in the micro channel,  ~ tan-1 
[UDEP /Uflow] ~ tan-1 [Lc /Le] . 
13.56MHz 
p-DEP   HCC CS
n-DEP   HCC cell 
Deviating angle  
 UFlow  
UDEP  UtotalUDEP+ Uflow 
Flow Direction Uflow HCC cell  
HCC SC  
Lb 
Le 
 12
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
 
說明：本計畫主題方面: 已設計製作完成二維電極架構之微流體 DEP 晶片，
其確可針對 CD133+ ALDH- 肝癌幹細胞進行骰選分離，在適當的操
作參數控制之下，本裝置之分離辨識效能將會明顯優於傳統肝癌幹
細胞篩選所採用的抗體塗著磁珠分離法。人才培育方面已在微製造
與介電控制技術上訓練了博士班與碩士班研究生各一名及大學部學
生三名。並以相關技術為基礎發表了國際會議論文兩篇並接受兩篇
SCI 期刊論文，與本計畫預期成效相符、達成預定之目標。 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表(兩篇國際會議論文,兩篇 SCI 期刊論文) ■撰寫中一篇  
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 (評估中) 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：肝癌幹細胞之表現特徵仍有需多不確定性有待確認必須經由進一步實
驗確認不同表面特徵對細胞分裂影嚮始能確認其對肝癌治療的效能。
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
 
    本研究已建立並提出一完整利用二維電極架構產生介電場於連續流動生
醫細胞樣本中以分離出具有厚膜結構之特異性病灶幹細胞之技術與裝置，尤
其針對 CD133+ ALDH- 肝癌幹細胞進行骰選分離，將此一新式的癌幹細胞分
離技術方法提供給予國內相關醫學研究人員，利其應用本技術輔助進行癌幹
細胞的篩選與各種應用性研究，使得各種癌症治療的相關基礎研究能夠尋找
到有更快、更有效與傷害性更低的癌症療法，最後幫助初期罹癌病症者能夠
獲得到安全有效的早期治療機會，提升國內癌症治療之研發實力。 
 
附件二 
 14
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一 會議介紹 
 本次會議共安排兩場 plenary presentation, 27 個 Keynote 以及 NSF Panel， 其中以 Waterloo
大學 Journal of Microfluidics and Nanofluidics 主編 Dongqing Li 在 Micro Total Analysis System 領域
所發表之專題講演最為精彩，Professor Li 在於微流體電控操控技術、生物電泳分析晶片以及生醫
用微元件製作技術領域之研究成果相當傑出，是國際相當知名的學者，且與台灣方面具有極為密
切的合作關係。本次演講題目為：Electrokinetic Microfluidics and Biomedical Lab-on-Chip Device，
其論述從電動力在微流體控制的種類、形式與機制談起，經過不同型式電動力的應用與控制，微
流體當中的微細粒子可進行混合、分離、篩選以及純化等作用，藉由連續流動流體中的外加電場
作用，電場型態與強度的改變將能夠針對微細流道當中的粒子粒子進行流動速度與方向之控制，
可輕易產生混流作用而達成多種流體的均勻混合，藉此種電場操控與控制作用不但可應用於高表
面張力流體介面之混合，更可輕易透過微流道型態的改變將細胞或蛋白質樣本與營養液或緩衝液
作出均勻混合並進行後續的生化反應作用，控制生物混合樣品的行進速度流通過不同的溫度區域
進行聚合脢鏈鎖反應，如此便可輕易完成生醫組織樣本的的增生作用；其講演除就上述實際實驗
範例分析作出案例之討論之外，同時也對於電控電場微流體控制與化學反應機制之微流場作用分
析之範圍、精確度、及不確定性做了完整性的分析討論，同時也將實用面技術所發展出的可攜式
流式細胞儀與增生裝置進行影片展示，演說內容相當精采，幾乎已將 Electrokinetic Microfluidic 
Control Base 之產生與控制機制應用於醫療科技技術做了完整的回顧與展望；本人在會後亦向其請
益，討論本人所專長之 DEP Microfluidic Manipulation 在微系統裝置之應用面，最重要的也藉此機
會向 Professor Li 提出希望前往 Waterloo University 進行短期訪問研究之可行性，Professor Li 對於
本人之建議感到相當高興，同時當場也欣然答應，這樣對於本人以往研究在實際應用面而言將能
夠提升實現的可能性與新方向的規劃，本人將就此進行多方面的準備與規劃，先進行主題與研究
方向的討論與相互刺激，並將盡速完成規劃，預計下一年度提出國科會科技人員短期研究之申請
前往 Waterloo University 進行更新的學習與研究。 
計畫編號 NSC99-2221-E-161-004 
計畫名稱 以二維電極架構微流體肝癌幹細胞快速篩選裝置之研究 
出國人員
姓名 王明文 
服務機構
及職稱 亞東技術學院機械工程系教授 
會議時間 
2011 年 6月 19 日至 
2011 年 6 月 22 日 會議地點 University of Alberta, Edmonton, CANADA 
會議名稱 第九屆 美國機械工程協會 奈米渠道,微米渠道,釐米渠道 2011 年國際會議  
9th International Conference on Nanochannels, Microchannels & Minichannels (ASME ICNMM 2011) 
發表論文
題目 
以微流體微電極裝置進行全血液連續流中汙染血球直接分離 
Using A Microfluidic-Microelectric Device Direct to Sort Lead(II) Pollutes 
Erythrocytes in Continuous Bloodstream Flow 
附件四 
 14
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：   年   月   日 
一 會議介紹 
 本次會議共安排兩場 plenary presentation, 27 個 Keynote 以及 NSF Panel， 其中以 Waterloo
大學 Journal of Microfluidics and Nanofluidics 主編 Dongqing Li 在 Micro Total Analysis System 領域
所發表之專題講演最為精彩，Professor Li 在於微流體電控操控技術、生物電泳分析晶片以及生醫
用微元件製作技術領域之研究成果相當傑出，是國際相當知名的學者，且與台灣方面具有極為密
切的合作關係。本次演講題目為：Electrokinetic Microfluidics and Biomedical Lab-on-Chip Device，
其論述從電動力在微流體控制的種類、形式與機制談起，經過不同型式電動力的應用與控制，微
流體當中的微細粒子可進行混合、分離、篩選以及純化等作用，藉由連續流動流體中的外加電場
作用，電場型態與強度的改變將能夠針對微細流道當中的粒子粒子進行流動速度與方向之控制，
可輕易產生混流作用而達成多種流體的均勻混合，藉此種電場操控與控制作用不但可應用於高表
面張力流體介面之混合，更可輕易透過微流道型態的改變將細胞或蛋白質樣本與營養液或緩衝液
作出均勻混合並進行後續的生化反應作用，控制生物混合樣品的行進速度流通過不同的溫度區域
進行聚合脢鏈鎖反應，如此便可輕易完成生醫組織樣本的的增生作用；其講演除就上述實際實驗
範例分析作出案例之討論之外，同時也對於電控電場微流體控制與化學反應機制之微流場作用分
析之範圍、精確度、及不確定性做了完整性的分析討論，同時也將實用面技術所發展出的可攜式
流式細胞儀與增生裝置進行影片展示，演說內容相當精采，幾乎已將 Electrokinetic Microfluidic 
Control Base 之產生與控制機制應用於醫療科技技術做了完整的回顧與展望；本人在會後亦向其請
益，討論本人所專長之 DEP Microfluidic Manipulation 在微系統裝置之應用面，最重要的也藉此機
會向 Professor Li 提出希望前往 Waterloo University 進行短期訪問研究之可行性，Professor Li 對於
本人之建議感到相當高興，同時當場也欣然答應，這樣對於本人以往研究在實際應用面而言將能
夠提升實現的可能性與新方向的規劃，本人將就此進行多方面的準備與規劃，先進行主題與研究
方向的討論與相互刺激，並將盡速完成規劃，預計下一年度提出國科會科技人員短期研究之申請
前往 Waterloo University 進行更新的學習與研究。 
計畫編號 NSC99-2221-E-161-004 
計畫名稱 以二維電極架構微流體肝癌幹細胞快速篩選裝置之研究 
出國人員
姓名 王明文 
服務機構
及職稱 亞東技術學院機械工程系教授 
會議時間 
2011 年 6月 19 日至 
2011 年 6 月 22 日 會議地點 University of Alberta, Edmonton, CANADA 
會議名稱 第九屆 美國機械工程協會 奈米渠道,微米渠道,釐米渠道 2011 年國際會議  
9th International Conference on Nanochannels, Microchannels & Minichannels (ASME ICNMM 2011) 
發表論文
題目 
以微流體微電極裝置進行全血液連續流中汙染血球直接分離 
Using A Microfluidic-Microelectric Device Direct to Sort Lead(II) Pollutes 
Erythrocytes in Continuous Bloodstream Flow 
附件四 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以二維電極架構微流體肝癌幹細胞快速篩選裝置之研究
計畫主持人: 王明文
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-161-004- 學門領域: 熱傳學、流體力學 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 二維電極架構微流體肝癌幹細胞快速篩選裝置
(英文) Liver cancer stem cell sorting microfluidic device
成果歸屬機構
亞東技術學院 發明人
(創作人)
王明文,鄭國祥
技術說明
(中文) 本裝置可針對原生細胞組織中的正常細胞、幹細胞、肝癌細胞與肝癌幹細胞等樣
本以一微小、構造簡單之平面非對稱電極細胞篩選晶片裝置進行篩選，當含多樣
性細胞溶質流體導入篩選晶片裝置當中時，具異質介電特性之肝癌活體幹細胞組
織將會被分出而收集，在不需要昂貴的抗原接著篩選技術以及離心與洗滌等程序
之下，就能夠直接利用局部交流電荷作用之介電場將特定肝癌幹細胞以選擇性吸
引之方式從複雜的生醫樣品流體當中篩選出來。 
已有之介電泳篩選分離方法僅能於靜置生醫流中進行低通量採樣，而本技術可透
過高效能介電場產生器於連續流中快速高通量的捉捕低含量之高分子/生醫細胞
接合體，大量提升稀有細胞篩選採樣之速度及效率。 
2. 本技術結合微機電、生醫抗體抗原表面反應結著以及高分子微粒表面修飾技
術，有別於傳統介電泳細胞分離技術篩選精確度低落之缺點，可百分之百達成生
醫流體中特定微量細胞組織之捕捉篩選。 
3.採用有別於傳統介電泳篩選分離裝置靜置採樣方式，透過設置高效能介電產生
裝置於微連續流渠道內，將可快速連續且高通量的捉捕生醫流體中之稀有高分子
微粒/幹細胞接合體，大量提升幹細胞之捕捉篩選效率；進而使得可攜式生醫組
織篩選分離裝置之效果提升。 
(英文) With an appropriate array of microelectrodes, a suitable electric field, the right frequency 
and medium flow velocity, HCC SCs can be sorted and separated out from a continuous 
biological flow. This work demonstrates using DEP manipulating techniques for efficient 
sorting of unique cells within a medium may potentially allow biological sorting and 
separating to be performed relatively cheap and fast.
產業別 藥品檢驗業
技術/產品應用範圍
本技術系統不但構造簡單、價廉、準確，而且可快速連續且高通量的捉捕生醫流體當中
的特定細胞，大量提升特定細胞之篩選捕捉效能，尤其是應用在含量微少的成體幹細胞
組織篩選捕捉上，將能夠更有效率，耗費成本也將更低廉。
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
透過更精密的製造程序與積體化平台的配合研製，本技術系統將可快速連續且高通量的
篩選/捉捕生醫流體當中的特定細胞，其在臨床醫學的實際研究上可提供一快速有效的輔
助工具，在經過更精密更實際的認證測試後，將具有相當程度的技轉價值。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
與亞東紀念醫院就此一專題研究主題進行一項研發合作項目並陸續開始臨床研
究 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
