photorefractive effect in the visible 
wavelengths (< 800 nm). In contrast, the PE 
waveguides with higher resistance to the 
photorefractive effect than that in the 
Ti-diffused ones seem to be preferable. 
However, the PE waveguides guide only the 
extraordinary polarization, this property limits 
the applications for that dual guiding 
polarizations are needed. In order to overcome 
these limitations, the damage resistance of LN 
can be increased by adding some impurity 
dopants M (M=Mg2+, Zn2+, In3+) during crystal 
growth [2]. Recently, the Zn-diffused 
Mach-Zehnder modulators have been 
successfully fabricated by using thermal 
diffusion of metallic Zn [3], and vapour phase 
Zn [4] in a y-cut and a z-cut LN substrates, 
respectively.  
In this paper, a novel Zn-diffused TE-TM 
polarization phase modulator is successfully 
demostrated in an x-cut, z-propagating, LN 
substrate at 632 nm for the first time. With the 
measured mode profiles and electrode 
configurations, the modal overlap integral was 
estimated to be in the range of 0.5–0.6, the 
calculated EO coefficients r22 were obtained 
from 6.8–5.6 pm/V by using measured 
half-wave voltage Vπ = 12.5 V. We obtained 
reproducible results for the waveguiding, the 
Vπ, and modulation efficiency at output optical 
power density of 800 W/cm2. 
 
EXPERIMENTS 
Commercial x-cut single crystalline 
samples of LiNbO3 with congruent 
composition were used in this work. A 
measurement setup and device structure of the 
proposed polarization phase modulator was 
shown in Fig. 1. The waveguide width and 
channel length are 4 μm and 22 mm, 
respectively. The length of modulation 
electrode L is 15 mm and the gap width G 
between the electrodes is 24 μm. In this 
experiment, a 33 nm Zn film with 
pre-deposition Ni film of 6 nm was deposited 
over the substrate by an E-gun evaporator. 
Then, the waveguide pattern was formed by a 
lift-off technique. After thermal diffusion of 
850°C for 150 min, and substrate end faces 
polishing, a SiO2 buffer layer of 300 nm is 
deposited, then an Al electrode of thickness 
300 nm is deposited and patterned. A He-Ne 
laser light of 632 nm is coupled into the front 
end face of waveguide with a 40× lens (L1) 
and the output beam is imaged onto a Si 
photodetector or a charge-coupled device 
camera also with a 40× lens (L2).  The 
incident polarizations of the coupling light can 
be changed by a polarization controller 
consists of a polarizer (PL) and a 
half-wavelength waveplate (λ/2 WP).  A 
linearly polarized light with the same electric 
amplitudes of TE and TM waves were used for 
the input conditions of polarization phase 
modulation. The interferometric signals 
between the input TE and TM waves can be 
obtained by setting the analyzer (AL) 
transmission angle of +45° respecting to the 
x-axis of the substrate. With the substrate 
orientation and the electrode structure, the 
electro-optically induced phase shifts φTE-TM in 
the channel waveguide for the TE and TM 
modes are proportional to the EO coefficients 
r22 and r12 ( r22 = ﹣r12), respectively. After 
passing through the analyzer, the output optical 
signals and the input voltages were analyzed 
Fig. 2. Measured near-field profiles for (a) TE mode, and (b) TM mode. 
Mach-Zehnder modulator on lithium niobate at 1.55-μm 
wavelength, ” Microw. Opt. Technol. Lett., 43, 142-144, 
(2004). 
[4] I. Suarez, P. L. Pernas, and G. Lifante, “Integrated 
electro-optic Mach-Zehnder modulator fabricated by vapor 
Zn-diffusion in LiNbO3,” Microw. Opt. Technol. Lett., 49, 
1194-1196, (2007). 
[5] T. Kawazoe, K. Satoh, I. Hayashi, and H. Mori, 
“Fabriction of integrated-optic polarization controller 
using z-propagating Ti-LiNbO3 waveguides,” J. 
Light. Technol., 10, 51-56, (1992). 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
Fig. 1. Device structure and measurement setup. 
 
