II 
中文摘要 
 在合作式通訊系統中，使用者可藉由自己本身傳輸或其他夥伴所提供的中繼在數個衰
減獨立的路徑上傳輸，以達到空間上的多樣性。多數探討合作式通訊的文獻均著眼於實體
層的設計，諸如編碼、調變、收發端的信號處理等等來提升多樣性增益或是頻譜使用效率。
然而，為了將合作式通訊的概念實際地整合到現行的系統中，上層通訊協定的設計與改良
是很重要的議題。本計畫之主要貢獻便是從媒介存取層的角度來探討這個問題。 
在本計畫的第一年裡，我們從媒介存取層的角度來討論合作式通訊所帶來的好處，並
設計一個能在隨機存取網路中利用合作式多樣性的好處之佇列處理技術。奠基在傳統的時
槽式 ALOHA 網路上，我們提出一個簡單的合作機制使一群合作的使用者能接收與重傳彼
此的封包。我們推導具有兩個使用者的系統之穩定區域，並展示此區域相對於傳統非合作
式網路的穩定區域的大幅增加。我們也將這種合作機制推廣到兩兩合作的多使用者合作式
通訊網路。我們推導此網路穩定區域的下界，並同樣展示其相對於傳統非合作式系統的好
處。最後我們提出一項能將使用者排序的指標來辨別使用者穩定與不穩定的傾向。 
 在本計畫的第二年中，我們同時利用合作式多樣性與使用者多樣性來增進時槽式
ALOHA 系統的通訊可靠度與流量。我們提出能讓使用者根據自己的通道品質(自己與基地
台的通道和自己與合作夥伴間的通道品質)來決定傳輸機率的通道感知傳輸策略。假設網路
中的使用者都可以充當彼此的中繼點，我們推導此系統中可達到的流量區域。當使用我們
所提出的通道感知傳輸策略時，此流量區域可以大幅增加。當網路中有任意個使用者時，
我們推導可以達到流量區域邊界極值的最佳傳輸策略。此外，若使用者僅能得知量化後的
通道狀況時，我們也觀察系統流量的減少程度。系統流量受限於對通道狀況的了解程度是
可預期的，然而當我們限制通道量化區間的總數時，精確地掌握使用者與基地台間的通道
狀況會比了解使用者與合作夥伴間的通道狀況還能提升系統的流量。 
 
IV 
 
Table of Contents 
 
I. BACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION ................................................................................................. 1 
II. MAIN OBJECTIVES ...................................................................................................................... 2 
III. LITERATURE REVIEW ............................................................................................................... 4 
IV. RESEARCH METHODS ................................................................................................................ 5 
V. SUMMARY OF RESEARCH RESULTS ............................................................................................. 8 
A. Cooperative Slotted ALOHA Systems ............................................................................. 8 
B. Channel-Aware Cooperative Slotted ALOHA Systems ............................................... 18 
VI. SELF EVALUATION ................................................................................................................... 24 
VII. RELATED PUBLICATIONS ........................................................................................................ 25 
VIII. REFERENCES ........................................................................................................................ 26 
APPENDIX A:  
Y.-W. Peter Hong, Chun-Kuang Lin, and Shu-Hsien Wang, “Exploiting Cooperative Diversity in 
Slotted ALOHA Random Access Networks,” submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information 
Theory (submitted April 2008, under minor revision). 
APPENDIX B: 
An-Dee Lin, “Exploiting Multiuser Diversity in Random Access Cooperative Networks,” 
National Tsing Hua University, 2009. 
2 
are not evident at first sight since one must expend additional energy and bandwidth resources to 
achieve coordination among distributed terminals. Two methods have been used to achieve the 
coordination: one is through the direct communication among cooperating terminals and the 
other is through the feedback from the destination. This problem does not occur in conventional 
MIMO systems since the multiple antennas are located on the same terminal. Hence, cooperation 
policies must be carefully designed in order to ensure an improved system-wide performance. 
The topic has received a great amount of attention in recent years and proposals have been made 
to standardize the system or to incorporate the concept into IEEE 802 standards [16,17].  
Two main properties are exploited in cooperative networks: (1) the sharing of resources at 
the distributed transmitters; and (2) the combining of cooperative signals at the receiver. Most 
work on cooperative communications focus on the design of cooperative signal processing or 
coding techniques to exploit these properties. Physical layer parameters such as bit-error-rate 
(BER), outage probability, capacity or the receiver signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) etc are used as the 
measure of performance. However, due to the interaction between multiple users in the 
cooperative system, the performance of the system relies strongly on the design of the medium 
access control (MAC) protocol. Therefore, a cross-layered study is necessary to understand and 
to exploit further advantages in cooperative systems. 
Most cooperation techniques proposed up to date require strict synchronization among 
cooperating terminals and rely on centralized scheduling to determine the order of transmissions. 
These assumptions are crucial to guarantee the performance of cooperation methods that employ 
distributed space-time coding or beamforming, but they are hardly realistic. In our previous work 
[5,18], we proposed and analyzed asynchronous cooperation methods and proved the significant 
gains in energy efficiency that this system achieves. The method is focused on the physical layer 
signal processing techniques used to achieve cooperation with applications to broadcasting in ad 
hoc networks. In this project, we continue our quest to loosen the synchronization requirements 
for cooperative systems and study the advantages of physical layer cooperation [1-5] in random 
access networks (where the users’ transmissions are determined locally without a centralized 
scheduler). We will focus on studying the MAC layer performance such as the maximal stable 
throughput and the stability region, as opposed to the conventional physical layer performance 
measures mentioned previously. Moreover, we also investigate the benefits of exploiting 
multiuser diversity through the design of channel-aware transmission controls for cooperative 
users. To the best of our knowledge, these issues have not yet been addressed in the literature and 
our studies show promising results in these directions. 
 
II. MAIN OBJECTIVES 
Consider a slotted ALOHA random access network where we have multiple users 
transmitting to a common base station or access point (AP). The time is divided into equal time 
slots with length sufficient for the transmission of a packet. In this project, we investigate the 
4 
III. LITERATURE REVIEW 
Random access protocols [24] have been widely applied in wireless local area networks due 
to its simplicity and distributed nature. In this proposal, we study the effect of physical-layer 
cooperation using the well-known slotted ALOHA random access protocol [24,25]. In this 
protocol, the time is divided into fixed slots that are common for all users. The traffic arrival for 
each user is assumed to be independent and the users transmit in each time slot based on 
independent coin tosses. The time slots are synchronized among the users, with methods such as 
that proposed in [26], but the transmission attempts are determined locally with no centralized 
scheduling. With no cooperation, the users in the system are always competing for the right to 
transmit and a loss in efficiency occurs due to the lack of coordination among users. Most of the 
early analysis on the ALOHA system rely on the infinite user assumption treating each packet 
arrival as a separate user in the system to ignore the buffering effect [24]. However, this system 
in its original form can not sustain any arrival rate without becoming unstable. Even with 
modified strategies that are able to achieve stability, the infinite user assumption is still 
unrealistic. In the case of finite users, buffers are used at each user to store the packets that has 
arrived but has not yet been serviced. In this problem, we are interested in finding the set of 
arrival rates that the system can handle without becoming unstable, i.e. the buffer at each user 
does not increase without bound. The problem is rather difficult due to the interaction between 
the queues of different users. The stability region has been completely specified for the two and 
three user cases [27] but only inner and outer bounds exist for the general M user case [28-30], 
where M>2. 
The study on ALOHA networks have continued over three decades but still attracts 
considerable research activity by taking into consideration the improvements in the physical 
layer signal processing. Specifically, to improve the performance of the slotted ALOHA system 
in wireless fading environments, it was shown in [31,32] that the maximal stable throughput of 
the system can be increased if the users are able to exploit the channel state information (CSI) 
and to adjust their local transmission probabilities accordingly. These methods exploit the fact 
that the sum capacity of the network is maximized by allowing the user with the best channel to 
transmit at each instant in time. This is the so called multi-user diversity gain [33]. However, 
even by exploiting multi-user diversity, the system still does not fully utilize the available 
resources since it is possible that the users experiencing good channels towards the destination 
may not have a message to transmit while the users with bad channels are seriously backlogged. 
Interestingly, this can be resolved by allowing the users that are experiencing good channels to 
relay the other users’ messages to the destination.  
While centralized scheduling policies with perfect CSI may increase the throughput 
considerably, the overhead and delay involved may prohibit the use of these strategies in fast 
varying environments or in networks with large number of users. Distributed approaches have 
then been studied in the context of channel-aware slotted ALOHA random access networks 
[34-36] where transmission control policies have been derived for individual users based on their 
the direct link between user i to the AP during the m-th time slot is parameterized by , 
which is assumed to be independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) over time with the 
distribution function . For example, iDF  may be the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the 
signal received during the m-th time slot. Conditioned on the fact that user i transmitted 
successfully (i.e. with no collision), we define the probability of correct reception as , 
where . With cooperation, the users that experience a bad channel may rely on 
other users to relay its information, which then effectively increases the probability of correct 
reception. 
Let us denote the inter-user CSI from user i to user j in the m-th time slot as  with 
distribution function . When user i fails to deliver its packet to the AP in the m-th slot, its 
cooperative partner, say user j, will be able to overhear the transmitted packet and correctly 
decode the packet with probability  if user j is silent in the m-th time slot. Then, with 
probability , the packet of user i will be stored in the buffer of user j, i.e. . The 
probability  is referred to as the rejection probability of user j and can be used to control the 
users level of cooperation. 
To provide a general definition of the transmission probability, we shall consider a 
channel-aware transmission protocol where the transmission probability of user i is defined by 
the function , where  and . To impose a 
channel-aware transmission control, each user must know the values of  at each instant in 
time. When the channel is unknown, the function ( )is ⋅  is set equal to a constant ip . By 
considering the channel-aware transmission probability for the cooperative system, we are able 
to study the advantages of multi-user diversity [31,32] in addition to the cooperative gains. 
However, it is important to note that cooperative and multi-user diversity provide different gains 
that can be replaced by one another. For example, cooperation is beneficial when one user 
experiences a good channel but have an empty queue while the other may be experiencing bad 
channels but have many packets to transmit. Without cooperation, even the use of channel aware 
transmission control cannot avoid the inefficient use of the channel in this scenario. On the other 
hand, channel-aware transmission control allows us to use the channel when it is favorable and to 
retain ourselves from contending with others when the channel is bad. 
Let  be the arrival process of user i and let  be a random process 
modeling the transmission attempts, i.e., we have 
  (1) 
where  is a Bernoulli random variable with  and 
 is the indic n of the event E such that the function is equal to 1 if  
rwise. Furthermore, let 
ator functio E is true and 0,
othe  and  be the correct reception processes 
where  and  are m  as Berodeled noulli random variables with 
 and . Let  be the 
he coo ch that Bernoulli process that models t peration behavior of user i su . 
6 
implies the stability of the original system, e.g. one of the trivial auxiliary systems can be 
construct by assuming all the users are fully-loaded (i.e., dummy packets will be transmitted by 
the user if its buffer is empty). The auxiliary system is often referred to as a dominant system, 
and the stability region derived under the fully-loaded assumption is also referred to as the 
fully-loaded region.  
In the first year of this project, we will first characterize the stability region of a cooperative 
network with no channel-awareness at the users. That is, the transmission probability  is set 
equal to a constant . Here, we assume that each user is able to overhear the message that its 
partner is transmitting to the base station (with a certain probability) and, if the transmission to 
the AP fails, it may help the partner retransmit this packet in later time slots. We impose the 
half-duplex assumption where each user is able to receive only if it is not transmitting in the 
same time slot. We completely characterize the stability region for the two-user case ( ) 
without exploit the channel-dependent transmission control in the first year. By constructing 
different types of dominant systems for the case with more than 2 users ( ), we derive 
some meaningful inner bounds of the stability region to illustrate the advantage of cooperation.  
 In the second year of this project, we further exploit multi-user diversity on top of the 
cooperative slotted ALOHA system by employing a channel-aware transmission control at the 
users. More specifically, we allow each user to adjust its transmission probability in each time 
slot based on the local instantaneous CSI on both the uplink and the inter-user channels. We also 
investigate the effect of limited transmission modes (and, thus, limited CSI quantization levels) 
on the system throughput. We first derive the optimal transmission control for the two user case 
and extend the results to a finite user case where all users together form a cooperative group. Our 
main results are summarized in the following section while detailed proofs and derivations can 
be found in our publications attached in the appendix and also in [38,39]. 
 
V. SUMMARY OF RESEARCH RESULTS 
A. Cooperative Slotted ALOHA Systems 
Stability region for the two-user case 
 To derive the two-user stability region, we first derive the stability region of a class of 
dominant systems, where we assume that certain users in the network are fully loaded. Then, we 
show that the stability region of the two-user cooperative system is equivalent to the union of 
these fully-loaded regions. Let us start out by considering a dominant system , where all 
users (i.e., both user 1 and user 2) are assumed to be fully loaded. We shall refer to this as the 
fully-loaded system. In the fully loaded system, both users access the channel with independent 
probabilities that remain the same over all time slots regardless of the queue states. Therefore, 
the stationarity of the arrival and service processes are trivially satisfied for each user and, thus, 
8 
 . 
    The fact that the stability regions can be written as the union of fully-loaded regions allows 
us to express the stability regions in closed form as shown above. Similar observations have also 
been made for the non-cooperative two-user stability region in [28]. Interestingly, the results in 
[28] can be viewed as a special case of our result since our model reduces to the non-cooperative 
case when r1 = r2 = 1. By lemma 3, it follows that  
 , 
where  
 
 
By analyzing the region , we find that  for 
 and  for . Hence, the 
following theorem holds. 
Theorem 4: The cooperative two-user stability region, , is given by 
  
where 
 
 
and . 
This theorem implies that, to achieve any point inside the stability region, it is sufficient 
to apply a strategy where one user is completely selfish (such that it always reject the packet 
10 
channels that are equally reliable or unreliable. In fact, it appears at first sight that nothing can be 
gained by having one user relay the other user’s message if both users have the same correct 
reception probability. However, in Fig. 4, we show that the stability region is still enlarged with 
cooperation in the symmetric case. In fact, the smallest sum throughput on the boundary of the 
region is achieved when both users transmit with equal probability. When the users are allowed 
to cooperate, a higher transmission probability may be assigned to a fully cooperative user, i.e., 
one that does not reject packet from the other user, and allow it to have more control of the 
channel when transmitting its own packets as well as the packets received from its partner. This 
in order decreases the collision probability and increases the sum throughput of the system.  
 
Bounds of the stability region for finite-user case 
 
Fig. 5. Cooperative systems with arbitrary number of users 
We extend the proposed cooperative mechanisms to a network that consists of N 
cooperating pairs as well as single isolated users that do not cooperate with others as shown in 
Fig. 5. Assume that the partners of cooperative users have been selected a priori according to 
some predetermined strategy and are fixed throughout the transmissions. Each cooperative pair 
(consists of two users) as well as each isolated non-cooperative user is treated as a separate 
transmission entity. In the following, we derive inner bounds for the finite-user stability region to 
characterize the achievable stable throughput in the finite-user system. These bounds are found 
by constructing different dominant systems and by applying Loynes’ stability conditions on these 
systems, as done in [37]. To apply Loynes’ theorem, stationarity of arrival and service processes 
are required for these dominant systems. These requirements are satisfied since, for a dominant 
system  (where all users are assumed to be fully-loaded except for users in the set ), 
12 
, 
where the set  and  denote the users that are cooperative and non-cooperative. 
 
2. Inner bound I of M-user stability region: assuming one user is not fully-loaded 
Let us loosen the constraint and set up a new dominant system that assumes all the users are 
fully-loaded except for user i. Under the transmission parameter  and by Loynes’ Theorem, 
the stability region of the new dominant system is 
, 
where 
  
and  
 
is the probability that no user in the non-fully-loaded set of  makes a transmission attempt 
in the time slot (which simply refers to user i in this case) and can be derived by a standard 
G/G/1 queueing results. Moreover, the average inter-arrival rate for a cooperative user, say user k, 
is 
 
Finally, the first inner bound that we obtain is given by 
Theorem 6: (Inner Bound I of the cooperative M-user stability region): Given the 
transmission parameters , the first type inner bound of the cooperative stability region is 
obtained by 
. 
 
14 
Hence, the second type inner bound of the cooperative M-user stability region is derived as 
follow. 
Theorem 7: (Inner bound II of the cooperative M-user stability region) Given , the 
ordering of transmission entities, and the corresponding ordering of users (i.e., the 
one-to-one mapping  such that  if ,  and i 
< j), an inner bound of the stability region is given as 
 
Then, the second type inner bound is obtained by taking the union over all possible ordering, 
i.e. 
. 
It is worthwhile to note that, although the assumptions of the dominant systems considered 
in this case are less restrictive, the inner bound is derived by taking lower bounds on the average 
service rates in these dominant systems and, thus, may not necessarily be tighter than the bound 
obtained in Theorem 6. The best inner bound is then obtained by taking the union of all three 
bounds derived in Theorem 5, 6 and 7. In Fig. 6, we plot the bounds derived for the 
non-cooperative and cooperative three-user case where , , and . 
For the cooperative case, we take  and , and let . The 
bound for the noncooperative case coincides with that derived in [30]. We show that cooperation 
enlarges the stability region considerably. In Fig. 7, the cooperative three-user bound is 
compared with the simulation points (the dark points). We show that the bounds are not far from 
the true stability region for the three-user case. 
 
Fig. 6. Bounds for the non-cooperative and cooperative three-user stability region 
16 
Similarly, for a stable non-cooperative user , we can derive the probability  
. 
By defining the ranking of a transmission entity that consists cooperative pairs, let say 
, as  if . Similarly, let  
if . Then, the following theorem holds. 
Theorem 8 (Ranking of the transmission entities): Suppose  and  are two 
transmission entities, if  then  is stable whenever  is stable, or, in other 
words,  is unstable whenever  is unstable. 
 
B. Channel-Aware Cooperative Slotted ALOHA Systems 
Channel-aware transmission control for the two-user case 
Suppose we have two fully-loaded users, denoted by user 1 and user 2, that are 
cooperatively transmitting to the AP. Under a set of transmission parameters , 
the fully-loaded region of the two-user cooperative system is characterized by the arrival rate 
vectors  such that 
, 
where  is the average 
service rate of user 1 and  is the 
average arrival rate of packets coming from user 2. The average service rate  and 
inter-arrival rate  at user 2 can be expressed similarly by exchanging the indices 1 and 2. 
Hence, the two-user fully-loaded region is defined as 
Theorem 9: The fully-loaded region of a two-user channel-aware cooperative system is 
given by 
 
Moreover, the stability region for a given set of transmission and rejection probabilities 
 and  is expressed as  and is shown to be 
convex. Hence, for any value of , we can find the optimal transmission control 
functions  that maximize the weighted sum throughput 
  
where 
18 
. 
Meanwhile, the inter-user CSI is divided into KP sets, , where 
. 
Consequently, there are  channel states at user i. The transmission control function of 
user i can be written as 
 
where  denotes the quantized channel state on the local CSI of 
user i, . Suppose that we denote the average effective channel model in each quantized 
channel state as  
. 
Similar to the unquantized case, we can find the optimal transmission strategy that maximizes 
the weighted sum throughput for any . 
Proposition 11: For a set of average transmission probabilities , the optimal 
transmission probability functions that achieve a boundary point of the fully-loaded region 
with slope  can be solved by 
  
Hence, the optimal transmission probabilities  are determined by redistributing 
 to them form the one with the largest corresponding . 
 In the following, we show the fully-loaded region obtained by adopting the channel-aware 
transmission control policy for the cases with and without CSI quantization. We compare the 
results with the cooperative two-user systems without channel awareness, which is the results we 
obtained in the first year of this project. We first consider the case where the CSI is perfectly 
known at each user and plot the results in Fig. 9. In these figures, we can see that the fully-loaded 
region can be significant enlarged by employing channel-aware transmission control since it  
20 
Suppose that the total number of quantization levels are fixed, e,g., set . We 
observe from the figures that the region obtained with quantized CSI can be rapidly improved by 
assigning more quantization levels to the uplink channel.  
 
Channel-aware transmission control for the finite-user case 
 The channel-aware transmission policy derived for the two-user cooperative system can be 
extended to a finite user system where all users together form a cooperative group. Specifically, 
suppose that there are M users in the networks. In each time slot, if one of the users transmits but 
fails to reach the AP due to channel error, the user experiencing the best inter-user channel 
among the remaining M-1 users will help to retransmit the packet. Therefore, the transmission 
control will depend on the uplink channel as well as the best inter-user channel. Suppose that the 
CSI of the channel from user i to user j is denoted by , which can be the channel gain on this 
link. The best inter-user link at user i is defined as  
, 
where  denotes the cooperative partners of user i. Given that user i has a 
packet to transmit at the beginning of a time slot, it will transmit a packet with probability , 
where . Hence, given a set of transmission control parameters 
, the average inter-arrival rate and service rate of user i can be 
computed  
,
. 
 The fully-loaded region of the finite user system is given in the following theorem. 
Theorem 12: The fully-loaded region of a finite-user cooperative system with 
channel-aware transmission control is given by 
 
By assuming that the inter-user links are independent and identical, we can derive the 
optimal transmission control function that maximizes the weighted sum throughput of the system, 
i.e., . This is equivalent to maximizing the stable throughput along the direction 
specified by the vector . 
22 
24 
VI. SELF EVALUATION 
 In the first year, the advantages of cooperative communications have been exploited from 
the MAC-layer perspective in a slotted ALOHA random access network. Specifically, a simple 
cooperative transmission and queuing mechanism has been devised and the achievable stable 
throughput has been analyzed for both the two-user and the finite-user cases. For the two-user 
case, the stability region has been completely characterized and the maximal stable throughput of 
the symmetric-user case has been found. The results indicate that it is sufficient to have one user 
behave purely as a source and have the other user be fully cooperative and serve as the relay for 
the source user. For a finite-user system that consists of multiple cooperating pairs, several inner 
bounds have been derived for the finite-user stability region by viewing each cooperative pair as 
a transmission entity and treating them as a super-user. Moreover, a ranking system is proposed 
to characterize the entities’ relative tendency of being stable. In contrast to most work in the 
literature, our results show the benefit of cooperation from the MAC-layer perspective, even 
when no centralized scheduler is available to coordinate the transmissions. 
In the second year, a channel-aware transmission control policy has been proposed for 
cooperative users. The policy enables us to exploit both multiuser and cooperative diversity gains 
in a decentralized fashion. Specifically, in the proposed scheme, each user is allowed to 
determine its transmission probability based on its local CSI on both the uplink and the inter-user 
channels. The two-user fully-loaded region has been derived and the advantage of employing the 
channel-aware transmission control on top of the cooperative mechanism has been shown. We 
have derived the optimal transmission control function that maximizes the fully-loaded region 
for both the two-user and the finite-user cases. Moreover, we have investigated the impact of 
having limited number of transmission modes (either due to limited feedback or hardware 
limitations) on the system throughput. Through these studies, we have shown that the accuracy 
of CSI on the uplink channel has a larger effect on the system throughput than that of the 
inter-user channel. 
The results we obtained follow closely the items specified in the original proposal while 
also extending towards the exploitation of multiuser diversity. The main results of the first year 
have been submitted to IEEE Transactions on Information Theory (see Appendix A), which 
recently received a decision of “minor revision”, and have also been presented at ISIT 2007 and 
ICC 2008. The main results of the second year have appeared in a master’s thesis (see Appendix 
B) and are to be submitted to IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications. Part of the results 
also appears as a book chapter in the book entitled "Adaptive Signal Processing in Wireless 
Communications" published by CRC Press in 2008 and in ICC 2009. A paper has also been 
submitted to VTC2010-Spring. These publications as well as other related publications are listed 
in the following section. 
 
 
26 
- Shu-Hsien Wang, Chun-Kuang Lin and Y.-W. Peter Hong, “On the Stability and Delay of 
Channel-Aware Slotted ALOHA with Imperfect CSI,” IEEE International Conference on 
Communications (ICC) 2008.  
- Yao-Win Hong, Chun-Kuang Lin and Shu-Hsien Wang, “On the Stability of Two-User Slotted 
ALOHA with Cooperative Relays,” IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory 
(ISIT) 2007. 
Conference Submissions: 
- Shu-Hsien Wang, An-Dee Lin, and Y.-W. Peter Hong, “Channel-Aware Transmission Control 
in Cooperative Slotted ALOHA Networks,” submitted to IEEE Vehicular Technology 
Conference, Spring 2010. 
 
VIII. REFERENCES 
[1] Sendonaris, A., E. Erkip, and B. Aazhang, User cooperation diversity. Part I. System 
description. IEEE Transactions on Communications, 2003. 51(11): p. 1927-1938. 
[2] Sendonaris, A., E. Erkip, and B. Aazhang, User cooperation diversity. Part II. Implementation 
aspects and performance analysis. IEEE Transactions on Communications, 2003. 51(11): p. 
1939-1948. 
[3] Laneman, J.N., D.N.C. Tse, and G.W. Wornell, Cooperative diversity in wireless networks: 
Efficient protocols and outage behavior. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 2004. 
50(12): p. 3062-3080. 
[4] Laneman, J.N. and G.W. Wornell, Distributed space-time-coded protocols for exploiting 
cooperative diversity in wireless networks. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 2003. 
49(10): p. 2415-2425. 
[5] Scaglione, A. and Y.-W. Hong, Opportunistic large arrays: Cooperative transmission in 
wireless multihop ad hoc networks to reach far distances. IEEE Transactions on Signal 
Processing, 2003. 51(8): p. 2082-2092. 
[6] Janani, M., et al., Coded cooperation in wireless communications: Space-time transmission 
and iterative decoding. IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, 2004. 52(2): p. 362-371. 
[7] Kramer, G., M. Gastpar, and P. Gupta, Cooperative strategies and capacity theorems for relay 
networks. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 2005. 51(9): p. 3037-3063. 
[8] Y.-W. Hong, W.-J. Huang, F.-H. Chiu and C.-C. Jay Kuo, Cooperative Communications for 
Resource Constrained Wireless Networks. IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, 24(3), p. 47-57, 
May 2007.  
[9] Azarian, K., H. El Gamal, and P. Schniter, On the achievable diversity-multiplexing tradeoff 
in half-duplex cooperative channels. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 2005. 51(12): 
p. 4152-4172. 
28 
networks and its applications. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, 2005. 
23(5): p. 1085-1099. 
[27] Saadawi, T.N. and A. Ephremides, Analysis, Stability, and Optimization of Slotted Aloha 
with a Finite Number of Buffered Users. IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 1981. 
26(3): p. 680-689. 
[28] Rao, R.R. and A. Ephremides, On the Stability of Interacting Queues in a Multiple-Access 
System. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 1988. 34(5): p. 918-930. 
[29] Anantharam, V., The Stability Region of the Finite-User Slotted Aloha Protocol. IEEE 
Transactions on Information Theory, 1991. 37(3): p. 535-540. 
[30] Luo, W. and A. Ephremides, Stability of N interacting queues in random-access systems. 
IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 1999. 45(5): p. 1579-1587. 
[31] Adireddy, S. and L. Tong, Exploiting decentralized channel state information for random 
access IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 2005. 51(2): p. 537-561. 
[32] Qin, X.P. and R.A. Berry, Distributed approaches for exploiting multiuser diversity in 
wireless networks. IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 2006. 52(2): p. 392-413. 
[33] Knopp, R. and P.A. Humblet. Information capacity and power control in single-cell 
multiuser communications. in IEEE International Conference on Communications (ICC). 
1995. 
[34] S. Adireddy and L. Tong, Exploiting decentralized channel state information for random 
access. IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, 51(2), p. 537–561, Feb. 2005. 
[35] Y.-W. Hong, C.-K. Lin, and S.-H. Wang, On the stability of two-user slotted ALOHA with 
channel-aware and cooperative users. Proc. of the IEEE Workshop on Wireless Networks: 
Communication, Cooperation and Competition, 2007. 
[36] X. Qin and R. Berry, “Distributed approaches for exploiting multiuser diversity in wireless 
networks,” IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, 52(2), p. 392–413, Feb. 2006. 
[37] Loynes, R.M., The stability of a queue with non-independent interarrival and service times. 
Proceedings of Cambridge Philosophical Society, 1962. 58: p. 497-520. 
[38] Y.-W. Peter Hong, Chun-Kuang Lin, and Shu-Hsien Wang, Exploiting Cooperative 
Diversity in Slotted ALOHA Random Access Networks. Submitted to IEEE Transactions on 
Information Theory (submitted April 2008, under minor revision). 
[39] A.-D. Lin, Exploiting Multiuser Diversity in Random Access Cooperative Networks. MS 
thesis, July, 2009. 
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 1
Exploiting Cooperative Diversity in Slotted
ALOHA Random Access Networks
Y.-W. Peter Hong, Chun-Kuang Lin, and Shu-Hsien Wang
Abstract
In cooperative systems, users achieve spatial diversity gains by transmitting packets over multiple
independent fading paths, which consist of the direct transmission path as well as the relaying paths
provided by its partners. Most works in the literature on cooperative communications focus on the
physical layer aspects such as coding, modulation, transceiver signal processing etc, to further increase
diversity gains or bandwidth efficiency. In this paper, we study the advantages of user cooperation from
a MAC layer perspective and devise queueing strategies to exploit the cooperative diversity gains in
random access networks. Specifically, based on the conventional slotted ALOHA protocol, we propose a
simple cooperative transmission mechanism for a pair of users that are allowed to receive and retransmit
each others’ packets in each time slot. We derive the two-user stability region of the proposed system and
show the significant improvement compared to conventional non-cooperative slotted ALOHA systems.
Then, we extend the proposed strategy to a finite-user system that consists of multiple cooperating
pairs. By treating each cooperative pair as a single transmission entity, we derive inner bounds for
the finite-user stability region and propose a ranking system to characterize the transmission entities’
relative tendency of being stable (or unstable).
Index Terms
Cooperative diversity, random access, medium access control, queueing, relaying, slotted ALOHA.
Y.-W. Peter Hong is the corresponding author. The authors are with the Institute of Communications Engineering National Tsing
Hua University Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan. Emails: ywhong@ee.nthu.edu.tw; d9564817@oz.nthu.edu.tw; d9564526@oz.nthu.edu.tw.
This work was supported in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan, under the grants NSC-96-2628-E-007-012-MY2,
NSC-95-2221-E-007-043-MY3 and NSC-96-2219-E-007-009.
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 3
rate in a stable system, this essentially allows us to quantify the stable throughput achievable
with a certain strategy. However, deriving the stability region may be difficult in general. In
fact, even for the conventional non-cooperative slotted ALOHA system, the stability region is
completely characterized only for the two- and three-user cases [15], [16]. For systems with
more than three users, only inner and outer bounds have been derived [14], [17]. In this work,
we first derive the stability region for a pair of cooperative users. Next, we extend the concept
to finite user systems that consist of multiple cooperating pairs and, by treating each cooperative
pair as a single transmission entity, we derive inner bounds for the finite-user stability region.
Within each cooperative pair, we assume that the users are able to overhear and correctly receive
the packet transmitted by the other user given that it is not transmitting in the same time slot
(i.e., a half-duplex system). When the packet is correctly received, each user is allowed to store
the other user’s packet in its own queue, treating it as one of its own packets, and retransmit
the packet in subsequent time slots. To control the level of cooperation, we also allow each user
to reject the other user’s packet with a certain probability, which we refer to as the rejection
probability. This is essential to achieve a larger stability region compared to the non-cooperative
case. We show that the stability region achievable under the proposed cooperation strategy is
considerably larger than that of the conventional non-cooperative system. Furthermore, for the
finite-user system, we also propose a ranking system that can be utilized to characterize the
transmission entities’ relative tendency of being stable (or unstable). This result is an extension
to that originally proposed in [17] for non-cooperative systems. It is worthwhile to note that
the results obtained in this paper reduce to those obtained in [14] and [17] for non-cooperative
systems by setting the rejection probability to 1.
Queue stability issues have also been studied recently for different kinds of cooperative or
relay-type networks. Specifically, in [18], [19], the stability region has been studied for a network
of users that utilizes a cognitive relay to forward its packets to the destination. The relays are
assumed to have cognitive capability, that is, the ability to recognize whether or not the channel
is idle, and are assumed to serve as pure relays that can only forward packets from other users
but cannot generate its own. This problem is studied under a TDMA scheduling policy and
differs considerably from our problem. In [20], a throughput optimal scheduling policy has been
devised for multi-hop networks with cooperative links. The scheduling policy generalizes the
well-known maximal differential backlog algorithm [21] by taking into consideration the users’
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 5
consists of multiple cooperative pairs as well as non-cooperative users. Let U = UC ∪ UNC be
the set of users, where UC and UNC represent the set of cooperative and non-cooperative users,
respectively. In the cooperative network, we treat each cooperative pair as a single transmission
entity. That is, if user k and user ℓ are cooperative partners, then they together form a transmission
entity, which we denote by Iβ(k) (or equivalently Iβ(ℓ)). The subscript β(k) represents the index
of the transmission entity that contains user k. Furthermore, we define a function α : UC → UC
such that α(k) represents the index of user k’s cooperating partner. Therefore, we have Iβ(k) ≡
{k, α(k)}. It is worthwhile to notice that we consider only the case where each cooperative entity
contains only two users that mutually cooperate and, therefore, we have k = α(α(k)). On the
other hand, if user n is non-cooperative, the user by itself forms a transmission entity Iβ(n) ≡ {n}.
Suppose we have K transmission entities in the network such that U = UC ∪ UNC = ∪Kℓ=1Iℓ.
Let us assume a time-slotted system where each slot duration is greater or equal to the
transmission time of a packet and assume that the transmission of each packet is confined
within a time slot. Let Atotk [m] be the total number of packets arriving at user k in the m-th time
slot, which may include an exogenous packet or a packet received from its partner. The packets
arriving at user k are stored in its local buffer, which we denote by bufferk. If bufferk is
non-empty at the beginning of the time slot, user k will transmit a packet with probability pk.
Here, we consider the collision channel with transmission errors, where we define the probability
ψk,D to represent the probability that a transmission made by user k is correctly received by the
AP given that no other user is transmitting. If more than one user is transmitting in the same
time slot, the users will collide and no packet will go through to the AP. The probability ψk,D is
used to model the effect of fading in a wireless system and is referred to as the correct reception
probability.
At the end of each time slot, the AP will send a (0, 1, e) feedback to all users, where 0
indicates that the slot was idle, 1 indicates that the transmission was successful, and e indicates
that a transmission failed, due to either fading or collision. We assume that the feedback is always
received correctly by the users. If the transmission of a cooperative user k failed, its message
may be stored by its partner α(k) if the partner was able to overhear (and correctly decode) the
message during its transmission. The partner α(k) will then save the packet in its own buffer and
treat it as one of its own, i.e., it will transmit the packet in later time slots with the transmission
probability pα(k). We consider a half-duplex system where a user is able to receive a message
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 7
Pr(Vk[m] = 0) = pk, Pr(Rα(k)[m] = 1) = 1−Pr(Rα(k)[m] = 0) = rα(k), Pr(Hk,D[m] = 1) = 1−
Pr(Hk,D[m] = 0) = ψk,D, and Pr(Hk,α(k)[m] = 1) = 1−Pr(Hk,α(k)[m] = 0) = ψk,α(k). Namely,
Vk[m] models the transmission attempt made by user k, Rα(k)[m] models the event that user α(k)
rejects the packet from user k, and Hk,D[m], Hk,α(k)[m] model error-free transmissions over the
channels from user k to the AP and to the partner α(k), respectively. Notice that {Sk[m] = 1}
and {S(α(k))k [m] = 1} are disjoint events since a packet will be successfully received and stored
by the partner only if the AP does not successfully receive the packet, i.e., only if Hk,D[m] = 0.
It is worthwhile to notice that a packet departs from user k only if the queue is non-empty and
that Stotk [m] = 1. Hence, we define the departure process as Dtotk [m] = Stotk [m]χ{Qk[m]>0}, which
is the number of packets departing from user k in the m-th time slot. Similarly, we can also
define Dk[m] = Sk[m]χ{Qk [m]>0} and D
(α(k))
k [m] = S
(α(k))
k [m]χ{Qk [m]>0}. Since the number of
packets arriving at user k over the inter-user channel is equal to the number of packets departing
from user α(k) over the inter-user channel, it follows that A(α(k))k [m] = D
(k)
α(k)[m]. For user n
that is non-cooperative, the inter-user arrival and service processes are always equal 0 and, thus,
we have Atotn [m] = An[m] and Stotn [m] = Sn[m].
Under the above assumptions, the N-dimensional process Q[m] = (Q1[m], . . . , QN [m]) forms
a Markov chain since, given the state Q[m], the state Q[m + 1] is determined by the random
variables Vk[m], Hk,D[m], Hk,α(k)[m], Rk[m], and Ak[m], for all k, which are all i.i.d. over time.
To evaluate the cooperative gain, we study the stability region of the proposed cooperative
system for both the two-user and the finite-user cases. The notion of queue stability is summarized
in the following section.
III. STABILITY OF THE QUEUES
To measure the performance of a queuing network, we are often interested in the set of
arrival rates that the users can accommodate without becoming unstable (i.e., without having
the queue length increase to infinity). Since the queues are interactive, the stability of each
user depends on the arrival rates and the transmission probabilities of all users (as well as the
rejection probabilities if the users are cooperative). Let ω = (p1, . . . , pN , r1, . . . , rN) be the
vector of controllable system parameters and let Ω be the set that contains all possible values
of ω. Specifically, we have Ω = {ω : 0 ≤ pk ≤ 1, 0 ≤ rk ≤ 1, k = 1, . . . , N}, if the system is
cooperative, and Ω = {ω : 0 ≤ pk ≤ 1, rk = 1, k = 1, . . . , N}, if the system is non-cooperative.
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 9
system is often referred to as a dominant system [14], [16]. The stability region of a dominant
system is often easier to obtain and serves as an inner bound to the stability region of the original
system. A typical way of constructing a dominant system is to assume that a set of users in
the system is fully-loaded, which is to say that these users always have a packet to transmit
regardless of its actual queue state (i.e., dummy packets will be transmitted by the user if its
buffer is empty). A system with fully-loaded users is stochastically dominant over the true system
since the dummy packets emitted by the fully-loaded users may cause additional congestion to
the network and, thus, lead to longer queues.
IV. TWO-USER STABILITY REGION
In this section, we derive the two-user stability region of a cooperative pair of users. Without
loss of generality, we label the two users as user 1 and user 2.
In the following, we shall apply Loynes’ theorem [24] to characterize the stability of each
queue. More specifically, with stationary arrival and service processes, Loynes’ theorem states
that a queue (e.g., of user k) is stable if the total arrival rate, i.e., λtotk = E[Atotk [m]], is less than
the total service rate, i.e., µtotk = E[Stotk [m]], and that it is unstable if λtotk > µtotk .1 From (1) and
(2), we can express the total arrival and service rates for a cooperative user k as
λtotk = E[A
tot
k [m]] = E[Ak[m]] + E[A
(α(k))
k [m]] = λk + λ
(α(k))
k
and
µtotk = E[S
tot
k [m]] = E[Sk[m]] + E[S
(α(k))
k [m]] = µk + µ
(α(k))
k ,
where λk is the average number of exogenous packets arriving at user k in each time slot,
λ
(α(k))
k is the average number of packets received by user k from its partner α(k), and µk,
µ
(α(k))
k are portions of the average total service rate that correspond to packets sent to the AP
and to its partner α(k), respectively. Moreover, since A(α(k))k [m] = D
(k)
α(k)[m], it follows that
λ
(α(k))
k = µ
(k)
α(k) · Pr(Qα(k)[m] > 0).
Let us start out by considering a dominant system D{1,2} where all users (i.e., user 1 and user
2) are assumed to be fully loaded. We shall refer to this as the fully-loaded system. In the fully
1The stability (or instability) of the queues cannot be guaranteed when the equality holds. However, in this work, only the
interior of the stability region will be discuss.
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 11
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
λ1
λ2
µtot1,D{1,2}−λ
(2)
1,D{1,2}
µtot2,D{1,2}−λ
(1)
2,D{1,2}
Fig. 2. Illustration of CD{1,2}(ω).
is the probability that a packet successfully departs from user k (either to the AP or to its partner)
given that user k is the only user transmitting. The region takes on a rectangular shape on the
λ1-λ2 plane, as shown in Fig. 2.
As discussed in Section III, fully-loaded regions in general can only serve as inner bounds to
the true stability region. However, in the following, we show that the union of the fully-loaded
regions coincides with the closure of the stability region. The proof is given in Appendix A.
Lemma 1: (a) Given ω, the cooperative two-user stability region is given by
C(ω) = CD{1}(ω)
⋃
CD{2}(ω),
where
CD{1}(ω) =
{
λ ∈ R2+ : λ2 < p2Φ2(1− p1)− p1Γ1(1− p2) and
λ1 <
p1(1− p1)(Φ1Φ2 − Γ1Γ2)
(1− p1)Φ2 + p1Γ1 −
p1Φ1 + (1− p1)Γ2
(1− p1)Φ2 + p1Γ1λ2
}
and
CD{2}(ω) =
{
λ ∈ R2+ : λ1 < p1Φ1(1− p2)− p2Γ2(1− p1) and
λ2 <
p2(1− p2)(Φ1Φ2 − Γ1Γ2)
(1− p2)Φ1 + p2Γ2 −
p2Φ2 + (1− p2)Γ1
(1− p2)Φ1 + p2Γ2λ1
}
.
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 13
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Non-Cooperative
Fully-Loaded Region
(i.e. r1=1, r2=1)
achieved 
when
r1=0, r2=1
achieved 
when
r1=1, r2=0
λ1
λ2
V2(p1, p2)
V1(p1, p2)
(
p1(1− p2)ψ1,D, p2(1 − p1)ψ2,D
)
L(p1, p2) : λ1 + λ2 = ζ(p1, p2)
Fig. 3. Illustration of Cp,full(p1, p2).
where
Cp,D{1,2}(p1, p2) =
⋃
r1,r2
CD{1,2}(p1, p2, r1, r2)
=
⋃
r1,r2
{
λ ∈ R2+ : λ1<p1Φ1(1−p2)−p2Γ2(1−p1) and λ2<p2Φ2(1−p1)−p1Γ1(1−p2)
}
=
{
λ ∈ R2+ : λ1<p1(1−p2)[ψ1,D+(1−ψ1,D)ψ1,2], λ2<p2(1−p1)[ψ2,D+(1−ψ2,D)ψ2,1]
and λ1+λ2<p1(1−p2)ψ1,D+p2(1−p1)ψ2,D , ζ(p1, p2)
}
. (9)
Notice that Cp,D{1,2}(p1, p2) takes on the pentagon shape shown in Fig. 3. The largest value
of λ1 is achieved when r1 = 1 and r2 = 0, in which case V1(p1, p2) = (p1(1−p2)[ψ1,D +
(1−ψ1,D)ψ1,2], ζ(p1, p2)− p1(1−p2)[ψ1,D +(1−ψ1,D)ψ1,2]). Similarly, the largest value of λ2 is
achieved when r1 = 0 and r2 = 1, in which case V2(p1, p2) = (ζ(p1, p2)− p2(1−p1)[ψ2,D +(1−
ψ2,D)ψ2,1], p2(1−p1)[ψ2,D +(1−ψ2,D)ψ2,1]). Notice also that the line L(p1, p2) have slope −1.
Lemma 2: Cp,D{1,2}(p, 1 − p) ⊂ Cr(1, 0) for 0 ≤ p ≤ ψ2,Dψ1,D+ψ2,D and Cp,D{1,2}(p, 1 − p) ⊂
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 15
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
λ1
λ 2
No Cooperation
Cooperative ALOHA
Simulations
(a) ψ1D = 0.1, ψ2D = 0.9, ψ12 = ψ21 = 1.
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
λ1
λ 2
 
 
No Cooperation
Cooperative ALOHA
Simulations
(b) ψ1D = 0.1, ψ2D = 0.9, ψ12 = 0.5, ψ21 = 1.
Fig. 4. Two-user stability region with asymmetric users.
in Fig. 5, we show that the stability region is still enlarged with cooperation in the symmetric
case. To explain this result, let us first remark that the boundary of the non-cooperative two-
user stability region takes on the convex shape because the lack of coordination among the two
users may result in collision and, thus, the sum throughput of the two users is reduced when
both users access the channel with similar probabilities. In fact, the smallest sum throughput
on the boundary of the region is achieved when both users transmit with equal probability.
When the users are allowed to cooperate, a higher transmission probability may be assigned to
a fully cooperative user, i.e., one that does not reject packet from the other user, and allow it
to have more control of the channel when transmitting its own packets as well as the packets
received from its partner. This in order decreases the collision probability and increases the
sum throughput of the system. Consequently, the maximal stable throughput that both users can
accommodate in the cooperative system (i.e., λMST , λ1 = λ2) is not achieved by assigning
equal transmission probabilities to both users, as it is done in non-cooperative systems. The
maximal stable throughput for the case with symmetric users is given as follows.
Proposition 1 (Maximal Stable Throughput of Symmetric Case): Suppose that ψD , ψ1D =
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 17
Corollary 2: For ψinter > 0 and ψD < 1, the cooperative system always achieves a larger
maximal stable throughput, i.e., λMST > ψD/4 , λMST,NC, where λMST,NC is the maximal stable
throughput of the non-cooperative system.
Proof: From [14], we know that the maximum stable throughput of the non-cooperative
system is λMST,NC = ψD/4, which is achieved with p1 = p2 = 1/2. For ψinter > 0 and ψD < 1,
we have
ψ2inter(1− ψD)2 > 0
⇒ ψ2D + 2ψDψinter(1− ψD) + ψ2inter(1− ψD)2 > ψ2D + 2ψDψinter(1− ψD)
⇒ [ψD + ψinter(1− ψD)] >
√
ψD[ψD + 2ψinter(1− ψD)]
⇒ 4[ψD + ψinter(1− ψD)] > ψD + [ψD + 2ψinter(1− ψD)] + 2
√
ψD[ψD + 2ψinter(1− ψD)]
= (
√
ψD +
√
ψD + 2ψinter(1− ψD))2
⇒ ψD(ψinter(1− ψD) + ψD)
(
√
ψD +
√
2ψinter(1− ψD) + ψD)2
= λMST >
ψD
4
= λMST,NC
This concludes our proof.
V. BOUNDS FOR THE FINITE-USER STABILITY REGION
In this section, we extend the proposed cooperative mechanisms to a network that consists
of multiple cooperating pairs as well as single isolated users that do not cooperate with others.
We assume that the partners of cooperative users have been selected a priori according to some
predetermined strategy and is fixed throughout the transmissions. Each cooperative pair as well
as each isolated non-cooperative user is treated as a separate transmission entity. In the following,
we derive inner bounds for the finite-user stability region to characterize the achievable stable
throughput in the finite-user system. These bounds are found by constructing different dominant
systems and by applying Loynes’ stability conditions on these systems, as done in [17]. To apply
Loynes’ theorem, stationarity of arrival and service processes are required for these dominant
systems. These requirements are satisfied since, for a dominant system DU\S (where all users are
assumed to be fully-loaded except for users in the set S), users in the set U\S are assumed to
access the channel with fixed probabilities over all time slots and users in the set S are assumed
to be stable and, thus, yields stationary arrival and departure processes. These arguments and
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 19
of all users, i.e., U , excluding user i. By Loynes’ theorem, we may obtain a region similar to
(16) by replacing DU with DU\i, i.e.,
CDU\i(ω) = {λ ∈ RN+ : λk < µk(DU\i)− λ(α(k))k (DU\i), ∀k ∈ UC ,
λn < µn(DU\i), ∀n ∈ UNC}. (17)
Suppose that PN(DU\i) is the probability that no user in the non-fully-loaded set of DU\i
makes a transmission attempt in the time slot (which simply refers to user i in this case). The
average service rate of user k is given by
µk(DU\i) =

 piΦi
∏
m6=i(1− pm), if k = i,
pkΦkPN(DU\i)
∏
m6=i,k(1− pm), if k 6= i,
(18)
for all k ∈ U , where
Φk =

 ψk,D + (1− ψk,D)ψk,α(k)(1− rα(k)), if k ∈ UCψk,D, if k ∈ UNC ,
is the probability that a packet successfully departs from user k given that no other user is
transmitting. Moreover, for a cooperative user k, the inter-user arrival rate is given by
λ
(α(k))
k (DU\i) =

 [1− PN(DU\i)]Γi
∏
m6=i(1− pm), if k = α(i),
pα(k)Γα(k)PN(DU\i)
∏
m6=i,α(k)(1− pm), if k 6= α(i),
(19)
where Γα(k) is the probability that a packet successfully departs from user α(k) to user k given
that no other user is transmitting.
From the standard G/G/1 queueing result, the probability that user i’s queue is non-empty is
equal to the ratio between the total arrival rate and the total service rate, which is λi+λ
(α(i))
i
(DU\i)
µi(DU\i) ,
if user i ∈ UC , and λiµi(DU\i) , if user i ∈ UNC . Therefore, we have
PN (DU\i) =

 1− pi
λi+λ
(α(i))
i (DU\i)
µi(DU\i) , if i ∈ UC
1− pi λiµi(DU\i) , if i ∈ UNC .
(20)
By substituting (18) and (20) into (19) for k = i ∈ UC and by rearranging the terms, we have
λ
(α(i))
i (DU\i) =
pα(i)Γα(i)[Φi
∏
m6=i(1− pm)− λi]
pα(i)Γα(i) + (1− pα(i))Φi . (21)
From (18), (20) and (21), we conclude that
PN(DU\i) =


Φi
∏
m6=i(1−pm)−λi
[pα(i)Γα(i)+(1−pα(i))Φi]
∏
m6=i,α(i)(1−pm) , if i ∈ UC ,
Φi
∏
m6=i(1−pm)−λi
Φi
∏
m6=i(1−pm) , if i ∈ UNC .
(22)
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 21
always positive and that
(
pkΦk
1−pk −
pα(k)Γα(k)
1−pα(k)
)
is positive whenever µk(DU)−λ(α(k))k (DU) is positive
since, from (14) and (15), we can write
µk(DU)− λ(α(k))k (DU) =
(
pkΦk
1− pk −
pα(k)Γα(k)
1− pα(k)
)∏
m
(1− pm).
Inner bound I is then attained by taking the union of CDU\i(ω) over all i.
Theorem 2: Given ω, an inner bound of the stability region is given by
CIINNER(ω) =
⋃
i∈U
CDU\i(ω). (26)
C. Inner Bound II
In the previous section, an inner bound is obtained by constructing a dominant system where
only one of the users is non-fully-loaded. Intuitively, a tighter inner bound can be found if we
are able to compute the stability region for a dominant system where more than one user is non-
fully-loaded. Unfortunately, the stability regions for this class of dominant systems are difficult
to compute. Nevertheless, we are still able to find a good inner bound by bounding the unknown
parameters, namely, the probability that the non-fully-loaded users are idle.
Let us assume, without loss of generality, that the transmission entities are labeled according
to some arbitrary ordering and the users are enumerated based on the order of the entities, i.e.,
we have the user indices m < n if m ∈ Ii, n ∈ Ij and i < j. Let Ii:j be the set of users in
the transmission entities Ii, Ii+1, . . . , Ij, for example, Ij:K = ∪Kℓ=j{Iℓ} and I1:j−1 = ∪j−1ℓ=1{Iℓ}.
Suppose we are to find a bound for the arrival rate of user k. To do this, we construct a dominant
system denoted by DIβ(k):K where we let all users in the set Iβ(k):K to be fully-loaded while the
others are not. Similar to before, by Loynes’ theorem, we can derive conditions on λk that is
sufficient to guarantee stability for user k, as stated in the following lemma.
Lemma 4: Given ω = (p1, ..., pN , r1, ..., rN) and arrival rates λ = (λ1, ..., λN), user k is
guaranteed to be stable in DIβ(k):K (and, thus, in the true system as well) if
0 ≤ λk < µk(DIβ(k):K)− λ(α(k))k (DIβ(k):K) = µk(DIβ(k):K) ·
(
1− pα(k)(1− pk)Γα(k)
pk(1− pα(k))Φk
)
,
for k ∈ UC , and
0 ≤ λk < µk(DIβ(k):K),
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 23
according to Lemma 4. Similarly, users in I2 will be stable under these conditions regardless of
how the assumptions for users in I3:K changes. Following these procedures, we can eventually
arrive at bounds for all users in the system when given a specific ordering. By taking the union
of the regions obtained for each ordering, we may then obtain an inner bound to the true stability
region. However, the difficulty in applying Lemma 4 lies in the computation of PN(DIβ(k):K).
Although PN(DIβ(k):K) is difficult to compute in general, we can find sufficient stable conditions
for the arrival rates of Iβ(k) by finding a lower bound to PN (DIβ(k):K).
Lemma 5: The average service rate of user k in DIβ(k):K , namely, µk(DIβ(k):K), is lower
bounded by
µk,lower =
pkΦk
1− pk
(
1− 1
2
∑
ℓ∈I1:β(k)−1
pℓλ
tot
ℓ
µℓ,lower
− 1
2
∑
ℓ∈I1:β(k)−1
λtotℓ
Φℓ
∏
m∈Iβ(k):K(1−pm)
) ∏
m∈Iβ(k):K
(1− pm),
(28)
where
λtotℓ =


Φℓ(Γα(ℓ)λα(ℓ)+Φα(ℓ)λℓ)
ΦℓΦα(ℓ)−ΓℓΓα(ℓ) , if ℓ ∈ UC ∩ I1:β(k)−1,
λℓ, if ℓ ∈ UNC ∩ I1:β(k)−1.
The proof is given in Appendix C. The following theorem follows directly from Lemma 4
and Lemma 5.
Theorem 3: Given ω, the ordering of transmission entities, and the corresponding ordering
of users (i.e., the one-to-one mapping π : U → U such that π(m) < π(n) if π(m) ∈ Ii, π(n) ∈ Ij
and i < j), an inner bound of the stability region is given as
Cπ(ω) =
{
λ ∈ RN+ : λπ(k) < µπ(k),lower
(
1− pα(π(k))(1− pπ(k))Γα(π(k))
pπ(k)(1− pα(π(k)))Φπ(k)
)
, ∀π(k) ∈ UC
λπ(ℓ) < µπ(ℓ),lower, ∀π(ℓ) ∈ UNC
}
.
Then, Inner Bound II is obtained by taking the union over all possible orderings, i.e.
CIIINNER(ω) =
⋃
π
Cπ(ω).
It is worthwhile to note that, although the assumptions of the dominant systems considered in
this case are less restrictive, the inner bound is derived by taking lower bounds on the average
service rates in these dominant systems and, thus, may not necessarily be tighter than the bound
obtained in Theorem 2. The best inner bound is then obtained by taking the union of all three
bounds derived in this section. In Fig. 7, we plot the bounds derived for the non-cooperative and
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 25
VI. RANKING OF TRANSMISSION ENTITIES
In previous sections, we analyzed the stability region of slotted ALOHA with cooperative
users. This allows us to characterize the maximum arrival rates that can be accommodated without
having the system become unstable. However, the stable throughput per user decreases rapidly
as the number of users increases. Therefore, in practical systems that have large number of users,
it is difficult to guarantee a minimum stable throughput for all users and, thereby, certain users
must be blocked from the system. Hence, it is of interest to understand theoretically which users
are more likely to remain stable than others. This knowledge can be inferred from the concept of
queue ranks, which was first proposed in [17] to characterize the relative stability of queues in
non-cooperative ALOHA systems. In this section, we extend this concept to cooperative systems
where we view each cooperative pair as a separate transmission entity that can be treated as
a super-user. Here, we are able to derive ranks for each transmission entity and use them to
characterize the entity’s relative tendency of being stable (or unstable).
Suppose we have a stable transmission entity Iβ(k) ⊂ UC . Let P (k)NE be the probability that no
user transmits in the time slot and that buffer Bk is nonempty, i.e.,
P
(k)
NE = Pr({Qk[m] > 0} ∩ {no user transmits}).
Since the arrival rate must be equal to the departure rate for a stable user, it follows that
λk +
pα(k)Γα(k)
1− pα(k) P
(α(k))
NE =
pkΦk
1− pkP
(k)
NE
λα(k) +
pkΓk
1− pkP
(k)
NE =
pα(k)Φα(k)
1− pα(k) P
(α(k))
NE .
By solving the equations for P (k)NE and P
(α(k))
NE , we have
P
(k)
NE =
(1− pk)(Φα(k)λk + Γα(k)λα(k))
pk(ΦkΦα(k) − ΓkΓα(k)) . (29)
Similarly, for a stable non-cooperative user n ∈ UNC , we have
λn =
pnΦn
1− pnP
(n)
NE
and, thus,
P
(n)
NE =
λn(1− pn)
pnΦn
. (30)
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 27
cooperative transmission and queuing mechanism has been devised and the achievable stable
throughput has been analyzed for both the two-user and the finite-user cases. For the two-user
case, the stability region has been completely characterized and the maximal stable throughput of
the symmetric-user case has been found. The results indicate that it is sufficient to have one user
behave purely as a source while the other user be fully cooperative and relays all the packets
received from the source user. For a finite-user system that consists of multiple cooperating
pairs, several inner bounds have been derived for the finite-user stability region by viewing each
cooperative pair as a transmission entity and treating them as a super-user. Moreover, a ranking
system is proposed to characterize the entities’ relative tendency of being stable. In contrast to
most work in the literature, our results show the benefit of cooperation from the MAC-layer
perspective, even when no centralized scheduler is available to coordinate the transmissions.
APPENDIX A
PROOF OF LEMMA 1
(a) To prove sufficiency of Lemma 1, let us first consider the dominant system D{1} where
only user 1 is assumed to be fully loaded. Since user 1 is fully-loaded, the probability that user
1 transmits a packet is fixed over all time slots regardless of its queue state. In this case, the
evolution of user 2’s queue state, i.e., {Q2[m]}∞m=0, will not depend on {Q1[m]}∞m=0. In fact,
{Q2[m]}∞m=0 by itself forms an aperiodic and irreducible markov chain. In this case, it suffices
to note that the average drift of the markov chain is E
[
Q2[m + 1] − Q2[m]
∣∣Q2[m] > 0] =
λ2 + p1Γ1(1 − p2) − p2Φ2(1 − p1), where Γk and Φk are defined in (5) and (6). Then, from
the Lyapunov function method [25], we can show that {Q2[m]}∞m=0 is stable if E
[
Q2[m+ 1]−
Q2[m]
∣∣Q2[m] > 0] < 0, i.e., if λ2 < p2Φ2(1− p1)− p1Γ1(1− p2).
Given that user 2 is stable, the markov chain {Q2[m]}∞m=0 is ergodic and yields a stationary
distribution. It is not hard to show that {Q2[m], A(2)1 [m+ 1], S1[m+ 1], S(2)1 [m+ 1]}∞m=0 is also
an aperiodic and irreducible markov chain. Then, from the fact that A(2)1 [m + 1], S1[m + 1],
S
(2)
1 [m + 1] are bounded by 1, it follows from Lemma 5 (iii) of [16] that this markov chain is
also stable and ergodic2. Thus, the arrival and departure processes are stationary for user 1 and
2Lemma 5 (iii) of [16] states that, if the multi-dimensional markov chain {U[m] = [U1[m], . . . , UJ [m]]}∞m=0 is defined on
a countable state space, then the stability of {Uj [m]}∞m=0 for all j implies stability of {U[m]}∞m=0.
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 29
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxx
xxxxx
xxxxx
xxxxx
xxxxx
λ1
λ2
p1Φ1(1−p2)
−p2Γ2(1−p1)
p2Φ2(1−p1)
−p1Γ1(1−p2)
λ1 =
p1(1−p1)(Φ1Φ2−Γ1Γ2)
(1−p1)Φ2+p1Γ1
−p1Φ1+(1−p1)Γ2
(1−p1)Φ2+p1Γ1λ2
(a) CD{1}(p1, p2, r1, r2)
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
xxxx
xxxx
xxxx
xxxx
xxxx
λ1
λ2
p1Φ1(1−p2)
−p2Γ2(1−p1)
p2Φ2(1−p1)
−p1Γ1(1−p2)
λ2 =
p2(1−p2)(Φ1Φ2−Γ1Γ2)
(1−p2)Φ1+p2Γ2
−p2Φ2+(1−p2)Γ1
(1−p2)Φ1+p2Γ2λ1
(b) CD{2}(p1, p2, r1, r2)
Fig. 9. Illustration of the regions CD{1}(p1, p2, r1, r2) and CD{2}(p1, p2, r1, r2).
which is illustrated in Fig. 9(b).
Interestingly, the conditions given in CD{1}(ω) and CD{2}(ω) are not only sufficient but also
necessary to guarantee stability. Let us start out by considering CD{1}(ω). Specifically, given
that λ2 < p2Φ2(1 − p1) − p1Γ1(1 − p2), we know that user 1 is stable in the original system
if it is stable in the dominant system D{1} (i.e., if λ1 < p1(1−p1)(Φ1Φ2−Γ1Γ2)(1−p1)Φ2+p1Γ1 −
p1Φ1+(1−p1)Γ2
(1−p1)Φ2+p1Γ1λ2),
since D{1} stochastically dominates the original system. Conversely, if user 1 is unstable in
D{1}, there is a positive probability that the queue Q1[m] will grow to infinity without returning
to 0. That is, there exists sample paths that do not return to zero infinitely often in D{1}. For
such sample paths, the queue state will not return to zero after a certain time, in which case,
the dominant system and the original system will be indistinguishable. This shows that the
original system will be unstable for these values of λ1 as well. We can then conclude that the
conditions in CD{1}(ω) are necessary for stability given that λ2 < p2Φ2(1− p1)− p1Γ1(1− p2).
Similarly, we can also show that the conditions for CD{2}(ω) are necessary for stability given
that λ1 < p1Φ1(1− p2)− p2Γ2(1− p1). By combining these arguments, we have shown that the
stability region of the original system is given by
C(ω) = CD{1}(ω)
⋃
CD{2}(ω),
which is illustrated in Fig. 10.
(b) From (a), we know that, given r1, r2, the stability region is obtained by taking the union
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 31
Also, since
⋃
p C∆(p, r1, r2) ⊂ Cr(r1, r2), it follows that
Cr(r1, r2) =
⋃
p
C∆(p, r1, r2). (38)
Next, we need to show that C∆(p′, r1, r2) ⊂
⋃
p CD{1,2}(p, 1− p, r1, r2), for all p′, where
CD{1,2}(p, 1− p, r1, r2) = {λ ∈ R2+ : λ1 < p2Φ1 − (1− p)2Γ2, λ2 < (1− p)2Φ2 − p2Γ1}. (39)
By equating the values of p in the upper bounds of λ1 and λ2 in (39), the boundary of the region⋃
p CD{1,2}(p, 1− p, r1, r2) can be written as√
λ1Φ2 + λ2Γ2 +
√
λ1Γ1 + λ2Φ1 =
√
Φ1Φ2 − Γ1Γ2
which is convex and monotonically decreasing with respect to λ1. More specifically, the first
derivative at point (p′2Φ1 − (1− p′)2Γ2, (1− p′)2Φ2 − p′2Γ1) is given by
dλ2
dλ1
= −(1− p
′)Φ2 + p′Γ1
(1− p′)Γ2 + p′Φ1 ≤ 0
and the tangent line at this point can be written as
λ2 − [(1− p′)2Φ2 − p′2Γ1] = −(1− p
′)Φ2 + p′Γ1
(1− p′)Γ2 + p′Φ1{[λ1 − [p
′2Φ1 − (1− p′)2Γ2]}]
⇒ λ1 = p
′(1− p′)(Φ1Φ2 − Γ1Γ2)
(1− p′)Φ2 + p′Γ1 −
p′Φ1 + (1− p′)Γ2
(1− p′)Φ2 + p′Γ1λ2, (40)
which is the boundary of C∆(p′, r1, r2). Hence, C∆(p′, r1, r2) ⊂
⋃
p CD{1,2}(p, 1 − p, r1, r2) and,
thus,
Cr(r1, r2) =
⋃
p
C∆(p, r1, r2) ⊂
⋃
p
CD{1,2}(p, 1− p, r1, r2).
On the other hand, since
⋃
p CD{1,2}(p, 1− p, r1, r2) ⊂ Cr(r1, r2), therefore,
Cr(r1, r2) =
⋃
p
CD{1,2}(p, 1− p, r1, r2)
=
{
λ ∈ R2+ :
√
λ1Φ2 + λ2Γ2 +
√
λ1Γ1 + λ2Φ1 <
√
Φ1Φ2 − Γ1Γ2
}
.
This completes the proof.
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 33
where
Pr{only one user in I1:β(k)−1transmits}
=
∑
ℓ∈I1:β(k)−1
Pr{only user ℓ in I1:β(k)−1 transmits}
=
∑
ℓ∈I1:β(k)−1
λtotℓ
Φℓ
∏
m∈Iβ(k):K(1−pm)
. (43)
Here, λtotℓ is the total arrival rate at user ℓ ∈ I1:β(k)−1 assuming that all users in the set I1:β(k)−1
are stable and the others are not. When user ℓ is stable, the average sum arrival rate is equal to
the average departure rate or, in other words, the probability that a packet successfully departs
from user ℓ in each time slot. Therefore, we can view
λtotℓ = Pr(only user ℓ transmits and the packet successfully departs from user ℓ)
= Φℓ · Pr{only user ℓ in I1:β(k)−1 transmits} ·
∏
m∈Iβ(k):K
(1−pm)
and, thus, we have
Pr{only user ℓ in I1:β(k)−1 transmits} = λ
tot
ℓ
Φℓ
∏
m∈Iβ(k):K(1−pm)
.
When user ℓ is a non-cooperative user, then λtotℓ is simply equal to λℓ. However, when user
ℓ is a cooperative user, this includes the average number of packets received from its partner,
which is given by
Γα(ℓ) Pr(only user α(ℓ) transmits)
= Γα(ℓ) Pr(only user α(ℓ) in I1:β(k)−1 transmits) ·
∏
m∈Iβ(k):K
(1−pm).
Hence, we have
λtotℓ = λℓ +
Γα(ℓ)λ
tot
α(ℓ)
Φα(ℓ)
and, similarly,
λtotα(ℓ) = λα(ℓ) +
Γℓλ
tot
ℓ
Φℓ
.
It follows that
λtotℓ =


Φℓ(Γα(ℓ)λα(ℓ)+Φα(ℓ)λℓ)
ΦℓΦα(ℓ)−ΓℓΓα(ℓ) , ∀ℓ ∈ UC ∩ I1:β(k)−1,
λℓ, ∀ℓ ∈ UNC ∩ I1:β(k)−1.
(44)
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY 35
where (a) follows from the fact that PN ≥ P (k)NE for all k and, similarly,
λα(j) >
(
pα(j)Φα(j)
1− pα(j) −
pjΓj
1− pj
)
Rk. (47)
By taking (46)×Φα(j)+(47)×Γα(j) and by rearranging the terms, we can show that
Rj =
(1− pj)(Φα(j)λj + Γα(j)λα(j))
pj(ΦjΦα(j) − ΓjΓα(j)) > Rk. (48)
Similarly, if user j is unstable while user α(j) is stable, it follows that
λj >
pjΦj
1− pjPN −
pα(j)Γα(j)
1− pα(j) P
(α(j))
NE (49)
λα(j) =
pα(j)Φα(j)
1− pα(j) P
(α(j))
NE −
pjΓj
1− pjPN , (50)
where (50) follows from the fact that the average arrival rate is equal to the average departure
rate for a stable user. By taking (49)×Φα(j)+(50)×Γα(j), we have
Φα(j)λj + Γα(j)λα(j) >
pj(Φα(j)Φj − Γα(j)Γj)
1− pj PN
≥ pj(Φα(j)Φj − Γα(j)Γj)
1− pj P
(k)
NE
≥ pj(Φα(j)Φj − Γα(j)Γj)
1− pj Rk.
Hence, Rj > Rk for j that is cooperative.
Case 2 (j ∈ UNC): Again, suppose that user j ∈ UNC is unstable. Then, we have
λj >
pjΦj
1− pjPN ≥
pjΦj
1− pjP
(k)
NE =
pjΦj
1− pjRk
and, thus, Rj > Rk for j that is non-cooperative. This completes the proof.
REFERENCES
[1] A. Sendonaris, E. Erkip, and B. Aazhang, “User Cooperation Diversity–Part I: System Description” and “User Cooperation
Diversity–Part II: Implementation Aspects and Performance Analysis,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 51, no. 11, Nov. 2003.
[2] J. Laneman, D. Tse, and G. Wornell, “Cooperative diversity in wireless networks: Efficient protocols and outage behavior,”
IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 50, no. 12, pp. 3062–3080, Dec. 2004.
[3] A. Nosratinia, T. E. Hunter, and A. Hedayat, “Cooperative communication in wireless networks,” IEEE Commun. Mag.,
vol. 42, no. 10, pp. 74–80, Oct. 2004.
[4] A. Scaglione and Y.-W. Hong, “Opportunistic large arrays: Cooperative transmission in wireless multi-hop ad hoc networks
for the reach back channel,” IEEE Trans. Signal Process., vol. 51, no. 8, Aug. 2003.
[5] Y.-W. Hong, W.-J. Huang, F.-H. Chiu, and C.-C. J. Kuo, “Cooperative communications in resource-constrained wireless
networks,” IEEE Signal Process. Mag., vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 47–57, May 2007.
April 18, 2008 DRAFT
 Appendix B 
An‐Dee  Lin,  “Exploiting  Multiuser  Diversity  in  Random  Access 
Cooperative Networks,” National Tsing Hua University, 2009. 
 
Abstract
Multiuser and cooperative diversity gains have been exploited in recent years to improve
the communication reliability and the throughput in wireless networks. Multiuser diversity
schemes significantly improve system throughput by assigning users with the best channel
to transmit in each time slot while cooperative diversity schemes allow users with non-
favorable channels to utilize the relaying channel provided by its partner to achieve higher
throughput. These diversity techniques often require centralized coordination among users
that may be extremely resource-consuming and, thus, costly to implement. However, these
diversity gains can be utilized in slotted ALOHA random access networks simultaneously
in a decentralized fashion. Specifically, by allowing users to relay each others’ messages to
the destination and to employ a channel-aware transmission control that adjusts users’ local
transmission probabilities in each time slot based on the knowledge of the local channel state
information, we derive the fully-loaded stability region as the performance measure of our
proposed transmission strategy. The optimal transmission control that maximizes the fully-
loaded region is derived in a two-user cooperative system and then extend to cooperative
groups with arbitrary number of users. In addition, by limiting the total quantization states
of the local channel state information at each user, we show the performance loss in the
fully-loaded region due to the inaccurate knowledge of the channel state information.
i
7 Appendix 44
7.1 The Fully-loaded Stability Region is Convex under a given set of transmission
parameters . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
7.2 The optimal transmission controls are step functions . . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
iii
5.9 Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, asymmetric CSI, fixed KD. . 35
5.10 Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, asymmetric CSI, fixed KP . . 36
5.11 Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, symmetric CSI, the tradeoff
between KD and KP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
5.12 Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, symmetric CSI, the tradeoff
between KD and KP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37
5.13 Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, asymmetric CSI, the tradeoff
between KD and KP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
5.14 Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, asymmetric CSI, the tradeoff
between KD and KP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
5.15 Sum throughput rate of the cooperative system with and without channel
awareness, symmetric CSI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39
v
so called cooperative diversity. In fact, the cooperative MAC is studied in 802.11 standard
as in [5, 6]. Lui and Tao also exploited cooperation at the medium access control layer and
propose a protocol named CoopMAC in 802.11 networks [7].
Although the multiuser diversity and the cooperative communication allow for significant
improvement in system throughput or communication reliability, they often require a cen-
tral controller to collect the CSI of all links and then to determine the transmission schedule
as well as to coordinate the cooperative tasks. The collection of CSI of all links may be
extremely resource-consuming, especially in large networks and can be particularly difficult
in cooperative networks since the central scheduler (e.g. the access point or the base sta-
tion) often does not have direct access to the interuser channels. Distributed channel-aware
medium access strategies have been proposed these years to reduce the overhead of CSI ex-
changes. For examples, based on the conventional slotted ALOHA protocol, decentralized
channel-aware transmission control policies have been proposed in [8, 9] to exploit multiuser
diversity by allowing users to adjust their local transmission probabilities in each time slot
according to the knowledge of their instantaneous channel conditions on the link to the ac-
cess point (AP). These schemes have been shown to achieve high throughput compared to
conventional slotted ALOHA systems that do not employ channel-aware transmission con-
trol. By taking into consideration the channel estimation error statistics, the channel-aware
transmission control is also studied [10] where rate and power adaptation can be employed to
further improve performance. Moreover, in [11, 12, 13] a cooperative slotted ALOHA system
has also been proposed and analyzed to exploit the cooperative diversity in a decentralized
fashion. The two-user stability region and bounds for the finite-user stability region have
been derived in these works. It has been shown that certain points of the stability region
obtained with this system is not achievable by exploiting only multiuser diversity.
Our main contribution is to propose a channel-aware transmission control for cooperative
2
Chapter 2
System Model
Consider a slotted ALOHA network with N cooperative users, user 1 to user N , communi-
cating to a common access point (AP) as shown in Fig. 2.1. Assume that time is divided into
equal-length slots that are synchronized to all users and that each packet transmission lasts
for only one time slot. Each user, say user i, maintains a buffer Bi to record the incoming
packets, including exogenous packets that are generated from its own high-layered applica-
tion and the packets received from its cooperative users. Let define Qi[m] as the number
of packets recorded at Bi at the beginning of the m-th time slot. In conventional slotted
ALOHA systems, given that Bi is non-empty at the beginning of the m-th time slot, i.e.
Qi[m] > 0, user i will attempt a transmission with probability pi regardless of its channel
condition. However, in wireless fading channels, a significant loss in throughput is observed
since that users may transmit even when their channel conditions are non-favorable.
To improve the transmission efficiency in slotted ALOHA networks, we propose a channel-
aware transmission control which allows users to adjust their transmission probabilities in
each time slot according to the instantaneous channel conditions. Specifically, let γiD[m] be
the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) on the link from user i to the AP in the m-th time slot and
γi,max[m] is the maximum SNR of the interuser channels from user i to all its cooperative
4
the cooperative partner with the best interuser channel condition in Oi, say user j, will try
to decode the packet emitted from user i. The probability that the packet is successfully
received by the AP (or by user j), is given by Ψ(γiD) (or Ψ(γi,max) × 1[γij>γik, ∀k∈Oi−{j}]).
Ψ(γ) here is the packet reception probability function, which is monotone increasing with γ.
Moreover, 1[γij>γik, ∀k] represents that user j is the one who has the best interuser channel of
user i at the m-th time slot, where 1[.] is the indicator function. By considering the collision
channel model, if more than one user transmitting at the same time, the packets will collide
and no packet will go through. On the other hand, if user i’s packet fails to reach the AP
due to channel errors but is successively decoded by user j, user j will record this packet at
the head of Bj with probability 1− rj. The probability rj is called the rejection probability,
and is used for users to control their level of participation in the cooperation. That is, user
j is allowed to drop the packet received from its cooperative partner with probability rj
upon a new interuser packet arrived at Bj. This cooperative mechanism is based on the
decode-and-forward (DF) relaying considered in [11, 12]. Afterward, at the end of each time
slot, each user will be informed of its successful transmission by an ACK replied from either
the AP or its cooperative partner. Then, the packet which has been successfully delivered
will be removed from its original queue.
To evaluate the performance of the proposed transmission control in cooperative slotted
ALOHA systems, we study the stability region under the fully-loaded assumption and then
find the optimal transmission control that achieves the largest stability region. The notion
of queue stability is defined in the following.
Definition 1 ([14]). Given the set of transmission parameters α = (s1, . . . sN , r1, . . . rN)
and the arrival rate vector λ = (λ1, . . . λN), we say that the system is stable if
lim
m→∞
Pr{Qi[m] < x} = Gi(x) and lim
x→∞
Gi(x) = 1,∀i.
That is, we say that a system is stable if all users’ queues remain finite with probability
6
the AP but user i is able and willing to decode and relay the packet from user j, where
j = argmaxk∈Oi γki. Under the fully-loaded assumption, the interuser arrival rate at user i
from user j is given by
λ
(j)
i (α) = E
{
sj(γj)
{
[1−Ψ(γjD)]Ψ(γj,max)× 1[γji>γjk, ∀k](1− ri)
}}
×
∏
`∈Oj
(1− p`) (2.2)
where pi = E[si(γi)] is the average transmission probability of user i. Moreover, the service
rate at user i under the transmission parameter α and fully-loaded assumption, denoted by
µi(α), is given by
µi(α)=E
{
si(γi)
{
Ψ(γiD)+[1−Ψ(γiD)]Ψ(γi,max)×
∑
j∈Oi
[
1[γij>γik,∀k](1−rj)
]}}∏
`∈Oi
(1−p`). (2.3)
Hence, given α = (s1, . . . sN , r1, . . . rN), the arrival rate vector λ = (λ1, . . . λN) can be stably
accommodated in the fully loaded system if λ ∈ C(α), where
C(α) =
{
λ : λi +
∑
j∈Oi
λ
(j)
i (α) < µi(α),∀i
}
. (2.4)
The N -user fully-loaded region is then given by C = ⋃α C(α).
In the following, we first characterize the fully-loaded region for two-user cooperative
systems and then extend the results to general N -user systems. The optimal transmission
control is derived for both the two-user and N -user cases to maximize the fully-loaded
stability region.
8
By (2.2), the average interuser arrival rate from user 2 to user 1 is given by
λ
(2)
1 (α) = Eγ2
{
s2(γ2)
{
[1−Ψ(γ2D)]Ψ(γ21)(1− r1)
}}
× (1− p2) (3.2)
=
∫
γ2
s2(γ2)
{
[1−Ψ(γ2D)]Ψ(γ21)(1− r1)
}
fγ2(γ2)dγ2 × (1− p1),
where fγi(γi) = fγiD(γiD)fγij(γij) is the joint density function of γi. Moreover, according to
(2.3), user 1’s average service rate is given by
µ1(α) = E
{
s1(γ1)
{
Ψ(γ1D) + [1−Ψ(γ1D)]Ψ(γ12)(1− r2)
}}
(1− p2)
=
∫
γ1
s1(γ1)
{
Ψ(γ1D) + [1−Ψ(γ1D)]Ψ(γ12)(1− r2)
}
fγ1(γ1)dγ1 × (1− p2),(3.3)
which means that the average rate that the packet emitted by user 1 can be successfully
received by either the AP or its partner, user 2. Similarly, we can express the interuser
arrival rate and service rate of user 2, λ
(1)
2 (α) and µ2(α), by exchanging the indices 1 and 2
in (3.2) and (3.3), i.e.
λ
(1)
2 (α) =
∫
γ1
s1(γ1)
{
[1−Ψ(γ1D)]Ψ(γ12)(1− r2)]
}
fγ1(γ1)dγ1 × (1− p2) (3.4)
µ2(α) =
∫
γ2
s2(γ2)
{
Ψ(γ2D) + [1−Ψ(γ2D)]Ψ(γ21)(1− r1)
}
fγ2(γ2)dγ2 × (1− p1).(3.5)
Hence, by Loynes’ Theorem, the two-user fully-loaded system is stabilized under the trans-
mission parameter α whenever
λ1(α) + λ
(2)
1 (α) < µ1(α) and λ2(α) + λ
(1)
2 (α) < µ2(α). (3.6)
Thus, the two-user fully-loaded region is then characterized as
C =
⋃
α
C(α)
=
⋃
α
{
λ : λ1(α) < µ1(α)− λ(2)1 (α), λ2(α) < µ2(α)− λ(1)2 (α).
}
. (3.7)
With the help of the following lemma, we can derive the optimal transmission control for any
fixed average transmission probabilities (p1, p2) that achieves the largest fully-loaded region.
10
where the above (λ1, λ2) ∈ C¯ω. Let define
φ1(γ1) = Ψ(γ1D) + (1− β)
[
1−Ψ(γ1D)
]
Ψ(γ12)(1− r2),
φ2(γ2) = βΨ(γ2D) + (β − 1)
[
1−Ψ(γ2D)
]
Ψ(γ21)(1− r1)
as the effective channel models of user 1 and user 2. Hence, the optimal transmission control
functions s1(γ1), s2(γ2) that can achieve the boundary of the fully-loaded region are given
by the following proposition.
Proposition 1. For a given set of average transmission probabilities and rejection prob-
abilities ω = (p1, p2, r1, r2), the optimal transmission controls that achieve the largest sum
throughput are the step functions such that
si(γi) = 1[φi(γi)>Φi],∀i = 1, 2, (3.9)
where the thresholds {Φi}2i=1 are constant and they are chosen to satisfy the given average
transmission constrains:
E
[
si(γi)
]
=
∫
γi
1[φi(γi)>Φi]fγi(γi)dγi = pi, ∀i = 1, 2. (3.10)
This proposition is a special case of Proposition 2 stated in Chapter 4, where we assume
a general N -user scenario with symmetric interuser channels. The proof for the general case
is given in Appendix 7.2 and, clearly, Proposition 1 can be proved using the same proof by
letting N = 2. As the demonstration of the thresholding transmission control function for
two-user systems in Fig. 3.3, user 1 and user 2 shall transmit when the local CSI γ1, γ2 is
good enough such that each user’s packet can be correctly received with higher probability
under the effective channel models.
Hence, given ω = (p1, p2, r1, r2), we can obtain the boundary of the two-user fully-loaded
region, i.e.
C¯ω\Cω =
⋃
0≤β<∞
{
(Λ1,Λ2) : (Λ1,Λ2) = argmax
(λ1,λ2)∈C¯ω
λ1 + βλ2.
}
,
12
λ1
λ2
λ1 + βλ2
λ1 + β
′λ2
λ1 + β
′′λ2
Figure 3.4: The boundary can be found by adjusting β, ∀0 ≤ β <∞.
γiD
γi,max
Γ
(1)
iD Γ
(2)
iD Γ
(3)
iD Γ
(4)
iD
Γ
(1)
i,max
Γ
(2)
i,max
Figure 3.5: User can adopt transmission probability for each subregion.
3.2 Transmission Control with Quantized Channel State
So far, we have assumed that the transmission control is a continuous function of the local
channel state information at each user. However, due to the limitation of the hardware
implementation and the accuracy of the channel estimation, usually only the quantized
channel state information can be obtained at each user. Consequently, suppose that the
channel state information of each user is quantized into a finite number of states in which
each user will transmit its packet with a certain probability accordingly. Hence, a limited
14
the two-user fully-loaded stability region. On the other hand, the impact that different
parameters KD and KP on the fully-loaded stability region. Similar to the case of adopting
the transmission controls that are continuous functions of the CSI, here, we first study
the boundary of the two-user fully-loaded region for a given set of transmission parameter
ω = (p1, p2, r1, r2) and then find the optimal transmission controls that maximize the region.
Finally, the fully-loaded region takes the union of fully-loaded regions over all possible ω =
(p1, p2, r1, r2).
Please note that, the quantized transmission control in (3.12) is a special case of the con-
tinuous channel-aware transmission control. Hence, according to Lemma 1, it is known that
the fully-loaded region is convex under a specified transmission parameters ω = (p1, p2, r1, r2).
Moreover, the boundary of the region can be found by maximizing the weighed sum through-
put for all possible β ∈ [0,∞) as in (3.8). By instituting (3.12) into (3.9), the weighted sum
throughput can be reformulated as
λ1 + βλ2 =
KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
[
S
(a,b)
1
∫
γ1∈Γ(a,b)1
φ1(γ1)fγ1(γ1)dγ1
]
× (1− p2)
+
KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
[
S
(a,b)
2
∫
γ2∈Γ(a,b)2
φ2(γ2)fγ2(γ2)dγ2
]
× (1− p1).
By denoting
Φ
(a,b)
i =
∫
γi∈Γ(a,b)i
φi(γi)fi(γi)dγi, ∀i, j = 1, 2, (3.13)
the sum throughput maximization problem can be rewritten by
max (1− p2)
KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
S
(a,b)
1 Φ
(a,b)
1 + (1− p1)
KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
S
(a,b)
2 Φ
(a,b)
2 (3.14)
subject to
KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
S
(a,b)
1 ×
1
KDKP
= p1,
KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
S
(a,b)
2 ×
1
KDKP
= p2,
0 ≤ S(a,b)i ≤ 1, ∀a = 1, ..., KD, b = 1, ..., KP , i = 1, 2.
16
Chapter 4
Transmission Control for Cooperative
Group with Arbitrary Number of
Users
4.1 Transmission Control with Continuous Channel State
In this chapter, we further extend our proposed transmission control to the fully-loaded
system with arbitrarily N cooperative users as shown in Fig. 4.1. Our goal is to derive
the optimal transmission control of each user such that the N -user fully-loaded region is
maximized. With the same derivation procedures as we used in the previous chapter, we first
find the boundary of fully-loaded region under a certain given transmission parameters ω =
(p1, p2, ..., pN , r1, r2, ..., rN), and then derive the optimal transmission controls
{
si(γi)
}N
i=1
of
each user that achieve the boundary of the fully-loaded region.
In order to investigate the fully-loaded stability region, we first reformulate the average
18
γj,max is equal to the value γP . Furthermore, equation (4.2) can be derived as
Pr
{
γji > γjk, ∀k ∈ Oj\{i}|γj,max = γP
}
= lim
∆→0
Pr {γji > γjk, ∀k ∈ Oj\{i}, γP ≤ γj,max < γP +∆}
Pr {γP ≤ γj,max < γP +∆}
= lim
∆→0
∫ γP+∆
γP
fγji(x)
{∫ x
0
. . .
∫ x
0
∏
k∈Oj\{i} fγjk(yk)dyk
}
dx
fγj,max(γP )×∆
= lim
∆→0
fγji(γP )×
∏
k∈Oj\{i} Fγjk(γP )×∆
fγj,max(γP )×∆
=
fγji(γP )×
∏
k∈Oj\{i} Fγj`(γP )∑
`∈Oj fγj`(γP )×
∏
m∈Oj\{l} Fγjm(γP )
. (4.3)
The idea of user i’s service rate, µi, is the average sum rate from user i to AP as well as
to all its cooperative members. Hence, by equation (2.3), the service rate can be written in
a similar way as
µi = E
{
si(γi)
{
Ψ(γiD) + [1−Ψ(γiD)] Ψ(γi,max)
∑
j∈Oi
[
1[γij>γi`, ∀`](1− rj)
]}} ∏
`∈Oi
(1− p`)
=
∫
si(γD, γP )
{
Ψ(γD)+[1−Ψ(γD)]Ψ(γP )
∑
j∈Oi
[Pr {γij > γi`,∀` | γi,max=γP} (1−rj)]
}
· dFγiD(γD)dFi,max(γP )
×
∏
`∈Oi
(1− p`). (4.4)
By Loynes’ Theorem, in order to maintain the stability of the system, each user, say user i,
can accommodate a suitable exogenous arrival rate that satisfies
λi < µi −
∑
j∈Oi
λ
(j)
i . (4.5)
20
fully-loaded region under a certain ω can be found with the transmission controls that
maximize the weighted sum throughput
β1λ1 + β2λ2 + · · ·+ βNλN , (4.8)
where βi ∈ [0,∞) for i = 1, ..., N . By substituting (4.6) into (4.8), we have
N∑
i=1
βiλi ≤
N∑
i=1
{∫
si(γi)
{
βiΨ(γiD)+[1−Ψ(γiD)] Ψ(γi,max)· 1
N − 1
∑
j∈Oi
[(βi−βj)(1−rj)]
}
dF (γi)
×
∏
`∈O1
(1− p`)
}
. (4.9)
Let denote φi(γi) as the effective channel reception model of user i as
φi(γi) = βiΨ(γiD) +
[
1−Ψ(γiD)
]
Ψ(γi,max)× 1
N − 1 ×
∑
j∈Oi
[
(βi − βj)(1− rj)
]
. (4.10)
Thus, the optimal transmission control for each user is derived in the following proposition
with the proof in Chapter 7.2.
Proposition 2. Consider an N-user cooperative slotted ALOHA system, for a given set of
average transmission probabilities and rejection probabilities ω = (p1, p2, ..., pN , r1, r2, ..., rN),
the optimal transmission controls that achieve the largest sum throughput are the step func-
tions such that
si(γi) = 1[φi(γi)>Φi], ∀i = 1, 2, ..., N, (4.11)
where the thresholds {Φi}Ni=1 are constant and they are chosen to satisfy the given average
transmission constrains:
E
[
si(γi)
]
=
∫
γi
1[φi(γi)>Φi]fγi(γi)dγi = pi, ∀i = 1, 2, ..., N. (4.12)
Without loss of generality, β1 can be normalized to 1 and then the boundary of the
fully-loaded region under a certain ω can be found by adjusting different value of β2, . . . , βN
22
where the thresholds Φi are constant that satisfy E
[
si(γi)
]
= pi. For those rate vectors
(λ1, λ2, λ3) which satisfy (4.14) will form the fully-loaded region. We then take intersection
of these regions for all
0 ≤ β2 <∞ and 0 ≤ β3 <∞
to obtain the stability region for a certain ω = (p1, p2, p3, r1, r2, r3). Finally, the fully-loaded
region is the union of all accommodated arrival rate over all possible ω = (p1, p2, p3, r1, r2, r3).
Some interesting simulations for the 3-user fully-loaded region are given in Chapter 5.
4.2 Transmission Control with Quantized Channel State
In this Chapter, we further assume that each user can adopt with a finite number of trans-
mission modes due to the limitation of hardware implementation, where the CSI at each
user is quantized into a finite number of states. The system performance under the finite
number of CSI states is analyzed then.
Clearly, the results in Chapter 3.2 for a two-user system can be easily extended to general
N -user scenarios. Recall that under quantized channel states, the CSI on the link to AP is
divided into KD intervals denoted by Γ
(1)
iD ,Γ
(2)
iD , . . . ,Γ
(KD)
iD with equal probability. That is,
Γ
(a)
iD =
{
γiD :
a− 1
KD
≤ F−1γiD(γiD) <
a
KD
}
, ∀a = 1, . . . , KD, (4.16)
where F−1γiD() is the inverse CDF of γiD. Similarly, the highest interuser SNR γi,max is also
divided into KP intervals, i,e, Γ
(1)
i,max,Γ
(2)
i,max, . . . ,Γ
(KP )
i,max, where
Γ
(b)
i,max =
{
γi,max :
b− 1
KP
≤ F−1γi,max(γi,max) <
b
KP
}
,∀b = 1, . . . , KP . (4.17)
Moreover we denote the subregions of γi that user can adopt its transmission probabilities.
Γ
(a,b)
i =
{
γi | γi ∈ Γ(a)iD × Γ(b)i,max
}
. (4.18)
24
which is equivalent to
max
{ N∑
i=1
KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
S
(a,b)
i Φ
(a,b)
i ×
∏
`∈Oi
(1− p`)
}
subject to
KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
S
(a,b)
i ×
1
KDKP
= pi,
0 ≤ S(a,b)i ≤ 1, ∀i = 1, . . . , N, a = 1, . . . , KD, b = 1, . . . , KD.
This problem can be decoupled into N subproblems since
{
pi
}
,
{
ri
}
,
{
Φ
(a,b)
i
}
are constant
and
{
Φ
(a,b)
1
}
, . . . ,
{
Φ
(a,b)
N
}
are decoupled. Consequently we can solve them in parallel. Specif-
ically, to solve the optimal transmission control for the user i, the optimization problem is
max
{ KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
s
(a,b)
i Φ
(a,b)
i ×
∏
`∈Oi
(1− p`)
}
s.t.
[ KD∑
a=1
KP∑
b=1
S
(a,b)
i
]
× 1
KDKP
= pi
0 ≤ S(a,b)i ≤ 1, ∀a = 1, . . . , KD, b = 1, . . . , KD
Thus, the optimal
{
S
(a,b)
i ,∀a, b
}
are obtained by redistributing pi × KDKP into the set of
probabilities
{
S
(a,b)
i
}
, from the one with larger corresponding
{
Φ
(a,b)
i
}
to the one with smaller{
Φ
(a,b)
i
}
, as the procedure given in (3.14).
In the following chapter, some simulation results are provided to show the system per-
formance degradation due to the constrain on the number of quantization levels.
26
probability function is in the form of
Ψ(γij) =
[
1− 1
2
erfc
(√
γij × εb
)]128
, (5.1)
where erfc(x) = 2√
pi
∫∞
x
exp(−t2)dt is the complementary error function and εb is the trans-
mitted signal power per one bit, where we let εb = 10 in the following simulation. This
function models the probability that a packet with 128-bit uncoded message with BPSK
modulation transmitted through a channel with SNR γ is correctly decoded by the desti-
nation j. The function is plotted as in Fig.(5.1). Furthermore, γij, which represents the
signal-to-noise ratio on the link i to j, is assumed to be exponentially distributed with mean
κij. Let denote
ψij = E {Ψ(γij)}
as the average reception probability of the link from i to j, for example, in a two-user system,
we define that
ψiD = E {Ψ(γiD)} , i = 1, 2,
ψ12 = E {Ψ(γ12)} ,
ψ21 = E {Ψ(γ21)} ,
as shown in Fig. 5.2. Notice that, given a set of transmission parameters ω = (p1, . . . pN , r1 . . . rN),
each boundary point (Λ1, ...,ΛN) of the fully-loaded region can be achieved with the trans-
mission controls that maximize the weighted sum throughput β1λ1+ · · ·+βNλN for different
values of βi. We then take the union of these regions over different transmission parameters
ω ∈ [0, 1]2N to obtain the boundary of the fully-loaded region.
In the following, we are showing the boundary of the fully-loaded region for the system
with 2 or 3 users under transmission controls with and without channel awareness. A signifi-
cant improvement of the fully-loaded region under the proposed channel-aware transmission
28
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
0.45
0.5
λ1
λ 2
 
 
Channel awareness
Without channel awareness
Figure 5.3: Fully-loaded region of continuous channel model with symmetric CSI.
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
λ1
λ 2
 
 
Channel awareness
Without channel awareness
Figure 5.4: Fully-loaded region of continuous channel model with asymmetric CSI.
the mean of the SNR of each link is given by
κ1D =
1
3
; κ12 =
1
2
; κ2D =
1
3
; κ21 =
1
2
. (5.2)
30
0  
0.2
0.4
0 0.1
0.2 0.3
0.4
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
λ2
λ1
λ 3
Channel Awareness
Without channel awareness
Figure 5.5: Fully-loaded region of continuous-state model, symmetric CSI, in 3-user case.
00.1
0.20.3
0.40.5
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
λ2
λ1
λ 3
Channel Awareness
Without channel awareness
Figure 5.6: Fully-loaded region of continuous-state model in 3-user case, another viewpoint.
32
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
λ1
λ 2
 
 
KD=1, KP=1
KD=1, KP=2
KD=1, KP=4
Continuous stste
Figure 5.7: Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, symmetric CSI, fixed KD.
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
0.4
λ1
λ 2
 
 
KD=1, KP=1
KD=2, KP=1
KD=4, KP=1
Continuous stste
Figure 5.8: Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, symmetric CSI, fixed KP .
is exploited in this case. We compare the fully-loaded regions under KP = 1, 2, 4. On the
other hand, as shown in Fig. 5.8, we fix KP = 1 and see the variation of fully-loaded
34
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
λ1
λ 2
 
 
KD=1, KP=1
KD=2, KP=1
KD=4, KP=1
Continuous stste
Figure 5.10: Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, asymmetric CSI, fixed KP .
The value of KD × KP represents the total available transmission modes that user can
adopt according to the channel. The more modes of transmission control there are, the more
complicated the transmission control is. Suppose that we constrain that each user can only
adopt KD × KP = 4 (or KD × KP = 8) transmission modes, the fully-loaded region for
symmetric CSI and asymmetric CSI are given in Fig. 5.11 and 5.13 (or Fig. 5.12 and 5.14),
respectively. We investigate the tradeoff between KD and KP . Specifically, when choosing
KP = 1, both of users adopt transmission control mainly according to the CSI on the link
to the AP regardless the interuser channels. On the other hand, KD = 1 represents the case
that the transmission controls are designed according to the CSI on the interuser channels.
we further adjust other set of parameters (KD, KP ) such that KD ×KP is fixed. In general,
we find that the region with larger KD totally covers the regions with smaller KD, except
for the asymmetric case in Fig. 5.14. In Fig. 5.14, since that user 2 suffers poor channel
quality and the relay path provided by user 1 plays an important role for the transmission
of user 2, user 2 will benefit more rate under the case (KD, KP ) = (2, 4) than the case
36
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
λ1
λ 2
 
 
KD=1, KP=4
KD=2, KP=2
KD=4, KP=1
Continuous stste
Figure 5.13: Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, asymmetric CSI, the tradeoff
between KD and KP .
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8
0
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
0.35
λ1
λ 2
 
 
KD=1, KP=8
KD=2, KP=4
KD=4, KP=2
KD=8, KP=1
Continuous stste
Figure 5.14: Fully-loaded region of quantized channel state, asymmetric CSI, the tradeoff
between KD and KP .
38
The definition of N -user sum throughput rate is defined as
λtot =
N∑
i=1
λi. (5.4)
Suppose that each user will transmit its packet with average transmission probability as 1
N
,
the sum throughput in (5.4) is equal to (4.9) with βi = 1, i = 1, 2, ..., N . Thus, we have
λtot =
N∑
i=1
∫
si(γi)Ψ(γiD)dFγi(γi)×
∏
`∈Oi
(1− p`) (5.5)
= N
∫
s1(γ1)Ψ(γ1D)dFγ1(γ1)×
∏
`∈O1
(1− p`). (5.6)
Note that, the inter-user terms in (4.9),
[
1 − Ψ(γiD)
]
Ψ(γi,max), are eliminated since that
βi = 1, ∀i. And 5.6 applies since that each user is i.i.d.. Therefore, users shall transmit
whenever the reception probability at the AP, Ψ(γiD), is larger then a threshold φ such that
the average transamination probability is equal to 1
N
. That is, the optimal transmission
control of user i is a function of γiD as
si(γiD) = 1[γ≥F−1γiD (1−1/N)]
.
In Fig. 5.15, the sum throughput is plotted for N = 2 to 50 with and without channel
awareness. And obviously, the transmission controls with channel awareness provide signif-
icant improvement on the sum throughput. In the case with channel awareness, each user
transmit with average probability 1/2 or 1/3 when the network consists of only two or three
users. Since that the average probability 1/2 or 1/3 is pretty high compared with the average
reception probability ψiD, each user may still transmit even it suffers under poor channel
conditions. Thus, the transmission under the poor channel does not gain more throughput,
however, result in higher collision probability instead. Hence the sum throughput is smaller
when the total number of users is small.
Moreover, as the total number of users goes to infinity, i,e, the average transmission
probability of each user will attend to 0. Under this case, each user is supposed to transmit
40
Chapter 6
Conclusion
By exploiting the multiuser diversity and the cooperative diversity in slotted ALOHA sys-
tems, the optimal transmission control function that determines the transmission probabil-
ity that each user should adopt under difference channel state was derived to maximize the
achievable stable throughput of the network. With the knowledge of channel state informa-
tion, users can choose their favorite time when they experience better channel conditions
to transmit. By constraining the transmission modes that each user can have, the accuracy
that users quantize their CSI on the channel to the AP was shown to dominate the sys-
tem performance. Moreover, by the aid of user cooperation, the exogenous arrival rate that
each user can accommodate without having its queue unstable can be considerably enlarged,
especially for the users who suffer poor channel qualities.
Our proposed system jointly took the advantages of user cooperation and the channel-
aware transmission control. In this thesis, the N -user fully-loaded region was derived as
the system performance measure to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed channel-
aware transmission control with and without transmission mode constrain. We pointed
that, the optimal transmission control function has the form of the step function. That
is, when user’s effective packet reception probability is above a threshold, it shall definitely
transmit and, otherwise, it should keep silent. The advantage of cooperation was evident
42
Chapter 7
Appendix
7.1 The Fully-loaded Stability Region is Convex under
a given set of transmission parameters
In this section, we are going to prove that the fully-loaded region under a given set of
average transmission probabilities and rejection probabilities ω = (p1, p2, ..., pN , r1, r2, ..., rN)
is convex for arbitrary N -user systems.
According to the definition of N -user fully-loaded stability region, for any two arrival
rate vectors λ(A), λ(B) in this region, where
λ(A) =
(
λ
(A)
1 , . . . , λ
(A)
N
)
,
λ(B) =
(
λ
(B)
1 , . . . , λ
(B)
N
)
,
there exist two corresponding transmission parameters
α(A) =
(
s
(A)
1 , . . . , s
(A)
N , r1, . . . , rN
)
,
α(B) =
(
s
(B)
1 , . . . , s
(B)
N , r1, . . . , rN
)
,
that can accommodate the two arrival rate vectors, λ(A) and λ(B), respectively. Moreover,
for any intermediate arrival rate vector,
λ(C) =
(
λ
(C)
1 , . . . , λ
(C)
N
)
= θλ(A) + (1− θ)λ(B), ∀ 0 ≤ θ ≤ 1,
44
Let define a new transmission controls {s(C)i } as
s
(C)
i = θs
(A)
i + (1− θ)s(B)i , ∀i = 1, . . . , N (7.2)
and define that
α(C) =
(
s
(C)
1 , . . . , s
(C)
N , r1, . . . , rN
)
. (7.3)
Note that, the average transmission probability of s
(C)
i is equal to pi, for i = 1, 2, ..., N .
Hence, the new transmission controls {s(C)i } satisfy the given transmission paramters ω
and can also stably accommodate the interior arrival rate vector λ(C) as shown in (7.1).
Consequently, for any intermediate point of the two rate vectors λ(A) and λ(B) in the fully-
loaded region, the intermediate point is also located within the fully-loaded region under the
transmission parameters ω. Hence, we conclude that the fully-loaded region is convex for a
certain ω = (p1, . . . pN , r1, . . . , rN).
7.2 The optimal transmission controls are step func-
tions
With the aid of Lemma 1, it is known that the transmission control that can achieve the
boundary point of the fully-loaded region given a set of transmission control paramters
ω = (p1, p2, ..., pN , r1, r2, ..., rN) is the one that maximizes the weighted sum throughput as
max
{
β1λ1 + · · ·+ βNλN
}
. (7.4)
Let us define a set of thresholding transmission control functions as
si(γi) = 1[φi(γi)>Φi], ∀i = 1, . . . , N, (7.5)
where Φi are chosen to satisfy
E
[
si(γi)
]
=
∫
γi
1[φi(γi)>Φi]fγi(γi)dγi = pi, ∀i.
46
Bibliography
[1] R. Knopp and P. A. Humblet, “Information capacity and power control in single-cell
multiuser communications,” in IEEE International Conference on Communications,
Jun. 1995.
[2] P. Viswanath, D. N. C. Tse, and R. Laroia, “Opportunistic beamforming using dumb
antennas,” IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, vol. 48, pp. 1277-1294, 2002.
[3] A. Sendonaris, E. Erkip, and B. Aazhang, “User Cooperation Diversity–Part I: System
Description” and “User Cooperation Diversity–Part II: Implementation Aspects and
Performance Analysis,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. 51, no. 11, Nov. 2003.
[4] J. Laneman, D. Tse, and G. Wornell, “Cooperative diversity in wireless networks: Ef-
ficient protocols and outage behavior,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 50, no. 12, pp.
3062–3080, Dec. 2004.
[5] “IEEE P802.11 -WIRELESS NEXT GENERATION STANDING COMMITTEE,” in
http://grouper.ieee.org/groups/802/11/Reports/WNG update.htm.
[6] F. H. P. Fitzek and M. D. Katz, “Cooperative Techniques in the IEEE 802Wireless Stan-
dards: Opportunities and Challenges,” in Cooperation in Wireless Networks: Principles
and Applications, 2006.
48
