 Abstract 
According to the coming of digital life, people can acquire any amount of multimedia information through 
the Internet and variety of digital device. It is a crucial problem to rapidly and efficiently deal with these 
data including text, images, audio, video and etc. Moreover, in the sub-area of 3- dimensional computer 
graphics and animation, it changes the human vision from plane to stereo, and provides much interactive 
experience. When making a title of 3D computer animation, two important data are needed: one is 3D model, 
the other is motion data streams. The latter offer action by trajectory, and it can be computed by motion 
capturing devices. These data acquired from expensive devices must be post processed that they will be 
usable. The processing includes segmentation, recognition, classification and pruning. The report proposed a 
novel representation of mocap data, and recognizing the matching data more rapidly than other strategies. 
And the approach can be used for retrieving the suitable sub-motion from existing ones. 
 
Keywords: mocap data, recognition, classifications, computer animation 
 
摘要 
數位生活時代的來臨，使得我們可以透過網路與各種數位設備，取得豐富的多媒體資訊。而對於能夠
快速與有效率地去傳輸與處理這些包含文字、語音、影像、視訊等訊號，始終是個重要的議題。特別
是在三維圖像與電腦動畫的領域，它能滿足人們在電子設備上，不再只是看到二維平面的資訊，而是
三維且有更多互動性的資訊。在三維電腦動畫中除了三維模型外，還有賦予其運動屬性的動作串流資
料。為求逼真，這些動作多是使用動作捕捉器(MOCAP)取得。傳統上，這些透過昂貴人員與設備代價
取得的大量資料，尚需經過繁雜的人為後處理的動作，方能套用到動畫程式或軟體中使用。本計畫的
目的，就是要研究如何對這些 MOCAP 取得的動作資料，作切割,辨識與分類之處理。在本年度進行的
工作就是對單一動作做辨識與分類，我們利用關節點的幾何關係當作特徵值，再將這些特徵值序列的
正規表示描述預辨識的動作(例如走路)。根據被搜尋動作中所找到的對應序列長度，辨識動作是否符
合。 
 
關鍵字：動作捕捉資料、辨識、分類、三維電腦動畫 
 
2. Proposed Approach 
2.1 Geometric Attributes by Boolean Values 
The posture represents the status of the body such as standing, sitting, raising a leg, or etc. A posture can be 
defined by many geometrical characteristics in the body, and the geometrical characteristic can be defined 
by the position of a joint, an angle between two bones, or a relation among several bones. For reducing the 
complexity of joints in one frame, we just extract some attributes related to one specific action. 
 
For simplicity, in the following we assume the specific action is ‘walking’ regardless of fast or slow. 
Suppose that niia ,,1),(deg_ K=  and niib ,,1),(deg_ K=  are two angles of left and right angles. When 
walking normally, the two legs will be bent alternatively. A threshold θ   is set to represent the leg is bent or 
not. So, we transform the geometric attributes into Boolean by the following equations. That is, if 
)(/)( ibia is 1 for some i , it means that the left/right leg is bent in this frame. 
 
ni
ia
i_a
ia ,,1
)(deg_if,1
)(degif,0
)( K=⎩⎨
⎧
≥
<= θ
θ
          (1) 
ni
ib
i_b
ib ,,1
)(deg_if,1
)(degif,0
)( K=⎩⎨
⎧
≥
<= θ
θ
          (2) 
 
2.2 Recognition of Geometric Attributes 
Consider the case in last section, each frame has two attributes which mean the two legs are bending or not. 
Furthermore we’ll use the regular expression to describe the overall frames for one motion sequence. For 
simplicity, the attributes )(ia  or )(ib  are abbreviated as A  or B . The sequence of walking or running 
can be defined as follows: 
**** )()()()()()()()()()( BABABABABABABABABABA ++++++ +     (3) 
That above formula of regular expression means that the two legs are alternative bent and straight 
periodically. Then, if a motion sequence matches the formula, it is a walking or running sequence. The 
definition of matching is measured by a threshold σ  between 0 and 1. 
σ>∑
n
substringmatchinglength )(
          (4) 
That is, the above equation Eq(4) represents the motion sequence matches the action defined by Eq(3). 
 
3. Experimental Results 
Figure 2a, 2c and 2e show the angle variation of two knees, the former two sub-figures are very different 
from the former. And the walking sequences before and after sitting in subfigure 2e are similar to the 
sequences in 2a and 2c. Figure 2b, 2d and 2f shows the transformation of Figure 2a, 2c and 2e respectively 
by Eq(1) and Eq(2). 
