Bass model, memory based reasoning process, estimate 
parameters, test and verify. First, we consider 
external parameter to modify Bass model to apply for 
PCB product. Second, we applied c (MBR) concept on 
the modified Bass model to build a case base. Third, 
in a modified Bass model, the traditional estimation 
methods could not get the satisfied results. We have 
conducted research using the genetic algorithm (GA) 
for an efficient parameter estimation method for new 
product forecasting. Finally, we used the real PCB 
sales data to test and verify our methods. In the 
guide model, results show that the proposed model 
using integrated MBR and Bass can gain the superior 
forecasting efficiency and performance in the whole. 
英文關鍵詞： Memory based reasoning； Demand forecasting； Bass 
model； Genetic algorithm 
 
1行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
應用融合記憶式推理與基因演算法之新產品預測模型於 PCB 產業
Using a hybrid GA and CBR approach for new product forecast in PCB
industry
計畫編號：NSC 100-2218-E-147 -001
執行期間： 100 年 1月 1日至 100 年 10 月 31 日
主持人：張谷光 德明財經科技大學物流管理系
中文摘要
預測在供應鏈管理之中，屬於早期規劃的重要環節，預測結果的準確與否，會影響後端的物料規
劃與排程計畫，甚至延伸至供應鏈末端零售商的補貨計畫。需求預測則是著重在提昇產品預測的準確
性，產品預測效果越好，越能針對此產品進行適當的需求規劃。在印刷電路板的供應鏈中，因應電子
產品不斷推陳出新，PCB產品的類型也隨之增加，新產品預測顯得更形重要，新產品預測往往較現有
產品困難，因為新產品缺乏長期的銷售資料。本研究建立一套以融合記憶式推理與BASS模型之混合預
測模型，模型前端架構以記憶式推理模型為主，後端架構以BASS模型為主，目前新產品預測的方式仍
然常以單一模型為主，但效果仍然具有加強的空間存在，BASS模型屬於一種常用的新產品預測模型，
但它無法建立考量新產品與過去產品之相似性，記憶式推理已被廣泛的應用於各類型預測問題且獲得
十分良好的求解效率與品質。因此，本研究提出了一種的融合記憶式推理應用於BASS模型之混合預測
模型，並以基因演算法做出參數估計，藉此啟發式演算法之優點套入所提出的混合預測模型之中。本
計劃以簡易的產品資料驗證本模型的概念，結果顯示本模型無論在歷史資料的配適程度或是對未來的
預測效果都比過去的預測模型優秀。
關鍵字：記憶式推理、需求預測、BASS 模型、基因演算法
Abstract
Forecasting is an important part of supply chain management. The forecasting accuracy will influence
the material planning and the scheduling; even affect the replenishment plan of the retailer of the supply chain
downstream. Demand forecasting emphasized on how to promote forecasting accuracy of the products. We
could obtain a more suitable demand plan and a better forecasting due to the higher degree of accuracy. If we
promote the accuracy of demand forecasting, we can monitor the forecasting accuracy and avoid the shortage
or too many stocks in the whole supply chain. In printed circuit board (PCB) industries, the sales of new PCB
product follow the development of consumer electronic products. To improve the accuracy of the new product
forecasting, we combine two different theories which include memory based reasoning and Bass model. To
address our concern, we developed a new product forecasting methodology that considers four phases
such as modify Bass model, memory based reasoning process, estimate parameters, test and verify. First, we
consider external parameter to modify Bass model to apply for PCB product. Second, we applied c (MBR)
concept on the modified Bass model to build a case base. Third, in a modified Bass model, the traditional
3 



 



tqp
tqp
e
p
q
e
tF
)(
)(
)(1
1
)(
,t 0 (1)
The parameters p and q are usually interpreted as coefficient of innovation and imitation. F(t) is the
cumulative distribution of adoptions at time t. Kalish [2] later proposed a model that regarded price a factor to
be considered when estimating market potential. Speece and Maclachlan [3] extended the Norton and Bass
model by including pricing and market growth. Mahajan and Muller [4] expanded the Norton and Bass model
to downgrade original assumptions having to do with the adopted generations of the multi-generation model.
They demonstrated how their model was suitable for IBM mainframe computers cases. Islam and Meade [5]
were assured that innovations and imitations of the Norton and Bass model would be made in the future. In
their study, the coefficient of imitation (q) was seen to increase over time between multi-national mobile
telephones. Kim et al. [6] presented the Norton and Bass model in a different way; they took into
consideration the inter-category and generational dynamics. They employed the same function to obtain the
data, while including several generations of the same device. Kim and Srivastava [7] recently extended Kim et
al.’s approach, suggesting two kinds of sales growth diffusion models to deal with the effects of dynamic
prices on other related products in computing platforms. The forecasting performance of the proposed model
was shown to be more valuable than when it was without the inter-category effects’ model.Based on the
above, recent studies show that the modified Bass model could obtain a better forecasting performance than
the original. In the practical, the people always consider the past experience in life. Several forecasting models
have developed such as ARIMA, moving average and exponential smoothing. However, the past Bass models
which have been relatively little research conducted on the curves of past time series. The common techniques
used for estimating the Bass model that have been proposed in the literature, such as Ordinary Least Squares
(OLS), Maximum Likelihood estimation (MLE), and Non-linear Least Squares (NLS) have drawbacks in the
forecasts of product sales growth respectively. NLS is the most accurate procedure and OLS the simplest one.
Venkatesan and Kumar [8] argued for GA for Bass parameter estimation in wireless subscribers. They
obtained parameter estimates exhibit better consistency by using GA than NLS and OLS. However, GA
requires excessive computation time in the solving optimization problem without a good initial solution.
Wang and Chang [9] suggested a hybrid method that combined GA with NLS to estimate Bass parameters.
The method integrated NLS solution into GA. It can achieve a good fitting and forecasting performance. Up
to now, GA usually solves the Bass model parameter estimation for single product forecasting. Recognizing
the need for an efficient parameter estimation method for multi-product forecasting, we have conducted
research using the hybrid genetic algorithm (GA).
Case-Based Reasoning (CBR) was proposed by Schank and Abelson [10] as one of the Artificial
Intelligence (AI) techniques. CBR was stimulated by a desire to understand how people remember
information and were in turn reminded of information; and that subsequently it was recognized that people
commonly solved problems by remembering how they solved similar problems in the past. Waston [11]
regarded as CBR methodology for problem solving that might use any appropriate technology. Aamodt and
Plaza [12] described the classical CBR model, which defines the problem-solving cycle in four different steps:
Retrieval, Reuse, Revise and Retain. Recent studies have witnessed increased interest in a variety of
researches of the CBR methodology. Yunyan [13] made an enhanced CBR approach suggestion by adding one
new component into the representation model and a new reasoning algorithm to retrieve spatial relationships
53…m, t= 1, 2, 3…n.
After the preparation of the CBR, the next part of the analysis is that solve the new case by the four steps:
Retrieval, Reuse, Revise and Retain.
Step 1: Retrieval
To ensure the easy comparison among the new case and the old case, the attribute of the new case is
obtained by the function (2) and (3). The compared method in CBR is called similarity function. In this study,
we adopt the Euclidean Distance method which is the common way in the past papers of the CBR in the
similarity calculation. Each distance of the old case represents the similarity between the new case and the old
case. The smaller the Euclidean Distance, the more similarity that is between the new case and the old case.
The Euclidean Distance method in this paper can be denoted by the following function:
 


n
i
jttj AaD
1
2 (4)
where jD =the Euclidean Distance value of the case j, j= 1, 2, 3…m, t= 1, 2, 3…n. ta =the attribute value of
the new case which the slope between the t period and the t+1 period, t= 1, 2, 3…n.
Step 2: Reuse.
The solution of the similarity case was solved the new case. If the new case would be solved, it would be
stored in the case base. If the new case was not solved, it would be revised. In the most situations, the
similarity case still was revised because of having the extremely revision space.
Step 3: Revise
In our model, the attribute of the case was reflected the variation of the curve. According to the step1, it was
chosen the most similarity case and returned the original value. In the step, using the following functions
revise the most similarity attribution to the forecast.
11 NC 
)1()1(   sttt ACC (5)
where stA =the attribute of the most similarity case s in the t period, t= 1, 2, 3…n. tN = the actual value of
the new case in the t period, t= 1, 2, 3…n. tC = the forecast value by the CBR inference in the t period, t= 1, 2,
3…n.
Step 4: Retain
The case must be stored in the case based once it was solved the problem. With the increase of the case and
provided the appearance of the new problem, that case based would be much more extensively and accuracy
in our model.
Stage 3–Combine the forecast produced by Bass model and CBR
The purpose of this stage is to combine forecasts with the linear method obtained from Bass model and
CBR forecasts. Generally, a combined forecast will have a smaller forecast error. Several techniques such as
the minimum values of the forecast error, the adaptive weights and the regression analysis can be used to
obtain the weights. Nelson [14] suggested the regression method to combine forecasts which is given as
follows.
7According to the data from Bass model, we found that the MAPE values of all rolling for the historical
periods are 10.06%, 9.48% and 9.83%, respectively. Then, according to verified forecast, the MAPE of the
holdout periods of all four models are 12.85%, 14.1% and 4.47%, respectively.
The result at stage 2
In this stage, we calculate the attribute of the new case is obtained by the function (2) and (3). The data is
shown in Table IV.
Table IV The attributes of the donut sales
After calculate the attribute of the new case, we use the CBR four steps to inference the most similarity case
by the function (4). In the end, we get the prediction of the sales data by the function (5). The rolling concept
of the analysis is the same that the Bass model. The most similarity case in CBR analysis for each rolling is
the 1867th case of the 3003 time series. The results are shown in Table V and VI.
Table V The attributes of the most similarity case in CBR analysis
According to the data from CBR, we found that the MAPE values of all rolling for the historical periods are
16.02%, 17.48% and 16.99%, respectively. Then, according to verified forecast, the MAPE of the holdout
periods of all four models are 21.86%, 8.28% and 6.29%, respectively. The results showed that the prediction
of the Bass model was fitter than CBR. The CBR in this result showed a medium performance of MAPE as a
9VI. Reference
[1] F.M. Bass,“A new product growth model for consumer durables,”Manage. Sci., vol.15, pp.215-227, 1969.
[2] S. Kalish, “A new product adoption model with pricing, advertising, and uncertainty,”Manage. Sci., vol.
31, pp.1569-1585, 1985.
[3] M.W. Speece and D.L. Maclachlan, “Application of a Multi-Generation Diffusion Model to Milk
Container Technology,”Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang., vol. 49, pp.281-295, 1995.
[4] V. Mahajan and E. Muller,“Timing, diffusion, and substitution of successive generations of technological
innovations: The IBM mainframe case,”Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang., vol. 51, pp.109–132, 1996.
[5] T. Islam and N. Meade, “The diffusion of successive generations of a technology: a more general
model,”Technol. Forecast. Soc. Chang., vol. 56, pp.49–60, 1997.
[6] N. Kim, D.R. Chang, and A.D. Shocker, “Modelling intercategory and generational dynamics for a
growing information technology industry,”Manage. Sci., vol. 46, pp.496–512, 2000.
[7] N. Kim and R.K. Srivastava, “Modeling cross-price effects on intercategory dynamics: The case of three
computing platforms,”Omega, vol. 35, pp.290–301, 2007.
[8] R. Venkatesan and V. Kumar, “A genetic algorithms approach to growth phase forecasting of wireless
subscribers,”Int. J. Forecast., vol. 18, pp.625–646, 2002.
[9] F.K. Wang and K.K. Chang, “Modified diffusion model with multiple products using a hybrid GA
approach,”Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 36, pp.12613-12620, 2009.
[10] R. Schank and R. Abelson, Scripts, Plans, Goals and Understanding. Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, 1977.
[11] I. Watson, “Case-based reasoning is a methodology not a technology,” Knowledge-Based Syst., vol. 12,
pp.303-308, 1999.
[12] A. Aamodt and E. Plaza,“Case-Based Reasoning：Foundational issues, Methodological Variations, and
System Approaches,”AI Commun., vol. 7, pp.139-158, 1994.
[13] D. Yunyan, W. Wei, C. Feng, and J. Min, “A case-based reasoning approach for land use change
prediction,”Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 37, pp.5745-5750, 2010.
[14] K. Zhao and X. Yu, “A case based reasoning approach on supplier selection in petroleum
enterprises,”Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 38, pp.6839-6847, 2011.
[15] International Institute of Forecasters, http://forecasters.org/index.html.
[16] C. R. Nelson,“A benchmark for the accuracy of econometric forecasts of GNP,”Business Econo., vol. 19,
52-58, 1984.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用融合記憶式推理與基因演算法之新產品預測模型於PCB產業
計畫主持人: 張谷光
計畫編號: 100-2218-E-147-001- 學門領域: 生產系統規劃與管制
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
協助提供 PCB 產業實際運用之參考 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
