Pulse-DC Reactive Sputtering Deposition of SiNx:H Film and Its 
Application to Passivation and Anti-Reflection Film for Si Solar Cells  
 
SiNx:H film was fabricated by pulse-DC reactive sputtering method using Ar and forming gas (5% H2 in N2) 
as sputtering gas, and its application to anti-reflection film for Si solar cells was investigated. This film was 
deposited on single side of Fz-Si wafer, and the effective lifetime of minority charge carriers τeff was improved 
from ~5 μs to 87 μs, which is comparative to that of dry thermal oxide of 104 μs. Monocrystalline Si solar cell was 
fabricated using this SiNx:H film as the anti-reflective film, and conversion efficiency of 16.3% was achieved.   
 
1. Introduction 
Most anti-reflection (AR) coatings for multi 
crystalline solar cells are hydrogen containing silicon 
nitride (SiNx:H) layers deposited by plasma enhanced 
chemical vapor deposition (PECVD). Use of explosive 
SiH4 gas and short service cycles are drawbacks of this 
method. On this account, midium-frequency magnetron 
sputtering deposition of SiNx:H was developed
1
, and  
cell efficiency of 15,3 % have been achieved. This result 
demonstrated the quality of sputtered SiNx:H layers for 
the use on multi-crystalline solar cells. On the other hand, 
in a field of thin-film transistors, RF sputtering deposited 
SiO2 film has been shown to be having excellent film 
quality
2
. We also have developed pulse-DC sputtering 
SiO2 film for gate insulator of thin-film transistor, and 
from metal oxide silicon (MOS) structure the breakdown 
field and interface state density were measured to be as 
high as 7MV/cm and in the order of 10
11
cm
-2
eV
-1
, 
respectively
3
. These results demonstrated excellent 
quality of sputtered SiO2 film on Si surface. In this paper, 
SiNx:H film was deposited by the same pulse-DC 
magnetron sputtering method using Ar, N2, and H2 gases, 
and monocrystalline Si solar cell fabricated using this 
film as the AR film will be demonstrated.  
 
2. Experimental method 
 
Pulse-DC reactive sputtering deposition of SiNx:H films 
Typical capacitance coupled magnetron sputtering 
system with pulse-DC power source was used for SiNx:H 
film deposition. Ar gas and forming gas (5% H2 in N2) 
were used for sputtering gas. Here the hydrogen in 
SiNx:H film is essential for Si defect passivation in 
subsequent Ag/Al electrode firing process, and here we 
use forming gas from a view point of experimental safety. 
The sputtering target was 5000 Ωcm Si. The standard 
condition for SiNx:H film deposition was shown in 
Table.I. In sample preparation, single side mirror polished 
n-type Fz-Si wafer with a resistivity of 1000 Ωcm was 
used as a substrate. The substrate was cleaned in high 
concentration ozone water, and then surface native oxide 
was removed by 1% HF solution. Then the substrate was 
loaded into chamber, and was exposed to forming gas 
plasma for 20 min for further surface cleaning. Then 
100nm-thick SiNx:H film was deposited on single side of 
the substrate. The substrate temperature during film 
deposition was kept at 190
o
C, however, as far as we know 
there is no obvious difference on effective lifetime even 
without substrate heating. The sample’s effective lifetime 
of minority charge carriers τeff was measured by 
quasi-steady-state photo conductance method
4
. In this 
study, double side thermally oxidized Si wafer was 
prepared for comparison with our samples. For this 
thermally oxidized Si wafer, forming gas annealing at 
400
o
C for 30min was done for further increment of τeff.  
 
Cell Processing 
Monocrystalline Si solar cell was fabricated using 
the sputtering SiNx:H film as the AR layer. Fig.1 shows 
fabrication process for solar cell. The video of fabrication 
process was also open to the public in referred site [5]. P 
type as-cut monocrystalline Si wafer for solar cells with a 
resistivity of 1~5 Ωcm was used as substrate. Cell size 
was 1.4 cm
2
. The substrate was cleaned in high 
concentration ozone water, and then was anisotropically 
textured in Tetra-Methyl Ammonium Hydroxide (TMAH) 
solution
6
. Then the substrate was dipped in phosphoric 
acid and then loaded into annealing furnace for 
phophosilicate glass (PSG) formation and successive 
phosphoric diffusion to form n
+
 emitter on the surface of 
Si wafer
7
. Here the furnace temperature was kept at 
875~925 
o
C. After n
+
 emitter formation, PSG was 
removed by using buffered oxide etch (BOE). The sample 
Table. I.  Standard condition for sputtering
0.2 – 0.8Ar / (Ar + Forming Gas)
170 Pulse-DC Power P (W)
2 – 200Depo. pressure Dp (mTorr)
190Substrate temp. Tsub (℃)
2×10-6Base pressure (Torr)
Optical characteristics of sputtering SiNx:H AR film 
Figure 4(a) and 4(b) shows scanning electron 
microscope (SEM) image of as-cut Si wafer and that after 
anisotropic etching. The surface of as-cut Si wafer is very 
rough, but after anisotropic etching the pyramid structure 
was uniformly formed over the Si wafer. Fig.5 shows the 
wavelength related reflectivity of Si wafer before and 
after anisotropic etching, and that further after 
50nm-thick SiNx:H AR coating. The average reflectivity 
in visible wavelength of as-cut Si wafer was 32.4%, and 
improved to 14.8% after texturing, and then further 
reduced to 3.5% after deposition of AR film. This result 
demonstrates good optical characteristics of sputtering 
deposited SiNx:H film.  
 
 
Electrical characteristics of Si solar cell  
Figure 6 shows I-V characteristics under AM1.5 
solar simulator illumination of solar cell fabricated using 
sputtering SiNx:H AR film and the 17.6% reference cell. 
Based on I-V characteristics, open circuit voltage Voc, 
short circuit current density Jsc, fill factor (FF), and 
conversion efficiency η, were listed on Table II. Voc of 
sample in this study is 0.56V, which is lower than the 
reference cell of 0.60V. n
+
 emitter diffusion process using 
phosphoric acid as precursor can be further optimized to 
increase Voc. The Jsc in our sample, on the other hand, is 
31.8 mA/cm
2
 which is slightly higher than reference cell 
of 30.7 mA/cm
2
. The conversion efficiency η is 16.3%. 
This result demonstrated the quality of pulse-DC 
sputtered SiNx:H layers for the use on multi-crystalline 
solar cells. 
 
 
 
4. Conclusions 
SiNx:H film was fabricated by pulse-DC reactive 
sputtering method using Ar and forming gas as sputtering 
gas. This film was deposited on single side of Fz-Si wafer, 
and the effective lifetime of minority charge carriers τeff 
improved from ~5 μs to 87 μs, which is comparative to 
that of dry thermal oxide of 104 μs. Monocrystalline Si 
solar cell fabricated using this SiNx:H film as the AR 
film shows the connversion efficiency of 16.3%. This 
result demonstrated the quality of pulse-DC sputtered 
SiNx:H layers for the use on multi-crystalline solar cells. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. SEM image of (a) as-cut Si wafer,
(b) Si wafer after anisotropic etching.      
[Scale bar = 10 μm]
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6
Voltage (V)
C
u
rr
en
t 
D
en
si
ty
 (
m
A
/c
m
2
)
Exposed light：AM 1.5
Cell area：1.36 cm2
Cell in this study
Reference cell (17.6%)
Fig.5. I-V characteristics under AM1.5 solar simulator 
illumination of solar cell fabricated using sputtering 
SiNx:H AR film and the 17.6% reference cell. 
C
u
rr
en
t 
D
en
si
ty
 (
m
A
/c
m
2
)
16.36931.80.56Cell in this study
17.66830.70.60Reference cell
η [%]F.F. [%]Jsc [mA/cm
2]Voc [V]
Table II.  Parameters of solar cells
 (ITC'10) 參加報告 
 
敝人受邀前往 1 月 28，29 在日本兵庫縣姬路舉辦之 ITC10 研討會演講。該
研討會全名為 International Thin-Film Transistor Conference 2010，所以是聚焦在
TFT 技術之研討會。本研討會是由日本與韓國之產學界相關研究人員所發起， 
2005 年舉辦第一屆，地點在韓國慶熙大學，主持人為此領域有名之 Jing Jang 教
授。今年已是第五屆，由日本兵庫縣立大學主辦，主持人為該大學之松尾直人教
授。 
姬路市離大阪約 1 小時之新幹線車程，本人在 1/27 由台北啟程前往大阪關
西機場，再由大阪前往姬路市之住宿飯店。晚上 8 點左右抵達 comfort 飯店後即
在客廳遇見琉球大學之野口隆教授與其研究室成員正在進行隔天預計發表之簡
報練習。本人放下行李即與野口教授匯流，並開始簡報練習。這幾年參加日本舉
辦之研討會總是被安排口頭發表，雖然旁觀者總是以為出國發表如同在出國度
假，其實不然，到現在還總是準備投影片到夜晚，然後寫稿，接著背英文。所以
研討會期間總是在熬夜。加上緊張，研討會下來總是瘦 1，2 公斤。而白天期間
則是聽取別人的成果發表，也藉此掌握研發趨勢，並尋求研究靈感。 
研討會發表內容，依據使用材料可區分為非晶矽(a-Si)，低溫多晶矽(LTPS)，
奈米晶矽，氧化金屬，及有機，等材料。其中 a-Si 已算是成熟的技術，因此發表
較少。較熱門的是氧化金屬。自日本東京工業大學細野教授發表 IGZO-TFT 以來，
包括 Canon，友達，及 Samsung 等大企業都有投入研發，因此發表之發問相當踴
躍。惟其最大問題在於難以 CMOS 化，因此其應用應該在於 a-Si 之替代。尤其
未來 OLED 等自發光顯示器之 TFT 需要較大之電流驅動能力，移動率為 a-Si10
倍且製程可使用大面積濺鍍法之 IGZO 將是可望替代 a-Si 之材料。但也有意見認
為，由 a-Si 轉為 IGZO 時之技術差異過大而無法延續 Si 材料之技術累積，加上
IGZO 之性能優勢差距並不是非常足夠，因此也有人認為，未來還仍是 Si 材料為
主之局面。為了提高 a-Si 之移動率，遂有奈米晶矽之提案。近幾年在奈米晶矽之
研究亦相當熱絡，尤其歐洲方面對此材料之研究發表甚多。 
本人則發表以全濺鍍法配合金屬蔽陰遮罩製作之低溫多晶矽 CMOS，全程不
需微影製程，而只要使用五道蔽陰遮罩在 200 度之低溫依序濺鍍沉積 i-Si, p-Si, 
n-Si, SiO2, Al, 即完成 CMOS，所得之 CMOS 可得到 Rail to Rail 特性，其 Gain 可
達 103。 
研討會第一天晚上為晚宴，雖是社交，但經過 7~8 年的出道時間長期經營，
與多半成員都已熟識，因此這場合就是與相關研究人員朋友聊聊天，只是在聊天
的同時也可彼此交換研究上的心得，因此也都有很大收穫。 
29 日傍晚結束研討會，該晚接著與幾位研究者續攤應酬。隔天週六獨自前
往姬路城觀光，隔日由關西機場回到台灣，結束此次研討會行程。 
 
  
 
  
 
