depending on the low reliability by handcrafted skill or high cost for 
using Nd:YAG laser. Finally, the key technique of laser marking 
and the perfect characteristics of the fiber laser can be transferred to 
the industry and directly lead to the increase in productivity and 
efficiency of the manufacturers. 
 
 
  1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
光纖雷射對車輛零組件進行雷射標誌技術之發展 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2628-E-020-001 
執行期限：99 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 07 月 31 日 
主持人：張金龍   屏東科技大學車輛工程系 
共同主持人：梁智創   屏東科技大學車輛工程系 
              計畫參與人員：陳冠宇、張永楠、吳峻瑋、張瑞涵、陳當賢、郭永涵 
 
摘要 
本研究主要探討以光纖雷射對車輛零組
件在接受雕刻的過程中，雷射光束對材料表面
造成退火之情況並針對調整雷射功率、雕刻速
度、脈波頻率下來觀察，而使得材料表面出現
不同顏色的變化。研究結果顯示：在不同參數
下雕刻不鏽鋼 304 在表面有拋光、未拋光及噴
砂處理這些材質中相比，三者皆可以產生顏色
的變化，但以有拋光之不鏽鋼 304 雕刻後的效
果最好。另外，當隨著功率增大與雕刻次數增
加時，由於雕刻深度過大而不易顯現色彩的變
化。此外，當雷射功率太小時，則根本無法顯
現出顏色；而隨著雷射功率逐漸增加，雕刻次
數對色彩變化的影響力也會因顏色變化而逐
漸減少。但隨著雕刻次數的增加，則會使顏色
加深。為了了解變色的原因，本文主要是採用
不鏽鋼 304 來進行分析，經過 X 光繞射儀
(XRD)、光學顯微鏡(OM)來做分析，在 XRD
下可以觀察到不同顏色下產生不同的氧化物
多寡；在 OM 下可以觀察到雷射加工過與未加
工地方的顏色變化。藉由此雷射變色標誌處理
技術，可將其應用在車輛零組件防偽或識別條
碼，以提升其防偽功能。 
 
關鍵詞：不鏽鋼、雷射標誌、車輛零組件 
 
ABSTRACT 
This study investigated the laser beam 
adjusted for different operating parameters, laser 
power, times of scan and scan velocity during 
the marking process of vehicle parts. The subject 
of this study focuses on the coloration using 
laser beam on the work piece of different 
materials while its surface had been treated by 
different annealing processes. Current study 
shows that the coloration was only successful for 
a certain range of parameters. If these parameters 
were out of their range, the coloration could be 
barely successful. The results show that the 
change in color was possible for the types 304, 
316, and 430 stainless steel workpiece whose 
surface was polished, unpolished, or sand blasted. 
Among these workpieces, the polished type 316 
stainless steel gave the best coloration result. In 
addition, various colors on the stainless surface 
can be obtained when the processing parameters 
including laser power, times of scan and scan 
velocity changes. In order to understand the 
reasons behind the coloration process, this study 
selected 304 stainless steel for observation and 
further analysis through X-Ray Diffraction 
(XRD), optical microscope (OM), and scanning 
electron microscopy (SEM). Through XRD, the 
increase in the amount of a certain oxide could 
be observed for a particular color; through OM, 
the color on the workpiece surface changed after 
being scanned with laser; and through SEM, the 
formation of oxide films and precipitate could be 
identified. This technology can be applied to 
future car for security, barcode, or logo labeling 
purposes for vehicle parts. 
 
1. 前言 
 
過去製作標誌的各種方法，例如使用鋼
印、噴墨、縮放繪圖、浮雕、印刷以及雕刻等
等，雖然噴墨、印刷與縮放繪圖的技術能夠標
  3 
漬或孔洞，所以導致雕刻出來的顏色變化並沒
有很多，如圖 4 所示。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 2  304 不鏽鋼(有拋光) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 3  304 不鏽鋼(表面有噴砂處理) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 4  304 不鏽鋼(未拋光) 
 
 
3.2  雷射功率與雕刻次數對雷射彩色標誌之
影響 
經由上述之參數探討，可以得知雷射功率
對於雷射變色標誌是具有非常大的影響力，因
此本節將探討雷射功率與雕刻次數對於雷射
變色標誌之影響。當速度為 70mm/s、頻率
70kHz 時，一系列地改變雷射功率與雕刻次數
對於雷射變色處理之結果如圖 5 所示。在圖中
可以明顯發現，隨著功率增大與雕刻次數增加
時，由於雕刻深度過大而不易顯現色彩的變
化。此外，當雷射功率太小(1W 至 3.5W)時，
則根本無法顯現出顏色。雷射功率範圍在 4W
至 9W 之間則可明顯的呈現出不同的色彩。同
時，雕刻次數的變化亦能產生類似地色彩變化
的效果(例如：雷射功率在 5W 時)。基本上，
隨著雷射功率逐漸增加，雕刻次數對色彩變化
的影響力也會因顏色變化而逐漸減少。 
圖 6 雷射功率與雕刻次數的關係圖則是
考慮在較慢速度下(30mm/s)、頻率 70kHz 時的
色彩變化關係。若與圖 5 對照可以發現隨著功
率增大與雕刻次數增加時，亦不易顯現色彩的
變化，而且顏色更為深暗。這是由於速度變小
時，雷射能提供更多的熱源所造成之必然結
果。不過值得注意的是，當雷射功率太小(1W
至 3.5W)時，亦不會產生色彩的變化，因此雷
射功率值必須有一定的門檻才能產生雷射變
色機制。而比較明顯的雕刻功率範圍約在 4W
至 5W，雕刻次數約在 6 次以內，但隨著功率
逐漸增加，雕刻次數對色彩變化的影響力也會
因顏色變化而逐漸減少。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 5  高掃瞄速度下(70mm/s)雷射功率與雕
刻次數對雕刻色彩變化之影響 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 6  低掃瞄速度下(30mm/s)雷射功率與
雕刻次數對雕刻色彩變化之影響 
 
  5 
   
(a).白色                 (b).金色 
 
   
(c).紅色                 (d).藍色 
 
圖 9 光學顯微鏡下雷射彩色標誌之變化情況： 
  (a).白色；(b).金色；(c).紅色；(d).藍色。 
 
 
3.5  車輛零組件上之雷射標誌應用 
藉由上述之雷射標誌之參數分析與實驗
量測，基本上整個雷射標誌技術可應用於各種
車輛零組件上以利於零件耐久性之辨識。圖
10 為雷射標誌技術應用於怠速控制閥之標
誌，而即使在高溫狀態下亦無損於標誌及序列
號。圖 11 則顯示出於不規則曲面的零件上亦
可利用雷射標誌技術進行條碼雕刻。同樣地，
各種接頭零件亦可進行雷射標誌，甚至於可展
現出色彩的變化，如圖 12 所示。因此，雷射
標誌技術於車輛零組件上的應用將十分廣
泛，且由有其市場應用價值。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 10 雷射標誌於怠速控制閥上的編碼應用 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 11 雷射標誌於車輛零組件上的條碼應用 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 12 雷射標誌於車輛零件上的彩色標示應用 
 
4. 結論 
三種不同表面之 304 不鏽鋼材料經雷射雕刻
後，顏色以有鏡面拋光之不鏽鋼 304 所雕刻出
來的結果(顏色顯示)最為明顯(飽和)。因此材
料均勻度不好的話(例如拋光拋不均勻或表面
有污漬)、參數、材質不同及有無表面處理，
都會影響到顏色的變化。雷射功率、雕刻速度
及雕刻次數會強烈影響不銹鋼表面色彩之變
化，因此欲得到相關的顏色必須搭配相對應的
加工參數。此外，藉由 XRD 掃瞄後觀察，從
母材表面(未雕刻)與有雕刻顏色(藍、紅、白、
金)的材料相比可以得知不同顏色是因不同化
合物的多寡所造成。此外，在 OM 光學顯微鏡
的觀察下，可以發現到加工過與非加工地方的
差異，因雷射熱源雕刻後造成每個地方所受的
熱不ㄧ樣，在 OM 下可以觀察到不ㄧ樣的顏色
變化，顏色佔大多數的，則直接用肉眼觀察就
是其顏色。最後，雷射標誌技術可應用於各種
車輛零組件上以利於零件耐久性之辨識，甚至
於可展現出色彩的變化。因此，雷射標誌技術
於車輛零組件上的應用將十分廣泛，且由有其
市場應用價值。 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
99年 10月 30日 
報告人姓名 張金龍 服務機購及職務 
國立屏東科技大學 
副教授 
時間 
會議地點 
2010/10/22~2010/10/25 
中國西安 
本會核定補助 
文號 
計畫編號 
NSC-99-2628-E-020-001 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2010中國微納米年會及第二屆國際會議 
(英文) 2nd International Conference of the Chinese Society of 
Micro-Nano Technology 
發表論文題
目 
(中文) 電磁式阻抗式幫浦之數值模擬分析 
(英文) Numerical Simulation of Electromagnetic Actuator for 
Impedance Pumping 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
於本次會議中，本人與屏科大車輛系及材料系研究團隊共同發表一篇論
文，利用數值分析模擬電磁式阻抗式幫浦。會中許多學者提出寶貴的意
見，並認為此一設計極具商業價值，值得繼續深入研究，未來對於社會將
有一定的貢獻。 
二、與會心得 
2010 中國微納米年會及第二屆國際會議西安舉行，由於微奈米科技已成
為顯學，大陸亦的體認此領域於商業活動及學術研究上的蓬勃發展，乃於
每年於大陸各地舉辦此國際會議。本年會以系統之測試與可靠度的探討、
有線與無線技術之引進、新材質的導入與系統封裝為主軸，有許多學者投
入研究，對於人類之科技文明將有其不可忽視之影響。 
三、考察參觀活動 
參觀西北工業大學微奈米實驗室。 
四、建議 
本會議約有一百八十餘篇論文發表，大多是中國之研究人員投稿，從會議
之主題與研究方向可以了解中國之微系統研究之走向。以往台灣大都注意
美國的研發走向做為依歸，但中國的研發與走向亦應重視。中國在 825計
畫中巨額資助重點學校，其設備規模相當於國內之北中南微奈米中心之規
模。中國鼓勵國內相關研究人員投入此領域之研究，為免中國迎頭趕上，
台灣方面應加強研究之質與量，以免被大陸追上。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
    2nd International Conference of the Chinese Society of Micro-Nano 
Technology: 本次會議所有發表之論文 
六、其它 
會場照片 
            The 2nd International Conference of CSMNT 
 
1 
Numerical Simulation of Electromagnetic Actuator for Impedance Pumping 
Chia-Yen Lee1, Yao-Nan Wang2, Chien-Hsiung Tsai2, Chang-Hsien Tai2, Chin-Lung Chang 2, Lung-Ming Fu1*
1Department of Materials Engineering, Pingtung University of Science and Technology, 912 Pingtung, Taiwan 
2Department of Vehicle Engineering, Pingtung University of Science and Technology, 912 Pingtung, Taiwan 
loudyfu@mail.npust.edu.tw 
 
Keywords: Electromagnetic actuator, Impedance pump, Magnetic PDMS diaphragm, MEMS 
Abstract: This study designs and analyzes an impedance pump utilizing an electromagnetic actuator. The pump is 
designed to have three major components, namely a lower glass substrate patterned with a copper micro-coil, a 
microchannel, and an upper glass cover plate attached a magnetic PDMS diaphragm. When a current is passed 
through the micro-coil, an electromagnetic force is established between the coil and the magnetic diaphragm. The 
resulting deflection of the PDMS diaphragm creates an acoustic impedance mismatch within the microchannel, 
which results in a net flow. Overall, the simulated results reveal that a net flow rate of 52.8 μl/min can be obtained 
using a diaphragm displacement of 31.5 μm induced by a micro-coil input current of 0.5 A. The impedance pump 
proposed in this study provides a valuable contribution to the ongoing development of Lab-on-Chips (LoCs) 
systems. 
1. Introduction 
In recent decades, rapid advances in the micro-electro-mechanical systems (MEMS) have enabled the 
development of a wide variety of microfluidic devices for chemical control, mixing and analysis [1-3].  Typically, 
the devices are designed to perform specific function such as cell sorting and counting, sample injection, specific 
mixing and so forth. As MEMS techniques have matured, the applications have been combined and implemented 
on a single chip, resulting in the emergence of LoCs systems.  In realizing such systems, micropumps play an 
essential role in transporting precise volumes of sample fluid through the various components of the micro chips. 
Micropumps can broadly be classified as either static, piezoelectric, or electromagnetic, depending upon their 
mode of actuation [4-7]. Chang et al. [4] designed and analyzed a valveless impedance pump in which the 
actuation mechanism comprised a permanent magnet mounted on a flexible PDMS diaphragm positioned above a 
copper plated micro-coil at a height of 630 μm, corresponding to the position of the maximum electromagnetic 
force on the magnet. Lee et al. [5] experimentally realized the design presented in [4] and resulted in an ideal 
solution with relatively low values of the excitation frequency and voltage for microfluidic systems in which 
relatively high pumping rates  (i.e. 7 ml/min) were required. Recently, for enhancing the performance of the 
micro impedance pump, Chang et al. [6] designed, analyzed and optimized the micro impedance pump and found 
a target diaphragm deflection of 20 μm could be obtained using a compression force of 12 μN developed by a 
micro-coil input current of 0.8 A. 
According, the present study designs and analyzes an impedance pump utilizing a micro electromagnetic actuator 
featuring a magnetic PDMS diaphragm and a glass substrate patterned with a copper micro coil. The electrical 
current through the micro coil induces a magnetic force between the coil and the magnet electroplated on the 
PDMS diaphragm which causes the diaphragm to deflect, thereby creating an actuation effect. The periodic 
volume caused by the actuation effect produces a large stroke volume resulting in a flow in the channel due to the 
impedance effect. A series of analyzed trials are performed to investigate the pumping performance with various 
geometry parameters.  
2 Design  
As shown in Fig. 1(a), the impedance pump comprises three basic plates, namely a bottom coil plate containing a 
planar micro-coil, a channel plate and a cover actuator plate with a PDMS diaphragm electroplated a magnetic 
layer on its upper surface. The pump body has overall dimensions of 26 mm x 15 mm x 2.5 mm (length x width x 
height), while the microchannel measures 11.35 mm x 4 mm x 50 μm (length x width x height). The present study 
designed three different micro-coils for evaluation purposes. In each case, the coil contained 10 turns and had a 
thickness and inner radius of 20 μm and 2000 μm, respectively. Meanwhile, the widths, spacing, and outer radii of 
the three coils were specified as follows: (a) 125 μm / 150 μm / 9500 μm; (b) 100 μm / 125 μm / 8500 μm; and (c) 
75 μm / 90 μm / 7500 μm. 
 
            The 2nd International Conference of CSMNT 
 
3 
3.3. Pumping Analysis 
The physical model of the impedance pump developed in the present study utilizes a two-dimensional model with 
the Navier-Stokes equations, which are written as: 
2v 1(vv) v+ gp v
t
ρρ
∂ + ∇ ⋅ = − ∇ + ∇∂
                                                           (5) 
v 0∇⋅ =                                                                                   (6) 
In the equations above, v is the flow velocity in x-y plane, p is the pressure. In the simulation, the actuation 
displacement is given as 
2 2
2 2
0( , , ) sin(2 )(1 ( ) )
x yx y t w f
R
ζ π += −    within the magnetic film                                   (7) 
       = 0                         outside the film  
The actuation amplitude, w0, was calculated in Eq.(4) at various applied electrical current. Non-uniform meshes 
are generated over the pumping chamber, the buffers and channels for the simulation. A mesh independent 
analysis was conducted to ensure reasonably results. The simulations were carried out by using FLUENT 6.3 CFD 
software.  
4. Results and Discussion 
In the current study, the radius of the PDMS diaphragm is 4000 μm and its thickness is designed to be 30, 80 and 
200 μm, respectively. Meanwhile, the electroplated magnet should be designed to possess the largest remanence 
and appropriate dimensions to obtain a sufficient magnetic force and to avoid influencing the safe operation of the 
diaphragm with a low stiffness. Therefore, the magnet thickness is specified to be 60, 110 and 170 μm, 
respectively. 
Figure 3 shows the simulation results obtained for the three micro-coil designs. It can be seen that the intensity of 
the magnetic field increases as the input current increases in every case. Figure 4 illustrates the variation in the 
rate of change in the magnetic flux density along the vertical centerline of the micro-coils as a function of the 
input current. It can be found the performance of the electromagnetic actuator can be enhanced as the magnetic 
PDMS diaphragm is positioned as a height corresponding to the maximum rate of change of the magnetic flux.  
Figure 5 presents the simulation results for the three micro-coil fabricated in the current study. A maximum 
displacement of 31.5 μm is obtained using a coil current of 0.5 A. It is also observed that for a constant coil 
current, the displacement increases as the coil width decreases due to the greater concentration of the magnetic 
flux. Figure 6 shows the variation of the maximum diaphragm displacement with the input current as a function of 
the PDMS diaphragm thickness. It can be seen that for a constant coil current, the diaphragm displacement 
increases with a reducing PDMS diaphragm thickness due to the corresponding reduction in the stiffness of the 
diaphragm. Figure 7 shows the correlation between the maximum diaphragm displacement and the magnetic layer 
thickness. For a constant coil current, it is observed that the diaphragm displacement increases with a reducing 
magnetic layer thickness.  
 
 
 
 
(a)                   (b)                      (c) 
Fig. 3 Variation of flux density with distance as function of input current for micro-coils with different widths: (a) 125 μm, (b) 100 
μm, and (c) 75 μm. 
 
 
 
 
(a)                       (b)                       (c) 
Fig. 4 Variations of magnetic field gradient with distance as function of input current for micro-coils with different widths: (a) 125 
μm, (b) 100 μm, and (c) 75 μm. 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
100年 04月 20日 
報告人姓名 張金龍 服務機購及職務 
國立屏東科技大學 
副教授 
時間 
會議地點 
2011/04/09~2011/04/11 
中國桂林 
本會核定補助 
文號 
計畫編號 
NSC-99-2628-E-020-001 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2011第二屆製造科學與工程國際會議 
(英文) 2nd International Conference on Manufacturing Science and 
Engineering 
發表論文題
目 
(中文)  無刷永磁馬達之熱行為數值模擬分析 
(英文)  Numerical Investigation into Thermal Behavior of 
Brushless Permanent Magnet Motors 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
於本次會議中，本人與屏科大車輛系研究團隊共同發表一篇論文，利用數
值分析模擬無刷永磁馬達之熱行為。會中許多學者提出寶貴的意見，並認
為此一設計極具商業價值，值得繼續深入研究，未來對於社會將有一定的
貢獻。 
二、與會心得 
2011 製造科學與工程國際會議於桂林舉行，由於搭配微機電科技已而使
整個製造科學與技術往更微小更精密的方向邁進。大陸亦體認此領域於商
業活動及學術研究上的蓬勃發展，乃於每年於大陸各地舉辦此國際會議。
本次會議以凝固與晶體成長的製造技術，高性能緊密金屬零件的雷射快速
成形與修復技術，精密薄板鑄造技術以及數位化精密製造技術為主軸，有
許多學者投入研究，對於人類之科技文明將有其不可忽視之影響。 
三、建議 
本會議約有兩百餘篇論文發表，大多是中國之研究人員投稿，從會議之主
題與研究方向可以了解中國之微製造研究之走向。以往台灣大都注意美國
的研發走向做為依歸，但中國的研發與走向亦應重視。中國在 825計畫中
巨額資助重點學校，其設備規模相當於國內之北中南微奈米中心之規模。
中國鼓勵國內相關研究人員投入此領域之研究，為免中國迎頭趕上，台灣
方面應加強研究之質與量，以免被大陸追上。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
    2nd International Conference of the Chinese Society of Micro-Nano 
Technology: 本次會議所有發表之論文 
五、其它 
會場照片 
 Numerical Investigation into Thermal Behavior of Brushless Permanent 
Magnet Motors 
Lungming Fu1, a, Chiufeng Lin2, b, Chinlung Chang2, c, Jenhao Chang2, 
d
 and 
Chienhsiung Tsai2, e 
1
Department of Materials Engineering, National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, 1, 
Shuefu Road, 91201 Neipu, Pingtung, Taiwan 
2
Department of Vehicle Engineering, National Pingtung University of Science and Technology, 1, 
Shuefu Road, 91201 Neipu, Pingtung, Taiwan 
a
loudyfu@mail.npust.edu.tw, 
b
chiufeng@mail.npust.edu.tw, 
c
clchang@mail.npust.edu.tw,
 
e
chtsai@mail.npust.edu.tw (corresponding author) 
Keywords: Thermal, CFD, Brushless Permanent Magnet Motor 
Abstract. The performance of brushless permanent magnet motor for electric vehicle applications is 
simulated by commercial CFD codes Fluent 6.3. It is difficult to model motor winding area and to 
well pose the motor external boundary conditions for using CFD method. A possible approach to 
simplify the thermal resistance computation is to use an empirical equivalent thermal conductivity of 
the system winding impregnation and insulation. The empirical equivalent thermal conductivity is 
case sensitive and regressed in the experiment. The same is true for the boundary condition of motor. 
In this paper, we proposed a new model to compute equivalent thermal conductivity and overcome the 
above problem. This model takes advantage of the packing bed heat transfer model proposed by 
Zehner and Schlünder. Besides, the boundary conditions are also obtained by the numerical 
experiments. The validity of CFD method using in the present paper is validated utilizing the 
experimental data. The numerical data are concurred with the experimental data. As a result, the CFD 
method is shown to be a feasible method for modern thermal design for brushless permanent magnet 
motor. 
Introduction 
There is an ever-increasing demand in the development of compact brushless permanent magnet 
(BPM) motors which are up to 50% of the size of conventional products for electric vehicle 
applications. In practice, size reductions are due to a combination of factors such as, improved magnet 
grades, manufacturing techniques, new materials and improved thermal design. Since overheating 
will result in decreasing motor’s lifetime and its performance, the thermal design is the most 
important issue of motor design. 
Modern thermal design methods can be classified into the following two methods: analytical 
lumped circuit [1-3] and computational fluid dynamics (CFD) [4-8]. The commercial code 
MOTOR-CAD [3] is based on lumped circuit method. Through the application of modern thermal 
design method, not only the optimum design solution can be quickly converged, but the fully 
understands the physical reasons for the changes. Therefore, the use of thermal design method in the 
design process could reduce the requirement for prototypes and save the R&D cost. Especially, 
through CFD method, it will be useful to predict air flow and the heat transfer inside motors and to 
improve the thermal management of motors that have not been able to be addressed in the past. Also, 
it is important to underline that the data obtained using CFD are useful for improving the analytical 
algorithms used in the thermal networks. Its main strengths are that the user can model any geometric 
shape and it gives detail in the calculation of temperatures in conducting regions. 
 
Advanced Materials Research Vols. 199-200 (2011) pp 1518-1522
© (2011) Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland
doi:10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMR.199-200.1518
All rights reserved. No part of contents of this paper may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the written permission of TTP,
www.ttp.net. (ID: 140.127.25.200-10/02/11,10:09:43)
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Also, it is difficult to well pose the boundary conditions for using CFD method.  A possible 
approach is to use the empirical data. In this study, the numerical experiments are conducted to 
calculate the surface convective heat transfer coefficient of motor housing and axis. Figure 3 shows 
that the convective heat transfer coefficient depends on the surface temperature due to the larger 
Grashof number. The surface heat transfer of housing is through natural convection and the radiation. 
However, the heat transfer of the axis of motor is through force convection and radiation since the 
axis rotation. As shown in Fig.4, in the increase of the motor rotational speed, the heat transfer 
coefficient of axis surface is increasing.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5 shows the temperature distribution on the surfaces of the original motor without fin 
embedded on the housing for the motor running at 200rpm and 5KW power. The average temperature 
of end winding, stator, rotor, and housing are 449K, 433K, 414K,and 424K respectively. The rotor 
temperature is slight lower than the housing due to the heat dissipation through the rotating axis. 
The validity of CFD method using in the present paper is validated utilizing the experimental data. 
The numerical and experimental evaluation of the temperature at different locations and time for 
original motor is depicated in the Fig. 6. The numerical data are concurred with the experimental data 
very well. As a result, the CFD method is shown to be a feasible method for modern thermal design 
for brushless permanent magnet motor. 
 
 
Figure 5: Temperature distribution on the surfaces           
of motor without fin embedded on the housing 
Figure 4: The variation of the 
convective heat transfer coefficient of 
motor axis and motor rotational speed 
Figure 3: The variation of  the convective 
heat  transfer coefficient of motor housing 
and temperature 
Figure 2: The variation of effective 
thermal conductivity and the porosity for 
three different impregnation resins. 
εa
ｋb=０.２４２
ｋb=０.５
ｋb=１
mk
1520 Advances in Mechanical Design
 References 
[1] D.G. Dorrell, D.A. Staton, M.I. McGilp,  Design of Brushless Permanent Magnet Motors - A 
Combined Electromagnetic andThermal Approach to High Performance Specification, IEEE, 
2006,pp.4853-485 
[2] D.A. Staton, S. Pickering, D. Lampard, Recent Advancement in the Thermal Design of Electric 
Motors, Emerging Technologies for Electric Motion Industry,Durham, North Carolina, USA, 
2001 
[3] A. Boglietti, A. Cavagnino, and D.A. Staton, Induction Motors Thrmal Models: A Parameter 
Sensitivity Analysis.. IEEE Transactions on Inductrial Applications, Vol. 41, No. 3, 2005, pp 
756-763 
[4] Christopher Micallef, End Winding Cooling in Electric Machines, University of Nottingham, PhD 
Thesis, 2006. 
[5] S.J. Pickering, D. Lampard, N.Hay, and T.F. Roylance, Heat Transfer from the Stator 
End-windings of a Low Voltage Concentric-wound Induction Motor, IEEE Conference 
Publication, No. 412, 1995. pp 477-481 
[6] K. Takahashi, H. Kuwahara, K. Kajiwara, and T, Obata, Airflow and Thermal Conductance in a 
Totally Enclosed Induction Motor. Heat Transfer - Asian Research, Vol. 31, No. 1, 2002. pp 7-20.  
[7] Y. Huai, R. V.N.Melnik, P.B. Thogersen, Computational Analysis of Temperature Rise 
Phenomena in Electric Induction Motors, Applied Thermal Engineering Vol:23, 2003,pp. 
779-795 
[8] A. Boglietti, A. Cavagnino, D. Staton, M. Shanel, M. Mueller, C. Mejuto, Evolution and Modern 
Approaches for Thermal  Analysis of Electrical Machines IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON 
INDUSTRIAL ELECTRONICS, Vol. 56, No. 3, 2009, pp. 871-882. 
[9] Fluent Inc. FLUENT 6.3 User’s Guide. 2006 
[10] J.A.M. Kuipers, W. Prins, and W.P.M. Swaaij, Numerical Calculation of Wall-to-bed Heat 
Transfer Coefficients in Gas-fluidized Beds, AIChE Journal, Vol.38, No.7, 1992, pp. 1079-1091 
1522 Advances in Mechanical Design
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張金龍 計畫編號：99-2628-E-020-001- 
計畫名稱：光纖雷射對車輛零組件進行雷射標誌技術之發展 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
