 1
1. 中、英文摘要及關鍵詞(keywords) 
 
大部份現今所設計的非同調碼都是經由電腦搜尋所獲得，這使得碼本身缺乏明顯的結
構，相對亦不易設計出有效率的解碼方法，這使得完全搜尋成為這類編碼唯一的解碼方法。
因為完全搜尋的解碼複雜度，是隨碼長與碼率呈指數增加，導致目前的非同調編碼設計在
實務上不易推廣。經由三年的研究，本計劃針對多路徑衰減通道的各種狀況，例如在一個
碼字的傳送時間內允許一次通道參數改變至數次通道參數改變乃至於多重輸入多重輸出
等，我們提出滿足正交條件的結合通道估計的錯誤更正碼，該通道碼的效能近乎於電腦搜
尋所得的最佳碼。模擬的結果顯示，我們新設計的碼是目前這類編碼設計裡最為強健的編
碼方式。此外，我們也利用該正交特徵，推導其最大概度(maximum-likelihood)遞迴解碼量
度，此即可配合使用循序解碼演算法來進行解碼，進而大幅改善解碼的複雜度。 
 
關鍵詞：時變多路徑衰減通道、通道估量、通道等化、錯誤更正碼 
 
 
 Since most of the existing blind-detectable noncoherent codes are designed with the help of 
computer search, they exhibit no apparent structure for efficient decoding. The 
operation-intensive exhaustive search therefore becomes the only decoding option, of which the 
dramatically increasing decoding complexity prevents its practical use for codes of long 
codeword length or high code rate. After three years of researching, we come up with a 
systematical self-orthogonal code design that combines channel estimation and error correction, 
and we show by simulations that it can compete with the computer-optimized codes in 
performance in various kinds of fading channels, such as time-invariant frequency-selective or 
varying frequency-selective. Based on the self-orthogonality property, we also derived its 
respective maximum-likelihood metric for use of the priority-first search decoding algorithm. 
Then, the decoding complexity can be greatly reduced in contrary to the exhaustive decoder. 
Simulations showed that our constructed codes are more robust than the existing noncoherent 
codes in the literature. 
 
Keywords: Time-varying multipath fading channel, Channel estimation, Channel 
equalization, Error correcting coding 
 
 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Equivalent system model 
 
Besides, i∀ ,  is constant, 
 
 
 
 
where vec(.) denotes the operation to transform an  matrix into a  vector. By 
observing that the mapping from  to  is a one-to-one correspondence mapping when 1b  is 
fixed, say, 11 −=b , the decoder can make decision about  from . We therefore transform 
the original system model to an equivalent system model as shown in Figure 1, which contains an 
outer product demodulator. By transmitting input codeword  into the equivalent channel model, 
the output yielded is . Notably, the outer product demodulator is an enhanced version of 
square-law combing, which is a typical non-coherent demodulation approach that is of popular 
use for both slow and fast fading. It is well known that the square-law combing is appropriate 
when either the fading is rapid enough to preclude a good estimate of the channel tap weights or 
the cost of implementing the channel estimators is high. It is then natural for our system, as 
targeting for the fast-fading environment, to be equivalently transformed to a square-law 
combining isomorphism. As a result, the ML decoding is to find the codeword , whose 
corresponding  has the minimum Euclidean distance to . 
 
2.1.2 Tree-based code construction and encoder: 
The tree-based code construction rule of the  non-linear codes that we proposed 
specifically for  and  is as follows. 
Step 1. Initialization: The input message sequence is . Let  
 
Compute the regular distance DIS by the combinatorial of taking (N/2) elements 
from (N−1) population:  
 
 
Then, assign the upper and lower indices of the root nodes of the two code trees as 
DISupper K ⋅= −12  and 0=lower . The two code trees are corresponding to those 
codewords that satisfy  
 and , 
respectively. In order to make no ambiguity in mapping  to-and-from , the first 
 5
Step 3. Stack Update: Remove the current top path p from the stack, and load into the stack 
all its successor’s path addresses and metrics. 
Step 4. Stack Reordering: Sort the stack by ascending metric value. Let the top one in the 
sorted stack be p. If p is a leaf, terminate; otherwise, return to Step 2. 
 
2.1.4 Achievement: 
Following the code construction rule in the previous section, we construct two codes with 
the codeword length N = 22 for the block fading channel with P = 2. The number of code trees of 
a code depends on the number of conditions set on the code words. For example, we can select 
half of the codewords to satisfy: 
  
and, the other half,  
 
Then, we will have two code trees for this code. Alternatively, we can only select codewords 
from those that satisfies only one of the above two conditions. In such case, the code only 
consists of one code tree. 
In simulations, we will set:  
 
  
 
where  is a zero-mean complex Gaussian random vector. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. The maximum-likelihood word error rates (WERs) of the code computer-searched by 
simulated annealing in [12], rule-based code with double codes trees (Double-22) and 
rule-based code with single codes tree (Single-22). The codeword lengths N of above codes are 
all 22. 
 
In Fig. 2, it shows that the rule-based codes with double code trees has the same 
performance as the code of [12], which is computer-searched by simulated annealing. Moreover, 
 7
encoding algorithm. Then, the constructed codes that maximize the system SNR were resulted. 
With the self-orthogonality property, the maximum-likelihood decoding metrics for use of the 
priority-first search decoding algorithm were derived. Finally, simulations on the constructed 
codes and the maximum-likelihood decoders were performed and remarked. 
 
2.2.1 The research procedure in the second year: 
 As we have mentioned in the previous section, our work in the second year concentrated on 
how to design the codes combined channel estimation and error protection for fast fading 
channels. In our channel model, we assumed that both the transmitter and the receiver know the 
coherent period. Such design may be suitable for, e.g., the frequency-hopping scheme of Global 
System for Mobile communications (GSM) and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System 
(UMTS), and the time-hopping scheme in IS-54, in which cases the channel coefficients change 
(or hop) at protocol-aware scheduled time instants as similarly mentioned in [12]. Please note 
again that the codeword length  is allowed to be shorter than the known channel coherent 
period . 
 
2.2.2 The system model 
For , let  be the constant 
channel coefficients at the th sub-block. Denote by  
the portion of codeword , which will affect the output portion 
, where we assume  and  for 
notational convenience. Then, for a channel whose coefficients change in every  symbols, the 
system model remains the same as the slowly-fading one as  
 
except that both  and  extend as  vectors with  for , 
and  and  have to be re-defined as 
 
where  is a  matrix,  
 
 is the  identity matrix, and “ ” is the direct sum operator of two matrices. 
 
 
2.2.3 Code construction: 
Based on the new system model, we have , where 
, and the maximum-likelihood decoding criterion is given by: 
 9
it turns out, the recursive on-the-fly metric for the priority-first search decoding algorithm is: 
 
where ,  , , , 
 and  with 
initial values  and  for  and . 
In addition, the low-complexity heuristic function is given by: 
 
where ,  and  are defined the same as for , 
 
and 
 
with initial values  and . 
 
2.2.5 Achievement: 
We now compare codes designed over fading channels whose channel coefficients vary in 
every -symbol period. Notably, we will use  to denote the varying period of the channel 
coefficients , and retain  as the design parameter for the nonlinear codes. In addition, 
“Single- ( )” and “Double- ( )” are the codes constructed based on the rule 
introduced in the previous section under the design parameter . 
Figure 1 shows that the Double-  code, that is designed under the assumption that the 
channel coefficients remain constant within one codeword block of length 28 and with double 
codetree structure (hence, it is termed “double”), seriously degrades when the channel 
coefficients unexpectedly vary in an intra-codeword fashion. This hints that the assumption that 
 11
A more striking result from Figure 4 is that even if the codeword length of the 
Single-28( =15) and the Double-28( =15) codes is twice of the SA-14 code, their word error 
rates are still markedly superior at medium-to-high SNRs. Note that the SA-14 code is the 
computer-optimized code (of codeword length 14) specifically for  channel. This 
hints that when the channel memory order is known, performance gain can be obtained by 
considering the inter-subblock correlation, and favors a longer code design. 
The decoding complexity, measured in terms of average number of node expansions per 
information bit, for codes of Single-28( =15) and Double-28( =15) are illustrated in Figure 5. 
We observe that the decoding metric  yields less decoding complexity than the on-the-fly 
decoding one . 
 
3.報告內容(第三年) 
 
3.1 Motivations: 
 
In last two year, we discovered the systematic rule to design codes based on the optimal 
signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) framework that regardless of the fading statistics. In the first year, the 
framework requires every codeword to satisfy a “self-orthogonal” property (it means that 
codeword have to be orthogonal to the delayed version of itself). A code of comparable 
performance to the computer-searched code is constructed according to the structure formed by 
self-orthogonal property so that its code tree can be efficiently and systematically generated. In 
addition, efficient recursive computation of the maximum-likelihood evaluation function from the 
predecessor path to the successor paths is established.  
 In the second year, extension of the systematic rule to the unknown channels whose channel 
coefficients change several times during one decoding block was proposed. This design can 
construct a code of any desired code length and code rate, of which the performance is shown to 
be comparable to the best computer-searched code for the channels simulated. Such design may 
be suitable for, e.g., the frequency-hopping scheme of Global System for Mobile communications 
(GSM) and Universal Mobile Telecommunications System (UMTS), or the time-hopping scheme 
in IS-54, in which cases the channel coefficients change (or hop) at protocol-aware scheduled 
time. 
In the last year, a code design for a frequency-nonselective OFDM system is provided. Based 
on self-orthogonality framework, we propose a systematic  coding scheme that can deal 
with any given  and  for channels with possibly varying channel coefficients in a coding 
block. It is an extension of our previous work in the last two years, which targets the blind 
detection over channels with static (i.e., constant) channel coefficients during the transceiving of 
a codeword [15]. Simulations show that our constructed  code has almost the same 
performance as the three-times-repetitive  code proposed by Xu's [13] when the channel 
independently varies its coefficients three times in a coding block. In case the channel remains 
constant during the entire coding block, our constructed code has  dB performance 
improvement over Xu's code. 
 13
2 OFDM 
sysmbols
2 subcarries
Tile structure of 
6x2 (PCQICH)
                   
3 OFDM 
sysmbols
4 subcarries
Tile structure of 
4x3 (PCQICH)
 
Fig. 7. 6x2 resource tile.               Fig. 8. IEEE 802.16e compatible 4x3 resource tile. 
   
 
 
3 OFDM 
sysmbols3 subcarries
Tile structure of 
3x3 (PCQICH)
 
     Fig. 9. 3x3 resource tile. 
frequency
(subcarrier) time(symbol)
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
P
 
Fig. 10. 6x6 resource tile with interleaved structure. 
 
3.3.2 The system model  
 
Suppose that a codeword  is transmitted over a block fading channel of 
memory order , of which channel coefficients may vary in every  symbols, where  
and . Then, the channel model is actually a special case of the model in the last year with 
 15
explicit formula as  
 
 
Then, we can use the encoding algorithm below to generate our code:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.4 Achievement: 
 
In our simulations, the channel parameters follow those in [12], where  is zero-mean 
complex-Gaussian distributed with . 
Wu first compare our constructed  code with Xu's three-times-repetitive  
code over frequency nonselective channels. As shown in Figure 11, the two codes has comparable 
performance when channel coefficients vary independently in every 12 symbols. In case the 
channel coefficients remain constant over the entire coding block, the proposed  code 
performs 0.7 dB better than Xu's code as shown in Figure 12. It should be emphasized that when 
,  is irrelevant to the design parameter ; hence, the  code in 
Figure 11 is identical to the one used in Figure 12. This indicates that the proposed  code 
can adapt more robustly to the channels simulated. 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
Eb/N0 (dB)
W
ER
Proposed (36,6)
Xu et al. (12,6)
 
Fig. 11. Word error rates (WERs) for the constructed (36,6) code and Xu's three-times-repetitive 
(12,6) code over flat fading channel with coefficients varying independently in every 12 symbols. 
 17
[9] D. Harville, Matrix Algebra From a Statistician's Perspective, 1st edition, Springer, 2000. 
[10] R. Knopp and P. A. Humblet, “On coding for block fading channels,＂IEEE Trans. Inform. 
Theory , vol. 46, no. 1, pp. 189-205, Jan. 2000. 
[11] T. L. Marzetta and B. M. Hochwald, “Capacity of a mobile multiple-antenna communication 
link in Rayleigh flat-fading,＂IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 45, no. 1, pp. 139-157, Jan. 
1999. 
[12] M. Skoglund, J. Giese and S. Parkvall, “Code design for combined channel estimation and 
error protection,＂IEEE Trans. Inform. Theory, vol. 48, no. 5, pp. 1162-1171, May 2002. 
[13] C. Xu, H. Sun, J.-K. Fwu, Q. Li, Y. Zhu, J. Wang, S. Zhang, Y. Gao, H. Yin, R. 
Vannithamby and S. Ahmadi, IEEE 802.16m UL PHY Control: CQI Feedback Channel 
Design, C80216m-UL\PHY\Ctrl-08\065r1, Intel Corporation, IEEE 802.16 UL PHY Control 
RG, 11th, Nov. 2008. 
[14] C.-L. Wu, P.-N. Chen, Y. S. Han and S.-W. Wang, “A self-orthogonal code and its 
maximum-likelihood decoder for combined channel estimation and error protection,＂Proc. 
IEEE International Symposium on Information Theory and its Applications, Auckland, New 
Zealand, Dec. 2008. 
[15] S.-H. Wu, “Effects of estimation errors on the noncoherent capacity over time-varying 
channels,＂Proc. IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference, Montreal, Canada, Sep. 2006. 
 
 
5. 計畫成果自評 
 
In this project, we propose several systematical code designs respectively for 
frequency-selective block fading channels as well as frequency-selective varying fading 
channels, in which transmitter and receiver has no knowledge on CSI. When our codes are 
compared with the code designed by exhaustive computer search in the literature, very limited 
performance difference can be observed. Unlike the structureless computer-searched codes, 
the structure of the systematical code design we proposed allows for maximum-likelihood 
priority-first search decoding, and hence, avoid the necessity of exhaustive decoding. This 
feature makes possible the decoding of longer codes of which the operational-intensive 
exhaustive decoding becomes infeasible in modern computer technology. Works in last two 
years will appear in IEEE Transactions on Information Theory and was presented in parts at 
the 2008 International Symposium on Information Theory and its Application. 
In this year, we propose a novel systematic code construction scheme for joint channel 
estimation and error correction for channels with independently varying fading subblocks. 
Unlike the existing noncoherent codes that are designed with the help of computer search, a 
code of desired code length and code rate can be directly generated with our coding scheme. 
We then compare our codes with the three-times-repetitive  code proposed by Xu et al. 
