 I
中文摘要 
本計畫旨在利用二維錐型流體化床冷模，以影像處理進行錐型流體化床內氣泡合併行
為之研究，以瞭解氣泡經由不同距離的多孔口形成後合併之各種流力現象研究，並建立多
孔口氣泡合併模式及預測氣泡合併之位置，以供日後錐型流體化床反應器操作與建造之參
考。本研究初步結果顯示，在較長的孔口距離下，平均氣泡合併高度隨孔口流率之增加而
下降，但在較短的孔口距離下則呈相反之結果。 
 
關鍵詞：錐形流體化床、錐尖角度、氣泡合併、最小流體化速度、孔口。 
 
 
英文摘要 
In order to understand the processes of bubble coalescence in conical fluidized beds, this 
study is carried out using the image processing method to measure the bubble interactions in gas 
discharging from two nozzles at varying separation distances submerged in a 2-D conical 
fluidized bed. The preliminary result shows at a longer separation distance of nozzles, the average 
coalescence height decreases with increasing the nozzle flowrate, but the contrary results are 
found at a shorter separation distance of nozzles. 
 
Keywords: Conical fluidized bed, apex angle, bubble coalescence, minimum fluidization 
velocity, nozzle. 
 
 2
a flowrate sufficient to maintain it at the point of minimum fluidization was passed into the 
bottom of the vessel then through the distributor. For bubble generation, two 0.6 cm ID 
cylindrical steel pipes above the distributor were installed through opposite sides of the bed, and 
the nozzles were arranged in vertical alignment from opposite sides (See Fig. 2.). Three air 
flowrates (Q), 32, 48, and 64 L/min through each of the two nozzles were used and the horizontal 
separation distance between two nozzles of from 4 to 36 cm in increments of 8 cm was set.  
The images of the bubble behaviour were recorded by a Canon DC10 digital video 
camcorder. The coalescence data of the bubbles were obtained by computer analysis of the video 
images with an equivalent speed of 30 frame/s. 
 
θa
 
 
Fig. 1 Conical bed with the apex angle of θa.  
 
l
Nozzle RNozzle L
Windbox
Distributor
Fluidized Bed
Air  
Fig. 2 Arrangement of two vertical nozzles. 
 
3. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION  
Generally, the bubbles issuing from the entry point coalesce immediately when the orifices 
are adequately close together so that the contact between the gas and the solids will be restrained 
initially. Alternatively, the bubbles coalesce at higher levels in the bed when the orifice separation 
distances are greater. When two bubbles issue from nozzles and coalesce completely at some 
altitude in the bed, the perpendicular height between the coalescence point and the base of the 
bubble discharge points of two nozzles was defined as the coalescence height (hc) which was 
found to be proportional to the separation distance ( l ) of two nozzles and inversely proportional 
to the cube root of the nozzle gas velocity [2]. 
 
(1) Bubble coalescence in the vertical bed 
 The present experimental results show that the bubble coalescence height increases with 
increasing separation distance of two nozzles in the vertical bed. Fig. 3 shows the typical 
coalescence heights at various separation distances of two vertical nozzles. The average 
coalescence height, measured by 10 bubble coalescence events, could be presented a linear 
function of the separation distance.  
On the other hand, the average coalescence height decreases with increasing nozzle flowrate 
 4
(2) Bubble coalescence in the conical bed 
Figure 4 shows that the average bubble coalescence height increases with increasing the 
nozzle flowrate in a conical bed. The results are similar to those in the vertical bed. Nevertheless, 
Fig. 5 shows that at a longer separation distance of nozzles, the average coalescence height 
decreases with increasing the nozzle flowrate, but the contrary results are found at a shorter 
separation distance of nozzles. However, the reason is still not clear. 
 
(3) Comparison of vertical and conical beds on bubble coalescence 
Figure 6 shows that the Comparison of vertical and conical beds on bubble coalescence. It 
can be seen that the coalescence height is lower in the conical bed than that in the vertical bed. 
This may be attributed primarily to the slow bubble velocity in the conical bed. However, it is 
clear that much investigation will required before a complete understanding for design a 
commercial conical fluidized bed. 
 
4. CONCLUSIONS 
Bubbles issued from two submerged nozzles in the vertical and conical fluidized beds 
coalesced at a distance above the point of entry which is a function of the separation distance of 
the nozzles, nozzle gas velocity. The bubble coalescence height increases with increasing 
separation distance of two nozzles.  
The preliminary result shows at a longer separation distance of nozzles, the average 
coalescence height decreases with increasing the nozzle flowrate, but the contrary results are 
found at a shorter separation distance of nozzles. However, the reason is still not clear. 
Future studies will include more investigations of the effects of various operating parameters, 
e.g., the various apex angles of conical beds, particle sizes, etc, to predict the position of bubble 
coalescence within the conical bed by the bed geometry. 
 
5. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The authors acknowledge financial support provided by the National Science Council, 
Taiwan, ROC (NSC 95-2221-E-005-160). 
 
6. REFERENCE 
[1] Clift, R. and Grace, J. R., “ The Coalescence of Bubble Chains in Fluidized Beds,” Tran. Instn. 
Chem. Engrs., 50, 364 (1972). 
[2] Yates, J. G., K.-T. Wu, and D. J. Chessman, “Bubble Coalescence from Multiple Entry 
Nozzles,” Fluidization VIII, Engineering Foundation, New York, 11 (1995). 
[3] Wu, K.-T., J. G. Yates, and D. J. Chessman, “Bubble Flow during Coalescence from Multiple 
Entry Nozzles in a Fluidized Bed,” The 1996 IChemE Research Event, 2, 1006 (1996). 
[4] Tanfara, H., T. Pugsley, and C. Winters , “Effect of Particle Size Distribution on Local 
Voidage in a Bench-Scale Conical Fluidized Bed Dryer,” Drying Technology, 20, 1273 
(2002). 
