 2
support vector machine, heuristics 
二、緣由與目的 
Although genetic factors play an 
important role in many human diseases, 
multiple genes or genes and environmental 
factors may ultimately influence individual 
risk to these diseases [Cordell and Clayton, 
2005].  Currently, the primary statistical 
approach used to identify causal genes is 
the conventional method of single gene or 
single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) 
association analysis.  While single gene 
association analysis is a simple and well 
established approach, it is unlikely to iden-
tify interactions between multiple genes 
when the number of genes increases dra-
matically, and can thus decrease the power 
to detect associations.  There is now a 
growing need for methods that are able to 
tackle gene-gene interactions, especially 
with the availability of high-throughput 
genotyping and with advances in computa-
tion. 
Velez et al. [2007] provided a de-
tailed overview of the definition of 
gene-gene interaction (epistasis) from both 
the statistical and biological viewpoints.  
It is important to understand the relation-
ship between the statistical and biological 
epistasis if we want to make biological in-
ferences from statistical results [Moore and 
Williams, 2005].  From the statistical 
viewpoint, we define gene-gene interaction 
in this paper as genotypic combinations of 
single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) 
that are associated with disease status.  
The association arising from the interaction 
could be nonlinear.  A summary of ana-
lytical tools for studying gene-gene or 
gene-environment interaction has been de-
scribed in Thornton-Wells et al. [2004].  
Due to the computational complexity of 
gene-gene interaction modeling and detec-
tion, traditional statistical tools are not ap-
propriate for analyzing large-scale genetic 
data.  However, it appears some of the 
computational limitations of detecting of 
gene-gene interaction can be overcome us-
ing modern techniques, such as machine 
learning and data mining.   Machine 
learning (supervised learning) predictors or 
classifiers, such as Classification and Re-
gression Tree (CART), Artificial Neural 
Networks (ANN), and Support Vector 
Machines (SVM), are suitable because they 
can be used to assess the rules for classify-
ing individuals into case and control 
groups [Alpaydin, 2004], which is one of 
the major goals of detecting interaction 
among multiple genes.  It should be noted 
that an ideal predictor should be able to 
extract the most useful information from an 
entire dataset and avoid over-fitting during 
the training (learning) process, in order to 
ultimately produce the highest possible 
prediction accuracy rates (better than ran-
dom guesses) for both classes in testing 
(prediction).  With an applicable predictor 
on hand, the problem of detecting interac-
tions among multiple genes can be consid-
ered as a combinatorial optimization prob-
lem: finding the best combination of SNPs 
from a given dataset which can produce the 
highest prediction accuracy when using the 
applicable predictor.  In this case, the ap-
plicable predictor serves as the objective 
function of a combinatorial optimization 
problem.  Thus, the use of an applicable 
predictor together with a tailored optimiza-
tion search technique might provide a 
promising approach for solving this prob-
lem. 
We examined several data mining 
approaches, including CART [Cook et al., 
2004], MDR [Ritchie et al., 2001], Genetic 
Programming Neural Network (GPNN) 
[Ritchie et al., 2003], Logic Regression 
with Simulated Annealing [Ruczinski et al., 
2003] or Markov Chain Monte Carlo 
[Kooperberg et al., 2005], and Support 
Vector Machine with Recursive Feature 
Addition [Listgarten et al., 2004] or Recur-
sive Feature Elimination [Guyon et al., 
2002], that have been adopted for the de-
tection of gene-gene interactions, espe-
cially for methods dealing with binary trait 
outcomes, such as disease status, while 
also addressing the corresponding compu-
tational and algorithmic issues.  By com-
paring the pros and cons, a SVM approach 
is proposed for the detection of gene-gene 
 4
condition in an individual who lacks the 
usual causative gene; Mange and Mange, 
1994] did not affect power for models 1 and 
2, but did for models 3-6.  The presence of 
50% genetic heterogeneity [defined as mul-
tiple genetic causes of the same, or nearly 
the same, phenotype; Mange and Mange, 
1994] did reduce power in all of the models.  
However, SVM still provides better power 
compared to MDR.  In summary, SVM 
outperforms MDR under all the scenarios for 
Models 5-6 and generally outperforms for 
Models 1-4.   
Another testing data resource has been 
described in detail by Xu et al. [2005], in-
cluding the study population, recruitment 
methods, and genotyping methods.  In brief, 
this is a case-control prostate cancer study 
population that was collected in Sweden. 
Fifty-seven SNPs located in 18 genes were 
genotyped among 1,355 case and 765 con-
trol subjects. We adopted the same afore-
mentioned computational procedure 
(SVM-Local, SVM-GA and MDR) to ana-
lyze this unbalanced data.  The computa-
tional results (Tables II-IV) demonstrate that 
the capability to detect gene-gene interac-
tions of the proposed approaches 
(SVM-Local or SVM-GA) outperformed 
MDR.  It should be noted that the proposed 
approaches not only provide higher accuracy 
candidate models but also provide more sta-
ble and reasonable results.  Furthermore, 
the proposed approach is resistant to 
over-fitting, even when considering higher 
order interaction. 
四、成果自評 
In this study, a reasonable and appli-
cable classifier-optimization framework was 
considered, and was used to tackle the prob-
lem of gene-gene interaction.  Accordingly, 
support vector machine and combinatorial 
optimization techniques (local search and 
GA) were tailored to fit in the framework.  
Although the proposed approach is very 
computationally expensive, the computa-
tional results are quite encouraging and 
demonstrate several advantages, especially 
based on benchmarking against MDR.  Our 
approach has less concern regarding 
over-fitting, is better able to handle unbal-
anced data, and selects more stable models.  
It is a very promising tool for the identifica-
tion and characterization of high order 
gene-gene and gene-environment interac-
tions.  The goals of this work are: (1) to 
evaluate and incorporate a different ap-
proach  
to optimization, complexity analysis, 
and algorithmic design for gene-gene inter-
action problems by providing a reasonable 
and applicable computational framework; 
and (2) to make the support vector machine 
and combinatorial optimization techniques 
more accessible to genetic epidemiology re-
searchers in order to promote the use and 
extension of these powerful approaches.  
The SVM software will be available from 
the author when it is ready.  However, in 
order to fully resolve the problem of 
gene-gene interaction, it is important to con-
sider the model selection issues: (1) how 
many SNPs should be considered in “the 
best model;” and (2) if there are multiple 
combinations of SNPs (for the best model) 
with almost the same performance, how to 
distinguish the difference among those com-
binations and to further interpret the results 
for the models.  Further studies are war-
ranted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
 
 
五、參考文獻 
[1] Alpaydin E. 2004. Introduction to ma-
chine learning. Cambridge, Massachu-
setts: MIT Press. 
[2] Chang CC, Lin CJ. 2005. LIBSVM: A 
library for support vector machines. 
Software is available at 
http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsv
m 
[3] Cook N, Zee R, Ridker P. 2004. Tree 
and spline based association analysis of 
gene-gene interaction models for 
ischemic stoke. Stat Med 23:1439-1453. 
[4] Cordell HJ, Clayton DG. 2005. Genetic 
association studies. Lancet 
366:1121-1131. 
[5] Guyon I, Weston J, Barnhill S, Vapnik 
V. 2002. Gene selection for cancer clas-
sification using support vector machine. 
Machine Learning 46:389-422. 
[6] Kooperberg C, Ruczinski I. 2005. Iden-
tifying interacting SNPs using Mote 
Carlo logic regression. Genet Epidemiol 
28:157-170. 
[7] Listgarten J, Damaraju S, Poulin B, 
Cook L, Dufour J, Driga A, Mackey J, 
Wishart D, Greiner R, Zanke B. 2004. 
Predictive models for breast cancer sus-
ceptibility from multiple single nucleo-
tide polymorphisms. Cli Cancer Res 
10:2725-2737. 
[8] Mange EJ, Mange AP. 1994. Basic 
Human Genetics. Sunderland, Massa-
chusetts: Sinauer Associates Inc. 
[9] Moore JH, Williams SM. 2005. Trav-
ersing the conceptual divide between 
biological and statistical epistasis: sys-
tems biology and a more modern syn-
thesis. Bioessays 27:637–646. 
[10] Ritchie M, Hahn L, Roodi N, Bailey R, 
Dupont W, Parl F, Moore J. 2001. Mul-
tifactor-dimensionality reduction reveals 
high-order interactions among estro-
gen-metabolism genes in sporadic breast 
cancer. Am J Hum Genet 69:138–147 
[11] Ritchie M, Hahn L, Moore J. 2003. 
Power of multifactor dimensionality re-
duction for detecting gene-gene interac-
tions in the presence of genotyping error, 
missing data, phenocopy, and genetic 
heterogeneity. Genet Epidemiol 
24:150-157. 
[12] Ritchie M, White B, Parker J, Hahn L, 
Moore J. 2003. Optimization of neural 
network architecture improves the 
power to identify gene–gene interaction 
in common diseases. BMC Bioinfor-
matics 4:28. 
[13] Ruczinski I, Kooperberg C, LeBlanc M. 
2003. Logic regression. J Comput Graph 
Stat 12:475-511. 
[14] Thornton-Wells T, Moore J, Haines L. 
2004. Genetics, statistics and human 
disease: analytical retooling for com-
plexity. Trends Genet 20:640-647. 
[15] Velez DR, White BC, Motsinger AA, 
Bush WS, Ritchie MD, Williams SM, 
Moore JH. 2007. A balanced accuracy 
function for epistasis modeling and im-
balanced datasets using multifactor di-
mensionality reduction. Genet Epide-
miol 31:306-315. 
[16] Xu J, Lowey J, Wiklund F, Sun J, Lind-
mark F, Hsu FC, Dimitrov L, Chang B, 
Turner A, Liu W, et al. 2005. The inter-
action of four genes in the inflammation 
pathway significantly predicts prostate 
cancer risk. Cancer Epidemiol. Bio-
markers Prev 14:2563-2568. 
Bayesian multipoint allele sharing method, a genetic similarity matching 
approach, powerful Bayesian gene-gene interaction analysis (BIA software), 
and haplotype sharing approach. 
2. Session 23 – Is linkage Dead? The Future of Linkage Analysis and 
Family Data in the Genome-wide Association Era: Linkage studies are not 
as popular any more since the development of genome-wide association studies.  
Will genome-wide association be more successful than genome-wide linkage?  
Dr. Robert Elston proposed a joint segregation and linkage analysis.  He felt 
that there is still room for linkage analysis.  Especially for rare variants in a 
common disease, it may be more efficient to do the linkage analysis first and 
then follow-up by association studies.  Dr. Dupuis supported the same 
concept.  She proposed a robust score statistics which does not require the 
normality assumption to map quantitative traits in moderately large pedigrees. 
3. Session 47 – SNP Association in Complex Disease, Their Functional 
Consequences, and the Biological Meaning of Epistasis: How genetic 
interactions increase susceptibility is currently unknown. This section was 
focused on some successful results of some genome wide association scans, 
what the functional consequence of associated SNPs are how these functional 
effects can be investigated in human cells.  
4. Session 42 – Methods in Gene Mapping:  This session discusses the 
methods in gene mapping.  Each presenter talked about their developed 
methods used in different study design under different situation.  I were more 
interested in the imputation methods developed by the group in Chicago.  A 
package called BIMBAM had been developed in this group.  They used the 
tag-SNP to impute the non-tag SNP.  They can handle both quantitative and 
qualitative phenotypes. 
5. Session 57 – Evolution and Population Genetics:  Self-reported ethnicity 
does not accurately record the ancestry.  People used latent class model or 
包補足近一千五百美金，亦因於此大會所安排的付費參觀(Social Event)筆
者並未參加；是此行中較美中不足之部份。然因此次會議議程主題多元化，
並可與來自不同國家之相關領域工作者進行交流，可藉此機會瞭解國外從事
相關領域工作者的經驗，並拓展國際視野及增長知識此行仍為筆者相當可貴
的一次學習經驗。 
三、 攜回資料 
研討會學術演講議程手冊、研討會論文摘要及光碟、一件第56屆美國人
類遺傳學會年會紀念T-shirt 
     
附圖：筆者於論文壁報現場 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
附件：研討會議程 
    
    
 
 
