4. 計算突變後的抗體跟抗原的親和度：將突變後的
抗體代入目標函數，計算目標函數值，為抗體抗
原的親和度。 
5. 選取親和度高的抗體：對每一個抗體的增殖抗體
中，選取和抗原親和度最高的抗體，更新初始抗
體，並計算更新後抗體目標函數值的平均值。 
6. 計算平均誤差：比較抗體平均值，如果平均誤差
小於閥值，為抗體達到收斂，結束內迴圈，跳到
步驟 7；反之，則回到步驟 3。 
7. 抑制抗體：計算抗體之間的親和度，即對抗體做
相似性判斷，並轉為記憶細胞。此處是用 Euclid
半徑距離的方式來計算抗體間的親和度，抗體彼
此間距離太近則將與抗原親和度低的抗體刪
除，只保留最高的。 
8. 外迴圈疊代次數若達到最大代數則終止外迴圈，
結束演算法；沒有則加入新抗體，回到步驟 2。 
 
3 流體動力分析軟體FLOW-3D分析程序 
流體動力分析軟體 FLOW-3D 在工業界上的應用領
域非常多，本研究針對壓電式噴墨頭液滴噴射過程進
行模擬。整合流體動力分析軟體 FLOW-3D 與類免疫網
路演算法進行最佳化分析，目的是將噴墨壓力值設計
變數和噴嘴尺寸設計變數代入演算法進行演化，再經
由 FLOW-3D 之模擬來達成壓電式噴墨最佳化設計。 
為了驗證本研究中模擬噴墨的合理性，因此使用
參考文獻[6]內的操作參數和噴嘴參數設定，壓電式
噴墨列印為一複雜的壓電學、彈性學及多相流之耦合
運動過程，為了簡化問題及將焦點集中於液滴噴射過
程，並節省龐大的計算時間，僅選取靠近噴嘴口的部
分做為模擬區域。使用於模擬的流體-水的參數設定
[6]，此為一具有高表面張力、低黏滯係數的液體，
如表1所示： 
表1 流體(水)的物理特性[6] 
名稱 符號 數值 單位 
密度(density) ρ 1.00 (g/cm3) 
黏滯係數
(viscosity) 
μ 0.01 (N‧s/m) 
表面張力(surface 
tension) 
υ 72 (N/m) 
聲速(Vaco,liq) ｃ 1435 (m/s) 
重力(gravity) ｇ -980 (cm/s2) 
由於FLOW-3D所可以使用的對稱方式為軸對稱[7]，為
了簡化分析時間，本研究將網格由包覆整個模型的長
方體網格改變。為以噴嘴中心為軸心的圓柱座標網 
格系統。接著依照參考文獻[6]中所給予的壓力變化
圖，如圖1所示。在圖中可以看出最大正壓力約落在
1.5toptμs，此時最大正壓力之值約為0.8487atm。
最大負壓力約在3.5toptμs，其值約為-0.41492atm。 
 
圖 1 輸入噴嘴的壓力設定圖[6] 
 
依照表1的流體物理性質設定，模擬時間設定
0.0topt~6.5toptμs之間，模擬驗證的結果如圖2，
為FLOW-3D模擬液滴噴射的圖形與圖3為參考文獻[6]
中的液滴真實噴射照片作比較。 
圖2中可以看出約在10~20μs的時間點時因為負
壓力的關係，所以噴嘴口的液面向噴嘴內部移動。在
20~30μs的時間點，因為噴嘴口正處於正壓力波的來
臨，正壓力推擠噴嘴內部液體，使得液體開始由噴嘴
口噴射出，此時液滴形狀呈現半月形，30~40μs時間
點因為正壓力持續作用而給予液滴一加速度，因此液
滴速度與長度均增加，在40μs 後噴嘴上方開始產生
負壓力，在40~50μs，噴口附近的液體受到噴嘴內部
向上拉回之負壓力，使得向下速度減小，同時並受到
下方液滴串之表面張力相互作用，於是產生頸縮現
象。 
由模擬結果與實驗照片比照可以得知液滴串均在
50~60μs之間開始產生斷裂，在60μs時間點液滴與
噴嘴口內的液體開始發生斷裂。而在70μs時間點，
因為負壓力使得液滴與噴嘴口內的液體斷裂，液滴串
已經完全和噴嘴分離，形狀具有圓渾的頭端和細長的
尾端，由於尾端受到表面張力的作用，產生一向下的
加速度，使細長的尾端向下之速度迅速增加並追上頭
端的速度，頭尾兩端相互靠近，液滴串的長度開始減
小。 
80-90μs之間，在液滴真實噴射情況照片圖中發
現因表面張力作用，尾液滴和主液滴分離，形成衛星
液滴，由於衛星液滴的速度仍較主液滴大，90-104μs
時間點之後趕上主液滴並結合成單一液滴。由兩張圖
之各個時間點的液滴型態相互比較，發現FLOW-3D模
擬液滴噴射與液滴噴射實驗真實照片兩者結果相
近，可以證明本研究模擬之合理性。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 2 FLOW-3D 軟體模擬液滴噴射 
 
(b)噴嘴入口端寬度：由於文獻[12]中的噴嘴寬
度最大比例為 23 倍，所以在本研究中將下噴
嘴寬度範圍設定為上噴嘴寬度的 1~23 倍之
間。 
(c)噴嘴深度：利用類 LIGA 製程技術[13]之高
深寬比與高精度特性，而 LIGA 製程的深寬比
至少可以達到 25:1 以上的比例，因此為了符
合可行解的設計範圍內，則將深度範圍設為
上噴嘴的 1~25 倍之間。  
(4)演算法執行參數設定 
執行參數設定是經由測試函數與執行壓電式噴墨
最佳化設計測試之後所決定。最佳化設計中對於終止
條件的設定是以求得最佳解為優先。在本研究當中採
用的方法是當最佳目標函數值連續 250 代沒有改進
或執行至 800 代結束，則終止演化，將此次最大目標
函數值當作最佳解。 
 
(5)設定邊界條件 
邊界條件設定方面，如圖 7所示，P為壓力面，W
為牆壁面，S為對稱面。是將 Z軸方向靠近噴嘴入口
端的一面設定為壓力面(Pressure)，由此面給予噴嘴
壓力值與壓力值作用時間的設定，而 Z軸另一面設定
為牆壁面(Wall)，為假設液體接觸到此面，液體則會
附著到牆壁面上。而 X軸、Y軸方向的四個面皆設定
為對稱面(Symmetry)，指沒有流量穿過此邊界面且沒
有剪應力的發生，適用於有對稱的情況存在時可以減
少模擬量。 
 
圖 7 邊界條件的設定 
 
4.2 噴墨液滴圖形定義 
在圖形定義中，有下列三項定義： 
(1)液滴判讀定義：讀取 FLOW-3D 分析後所得到的結
果，經由程式判別各個網格內是否有存在液滴，
若有液滴存在則設為 1，沒有液滴存在則設為 0。
然後依其數值繪成圖 8，圖中噴射出噴嘴口以外的
液滴為黃色、噴嘴口內部的液體為紅色、若網格
內不存在液滴則為黑色。 
(2)長寬比定義：液滴長寬比定義為噴射液滴的集中
性，作為判別液滴優劣的一個主要條件，如果液
滴具有集中性則形狀較容易呈現圓球狀，液滴品
質愈佳，因此採用長寬比來判別液滴形狀是否成
圓球狀。長寬比的定義為判別噴出噴嘴口的液滴
長度與寬度比例；如圖 8所示，L為液滴長度，W
為液滴寬度的一半。取長、寬較大者為分母，較
小者為分子，相除後即可得到此液滴的長寬比。 
(3)液滴顆數判別定義：在判別噴墨液滴的優劣中，
液滴顆數同樣成為主要的因素。本研究對於液滴
顆數的判別，以液滴間的連接與否來決定。在圖 9
中黃色的圖形是代表飛行中的液滴，而此飛行液
滴因為頭尾端速度的差異與表面張力的影響造成
斷裂，形成兩顆液滴，並且在兩者之間並未相連。 
 
圖 8 長寬比判定 
       
圖 9 判別液滴顆數 
4.3 目標函數定義 
目標函數值的定義是以求得模擬液滴噴射目標函
數值最大值(maximum)為最佳解，其中目標函數值是
由液滴的長寬比、液滴噴射速度、液滴面積與波傳導
時間四項數值(比例值)所組成。對於液滴而言，液滴
的長寬比越接近1代表液滴的集中性越高，則越不容
易產生衛星液滴。而液滴噴射速度越快，代表噴墨速
度越快，但液滴形狀容易呈現長條狀並且失去集中
性，在較大的正壓力作用下，液滴速度快、液滴串長
度較長、噴出的液滴體積也較大，波傳導時間為壓力
波傳遞時間，配合文獻[6]中的理論在滿足加電壓時
間變化的斜率規範下，時間是愈短愈好。本研究主要
是以液滴形狀具有集中性為優先，同時求得其液滴的
最快速度、最小面積與省時的壓力波傳遞時間。目標
函數如下列方程式(2)所示： 
Objective = (ω1×LW × ω2×V × ω3×Area × ω
4×Topt)×P                               (2)  
在此目標函數內的各項比例值前都乘上各自的權
重數，目的是為了區分各項比例值之等級。而ω1、
ω2、ω3、ω4是代表各項比例值的權重數，其權重
數值的大小會影響到各項比例值在目標函數內之比
重。P為懲罰值(penalty)，目的是將違反限制條件之
達終止條件時都沒有繼續演化，總共演化代數為 189
代。 
 
圖 11 設計案例的電壓時間設計圖形 
 
 
圖 12 設計案例的邊界壓力設計圖形 
 
 
圖 13 設計案例的噴嘴尺寸形狀圖 
 
 
圖 14 設計案例的液滴噴射圖形 
 
圖 15 設計案例的目標函數值演化趨勢圖 
 
透過最佳化方式演化後的設計變數模擬出優良的
液滴噴射型態。而從整個演化的過程裡可以觀察到原
本預期目標函數的設計會使得目標函數的變動非常
據烈，使用相乘的計算方式，代表目標函數裡每一項
比例值都很重要，可同時找到每項比例值都很優秀的
參數設計。但也因為每一項比例值都造成明顯改變，
又受到演算法演化機制的影響，使得找到的目標函數
值不容易再向上突破，如果其中數項比值值較高，會
使得演化趨勢集中在固定的方向搜尋，必須等到每一
項參數都同時搜尋到更高的值才可能會改進設計。 
 
5. 結論與未來展望 
 
本文主要是發展壓電式噴墨最佳化設計的概念，整
合類免疫網路演算法與流體動力分析軟體 FLOW-3D
於壓電式噴墨的在壓力源最佳化及形狀最佳化，由結
果可綜合歸納得到以下兩點結論： 
 (1) 以整合 FLOW-3D 及類免疫網路演算法的壓電噴
墨最佳化方法，成功設計出壓力設計曲線、噴
嘴形狀尺寸，幫助縮短噴墨製造時程，提升噴
墨系統的效能，成功模設計壓電式噴墨系統。  
 (2) 以研究中製程參數對液滴噴射行為影響的結果
來看。壓力設定方面：壓力值愈大的關係，液
滴直徑與體積相對變大、其液滴速度也越快，
原因是過高的壓力將更多的液體噴出，但對於
噴墨的品質不一定良好，因為實際上應用的考
量點應該為考慮需要的是液滴速度或體積為
主，較大的壓力值能獲得較快的液滴速度，但
液滴體積同時增加，甚至可能產生不必要的衛
星液滴。較小的壓力會降低液滴速度，甚至會
有噴不出液滴的現象，但液滴體積亦減小，在
某些使用需求上方便提高解析度。噴嘴形狀尺
寸設定方面：不同噴嘴寬度的大小會噴出相當
於直徑大小的噴射液滴，但也因為同時受到驅
動壓力的作用，並非壓力值和噴嘴尺寸在哪一
個範圍中較理想或影響比較大，而是兩者之間
相配的最佳效果來決定。 
本次研究以飛行中的噴射液滴情形之優劣來改進
壓電式噴墨頭的設計，在未來的研究方向與目標可由
下列幾點發展： 
(1) 將目標函數之判別由飛行液滴的形狀改變為液
滴滴落在目標物上的形狀，並進一步能夠成功預
測液滴掉落的位置，更可以依據目標物的物性不
同、物理現象的差異而加以改進。例如噴印在薄
紙或不平整、不均勻高度的面上。 
(2) 本研究中使用的模型，主要以簡單對稱的噴嘴外
型為對象。在未來的研究方向，希望可以將模擬
的範圍擴大到整個噴墨頭腔體，經由完整的分
析，有助於設計出整個壓電式噴墨系統。 
 
 
Topology Optimization of Structures Using Ant Colony 
Optimization 
Chun-Yin Wu  
Department of Mechanical 
Engineering, Tatung University, 
Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
cywu@ttu.edu.tw 
Ching-Bin Zhang 
Department of Mechanical 
Engineering, Tatung University, 
Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
g9101010@hotmail.com 
Chi-Jer Wang 
Department of Mechanical 
Engineering, Tatung University, 
Taipei, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
chijerwang@hotmail.com 
 
Abstract 
A modified ACO algorithm that derives from specific definition 
of pheromone and cooperation mechanism between ants was 
applied for solving topology optimization problem of structure. 
Mesh topology of finite element model for structure was treated 
as possible paths for ant’s movement. A tour on mesh topology 
map for seeking food finished by ant is transformed into a 
structure and the finite element method was applied to analyze the 
structure for calculating pheromone deposited on the path. The 
amount of accumulated pheromone deposited on every element by 
different ants was used to find optimum structural design. From 
the results studied in this paper, the purposed ACO algorithm 
provides as alternate optimization method that has high potential 
in finding the best design for topology optimization of structure 
successfully and efficiently. 
Categories and Subject Descriptors 
G.1.6 [Mathematics of Computing]:  
Numerical Analysis – Optimization – Stochastic programming 
General Terms: Algorithms, Design 
Keywords: ACO algorithm, topology optimization 
1. Introduction 
Lightweight structure and small size are the trend of design 
requirements for many products. How to design a lightweight 
structure with sufficient strength is a difficult problem in the 
development of the product. The objective of the structural 
optimization is to find the best structure that fits the design 
requirements [1]. Topology optimization can achieve significant 
weight savings in structural design through modification of the 
arrangement of the material (the topology of the structure) during 
the conceptual design phase. It is a method more general than the 
parametric and shape optimization methods, where only some 
dimensions or the nodal coordinates of the structure are optimized 
respectively. Topology optimization is a powerful tool which can 
help designer to select suitable structure and decrease the trial-
and-error effort [2-4] in the concept design stage.  
Structural optimization has been studied in the last two decades 
[2]. A lot of methods were presented to find optimal structure for 
fitting design requirements such as boundary-based shape 
optimization, homogenization method, evolutionary structural 
optimization, stochastic optimization, biological-inspired method 
etc. The boundary-based shape optimization [6] is a direct method 
to change the structure outline for finding an optimal shape design. 
However, it is not capable of handling topology changes of 
structural optimization. The homogenization method [7-10], first 
proposed by Bensøe and Kikuchi [3], consists in dealing with 
continuous density distribution of material used for structure. In 
order to make the optimal solution practical for real-world 
application, there are different approaches were applied to force 
the final density distribution toward value of 0 or 1. Especially, 
the solid isotropic material with penalization (SIMP) method has 
been widely used in different fields for its implementation 
simplicity. The mathematical programming methods were 
frequently used in homogenization or SIMP methods for 
searching optimal solution. But there is a high probability to find 
the local optimum solution by using mathematical programming 
algorithms. 
In order to find global optimum solution many researches focused 
on the population-based optimization algorithms. A simple 
method for the shape and layout optimization, evolutionary 
structural optimization (ESO), has been proposed by Xie and 
Steven [11-13]. Its original concept is to remove the redundant 
elements carrying low stress gradually and update the criterion for 
element elimination. In addition, numerous stochastic or 
biological-inspired method imitating natural phenomena and 
physical processes have been developed to find optimal structures 
such as simulated annealing [14-15], genetic algorithms [16-19] 
and immune algorithm [20]. In these methods, the genetic 
algorithms(GAs) is used in dealing with the optimal design of 
discretized trusses for sizing [21-22], shape [23-24], and topology 
[17-19]. The GAs, based on the natural mechanism, is applied in 
searching global optimum for many real-world engineering 
problems. GAs  begins from randomized strings to represent the 
individuals of population and proceed repeatedly from generation 
to generation through three basic genetic operators: reproduction, 
crossover, and mutation. In the evolution procedure, strong 
individuals will be found and kept, but weak ones will be 
eliminated. The purpose of these mechanisms is mainly to 
increase the probability of finding the optimal solution and avoid 
premature convergence of the search. The artificial immune 
algorithm has capability of performing several tasks including 
adaptive learning, memory acquisition, generation of diversity, 
and distributed detection.  Those characteristics are also the 
system features of optimization algorithm and it is useful to 
 
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for 
personal or classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are 
not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that 
copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. To copy 
otherwise, or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, 
requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. 
GEC’09, June 12-14, 2009, Shanghai, China. 
Copyright 2009 ACM  978-1-60558-326-6/09/06...$5.00. 
 
601
(a) 
Initialization
N
Stop
Node transition rule
(global search & local 
enhance)
Finite element analysis
Calculate  ant (topology)  
pheromone value
Pheromone update
Elitist policy
Stop criterion Y
to solve the topology optimization problem and the flowchart is 
showed in Fig.2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Conversion from binary code to topology of structure 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2  Flowchart of new ACO algorithm 
(1) Random initialization of ant population 
In the initial process, the design domain for topology optimization 
is divided into elements for finite element model and it is set as 
the food-seeking space for ants. In order to avoid trapping into 
local search, the initial pheromone laid on all elements is defined 
by a small fixed value. The binary code of initial ant population is 
randomly generated uniformly. A travel of ant search connects all 
supports and loadings of structure is used to imitate the condition 
that real ant completed a tour for food forging. The elements 
located on the tour path will form a topology map inside design 
domain and it will be transformed into a structure for finite 
element analysis. When the structure transformed from food 
forging tour is a discontinuous structure a stochastic procedure is 
used to modify structure for continuity for finite element analysis. 
The objective function value obtained by the results of finite 
element analysis will be used to define the pheromone deposited 
on the trails. The accumulation of pheromone after every ant of 
population finishing it travel will form an original pheromone 
map, called A map. The pheromone distribution of A map will be 
used in transition rule for guiding ants to select path for food 
forging. It means that the topology of structure will be improved 
for design goal. 
 (2) Node transition rule 
The movement of an ant search should be one of the eight 
neighboring elements in the design domain. But there are only 
seven possible seeking directions of the ant as shown in Fig. 3. 
The element that the ant has just visited will be excluded from 
candidate list used in path selection movement and it is illustrated 
with element with code 1 in the Fig. 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3   Seven possible seeking directions of the ant 
Two methods, as shown in Fig.4, are used to create the topology 
of structure and promote the diversity for modified ACO 
algorithm.  
(a) The locations of support and loading are treated as food for 
food forging as shown in Fig.4 (a). These locations must be 
visited by every ant of population and every ant will start 
food forging from the nest randomly placed on the element 
of design domain. The roulette wheel method was used for 
selecting the element for next movement. The ant starts the 
search from the nest and the travel is completed only when 
all food has been visited once. 
(b) The location of support was treated as the entrance or exit of 
nest and the location of loadings were defined as food as 
shown in Fig.4 (b). Each of ants will start from any the exit 
to find the food. The roulette wheel method is also used in 
selecting the element for next movement. The process is 
repeated until the ant found the food and returned to nest. If 
ant cannot find the way back to nest, the search will be stop 
and starts the search again from another entrance. 
The city in TSP problem can only be visited by ant only once. If 
the element in modified ACO algorithm can be visited by ant 
once also, the ant may be trapped in corner or in an area 
surrounded by visited elements.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4   Methods for creating topology of structure 
There is no way out for ant to search other area, then the food 
searching process may be ended without accomplished a tour of 
food forging. Element in modified ACO algorithm is allowed to 
be visited by ant more than once to avoid the ant trapped in a 
closed area. The trail finished by ants using the developed 
methods will become a topology map of structural in the design 
domain. The topology of structures must be checked with the 
requirement of continuity before starting the finite element 
analysis. If the structure is discontinuous, it will go through some 
trials of stochastic modification for continuity. If the structure is 
(b) 
603
If the structure is still a discontinuity structure after several trials 
of discontinuity modification, every element of structure will get 
a minimal pheromone value. The continuous structure will be 
further analyzed using finite element method to obtain the value 
of pheromone of every elements using Eq.(9) in the followings. 
 
 
 Where Phv k   obj  denotes the objective value of pheromone intensity 
on every element visited by the kth ant. UYref and Vref  denote the 
reference maximum displacement of full structure at the point of 
loading application and the maximum volume of full structure. 
UYk is the maximum displacement of topology transformed by the 
kth ant’s trace. Vk is the volume of the kth ant’s topology. P k σ is 
the number of elements over the allowable stress of the kth ant’s 
topology. The goal of this pheromone function is to find the 
design with uniform stress distribution and minimum volume 
simultaneous without violating allowable stress. 
(4)Pheromone update 
After nb ants completed the food forging tour and deposited the 
pheromone on the elements they visited, pheromone intensity on 
the trails were updated for evaporation. This is done by 
decreasing the pheromone intensity of trails by a constant factor. 
In this study, the update rule is showed as follows: 
 
 
 
Where the parameter ρ (with 0 ≤ ρ <1) is the trail persistence and 
the term (1-ρ) models the evaporation process. Δτ  k  i is the 
increment of pheromone which ant k deposits on the ith element it 
has visited in its  route. τ *  i  is the final pheromone value remained 
on the ith element. This mechanism can avoid unlimited 
accumulation of the pheromone on trails. While an element is not 
chosen by the ants, its pheromone on trail is decreased 
exponentially. This prevents the ants to run in the same route and 
avoids the occurrence of the stagnation. 
(5) Elitist policy 
The mechanism presented by Stützle and Linke [35] is utilized in 
this study to raise the speed of ants’ food searching and increase 
the convergence of finding the optimal solution efficiently. The 
equation used in the mechanism is showed as follows: 
 
 
Where τ elite i  is the accumulated value formed by many ants in the 
elitist model on the ith element.  
(6) Stop criterion 
In the search process, it is difficult to judge whether the ants 
already found the optimal topology structure or not. So the 
maximum iteration number is defined as the stop criterion. 
4. Simulation results and discussions 
In this paper, two examples with different objective functions will 
be used to demonstrate the performance of the modified ACO 
algorithm for topology optimization. Constraints, material 
properties, and simulation results of the topology models will be 
discussed respectively as follows. 
 
4.1 Case one 
This design domain is showed in Fig.7. This is the optimization of 
a cantilever beam which is subjected to a vertical load of 3 kN 
applied at the finite element node on the middle of its right hand 
side. The dimensions of this beam are set as Lx = 0.16m, Ly = 
0.1m, and the thickness t = 0.001m. The Young’s modulus is E = 
200 GPa and the Poisson ratio is v = 0.3. The allowable stress σ
=285 MPa is assumed. In addition, this design domain is divided 
into 32x20 elements. The Eq.(9) is the pheromone objective 
function for this case. 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7   The design model of case one 
Fig.8 is the topology optimum solution obtained through 200,000 
objective function evaluations (2000 generations by 100 ants). It 
took about 2 hours on computer with the Intel Core2 Duo CPU. 
Due to the reason of seven possible seeking directions of the ant 
without undergoing the structural modification procedure, there 
were many small voids existing in the final optimal structure. It 
easily generated many discontinuous topology structures and 
wasted a lot of computation time by using this method. We will 
try to find a new method to improve its performance in the future 
without interfering with the trend of searching the optimal 
solution. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 The result of topology optimum solution 
4.2 Case two 
The example proposed by Chapman [17-19] minimizing a 
cantilevered plate’s compliance is used for further test the 
performance of modified ACO algorithm developed in this study. 
Due to constraints, loads and material properties are not clearly 
illustrated in those papers, but the same problem is found in 
another reference paper [36] and the parameters used in the paper 
are also used in this study. Fig.9 is the structure model for test. 
The left side of the beam is fixed and a vertical load of 3KN is 
applied at the middle of the right side. The dimensions of the 
model are Lx =0.16m, Ly =0.10m and the thickness t=0.001m. The 
Young’s modulus is E = 207 GPa and the Poisson’s ratio is ν=0.3. 
The design domain is divided into 32×20 quadrilateral elements 
for finite element analysis.  According to the definition of fitness 
functions from papers, the pheromone value is voted as the 
605
