 2
一、中英文摘要 
 
大部分早期的 wireless mesh network(WMN)研究是假設每個節點有裝備一個介面。我們
考慮下一代的 WMN，每一個節點裝備多個介面，並且可以執行多種模式、多通道還有可
以支援多調變。舉例來說，以現成的技術可以很容易建構一個 mesh node，上面使用多 IEEE 
802.11a/b/g 無線介面。 
我們的目標是把在這種環境下的封包傳遞議題與來源規劃作定址。這個假設的方法是
建構在線性規劃上，包含網路流量準則與無線通道入口/干擾模式。已知一個網路的拓撲、
流量需求以及閘道容量，我們將證明如何分配網路介面卡與讓他們的通道完全利用頻寬。 
這個結果可以讓無線網路服務的提供者用來規劃他們的網路，在有限的硬體限制下獲得最
大的利益。 
就我們所知，這是第一個在 WMN 裡作來源規劃的定址之研究。我們的結果將會證明
藉著減輕網路層的公平性問題所得到的整個網路之傳輸量會有重大的改善。 
 
Abstract： 
Most earlier works in the area of wireless mesh network assume a single interface being 
equipped in each node. In this project, we consider the next-generation wireless mesh networks in 
which each node may be equipped with multiple radio interfaces, each capable of running in one 
of several modes, one of several channels, and each capable of supporting multiple modulations. 
For example, from off-the-shelf components, one can easily construct a mesh node with multiple 
IEEE 802.11a/b/g radio interfaces. 
Our goal is to address the resource planning and packet forwarding issues in such an 
environment. The proposed methodology is based on linear programming with network flow 
principles and radio channel access/interference models. Given a network topology, traffic 
requirements, and gateway capacities, we show how to allocate network interface cards and their 
channels to fully utilize channel bandwidths. The results can be used by a wireless Internet 
service provider to plan their networks under a hardware constraint so as to maximize their 
profits. 
To the best of our knowledge, this is the first work addressing resource planning in a 
wireless mesh network. Our numerical results show significant improvement in terms of 
aggregate network throughput with moderate network-layer fairness. 
 
關鍵字：linear programming, resource planning, routing, channel assignment, 
wireless ad hoc  network, wireless mesh network. 
我們的方法建立在線性規劃上。 
∑
∈
+
g
m Vv
in
m
out
m ggMaximize )(目標函數可寫成 
 
∑∑∑∑
∈∈
==
≥≥≤≥≤≥
g
m
g
m Vv
in
m
d
i
Vv
out
m
u
i
d
kdij
u
ksij
d
i
d
i
d
i
d
i
u
i
u
i
u
i
u
i
gg
xxulul
λλ
λλλλ
,
0,0,,,, ],[],[一般的限制： 
 
 
m
in
m
out
m
d
m
in
m
u
m
out
m
Bgg
BgBg
≤+
≤≤ ,{閘道的限制： 
 
上面的限制式與流量守恆不等式成功地使我們線性規劃模型公式化。 
 
C.來源分配與通道指派技術 
首先提出的方法是 Decremental Interface Management (DIM)，以每個節點裝備著最大數
量的無線介面的角度出發，也就是說 C 個 NICs，因為 C 是非重疊通道的總數量。假設 N
個可用的無線模組對於支援 C 個 NICs 在每個 mesh host 上是不足的。 
此外，我們將會觀察到為了達到最大的網路吞吐量而去使用所有裝備在每個主機上的
C 個介面是不必要的。相反地，由於存在數個無線連接在某些零流量的通道上，基於我們
的線性規劃之計算，可移除數個介面而不會使系統降低。 
在這個提出的 DIM 演算法，我們會先移除這些沒有用到的介面並且檢查以使用的 NIC
總數目是否滿足 N 的限制。假如是，這個演算法會終止並一起回傳通道向量跟其對應的流
量分佈，用我們的封包傳遞函數(mPDF)。否則，我們需要計算每一個 NIC 並且找出一個至
少有用的介面從這個系統裡除去。這個程序會一直重複執行直到已使用的 NIC 全部數量符
合這個需求 N。 
 
下一個，我們介紹另一個方法 Incremental Interface Management (IIM)。剛開始，我們
實行一個 NIC 在每個 mesh host，並且聯繫這個介面去操作在最好情況的通道。換句話說，
我們測試有可用的通道，並且選一個最好的通道，可在我們的線性規劃計算中產生最大的
網路容量。 
然後我們使用選擇的通道去建構一個單通道無線網狀骨幹當作起始階段，避免因為選
擇不好的起始通道造成效能偏差。假設 N 大於網路大小，以便於瞭解多無線射頻系統。一
但最初的單無線射頻網路已經被我們的線性規劃模型最佳化，我們使用線性規劃的結果來
開始一個一個增加介面。這個程序會一直重複直到 N 個可用 NIC 已經被分散出去。 
 
 
 
 4
Mbps，而且所有的無線連結都有相同的速率 5.5 Mbps，用三個可用通道來達到最大的網路
容量。在每個 mesh host 上裝備三個 NIC 來利用所有的無線頻寬是沒有必要的。 
 
上圖顯現 DIM 和 IIM 這兩種方法的結果，此外，如圖可知，一但總處理能力達到飽和，
增加網路介面對於效能沒有太大的貢獻，因為現在瓶頸是在正交通道的數目上。 
我們另外在 802.11a 隨著八個可用正交通道上實驗。我們觀察到總共使用 54 個網路介
面，平均每個 mesh host 有 3.4NIC，可以讓網路的總處理能力達到最大，由於篇幅限制，
所以這裡就不詳細討論其細節。 
 
2.變更網路設定 
我們專注在 DIM 演算法上，並且變更網路的大小從 3×3 變成 7×7 來證明我們提出之策
略的規模。 
在 IEEE 802.11g 隨著三個正交通道上實驗，參數之前實驗一樣。靠近閘道的主機通常
裝備更多個無線介面，因為資料封包的主要目的是連到網路上。因為兩個閘道有相同的頻
寬，實行在這兩個閘道上的無線模組期數量幾乎一樣。此外，網路的總處理能力保持在 100 
Mbps 以上，不論是用小的方格(3×3)或是大的(7×7)，這個提出的方法是可調整的。 
可適性對於設計一個容易實行、高效能、對於網路大小和路由路徑長度沒有太大的注
意之無線網狀骨幹的 WMN 是很關鍵的。 
 
3. 單無線射頻 與 多無線射頻系統 
在最後的實驗，我們回到 4×4 方格，使用多無線射頻與多通道系統來研究效能的改善。
我們簡稱單介面之策略(Single-Interface strategy)為 SI，被用在單無線射頻系統上。對一個變
換連結容量的單無線射頻網路，SI 對所有可用通道來實行我們的線性規劃計算，而且選擇
一個最好的通道產生最大的吞吐量作為比較基準。 
對於多無線射頻網路，我們實行提出的 DIM 和 IIM 演算法來管理可用的 NIC 和安排
通道限制。 
 6
 8
Optimization in Multi-radio Wireless Mesh Networks. In Proc. ACM Int’l Conf. Mobile 
Computing and Networking (MobiCom), Sep. 2005. 
[6] B. Awerbuch and D. H. H. Rubens. High Throughput Route Selection in Multi-Rate Ad Hoc 
Wireless Networks. In Proc. First Working Conference on Wireless On-demand Network 
Systems (WONS), Jan. 2004.  
[7] P. Bahl, A. Adya, J. Padhye, and A. Wolman. Reconsidering Wireless Systems with Multiple 
Radios. ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communications Review (CCR), 34(5):39–46, Oct. 
2004. 
[8] P. Bahl, R. Chandra, and J. Dunagan. SSCH: Slotted Seeded Channel Hopping for Capacity 
Improvement in IEEE 802.11 Ad-Hoc Wireless Networks. In Proc. ACM Int’l Conf. Mobile 
Computing and Networking (MobiCom), pages 216–230, 2004. 
[9] C.-Y. Chang, P.-C. Huang, C.-T. Chang, and Y.-S. Chen. Dynamic Channel Assignment and 
Reassignment for Exploiting Channel Reuse Opportunities in Mobile Ad Hoc Wireless 
Networks. IEICE Transaction on Communicaton, pages 1234–1246, Apr. 2003. 
[10] R. R. Choudhury, X. Yang, R. Ramanathan, and N. H. Vaidya. Using Directional Antennas 
for Medium Access Control in Ad Hoc Networks. In Proc. ACM Int’l Conf. Mobile 
Computing and Networking (MobiCom), pages 59–69, Sep. 2002. 
[11] R. Draves, J. Padhye, and B. Zill. Routing in Multi-Radio Multi-Hop Wireless Mesh 
Networks. In Proc. ACM Int’l Conf. Mobile Computing and Networking (MobiCom), pages 
114–128, 2004. 
[12] G. Holland, N. Vaidya, and P. Bahl. A Rate-Adaptive MAC Protocol for Multi-Hop Wireless 
Networks. In Proc. ACM Int’l Conf. Mobile Computing and Networking (MobiCom), pages 
236–251, Jul. 2001.  
[13] J. Jun and M. L. Sichitiu. The Nominal Capacity of Wireless Mesh Networks. IEEE Wireless 
Communications, 10(5):8–14, Oct. 2003.  
[14] R. Karrer, A. Sabharwal, and E. W. Knightly. Enabling Large-scale Wireless Broadband: The 
Case for TAPs. In Proc. 2nd Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks (HotNets-II), 2003. 
[15] P. Kyasanur and N. H. Vaidya. Routing and Interface Assignment in Multi-Channel 
Multi-Interface Wireless Networks. In Proc. IEEE Wireless Communications and 
Networking Conference (WCNC), 2005. 
[16] R. Ramanathan, J. Redi, C. Santivanez, D. Wiggins, and S. Polit. Ad Hoc Networking with 
Directional Antennas: A Complete System Solution. IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in 
Communications (JSAC), pages 496–504, Mar. 2005. 
[17] A. Raniwala and T.-C. Chiueh. Architecture and Algorithms for an IEEE 802.11-Based 
et forwarding in multi-radio,
ra
, K
o-Tu
g U
e 8
Abstract
scalability problem, one may explore advanced transmis-
sion technologies (such as smart or MIMO antennas
modity radio modules [3,6,8,12,9,16,18,19,21]. Several
q The research of Ting-Yu Lin is sponsored by the NSC of Taiwan
under Grant No. NSC96-2221-E-009-017.
* Corresponding author. Tel.: +886 921 591603.
E-mail address: tylin@csie.nctu.edu.tw (T.-Y. Lin).
reduced networking modules, nowadays computing devices are often
capable of operating/communicating on/through diﬀerent radio frequen-
cies (e.g., WiFi/Bluetooth/WCDMA possibly readily available at a single
laptop, which may be installed with another WiFi card via the PCMCIA
interface). Hence, equipping multiple wireless interfaces at a single host is
getting aﬀordable and its popularity can be expected in next-generation
wireless-enabled computers.
www.elsevier.com/locate/comcom
Available online at www.sciencedirect.com
Computer Communications 31 (2008) 1329–1342The wireless mesh network (WMN) is a promising solu-
tion to the last-mile wireless Internet access problem. It can
eﬀectively complement the limitation of WLAN coverage.
Applications of WMN include enterprise wireless back-
bones and community networks [15]. In [5], two mesh hier-
archies are deﬁned: infrastructure mesh and client mesh,
where the former has much less mobility than the latter.
Ref. [14] points out that a WMN may suﬀer from the sca-
lability problem as the network grows due to the conten-
tion and interference among hosts. To mitigate the
works show how to increase WMN capacity by adaptively
adjusting the data rates [4,7,13,20].
In this work, we adopt the latter approach based on
commodity components. We explore the possibility of
multi-interface, multi-channel model. For example, IEEE
802.11a/b/g has 12/3/3 non-overlapping channels avail-
able. One can easily make a multi-interface mesh node by
oﬀ-the-shelf components.1 Several works have addressed
1 With the advance of communication hardware technology, and cost-Most earlier works in the area of wireless mesh network assume a single interface being equipped in each node. In this paper, we consider
the next-generation wireless mesh networks in which each node may be equipped with multiple radio interfaces, each capable of running in
one of several modes (IEEE 802.11b/g 2.4 GHz or 802.11a 5 GHz mode), one of several channels, and each capable of supporting multiple
modulations.We call such a network anM4 (multi-radio, multi-mode,multi-channel, multi-rate) wireless mesh network. For example, from
oﬀ-the-shelf components, one can easily construct a mesh node with multiple IEEE 802.11a/b/g radio interfaces. Our goal is to address the
resource planning and packet forwarding issues in such an environment. The proposed methodology is based on linear programming with
network ﬂow principles and radio channel access/interference models. Given a network topology, traﬃc requirements, and gateway capac-
ities, we show how to allocate network interface cards and their channels to fully utilize channel bandwidths. The results can be utilized by a
wireless Internet service provider toplan their networks under ahardware constraint so as tomaximize their proﬁts. To thebest of ourknowl-
edge, this is the ﬁrst work addressing resource planning in a wireless mesh network. Our numerical results show signiﬁcant improvement in
terms of aggregate network throughput withmoderate network-layer fairness. The importance of network planning is further corroborated
by the simulative comparisons with other multi-radio systems assuming a known and ﬁxed number of interfaces at each mesh router.
 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
Keywords: Resource planning; Routing; Channel assignment; Linear programming; Wireless ad hoc network; Wireless mesh network
1. Introduction [11,17,22]) or layer-2 or layer-3 solutions based on com-Resource planning and pack
multi-mode, multi-channel, multi-
Ting-Yu Lin a,*, Wai-Hong Tam b
aDepartment of Communication Engineering, National Chia
bDepartment of Computer Science, National Chiao-Tun
Available onlin0140-3664/$ - see front matter  2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.
doi:10.1016/j.comcom.2008.01.059te (M4) wireless mesh networksq
ang-Lun Fan a, Yu-Chee Tseng b
ng University, 1001 University Road, Hsinchu 300, Taiwan
niversity, 1001 University Road, Hsinchu 300, Taiwan
February 2008
mumulti-radio multi-channel protocols is non-trivial, requir-
ing not only methods to assign channels intelligently, but
also cautions to take care of network connectivity. Further-
more, in case that interface switching between channels is
necessary in any proposed protocols, the multi-channel
hidden-terminal problem, as characterized in [9], should
be treated carefully to avoid degrading performance due
to packet collisions.
Several works have addressed multi-channel MAC/rout-
ing protocols based on IEEE 802.11 [6,12,16,18,19]. In [16],
the authors suggested to associate a radio interface to a
ﬁxed channel and use the remaining interfaces to switch
among other channels. The ﬁxed channel is determined
by each mesh node so as to evenly distribute all available
channels in a neighborhood. Whenever a sender wishes to
communicate, it tunes one of its switchable interfaces to
operate on the receiver’s ﬁxed channel. In addition to inter-
face assignment strategy, Ref. [16] also proposed a multi-
channel routing protocol (MCR) considering the costs of
interface switching and channel diversity when selecting a
route. Ideally, the MCR protocol assigns the most cost-eﬃ-
cient route to each communication ﬂow, so that multiple
wireless links operating on diﬀerent channels along the
selected route can be active simultaneously (inter-hop con-
tention problem considered). However, since routes are
determined independently in MCR, the inter-route conten-
tion problem, as explained in Fig. 1, remains unaddressed.
In [12], a Multi-Radio Link-Quality Source Routing
(MR-LQSR) protocol is proposed. The goal of this proto-
col is to discover a high-throughput route between commu-
nicating entities in a multi-radio multi-hop wireless mesh
network. The authors deﬁned a Weighted Cumulative
Expected Transmission Time (WCETT) metric for path
selection. Using WCETT, one may predict the transmission
eﬃciency considering packet data rates and channel diver-
sity along a single route. As a result, the inter-hop conten-
tion problem as characterized in Fig. 1 is handled by the
proposed routing protocol. However, since routes are eval-
uated individually, contention between communication
ﬂows (inter-route contention) is also ignored in this work,
lacking a global optimization for the inherently coopera-
tive wireless network system.
In [18,19], also targeting on a multi-radio multi-channel
wireless mesh environment, the authors proposed a set of
centralized [19] and distributed [18] channel assignment
and routing algorithms. Since channel assignment and
routing tend to aﬀect each other, the proposed protocol
repeats the two processes periodically to check if the cur-
rent settings, including channel binding and route selection,
meet the requirements of traﬃc loads and inherent wireless
link capacities. The load-aware channel assignment algo-
rithm does not require any speciﬁc routing algorithm.
Whenever no feasible route can be found by the routing
protocol, the procedure will go back to re-perform the
channel assignment algorithm, so as to ﬁnd a reasonable
T.-Y. Lin et al. / Computer Comroute for the data ﬂow that ﬁts in all wireless link capacities
along the path. This work considered both the inter-routeand inter-hop contention problems. However, there is no
guarantee of ﬁnding an optimal channel setting for arbi-
trary routing protocols, especially in real environments
where asymmetric links are common, transmission rates
vary a lot, and link quality is often diﬀerent from channel
to channel. In addition, like the previous two works
[12,16], proposals in [18,19] also ignore the problem of
optimizing the number of radio modules assigned to a
mesh host.
In a recent work [6], the authors proposed a joint chan-
nel assignment and routing protocol to optimize the net-
work throughput subject to fairness constraints. The
optimization methodology is also based on linear program-
ming. Given the interference model, number of available
channels, aggregate user traﬃc demands, and number of
radios at each mesh router, [6] addresses the interference-
free link scheduling, routing, and channel assignment prob-
lems (RCL algorithm). We share the similar idea of traﬃc
splitting over multiple routing paths to achieve load bal-
ancing by performing traﬃc engineering techniques as pro-
posed by [6]. In RCL, all wireless channels are assumed to
have equally maximal data rate and gateways assumed to
have unlimited capacity, which are diﬀerent from our
assumptions in this work. Additionally, [6] also uses an
equal and given number of interfaces at each mesh router
as most previous works do, ignoring the problem of opti-
mizing radio numbers for heterogeneous (forwarding) traf-
ﬁc requirements at mesh routers. We will report and discuss
the performance comparison results through simulation
experiments in Section 4.3.
3. Resource planning in an M4 wireless mesh network
This section ﬁrst deﬁnes the architecture of our M4 wire-
less mesh network. Then we propose a linear programming
model to allocate radio interfaces to mesh nodes and bind
channels to these radio interfaces. Two schemes called Dec-
remental Interface Management (DIM) and Incremental
Interface Management (IIM) are proposed. In Section
3.4, we re-visit the contention problems as depicted in
Fig. 1, and propose a multi-path packet delivery function
(mPDF) to further exploit the advantage of having multiple
radios and channels.
3.1. Network architecture
We consider an M4 network as shown in Fig. 2. Each
mesh node is equipped with one or multiple wireless inter-
faces. Each interface can operate in one of several modes.
In this work, we consider IEEE 802.11a/b/g. Each antenna
can be either omni-directional or directional. Also, an
interface can support multiple modulations with diﬀerent
transmission rates. It is assumed that an interface is capa-
ble of selecting the best modulation depending on the chan-
nel quality. We consider link asymmetry, in the sense that
nications 31 (2008) 1329–1342 1331the transmission rate in one direction of a link could be dif-
ferent from that of the other. The mesh network may have
(a)
muv
V
e12
e21
e23
e32
e
24
e
42
e
35
e53
e56
e65
e 74
e 47
e
48e
84
e25
e52
e
69e
96
e78
e87
Gateway node
e45
e54
v v
v
v
v
v
B
B
V
Fig. 3. An example wireless mesh network architecture in graph
representation.
T.-Y. Lin et al. / Computer Com Next, we deﬁne xuij½s;k as the actual uplink traﬃc gener-
ated by source node vs over wireless link eij using chan-
nel k, and similarly xdij½d;k as the downlink traﬃc
forwarded to destination node vd over wireless link eij
using channel k. Moreover, we deﬁne xij½0;k as the aggre-
gate traﬃc load on wireless link eij using channel k,
where xij½0;k ¼
P
vs2V ðxuij½s;k  cij½kÞþ
P
vd2V ðxdij½d;k  cij½kÞ. For each gateway host vm 2 V g, we deﬁne the aggregate
uplink/downlink traﬃc via vm to be goutm /g
in
m , where:
goutm ¼
X
vs2V
gouts;m; g
in
m ¼
X
vd2V
gind;m:
A summary of notations is given in Table 1.
Our ultimate goal is to maximize the mesh network
capacity such that the traﬃc ﬂowing in/out of the set of
gateways is the largest, without violating the traﬃc require-
ment (upper and lower bounds) of each mesh node. Our
approach is based on linear programming. The objective
function can be written as
v1 v2 v5
v3
v4
v7 v8
v6
v9
v10
v11
Fig. 4. A simpliﬁed example graph with separate mesh hosts and Internet
gateways.Maximize
X
vm2V g
ðgoutm þ ginmÞ;
subject to the following constraints:
(1) general constraints:
kui P l
u
i ;k
u
i 6 uui ;k
d
i P l
d
i ;k
d
i 6 udi ;xuij½s;kP 0; xdij½d;kP 0;X
ku ¼
X
gout;
X
kd ¼
X
gin;
uui Maximum uplink traﬃc load allowed at node vi (upper bound)
lui Minimum uplink traﬃc load required at node vi (lower bound)
udi Maximum downlink traﬃc load allowed at node vi (upper
bound)
ldi Minimum downlink traﬃc load required at node vi (lower
bound)
fij½k Capacity of directional wireless link eij over channel k
Bm Capacity of (Ethernet/T1/T3) gateway node vm
Bum Uplink capacity of (xDSL/cable modem) gateway node vm
Bdm Downlink capacity of (xDSL/cable modem) gateway node vm
C Number of available non-interfering channels
Ci½k Channel boolean vector of node vi (ci½k ¼ f0; 1gÞ
N Number of available sets of communication equipment
(b)
lambdaui Actual uplink traﬃc load delivered from node vi
lambdadi Actual downlink traﬃc load destined to node vi
X uij½sk Uplink traﬃc ﬂow generated by source node vs over wireless
link eij using channel k
Xdij½sk Downlink traﬃc ﬂow forwarded to destination node vd over
wireless link eij using channel k
goutm Traﬃc ﬂow out of gateway node vm gout
ginm Traﬃc ﬂow back into gateway node vm ginTable 1
Summary of notations: (a) parameters that are given and (b) parameters
that are to be determined
nications 31 (2008) 1329–1342 1333i
vm2V g
m i
vm2V g
m
(2) gateway constraint:
goutm þ ginm 6 Bm if uplink and downlink share
the bandwidth
goutm 6 Bum; ginm 6 Bdm otherwise:
8><
>:
Due to the fact that radio channel bandwidth is shared
by all wireless links within the interfering range of edge
eij, we add one more constraint to reﬂect the channel model
based on IEEE 802.11 DCF contention protocol:X
epq2IEkij
ðxpq½0;k=fpq½kÞ 6 1:
Finally, the linear programming constraints and ﬂow
conservation equations are summarized in Fig. 5(a) and
(b), respectively.
3.3. Resource allocation and channel assignment techniques
In this section, we present two algorithms to distribute
available radio modules and perform channel arrangement:
Decremental InterfaceManagement (DIM) and Incremental
culation. In the proposed DIM algorithm, we ﬁrst remove
those useless interfaces and check if the total number of
NICs used satisﬁes the N limitation. If so, the algorithm
terminates and returns the channel vector ci½k along with
corresponding traﬃc distribution patterns for our packet
delivery function (mPDF), which will be presented later
in Section 3.4. Otherwise, we need to evaluate each NIC
and ﬁnd out a least useful interface for removal from the
system. This process is repeated until the total number of
used NICs meets the N requirement.
Now we present the interface evaluation strategy
adopted by DIM. For each NIC operating on channel k
equipped on mesh host vi, we calculate the aggregate traﬃc
(both uplink and downlink) ani½k handled by the interface as
follows:
ani½k ¼
X
i6¼j;vj2V ;vs0 2V h
ðxuij½s0;k þ xuji½s0;kÞþ
X
i 6¼j;vj2V ;vd0 2V h
ðxdij½d 0;k þxdji½d 0;kÞ;
ð1Þ
8vi 2 V h; 1 6 k 6 C. We hope to remove the NIC with the
smallest ani½k. However, to avoid removing the only inter-
face that a mesh host has, we calculate the aggregate traﬃc
ahi experienced by vi via all interfaces equipped on the host
in the following equation:
h
XC
n
8vi 2 V h, and deﬁne wi½k ¼ ani½k=ahi . Only those NICs with
wi½k < 1 will be considered for removal. Among those can-
didate NICs, we remove the interface which yields the min-
imum value of ani½k  wi½k. All interfaces are evaluated and
removed one by one until the number of total used NICs
becomes equal to N. Fig. 7 provides a pseudo-code for
the DIM algorithm.
Next, we introduce the Incremental Interface Manage-
ment (IIM) strategy. Initially, we deploy one NIC on each
mesh host, and bind the interface to operate on the best-
condition channel. In other words, we test on all available
channels, and choose the best channel, which produces the
maximal network capacity based on our LP calculation.
We then use the selected channel to construct a single-
channel wireless mesh backbone as the initial phase in
our IIM algorithm to avoid any performance bias due to
bad initial channel selection.
Assume that N is larger than the network size jV hj, so as
to realize a multi-radio system. Once the initial single-radio
mesh has been optimized by our LP model, we start to add
interfaces one by one based on the LP results. This process
will be repeated until all N available NICs have been dis-
tributed out.
Note that during the process of adding interfaces, we
may be unable to ﬁnd a feasible LP solution due to insuf-
ﬁcient number of deployed NICs for supporting required
user traﬃcs. In this case, we repetitively reduce the traﬃc
T.-Y. Lin et al. / Computer Communications 31 (2008) 1329–1342 1335ai ¼
k¼1
ai½k;Fig. 7. Decremental Interface Managemlower bounds (li) for both uplink and downlink at eachent (DIM) algorithm pseudo-code.
muT.-Y. Lin et al. / Computer Comand bottom-right corners separately. The IEEE 802.11b
environment with three orthogonal (non-interfering) chan-
nels is considered. Assume that all mesh hosts have the
same traﬃc requirement for both uplink and downlink
data ﬂows. Denoted as U and L, the traﬃc upper bound
and lower bound are set to be 5 and 0.2 Mbps, respectively.
In addition, suppose that symmetric gateways are used,
each with bandwidth capacity B equal to 100 Mbps, and
Fig. 8. Incremental Interface Managemnications 31 (2008) 1329–1342 1337that all wireless links have the same bit rate F equal to
5.5 Mbps. Fig. 11 shows the results for the DIM and IIM
strategies. As we can see from this ﬁgure, the aggregate net-
work throughput grows as N and C increase. An interesting
observation is that, when three orthogonal channels are
being used (C ¼ 3), both DIM and IIM yield four times
the throughput of a single-channel system (C ¼ 1) by add-
ing only 10 more (16 + 10 = 26 in total) network interfaces
ent (IIM) algorithm pseudo-code.
and gateway bandwidth capacities. Below we report the
results in order.
Since in real environments, data rate diﬀers from link to
link due to distinguished surroundings and channel condi-
tions, we now remove the constant link capacity assump-
tion, and let F uniformly distribute over the range of
(0,24] Mbps. The rest of parameter settings is the same as
in Fig. 12. Fig. 13 illustrates the results. Though with lower
network throughput due to imperfect link data rates,
Fig. 13 shows similar trends and phenomena as we
observed from Fig. 12. As we can see from the ﬁgure,
DIM outperforms IIM as C increases by keeping N at a
lower number, which suggests that the proposed DIM
strategy is more adaptive than IIM when dealing with vary-
ing link bit rates.
Now we focus on the DIM algorithm, and vary network
size from 3 3 to 7 7 to verify the scalability of our pro-
posed strategy. We experiment on the IEEE 802.11g system
with three orthogonal channels. The rest of parameter set-
tings is the same as the previous experiment. Fig. 14 illus-
trates the derived network interface deployment and
channel bindings for diﬀerent network sizes. As we observe
from the ﬁgure, hosts close to gateways (including gateway
itself) are usually equipped with more radio interfaces,
since Internet access is the main purpose of our data pack-
ets. Because the two gateways have identical bandwidth,
the number of radio modules deployed at the two gateways
is almost the same. In addition, the network throughputs
are kept above 100 Mbps whether it is a small (3 3) or
large (7 7) grid, suggesting that the proposed strategy is
4*4 grid, U=20, L=0.2, B=500, F=(0,24], DIM
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
16 24 32 40 48 56 64 72 80
Number of Available NICs (N)
Ag
gr
eg
at
e 
Ne
tw
or
k
Th
ro
ug
hp
ut
 (M
bp
s)
C=1
C=2
C=3
C=4
C=5
C=6
C=7
C=8
4*4 grid, U=20, L=0.2, B=500, F=(0,24], IIM
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
16 24 32 40 48 56 64 72 80
Number of Available NICs (N)
Ag
gr
eg
at
e 
Ne
tw
or
k
Th
ro
ug
hp
ut
 (M
bp
s)
C=1
C=2
C=3
C=4
C=5
C=6
C=7
C=8
a b
Fig. 13. Aggregate network throughput vs. number of available radio interfaces in the IEEE 802.11a environment with varying link bit rates (uniformly
distributed over (0,24] Mbps) using (a) DIM and (b) IIM algorithms.
channel 1
channel 2
channel 3
gateway
host
24, T
T.-Y. Lin et al. / Computer Communications 31 (2008) 1329–1342 1339(a) 3*3 grid, N=14, Throughput=107.8 (b) 4*4 grid, N=
(d) 6*6 grid, N=54, Throughput=128.4Fig. 14. The interface distributions and channel conﬁgurations for diﬀerent n
algorithm.hroughput=139.5 (c) 5*5 grid, N=38, Throughput=133.2
(e) 7*7 grid, N=74, Throughput=126.2etwork sizes in the IEEE 802.11g environment using the proposed DIM
muthroughput, our proposed DIM and IIM approaches
always result in a smaller total number of radio interfaces
needed. Under the 5 5 topology, our IIM algorithm even
requires only half as many as the number of radio inter-
faces used by RCL (N ¼ 27 vs. N ¼ 50) to achieve similar
throughput performance, thus saving deployment costs.
Consequently, network planning by distributing available
radios based on diﬀerent (forwarding) traﬃc requirements
at mesh routers has been eﬀectively exercised by the pro-
posed DIM and IIM algorithms.
5. Conclusions
In this work, we propose an M4 wireless mesh architec-
ture and design related resource allocation and channel
assignment mechanisms to maximize the possible network
capacity at the deployment stage. The numerical results
show encouraging potential in terms of network through-
put improvement. We plan to investigate on the optimal
arrangement by letting the channel vector ci½k become
unknown and solving the nonlinear programming model
in the near future, so that we can observe how close our
proposed linear methodology is to the optimal nonlinear
solution. On the other hand, due to the relatively high com-
putational complexity incurred by the linear programming
calculations, we only perform this optimization task at the
WMN deployment stage as an initialization setup. Once
mesh nodes are well conﬁgured, the LP modeling will be
re-evaluated periodically in an infrequent basis. Based on
the current insights observed from this work, we plan to
explore a sub-optimal tree-induced ﬂow designation strat-
egy, which requires less computational complexity. These
results and possible improvements will be reported in our
future paper. In addition, we are interested in the fairness
problem in WMNs. In this work, we realize the network-
level fairness by setting reasonable user traﬃc bounds (ui
and li) in our linear programming model and performing
ﬂow control in the packet forwarding function. However,
Table 2
Comparison of the RCL algorithm equipping two radio interfaces at each
mesh router with our proposed approaches having the capability of
distributing radio interfaces based on load-sensitivity
3  3 4  4 5  5
RCL (Mbps) 18.0341 N = 18 17.2148 N = 32 15.7682 N = 50
DIM (Mbps) 18.0341 N = 15 17.1631 N = 21 15.5473 N = 31
IIM (Mbps) 18.0593 N = 13 17.1902 N = 20 15.7504 N = 27
T.-Y. Lin et al. / Computer Comthere is still short of a link-level technique to prevent band-
width occupancy from favoring those users closer to Inter-
net gateways. This MAC-layer fairness issue will also be
directed into our future work.
References
[1] lp-solve: a Mixed Integer Programming (MIP) solver. Available from:
<http://www.geocities.com/lpsolve>.
[2] ns-2: The Network Simulator. Available from: <http://www.isi.edu/
nsnam/ns/>.[3] A. Adya, P. Bahl, J. Padhye, A. Wolman, L. Zhou, A multi-radio
uniﬁcation protocol for IEEE 802.11 wireless networks, in: Proceed-
ings of the IEEE BroadNets, October 2004, pp. 25–29.
[4] D. Aguayo, J. Bicket, S. Biswas, G. Judd, R. Morris, Link-level
measurements from an 802.11b mesh network, in: Proceedings of the
ACM SIGCOMM, August 2004, pp. 121–131.
[5] I.F. Akyildiz, X. Wang, W. Wang, Wireless mesh networks: a survey,
Elsevier Computer Networks (2005).
[6] M. Alicherry, R. Bhatia, L. Li, Joint channel assignment and routing
for throughput optimization in multi-radio wireless mesh networks,
in: Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Mobile
Computing and Networking (MobiCom), September 2005.
[7] B. Awerbuch, D.H.H. Rubens, High throughput route selection in
multi-rate ad hoc wireless networks, in: Proceedings of the First
Working Conference on Wireless On-demand Network Systems
(WONS), January 2004.
[8] P. Bahl, A. Adya, J. Padhye, A. Wolman, Reconsidering wireless
systems with multiple radios, ACM SIGCOMM Computer Commu-
nications Review (CCR) 34 (5) (2004) 39–46.
[9] P. Bahl, R. Chandra, J. Dunagan, SSCH: slotted seeded channel
hopping for capacity improvement in IEEE 802.11 ad-hoc wireless
networks, in: Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on
Mobile Computing and Networking (MobiCom), 2004, pp. 216–230.
[10] C.-Y. Chang, P.-C. Huang, C.-T. Chang, Y.-S. Chen, Dynamic
channel assignment and reassignment for exploiting channel reuse
opportunities in mobile ad hoc wireless networks, in: IEICE
Transaction on Communicaton, April 2003, pp. 1234–1246.
[11] R.R. Choudhury, X. Yang, R. Ramanathan, N.H. Vaidya, Using
directional antennas for medium access control in ad hoc networks,
in: Proceedings of the ACM International Conference on Mobile
Computing and Networking (MobiCom), September 2002, pp. 59–69.
[12] R. Draves, J. Padhye, B. Zill, Routing in multi-radio multi-hop
wireless mesh networks, in: Proceedings of the ACM International
Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking (MobiCom),
2004, pp. 114–128.
[13] G. Holland, N. Vaidya, P. Bahl, A rate-adaptive MAC protocol for
multi-hop wireless networks, in: Proceedings of the ACM Interna-
tional Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking (Mobi-
Com), July 2001, pp. 236–251.
[14] J. Jun, M.L. Sichitiu, The nominal capacity of wireless mesh
networks, IEEE Wireless Communications 10 (5) (2003) 8–14.
[15] R. Karrer, A. Sabharwal, E.W. Knightly, Enabling large-scale
wireless broadband: the case for TAPs, in: Proceedings of the Second
Workshop on Hot Topics in Networks (HotNets-II), 2003.
[16] P. Kyasanur, N.H. Vaidya, Routing and interface assignment in
multi-channel multi-interface wireless networks, in: Proceedings of
the IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference
(WCNC), 2005.
[17] R. Ramanathan, J. Redi, C. Santivanez, D. Wiggins, S. Polit, Ad hoc
networking with directional antennas: a complete system solution,
IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications (JSAC) (2005)
496–504.
[18] A. Raniwala, T.-C. Chiueh, Architecture and algorithms for an IEEE
802.11-based multi-channel wireless mesh network, in: Proceedings of
the IEEE INFOCOM, 2005.
[19] A. Raniwala, K. Gopalan, T.-C. Chiueh, Centralized channel
assignment and routing algorithms for multi-channel wireless mesh
networks, in: Mobile Computing and Communications Review, April
2004, pp. 50–65.
[20] S.-T. Sheu, Y. Tsai, J. Chen, MR2RP: the multi-rate and multi-range
routing protocol for IEEE 802.11 ad hoc wireless networks, ACM/
Kluwer Wireless Networks 9 (2) (2003) 165–177.
[21] J. So, N. Vaidya, Multi-channel MAC for ad hoc networks: handling
multi-channel hidden terminals using a single transceiver, in: Pro-
ceedings of the ACM MobiHoc, May 2004, pp. 222–233.
[22] K. Sundaresan, R. Sivakumar, M.A. Ingram, T.-Y. Chang, A fair
nications 31 (2008) 1329–1342 1341medium access control protocol for ad-hoc networks with MIMO
links, in: Proceedings of the IEEE INFOCOM, March 2004.
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2218-E-009 -006 -  
計畫名稱 
(中文)無線多跳階網狀網路上資源分配與繞徑最佳化設計 
(英文) Resource Allocation and Route Optimization in Wireless Multi-hop  
Mesh Networks 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
范剛綸 國立交通大學電信工程研究所系統組碩士班二年級 
會議時間地點 
2007 年八月十三到十六, 美國夏威夷檀香山 
13th ~ 16th, Aug, 2007 Honolulu, Hawaii, USA 
會議名稱 
(中文)第十六屆國際電腦通訊及網路研討會 
(英文) The 16th International Conference on Computer Communications and 
      Networks (ICCCN 2007) 
發表論文題目 
(中文)下一代多跳階無線網狀網路之資源分配及封包傳送 
(英文) Resource Planning and Packet Forwarding for Next-generation 
      Multi-hop Wireless Mesh Networks 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
    本次出國主要的目的是去參加 ICCCN 2007，並在其中的一個 Workshop - WiMAN 2007
上報告新發表的論文 - Resource Planning and Packet Forwarding for Next-generation Multi-hop 
Wireless Mesh Networks，我們的論文在今年有幸獲選為該Workshop的最佳論文，也藉著報告
論文的空檔，去觀摩國際間在無線網狀網路上還是其他電腦通訊領域上的趨勢、方法、以及
發展的現況。 
 2007年的 ICCCN 是在美國夏威夷的檀香山舉辦，主要的議題是針對有線及無線網路的
理論以及應用發展，今年也是 ICCCN 第一次合併舉辦衛星通訊的 Workshop，並新增了五
個新的workshops：WiMAN 2007、IMAP 2007、PMACT 2007、DSS 2007、ANC 2007，其領
域涵蓋了多媒體、電腦電信網路效能分析、分散式感測網路等等，有來自32個國家多達550
篇的投稿，顯示有相當多的研究者投入這次的研討會。 
 本次的會議為期總共四天，而在會議開始的前一天，所有與會者都必須先到舉辦的場地
做報到的手續；會議的前三天主要是一些 Technical Session，而後從第三天下午開始則是
Workshop 的行程，所有的作者一一上台報告今年最新發表的論文；而在各個 Session、Workshop
間則是會有許多的 Keynote speech 以及 Panel Discussion，讓世界各國的學者都可以參與主題
的討論，做學術上的交流。 
本人參加報告的 Workshop 是在第四天舉辦，當天總共分為六個小主題，包含了 Routing、
Channel Assignment、MAC protocols、Antennas、Cross-layer、Sensor 等等的主題，也在下午
開場時請到了 UIUC 的 Prof. Tarek Abdelzaher 來為全場的學者們做 Keynote speech，演講的主
題是 "Ad Hoc Networks for the Cyber-Physical Frontier"，而本人的報告是在上午的第一段舉
行，順位是第二個，有許多此一領域的學者參與，也與本人做簡短的討論交流。 
Resource Planning and Packet Forwarding for
Next-generation Multi-hop Wireless Mesh Networks
Ting-Yu Lin and Kang-Lun Fan
Department of Communication Engineering
National Chiao-Tung University
Abstract— Most earlier works in the area of wireless mesh
network assume a single interface being equipped in each node.
In this paper, we consider the next-generation wireless mesh
networks in which each node may be equipped with multiple
radio interfaces, each capable of running in one of several modes,
one of several channels, and each capable of supporting multiple
modulations. For example, from off-the-shelf components, one can
easily construct a mesh node with multiple IEEE 802.11a/b/g
radio interfaces. Our goal is to address the resource planning and
packet forwarding issues in such an environment. The proposed
methodology is based on linear programming with network flow
principles and radio channel access/interference models. Given a
network topology, traffic requirements, and gateway capacities, we
show how to allocate network interface cards and their channels
to fully utilize channel bandwidths. The results can be used by a
wireless Internet service provider to plan their networks under
a hardware constraint so as to maximize their profits. To the
best of our knowledge, this is the first work addressing resource
planning in a wireless mesh network. Our numerical results show
significant improvement in terms of aggregate network throughput
with moderate network-layer fairness.
Keywords: linear programming, resource planning, routing,
channel assignment, wireless ad hoc network, wireless mesh
network.
I. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
The wireless mesh network (WMN) is a promising solution
to the last-mile wireless Internet access problem. It can comple-
ment the limitation of WLAN coverage. Applications of WMN
include enterprise wireless backbones and community networks
[14]. In [4], two mesh hierarchies are defined: infrastructure
mesh and client mesh, where the former has much less mobility
than the latter. Reference [13] points out that a WMN may
suffer from the scalability problem as the network grows due
to the contention and interference among hosts. To mitigate
the scalability problem, one may explore advanced transmission
technologies (such as smart or MIMO antennas [10], [16],
[21]) or layer-2 or layer-3 solutions based on commodity radio
modules [2], [5], [7], [8], [11], [15], [17], [18], [20]. Several
works show how to increase WMN capacity by adaptively
adjusting the data rates [3], [6], [12], [19].
In this work, we adopt the latter approach based on commod-
ity components. We explore the possibility of multi-interface,
multi-channel model. For example, IEEE 802.11a/b/g has 12/3/3
non-overlapping channels available. One can easily make a
This work of Ting-Yu Lin is sponsored by the NSC of Taiwan under Grant
number NSC96-2218-E-009-006.
Corresponding author email: ting@cm.nctu.edu.tw
multi-interface mesh node by off-the-shelf components. Several
works have addressed the related issues. In [9], [22], [23],
the authors propose to use a dedicated interface running on a
control channel to negotiate the data channels to be used by
other interfaces. References [2], [5], [7], [11], [15], [17], [18]
propose to treat interfaces equally and some channel assignment
techniques are used to exploit spatial reuse.
The above works all assume that the number of interfaces in
each mesh node is given. In this paper, we address the resource
planning problem in a Multi-radio Multi-mode Multi-channel
Multi-rate wireless mesh network. Our approach is based on
linear programming. Based on the well-known IEEE 802.11
channel contention model, we compute the near-optimal number
of radio modules that should be equipped in each node and the
channel that should be bound with each interface. We present
two resource management and channel assignment algorithms:
Decremental Interface Management (DIM) and Incremental In-
terface Management (IIM).
Our ultimate goal is to maximize the traffic volume in/out of
Internet gateways of the mesh network, under the restrictions of
network topology (connectivity status), available resources, and
user’s traffic needs. We summarize our contributions as follows:
• Instead of considering only a single factor, our approach
addresses all practical characteristics of wireless commu-
nications, including the available non-overlapping radio
channels and the interference factors among neighboring
mesh nodes.
• Resources are allocated to mesh nodes based on user’s
traffic requirements, available hardware/radio modules, and
gateway capacities. We allow nodes to have different num-
bers of radio interfaces. Not only addressing the related
multi-channel issues, we also provide a guideline to wisely
distribute the deployment costs considering an optimized
network system. To the best of our knowledge, this is the
first work addressing resource planning in wireless mesh
networks.
• In order to enable simultaneous traffic incoming/outgoing
through different radio modules of the same mesh host, we
propose to perform multi-path packet forwarding (data flow
splitting) to further exploit the benefits of having multiple
transceivers. This idea will be elaborated in more detail in
Section II-D.
The remaining paper is organized as below. In Section II,
we introduce the proposed network architecture, our linear
programming model for network optimization, two resource
management and channel assignment algorithms, and our packet
eij that also use channel k: IEkij = {epq|epq ∈ Ek and
one of vp and vq is in the interfering range of vi or vj}.
For example, one simple definition of interfering range is
to include all vi’s and vj’s two-hop neighbors.
• From now on, we introduce some unknown variables in
our linear programming model. We define λui as the actual
uplink traffic load delivered from node vi, and similarly λdi
as the actual downlink traffic load destined to node vi.
• Next, we define xuij[s,k] as the actual uplink traffic generated
by source node vs over wireless link eij using channel k,
and similarly xdij[d,k] as the downlink traffic forwarded to
destination node vd over wireless link eij using channel k.
Moreover, we define xij[0,k] as the aggregate traffic load
on wireless link eij using channel k, where xij[0,k] =∑
vs∈V (x
u
ij[s,k] × cij[k]) +
∑
vd∈V (x
d
ij[d,k] × cij[k]).
• For each gateway host vm ∈ V g , we define the aggregate
uplink/downlink traffic via vm to be goutm /ginm to be:
goutm =
∑
vs∈V
gouts,m, g
in
m =
∑
vd∈V
gind,m.
Our ultimate goal is to maximize the mesh network capacity
such that the traffic flowing in/out of the set of gateway is
the largest, without violating the traffic requirement (upper and
lower bounds) of each mesh node. Our approach is based on
linear programming. The objective function can be written as
Maximize
∑
vm∈V g
(goutm + g
in
m ),
subject to the following constraints: (1) general constraints:
λui ≥ lui , λui ≤ uui , λdi ≥ ldi , λdi ≤ udi , xuij[s,k] ≥ 0, xdij[d,k] ≥ 0,∑
λui =
∑
vm∈V g
goutm ,
∑
λdi =
∑
vm∈V g
ginm ,
(2) gateway constraint:

goutm + g
in
m ≤ Bm if uplink and downlink share
the bandwidth
goutm ≤ Bum, ginm ≤ Bdm otherwise.
Due to the fact that radio channel bandwidth is shared by all
wireless links within the interfering range of edge eij , we add
one more constraint to reflect the channel model based on IEEE
802.11 DCF contention protocol:∑
epq∈IEkij
(xpq[0,k]/fpq[k]) ≤ 1.
The above constraints, along with flow conservation equations
successfully formulate our linear programming model.
C. Resource Allocation and Channel Assignment Techniques
In this section, we present two algorithms to distribute avail-
able radio modules and perform channel arrangement: Decre-
mental Interface Management (DIM) and Incremental Interface
Management (IIM). Our goal is to derive the channel vector
ci[k], ∀vi ∈ V h, and feed it back into our linear programming
(LP) model introduced in Section II-B to maximize network
throughput. Based on the two strategies, we decrease/increase
network interfaces step by step until all available modules are
used up, solving the linear model repetitively. At the end of
Input: Bounds of host traffic{ , capacity of links , bounds of gateway
traffic , number of available channels C, number of available NICs N.
}{},{},{}, di
u
i
d
i
u
i lluu }{ ][kijf
}{},{},{ dm
u
mm BBB
Output: Channel boolean vector .}{ ][kic
Variable: Actual host traffic , actual link traffic from/to host v}{},{ di
u
i OO s’/vd’ }{},{ ],[],[
d
kdij
u
ksij xx cc ,
actual gateway traffic , actual number of NICs N’.}{},{ inm
out
m gg
Fig. 4. Summary of inputs, outputs, and variables used in both the DIM and
IIM procedures.
these algorithms, we can obtain ni, the required number of
IEEE 802.11a/b/g radios associated with host vi (under the N
limitation), in the following way:
C∑
k=1
ci[k] = ni,
where
∑
∀vi∈V h ni = N .Before we describe the two algorithms in more detail, Fig. 4
summarizes the inputs, outputs, and variables used in the pro-
posed DIM and IIM mechanisms.
The first proposed technique is Decremental Interface Man-
agement (DIM), which starts from equipping each mesh host
with the maximal number of radio interfaces, i.e. C NICs, since
C is the total number of non-overlapping channels. Assume
that the number of available radio modules N is insufficient
to support C NICs on each mesh host. In addition, as we
will observe in Section III, it is not necessary to use all the
C interfaces equipped on each host in order to achieve the
maximal network throughput. Instead, several interfaces can be
removed without degrading the system, for there exist several
wireless links over certain channels with zero traffic flows based
on our LP calculation. In the proposed DIM algorithm, we
first remove those useless interfaces and check if the total
number of NICs used satisfies the N limitation. If so, the
algorithm terminates and returns the channel vector ci[k] along
with corresponding traffic distribution patterns for our packet
delivery function (mPDF), which will be presented later in
Section II-D. Otherwise, we need to evaluate each NIC and find
out a least useful interface for removal from the system. This
process is repeated until the total number of used NICs meets
the N requirement.
Now we present the interface evaluation strategy adopted
by DIM. For each NIC operating on channel k equipped on
mesh host vi, we calculate the aggregate traffic (both uplink
and downlink) ani[k] handled by the interface as follows:
ani[k] =
∑
i=j,vj∈V,vs′∈V h
(xuij[s′,k] + x
u
ji[s′,k]) +
∑
i=j,vj∈V,vd′∈V h
(xdij[d′,k] + x
d
ji[d′,k]), (1)
∀vi ∈ V h, 1 ≤ k ≤ C. We hope to remove the NIC with the
smallest ani[k]. However, to avoid removing the only interface
that a mesh host has, we calculate the aggregate traffic ahi
experienced by vi via all interfaces equipped on the host in
the following equation:
ahi =
C∑
k=1
ani[k],
∀vi ∈ V h, and define wi[k] = ani[k]/ahi . Only those NICs
with wi[k] < 1 will be considered for removal. Among those
4*4 grid, U=5, L=0.2, B=100, F=5.5, DIM
0
10
20
30
16 20 24 28 32
Number of Available NICs ( N )
Ag
gr
eg
at
e 
Ne
tw
or
k
Th
ro
ug
hp
ut
  (
Mb
ps
) C=1
C=2
C=3
(a) DIM (b) IIM
4*4 grid, U=5, L=0.2, B=100, F=5.5, IIM
0
10
20
30
16 20 24 28 32
Number of Available NICs ( N )
Ag
gr
eg
at
e 
Ne
tw
or
k
Th
ro
ug
hp
ut
  (
Mb
ps
) C=1
C=2
C=3
Fig. 7. Aggregate network throughput vs. number of available radio interfaces
for maximal 3 orthogonal channels in the IEEE 802.11b environment using (a)
DIM and (b) IIM algorithms.
arrangement algorithms, and multi-path packet delivery function
(mPDF) in a WMN. We describe the network environment
settings in Section III-A, followed by detailed numerical results
reported in Section III-B.
A. Network Environment Settings
We generate a WMN in grid topology as illustrated in Fig. 6.
All mesh nodes are assumed to be stationary and spaced 200
meters apart from each other. We assume that the transmission
range is 250 meters and the interference range is 550 meters in
our network. The IEEE 802.11 MAC protocol with RTS/CTS
four-way handshaking mechanism is adopted in our channel
contention model.
B. Numerical Results
This subsection presents the numerical results. We adopt a
mixed integer linear programming (MIP) solving tool [1] to
perform the LP calculation. In the following presentation, we
vary several critical parameters, including available number of
channels and radio interfaces, network sizes and configurations,
gateway capacities, and effective link data rates to observe the
feasibility of our proposed methodology.
1) Varying Number of Available Channels and Interfaces:
In this subsection, we experiment on a 4 × 4 grid mesh
with 2 Internet gateways located at the upper-left and bottom-
right corners separately. The IEEE 802.11b environment with 3
orthogonal (non-interfering) channels is considered. Assume that
all mesh hosts have the same traffic requirement for both uplink
and downlink data flows. Denoted as U and L, the traffic upper
bound and lower bound are set to be 5 Mbps and 0.2 Mbps,
respectively. In addition, suppose that symmetric gateways are
used, each with bandwidth capacity B equal to 100 Mbps, and
that all wireless links have the same bit rate F equal to 5.5 Mbps.
Fig. 7 shows the results for the DIM and IIM strategies. As
we can see from this figure, the aggregate network throughput
grows as N and C increase. An interesting observation is that,
when 3 orthogonal channels are being used (C = 3), both
DIM and IIM yield 4 times the throughput of a single-channel
system (C = 1) by adding only 10 more (16+10=26 in total)
network interfaces (i.e., 1.625 NICs per mesh host in average).
In other words, to achieve the maximal network capacity with
3 channels available, it is not necessary to equip each mesh
host with 3 NICs for utilizing all available radio bandwidths.
Furthermore, as shown in Fig. 7, once the throughput saturates
at its maximum point, adding network interfaces contribute little
(a) 3*3 grid, N=14, Throughput=107.8
channel 1
channel 2
channel 3
gateway
host
(b) 4*4 grid, N=24, Throughput=139.5
(c) 5*5 grid, N=38, Throughput=133.2 (d) 6*6 grid, N=54, Throughput=128.4
(e) 7*7 grid, N=74, Throughput=126.2
Fig. 8. The interface distributions and channel configurations for different
network sizes in the IEEE 802.11g environment using the proposed DIM
algorithm.
to the performance, since the bottleneck now lies in the number
of orthogonal channels C. We have other sets of experiments on
802.11a with 8 orthogonal channels available. we observe that
by using 54 network interfaces in total, averagely 3.4 NICs per
mesh host, we can maximize the network throughput, but the
details are omitted here due to page limit.
2) Varying Network Configurations: Next, we investigate
the impacts of different network configurations on aggregate
throughput. We vary the network configuration by changing F
function, network size, and gateway bandwidth capacities. Due
to space limitation, below we only report the results for various
network sizes.
We focus on the DIM algorithm, and vary network size
from 3 × 3 to 7 × 7 to verify the scalability of our proposed
strategy. We experiment on the IEEE 802.11g system with
3 orthogonal channels. The rest of parameter settings is the
same as the previous experiment. Fig. 8 illustrates the derived
network interface deployment and channel bindings for different
network sizes. As we observe from the figure, hosts close
to gateways (including gateway itself) are usually equipped
with more radio interfaces, since Internet access is the main
purpose of our data packets. Because the two gateways have
identical bandwidth, the number of radio modules deployed at
the two gateways is almost the same. In addition, the network
throughputs are kept above 100 Mbps whether it is a small
(3×3) or large (7×7) grid, suggesting that the proposed strategy
is adaptable. Adaptability is critical for WMNs in designing
