 
 
Figure 1.  the smart power meter 
As we know, a kind of RFID based power meter was proposed by [17] with limited power consuming 
management and personnel access control for cost down consideration. RFID system is embedded into 
the power meter and used for recording the power data. The utilization of RFID technology might 
enhance the power meter system. To simplify the solution on access control, a new family of seals has 
surfaced. These are seals that carry on board some class of electronics that extends possibilities of seal 
inspection beyond the normal on-field visual inspection. With the use of modern technologies, a new 
class of electronic seals based on radio frequency identification device (RFID) technology has been 
developed[6,7]. Due to their effectiveness, electronic Seals (e-seal) can be rapidly replayed the traditional 
manual seals with low cost. Electronic Seals have matured as a technology to uphold the function of 
eseals for daily applications [8-11]. 
 
RFID is an emerging technology intended to replace traditional barcodes. Its wireless tracking nature 
allows a reader to activate a transponder on a radio frequency tag attached to, or embedded in, an item 
allowing the reader to remotely read and write data to the RFID tag. In the upcoming years, the emphasis 
of RFID development should be put on the fields such as, the leading applications in public areas, the 
participation of RFID standards community, the construction of core technology, the education and 
training of R&D workforces, the development of new products, and the set-up of the basic research 
energy, etc. Unlike bar codes, RFID technology is one of the pivotal enablers of the 'Internet of Things'. It 
enables organizations to deliver value-added applications related to the tracking and intelligent 
management of any entity tagged with an RFID chip [12,13]. It has also been possible to organize 
manufacturing and logistics activities in radically innovative manners thus increasing its adoption rapidly 
[14,15].  
The presence of one or more RFID device embedded in the seal can be exploited for different 
purposes. When RFID technology is employed, the seals can be inspected at a distance and on-the-fly. A 
new way of inspecting the seal becomes possible[16]. For some application, even the seal itself performs 
a self-diagnosis and communicates its states to the inspector. The possibility of human error is greatly 
reduced, and the quality of inspections depend less on the inspector’s skills and experience than before. 
 
 
Figure 4.  five roles of our protocol 
• Power Company: In general, the power company had set up a manage system of power meter. 
Each initial power meter is sealed, the relative information recorded in the management system. In 
our implementation, the seal numbers are piped to our e-seal signature generating module to 
generate the corresponding signature. 
• E-seal manufacturer: The manufacturer produces e-seals and store signatures in the manufacturing 
process. 
• Installer: For the installer is assigned to install or remove meter, they uses the mobile reader to 
install and inspect seals. 
• Patrol officer: For the patrol officer is assigned to inspect seals and record the reading, they visit 
the meter sites and records the reading according to power company billing cycle. 
• Meter’s seal: Meter is used for recording the usage of power. It’s sealed for preventing meter form 
been destroyed. 
 
The notations of our proposal are listed as follows. 
TABLE I.  NOTATIONS 
UID Unique identity of tag 
Hash() One-way hash function 
Sa The signature value of UID and seal number 
Sb The signature value of  installation  date and meter number 
Hab The hash value of Sa and Sb where Hab = Hash(Sa||Sb) 
Sign() The signature function with custom office’s private key 
PK The server’s public key 
SN Seal number 
Dg the reading from the meter is input by the officer  
Ts Installation time 
Td Patrol time  
Tu Destruction time 
NT meter number 
list1 The list message of seal UID 
list2 
The list message of seal UID, seal number SN, and seal’s 
signature Sa 
 
B. Meter installing phase 
On the installed power meter, the e-seal is used for preventing the power meter from tampering. The 
installer uses the mobile reader to write the relative information into the tag, so that the tag could be 
activated and verified.  
 
 
Figure 6.  meter installing phase 
Step1: When an installer is assigned to perform installation, a set of unique identity UID, public key 
PK ,seal number SN, seal’s signature Sa , meter’s signature Sb and meter number NT is 
downloaded from the power company to the  installer’s mobile reader. 
Step2: As the e-seal is installed on the meter, the installer uses the mobile reader to send a query to 
active the e-seal. 
Step3: The seal sends UIDi and Sa to the reader. 
Step4: For verifying legality of e-seal, the signature Sa is verified by the power company’s public key 
PK. 
 )(||
?
apkii SVerifySNUID =  (2) 
For binding the association of the e-seal and the meter, the following hash value is generated 
by the signature Sa from the tag and the signature Sb  recorder in the mobile reader. 
 )||( baab SSHashH =  (3) 
The reader then writes (Hab,Ts ) to the e-seal.  
Step5: After the above procedure are finished, the e-seal response a success message to the reader.  
Step6: After the installation operation finished, the installers upload (Hab, Ts, NT) to the power 
company. 
 
2. Query 
ACK 
Officer 
3. UID, Sa  
4. Hab, Ts 
1. {UID, PK, SN, Sa},{NT, Sb} 
 
6. {Hab, Ts, NT} 
Power Company Seal 
4 Input NT 
Hab= Hash(Sa||Sb)  
5. store Hab,Ts 
D. Demolition phase 
When the power meter is removed or the seal must be renewed, an officer uses his mobile reader to lock 
the e-seal to prevent the risk of reusing the demolition e-seal. In the phase, before removing the e-seal, 
its signature and the binding value are also verified for legality confirmation.  
 
Step1:  When a remove officer is assigned to perform demolition, the public key PK and a set of 
power meter signature Sb and meter number NT are downloaded from the power company 
server to the officer’s mobile reader. 
Step2: Before the e-seal is removed from the meter, the officer uses the mobile reader to send a query 
to verify the e-seal. 
Step3: The e-seal’s unique identity UID, seal signature Sa, binding value Hab and meter number NT’ 
are responded to the reader. 
Step4:  The reader verifies the signature Sa as follows.  
 )(||
?
apkii SVerifySNUID =  (6) 
Then the meter number NT’ is displayed on the mobile reader for notifying the officer about 
the following result of binding value verification. 
 )||(
?
baab SSHashH =  (7) 
The current reading Dg is inputted by the officer, the reader sends the current time Td , the 
demolition time Tu  and current reading Dg to the e-seal. 
Step5: After the above procedure are finished, the e-seal response a success message to the reader and 
lock itself.  
Step6: The officer upload the demolition information { Dg, Td , Tu, NT } to the power company. 
2.Query 
3. UID, Sa , SN, Hab, NT’   
6. { Dg, Td , Tu ,NT } 
Dg, Td 
5. LOCK 
 
Power Company Officer Meter’s seal 
1. PK ,{Sb, NT } 
OK 
 )(||
?
apkii SVerifySNUID =  (4) 
Moreover, the e-seal can be only associated with the specific power meter since the binding value is 
also verified at each inspection. 
 )||(
?
baab SSHashH =  (5) 
Therefore, the meter’s e-seal cannot be illegally replaced. 
C. Issue of data protection 
For ISO 15693 tag, its blocks can be restricted to access by setting lock. In our implementation, the 
installed e-seal is immediately set lock by the officer. After, no one can tamper e-seal’s blocks. The 
demolition e-seal will be totally locked by the remove officer at demolition phase. It can prevent the data 
been malicious read from RFID chip as the e-seal being mechanical damage. 
D. Practical 
The practical consideration and important requirement for the e-Seal system design were derived from 
the inherent goals and properties of the business scenarios. In this project, a lot of works are devoted on 
understanding the power company’s workflow and the e-seal manufacturing process, and then the 
protocol is designed carefully followed the e-seal’s life cycle. Therefore, the issues of unauthorized 
manufacturing prevention, e-seal anti-counterfeiting, e-seal illegally replacement prevention, and e-seal 
data protection are well solved in our design. The prototype system (figure 8) based on the protocol had 
be developments for the power company to experience in Taiwan. 
 
Figure 8.  Operating Screenshots 
IV. CONCLUSION 
Power-area applications are undoubtedly the most important ones that affect the overall people’s life 
significantly. In this paper, we focused on this important aspect of electricity theft which has been a 
matter of serious concern for the power companies. We design and implement an innovative, secure, 
efficient, and flexible RFID eSeals application for power meter. The cost effectiveness RFID eSeals can 
be installed as additional equipment with the conventional energy meters to protect the power meters. 
There are three phases: Signature generation phase, Meter installing phase and Inspecting phase.in our 
design. It can reduce the cost of human resource, the incidence of human error. It can be guaranteed for 
the integrity of power meter and enhance the efficiency. Due to their effectiveness, reliability and security, 
the propose RFID eSeals application can quickly replacing the traditional mechanical seals in the near 
term. 
a. Signature generation phase 
b. Meter installing phase 
c. Inspecting phase 
d. System main screen on mobile 
 
出席“2011 年寬頻及無線計算通訊暨應用國際會議
(BWCCA-2011)＂報告 
                               報告人: 詹進科  
           國立中興大學資訊科學與工程系所 教授  
 
   本人於十月二十六日出席假 西班牙之巴塞隆納(Barcelona)市內的
UPC 大學( Universitat Politecnica De Catalunya)之會議中心舉行之 2011
年雲端及無線網路暨電子商務安全國際會議(2011 International 
Conference on Broadband and Wireless Computing, Communication 
and Applications ; BWCCA-2011) 。 本會議之研討主題在於雲端及
無線網路暨電子商務安全之各種技術開發與應用等主題。 本國際會
議由兩個單位共同主辦; 即 UPC 暨 FIT(福岡工業大學)。 本次會議參
與之學界、業界近百人,來自歐洲及亞洲地區人數最多,日本的學者專
家參與者超過十人以上。大會會場座落於 UPC 大學( Universitat 
Politecnica De Catalunya)之會議中心,專為各式各樣之會議而設,因此其
社 備 可 謂 一 應 俱 全 。 本 人 的 論 文 “A Secure RFID 
Deactivation/activation Mechanism for Customer Service and 
Consumer Shopping” 是利用 PKC 及身分認證為主之技術來設計安
全的 RFID 應用於購物中心環境之研究, 是本次大會之應用研究主題
之一。大會在簡單的開幕式後,馬上邀請來自日本九州科技大學網路
設計與研究中心的 Dr. Mario Koppen 發表專題演講 ＂Fairness, 
Preference, and Dominance – Perspectives of Relational Mathematics in 
Network Design and Control＂, 主軸從方法論上著眼於各種 Relations,同
時也談網路實況資訊掌握之不易,因此分三章節把其在九州科技大學
網路設計與研究中心的研究心得分享給聽者,最後以“最適化概念＂
之展望結束演講。Dr. Koppen 是此領域之先端研究學者,因此演講內容
生動有趣,得到與會者之熱烈發問。本人所發表之論文主要解決在購
物中心應用 RFID 設備之安全問題;包含個人購物資訊保密、在購物中
心位置之保密、快速結帳及售後服務之確保。基本上,我們利用公開
密碼技術讓 RFID 標籤之機密獲得保護。再者,我們利用赫序單向函數
與隨機亂數處理身分認證。簡言之,整個架構雖然看似複雜,但由於準
備充分及動畫之助,發表完論文後,得到聽者熱烈發問。利用場次間隔,
本人也在校園到處參觀,看了資訊工程系及電機系。印象較深刻的是
教室硬體設備相當高雅,不唯光線設計佳，桌椅設計圓潤; 高度、材
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/09/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 具可驗證性之RFID資產管理安全服務之研究
計畫主持人: 詹進科
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-005-059- 學門領域: 資訊安全
無研發成果推廣資料
Bio-inspired 
Computing and 
Applications 
(IBICA), 2011 Second 
International 
Conference on , 
vol., no., 
pp.352-355, 16-18 
Dec. 2011 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他協
助產業技術發展之具
體效益事項等，請以
文字敘述填列。) 
本系統中，我們將數位簽章技術及 RFID 鉛封結合，藉以提高防偽技術，使電表
保護更完整，以解決現行電表鉛封輕易偽造問題，並使稽查人員能更準確掌握電
表狀態，杜絕竊電情形發生，以減少每年因竊電造成之龐大損失。 
未來，在 RFID 逐漸普及之情形下，若標籤價格能逐步降低，則後續可在電表鉛
封上加入更多之加值功能，舉例來說，現行天然氣供應商，已逐步採用用戶自行
抄表、通報等機制，而現行電力公司是以派遣內部人員前往各用戶進行用戶用電
情形之紀錄，未來，若電力公司採用 RFID 鉛封後，電力公司將可透過 RFID 鉛封
金鑰之管控，使用戶可自行進行電表度數抄取作業，並將用電度數寫入鉛封體中
指定之區塊後，再將其度數通報電力公司，如此一來，電力公司即可縮減抄表人
員編制，減少人力成本開銷等。因此，本研究中，我們期使鉛封之功能不僅是保
護電表，透過協定設計，我們希望能在此基礎上開發更多加值功能，使鉛封功能
性更高。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
