 2 
first three popular professional sports leagues in recent 
years, including MLB, NHL, and NBA. We have 
found that, the scheduling rules are very different in 
different kinds of sports leagues. Therefore, we 
quantify the limited condition of schedule, make them 
become the parameters in our system, and offer the 
schedule planners to modify the parameters to produce 
the schedule in the scheduling system, but not confine 
to only one sport.   
Considering the limit problem and the contests, the 
research process as follows: 
(1) Define the problem and the research scope: 
Save the operating costs of the teams and reduce 
the warming emissions caused by moving, and 
discuss how to make the schedule better.  
(2) Literature review: 
We discuss the scheduling problem by all kinds of 
algorithms used in scheduling. 
(3) Analyze the information of the sport leagues : 
Organize the identical and difference of the sport 
leagues’ scheduling rules, analyze how to 
integrate these rules and export all kinds of sport 
leagues’ schedule from the algorithm.  
(4) Program writing, testing and analysis: 
Develop the scheduling system by C++ and input 
NBA data to the system. 
(5) The result and the suggestion: 
To offer research direction for the future from 
organizing and analyzing the test result, and refer 
to the related suggestions 
 
2. Related Works 
Planning the schedule belongs to NP-hard 
combination problem. It is cataloged in the traditional 
records that this problem traditionally relies on 
Optimization model to find the answer. When facing 
all kinds of limited conditions, it is not easy to deal 
with them. We look at the schedule from Constraint 
Satisfaction Problem, and review the two 
subjects—the trouble of planning the schedule and 
programming limits. With reviewing, we probe into 
the development the present day of these two subjects. 
There are many forms for planning schedule; it is 
usually used as planning courses in the school and 
shift arrangement. 
 The trouble of planning schedule is interested in 
many savants that one of the reasons is that it 
possesses combinatorial characteristic. Some records 
refer this kind of problem to be provided with 
NP-Complete quality. A sport contest also belongs to 
one of planning schedule problem. The answer is how 
to arrange resources under different kinds of limited 
conditions such as contest’s time, court, sport team, 
referee…etc., in order to proceed to all kinds of sport 
contests.  
In the following contents, we will introduce the 
forms of the problem of planning schedule and 
classification; next, we will explain how to find the 
answer for all kinds of problems. Finally, we will 
compare to all of solutions. 
Many sport leagues such as baseball, ice hockey, 
basketball…etc., are going to face this problem in a 
round robin tournament. The problem is—if there is a 
competition for two teams, and the home team will ask 
that they want to have several competitions in the 
fixed period. The most important thing in a round 
robin tournament is to let every team in the schedule 
compete with each other for one time. So, if the six 
teams have five times competitions, every team will 
compete with each other in a week. 
The professional sports leagues develop vigorously 
in the foreign countries. Because of extensive territory 
and high-participated for the people, there is an 
obvious system for home team and guest team. The 
savants in the foreign countries use as full-number 
scheme to plan the schedule in the full regular season 
for ACC. This kind of problem is classified to round 
robin tournament; there are different calculation step 
and procedure to find the answer for different kinds of 
sport types. 
McAloon uses ILOG to resolve the problem of the 
schedule for NBA. He has a good achievement from 
stereotyping the leagues’ schedule limit. Since the 
difficulty of scheduling is related to the number of 
teams and usually there are more than ten teams in the 
leagues from the foreign countries, it makes the 
problem more complicated. Most of savants develop 
heuristics algorithm to find the answer. They hope for 
having reasonable time to meet schedule answer. 
Costa [2] makes use of these two heuristics 
solutions-- Genetic Algorithm and Tabu Search to 
modify and combine them. He has developed a new 
heuristics algorithm to apply to plan the schedule for 
NHL. This new algorithm can get a reasonable 
schedule and also meet the regulations in the effective 
time. The greatest effect is that—it can reduce the 
move cost when the sport teams have away games, and 
the distance is more than eighty thousands miles. 
Bean and Birgel’s [1] viewpoint is according to the 
lowest move route cost for an independent sport team. 
They apply Multiple-Travel Salesman Problem to find 
the answer for NBA schedule. A sport team in once 
travel can only continuous compete with the other at 
most five times. So to speak, a sport team only can 
visit at most five cities at once. After finding the 
minimum cost for the competition route, they used this 
schedule to verify if it meets the related limit for NBA 
or not. They proceeded this calculus process again and 
again until they found the reasonable schedule. This 
method can save 20% travel cost. It was performed by 
the regular seasons in 1980-1981 and 1981-1982 for 
NBA.  
Russell and Leung [7] planned the schedule for the 
professional baseball leagues because they developed 
the minimum total cost for travel and two phase’s math.  
Table 1 [3,4,5,6,8] is the comparison to the records of 
 4 
meets the constraint conditions.  
 
3.3. Traveling Cost 
Using Google Map’s measuring tool to locate the 
coordinates of the stadiums, the distance between each 
other is measured. Though measurement inputting to 
distance database, the application is cooperated with 
the distance computing system. 
Following the completion of the distance database, 
the routes of the random schedule are calculated. Next, 
adding up the total moving distances of all the teams 
becomes the total travelling cost for the schedule.  
 
3.4. Revised GA Crossover 
The method delployed by this study to pick the 
population for gene crossover is the roulette method. 
Two populations are chosen according to the Roulette 
Theory and are allocated to the value of the 
chromosomes’ fitness (X) on the roulette in proportion. 
That is to say, the chromosome with bigger fintess (X) 
gets higher proportion on the roulette. Therefore, the 
possibbility of that chromosome chosen to mate is 
higher. When fitness(X) =X, the X is the reciprocal for 
total traveling cost for the game schedule, meaning 
that the schedule with the lesser total traveling cost is 
of a higher possibility to be chosen. On the other hand, 
the worse population, of which most genes do not 
meet the requirements, are of higher possibilities to be 
ruled out. 
 
3.5. Revised GA Mutation 
  After the mutation of the game schedules, verify if 
the game schedule meets the Hard Constraints. If the 
Hard Constraints are met, another mutation is likely to 
occur. In general, the mutating rate is setup between 
0.1 ~ 0.05, for that the possibility of mutation is 
considerably small and most mutations are to be ruled 
out. 
For the purpose of speeding up the optimization of 
the schedule, this study modified mutating approach, 
which  randomly pick a gene from the schedule to 
mutating. The system calculates all the genes’ 
mutating possibilities and compares the fitness (X) of 
all mutations, and pick the most suitable one. The 
mutating method of this system is post modification 
order oriented. The difference between this method 
and the original one is that the genes crossover on a 
selective basis rather than on a random basis.  
As shown in fig 3, the populations randomly picks 
gene 4 for mutating. Gene 4 verifies the mutating 
possibilites, which are swap 1 ~ swap 5. Next, verifies 
the fitness (X) and picks swap 2, which is the best 
mutating population. To apply this mutating approach 
onto the schedule, each day of the schedule is a gene, 
and the number of the days is the number(N) of the 
genes. A gene is randomly picked from the population, 
and the number of swapping approaches is (N-1). Start 
the swapping from the 1
st
 gene until the (N-1) th gene, 
and record the schedules’ total traveling costs 
generated from each swapping, and pick the one that 
has the lowest total traveling cost. 
 
 
3.6.Soft Constraint and Schedule Swapping 
Verify if the game schedule meets the hard 
constraints after the crossover or mutating. If it does, 
find out the game schedule that is ruled out. Use the 
new generation and the old generation to compare the 
total traveling cost and the times of the soft constraints 
violating. 
If the times of the soft constraints violating and the 
total traveling cost of new generation is lower than old 
generation, replace the old generation with the new 
generation. If not, leave it as it is.  
If only one of the statistics is lower than old 
generation, it would judge the times of the soft 
constraints violating to determine which one is 
punished. The punish parameter is all violating times 
multiplied 0.1% of total moving distance. All 
situations are showed as table 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4. Experimental Results 
 
The following sections will describe, two different 
professional sports, NBA and NHL season rules, how 
to design the parameters in the scheduling system of 
different professional sports and the output NBA 
schedule in this study make a comparative with an 
NBA official 2008-2009 schedule by the traveling 
cost. 
 
4.1. Experimental result 
 
After encoding, check the distance between the 
stadiums with google map ,and execute the scheduling 
system. After a lot of test ,after calculating 200,000 
times, the target value convergence to a fixed value, so 
we identify the the termination conditions that is 
calculated  200,000 times. In terms of calculating 
with Brute Force algorithms need to be more than 2 
million times .  
Computers used in this study is equipped with the 
Intel (R) Core (TM) 2Quad CPU Q6600@2.4GHz and 
Fig 3. Mutation 
Table 2 Ruled out conditions 
 6 
more sports league schedule. We hope that this study 
could referenced by people who want to study about 
the problems. 
 
 
The induction of specific findings of this study as 
following. The study ranks schedule model in the test 
volume and design, the first U.S. NBA, NHL, MLB 
Alliance of regulations and competition system and 
other aspects related to understand. We also consider 
the rules of current staff scheduling, and organize the 
operation method which satisfies arranging the 
schedules made of this study. The schedules satisfy all 
character of every league, and it shows that the genetic 
algorithm of this study solving the scheduling 
problems effectively. 
This system that serves two or more sports league 
can not be adjusted the fixed parameters. It can only 
be considered to set the general direction, and can not 
customized its parameters by every league. Although 
the schedule can be arranged with a variety of sports 
leagues,  
it may not be better than single system for the single 
sports league. Therefore, howto customization 
parameters of different sports leagues by single system 
is the direction of future research.  
Another drawback of this system is that it arranges 
the schedule without the Continuous battles, such as 
the MLB's three or four Continuous battles etc., this 
restriction is an issue to be explored in the future. 
 
References 
 
[1]Bean, J. C. and J. R., Birge (1980), “Reducing 
Travelling Costs and Player Fatigue in the National 
Basketball Association,” Interfaces, Vol. 10, pp. 
98-102. 
[2]Costa, D. (1995), “An Evolutionary Tabu Search 
Algorithm and the NHL Scheduling Problem,” INFOR. 
Ottawa, Vol. 33, No. 3, pp. 161-179. 
[3]Cooper, T. B. and J.H. Kingston (1996), “The 
Complexity of Timetabling Construction Problems,” 
Vol. 17, pp. 183-295. 
 [4]Henz, M. (2004), “Global Constraints for Round 
Robin Tournament Scheduling,” European Journal of 
Operational Research, Vol. 153, pp. 92-101. 
 [5]McAloon, K., C. Tretkoff and G. Wetzel (1997), 
“Sports League Scheduling, in: Proceedings of the 
1997 ILOG Optimization Suite International Users’ 
Conference,”Paris,July,1997. 
[6]Nemhauser, G.L. and M.A. Trick (1998), 
“Scheduling a Major College Basketball Conference,” 
Operations Research, Vol. 46, No. 1, pp. 1-8. 
[7]Russell, R. A. and J. M. Y. Leung (1994), 
“Devising a Cost Effective Scheduling for a Basketball 
League,” Operations Research, Vol. 42, No. 4, pp. 
612-625. 
 [8]Saltzman, R. M. and R. M. Bradford (1996), 
“Optimal Realignments of the Teams in the National 
Football League,“ European Journal of Operational 
Research, Vol. 93, pp.469-475. 
 
 
 
 
Table 5 Study result compare with NBA official distance 
Intelligent Optimization Scheduling Algorithm for Professional Sports Games  
 
Jason C. Hung, Miller K. Chien*, Neil Y. Yen* 
Dept. of Information Management, Oversea Chinese University, Taiwan 
Email: jhung@ocu.edu.tw 
*Dept. of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Tamkang University, Taiwan 
Email: kuohsin@dsc.com.tw 
 
Abstract 
 
The world financial crisis has caused a great impact 
to human beings’ daily life. The significant evidence is 
that the oil price has hit, more than, 90 U.S. according to 
the report of ministry of economic affairs. The price 
reflects the difficulty not only to transportation but 
finance status. In this paper, an optimization algorithm 
concerning the scheduling issues was proposed. The 
algorithm was revised in accordance with Tabu Search 
algorithm and Genetics algorithm. The purpose of this 
work is to reduce the travelling cost, simply achieve the 
least expenditures. The information of famous sports 
league (e.g. NBA) was adopted as preliminary experiment 
data. The travelling distances, according to the matchups 
of 2009 NBA games, were collected and obtained the 
straight-line distances from Google Map API. As a result, 
our method could reduce, at least, around 14,000 
kilometers under 45,000 times mutation with the rate at 
0.1%. 
 
Keywords: Genetics Algorithm, Tabu Search Algorithm, 
sports scheduling, recommendation system, WEB 2.0 
 
1. Introduction 
 
It is laborious to arrange the schedule for sports game, 
especially those professional ones such as NBA, NHL, 
MLB and etc. There are several customized issues 
required to be concerned. To take NBA for instance, the 
games between different conferences may be determined 
according to the matchup records in the past. Besides, it 
takes time in scheduling the matchups once there are 
constraints. The constraints, for example, may include the 
numbers of weekend games, fairness of stadiums 
allocation, postpone of rain and so on. The  
As preliminary solutions to issues stated, an adaptive 
algorithm as well as a web-based scheduling service for 
professional sports game, NBA for instance, was 
proposed. The emphasis of the study is to reduce of the 
cost of time by integrating the heuristic algorithm, such as 
Tabu Search and Revised Generic Algorithm. The process 
can reduce the burden of the planner, and offer statistic 
reports to sport league administrants. It also reduces the 
cost and expenses of travelling. The study aims at 
providing the service of scheduling of professional sports 
games and is defined to how to plan the route. The NBA 
was adopted as an example to verify the efficiency of 
proposed scheduling algorithm. 
The paper is organized as follow: The related works 
will be addressed in Section 2. Section 3 will introduce 
the proposed algorithms and its detail process. Then the 
experiment and evaluation will be discussed in Section 4. 
Section 5 will conclude this study and the foreseeing 
works in the future. 
 
2. Related Works 
 
Costa [2] makes use of heuristics solutions, Genetic 
Algorithm and Tabu Search respectively, to compute the 
optimal routing path. He developed a new heuristics 
algorithm to apply to plan the schedule for NHL. This 
new algorithm can get a reasonable schedule and also 
meet the regulations in the effective time. The greatest 
effect is that it can reduce the move cost when the sport 
teams have away games, and the distance is more than 
eighty thousands miles. 
The viewpoint of Bean and Birgel’s [1] is according to 
the lowest move route cost for an independent sport team. 
They apply Multiple-Travel Salesman Problem to find the 
answer for NBA schedule. A sport team in once travel can 
only continuous compete with the other at most five times. 
So to speak, a sport team only can visit at most five cities 
at once. After obtaining the minimum cost, the schedule is 
used to verify if it meets the related limit for NBA or not. 
They proceeded this calculus process again and again 
until they found the reasonable schedule. This method can 
save 20% travel cost. It was performed by the regular 
seasons in 1980-1981 and 1981-1982 for NBA.  
Russell and Leung [7] planned the schedule for the 
professional baseball leagues because they developed the 
minimum total cost for travel and two phase’s math.  
Table 1 [3,4,5,6,8] is the comparison to the records of 
schedule problem. 
Table 1. Summary of Related Works 
Author 
(Year) Consideration solution 
Bean and 
Bridge(1980) 
The shortest 
Traveling cost 
Traveling 
salesman 
Fourth International Conference on Ubi-Media Computing
978-0-7695-4493-9/11 $26.00 © 2011 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/U-MEDIA.2011.12
285
fitness(X) =X, the X is the reciprocal for total traveling 
cost for the game schedule, meaning that the schedule 
with the lesser total traveling cost is of a higher possibility 
to be chosen. On the other hand, the worse population, of 
which most genes do not meet the requirements, are of 
higher possibilities to be ruled out. 
 
3.3 Revised GA Mutation 
          
After the mutation of the game schedules, verify if the 
game schedule meets the Hard Constraints. If the Hard 
Constraints are met, another mutation is likely to occur. In 
general, the mutating rate is setup between 0.1 ~ 0.05, for 
that the possibility of mutation is considerably small and 
most mutations are to be ruled out. 
To speed up the scheduling, the mutation approach is 
revised. The system calculates all the genes’ mutating 
possibilities and compares the fitness (X) of all mutations, 
and pick the most suitable one. The mutating method of 
this system is post modification order oriented. The 
difference between this method and the original one is 
that the genes crossover on a selective basis rather than on 
a random basis.  
As shown in Fig 3, the populations randomly picks 
gene 4 for mutation. Gene 4 verifies the mutation 
possibilites, which are swap 1 to swap 5. Then, it verifies 
the fitness and picks swap 2, which is the best mutation 
population. To apply this approach, we take each day of 
the schedule is a gene, and the number of the days is the 
number,N, of the genes. A gene is randomly picked up 
from the population, and the number of swapping 
approaches is N-1. Starting the swap from the first gene 
until the (N-1)th gene, and record the schedules’ total 
traveling costs generated from each swapping, and pick 
the one that has the lowest total traveling cost. 
 
Fig. 3. Illurstration of the Swap process  
3.4 Soft Constraint and Schedule Swapping 
 
This process is to verify if the game schedule meets the 
hard constraints after the crossover or mutation. If it does, 
then it continues to find the game schedule that is ruled 
out. It uses new generation and the past generations to 
compare the sum of traveling cost and the times of the 
soft constraints violating. If the times of the soft 
constraints violating and the total traveling cost of new 
generation is lower than old generation, replace the old 
generation with the new generation. If not, leave it as it is.  
If only one of the statistics is lower than old generation, it 
would judge the times of the soft constraints violating to 
determine which one is punished. The punish parameter is 
all violating times multiplied 0.1% of total moving 
distance. The situations are shown in Table 2. 
 
Table 2. Ruled out Conditions 
 
 
4. Experimental Results 
 
4.1. Experimental result 
 
The direct distance obtained from the Google Map is 
taken to be the basis for executing the scheduling service. 
The cost of time is not concerned as major issue in the 
study. The testbed is equipped with Intel (R) Core (TM) 
2Quad CPU Q6600@2.4GHz and XP SP2 operating 
system. It takes around 10 hours to obtain the results. 
After a lot of test ,after calculating 200,000 times, the 
target value convergence to a fixed value, so we identify 
the the termination conditions that is calculated  200,000 
times. In terms of calculating with Brute Force algorithms 
need to be more than 2 million times . 
The mutation rate, say 0.1% to 0.05% in general, is 
likely to be choosen for the experiment. To obtain optimal 
results, we adopted the the rates at 1, 0.11%, 0.1%, 0.09%, 
0.06%, and 0.05%. Table 3 reveals the simulation results 
with the adopted mutation rates. 
 Table 3. Results of Mutation 
 
The mutation rate at 0.1% reaches the optimal result. 
which makes the expected value 2,182,501 kilometers. 
With over 18 million times computation. The target value 
of mutations rate 1% have reached convergence value 
when calculating over 14 million times. Although the 
target value is fewer than any other values, the speed of 
population mutating is too fast resulting in convergencing 
287
matchups will also be considered to be the next step of the 
study. 
 
Acknowledgement 
 
This work is partially supported by the National 
Science Council, Taiwan, under the grants No. “NSC-99-
2221-E-240-003”. Miller Chien is appreciated for his 
assistance on both implementation and experiment. 
 
References 
 
[1]Bean, J. C. and J. R., Birge (1980), “Reducing 
Travelling Costs and Player Fatigue in the National 
Basketball Association,” Interfaces, Vol. 10, pp. 98-102. 
[2]Costa, D. (1995), “An Evolutionary Tabu Search 
Algorithm and the NHL Scheduling Problem,” INFOR. 
Ottawa, Vol. 33, No. 3, pp. 161-179. 
[3]Cooper, T. B. and J.H. Kingston (1996), “The 
Complexity of Timetabling Construction Problems,” Vol. 
17, pp. 183-295. 
 [4]Henz, M. (2004), “Global Constraints for Round 
Robin Tournament Scheduling,” European Journal of 
Operational Research, Vol. 153, pp. 92-101. 
 [5]McAloon, K., C. Tretkoff and G. Wetzel (1997), 
“Sports League Scheduling, in: Proceedings of the 1997 
ILOG Optimization Suite International Users’ 
Conference,”Paris,July,1997. 
[6]Nemhauser, G.L. and M.A. Trick (1998), “Scheduling 
a Major College Basketball Conference,” Operations 
Research, Vol. 46, No. 1, pp. 1-8. 
[7]Russell, R. A. and J. M. Y. Leung (1994), “Devising a 
Cost Effective Scheduling for a Basketball League,” 
Operations Research, Vol. 42, No. 4, pp. 612-625. 
 [8]Saltzman, R. M. and R. M. Bradford (1996), “Optimal 
Realignments of the Teams in the National Football 
League,“ European Journal of Operational Research, Vol. 
93, pp.469-475. 
 
 
 
289
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：洪啟舜 計畫編號：99-2221-E-240-003- 
計畫名稱：職業運動賽程最佳化智慧型網路服務之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
