 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫■ 成 果 報 告   □ 期中進度報告 
 
 
微電漿/次微米電漿分析與其選擇性基板/薄膜表面
處理之研究 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99 - 2221 - E - 143 – 002 
執行期間：  99 年 8 月 1日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：黃 俊 元 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
 
執行機構及系所：國立台東大學 應用科學系 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
 
中   華   民   國  99  年  11  月   22  日 
    本研究首先將使用陽極氧化鋁模板製作高深寬比的奈米結構陣列，以及氧化鋅奈米陣
列作為電漿載體，用以負電暈放電的方式嘗試產生微電漿。負電暈放電由兩個非對稱式電
極所組成，其中陰極部分區域具有大曲面，於正負極施加偏壓後，整體陰極等電位，因此
大量電荷累積於陰極尖端(大曲面處)，造成局部區域強電場。 
研究方法 
一. 陽極氧化鋁(AAO)模板前處理 
   在分析現有文獻之後，我們先從暨有技術出發，由現有供應商購得 2 吋之 AAO 模板
(Whatman AAO Filter AW6809-5022)，於奈米結構製作前使用之清理步驟如下: 
1. 泡在清潔劑中超音波震盪 20 分鐘 
2. 以去離子水清洗，並泡在去離子水中超音波震盪 20 分鐘 
3. 泡在丙酮中超音波震盪 10 分鐘 
4. 泡在異丙醇中超音波震盪 10 分鐘,以氮氣吹乾 
5. 以紫外光臭氧清洗機處理模板 25 分鐘 
為了觀察 AAO 孔徑之密度與均勻性，模板之 SEM 照片如圖一，其孔徑大小適當，濾膜厚
度也相當理想，但其孔洞密度甚高，結果將造成製作出的相鄰的奈米結構過於靠近，不利
於電漿產生。 
 
圖一、AAO 模板之 SEM 照片 
清洗完成的 AAO 模板則用於電化學沈積奈米結構，電化學合成奈米結構流程如下[1]：
首先因為氧化鋁為介電材料，於背面鍍上金薄膜電極，浸泡於電鍍液中施加電場即可使金
屬沿著孔洞中沈積，形成奈米結構。 
二. 使用二階段溶膠凝膠法製作氧化鋅奈米結構 
在製作奈米結構之前，首先必須使用溶膠-凝膠法製備一氧化鋅薄膜作為晶種層，在基板表
面利用旋轉塗布方式沉積一層氧化鋅薄膜(其薄膜厚度大約 80 nm) 其中探討退火溫度對晶
種層結晶品質的影響。製作方式如下：首先將一公克之醋酸鋅(Zinc acetate)溶解於 10mL 純
度 99%之乙醇中加熱至 80℃攪拌 30 分鐘，之後加入 1mL 之去離子水並攪拌 5 分鐘，此時
 2
會造成奈米結構分佈密度快速減少，且直徑明顯增加，這與之前成長在不同基板之奈米結
構趨勢類似，我們發現，當濃度為 0.01、0.02、0.03M 時，成長所得主要為奈米線，而濃度
增加至 0.04M 以上則會獲得奈米柱(直徑>100nm)，同時因為直徑增加，相鄰的奈米柱彼此
緊靠擠壓，造成最後成長方向一致為垂直方向，從最後的六角形柱狀結構可判斷其晶面為
(002)面，如圖六所示。[6] 
(a)
(b)
(c)
 
圖三、不同退火溫度之薄膜表面 SEM 照片:(a)100℃(b)200℃(c)300℃ 
 4
同時亦增加相鄰奈米針尖距離，應可有效達成電漿區域化的目的。 
 
20 30 40 50 60 70 80
In
te
ns
ity
 (a
.u
.)
2-theta (deg.)
 
 (002) 
(101) (103) (102) 
9XRD 
1 hr 
5 hr(s) 
18 hr(s) 
 
圖六、前驅物濃度為 0.02M，不同成長時間下，ZnO 奈米線陣列之 X-ray 繞射圖 
 
 (A) 
100nm 
Nanowire 
(B) 
100nm 
Nanorod
(C)
100nm 
1.14 μm 
2.78 μm 
1.24 μm 
82 nm 
395 nm 
 
圖七、當前驅物濃度為(a)0.03M(b)0.05M(c)0.04M 時，成長 18 小時所獲得之 ZnO 奈米結構 
二. 氧化鋁薄片電極用於介質阻擋放電(DBD)之測試結果 
使用陽極氧化鋁鍍上一金屬層作為薄片電極，並使用聚酯透明投影片作為電漿片電極之
介電層，此 DBD結構於通入電壓後可產生均勻電漿，電漿面積等同於電極面積，因此可隨
著電極製作大小而延伸尺寸，但隨著放電面積增加則電流亦提升，若放電面積繼續加大則
電源供應器亦需做調整或更換更高功率之電源供應器。 
薄片電極尚有一較難克服之缺點即是放電的邊緣效應（edge effect），如圖八所示，主因
為電漿本易於尖端生成放電，故電極四周邊緣所產生的電漿亮度遠大於中間區域，且隨著
電極面積增大，邊緣效應愈明顯。此 DBD 之 I-V 特性如圖九，基本上，薄片電極的電學
特性與套管電極走向一致，隨著電壓愈高則電流亦隨之提升，由圖可以很清楚得知頻率對
於常壓電漿的形成相當重要，當電壓 3500V 時，頻率為 60Hz 時電流才 1.16mA，600Hz 卻
高達 13.1mA 整整超過 11 倍之多，此外 600Hz 之 I-V curve 較 60Hz 平緩，因此有更適當之
 6
 8
nanostructures with controlled morphology and size in ionic liquids. J Nanopart 
Res 11:861–868. 
4. Greene LE, Law M, Goldberger J, Kim F, Johnson JC, Zhang Y, Saykally RJ, 
Yang P (2003) Low-temperature wafer-scale production of ZnO nanowire arrays. 
Angew Chem Int Ed 42:3031-3034. 
5. Huang JS, Lin CF (2008) Influences of ZnO sol-gel thin film characteristics on 
ZnO nanowire arrays prepared at low temperature using all solution-based 
processing. J Appl Phys 103:014304 1-014304 5. 
6. Yang LL, Zhao QX, Willander M, Yang JH Effective way to control the size of 
well-aligned ZnO nanorod arrays with two-step chemical bath deposition. J 
Crystal Growth 311:1046-1050. 
7. Qiu J, Li X, He W, Park SJ, Kim HK, Hwang YH, Lee JH, Kim YD (2009) The 
growth mechanism and optical properties of ultralong ZnO nanorod arrays with a 
high aspect ratio by a preheating hydrothermal method. Nanotechnol 20:155603 
1-155603 9. 
審查中之發表論文: 
1. Chun-Yuan Huang, “Impact of CdSe/ZnS quantum dot spectrum converters on InGaP/GaAs/Ge 
multi-junction solar cells,” J. Vac. Sci. Technol. A, revised. 
2. Tzung-Han Wu, Chiao-Yang Cheng, Chun-Yuan Huang, and Yan-Kuin Su, “Homogeneous 
ZnO nanostructure arrays on GaAs substrates by two-step chemical bath synthesis,” J. Nanopar. 
Res., revised. 
四、計畫成果自評 
    本計畫執行期間為一年，為了加快研究進行，購買現有之 AAO 基板進行研究，也因此
無法有效調控孔洞間距以有效形成微電漿，在 ZnO 奈米結構的成長研究上，我們使用了相
對簡單便宜的二階段溶膠凝膠法製作出包括奈米線、奈米柱和奈米針等結構陣列，除了作
為本研究之微電漿載體外，對應用於其他光電元件亦有相當的競爭力。在研究經費相當拮
据的情況下，電化學沈積裝置及電漿量測儀器系統都有完成，並且另外開發出奈米針陣列
作為微電漿產生載體的可能性。本計畫第一年目標達成率約為 70%，以算是相當難得，目
前本計畫相關研究已有專利送件審查中，其他成果也都已陸續發表或投稿於國際期刊。 
 
 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
本研討會舉辦日期為七月二十七日至七月二十九日，主辦單位是 World 
Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology，地點在巴黎市區裡的假日飯店
(Holiday Inn)，本人口頭發表之論文『Efficiency Improvements of GaAs-based Solar 
Cells by Hydrothermally-deposited ZnO Nanostructure Array』日期排訂為二十七
日，故當天一早即到達會場報到並領取資料。 
從大會公告之議程可看出，世界各國包含美、英、法、俄、日本、韓國、印
度、伊朗、土耳其、新加坡、澳洲、中國大陸、阿爾及利亞、加拿大等學者專家、
研究人才及產業相關人員皆出席共襄盛舉。台灣亦有多所大專院校及研究單位之
教授、博士後研究員和研究生等參與。但本次研討會主題過於廣泛，涵蓋: 
a. Computer, Electrical, and Systems Sciences, and Engineering 
b. Microelectronics and Nanotechnology 
c. Neural Networks 
d. Electrical, Computer and Communication Engineering 
e. Machine Vision 
f. Industrial Engineering and Systems Management 
g. Fluid Mechanics 
h. Computational and Mathematical Sciences 
i. Applied Computer Science and Engineering 
j. Thermal Engineering 
議程中論文發表方式僅有口頭報告，並且各主題類別並無分開討論，且在兩小時
的會議討論時間裡竟然安排了 24 場口頭報告，導致很多主講人都沒有出席報
告，而本人上台報告時也已接近會議結束時間。另外在會議報到的流程安排上也
很不恰當，僅有一個工作人員處理所有出席者之註冊與資料發放，所以排隊花了
相當長的時間，但同時有人已被排定口頭報告，卻又同時必須在會議室外排隊，
 2
受大會主辦單位的影響，從聆聽的過程中，還是可以獲得有用的知識。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
A.大會議程紙本: 
內容詳列每場發表論文的論文標題、作者、所屬單位、發表時間及地點(附件
一)。 
B.口頭發表證書: 
  證明講者確實有參與會議並上台發表論文。 
 
C.研討會論文集: 
  內容為部份研究論文之發表全文。 
 
 4
                                                   Scientific Research and Experimental Development 
SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL SPONSORS 
 
World Academy of Science, Engineering and Technology 
   
International Journal of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering 
  
International Journal of Agricultural and Biological Sciences 
   
International Journal of Biological and Life Sciences 
   
International Journal of Biological and Medical Sciences 
   
International Journal of Chemical and Biological Engineering 
  
International Journal of Civil and Environmental Engineering 
  
International Journal of Computational and Mathematical Sciences 
  
International Journal of Computer and Information Engineering 
   
International Journal of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
 
International Journal of Electrical and Electronics Engineering 
  
International Journal of Engineering and Applied Sciences 
  
International Journal of Engineering and Natural Sciences 
  
International Journal of Environmental and Earth Sciences 
  
International Journal of Information and Communication Engineering 
  
International Journal of Information and Mathematical Sciences 
   
International Journal of Human and Social Sciences  
  
International Journal of Mathematical and Computer Sciences 
  
International Journal of Mechanical and Materials Engineering 
WASET 2011   
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE PROGRAM 
 
Holiday Inn Paris Montparnesse-Avenue du Maine 
July 27-29, 2011 Paris, France  
Print            ISSN 2010-376X 
Electronic   ISSN 2010-3778 
CONFERENCE OBJECTIVES 
The main objective of this conference is to provide an 
international scientific forum for engineers, scientists  
academicians, and researchers to present the result of 
their recent research activities in the field of applied 
science, engineering and technology, as well as human 
and social sciences. The primary focus of the 
conference is to create an effective medium for 
institutions and industries to share ideas, innovations 
and problem solving techniques. 
CONFERENCE PAPERS 
A prospective full text paper should be submitted to the 
conference secretariat at www.waset.org/submit.php 
All submitted papers will be blind peer-reviewed and 
authors of accepted papers will be notified to submit 
final full length-formatted papers for presentation and 
publication in the refereed conference proceedings at  
http://www.waset.org/journals/waset/ 
SPECIAL JOURNAL ISSUES 
A number of selected high-impact full  text papers will 
also be  considered for the special journal issues.  
INTERNATIONAL SCIENTIFIC COMMITTEE 
 
A-Ur-Rahman Saljoki,PK 
Alexander Vaninsky, US 
Arkady Bolotin, IL 
Byoung-Tak Zhang, KR 
Chanseng He, USA 
Chen-Yuan Chen,TW 
Christos Grecos, UK 
Edgardo Bucciarelli, IT 
Edison Muzenda,ZA 
Éric Filiol, FR 
Eric T T Wong, HK 
Frederic Du Burck, FR 
James. A. Nelson, US 
Karen Armstrong, CA 
Kenan Matawie,AU 
Kenneth Revett, UK 
Kevin F.R. Liu,TW 
Mario Mastriani, AR 
Miloš Šeda, CZ 
Mohammad Siddique, US 
Nerey H. Mvungi,TZ 
Omar J. Khan, US 
Peter Pivonka, AU 
Prabhat K. Mahanti,CA 
Quoc-Nam Tran, US 
S. M. A. Burney, PK 
Simon Brown,AU 
S. Venkatraman,AU 
Wang Zhigang, US 
Zarita Zainuddin, MY 
WASET 2011  
CONFERENCE CALENDAR 
Dubai, UAE, January 25-27, 2011 
February, MY, February 22-24, 2011 
Bangkok, TH, March 29-31, 2011 
Venice, IT, April 27-29, 2011 
Paris, FR, June 24-26, 2011 
Amsterdam, NL, July 13-15, 2011 
Paris, FR, July 27-29, 2011 
Marseille, FR, August 15-17, 2011 
Singapore, SG, September 28-30, 2011 
Bali, ID, October 26-28, 2011 
Guangzhou, CN, November 14-15, 2011 
Venice, IT, November 23-25, 2011 
Phuket, TH, December 21-23, 2011 
Bangkok, TH, December 25-26, 2011 
CONFERENCE SECRETARIAT 
Tel:++971559099620 :: e-mail: info@waset.org 
More information is available at www.waset.org 
TENTATIVE FRANCE 2011 CONFERENCE PROGRAM 
The Complete Conference Registration is Required for Publication in the Conference Proceedings at 
http://www.waset.org/author.php 
PROGRAM LAST UPDATED: JULY 19, 2011 2
 
Providing Security Framework for Holding Electronic 
Examinations with Modeled on information technology 
infrastructure library (ITIL) 
Sanaz Ketabi, Nasser Modiri, Ahmmad farahi 
Payame Noor University Tehran, Iran 
 
Study on the relationship between anger, self-efficiency, 
coping styles, the tendency to use narcotic drugs in a group of 
clients dependent on them 
Mohammad Oraki 
Tehran Payam noor university, Iran 
11:00 
11:15 Coffee Break 
11:15 
14:00 Chair : Upena Dalal HALL-A  Session – II (July 27, 2011) 
 New EEM/BEM Hybrid Method for Electric Field Calculation in Cable Joints 
Nebojsa Raicevic, Slavoljub Aleksic, Sasa Ilic 
University of Nis, Faculty of Electronic Engineering, Serbia 
 Spatial and Temporal Variation of Urban Wideband Channels due to Automotive Traffic 
Somboon Toautachone, David Ndzi, Kenneth Stuart, Rinat Khusainov 
University of Portsmouth, UK 
 A Family Cars’ Life Cycle Cost (LCC)-Oriented Hybrid Modelling Approach Combining ANN and CBR 
Xiaochuan Chen, Jianguo Yang, Beizhi Li 
Shanghai Donghua University, China 
 Phase Error Accumulation Methodology for On-Chip Cell Characterization 
Chang Soo Kang 
Yuhan University, The Republic of Korea 
 Computing the Pseudo-Kronecker Reed Muller expansions Ban A Al Jassani, A.E.A. Almaini Edinburgh Napier University, UK 
 FPGA based Relative Distance Measurement using Stereo Vision Technology 
Renuka Kulkarni 
Cummins College of Engineering for Women, Pune, India 
 An innovative Wireless Sensor Network protocol implementation using a hybrid FPGA technology 
Danielle Reichel, Antoine Druilhe, Tuan Dang 
EDF Research & Development, France 
 Quality Adaptation for Bandwidth Controlled Video Streaming Delivery over the Internet 
Ashraf Abdelaziz Taha Abdelaziz 
City for Scientific Research and Technology Applications, Egypt 
 Temporal Visual Features and Optimal Combining Rule for Video Rating System 
Byeongcheol Choi 
ETRI, Korea 
 Dynamic Tone Injection with Real-Valued Genetic Algorithm for PAPR Reduction of OFDM Signals 
Jenn-Kaie Lain, Shi-Yi Wu, and Po-Hui Yang 
National Yunlin University of Science and Technology, Taiwan 
11:30 
14:00 Lunch Break 
14:00 
16:00 Chair : Vera Hofer, Chitaranjan Sharma HALL-A  Session – III (July 27, 2011) 
 A Hybrid Classification Method Using Artificial Neural Network Based Decision Tree for Automatic Sleep Scoring 
Haoyu Ma, Bin Hu, Mike Jackson, Jingzhi Yan, Wen Zhao 
Lanzhou University, P. R. China 
 
Integrating Negotiating Agents with Evolving Connectionist 
Structures to Facilitate the Prediction of Counterpart’s 
Responses 
Marisa Masvoula 
National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, Department of 
Informatics and Telecommunications, Greece 
 Latent Topic Based Medical Data Classification Jian-hua Yeh, Shi-yi Kuo Aletheia University, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 Government Organization and Knowledge Management Mohamad Hasan Mohsen Nasab, Ganbar Mirnehad, Masood Hamzeh PourIslamic Azad University Shoushtar Branch, Iran 
 Hawkeye Technology – A Bayes Theorem Based Stochastic Model  
Arjun Agaram Mangad, Sheshadri Ramachandran 
Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering, India 
 A Dynamic Routing In An Mb/M/I Queuing System Pradeep K. Joshi, Chitaranjan Sharma, Sudhir Sharma Devi Ahilya University, Indore, India 
 The practical MFCAV Riemann solver is applied to a new cell-centered Lagrangian method 
Yan Liu 
Institute of Applied physics and computational mathematics, China 
 Fuzzy Clustering Analysis in Real Estate Companies in China Jianfeng Li,  Feng Jin,  Xiaoyu Yang  Dalian Maritime University, China 
 Some Constructions of Non-Commutative Latin Squares of Order n 
H. V. Chen, A. Y. M. Chin, S. Sharmini 
Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman, Malaysia 
 Mathematical modeling for the processes of strain hardening in heterophase materials with nanoparticles 
Mikhail Semenov, Svetlana Kolupaeva, Tatiana Kovalevskaya, Olga 
Daneyko 
Tomsk Polytechnic University, Russia 
TENTATIVE FRANCE 2011 CONFERENCE PROGRAM 
The Complete Conference Registration is Required for Publication in the Conference Proceedings at 
http://www.waset.org/author.php 
PROGRAM LAST UPDATED: JULY 19, 2011 4
 
High pressure experimental solubility of CO2 and CH4 in 1-
hexyl-3-methyl imidazolium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide; 
[C6mim][Tf2N] 
Ayyaz Muhammad, Amir Shafeeq, Aamir Ijaz, M. I. Abdul Mutalib 
I.C.E&T, University of the Punjab, Quaid-e- Azam Campus, Lahore, 
Pakistan 
 A new formulation for completion time in multi-product multi-stage batch process for mixed intermediate storage 
Amir Shafeeq 
Institute of Chemical Engg. & Tech. University of the Punjab, Lahore, 
Pakistan 
 Comparison of various advanced treatment methods for municipal wastewater reclamation 
P.M. Álvarez, F.J. Beltrán, J. Jaramillo, P. Pocostales, G.Márquez 
Universidad de Extremadura, Spain 
 Volatile organochlorine compounds emitted by temperate coniferous forests 
Jana Doležalová, Josef Holík, Zdeněk Wimmer, Sándor T. Forczek 
Institute of Experimental Botany, Academy Sciences Czech Republic, 
Czech Republic 
 Hexavalent chromium pollution abatement by use of scrap iron
Gheju Marius, Cocheci Laura 
Politehnica University of Timisoara, Faculty of Industrial Chemistry and 
Environmental Engineering, Romania 
 Salinity- Alkane Carbon Number(ACN)Relationship of Some AnionicNonionic Mixtures 
Viola Ibrahim, Youssef Barakat 
Egyptian Petroleum Research Institute Epri, Cairo, Egypt 
 Influence of Operating Conditions on the Extraction of Shea (Vitellaria paradoxa Gaertner F.) Butter 
Ahmed Mohammed Mohagir, Richard Kamga, César Kapseu 
University of N’Djamena, Chad 
 
Ab initio Studies for the Reaction Path Ways of the Thermal 
Decomposition of SiHx+ Ions (x = 2, 3, 4) and its Molecular 
Structures 
Y.M. Lee, M.C. Lin 
National Center for High-Performance Computing, Taiwan 
 Hydrogen from Waste Aluminum: New Approach to Utilize Waste Packaging Materials into Electricity 
Nobuaki Mizuki, Akiteru Maruta 
Technova, Inc, Japan 
 Integrated HRH with conventional process to produce synthetic crude oil 
Arvin Khadem Samimi, Reza Hashemi, Jamshid Zarkesh, Mahmoud Bayat
Research Institute of Petroleum Industry, Iran 
 Optimum Operating Conditions for Direct Oxidation of H2S in a Fluidized Bed Reactor 
Fahimeh Golestani, Mohammad Kazemeini, Moslem Fattahi, Ali Amjadian
Sharif University of Technology, Iran 
 Optimization of Reaction Rate Parameters in Modeling of Heavy Paraffins Dehydrogenation 
Leila Vafajoo, Farhad Khorasheh, Mehrnoosh Hamzezadeh Nakhjavani, 
Moslem Fattahi 
Islamic Azad University, South Tehran Branch, Iran 
 
Effects of Process Variable on Methane Formation in Ru-
Promoted Ir-Catalyzed Carbonylation of Methanol Using 
Experimental Design Methodology 
Mohammad Kazemeini, Vahid Hosseinpour 
Sharif University of Technology, Iran 
 Studying effects of alternative biodiesel fuel in performance and pollutants of diesel engines 
Seyed Azizollah Ghotb, Shakila Motamedi, Fatemeh Torfi, Najaf Hedayat
Islamic Azad University, Tehran North Branch, Iran 
 
Layer-by-Layer Chemical Deposition Technique for Synthesis of 
Thin Film Deposited Nano-Zn(II)- 8-Hydroxy-5-nitrosoquinolate 
complex: Characterization and Optical-Electrical Properties 
Sawsan S. Haggag, Alaa A.M.Farag, Mohamed Abdelrafea 
Alexandria University, Faculty of Sciences, Egypt 
 Salinity-Alkane Carbon Number(ACN) Relationship of Some AnionicNonionic Mixtures 
Viola Ibrahim 
Egyptian Petroleum Research Institute EPRI, Cairo, Egypt 
11:00 
11:15 Coffee Break 
11:15 
14:00 Chair : Tazid Ali, Michal Javornik HALL-B  Session – V (July 27, 2011) 
 Modeling RNA Evolution Tazid Ali Dibrugarh University, India 
 On One Mathematıcal Model Of The Spherıcal Tumor Growth In Adults Body 
Kristine Pirumova 
Iv. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, Georgia 
 On the Mathematical Model of Vascular Endothelial Growth Connected with a Tumor Proliferation 
N. Khatiashvili, Ch. Pirumova, V. Akhobadze 
Iv. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, Georgia 
 Regional Medical Imaging System Michal Javornik, Otto Dostal, Karel Slavicek Masaryk University, Czech Republic 
 Non-invasive Capillary blood flow Measurement: Laser Speckle and Laser Doppler 
A.K.Jayanthy, N.Sujatha, M.Ramasubba Reddy 
Indian Institute of Technology, Madras, India 
 On One Mathematical Model of the Spherical Tumor Growth in Adults Body 
Kristine Pirumova 
IV. Javakhishvili Tbilisi State University, Georgia 
 
Tissue-mimetic hydrogel scaffolds for controlling the long-term 
self-renewal of human pluripotent stem cells under fully 
defined conditions 
Samira Musah, Stephen Morin, Paul J. Wrighton, Song Jin, Laura L. 
Kiessling 
University of Wisconsin - Madison, USA 
TENTATIVE FRANCE 2011 CONFERENCE PROGRAM 
The Complete Conference Registration is Required for Publication in the Conference Proceedings at 
http://www.waset.org/author.php 
PROGRAM LAST UPDATED: JULY 19, 2011 6
 A Fuzzy Sliding mode Controller Trained for Disturbance Approximation with ANFIS for Trajectory Tracking of ROVs 
Ehsan Kharazmi 
Shiraz University, Iran 
 Modelling of Particle Reinforced Metal Matrix Composites with Random Distribution of Particles: a 2-D Finite Element Model 
Krishan Kant Singh Mer, B.K.Mishra, S.Ray 
G.B.Pant Engineering College, Pauri Garhwal, India 
 Analysis of Distribution of Thrust, Torque and Efficiency of a Constant Chord, Constant Pitch C.R.P. Fan by H.E.S. Method 
Morteza Abbaszadeh, Parvin Nikpoorparizi, Mina Shahrooz 
Sharif University of Technology, Iran 
 Stability Analysis of Four-lobe Journal Bearing Lubricated with a Micropolar Fluids 
Boualem Chetti 
Center University of KHMIS Miliana Ain Defla, Algeria 
 
Application of short bearing theory to determine dynamic 
characteristics and stability of wave journal bearings in 
turbulent lubrication 
Satyam Shivam Gautam, Mihir Kumar Ghosh 
North Eastern Regional Institute of Science and Technology, India 
 Control Strategy for an Active Suspension System Catalin Alexandru, Petre Alexandru Transilvania University of Brasov, Romania 
11:00 
11:15 Coffee Break 
11:15 
14:00 Chair : A. Sherif El-Gizawy, Michaela Skulinova HALL-A  Session – VII (July 28, 2011) 
 A Further Improvement on the Resurrected Core-Spreading Vortex Method 
M-J Huang, C-J Huang, L-C Chen 
National Taiwan University, Taiwan 
 Kinematic Parameter-independent Modeling and Measuring of Three-axis Machine Tools 
Yung-Yuan Hsu 
Chung Hua University, R. O. C. Taiwan 
 A general dynamical model of the lifter and a problem of the cable sliding on a pulley 
V. Zviadauri, G. Tumanishvili, M. Chelidze, T. Nadiradze 
Machine Mechanics Institute, Georgia 
 Experimental Evaluation of Vibration Characteristics of a Seat Assembled on the Vehicle 
Bum-June Seo, Ji-Hyun Yoon, In-Hyung Yang, Goon-Dong Park, and Jae-
Eung Oh 
Hanyang University, Korea 
 Experimental Analysis on Barrel Module of Digital Camera for Noise Source Identification 
Hyung-Taek Kwak, Ji-Hyun Yoon, In-Hyung Yang, Jae-Eun Jeong, and 
Jae-Eung Oh 
Hanyang University, South Korea 
 Characterization of the carbon based nanometer scale helix coils grown on stainless steel wires 
C.C Su, Tyng Liu, S. H. Chang 
National Taiwan University, Taiwan 
 A Numerical Study of a Droplet Impinging on a  Liquid Surface Saeid Asadi, Hanieh Panahi Payame Noor University, Iran 
 Nonlinear Tracking Control of a Microbeam Displacement by Electrostatic Actuation 
Farzad Karami, Hamed Layeghi 
Sharif University of Technology, Iran 
 Molecular Dynamics Simulation Of Annular Flow Boiling Davood Toghraie, Ahmad Reza Azimian Isfahan University of Technology, Iran 
 Process-induced Properties of FDM Products A. Sherif El-Gizawy, Shan Corl, Brian Graybill University of Missouri, USA 
 Design process and real-time validation of an innovative autonomous mid-air flight and landing system 
De Lellis E., Di Vito V., Garbarino L., Lai C., Corraro F. 
Italian Center for Aerospace Center, Italy 
 Blind Gear at Airports using MSMC (Multifunctional Self Manoeuvring Chaircars) 
Balaji Sivasubramanian 
Madha Engineering College, India 
 RBF Based Meshless Method for Free Vibration Analysis of Laminated Composite Plates 
Jeeoot Singh, Sandeep Singh, K.K.Shukla 
Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology Allahabad, India 
 Springback Investigation on Sheet Metal Incremental Formed Parts 
Hongyu Wei 
Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China 
 Surface flattening based on linear-elastic finite element method 
Wenliang Chen, Wei Peng,Yidong Bao 
Nanjing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics, China 
 Micro-penetrator for Canadian Planetary Exploration Michaela Skulinova, Wanping Zheng, Yan-Ru Hu, Yvan Soucy Canadian Space Agency, Canada 
 SPH method used for predictions at a Turgo impulse turbine: comparison with Fluent 
Phoevos K. Koukouvinis, John S. Anagnostopoulos, Dimitris E. Papantonis
National Technical University of Athens, Greece 
 Preliminary Tests on the Buffer Tank for the Vented Liquid Nitrogen Flow of an SRF Module 
Ming-Hsun Tsai, Ming-Chyuan Lin, , Fu-Tsai Chung, Ling-Jhen Chen, Yu-
Hang Lin, Meng-Shu Yeh, Lee-Long Han 
National Synchrotron Radiation Research Center, Taiwan 
TENTATIVE FRANCE 2011 CONFERENCE PROGRAM 
The Complete Conference Registration is Required for Publication in the Conference Proceedings at 
http://www.waset.org/author.php 
PROGRAM LAST UPDATED: JULY 19, 2011 8
 Six Sigma & Maintenance Management In A Chemical Industry– A Case Study 
Tushar Narendrabhai Desai, Jayesh J. Pathak 
Sardar Vallabhbhai National Institute of Technology, India 
 Lean Tqm Automotive Factory Model System Noor Azlinamohd Salleh Universiti Teknologi Mara Malaysia, Malaysia 
 The Impact of Unbalanced Processing Time Means on Unreliable Unpaced Serial Flow Lines 
S. Shaaban, T. McNamara, A. Atil 
The ESC Rennes School of Business, France 
 Managing a manufacturing system with integration of walking worker and lean thinking 
Said Rabah Azzam Laura Carolina Arias Shikun Zhou 
University of Portsmouth, United Kingdom 
 Agile Index: Automotive Supply Chain Susana G. Azevedo, Helena Carvalho, V. Cruz –Machado University of Beira Interior, Portugal 
 Effective Scheduling of Semiconductor Manufacturing using Simulation 
Ingy A. El-Khouly, Khaled S. El-Kilany, Aziz E. El-Sayed 
Arab Academy for Science and Technology, Industrial and Management
Department, Egypt 
 Average Run Lengths of X-bar Chart with Positively Correlated Observations 
D. R. Prajapati 
PEC University of Technology, Chandigarh, India 
 Anthropometric Measurements and Furniture Design Mismatch: A Literature Review 
M.W. Badawi, N.M. Galal, and M. F. El Kashouty 
Arab Academy for Science and Technology and Maritime Transport, 
Egypt 
 Expert System for chose Material used gears Eugen Valentin Butilă, Florin Gîrbacia Transilvania University of Brasov, Romania 
 The use of finite absorbing Markov Chain to study the student flow in an academic institution 
Muhammad Akram, Shukri Sleim 
King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals, Saudi Arabia 
 
Effect of Tempering Temperature and Time on the Corrosion 
Behaviour of 304 and 316 Austenitic Stainless Steels in Oxalic 
Acid 
Ayo S. Afolabi, Johannes H. Potgieter, Ambali S. Abdulkareem, 
Nonhlanhla Fungura 
University of South Africa, South Africa 
 An application of SMED Methodology 
Berna Ulutas 
Department of Industrial Engineering, Eskisehir Osmangazi University,
Eskisehir, Turkey 
 An Application of a Cost Minimization Model in Determining Safety Stock Level and Location 
Bahareh Amirjabbari, Nadia Bhuiyan 
Concordia University, Canada 
 Managing change projects using a structured six sigma framework 
Rajshri Iskande 
University of Brighton, United Kingdom 
 The Investigating Use of Human Resource Information System to Support Strategic Human Resource Decision Making 
S. Sardar Donighi- M. Mohammadniya 
Islamic Azad University- Tehran North Branch, Iran 
 A New Heuristic Statistical Methodology for Optimizing Queuing Networks Using Discreet Event Simulation 
Mojtaba Mahdavi, Mohamad Mahdavi 
Islamic Azad University Najafabad Branch, Iran 
 Statistical Reliability Based Modeling of Series and Parallel Operating Systems Using Extreme Value Theory  
Mohamad Mahdavi, Mojtaba Mahdavi 
Islamic Azad University Najafabad Branch, Iran 
 
A Multi-objective Optimization Model to the Integrating Flexible 
Process Planning and Scheduling based on Modified Particle 
Swarm Optimization Algorithm (MPSO) 
Rashed Sahraeian, Ali Karampour Haghighi, Elaheh Ghasemi 
Shahid Bahonar University of Kerman, Iran 
 Hybrid genetic algorithm; Scheduling; Permutation flow-shop; Sequence dependent 
Mohammad Mirabi 
Islamic Azad University, Ashkezar Branch, Iran 
 A Scenario Oriented Supplier Selection by Considering a Multi Tiers Supplier Network 
Mohammad Najafi Nobar, Bahareh Pourmehr, and Mehdi Hajimirarab 
Iranian Tobacco Company, Iran 
 
Intelligent path planning for rescue robot, Risk analysis of 
project activities using analytical hierarchy process (AHP), A 
new method in determining the probability of paths in project 
networks 
Khanmohammadi, Ranaa Soltani, Roya Soltani, Ulduz Abbasi 
University of Tabriz, Iran 
11:30 
14:00 Lunch Break 
 Friday: July 29, 2011 
09:00 
11:00 Chair : Gulshan Sacvhdeva, PoiSim Khiew HALL-A  Session – X (July 29, 2011) 
 Synthesis and Optical Vibrations of Polyaniline Films Hasoon Salah Abdulla University of Baghdad, Iraq 
 Synthesis and Characterization of ZnO and Fe3O4 Nanocrystals from Oleat-based Organometallic Compounds 
PoiSim Khiew 
University of Nottingham Malaysia Campus, Malaysia 
TENTATIVE FRANCE 2011 CONFERENCE PROGRAM 
The Complete Conference Registration is Required for Publication in the Conference Proceedings at 
http://www.waset.org/author.php 
PROGRAM LAST UPDATED: JULY 19, 2011 10
 Simulating Pathogen Transport within a Naturally Ventilated Hospital Ward 
Carl Gilkeson 
University of Leeds, England 
 Effect of Free-Stream Orientation and Buoyancy on Heat Transfer in Mixed Convective Flow Past a Square Cylinder 
Rashid Ali, Nadeem Hasan 
Aligarh Muslim University Aligarh, India 
 Numerical Study of Hypersonic Glide Vehicle Based on Blunted Waverider 
Liu Jian-xia, Hou Zhong-xi, Chen Xiao-qing 
National University of Defense Technology, China 
 A Finite Volume Procedure on Unstructured Meshes for Fluid-Structure Interaction Problems 
P I Jagad, B P Puranik, A W Date 
Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, India 
 Parallel Computation in Hypersonic Aerodynamic Heating Problem 
Ding Guohao 
National University of Defense Technology, China 
 Performance Comparison and Analysis of Different Schemes and Limiters 
Li Hua 
National University of Defense Technology, China 
 Rotor Flow Analysis Using an Implicit Harmonic Balance Method 
D.Im, S.Choi, S.H. Park, J.H. Kwon 
Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, Korea 
 CFD simulation the thermal-hydraulic characteristic within fuel rod bundle near grid spacers 
David Lávička 
University of West Bohemia, Czech Republic 
 Numerical Investigation of a Slender Delta Wing in Combined Force-pitch and Free-roll 
Yang XiaoLiang, Liu Wei, Wang HongBo, ZhaoYunFei 
National University of Defense and Technology, P.R.China 
 
Numerical Investigation of Flow Interference Between Two 
Square Cylinders with Rounded Corners Using Immersed 
Boundary Method 
M. B. Shyam Kumar, S. Vengadesan 
Department of Applied Mechanics, Indian Institute of Technology 
Madras, India 
 Experimental investigations on a flow in a channel with porous obstacles 
T. Benlatif, M. Bouhadef, T. Guendouzen, T. Zitoun, K. Bouhadef 
USTHB (University of Sciences and Technology Houari Boumediene), 
Algiers, Algeria 
 Distortion of Flow Measurement and Cavitation Occurs Due to Orifice Inlet Velocity Profiles 
Byung Soo Shin 
Korea Institute of Nuclear Safety, Republic of Korea 
 
Optimization Of A Centrifugal Compressor Performance By 
Modification Of Diffusers Geometries Using Inverse Design 
Method 
Mahdi Nili Ahmadabadi, Farzad Poursadegh 
Isfahan University of Technology, Iran 
 Analysis of Capillary Coating Die Flow in an Optical Fiber Coating Applicator 
Kyoungjin Kim 
Kumoh National Institute of Technology, Republic of Korea 
 CFD Studies on Gas Injection Angle of Fuel in a Non-premixed Gas Burner 
Ramin Zadghaffari 
Tabriz Oil Refining Company, Iran 
 A Study on Chimney Type Centrifugal Tray Lower Operating Limit 
Nader Naziri, Ramin Zadghaffari, Hamed Naziri 
Islamic Azad University, Iran 
 A Study on Chimney Type Centrifugal Tray Lower Operating Limit 
Nader Naziri, Ramin Zadghaffari, Hamed Naziri 
R&D Department of Azar Energy Co., Iran 
 Numerical modeling of FTS packed-bed reactor Mohammad Irani Research Institute of Petroleum Industry, Iran 
 CFD Investigation of Operational Charactristics for Concave Turbine Stirred Tank 
Ramin Zadghaffari 
Department of Chemical Engineering, Ahar Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Iran 
11:30 
14:00 Lunch Break 
 Friday: July 29, 2011 
09:00 
11:00 Chair : Qimin Yang HALL-B  Session – XII (July 29, 2011) 
 Study of the remote control of the D.C. 
Souad Chebbi 
Ecole Supèrieure des Sciences et Techniques de Tunis, University of 
Tunis, Tunisia 
 Load Discontinuity in Shock Response and Its Remedies Shuenn-Yih Chang, Chiu-Li Huang National Taipei University of Technology, Taiwan 
 Intelligibility of Cued Speech in Video Petra Heribanova, Jaroslav Polec, Petra Heribanova, Marian Hostovecky Slovak University of Technology Bratislava, Slovakia 
 Quality of Non-Point Source Pollutant Identification Using Digital Image and Remote Sensing Image 
Riki Mukhaiyar 
State University of Padang, Indonesia 
TENTATIVE FRANCE 2011 CONFERENCE PROGRAM 
The Complete Conference Registration is Required for Publication in the Conference Proceedings at 
http://www.waset.org/author.php 
PROGRAM LAST UPDATED: JULY 19, 2011 12
Pandit Dwarka Prasad Mishra Indian Institute of Information Technology, 
India 
 Image Transmission: A Case Study on Combined Scheme of LDPC-STBC in Asynchronous Cooperative MIMO Systems 
Shan Ding, Lijia Zhang, Hongming Xu 
Northeastern University, China 
 Adaptive Fourier Transform Based Signal Denoising Liming Zhang, Hong Li and Tao Qian University of Macau, China 
 Evaluation of a Multi-Resolution Dyadic Wavelet Transform Method for Usable Speech Detection 
Wajdi Ghezaiel, Amel Ben Slimane Rahmouni, Ezzidine Ben Braiek 
Manouba University, Tunisia 
 High Capacity Spread-Spectrum Watermarking for Telemedicine Applications 
Basant Kumar,Animesh Anand, S.P. Singh, Anand Mohan 
Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology, Allahabad, India 
 A Robust Audio Fingerprinting Algorithm in MP3 Compressed Domain 
Ruili Zhou, Yuesheng Zhu  
Peking University, China 
 A Robust Visual Tracking Algorithm with Low-Rank Region Covariance 
Wu Songtao, Zhu Yuesheng, Mai Ruikai, Sun Ziqiang 
Peking University, China 
 A Fast Template Matching Algorithm with Rotation Invariance Zilong He, Yuesheng Zhu Peking University, China 
 Comparative Study Using Orthogonal and Bi orthogonal Wavelets in Speech Signal Compression 
Karima siham Aoubid, Mohamed Boulemden 
University of Batna, Algeria 
 Segmentation of Medical Images with Active Contours Mana Tarjoman Abhar branch, Islamic Azad University, Iran 
11:30 
14:00 Lunch Break 
10:00 
12:00 Chair : Najaf H. e-Session – XIV (July 27-28-29, 2011) 
 Preparation Of Homogeneous Dense Composite Of Zirconia And Alumina (Zta) Using Colloidal Filtration 
Mehdi Mehrali, Henk Metselaar 
University of Malaya, Malaysia 
 Study of Water on the Surface of Nano-Silica Material: An NMR Study 
Jamal Hassan, Hartwig Peemoeller 
Khalifa university of Science Technology and Research, United Arab 
Emirates 
 Comparison of Full Graph Methods of Switched Circuits Solution 
Dostálová, Matoušek, Brtník 
College of Polytechnics, Jihlava, Czech Republic 
 Design of a DCT-based Image Compression with Efficient Enhancement Filter 
Yen-Yu Chen, Pao-Ching Chu, Ya-Ling Tsai 
Chung Chou Institute of Technology, Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
 Parametric Investigation of Diode and CO2 Laser in Direct Metal Deposition of H13 Tool Steel on Copper Substrate 
M. Khalid Imran, Syed Masood, Milan Brandt, Sudip Bhattacharya, 
Jyotirmoy Mazumder 
Swinburne University of Technology, Bangladesh 
 Determination of the hardness profile and percentage of phasic 
Ala Abedinzadeh Andarabi 
Islamic Azad University, Science and Research Branch, Iran 
 Performance Comparison and Analysis of Different Schemes and Limiters 
Wang Wen-Long 
National University of Defense Technology, China 
 Identifying Impact Factors in Technology Transfer with the Aim of Technology Localization 
L.Tahmooresnejad, M.A.Shafia, R.Salami 
Ecole Poly Technique De Montreal, Canada 
 Securing Message in Wireless Sensor Network by  Using New Method of Code Conversions  
Ahmed Chalak Shakir, Gu Xuemai, ia Min 
Harbin Institute of Technology, School of Electronics and Information 
Technology, China 
 Design of Synchronous Torque Couplers Ali Hellany, Jamal Rizk, Mahmood Nagial University of Western Sydney, Australia 
 Design of High Efficiency Dc Brushless Motors with Slotless Windings 
Ali Hellany, Jamal Rizk, Mahmood Nagrial 
University of western Sydney, Australia 
 Modelling of the Intensity Control Level 
Petr Šnapka, Andrea Čopíková 
VŠB-Technical University of Ostrava, Faculty of Economics, Czech 
Republic 
 Performance Measurement: House Model  
Marie Mikusova 
Technical University of Ostrava, Czech Republic 
 Microinnovation approach to Success in Design Minna Pärttö University of Jyväskylä, Finland 
TENTATIVE FRANCE 2011 CONFERENCE PROGRAM 
The Complete Conference Registration is Required for Publication in the Conference Proceedings at 
http://www.waset.org/author.php 
PROGRAM LAST UPDATED: JULY 19, 2011 14
 Increasing longevity of wireless sensor network via data aggregation 
A. Ghannaddezfouli, M. Abbasi, N. Hedayat, M. Yektaie 
Department of computer Engineering, Iran 
 
Impact of Aerobic Exercises Associated with A Diet Program in 
Some Anthropometric Measurements for Women Categories of 
35-45 years 
Shelan Sedeeq Abdulla Almokhtar 
Sulaimania University, Iraq 
 Demographic Window of Opportunity in Iran Fatemeh Rabiee Statistical Center of Iran, Iran 
 Investigation of fischer–tropsch synthesis using carbon nanotube as cobalt catalyst support 
Ali Asghar Rohani 
Islamic Azad University, Shahrood Branch, Shahrood, Iran 
 
Experimental and statistical study of nonlinear effect of Carbon 
Nanotube on Mechanical properties of Polypropylene 
Composites 
Y. Rostamiyan, A. Fereidoon, Abdollah Omrani, D.D.Ganji, N. Kordani,
Vahid Sharifi 
Islamic azad university of Iran, Islamic republic of Iran 
 
Dynamic Analysis of Reinforced Concrete Buildings subjected 
to Near-Fault Earthquakes having Forward Directivity using 
Artificial Neural Networks 
Alireza Mortezaei, Sahere Arabian 
Islamic Azad University, Semnan Branch, Iran 
 Biodiesel production from waste chicken fat based sources 
Kambiz Tahvildari , Narges Davari , Mohammadreza Allahgholi Ghasri, 
Masoomeh Behrourzinavid 
Islamic Azad University Shahre-e-Ray Branch, Iran 
 Role and Effect of Temperature on LPG Sweetening Process Ali Samadiafshar, Sayed Reza Hashemi South Pars Gas Complex (SPGC), Iran 
 
The effect of sol-gel parameters on the synthesis of 
nanocrystalline-sized γ-Al2O3 using cationic surfactants as 
template 
Mandana Akia 
Kermanshah University of Technology, Iran 
 
Dehyrogenation catalysts of higher normal paraffins on a 
nanocrystalline γ-Al2O3 support: Different impregnation 
sequences 
Mandana Akia 
Kermanshah University of Technology, Iran 
 Dissimilar Materials Joint and Effect of Angle Junction on Stress Distribution at Interface 
Ali Baladi, Alireza Fallahi Arezoodar 
Amirkabir University of Technology, Iran 
 Simulation of natural convection flow in an inclined open cavity using Lattice Boltzmann Method 
H. Sajjadi, M. Gorji, GH.R. Kefayati, D. D. Ganji, M. Shayan nia 
Babol Noshirvani University of Technology, Iran 
 Investigation of Effective Parameters on Annealing and Hot Spotting Processes for Straightening of Bent Turbine Rotors 
Esmaeil Poursaeidi, Mostafa Kamalzadeh Yazdi, Mohammadreza 
Mohammadi Arhani 
Zanjan University, Iran 
 Causes of Rotor Distortions and Applicable Common Straightening Methods for Turbine Rotors and Shafts 
Esmaeil Poursaeidi, Mostafa Kamalzadeh Yazdi 
Zanjan University, Iran 
 In vitro antibacterial activity of nanomaterial for using in tobacco plants tissue culture 
Kamran Safavi, Forogh Mortazaeinezahad, Mahtab Esfahanizadeh, 
Mohammad javad Asgari 
Young Researcherse Club, Khorasgan (Isfahan) Branch, Islamic Azad 
University, Isfahan, Iran 
 Tissue composition and muscularity of lamb legs fed with sunflower seeds and vitamin E 
A. G. Silva Sobrinho, G. M. Manzi, N. L. L. Lima, F. A. Almeida, V. Endo 
N. M. B. L. Zeola 
Universidade Estadual Paulista - Unesp/ FCAV, Brazil 
 Non-Carcass Components of Lambs Subjected To Organic AndConventional Production Models 
A. G. Silva Sobrinho, N. M. B. L. Zeola, G. M. Manzi 
Universidade Estadual Paulista - Unesp/FCAV, Brazil 
 
Technical Equipment 
1- Laptop Computer 
2- LCD Data Projector 
3- USB Flash Drive – Memory 
4- CD/DVD-ROM Drive 
5- PowerPoint Presentation Remote with Laser Pointer 
6- PowerPoint Presentation/ Acrobat Reader Software 
7- Each Technical Presentation is 20 Minutes including Discussions 
 
 
  
新信匣: 8 封信 未讀 - laputa@nttu.edu.tw - 04/16/2011 08:43:06 am +0800 - zh_TW.UTF-8 - OpenWebMail
Best regards,  
 
WASET Secretariat  
Tel:++971559099620  
http://www.waset.org/  
email:info@waset.org  
 
PS: Whilest registered to the conference, if you can not attend the conference, the conference paper will be published 
in the  
 
conference proceedings and posted to your maling address.  
 
Conference Venue and Accommodation:  
Ms.Christine ALLERY  
Hôtel Holiday Inn Paris Montparnasse  Avenue du Maine  
79  81 Avenue du Maine  
75 014 PARIS  
Tel : 01.43.20.13.93  
Fax : 01.43.20.95.60  
Email : reservations@hipargm.com  
www.holidayinn.com/parisgare  
 
----- Original Message -----  
 
From: laputa@nttu.edu.tw  
 
To: info@waset.org  
 
Sent: Saturday, March 19, 2011 6:41 AM  
 
Subject: Paris July 2011 ICMN 2011 : International Conference on Microelectronics and Nanotechnology  
 
Paris July 2011 WASET CONFERENCE PAPER  
Date : 2011-03-18 21:03:50 IP Adress :58.114.145.14  
Name Surname  Prof. Dr. Chun-Yuan Huang  
Institution  National Taitung University  
Country  Taiwan  
Alternative Email  laputa@mail.ncku.edu.tw  
Paper Title  Efficiency Improvements of GaAs-based Solar Cells by Hydrothermal-deposited ZnO Nanostructure Array  
Abstract  ZnO nanostructures including nanowires, nanorods, and nanoneedles were successfully deposited on GaAs 
substrates, respectively, by simple two-step chemical method for the first time. A ZnO seed layer was firstly pre-
coated on the O2-plasma treated substrate by sol-gel process, followed by the nucleation of ZnO nanostructures 
through hydrothermal synthesis. Nanostructures with different average diameter (15-250 nm), length (0.9-1.8 •m), 
density (0.9-16×109 cm-2) were obtained via adjusting the growth time and concentration of precursors. From the 
reflectivity spectra, we concluded ordered and taper nanostructures were preferential for photovoltaic applications. 
ZnO nanoneedles with an average diameter of 106 nm, a moderate length of 2.4 •m, and the density of 7.2×109 cm-2 
could be synthesized in the concentration of 0.04 M for 18 h. Integrated with the nanoneedle array, the power 
conversion efficiency of single junction solar cell was increased from 7.3 to 12.2%, corresponding to a 67% 
improvement.  
Keywords  Hydrothermal synthesis, ZnO nanostructures, GaAs solar cells  
http://nttu.edu.tw/cgi-bin/openwebmail/ope...=readmessage&headers=simple&attmode=simple 第 2 頁 / 共 3  [2011/4/16 上午 08:43:43]
 1
Efficiency Improvements of GaAs-based Solar 
Cells by Hydrothermally-deposited ZnO 
Nanostructure Array 
Chun-Yuan Huang,1,* Chiao-Yang Cheng,2,3 Chun-Yem Huang,2 Yan-Kuin Su,2 James Fang-Chin 
Lung3 
1 Department of Applied Science, National Taitung University, Taitung 950, Taiwan 
2 Institute of Microelectronics, Department of Electrical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University, 
Tainan 701, Taiwan 
3 Wafer Works Optronics Corp., Chung-Li, Taoyuan, Taiwan 
*Phone: +886-6-2351864, Fax: +886-6-2356226, E-mail: laputa@nttu.edu.tw 
  
Abstract—ZnO nanostructures including nanowires, nanorods, 
and nanoneedles were successfully deposited on GaAs substrates, 
respectively, by simple two-step chemical method for the first time. 
A ZnO seed layer was firstly pre-coated on the O2-plasma treated 
substrate by sol-gel process, followed by the nucleation of ZnO 
nanostructures through hydrothermal synthesis. Nanostructures 
with different average diameter (15-250 nm), length (0.9-1.8 μm), 
density (0.9-16×109 cm-2) were obtained via adjusting the growth 
time and concentration of precursors. From the reflectivity 
spectra, we concluded ordered and taper nanostructures were 
preferential for photovoltaic applications. ZnO nanoneedles with 
an average diameter of 106 nm, a moderate length of 2.4 μm, and 
the density of 7.2 × 109 cm-2 could be synthesized in the 
concentration of 0.04 M for 18 h. Integrated with the nanoneedle 
array, the power conversion efficiency of single junction solar cell 
was increased from 7.3 to 12.2%, corresponding to a 67% 
improvement. 
 
Index Terms—Hydrothermal synthesis, ZnO nanostructures,  
GaAs solar cells 
I. INTRODUCTION 
s a functional material with unique optical and electrical 
properties, zinc oxide (ZnO) has attracted worldwide 
attention for its novel applications on electronic and 
optoelectronic devices.[1-3] For instance, ZnO films with the 
exciton binding energy of 60 meV and a tunable bandgap 
energy have been a promising candidate to replace GaN for UV 
and visible light-emitting diodes.[3,4] With high piezoelectric 
coupling coefficients, ZnO can be used for making low-loss 
surface acoustic wave (SAW) filters operating at high 
frequencies.[5] In particular, numerous types of 
one-dimensional nanostructures grown by physical or chemical 
routes indicates that this material should be the richest family of 
nanostructures,[6] besides the ordinary ZnO film deposition. 
Through precisely controlling the growth kinetics and local  
temperature, diverse and highly pure nanostructures with 
different crystallinity, crystallographic orientation, crystallite 
size, morphology, geometry, and distribution density can be 
obtained. Since these nanostructures typically play an auxiliary 
role to boost inherent properties of devices and to benefit their 
commercializing, reliable and economic deposition techniques 
for the attachment of large-scale ZnO nanostructures is the 
most essential requirement.[7] In fact, many kinds of 
crystalline ZnO nanostructures have been demonstrated to be 
deposited on silicon, GaN, GaP, glass, indium tin oxide (ITO), 
and flexible substrates like poly(ethylene terephthalate) (PET) 
and polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS), by cost-effective methods 
such as hydrothermal synthesis.[7-12] 
Being a representative second-generation semiconductor 
material, gallium arsenide has seldom been reported to merge 
with ZnO nanostructures. As for those successfully grown, all 
were via expensive deposition equipment such as 
metal-organic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) or 
molecular beam epitaxy (MBE), which was not beneficial for 
reducing the fabrication cost.[13,14] Here, for the first time, 
high quality ZnO nanostructures were deposited on GaAs 
substrates precoated with a ZnO seed layer for nucleation by 
simple hydrothermal synthesis.10 Nanowire, nanorod, and 
nanoneedle arrays can be archieved by adjusting the growth 
time and the concentration of precursors, respectively. Further 
integration of highly-ordered nanoneedle arrays on 
GaAs-based solar cells has significantly increased the device 
performances. 
A
II. EXPERIMENTAL DETAILS 
Two-step growh was adopted in the present study. The 
solution for ZnO seed layer was firstly prepared by sol-gel 
process prior to the growth of ZnO nanostructures via 
additive-free hydrothermal synthesis.[15] The ZnO sol-gel was 
formed as follows: 1g zinc acetate was added in 10 ml absolute 
ethanol and the solution was stirred at 80 ℃ for 30 minutes, in 
which 1 ml distilled water was added and stirred for 5 minutes. 
  
 
 3
portion of nanowires can vertically develop and others were 
inclined toward any directions. Since the cluster is directly 
related to the crystal size of seed layer and oriented ZnO 
nanowires are preferentially grown on oriented seed layer, low 
alignment ordering of nanowire at the beginning stage should 
be attributed to the seed layer’s polycrystal nature and 
overripened crystal size inferred from XRD pattern.[19] The 
average size of these nanostructures increased with prolonging 
the growth time, however, the increase was not significant. 
Actually, the aspect ratio of nanowires grown from 1 to 18 
hours did not change very much. In contrast, the nanowires 
transformed to be nanorods with a diameter between 130 to 230 
nm with the concentration increasing in Fig. 3. Consequently, 
those misaligned nanorods from adjacent clusters gradually 
impinged on one another and were forced to grow along the 
same direction. From the hexagonal ends of rods, we can 
confirm that the vertical growth direction is c-axis direction. 
Some close-contacted individuals began to merge together and 
thus increased the divergence of rod width and decrease the rod 
density. At this stage, all nanorods were gradually vertically 
aligned because of the close pack effect. The favored c-axis 
growth direction has been interpreted by the higher surface 
energy of polar c-plane. The flattened wire top was attributed to 
the etching (dissolution) effect, since the formation and 
dissolution of ZnO nanostructures were simultaneously 
happened at different rates.[20] On the other hand, due to the 
critical diffusion of monomers and the limited nucleation free 
energy, the average diameter of nanowires was proportional to 
the concentration of chemical precursors and could be 
increased one order of magnitude from 15 to 180 nm. This 
enables us to manipulate the concentration to obtain 
appropriate diameters of nanostructures. Interestingly, more 
and more nanorods became tapered when the concentration was 
increased. As a result, separated nanorods were observed in 
top-view photographs while nearly all of adjacent nanorods 
were merged together at their bases in side-view ones. The 
taper effect gave us a hint about the nanoneedle array observed 
in Fig. 2(d). taper-shaped nanorods eventually evolved to be 
directional nanoneedles after long time deposition. It can be 
attributed to that the decrease (consuming) of Zn2+ 
concentration during the reaction should affect the broadening 
of nanostructures. As a result, the significant decrease of Zn2+ 
concentration reflected on the tapering of nanostructures along 
the vertical direction. 
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20
0.90
0.95
1.00
1.05
1.10
1.15
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
Le
ng
th
 (μ
m
)
Growth time (hr)
(a)
D
ia
m
et
er
 (n
m
)
D
en
si
ty
 (1
08
 c
m
-2
)
10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
40
80
120
160
200
240
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
Le
ng
th
 (μ
m
)
Concentration (mM)
(b)
D
ia
m
et
er
 (n
m
)
D
en
si
ty
 (1
09
 c
m
-2
)
Le
ng
th
 (μ
m
)
D
ia
m
et
er
 (n
m
)
D
en
si
ty
 (1
08
 c
m
-2
)
Le
ng
th
 (μ
m
)
D
ia
m
et
er
 (n
m
)
D
en
si
ty
 (1
09
 c
m
-2
)
Fig. 4. Plots of average length and diameter of nanostructures as a 
function of (a) growth time and (b) concentration of precursors, 
respectively. The solid lines are drawn for eye guidance. 
Fig. 3. SEM photographs of ZnO nanowire and nanorod arrays grown 
in the precursor concentration of (a,b) 0.01, (c,d) 0.03, and (e,f) 0.05 
M, respectively. 
To be the AR layer, the reflectivity spectra of above ZnO 
nanostructure arrays were characterized. As shown in Fig. 5, 
the nanowire array grown in 0.01 M exhibited very low 
 5
played a determinative role in the following 
hydrothermally-synthesized ZnO nanostructures. With the 
growth time prolonging, the nanostructures could evolve to be 
nanowires, nanorods, and finally nanoneedles. Through the 
proper manipulation of the precursor concentration and growth 
time, highly-ordered and vertically oriented nanoneedles could 
be successfully integrated to GaAs-based single junction solar 
cells, which enabled the power conversion efficiency to be 
significantly boosted from 7.3 to 12.2%. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
The authors are grateful to the National Science Council of 
the Republic of China, Taiwan, for funding this research under 
contract no. NSC 99 - 2221 - E - 143 - 002. 
REFERENCES 
[1]  R. L. Hoffman, B. J. Norris, J. F. Wager, Appl. Phys. Lett. 82, 733 
(2003). 
[2]  J. Schrier, D. O. Demchenko, L. W. Wang, Nano Lett. 7, 2377 (2007). 
[3]  A. Tsukazaki,; A. Ohtomo, T. Onuma,; M. Ohtani, T. Makino, M. 
Sumiya, K. Ohtani, S. F. Chichibu, S. Fuke, Y. Segawa, H. Ohno, H. 
Koinuma, M.  Kawasaki, Nat. Mater. 4, 42 (2005). 
[4]  L. J. Mandalapu, Z. Yang, S. Chu, J. L. Liu, Appl. Phys. Lett. 92, 
122101 (2008). 
[5]  J. B. Lee, M. H. Lee, C. K. Park, J. S. Park, Thin Solid Films 447, 296 
(2004). 
[6]  S. Kar, B. N. Pal, S. Chaudhuri, D. Chakravorty, J. Phys. Chem. B 110, 
4605 (2006). 
[7]  Y. Gao and M. Nagai, Langmuir 22, 3936 (2006). 
[8]  X. M. Zhang, M. Y. Lu, Y. Zhang, L. J. Chen, Z. L. Wang, Adv. Mater. 
21, 2767 (2009). 
[9]  S. S. Shinde, P. S. Patil, R. S. Gaikwad, R. S. Mane, B. N. Pawar, K. Y.  
Rajpure, J. Alloy Compd. 503, 416 (2010). 
[10]  J. X. Wang, X. W. Sun, Y. Yang, H. Huang, Y. C. Lee, O. K. Tan, L. 
Vayssieres, Nanotechnol. 17, 4995 (2006). 
[11]  B. Weintraub, Y. Deng, Z. L. Wang, J. Phys. Chem. C 111, 10162 
(2007). 
[12]  Y. K. Su, S. M. Peng, L. W. Ji, C. Z. Wu, W. B. Cheng, C. H. Liu, 
Langmuir 26, 603 (2010). 
[13]  W. Lee, M. C. Jeong, J. M. Myoung, Nanotechnol. 15, 254 (2004). 
[14]  Y. W. Heo, M. Kaufman, K. Pruessner, K. N. Siebein, D. P. Norton, F. 
Ren, Appl. Phys. A 80, 263 (2005). 
[15]  B. Y. Su, Y. K. Su, Z. L. Tseng, M. F. Shih, C. Y. Cheng, T. H. Wu, C. 
S. Wu, J. J. Yeh, P. Y. Ho, Y. D. Juang, S. Y. Chu, J. Electrochem. Soc. 
158, H267 (2011). 
[16]  C. Y. Cheng, F. C. N. Hong, C. Y. Huang, J. Vac. Sci. Technol. B 28, 
921 (2010). 
[17]  R. Ghosh, G. K. Paul, D. Basak, Mater. Res. Bull. 40, 1905 (2005). 
[18]  A. Wei, X. W. Sun, C. X. Xu, Z. L. Dong, Y. Yang, S. T. Tan, W. 
Huang, Nanotechnol. 17, 1740 (2006).  
[19]  M. Guo, P. Diao, S. Cai, J. Solid State Chem. 178, 1864 (2005). 
[20]  L. E. Greene, M. Law, J. Goldberger, F. Kim, J. C. Johnson, Y. Zhang, 
R. J. Saykally, P. Yang, Angew. Chem. Int. Ed. 42, 3031 (2003). 
[21]  D. Buie, M. J. McCann, K. J. Weber, C. J. Dey, Solar Energy Materials 
& Solar Cells 81, 13 (2003). 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃俊元 計畫編號：99-2221-E-143-002- 
計畫名稱：微電漿/次微米電漿分析與其選擇性基板/薄膜表面處理之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 2 2 50%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 4 60% 數個計畫共同成果 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 80% 
篇 
數個計畫共同成
果 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
