Server-Aided Recognition of Finger Shapes in a Portable System
Cheng-Wei Lin, Lin-Fei Sung and Shyh-In Hwang
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Yuan-Ze University
Taoyuan, Taiwan, ROC
Email: desty@mmlab.cse.yzu.edu.tw, floyd@mmlab.cse.yzu.edu.tw, shyhin@cs.yzu.edu.tw
Abstract
Sign language recognition had been developed for
many years, but none of these methods consider about
the convinence and availability for deaf community.
We propose a client-server system which is designed
for easy to use with low-cost equipments. This system
consists of a hand-held device client and a computer
server, the hand-held device is used to capture the
gestures of a user, transmit data to the computer server
through wireless network, and receive the result of a
recognition for multi-lingual sound or text output. In
this system, deaf people with this client could commu-
nicate with normal people more easily and efficiently
with mobility. This paper implemented the system and
examined about the power consumption of the client,
the usage of wireless network bandwidth and a set of
recognitions in Taiwan sign language.
Keywords: sign language, finger, distributed, recogni-
tion
1. Introduction
As the improvement of the hardware of hand-held
devices like a cell-phone or a PDA, the abilities of
these equipments are more and more powerful. But
the deaf community still can not use these technology
to ameliorate their life. Transmitting the sign language
video through 3G network is not afford, because the
quality, the popularity, and the price is not accepted.
The most communicating methods they used is limit
to the sign language and the hand writing. But the sign
language is hard to understand for normal people, and
the hand writing is effectlessly to each other.
The most of sign language recognitions require a
powerful computer to resolve the postures signed by
people, this does not consider about the usability and
mobility of a user. If the recognition procedure is
implemented on the hand-held devices, the battery will
be used drastically.
We use the client-server architecutre to distribute the
heavy process to a recognition server, and propose the
key-frame generating to save the bandwidth usage. In
this paper, we also improve the finger shape recog-
nition, implement our system and examine about its
performance.
2. Related Works
2.1. Distributed Recogniton Computing
George Nagy had proposed a CAVAIR[5] system
which could compare and recognize for some images,
this system is divided into a client and a server, the
client is a PDA system which is used to capture and
transmit an image to the server, the server recognizes
an image and search for relative information of the
recognition on network.
2.2. Sign Language Recognition
The two main appraoches of the sign language
recognition[8] are image process and the sensor glove.
The image process is using the color information of
a picture to detect the hand region for recognizing,
these kind of methods mainly have some steps, the skin
color detection, the motion detection[12], [13], and the
recognition. The skin color detection has to choose
the color space which is sensitive to skin color[11],
generally, it is necessary to convert the color space.
The motion detection could be archived by calculate
the difference of two pictures, by this way, the motion
of a gesture could be resolved. The recognitions of a
hand shape and a gesture are two different researches,
the hand shape recognition focuses on the fingers, the
palm, and its meaning, while the gesture recognition
is to detect the movement. J.N. Huang divided the
color spaces, therefore we choose the YIQ color space
to detect the region of skin color.
The fingers of human hand could be recognized by
the fingertip and the finger shape[19], [20]. Harden-
berg proposed a rounded fingertip model to recognize
a finger of the hand, but it has less accuracy of
recognition because it lacks the condition of finger
shape. P. Song uses that fingertip model to detect the
fingertips and then calculate the width orthgonally for
a certain length[16]. Since their method calculate the
width orthgonally, it can not recognize the curve finger
shapes. Figure2 is an example of the failed recognition
of curve finger shape, If the width j is much bigger the
i, than it will consider its length is k, and this finger
will not be recognized correctly.
i
j
k
Figure 2. Failed Recognition of Curve Finger
Shape
Our method is to find the centroid of the outline
coordinates of hand region, and then calculate the
distance between the centroid and the outline coor-
dinates. We could use these distances to find where
the fingertips are, and use the width of the symmet-
ric coordinates to recognize a finger. By this way,
we could handle more finger shapes and recognize
more precisely. Figure3 shows that how to find the
fingertip, if c is the centroid of the outline coordinates,
cd2 > cd1 and cd2 > cd3, then we could consider that
coordinate d2 is the fingertip candicate.
The width of symmetric coordinates is calculated
from the fingertip, so its direction is not orthgonal
to the fingertip, and it is more flexible for any shape
of a finger. Figure4 is an example of a curve shape
recognition, we consider a, b, c, and d as the finger-
tip candicates, and calculate the width of symmetric
coordinates of these candicates. If the average width
of a fingertip candicates is twice bigger than the total
d1
d2
d3
c
Figure 3. Find the Fingertip
average width, or if the maximum width of fingertip
candicates is twice bigger than its minimum width,
then this fingertip candicate is not possible to be a
finger. So there has only one finger d in Figure4.
a
b
c
d
Figure 4. Curve Finger Shape Recognition
4. Experimental Results
We implement our client system in a notebook
with the Logitech QuickCam Pro which has a built-
in microphone, and using a personal computer as the
server system. Our software development platform is
the GNU/Linux Debian distribution, the library used
are listed in Table1.
In the portable system, the input data size of the
client would affect the bandwidth usage, we use the
size of the video capturing and the key-frame gen-
erating to campare. The frame size is 640∗480, the
capturing time is 20 second, the content is one hand
shows zero to five fingers, and test for 100 times.
Table2 shows that the key-frame generating results in
