行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫
 成 果 報 告
□期中進度報告
採用晶片整合設計油煙多點量測系統
計畫類別： 個別型計畫 □ 整合型計畫
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－269－030－
執行期間：95 年 08 月 01 日至 96 年 07 月 31 日
計畫主持人：劉堂仁
共同主持人：
計畫參與人員： 吳坤衡、簡見德
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告 □完整報告
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件：
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢
□涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢
執行單位：遠東科技大學
附件一
壹. 前言
本計畫採用可程式晶片將過去相關研究成果[1]，[2]進行整合與實現。在[1]中，為了尋
求降低排油煙機運轉噪音的方法，我們研究了一些技術[3]-[5]，其中在 DSP 減噪技術[3][4]
的運用上，技術門檻與成本使我們不得不尋求其他的方法。至於從建築領域通風換氣
(ventilation)的角度[5]去嘗試達到降低排油煙機運轉噪音的效果，也僅能做為輔助的技術。
因此在[1]中，一個折衷、間接的解決辦法被提出：將馬達轉速依油煙量的變化進行調整。
根據烹調過程的紀錄結果和相關文獻的紀載[6], [7]，大量油煙僅間歇性短暫出現，大部分
時間，油煙均處於一個相對較小的量。因此在大量油煙出現時才驅使馬達高速運轉，而在
油煙量降低時則維持足夠的較低速運轉，不僅可在噪音的平均值上獲得改善(在特定的烹調
實驗中，使用此技術，噪音從原有的 72 dB 降為 65.66 dB)，同時使用者也較能接受在大量
油煙出現時為了要及時移除油煙的高轉速所導致的較高噪音量。然而調整馬達轉速需要一
項關鍵技術：油煙量變化的判斷。在[1]中，我們提出以壓電感測器(piezoelectric transducer)
進行油煙量變化的判斷。
欲從壓電感測器的輸出獲得油煙量變化的資訊，需一連串的訊號處理。首先我們必須
將壓電感測器的輸出以適當的類比電路進行放大(amplifying)、雜訊抑制(filtering)、以及準
位調整(level shifter)，使壓電感測器輸出波形的變化得以在經由 A/D 轉換 IC 的數位輸出結
果上獲致較大的解析度。然而波形的變化尚需經由一連串的處理才能得到油煙量大小的資
訊。在[1]中所提出的處理方法有維護不易和難以擴及至使用多個感測器的系統，因此就該
處理方法，我們特別深入研究，並提出可以即時得知油煙存在與否的訊號處理方法[2]。
在[2]中所提出的方法特別適合用於多個感測器的排油煙機系統，此即本計畫所欲實現
的部分。先前已有部分內容發表於[8]，同時再加入討論多個感測器應用最佳化的評估方法，
最後整理成一篇文章並已投稿至國際期刊。
貳. 研究目的
在研究成果[1]，[2]中有關電路的設計主要是以內建 A/D 轉換功能模組的單晶片
PIC16C73A (Microchip) 作為系統的核心，結合以常見的運算放大器 IC–LM324 所構成的
類比訊號處理電路(Signal Conditional Module)進行壓電感測器輸出的量測。此最後更新的設
計版本如圖 1 所示。
Piezoelectric
Transducer
(400ET180)
Charge
Amplifier
Low-pass
Notch
Filter
Level
Shifter
VT (V)
Released
Cooking Fumes
Signal
Conditioning
Module
A/D
Converter
Signal
Processing
Algorithm
Wduty
uC (PIC16C73A)
5Vdc
RelayNOT
110Vac
Anemometer
(LCA 6000)
WF (m/s)
Exhaust Fan
d[n]
10 3.3
10 Lmin
Vref
(=VDD)
VDD(=4.95V)
Mapping Circuit
VSS
(=0V)
圖 1. 排油煙機電路系統
制為主的文章。文中所述及的控制方法可以與我們所提出的方法[1], [2]進行比較，文獻[16]
中所提及的控制方法主要用於大型排煙設施，因此若將其方法用於家用排油煙機時將無法
有明顯的功效，這主要是因為排煙設施的運轉方式與使用方式在大型公共場合與家用場合
明顯不同所致。
至於壓電感測器的應用除了在我們已經發表的成果中[1], [2], [17]-[19]有詳盡的描述，
文獻[20]同樣是一篇應用壓電效應的文章，其以壓電感測器設計一套用於量測雨滴大小與其
動能的自動化系統，探討雨水的沖刷對大地所產生的效應。壓電感測器在醫學工程上的應
用也很常見，文獻[21]即是以壓電感測器完成非侵入式呼吸量測系統。上述的這些文獻內容
均有助於了解壓電效應的實際應用情形，以及如何實現壓電感測器的應用電路。此外我們
也常應用[22]-[25]的內容在設計與製作感測器訊號處理電路，文獻[26], [27]則幫助我們分析
與運算實驗紀錄的結果。在可程式類比與數位晶片的應用技術，可以參考[9], [10]所列的網
站。本計畫所採用的類比晶片為 Lattice 所生產的 ispPAC10，而可程式邏輯元件則是採用
Altera 的 MAX7000S 系列，相關應用技術和應用範例可在該公司網頁查詢。至於對於 Verilog
HDL 的初學者而言，[28]-[30]則是不錯的學習教材。[31]則是我們使用可程式邏輯元件配合
Verilog HDL 所設計發表的簡易系統之一。
肆. 研究方法
圖 3 為計畫書中所規劃的系統電路結構，此處我們以顏色區分其功能。淺綠色區塊屬
於系統的數位訊號處理電路部份，使用一顆可程式邏輯元件 - 7128SLC84-15 IC；黃色部分
使用一顆 12-bit A/D 轉換 IC–MAX190；水藍色部分使用一顆 16 to 1 類比多工器 IC–4067；
橙色部分為壓電感測器訊號處理電路，使用 3 顆可程式類比晶片 –ispPAC10，每顆處理 4
個壓電感測器的輸出電壓訊號。(有關橙色與淺綠色部分的電路所欲完成之工作項目可詳細
參考已刊登的論文[2]或是該計畫書。)
圖 3. 使用 12 個壓電感測器之油煙多點量測系統電路結構圖
可程式邏輯元件 - 7128SLC84-15 IC 實現圖 3 淺綠色區塊所規劃之功能。我們先將其
執行項目流程分配在系統時脈適當的位置，如圖 4 所示，再以 Verilog HDL 語言進行設計。
至於電路的除錯，我們同時採用 3 個 4-CH 100MHz 示波器檢測來自或由
EPM7128SLC84-15、MAX190 IC 所發出的數位訊號，以及 ispPAC10 IC 的類比輸出訊號。
圖 7 為檢測 EPM7128SLC84-15 利用 MAX190 進行 A/D 轉換時之訊號時序關係，由該圖可
驗證 A/D 轉換動作之正常。
圖 7. 由 EPM7128SLC84-15 可程式邏輯元件所產生與讀取自與 A/D 轉換相關之訊號波形
伍. 結果與討論
圖 8 為本計畫所實現的成果。系統電路除了仍使用一顆獨立的 A/D 轉換 IC (MAX190)
和一顆獨立的類比多工器 IC (4067)，其餘的數位和類比電路幾乎已經整合在可程式元件
內，此外被動元件的數量也只剩下幾個固定電阻和發光二極體，所有需要調整的項目均在
該元件的開發環境進行設計並模擬其結果，使得類比電路特性產生漂移的程度大幅降低。
圖 8. 油煙多點量測系統成品圖
在圖 8 中的 fosc 產生電路在實際生產時可以較經濟的 555 IC 進行實現，或是直接以一
顆石英晶體振盪 IC 來完成，此處設計之所以採用該模組主要是為了開發過程方便除錯。因
為該模組所在插槽具有三重功能：1)程式下載；2)硬體單步除錯；3)多種時脈產生電路，執
行不同的功能時，採用相對功能的模組配置於該插槽，而在圖 8 所示即為多種時脈產生電
路模組。
[17] T. J. Liu,“Real time data analysis of a piezoelectric transducer,”presented at 1st Int. Conf. on
Informatics, Cybernetics, and Systems, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, R.O.C., 2003.
[18] T. J. Liu,”Smart detection and determination of cooking fumes,”presented at Workshop on
Consumer Electronics and Signal Processing, Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C., 2004.
[19] T. J. Liu, I. C. Shen, and M. S. Young,“A self-contained range hood system based on the
detection of cooking fumes with piezoelectric transducers,”presented at Workshop on
Consumer Electronics and Signal Processing, Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C., 2006.
[20] A. W. Jayawardena and R. B. Rezaur,“Measuring drop size distribution and kinetic energy
of rainfall using a force transducer,”Hydrol. Process., vol. 14, pp. 37-49, 2000.
[21] J. Siivola and A. H. Lang,“Non-invasive piezoelectric transducer for recording of
respiration at the level of diaphragm,”Electroencephalogr. Clin. Neurophysiol., vol. 106, pp.
552-553, 1998.
[22] J. J. Carr, Sensors and Circuits, London, U.K.: PTR Prentice-Hall, 1993, pp. 224-225.
[23] S. Franco, Design with Operational Amplifiers and Analog Integrated Circuits, 3rd ed.
Singapore: McGraw-Hill, 2002, pp. 16-19, 148-150.
[24] D. A. Neamen, Electronic Circuit Analysis and Design, 2nd ed. Singapore: McGraw-Hill,
2001, pp. 875-879, 134-136.
[25] J. W. Dally, W. F. Riley, and K. G. McConnell, Instrumentation for Engineering
Measurements, 2nd ed. Toronto, ON, Canada: John Wiley & Sons, 1993, pp. 311-313.
[26] E. J. Purcell and D. Varberg, Calculus with Analytic Geometry, 5th ed. New Jersey, USA:
Prentice-Hall, 1987, pp. 430-442.
[27] R.J. Schilling and S. L. Harris, Applied Numerical Methods for Engineers Using MATLAB
and C, New York, USA: Brooks/Cole, 2000, pp. 149-156.
[28] M. M. Mano, Digital Design, 3rd rd. New Jersey, USA: Prentice-Hall, 2002.
[29] S. Palnitkar, Verilog HDL–A Guide to Digital Design and Synthesis, California, USA: Sun
Microsystems, 2003.
[30] M. D. Ciletti, Advanced Digital Design with the Verilog HDL, New Jersey, USA:
Prentice-Hall, 2003,
[31] M. Y. Lin, H. W. Zhuo, Y. M. Huang, T. L. Pan, and T. J. Liu,“Testing procedure of LED
displays implemented on chips,”presented at Workshop on Consumer Electronics and Signal
Processing, Yunlin, Taiwan, R.O.C., 2005.
中 華 民 國 九 十 六 年 八 月 一 日
可供推廣之研發成果資料表
□ 可申請專利  可技術移轉 日期：96 年 08 月 01 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱：採用晶片整合設計油煙多點量測系統
計畫主持人：劉堂仁
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-269-030-
學門領域：積體電路及系統設計
技術/創作名稱 移動中微粒濃度量測與排放控制器之節能設計
發明人/創作人 劉堂仁、吳坤衡、簡見德
中文：
1. 以多個感測器配置於微粒移動路徑，依使用者需求設計特定實
驗並以所提出之演算法統計結果，以客觀計算個別感測器之重
要性。在個別的成本考量之下決定最佳感測器數量與感測位置。
2. 將控制器電路化分成電源電路、類比訊號處理電路、與數位訊
號處理電路。以可程式類比積體電路設計類比訊號處理電路；
以可程式邏輯元件設計數位訊號處理電路，同時達到電路積體
化並縮小電路板面積。
技術說明
英文：
1. Set up some transducers around the moving path of the floating
particles. Design Experiments according to the operation of the
system, and then run the algorithm proposed by us with the
experimental results, the significance of each transducer can be
compared objectively. Therefore, manufacturers can determine the
amount and the locations to set up their transducers according to
their costs and the analyses.
2. Divide the circuitry of the controller into 3 parts: power circuit,
analog signal processing circuit, and digital signal processing
circuit. Integrate the analog parts into the programmable analog
chips and the digital parts into the PLDs, the whole circuitry of the
controller will become more compact and smaller.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
需求移動中微粒濃度量測與排放控制器節能設計之相關產業與產
品開發。
技術特點
1. 對移動中微粒濃度的二維、多點量測與訊號處理技術。
2. 微粒排放控制器之節能設計。
推廣及運用的價值
應用移動中微粒濃度的二維、多點量測與訊號處理技術可提升
微粒濃度判斷的解析度，促使排放控制器具備節能之要件；採用可
程式晶片進行電路設計將使電路板面積大幅縮減，特別是在類比電
路部分的成效最大。
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
附件二
A Self-Contained Range Hood System Based on the Detection of Cooking
Fumes with Piezoelectric Transducers
Tang-Jen Liu1, I-Cheng Shen2, and Ming-Shing Young2
1Department of Electronic Engineering, Far East University
tjliu@cc.fec.edu.tw
2Department of Electrical Engineering, National Cheng Kung University
n2890145@ccmail.ncku.edu.tw (I-Cheng Shen)
msyoung@mail.ncku.edu.tw (Ming-Shing Young)
Abstract
Self-Contained range hood systems posses
superior performance than traditional 2- or 3-speed
manual systems on the use of electric power and the
control of running noise. A self-contained system
implementation based on piezoelectric transducers was
presented here. The amounts of the released cooking
fumes were detected with twelve piezoelectric
transducers in two circular arrays around the two
exhaust inlets. With the responses of the twelve
piezoelectric transducers processed real-time by an
algorithm developed early, a 12-stage stair waveform
was generated to indicate the detected amounts with the
number of stages. Simultaneously, a method to inspect
escape of cooking fumes was carried out to assist
determining the exhaust flows for different numbers of
stages appearing in the stair waveform.
The implemented range hood system can adapt its
exhaust flow propositional to the detected amounts of
cooking fumes. Besides, it can become a convenient
ventilation instrument to cooks because of the
self-contained operation. More experiments with the
range hood system are still in progress, in order to
study its power consumption and noise generation
under a variety of cooking conditions.
1. Introduction
To 2- or 3-speed manual kitchen range hoods,
excessive exhaust velocities were often observed. The
main problems with these systems are the waste of
electric power and the disturbance of the noise level
during low-load cooking [1], [2]. A self-contained
range hood system with its exhaust flow following the
variation of the released cooking fumes will have less
excessive amounts in the exhaust velocities and thus
solve such problems mentioned above.
Here, a range hood system equipped with twelve
piezoelectric transducers was developed. With these
transducers and the signal processing algorithm
proposed in [3], [4], the amounts of cooking fumes can
be estimated more accurately and immediately than the
system presented in [5]. A method used to determine
the exhaust flows for the estimated results without
escape allowed is also presented. In this paper, the
translation from the responses of the piezoelectric
transducers to the adaptation of the exhaust flow used
in the range hood system will be described. The
advantages of the self-contained range hood system
will also be discussed.
2. System Implementation
Fig. 1 is the range hood system equipped with
twelve piezoelectric transducers (400ET180). These
transducers (S0~S11) were arranged orderly in two
circular arrays around the two exhaust inlets of the
range hood system, as shown in Fig. 2. The plume-like
cooking fumes were investigated with the outputs of the
transducers. After the outputs were processed with the
algorithm developed early [6], the presence or not of
the fumes detected by these transducers was
immediately figured out. More transducers detected the
presence of the fumes, more exhaust flow was
generated to remove them. The detailed operation to
remove the fumes is described as follows.
Fig. 1. A range hood system equipped with twelve
piezoelectric transducers. The anemometer (LCA 6000)
and the PC-based data logging system were used to
record the action-related data generated by the
microcontroller.
Fig. 2. The arrangement of the twelve piezoelectric
transducers mounted on the range hood system.
(c)
Fig. 5. The summation result of Fig. 4(b) around the (a)
beginning, (b) middle, and (c) end of the cooking
process.
D. Exhaust Operation
The smart system is designed to power on before
cooking and off after cooking. At the beginning, the
system is powered fully for a while and then stands by
at a grossly fixed or essential exhaust velocity (7.89
m/s). During cooking, the system might raise its
exhaust velocity from the essential level or other higher
levels with the release of cooking fumes. To determine
adequate exhaust velocities for different numbers of
“High”levels appearing in the summation waveform,
the exhaust fan was always speeded up from the
essential level to a temporary one before the adequate
exhaust velocity was found for a designate number of
“High”levels. To purposely generate different amounts
of cooking fumes for the control of the number of
“High”levels in the summation waveform, covered
boiling water was opened shortly but for different time.
This temporary exhaust velocity was modified after
experiments until its present value was enough to pass
the examination of escape, which will be described
below. Repeating the experiments for cases with other
numbers of “High”levels, the exhaust velocities were
finally determined as shown in Fig. 6. In this figure, the
normalized exhaust velocity is referred to the full speed
(12.55 m/s) of the centrifugal exhaust fan (Fig. 1). The
adapted exhaust velocity was carried out by driving the
fan with an inverter (VFD002S11A).
Fig. 6. The velocity of the exhaust flow for the released
amounts of cooking fumes which are represented with
different numbers of “High”levels in the 12-stage
summation waveform.
E. Exhaust Flow Generation
When the summation waveform as shown in Fig. 5
was used to adapt the exhaust velocity according to
their relationship depicted in Fig. 6, an exhaust flow
was generated corresponding to the variation of the
summation waveform. Fig. 7 shows its normalized
exhaust velocity at the exhaust outlet (10 23 cm2) of
the range hood system. It was recorded with the
anemometer (LCA 6000) and the PC-based data
logging system (Fig. 1) synchronized with the system
clock of the microcontroller (PIC16C73A). Of course,
the escape was controlled and all the fumes were
captured when the interference from the operation of
the hands and other airflows generated in the room was
avoided.
3. Inspection of Escape
When the exhaust flow does not catch up with the
generation of the cooking fumes, escape happens. To
measure the escape of the cooking fumes during the
operation of the range hood system, a confined space
can be constructed [8] with some equipment [9], [10] to
sample the fumes escaping from the hood and
spreading into the rest of the room. With more
measurements for other factors, the capture efficiency
of the range hood system can be further estimated with
the equations proposed in [11]. In this study, another
approach was used to observe whether fumes escape or
not. Two meshes used to grill food enclosed the left and
right sides of the range hood system to trap the fumes
escaping through these two sides, which has been
shown in Fig. 3. No mesh set at the front side is to
leave the cook enough operation space. The meshes
almost did not interfere with the movement of the
fumes, only few particles of them were held up by the
threads of the meshes. Therefore, this observation is
quite close to the real cooking conditions. As these
meshes with particles stuck on them were dipped in
water, some apparent floating oil spots could be
observed on the surface of the water. In addition, the
positions of the oil spots on the meshes helped to figure
out the escaping paths and possible causes. However, if
no fumes escape, nothing can be found on the meshes.
Consequently, clean meshes were used and checked
after each cooking experiment to determine whether
fumes escape or not during the operation of the range
hood system.
(a)
