 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
金屬奈米結構的表面電漿子共振對自發輻射光加強之研究 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-182-021 
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：廖駿偉  長庚大學機械系 
共同主持人：蔡曉雯  長庚大學生化與生醫工程研究所 
計畫參與人員：陳冠伶、吳柏蒼  長庚大學機械系  
 
The enhancement of spontaneous emission by the surface plasmon 
resonance of metallic nanostructures 
 
J.-W. Liaw1, K.-L. Chen1, P.-T. Wu1, and S.-W. Tsai2 
1 Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chang Gung University 
2Institute of Biochemical and Biomedical Engineering, Chang Gung University 
 
中文摘要 
本研究探討金屬奈米結構，在入射光照射下，
所產生的表面電漿子共振，對於附近的分子的螢光
放射或是量子點的光致發光究竟為加強作用或是
退火作用。 
數值模擬方面：發展以表面積分方程式與 MMP
為理論基礎，以求解 Maxwell 方程式，研究三維多
顆金屬奈米散射體的近域與遠場光學特性，特定是
針對具有表面電漿子共振(SPR)藕合效應的奈米結
構做分析研究，例如球形雙子(dimer)結構。如果
分子置於間隙(gap)處，當受到入射光照射時，由
於這些結構的間隙模態會提供極強的電場強度以
激發分子。一旦分子變成受激態而產生自發輻射
(spontaneous emission)，又會因這些結構的高視量
子效率，而易對外輻射螢光。藉由分析這些金屬奈
米結構間隙處的電場放大率K及它們造成電偶極子
輻射的視量子效率，以研究 SPR 對於特定分子螢光
是加強或是退火作用。此外並分析單一核殼金屬奈
米粒子的電場放大率與視量子效率。 
實驗方面：以單光子(one photon)及雙光子
(two photons)雷射激發，研究金、銀球形奈米粒子
因 SPR 對光的散射與吸收。並製作核殼金屬奈米粒
子，在金、銀球形奈米粒子外面包覆一層內含染料
分子的氧化矽，以研究金、銀奈米粒子對極靠近的
特定染料分子螢光的增強或退火作用。並且利用電
化學法所製作不同細長比(aspect ratio)的金奈米
桿，藉由不同細長比，可以調整表面電漿子共振的
頻率範圍。將金、銀奈米粒子或奈米桿，餵食於人
類乳腺癌細胞，在雷射掃瞄共軛焦顯微鏡下，以單
光子及雙光子雷射激發，研究金、銀奈米粒子對細
胞影像的應用。 
 
關鍵詞：表面電漿子共振、自發輻射、分子螢光、
雙子、核殼奈米粒子、電場放大率、視量子效率、
細胞影像 
  
Abstract 
  The overall effect of a gold dimer (a pair of nearby 
nanoparticles) on the spontaneous emission (e.g. 
fluorescence) of a single molecule, which is placed 
within the gap of the dimer, is studied to identify 
whether the dimer functions as the enhancement or 
quenching for the emission. Our research consists of 
two parts; one is the numerical simulation, and the 
other the experiment.  
For the numerical simulation, boundary element 
method and multiple multi-pole (MMP) method are 
used to study the 3D near and far fields of light 
interacting with a metallic nanostructure. The process 
of fluorescence is simply divided into two stages, the 
excitation and the emission. For the excitation stage, a 
model of an incident plane wave illuminating a gold 
dimer to excite the molecule, which is placed within 
the gap of the dimer, is simulated. For the emission 
stage, another model of an electric dipole interacting 
with the dimer is used to simulate the emission of the 
excited molecule under the influence of the nearby 
gold dimer. We found that a stronger local electric 
field is induced within the gap of the gold dimer for 
exciting the molecule, compared to a gold 
nanoparticle. In addition, the quantum yield of the 
gold dimer is higher than that of a single gold 
nanoparticle, so it is an efficient nanoantenna for the 
emission of the dipole. Summarily, a gold dimer can 
provide a higher enhancement of the fluorescence of a 
single molecule than a single gold nanopartilce.  
For the experiment, using one-photon or 
two-photon excitation, the interactions of Au and Ag 
nanoparticles with light are investigated to identify 
 4
nanoparticle, when the gap becomes smaller. The 
corresponding quantum yields versus wavelength for 
different d (9 nm, 10 nm, 14 nm) are shown in Fig. 3. 
These curves show that the smaller the gap, the less 
the quantum yield is. Figure 3 indicates that there is a 
cut-off wavelength for the radiation of the dipole at 
500 nm. This is to say that a gold dimer behaves as a 
low-pass filter for the fluorescence emission; only the 
photons of wavelength longer than the cut-off one are 
allowed to radiate to the far field for observation, and 
the others of short wavelength are dissipated in the 
gold dimer to become heat. Therefore the overall 
effect of a dimer on a single molecular fluorescence 
should compromise with the quantum yield; i.e. there 
is an optimal gap for obtaining the maximum 
fluorescence enhancement factor, the product of the 
excitation rate and the quantum yield, as shown in Fig. 
4. Furthermore, the overall effect of the fluorescence 
enhancement of gold dimer on a specific dye molecule 
is discussed, where the excitation wavelength is 532 
nm and the emission wavelength is 560 nm. The 
results are depicted in Fig. 5 for different radii and 
gaps.  For example, there is an optimal gap d=10 nm 
for r= 40 nm to obtain a maximum fluorescence 
enhancement.  
 
4. Experimental Methods 
 
For our experiments [5], the electrochemical 
method is used to synthesize GNRs. The size and 
aspect ratio of GNR is controllable by tuning the 
process of electrochemical method. For the following 
experiments, GNRs of a typical size of 30 nm × 14 nm 
are synthesized, with an aspect ratio of 2.14. Using the 
UV-vis-NIR spectrophotometer (Perkin Elmer 
Lambda 900), the absorption spectrum of an aqueous 
solution containing the dispersed GNRs is measured. 
The absorption spectrum of GNR of aspect ratio 2.14 
is from 400 nm to 700 nm, where the maximum SPR 
is at 600 nm, as depicted in Fig. 6. Except the 
longitudinal mode of SPR of GNR at 600 nm, there is 
a transverse mode of SPR of GNR at 520 nm, which is 
also the SPR peak of spherical gold nanoparticle.   
The cells (MDA-MB-435S) are incubated with a 
high-glucose medium containing GNRs of a specific 
optical density (OD). After certain coculture time for 
the incubation with GNRs, sample is washed out the 
incubation medium, and RNase-solution is added to 
the sample for 20 min to remove the cytoplasmic 
RNA. After that, these cells are stained by PI; i.e. PI 
binds with the nuclear RNA.  
 
5. Experimental Results & Discussion 
 
A sample of MDA-MB-435S [6-9]cells incubated 
with a medium containing GNRs (OD=1.1 at λ=600 
nm) for 24 hours was prepared for TEM imaging, as 
shown in Fig. 7. The TEM image shows that these 
GNRs are aggregated in the vesicles of the cytoplasm, 
rather than attached on the membrane only, as shown 
in Fig. 7(b). The aggregation of GNRs is caused by 
the uptake of cells through the endocytosis process. 
However, so far, we did not observe any GNR in the 
nuclei of these cells.  
A sample of MDA-MB-435S cells incubated with a 
medium containing GNRs (OD=1.1 at λ=600 nm) for 
20 hours was also prepared for LSCM imaging. To 
assure that no autofluorescence of cells is induced to 
contaminate the signals, two control groups are tested 
in advance by using the same conditions of Table I; 
one is MDA-MB-435S cell without treatments of PI 
and GNR, and the other is MD-MBA-435S cell 
stained by PI. For the first control group, there is 
almost no signal detected, and for the second one, 
only the fluorescence of PI is observed from the 
nuclei.  
  Changing the focal plane of LSCM, the 
optical-section images at different depths are obtained. 
The compound images of DPSS laser of 561nm at 
different depths, from the bottom (0μm), middle 
(1.5μm), to top (3μm) of cells, are shown in Fig. 8(a), 
8(b), and 8(c), respectively. Each compound image is 
visualized by the pseudo-colors according to the 
ranges of filter-I and filter-II. Fig. 8(d) is the 
three-dimensional projection by merging Fig. 8(a), 
8(b), and 8(c). In these images, the red area is the 
expression of PI from the nucleus, and the green 
lightspots are the expressions of GNRs in the 
cytoplasm. Each lightspot results from the scattered 
light caused by a cluster of GNRs in a vesicle. 
Moreover, these optical-section images indicate that 
GNRs are uniformly distributed in the cytoplasm.  
  Further, the two-photon images of MDA-MB-435S 
cells internalizing GNRs are also acquired by using a 
LSCM system (TCS SP5, Leica) with a femtosecond 
ultra-fast Ti: Sapphire IR-laser (λ=800 nm). Two 
bandpass filters are set for the data acquisition; filter-I 
is 500-550 nm, and filter-II 600-800 nm. In this 
system, there is a tunable grating for light diffraction. 
Since the duration time of the irradiating light is very 
short, like a broad-band signal, it can induce a 
broad-band photoluminescence of GNRs from 400 nm 
to 800 nm. However, it can only induce the emission 
spectrum of the PI, which covers 585 nm to 720 nm. 
Therefore, if the collected light is filtered by filter-I 
(500-550 nm) for imaging, only part of the 
photoluminescence of GNRs is allowed to exhibit 
without the mixing of the fluorescence of PI, as 
shown in Fig. 9(a). Because these GNRs are 
internalized by cells, the expression of the 
photoluminescence of GNRs (the green lightspots) is 
observed only in the cytoplasm, but not in the nuclei, 
as shown in Fig. 9(a). On the other hand, if the signal 
is filtered by filter-II (600-800 nm), not only the 
fluorescence of PI but also part of the 
photoluminescence of GNRs is exhibited, so that the 
whole cell is expressed by red color, as shown in Fig. 
9(b). 
 
6. Conclusion 
 400 500 600 700 800 900
wavelength(nm)
0
20
40
60
80
100
flu
or
es
ce
nc
e 
 e
nh
an
ce
m
en
t
Au
d=14nm
d=10nm
d=9nm
 
Fig. 4. The fluorescence enhancement factors versus 
wavelength for different d (9 nm, 10 nm, 14 nm), where the 
radius of gold dimer is 40 nm. 
 
 
 6
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Fluorescence enhancements of gold dimers of 
different radius (20, 30, 40, 50 nm) versus gap, when the 
excitation wavelength is 532 nm and the emission 
wavelength 560 nm.  
(a) 
(b) 
 
Fig. 7. Transmission electron microscope images of 
MDA-MB-435S cell treated with GNR for 24 hours. (a) 
Internalization of GNRs by MDA-MB-435S cell (x30000), 
where the scale bar is 500 nm. (b) A higher magnification 
(x150000) image of (a) at the marked location of vesicles, 
where the scale bar is 100 nm. The images show these 
GNRs are aggregated within cellular vesicles. 
nucleus
cytoplasm 
vesicle 
 
  
 
 
 
Fig. 6.  The absorption spectrum of dispersed GNRs. 
 8
Fig. 10. The core-shelled dimer structure, where shell is 
SiO2 and core is Ag.  
 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
 
Fig. 11. The configurations of SPW propagating along (a) 
a convex and (b) a concave metal-dielectric interfaces 
with radius of curvature a. 
 (a) 
 
(b) 
 
Fig. 12. The curves of (a) the relative wavenumber α vs. 
frequency, and (b) the relative attenuation constant β vs. 
frequency of SPW at Ag-air interface of different radii a 
(200, 400, 1000 nm), where the solid points: convex, and 
the void points: concave. 
meta
a 
dielectr
x
y 
1
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
meta
a 
y 
2 
x
dielectr
1
國際會議之出國報告 
報告人 廖駿偉 服務機構
職稱 
長庚大學工學院機械系助理教
授 
會議期間 2007 年 12 月 3 日
至 12 月 6 日 
會議地點 日本京都 
 
會議名稱 APCOM’07 (Third Asian-Pacific Congress on 
Computational Mechanics 2007) 
發表論文題目 
2D Simulation of the Interaction of a Dipole with a Metallic 
Nanostructure by New Surface Integral Equations 
著者 Jiunn-Woei Liaw 
Abstract 
To investigate the interactions of an electric dipole with a 2D metallic nanostructure 
for the transverse-magnetic (TM) mode, a set of new surface integral equations, 
based on the Stratton-Chu formulation, is used for analysis.  These surface integral 
equations are in terms of the surface components of the tangential magnetic field Hz, 
the normal displacement field Dn, as well as the tangential electric field Et, and they 
can be solved easily by boundary element method (BEM).  The numerical results 
show that although a dipole is a singularity which will induce a large field gradient 
in its proximity, these surface integral equations still can obtain an accurate result by 
increasing the mesh number adaptively for the cases with small distance between the 
dipole and the metallic nanostructure (e.g. less than 1nm).  Several metallic 
nanostructures of Au and Ag with different shapes, e.g. circle, ellipse and triangle, 
are studied to exhibit that the unique optical responses are sensitive to the distance 
and orientation of the dipole. 
Keywords: electric dipole, metallic nanostructure, surface plasmon resonance, 
transverse-magnetic mode, Stratton-Chu formulation, surface integral equations 
 
一、與會經過 
 
本人於 96 年 12 月 2 日搭機飛抵日本京都，次日至 12 月 6 日參加在京都北邊的
Kyoto International Conference Center 舉行的 APCOM’07 會議，該會議由主辦。
邀請國際知名學者演講，例如 Prof. Ayao Tsuge 等人報告日本的國家型研究計畫
的規劃與策略「Comprehensive Strategy for Creating Science & Technology Driven 
Innovation in Japan–Innovation and the Computational Science & Technology」，他
提出未來日本的國家型研究計畫應具有創新性 (innovative), 持續性(sustainable), 
聯結各種知識(bridging knowledge), 具有社會經濟價值(socio economic value)等
z Numerical site calibration for wind turbine 
z Scale bridging strategies in science and engineering 
z Inverse analysis in computational mechanics 
z Advanced numerical methods for computational electromagnetics 
z Computational mechanics for ferro- and piezoelectric materials 
z Computational impact mechanics 
z Lagrange multiplier formations 
 
  本人從許多的研究報告中得到許多的啟發，收獲良多。此次本人發表論文一
篇，題目 2D Simulation of the Interaction of a Dipole with a Metallic Nanostructure 
by New Surface Integral Equations。主要研究自發光的分子與金屬奈米結構
(nanostructure)交互作用的模擬計算，在這篇論文中，我們指出偶極子的輻射會
因金屬(例如 金或銀)表面的自由電子的整體運動，所產生表面電漿子共振
(surface plasmon resonance)而減少螢光的輻射量子效率(quantum yield)。進一步討
論如何利用金屬奈米結構(例如 橢圓雙子 elliptic dimer)的表面電漿子共振之藕
合效應可以造成透鏡效果，將入射光聚焦於兩顆金屬奈米粒子中間的間隙，使分
子得到更大的激發以放射螢光。又由於兩顆金屬奈米粒子的天線效應，使得螢光
的輻射量子效率增高，所以有機會對單一分子螢光做加強的功能，這對於分子的
結構與光學特性的了解與應用，未來將是極重要的課題，例如生化檢測及有機發
光元件之設計等。待會議結束後，於 96 年 12 月 6 日下午搭機離開日本回國。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
最近幾年對於利用各種方法，例如應用有限元素法(finite element method)、有
限差分法(finite difference method)與邊界元素法(boundary element method; BEM)
的計算法則於各種物理工程問題的分析計算已受到重視，並形成一門稱為 
“Computational Science” 的領域。本次會議大多數人的報告以計算法則的應用與
精度探討為主，其中有一兩個議題是討論 BEM 與電磁場計算特別吸引我。這次
我們以二維金屬奈米結構(nanometer structure)的表面電漿子共振(surface plasmon 
resonance)對分子的自發光影響研究參加口頭報告，與會許多人對我們所研究的
金屬奈米結構所顯示的光聚焦與高的輻射量子效率，皆表示興趣與好奇，頻頻詢
問相關資料。所以最大收獲是能與不同領域的國際知名學者一起討論數值計算的
最新進展，並分享我們應用 BEM 於金屬奈米結構與光交互作用的模擬計算分析
的最新發展與研究，他們對於長庚的研究團隊將 BEM 應用於一嶄新的光學領域
─奈米光學的研究，非常感興趣，特別是利用積分方程式求解古典電磁理論之邊
界值問題、以 BEM 計算近場光學、奈米光學、表面電漿子(plasmonic)的研究。
未來我們將繼續於三維金屬奈米結構的模擬計算的研究，並且結合實驗與理論計
算，開發跨領域(multi-discipline)的嶄新的研究範疇─生醫奈米光電
 
本人的 presentation (2007/12/5) 
 
 
Therefore, the physical model of a dipole interacting with a nanostructure is important to realize how the 
molecular fluorescence is enhanced or quenched by the nearby metallic nanostructure. For this purpose, 
the near-field distribution of the electric and magnetic fields along the metal/dielectric interface should 
be solved accurately first. Once the near-field distribution along the interface is obtained, an important 
parameter, the quantum yield [2,6,7], can be further calculated to present the efficiency of the radiation 
of the electric dipole toward the far field in the presence of the nearby metallic nanostructure for 
different frequencies.  
In this paper, we focus on how to use a set of new surface integral equations to simulate the interaction 
of an electric dipole with a metallic nanostructure. These new surface integral equations were derived 
from the Stratton-Chu formulation for a two-dimensional (2D) transverse-magnetic (TM) problem. The 
difficulty of numerical method is how to deal with the large gradient of the electric and magnetic fields 
in the proximity of the dipole, which can cause numerical error for the calculation of BEM. By using an 
adaptive meshing scheme for discretizing the boundary, an accurate result can be obtained even for the 
cases with a very small distance (e.g. 1nm) between the dipole and the structure. Two nanostructures are 
studied; one is an ellipse, and the other a dimer, as shown in Fig. 1(1) and 1(b). 
 
Surface Integral Equations for Simulation 
From the Stratton-Chu formulation, two sets of surface integral equations were derived, one for the 
interior medium and the other for the exterior medium. The interior medium can be in a multiple 
connected domain. The detailed derivation was given in [3,5]. For example, the domain of a dimer is a 
doubly connected domain Ω2 ∪Ω3 (interior) embedded in a host (Ω1), which is an infinite dielectric 
domain Ω1 (exterior), as shown in Fig. 1(b). The interface of the dimer with the host is a multiply 
connected boundary, S1=S12∪S13, and the boundary of medium 1 (host) is S1∪S∞.  The permittivity and 
permeability of medium j (j=1, 2, 3) are denoted by εj and μj, respectively, where εj and μj for media 2 
and 3 are the same for a metallic dimer (ε2=ε3, μ2=μ3). Since the tangential magnetic field Hz, the 
tangential electric field Et, and, the normal displacement Dn should satisfy the continuities at the interface 
of the interior and exterior media, the two sets can be combined to obtain a new set of surface integral 
equations, 
1
3
2
111
)( ,)i)(
1 1
SldGεGεEωldGGHHH
j S S
jjtjz
i
zz
j j
∈′−′+′−∇′⋅′′−= ∑ ∫ ∫
=
xxnxxx ])(()([)()(           (1) 
111
3
2
1111
)(
,
i
1
1 1
SldGGE
ldGGDdHGGωDD
j
j j
S
jjzt
j S S
jnzjjj
i
nn
∈′−∇′×⋅
−′−∇′⋅+′⋅−−=
∫
∑ ∫ ∫
=
xen
nlnxx
])(
)()([)()(
εε
μεμε
               (2) 
interface. In the following calculation, the host is air, and the metal is silver.  
1. A single silver ellipse  Consider a simple case of a single silver ellipse (a=20 nm, b=40 nm, d=1 nm) 
interacting with a dipole, as shown in Fig. 1(a). We use 300, 600 and 1200 elements for the 
even-distribution method, and 300 and 600 elements for the adaptive one. Here only the real and 
imaginary parts of the surface components by the adaptive meshing with 300 elements are shown, as 
depicted in Fig. 2. Our results show that the both methods have a converged result, as increasing the 
number of mesh. However the surface components of the adaptive meshing of 300 elements have the 
same accuracy with that of the even-distribution meshing of 1200 elements. Figure 2(c) shows the order 
of the magnitude of the maximum normal displacement field Dn at the lower tip of the silver ellipse is 
about 104, which is much larger than that at the upper tip (about 1). It means the large gradient of the 
normal displacement field along the interface is induced at the area chose to the dipole. However for the 
tangential electric and tangential magnetic fields, the maximum magnitudes are about 50 and 700, 
respectively, which are much less than the normal displacement.    
 
      
(a) 
 
                         (b) 
 (10-6) 
Fig. 3  The far-field radiation pattern of a dipole in the presence of a silver ellipse at 2.63eV, where 
a=20 nm, b=40 nm, d=1 nm, and ε2r=(-8.22866,0.2869).  
 
 
Fig. 4  The real and imaginary parts of the normal displacement field, Dn, along the contour of a silver 
dimer at 2.63eV, where a=20 nm, b=40 nm, d=1 nm, and ε2r=(-8.22866,0.2869).  
 
REFERENCES 
[1] H. Xu, E. J. Bjerneld, M. Kall, and L. Borjesson, Spectroscopy of single hemoglobin molecules by 
surface enhanced Raman scattering, Phys. Rev. Lett., 83, (1999), 4357-4360. 
[2] M. Thomas, J.-J. Greffet, R. Carminati, and J.R. Arias-Gonzalez, Single-molecule spontaneous 
emission close to absorbing nanostructures, Appl. Phys. Lett., 85, (2004), 3863-3865. 
[3] J.-W. Liaw, Simulation of Surface Plasmon Resonance of Metallic Nanoparticles by 
boundary-element method, J. Opt. Soc. Am. A, 23(1), (2006), 108-116.  
[4] J.-W. Liaw, Analysis of the surface plasmon resonance of a single core-shelled nanocomposite by 
surface integral equations, Eng. Anal. with Boundary Elements, 30(9), (2006), 734-745. 
