 1
A Dynamic Backoff Time Scheme with Considering 
Channel Condition for IEEE 802.11e EDCA 
 
Yuan-Cheng Lai and Che-Lin Wang 
Department of Information Management 
National Taiwan University of Science and Technology 
laiyc@cs.ntust.edu.tw  
Abstract. Many enhanced schemes of IEEE 802.11e have been proposed to 
meet the increasing demand for Quality of Service (QoS). Most of them adjust 
the parameters, such as Contention Window (CW), according to whether the 
transmission is successful or failed, but don’t consider the channel condition 
(bandwidth) at transmitting frames. In a wireless network, the channel condition 
is time-varying due to some factors such as station mobility, time-varying 
interference, and location-dependent errors. In this paper, we propose the 
Enhanced Distributed Channel Access with Link Adaptation (EDCA-LA) 
algorithm by adapting with the time-varying channel condition. Our idea is to 
set the smaller backoff time for a station which has a better channel to achieve 
higher overall performance. Simulation results show that EDCA-LA 
outperforms the standard EDCA in terms of throughput and average end-to-end 
delay. 
1  Introduction 
In recent years, the need for mobile communications increased rapidly, causing that 
Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN) gained strong popularity. However, the 
widespread use of emerging real-time multimedia applications over wireless networks 
made the QoS support be a key problem. Due to the importance of wireless QoS, 
IEEE 802.11e, an enhanced version of 802.11, has been proposed to provide the QoS 
extension in WLANs. 
The architecture of IEEE 802.11 standard includes the definitions of the MAC 
sublayer and physical layer [1]. The IEEE 802.11 MAC sublayer has two access 
mechanisms: Distributed Coordination Function (DCF) and Point Coordination 
Function (PCF). The DCF mode is defined as the contention mode and adopts Carrier 
Sense Multiple Access/Collision Avoidance (CSMA/CA) for medium access. The 
PCF is known as the contention free mode and uses a centrally controlled polling 
method to support synchronous data transmission. To support QoS in WLAN, the new 
standard IEEE 802.11e has been proposed [2]. IEEE 802.11e introduces a new MAC 
access method named Hybrid Coordination Function (HCF), which consists of two 
parts: Enhanced Distributed Channel Access (EDCA) and HCF Controlled Channel 
Access (HCCA). EDCA provides service differentiation among different traffic 
priorities and is backward compatible with legacy 802.11 DCF. EDCA QoS stations 
(QSTAs) support up to four queues for incoming traffic. Each queue is associated 
 3
gives their implicit reasons. Finally, our conclusions are given in Section 5. 
2  Background 
2.1 IEEE 802.11 MAC 
The main purpose of the 802.11 MAC layer is to provide reliable data services for 
higher layer protocols and to control fair access to the shared wireless medium. The 
basic medium access protocol is DCF that allows for fair medium sharing through the 
use of Carrier Sensing Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance (CSMA/CA). A 
station (STA) using DCF has to follow two medium access rules: One is that the STA 
shall be allowed to transmit the frames only if its carrier-sense mechanism determines 
that the medium has been idle for at least Distributed Interframe Space (DIFS) time; 
and the other is that the STA shall select a random backoff time, ranging between 0 
and CW, after sensing the busy medium or detecting an unsuccessful transmission. 
To provide reliable and high-performance data transmission, the 802.11 standard 
defines an optional mechanism, RTS/CTS. This mechanism can increase the 
sturdiness of the protocol and address the problem of “hidden node”. Under this 
mechanism, a STA sends a RTS frame to the destination before transmitting any MAC 
Service Data Unit (MSDU). After the Short Interframe Space (SIFS) waiting, the 
destination then responds with a CTS frame once it has successfully received a RTS. 
The source can then send the MSDU after receiving the expected CTS response. All 
frames, including RTS and CTS frames, contain duration information about the length 
of the MSDU/ACK transmission. All ambient STAs will update an internal timer 
called Network Allocation Vector (NAV) according to the duration information and 
defer any transmission until the timer runs out. Even if a hidden STA cannot hear the 
RTS from the source STA, it will be able to receive the CTS response from the 
destination STA and update its NAV correspondingly. This mechanism protects 
transmission between STAs against unexpected transmissions from hidden STAs.  
2.2 IEEE 802.11e MAC 
The IEEE 802.11e MAC is an emerging standard to support QoS. This standard 
introduces HCF, which combines functions from DCF and PCF with enhanced 
QoS-specific mechanisms and frame types. HCF has two modes of operation: EDCA 
and HCCA. HCF allocates QSTAs the right to transmit through Transmission 
Opportunity (TXOP), which defines the start time and the maximum duration during 
which a QSTA can transmit a series of frames. TXOPs are allocated via contention 
(EDCA-TXOP) or granted through HCCA (polled-TXOP). 
EDCA provides four Access Categories (ACs), where each AC represents a specific 
QoS provision, as shown in Fig. 1. Each AC within a QSTA contends for accessing 
the medium and independently starts its backoff after sensing the medium idle for at 
least AIFS period in deferral. Differentiated ACs are achieved by differentiating the 
following three key parameters. 
 5
where Random(CW) is pseudorandom integer drawn from an uniform distribution 
over the interval [0, CW]. CW is an integer within the range of values CWmin and 
CWmax (i.e., min maxCW CW CW≤ ≤ ). The initial CW is set as CWmin. This value is 
multiplied by a factor (usually double) after each failed transmission and is reset as 
CWmin after any successful transmission. In 802.11e, each AC is assigned a specific 
[ ]iCW AC (i.e., min [ ]iCW AC  and max[ ]iCW AC ) to provide QoS differentiation. A 
smaller CW is assigned to a higher-priority AC to favor this AC. 
Thus EDCA employs [ ]iAIFS AC  and [ ]iCW AC ( 0,..,3)i =  instead of DIFS and 
CW, respectively. If one AC has smaller [ ]iAIFS AC  and [ ]iCW AC , the AC’s 
traffic has a better chance to access the wireless medium earlier. 
When a collision occurs among different ACs within the same QSTA, the higher 
priority AC is granted the opportunity for physical transmission, while the lower 
priority AC suffers from a virtual collision, which is similar to a real collision outside 
the QSTA [11]. 
3  EDCA-LA Algorithm 
Although EDCA provides a priority scheme by differentiating TXOP limit, AIFS, 
and CW, the high priority traffic with low transmission rate (poor channel condition) 
leads long transmission time and decreases overall performance. Recently, many rate 
adaptation schemes have been proposed to utilize the multi-rate capability offered by 
the IEEE 802.11 wireless MAC protocol through automatically adjusting the 
transmission rate to best match the channel condition. The 802.11 physical layers 
provide multiple data transmission rates by employing different modulation and 
channel coding schemes. As shown in [12], the transmission rate should be chosen in 
an adaptive manner since the wireless channel condition varies over time due to such 
factors as station mobility, time-varying interference, and location-dependent errors. 
IEEE 802.11b PHY provides four PHY modes with data transmission rates 
1/2/5.5/11Mbps. 
In order to take the channel condition into account, we design an adaptive EDCA 
with Link Adaptation (EDCA-LA) scheme. In EDCA-LA, the QSTAs can adaptively 
adjust the backoff time based on the measured channel conditions. Our idea is to 
combine EDCA with adaptive PHY mode selection, so that the proper PHY rate as 
well as the better channel can be more easily adopted to achieve higher network 
performance. 
In EDCA-LA, every AC adjusts its backoff time according to the measured 
transmission rate jcurrTR  at the jth update. The value of 
j
currTR  is obtained from the 
current PHY rate. To avoid the effect from rapid fluctuation of channel condition, an 
estimator of Exponentially Weighted Moving Average is used to smoothen the 
measured channel condition. Let javgTR  be the average transmission rate at the jth 
update, and it is computed according to the following iterative relationship:           
1 (1 )j j javg avg currTR TR TRα α−= × + − × , 
where α  is the smoothing factor and determines the weight of history in the 
 7
4.1 Simulation environment 
In our simulation, the wireless topology consists of several QSTAs and a QAP. 
The QAP is the server as a direct destination for the flows from QSTAs. All QSTAs 
are located such that every QSTA is able to detect the transmission from any other 
QSTA. The number of QSTAs is varied from 1 to 15 to simulate the increase of 
network load. 
For simplicity and without loss of generality, we assume that there are three active 
ACs in each QSTA, one is AC3 with highest priority traffic, and the others are AC2 
and AC0 with lower priority traffic. We use 802.11b PHY, that is, four data 
transmission rates: 1/2/5.5/11Mbps. The simulation is run for 100 seconds for all 
cases. All QSTAs continually transmit frames to the QAP until the simulation is 
stopped. The values of parameters used in our simulation are listed in Table 1. The 
chosen traffic characteristics are shown in Table 2. 
Table 1. Simulation parameters 
SIFS 20μs CWmin[AC3] 7 
SlotTime 20μs CWmax[AC3] 15 
Number of QSTAs 1~15 CWmin[AC2] 15 
AIFS[AC3] SIFS + 1× SlotTime CWmax[AC2] 31 
AIFS[AC2] SIFS + 1× SlotTime CWmin[AC0] 31 
AIFS[AC0] SIFS +2× SlotTime CWmax[AC0] 1023 
 
Table 2. Type of traffic 
Traffic type Frame size Interval 
AC3 100 bytes 20 ms 
AC2 250 bytes  40 ms 
AC0  500 bytes  80 ms 
4.2 Simulation results 
Figure 4 shows the throughput occupied by AC3, AC2 and AC0 for EDCA and 
EDCA-LA. Three points are easily observed. First, EDCA and EDCA-LA mechanism 
actually provide an effective way of throughput differentiation because of different 
AIFS and CW settings. When the number of QSTAs exceeds five, the lowest-priority 
traffic AC0 begins suffering from starvation because some bandwidth is grabbed by 
higher-priority traffic AC3 and AC2. The similar situation happens between AC3 and 
AC2 when the number of QSTAs grows up to eight. Second, as the number of QSTAs 
increases, the overall throughput first increase before the saturation (the number of 
QSTAs is about five), and then slightly decrease. The throughput drop causes from 
that more stations will generate more serious contention at accessing the wireless 
medium. Finally, the most important observation is that EDCA-LA has much more 
overall throughput than EDCA, observing from EDCA-LA Total>>EDCA Total. This 
 9
Figure 5 shows the average end-to-end delay of AC3, AC2 and AC0 for EDCA 
and EDCA-LA. The frame’s end-to-end delay means the duration between it enters 
the AC queue and the original QSTA gets the corresponding ACK. Three points are 
also observed from this figure. First, EDCA and EDCA-LA mechanism actually 
provide an effective way to achieve end-to-end delay differentiation. The high-priority 
traffic AC3 always has much shorter delay than the lower-priority traffic AC2 and 
AC0 because the different AIFS and CW settings. The lower-priority traffic AC0 and 
AC2 begins suffering from starvation when the numbers of QSTAs are larger than 
five and eight, respectively. The starvation causes the rapid increase of the average 
delay of AC0 and AC2. Second, the delay of all ACs increases as the number of 
QSTAs increases. This is because the more stations there are, the more collisions 
there are, leading to a longer backoff time for each AC and then the increase in the 
average end-to-end delay of all ACs. Finally, the most important observation is that 
EDCA-LA has shorter delay than EDCA regardless of what AC. For AC2 and AC0, 
EDCA is saturated when the numbers of QSTAs are five and eight, which are smaller 
than the saturation values, six and ten, in EDCA-LA, respectively. This phenomenon 
causes that the end-to-end delay of EDCA also boost earlier than EDCA-LA. For AC3, 
the EDCA-LA has the shorter end-to-end delay than EDCA because the former uses 
the higher-bandwidth link to transmit its frames and obtains shorter transmission time, 
although they achieve the similar throughput.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6. The throughput in seven stations as the traffic load of each station increases from 0 
Kbps to 280 Kbps 
 
Figure 6 shows the throughput in seven stations as the traffic load of each station 
increases. We adjust the interarrival time of AC traffic to control the traffic load. 
When traffic load increases, the throughput of the lower priority traffic, AC2 and AC0, 
decreases. The highest priority traffic AC3 grabs their bandwidth if the traffic load 
exceeds 175Kbps. The total throughput of EDCA-LA has much more throughput than 
EDCA. Actually, figure 6 has the similar tread with figure 4, and the same reasons can 
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
0 35 70 105 140 175 210 245 280Traffic load of each QSTA (Kbps)
Th
ro
ug
hp
ut
 (K
bp
s)
EDCA-LA AC3
EDCA-LA AC2
EDCA-LA AC0
EDCA AC3
EDCA AC2
EDCA AC0
EDCA-LA Total
EDCA Total
