 I 
 
 
 
 
Table of Content 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Chinese    ……………………………………………………………  II 
 
English    ……………………………………………………………  III 
 
Effects of Hip flexion/extension coupling ratio on gait   …………………… 1-6 
 
Design of an Orthotic Joint for Paraplegic Patients      …………………… 7-12
 III 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Ambulation would bring many physiological and psychological benefits and getting up and 
walking has been a dream for paraplegia patients. The reciprocating walking for paraplegics 
particularly draws research attentions because it mimics human walking. Many reciprocating 
orthotic options for paraplegia are available but only to provide limited walking functions with 
great energy consumption. The high energy consumption and low speeds have been the reasons 
for the frequent abandonment or the low utilization of the RGO. To improve the design reducing 
the energy expenditure, it requires biomechanical analysis of the pathological gait such that the 
gait deviations and energy consuming mechanisms can be identified and remedial means can be 
implemented. 
It remains unclear as to what biomechanical roles the gait determinants play in conserving 
the mechanical energy although they have been studied in reducing the vertical excursion of body 
center of mass. A research tool needs to be developed to explore the possible mechanisms for 
energy saving such that the energy expenditure in gait can be reduced. In addition, orthopedic 
research had implied that coordination of the knee and the hip had higher priority than the ankle 
and human coordinating knee and hip movements could negotiate fairly well even with ankle 
disturbance in walking to maintain energy consumption and speeds. The research tool would also 
allow a study on the effectiveness of the knee and hip coordination on the reduction of energy 
expenditure during ambulation in paraplegia patients with reciprocating gait orthoses. 
The proposal was a three-year internationally collaborative study but was asked to be 
revised as a form of a two year project without international collaboration support.  We continue 
the previous effort and attempted to recruit paraplegic subjects and acquire pathological gait data 
so that the computer simulation can be performed to analyze the knee and hip coordination on the 
reduction of energy expenditure and improve the walking speed.  The subject recruitment was 
carried out through physicians’ office and paraplegic supporting groups but had not recruited any 
qualified one for the experiment.  This project has focused on the effects of hip 
flexion/extension coupling ratio on gait and the new design of a orthotic joint and the gait 
simulation of normal subjects. 
 
Keywords: paraplegic; reciprocating gait orthosis, hip flexion/extension coupling ratio, orthotic 
hip joint 
 2 
 
found readily, i.e., - b/m.  The slope m is the HFER during the reciprocating hip movement.  
The x-intercept is the instantaneous hip flexion angle of the stance leg performing extension 
during mid-stance when the swing leg reaches the hip neutral position. 
 
Results 
From the spatial-temporal gait parameters (Table 1), the speeds, the step length and the 
cadence of the free joint gait are significantly higher than those of the fixed joint gait.  Within 
the free joint gait and fixed joint gait, the stance phase and double stance in the gait percentage 
significantly decrease as the speed gets higher.      
The HFER is significantly higher in free motion gait in each of the three speed conditions 
than that in fixed knee and ankle gait (Figure 1). From the same figure, it was observed that the 
HFER has a trend to decrease as the speed gets faster in both two joint conditions.   
In fixed knee and ankle gait, the compensatory movement is inevitable so that the swing leg 
can maintain appropriate foot clearance.  The strategy to minimize the compensation is to keep 
the instantaneous hip flexion angle of the stance leg small when the hip of the swing leg flexes to 
its neutral position.  In turn, the x-intercept of the mathematical model is reduced and the HFER 
increases.   
 
Conclusions 
The HFER increases to minimize the inevitable compensatory movement in fixed knee and 
ankle gait.  It was observed that the walking speed increases and the HFER decreases, which 
might be due to the decreased double limb support. 
 
Figure 1  Comparison of HFER of subjects in free motion and in fixed knee and ankle 
conditions at three walking speed conditions 
  4 
  
References 
[1] 吳發軍,胡永善,吳毅. 脊髓損傷康復治療進展. 中國康復醫學雜誌. 2001, 6:378-379. 
[2] 廖哲安,歐陽並濤,唐丹. 下肢矯形器對脊髓損傷患者 ADL和行走能力的影響分析. 中國康復醫學
雜誌. 2004, 7:502-503. 
[3] Nene AV, Hermens Hj, Zilvold G. Paraplegic locomotion: a review. Spinal Cord.  1996, 34:507. 
[4] 邱卓英,馬洪卓,施紅梅. 脊髓損傷患者的心理特點及其康復策略. 中華物理醫學與康復雜誌. 2002, 
24(6):377-379. 
[5] Rose GK. The principles and practice of hip guidance articulations. Prosthetics & Orthotics International. 
1979, 3(1):37-43. 
[6] Beckman J. The Louisiana State University reciprocating gait orthosis.  Physiotherapy 1987, 73(8): 
386-392. 
[7] Douglas R, Larson PF, D'Ambrosia R, McCall RE. The LSU reciprocation gait orthosis. Orthopedics. 
1983, 6(7): 834–839. 
[8] Bernardi M, Canale I, Castellano V, Di Filippo L, Felici F, Marchetti M. The efficiency of walking of 
paraplegic patients using a reciprocating gait orthosis. Paraplegia 1995, 33(7):409-15. 
[9] Massucci M, Brunetti G, Piperno R, Betti L, Franceschini M. Walking with the advanced reciprocating 
gait orthosis (ARGO) in thoracic paraplegic patients: energy expenditure and cardiorespiratory 
performance. Spinal Cord.  1998, 36(4):223-7. 
[10] Beillot J, Carre F, Le Claire G, Thoumie P, Perruoin-Verbe B, Cormerais et al. Energy consumption of 
paraplegic locomotion using reciprocating gait orthosis. European Journal of Applied Physiology & 
Occupational Physiology.  1996, 73(3-4):376-81. 
[11] Katz DE, Haideri N, Song K, Wyrick P. Comparative study of conventional hip-knee-ankle-foot orthoses 
versus reciprocating-gait orthoses for children with high-level paraparesis. Journal of Pediatric 
Orthopedics. 1997, 17(3):377-86. 
[12] Harvey LA, Davis GM, Smith MB, Engel S. Energy expenditure during gait using the walkabout and 
isocentric reciprocal gait orthoses in persons with paraplegia. Archives of Physical Medicine & 
  6 
during paraplegic gait. In: Proceedings of 11th ISEK Congress, Enschede, The Netherlands, 
1996:211-212. 
[24] STALLARD J, MAJOR RE. The case for lateral stiffness in walking orthoses for paraplegic patients. J 
Eng Med 1993, 207:1-6. 
[25] ROSE GK. The principles and practice of hip guidance articulations. Prosthet Orthot Int. 1979, 3:37-43. 
[26] IJZERMAN (b) MJ, BAARDMAN G, HOLWEG GGJ, HERMENS HJ, VELTINK PH, BOOM HBK, 
ZILVOLD G. The influence of frontal alignment in the advanced reciprocating gait orthosis on energy 
cost and crutch force requirements during paraplegic gait. Submitted to Basic and Applied Myology, 
1996. 
[27] To CS, Kobetic R, Triolo RJ. Hybrid orthosis system with a variable hip coupling mechanism Conf Proc 
IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2006, 1:2928-31. 
[28] Wu G, Siegler S, Allard P, Kirtley C, Leardini A, Rosenbaum D et al. ISB recommendation on 
definitions of joint coordinate system of various joints for the reporting of human joint motion--part I: 
ankle, hip, and spine. International Society of Biomechanics. Journal of Biomechanics. 2002, 
35(4):543-8. 
[29] Herr, H. and M. Popovic.  Angular momentum in human walking.  J Exp Biol. 2008, 211(Pt 
4):467-481. 
[30] Bruijn, S. M., O. G. Meijer, et al.  Coordination of leg swing, thorax rotations, and pelvis rotations 
during gait: the organisation of total body angular momentum.  Gait Posture. 2008, 27(3):455-462. 
[31] Wu G, van der Helm FC, Veeger HE, Makhsous M, Van Roy P, Anglin C et al. ISB recommendation on 
definitions of joint coordinate systems of various joints for the reporting of human joint motion--Part II: 
shoulder, elbow, wrist and hand. Journal of Biomechanics. 2005, 38(5):981-92. 
  8 
also designed to improve the joint movements and energy cost during gait cycle, but the design principles and 
their effectiveness of the mechanisms are not all clear now.  In this study, it was our intention to design a 
new orthotic mechanism with a systematic analytical method so that a patient wearing the new orthosis could 
perform a normal-like gait. 
 
Objective 
The objective of this proposal is to design a dynamic hip abduction orthosis for CP patients with 
scissoring gait or hip subluxation/dislocation secondary to excessive adductor activity.  The design process 
will include the development of a systematic biomechanical engineering method, a computer simulation and a 
fabrication of a prototype. It is hypothesized that the dynamic hip abduction orthosis would guide the 
anatomical hip joint of CP patients with abnormal excessive adductor tone to minimize the scissoring gait or 
to rectify the hip joint forces.   
This orthosis would apply for patients who suffered complete and incomplete spinal cord injury above 
the neurological level of L2 or CP diplegia. Basically, only one or two degrees of freedom were permitted to 
ensure the stability when comparing with normal hip joint. 
 
Methods 
The design methodology is derived from robotic kinematics.  The key point has been the kinematics of 
the end effector matches that of the anatomical thigh movement.  The position and orientation of the thigh 
treated as a rigid body can be obtained from normal subject using coordinate transformation.  The global 
coordinate system is fixed on the pelvis and the movement of a local coordinate system of the thigh can be 
found directly from a motion measurement system.  The hip orthosis is fixed on the pelvis and is tied with a 
cuff on the thigh.  The position and orientation of the cuff can be readily given because it presumably 
matches that of the thigh.  Therefore, the abduction/adduction movement trajectory of the orthotic hip joint 
can be identified provided the hip extension/flexion movements are prescribed.  
Our new design is based on a systematic biomechanical engineering method, which incorporates the 
anatomical requirements into the hip orthotic design.  Through computer simulation, the computer model 
will later be validated.  A prototype will then be fabricated and clinical trials will be carried out so that its 
proven clinical effectiveness will differentiate itself in this prominent hip orthosis market.  
 
Results 
 
The new orthotic hip joint complex is based on a wrap around pelvic girdle and composed of a pelvic 
girdle, a cam mechanism and a side bar with a thigh cuff that is acted as an end effector.  When wearing 
RGOs, the the anatomical hip flexes and the movements of thigh, abduction/adduction and internal/external 
rotation, are guided by the orthotic hip joint with a thigh cuff at the distal tip of a side bar.  The new hip joint , 
the abduction cam, is placed near the anatomical hip joint.   
The movements, the pelvic rotation and the contralateral foot clearance were simulated and the results 
are shown in Figures 1-3. 
  10 
 
Figure 2  The pelvic rotation (with respect to the ground) of a normal subject ( ), a subject with 
new hip joint (  ), and a subject with Otto Bock inclined axis hip joint ( ). 
 
 
 
 
 
  12 
Conclusion 
The new orthotic hip joint could guide well in flexion phase and generate appropriate abduction for 
patients, but the abduction does not show in extension phase which could be done by implementing a 
switching device.  When loading response during normal gait, a pelvic list will occur and hip abductor will 
fire to hold the body weight. Thus, in extension phase, as a view from the foot, if the cam mechanism had 
supplied abduction moments for the hip, it could have simulated abductor firing at the initial of the single 
stance. The energy consumption would be saved by the external hip abduction moment for paraplegia 
patients.  
The new hip joint although did not provide a thigh rotation for the hip, but when the other hip orthoses 
are compared with the abduction cam, during whole gait, the abduction could be much closer to the normal 
pelvic rotation movement than the other orthoses in stance leg. When the knee is locked during gait, the new 
joint still had a better performance in pelvic rotation. And when both the knee and the ankle are locked during 
gait, the pelvic rotation is much closer to normal as well. 
 
References 
[1] Ferguson KA, Polando G, Kobetic R, Triolo RJ, Marsolais EB. Walking with a hybrid orthosis system. 
Spinal Cord 1999;37(11):800-4. 
[2] Bertram G, John D. Hsu et al., 1997. ATLAS OF ORTHOSES AND ASSISTIVE DEVICES. St. Louis, 
Missouri: Mosby-Year Book,Inc. 
[3] Saunders JB, Inman VT, Eberhart HD. The major determinants in normal and pathological gait. Journal of 
Bone & Joint Surgery - American Volume 1953;35-A(3):543-58. 
[4] Della Croce U, Riley PO, Lelas JL, Kerrigan DC. A refined view of the determinants of gait. Gait & 
Posture 2001;14(2):79-84. 
[5] Kerrigan DC, Riley PO, Lelas JL, Della Croce U. Quantification of pelvic rotation as a determinant of gait. 
Archives of Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation 2001;82(2):217-20. 
[6] Genda E, Oota K, Suzuki Y, Koyama K, Kasahara T. A new walking orthosis for paraplegics: hip and 
ankle linkage system. Prosthetics & Orthotics International 2004;28(1):69-74. 
[7] Wu G, Siegler S, Allard P, Kirtley C, Leardini A, Rosenbaum D et al. ISB recommendation on definitions 
of joint coordinate system of various joints for the reporting of human joint motion--part I: ankle, hip, and 
spine. International Society of Biomechanics.[see comment]. Journal of Biomechanics 2002;35(4):543-8. 
[8] GOTTINGER HANDELSHAUS, Germany. http://www.gottinger.de/ 
[9] ORTHO-SYSTEM IN MOTION, Germany. http://ortho-systems-bewegt.de/ 
[10] Otto Bock, Germany. http://www.ottobock.com/ 
[11] ALLARD International, Sweden. http://www.allardint.com/products/swash1.htm 
 
  2 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
This project aimed to study the energy consumption factors for the human walking 
such that an effective reciprocating gait orthosis may be designed to improve the 
energy cost and speed as well. It is significantly important to academic 
contribution and clinical application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2 
的臨床服務與人才培育。主啊！我看到祢看顧卑微的，滿足他們的身體基本需要。 
第一天 keynote講座德籍教授Martin Riedmiller主講 machine learning， 應用神經網路與最佳化原理控
制機器，這類研究已有愈卅年的發展， 只是如何應用機器學習的理論回來再幫助人工肢體與器官的控
制，尚待努力也將成為未來研究人工肢體不可迴避的議題。 
參加退化性膝關節和中風患者之矯具學研討。報告者對受試者之受試前評估篩選都不夠仔細，缺乏肌
力的資訊；中風患者則缺痙攣和攣縮資訊。 
5/l1 Tuesday 
Keynote講座德籍骨科教授 Hans Henning Wetz 主講截肢與義肢學，含蓋了許多神經肌肉的處理， 截
肢手術明顯影響未來義肢的設計。若手術不正確，使殘肢敏感疼痛，義肢不論如何設計都不能滿足病
患。歐美資深骨科醫師照顧截肢患者，對義肢學原理都有相當的認識。反觀台灣的骨科醫師們，實在
須要加油了！求主感動台灣醫師，興起有使命感的真心以主的愛來照顧患者；特別在義肢學方面幫助
我們結合有使命感的工作者，組成合祢愛的心意的截肢患者照護團隊。台灣的醫療環境之所以如此，
是我們的罪，使從祢領受權柄的醫療人員和政府官員，不珍惜善用權柄。當我們不合祢愛我們的心意
時，愁苦就加增。我們求袮的憐憫，興起祢的兒女成就祢旨意。 
會場遇見久別 Ossur的 Scott與 Harvy。他們願意參與國科會建國 100的活動，以產品展示宣導義肢矯
具科技。 
上肢義肢的功能評估還停留在使用主觀職治量表。這是個十分有潛力的研究領域。 
5/l2 Wednesday 
看到捷運上雖沒有特別的博愛座，市民對需要座位的乘客總是自動讓座。台北市可以更有信心，將博
愛座廢除，使市民讓座乃出於真心的愛，而不是因博愛座的設置。上帝喜悅我們真心彼此相愛，我的
主必大大祝福這樣的社會！ 
感謝主，遇到熱情的 Ganter鞋的攤位招待 Stefan Yoon， 知道我在尋找合作夥伴， 介紹我見了 Herbert。
Herbert對德國鞋業十分了解，帶我見 Nora的 Peter和 IETEC的 Tanja。若是主的意思，期待主開路。 
髖離斷截肢義肢在這次研討會有一節，共有四篇文章。Otto Bock的Malte Bellmann、Hisashi Naito來
自 Osaka大學、Raggi來自義大利，每篇文章對髖關節 Alignment都與 Canadian 型沒大兩樣。更確信
健側驅動的優勢。感謝主。 
5/l3 Thursday 
與香港瑪麗醫院黃主任共進早餐，他問及台北房價。社會對房價存在矛盾心理，擁有者希望房價飛漲，
未擁有的因買不起而抱怨連連。前者是社會大眾認為有辦法的人，後者的抱怨對大衆而言等同於酸葡
萄之聲，是不會起作用的。真是如此嗎？真象如何？社會的發展要合乎上帝愛的心意，才能健康。上
帝賜土地給我們經營為要賜福給我們。房價高漲使很多人住不起，象徵社會生病了。我們當求主的憐
憫，思想如何生活在一個生病的社會中，仍然繼續愛主，將主的愛分享給活在黑暗痛苦中的同胞。感
謝主，如同保羅所說，我已得了祕訣，那就是主常在我裡面，我常在主裡面。哈利路亞！ 
在 Otto Bock  攤位遇見 Sanna， 德藉女業務在北京學了五個月華語， 她主動用華語打招呼， 也介紹
了一款動力機構轉換手動變成電動輪椅。令我想起約十五年前士文的論文設計手動輪椅之電動輔助機
構，當時在台灣推廣卻沒有成功。這麼多年後終於見到 OB將產品開發如此漂亮。其實，台灣很多健
康產業廠商自信薄弱，寧願抄襲模仿不敢大膽做前瞻性的產品開發，淪為世界市場的二三流廠商，十
分可惜。 
本來想在百貨公司買些禮品，卻發現除了餐廳外，所有店面都沒開。打聽路人，知道今天是德國父親
節，百貨公司不營業。在美國或台灣，愈是假期，生意愈好。不同的文化，值得更多了解與體會。 
5/l4 Friday 
 4 
會議光碟 
六、其他 
 
 
 
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：章良渭 計畫編號：97-2221-E-002-213-MY2 
計畫名稱：下肢癱瘓病患交替式步行矯具之系統分析設計及控制 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
