blood through a variety of filters (i.e., lung, kidneys, 
liver, and so on), the cavitation threshold in blood is 
higher than in water, and in tissue is even higher. 
Typical values of the threshold are: Water- 0.5 MPa; 
Blood- 2.5 MPa; and Tissue- 5.0 MPa [10]. 
High-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) is a 
non-invasive technique for heating tumors. The 
principle is based on the physical effect of 
ultrasound beam on tissues. Furthermore, a detailed 
description of the physical mechanism of HIFU can 
be found in the reference of Bailey et al. (2003) [2]. 
The main goal of HIFU is to maintain a temperature 
between 50 to 100 °C for a few seconds (typically < 
10 s), in order to cause tissue necrosis. Typically, 
focal peak intensity between 1000 to 10,000 W/cm2 
is used with pulse duration between 1 to 10 s and a 
frequency of 1 to 5 MHz [11][12]. 
However, according to the vascular 
characteristics of tumor is that the vascular supply 
and blood flow in tumors are markedly different 
from those in normal tissues. In general, the blood 
perfusion in tumors is poorer than that in the host’s 
normal organs or tissues. Furthermore, blood flow is 
distinctly higher in the tumor periphery than in the 
tumor center where often tumor tissue is necrosis 
due to insufficient nutriment. So in this study we 
propose a novel boundary heating strategy by using 
HIFU. 
 
三、結果與討論 
 
Solid tumors induce tumor angiogenesis, in 
other words, tumor neovascularization, with 
extensive and rapid growth. Thus, the heating tumor 
boundary with HIFU may offer an approach to 
destruction of solid tumors. The heating parameters 
in this study are shown in Table I.  
 
 
 
Table I Blood perfusion rates in core and shell 
domains used for simulation [13-15] 
 
 
And the geometry of the heating system is 
shown in Fig. 1. Figure 2 shows that the core and 
shell domains of tumors were used in the study. 
Figure 3 demonstrated that the maximum 
temperature within the tumor varies with the six 
different heating cases. 
 
Figure 1. Schematic diagram of the geometry of the 
heating system. Spherically curved piezoelectric 
transducer with diameter 10 cm and the radius of 
curvature 10 cm was used for simulation. The power 
of the HIFU transducer is 80 Watts and the heating 
time is 60 seconds. 
 
 
Figure 2. The two different domains (i.e., core and 
shell) of solid tumors are represented. The light blue 
circle area indicates the core domain. The green ring 
area denotes the shell domain. 
 
