to one region instead of many regions. To improve 
previous works, we propose a linear regression based 
delay-bounded multicast protocol for VANETs. The 
proposed protocol contains two schemes: the greedy 
and centralized schemes. In the greedy scheme, the 
delivered direction of the multicast message for each 
multicasting region is decided according to a greedy 
algorithm at the current intersection until the 
messages has reached the destination region. In the 
cen-tralized scheme, a branch and bound and pruning 
tech-niques is used to search for a minimum cost 
multicast tree. Simulation results have shown that 
the proposed multicasts protocol performs better than 
existed work in terms of total transmitted bytes. 
英文關鍵詞： Vehicular Networks, Broadcast, VANETs； multicast； 
delay-bounded； linear regression 
 
 2 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
車載隨意行動網路上使用網路編碼技術之位置服務研究 
計畫編號：NSC－100－2221－E－305－006－ 
執行期限：100年 8月 1日至 101年 8月 31日 
主 持 人：莊東穎 教授    共 同 主 持 人：陳裕賢 教授 
執行單位：國立台北大學資訊工程系 
計畫參與人員：劉美妙、李後愷、鄭若晨、胡貴仁、林姝余、柳鈞譯
中文摘要 
本篇論文提出了一個以監聽為基礎與中繼
站輔助並使用符元層網路編碼之媒體存取
控制協定在車載行動網路的環境上，藉由
使用專用短距離通訊的技術在車輛行動網
路之間互相傳遞封包交換資訊。此協定可
以根據高速公路的車流狀況來切換不同的
模式，當車輛數目過多時基地台無法負
荷，基地台會切換成單一跳躍中繼方式來
與網路環境中的車輛節點通訊，而當車輛
數目較少時，基地台會切換成雙跳躍中繼
方式的模式來延伸通訊範圍，此時也會利
用網路編碼的方式來降低傳送封包時所造
造成的碰撞問題，以及提高整體網路的傳
輸效率。符元層網路編碼比起以往的網路
編碼方式可以降低封包傳送錯誤的機率，
提高傳輸成功率以及增加傳輸量。本篇論
文也提出了分析模型來驗證所提出的協定
是否正確以及效能狀況如何。並且利用模
擬的方式來驗證與評估協定，比起以往在
車載行動網路環境上的網路編碼，我們提
出的媒體存取控制協定顯著的增加網路頻
寬使用效率以及改善了網路傳輸的成功
率。 
 
關鍵字： 車載行動網路、廣播、監聽、符
元層網路編碼、傳送錯誤率。 
 
 
 
Abstract 
This report proposes an overheard-based 
relay-assisted MAC protocols to the moving 
vehicles by utilizing the dedicated short range 
communication (DSRC) over vehicular 
networks. This protocol can adapt in two 
communications modes which are one-hop 
and two-hop environments according to the 
highway traffic situation. When the highway 
traffic load is heavy, this system works at 
one-hop mode, and when the traffic is low, the 
service base station turns on the 
overheard-based two-hop relay mode that can 
extend the coverage of data service areas. The 
symbol-level network coding schemes in the 
relay communications mode can improve the 
network efficiency, raise transmitting success 
probability and increase throughout. This 
preport also proposes the analytical models to 
analyze the performance of our protocols, and 
constructs the simulation experiments to 
validate and evaluate our proposed protocols. 
Compared with the traditional network coding 
protocol in vehicular networks, our proposed 
overheard-based relay-assisted MAC protocol 
can significantly increase the network 
efficiency and improve the network 
transmitting probability. 
Keywords: Vehicular Networks, Broadcast, 
Overheard, Symbol Level Network Coding, 
Error Probability。
 4 
tors is not considered in this report, this re-
port used different methods to limit scales 
between vehicles and road side units, and 
extended the scale to all of network envi-
ronments. 
The remainder of this report is organized 
as follows. In section 2, the related work is 
described. Section 3 is preliminary. Section 4 
describes overheard-based relay-assisted 
MAC protocol using symbol level network 
coding. Section 5 is the analysis for our 
scheme. The section 6 is the simulation result. 
Section 7 concludes this report. 
II. Related Work 
This section describes related works in 
subsection 2.1 and the motivation in subsec-
tion 2.2. 
2.1 Related Work 
R. Alshwede et al. [1] showed that network 
coding can achieve higher throughput than 
other routing protocols based on storing and 
forwarding packets and it can achieve the 
maxi-mum multicast rate. With network cod-
ing, the minimum-energy problem in sin-
gle-source multicasting scenario has been 
proved that it can be solved in polynomial 
time [2] and is achievable by using a single 
distribution tree [3]. P. Joon et al. [4] pro-
posed some implementations of network cod-
ing for single-source multicasting, and H. 
Shah Mansouri et al. [5][6] show sin-
gle-source broadcasting how it works. J. 
Widmer et al. [7] show the benefits that mul-
ti-source broadcasting brings. C. Fragouli et al. 
[8] proposed the practical protocols for 
all-to-all broadcasting. There has been a great 
deal of literature studying the usability of 
IEEE 802.11 medium access control (MAC) 
for providing Internet access services to mov-
ing vehicles on highways. J. Ott et al. [9] in-
vestigated the feasibility of the IEEE 802.11 
MAC based wireless local area network (LAN) 
in the drive-thru Internet. J. Eriksson et al. [10] 
studied the performance of the drive-thru In-
ternet services using the open-access IEEE 
802.11 based AP in the city of Boston. Su et al. 
[11] proposed a network-coding based relay 
MAC protocol in vehicular networks. A. 
Balasubramanian et al. [12] conducted ex-
periments to measure the connection quality 
available to vehicles with IEEE 802.11 radio 
interfaces in different cities. D. Hadaller et al. 
[13] experimentally demonstrated the associa-
tion issues in the current IEEE 802.11 proto-
col. R. Mahajan et al. [14] used the experi-
mental testbeds to study the connectivity 
characteristics between vehicles and RSUs in 
the urban environments. L. Xie et al. [15] 
studied the admission control problems in the 
overlapped multiple APs scenarios. Nandan et 
al. [16] studied cooperative downloading in 
VANETs. They proposed SPAWN, a 
pull-based, peer-to-peer content downloading 
protocol for VANETs that extends BitTorrent. 
Later, they proposed “AdTorrent” [17], which 
is a semi push-based peer-to-peer protocol for 
vehicles to download advertisements they are 
interested in. In both SPAWN and AdTorrent, 
the peer and content selection mechanisms 
have high overhead and are not scalable, es-
pecially when most of the vehicles are inter-
ested in downloading popular contents. Also, 
they suffer from the “coupon collector prob-
lem” which enlarges downloading delay. 
Moreover, they use TCP for content delivery, 
which performs poorly over multi-hop loss 
wireless links in highly mobile VANETs. R. 
Ahlswede et al. and T. Ho et al. [18] use net-
work coding to mix the packets by coding 
them together at every intermediate node and 
 6 
cess to transmit the data to RSU through relay 
vehicle  and receive data from RSU 
through relay vehicle . Our scenario is 
based on highway environments, and then the 
scenario is more stable and simpler than the 
urban environment, because the urban envi-
ronment has traffic lights, crossroads, one or 
two paths, and many motorcycles need to 
consider. In highway, the scenario is not to 
consider paths choosing, and the velocity is 
also more stable than urban areas because ve-
hicles in highway do not stop. 
Fig. 2 is our system model. Fig. 2 shows 
that there is a road side unit in the middle. The 
road side unit is connecting with Internet, if 
vehicles in vehicular network environments 
need to transmit data, and they have to con-
nect to road side unit then can send out the 
data to Internet. If vehicles are out of the road 
side unit communication range, they could not 
connect to Internet. There are three vehicles in 
highway roads, the vehicle  is in relay 
communication range, and vehicle  could 
not connect to Internet. If  want to transmit 
data to Internet, it need other vehicles help to 
send and receive data. The relay vehicle  
and overheard relay vehicle  are playing 
the roles which called “relay”, through these 
relays help, vehicle  could connect to In-
ternet. By relay vehicle  and overheard 
relay vehicle  help, road side unit also can 
extend the communication range to serve 
more vehicles, not only decrease the cost con-
structing the road side unit, but also increase 
communication ranges. The relay vehicle  
and overheard relay vehicle  could help 
other vehicles to transmit and receive data. On 
the other hand, they also could connect to road 
side unit to send their data, not only play relay 
roles. 
Through network coding, the transmitting 
mounts could totally decrease and increase 
vehicle transmitting rates. But network coding 
has some problems liking same coefficients, 
and little encoded packets could not decode 
the original packets. Our protocol proposed a 
method which called “overheard”. By over-
heard, the coefficient problem could be solved, 
and relay vehicle  and overheard relay ve-
hicle  also use “overheard” to solve the 
problem that encoded packets could not be 
decoding. 
3.2 Problem Formulation 
There are three problems in this environ-
ment. The first problem is that many network 
coding papers do not consider the error proba-
bility when transmitting data. In network cod-
ing environments, they focus on how to de-
code the encoded packets that assuming all of 
transmitting packets are success receiving. But 
Langberg et al. [20] and Minkyu Kim et al. 
[21] mention when transmitting the data by 
network coding, there is a error probability 
need to consider. Empirical tests show that the 
probability that coding is required for random 
link removals is about 0.68. Assume there are 
ten packets having to transmit, the destination 
can receives 3.2 packets, others is loss. This is 
an important issue in vehicular networks, so 
this report considers the error probability to 
close to the reality situation. There are many 
kinds of network coding methods, like linear 
network coding, opportunistic network coding, 
 
Fig. 2: System architecture. 
 
 8 
granularity of symbols. In contrast to packet 
level network coding (PLNC), SLNC gains 
from both symbol-level diversity and network 
coding. In addition, since more bit errors are 
tolerated than PLNC, SLNC can also gain 
higher throughput by encouraging more ag-
gressive concurrent transmissions. In general, 
SLNC works as follows [22]. A symbol is de-
fined as a group of consecutive bits in a pack-
et, which may correspond to multiple PHY 
symbols of a modulation scheme. Assume the 
source has  packets to send, each of them 
expressed as a vector with elements from a 
Galois field . The  symbol  in a 
coded packet at the source is a random linear 
combination of the  symbol in all  
source packets:  
             (1) 
where  is the  symbol (at  position) 
in the  original packet, coefficient  is 
randomly chosen from , and = ( , ..., ) 
is the coding vector of the coded packet, 
which is also the coding vector for each sym-
bol. Each receiver node  maintains a de-
coding matrix for every symbol position. A 
newly received coded symbol for position  
is called  to , if that symbol in-
creases the  of the decoding matrix of 
the  symbol position, referred to as 
. Each coded packet transmitted 
by a relay node consists of random linear 
combinations of buffered clean symbols. For a 
source, every symbol in a packet is clean and 
shares the same coding vector. However, at a 
relay node, coding vectors may be different 
across symbols. For a coded packet to be sent 
by relay , the  coded symbol is ex-
pressed as 
  (2)           
where  is the number of buffered clean 
symbols at position ,  is the  buffered 
clean symbol (row) at position  (column), 
and  is the coding vector 
for that symbol [23].  is the  symbol of 
the  source packet. From Eq. (2),  is 
still a random linear combination of source 
symbols, and its new coding vectors are 
. In the ex-
treme case, every symbol’s coding vector is 
different and needs to be sent along with a 
packet, which incurs high overhead. To mini-
mize this overhead, optimized run-length 
coding method can be adopted, where consec-
utive clean symbols are combined into a 
“run”. 
 
 
Fig. 3: Packet level NC vs. symbol 
level NC. 
 
 10 
coded packet which contained , then  
could recover the original packets. Hence, this 
report proposed a new way “overheard” to 
conquer the problem. Fig. 5 (b) shows that 
with overheard, overheard relay vehicle  
could receive the packets which containing  
from relay vehicle , so overheard relay ve-
hicle  could use relay vehicle  packets 
to fill the empty parts. Then overheard relay 
vehicle  re-combined the packets , , 
 and  to broadcast to vehicle  and 
. When  received the overheard 
relay vehicle  packets,  could re-
cover the original packets not to send a re-
quest. 
This overheard-based relay-assisted MAC 
protocol can adapt in vehicular networks. Our 
contribution is that the proposed protocol sig-
nificantly increases network efficient in 
transmitting packets, and decreases the error 
probability when transmitting situations. The 
MAC protocol with the network-coding based 
two-hop relay communications not only could 
extend the communication area for the moving 
vehicles but also enhance the network loading 
capability. When the traffic condition is low, 
the RSU can transfer the mode to two-hop re-
lay mode to enlarge the overlay areas seam-
less. When the traffic condition is high, the 
RSU transfers the mode to one-hop mode to 
decrease overload situations. Our proposed 
protocol could switch between two communi-
cations modes according to the highway traf-
fic conditions to fit the real conditions.  
 
IV. Overheard-Based Relay-Assisted 
MAC Protocol Using Symbol Level 
Network Coding 
We first give an overview of our over-
heard-based relay-assisted MAC protocol us-
ing symbol level network coding. 4.1 is the 
packet overheard phase. The overheard-based 
coefficient determination phase is 4.2. 4.3 is 
packet re-demand phase. Fig. 6 is the data 
format of our proposed scheme. The  
message has fields which include Frame Con-
trol, source ID, destination ID, Node velocity, 
Location, Relay stat, Code vector coefficients, 
original DATA, FCS. The  message has 
fields which include Frame Control, source ID, 
 
 
Fig. 6: Data format 
 
Table I: Notations 
 The car in the relay communication 
range 
 The car in the relay communication 
range 
 Road site unit 
 The relays which choose   in one 
hop communication range  
 The relays which choose   in one hop communication range 
 The coefficient which  choose to 
multiple  
 The coefficient which  choose to 
multiple  
 The ’s packets want to send to 
 
 
The ’s packets want to send to 
 
 The coded packets after  combine. 
 The coded packets after  combine. 
 
    
 
 
Fig. 7: Simple level NC procedure. 
 
 12 
ceives relay vehicle  packets, over-
heard relay vehicle  would detect the 
coefficients. If the coefficients are dif-
ferent, overheard relay vehicle  
broadcasts the new packet to vehicle  
and . If the coefficients are same, 
overheard relay vehicle  needs to 
choose another coefficients to 
re-combine two packets from vehicle  
and , and sends out the combined 
packets to them. 
3. Packet re-demand phase: If the vehi-
cle and could not decode the encoded 
packets, they request relay vehicle and 
overheard relay vehicle which part they 
loosed. Although vehicle and receive 
two encoded packets, the two packets 
may lose the same part because the error 
probability is 0.25. When vehicle and 
receive the packets form relay vehicle 
and overheard relay vehicle, the packets 
may lose same parts, so vehicle and 
could not recover the packets, and then 
vehicle and request relay vehicle and 
overheard relay vehicle to send out the 
packets which they loosed. 
4.1 Phase I: Packet Overheard 
Vehicle  is the vehicle which wants to 
send and receive packets, relay vehicle  
and overheard relay vehicle  are vehicle 
 choosing relays, and  is road side 
unit,  connects with Internet.  is the 
vehicle  sending packet, but in symbol 
level network coding, the packet  must be 
separated to  symbol packets, so the  
packet is represented to ( ). 
 is the RSU sending packet, in symbol level 
network coding, the packet  must be sepa-
rated to  symbol packets, so the  packet 
is represented to ( ). Relay 
vehicle  broadcasts the new packet  
which combines with ( ) and 
( ). Relay vehicle  needs 
to choose the coefficients  and  to mul-
tiple ( , ,…, ,…, ) and ( , ,…, ,… ), 
respectively. The operation is that 
( , ,…, ,…, ) =   ( , ,…, ,…, ) 
+   ( , ,…, ,… ), , 
, so the packet  represented 
( , ,…, ,…, ). Overheard Relay vehicle 
 needs to choose the coefficients  and 
 to multiple ( , ,…, ,…, ) and ( , ,…, 
,…, ), respectively. The operation is 
( , ,…, ,…, ) =  
+ , so the packet  
represented ( , ,…, ,…, ),  
, . Let ( , , 
( )) be the vehicle  pack-
et format which wants to broadcast where  
represented relay state,  = . 
Let ( , , ( )) be the 
 packet format which wants to broadcast 
where  represented relay state. Let ( , 
, ( )) be the relay vehicle  
packet format which wants to broadcast where 
 represented node state. Let ( , , 
( )) is the overheard relay 
vehicle  packet format which wants to 
broadcast where  represented node state. 
1.  Let relay vehicle  and overheard re-
lay vehicle  to be the vehicle  
relays, and then vehicle  broadcasts 
the original packets ( , , 
( )) to relay vehicle  
and Overheard relay vehicle . 
2.  Relay vehicle  and overheard relay 
vehicle  receive the vehicle  
packets ( , , ( )), 
and then they notify the  to send 
the packets to vehicle .  
broadcasts the original packets ( , 
 14 
vehicle  chooses two coefficients  and 
 to encode the packets which Fig. 8 pre-
sented. After these multiples, relay vehicle  
has four new packets , , , and , and 
overheard relay vehicle  also has four new 
packets , , , and . Relay vehicle  
broadcasts the encoded packets before over-
heard relay vehicle , and then overheard 
relay vehicle  use overhead to receive the 
relay vehicle  packets. Overheard relay 
vehicle  uses these packets to full fill 
empty parts which overheard relay vehicle  
loosed, and then overheard relay vehicle  
had four new encoded packets. Overheard re-
lay vehicle  broadcasts new encoded 
packets and then vehicle  and  
could recover the encoded packets, so they do 
not send request which they loosed. 
4.2 Phase II: Overheard-Based Coefficient 
Determination 
Vehicle  is the vehicle which wants to 
send and receive packets, relay vehicle  
and overheard relay vehicle  are vehicle 
 choosing relays, and  is road side 
unit,  connects with Internet.  is the 
vehicle  sending packet, but in symbol 
level network coding, the packet  must be 
separated to  symbol packets, so the  
packet is represented to ( ). 
 is the RSU sending packet, in symbol level 
network coding, the packet  must be sepa-
rated to  symbol packets, so the  packet 
is represented to ( ). Relay 
vehicle  broadcasts the new packet  
which combines with ( ) and 
( ). Relay vehicle  needs 
to choose the coefficients  and  to mul-
tiple ( , ,…, ,…, ) and ( , ,…, ,… ), 
respectively. The operation is that 
( , ,…, ,…, ) =  
+ , , 
, so the packet  represented 
. Overheard Relay vehicle 
 needs to choose the coefficients  and 
 to multiple  and 
, respectively. The operation 
is ( , ,…, ,…, ) =   
( , ,…, ,…, ) +   ( , ,…, ,… ), 
so the packet  represented 
( , ,…, ,…, ), , 
. Let ( , , ( )) 
be the vehicle  packet format which wants 
to broadcast where  represented relay state, 
 = . Let ( , , 
( )) be the  packet for-
mat which wants to broadcast where  rep-
resented relay state. Let ( , , 
( )) be the relay vehicle  
packet format which wants to broadcast where 
 represented node state. Let ( , , 
( )) is the overheard relay 
vehicle  packet format which wants to 
broadcast where  represented node state. 
A1':  Same as A1. 
A2':  Same as A2. 
A3':  Same as A3. 
A4':  Relay vehicle  broadcasted the en-
coded packets ( , , 
( )) to vehicle , 
 and overheard relay vehicle  
before overheard relay vehicle  
broadcasted, if overheard relay vehicle 
 received relay vehicle  packets 
( , , ( )), over-
heard relay vehicle  would check the 
 coefficients. If the coefficients  
and  which  choosing are not 
same with  and  of overheard re-
lay vehicle , overheard relay vehicle 
 broadcasts the packet ( , , 
( )) to  and  
 16 
heard relay vehicle  postponed to broad-
cast the packets to re-combine new packets. 
Overheard relay vehicle  used relay vehi-
cle  packet to choose different coefficients, 
then broadcasted the packets. Hence, the 
packets form relay vehicle  and overheard 
relay vehicle  form are having different 
coefficients, they do not have same coefficient 
problems. The formulation showed the packet 
 had packet , and packet  had packet 
, so vehicle  could recover original , 
, , and , and  was same as vehi-
cle . 
4.3 Phase III: Packet Re-demand 
Vehicle  is the vehicle which wants to 
send and receive packets, relay vehicle  
and overheard relay vehicle  are vehicle 
 choosing relays, and  is road side 
unit,  connects with Internet.  is the 
vehicle  sending packet, but in symbol 
level network coding, the packet  must be 
separated to  symbol packets, so the  
packet is represented to ( ). 
 is the RSU sending packet, in symbol level 
network coding, the packet  must be sepa-
rated to  symbol packets, so the  packet 
is represented to ( ). Relay 
vehicle  broadcasts the new packet  
which combines with ( ) and 
( ). Relay vehicle  needs 
to choose the coefficients  and  to mul-
tiple ( , ,…, ,… ) and ( , ,…, ,… ), 
respectively. The operation is that 
 =  
+ , , 
, so the packet  represented 
. Overheard Relay vehicle 
 needs to choose the coefficients  and 
 to multiple ( , ,…, ,…, ) and 
( , ,…, ,…, ), respectively. The operation 
is ( , ,…, ,…, ) =   
( , ,…, ,…, ) +   ( , ,…, ,…, ), 
so the packet  represented 
( , ,…, ,…, ), , 
. Let ( , , ( )) 
be the vehicle  packet format which wants 
to broadcast where  represented relay state, 
 = . Let ( , , 
( )) be the  packet for-
mat which wants to broadcast where  rep-
resented relay state. Let ( , , 
( )) be the relay vehicle  
packet format which wants to broadcast where 
 represented node state. Let ( , , 
( )) is the overheard relay 
vehicle  packet format which wants to 
broadcast where  represented node state. 
A1'':  Same as A1. 
A2'':  Same as A2. 
A3'':  Same as A3. 
A4'':  Same as A4. 
A5'':  In recovering the encoded packets, ve-
hicle  and  found the loosed 
parts were the same. Although the en-
coded packets could be recovered by 
received relay vehicle  encoded 
packets ( , , ( )) 
and overheard relay vehicle  encod-
ed packets ( , , 
( )), they could not re-
 
Fig. 10: Packet re-demand phase. 
 
 18 
,        (5.3) 
and overheard relay vehicle  probability 
is  
.        (5.4) 
Because vehicle  and  packet 
success probability are independent, and the 
packet success probability of relay vehicle  
and overheard relay vehicle  are also in-
dependent, so the analysis must use condi-
tional probability to calculate the probability. 
Lemma 1 The transmitting success probabil-
ity from vehicle  to  is  
   
.  (5.5) 
Proof. When vehicle  wants to send pack-
ets to , the success probability is 
, vehicle  needs relay vehicle 
 and overheard relay vehicle  help, the 
success probability are  and 
 By conditional probability, 
 is equal to,  
= and 
 divides . 
Using Equation 5.5, the packet level net-
work coding transmitting success probability 
is about 0.1904, and the symbol level network 
coding transmitting success probability is 0.6. 
Hence, symbol level network coding is better 
than packet level network coding. 
Although symbol level network coding 
could increase the transmitting success proba-
bility, there has a problem that the error prob-
ability is 0.25, if relay vehicle sends coded 
packets to vehicle  or , these packets 
would loosed 1/4 parts. To solve the problem, 
our scheme proposed a two-relay vehicles 
scheme to decrease the error probability. 
First the one-relay error probability is  
                           
          (5.6) 
According to the symbol level error proba-
bility, the  is 0.25. In other 
words, if relay vehicle sends packets to  or 
, vehicle  and  loosed 1/4 part 
of packets of relay sending. The result shows 
that every time relay vehicle sends a packets, 
vehicle  and  loosed 1/4 packets, 
and they had to send a request to ask which 
packets they loosed. 
In two-relay scheme, the two-relay proba-
bility equation is 
           (5.7) 
The different is that the two-relay scheme 
has to send two packets to vehicle  and 
 from relay vehicle  and overheard 
relay vehicle . 
Lemma 2 The two-relay scheme decreased 
probability is 
.(5.8) 
Proof.  is 1/4, and the 
 is 1/16,  is equal 
to the symbol success probability, so it is not 
to calculate.  is . 
The calculation is , so the result of 
 is 1/16. Hence, The success 
probability of  is  / 
. The result is 0.0625 / 0.25 = 
0.25, the result represented that two-relay 
scheme had 4 times than one-relay scheme. 
VI. Simulation results 
Our report presents a MAC protocol with 
overheard-based and relay-assisted in vehicu-
lar networks. The NCTUns 6.0 Network Sim-
ulator and Emulator (NCTUns) [27] and ITS 
module [27] are used to evaluate our proposed 
 20 
by relays to send out the packets to . The 
performance metrics to be observed are: 
• The average packet delay is the average 
delay time of every packets of a data which 
can be transmitted between vehicle  and 
. 
• The throughput is the total number of 
data packets which can be transmitted and 
received between vehicle  and . 
• The total transmission time is the all 
of transmitting time which spent between 
vehicle  and . 
• The success probability is the total 
number of vehicle  could send out the 
packets to  and received the packets 
from . 
• The overhead is the total number of vehi-
cle  and  re-transmitting packets 
to each others. 
An overheard-based relay-assisted MAC 
protocol using symbol level network coding in 
vehicular networks is achieved with a low av-
erage packet delay, high throughput, low total 
transmission time and high success probabil-
ity. 
Table II: Simulation parameters 
Parameter Value 
Simulation area 8km 
Number of a lanes 4 
Transmission range 250m 
Number of vehicles 300/h 
Beacon period 50ms 
Vehicle velocity 70-110 km/h 
 
5.1 Average packet delay 
The average packet delay is obtained by 
calculating of all packets could success re-
ceived. Fig. 11 provides the simulation results 
of the average packet delay. It was observed 
that when the value is high, the packet arrival 
rate increased. Fig. 11 shows the packet arri-
val rate of the average packet delay vs. the 
vehicle speed rate. There are four lines. The 
black cycle represented direct transmission 
(DT). The blue cube represented packet level 
network coding (PLNC). The green cube rep-
resented symbol level network coding (SLNC). 
The red triangle represented symbol level 
network coding with overheard (SLNC-O). In 
general, the average packet delay increases, 
the packet arrival rate also increases. Because 
the packet arrival rate increases, vehicle  
and  need more time to process the 
packets transmitting, and the data also became 
bigger, so relays need more time to wait to 
110−×  
 
(a) 
110−×  
 
(b) 
Fig. 13: (a) The total transmitting time 
of the vehicles in the two-hop service 
area vs. packet arrival rate. (b) The total 
transmitting time of the vehicles in the 
two-hop service area vs. vehicle speed 
rate. 
 22 
packets. The packet arrival rate is more, vehi-
cle  and  need more time to process 
the packets, so the transmission time would 
rise. When the vehicle speed rate is more, it is 
means that the connection time between vehi-
cle  and  would decrease, so vehicle 
 and  need more time to connect 
with others to send out the packets. Hence, the 
total transmission time would increase. Fig. 13 
shows that compare with other schemes, our 
scheme has the better result, so the proposed 
scheme could reduce the total transmission 
time 
5.4 Success probability 
The success probability is important in our 
scheme. When vehicle  sends out packets, 
the packet could be dropped because the 
packet is not complete. For , the incom-
plete packet is no use, so the vehicle  
needs to re-send the packet one more time. 
The result shows that the packet arrival rate 
increases, the success probability would de-
crease. Because of the bigger packet have 
higher losing probability. Fig. 14 (a) shows 
that all of schemes have high success proba-
bility at start, but the packet arrival rate rises, 
the success probability would decrease. When 
packet arrival rate from 10 to 45 packet/s, 
SLNC-O  SLNC  PLNC  DT (the 
success probability range from 0 to 100%). 
Fig. 14 (b) also has same situation with Fig. 
14 (a). When vehicle speed rate from 70 to 
110 km/hr, SLNC-O  SLNC  PLNC  
DT (the success probability range from 0 to 
100%). Compare with other schemes, the 
simulation result shows that our scheme has 
better effects. 
5.5 Packet cost of overhead 
The overhead is the re-transmission cost. 
Because of our scheme considers the error 
probability in transmitting procedures, the 
loosing packets must be re-transmitting. Fig. 
15 is the result our simulation. When packet 
arrival rate from 15 to 45 packet/s, SLNC-O 
 SLNC  PLNC  DT (the overheard 
range from 4 to 10 kbps). Fig. 15 (a) shows 
when packet arrival rate is higher, the over-
head cost is. The reason is when the packet is 
bigger, and the loosing probability may be 
higher, so  needs to re-transmit packets 
more times. According to this reason, when 
 wants to success transmitting to relays, 
 needs more times to transmitting the 
210×  
 
(a) 
310×  
 
(b) 
Fig. 15: (a) Overhead in the two-hop 
service area vs. packet arrival rate. 
(b) Overhead in the two-hop service 
area vs. vehicle speed rate. 
 
 24 
Vehicular Networks,” 2010 IEEE Global 
Telecommunications Conference 
(GLOBECOM 2010). 
[12] Balasubramanian, R. Mahajan, A. 
Venkataramani, B. N. Levine, and J. 
Zahorjan, “InteractiveWiFi connectivity 
for moving vehicles,” in Proc.ACM 
SIGCOMM ’08, 2008, pp. 427–438. 
[13] D. Hadaller, S. Keshav, T. Brecht, and S. 
Agarwal, “Vehicular opportunistic com-
munication under the microscope,” in 
Proc. ACM Mobile systems, applications 
and services (MobiSys), 2007, pp. 
206–219. 
[14] R. Mahajan, J. Zahorjan, and B. Zill, 
“Understanding WiFi-based connectivity 
from moving vehicles,” in Proc. interna-
tional confe-rence on Internet measure-
ment (IMC). ACM, 2007, pp. 321–326. 
[15] L. Xie, Q. Li, W. Mao, J. Wu, and D. 
Chen, “Achieving efficiency and fairness 
for associate ion control in vehicular 
networks,” in Proc. 17th IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Network Protocols 
ICNP 2009, Oct. 13–16, 2009, pp. 
324–333. 
[16] Nandan, S. Das, G. Pau, M. Gerla, and M. 
Y. Sanadidi, “Co-operative downloading 
in vehicular ad-hoc wireless networks,” 
in WONS ’05, 2005, pp. 32–41. 
[17] Nandan, S. Tewari, S. Das, M. Gerla, and 
L. Kleinrock, “AdTorrent: Delivering 
Location Cognizant Advertisements to 
Vehicle Net-works,” in WONS ’06, 2006, 
pp. 203–212. 
[18] T. Ho, M. Medard, R. Koetter, D. Karger, 
M. Effros, J. Shi, and B. Leong, “A ran-
dom linear network coding approach to 
multicast,” IEEE Trans. Information 
Theory, vol. 52, no. 10, pp. 4413–4430, 
Oct. 2006. 
[19] U. Lee, J.-S. Park, J. Yeh, G. Pau, and M. 
Gerla, “Code torrent: content distribution 
using network coding in vanet,” in 
MobiShare ’06, 2006, pp. 1–5. 
[20] M. Langberg, A. Sprintson, and J. Bruck, 
“The encoding complexity of network 
coding,” in Proc. IEEE ISIT ’05. 
[21] M. Kim, C. W. Ahn, M. M´edard, and M. 
Effros, “On minimizing network coding 
resources: An evolutionary approach,” in 
Proc. NetCod, 2006. 
[22] S. Katti, D. Katabi, H. Balakrishnan, and 
M. Medard, “Symbol-level network cod-
ing for wireless mesh networks,” ACM 
SIGCOMM Comput. Commun. Rev., vol. 
38, no. 4, pp. 401–412, 2008. 
[23] M. Li, Z. Yang, and W. Lou, “Codeon: 
Cooperative popular content distribution 
for vehicular networks using symbol lev-
el network coding,” Technical Report, 
2010. 
[24] Yoshiaki Hori, Kouichi Sakurai , “To-
wards formal analysis of wireless LAN 
security with MIS protocol,” Internation-
al Journal of Ad Hoc and Ubiquitous 
Computing 2011, Vol. 7, No.2, pp. 112 – 
120. 
[25] Mustafa Bulent Mutluoglu, Sebnem 
Baydere, “Network capacity analysis for 
code propagation in Wireless Sensor 
Networks,” In-ternational Journal of Ad 
Hoc and Ubiquitous Computing 2011, 
Vol. 7, No.4, pp. 221 – 234. 
[26] Kuan-Hung Chou, Woei Lin, “Perfor-
mance analysis of a packet prioritisation 
algorithm for optical-packet-switching 
networks,” In-ternational Journal of Ad 
Hoc and Ubiquitous Computing 2010 - 
Vol. 6, No.3, pp. 164 – 171. 
[27] NCTUns 6.0 Network Simulator and 
Emulator 
http://nsl.csie.nctu.edu.tw/nctuns.html. 
 
The motivation of this work is stated as follows. Fig. 1 
illustrates an example of Ashraf protocol [11]. Ashraf et al. 
[17] provided a dynamic energy-efficient solution to the 
power consumption of femtocell, but may additionally 
produce an undesired handover problem. A FBS is “wake up”, 
if the received signal strength of a moving UE from the FBS 
exceeds a predetermined threshold. It is observed that if a 
moving UE cannot completely transmit all of the remainder 
data through the “wake-up” FBS, then the total power 
consumption is higher than that of the FBS not be “wake up”. 
For the power-saving purpose, efforts will be made to more 
accurately make the intelligent wake-up and handover 
decision to avoid the undesired wake-up and handover 
operations.  
Table I provides the fact that the power consumption of 
data transmission between femtocell and UE [11, 12]. The 
LTE UE and GSM UE connecting to macrocell spend about 
0.2 W and 2 W, but LTE UE and GSM UE connecting to 
femtocell spend about 0.0001 mW and 3.2 mW. The extra 
power consumption of LTE UE and GSM UE are about 0.2 W 
and 1.9968 W if UE is adopted the MBS for the data 
transmission. The femtocell operating in the ACTIVE mode 
spends 10.2 W and operating in the IDLE mode spends 4.2 W. 
If LTE UE communicates with macrocell and femtocell keeps 
the IDLE mode, then the power-saving is equal to 4.2 W = 
10.2 W  6 W. In such situation, it is more power-saving 
since 4.2 W  0.2 W and 1.9968 W. That is to say, if we try to 
keep the femtocell at the IDLE mode as possible, the more 
power-saving will be.  
III. PREMINARIES 
A.     System Model 
The system model of a two-tier OFDMA macrocell-
femtcell network is illustrated in Fig. 1. A large number of 
femtocells are deployed in the coverage area of macrocells. 
Let a MBS and a FBS are denoted as  and , 
respectively, while both  and  adopt OFDMA 
technology under the co-channel model [5] to share all 
spectrum bands. Dark and light circles denote the IDLE FBS 
and ACTIVE FBS, where a FBS is called as an IDLE FBS is 
the FBS is in the IDLE mode, and a FBS is called as an 
ACTIVE FBS if the FBS is in the ACTIVE mode. An 
ACTIVE FBS may have multiple connected UEs. An IDLE 
FBS allows the FBS to switch off all pilot transmissions and 
the processing associated with the wireless reception, when no 
user is involved in an active call. 
Fig. 2 illustrates the power consumption of hardware 
modules of IDLE FBS and ACTIVE FBS. All of the hardware 
modules are divided into three parts. The first part is random 
access memory components connected to the microprocessor 
required for data handling functions. The second part is a field-
programmable gate array (FPGA) and integrated circuitry to 
implement the data encryption, the hardware authentication, 
and the network time protocol. The third part is the RF 
transceiver, including separate RF components for the packet 
transmission and reception. A RF power amplifier (PA) is also 
needed to pass a high-power signal to the transmitting antenna. 
Fig. 2(a) shows the power consumption for all components of 
ACTIVE FBS and Fig. 2(b) shows the power consumption of  
IDLE FBS. The two modes are only different in the power 
consumption of all modules. When switching to IDLE mode, a 
FBS switches off the PA, RF transmitter, RF receiver, and 
 
Fig. 1. Comparison of the power consumption and the number of handovers. (a) 
Ashraf protocol. (b) Our proposed protocol. 
Table I: Power consumption of femtocell and UE. 
 
1) Given a UE, considered the serving M B Si  and IDLE 
F BSj , and all neighboring FBSs of F BSj , F B Si
0
j ; 1 · i 0 · m: 
2) When the UE enters into the coverage of F BSj  the 
F BSj  requests the information of SBM BSi  = f o1; o2; 
: : : ; oi ; : : : ; oz joi 2 SM BSi ; z · ¯g from M B Si   via F-GW. In 
addition, the F BSj  requests the information of 
SBFBSi 0j =
n
oi
0
1 ; oi
0
2 ; : : : ; oi
0
i ; : : : ; oi
0
zi 0 jo
i 0
i 2 SM BSi ; zi 0 · ¯
o
 from 
all neighboring FBSs of F BSj  via the backhaul network. 
3) Let Soccupied  denote as the union of occupied 
spectrum bands of M B Si  and all occupied spectrum bands of 
F BSi
0
j ;  for 1 · i 0 · n:  Therefore,  Soccupied = SBM BSi
[
 
(
n[
i 0= 1
SBFBSi 0j )
. Then l FBSjavai lable = SM BSi ¡ Soccupied. 
For example, the total spectrum resource of SM B Si is 
f T1; T2; : : : ; T15g  and SBM BS1 = f T1; T2; : : : ; T7g . Let F BS1  and 
F BS2 be in IDLE mode and F BS3 and F BS4 be in ACTIVE 
mode. The neighboring FBSs of F BS1  are F BS21 = F BS2; 
F BS31 = F BS3; and F BS41 = F BS4: An UE tries to perform the 
in-bound mobility operation from M B S1 to F BS1 Initially, we 
have SBM BS1 = f T1; T2; : : : ; T7g;  SBFBS21 = f g ;  SBFBS31 =  
f T10; T11; T12g;  and SBFBS41  = f T13; T14; T15g. Observe that, 
SBFBS21 = f g because that F BS
2
1 is operating in IDLE mode. 
The total occupied spectrum band is Soccupied = f T1; T2 
; : : : ; T7; T10; : : : ; T15g; then l FBSjavai lable = S ¡ Soccupied ; so 
SBFBS1 = f T8; T9g. 
B.     Phase II: Transmission Time Estimation 
This phase calculates the dwell time tdwel l , the average 
expected transmission time texpect ed , and lUErequired  for a UE 
trying to perform the inbound mobility from M B Si  to F BSj , 
where lUErequired  denotes the bandwidth of UE required to 
completely upload reminder data within the dwell time tdwel l . 
The dwell time tdwel l  is initially calculated as follows. The 
dwell time is the time period from a UE starts to communicate 
with F BSj  to the UE leaving the F BSj . Let SN RUE FBSj  
denote the signal power between the UE and F BSj . Let 
SN RUE M BSi  denote the signal power between the UE and 
M B Si  and let SN RM BSi FBSj  denote the signal power between 
M B Si  and F BSj . The procedure of calculating tdwel l  is given 
as follows. 
1) If an UE enters the coverage of the F BSj  at time t i , 
there are three values of signal power, SN RM BSi FBSj , 
SN RUE M BSi , and SN RM BSi FBSj , can be received at F BSj . 
With three value of signal power, the distances between UE 
and F BSj  (denoted as dU F j ), between UE and M B Si  (denoted 
as dU M i ), and between M B Si  and F BSj  (denoted as dM i F j ) 
can be obtained. 
2) If the UE continually moves along the moving 
direction by the fixed speed, we may similarly obtain three 
distance values of  d0U F j , d
0
U M i , and d
0
M i F j  at time t i + 1.  
3) An angle µi  between dM i F j  and dU F j  at time t i  and 
an angle µi + 1  between d0M i F j  and d
0
U F j  at time t i + 1  can be 
calculated. An angle µC  is equal to µi + 1  minus µi  between 
dU F j  and d0U F j . With the angle µC , an angle µ between dU F j  
and the moving direction of the UE can be determined. 
4) Let the maximum signal power of the UE at time t i + 1 
be SN RM A X . In fact, the value of SNR additionally considers 
the factor of the path loss, which is adopted the path loss 
model, PL = 38:46 + 20log10 d + 0:7d2D , from [13], where  
is the distance of the UE and F BSj , and 0:7d2D  is the 
penetration loss due to internal walls. It easily seen that 
distance of R sin µ is the shortest distance between UE and 
F BSj  Therefore, the maximum signal power is 
SN RM A X = SN RUE ¡ (38:46 + 20log10(R sin µ)) + 0:7d2D );  
assumed that SN RU E  denotes the original SNR of the UE at 
time t i + 1.  
5) The tdwel l  is predicted as follows. A passing time, 
denoted as t t p, from the UE entering the coverage of the F BSj  
to leaving the coverage of the F BSj , is accurately calculated 
as follows. Let ® =
Rr
R SN RUE ¡ (38:46 + 20log10 d + 0:7d2D )
¢ t
 denote as 
the average variation of SNR at ¢ t , where R  and r  are the 
distances between UE and F BSj  at times t i  and t i+ 1 and ¢ t  = 
t i+ 1 ¡ t i , respectively. The half of t t p  is SN RM A X
®
, so 
t t p = 2 £
SN RM A X
®
. Finally, the tdwel l  is equal to t t p ¡ ¢ t  = 
t t p ¡ (t i+ 1 ¡ t i ). 
For example, the dwell time starts from time  until the UE 
leaving the coverage of F BS1. An UE is moving and keeping 
the communication with M B S1 in the coverage of F BS1. The 
F BS1 received SN RUE FBS1 , SN RUE M BS1  and SN RM BS1 FBS1  at 
t0  and t1. A first triangle is composed of dU F 1 , dU M 1  and 
dM 1 F 1  at t0:The angle µ0 = cos¡ 1
d2M 1 F1 + d
2
U F1 ¡ d
2
U M 1
2dM 1 F1 dU F 1
.  The 
second triangle is composed of d0U F 1, d
0
U M 1 and d
0
M 1 F 1 at t1: 
Therefore, angle µ1 = cos¡ 1
d02M 1 F1 + d
02
U F1 ¡ d
02
U M 1
2d0M 1 F1 d
0
U F 1
. Then,    
µC = µ1 ¡ µ0:  We may have dt 0 t 1 =  q
d2U F1 + d
02
U F 1 ¡ 2dU F 1 d
0
U F1 cosµC :  Then, µ = cos
¡ 1 
d02U F1 + d
02
t 0 t 1 ¡ d
02
U F 1
2d0U 1 F 1 d
0
t 0 t 1
 is obtained. The variation of SNR per unit 
time, ® =
Rd0U F 1
dU F 1
SN RUE ¡ (38:46 + 20log10(d) + 0:7d2D )d(d)
t1 ¡ t0
: 
Therefore, t t p = 2 £
SN RM A X
®
 and tdwell = t t p ¡ (t1 ¡ t0). 
The lUErequired  is then calculated as follows. We follow and 
revise the results of the radio resource management from [14] 
to provide the probability of the packet delay and the 
probability of infraction used in this work. Let l  denote as a 
tile number. Let n denote as the bit number of a tile (n bits). 
Let ±  denote as an effective bandwidth determined by the 
arrival process and the service process. The procedure of 
calculating lUErequired is given as follows. 
1) Considered a UE, an IDLE F BSj  initially allocates l  
protocol is fixed at 42 W. The power consumption of our 
green handover protocol is less than 42 W. Fig. 3(b) illustrates 
the simulation result of PC vs. the velocity (ranging from 30 
km/hr to 80 km/hr). The power consumption of our green 
handover protocol is lower than that of Ashraf protocol. It is 
observed that the PC drops as the velocity increases. For 
instance, the power consumption is about 46 W if the velocity 
is 30 km/hr, and the power consumption is about 41.28 W if 
the velocity is 80 km/hr.  
   
B.     Handover latency (HL) 
Figure 4 gives the simulation results of the average 
handover latency (HL). The lower the number of handovers is, 
the lower the average handover latency will be. Fig. 4(a) 
shows the HL vs. the data size (ranging from 10 Mbytes to 15 
Mbytes). In general, the HL drops as the data size increases. 
For instance, the HL is 325 ms if the data size is 10 Mbytes, 
and the HL is 74 ms if the data size is 15 Mbytes of our green 
handover protocol, while the HL of Ashraf protocol is fixed at 
360 ms. This is because that the less frequently number of 
handover events occurs. Fig. 4(b) provides the simulation 
result of the average handover latency (HL) vs. the velocity of 
the UE (ranging from 30 km/hr to 80 km/hr). We observed 
that the HL drops as the velocity increases. For instance, the 
HL is 275 ms if the the velocity is 30 km/hr and the HL is 125 
ms if the velocity is 80 km/hr of our green handover protocol, 
while Ashraf protocol is fixed at 360 ms.  
VI. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, we have developed a green handover protocol 
in two-tier OFDMA macrocell-femtocell networks. The 
proposed green handover protocol intelligently switches on its 
radio communication and associated processing to avoid the 
undesired wake-up and handover operations. We have 
provided the performance simulation to illustrate that the 
proposed protocol can significantly offer a more power-saving 
result. 
REFERENCES 
[1]  G. P. Fettweis, E. Zimmermann, “ICT Energy Consumption – 
Trends and Challenges,” in Proc. of the International 
Symposium on Wireless Personal Multimedia Communications, 
Lapland, Finland, Sep 2008. 
[2]  V. Chandrasekhar, J.G. Andrews, A. Gatherer, “Femtocell 
Networks: A Survey,” IEEE Communications Magazine, vol. 46, 
no. 9, pp. 59-67, Sep 2008. 
[3]  C. Ball, T. Hindelang, I. Kambourov, S. Eder, “Spectral 
Efficiency Assessment and Radio Performance Comparison 
between LTE and WiMAX,” in Proc. IEEE International 
Symposium on Personal, Indoor and Mobile Radio 
Communications (PIMRC 2008), French Riviera, France, pp. 1-
6, Sep. 2008. 
[4]  A. Golaup, M. Mustapha, L.B. Patanapongpibul, “Femtocell 
Access Control Strategy in UMTS and LTE,” in Proc. IEEE 
Communications Magazine, pp. 117-123, 2009. 
[5]  Y. Shi, A. B. MacKenzie, L. A. DaSilva, “On Resource Reuse 
for Cellular Networks with Femto- and Macrocell Coexistence,” 
in Proc. IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference 
(Globecom 2010), Miami, American, pp. 1-6, Dec. 2010. 
[6]  J. M. Moon, D. H. Cho, “Novel Handoff Decision Algorithm in 
Hierarchical Macro/Femto-Cell Networks,” in Proc. IEEE 
Wireless Communications and Networking Conference (WCNC 
2010), Sydney, Australia, pp. 1-6, 2010, 2010. 
[7]  S. Wu, X. Zhang, R. Zheng, Z. Yin, Y. Fang, D. Yang, 
“Handover Study Concerning Mobility in the Two-hierarchy 
Network,” in Proc. IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference 
(VTC 2009-Spring), Barcelona, Spain, pp. 1-5, 2009. 
[8]  A. Ulvan, R. Bestak, M. Ulvan, “The Study of Handover 
Procedure in LTE-based Femtocell Network,” in Proc. IEEE 
Wireless and Mobile Networking Conference (WMNC 2010), 
Budapest, Hungary, pp. 1-6, Oct. 2010. 
[9]  H. Zhang, X. Wen, B. Wang, W. Zheng, Y. Sun, “A Novel 
Handover Mechanism between Femtocell and Macrocell for 
LTE based Networks,” in Proc. International Conference on 
Communication Software and Networks (ICCSN 2010), 
Singapore,  pp. 228-231, Feb. 2010. 
[10]  3GPP TS 36.927 V2.0.0, “Potential solutions for energy saving 
for E-UTRAN (Release 10),” May 2011. 
[11]  I. Ashraf, L.T.W. Ho, H. Claussen, “Improving Energy 
Efficiency of Femtocell Base Stations via User Activity 
Detection,” in Proc. IEEE Wireless Communications and 
Networking Conference (WCNC 2010), Sydney, Australia, pp. 
1-5, April. 2010. 
[12]  3GPP TS 36.101 V10.2.1, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio 
Access (E-UTRA); User Equipment (UE) radio transmission 
and reception (Release 10),” April 2011. 
[13]  3GPP TR 36.814 V9.0.0, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio 
Access (E-UTRA); Further advancements for E-UTRA physical 
layer aspects (Release 9),” March 2010. 
[14]  S. Y. Lien, C. C. Tseng, K. C. Chen, C. W. Su, “Cognitive 
Radio Resource Management for QoS Guarantees in 
Autonomous Femtocell Networks,” in Proc. IEEE International 
Conference on Communications (ICC 2010), Cape Town, South 
Africa, pp. 1-6 May. 2010. 
[15] The Network Simulator NS-2. http://stuweb.ee.mtu.edu/ljialian/. 
[16]  Enhanced UMTS Radio Access Network Extensions for NS-2 
(EURANE). http://eurane.tiwmc.nl/eurane/. 
  
                         (a)                                   (b) 
Fig. 4. (a) Handover latency vs. data size. (b) 
Handover latency vs. velocity. 
 
                         (a)                                   (b) 
Figure. 3. (a) Power consumption vs. data size. (b) 
Power consumption vs. velocity. 
無。 
 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 大會議程 
       2. The Proceeding of 2012 The Fourth International Workshop on Performance Evaluation of Wireless Networks
研討會論文集 CD。 
六、 與會照片 
 
 
 
 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：莊東穎 計畫編號：100-2221-E-305-006- 
計畫名稱：車載隨意行動網路上使用網路編碼技術之位置服務研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 5 5 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
