 2
圍。精密微小化成形技術可以採用各種塑
性加工方法，如微沖壓(micro punching)、
微拉伸 (micro drawing)、微擠壓 (micro 
extrusion)、微鍛造(micro forging)、微壓紋
(micro embossing) 以 及 微 彎 曲 (micro 
bending)等項，微機電系統技術雖可以達到
500nm~20µm 的精度，但實際精密微小化
成形的各種複雜形狀的微小零件、其零件
的特徵尺寸僅需 20µm到 900µm範圍；因
此，微成形技術才能符合特徵尺寸範圍的
大量生產需求。 
隨著微成形加工的需求大增，許多研
究開始探討其尺寸與體積的物理影響。
Vollersten 等人[1]即歸納尺寸效應的來源
可以分成物理與結構。物理來源共有純體
積尺寸效應(pure volume size effect)、表面
至體積尺寸效應 (surface to volume size 
effect)以及力相關尺寸效應(force relation 
size effect)；而結構來源可分為晶粒尺寸至
厚度尺寸效應(grain size to thickness size 
effect)以及表面結構大小能力尺寸效應
(surface structure scalability size effect)。因
此，Gau 等人[2]即以實驗的方式進行鋁材
(Al 1100 O-temper)以及紅銅材 (Brass 
26000)進行拉伸以及彎曲實驗，其試片的
規格以 ASTM-E112為標準，實驗後歸納發
現降伏強度 (yield strength)與拉伸強度
(tensile strength)隨著 T/D比(T：材料厚度；
D：平均晶粒大小)減少而減少、直到 T/D
比接近 1 為止。除此之外，兩者材料的可
延展性(或稱可成形性)隨著 T/D 比減少而
減少。因此，提出微成形流應力可以以 T/D
比為函數來表示之。同時，Gau 等人[3]也
對紅銅進行微板金成形之回彈(springback)
實驗，總結發現當板厚小於 350µm時、傳
統的回彈觀念無法應用於紅銅板材，另提
出回彈可以以 T/D 比為函數替代厚度來表
示之。然而，Lee 等人[4]提出對微拉伸成
形實驗過程的精度準位質疑，認為微成形
的過程中、對準(alignment)精度會影響微拉
伸實驗的結果，因此、提出機構式夾持具
來安裝微拉伸試片，並以實驗的方式驗證
微試片在經由對準精度校正前與校正後的
應力與應變曲線之差異。 
由於尺寸已進入微米級，在厚度方面
之晶粒尺寸的控制即成為重要參數。因
此，晶粒尺寸的效應已被獨立出來進行相
關成形研究[5-7]，但表面晶粒大小的效應
卻鮮少討論。 
綜合以上所述，微拉伸試驗的方法與
過程雖已有少數研究發表，但對試片對準
精度的要求、微拉伸過程中之位移量的偵
測與破斷過程的觀察等卻少有討論。這也
是本計畫研究的主要討論重點，因此、本
計畫即針對微拉伸實驗的規格、自動控制
以及資料擷取、光學真實位移量測等進行
設計、製作與界面程式撰寫等方面之研
究。此一平台的建立可以提供其它子計畫
的需求進行微 V型彎曲實驗、微回彈研究
以及微引伸實驗等。 
 
三、系統架構 
在機構設計方面、微拉伸實驗系統包
含有 Z軸拉伸滑動平台、Load cell固定座、
微拉伸試片固定座以及微位移光學量測器
等。Z 軸拉伸滑動平台提供微拉伸試片垂
直穩定拉力，Load cell 固定座位固定於 Z
軸拉伸滑動平台與微拉伸試片固定座中
間，在微拉伸過程中回饋輸出類比電位。
微拉伸試片固定座的功能為固定微拉伸試
片外，亦能準確的提供與拉伸方向軸心之
準位校正。同時，光學位移感測器能回饋
提供真實位移。如圖 1(a)所示為系統組合
圖以及圖 1(b)為系統爆炸圖。如圖 2 所示
為機構組合寫真圖。 
 
 
 
(a) 微拉伸系統組合圖 
 4
 
(a) 位移感測器寫
真圖 
(b) 位移感測器量測
範圍圖 
圖 5. 位移感測器規格圖 
 
綜合以上所述，Z 軸之控制需要一片
運動控制卡來處理訊號的輸出與極限感測
器的讀取。在運動控制方式，其最高解析
度可到 0.1µm。在其它的數位訊號有 Load 
cell以及位移感測器之回饋，為了得到確實
之數位電壓，以差位式接腳為電壓擷取歸
零，如表一所示為資料擷取需求表。 
 
表一：資料擷取需求表 
Load cell 輸入電壓：1 to 10V ac or dc
輸出電壓：±200N/輸入電壓
Displacement 
sensor 
輸入電壓：24VDC 
輸出電壓：全幅±5V的類比
電壓，當無法執行量測時，
則輸出+12V電壓。 
 
四、試片準備 
依據 ASTM 規範 E8-01(Pin-Loaded 
Tension Test Specimen)規格與尺寸縮小
1/4，如圖 6所示。利用準分子雷射切割鐵
基與銅基材質試片如圖 7(a)與(b)所示。但
在本實驗卻發現鈦基材料並不適合準分子
雷射，雖然其熔點約為 1700°C，僅高於鐵
基約 100°C，但卻無法有效切割，原因有
待進一步探討。 
 
圖 6. 試片規格圖 
 
 
(a) Fe基試片圖 
 
 
(b) Cu基試片圖 
 
圖 7. 試片加工完成寫真圖 
 
五、實驗規劃 
本計畫之執行重點除了建立微拉伸實
驗平台外，亦將進行於平均相同晶粒大小
下，不同厚度的影響之實驗，進而建立成
形性曲線。因此，鐵基厚度的規格共有
1000、500、200、100以及 50µm。重直準
位的誤差分析可以得知實驗的誤差，但更
值得分析的是理論位移與真實位移之影
響，因此，本計畫將探討位移直接影響應
變與成形性的能力分析。 
子計畫五之晶粒熱處理的控制技術已
經可以達到 25~450µm 之平均晶粒大小，
因此，將以此進行厚度與平均晶粒關係之
成形性實驗。 
如圖 8 所示為利用本計畫開發之微拉
伸 試 驗 平 台 更 換 微 拉 伸 模 具 為 微
V-bending模具即可以進行實驗。但另一需
考量的因素也是定位問題，需確認試片之
真平度與模具之貼合度。除此之外，可以
分析 V-型衝頭之下衝與回衝速度所造成之
回彈效果。 
 6
 
 - 2 -
表，Session 1發表的主題為Metal Forming，Session 2發表的
主題為Crystal Plasticity，Session 3發表的主題為Multiscale 
Analysis，Session 4發表的主題為Composites，Session 5發
表的主題為Metal Plasticity，Session 6發表的主題為Rocks, 
Stones and Concretes ， Session 7 發 表 的 主 題 為 Soils ，
Session 8發表的主題為 Joints， Session 9發表的主題為
Buckling and Stabili ty， Session 10發表的主題為Dynamic 
Behavior， Session 11發 表 的 主 題 為 High Temperature，
Session 12發表的主題為PhaseTransformation，Session 13發
表的主題為FEM，Session 14發表的主題為Foams，Session 
15發表的主題為Molecular Dynamics，Session 16發表的主題
為Indentation，Session 17發表的主題為Damage，Session 18
發表的主題為Beams and Frames，Session 19發表的主題為
Welds，Session 20發表的主題為Fracture，Session 21發表的
主題為 Polymers， Session 22發表的主題為 Shape Memory 
Alloys，Session 23發表的主題為New Materials，Session 24
發表的主題為Fatigue and Strength，共有來自世界各地四百多
篇論文發表。本人所發表之論文被安排在第三天Session 1的第
3位發表，由於發表的論文很多，所以每篇論文之發表時間只
有二十分鐘，因此必須非常簡要，如果有需深入的了解的話，
就必須於會後私底下討論。本人所發表的內容較偏重於快速原
型加工製程之模擬處理，因此引起許多學者專家之興趣，所以
會後於會場聚集一起討論，有些學者也提出他們的處理方式供
我參考，因此獲益甚多。此外，我亦積極參與各領域之研討
會，雖非本人之專長，但藉此機會也學到一些新知。  
 Development of Stereolithography Simulation Process Based on the 
Dynamic Finite Element Method  
 
You-Min Huang1, a and Cho-Pei Jiang2,b  
1
 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology, 43 
Sec.4, Keelung Rd. Taipei 106,Taiwan 
2
 Biomedical Electronics Device and  Technology Center, Industrial Technology Research Institute, 
195 Rm. 334 B.53, Sec. 4, Chung Hsing Rd., Chutung Hsinchu 310, Taiwan  
a
ymhuang@mail.ntust.edu.tw, 
b
cpjiang@itri.org.tw 
Keywords: stereolithography,  finite element 
 
Abstract. In this study, a general simulation code is developed to analyze the shrinkage effect of 
polymerization and optimize the fabrication parameters including the scanning path, exposure time 
and scanning speed for the stereolithography system. The code is based on the dynamic finite element 
method. Liquid element is preconstructed without curing properties till the absorption energy exceeds 
the critical value of dynamic stiffness matrix assembling. A unit element block is utilized with a 
weight coefficient for expressing a laser Gaussian energy distribution during the discretizing of the 
scanning path into increments. A fan blade is proposed to validate the agreement between the 
simulation and experimental results. The prototype is a fabrication and the surface of blade was 
measured by the digitizing system ATOS (Advanced TOpometric Sensor) for comparing the 
deformation with analysis prediction. Consequently, the simulated result closely conforms to the 
experimental result. 
Introduction 
Stereolithography (SL) is a layered manufacturing process, widely used in prototype fabrication. It 
produces parts by scanning an appropriate laser over a photocurable resin, causing liquid to 
polymerize into a solid. It is convenient to divide the SL system into two classes, one that builds parts 
by sinking in the resin tank and one by lifting parts out of the resin tank [1]. The main drawback of 
these two classes, which is extremely critical to solve, is the shrinkage effect. Since shrinkage causes 
the most serious inaccuracies in the built-up process, many studies [2-6] have focused on observing 
and simulating the photopolymerization phenomenon in order to reduce this error. It was found that 
shrinkage occurs not only because of the monomer cross-link process but also due to the scanning 
path. Therefore, a dynamic finite element method has been proposed [7] to simulate the deformation 
results according to the scanning path and find the optimal parameters to obtain less deformation of 
prototypes.  
It is well known that deformation is caused by the shrinkage resulting from photopolymerization. The 
shrinkage effect is related to absorption energy, scanning path, cured volume and layer geometry. To 
predict the deformation of a designed model prior to fabrication, optimizing the scanning parameters 
can both increase efficiency and obtain a high precision prototype. In this study, theoretical analysis, 
the algorithm of the developed code and element management are briefly introduced. A benchmark 
model is proposed and analyzed in accordance with scanning path planning. The proposed model is 
fabricated and its fin surface is rebuilt by a digitizing system in order to verify the reliability of the 
developed code. Simulation and experimental results are compared and discussed. 
Key Engineering Materials Vols. 340-341 (2007) pp. 329-334
online at http://www.scientific.net
© (2007) Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland
All rights reserved. No part of contents of this paper may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the
written permission of the publisher: Trans Tech Publications Ltd, Switzerland, www.ttp.net. (ID: 140.118.196.207-08/02/07,06:54:15)
 T is indicated as the temperature. A dynamic mathematical model of cured shrinkage has been 
established as follows [7]: 
( )( )etnfinaln eE εαεε −−= 1  (6) 
where nε  is the total cure shrinkage under exposure nE  and εα  is a constant. It can be derived as: 
( ) ( )[ ]{ } ( )[ ]ecebcae ttEEtE αααεε −−−−−= exp1/exp1, max  (7) 
where maxε  is the maximum cured shrinkage, aα  is the coefficient of the cure reaction rate at the 
initial laser exposure, bα  is used to model the continuing shrinkage, and cα is used to illustrate the 
initial part of the cured shrinkage curve. With a higher value aα , a more rapid reaction occurs in the 
cure shrinkage. 
Element Management and Simulation Algorithm 
Determining element birth and estimating curing degree is the main issue of element management. 
Liquid elements are pre-constructed without curing properties. The information of the laser curing 
depth and width, current layer thickness and scanning direction are recorded into the memory core. 
The laser scanning movement is considered as a discretization problem. At this increment, the laser is 
moved to a pre-set position. The X-Y plane indicates the resin liquid surface and assumes the cured 
tiny volume is an element block as shown in Figure 1. The elements which are located above the 
penetration depth become active when the absorption energy exceeds the critical value. The cured 
level is indexed by the proposed weight coefficient according to a Gaussian energy distribution of the 
static laser exposure. Full curing is indexed as 10 in the centre of the laser beam. The smaller the 
coefficient, the less energy is absorbed. The weight coefficient changes to 11, showing that the 
subdivided element has become over cured when it is re-exposed and that it absorbs excess energy.  
The flowchart of the simulation process is illustrated as shown in Figure 2. The liquid mesh is 
pre-created and read into the matrix core. The properties of the liquid mesh have no cure 
characteristics before it has been determined to have been exposed according to the laser path 
planning drawing. The curing degree of the exposed element is represented by the weight coefficient. 
The cured elements of the current layer are reconstructed as a global stiffness matrix. The boundary 
condition is then recombined and saved as a nodal displacement vector. Hence, the shrinkage and 
internal stress begins the calculation. The results are exported to the recorded file as a user request. If 
the next layer is checked and it is determined that it needs to be fabricated, the nodal position is 
updated and the constraint release problem is dealt with. The new liquid elements are added and 
reconstructed with the cure elements and then recorded into the memory core. The previous process is 
repeated until no more layers need to be fabricated. 
 
Fig. 1 Element block with weight coefficient. 
Key Engineering Materials Vols. 340-341 331
 Figure 3 (b).  An eight node cubic element is used in this analysis. Figure 3 (c) and (d) show the curing 
process of the 4th layer and the final simulation result. The total displacement is defined 
as 222 dzdydx ++ . It can be clearly seen that the distance between the node’s positions to the 
hollow cylinder surface increases as the total displacement increases. The simulation result is 
expressed by the total displacement vector as shown in Figure 3(e). The maximum total displacement 
occurs at the outer corner of the upper surface. Figure 3(f) shows the fabricated prototype result.  
A fin surface of the fabricated prototype was rebuilt by ATOS system in order to verify the 
deformation tendency of the simulation result as shown in Figure 4(a). In Figure 4(b), shift the 
baseline of the rebuilt fin surface to the same as CAD model in order to reveal the deformation 
tendency. Consequently, the simulation result closely conforms to the fabricated prototype. 
 
Table I: Curing properties of NAF202 
φ  
PD  
γ  
CE  aα  bα  cα  Yα  Yβ  
0.8 0.88 0.0012 0.8mW 0.32 0.0037 0.421 0.31 0.44 
 
 
 
(a) Designed CAD model. (b) The long raster of skip path planning. 
  
(c) Scanning result of the 4
th
  layer curing. (d) Simulation result. 
  
(e) Deformation tendency. (f) Fabricated prototype by free-surface SL 
system. 
Fig. 3 Simulation process and built prototype. 
 
Key Engineering Materials Vols. 340-341 333
