2二、計畫緣由與目的
環繞網狀網路(Torus Networks)在近年來被廣泛的使用在平行架構的系統上，典型的例子是 IBM 與
Livermore 實驗室共同打造的藍色基因(Bluegene/L)超級電腦，在 2004 年已經超過 NEC 的地球模擬器
(Earth Simulator)超級電腦，成為全世界最快的超級電腦，藍色基因使用五種網路架構，其中一種即為環
繞網狀網路，顯示了環繞網狀網路將成為超級電腦的先驅架構，也是提高超級電腦計算能力的關鍵架構。
多點傳輸(Multicast)是一種聚集通訊(Collective Communication)機制，單一的來源節點傳送相同的訊
息到數個目的節點。多點傳輸通訊以(s, K)表示，s 是來源節點，K是目的節點構成的集合，以 K={d1, d2 ,…,
dn}表示，如果目的節點只有一個，則多點傳輸即為單播(Unicast)，如果目的節點包含所有系統中的計算
節點，則多點傳輸即為廣播(Broadcast)。由此可知，多點傳輸是最普遍的通訊方式。
Dally與 Seitz 在[3]中提出使用蟲洞繞路(Wormhole Routing)的方式進行資料傳遞，其方法由於具有低
延遲(Low Latency)的特性，故廣泛使用在新一代的連結網路裡頭。在蟲洞繞路網路中，訊息被切割為許
多個片段(Flit)，以片段作為資料傳輸的單位，這些片段藉由管線(Pipeline)的方式在網路中傳送。因此蟲
洞繞路具有距離不敏感(Distance-Insensitive)的特性。然而，若表頭片段(Head Flit)被阻塞，則整條路徑剩
下的片段也會阻塞在每個計算節點路由器(Router)的暫存器(Buffer)中，進而造成死結(Deadlock)的發生。
死結是一種訊息永遠阻塞的情況，表示某些訊息正在等待處理器釋放因其他片段佔用的通道(Channel)
[6]。為了避免死結，是設計一個蟲洞繞路演算法最基本必須克服的問題。
多目的節點(Multidestination)訊息傳輸機制或以路徑為基礎之設備(Path-Based Facility)在[4]中已經證
明是個新的多點傳輸方式。多目的節點訊息有三個元件：表頭(Header)、資料(Data)與尾部(Tail)。表頭
包含多個目的節點的資訊，它允許資料複製一份到其中一個目的節點，且訊息可以繼續傳送至下一個目
的節點。多目的節點訊息僅需一個啟動時間就可以將訊息傳送到多個目的節點。
Lin et al.在[5]中提出以路徑為基礎(Path-Based)在直接網路(Direct Network)的無死結(Deadlock-Free)
多點傳輸蟲洞繞路演算法。作者利用新的繞路函數(Routing Function)嵌入漢米爾頓路徑(Hamiltonian Path)
以避免循環相依性(Cycle Dependence)。這樣的繞路函數是為了使訊息依照漢米爾頓路徑中的節點順序來
取得通道，如此可避免死結(Deadlock)的發生。以漢米爾頓路徑為基礎的多點傳輸繞路演算法已經引發
許多以路徑為基礎的的多點傳輸繞路演算法在各種不同的連結網路中[1, 2, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10]。
三、研究方法及成果
在本計畫中，我們提出一個在“環繞網狀網路(Torus Networks)”中之多點傳輸演算法。在此方法
中，我們首先介紹一個在環繞網狀網路中的漢米爾頓循環模式(Hamiltonian Cycle Model)。基於這個模
式，我們在環繞網狀網路使用蟲洞繞路的方式提出一個具漢米爾頓循環模式之多路徑(Multipath-HMC)
傳輸演算法。在所提出的多點傳輸演算法中，我們均勻的利用兩個子網路通道以減少訊息之路徑長度，
使得多點傳輸演算法在環繞網狀網路中更有效率。以下我們首先介紹該方法會用到的一些基本觀念，接
著提出我們的方法。
4圖一：在環狀網路(Ring Network)中具虛擬通道之通道網路: (a)高通道網路；(b)低通道網路。
以下我們介紹環繞網狀(Torus)網路下的漢米爾頓循環模式(Hamiltonian Cycle Model)。接著我們在這
個網路中提出一個多點傳輸演算法(Multicast Algorithm)。
3.1 環繞網狀(Torus)網路下的漢米爾頓循環模式(Hamiltonian Cycle Model)
我們首先針對環繞網狀 (Torus)給一個正式的定義，然後在環繞網狀 (Torus)網路中建構漢米爾頓循
環，並依節點在漢米爾頓循環之順序給定標號。根據網路中每一個節點的標號，我們能夠將網路切割為
二個子網路。網路在切割之後，實體的通訊連線區分兩個虛擬通道的方式來避免死結。基於漢米爾頓循
環模式，我們的多點傳輸演算法得以運作。
環繞網狀(Torus)的正式描述如下，一個 n維的環繞網狀(Torus)可以表示為 110  nkkk  ，其中 k i 表
示第 i個維度具有 k i 個節點，其中 10  ni 。每一個在 n維環繞網狀(Torus)中的節點 u可以由 n 個座
標所組成， )(,),(),( 021 uuu nn   ，其中 1)(0  ii ku ， 10  ni 。節點 u 和節點 v為二個位在環繞
網狀(Torus)中的鄰近節點，若且為若有 n-1 個 i，i(u) =i(v)， 10  ni ，但有一個 i， )(1)( vu ii  
mod ki。若 k i = k j， 1,0  nji ，則環繞網狀(Torus)是一種正規圖(Regular Graph)。
一個二維環繞網狀(Torus)包含許多漢米爾頓循環(Hamiltonian Cycle)。我們以[10]中的節點標號函數
來建構二維環繞網狀(Torus)中的漢米爾頓循環，此節點標號函數將給定每一個節點一個唯一的數字。二
維 nm 環繞網狀(Torus)之漢米爾頓循環的節點標號由 0 開始，之後節點標號依序為 1、2、…，直到節
點標號為mn-1，然後回到節點標號 0。因此漢米爾頓循環模式於節點標號 0開始與結束。為了在二維 nm
環繞網狀(Torus)上建構漢米爾頓循環模式，我們假設 m為偶數。
以下我們給定在二維 nm 環繞網狀(Torus)之節點標號函數 )(u ，我們假設 m是偶數，u是環繞網狀
(Torus)中的節點，其中 u的坐標為(x, y)、 10  mx 及 10  ny 。節點標號函數 )(u 公式如下。





oddisif,1--
evenisif,
)(
yxnny
yxny
u
在做多點傳輸時，必須考慮準備訊息演算法及繞路演算法。當節點要將一訊息傳送到多個目的節點
時，首先用多點傳輸之訊息準備演算法在訊息的標頭中準備目的節點清單(Destination List)，然後把目的
節點清單放入訊息的標頭中，以作為訊息繞路之依據，最後路由器根據繞路函數來決定訊息的繞路路
徑。在所提出的方法中，漢米爾頓循環模式的繞路函數 R可以視為 CNTNR : 。此函數將三種
屬性(現在節點、輸入通道、目的節點)對應到下一個通道。其中 N 代表網路的節點、T代表輸入的虛擬
通道的類型、C代表虛擬通道。依據[6]中所提出的座標位移量概念提出漢米爾頓循環模式的繞路函數，
),( yx gg 代表目前節點與目的節點的位移量，常數 X、Y 代表環繞網狀(Torus)的系統寬度(Width)與高度
(Height)。座標位移之計算描述如下。
6訊息被設計只能沿著一個子網路(高通道網路或低通道網路)來繞路。每一個子網路都是連通的，所
以在子網路中任何二個節點之間至少有一條路徑。訊息會沿著高通道網路或者低通道網路來繞路。此方
法在邊界前會使用 p-通道，在邊界後會使用 q-通道來傳輸。在圖二中介紹具虛擬通道之二維 44 環繞
網狀(Torus)網路的通道網路。
圖二：具虛擬通道之二維 44 環繞網狀(Torus)網路的通道網路: (a)高通道網路；(b)低通道網路。
3.2 環繞網狀(Torus)網路下的多點傳輸演算法(Multicast Algorithm)
讓我們舉一個例子來說明我們所提出之具漢米爾頓循環模式之多路徑(Multipath-HCM)多點傳輸演
算法。在圖三中，二維 44 環繞網狀(Torus)網路中之一多點傳輸(s, K)，其中 s = (1, 1)6及K = {(0, 0)0, (1,
0)1, (3, 1)4, (0, 1)7, (2, 2)10, (3, 2)11, (3, 3)12, (0, 3)15}，注意每一個節點的標號標示在節點右上角。首先
在圖三中我們使用具漢米爾頓循環模式之多路徑(Multipath-HCM)多點傳輸演算法來執行多點傳輸，來源
節點(1, 1)6使用[10]中提出之固定多點訊息準備演算法(Message Preparation Algorithm)來產生Mh與 Ml兩
個訊息，我們的方法延伸[10]中固定多點準備訊息演算法，進一步取得 Mh1、Mh2、M l1及 M l2四個訊息。
其中Mh1的標頭包含目的節點(0, 1)7，Mh2的標頭包含目的節點(2, 2)10, (3, 2)11, (3, 3)12，Ml1的標頭包含
目的節點(3, 1)4，Ml2的標頭包含目的點節點(1, 0)1, (0, 0)0, (0, 3)15。Mh1與Mh2沿著高通道網路來繞路，
其路徑長度分別為 1 及 4。Ml1與M l2沿著低通道網路來繞路，其路徑長度分別為 2及 3。因此，最長之
路徑長度為max(1, 4, 2, 3) = 4。
如果使用固定式(Fixed)多點傳輸繞路法，如圖五所示。最長之路徑長度為 max(6, 7) = 6。所以在二
維 44 環繞網狀(Torus)網路中，使用所提出的具漢米爾頓循環模式之多路徑(Multipath-HCM)多點傳輸繞
路演算使用傳統的固定多點傳輸法有效率。
80
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
Multicat size
M
ul
tic
as
tla
ten
cy
(m
icr
os
ec
on
ds
)
Multipath-HCM
Fixed
Dual-path
圖五：在 2D 32×32環繞網狀網路中使用 120 Flit的訊息長度，多點傳輸延遲時間對多點傳輸大小之效能。
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
40 80 120 160 200 240 280 320 360 400
Message length (flits)
M
ul
tic
as
tl
ate
nc
y
(m
ic
ro
se
co
nd
s)
Multipath-HCM
Fixed
Dual-path
圖六：在 2D 32×32環繞網狀網路中使用 120個節點的多點傳輸大小，多點傳輸延遲時間對訊息長度之
效能。
五、結論
我們在環繞網狀網路中使用蟲洞繞路的方式提出一個具漢米爾頓循環模式之多路徑(Multipath-HCM)
多點傳輸演算法，此方法使用多條路徑來做資料傳輸。所提出的多點傳輸演算法，均勻的使用兩個子網
路通道以減少訊息之路徑長度，使得多點傳輸演算法在環繞網狀網路更有效率。模擬結果顯示所提出之
具漢米爾頓循環模式之多路徑(Multipath-HCM)傳輸演算法在多點傳輸延遲效能優於固定(Fixed)及雙路
徑(Dual-path)傳輸演算法。
六、參考文獻
[1] T.-S. Chen, C.-Y. Chang, and J.-P. Sheu, “Efficient Multicast Communication in Multidestination
Wormhole-Routed Mesh Networks,” Proceedings of International Conference on Parallel and
Distributed Processing Techniques and Applications, Vol. II, pp. 674-681, July 1998.
[2] T.-S. Chen, N.-C. Wang, and C.-P. Chu, “Multicast Communication in Wormhole-Routed Star Graph
Interconnection Networks,” Parallel computing, pp. Vol. 26, No. 11, pp. 1459-1490, October 2000.
[3] W. J. Dally and C. L. Seitz, “The Torus Routing Chip,” Journal of Distributed Computing, Vol. 1, No. 3,
pp. 187-196, 1986.
[4] E. Fleury and P. Fraigniaud, “Strategies for Path-Based Multicasting in Wormhole-Routed Meshes,”
Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, Vol. 53, pp. 26-62, August 1998.
[5] X. Lin, P. K. McKinley, and L. M. Ni, “Deadlock-Free Multicast Wormhole Routing in 2D Mesh
1出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-239-052
計畫名稱 在環繞網狀網路上具漢米爾頓循環模式多點傳輸演算法之研究
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
王能中
國立聯合大學/助理教授
會議時間地點 2006 年 10 月 30 日至 11 月 1 日，新加坡
會議名稱
Tenth IEEE International Conference on Communication Systems (IEEE ICCS
2006)
第十屆 IEEE 通訊系統國際研討會(IEEE ICCS 2006)
發表論文題目
Extending RSVP for QoS Support in Heterogeneous Wireless Networks
在異質無線網路中針對即時性服務之延展性資源保留協定
一、參加會議經過
Tenth IEEE International Conference on Communication Systems (IEEE ICCS 2006)是一個
探討通訊系統相關領域的國際研討會，今年在新加坡舉行，提供學者發表通訊系統相關領域
之最近研究成果、新的想法與技術開發應用等。這次會議的舉辦時間是 10 月 30 日至 11 月 1
日，主要的研究課題如下。
(1) Antennas, propagation and channel modeling (2) Cognitive radio (3) Communication
software and electronics (4) Dynamic spectrum management (5) Grid networks (6) High
speed networks (7) Information theory (8) Microwave devices and systems (9) Mobile radio
communication systems (10) Modulation and coding (11) Network architecture (12) Network
Security (13) Optical communications and photonics (14) Optical networks (15) Resource
allocation, mobility management and QoS provisioning (16) Satellite communication (17)
Signal processing for communications (18) Space time processing and MIMO systems (19)
Speech, video and image processing (20) Spread spectrum systems (21) Ultra wideband
technology (22) Wireless ad-hoc and sensor networks
該國際會議在歷年的 Program Committee 皆網羅國外知名的研究學者與先進，因此該會議
是十分具學術地位的國際會議。該會議不僅使各國研究學者相互交換研究經驗，而且可拓展
各國在通訊系統相關領域之研究成果。
這次新加坡之旅，我在台灣事先做好行前的規劃。2006 年 10 月 30 日我從中正機場搭乘
中華航空公司之飛機至新加坡。首先安頓好開會的住所，接著便出席 IEEE ICCS 2006 會議。
參加該會議的有來自世界各地的學者，其中不僅吸引學術界的菁英參與且有不少業界的研發
人才共襄盛舉，個人聆聽演講並隨即和與會之各國學者交換研究心得。
二、與會心得
我的論文報告被安排在主題為「Mobility in Wireless Networks」之 Session，時間是 11 月
EXTENDING RSVP FOR QOS SUPPORT IN HETEROGENEOUS WIRELESS 
NETWORKS
Nen-Chung Wang1 and Jyh-Woei Jiang2
1Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
National United University, Miao-Li 360, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Email: ncwang@nuu.edu.tw 
2Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Chaoyang University of Technology, Taichung 413, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Email: s9327622@mail.cyut.edu.tw 
ABSTRACT
In the near future, wireless and mobile users will have increased 
demands for seamless roaming across different types of wireless 
networks, so it’s a significant issue of how to guarantee the 
quality of service (QoS) and support a variety of services. In this 
paper, we propose RSVP extensions for real-time services to 
guarantee the QoS with RSVP in heterogeneous wireless 
networks. We set an intersystem, “QoS Agent,” between the 
gateways of wireless local area networks (WLANs) and cellular 
networks to manage the mobility of mobile users, and use the 
schemes of resource pre-reservation and precise pre-reservation 
decision mechanism to reduce the delay time of re-routing while 
handoff occurs and guarantee the QoS of real-time services 
efficiently. Simulation results show that our proposed approach 
can reduce 52% waste of the whole network resources as the 
number of the WLANs is set to forty. 
Keywords: Heterogeneous wireless networks, mobility 
management, quality of service (QoS), real-time services, RSVP. 
1. INTRODUCTION 
With the development of real-time applications and wireless 
communication, there are growing demands for supporting 
different types of services, QoS guarantees, and seamless 
roaming across different types of wireless networks. To provide 
real-time multimedia services an enhanced architecture is 
required for a network. One of major components is the resource 
reservation protocol to setup the required states in the network 
elements to support the requested services. The resource 
reservation mechanism is essential for QoS provisioning. In this 
paper, we will focus on the resource reservation issue to provide 
real-time services in cellular and WLAN heterogeneous wireless 
networks.
Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP) is an attempt to 
provide real-time service through the use of virtual circuits. It is 
designed for the Integrated Services (IntServ) [3] model and has 
a number of attributes that make it be adopted as an Internet 
standard approved by Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). 
RSVP is not a routing protocol but a control protocol, which 
allows Internet real-time applications to reserve resources before 
they start transmitting data. 
Besides wired networking technologies, there exist a 
number of wireless communication technologies which can 
support multimedia streaming. However, they all differ in QoS 
provided to such applications. The Third-Generation Partnership 
Project (3GPP) [1] has standardized the Universal Mobile 
Telecommunications System (UMTS) as the future high-speed 
mobile telecommunication system that supports real-time and 
non-real-time multimedia services. UMTS provides users with 
multimedia streaming capabilities (e.g. video on demand, TV 
online program, video conferencing, and etc). UMTS also 
provides high mobility with wide area coverage and supports 
low to medium data rates. However, these rates are not sufficient 
to satisfy various data-intensive applications and the service 
charge is high. WLAN provides a higher speed data rate and low 
price, but covers only small areas and allows limited mobility. 
Consequently, the UMTS-WLAN interworking approaches [2, 5] 
can make the best use of the advantages of each type of network 
and eliminate the stand-alone defects of the two services. Future 
4G networks will integrate all the different networking 
technologies under the IP protocol, provide high bandwidth 
capabilities, and select the appropriate networking technology to 
meet the application QoS requirements when the context of the 
application changes. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 
introduces and discusses the related work and the issues of 
RSVP in mobile environments. Section 3 describes the proposed 
approach. The simulation results are illustrated in section 4. 
Finally, we make some conclusions in Section 5. 
2. RELATED WORK 
This section presents the overview of RSVP, some issues of 
RSVP support in mobile environments, and the related 
researches.
2.1. RSVP Overview 
RSVP provides receiver-oriented setup of resource reservation 
for multicast or unicast data flow and adapts dynamically to 
changing group membership and routes. RSVP reserves resource 
for simplex flows, for instant, it requests resource in only one 
1-4244-0411-8/06/$20.00 ©2006 IEEE.
conventional reservation (Con-REV) and pre-reservation (Pre-
REV). Conventional reservation reserves the bandwidth along 
the data flow in current cell from the sender to the current 
location on the wire-line and wireless bandwidth. The packets 
are practically transmitted over the conventional reservation link 
to the receiver. Pre-reservation reserves the bandwidth in the 
next cell where MN is roaming into. Actual packets are not 
transmitted over the pre-reservation link, and the bandwidth is 
reserved but not actually allocated on the link. 
Fig. 2 illustrates a reservation example of the proposed 
RSVP extensions. We proposed a QoS Agent (QA) with the 
RSVP extensions to manage the mobility of MNs and make the 
resource reservations for MNs. QA forwards the packets 
transmitted by the sender to MN over the conventional 
reservation link. 
W
LA
N
W
LA
N
3G
 N
etw
ork
Fig. 2. A reservation example of the proposed RSVP extensions. 
When MN moves into the overlaid area (from WLAN to 3G 
network in this case), if MN receives no other RSS of WLANs 
and the RSS of WLAN MN receiving is lower than the threshold 
S2 (as shown in Fig. 3), QA will make a pre-reservation for MN. 
To allocate resources for 3G network, QA should notify the 
gateway of 3G network and the NodeB will pre-reserve the code 
according to the using bandwidth of MN. 
In another case (from 3G network to WLAN), QA should 
make a pre-reservation for MN if the RSS of WLAN MN 
receiving is higher than the threshold S1. This kind of roaming 
we mentioned above is vertical handoff [5]. On the other hand, 
the handoff of MN in homogeneous networks is horizontal 
handoff [8]. For the quality of the wireless communication 
changes along with time, while the available bandwidth satisfies 
the lower-bound bandwidth of the arriving new flow, the pre-
reservation is successful, or it will be rejected. In horizontal 
handoff, as long as not triggering the vertical handoff, QA makes 
the pre-reservation for MN according to the RSS of WLAN or 
3G network which MN is in use according to the threshold S1.
That is to say, if MN is taking a horizontal handoff and the RSS 
of the new cell is higher than the threshold S1, the pre-
reservation link will be established. Consequently, there is just 
one case for QAs to make the pre-reservations according to the 
threshold S2.
WLAN
3G/UMTS
State
RSS
S1 S2
Fig. 3. The thresholds of pre-reservation. 
3.2. Functionality of QoS Agent 
A QoS agent has the following functionality:
1. QAs reside on the gateway of a site. QA intercepts all 
incoming packets and modifies the destination IP address 
from regional care-of-address (RCoA) to local care-of-
address (LCoA) of MNs according to the mapping table. 
Afterward the intermediate routers forward the packets to 
MNs by LCoA. 
2. Conventional reservation path is setup from MN to sender 
via QA to forward data of active real-time services. Pre-
reservation is to inform the intermediate routers to hold 
resources for passive real-time services. 
3. When an MN moves into the overlaid area and the RSS of 
the new cell is higher or lower than the thresholds, QA 
should make a pre-reservation for the MN. 
4. As an MN roams into another cell, QA should switch the 
data flow to active reservation path and tear down the old 
reservation.
5. When an MN moves to the edge of a site and the RSS of the 
new cell in another site is higher or lower than the thresholds, 
QA should inform the new QA to setup the QoS path in 
advance. Current QA should notify the new QA with the 
session information of the multicast group of the MN. The 
new QA can join the same multicast group and receive data 
and signaling packets by sending IGMP messages. As well, 
QA can use the IGMP to leave the multicast group when the 
MN is moved away from the site. 
3.3. RSVP Messages 
As follows, we present the RSVP extension messages to support 
the mobility of heterogeneous wireless networks and advanced 
reservation models for real-time services. 
1. RoamNotify: MN uses this message to notify the QA with the 
mobile profile and the visiting location. 
2. Pre-reserveNotify: QA uses this message to notify the next 
visiting access gateway to make a pre-reservation. 
3. MGroupJoin: QA uses this message to inform the next 
visiting QA to join the same multicast group and make a pre-
