 1 
一、中英文摘要 
(1) 中文摘要 
  
這是一個為期三年的研究計畫，所探討的是關於計算幾何理論之技巧及應用，並更
進一步的用來解決不同領域的問題，如設施定位 (facility location) 問題、圖論最佳化問
題及計算生物學。在這份研究成果報告中所敘述的問題包括：地圖標記 (map labeling) 
問題、時間凸集 (time convex hull) 問題、電力支配 (power domination) 問題、容量支
配 (capacitated domination) 問題、總和選擇 (sum selection) 問題及密度選擇 (density 
selection) 問題。這些問題不但在各個領域內的理論研究上有著相當的代表性，同時也
具有重要的實際應用。對上述的各個問題，我們都獲得了相當不錯的成果，並且發表在
一流的期刊和國際會議上。 
 
關鍵詞: 幾何計算、地圖標記、時間凸集、圖論演算法、電力支配、容量支配、設施定
位、計算生物學、總和選擇、密度選擇 
 
(2) Abstract 
     
This 3-year research project studied algorithm designing techniques in computational 
geometry and investigated their applicability to problems in different fields, such as facility 
location, graph-theoretic optimization, and computational biology. We mainly focused on the 
following problems: the map labeling problem, the time convex hull problem, the power 
domination problem, the capacitated domination problem, the sum selection problem, and the 
density selection problem. These problems are both of theoretical interest and of practical 
importance. In this final report, we give a summary of our remarkable progress in these 
problems. Most of the results have been accepted either for publication in scientific journals 
or for presentation at international conferences. 
 
Keywords: geometric computing, map labeling, time convex hull, graph algorithm, power 
domination, capacitated domination, facility location, computational biology, 
sum selection, density selection 
 
二、報告內容 
 
Computational geometry has become a major field of research in computer science since the 
late 1970s. During three decades, a tremendous amount of geometric computing techniques have 
been developed, and their applications cover many different areas, from computer graphics and 
imaging, geographical information systems to computational biology and astrophysics. It is our 
attempt to bring the results and our expertise in computational geometry to more different areas 
 3 
transportation highway. The traveling speed in the plane is assumed to be much slower than that 
along the highway. The shortest time path between two arbitrary points is either the straight-line 
segment connecting these two points or a polygonal path that passes through a portion of the 
highway. The time convex hull, CHt(P), of a set P of n points is the smallest set containing P such 
that all the shortest time paths between any two points lie in CHt(P). For this problem, we 
proposed the first optimal Θ(n log n) time algorithm, which has been presented in ISVD 2007 
[13]. 
 
3. Power domination 
The power domination problem arises in the following application. To continually monitor 
the power system and observe all the states, like: voltage magnitude at loads and the current 
phase measurement at branches is an important task for electric power companies [2]. Placing 
phase measurement units (PMUs) at selected bus locations in the power system is one of the 
efficient methods to monitor the power system. Because of their high cost, the number of PMUs 
has to be minimized while maintaining the ability to monitor and observe the system. 
Let G = (V, E) be a graph representation of an electric power system, where a vertex 
represents an electric node (a substation bus where transmission branches, loads, and generators 
are connected) and an edge represents a transmission branch joining two electric nodes. A vertex 
subset S of V is said to be a power dominating set (PDS) if S observes every vertex and edge in G 
according to the following observation rules: 
(1) Any vertex where a PMU is placed and its incident edges are observed. 
(2) If one end vertex of an observed edge is observed, then the other end vertex is observed. 
(3) An edge connecting two observed vertices is observed. 
(4) If a vertex is of degree k > 1, and k – 1 of these incident edges are observed, then all k 
incident edges are observed. 
We have previously studied the power domination problem for interval graphs and proper 
circular-arc graphs, and have proposed linear-time algorithms for them [6], provided that the 
endpoints of the corresponding interval model or circular-arc model have been given sorted. In 
this project, we extended the approach to present a polynomial-time algorithm to solve the 
problem for the general circular-arc graphs. This result was summarized in [7].  
 
4. Capacitated domination 
The domination problem on graphs is one of the well-known combinatorial optimization 
problems. By introducing the notions of capacity and demand, we proposed to study a more 
 5 
extended to define the k maximum sums problem, which is to find the k feasible segments such 
that their sums are the k largest over all feasible segments. For the sum selection problem, we 
proposed a deterministic O(n log n)-time algorithm and a randomized O(n log (u–l))-time 
algorithm. For the k maximum sums problem, we proposed a deterministic O(n log n + k)-time 
algorithm and a randomized O(n log (u–l) + k)-time algorithm. Furthermore, we studied a closely 
related problem, called the sum range query problem. Given two real numbers sl, sr with sl ≤ sr, 
the sum range query problem is to report or count all feasible segment A(i, j) such that their sums 
s(i, j) satisfy sl ≤ s(i, j) ≤ sr. We showed that the reporting version of this problem can be solved in 
O(n log (u–l) + h) time, where h is the output size, and the counting version can be solved in O(n 
log (u–l)) time. The results mentioned above have been summarized and presented in ISAAC 
2006 [9] and published in Theoretical Computer Science [10]. 
Similarly, given two positive real numbers l, u with l ≤ u and an integer 1 ≤ k ≤ n(n–1)/2, the 
density selection problem is to find the feasible segment A(i, j) such that its density d(i, j) = a(i, 
j)/w(i, j) is the kth smallest among those of all feasible segments. The k maximum densities 
problem is to find the k feasible segments such that their densities are the k largest over all 
feasible segments. Given two real numbers dl, dr with dl ≤ dr, the density range query problem is 
to report or count all feasible segments A(i, j) such that their densities d(i, j) satisfy dl ≤ d(i, j) ≤ dr. 
For the density selection problem, we proposed a randomized algorithm that runs in optimal 
expected O(n log n) time. For the density range query problem, we showed that the reporting 
version of this problem can be solved in optimal O(n log m + h) time, where m = (u–l)/mini{wi} 
and h is the output size, and the counting version can be solved in optimal O(n log m) time. Using 
these algorithms, the k maximum densities problem can also be solved in expected O(n log n + k) 
time. These results have been presented in ISAAC 2009 [11]. 
We also considered a variation of density selection problem, called the density finding 
problem. Given two positive real numbers l, u with l ≤ u and a real number δ, the problem is to 
find the feasible segment A(i, j) minimizing |d(i, j) – δ|. We showed that the density finding 
problem has a lower bound Ω(n log n) time in the algebraic computation tree model. For the case 
that u = w(1, n), we proposed an optimal O(n log n)-time and O(n log n)-space algorithm for this 
problem. For the general case, we presented an algorithm that runs in O(n log2 m) time and O(n + 
m log m) space, where m = (u–l)/mini{wi}. As a byproduct, we gave an O(n) time algorithm for 
the maximum-density segment problem, a special case of the k maximum densities problem where 
k = 1. These results have been published in Algorithmica. [8] 
 
三、參考文獻 
