2行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告
半導體材料與元件光電特性之量測及研究(2/2)
Measurements and Characterization of The Optoelectronic Properties of
Semiconductor Materials and Devices
計畫編號：NSC 94－2215－E－259－001－
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日
全程執行：93 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日(2 年期)
主持人：何清華 國立東華大學材料科學與工程學系
計畫參與人員：黃國維,林淑玲,林茂源,
李佶翰,粱逸翔,謝明宏 碩士班研究生
E-mail: chho@mail.ndhu.edu.tw
目 錄
一. 摘要 ………………………… 3
二. 緒論 ………………………… 4
三. 實驗部分 …………………… 5
四. 結果與討論 ………………… 7
五. 計畫成果自評 ……………… 14
六. 參考文獻 …………………… 15
4二、緒論
As a result of rapid development in semiconductor manufacture, optoelectronic devices such as
light-emitting diodes (LEDs) and laser diodes (LDs), microwave devices such as
high-electron-mobility transistors (HEMTs) and heterojunction bipolar transistors (HBTs), and
optical detectors such as as p-I-n diodes and avalanche photodiodes (APDs) have been successfully
fabricated by various expitaxial growth techniques. To improve device and material qualities,
optical inspection of optoelectronic devices and materials by spectral characterization of
luminescence, transmittance, and reflectance is more effective during manufacture. The line shape
of transition features in the optical spectra of luminescence, transmittance, and reflectance can be
analyzed in detail to yield related information about crystalline, energy state, and structural
properties of optoelectronic materials and devices.
Among the various spectral characterization techniques, photoluminescence (PL) and
photoreflectance (PR) spectroscopy are usually the most important characterization tools for
optical investigation of semiconductors. Both PL and PR techniques offer a contactless and
nondestructive probing method for studying optoelectronic materials and devices, and different
kinds of optical information can be acquired by the two measurement techniques. PL is a popular
characterization tool for studying optical radiation emitted from a material or a device structure
upon external light excitation. PL emissions may result from various radiative recombination
mechanisms, such as direct bandgap, intersubband energies, excitonic states, defect states, and
impurity level mechanisms. The physical mechanism of carrier generation and recombination for
PL makes this technique more powerful for studying the luminescent property of materials near
and below the fundamental edge.
For the characterization of interband transitions above the band edge, modulation spectroscopy
methods, such as PR, piezoreflectance (PzR), and thermoreflectance (TR) spectroscopy, have
proved to be excellent for studying direct interband transitions seen in the derivative line shapes of
optical spectra. In a PR experiment the electric field is modulated in a sample through the creation
of electron–hole pairs by a pump source (laser or other light source) chopped at some frequency.
The periodic photoperturbation of the sample will result in a derivativelike spectral line feature that
occurs at the critical-point transition of the reflectance spectrum. The feature’s derivativelike 
nature suppresses uninteresting background effects and emphasizes structures localized in the
energy region near direct interband transitions of semiconductors. The well-resolved property of
the PR spectra makes this experimental technique very popular for use in the characterization of
semiconductor and actual device structures. Although the PL and PR techniques are powerful and
can also be used as complementary tools for the optical characterization of semiconductors, each
6and focused onto the spectrometer via a planar–convex lens. The PL measurements were
performed by programming the control of the spectrometer and DAQ unit via the RS-232 bus
connections.
Fig. 1. Experimental setup of the PL–PR system used for PL and PR measurements of
semiconductors
For PR measurements, a dc 3-V tungsten halogen lamp acted as the white-light source. The
white light was focused onto the sample via a planar–convex lens. The reflected light from the
sample was collected and focused onto an imaging spectrometer by another planar–convex lens.
A He–Ne laser (p=632.8 nm) together with a neutral-density filter (ND 2.0) acted as the
modulation light source of the HEMT sample. A 532-nm Nd–YAG laser combined with an ND
3.0 (0.1%) neutral-density filter was used for modulation of the DHBT device. A TE-cooled
InGaAs detector operated at ~0C was utilized for optical detection. A pair of
visible-dichroic-sheet polarizers was utilized to perform the polarization-dependent
measurements of the DHBT. The PR spectral measurements were implemented by first measuring
and recording the spectral data of the white-light source reflected from the sample surface (i.e., R)
and then detecting the change in reflection of the sample (i.e.,R) after photo perturbations. Note
that this PL–PR system can avoid background-light interference arising from the pump laser
because of the dispersion property of the imaging spectrometer, which prevents detection of the
laser wavelength. It has an enhanced S/N ratio of signal detection with respect to a conventional
PR system.
DVD
DVD
PR
PL
+
DC 3V
halogen lamp
PC
Sample
holder
Lens
He-Ne
laser
Ref.
out
Chopper driver PMT
TE-cooled
InGaAs
TE cooler
Lock-in
MM1
3 GRTs
DAQ unit
R
S-
23
2
B
us
Spectrometer
Ref. in
V in
I in
HV out
DC output
TE cooler
DAQ unit
COM 2
COM 1
8Fig. 2. Representative energy band diagram of a selective sample of
InxGa1–xAs/GaAs graded-channel HEMT.
Fig. 3. Experimental PR and PL spectra of the InxGa1–xAs/GaAs graded-channel
HEMT device.
x = 0.25 x = 0.15
Si
doped
i - GaAs
cap layer
e-
(400 Å)
i - GaAs
spacer
(80 Å)
W = 90 Å
EF
i - InxGa1-xAs
graded channel
i - GaAs
buffer
(1m)
E1
HH1
HH2
HH3
21H
E2
1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8
CA
x1 x15
channel transitions
H (GaAs)
EDCBA
HEMT
300 K
PL & PR
PL
PR
FKOs
In
te
ns
ity
&
R
/R
(A
rb
.U
ni
ts
)
Photon Energy (eV)
10
channel layer are assumed to be 0.058 and 0.326. The fitting parameters are Dj, Ej(mn), j, and
)(mE j , respectively. The obtained intersubband energies of the well transitions Ej(mn) in Fig. 3 are
indicated with arrows and are listed in Table 2. It must be noted that the line shapes of the PR
spectrum of the graded-channel HEMT are uncommon for modulation spectroscopy from a
quantum-well system in which 11H is usually the dominant feature. In Fig. 3 the feature associated
with 11H (feature A) is small in comparison with the other transitions. The reasons for the weak
11H transition are the GaAs/InxGa1–xAs conduction band discontinuity and that the-doped layer
introduces a large density of 2DEG into the InGaAs grading well. The Fermi level is lifted over the
first conduction subband, and hence this subband is almost fully occupied by 2DEG. Consequently,
the strength of the transition from the first valence subband to the first conduction subband is
reduced dramatically, resulting in the weaker 11H feature. More evidence of the 11H feature in the
graded-channel HEMT can be observed from the PL spectrum shown in Fig. 3. The maximum
luminescent intensity of a quantum well for the PL measurement generally occurs in the
ground-state recombination. In the PL spectrum of Fig. 3 the energy location of feature A has
nearly the largest spectral amplitude of luminescence, which can be attributed to intersubband
recombination from the 11H transition. The luminescence feature located at ~1.3 eV is the 21H
transition arising from the recombination of the second conduction subband with the first valence
subband (see Fig. 2). The energy value of the Fermi-level location CF EE 1 can also be
determined to be (62) meV for the graded-channel HEMT. The sheet density Ns, for the case of a
broadened steplike 2D density of electron states [2D(E,)], can be expressed as
dEkTEEEN Fs
1
0 D2
}1]/){exp[(),(ρ 

 , (6)
where
]}/)[(tan)/1(2/1{)/(),( 12*D2 m
m
C
me EEmE     . (7)
From Eqs. (6) and (7) we can evaluate the sheet density Ns of the graded-channel HEMT and
list it in Table 2.
The FKOs in the PR spectrum of Fig. 3 can also be analyzed to yield the built-in electric field
at the GaAs interface. The position of the nth extremum in the FKOs can be expressed as
χ]/))[(3/4( 2/30  EEn n , (8)
12
(InGaP) indicates that the E1 transition measured by [110]||E polarization is lower in energy
than the E2 transition of 0]1[1||E polarization. The transition energies of E1 and E2 can be
analyzed by using Eq. (1) and are determined to be E1=1.8430.008 and E2=1.8560.008 eV,
respectively. The optical anisotropy in the emitter region is caused by the ordering dependency of
the In–Ga sublattice inside the InGaP single crystal. For a more ordered InGaP crystal, the energy
difference of E2–E1 is usually higher than a disordered one. There are also two obvious FKOs
(denoted FKO1 and FKO2) found in both PPR spectra of Fig. 5. FKO1 and FKO2 are closely
related to the built-in electric fields at the collector and emitter interfaces. The built-in electric
fields Fcollector and Femitter of the DHBT can also be evaluated from Eqs. (8)–(10) by taking into
account the electron and heavy-hole effective masses of 0.067 and 0.34 for GaAs (collector) and
0.118 and 0.66 for InGaP (emitter), respectively. According to the evaluations, the electric fields
in the collector and the emitter regions are determined to be Fcollector=746 kV/cm and
Femitter=1608 kV/cm by neglecting any dependence of the masses on ordering. The feature at
~1.2eV (EB) in Fig. 5 is attributed to the transition of InGaAsN from the base region, while the
other transition at ~1.36 eV may come from the conducting cap layer of InGaAs. The transition
feature at ~1.42 eV (EC) originates from the collector region of the GaAs layer.
Fig. 4. Structure of the device’s epilayers for an InGaP/InGaAsN/GaAs DHBT 
sample.
n+ GaAs
p+ InGaAsN
(1m)
n- InGaAs Grading layer
n- GaAs
n+ GaAs
Collector layer
SI-GaAs Substrate
Base layer
(70 nm)
n InGaP Emitter layer(50 nm)
Cap emitter layer
(100 nm)
n+ InGaAs Contact cap layer(60 nm)
E (N)
B (P)
C (N)
14
五、計畫成果自評
在二年計畫的執行過程裡，我們建構發展了實用的光電半導體的光譜量測技術，並研
究探討了許多半導體材料與元件結構樣品的光學特性，相關研究成果已發表於國際期刊
中，在這當中我們所研究探討過的元件結構及材料包括 InGaAs/GaAs HEMT,
InGaP/InGaAsN/GaAs DHBT, ReS2, Ge(Se1-xSx)2, GaSe1-xSx, ZnO/Si 及 SiN/GaAs 等,計畫之進
行與研究進度之規劃也都頗能配合一致，我們綜合這二年的計畫執行成效其所發表的研究
成果可整理如下:
(一) 第一年 (NSC93-2215-E-259-002)
1. “Practical PL and PR spectroscopic system for optical characterization of semiconductor 
devices”, Optics Express, Vol. 13, pp. 3951-3960.
2. “Polarized thermoreflectance study of the structural change in ReS2 single crystals”, 
Optics Express, Vol. 13, pp. 8-19.
3. “Thermoreflectance study of the electronic structure of Ge(Se1-xSx)2”, Phys. Rev. B, Vol.
72, pp. 125313-1 to 125313-7.
4. “Crystal structure and electronic structure of GaSe1-xSx series layered solids”,J. Crystal
Growth, Vol. 279, pp. 321-328.
5. “Characterization of Ge(Se1-xSx)2 series layered crystals grown by vertical Bridgman
method”,J. Crystal Growth, Vol. 281, pp. 377-383.
(二) 第二年 (NSC94-2215-E-259-001)
1. “Photoreflectance and Photoluminescence Study of InxGa1-xAs/GaAs Graded-Channel
High Electron Mobility Transistors”, J. Electrochem. Soc., Vol. 153, pp. G966-G969.
2. “Band-edge Transitions of a Metalorganic Chemical Vapor Deposited ZnO Film on Si by
Thermoreflectance Spectroscopy”, Electrochemical and Solid-State Letters, Vol. 9, pp.
G312-G315.
3. “Characterization of gap states in an amorphous SiNx film grown on GaAs substrate
using modulation spectroscopic techniques”, Electrochemical and Solid-State Letters,
Vol. 9, pp. G181-G183.
4. “Improved InAlGaP-based heterostructure field-effect transistors”,Semicond. Sci. Tech.,
Vol. 21, pp. 540-543.
