1中文摘要
本計劃以添加琥珀酸作為纖維分支生長前驅物的方式，經由靜電導引自我組裝法，成功的製備出具
有三維網狀奈米結構的幾丁聚醣/聚丙烯酸複合膜。計畫中針對複合物溶液最終酸鹼值、幾丁聚醣濃度、
聚丙烯酸/幾丁聚醣相對體積比對於所形成奈米纖維的平均尺寸、表面電荷以及網絡形成趨勢做了系統性
的研究。實驗結果顯示在酸鹼值為3的環境下，幾丁聚醣濃度為0.01重量百分比，而聚丙烯酸對於幾丁聚
醣的體積比在2:1至1:2之間可獲得最小直徑尺寸的分布。 具有負電荷且平均直徑為215nm的奈米纖維結
構在聚丙烯酸對幾丁聚醣體積比為2:1時可獲得。三維空間網狀結構的形成主要是由結晶態的琥珀酸造成
的分支效應所影響。將此具有三維奈米纖維網狀結構的聚丙烯酸/幾丁聚醣複合膜在室溫下針對低濃度氨
氣進行感測時發現，在相對濕度為45%時，其靈敏度為一般連續膜的八倍。此結果証實三維空間奈米纖
維結構可大大提升感測器的靈敏度。
Abstract
Chitosan-poly(acrylic acid) composite membrane with 3D network nano-structure was prepared through a
electrostatic interaction process by adding succinic acid as branch promoters. Variations in final solution pH
value, concentration of chitosan and poly(acrylic acid)/chitosan volume ratio was examined systematically for
their effects on average fiber diameter size, intensity of surface charge, and tendency of network formation. It
was found that nanofiber size was affected by the mixing ratio of poly(acrylic acid) and chitosan, the
concentration of chitosan and the final pH of the chitosan-poly(acrylic acid) solution as well. The smallest
diameter size distribution of the scaffold can be obtained when the poly(acrylic acid)/chitosan ratio is in the
range between 2:1 and 1:2 at pH 3 environment. Negative charge nanofibers have average diameter of 215 nm
and prepared using poly(acrylic acid) and chitosan in a ratio of 2:1 at pH 3 environments. The formation of the
interconnecting 3D self-organized network structure can be built up with limited parasitic branching by
crystallized succinic acid. The gas-response to ammonia includes sensitivity and response time was also
evaluated by impedance spectroscopy at room temperature. The results of sensing experiments indicated that
the sensitivity of nanofibrous membranes coated sensors was eight times higher than that of continuous films
coated sensors. Meanwhile, the nanofibrous membranes coated sensors exhibited high sensitivity towards low
concentration of ammonia, as low as 50 ppm at the relative humidity of 45%.
Keywords: chitosan; poly(acrylic acid); impedance spectroscopy; gas sensor; nanofiber
3be adsorbed effectively on the growing tips to disrupt and hinder the normal growth of the fibers in the axial
orientations. The branching promoters molecules should possess the following characteristics: (1) Large
molecule with a relatively rigid basic structure: the rigidity of additive molecules can result from
intra-molecular bonding or hindered rotation. (2) Stronger interaction between additives and the crystal surface
will lead to a stronger adsorption at the surface. (3) The adsorbed additives should interrupt the growth of
crystal layers along the crystal surface. (4) The concentration of additives also plays a certain role.18 Thus,
based on the principle of the selection of branching promoters, carboxylic acid such as succinic, lactic and
malic acid are used in this study.
Here, we demonstrate a route to fabricate 3D fibrous network structure formed by interconnecting CS-PAA
nanosized fibers. We started with polyelectrolyte complexes formed between PAA with carboxylic groups and
CS with amino group. When branching promoter was added, then quench and freezing drying, a 3D fibrous
network structure formed by interconnecting CS-PAA nanosized fibers could be obtained. The effects of
preparation conditions, such as the branching promoter, freezing temperature, mixing ratio of CS and PAA,
concentration of chitosan and the pH of carboxylic acid solution on the morphology of the nanofibrous structure
were investigated. The resultant CS-PAA nanofibers were characterized by means of different techniques, such
as X-ray diffraction (XRD), Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) spectroscopy, zeta potential, scanning and
transmission electron microscopy methods. Furthermore, the sensing performance of the CS-PAA nanofibrous
structure includes sensitivity and response time was also evaluated by impedance spectroscopy.
EXPERIMENTAL
Material and methods
Chitosan (CS, M w = 40,0000) was purchased from Fluka biochemical (USA). The degree of deacetylation
was about 88% determined by IR method. Poly (acrylic acid) (PAA, viscosity 8000~12000cp) was obtained by
Showa (Japan). Acetic acid, maleic acid and succinic acid were obtained from Fluka (USA). All other reagents
were of analytical grade and used without further purification.
Preparation of CS-PAA nanofibers and nanofibrous structure
Three kinds of carboxylic acid include lactic, malic and succinic acid powder were used as branching promoter
and added to 100 ml de-ionized water at a concentration of 0.137 M. CS flakes were dissolved in carboxylic
acid solution at a concentration of 0.01, 0.05 and 0.1 wt%. The PAA solution was also dissolved in de-ionized
water at 1 %. When CS solution was added into PAA solution in a volume ratio of 5:1, 3:1, 2:1, 1:1, 1:2, 1:3
and 1:5 at a dropping rate of 1 drop/sec using a syringe connected to a peristaltic pump, the reaction mixtures
was formed. The final pH value of the reaction mixture solution was adjusted to pH=3, 3.6 and 4 by adding
carboxylic acid solution (0.137 M) and stirred for 1 day at 25°C then CS-PAA nanofibers can be obtained. Then
the reaction mixture was solidified in liquid nitrogen (−70 °C) and freeze-dried for 2 days. The frozen complex
was then dipped into a 0.01 M sodium hydroxide solution for the removal of remaining carboxylic acid. After
being washed with water, the precipitates were kept at -55°C for 1 day and then freeze-dried again.
Characterization of CS-PAA nanofibers and nanofibrous scaffold
The images of CS-PAA nanofibrous structure were obtained using a scanning electron microscope (SEM,
S-4100, Hitachi, Japan) operating at 15.0 keV, in which the specimens were Pt-coated prior to examination.
Mean diameter and size distribution of the CS-PAA of nanofibers were determined by measuring the diameters
of nanofibers at 100 different points in a 511×479 SEM image.Samples for transmission electron microscopy
(TEM; JEOL 3100) were extracted from the reaction and then washed with de-ionized water. All samples were
sonicated in a water/ethanol mixture for 10 min before the TEM observation. FT-IR spectra were measured by a
fourier transform infrared spectroscopy-attenuated total reflectance spectrometer (FTIR-ATR, Nicolet Nexus
470, Thermo Nicolet Corporation, USA) to determine the chemical interaction between CS and PAA. The
spectra were collected from 4000 to 400 cm-1 with 4 cm-1 resolution over 40 scans. The crystal structure of
CS-PAA nanostructure was observed determined using an X-ray diffractometer (XRD, Rigaku, Japan) at a
scanning rate of 4o/min for 2θ from 10o to 50 o with a Cu KR X-ray source. Zeta potential of the nanofiber was
obtained with Malvern Zetasizer 3000 HS (Herrenberg, Germany). Each sample of the nanofiber suspension
was adjusted to a concentration of 0.01 wt% in de-ionized water or in 0.01 M sodium chloride solution in the
case of zeta potential examination. All analyses were triplicated and the results were the average of three runs.
Fabrication of CS-PAA nanofibrous sensor
CS were dissolved in succinic acid solution at a concentration of 0.01 wt% and the final pH value was
adjusted to pH=3, and stirred for 1 day at 25°C The CS solution was then added into PAA solution (1 %) in a
volume ratio of 1:2 at a dropping rate of 1 drop/sec using a syringe connected to a peristaltic pump. The
5proportion. Increasing the relative amount of PAA or chitosan causes an increase in DLS measured fiber size up
to 400 nm for the ratios tested. This result suggested that the ratio of PAA to CS have an influence on the
diameter size of nanofibers. When the ratio of PAA/CS decreases from 1 to less than 0.5, the size of CS-PAA
nanofibers obtained increases from 180 to 225 nm. On the other hand, when the ratio of PAA/CS is higher than
2, the size of nanofibers increased with the increase in the ratio of PAA/CS. Meanwhile, as the ratio of PAA/CS
increases, the zeta potential of CS-PAA nanofibers decreases monotonously and undergoes a transformation
from a positive potential to a negative potential around PAA/CS of 2. The negative charge surface of CS-PAA
nanofibers is same as to other PAA nanofibers prepared by electrospinning because of the anionic characteristic
of PAA.11 It indicate that as the content of PAA excesses than CS, some of the excessive PAA will be absorbed
onto the surface of CS-PAA nanofibers, which will decrease the surface charges of CS-PAA nanofibers and
resulting in the decrease of zeta potential. On the contrary, as the content of CS excess than PAA
(PAA:CS=1:2), some CS-PAA nanoparticles presented in fiber network (Fig. 2 (a)) resulted in the increase of
zeta potential.
Effect of concentration of CS on the mean diameter of nanofibrous structure
The effects of the concentrations of CS on the morphologies of CS-PAA nanostructures are investigated.
When the concentration of CS varies from 0.01 wt% to 0.1 wt%, the average diameter of all the CS-PAA
nanofibers increases from 215 to 560 nm as estimated from SEM image. It was found that the morphology of
the nanofibrous scaffold changed gradually from the uniform network structure to the entangled fiber-structure
with increasing concentration of the solution. Fig. 4 shows the average diameter of the CS-PAA nanofibrous
scaffold as a function of CS concentration. These images reveal that the average diameter of the CS-PAA
nanofibers can be controlled by changing the concentration of CS; in addition, these kinds of nanofibers can be
repeatedly produced, and the yield is very high.
Characterization of succinic acid-derived CS-PAA scaffold
Fig. 5 shows the FT-IR spectra for PAA, pure CS, and succinic acid-derived CS-PAA nanofibrous scaffold
in the region from 4000 to 400 cm-1. In the FTIR spectrum of PAA (Fig. 5 (a)), the peaks around 1750, 1465,
and 1405 cm-1 are attributed to the stretching of C=O,-COO- (asymmetric) and -COO- (symmetric), respectively.
The intensities of the amide I band at 1665 cm-1 and the amide II band at 1580 cm-1 can be clearly observed in
pure chitosan. However, in succinic acid-derived CS-PAA complex, the two characteristic peaks of chitosan
decrease dramatically, and a new band around 1690 cm-1, which can be assigned to C=O stretching vibration of
carboxyl groups. Additionally, a new band at 1558 cm-1 is observed due to the asymmetric stretching of -COO-
groups of PAA. This -COO- stretch peak exhibits a large shift to higher wavenumbers, as well as a decrease in
intensity. This peak is specific to ionic binding. As protonated amino groups from chitosan complex with COO-
groups in the PAA through electrostatic interaction, the charge density, the radius, and the atomic weight of the
cation are changed, creating a new environment around the carbonyl group. Hence, a peak shift would be
expected.22
XRD patterns of PAA, CS and succinic acid-derived CS-PAA nanofibrous scaffold are shown in Fig. 6.
Chitosan exhibited a typical peak that appeared at 2θ=20°. These peaks were assigned to be (101) and (002),
respectively.21 A broad reflection peak is obtained for PAA, indicating that PAA has an inferior crystallinity.
However, the peak of CS at 20° became disappeared in the CS-PAA nanofibrous scaffold and a broaden peak
were formed at 23.8。. This demonstrates that cross-linking occurs and the new polymer complex has an inferior
crystallinity meaning that it is amorphous, not crystalline. When a polymer complex between CS and PAA is
formed, amino and hydroxyl groups in CS reacts with carboxylic groups of PAA. This may break the hydrogen
bonding between amino groups and hydroxyl groups in chitosan and then results in amorphous structure of
polymer complex.23 The XRD implicated greater disarray in chain alignment in the nanofibrous scaffold after
crosslinks.
Gas sensing properties of CS-PAA casting film (CF) and nanofibrous membrane (NM) sensors to
ammonia
It is well known that the sensitivity of sensors is strongly related with the morphology of coating
materials.24 The comparison between the CF and NM sensors for detection of ammonia was made. The casting
film showed a relatively smooth without interconnected 3-D network structures compared with the nanofibrous
membrane.
The NM sensors showed the larger response compared with CF obviously. This behavior can be explains
by a sensitivity calculation. The intersection of the impedance diagram with the real axis represents the value of
the layer resistance and corresponds to the d.c. value. The sensitivity (S) was determined by the equation
7Figure 1. TEM images of CS-PAA complex from suspension solution as prepared by dropping method with (a)
lactic acid (b) malic acid (c) succinic acid as a solvent. (prepared condition: PAA/CS=1, pH=4)
Figure 2. SEM morphology of CS-PAA scaffold prepared with different PAA/CS volume ratio (a) 1:2 (b) 1:1
and (c) 2:1 at pH 3 values.
10μm
(a)
10μm
(b)
10μm
(c)
0.2μm
0.2μm
0.2μm
(a) (b)
(c)
