Abstract
Posterior spinal surgery was widely accepted for managing in spinal trauma, degenerative
spinal disease, or spinal instability. Several reports showed paraspinal muscles swelling and
edematous change after posterior spinal surgery due to intraoperative retractor application.
Changes in paraspinal muscles after surgical manipulation not only cause wound pain but also
may be the important part of the muscular injury mechanisms. It may also contribute to the
indirect factors of spinal instability and induce low back pain after surgical procedures. In spite
of this, very few data exist regarding the mechanisms of paraspinal muscle inflammatory change
after surgery and few studies focus on oxidative stress or lipid peroxidation results were known.
Melatonin, as we know, a hormone secreted from pineal gland, acts not only for circadian
rhythms, but also direct free radical scavengers and antioxidants. We therefore will propose the
experimental model to evaluate the changes in histological, leukocyte activation, oxidative
stress and electrophysiology.
Background
Posterior spinal surgery was widely accepted to treat spinal trauma, degenerative disease and
spinal instability [1]. But changes in the soft tissues in mechanical disorders of the lumbar spine
are poorly understood and little is known with regards to their role in the generation of low back
pain, particularly following posterior spinal surgical intervention. Recent studies have
implicated the paraspinal muscles of the lumbar spine in spinal stability and functions,
demonstrating localized segmental dysfunction after an initial acute or subacute episode of low
back pain.[2,3] The influence of posterior spinal surgery on the structure, morphological change
herein investigate the retraction induces oxidative stress within the muscles. We will also seek
the correlations between histopathological changes and electrophysiological alteration and
immunohistochemistry characters.
Research design and Methods:
A. Animal Model
1. The study will be employed according the guidelines of the National Institutes of
Health (Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals) and have been approval by
the National Cheng Kung University animal ethics committee.
2. An animal model was set up to miniaturize posterior lumbar spinal surgery in humans.
Animals (adult male Sprague-Dawley rats, weighing more than 500g) supplied by the
Animal Laboratory of National Cheng Kung University Medical School will be
allowed free access to food and water before surgery.
3. Inhalation halothane anesthesia (1-2% in 60%N2O/40%O2) will be used in free
breathing animals whose body temperature will be kept stable at 37±0.5℃ using a
heating pad and rectal probe (Havard Apparatus, MA).
4. Animals will be in a prone position and a 5-cm midline posterior longitudinal skin
incision will be done on the lumbar segment almost at the level of L1-L6. Bilateral
paraspinal muscles will be sharply dissected from their attachments on the posterior
element of the vertebral bodies. Intraoperative physiological parameters (heart rate,
blood pressure, rectal temperature) will be recorded.
5. Before any muscle retracted, paraspinal muscle biopsy will be obtained just at the
initial and finished time point after muscle retraction. During retraction, the operative
field will be irrigated with normal saline to keep the exposed muscles from drying.
8. After two hours of persistent retraction, the retractor will be removed and paraspinal
muscle sampling will be obtained immediately and two hours after reperfusion
followed by layered skin closure. Post sampling, paraspinal muscle EMG will be
recorded again to analyze the amplitude and waveform difference.
9. Another muscle biopsies will be done again at the postoperative designated time points
(24hours, 72 hours) with the back wound reopened. The paraspinal muscles samples
will be harvested and then rinsed in normal saline on ice to eliminated the coating
blood, placed in an Eppendorf tube on ice, then immersed into liquid nitrogen, and
stored at -80℃ until further analysis.
B. Histopathological Examination
Harvested paraspinal muscles will be formalin fixed, paraffin embedded, sectioned
using a microtome and stained with hemtoxylin and eosin. Light microscopy will be
undergone to focus on the progression of pathological findings, including the structural
integrity of muscle bundle, the extent of muscle cell edema and interstitial edema.
C. OxyBlot analysis for oxidative stress
The analysis for oxidative stress was determined by OxyBlot Oxidized Protein
detection kit. The OxyBlot kit is ideal for the sensitive and rapid detection of proteins
modified by oxygen free radicals and reactive oxygen species. As a consequence of this
ROS modification, carbonyl groups are introduced into protein side chains. By using the
Electromyography (EMG) signals were also recorded in twenty-three animals. The
altitude and mean root square of EMG signals showed significant change between
before and after surgical retraction. However, melatonin prescription had no obvious
protective effect on the electrophysiology.
Fig. 1
Fig.2
control-vehicle 2hrs retraction
24hrs reperfusion 72hrs reperfusion
perfusion_pre post reperfusion rep_2hrs rep_1day rep_3days
0.00
20.00
40.00
60.00
80.00
100.00
M
ea
n
Parasp ina l Muscle s Perfus ion
The blood perfusions of
paraspinal muscles decreased
during retraction and
recovered to around 60%
initial status.
Decreased muscle swelling and
rhabdomyolysis after 24hrs reperfusion
in melatonin-treated group.
計畫成果自評
1. 本研究報告內容係根據原來之計畫主軸來加以進行，實驗中發現以脊椎旁肌肉來進
行 flow cytometry 來作為發炎的參數實驗無法順利進行。於本實驗中經過多次之條件
試驗，我們發現很難以肌肉組織經過研磨分解後成為活的myosphere，藉以作為跑Flow
cytometry 的細胞來源。實驗數值會隨著條件的不同以及組織分解的好壞而有相當大
的差異，因此捨棄欲以此一研究方式作為 inflammation cells count 的方法。
2. 另外尚未進行的部份為取下飼養三個月後的實驗鼠之腰椎檢體，藉以作生物力學
實驗，預期因為脊椎手術所造成的脊椎旁肌肉退化會引起腰椎部位的退化。此一部
分的生物力學實驗仍將持續進行中，希望會有豐富的成果可以跟目前已經完成的local
perfusion, oxidative stress, histopathology findings, electrophysiology 相配合，將此一結果呈
現於國際期刊中。
3. 此一實驗係模擬後位腰椎手術進行時，手術過程對於腰椎旁肌肉所造成的退化影
響。初步結果可以見到使用 melatonin 治療的一組，肌肉明顯受傷的程度較沒有使用
的一組為不嚴重，此一發現也許可以再繼續深入研究以做為臨床手術的實證。
10. Yoshiharu Kawaguchi, Hisao Matsui, Haruo Tsuji. Back muscle injury after posterior lumbar
spine surgery Part 2: histologic and histochemical analyses in humans. Spine
1994;19:2598-2602.
11. Yoshiharu Kawaguchi, Shoji Yabuki, Jorma Styf, et al. Back muscle injury after posterior
lumbar spine surgery topographic evaluationof intramuscular pressure and blood flow in the
porcine back muscle during surgery. Spine 1996;21(22):2683-2688.
12. Yoshiharu Kawaguchi, Hisao Matsui, Haruo Tsuji. Back muscle injury after posterior lumbar
spine surgery a histologic and enzymatic analysis. Spine 1996;21(8):941-944
13. Kang Lu, Cheng-Loong Liang, Chung-Lung Cho, et al. Oxidative stress and heat shock
protein response in human paraspinal muscles during retraction. J Neurosurg (Spine 1)
2002;97:75-81
14. Kang Lu, Cheng-Loong, Han-Jung Chen, et al. Nuclear factor-κB-regulated
cyclooxygenase-2 expression in surgery-associated paraspinal muscle injury in rats. J
Neurosurg (Spine 2) 2003;98:181-187.
15. Ridwaan Salie, Ian Harper, Charl Cillie, et. al. Melatonin protects against
ischemic-reperfusion myocardial damage. J Mol Cell Cardiol 2001, 33: 343-357
16. Russel J. Reiter, Dun-Xian Tan Melatonin: a novel protective agent against oxidative
injury of the ischemic/reperfused heart Cardiovascular Research 2003, 58: 10-19
17. Yeleswaram K, McLaughlin LG, Knipe JO et. al. Pharmacokinetics and oral bioavailability
of exogenous melatonin in preclinical animal models and clinical implications. J Pineal Res
1997; 22:45–51.
