I、中文摘要 
許多現實生活上的最佳化問題常需要最佳化多個不同尺度且互相衝突競爭的目標，這
些問題通常被稱為多目標最佳化問題。相對於單目標最佳化問題只需求解一個單一的最佳
解答，多目標最佳化問題最大的差異處在於其必須求解出許多個最佳解答。近年來，由於
多目標演化式演算法可以在一次的執行中有效地同時搜尋多個解答，因此多目標演化式演
算法被廣泛認為非常適用於求解多目標最佳化問題。儘管多目標演化式演算法已被廣泛認
為適用於求解現實生活中的許多多目標最佳化問題，絕大多數的研究卻僅限於針對該研究
領域的問題來設計有效的多目標演化式演算法。僅僅有非常少數的研究探討多目標演化式
演算法在求解多目標最佳化問題時所需的族群大小和收斂時間。 
本研究計畫的主題在於探討多目標演化式演算法在解決具有各種不均衡特性的多目標
最佳化問題之效能。本計劃之研究結果除了在學理上可以提供改良多目標演算法之貢獻
外，並可以提供工業界在應用多目標最佳化演算法之參數決定問題。本計劃之研究成果並
已部份實踐於數篇會議論文之中，並加以延伸投稿期刊論文。 
 
關鍵字：多目標最佳化、演化式演算法 
 
II、Abstract 
Many real-world optimization problems involve multiple incommensurable and often 
competent objectives; these problems are known as multi-objective optimization problems 
(MOOPs). Many MOOPs cannot satisfactorily be characterized by a single performance measure. 
Due to the nature of trade-offs involved, MOOPs seldom have a unique solution. Instead of 
obtaining a single optimal solution, the ultimate goal of solving MOOPs is to find a complete set 
of Pareto-optimal solutions. Recently, multi-objective evolutionary algorithms (MOEAs) have 
been recognized to be well-suited for solving MOOPs because their abilities to exploit and 
explore multiple solutions in parallel and to find a widespread set of non-dominated solutions in a 
single run. Although MOEAs have been shown to be effective for solving many real-world 
applications and exploring complex non-linear search spaces as efficient optimizers, but only a 
few preliminary analysis based on selectorecombinative MOEAs and (1+1)MOEA have been 
conducted in analyzing the population sizing and convergence time of MOEAs in solving 
MOOPs.  
The main topics of this project are to investigate the performances of MOEAs in solving 
MOOPs with disequilibrium, and study the important factors that affect the convergence time and 
population sizing of MOEAs. These models can provide practitioners guidance in choosing key 
MOEAs parameters, and also assists MOEA practitioners to get maximum mileage on designing 
their MOEAs. The results of this project have been published in several conference papers, and 
their extended results have been submitted for the review of journals. 
III、Background, Motivation, and Objectives 
Multi-objective optimization problems (MOOPs) are common in our real life. A MOOP has 
a number of objective functions to be maximized or minimized. For example, consider the design 
of a car. Generally, the cost of such systems is to be minimized, while maximum performance is 
selection process favors better individuals to reproduce more often than those that are relatively 
worse. Specifically, GAs are used to illustrate the basic framework of EAs. GAs are stochastic, 
population-based search and optimization algorithms loosely modeled after the paradigms of 
evolution. GAs guide the search through the solution space by using natural selection and genetic 
operators, such as crossover, mutation, and the like. EAs have been shown to be effective for 
solving NP-hard problems and exploring complex non-linear search spaces as efficient optimizers. 
The robust capability of EAs to find solutions to difficult problems has permitted them to become 
a popular optimization and search technique in many industries.  
Recently, multi-objective evolutionary algorithms (MOEAs) have been recognized to be 
well-suited for solving MOOPs because their abilities to exploit and explore multiple solutions in 
parallel and to find a widespread set of non-dominated solutions in a single run. Several MOEAs 
based on Pareto dominance relationship are proposed to solve MOOPs directly, and present more 
promising results than single-objective optimization techniques theoretically and empirically. By 
making use of Pareto dominance relationship, MOEAs are capable of performing fitness 
assignment without using a weighted linear combination of all objectives. 
The objectives of this project are to study the four important factors that affect the 
performance of MOEAs and to discover the relationship of these factors with convergence time 
and population sizing of MOEAs. By making uses of our results, we can further develop efficient 
multi-objective evolutionary algorithms to solve real-world application more quickly and reliable. 
IV、Results 
The results of this project have been submitted for possible publication of a journal and 
published in the following conference papers: 
[1] J-H. Chen, Jian-Hung Chen, “Multi-objective Memetic Approach for Flexible Process 
Sequencing Problems.”  in Proceeding of 2008 ACM SIG-EVO Genetic and Evolutionary 
Computation Conference (GECCO-2008), pp. 2123-2128. (EI) 
[2] Jian-Hung Chen, “Memetic Approach for Multi-objective Flexible Process Sequencing 
Problems.”  in Proceeding of 2008 WORLDCOMP Conference (WORLDCOMP-2008), pp. 
248-254. 
[3] C-W. Kang, Jian-Hung Chen, “Multi-objective Evolutionary Optimization of 3D 
Differentiated Sensor Network Deployment.”  in Proceeding of 2009 ACM SIG-EVO 
Genetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference (GECCO-2009), pp. 2059-2064. (EI) 
[4] C-W. Kang, Jian-Hung Chen, “An Evolutionary Approach of Multi-Objective 3D 
Differentiated Sensor Network Deployment.”  in Proceeding of 12th IEEE International 
Conference on Computational Science and Engineering (CSE-09) ), pp. 187-193. (EI) 
[5] C-H. Chen, Jian-Hung Chen, “A Multi-Objective Evolutionary Approach forCombined 
Heat and Power Environmental/Economic Power Dispatch” in Proceeding of 2009 
WORLDCOMP Conference (WORLDCOMP-2009). 
[6] L.-C. Wei, C-W. Kang, Jian-Hung Chen, “A Force-Driven Evolutionary Approach 
Optimization of 3D Differentiated Sensor Network Deployment.”  in Proceeding of 2009 
IEEE MASS Conference (MASS-2009) (EI) 
 
the load on bottleneck machines [1]. It is essential but also
a challenge for DM to prepare a set of alternative process
sequences considering the trade-off between schedule qual-
ity and the costs of process sequences. However, traditional
techniques are not able to provide such flexibility for DM.
The above issues lead to flexible process sequencing prob-
lems (FPSs), which simultaneously considers alternative pro-
cess plans with multiple objectives and the flexibility of pro-
cess sequences. Over the past decade, a number of models
have been developed to solve the process sequencing prob-
lems, but only few models [1, 7] have been reported to design
the process sequencing problem considering the above issues.
To date, solving the problem of flexible process sequencing
with multiple objectives that are conflicting in nature is still
a hard task.
2.2 Multi-objective Evolutionary Optimization
Assume all the objective functions Fm are to be mini-
mized. Mathematically, multi-objective optimization prob-
lems (MOOPs) can be represented as the following vector
mathematical programming problems:
Minimize F (X) = {F1(X), F2(X), ..., Fm(X)}, (1)
where X denotes a solution and Fm(X) is generally a nonlin-
ear objective function. When the following inequalities hold
between two solutions X1 and X2, X2 is a non-dominated
solution and is said to dominate X1(X2  X1):
∀m : Fm(X1) ≥ Fm(X2) and ∃n : Fn(X1) > Fn(X2). (2)
When the following inequality hold between two solutions
X1 and X2, X2 is said to weakly dominate X1(X2  X1):
∀m : Fm(X1) ≥ Fm(X2). (3)
A feasible solution X∗ is said to be a Pareto-optimal solu-
tion if and only if there does not exist a feasible solution
X where X dominates X∗. The corresponding vector of
Pareto-optimal solutions is called Pareto-optimal front.
By making use of Pareto dominance relationship, multi-
objective evolutionary algorithms (MOEAs) are capable of
performing the fitness assignment of multiple objectives with-
out using relative preferences of multiple objectives. Thus,
all the objective functions can be optimized simultaneously.
As a result, MOEA seems to be an alternative approach to
solving production planning and inspection planning prob-
lems on the assumption that no prior domain knowledge is
available.
3. PROBLEM STATEMENT
3.1 The FMS Environment
An FMS consists of a set of identical and/or complemen-
tary numerically controlled machines and tool systems. All
components are connected through an AGV system. Fig-
ure 1 shows the layout of a simple FMS with several ma-
chines, AGVs and a tool system.
In order to design the production planning of FMSs, the
environment within which the FMS under consideration op-
erates can be described below.
• The term machine is to describe a machine cell. A ma-
chine cell consists of several identical devices/machines.
The types and number of machines are known. There
Figure 1: FMS with several machines, a coordinate
measuring machine (CMM), AGVs and a central
tool magazine.
is a sufficient input/output buffer space at each ma-
chine.
• A part type requires a number of operations. A number
of part types will be manufactured simultaneously in
batches. Parts can choose one or more machines at
each of their operation stages, and the transportation
of the parts within different machines is handled by an
AGV system.
• A machine can perform several types of operations,
and an operation can be performed on alternative ma-
chines.
• A machine can only process an operation at one time.
Operations to be performed in the machine are non-
preemptive. Operation lot splitting is ignored in this
paper.
• A process sequence is a series of machine indices cor-
responding to operations of all parts. Based on a pro-
cess sequence, each operation is operated on its corre-
sponding machine. An illustrative process sequence of
3 parts and 10 operations is presented in Figure 2, and
the operations are operated on 3 different machines.
An example of the series of machine indices to be op-
timized is Y =[ 1 1 1 3 1 2 2 2 3 3 ].
• Workload on each machine is contributed by those op-
erations assigned to a machine.
• A load/unload (L/U) station serves as a distribution
center for parts not yet processed and as a collection
center for parts finished. All vehicles start from the
L/U station initially and return to there after accom-
plishing all their assignments. There are sufficient in-
put/output buffer spaces at the L/U station.
• The number of AGVs is given and the transportation
time of AGVs are known. Some machines may not be
linked.
• AGVs carry a limited number of products at a time.
They move along predetermined paths, with the as-
sumption of no delay because of congestion. Preemp-
tion of trips is not allowed.
2124
The constraint, Equation 10, ensures that only one ma-
chine is selected for each operation of a part. Equation 11 en-
sures an AGV path exists between machines k and l. Equa-
tion 12 is to ensure the machine workload twk is smaller or
equal to its maximum machine workload mk.
If the total number of machines is x and the total number
of operations is y, then the complexity of the investigated
problem is O(xy).
4. MULTI-OBJECTIVE MEMETIC ALGO-
RITHMWITH FITNESS INHERITANCE
MEFI
4.1 Schemata-Guided Local Search Strategy
Based on schema theorem and the niche hypothesis [5],
a schemata-guided local search strategy is proposed to be
combined with MOGA for improving the convergence speed
to the Pareto-front. Extended from the niche hypothesis,
it is assumed that, given a MOOP with Q Pareto-optimal
solutions, Q Pareto-optimal solutions can be regarded as Q
niches of the MOOP. In the worst case, to ensure MOEAs
is capable of searching Q Pareto-optimal solutions, it is as-
sumed that the population were divided into Q species (sub-
populations). Thus, each species is expect to optimize its
own niche (Pareto-optimal solution), as shown in Figure 3.
Therefore, the optimal schemata of a species is its Pareto-
optimal solution.
Let the schema of species be Hq, where the fixed positions
are the maximum common string of all individuals in its
species and the others are ”don’t care”(*). Since species are
in the same population, a schemata of a species may be
disrupted by schemata of the other species due to genetic
operators. The disruption between species can be further
classified into the following two types:
1. Species disrupt noise: The fixed schemata of Horigin
are altered to ”don’t care”schemata by the correspond-
ing positions of the schemata Hother. Thus, a species
requires more time for fixing it’s ”don’t care”schemata.
2. Species hitchhiking noise: The ”don’t care”schemata
of Horigin are altered to fixed schema by the corre-
sponding positions of the schema Hother. If the altered
schemata are located in the similarity regions of their
optimal schemata, the change is good for the schemata
Horigin. On the contrary, the change is bad for the
schemata Horigin.
Based on the foregoing inference, it is desired that a species
should keep its good schemata (building blocks) while mak-
ing good efforts to alter its ”don’t care” schemata to its
ideal optimal schemata. As results, a schemata-guided local
search strategy is proposed based on this guideline. Infor-
mation of fixed and ”don’t care” schemata in species are
utilized to guide local search. However, the key question of
this local search strategy is that how do we classify popula-
tion to different species when true Pareto-optimal solutions
of MOOPs are unknown. To deal with this question, it is as-
sumed that the best individuals in each objective functions
are the pioneers of each species. These pioneers will be used
to classify all individuals in population to different species.
Given a maximum local search times MaxLS and a tem-
porary elite set E′, the procedure of the used schemata-
guided local search strategy is written as follows:
*00011****
****1011**
f 2
f
1
Figure 3: The population were divided into several
species, and each species optimizes its own niche
(Pareto-optimal solution).
Step 1: (Identification) Identify the best individuals Bq, q =
1, 2, ..., Q, in each objective from the current popula-
tion. For FPSs, Q=3.
Step 2: (Classification) Classify the current population into Q
species by the best solutions in each objective.
Step 3: (Schemata computation) For each species, compute its
schemata Hq. Both fixed and ”don’t care” schemata
are identified.
Step 4: (Parameter setting) Let q = 1, counter = 0.
Step 5: (Perturbation) Perturb Bq into a new solution B
′
q. Ac-
cording to Hq, apply the mutation operator only on
”don’t care” locations of Bq with a mutation probabil-
ity pm.
Step 6: (Evaluation) Evaluate the objective functions of B′q.
Let counter = counter + 1.
Step 7: (Comparison) There is 3 cases in comparisons of Bq
and B′q. Case 1: If Bq dominates B
′
q and counter <
MaxLS, go to Step 5. Case 2: If Bq is dominated by
B′q, replace Bq by B
′
q. Case 3: If Bq and B
′
q doesn’t
dominated each other. Stored B′q in a temporary elite
set E′.
Step 8: (Termination test) Let q = q + 1 and counter=0, if
q>Q, stop the local search strategy. Otherwise, go to
Step 5.
4.2 Fitness Inheritance
An efficiency enhancement techniques called fitness inher-
itance [2] is used for speedup of MEFI. During the evolution
of EAs, the fitness of some proportion of individuals in the
subsequent population is inherited. This proportion is called
the inheritance proportion, pi.
Mathematically, for a multi-objective problem with z ob-
jective, the used fitness inheritance is defined as
fz =
w1fz,p1 + w2fz,p2
w1 + w2
, (13)
where fz is the fitness value in objective z, w1, w2 are the
weights for the two parents p1, p2, and f(z, p1), f(z, p2) is
2126
m3o10 m4o20 m5o100 m5o200 m10o100 m10o200
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
(b) C(MOGA, MEFI)
m3o10 m4o20 m5o100 m5o200 m10o100 m10o200
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
(a) C(MEFI, MOGA)
Figure 4: Box plots based on the cover metric. (a)
C(MEFI, MOGA), (b) C(MOGA, MEFI).
and MOGA are almost the same. For another small prob-
lem m4o20, the non-dominated solutions obtained by MEFI
dominates 80% of the solutions obtained by MOGA in aver-
age, while the non-dominated solutions obtained by MOGA
only dominates 60% of the non-dominated solutions obtained
by MEFI in average. As the complexity of problems in-
creases, Fig. 4 shows that 80%-90% of the non-dominated
solutions obtained by MOGA are weakly dominated by the
non-dominated solutions obtained by MEFI in solving the
problems m4o20, m5o100, m5o200, m10o100 and m10o200.
On the contrast, the non-dominated solutions of MOGA
dominate nearly 3-10% of the non-dominated solutions ob-
tained by MEFI. Fig. 5 shows the non-dominated solutions
obtained by thirty runs of MEFI and MOGA in solving the
m10o200 problem. The results indicate that MEFI can con-
verge to better solutions more quickly than MOGA. It re-
veals that the proposed schemata-guided local search strat-
egy and fitness inheritance plays an important role in obtain-
ing good solutions and accelerating the convergence speed.
6. CONCLUSION
In this paper, a novel approach to solve flexible process
sequencing problems using an multi-objective memetic al-
gorithm MEFI is proposed. A schemata-guided local search
strategy and fitness inheritance are integrated in the pro-
posed algorithm for enhancing the performance. Experimen-
tal results demonstrated that the quality of non-dominated
solutions obtained by MEFI is better than that of MOGA
in terms of convergence speed and accuracy using the same
number of function evaluations. While prior domain knowl-
edge for the decomposition of problems or relative prefer-
ences of multiple objectives are not available, the proposed
approach is an expedient method to solve flexible process
sequencing problems. Moreover, the proposed approach can
obtain a set of non-dominated solutions for decision mak-
ers in a single run. Decision makers can easily distinguish
between the costs of different process sequences and choose
more than one satisfactory process sequences at a time.
4
4.5
5
5.5
6
6.5
x 105
0
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.3
0.32
0.34
0.36
0.38
0.4
0.42
0.44
 
f1
f2
 
f 3
MOGA
MEFI
Figure 5: The non-dominated solutions obtained by
MEFI and MOGA in solving the m10o200 problem,
merged from 30 runs.
7. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This work was supported by the National Science Council
of Taiwan, R.O.C. under Contract NSC-96-2221-E-216-037-
MY2 and NSC-095-SAF-I-564-616-TMS, and Chung-Hua Uni-
versity under Contract CHU-96-2221-E-216-037-MY2.
8. REFERENCES
[1] P. Brandimarte. Exploiting process plan flexibility in
production scheduling: A multi-objective approach.
European Journal of Operational Research, (114):59–71,
1999.
[2] J.-H. Chen, D. E. Goldberg, S.-Y. Ho, and K. Sastry.
Fitness inheritance in multi-objective optimization. In
GECCO ’02: Proceedings of the Genetic and
Evolutionary Computation Conference, pages 319–326,
San Francisco, CA, USA, 2002. Morgan Kaufmann
Publishers Inc.
[3] K. Deb. Multi-objective optimization using evolutionary
algorithms. Wiley-Interscience series in systems and
optimization. John Wiley & Sons, 2001.
[4] M. Gen and R. Cheng. Genetic algorithms and
engineering design. John Wiley, New York, 1997. 1944-
Mitsuo Gen, Runwei Cheng. ill. ; 24 cm.
[5] D. E. Goldberg. Genetic algorithms in search,
optimization, and machine learning. Addison-Wesley
Pub. Co., 1989.
[6] S.-Y. Ho, L.-S. Shu, and J.-H. Chen. Intelligent
evolutionary algorithms for large parameter
optimization problems. IEEE Transaction on
Evolutionary Computation, 8(6):522–541, Dec. 2004.
[7] C. Moon, Y.-Z. Li, and M. Gen. Evolutionary algorithm
for flexible process sequencing with multiple objectives.
In Proceeding of IEEE International Conference on
Computational Intelligence, pages 27–32, 1998.
[8] E. Zitzler and L. Thiele. Multiobjective evolutionary
algorithms: A comparative case study and the
strengthen Pareto approach. IEEE Transaction on
Evolutionary Computation, 4(3):257–271, 1999.
2128
Another key issue that arises recently is the alternative
process sequences. In the view of real time scheduling, al-
ternative process sequences provide additional capability for
the decision maker (DM) to cope with unpredictable events
such as machine failures or rush orders. From the view of off-
line scheduling, alternative process sequences may be used
to improve the schedule quality by reducing the load on
bottleneck machines [4]. Generally speaking, finding a set of
optimal alternative process sequences economically plays an
important role in solving the process sequencing problems.
However, it is easier to obtain the alternative process sequences
with single objective than that with multiple objectives. It
is because, simultaneous optimization of several incommen-
surable and conflicting objectives in nature is much more
complex and difficult. On the other hand, flexible process
sequencing with multiple objectives makes more practical
applications in the design phase of industrial manufacturing.
As a result, it is essential but also a challenge for DM to
prepare a set of alternative process sequences considering the
trade-off between schedule quality and the costs of process
sequences.
The above issues lead to flexible process sequencing prob-
lems (FPSs), which simultaneously considers alternative pro-
cess plans with multiple objectives and the flexibility of pro-
cess sequences. Over the past decade, a number of models have
been developed to solve the process sequencing problems, but
only few models [3], [4] have been reported to design the
process sequencing problem considering the above issues. To
date, solving the problem of flexible process sequencing with
multiple objectives that are conflicting in nature is still a hard
task.
2.2 Multi-objective Evolutionary Optimization
Assume all the objective functions Fm are to be mini-
mized. Mathematically, multi-objective optimization problems
(MOOPs) can be represented as the following vector mathe-
matical programming problems:
Minimize F (X) = {F1(X), F2(X), ..., Fm(X)}, (1)
where X denotes a solution and Fm(X) is generally a nonlin-
ear objective function. When the following inequalities hold
between two solutions X1 and X2, X2 is a non-dominated
solution and is said to dominate X1(X2  X1):
∀m : Fm(X1) ≥ Fm(X2) and ∃n : Fn(X1) > Fn(X2).
(2)
When the following inequality hold between two solutions X1
and X2, X2 is said to weakly dominate X1(X2  X1):
∀m : Fm(X1) ≥ Fm(X2). (3)
A feasible solution X∗ is said to be a Pareto-optimal solution
if and only if there does not exist a feasible solution X where
X dominates X∗. The corresponding vector of Pareto-optimal
solutions is called Pareto-optimal front.
In the past few years, multi-objective evolutionary algo-
rithms (MOEAs) have been recognized to be well-suited for
Fig. 1. FMS with several machines, a coordinate measuring
machine (CMM), AGVs and a central tool magazine.
solving MOOPs because their abilities to exploit and explore
multiple solutions in parallel and to find a widespread set
of non-dominated solutions in a single run [7]. By making
use of Pareto dominance relationship, MOEAs are capable of
performing the fitness assignment of multiple objectives with-
out using relative preferences of multiple objectives. Thus, all
the objective functions can be optimized simultaneously. One
of the recent growing areas in evolutionary algorithms (EAs)
research is memetic agorithms (MAs). MAs are population-
based meta-heuristic search methods inspired by Darwinian
principles of natural evolution and Dawkins notion of a meme
defined as a unit of cultural evolution that is capable of local
refinements [8]. From an optimization point of view, MAs are
hybrid EAs that combine global and local search by using
an EA to perform exploration while the local search method
performs exploitation. Combining global and local search is
known as an efficient strategy in many successful optimization
approaches [9], [10].
3 Problem Statement
The aim of flexible process sequencing is to develop a cost-
effective and operative process sequences for the assignments
of operation to machines over planning phases. With the
assignments of operations to machines, three optimization ob-
jectives: minimizing total machining time, machine workload
unbalance, and greatest machine workload are considered in
this paper.
3.1 The FMS Environment
An FMS consists of a set of identical and/or complementary
numerically controlled machines and tool systems. All compo-
nents are connected through an AGV system. Figure 1 shows
the layout of a simple FMS with several machines, AGVs and
a tool system.
In order to design the production planning of FMSs, the en-
vironment within which the FMS under consideration operates
can be described below.
machines. The objective function (f2) is defined as
Equation 7.
f2 =
K∑
k=1
(rtwk − ew)2. (7)
3) Minimization of greatest machine workload. Pursuing
this objective also implies attempting to minimize the
total flow time. The objective function (f3) is defined
as Equation 8.
f3 = max{rtwk}. (8)
3.2.3 Multi-objective Mathematical Model: The overall
multi-objective mathematical model of FPSs can be formulated
as follows. Given the production volume pvi, the processing
time ptijk, the maximum workload mk, the available capacity
of AGV per trip abl, the transportation time tmkl and the tool
costs cijk, find a series of machine indices, Y , for operations
of all parts such that
minimize f1, f2, f3, (9)
subject to
K∑
k=1
xijk = 1, ∀(i, j), (10)
tmkl ≥ 0, ∀(k, l), (11)
rtwk ≤ 1, ∀i. (12)
The constraint, Equation 10, ensures that only one machine
is selected for each operation of a part. Equation 11 ensures
an AGV path exists between machines k and l. Equation 12
is to ensure the machine workload twk is smaller or equal to
its maximum machine workload mk.
If the total number of machines is x and the total number
of operations is y, then the complexity of the investigated
problem is O(xy).
4 Multi-objective Memetic Algorithm with Fit-
ness Inheritance MAFI
The proposed MAFI differs from MOGA in the local
search strategy and fitness inheritance. The used schemata-
guided local search strategy is presented in Section 4.1. Fitness
inheritance is summarized in Section 4.2. MAFI for solving
FPSs is presented in Section 4.3, including the representation
of chromosomes, genetic operators, constraint handling, and
the procedure of MAFI.
4.1 Schemata-Guided Local Search Strategy
Based on schema theorem and the niche hypothesis [11],
a schemata-guided local search strategy is proposed to be
combined with MOGA for improving the convergence speed
to the Pareto-front. Extended from the niche hypothesis, it is
assumed that, given a MOOP with Q Pareto-optimal solutions,
Q Pareto-optimal solutions can be regarded as Q niches of
the MOOP. In the worst case, to ensure MOEAs is capable
*00011****
****1011**
f 2
f1
Fig. 3. The population were divided into several species, and
each species optimizes its own niche (Pareto-optimal solution).
of searching Q Pareto-optimal solutions, it is assumed that
the population were divided into Q species (sub-populations).
Thus, each species is expect to optimize its own niche (Pareto-
optimal solution), as shown in Figure 3. Therefore, the optimal
schemata of a species is its Pareto-optimal solution.
Let the schema of species be Hq , where the fixed positions
are the maximum common string of all individuals in its
species and the others are ”don’t care”(*). Since species are in
the same population, a schemata of a species may be disrupted
by schemata of the other species due to genetic operators. The
disruption between species can be further classified into the
following two types:
1) Species disrupt noise: The fixed schemata of Horigin
are altered to ”don’t care” schemata by the correspond-
ing positions of the schemata Hother. Thus, a species
requires more time for fixing it’s ”don’t care” schemata.
2) Species hitchhiking noise: The ”don’t care” schemata
of Horigin are altered to fixed schema by the corre-
sponding positions of the schema Hother. If the altered
schemata are located in the similarity regions of their
optimal schemata, the change is good for the schemata
Horigin. On the contrary, the change is bad for the
schemata Horigin.
Based on the foregoing inference, it is desired that a species
should keep its good schemata (building blocks) while making
good efforts to alter its ”don’t care” schemata to its ideal
optimal schemata. As results, a schemata-guided local search
strategy is proposed based on this guideline. Information of
fixed and ”don’t care” schemata in species are utilized to guide
local search. However, the key question of this local search
strategy is that how do we classify population to different
species when true Pareto-optimal solutions of MOOPs are
unknown. To deal with this question, it is assumed that the
best individuals in each objective functions are the pioneers
of each species. These pioneers will be used to classify all
individuals in population to different species.
Given a maximum local search times MaxLS and a tem-
porary elite set E′, the procedure of the used schemata-guided
Step 6 : (Selection) Select Npop−Nps individuals from the
population using the binary tournament selection and
randomly select Nps individuals from E to form a
new population, where Nps = Npop × ps and ps
is a selection proportion. If Nps is greater than the
number NE of individuals in E, let Nps = NE .
Step 7 : (Recombination) Perform the one-point crossover
operation with a recombination probability pc.
Step 8 : (Fitness inheritance) Perform fitness inheritance on
the selected Npop × pi individuals. The inherited
objective values are calculated according to Equa-
tion 13.
Step 9 : (Mutation) Apply the mutation operator to each
gene in the individuals with a mutation probability
pm.
Step 10 :(Termination test) If a stopping condition is satis-
fied, stop the algorithm and output E. Otherwise, go
to Step 2.
5 Results and discussion
Considering the real manufacturing environment, we de-
rived the AGV transportation time matrix and six benchmark
problems: m3o10, m4o20, m5o100, m5o200, m10o100 and
m10o200, where mxoy stands for the x machine and y opera-
tion problem. In order to further investigate the performance
of MAFI, a MOGA (MAFI without the local search strategy
and fitness inheritance) is also implemented to solve FPSs.
The solutions obtained by MOGA are used as the baseline
performance for comparisons. The parameter settings of MAFI
and MOGA are given in Table I. All the parameters of
MAFI and MOGA in each experiment are the same. Thirty
independent runs were performed per test problems, compared
with the same number of function evaluations 100xy.
The coverage metric C(A,B) of two solution sets A and
B [14] used to compare the performance of two corresponding
algorithms considering the six objectives:
C(A,B) =
|{a ∈ A, b ∈ B, a  b}|
|B| , (17)
where  stands for weakly dominate in Pareto dominance
relationship. The value C(A,B) = 1 means that all indi-
viduals in B are weakly dominated by A. On the contrary,
C(A,B) = 0 denotes that none of individuals in B is weakly
dominated by A. Because the C measure considers the weakly
dominance relationship between two sets A and B, C(A,B) is
not necessarily equal to 1−C(B,A). The comparison results
of two solution sets using the coverage metric are depicted
using box plots. A box plot provides an excellent visual result
of a distribution. The box stretches from the lower hinge
(defined as the 25th percentile) to the upper hinge (the 75th
percentile) and therefore contains the middle half of the scores
in the distribution. The median is shown as a line across the
box.
For each run, the solutions set of two algorithms are
compared using the coverage metric. Fig. 4 depicts the cover-
age metrics of C(MAFI,MOGA) and C(MOGA,MAFI)
TABLE I
THE PARAMETER SETTINGS OF MAFI AND MOGA.
Parameters MAFI MOGA
Npop 115 100
Emax 115 100
ps 0.25 0.25
pi 0.5 N/A
pc 0.6 0.6
pm 0.05 0.05
MaxLS 3 N/A
m3o10 m4o20 m5o100 m5o200 m10o100 m10o200
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
(b) C(MOGA, MAFI)
m3o10 m4o20 m5o100 m5o200 m10o100 m10o200
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
(a) C(MAFI, MOGA)
Fig. 4. Box plots based on the cover metric. (a) C(MAFI,
MOGA), (b) C(MOGA, MAFI).
from 30 runs. In solving the small problem m3o10, Fig. 4
shows that the performance of MAFI and MOGA are al-
most the same. For another small problem m4o20, the non-
dominated solutions obtained by MAFI dominates 80% of
the solutions obtained by MOGA in average, while the non-
dominated solutions obtained by MOGA only dominates 60%
of the non-dominated solutions obtained by MAFI in aver-
age. As the complexity of problems increases, Fig. 4 shows
that 80%-90% of the non-dominated solutions obtained by
MOGA are weakly dominated by the non-dominated solutions
obtained by MAFI in solving the problems m4o20, m5o100,
m5o200, m10o100 and m10o200. On the contrast, the non-
dominated solutions of MOGA dominate nearly 3-10% of the
non-dominated solutions obtained by MAFI. Fig. 5 shows the
non-dominated solutions obtained by thirty runs of MAFI and
MOGA in solving the m10o200 problem. The results indicate
that MAFI can converge to better solutions more quickly than
MOGA. It reveals that the proposed schemata-guided local
search strategy and fitness inheritance plays an important role
in obtaining good solutions and accelerating the convergence
speed.
6 Conclusion
In this paper, a novel approach to solve flexible process
sequencing problems using an multi-objective memetic al-
gorithm MAFI is proposed. A schemata-guided local search
Multi-objective Evolutionary Optimization of 3D 
Differentiated Sensor Network Deployment   
Chih-Wei Kang and Jian-Hung Chen* 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Chung-Hua University, Hsin-Chu 300, Taiwan 
jh.chen@ieee.org* 
 
ABSTRACT 
This paper describes a multi-objective evolutionary approach for 
solving multi-objective 3D deployment problems in differentiated 
wireless sensor networks (WSNs). WSN is a wireless network 
consisting of spatially distributed autonomous sensors to monitor 
physical or environmental conditions. Deciding the location of 
sensor to be deployed on a terrain with the consideration different 
criteria is an important issue for the design of wireless sensor 
network. A multi-objective genetic algorithm is proposed to solve 
3D differentiated WSN deployment problems with the objectives 
of the coverage of sensors, satisfaction of detection thresholds, 
and energy conservation. The preliminary experimental results 
demonstrated that the proposed approach is suitable for solving 
3D deployment problems of WSNs with different requirements. 
Categories and Subject Descriptors 
J.6 [COMPUTER-AIDED ENGINEERING]: Computer-aided 
design (CAD) 
General Terms 
Algorithms, Design, Performance 
Keywords 
Wireless sensor network, multi-objective optimization, genetic 
algorithms 
1. INTRODUCTION 
A wireless sensor network (WSN) is a wireless network 
consisting of spatially distributed autonomous sensors to monitor 
physical or environmental conditions. WSN constitute a large 
number of applications related to national security, surveillance, 
military, health care, and home automation. Sensor nodes of a 
WSN are deployed over a region to sense events on geographical 
areas and transmit collected data to a sink node for further 
operations. Depending on the requirements, sensors could be 
deployed in diverse scenarios [6,9]. Therefore, deciding the 
location of sensor to be deployed on a terrain is an important issue. 
Several different objectives should be considered and fulfilled in 
the design phase of WSNs, such as the coverage and accuracy, 
reaction time and survivability of the sensor network. However, 
these objectives may be in conflict with one another and of 
different importance to mission planners [8].  
Coverage is one of the fundamental issue in the deployment of 
WSNs. WSNs need to maintain sufficient coverage quality to 
capture the timely changing targets [10]. For enhanced coverage, 
a large number of sensors are typically deployed in the sensor 
field and, if the coverage areas of multiple sensors overlap, they 
may all report a target in their respective zones [5].  
Differentiated sensor network deployment, which considers the 
satisfaction of detection levels in different geographical 
characteristics, is also an important issue [7]. In many real-world 
WSN applications, the supervised area can request different 
detection levels, depending on the event's location. Therefore, the 
sensing requirements are not uniformly distributed within the area. 
In other words, all the points of the area under monitoring are 
considered with the different importance. As a result, the 
deployment strategy of WSN should take into consideration the 
geographical characteristics of the monitored events.  
Energy conservation for the lifetime of sensors is another rising 
issue [1]. Due to the limited energy resource in each sensor node, 
we need to utilize the sensors in an efficient manner so as to 
increase the lifetime of the network. There are two different 
approaches to the problem of conserving energy in sensor 
networks. The first approach is to plan a schedule of active 
sensors that enables other sensors to go into a sleep mode. The 
second approach is adjusting the sensing range of sensors for 
energy conservation. In this paper, we focus on adjusting the 
sensing range of each sensor in order to reduce the overlaps 
among sensing ranges while keep the detection ability above a 
predefined detection level. 
In this paper, a 3D differentiated WSN deployment considering 
coverage, satisfaction of detection levels, and energy conservation 
is formulated into a multi-objective optimization problem. We 
represent the sensor field as a three-dimensional grid of points. 
Three objectives are to be optimized: maximizing coverage of 
sensors, satisfying the required probability of detection threshold, 
and minimizing the detection power by adjustable sensing range. 
To solve the aforementioned multi-objective optimization 
problem, we developed a multi-objective genetic algorithm 
(MOGA) framework. The proposed approach can obtain a set of 
non-dominated solutions. As a result, mission planner can deploy 
sensor nodes considering different requirements of applications. 
2. RELATED WORK 
2.1 WSN Deployment Problem  
Coverage issue is one of the most important tasks in WSN. The 
ultimate goal is to have each location in the physical space of 
interest within the sensing range of at least one sensor. However, 
due to the number of sensors is limited, complete coverage cannot 
be guaranteed. Therefore, many approaches are proposed to deal 
with the 2D coverage problem. Oh et al. [8] proposed a genetic 
algorithm for the optimal selection of the number and type of 
 
Copyright is held by the author/owner(s). 
GECCO’09, July 8–12, 2009, Montréal, Québec, Canada. 
ACM  978-1-60558-505-5/09/07. 
  
 
2059
, where rk(si) is the sensing range of the sensor si. In this paper, we 
use this binary detection model in coverage problem. Thus, the 
coverage rate optimization problem F1 can be defined by  
1
1.
M
b j
j
c (p )
Max F
M
==
∑
 
 
(6) 
, where cb(pj) is the coverage of all sensors at grid point pj by the 
Equation (5). This objective is to be maximized. 
3.3.2 Detection Probability Thresholds 
We suppose that the sensor field is characterized by the 
geographical irregularity of the sensed events. This assumption is 
justified by many realistic WSN applications case studies. To 
efficiently monitor the area, and since we consider a probabilistic 
detection model, we assume that, to each grid point pj in sensor 
field is associated a required minimum probability detection 
threshold, denoted t(pj). Some grid points pj in sensor field T will 
have a low detection probability if they are covered only by one 
sensor and far from other sensors. In this case, it is necessary to 
make the detection area overlapped to compensate for the low 
detection probability of the grid points that are far from any 
sensor. Ideally, a good WSN deployment algorithm should lead to 
obtain that each pj in T the measured detection probability of that 
point is greater than t(pj) [7].  
   In reality, binary detection model has limitations due to the 
imprecise detection probability, which plays a significant role in 
sensor detection [3]. Hence, a detection error range is introduced 
to measure the uncertainty of sensor detection [3]. More precisely, 
we assume that event detection ability of a sensor diminishes as 
its distance to the sensed point increases [7]. A probabilistic 
detection model is expressed as 
( )
( )
( )⎪⎪⎩
⎪⎪⎨
⎧
≥−
+<<−
≤+
= −
jiiki
ikikjiikik
λα
jiikik
jip
,psd)(sf)(srif,
)(sf)(sr,psd)(sf)(srif,e
,psd)(sf)(srif,
),p(sc
k
β
1
0
 
 
(7)
, where α = d(si, pj) - (rk(si) - fk(si)), λ and β are parameters that 
measure the detection probabilities when an object is within a 
certain distance from the sensor, and fk(si) is the error ranges of 
the sensor si. Each sensor si has a detection probability cp(si, pj) at 
grid point pj. A grid point pj might be covered by more than one 
detection range of different sensors [2]. When a detection area is 
overlapped by multiple sensors, the closer are the sensors to each 
other, the higher is the detection probability of the grid points [3]. 
The conjunctive detection probability of all sensors at grid point 
pj is given by  
1
1 1 .
N
p j p i j
i
c (p ) ( c (s , p ))
=
= − −∏   (8) 
The optimization of the satisfaction required probability of 
detection threshold  F2 is expressed by: 
1
2
1
.
M
j
j
M
j
j
DP(p )
Max F
t(p )
=
=
=
∑
∑
 
 
(9) 
0
,where .
0
j p j j
j
t(p ) if c (p ) t(p )
DP(p )
otherwise
− ≥⎧= ⎨⎩
 
This objective is to be maximized.  
3.3.3 Energy Consumption 
In terms of energy consumption, we only consider the energy 
used in sensing, not including the power consumed by radio 
communication and computation. The sensing ranges of a sensor 
determine the energy consumed by the sensor [6]. We attempt to 
make the detection regions of sensors not overlapped, thereby 
minimizing the wasted overlap area and covering more grid points 
with a small number of sensors. We apply a energy model in our 
evaluation, in which the power consumption is proportional to the 
square of the sensing range rk [11]. The energy consumption 
model is expressed as follows:  
2)(sr)(se ikik ×= μ  (10) 
, where μ is an energy consumption parameter. The optimization 
of the detection power minimization with adjustable sensing range 
F3 can be formulated as  
1
3
max
1
.
N
k i
i
N
i
i
e (s )
Min F
e (s )
=
=
=
∑
∑
 
 
 
(11) 
, where emax(si) is the maximum detection range of each sensor. 
This objective is to be minimized.  
4. MULTI-OBJECTIVE GENETIC 
ALGORITHM 
4.1 Chromosome Representation 
A chromosome has gene information for solving the problem in 
MOGA. Each chromosome has fixed gene size, which is 
determined by the number of sensors in the WSN. Each gene has 
a x, y, and z coordinate location and a sensing range. The ranges 
of each gene of coordinate location are [0, nx], [0, ny], and [0, nz] 
in the x, y, and z dimensions. Hence these sensors will have 
coordinate values to denote their location. Each gene of sensing 
range is one of r1,r2,…, rK, which represent the detection ability of 
the sensor. 
4.2 Fitness Assignment 
We use a generalized Pareto-based scale-independent fitness 
function (GPSIFF) considering the quantitative fitness values in 
Pareto space for both dominated and non-dominated individuals. 
GPSIFF makes the best use of Pareto dominance relationship to 
evaluate individuals using a single measure of performance. The 
used GPSIFF is briefly described below. Let the fitness value of 
an individual X be a tournament-like score obtained from all 
participant individuals by the following function:  
cqpXF +−=)(  (12) 
, where p is the number of individuals which can be dominated by 
the individual X, and q is the number of individuals which can 
dominate the individual X in the objective space. Generally, a 
constant c can be optionally added in the fitness function to make 
2061
F1 F2 F30
20
40
60
80
100
V
al
ue
s(
%
)
Objectives
Normal
F1 F2 F30
20
40
60
80
100
V
al
ue
s(
%
)
Objectives
Poisson
 
 
 
0 100 200 300 400 50030
35
40
45
50
55
Generation
F 1
(%
)
Linear
Exponential
Normal
Poisson
 
 
0 100 200 300 400 50030
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Generation
F 2
(%
)
Linear
Exponential
Normal
Poisson
 
 
0 100 200 300 400 50030
35
40
45
50
55
Generation
F 3
(%
)
Linear
Exponential
Normal
Poisson
 
 
6. CONCLUSION 
In this paper, a multi-objective evolutionary approach is 
proposed to solve 3D differentiated WSN deployment problems. 
Experimental results demonstrated MOGA is capable of 
optimizing coverage, satisfaction of detection levels, and energy 
conservation and provide mission planers a set of non-dominated 
solutions for deployment of sensor nodes. The results also 
indicates that some problems with unusual detection probability 
thresholds requirements may require more computation time or 
different techniques for MOGA than those of problems with usual  
detection probability thresholds requirements. 
7. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
This work was supported by the National Science Council of 
Taiwan, R.O.C. under Contract NSC-96-2221-E-216-037-MY2, 
and Chung-Hua University under Contract CHU-96-2221-E-216-
037-MY2. 
8. REFERENCES 
[1] A. Dhawan, C. T. Vu, A. Zelikovsky, Y. Li, and S. K. Prasad, 
“Maximum Lifetime of Sensor Networks with Adjustable 
Sensing Range,” Software Engineering, Artificial 
Intelligence, Networking, and Parallel/Distributed 
Computing, 2006. SNPD 2006. Seventh ACIS International 
Conference on, pp. 285-289. 
[2] H.-C. Jang and H.-C. Lee, “Efficient energy management to 
prolong wireless sensor network lifetime,” Internet, 2007. 
ICI 2007. 3rd IEEE/IFIP International Conference in 
Central Asia on, pp. 1-4. 
[3] J. Jia, J. Chen, G.-R. Chang, and Y.-Y. Wen, “Efficient 
Cover Set Selection in Wireless Sensor Networks,” Acta 
Automatica Sinica,  vol. 34, no. 9, 2008, pp. 1157-1162. 
[4] J. Wu and S. Yang, “Coverage issue in sensor networks with 
adjustable ranges,” Parallel Processing Workshops, 2004. 
ICPP 2004 Workshops. Proceedings. 2004 International 
Conference on, pp. 61-68. 
[5] K. Chakrabarty, S. S. Iyengar, H. Qi, and E. Cho, “Grid 
coverage for surveillance and target location in distributed 
sensor networks,” Computers, IEEE Transactions on,  vol. 
51, no. 12, 2002, pp. 1448-1453. 
Figure 3. Box plots of non-dominated solutions for 
solving the 3D deployment problem with normal and 
Poisson distributions probability thresholds.  
Figure 6. The mean objective value F3 of non-
dominated solutions in each generation, for four 
problems with different required detection probability 
thresholds. 
Figure 5. The mean objective value F2 of non-
dominated solutions in each generation, for four 
problems with different required detection probability 
thresholds. 
Figure 4. The mean objective value F1 of non-
dominated solutions in each generation, for four 
problems with different required detection probability 
thresholds. 
2063
An Evolutionary Approach for Multi-objective 3D 
Differentiated Sensor Network Deployment   
 
Chih-Wei Kang and Jian-Hung Chen* 
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering 
Chung-Hua University, Hsin-Chu 300, Taiwan 
jh.chen@ieee.org* 
 
 
Abstract—This paper describes a multi-objective evolutionary 
approach for solving multi-objective 3D deployment problems in 
differentiated wireless sensor networks (WSNs). WSN is a 
wireless network consisting of spatially distributed autonomous 
sensors to monitor physical or environmental conditions. 
Deciding the location of sensor to be deployed on a terrain with 
the consideration of different criteria is an important issue for 
the design of wireless sensor network. A multi-objective genetic 
algorithm is proposed to solve 3D differentiated WSN 
deployment problems with the objectives of the coverage of 
sensors, satisfaction of detection levels, and energy conservation. 
The preliminary experimental results demonstrated that the 
proposed approach is suitable for solving 3D deployment 
problems of WSNs with different requirements. 
Keywords- Wireless sensor network, multi-objective 
optimization, genetic algorithms 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
A wireless sensor network (WSN) is a wireless network 
consisting of spatially distributed autonomous sensors to 
monitor physical or environmental conditions. WSN constitute 
a large number of applications related to national security, 
surveillance, military, health care, and home automation. 
Sensor nodes of a WSN are deployed over a region to sense 
events on geographical areas and transmit collected data to a 
sink node for further operations. Depending on the 
requirements, sensors could be deployed in diverse scenarios 
[4,9]. Therefore, deciding the location of sensor to be deployed 
on a terrain is an important issue. Several different objectives 
should be considered and fulfilled in the design phase of WSNs, 
such as the coverage and accuracy, reaction time and 
survivability of the sensor network. However, these objectives 
may be in conflict with one another and of different importance 
to mission planners [10].  
Coverage is one of the fundamental issue in the deployment 
of WSNs. WSNs need to maintain sufficient coverage quality 
to capture the timely changing targets [13]. For enhanced 
coverage, a large number of sensors are typically deployed in 
the sensor field and, if the coverage areas of multiple sensors 
overlap, they may all report a target in their respective zones 
[3].  
Differentiated sensor network deployment, which considers 
the satisfaction of detection levels in different geographical 
characteristics, is also an important issue [1]. In many real-
world WSN applications, such as underwater sensor 
deployment, the supervised area may require different 
detection levels, depending on the event's location. Therefore, 
the sensing requirements are not uniformly distributed within 
the area. In other words, all the points of the area under 
monitoring are considered with the different importance. As a 
result, the deployment strategy of WSN should take into 
consideration the geographical characteristics of the monitored 
events.  
Energy conservation for the lifetime of sensors is another 
rising issue [5]. Due to the limited energy resource in each 
sensor node, we need to utilize the sensors in an efficient 
manner so as to increase the lifetime of the network. There are 
two different approaches to the problem of conserving energy 
in sensor networks. The first approach is to plan a schedule of 
active sensors that enables other sensors to go into a sleep 
mode. The second approach is adjusting the sensing range of 
sensors for energy conservation. In this paper, we focus on 
adjusting the sensing range of each sensor in order to reduce 
the overlaps among sensing ranges while keep the detection 
ability above a predefined detection level.  
In this paper, a 3D differentiated WSN deployment 
considering coverage, satisfaction of detection levels, and 
energy conservation is formulated into a multi-objective 
optimization problem. We represent the sensor field as a three-
dimensional grid of points. Three objectives are to be 
optimized: maximizing coverage of sensors, satisfying the 
required probability of detection level, and minimizing the 
detection power by adjustable sensing range. To solve the 
aforementioned multi-objective optimization problem, we 
developed a multi-objective genetic algorithm (MOGA) 
framework. The proposed approach can obtain a set of non-
dominated solutions for mission planner to deploy sensor nodes 
considering different requirements of applications. 
II. RELATED WORK 
A. WSN Deployment Problem 
Coverage issue is one of the most important tasks in WSN. 
The ultimate goal is to have each location in the physical space 
of interest within the sensing range of at least one sensor. 
However, due to the number of sensors is limited, complete 
coverage cannot be guaranteed. Therefore, many approaches 
are proposed to deal with the 2D coverage problem. Oh et al. 
2009 International Conference on Computational Science and Engineering
978-0-7695-3823-5/09 $26.00 © 2009 IEEE
DOI 10.1109/CSE.2009.329
187
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Hwa University. Downloaded on November 3, 2009 at 08:10 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
222 )z(z)y(y)x(x)p,d(s jijijiji   (4)
where xi, xj, yi, yj, zi and zj are coordinate location values. The 
way to compute the sensor and target coverage relationship is 
to consider that a sensor covers a target if the Euclidean 
distance between the sensor and target is no greater than a 
predefined sensing range. The following equation shows a 
binary coverage model expressing the coverage cb(si, pj) of a 
grid point pj by sensor si.  
®¯­  otherwise,
)(sr),pd(sif,
),p(sc ikjijib 0
1
 
 
(5)
, where rk(si) is the sensing range of the sensor si. 
The coverage rate optimization problem F1 can be defined 
by  
1
1.
M
b j
j
c (p )
Max F
M
  
¦
 
 
(6)
, where cb(pj) is the coverage of all sensors at grid point pj by 
the Equation (5). This objective is to be maximized. 
2) Maximization of Differentiated Detection Levels 
Considering differentiated detection levels, assumed that 
each grid point pj in sensor field T is associated a required 
minimum detection level, denoted t(pj).  A terrain may have 
different required detection levels, as illustrated in Figure 1. 
Ideally, a good  deployment for differentiated WSN should 
satisfy the following condition: for each pj in T, the measured 
detection probability of  pj should be greater than or equal to 
t(pj) [1].  
 
 
 
In literature, a 0/1 binary detection model for grid points is 
often used if a grid is covered by a sensor. However, in reality, 
the detection of events may be influence by weather or 
obstacles. In such cases, the 0/1 binary detection model has 
limitations due to the imprecise detection probability, which 
plays a significant role in sensor detection [7]. Hence, a 
detection error range is introduced to measure the uncertainty 
of sensor detection [7]. Each grid point covered by sensors has 
different detection probabilities according to their realistic 
conditions, such as distance to sensors or weather conditions. If 
a gird point in sensor field T is covered only by one sensor and 
far from other sensors, it may have a low detection probability. 
In this case, it is necessary to reallocate sensors, so that the 
detection area of sensors can be overlapped to compensate for 
the low detection probability of those grid points that are far 
from any sensor. 
In this paper, we adopted a probabilistic detection model 
for sensor deployment [1]. Assume that event detection 
probability of a sensor diminishes as its distance to the sensed 
point increases. A probabilistic detection model of sensors is 
expressed as  
 
 
 °°¯
°°®
­
t

d
 
jiiki
ikikjiikik
ȜĮ
jiikik
jip
,psd)(sf)(srif,
)(sf)(sr,psd)(sf)(srif,e
,psd)(sf)(srif,
),p(sc
k
ȕ
1
0  
(7)
, where Į = d(si, pj) - (rk(si) - fk(si)), Ȝ and ȕ are parameters that 
measure the detection probabilities when an object is within a 
certain distance from the sensor, and fk(si) is the error ranges of 
the sensor si. Each sensor si has a detection probability cp(si, pj) 
at grid point pj. A grid point pj might be covered by more than 
one detection range of different sensors [8]. When a detection 
area is overlapped by multiple sensors, the closer are the 
sensors to each other, the higher is the detection probability of 
the grid points [7]. The conjunctive detection probability of all 
sensors at grid point pj is given by 
1
1 1 .
N
p j p i j
i
c (p ) ( c (s , p ))
 
     (8)
The optimization of the satisfaction required probability of 
detection level F2 is expressed by:  
1
2
1
.
M
j
j
M
j
j
DP(p )
Max F
t(p )
 
 
 
¦
¦
 
 
(9)
0
,where .
0
j p j j
j
t(p ) if c (p ) t(p )
DP(p )
otherwise
 t­ ®¯  
This objective is to be maximized. 
3) Minimization of Energy Consumption 
In terms of energy consumption, we only consider the 
energy used in sensing, but not including the power consumed 
by radio communication and computation. The sensing ranges 
of a sensor determine the energy consumed by the sensor [4]. 
We attempt to make the detection regions of sensors not 
overlapped, thereby minimizing the wasted overlap area and 
covering more grid points with a small number of sensors. We 
apply an energy model in our evaluation, in which the power 
consumption is proportional to the square of the sensing range 
rk [11]. The energy consumption model is expressed as follows:  
2)(sr)(se ikik u P , (10)
Figure 1. Terrain with different required detection 
levels: decreasing linear, normal, Poisson, and 
exponential distributions. 
189
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Hwa University. Downloaded on November 3, 2009 at 08:10 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
mutation probability pm=0.01, the number of maximum 
generations Gmax=500 and 1000. Thirty independent runs are 
conducted for each problem. 
To identify the difficulties of problems and evaluate the 
performance of our algorithm, the number of sensor nodes to 
be deployed is limited to 20 and 50, respectively. Figures 3-7 
show the results of deployment using 20 sensors. Figures 8-12 
show the results of deployment using 50 sensors. 
  Figures 3,4,8,9 depict the box plots of obtained non-
dominated solutions and the maximum and minimum objective 
values obtained in different objective functions, using 20 and 
50 sensors. Figures 5-7 and 10-12 depict the convergence 
speed of a typical run in solving the 3D WSN deployment 
problem with four different required minimum detection 
probability levels, using 20 and 50 sensor nodes. The results 
indicate that different detection levels pose different difficulties 
for MOGA. The problems with normal and Poisson detection 
levels are more difficult to find a good deployment plan than 
problems with decreasing linear and exponential detection 
levels using the same number of sensors. The number of 
sensors required for a terrain with normal and Poisson 
detection levels should be bigger than the same terrain with 
decreasing linear and exponential detection levels. 
 
F1 F2 F30
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
V
al
ue
s(
%
)
Objectives
Linear
F1 F2 F30
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
V
al
ue
s(
%
)
Objectives
Exponential
 
F1 F2 F30
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
V
al
ue
s(
%
)
Objectives
Normal
F1 F2 F30
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
V
al
ue
s(
%
)
Objectives
Poisson
 
 
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 50034
36
38
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
Generation
F 1
(%
)
Linear
Exponential
Normal
Poisson
 
 
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 50030
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Generation
F 2
(%
)
Linear
Exponential
Normal
Poisson
 
 
Figure 2. A terrain with decreasing linear detection 
levels. 
Figure 3. Box plots of non-dominated solutions for 
solving the 3D deployment problem with linear and 
exponential detection levels, using 20 sensors.  
Figure 4. Box plots of non-dominated solutions for 
solving the 3D deployment problem with normal and 
Poisson detection levels, using 20 sensors.  
Figure 6. The mean objective value F2 of non-
dominated solutions in each generation, for four 
problems with different detection levels, using 20 
sensors. 
Figure 5. The mean objective value F1 of non-
dominated solutions in each generation, for four 
problems with different detection levels, using 20 
sensors. 
191
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Hwa University. Downloaded on November 3, 2009 at 08:10 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
problems. Experimental results demonstrated MOGA is 
capable of optimizing coverage, satisfaction of detection levels, 
and energy conservation. Moreover, MOGA can provide 
mission planers a set of non-dominated solutions for 
deployment of sensor nodes. The results also indicate that some 
problems with unusual detection levels requirements may 
require more sensor nodes for MOGA than those of problems 
with usual detection levels requirements. Our future work will 
develop specialized techniques for 3D WSN deployment 
problems with unusual detection levels. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported by the National Science Council 
of Taiwan, R.O.C. under Contract NSC-96-2221-E-216-037-
MY2, and Chung-Hua University under Contract CHU-96-
2221-E-216-037-MY2. 
REFERENCES 
[1] N. Aitsaadi, N. Achirt, K. Boussetta, and G. Pujolle, “A Tabu Search 
Approach for Differentiated Sensor Network Deployment,” in Proc. of 
5th IEEE Consumer Communications and Networking Conference, 2008. 
CCNC 2008, pp. 163-167, 2008. 
[2] N. Aitsaadi, N. Achir, K. Boussetta, and G. Pujolle, "Differentiated 
Underwater Sensor Network Deployment," in Proc. of OCEANS 2007 – 
Europe, pp.1-6,  June 2007. 
[3] K. Chakrabarty, S. S. Iyengar, H. Qi, and E. Cho, “Grid coverage for 
surveillance and target location in distributed sensor networks,” IEEE 
Transactions on Computers,  vol. 51, no. 12, pp. 1448-1453, 2002. 
[4] M. Cardei, J. Wu, and M. Lu, “Improving network lifetime using sensors 
with adjustable sensing ranges,” International Journal of Sensor 
Networks,  vol. 1, no. 1/2, pp. 41-49, 2006. 
[5] A. Dhawan, C. T. Vu, A. Zelikovsky, Y. Li, and S. K. Prasad, 
“Maximum Lifetime of Sensor Networks with Adjustable Sensing 
Range,” in Proc. of Seventh ACIS International Conference on Software 
Engineering, Artificial Intelligence, Networking, and 
Parallel/Distributed Computing, 2006. SNPD 2006, pp. 285-289, 2006. 
[6] K. Deb. Multi-Objective Optimization using Evolutionary Algorithms. 
John Wiley & Sons, Chichester, UK, 2001. 
[7] J. Jia, J. Chen, G.-R. Chang, and Y.-Y. Wen, “Efficient Cover Set 
Selection in Wireless Sensor Networks,” Acta Automatica Sinica,  vol. 
34, no. 9, pp. 1157-1162, 2008. 
[8] H.-C. Jang and H.-C. Lee, “Efficient energy management to prolong 
wireless sensor network lifetime,” in Proc. of 3rd IEEE/IFIP 
International Conference in Central Asia on Internet,  ICI 2007., pp. 1-4, 
2007. 
[9] S. Oktug, A. Khalilov, and H. Tezcan, “3D Coverage Analysis under 
Heterogeneous Deployment Strategies in Wireless Sensor Networks,” in 
Proc. of Fourth Advanced International Conference on 
Telecommunications, 2008. AICT '08, pp. 199-204, 2008. 
[10] S. C. Oh, C. H. Tan, F. W. Kong, Y. S. Tan, K. H. Ng, G. W. Ng, and K. 
Tai, “Multiobjective optimization of sensor network deployment by a 
genetic algorithm,” in Proc. of IEEE Congress on Evolutionary 
Computation, 2007. CEC 2007, pp. 3917-3921, 2007. 
[11] Y. Shang and H. Shi, “Coverage and energy tradeoff in density control 
on sensor networks,” in Proc. of 11th International Conference on 
Parallel and Distributed Systems, 2005, pp. 564-570, 2005. 
[12] J. Wu and S. Yang, “Coverage issue in sensor networks with adjustable 
ranges,” in Proc. of 2004 International Conference on Parallel 
Processing Workshops, 2004. ICPP 2004, pp. 61-68, 2004. 
[13] S. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Pu, X. Zeng, and Z. Xiong, “An Enhanced Coverage 
Control Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks,” in Proc. of 42nd 
Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, 2009. HICSS '09., 
pp. 1-7, 2009. 
 
 
193
Authorized licensed use limited to: Chung Hwa University. Downloaded on November 3, 2009 at 08:10 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
runs as many times as the number of desired Pareto-optimal 
solutions and tends to find weakly non-dominated solutions [5]. 
In [11-13], both fuel cost and emission are taken into 
consideration simultaneously. The approach proposed in [11-
13] handles both fuel cost and emission simultaneously as 
competing objectives. Stochastic search and fuzzy-based multi-
objective optimization techniques have been proposed for the 
EED problem. However, the algorithms do not provide a 
systematic framework for directing the search towards Pareto-
optimal front and the extension of these techniques to include 
more objectives is a very involved question. In addition, these 
techniques are computationally involved and time-consuming 
[5]. Genetic algorithm based multi-objective optimization 
techniques have been adopted in [14, 15] where a set of good  
non-dominated solutions can be obtained from each evolution 
generation. However, GA-based techniques suffer from 
premature convergence and the technique presented in [14] is 
computationally involved due to ranking process during the 
fitness assignment procedure. In [5], a new multi-objective 
particle swarm optimization (MOPSO) technique for 
environmental/economic dispatch (EED) problem is proposed. 
The proposed MOPSO technique evolves a multi-objective 
version of PSO by proposing redefinition of global best and 
local best individuals in multi-objective optimization domain. 
When some industrial processes have large heat 
requirements, the heat load becomes as important as power 
load. As a result, the combined heat and power economic 
dispatch (CHPED) problem of a system has been raised to 
determine the unit heat and power production, so that the 
system production cost is minimized while the heat and power 
demands and other constraints are met. In [2], a self adaptive 
real-coded genetic algorithm (SARGA) is implemented to 
solve the problem. However, environmental emission is not 
considered in this paper. 
Nevertheless, these EED and CHPED problems only 
considered a fixed number of power/cogeneration units or heat-
alone units while optimizing fuel costs and emissions. None of 
them consider environmental/economic dispatch with a 
variable number of units.   
B. Multi-objective Evolutionary Optimization 
Assume the multi-objective functions are to be minimized. 
Mathematically, MOOPs can be represented as the following 
vector mathematical programming problems  
)}.(...,),(),({)( 21 YFYFYFYFMinimize i=  (1)
where Y denotes a solution and fi(Y) is generally a nonlinear 
objective function. Pareto dominance relationship and some 
related terminologies are introduced below. When the 
following inequalities hold between two solutions Y1 and Y2, Y2 
is a non-dominated solution and is said to dominate Y1 (Y2 ; Y1): 
).()(:)()(: 2121 YFYFjYFYFi jjii >∃∧>∀ (2)
When the following inequality hold between two solutions Y1 
and Y2, Y2 is said to weakly dominate Y1 (Y2; Y1): 
).()(: 21 YFYFi ii ≥∀  (3)
A feasible solution Y * is said to be a Pareto-optimal solution if 
and only if there does not exist a feasible solution Y where Y 
dominates Y *, and the corresponding vector of Pareto-optimal 
solutions is called Pareto-optimal front. 
By making use of Pareto dominance relationship, multi-
objective evolutionary algorithms (MOEAs) are capable of 
performing the fitness assignment of multiple objectives 
without using relative preferences of multiple objectives. Thus, 
all the objective functions can be optimized simultaneously. As 
a result, MOEA seems to be an alternative approach to solving 
production planning and inspection planning problems on the 
assumption that no prior domain knowledge is available [13]. 
III. PROBLEM STATEMENT 
The CHPEED problem is to minimize four competing 
objective functions, fuel cost, emission, power overhead and 
heat overhead, while satisfying several equality and inequality 
constraints. The CHPEED problem is formulated as follows. 
A. Problem objectives 
1) Minimization of fuel cost 
The total US$/h fuel cost Fcost can be expressed as 
∑ ∑ ∑
= = =
++=
p c hN
i
N
j
N
k
kkjjjiit TCHOCPCF
1 1 1
cos )(),()( (4)
, where Ci, Cj and Ck are the unit production costs of the 
conventional power, cogeneration and heat-alone units, 
respectively; Pi and Oj are power generations of conventional 
power and cogeneration units; Hj and Tk are heat generation of 
cogeneration and heat-alone units. 
2) Minimization of emission 
∑ ∑∑
= ==
++=
p hcN
i
N
k
kk
N
j
jjjii TEHOEPEE
1 11
)(),()(  (5)
, where Ei, Ej and Ek are the emission (kg/h) caused by the 
conventional power, cogeneration and heat-alone units, 
respectively. 
2)( iiii PPPE γβα ++=  (6)
 
jjj OOE μ=)(  (7)
 
)()(
2 COCONOkkk x
TTE μμμ ++=  (8)
 
, where α , β  and γ  represent to the emission function 
coefficients of the conventional power unit. 
3) Minimization of power overhead and heat overhead 
chromosomes. The order crossover (OX) in GA literature is 
used in our approach.  
A simple mutation operator is used to alter genes. For each 
gene, randomly generate a real value from their given range. If 
the value is smaller than the mutation probability pm, replace its 
index with a randomly generated integer among its possible 
values.  
D. Procedure of MOGA 
The procedure of MOGA is written as follows:  
Input: population size Npop, recombination probability pc, 
mutation probability pm, the number of maximum generations 
Gmax.  
Output: The optimum solutions ever found in P.  
Step 1: Initialization Randomly generate an initial population 
P of Npop individuals.  
Step 2: Evaluation For each individual in the population, 
compute all objective function values F1, F2, and F3.  
Step 3: Fitness assignment Assign each individual a fitness 
value by using GPSIFF.  
Step 4: Selection Select Npop individuals from the population 
to form a new population using the binary tournament selection.  
Step 5: Recombination Perform the order crossover operation 
with a recombination probability pc.  
Step 6: Mutation Apply the mutation operator to each gene in 
the individuals with a mutation probability pm.  
Step 7: Termination test If a stopping condition is satisfied, 
stop the algorithm. Otherwise, go to Step 2. 
V. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
A. Simulation Environment and Parameter Settings 
This power system considers a type of conventional power 
unit, cogeneration unit and heat-alone unit, respectively. The 
power generation limits of the conventional power unit are 0 
and 150 MW and heat generation limits of heat-alone units are 
0 and 2695.2 MWth. The feasible operating regions of the 
cogeneration unit are given in figure 1. The value of emission 
coefficients α, β and γ are given as 13.85932, 0.32767 and 
0.00419, respectively. The emission factors of heat-alone units 
are obtained from the average heat generation from residential 
boilers in urban areas, with an equivalent fuel mix as input [16]. 
The emission factors μNOx, μCO2 and μCO are given as 0.2 
kg/MW, 0.27 kg/MW and 0.04 kg/MW, respectively. 
The feasible operating regions of the cogeneration unit 
from Figure 1 can be expressed as inequality constraints as 
follows: 
090105.744680-O-4H1.78191489 ≤  (21)
 
0247.0-O8H0.17777777 ≤+  (22)
 
098.8O-8H0.16984732- ≤+  (23)
104.8 180
81
215
247
Heat(MWth)
Po
w
er
(M
W
)
 
Figure 1.  Feasible operating regions of cogeneration unit. 
Based on the given environment and constraints, three 
benchmark problems “demand (200, 115)”, “demand (700, 
615)” and “demand (2000, 1115)” are designed to validate our 
approach. The notation “demand (P, H)” represents that the 
power demand is P and the heat demand is H.  
The parameter settings of MOGA are listed as follows: 
population size Npop=50, recombination probability pc=0.9, 
mutation probability pm=0.01, the number of maximum 
generations Gmax=100. Thirty independent runs are conducted 
for each problem.  
Figures 2-4 shows the distributions of non-dominated 
solutions in four objectives by means of boxplot. The results 
indicate that the proposed approach is capable of obtaining a 
set of wide-spread and non-dominated solutions.  
Figures 5-8 depict a typical run of MOGA in solving 
“demand (2000, 1115)”. The maximum, mean and minimum 
objective values of individuals during a typical run are shown 
in the figures. The results indicate that the proposed approach 
converge steadily and rapidly. 
cost
1
1.5
2
2.5
x 104
objectives
va
lu
e(
U
S$
/h
r)
emission
0.05
0.1
0.15
0.2
0.25
0.3
objectives
va
lu
e(
to
nn
e/
hr
)
heat overhead
0
100
200
300
400
objectives
va
lu
e(
M
W
th
/h
r)
heat overhead
0
100
200
300
400
objectives
va
lu
e(
M
W
th
/h
r)
Figure 2.  Boxplot of non-dominated solutions in solving “demand 
(200,115)” problem. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported by the National Science Council of 
Taiwan, R.O.C. under Contract NSC-96-2221-E-216-037-
MY2, and Chung-Hua University under Contract CHU-96-
2221-E-216-037-MY2. 
REFERENCES 
[1] L. Xuebin, "Study of multi-objective optimization and multi-attribute 
decision-making for economic and environmental power dispatch," 
Electric Power Systems Research, vol. 79, pp. 789-795, 2009. 
[2] P. Subbaraj, R. Rengaraj, and S. Salivahanan, "Enhancement of 
combined heat and power economic dispatch using self adaptive real-
coded genetic algorithm," Applied Energy, vol. 86, pp. 915-921, 2009. 
[3] K. P. Wong and C. Algie, "Evolutionary programming approach for 
combined heat and power dispatch," Electric Power Systems Research, 
vol. 61, pp. 227-232, 2002. 
[4] R. Ramanathan, "Emission constrained economic dispatch," Power 
Systems, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 9, pp. 1994-2000, 1994. 
[5] M. A. Abido, "Multiobjective particle swarm optimization for 
environmental/economic dispatch problem," Electric Power Systems 
Research, vol. 79, pp. 1105-1113, 2009. 
[6] G. P. Granelli, M. Montagna, G. L. Pasini, and P. Marannino, "Emission 
constrained dynamic dispatch," Electric Power Systems Research, vol. 
24, pp. 55-64, 1992. 
[7] A. Farag, S. Al-Baiyat, and T. C. Cheng, "Economic load dispatch 
multiobjective optimization procedures using linear programming 
techniques," Power Systems, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 10, pp. 731-738, 
1995. 
[8] J. S. Dhillon, S. C. Parti, and D. P. Kothari, "Stochastic economic 
emission load dispatch," Electric Power Systems Research, vol. 26, pp. 
179-186, 1993. 
[9] C. S. Chang, K. P. Wong, and B. Fan, "Security-constrained 
multiobjective generation dispatch using bicriterion global 
optimisation," Generation, Transmission and Distribution, IEE 
Proceedings-, vol. 142, pp. 406-414, 1995. 
[10] R. Yokoyama, S. H. Bae, T. Morita, and H. Sasaki, "Multiobjective 
optimal generation dispatch based on probability security criteria," 
Power Systems, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 3, pp. 317-324, 1988. 
[11] D. Srinivasan, C. S. Chang, and A. C. Liew, "Multiobjective generation 
scheduling using fuzzy optimal search technique," Generation, 
Transmission and Distribution, IEE Proceedings, vol. 141, pp. 233-242, 
1994. 
[12] H. Chao-Ming, Y. Hong-Tzer, and H. Ching-Lien, "Bi-objective power 
dispatch using fuzzy satisfaction-maximizing decision approach," Power 
Systems, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 12, pp. 1715-1721, 1997. 
[13] D. B. Das and C. Patvardhan, "New multi-objective stochastic search 
technique for economic load dispatch," Generation, Transmission and 
Distribution, IEE Proceedings-, vol. 145, pp. 747-752, 1998. 
[14] M. A. Abido, "A novel multiobjective evolutionary algorithm for 
environmental/economic power dispatch," Electric Power Systems 
Research, vol. 65, pp. 71-81, 2003. 
[15] M. A. Abido, "Environmental/economic power dispatch using 
multiobjective evolutionary algorithms," Power Systems, IEEE 
Transactions on, vol. 18, pp. 1529-1537, 2003. 
[16] G. Chicco, P. Mancarella, and R. Napoli, "Emission Assessment of 
Distributed Generation in Urban Areas," in Power Tech, 2007 IEEE 
Lausanne, 2007, pp. 532-537. 
 
the required probability of detection level, and 
minimizing the detection power by adjustable sensing 
range. A multi-objective genetic algorithm (MOGA) 
framework with a novel force-driven method is 
proposed to solve these problems.  
 
2. RELATED WORK 
 
2.1. WSN Deployment Problem 
 
Coverage issue is one of the most important tasks in 
WSN. The ultimate goal is to have each location in the 
physical space of interest within the sensing range of at 
least one sensor. However, due to the number of 
sensors is limited, complete coverage cannot be 
guaranteed. Therefore, many approaches are proposed 
to deal with the 2D coverage problem [7, 10]. Recently, 
Oktug et al. [9] proposed an approach to solve 
coverage problem by simulating sensor deployment 
strategies on a 3D terrain model and to find answers to 
questions that how many sensors are needed to cover a 
specified 3D terrain at a specified coverage percentage.  
Different applications require different degrees of 
sensing coverage. While some applications may 
require a complete coverage in a region, others may 
only need a high percentage of coverage. Such WSN is 
called differentiated WSN [1]. Take underwater sensor 
deployment [2] as an example, sensor field of 
underwater is characterized by the geographical 
irregularity of the sensed events because some area 
may be inaccessible or the event area may not be 
uniformly distributed. To efficiently monitor such area 
with differentiated detection levels, fulfillment of 
detection levels in different area is the major concerns 
instead of maximizing the coverage of sensors [11]. 
Aitsaadi et al. [1] proposed a probabilistic event 
detection model. In this model, each grid point has a 
required minimum probability detection threshold.  A 
tabu search method is proposed to solve this 
differentiated WSN deployment problem. 
In recent years, utilizing limited energy efficiently 
in a wireless sensor network has become an important 
issue. Several techniques, such as scheduling models 
and sleep models [4, 8, 12], have been proposed to 
extend the lifetime of WSNs.  
 
2.2. Multi-objective Evolutionary Optimization 
 
Assume the multi-objective functions are to be 
minimized. Mathematically, multi-objective 
optimization problems (MOOPs) can be represented as 
the following vector mathematical programming 
problems  
1 2( ) { ( ), ( ), ..., ( )}iMinimize F Y F Y F Y F Y= , (1)
where Y denotes a solution and Fi(Y) is generally a 
nonlinear objective function. Pareto dominance 
relationship and some related terminologies are 
introduced below. When the following inequalities 
hold between two solutions Y1 and Y2, Y2 is a non-
dominated solution and is said to dominate Y1 (Y2 ; Y1): 
).()(:)()(: 2121 YFYFjYFYFi jjii >∃∧≥∀  (2)
When the following inequality hold between two 
solutions Y1 and Y2, Y2 is said to weakly dominate Y1 
(Y2; Y1): 
).()(: 21 YFYFi ii ≥∀  (3)
A feasible solution Y* is said to be a Pareto-optimal 
solution if and only if there does not exist a feasible 
solution Y where Y dominates Y*. 
By making use of Pareto dominance relationship, 
multi-objective evolutionary algorithms (MOEAs) [6] 
are capable of performing the fitness assignment of 
multiple objectives without using relative preferences 
of multiple objectives.  
 
 
3. PROBLEM STATEMENT 
 
3.1. Notations 
 
In order to formulate problems, the following 
notations are introduced:  
• i : sensor index, i = 1,2,3,…,N.  
• j : grid point index, j = 1,2,3,…,M.  
• k : sensing range index, k = 1,2,3,…,K.  
 
3.2. Environment 
 
We assume that N sensors s1,s2,…, sN are deployed 
to cover the sensor field. Let the sensor field T consist 
Figure 1. Terrain with different required 
detection levels: decreasing linear, normal, 
Poisson, and exponential distributions. 
, where emax(si) is the maximum detection range of each 
sensor. This objective is to be minimized. 
 
4. FORCE-DRIVEN MULTI-OBJECTIVE 
GENETIC ALGORITHM (FD-MOGA) 
 
4.1. Chromosome Representation 
 
A chromosome has gene information for solving the 
problem in FD-MOGA. Each chromosome has fixed 
gene size, which is determined by the number of 
sensors in the WSN. Each gene has a x, y, and z 
coordinate location and a sensing range. The ranges of 
each gene of coordinate location are [0, nx], [0, ny], and 
[0, nz] in the x, y, and z dimensions. Hence these 
sensors will have coordinate values to denote their 
location. Each gene of sensing range is one of r1,r2,…, 
rK, which represent the detection ability of the sensor. 
 
4.2. Fitness Assignment 
 
We use a generalized Pareto-based scale-
independent fitness function (GPSIFF) considering the 
quantitative fitness values in Pareto space for both 
dominated and non-dominated individuals. Let the 
fitness value of an individual Y be a tournament-like 
score obtained from all participant individuals by the 
following function:  
( )F Y p q c= − +  (12)
, where p is the number of individuals which can be 
dominated by the individual Y, and q is the number of 
individuals which can dominate the individual Y in the 
objective space. c is set to the number of all participant 
individuals. 
 
4.3. Genetic Operators 
 
The genetic operators used in the proposed 
approach are widely used in literature. The selection 
operator uses a binary tournament selection without 
replacement. The uniform crossover is used in FD-
MOGA. A simple mutation operator is used to alter 
genes. For each gene, randomly generate a real value 
from the range [0, 1]. If the value is smaller than the 
mutation probability pm, replace its index with a 
randomly generated integer among its possible values. 
 
4.4. Repulsion and Attraction Force Mutation 
 
To prevent sensors from overly centering in some 
positions in individuals, a force-driven method is 
introduced. The proposed force-driven method consists 
of two forces: repulsion force and attraction force.  
While the density of sensors within a certain space is 
high, a repulsion force mutation is to increase the 
degree of spread between sensors. On the contrary, 
while the density of sensors is low, an attraction force 
mutation is used to centralize sensors within a certain 
space. The procedure of repulsion and attraction force 
mutation is written as follows:  
Step 1: Space Division Divide the sensor field T into 
bnx, bny, and bnz large grid space bp1,bp2,…, bpL, 
where nx> bnx, ny> bny, and nz> bnz. 
Step 2: Position Compute the position of sensors 
within each large grid space bpl, l = 1,2,…, L. Partition 
the sensors within the large grid space bpl into a set Sl. 
Step 3: Statistics Calculate the number of sensors, bl, 
in each set Sl .  
Step 4: Repulsion Mutation If the number bl of 
sensors in a large grid space bpl is bigger than one, 
repulse the positions of sensors in Sl from their 
centroid with one grid point in every dimension, and 
increase one level of sensing range in these sensor. 
Step 5: Attraction Mutation If the number bl of 
sensors in large grid space bpl is equal to one, let the 
sensors adjacent to the large grid space bpl be attracted 
and move to the position of the sensor in Sl with one 
grid point for every dimension, and decrease one level 
of sensing range in these sensors.  
 
4.5. Procedure of FD-MOGA 
 
An elitism strategy is adopted. An elite set E with 
capacity Emax will maintain all the best non-dominated 
solutions generated so far. The procedure of FD-
MOGA is written as follows:  
Input: population size Npop, recombination probability 
pc, mutation probability pm, the number of maximum 
generations Gmax.  
Output: The optimum solutions ever found in P.  
Step 1: Initialization Randomly generate an initial 
population P of Npop individuals, and create an empty 
elite sets E.  
Step 2: Evaluation For each individual in the 
population, compute all objective function values F1, 
F2, and F3.  
Step 3: Fitness assignment Assign each individual a 
fitness value by using GPSIFF.  
Step 4: Update elitist Add the non-dominated 
individuals in E. Considering all individuals in E, 
remove the dominated ones in E. If the number of non-
dominated individuals in E is larger than Emax, 
randomly discard excess individuals.  
Step 5: Selection Select Npop - Nps individuals from the 
population to form a new population using the binary 
algorithms, FD-MOGA and MOGA, considering all 
the objectives.  
( ) { }.,,,
B
baBbAaBAC ;∈∈=  (13)
The value C(A, B)=1 means that all individuals in B 
are weakly dominated by A.  Figure 5 depict box plots 
of coverage metric of FD-MOGA and MOGA in 
solving the 3D deployment problems with four 
detection levels, using 20 sensors. The result 
demonstrates the effectiveness of the elitism and force-
driven mutation used in FD-MOGA.  
Linear Exponential Normal Poisson
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
(a) C(FD-MOGA, MOGA)
Linear Exponential Normal Poisson
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
(b) C(MOGA, FD-MOGA)
 
 
6. CONCLUSION 
 
In this paper, a force-driven multi-objective 
evolutionary approach is proposed to solve 3D 
differentiated WSN deployment problems. 
Experimental results demonstrated FD-MOGA is 
capable of optimizing coverage, satisfaction of 
detection levels, and energy conservation. Moreover, 
FD-MOGA can provide mission planers a set of non-
dominated solutions for deployment of sensor nodes. 
The results also indicate that some problems with 
unusual detection levels requirements may require 
more sensor nodes for FD-MOGA than those of 
problems with usual detection levels requirements. Our 
future work will develop specialized techniques for 3D 
WSN deployment problems with unusual detection 
levels. 
 
7. ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
 
This work was supported by the National Science 
Council of Taiwan, R.O.C. under Contract NSC-96-
2221-E-216-037-MY2, and Chung-Hua University 
under Contract CHU-96-2221-E-216-037-MY2. 
 
8. REFERENCES 
 
[1] N. Aitsaadi, N. Achirt, K. Boussetta, and G. Pujolle, “A 
Tabu Search Approach for Differentiated Sensor 
Network Deployment,” in Proc. of 5th IEEE Consumer 
Communications and Networking Conference, 2008. 
CCNC 2008, pp. 163-167, 2008. 
[2] N. Aitsaadi, N. Achir, K. Boussetta, and G. Pujolle, 
"Differentiated Underwater Sensor Network 
Deployment," in Proc. of OCEANS 2007 – Europe, 
pp.1-6,  June 2007. 
[3] K. Chakrabarty, S. S. Iyengar, H. Qi, and E. Cho, “Grid 
coverage for surveillance and target location in 
distributed sensor networks,” IEEE Transactions on 
Computers,  vol. 51, no. 12, pp. 1448-1453, 2002. 
[4] M. Cardei, J. Wu, and M. Lu, “Improving network 
lifetime using sensors with adjustable sensing ranges,” 
International Journal of Sensor Networks,  vol. 1, no. 
1/2, pp. 41-49, 2006. 
[5] A. Dhawan, C. T. Vu, A. Zelikovsky, Y. Li, and S. K. 
Prasad, “Maximum Lifetime of Sensor Networks with 
Adjustable Sensing Range,” in Proc. of Seventh ACIS 
International Conference on Software Engineering, 
Artificial Intelligence, Networking, and 
Parallel/Distributed Computing, 2006. SNPD 2006, pp. 
285-289, 2006. 
[6] K. Deb. Multi-Objective Optimization using 
Evolutionary Algorithms. John Wiley & Sons, 
Chichester, UK, 2001. 
[7] J. Jia, J. Chen, G.-R. Chang, and Y.-Y. Wen, “Efficient 
Cover Set Selection in Wireless Sensor Networks,” Acta 
Automatica Sinica,  vol. 34, no. 9, pp. 1157-1162, 2008. 
[8] H.-C. Jang and H.-C. Lee, “Efficient energy 
management to prolong wireless sensor network 
lifetime,” in Proc. of 3rd IEEE/IFIP International 
Conference in Central Asia on Internet,  ICI 2007., pp. 
1-4, 2007. 
[9] S. Oktug, A. Khalilov, and H. Tezcan, “3D Coverage 
Analysis under Heterogeneous Deployment Strategies 
in Wireless Sensor Networks,” in Proc. of Fourth 
Advanced International Conference on 
Telecommunications, 2008. AICT '08, pp. 199-204, 
2008. 
[10] S. C. Oh, C. H. Tan, F. W. Kong, Y. S. Tan, K. H. Ng, 
G. W. Ng, and K. Tai, “Multiobjective optimization of 
sensor network deployment by a genetic algorithm,” in 
Proc. of IEEE Congress on Evolutionary Computation, 
2007. CEC 2007, pp. 3917-3921, 2007. 
[11] Y. Shang and H. Shi, “Coverage and energy tradeoff in 
density control on sensor networks,” in Proc. of 11th 
International Conference on Parallel and Distributed 
Systems, 2005, pp. 564-570, 2005. 
[12] J. Wu and S. Yang, “Coverage issue in sensor networks 
with adjustable ranges,” in Proc. of 2004 International 
Conference on Parallel Processing Workshops, 2004. 
ICPP 2004, pp. 61-68, 2004. 
[13] S. Zhang, Y. Liu, J. Pu, X. Zeng, and Z. Xiong, “An 
Enhanced Coverage Control Protocol for Wireless 
Sensor Networks,” in Proc. of 42nd Hawaii 
International Conference on System Sciences, 2009. 
HICSS '09., pp. 1-7, 2009. 
 
 
Figure 5. Box plots of coverage metric of FD-MOGA 
and MOGA for solving the 3D deployment problems 
with four detection levels, using 20 sensors. 
