 2 
（一）計畫中文摘要。（五百字以內） 
 
應用 UML 設計及整合 RFID 於 PROMIS 系統 
以進行半導體封裝廠生產線在製品之管理 
 
中文摘要 
    無線射頻辨識技術(Radio Frequency Identification, RFID)之物品辨識能力卓越，因此廣受矚目，尤
其在供應鏈管理之應用。相較於其他產業，半導體產業位於全球供應鏈系統之上游，影響深遠，故其
效率甚為重要。因此，本研究的重點在應用 RFID 於半導體供應鏈的其中成員之一，即封裝廠。本研
究將探討以 RFID 來取代目前在半導體封裝廠之生產線上廣為使用於控制在製品的路單(travel cards)。
RFID 導入半導體生產線以取代路單將有助於在製品的辨識與管理。另外一個應用 RFID 於封裝廠生產
線的主要原因，是要協助建立一個無紙化的生產環境以助於控制環境中的微塵，來提升產品之良率。
不過，良好的 RFID 在製品管理系統，仍有賴系統化的程序及正規的工具來進行系統分析與設計的工
作。因此，本研究將應用統一塑模語言(Unified Modeling Language, UML)為工具，並遵循本研究中提
出的七個階段的步驟來進行系統分析與設計之工作。本研究將分析出系統的使用案例圖、活動圖、循
序圖、類別圖及概念模型。類別圖中將包含軟體控制元件(control object)來接收 RFID 感應的外部事件，
並聯結目前國內半導體產業廣為應用的製造執行系統 PROMIS 來執行對應的在製品管理任務。為了便
於發展此軟體控制元件，本研究將應用 Event-Condition-Action (ECA) 模型來規劃此軟體控制元件對應
的工作。本研究之結果可供目前使用 PROMIS 系統的使用者(或非 PROMIS 之使用者)參考，有助於其
將 RFID 整合於 PROMIS 系統中以便於更有效率的進行生產線在製品管理之任務。 
關鍵詞: 無線射頻辨識技術、封裝廠、在製品管理系統、統一塑模語言 
（二）計畫英文摘要。（五百字以內） 
The development of a RFID-enabled WIP lot management system for PROMIS in an assembly line by 
UML 
 
Abstract    
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) technology is convenient and capable of identifying objects as a 
result it has attracted much attention from various areas, including the area of supply chain management. 
Compared to other industries, semiconductor industry locates at the upstream of a global supply chain system 
therefore its efficiency is crucial. Thus, this research focuses on applying RFID to one of the semiconductor 
supply chain members, the assembly firm. In this research, RFID is used to replace the barcode-based travel 
card which has currently been used in many assembly firms. One another purpose of applying RFID to 
assembly lines is to establish a paperless assembly environment where particles can be well controlled and 
product defects can be minimized. For developing a well designed RFID-enabled lot management system, a 
formal tool together with a systematic approach for system analysis and system design (SASD) is definitely 
 4 
competitiveness. This is why most assembly firms are doing their major efforts on improving assembly yields. 
In an assembly line, particle is one of the major sources which may defect products and result in a low 
assembly yield. Therefore, removing particles to maintain a clean assembly line is important. Unfortunately, 
to control WIPs, most current assembly firms remain using barcode-based travel card which is one of the 
major sources of particles due to its paper nature. However, the replacement of barcode-based travel card with 
RFID to establish a paperless assembly environment seems optimistic now. 
Though RFID is expected to replace barcode eventually, the replacement of barcode-based travel card 
with RFID is still ongoing. Today, many of the assembly firms remain to collect lot data by barcode, or even 
by batch key-in. Both means for data collection needed to be improved [3,4], due to their inefficiency or more 
human errors. One another weakness found in most past research is that they neglect the fact— the shop floor 
control systems (SFCS) used by many semiconductor firms are software packages acquired from commercial 
market. A research neglects the fact can not directly benefit the package users. So, this research will include 
the commercial software package PROMIS, due to its popularity. 
In addition, our literature review also shows that formal tool and systematic approach are rarely 
simultaneously used for developing RFID-enabled systems. To well design a RFID-enabled WIP lot 
management system, a formal tool and a systematic approach are definitely required. As a result, some of the 
diagrams that defined in Unified Modeling Language (UML) for system analysis and system design (SASD) 
are employed in this research. Besides, a seven-stage approach is proposed to assist the SASD process. After 
following the systematic approach and using the formal tool and, a lot management controller for WIP lot 
management is derived in this research. To facilitate the implementation of the lot management controller, an 
Event-Condition-Action (ECA) model is further employed. Finally, the policies for developing and deploying 
the lot management controller(s) are discussed. The results derived from this research can be referenced by 
PROMIS or non-PROMIS users who intend to apply RFID to their systems. 
2. Literature Review 
2.1 RFID 
RFID is not novel but it is an advanced technology. An introduction on RFID can be found in [5]. The 
emergence of RFID can be traced back to World War II for the purpose of identifying flying objects 
conveniently and promptly [6]. Since then, the development of RFID has been continuing and diversifying. 
Currently, RFID has been used in various areas, including supply chain operations, security control and 
movement tracking [1]. In 2007, Liu et al. (2007) [7] investigated into RFID technology and found some 
areas are applicable, including automatic charge for highway, tolling, inventory management, anti-theft and 
anti-counterfeit, identification of animal, and automation in production. The discussion and comparison of 
RFID with barcode has been conducted in [8,9], which reveals that RFID is better than barcode in terms of 
convenience, storage capability, reusability, security and number of reading. To have a deeper understanding, 
some of the literatures relating to RFID, shop floor control (SFC) and data management are further 
investigated as follows. 
Some research focused on applying RFID to the SFC are reviewed as follows. Tsong et al. (2006) [13] 
investigated the use of RFID in shop floor in the control of repair job. In this study, rewritable RFID tag was 
used to replace the paper-based job order which was recognized as tedious and inefficient. However, the 
process of repaired part is too simple compared to IC assembly process. Poon et al. (2007) [14] investigated 
the development of an RFID-based Risk Management System (RRMS) to monitor the current production 
 6 
architecture of a PROMIS system. It includes client and server layers to from a so-called client/server 
architecture. Under this structure, the clients are dependent to servers so that they can run on any platform 
and can be developed by various programming languages, such as Visual Basic, java, etc.                   
[Insert Fig. 1 here] 
2.3 Unified Modeling Language 
2.3.1 Introduction on the diagrams used in this study 
2.3.2 The approach for UML modeling 
3. Background of semiconductor assembly process flow and WIP lot management 
3.1 Background of semiconductor assembly process 
3.2 The basic function of WIP lot management 
To well manage the WIPs, a WIP lot management system is required to provide essential functions. For 
instance, the “check in” and “check out” are two essential functions required to control WIPs movements. 
Due to “check in” and “check out” in a PROMIS system are respectively termed as “track in” and “track 
out”, accordingly they are used in this research. Fig. 4 shows the four basic activities required for an 
assembly line, leading to the four functions—(1) track in a WIP lot, (2) track out a WIP lot, (3) query WIP 
lot status at each operation, and (4) direct a WIP lot to its next operation—to be included in the preliminary 
use case diagram as shown in Fig. 5a. Details are further described as follows. 
 [Insert Fig. 4 here] 
 [Insert Fig. 5 here] 
3.2.1 Track in a WIP lot 
3.2.2 Track out a WIP lot 
3.2.3 Query the WIP lots 
3.2.4 Routing WIP lot 
4. The SASD for RFID-enabled WIP lot management system 
This section will continue to design the WIP lot management system based on RFID. 
4.1 The requirement analysis for RFID-enabled WIP lot management system 
4.2 The use case diagram of RFID-enabled WIP lot management system 
Fig. 9 shows two actors, the operator and the system, and their use cases. The use cases for the actor 
operator are: (1) Operator initiates lot ID, (2) Operator track in lot, (3) Operator track out lot, (4) Operator 
holds a lot, (5) Operator releases a lot, (6) Operator queries WIP lot, and (7) Operator traces lot relationship. 
On the other hand, the uses cases for actor system are: (1) System splits lot, (2) System routings lot, and (3) 
system merges sub-lots. 
[Insert Fig. 9 here] 
4.3 The class diagram of RFID-enabled WIP lot management system 
Based on the stages 4 and 5 of the proposed approach, the classes as well as their attributes and 
operations are listed in table 1.  
[Insert Table 1 here] 
[Insert Fig. 10 here] 
Fig. 10 shows the derived class diagram which includes twelve classes: RFID reader, RFID tag, lot, 
sub-lot, material, shipping notice, shipping lot, operator, lot management controller, message, PROMIS/TP 
and PROMIS. It means that each lot will be assigned a RFID tag and a lot will be split into sub-lots, each 
corresponds to a RFID tag. Operators will receive lots, move lots and use the lot management controller. The 
 8 
investigation into an assembly line, resulting in a preliminary barcode-based use case diagram. Based on this, 
a RFID-enabled use cases diagram is further derived to serve as a basis for developing the RFID-enabled WIP 
lot management system. For more practical, the PROMIS system, a popular commercial SFCS, has been 
taken into consideration and a lot management controller is designed to cooperate with it. To implement the 
lot management controller, the ECA model is used in this research. The potential advantages of this research 
include: 
(1). This research can benefit both PROMIS and non-PROMIS users. For the PROMIS users, the prototype 
system developed in this research can be used directly. For the non-PROMIS users, the derived UML 
diagrams can be referenced to facilitate the integration of RFID into their dated WIP lot management 
systems. Since the PROMIS system is used worldwide, it is expected this research can be referenced 
by many semiconductor assembly firms. 
(2). Though this research focuses on assembly firm, the proposed seven-stage approach and the derived 
results do not limit to assembly firms. Also, they can be referenced by foundry and testing firms. 
(3). This research has detailed the development of the RFID-enabled lot management controller(s) by ECA 
model. The centralized and decentralized policies for developing and deploying the lot management 
controller(s) are also discussed. They can be referenced by semiconductor firms. 
Though this research illustrates a prototype of WIP lot management controller for assembly firms, still it 
needs to enhance it through field trials so that more practical issues can advise future improvements. 
References: 
[1] R. Weinstein, RFID: A technical overview and its application to the enterprise, IT Professional, Vol. 7, 
No. 3, pp. 27-33, 2005. 
[2] Y. Y. Wang, X. F. Zhao, Y. H. Wu, P. P. Xu, The research of RFID middleware’s data management model, 
Proceeding of the IEEE international conference on Automation and Logistics, 2008. ICAL 2008. IEEE 
International Conference on 1-3 Sept. 2008, pp. 2565-2568, 2008. 
[3] S. N. RAM, S. -P. T. Wang, Paperless manufacturing for IC assembly, Semiconductor Manufacturing 
Science Symposium, IEEE/SEMI International conference on 15-16 June, 1992, pp. 90-93, 1992. 
[4] G. Q. Huang, Y. F. Zhang, P.Y. Jiang, RFID-based wireless manufacturing for walking-worker assembly 
islands with fixed-position layouts, Robotics and Computer Integrated Manufacturing, Vol. 23, pp. 
469-477, 2007. 
[5] C. M. Robert, Radio frequency identification (RFID), Computer & Security, Vol. 25, pp. 18-26, 2006. 
[6] D. Konstantinos, K. Bimal, A. Chimay, Radio-Frequency Identification (RFID) applications: A brief 
introduction, Advanced Engineering Informatics Vol. 21, No. 4, pp. 350-355, 2007.  
[7] J. H. Liu, D. Wang, H. Sheng, RFID service framework with Plug-in technology on devieces, RFID 
Eurasia, 2007 1st Annual 5-6 Sept. pp. 1-5, 2007. 
[8] F. Lai and J. Hutchinson, Radio frequency identification (RFID) in China: opportunities and challenges, 
Vol. 33, 12, pp. 905-916, 2005. 
[9] J. G. Szmerekovsky and J. Zhang, Coordination and adoption of item-level RFID with vendor managed 
inventory, International Journal of Economics, Vol. 114, pp. 388-398, 2008. 
[10] M. Tajima, Strategic view of RFID in supply chain management, Journal of Purchasing & Supply 
Management, Vol. 13, pp. 261-273, 2007. 
[11] S. J. Wang, S. F. Liu, W. L. Wang, The simulated impact of RFID-enabled supply chain on pull-based 
 10 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成大部份目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
The potential advantages of this research include: 
(1). This research can benefit both PROMIS and non-PROMIS users. For the PROMIS users, the 
prototype system developed in this research can be used directly. For the non-PROMIS users, 
the derived UML diagrams can be referenced to facilitate the integration of RFID into their 
dated WIP lot management systems. Since the PROMIS system is used worldwide, it is 
expected this research can be referenced by many semiconductor assembly firms. 
(2). Though this research focuses on assembly firm, the proposed seven-stage approach and the 
derived results do not limit to assembly firms. Also, they can be referenced by foundry and 
testing firms. 
(3). This research has detailed the development of the RFID-enabled lot management 
controller(s) by ECA model. The centralized and decentralized policies for developing and 
deploying the lot management controller(s) are also discussed.  
 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：徐賢斌 計畫編號：98-2221-E-022-005- 
計畫名稱：應用 UML 設計及整合 RFID 於 PROMIS 系統以進行半導體封裝廠生產線在製品之管理 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
