2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
膝關節手術機器人發展之動物活體實驗(I) 
Development of a Knee Surgical Robot System for In-Vivo Test (I) 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 96-2221-E-027 -105 – 
執 行 期 限：96年 8月 1日至 97年 7月 31日 
主 持 人：顏炳郎   台北科技大學 自動化所 
共同主持人：張櫻霖   彰化基督教醫院 骨科部 
              葉坤土   彰化基督教醫院 病理科 
計畫參與人員：蔡家豪，羅蘭馥，許英倫，呂忠衛，黃添康 
              台北科技大學 自動化所 
 
一、中文摘要 
每個人的膝蓋經過長年累月的磨損，
或老年化導致退化性關節炎，如果程度過
於嚴重，則必須進行人工膝關節置換手術
(Total Knee Replacement)。傳統人工膝
關節置換手術，骨頭切割精確度不易掌
控，可能影響預後效果，容易造成日後植
入物鬆脫，且傳統手術進行方式繁雜且費
時。 
為了提升手術精確度及成本，本研究
發展一手術輔助機器人，包含一套非影像
式全膝關節置換手術導引系統，與骨頭切
除輔助系統，結合電腦導引系統與手術輔
助機器人，進行膝關節特徵點量測，再經
由程式精密運算，在術中提供手術輔助機
器人與各個切除面之間的方位關係，直接
由手術輔助機器人進行切割，因此擁有不
需在錠上切割導塊的優點，使醫生能輕易
地藉由手術輔助機器人進行準確的削除膝
關節各個切除面，達到正確安裝人工關節
之目的。因為量測後直接產生切除邊界，
以軟體邊界取代傳統導塊，因此降低使用
導塊的誤差，也縮短手術時間， 
另外本研究發展新式的骨頭切除方
式，結合力量控制實現此新式切除所使用
的合作力量控制策略，來進行全膝關節置
換手術，一般執行傳統全膝關節置換手術
時，膝關節外科醫師手術執行骨頭切削過
程使用骨鋸進行骨頭切除，當刀具碰觸到
較堅硬的骨頭，刀片將會產生跳動造成切
削面不平整。為了克服切削過程在刀具上
引起較大和不均勻的切削力，會使得刀具
會有較大的彎曲和切削軌跡的偏離，甚至
斷裂，本論文利用協同力量控制策略，維
持穩定和準確骨頭切削過程，並在接近骨
頭切除終點附近，將設置一個虛擬邊界，
銑刀可在虛擬邊界內可自由的移動執行骨
頭切除，當銑刀接近虛擬邊界醫生會感覺
到有反作用力的阻擋，能夠讓醫生感覺到
即將到達虛擬邊界，最後當銑刀接觸到虛
擬邊界時，銑刀將只能夠沿著虛擬邊界移
動，因此可避免銑刀切除到神經與血管，
提高手術的安全性。 
經由實驗量測數據，由手術規劃軟體
所選擇的人工膝關節尺寸，均符合股骨與
脛骨的尺寸，由數據結果顯示本論文所提
之方法將可實際應用於膝關節置換手術。
經由實驗量測數據可以得知，程式所選擇
的人工膝關節尺寸合適，所提出之骨頭切
削方案，經實驗驗證，在骨頭切面上，可
得到優於傳統方法性的平整性。 
關鍵詞：全膝關節置換手術，非影像式手
術導引，協同力量控制，手術機器人，電
腦輔助手術 
Abstract 
Arthritis is very common among the 
4 
本研究之醫療機器人發展分四部份，第一
部份為機器人與 3D Digitizer進行方位校
準，第二部份機器人在順從控制模式下進
行特徵點量測，第三部份機器人運用軌跡
規劃進行骨頭切削平面對位控制，第四部
份機器人以合作力量控制，配合虛擬邊界
進行骨頭切削，完成全膝關節置換手術。
醫療機器人整個操作流程如圖一所示，使
用者操作機器人進行骨頭特徵點量測如圖
二所示： 
 
開始
方位校準
特徵點量測
骨頭切削
平面對位
執行
骨頭切削
順從控制
軌跡規劃
完成
手術
合作控制
+
虛擬邊界
 
圖一、所發展之醫療機器人進行 TKA
操作流程 
 
 
圖二、以醫療機器人進行骨頭特徵點
量測 
 
透過標準的量測程序與人機介面的引
導，操作者輕易與迅速的完成手術規劃程
序，過程中並有骨頭移動偵測功能，因此
骨頭並不需要以機械製具挾持固定，移動
偵測是以 3D Digitizer，透過位置補償模
組，所得之補償結果如圖三所示。 
動態補償追蹤誤差(單位：mm)
0
5
10
15
20
25
1 29 57 85 113 141 169 197 225 253 281 309 337 365 393 421 449 477 505 533 561 589
誤差
 
圖三、 移動偵測補償之誤差 
 
整個手術導航軟體效能，並透過以 saw 
bone 進行實驗驗證，實驗數據顯示，透過
所開發之手術規劃軟體，所選擇的人工膝
關節尺寸，符合 saw bone 股骨與脛骨的尺
寸。如表一所示: 
表一、手術導航軟體所得到之植入物
的尺寸 
 股骨 實驗一 實驗二 實驗三 實驗四 實驗五
機械軸長度 423 402.456 416.854 404.269 418.784 415.125
M/L 68 68.375 70.0113 73.591 70.0254 71.204
A/P 66 62.854 64.205 68.996 68.017 67.221
選擇尺寸 E E E F F E 
外翻角度 3 0.9147 3.0204 4.4845 2.099 1.775
 
另外在切骨部分以協同力量控制來實
現，如圖四所示: 
 
圖四、協同力量控制策略方塊圖 
 
Operator 
ee DM ,  PID Robot 
hf
dx
x  
xu  
Position 
control 
Force 
control
λ
hh DM ,  
ex  
DOB 
(一) 
(二) 
(三) 
(四) 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-027-105 
計畫名稱 膝關節手術機器人發展之動物活體實驗(I) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
顏炳郎，台北科技大學，助理教授 
會議時間地點 新加坡 
會議名稱 Asian Conference on Computer Aided Surgery 
發表論文題目 Combination of Lateral Milling Method and Cooperative Force Control for Bone Resection in Total Knee Replacement 
 
一、參加會議經過 
會議中有 2個 Keynote Speech，有: 
1. Medical Robotics and Computer-Integrated Surgery, (Russell H. Taylor, The Johns 
Hopkins University, USA)  
2. Image-guided Robotic-Assisted Minimally Invasive Surgery, ( Makoto Hashizume, 
Kyushu University, Japan) 
以及 8個 invited speech，有: 
1. Micro & Nano Robotics Based on New Principle of Mechatronics for Future 
Biomedicine, (Koji Ikuta, Director of Biomicro Mechatronics and Robotics Lab, 
Nagoya University) 
2. Atlas-Based Patient Modelling and Automated Surgical Planning, (Yoshinobu Sato, 
Osaka University, Japan) 
3. Robot Assisted Surgery, (Byung Joo Yi, Hanyang University, Korea) 
4. Direct-Projected Augmented Reality for Computer Aided Surgery, (Jong-Il Park, 
Hanyang University, Seoul, Korea) 
5. Research and Applications of Virtual Medicine, (Pheng-Ann Heng, Chinese 
University of Hong Kong, China) 
6. Medical robotics in Urology: Experience from Singapore General Hospital, (SIM 
Hong Gee, Singapore General Hospital, Singapore) 
7. Computer aided surgery in neurosurgical field, (Hiroshi Iseki, Tokyo Women’s 
Medical University, Japan) 
8. Intelligent Robotics Based Medicine, (Masakatsu G. Fujie, Fuculty of Science and 
Engineering, Waseda University) 
 
並有 12個 Session的論文發表，如 Surgical Robots, Surgical Navigation System, Atlas-based 
Patient Modeling and Automated Surgical Planning, Micro & Nano Robotics based on 
New Principle of Mechatronics for Future Biomedicine, Medical Imaging, Image-guided 
Combination of Lateral Milling Method and Cooperative Force Control for Bone 
Resection in Total Knee Replacement 
Ping-Lang Yen and Chia-Hao Tsai 
Institute of Automation Technology, National Taipei University of Technology, 
Taipei, Taiwan 
INTRODUCTION 
Robotic knee surgery performs bone cutting without relying on mechanical jigs during bone 
preparation of TKA (Total Knee Arthroplasty). The inaccuracy induced by loose jig fixation and slot 
width tolerance can, subsequently, be avoided. Mill is usually used as the bone cutter in most of the 
current knee surgical robots, in which all bones are milled out. This might not be desired. In some cases, 
the cut bone may be used by the surgeon for adjustment of soft tissue balance and/or varus/valgus for 
some patients. Therefore the existent bone cutting method may not be adequate. Different scenarios of 
bone cutting in order to preserve the resected bones to be in pieces should be developed. In the 
proposed cutting process, the side edge instead of the bottom edge of the mill is used to move and cut 
the bone along the designated boundary of the cutting plane. Thus cut-off bone is in the form of pieces 
rather than blurs or chips. However, this cutting process will give rise to large and non-uniform cut 
forces on the cutter. As a result, the cutter is under large bending and the cutting trajectory may be 
deviated or, even worse, the cutter may be broken. To overcome the problem, the paper proposed an 
adaptive impedance force control strategy to maintain the stability and accuracy of bone cutting 
process. 
 
METHOD 
Traditional milling method of knee surgical robots prepares the knee by milling off the bone in 
chips using the bottom edge of the mill as shown in Figure 1(a). There are several disadvantages. One 
drawback is that no whole pieces of cut bone are remained. This may not be preferable when bone graft 
is needed for certain patients. The other drawback is time consuming compared to traditional sawing 
method. It takes around more 5 minutes for cutting. These two issues are resolved by the proposed 
novel bone cutting method shown in Figure 1(b). The side edge, instead of bottom edge, of an end mill, 
is used to cut the bone by moving the cutter along the cutting planes of the designate shape of bone 
preparation. Lateral milling of bone was actuated by a hybrid Cartesian parallel manipulator, which is 
modified to satisfy sufficient degree of freedoms for desired position and orientation, as shown in Fig. 
2. The modified Cartesian parallel mechanism has three limbs with three passive prismatic joints 
instead of revolute ones. The robot is kinematically decoupled for alignment purposes and cutting-bone 
function. As a result, only one motor is needed to be actuated at once time so that the robot mechanism 
has the features of control simplicity, high positioning accuracy and safety.  
The cooperation of the robot with the surgeon is very important for bone resection stage. In this 
paper cooperative force control is then proposed to integrate the surgeon’s tactile sensing and medical 
expertise with the robot’s accurate positioning capability. The dynamic behavior of the robot for the 
cooperative mode is described as: 
 
Bhdhdh FFrCrM −=+ λ&&&       (3) 
BdBdBdB FrKrCrM −=∆+∆+∆ &&&     (4) 
 
The cooperative force control uses two layers of force control to represent the cooperation 
between the robot and the surgeon. As the surgeon input the force command Fh, outer layer force 
controller will calculate the feed rate intended by the surgeon according to the dynamic behavior of 
equation (3). At the same time, the actual desired feed rate of the cutter will be further modified by the 
cutting force measured from the bone resection according to equation (4). Therefore, the feed rate of 
the cutter will be determined together by both the surgeon’s input force and the force of the bone 
resection. On the other hand, the surgeon can also feel the cutting force during bone resection. The 
tactile information will allow the surgeon to sense whether the cutter is approaching the bone end and 
should he stop pushing the cutter to prevent harming the nerve or blood vessels behind. 
 
RESULTS 
