NSC Final Report 2010 ~ 2011 
1. Introduction  
 
The overall goal of this project is to establish a long-term multidisciplinary research infrastructure for 
systematically exploring novel functional thin films using the combinatorial approach (where large 
compositional variations are rapidly investigated in individual experiments).  
Novel combinatorial methodology allows fabrication of various thin-film libraries and 
composition-spread samples to systematically investigate unexplored materials phase spaces as well as 
compositions previously only studied in bulk materials. A number of scanning probes are used to spearhead 
the task of rapid characterization and screening of the samples such as the scanning x-ray 
microdiffractometer, the scanning electrical probe, etc. The proposed project will lead to accelerated 
innovation in the field of new materials. 
The combined activities described here will form a comprehensive new paradigm for studying the 
chemical, structural and physical property relationships of a variety of electronic materials.    
 
2. Experimental and results 
 
We have purchased a combinatorial sputtering system (as shown in the figure 1) on May/2011, using the 
grant from NSC and NCKU. This system is consist of two RF sputtering and DC sources, which allow 
deposition of conducting and insulating materials. The vacuum system is capable of pumping the chamber 
down to 10-6 torr within hours. A moving shutter is the key element to make thin films library. A rotary stage 
can be synchronized with the moving shutter to make different kinds of libraries. In addition, the build-in 
heating stage (up to 700 ~ 800 C) allows in-situ high temperature deposition. Three inlet gases controllers 
including N2, O2 and Ar allow reactive sputtering for making oxides and nitrides as well. All the functions are 
well controlled by a computer system.  
This sputtering system was under conditioning from May to July 2011. After that, we are expecting that it 
will be running at a full speed to make electronic metal gates and metal-oxide thin films. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                  Figure 1: the combinatorial sputtering system. 
(1) Scanning x-ray microdiffractometry 
A scanning x-ray microdiffractometer, equipped with a two-dimensional (2-D) area detector and an x-y-z 
stage, is used for combinatorial structural screening to track phase evolution and changes of the lattice 
constant of the library films.   
(2) Electron probe wavelength dispersive spectroscopy (WDS) 
Properly standardized and focused electron probe WDS is an efficient quantitative composition 
characterization tool for most elements (heavier than oxygen). The average compositions over the entire film 
thickness are measured. Some corrections might be applied for the atomic number, absorption, and 
fluorescence (i.e. ZAF correction) for more accurate results.  
(3) High resolution transmission electron microscopy (HRTEM) 
Combining with the focus ion beam (FIB) technique, combinatorial HRTEM might be working.  
(4) X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS) 
In-situ ion-milling is necessary to study chemical bondings and species across the thin film libraries.  
(5) Scanning electrical probe 
A programmable semi-automatic wafer probe-base station with a precise control x-y-z stage is needed to 
facilitate the electrical measurements for the libraries samples.  
 
C. Electronic Device Fabrication 
 
An integral part of any electronic materials program is the ability to successfully implement and transfer 
materials into device technologies. Therefore, following each experiment, selecting suitable compositions 
with promising physical properties will be reproduced in bulk and/or large area films for more refined 
investigation and then fabricated into devices.  
 
D. Database establishment  
 
As the combinatorial investigation of the proposed materials systems progresses, we will maintain a 
detailed record of all the materials under study. After several years, we will have a comprehensive database 
of materials describing the composition-structure-property relationship, which will provide a solid starting 
point for future investigation.  
 
 
   
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張高碩 計畫編號：99-2218-E-006-254- 
計畫名稱：高效能組合材料法應用於尖端電子閘極堆疊中金屬及金屬氧化物薄膜材料 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 1 1 50% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 50%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0%  
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 0%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 0% 件  
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 0% 
人次 
 
