prepare porous chitosan membrane, would be explored 
and optimized for the treatment of periodontal disease. 
Then, the experiments of antibacterial activity and in 
vitro cell culture would be carried out to verify the 
obstruction, anti-bacterial activity and tissue integration 
of chitosan membrane. 
 
Materials and Experiments 
Chitosan, acetic acid, formic acid, ethanol, N,N 
-dimethyl formide (DMF), 1-ethyl-3-dimethylamino 
-propyl carbodiimide (EDC), hydroxysuccinimide (NHS), 
sodium hydroxide (NaOH) and glutaraldehyde were 
purchased from Sigma. For cell culture, α-minimum 
essential medium (αMEM), sodium β-glycerophosphate, 
ascorbic acid and dexamethasone were purchased from 
Sigma, and fetal bovine serum (FBS), 
penicillin-streptomycin -amphotercin, trypsin-EDTA 
solution from GIBCO BRL. 
 Chitosan was dissolved in acetic-acid aqueous 
solution (1M) or formic acid solution (0.5 vol%) to form 
2 wt% of polymer solutions. The polymer solution was 
placed in an aluminum dish and evaporated for a certain 
period at 30 or 50℃. After the evaporation, the polymer 
solution was frozen at -20 ℃ . The frozen chitosan 
solution was then immersed in a NaOH/ethanol aqueous 
solution to adjust its pH to allow for the gelation of 
chitosan. The NaOH/ethanol aqueous solution was 
precooled to -20℃ so that the gelation occurred below 
the freezing point of the chitosan solution. 
 Cells used for culture experiments were gingival 
fibroblasts (GF) and rat osteosarcoma (ROS), 
osteoblastic cells. The cells were cultured in αMEM, 
supplemented with 10 ﹪ FBS and 100U/ml 
penicillin-streptomycin-amphotercin, at 37℃ in 5﹪of 
CO2. Experiments of in vitro mineralization in 
membranes were also performed [3] and the ratio of C 
and Ca were determined by ESCA (VG Microtech, 
MT-500). 
For analysis with SEM, specimens were cut from 
the membranes and fractured in liquid nitrogen. To 
prevent the collapse of membrane’s porous structure, 
fixation and dehydration should be carried out. The 
membranes were dehydrated with ethanol aqueous 
solutions. Critical point drying with supercritical CO2 
was then performed. A gold layer was then coated on the 
specimen surface. Morphologies of specimens were 
examined by using JEOL (JSM-6300) scanning electron 
microscope.  
 
Results and Discussion 
The porous chitosan membranes used in this study 
were prepared by the so-called freeze-gelation process 
[2]. The chitosan membranes was prepared by freezing 
the chitosan/acetic acid/water solution at -20℃, and the 
frozen solution was immersed in NaOH/ethanol/water 
solution at the same temperature to adjust the pH to 
allow for the gelation of chitosan. The liquid contained 
in the gel was then removed by drying at room 
temperature. During the freezing stage, porous structure 
is generated after the phase separation of the 
homogeneous polymer solution. For chitosan it is not 
easy to extract out the solvent (aqueous solution of acetic 
acid) with a non-solvent. The idea was not to remove the 
solvent but to adjust the solvent property to allow for the 
gelation of chitosan. It is known that chitosan would gel 
in an alkaline environment, on the basis of which a 
method was developed: immersion of the frozen chitosan 
solution in a solution of sodium hydroxide (NaOH) to 
adjust the solution pH to bring about gelation. After the 
gelation of chitosan, the polymer did not redissolve at 
room temperature and was rigid enough to prevent pore 
collapse during drying; hence, porous scaffolds could be 
prepared. The alkaline solution used in this study 
contained NaOH, water, and ethanol. The NaOH aqueous 
solution provided the alkalinity for gelation and the 
addition of ethanol was to lower the freezing point. 
To improve the efficiency of bone regeneration, 
interconnected porous structure is necessary for GTR 
membranes, which can be clearly seen from our previous 
study [4]. Except for the interconnected pores, 
