2the generally tested range, i.e. O(1000). To
achieve the test condition of such harsh impact,
we have developed two droplet generating
methods that are different from conventional
approaches adopting such as vibration of
piezoelectric diaphragms or creation of multiple
droplets due to the Rayleigh instability either via
wave modulation or naturally during free
dripping, by which the droplet speed is usually
on the order of 1 m/s. Using the present cutting
technique for a high-speed jet and the droplet
carrying method based on a strong blowing flow,
we can create moderately stable droplets with
velocity up to 23 m/s, hence a Weber number
about 5200 for water.
2. Experimental setup
The first experimental approach is basically
the same as that described in [8] via which a
water jet was generated by gas/liquid cylinders
driven by a compressor. The jet was then cut by
a knife edge on a rotating disk to form a separate
mass. With well adjustment of the rotation speed
of the disk and upstream pressure, a stable
droplet moving at a desired high speed can be
established before hitting the target droplet. The
speed of the fastest droplet that became nearly
spherical and stable was limited by the distance
needed for relaxation of initially induced
oscillation of the droplet while accounting for
deceleration due to viscous drag of surrounding
air, but not in an oscillating manner as in other
studies [7,9] which might yield uncertain effect
of internal flow. Furthermore, to generate binary
droplet collision at desired head-on direction
with least uncertainty, the other droplet was
created by a well-controlled technique via the
vibration of a piezoelectric diaphragm.
To save the liquids when using different
materials and further increase the chance of
head-on collisions between two droplets
approaching each other at relatively high
velocity, a second method was also adopted. As
illustrated by the schematic diagram in Fig. 1, a
flow driven by a compressor is passed through a
porous metal plate after which higher
uniformity is obtained and the flow is joined by
a stable droplet injected from a piezoelectric-
diaphragm generator. It is then accelerated via a
nozzle whereby the droplet is centered in the
downstream pipe with diameter of 2 cm. After
sufficient relaxation in the long enough chamber,
a stable droplet moving with the flow at near
high-speed can be formed. In order to collide
with a second droplet without influence of
surrounding flow, the droplet is introduced into
a closed tank through a small hole such that the
incoming flow is diverted away in front of the
tank. Due to substantial change of the static
pressure, however, the collision must be made
early enough to avoid significant deformation of
the impinging droplet. With adequate control of
the delay circuit, satisfactory sphericity and
stability of droplets were insured before the
impact. The results obtained by the two
techniques have shown very close agreement
whereas the latter method was adopted for
various fluids with distinct properties such as
surface tension and viscosity. To present clearer
images, however, the following pictures were
captured by the first method because the test
section of the second approach was somewhat
obscured by the enclosure wall. The sequential
pictures were recorded by a high-speed camera
generally at a frame rate of 20,000 fps in a
resolution of 128512 and synchronized with a
LED lamp that can support the shortest duration
of 1 s, to capture transient images in such a
rapid motion with sufficiently small exposure
and adequate light intensity while avoiding
slurring due to background scattering.
3. Results and Discussion
We have performed a series of collision
tests for two identical water droplets from low to
high Weber numbers. Starting with a lower We
on the order of 10, we sequentially justified the
regimes of nominally classified permanent
coalescence, separation, and separation with
satellite droplets that have been well
investigated and understood [1-3] and therefore
not repeated herein. In our experiment, however,
significantly higher We can be achieved and
consequently various transitions not observed
before have been captured via the current
high-speed photography. Specifically, as We is
increased, the periphery of the expanding disk
after impact is wrinkled, which has been argued
to initiate from the Rayleigh-Taylor instability
[10,11] or a rim transverse instability [12]
observed in droplet-surface collision, and
fingering structure is subsequently formed (Fig.
4by the properties of the solid surface such as the
material and roughness. Therefore the transition
boundary of fingering to breakup could be
varied substantially when the roughness is
different. Such complications would be
removed if the surface is not ever present in the
impact geometry. The symmetrical collision
between two identical droplets as studied herein
thus provides an ideal paradigm for
investigating the fundamental structure of the
event. By a comparison for the maximum radius
of an expanding disk, it is found that the binary
droplet collision generically yields a larger
value because of lack of viscous drag that is
inherent on the solid surface associated with
no-slip boundary condition. Furthermore, in the
absence of a contact surface, fingering of the
present collision appears even at lower We (
160) than that of a water droplet impacting a
smooth surface with the same Oh (We 743
[13]) and consequently the breakup regime
whence secondary droplets are scattered out of
the rim is also initiated at lower We (280 and
2456 respectively). Therefore, it could be
inferred that the Rayleigh-Taylor instability
driven by the deceleration of interface toward
the lighter gas that was argued to result from
viscosity [10] alone would not suffice to effect
wrinkling of the rim since no substantial viscous
deceleration is ever present (or insignificant
accounting for the trivial viscous drag of the
surrounding air) near the center plane of binary
droplet collision so as to trigger the instability
like that assumed to occur in droplet-surface
collision [5]. However, the discrepancy would
be removed somehow if the deceleration needs
to drive this instability accounts for the balance
between the capillary force and inertia while
excluding the viscous effect [11] which might
have played a secondary role in the incipient
development of Rayleigh-Taylor instability.
Considering the rim structure at the periphery of
the expanding disk, a refined mechanism was
proposed recently, based on the evolution of a
rim transverse instability [12]. It involves the
moment of forces associated with the inertia of
the liquid entering the rim and could also
explain the onset of fingering and hence its role
in the splattering scenario of a droplet impinging
a solid surface or another droplet.
4. Conclusions
We have developed a new method,
supplementary to our prior technique based on
the cutting of a high-speed jet, for generating
high-speed binary droplet collision, nominally
up to 23 m/s. Different from conventional
approaches in terms of vibration of piezoelectric
diaphragms or creation of multiple droplets due
to the Rayleigh instability either via wave
modulation or naturally during free dripping, by
which the produced droplet speed is typically on
the order of 1 m/s, the methodology is based on
transmittal of a high-speed flow for an initially
stable droplet. In contrast to the cutting-jet
method, though yielding a similar highest
Weber number for a stable water droplet about
5200, the new approach allows for easy
replacement of different fluids as well as higher
successful rate of head-on collision between two
droplets and hence a wide variety of parametric
conditions.
Both these two techniques were adopted to
investigate the collision between two droplets
and new patterns were found such as fingering
of a flattened disk after impact, which is
analogous to that well observed during the
impingement of a droplet upon a dry surface.
The formation of fingering structure further
increases viscous dissipation inside the liquid
and reduce the propensity of the merged
droplets to separate again. When We becomes
larger, however, separation and following
disintegration of satellite droplets as that
generally identified at lower We are yielded so
as to balance additional energy. An intriguing
structure of shattering was observed if We was
further increased whereby the outer fingers were
broken. The critical radius of breakup was found
to increase first with increased We and then
decreased. When a specific We is approached,
breaking of the droplets shall occur immediately
after the impact of the two droplets, whence
multiple droplets are continuously shed out
from the rim of the ejected sheet during its
ensuing expansion and contraction. This
splattering structure was observed to happen as
We 1300 for water, and no specific transition
was ever captured below the limit of the present
technique.
6(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
80.195 ms 0.390 ms 0.780 ms 0.975 ms
1.365 ms 1.560 ms 1.755 ms
(a)
0.195 ms 0.390 ms 0.585 ms 0.975 ms
1.170 ms 1.365 ms 1.560 ms
(b)
FIG. 3. The collision sequence of a water droplet for (a) splattering at the receding phase (We = 442, V
= 5.1 m/s, D = 1.2 mm); (b) splattering at the expanding phase with radius about the maximum (We =
805, V = 9.1 m/s, D = 0.7 mm). Scale bar = 0.5 mm.
10
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000
We
W
Water
Glycerine 40%
Glycerine 57%
Heptane
Nonane
Propanol
Hexanol
We 3 = 4820.4Oh + 1081.6
We 2 = 3139.4Oh + 736.4
We 1 = 1124.3Oh + 301.0
We 4 = 2972.5Oh + 691.2
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
5000
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8
Oh
We
FIG. 5. (a) The variation of breakup diameter (W = Db/D) with respect to We for different fluids, also
fitted by polynomial lines; (b) critical We’s versus Oh, also fitted by straight lines.
(b)
(a)
