option. “Exact” polynomial-time pricing 
algorithms do not exist for this option; only 
subexponential-time exact algorithsms exist (see 
Dai and Lyuu (2007)). The purpose of this 
proposal is quadratic-time algorithm that 
converges to the true price fast.  
 2
)
Although efficient numerical methods and 
approximate closed-form formulas are available, 
most lack convergence guarantees. Asian options 
can also be priced on the lattice. All effcient 
lattice algorithms keep only a polynomial 
number of states and use interpolation to 
compensate for the less than full representation 
of the states. Let the time to maturity be 
partitioned into n periods. This proposal presents 
the first -time convergent lattice 
algorithm for pricing European-style Asian 
options; it is the most efficient lattice algorithm 
with convergence guarantees. The algorithm 
relies on the Lagrange multipliers to choose 
optimally the number of states for each node of 
the lattice. The algorithm is also memory 
efficient.  Extensive numerical experiments and 
compariison with existing PDE, analytical, and 
lattice methods confirm the performance claims 
and the competitiveness of our algorithm. This 
result places the problem of European-style 
Asian option pricing in the same complexity 
class as that of the vanilla option on the lattice. 
( 2O n
The payoff of an Asian option depends on 
whether the arithmetic average stock price. A 
tremendous amount of research has been carried 
out to attack the pricing problem of such options. 
See Aingworth et al. (2000), Benhamou (2002), 
Bouaziz et al. (1994),  Boyle et al. (1997), Chen 
and Lyuu (2007), Dai, Huang, and Lyuu (2005), 
Dai and Lyuu (2002, 2007), Dewynne and 
Wilmott (1995), Dubois and Lelievre (2005), 
Forsyth, Vetzal, and Zvan (2002),  Fu et al. 
(1998/9), Fusai (2004), Henderson and 
Wojakowski (2002), Hsu and Lyuu (2007), Hull 
and White (1993), Ju (2002), Klassen (2001), 
Lyuu (2002), Nielsen and Sandmann (2003), 
Schroder (2000), Rogers and Shi (1995), Tavella 
and Randall (2000), Thompson (1999), Vecer 
(2001), Wei (1998), and Zhang (2001, 2003). 
Approximate closed-form formulas have 
been derived under various assumptions. These 
formulas have been evaluated thoroughly. The 
general conclusion is that all are as good as their 
assumptions, and most lack convergence 
guarantees. As no simple, exact closed-form 
solutions exist yet, the development of efficient 
numerical algorithms becomes an important 
alternative. First, there are the popular Monte 
Carlo and the related quasi-Monte Carlo methods. 
Both the Monte Carlo approach and the 
analytical approach suffer from the inability to 
handle early exercise without bias. Although 
Longstaff and Schwartz have developed a least-
squares Monte Carlo approach to tackle the 
problem, a convergence proof remains elusive. 
The third type of approach, the lattice and 
the closely related PDE methods, are more 
general as they can handle early exercise. The 
main challenge with the lattice method in the 
case of Asian options is its exponential nature: 
An exponential number of arithmetic operations 
seem needed for an exact evaluation. This is 
because every price path, which corresponds to a 
state (that is, the average to date, also called the 
running average), leads to a different average 
price, thus payoff as well. To reduce the 
complexity, all known practical lattice 
algorithms keep only a small subset of the states. 
When an option value for a missing state is 
called for in the pricing algorithms, it is 
interpolated from the option values of the 
neighboring states. This successful paradigm is 
due to Hull and White. We will call it the 
interpolation paradigm. The interpolation 
paradigm obviously introduces interpolation 
error, and a major concern is whether the magni 
tude of the interpolation error converges to zero. 
Pricing Asian options with 2-dimensional PDEs 
also tackles the issue of exploding state space 
with the interpolation paradigm. 
Partition the time to maturity into n periods. 
It is well-known that a binomial lattice with n 
periods contains about  nodes. Let the 
average number of states (running averages) kept 
at each node be k, a critical adjustable parameter 
for lattice algorithms. As the total number of 
states is , the asymptotic running time of 
the lattice algorithm is 
2 / 2n
2 / 2kn ( )2 / 2O kn .  An algorithm 
must decide upon how to distribute these ( )2 / 2O kn  states.among the nodes. The choice 
will determine whether a small k guarantees 
convergence to the true value. The ultimate goal 
Figure 2 demonstrates the running time of 
the algorithm. It is indeed quadratic as the 
analysis proves. Figure 3 shows the convergence 
to the true value as n increases and under various 
numbers of states. 
In the table in Figure 4, we compare our 
algorithm with various algorithms under many 
conditions. It clearly shows the superior 
performance of our algorithm in terms of 
convergence and efficiency, especially when the 
volatility is high. 
 
四、結論與討論 
Our quadratic-time algorithm for Asian 
options is a breakthrough in the literature. It 
achieve good convergence with a time bound of 
only . This is apparently optimal. The 
techniques rely on the Lagrange multipliers and 
high-order interpolation. Numerically, it 
compares favorably with many other methods in 
the literature. 
( )2O n
 
五、計畫成果自評 
The results accomplish what the proposal 
set out to do. We designed an algorithm for 
Asian options, analyzed it, and programmed it 
for comparison with other existing algorithms. 
The running time and error rate are both optimal 
and as desired. The method used is novel and can 
be applied to other options. The comparison with 
other methods are favorable. 
 
六、參考文獻 
Aingworth, Donald, Rajeev Motwani, and 
Jeffrey D. Oldham. “Accurate Approximations 
for Asian Options.” In Proc. 11th Annual ACM-
SIAM Symposium on Discrete Algorithms, San 
Francisco, 2000. 
Atkinson, K.E. An Introduction to 
Numerical Analysis. 2nd ed. New York: Wiley, 
1989. 
Barraquand, J., and T. Pudet. “Pricing of 
American Path-Dependent Contingent Claims.” 
Mathematical Finance, 6 (1996), pp. 17–51. 
Benhamou, E. “Fast Fourier Transform for 
Discrete Asian Options.” Journal of 
Computational Finance, 6 (1) (2002), pp. 49–61. 
Black, Fischer, and Myron Scholes. “The 
Pricing of Options and Corporate Liabilities.” 
Journal of Political Economy, 81, No. 3 (May–
June 1973), pp. 637–654. 
Bouaziz, Laurent, Eric Briys, and Michel 
Crouhy. “The Pricing of Forward-Starting Asian 
Options.” Journal of Banking & Finance, Vol. 
18 (1994), pp. 823–839. 
Boyle, P.P., M. Broadie, and P. Glasserman. 
“Monte Carlo Methods for Security Pricing.” 
Journal of Economic Dynamics & Control, 21 
(1997), pp. 1267–1321. 
Boyle, P.P., and Y.S. Tian. “An Explicit 
Finite Difference Approach to the Pricing of 
Barrier Options.” Applied Mathematical Finance, 
Vol. 5 (1998), pp. 17–43. 
Broadie, Mark, Paul Glasserman, and 
Steven Kou. “A Continuity Correction for 
Discrete Barrier Options.” Mathematical 
Finance, Vol. 7 (1997), pp. 325–349. 
Broadie, M., P. Glasserman, and S. Kou. 
“Connecting Discrete and Continuous Path-
Dependent Options.” Finance and Stochastics 3, 
No. 2 (1999), 55–82. 
Chen, Kuan-Wen, and Yuh-Dauh Lyuu. 
“Accurate Pricing Formulas for Asian Options.” 
Applied Mathematics and Computation, 188, 
Issue 2 (May 2007), 1711–1724. 
Chesney, M., M. Jeanblanc-Picqu, and M. 
Yor. “Parisian Options and Excursion Theory.” 
The Annual Derivative Conference, Cornell, 
1995. 
Chesney, M., M. Jeanblanc-Picqu, and M. 
Yor. “Brownian Excursions and Parisian Barrier 
Options.” Advances in Applied Probabilities 29, 
(March 1997), 165–184. 
Cheuk, Terry H.F., and Ton C.F. Vorst. 
“Complex Barrier Options.” Journal of 
Derivatives, Vol. 4 (1996), 8–22. 
Conze, Antoine, and Viswanathan. “Path 
Dependent Options: the Case of Lookback 
Options.” Journal of Finance, 46, No. 5 
(December 1991), 1893–1907. 
 4
 6
Rogers, L.C.G., and Z. Shi. “The Value of 
an Asian Option.” Journal of Applied 
Probability, 32, No. 4 (December 1995), pp. 
1077–1088. 
Tavella, D., and C. Randall. Pricing 
Financial Instruments: the Finite Difference 
Method. New York: Wiley, 2000. 
Thompson, G.W.P. “Fast Narrow Bounds 
on the Value of Asian Options.” Working Paper, 
Judge Institute of Cambridge, 1999. 
Vecer, J. “A New PDE Approach for 
Pricing Arithmetic Average Asian Options.” 
Journal of Computational Finance, 4 (4) (2001) 
105–113. 
Zhang, J.E. “A Semi-Analytical Method for 
Pricing and Hedging Continuously Sampled 
Arithmetic Average Rate Options.” Journal of 
Computational Finance, 5, No. 1 (2001), pp. 59–
79. 
Zhang, J.E. “Pricing Continuously Sampled 
Asian Options with Perturbation Method.” 
Journal of Futures Markets, 23, No. 6 (2003), pp. 
535–560. 
 
 
 
Figure 4: 
 
 
 
 8
2 Lessons Learned
“Risk management has been related, in increasing degree, to Informatics and Cy-
bernetics. Today, almost every organization depends on Information and Commu-
nications Technologies. Software and networks supporting organizational everyday
activities must be reliable, secure and safe. Flawed or failed oftware can present se-
vere organizational and business risks that include liability costs, productivity loss,
quality decreasing, brand damage, revenue loss, etc. Simultaneously, cyber crimes (cy-
ber frauds, sensible data protection, etc.) and liability in the ?electronic workplace?
are requiring, with increasing urgency, an adequate risk management. Consequently,
Organizational/business risk management is increasingly including informatics and
cybernetics in their planning and activities. And vice versa, Informatics and Cyber-
netics technologies, concepts and theories are increasingly being used in risk manage-
ment?s research, consulting, studies, projects, training, and activities. Accordingly,
the main purpose of the Symposium on Risk Management and Cyber-Informatics
(RMCI 2006) is to bring together researchers, practitioners and consultants from
both Risk Management areas and informatics and cybernetics fields and disciplines
to presents results of their research, as well as their problems and solutions in Risk
Management, the reciprocal applications between both field. And the application of
both fields in other areas.”
For RMCI2006, my presentation was at 16:00 on July 19, 2006. I find papers for
work done in the following 61 countries:
1. Algeria
2. Armenia
3. Australia
4. Austria
5. Belgium
6. Brazil
7. Bulgaria
8. Canada
9. China
10. Colombia
11. Croatia
12. Czech Republic
2
38. Pakistan
39. Peru
40. Poland
41. Portugal
42. Puerto Rico
43. Romania
44. Russian Federation
45. Saudi Arabia
46. Serbia
47. Slovakia
48. South Africa
49. Spain
50. Sweden
51. Taiwan
52. Tanzania
53. Thailand
54. Tunisia
55. Turkey
56. Ukraine
57. United Arab Emirates
58. United Kingdom
59. United States
60. Vietnam
61. Yugoslavia
4
• “Nonparametric Comparison of Two Dynamic Parameter Setting Methods in a
Meta-Heuristic Approach”
• “Generation Methods for Multidimensional Knapsack Problems and their Implica-
tions”
• “Ratios in Simulated 0-1 Knapsack Problems”
• “Simulation of Random Set Covering Problems with Known Optimal Solutions and
Correlated Coefficients”
• “A Novel LP-Based Neighborhood Search for General Integer Programs”
• “Design and Simulation of Intelligent Global Medical Networks”
• “Unsupervised Bayesian Image Segmentation Using Adaptive EM Algorithm Based
on Pearson System”
• “Study on the Failure of SVD-Based Watermarking Schemes for Copyright Protec-
tion Applications”
• “A Dynamic Model for the Hepatitis B Virus Infection”
• “Preparing Precollege Students for HPC”
• “Systems and other Related Fractals”
• “A Java Based Tool for Supporting High Level Architecture Federation Execution
Control over a WAN”
• “Exchange Information or Knowledge?”
• “Scientific Policy of the European Union in the Light of the Lisbon Strategy”
• “PCA-Based Learning Algorithm for Solving Recognition Tasks”
• “Presenting at the Majors: A Comparison of Finance, Anaesthesia and Biomedical
Engineering”
• “Closed-Form Approximation Solution for an Inventory Model with Supply Disrup-
tions and Non-ZIO Reorder Policy”
• “Unleashing the Power of Networks - Case Study”
• “Modelling Knowledge-Based Economies”
• “Monte Carlo Simulation for Assessing Software Reliability”
• “Manuscript Status Control Algorithm in Electronic Periodicals”
6
• “Protecting Web Server from DDoS Attacks Using Three-Layer Detection Mecha-
nism”
• “Session Key Generation for Micropayment Transactions in Wireless Environments”
• “Semantic Schemas: The Least Upper Bound of Two Interpretations”
• “A Novel Quantum Entanglement Model for Self-Organizing Data Clustering”
• “Cyber Ethics in the 21st Century: Beyond the Creative Product Paradigm”
• “Numerically Stable Fast Recursive Least Squares Algorithms in Adaptive Filtering”
• “Iris Biometrics for Network Security”
• “Product Bug Reports Data Mining Model”
• “A Study of Continuing Education VA Case on Leisure Boredom and Constraints”
• “Event from Exposure to Financial Statements”
• “Comparisons between the UK and US Home Telecare Delivery Modes to the El-
derly”
• “Communicating with Multi-Disciplinary Audiences: Factors to Enhance Effective
Communication”
• “Organising Documentation in Knowledge Evolution and Communication”
• “Knowledge Communications for the Solution of Algebraic Equations from an Ed-
ucational Point of View”
• “Theory of Constraints Experience: Batch Size and Multitasking”
• “Cross Decomposition of the Degree-Constrained Minimum Spanning Tree Prob-
lem”
• “ARTMAP-IC Neural Networks for Predicting Insurance Policy Ownership”
• “Executive Criteria of Agent-Based Support Executive Information Systems”
• “Short Term Forecast of Occupation Tax at University Hospital of Santa Maria
Using Autoregressive Vectors”
• “The Software Architecture of a Secure and Efficient Group Key Agreement Proto-
col”
• “A Multiple Matrix Spaces Scheme Based on Combinatorial Key Management for
Sensor Networks”
8
• “Decision Making Management in Emerging Capital Markets”
• “N-Queens Optimization by the Distributed Double Guided Genetic Algorithm”
• “A Computerised Business Ethics Expert System - A New Approach to Improving
the Ethical Quality of Business Decision-Making”
• “Analytical Bayes Estimator and Distribution for Outlier Infested Time Series Data”
• “The Presentation of Scientific Research to a Non-Scientific Audience”
• “Volunteer vs. Professional Management of Academic Conferences: A Comparison
of Five Meetings”
• “A Small-World Caching Strategy for P2P Storage System”
• “A Method to Generate a Fair Curve with Specified Curvature Distribution for
Computer Aided Aesthetic Design”
• “The Double Trump Portfolio as the Core of Sustainable Decision Making Strategy
in Currency Markets”
• “Mutual Funds Development Strategy in Lithuania”
• “Advanced Security Infrastructures for Grid Education”
• “Managing Foreign Direct Investment Risks”
• “The Integral Risk Management Process”
• “Algorithm and Mathematical Modeling for Atmospheric Correction and Classifica-
tion Accuracy for Hyperspectral Data”
• “Engineering Optimization Using Distributed Artificial Immune Algorithm”
• “A New Computing Paradigm Towards Least Risk”
4 Recommendations
WMSCI and RMCI provide a gathering place for computer scientists, communication
scientists, physicists, policy makers, and applied mathematicians to communicate
their ideas. There are researchers, industry leaders, and government employees from
all over the world. Every speaker spoke for 20 minutes and had 5 minutes for questions
from the audience. I found 20 minutes too short in many cases to fully understand
the paper. Some papers are original and represent significant progress in research.
Others talk about policies and market research.
10
