 2
摘要 
 
隨著行動寬頻時代的來臨以及行動網路普及，結合傳統的數位學習（E-learning）與行動運算科技
的行動學習（M-learning）勢必成為未來學習方式的主流。 
資訊科技的發達、網際網路的普及以及行動設備的普遍，透過各式行動載具設備進行無線上網學
習，已經成為具有實用價值的研究議題。讓科技這工具運用得當，使教學內容更多元化、教學品質更
精進，並促使學生主動積極的建構新知識，才能促進學習成效、達到學習目標。本計畫期望能延續我
們先前開發的以學習活動為基礎的數位教材檢索系統(TjLRSE)，進而研究結合以問題為導向的PBL教
學法及協同學習來建置個人化適性自學評量學習系統，並設計如何應用行動開發相關技術支援行動載
具設備。在評量系統及題庫的設計上，我們計畫以IRT測驗理論來開發設計，希望能有效的減少自學者
評量時間，並能針對學生行動評量後進行分析並給予適當教材建議。 
 
關鍵字: 協同學習、問題導向學習、評量 
 
Abstract. 
Along with the information and communication technology getting more mature, the e-learning 
becomes more popular and more diverse. Many researches have pay much effort on exploiting the 
data-mining techniques to make user-learning more efficient. In this study, we mainly develop an 
experimented self-directed e-learning system, which tries to adopt adaptive testing based on the experts’ 
knowledge and experiences to support problem-based learning activities. Within the item bank 
construction, we invited domain experts to assist the collection and creation of examination items and 
classification. Particularly, on the setting of item keywords, it is one of the most important processes for 
learners to easily discover related works as well as to easily share their collaborative learning activities. 
Additionally, after each evaluation, learners can not only follow the suggestions from the assessment 
system to find out the related materials which are collaboratively filtered by precursors’ learning 
activities, but they also can easily contribute their learning modes in the same ways. We hope such 
collaborative self-assessment platform, which integrates the self-directed assessment system and the 
learning activity-based material recommendation system, make learners easier to share their learning 
experiences and then, improve the efficiency of self-directed learning.  
 
Keywords: Collaborative learning, Problem-based learning, Assessment. 
can efficiently improve their learning performance by learning of precursors’ learning experiences. These 
related works are described for details as follows. 
Self-directed Problem-based Learning 
Problem-based Learning (PBL) [1], pioneered at McMaster, is student-centered; it does not focus on the 
teacher who passes on information to the students, but on the learning process of the student. Furthermore, 
problems drive the learning process. That is, before students learn some knowledge they are given a problem. 
The problem is posed so that the students discover that they need to learn some new knowledge before they 
can solve the problem. So, students learn to deal with the problems they will be faced with in later 
professional practice. 
PBL mainly utilized these important, associated and practical cases to provide the necessary learning 
resources and directions and made learners learn of knowledge and problem-solved skills. We followed the 
essence of PBL to design the self-assessment system and attempted to make learners easily join the 
problem-oriented learning activities during solving the questions. 
TjLRSE, Tajen Learning Resource Search Engine 
TjLRSE[4] is a content-searching engine in TAJEN University, Taiwan, which mainly provides search 
service on e-learning materials made by StreamAuthor[8] package. It not only services the learners with 
multimedia content query, but also provides learners with related keywords to discover related topic for 
advanced learning. As shown in the Fig. 1, the TjLRSE system consists of 4 parts, including web spider, 
search service, association rule and collaborative filtration. Web spider is used to collect the index data, and 
search service mainly provides a web-based user interface. Association rule is mainly applied to find out the 
relations between keywords which are used by learners for searching the e-learning content. And, 
collaborative filtration is applied to automatically extract the correct keywords of each course by analyzing 
previous users’ learning activities. 
Fig. 1. Overview of the TjLRSE system. 
 
In implementing the material recommendation system, we adopted the techniques of the LDAP and the 
JAXB to reduce the complexity of context parsing. We used collaborative filtration technologies to conduct 
the feasible keywords of these contents. By mining these learners’ activities to find the association among 
 4
Fig. 3. The self-assessment system supporting learning activity construction. 
 
 
These associated materials will be provided as the URLs by material recommendation system. Students 
just clicked these hyperlinks and then these e-learning contents will be retrieved for them to study correctly 
and efficiently.  
 Item-bank Construction 
The basic unit of knowledge is the relation property between concept nodes as shown in Fig. 4. Further, 
these properties construct the knowledge network. Nevertheless, the same concept will mean differently while 
applied on different domains.  Even in the same knowledge domain, different information will be retrieved 
while different topic is concentrated.  
Fig. 4. Triple used as the construction of knowledge. 
 
Property Concept 
node 
Concept 
node 
 
 
 
An item consists of a question, an answer and many triples, which refer to related knowledge. Each item 
owns a concept independence coefficient to the concept triple. In intelligent test researches, the authors in [9] 
proposed an Evaluation Balance Table, EBT, to specify the key concepts of items. We made a little 
modification and different application of the EBT, named concept-associated item table. As show in Table 1, 
Qi represents question i; Cj represents the topic concept; eij represents the weighted value of Cj related to Qi. 
The eij value is ranged between 0(weak) and 5(strong). Each expert should consider the concept weight 
related to the test item in the item construction. With such concept-associated item table implementation, we 
 6
Fig. 5. Rich learning resources. 
 
In implementation of TjLRSE, we kept at most ten terms, which are learned from learners’ activities and 
set by experts, for each e-learning unit. Term frequency is also maintained for material recommendation. It is 
assumed that, in one unit if the term gets a higher frequency, then it will be better to be one of possible 
keywords for this unit. 
五、結果與討論 
In implementing the PBL-based self-assessment system, we mainly followed the item response theory 
[10], IRT, to evaluate the learners’ ability. When a test starts, the assessment system will select the initial item 
out of the item bank. According to the item selection strategy of maximum information [11], the initial item 
selection should be not ever tested and should own maximum information property for testers. However in the 
current prototyping, we used the random selection instead of item selection implementation. After answering 
each question, the ability of a learner will be automatically evaluated by the system. If the estimated ability of 
a learner does not meet the termination criterion yet, the next question will be provided automatically. 
Otherwise, the test will be terminated. The latest test result in textual form for each learner is reported by the 
self-assessment system and is displayed in graphical form implemented with exploiting Open Flash Chart [12]. 
The proposed system provides experts with a web interface to query and set the reference materials for items 
as shown in Fig. 6. At the same time, these learning activities will be contributed to the collaborative filtering. 
After finishing the test, a learner could just follow the references, recommended by experts, to study the 
recommendation contents as shown in Fig. 7. The test results have been aggregated in order to provide the 
learners with a concept focused view. In Fig. 8, it offers learners a visualized concept overview for test results. 
It describes the comparison of tested items concepts with user’s test result.  
 
 8
 10
system with keywords they input. These experts’ query activities will be logged. By association rule 
implementation, it assists learners to achieve the integrity of courses and the efficiency of learning.  
The system prototype has been established but not completed. We hope the system not only provide 
on-line assessment and material recommendation, but also be easy for learners to join the learning activity in 
self-directed learning. After completing system’s functionality evaluation, including item selection strategy, 
we will evaluate the performance of self-assessment learning system by questionnaire and by learning 
activities analysis. We believe that such the deployment will be helpful to achieve the better performance of 
studying and learning satisfaction for learners. 
References 
1. Problem-based Learning, especially in the context of large classes, From: http://chemeng.mcmaster.ca/pbl/PBL.HTM. 
2. Masiello, I., Ramberg, R., & Lonka, K.(2005), Attitudes to the application of a Web-based learning system in a microbiology 
course. Computer & Education, 45, pp. 171-185. 
3. Shih, B.-J., Shih, J.-L. & Chen, R.-L.(2007), Organizing learning materials through hierarchical topic maps: An illustration 
through Chinese herb medication. Journal of Computer Assisted Learning, issue, Volume 23, Issue 6, pp. 477-490, Dec. 2007. 
4. Feng-jung Liu, Bai-Jiun Shih ,Learning Activity-based E-learning Material Recommendation System ,IEEE International 
Symposium on Multimedia(ISM 2007), , Taichung, Taiwan, Dec. 2007. 
5. G.J.Hwang, C.L. Hsiao, and C.R. Tseng, Computer-Assisted Approach to Diagnosing Student Learning Problem in Science 
Course, Journal of Information Science & Engineering, 19(2), 2003, pp. 229-248. 
6. C.J. Tsai, S.S. Tseng, and C.Y. Lin, “A Two-Phase Fuzzy Mining and Learning Algorithm for Adaptive Learning Environment”, 
Proceedings of International Conference on Computational Science (ICCS’2001), Lecture Notes in Computer Science 
(LNCS2074), Vol. 2, pp. 429-438, CA, USA, May, 2001. 
7. C.Y. Liao, S.S. Tseng, and J.F. Weng, “An IRT-Based Approach to Obtaining Item-Aware Learning Achievement”, The 23rd 
Workshop on Combinatorial Mathematics and Computation Theory, pp.362-368, 2006. 
8. CyberLink StreamAuthor, http://www.cyberlink.com/multi/products/main_7_ENU.html. 
9. H.W.Hsaio, S.S.Tseng, and G.J. Hwang, An evaluation model for the development of intelligent CAI system. Int. Conf. 
Computers Educ., Taiwan, China, 1993, pp. 337-339. 
10.Hambleton, R.K., & Swaminathan, H. Item response theory: Principles and application. Boston: Klvwer Nijhoff, 1985. 
11.Lord, F.M. “Applications of item response theory to practical testing problems.” Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, 1983. 
12.The Open Flash Chart project home page, available at http://teethgrinder.co.uk/open-flash-chart/. 
 
 
2為大家對於工程教育都有獨到的見解，也或許是涉及的技術層次較不深，除了會議進行時的討論外，
連中場 Coffee Break 的時間，也看到多位學者不斷熱烈討論的情況，是本人參加國多次內外研討會
見過最熱絡的一次。在論文報告會議上，可看到許多學者所提出的關於教育的新發現及創新方法，以
及實施情形的報告，讓與會者眼界放寬。對於尋求創新教學研究領域，增進國際學術研究的互動關係，
均有助益並避免在國內閉門造車。學術是沒有國界的，不會因為你是工程背景就被限制住，結合教育
讓技職教育的路更廣更踏實。
以作為一個技職科大的教師來說，一直都希望能使用工程的方法或技巧來解決教育或學習上的問
題。另一方面，對於英語的學習，深深體認，來自不同國家的學者，皆使用共通的語言(英語)來溝通，
對於英語的掌握，對一個土博士而言更是要去好好面對，早日走出國際，跟上潮流。
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略)
略
四、建議
本次研討會讓我深深的體會出學術交流與國際視野開拓的重要性。國際間，針對各種專業領域不
乏會有知名學者尤其是教育與資訊科技。在會議論文報告過程中，大家在問答之間，可以感受到學術
研究的樂趣；亦可在私下討論時，了解每位學者間所關注的焦點，能使我們對全球整體教育研究趨勢
有些了解，有助我們掌握新的研究方向。因此，教育部或國科會往後，也希望能多多補助支持國內大
專院校，承辦一些大型國際會議，使無法獲得出國補助的學生及國內年輕老師，也能參與國際會議，
增加與國外學者進行交流與見習的機會，亦可提升台灣在國際上的知名度。
五、攜回資料名稱及內容
1. 攜回的主要資料，除了該會議的詳細議程外，以及一本大會摘要紙本及論文(CD-ROM)。
2. Proceedings of ICEE&ICEER 2009, http://www.ineer.org/Events/ICEEiCEER2009/index.html
六、其他
無
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：劉豐榮 計畫編號：98-2221-E-230-021- 
計畫名稱：基植於群體學習活動之行動自學評量系統設計與分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：
如 數 個 計 畫 共 同
成果、成果列為該
期 刊 之 封 面 故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
2009 ICEE&amp ；
ICEER,The 
E-learning 
Services System 
with Performance in 
Tajen University .
2010 
ICCCI,Constructing 
Problem-based 
Learning 
Activities Using 
Self-Assessment 
System. 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
博士後研究員 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
