不同牽張治療模式對下肢痙攣之量化分析 
Comparing Three Modalities of Sustained Muscle Stretching Treatments 
for Suppression of Ankle Hypertonia in Hemiplegic Patients 
1Chun-Yu Yeh, PhD, PT,   2Jia-Jin J. Chen PhD,   3Kuen-Horng Tsai PhD 
中文摘要 
肌肉張力異常是上運動神經元疾病患者臨床上常見的症狀。臨床上使用持續肌肉牽張的治療
方法，對於小腿後肌已證明具有降低肌張力的療效。然而肌肉牽張的治療方式，卻因痙攣程度量
化不易及牽張強度無定量描述而無法有標準的治療規範。之前我們發展出一套能隨時偵測長時間
伸張治療的力量，且兼具伸張治療及評估的儀器； 經過驗證後顯示，在評估及治療方均可達到設
計的速度與角度。 
因此，本研究的目的是要比較固定角度、固定力量與正弦牽張三種治療模式對痙攣組織在臨
床評估、神經生理及生物力學評估上之治療效果是否有差異。研究結果顯示，固定力量的牽張治
療模式不論在臨床評估、神經生理及生物力學評估上之治療效果均較其他兩種治療模式有顯著的
差異，此結果可提供臨床人員在降低肌肉張力上另一更有效之治療方式。 
關鍵詞：痙攣、中風、牽張、復健 
 
Abstract 
Present study compares the effectiveness of three different sustained muscle stretch (SMS) modalities in the 
suppression of ankle hypertonia. Forty-seven hemiplegic subjects with hypertonic ankle joint were recruited for 
three SMS modalities of treatments. The hypertonic ankle joints were stretched using an integrated 
treatment/assessment system capable of conducting three modalities of SMS treatments. The immediate post-treatment 
effectiveness of each stretching modality was assessed by reference to the Modified Ashworth Scale (MAS), by 
measuring the passive range of motion (ROM), and by means of a reactive torque measurement, from which the 
viscous-elastic component of the ankle joint can be derived. The three SMS modalities yield an increase in the ROM 
value. Additionally, each stretching method successfully reduces the MAS grade and the elastic and viscous 
components of the ankle joint (p<0.05). The changes in the ROM, elasticity, and viscosity are most pronounced in 
the case of the constant-torque stretching modality. 
Keywords: Rehabilitation, spasticity, hypertonia, sustained muscle stretch  
 
INTRODUCTION 
Despite some functional gains in maintaining muscle mass and improving posture, muscle spasticity with 
excessive muscle tone is considered as one of the principal factors affecting the rehabilitation of patients suffering 
from upper motor neuron lesions.1 The biomechanical properties of muscle, commonly expressed as joint 
stiffness, refer to the increased resistance encountered during passive movement of the limb, which are known to 
increase in long-standing spasticity.2 There are many sources of the joint stiffness during passive movement: the 
joint capsule, ligament and musculo-tendinous unit, etc.3 Several researchers have described joint stiffness as a 
The MAS, passive ROM, and reactive torque value recorded at a stretching velocity of 5˚/sec were recorded 
before and immediately following each treatment session. Regarding the biomechanical assessment using 
sinusoidal stretches, three stretching trials were performed at each of ten stretch frequencies (3-12 Hz) for each 
subject and the results were then averaged across the 47 subjects. In our previous study, a quantitative technique 
has been developed to obtain the elastic-inertia component (Kei) and the viscous component (Kv).9 The degree of 
spasticity of the joint is then quantified on the basis of the elastic (Kei) and the viscous (Kv) components derived 
from the measured reactive torque value. The paired t test was used to analyze the differences between the pre- 
and post-treatment values of the ROM, Kei and Kv values. The Wilcoxon signed rank test was employed to 
analyze the differences in the pre- and post-treatment MAS values. To compare treatment effects of three SMS 
modalities, the repeated measures of the MANCOVA method were used to determine whether a statistically 
significant difference existed in the reduction of the ROM, Kei and Kv values of the ankle joint within the three 
SMS modalities. The co-variables were taken as the values recorded during the pre-treatment assessments. Post 
hoc analyses were again performed using the Bonferroni test. The Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of variance 
was used to compare the differences between the MAS values for each stretching modality. It is noted that a 
significance level of 0.05 was applied throughout the tests in the current study. 
 
RESULTS 
 
The stretching force gradually decreases over the duration of the treatment session for the constant-angle and 
cyclic SMS modalities, i.e. the force decreases by 46.57±4.79% and 36.82±2.25% of its initial value, respectively. 
However, for the constant-torque SMS modality, the force remains constant (100.70±0.72%) as a result of drive 
motor adjustments instructed by the computer-programmed stretching motor in accordance with the monitored 
torque. The results indicated that the stretching angle of the ankle dorsiflexion is precisely maintained at a 
constant value of 101.00±0.01% and 100.57±0.40% of the preset value for the constant-angle and cyclic SMS 
modalities, respectively. In contrast, the stretching angle increases continuously to a final value of 168.55±20.85% 
of the original stretching angle over the course of the constant-torque SMS treatment session.  
Comparing pre- and post- treatment effects of three SMS modalities  
Prior to SMS treatment, the MAS, ROM, and torque of the affected ankles of the hemiparetic subjects were 
measured. Our results indicate a significant reduction in the MAS grades following a single SMS treatment 
session regardless of the particular modality employed (p<0.05). It is observed that the average ROM of the ankle 
dorsiflexion increases significantly after a single SMS treatment session for each of the three modalities, i.e. from 
9.72˚ to 16˚, 9.56˚ to 14.81˚, and 9.19˚ to 18.28˚ for the constant-angle, cyclic, and constant-torque modalities, 
respectively (p< 0.05, Table 1).  
Regarding the biomechanical assessments, the effectiveness of each SMS modality was investigated by 
comparing the averaged means and standard deviations of the Kei and Kv values before and after a single 
treatment session. The Kei and Kv values are significantly lower following the constant-angle SMS treatment 
(p<0.05), similar results are also observed for the cyclic and constant-torque modalities. The current results 
indicate that each SMS treatment modality yields a significant reduction (p<0.05) in the Kei and Kv values 
or cyclic stretching modalities. Taking both comfort and treatment effectiveness into consideration, our on-going 
project is to modify the integrated treatment/assessment device such that it is capable of performing cyclic 
stretching with constant-torque. 
 
Acknowledgement: This research was supported by the National Science Council of the R.O.C. 
( 94-2614-E-040-002-) 
 
REFERENCES 
 
1. Lance JW. Symposium synopsis. In: Feldman RG, Young RR, Koella WP, eds. Spasticity: Disordered Motor 
Control. Chicago, III: Year book Medical Publishers; 1980:485-494. 
2. Lehmann JF, Price R, DeLateur BJ, Hinderer S, Traynor C.  Spasticity: quantitative measurements as a basis 
for assessing effectiveness of therapeutic intervention. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1989;70:6-15. 
3. Singer B, Dunne J, Allison G. Reflex and non-reflex elements of hypertonia in triceps surae muscles following 
acquired brain injury: implications for rehabilitation. Disability & Rehabilitation. 2001;23: 749-757. 
4. Odeen I, Knutsson E. Evaluation of the effects of muscle stretch and weight load in patients with spastic 
paraplegia. Scand J Rehab Med. 1981;13:117-121. 
5. Bressel E, McNair JP. The effect of prolonged static and cyclic stretching on ankle joint stiffness, torque 
relaxation, and gait in people with stroke. Phys Ther. 2002;82:880-887. 
6. Tremblay F, Malouin F, Richards CL, Dumas F. Effects of prolonged muscle stretch on reflex and voluntary 
muscle activations in children with spastic cerebral palsy. Scand J Rehab Med. 1990;22: 171-180. 
7. Starring DT, Gossman MR, Nicholson GG., Lemons J. Comparison of cyclic and sustained passive stretching 
using a mechanical device to increase resting length of hamstring muscles. Phys Ther. 1988;68: 314-20.  
8. Kunkel CF, Scremin AME, Eisenberg B, Garcia JF, Roberts S, Martinez S. Effect of ”standing” on spasticity, 
contracture, and osteoporosis in paralyzed males. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 1993;74:73-78. 
9. Yeh CY, Chen JJJ, Tsai KH. Quantitative analysis of ankle hypertonia after prolonged stretch in 
subjects with stroke. J Neurosci Meth. 2004;137:305-314. 
10. Yeh CY, Tsai KH, Chen JJJ. Effects of prolonged muscle stretching with constant torque or 
constant-angle on hypertonic calf muscles. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2005;86:235-241. 
 
