increased. The slow transition from the splay state to the initial bend state also increases the
response time, or warm-up time, for a display cell.
A potential solution to reduce the initial setting voltage is to develop an alignment layer
that can induce an intermediate pre-tilt angle. When the pre-tilt angle is large enough, π cels 
can then be stable in a bend deformation without a bias voltage, and are thus termed no-bias
bend (NBB) cells [5]. Several methods have been studied to achieve an intermediate pre-tilt
angle, including the oblique evaporation of SiO2 [6], the modification of polyimide (PI)
alignment layer by trifluoromethyl moieties [7], the photoirradiation of photosensitive
alignment layer containing azobenzene [8], the pixel-isolating polymer wall [9], the mixing
of planar and vertical polyimides [10, 11], and the nanoimprinting that contains local
deposition of a surface coupling agent [12]. However, there still remained several technical
difficulties to be resolved, especially the stability, reliability and cost in developing a mass
production process. The potential applications for large-area liquid crystal display cell panels
are also highly desirable [13].
In this report, a new method has been proposed to control the pre-tilt angles. The
polymer alignment thin film structure is consisted of a layer of horizontal alignment
polyimide (PI) and a patterned vertical alignment liquid crystal polymer (LCP). A photo mask
has been designed to pattern the polymer precursor. The square lattice array can thus be
transferred onto the vertical alignment LCP layer after the prescribed photolithography
process. The LCP polymer precursor concentration was varied at 0-10% for the alignment
thin film deposition. Both single-sided and double-sided liquid crystal cell samples were
studied.
2. Experimental
The patterned composite alignment thin film with square lattice array structure has been
designed for the liquid crystal pre-tilt angle study. The glass substrate was cleaned and coated
LCP circles are not as uniform. Some LCP material has been lost near the center of each
circle, likely during the photolithography wet etching step. On the other hand, when the LCP
precursor concentration was raised up to 10%, the patterned LCP structures became well
integrated and could provide good alignment effects on liquid crystal molecules.
The liquid crystal cell pre-tilt angles were measured by fitting the transmittance data
with the laser incident angle. In addition to the patterned composite alignment liquid crystal
cells, some liquid crystal cells have been also prepared solely from the horizontal alignment
PI thin film, with the prescribed procedure for verification. These control cells indeed
exhibited the pre-tilt angles of around 7°. The nominal high-pre-tilt horizontal alignment
characteristics were thus confirmed. On the other hand, the pre-tilt angle was increased to 24°
for the patterned composite alignment liquid crystal cells with the 5% LCP precursor
concentration. It was further increased to 61° for the patterned composite alignment liquid
crystal cells with the LCP precursor concentration at 10%.
The well integrated LCP patterned structures provided more vertical alignment forces
for the liquid crystal molecules. It is therefore concluded that the new composite alignment
configuration has been fairly effective in controlling the liquid crystal pre-tilt angle in the
intermediate range. The improvements were mainly attributed to the combined forces acted
on the liquid crystal molecules both from the horizontal alignment PI and the patterned
vertical alignment LCP. The actual displacement of the liquid crystal molecules, as a whole,
is then determined by the force balance result. The cell pre-tilt angle can be further adjusted
by the LCP precursor concentration, UV curing conditions, and the pattern parameters.
Figure 2 shows the optical microscope photographs of the cells under the various
applied voltages at room temperature. These single-sided cell samples had only one side of
the substrates from the patterned composite alignment thin film structure, while the other side
was a regular horizontal alignment PI thin film structure. The gray level variation indicates
the light transmission that corresponds to the liquid crystal transition state. Although the
[2] Seo D S, Lee J H and Kim H Y, 2000, Liquid Crystals 27, 1147.
[3] Sun Y, Ma H, Li Z, Zhang Z and Guan R, 2007, Appl. Phys. Lett. 90, 091103.
[4] Yeung F S and Kwok H S, 2006, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 051910.
[5] Xu P, Chigrinov V and Kiselev A D, 2005, Liquid Crystals 32, 699.
[6] Tanaka T, Hasebe H and Kobayashi S, 1986, Proc. Japan Display 2, 360.
[7] Bos P J and Koehler-Beran K R, 1984, Mol. Cryst. Liq. Cryst. 113, 329.
[8] Yamaguchi Y, Miyashita T and Uchida T, 1993, SID Digest 277.
[9] Lee S R, Yoon T H and Kim J C, 2008, Japn. J. Appl. Phys. 47, 1550.
[10] Yeung F S, Ho J Y, Li Y W, Xie F C, Tsui O K, Sheng P and Kwok H S, 2006, Appl.
Phys. Lett. 88, 051910.
[11] Kim J B, Kim K C, Ahn H J, Hwang B H, Kim J T, Jo S J, Kim C S and Baik H K, 2007,
Appl. Phys. Lett. 91, 023507.
[12] Chiu C H, Kuo H L, Chen P C, Wen C H and Liu Y C, 2006, Appl. Phys. Lett. 88,
073509.
[13] Kubota N, Tsukane M, Fukami T, Kojima T, Nakao K, Wakemoto H, Kizu Y and
Hasegawa R, 2007, IDW 29.
Fig. 1. Three-dimensional micrographs of the patterned composite alignment thin film
structures. The sample has been prepared from the (a) 5% and (b) 10% LCP polymer
計畫成果自評
研究成果內容與原計畫規劃方向內容大致相符，並已能初步達成預期目標，相關研究成
果已陸續發表於國際學術期刊及研討會論文。計畫主持人過去五年(2006-2010)分別發表
SCI期刊論文六、五、五、八、五篇，合計二十九篇SCI期刊論文，並已送審通過獲得
四件專利案，若加計其他EI論文及研討會議論文，五年內共計有八十多件論文相關成果
發表，未來本實驗室將會繼續努力增加研究成果發表的質與量，培訓優秀工程研究人才
服務產業界，將國科會研究經費發揮最大效益。
表 Y04
(一) 參加會議經過：
第八屆離子與電子植佈應用技術研討會(VIII-th International Conference on
Ion Implantation and Other Applications of Ions and Electrons ION 2010) 於今年六
月十四日至六月十七日在波蘭舉行。本次研討會由 Professor Dariusz Maczka 擔
任榮譽主席，由 Prof. Jerzy Zuk 擔任大會主席，Prof. Pawel Zukowski 以及 Prof.
Jerzy Zdanowski 擔任共同主席，並由 Prof. Janusz Filiks 及 Prof. Jerzy Zuk 負責論
文編審。此次研討會參與者，以歐洲地區的國家參與者比例較高，其次是北美
地區如美國及墨西哥，以及埃及、伊朗、印度等國家的學研代表，共有約二百
多篇論文發表。研討會議亦提供一時段供年輕學者發表論文競賽，有七位進入
複賽決選報告。
本人在此次會議中，主要參與 Surface Treatments and Applications 的研討內
容，同時發表口頭演講一篇，海報論文二篇，題目分別是 Improved light extraction
efficiency by two-dimensional triangular photonic crystal arrays using focused ion
beams、Improved phase change recording systems using silicon nitride dielectric
layers prepared by mixed gas plasma 以及 Aluminum-doped zinc oxide thin films
prepared by sol-gel and RF magnetron sputtering。
(二) 與會心得：
本屆研討會議由歐洲真空協會支持研究論文發表，主題內容相當豐富。首日
大會的邀請演講是由立陶宛與法國合作 Vytautas Magnus University/Universite de
Poitiers 的 Prof. Liudvikas Pranevicius 代表講述 Hydrogen separation under
molecular ion implantation in nanocrystalline films，探討膜厚結構組成的發展及其
表 Y04
羅斯 Belarusian State University 的 Prof. Komorov 主講 Structure and optical
properties of silicon layers with GaSb nanocrystals created by ion beam synthesis。英
國 The Queen’s University of Belfast 的 Prof. Hurley 主講 Hydrogen and helium
implantation in germanium for semiconductor layer transfer applications，著眼於 Ge
的超高 mobility GOI for high performance CMOS。法國 CNRS/ENSMA 的 Dr.
Michel 主講 Interaction between energy of deposited species and intrinsic stress build
up in thin solid films grown by magnetron sputtering，探討為結構型成之
mechanisms。
(三) 考察參觀活動：
主辦單位有安排一些週邊的藝術文化之旅，可自費參加活動。
(四) 建議:
國內學研主導單位可結合業界資源主辦各型學術研討會，增加與國際大學
建立合作關係的機會和能見度。
(五) 攜回資料名稱及內容：
此次參加研討會，攜回資料有研討會論文集、相關研討會介紹資料、廠商設
備產品簡介目錄一批。
表 Y04
W. L. Wang, H. W. Chien and G. M. Wu
Multi-layer phase-change recording materials have been widely used in rewritable recording disks.
Ge-In-Sb-Te alloys provided fast phase change by 650 nm laser and have served as the active layers.
The demand for higher recording and writing speed inevitably increased the power. A high
heat-conducting and optical-reflecting material such as silver was chosen to replace the
conventional reflective layer. However, silver could react with sulfur when in contact with the
traditional ZnS-SiO2 dielectric layer. The novel silicon nitride has thus been investigated to replace
the buffer material and upper dielectric layer. The silicon nitride layer was reactively sputtered
using a mixed gas plasma of argon and nitrogen at 3 kW. The SiNx dielectric layer was created
between the active Ge-In-Sb-Te layer and the silver reflective layer. The optical storage disks were
then initialized by Hitachi POP120-8E to provide crystalline active layers before the dynamic tests.
The initialization was conducted using 810 nm laser at 2300 mW while the disks were rotated at a
constant linear velocity of 10 m/s. The optical properties were analyzed by Steag ETA-RT using
410-1010 nm wavelength. The results showed that the novel SiNx dielectric layer exhibited
excellent and compatible electro-optical characteristics. The power margin window was improved
by 50%. TEM micrographs showed improved laser mark profile on the active layer.
論文摘要(三)
Aluminum-doped zinc oxide thin films prepared by sol-gel and RF magnetron sputtering
G. M. Wu, Y. F. Chen and H. C. Lu
Zinc oxide (ZnO) thin films have become technologically important materials due to their wide
range of electrical and optical properties. The characteristics can be further adjusted by adequate
doping processes. In this paper, aluminum-doped zinc oxide (AZO) thin films have been prepared
on glass substrates using a sol-gel route and the radio-frequency (RF) magnetron sputtering process.
The stoichiometry could be easily adjusted by controlling the nano-sized precursor concentration
and the thickness by dip-coating cycles. On the other hand, the mixed N2O/Ar plasma gas provided
adequate N doping for the RF sputtering process. The results showed the low electrical resistivity of
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/02/12
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 新型高分子微奈米結構配向薄膜及其液晶顯示光電特性研究
計畫主持人: 吳國梅
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-182-001- 學門領域: 電子與光電高分子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
計畫主持人 2008年及 2009年分別發表 SCI 期刊論文五篇及八篇，並已送審通
過獲得四件專利案，加計 EI論文、專利申請及研討會議論文，二年內共計有三
十餘件研究相關成果發表，本實驗室師生會繼續努力增加研究成果的質與量，
培訓優秀工程研究人才服務產業界，將國科會研究經費發揮最大效益。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
