 2
double-oblique method to obtain true perpendicular 
plane of long axis of the pulmonary artery with 
retrospective ECG gating. Flow velocity of twenty 
different time phases was measured in three 
dimensions throughout the cardiac cycle with upper 
velocity limit (Venc) set at 200 cm/sec. Region of 
interest (ROI) was manually defined from anatomic 
MR images of thorax accordingly. Quantitative 
flow analysis was achieved by the built-in software 
of commercially workstation (GE Medical System).  
Regurgitation fraction was calculated from division 
of backward flow by forward flow.  The 
coefficient of variation (CV) of in-plane flow speed 
within the ROI for each time phase was calculated 
according to the definition [4]: CV=[(standard 
deviation of speed)/(mean of speed)]×100. The 
average of CV from the total 20 phase (CV-mean) 
was afterwards taken into account for the turbulent 
flow pattern.  We used SPSS software package for 
statistical analysis. 
 
Values of net flow, regurgitant fraction and 
CV-mean for RPA and LPA were listed in Table 1.  
Figure 1 shows the comparison between RPA and 
LPA of regurgitant fraction and CV-mean 
respectively. Regurgitant fraction (Fig.1(a)) was 
greater in the LPA (38.2 ± 28.0%) than in the RPA 
(27.9 ± 14.0%) (P=0.0413).  In the meanwhile, the 
net forward flow in the LPA (793.7 ± 684.1 
mL/min) was smaller than in the RPA (1699.4 ± 
995.8 mL/min).  The CV-Mean value shows 
significant difference between RPA and LPA 
(P=0.0153).  There was a linear relationship 
between the CV-mean and net forward flow in the 
RPA (R2=0.728, P=0.003) but not in the LPA 
(R2=0.250, P=0.170) (Fig. 2).   
 
Our preliminary result demonstrates the 
regurgitant fraction is able to evaluate the flow 
behavior after repair of TOF, which is consistent 
with previous reports [5].  CV-mean value was 
found to be correlated with net forward flow while 
the regurgitation fraction is relative small.  
CV-mean may reflect the turbulence of flow which 
results from regurgitation, although there is weak 
correlation with regurgitant fraction.   
 
In conclusion, the regurgitant fraction is a 
useful hemodynamic indicator in branch pulmonary 
arteries after repair of Tetralogy of Fallot, while 
CV-mean of in-plane flow speed may reflect the 
severity of turbulent flow which deserves further 
investigation for its clinical implication. 
 
 
 
 
 
四、計畫結果自評 
 
Our efforts spent in this project have created 
results substantially greatly than that mentioned in 
this brief report.  Flow qnantitative analysis will 
be contributed to the objective observation on 
cardiovascular studies and offers an improved basis 
for the comparison of data from different sites in 
multi-centre clinical trials at the same time.  
Undoubtedly, the approaches developed and 
investigated in this project will provide valuable 
experience for future researches and development 
on phase-contrast MR imaging. 
 
 
 
五、參考文獻 
 
[1] C. Kondo, G. R. Caputo, R. Semelka, E. 
Foster, A. Shimakawa, and C. B. Higgins, 
"Right and left ventricular stroke volume 
measurements with velocity-encoded cine 
MR imaging: in vitro and in vivo 
validation," AJR Am J Roentgenol, vol. 157, 
pp. 9-16, 1991. 
[2] A. J. Powell, S. E. Maier, T. Chung, and T. 
Geva, "Phase-velocity cine magnetic 
resonance imaging measurement of 
pulsatile blood flow in children and young 
adults: in vitro and in vivo validation," 
Pediatr Cardiol, vol. 21, pp. 104-10, 2000. 
[3] D. J. Sahn and G. W. Vick, 3rd, "Review of 
new techniques in echocardiography and 
magnetic resonance imaging as applied to 
patients with congenital heart disease," 
Heart, vol. 86 Suppl 2, pp. II41-53, 2001. 
[4] E. Be'eri, S. E. Maier, M. J. Landzberg, T. 
Chung, and T. Geva, "In vivo evaluation of 
Fontan pathway flow dynamics by 
multidimensional phase-velocity magnetic 
resonance imaging," Circulation, vol. 98, 
pp. 2873-82, 1998. 
[5] I. S. Kang, A. N. Redington, L. N. Benson, 
C. Macgowan, E. R. Valsangiacomo, K. 
Roman, C. J. Kellenberger, and S. J. Yoo, 
"Differential regurgitation in branch 
pulmonary arteries after repair of tetralogy 
of Fallot: a phase-contrast cine magnetic 
resonance study," Circulation, vol. 107, pp. 
2938-43, 2003. 
 
 
 
 
 
