2Disclosure
31 October 2008
報告內容已投稿 SCI 期刊，現在接受 peer review 中，計畫暫不開放查
詢；此後論文之 copyright 應為該期刊所有，擷取、轉載、使用此報告，
請遵守相關規定。
This study was supported by a grant from National Science Council, Taiwan (NSC
96-2221-E-002-241). No other conflicts are to be disclosed.
4ABSTRACT
Background: The objective of this study was to develop and apply an automated
acquisition system (AAS) for assessing quality of care (QC) measures for cardiovascular
diseases
Methods: Electronic discharge notes (EDN) of a tertiary medical center in Taiwan from
2002 to 2004 were retrieved, and the patients presented with ST-segment elevation
myocardial infarction (STEMI), unstable angina or non-ST-segment elevation myocardial
infarction (UA/NSTEMI), and those who underwent coronary bypass graft surgery
(CABG) were used as the training set, test set, and application set, respectively. An AAS
combining both keyword search and natural language processing algorithms was
developed to extract QC measures from EDN, and produced the attainment rate to current
standards of care. The expert’s opinion by a cardiologist was used as gold standards.
Results: The system was able to reach an agreement rate (κ value) with the expert from
0.70 (angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor use) to 0.96 (β-blocker at discharge), and
to demonstrate an extra-ordinary early reperfusion rate in the 281 patients with STEMI.
The accuracy of the AAS was reproducible (κ value from 0.65 to 0.97 for different QC
measures) when the same algorithm was applied to the patients with UA/STEMI. In the
645 patients receiving CABG, the QC measures, in-hospital complications, and
case-fatality rate could be automatically retrieved.
Conclusions: The result has demonstrated that a novel AAS can be used to faithfully
extract QC measures for cardiovascular diseases, and provided a reliable tool and new
6INTRODUCTION
Quantification of quality of care (QC) measures in the process and outcome domains
has become one of the most important issues in current medical care [1]. Cardiovascular
diseases (CVD), e.g. ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI),
non-ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction/unstable angina (NSTEMI/UA), and
stable angina, have been advocated as ideal candidates for evaluating adherence to
guidelines and measuring attainment to QC standards [2,3,4,5].
In our previous study, we found that extracting data from electronic discharge notes
(EDN) could provide sufficient information for QC measures for STEMI. The recall
could be as high as that derived from a detailed search of the whole clinical information
system (CIS) and paper medical records. Moreover, this finding has generated an interest
in building a “knowledge representing engine” that is able to retrieve essential 
information automatically from medical narrations [6]. Therefore, the objective of this
study was to apply information retrieval technology to develop an automated acquisition
system (AAS) for assessing QC measures for CVD, and to validate the accuracy of the
system and demonstrate it generalization to other applications.
METHODS
Study materials
Our institution, a 2400-bed university-affiliated teaching hospital is a tertiary referral
center for CVD. Residents taking care of the inpatients are required to use English to
write a discharge note into a word processor that is incorporated into the hospital CIS.
Each discharge note is structured into the different fields and the narrations of all the
8Parameters, such as the proportion of early aspirin use in the patients without
contraindications and the proportion of early β-blocker use in the patients without
contraindications, could not be recalled from electronic records and were excluded from
further analysis.
Case selection
The narrations of all EDN from 2002 to 2004, a total of 183,519 records, were
exported from CIS into an ACCESS database. A standard query language (SQL) was
designed to extract the records of the patients presenting with STEMI, NSTEMI/UA, and
those requiring coronary artery bypass graft (CABG), and those cases were used as the
training, test, and validation set, respectively.
Automated acquisition system
An information-retrieval tool was developed to extract QC measures from EDN.
This automated engine could receive narrative inputs and produce coded data as outputs
that were ready for computation and data-mining.
The data-mining algorithm was a combination of keyword search and natural
language processing (NLP). The traditional keyword search identified simple concepts in
related fields, for example, specific procedures (e.g., cardiac catheterization and CABG
in the field “Operation”), laboratory tests (echocardiography and LV ejection fraction in 
“Lab”), and medication in “Discharge Order.”
The core component of AAS was a natural language processor caled “the Medical 
Language Extraction and Encoding System (MedLEE),” which was developed by Carol 
10
The agreement between system evaluation and human expertise was judged by κ
values. A κ value greater than 0.40, 0.60, and 0.80 was regarded as moderate,
substantial, and almost perfect agreement between the two retrieval methods respectively.
Sensitivity [probability(T+|D+)] and specificity [probability(T-|D-)] for each QC measure
were also reported.
In the application set, the AAS was used to perform information retrieval from END
and report the attainment rate of each QC measure.
RESULTS
Baseline characteristics
Between 2002 and 2004, there were 281 cases with documented STEMI (227 men,
mean age: 60±14 and 54 women, mean age: 73±12), 627 cases with UA/NSTEMI (431
men, mean age: 66±12 and 196 women, mean age: 73±9), and 645 cases undergoing
CABG (486 men, mean age: 64±11 and 159 women, mean age: 67±10). Each case in the
training set and the test set was thoroughly reviewed by a cardiologist to establish the
gold standards. In the application set, the diagnosis and the operation were also
confirmed before automated analysis.
Development of automated acquisition system
An automated acquisition system was developed under the Java environment on the
Solaris 10.0 operating system on a Sun Blade 2000 workstation. An interface was
designed to input textual reports into the AAS, which then turned the piles of narrative
discharge reports into conceptual graphs and produced QC measures for each item.
12
early intervention and conservative management was substantial (κ value: 0.65).
Application results
The same algorithm of the AAS was used to parse the EDN of the 645 patients who
underwent CABG. The proportion of adequate use of medication was calculated in those
who survived to discharge and bore no contraindications. LDL was checked in 68.4% of
these hospital survivors during admission. The attainment rate to anti-platelet agents,
-blockers, ACE-I/ARB, and statin use at discharge was 72.3% (426/589), 25.1%
(141/562), 15.4% (4/26), and 4.6% (27/589), respectively.
DISCUSSION
Developing a registry for CVD in a nation-wide scale and monitoring the QC
measures has drawn great attention and resulted in clinical significance. Our study has
successfully implemented an AAS that is able to extract parameters for QC measurement,
and has validated its accuracy and reproducibility.
In the previous study, we illustrated a particular QC pattern for STEMI in our
institute as compared to US standards, i.e., an extra-ordinary early reperfusion rate,
adequate use of anti-platelet agents and ACE-I/ARB, and poor performance in-blockers
use and lipid management [6]. This phenomenon could be seen across different hospitals
in the same health organization [15]. Given the similarity in the QC measures, we were
able to train our AAS system with the STEMI set and validate it with the UA/NSTEMI
set. The results in the patients with UA/NSTEMI also showed that the physicians did not
prescribe-blockers as rigorously as guidelines suggest even after patients with potential
14
provided a reliable tool and new perspective for determining the quality of care in all the
hospitals across the county and around the world.
16
REFERENCES
1. Kunkel S, Rosenqvist U, Westerling R. The structure of quality systems is important
to the process and outcome, an empirical study of 386 hospital departments in
Sweden. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007;7:104.
2. Goldman LE, Dudley RA. United States rural hospital quality in the Hospital
Compare database-Accounting for hospital characteristics. Health Policy. 2008 Mar
26; [Epub ahead of print].
3. Spertus JA, Radford MJ, Every NR, et al. Challenges and opportunities in quantifying
the quality of care for acute myocardial infarction: summary from the Acute
Myocardial Infarction working group of the American Heart Association/American
College of Cardiology first scientific forum on quality of care and outcomes research
in cardiovascular disease and stroke. Circulation 2003;107:1681-91.
4. Mehta RH, Montoye CK, Gallogly M, et al. Improving quality of care for acute
myocardial infarction: the Guidelines Applied in Practice (GAP) initiative. JAMA.
2002;287:1269-1276.
5. Chen J, Rathore SS, Radford MJ, et al. JCAHO accreditation and quality of care for
acute myocardial Infarction. Health Aff (Millwood) 2003;22:243-54.
6. Chang SN, Lin JW, Liu SC, Hwang JJ. Measuring the process of quality of care for
ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction through data-mining of the
electronic discharge notes. J Eval Clin Pract. 2008;14(1):116-20.
7. MedLEE - A Medical Language Extraction and Encoding System. [official website]
http://lucid.cpmc.columbia.edu/medlee/ [last retrieved on 3 May 2008].
8. Jain NL, Knirsch CA, Friedman C, Hripcsak G. Identification of suspected
18
FIGURE LEGENDS
Figure 1. An example of coded output from the automated acquisition system. The input
sentence was “Cardiac catheterization was performed on Feb 5.”The output was a
structural format (XML) ready for further computation and analysis.
Figure 2. Infrastructure of the automated acquisition system. MedLEE: the Medical
Language Extraction and Encoding System; UMLS: Unified Medical Language System;
CUI: Concept Unique Identifier; ECHO: echocardiographic reports; LDL: low-density
lipoprotein cholesterol.
20
Figure 2.
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫補助費延期及變更申請
對照表 
執  行 
機  構 
國立臺灣大學醫學院(附設醫
院雲林分院)內科部 
計  畫 
編  號 
 NSC      96-2221-E-002-241- 
計 畫 
名 稱 
利用資訊檢索及擷取技術建立自動化系統以評估醫療品質 
合 約 
期 限 
自 2007 年 8 月 1 日起 
至 2008 年 7 月 31 日止 
希望延長 
期  限 
至   年   月   日止如期結案 
原 核 定 補 助 情 形 擬 申 請 變 更 用 途 及 金 額 情 形 
國外差旅費 
Annual meeting of American 
Medical Informatics 
Association, 5 days in Orlando, 
FL, USA 
60000 
更改為 Joint Conference – 48th 
Cardiovascular Disease 
Epidemiology and Prevention 
Annual Conference, and 
Nutrition, Physical Activity, 
and Metabolism Conference, 
Colorado Springs, Colorado, 
USA. 
69304 
    
延 
期 
或 
變 
更 
用 
途 
說 
明 
論文發表地點更改。 
計畫主持人：    林昭維         聯絡電話： 0922861953 
                   傳  真： 05-5335373 
 
