 1
I. Introduction 
   White-light LEDs have, recently, become an emerging technology for general 
lighting [1].  The LED arrays can also be used as micro-displays, which have the 
applications for projection displays, impaired eye cornea replacements, etc [2-4].  
To lighten up an LED pixel in an array, passive matrix addressing method is 
generally employed [5].  Rows are selected one by one with a current imposed to 
each pixel of that row to obtain the desired brightness.  The main disadvantage of 
the passive matrix addressing is that a high current is needed to achieve high peak 
luminance.  And such a high current is one of the limiting factors of pixel lifetimes 
and also numbers of rows and columns in a micro-display.  Furthermore, the 
non-uniformity of pixel brightness caused by the variations of turn-on voltages of 
LEDs is also a disadvantage of this passive-matrix addressing method.  Therefore, 
a new pixel driving scheme is necessary to improve power efficiency and device 
uniformity of an LED micro-display. 
 
II. Purpose 
To apply LED arrays to micro-displays, we propose a novel active 
HFET-LED approach which is similar to TFT-LCD (Thin Film Transistor-Liquid 
Crystal Display).  In this approach, GaN-based HFETs are embodied 
monolithically with GaN-based blue LEDs.  Both HFET switches and LEDs share 
the same substrate (either SiC or Sapphire) so that pixels of the blue LED array can 
be separately controlled by HFET switches.   The active matrix approach has the 
advantage of less power consumption on the conducting metal strips and thus higher 
power efficiency since only the selected pixel is on.  We believe this is the first 
time an active LED matrix addressing approach is proposed and simulated. 
 
III. Discussions 
A. Basic circuit 
The basic control circuit for a LED micro-display is very similar to that for the 
TFT-LCD.  We use an active matrix circuit shown in Fig. 1 (a).  The GaN-based 
HFET (T1) behaves as a current source controlled by the data voltage Vdata while the 
HFET T2 acts as a switch transistor.  The voltage across VGS of T1 is stored in C1.  
R is the series resistance of an LED (26 Ω).  When Vselect1 becomes high at a certain 
time interval, T2 is turned on.  And then the signal of Vdata is transferred to the gate 
of T1.  Assuming T1 is biased sufficiently to stay in saturation, the drain current is 
determined only by the gate-source voltage VGS of T1.  The LED device will be 
turned on when Vdata is high and will be biased at a constant current determined by 
T1.  Since the n-type HFET is a normally-on device, the operation of HFET-LED 
 3
We use an Automated Integrated Circuit Modeling-Spice (AIM-SPICE) 
analog-circuit simulator to simulate the current waveforms flowing through the LED.  
The LED device parameters in this simulation are referred from [6, 7] while HFET 
model is from [8 - 9].  The series resistance of an LED is 26 Ω and its threshold 
voltage is about 3.45 eV.  The mesa area of an HFET is around 120μm x 100μm 
while 300μm x 300μm for an LED.  The on-state resistance and breakdown 
voltage of an HFET are 40 mΩcm2 and 60 V, respectively.  And the HFET leakage 
current in the pinch-off region under source-drain voltages of interest is 
approximately 0.4 μA [10]. 
 
V. Results 
In our active matrix circuit, + 10 % and – 10 % changes of the VT, LED of an 
LED result in around – 13 % and + 13 % variations of LED currents (right side of 
Fig. 2).  In contrast, for a passive LED arrays which voltages are applied directly 
across LED devices, variations of ± 10 %   VT, LED  result in around 24 % changes 
of LED currents under the same biased voltage across LED terminals in our 
simulation.  Therefore, the active matrix circuits have the ability of better current 
compensation due to the effects of feedback path from LED module to transistors T1 
and T3.  The 46 % ( from 24 % to 13 % variations ) reduction of current variations 
can greatly ease the LED process control during manufacturing.  Also the stability 
feedback circuit can relieve the impact of changes of the LED contact resistance.  
Only - 5.92 % and + 6.75 % changes in LED currents were found with + 20 % and - 
20 % changes of contact resistance (not shown in the figures), which is compared to 
-16.09 % and + 23.08 %, respectively, changes of LED currents for the passive LED 
array with voltages applied directly across LED terminals. 
Another issue that is commonly seen in the active matrix display is the 
variation of “switch” device performance across the wafer.  Among the device 
parameters of an HFET, VT, HFET variations usually result in variations of LED 
currents. An intuitive way to mitigate LED current variations is to treat the contact 
resistor of the LED as the feedback path again.  This resistor contact in the LED 
model provides a feedback to reduce voltage and temperature impacts on current 
sources.  The relationship between LED currents and VT, HFET can be seen in the 
right part from Fig. 3.  Currents vary from + 0.36 % to - 0.56 % when VT, HFET 
swings from - 2.6 V to - 1.6 V, assuming 0 % change of the current at VT, HFET = - 
2.1 V (the left part of Fig. 3).  It shows that the HFET–LED switch circuit is 
relatively stable under the conditions of process variations. 
 
 
 5
[7] K. J. Tseng, S. Pan and C. F. Foo, “Issues in power diode modeling for 
circuit simulation,” Power Electronics and Drive Systems, 1997 
International Conference , Volume 1, pp. 78 – 84 , May ,1997 
[8] T. Ytterdal., T. A. Fjeldly, M. S. Shur, S.M. Baier and R. Lucero, 
“Enhanced Heterostructure field effect transistor CAD model suitable for  
simulation of mixed mode circuits,” IEEE Transaction On Electron 
Devices., Vol. 46, No.8, pp. 1577-1588, August , 1999 
[9] J. Deng, B. Iñiguez, M. S. Shur, R. Gaska, M. A. Khan, J. W.Yang, 
“Micro-wave simulations on the performance of GaN/AlGaN HFETs,”   
phys.   stat.sol. (a) 176, 205, Volume 176, Issue 1 , pp. 205 – 208, 1999 
[10] R. Gaska, Q. Chen, J. Yang, A.Osinsky, M. Asif Khan, and M. S. Shur, 
“High-temperature performance of AlGaN/GaN HFET’s on SiC 
substrates,” IEEE Electron Devices Letters, Vol. 18, No.10, pp. 492-494, 
October, 1997 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
