 
中英文摘要 
 
內容定址記憶體（Content Addressable Memory, CAM）被廣泛的使用在需
要快速查表的應用，由於內容定址記憶體是由硬體施做的表格，而且具有平行
比較的特性，再加上查詢的頻率很高，其所消耗的功率自然相當可觀而不可忽
略。在本計劃中，我們提出了一種混合式內容定址記憶體的設計，其目標是為
了兼具傳統 NOR-type CAM 高效能與 NAND-type CAM 低功耗的特性，在我
們的設計中，所有 CAM 的字組均會被切割成二段，然後所有的 CAM cell 都
從相符線分離出來，藉由最小化相符線上的寄生電容以及減少相符線狀態切換
的次數，我們的設計可大幅的降低內容定址記憶體在查詢時的功率消耗。實驗
數據顯示，與傳統的 NOR-type CAM 比較，我們所提出的混合式內容定址記
憶體設計可降低 89%的能量消耗，也因為我們的設計提供了一條快速的拉降路
徑，所以我們的效能甚至比傳統的 NOR-type CAM 還要好。 
關鍵詞: 內容定址記憶體（CAM）、NOR 型 CAM、NAND 型 CAM、混合型
CAM。 
 
Content addressable memory (CAM) is a hardware table that can compare the 
search data with all the stored data in parallel. Due to the parallel comparison feature 
where a large amount of transistors are active on each lookup, however, the power 
consumption of CAM is usually considerable. In this project, we propose a hybrid-type 
CAM design which aims to combine the performance advantage of the NOR-type CAM 
with the power efficiency of the NAND-type CAM. In our design, a CAM word is 
divided into two segments, and then all the CAM cells are decoupled from the match line. 
By minimizing both the match line capacitances and switching activities, our design can 
largely reduce the power consumption of CAM. The experimental results show that the 
hybrid-type CAM can reduce the search energy consumption by roughly 89% compared 
to the traditional NOR-type CAM. Because the hybrid-type CAM provides a fast 
pull-down path to speed up the lightweight match line discharge, the search performance 
of our design is even better than that of the traditional NOR-type CAM. 
Keywords: Content addressable memory (CAM), NOR-type CAM, NAND-type 
CAM, hybrid-type CAM.  
 
 
                                                 
 
966 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VERY LARGE SCALE INTEGRATION (VLSI) SYSTEMS, VOL. 16, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
Fig. 1. Typical CAM cell. (a) XOR type. (b) XNOR type.
Fig. 2. Traditional CAM designs.
CAM cell; one for storing data, called store unit, and the other
for comparing data, referred to as compare unit. The store unit
is usually implemented as the traditional 6T SRAM cell which
contains a cross-coupled inverter pair. The compare unit is a
pass-transistor logic (PTL) for comparing the stored with search
data. Depending on the different applications, the compare unit
can be implemented as XOR or XNOR functions, shown in
Fig. 1(a) and (b), respectively. Besides the store and compare
units, a pull-down transistor X, which is gate-controlled by
the comparison result, is necessary to connect/disconnect the
match line (ML) to/from the ground.
A. NOR-Type CAM
Traditionally, there are two types of CAM designs. As shown
in Fig. 2, one is NOR-type and the other is NAND-type. In
NOR-type CAM design, the CAM cell is usually XOR-type,
and the pull-down transistors of each CAM cell are arranged
in NOR type. During precharge phase, the match line is ini-
tially precharged to high. For a CAM word, if one or more
cells are mismatched, the match line would be discharged to
0. Only when all cells are matched, i.e., the search data are
identical to the stored data, the match line can retain logic high
as in the precharge phase. Because the pull-down path is very
short, in case of a mismatch the match line is discharged to 0
quickly. Thus, the NOR-type CAM provides the best search per-
formance.
Note that the pull-down transistors arranged in NOR type is
beneficial for search performance, but they contribute a lot of
drain capacitances to the match line. This results in more power
dissipated in match line switching. Because in many applica-
tions most of the CAM words are mismatched, a large number
of match line switches would consume a significant dynamic
power. For example, in the CAM tag used in the TLB or cache
memory, at most one word is matched on each lookup, which
implies that almost all the match lines would be discharged to
0, and then be charged to high before the next search. Conse-
quently, the NOR-type CAM is power inefficient, although it
can provide the best performance.
B. NAND-Type CAM
In contrast to the NOR-type CAM, the NAND-type CAM
aims to reduce the power dissipated in search operation, in
which the CAM cell is implemented as XNOR-type instead
of XOR-type, and the pull-down transistors of each CAM cell
in the same word are arranged in NAND type, as shown in
Fig. 2(b). The match line is initially precharged to high, and
discharged to 0 only when all CAM cells are matched. Because
the load capacitance of match line is small and only one match
line is discharged to 0 during a search, the power consumption
is minimal. However, the pull-down path is too long, such that
the match line discharge is very slow in case of a match. Thus,
the NAND-type CAM trades the performance degradation for
a large power saving.
III. HYBRID-TYPE CAM DESIGN
A. Overview
The key idea behind our design is to combine the perfor-
mance advantage of NOR-type CAM with the power efficiency
of NAND-type CAM. As shown in Fig. 3, we divide a CAM
word into two segments, i.e., SEG_1 and SEG_2, and the nec-
essary control circuitry. In the SEG_1, the CAM cell is im-
plemented as XNOR-type and their pull-down transistors are
arranged in the NAND type, denoted as NAND-type block in
Fig. 3. The NAND-type block is connected to the ground only
when all the CAM cells of SEG_1 are matched. In contrast
to SEG_1, we use the XOR-type CAM cell to implement the
SEG_2, and their pull-down transistors are placed in the NOR
type, denoted as NOR-type block in Fig. 3. The NOR-type block
is disconnected from the ground only when all the CAM cells
of SEG_2 are matched.
968 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VERY LARGE SCALE INTEGRATION (VLSI) SYSTEMS, VOL. 16, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
Fig. 4. HSPICE waveform for Case 1, in which SEG_1 is mismatched.
Fig. 5. HSPICE waveform for both Case 2 and Case 3.
the precharge phase M1 would be precharged to high, and then
discharged to 0 through the connected T1 path during the eval-
uation phase.
In this case, because SEG_2 is a mismatch, in the NOR-type
block at least one NMOS is turned on that connects the pull-
down path T3 to the ground. Thus, M2 node is discharged to
0, as illustrated in Fig. 5 in which Cell with logic high indi-
cates SEG_2 is mismatched. Because M2 is low, N4 transistor
is turned off to prevent the match line from discharging to 0
through path T1 and T2. Therefore, ML is still high to indi-
cate this word is mismatched. Note that there is a small pulse
marked with the circle in Fig. 5. It is incurred by the race con-
dition problem which is likely to cause a false match and will
be discussed in Section IV-A.
Case 3: SEG_1 is Matched and SEG_2 Is Matched: Similar
to Case 2, in this case M1 node is also discharged to 0 to turn on
the tail transistor N2 and N3. Because SEG_2 is a match in this
case, in the NOR-type block all NMOS transistors are turned off
that disconnects the pull-down path T3 from the ground. Thus,
M2 node still retains logic high as in the precharge phase, as
shown in Fig. 5 in which Cell with logic low implies SEG_2
is matched. Consequently, N4 is turned off and N4 is turned on
to discharge the match line to 0 through the pull-down path T1
and T2. That indicates a real match.
Note that in our design we provide two pull-down paths, i.e.,
T1 and T2, to discharge the match line. Because the length of
T1 path depends on the SEG_1 length, the discharge delay of
T1 will increase with the SEG_1 length. In contrast, the length
of T2 path is fixed one NMOS transistor. It is independent of the
SEG_1 length and must be shorter than T1. Therefore, T2 is a
fast discharge path to ensure our design has comparable search
performance to the traditional NOR-type CAM.
C. Related Work
There has been much previous work on CAM power reduc-
tion [3]–[9]. Because our design would divide a CAM word into
two segments, we only focus on the work related to the word
970 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VERY LARGE SCALE INTEGRATION (VLSI) SYSTEMS, VOL. 16, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
Fig. 6. Example of the charge sharing problem incurred by large SEG_1.
Fig. 7. Voltage level of match line under the consideration to the worst charge
sharing problem for various SEG_1 lengths.
to discharge the match line. If the voltage level of match line is
too low, then it results in a false match.
Fig. 7 shows the voltage level of match line under the consid-
eration to the worst charge sharing problem for various SEG_1
lengths, in which the load capacitance of match line is assumed
to be 4fF. In this simulation, because the threshold voltage of
PMOS transistor is -0.438V in the TSMC 0.18 m model, the
charge sharing problem would result in a false match when the
voltage level of match line is lower than V V
V, as the dash line shown in Fig. 7. From this figure we
conclude that if the length of SEG_1 is larger than 4, our design
has a possible false match. Therefore, the length of SEG_1 is
constrained within four bits throughout this paper.
C. SEG_1 Length Versus Power Saving
As described above, short SEG_1 can prevent the charge
sharing problem, but it increases the probability of M1 dis-
charge. Suppose, for example, that the length of SEG_1 is
one bit. For a random pattern, the probability of M1 discharge
would be 50% on average, i.e., the probability of tail transistor
N3 turned on is also 50%. Because there are pull-down
transistors in the NOR-type block, the probability of T3 path
connected to the ground would increase largely. It results in a
significant power dissipated in the discharge of the M2 node
with large drain capacitances. Ideally, the probability of M2
Fig. 8. Probability of M2 discharge for various SEG_1 lengths.
discharge is the product of the probability of T1 path con-
ducting, i.e., (T1 conducting), and the probability of T3 path
conducting, i.e., (T3 conducting), as shown in the following
equation:
conducting conducting
where and are the lengths of the entire word and SEG_1,
respectively. In this equation, we assume that the match proba-
bility is 1/2 for each CAM cell. In the SEG_2, because all the
pull-down transistors are arranged in the NOR type, the T3 path
is disconnected only when they are all turned off. Thus, (T3
conducting) is equal to . Fig. 8 shows the prob-
ability of M2 discharge for various SEG_1 lengths, in which
is assumed. Clearly, the probability of M2 discharge
decreases sharply as the length of SEG_1 is increased. This im-
plies that the search operation would consume more power when
we decrease the length of SEG_1.
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
In this paper, we use TSMC 0.18 m 1P6M technology to
implement the proposed design. Fig. 9 shows the layout block
diagram and the microphotograph of the fabricated hybrid-type
972 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VERY LARGE SCALE INTEGRATION (VLSI) SYSTEMS, VOL. 16, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
TABLE II
MATCH DELAY OF ALL CAM DESIGNS
TABLE III
SEARCH POWER CONSUMPTION OF ALL CAM DESIGNS
the M1 discharge that connects T1 and T2 paths to the
ground; and further, M1 discharge delay increases with
the number of transistors in the NAND-type block.
(3) One interesting observation from this result is that when
the SEG_1 length is less than or equal to four bits,
the match delay of our design is even shorter than that
of the conventional CAM. This is because our design
decouples all CAM cells from the match line, such that
the match line is lightweight. Once the fast path T2
is connected, it can discharge the lightweight match
line quickly. Although the NAND-type block would
degrade the match performance slightly, the fast path
T2 can compensate for the performance loss. Due to the
charge sharing problem, the length of SEG_1 is con-
strained within four bits. From the detailed data shown
in Table II, if the length of SEG_1 is 4, the match delay
is 0.609 ns. Compared to the conventional NOR-type
CAM, our design can improve the search performance
by 5%.
B. Power and Energy
Table III shows the power consumption during a search for all
CAM designs where the SEG_1 length is varied from 1 to 6 bits.
Clearly, the search power consumption can be reduced sharply
when the SEG_1 length is increased except for SPCAM_P [7],
in which SEG_1 and SEG_2 are checked concurrently for high
search performance. No matter whether SEG_1 is match or not,
SEG_2 is always active on every search, such that the search
power of SPCAM_P [7] is slightly less than that of NOR-type
CAM. In the proposed hybrid-type CAM, the search power con-
sumption is roughly 0.29 mW as the SEG_1 length is 6 bits.
Compared to the NOR-type CAM, whose search power con-
sumption is fixed at 3.04mW, our design can reduce roughly
90% of the search power consumption.
Besides reducing the search power consumption, increasing
SEG_1 length has a large impact on the search performance
as revealed in Section V-A. Consequently, increasing SEG_1
length is a tradeoff between power and performance. For a fair
comparison, energy is a suitable metric, which is the product
of the match delay (performance) and search power (power).
Combining Tables II and III, the detailed energy results for all
CAM designs are summarized in Table IV, and Fig. 11 shows
the normalized search energy, in which all energy results are
normalized to that of the NOR-type CAM design.
From Fig. 11, it is clear that the word segmentation tech-
niques are indeed effective in reducing the energy consump-
tion of CAM except for SPCAM_P [7] where both SEG_1 and
SEG_2 are always active for high search performance. Actually,
the search energy of both SPCAM_P [7] and NOR-type CAM
are almost the same. The major advantage of our design is that
it not only largely reduces the search power, but also improves
the match delay. In contrast, SP [5], SDW [6] and SPCAM_S
[7] would result in a delay penalty while reducing the search
power. Consequently, our design can achieve the most energy
improvement compared to the other related techniques. In addi-
tion, the energy efficiency of our design is even better than that
of the NAND-type CAM which has the lowest search power.
From Table IV, our design can reduce the energy consump-
tion of NOR-type CAM by 90% as the SEG_1 length is 6 bits.
The improvement difference between SEG and SEG
is marginal. However, if the SEG_1 length is larger than 4 bits,
due to charge sharing a possible false match does exist in our
design. For a reliable system, when the SEG_1 length is 4 bits,
our design can reduce the energy consumption of NOR-type and
NAND-type CAM by roughly 88% and 40%, respectively.
C. Peak Power Consumption
In addition to the power consumption under the normal
case (called normal power consumption) as discussed in Sec-
tion V-B, the peak power consumption is another important
design issue due to the capacity constraint of the power supply,
which is essential to maintain supply voltage levels and increase
reliability [11]. The peak power, by definition, is the maximum
power consumption of the designed circuit during its execution.
It is always incurred by the worst-case data pattern.
Table V shows the normal and peak power consumption for
all CAM designs where SEG_1 length is 4.
974 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON VERY LARGE SCALE INTEGRATION (VLSI) SYSTEMS, VOL. 16, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
the search power consumption but also improves the search per-
formance.
REFERENCES
[1] K. Pagiamtzis and A. Sheikholeslami, “Content-addressable memory
(CAM) circuits and architectures: A tutorial and survey,” IEEE J. Solid-
State Circuits, vol. 41, no. 3, pp. 712–727, Mar. 2006.
[2] T. Juan, T. Lang, and J. Navarro, “Reducing TLB power require-
ments,” in Proc. Int. Symp. Low Power Electronics and Design, 1997,
pp. 196–201.
[3] H. Miyatake, M. Tanaka, and Y. Mori, “A design for high-speed
low-power CMOS fully parallel content-addressable memory macros,”
IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 36, no. 6, pp. 956–968, Jun. 2001.
[4] I. Arsovski and A. Sheikholeslami, “A mismatch-dependent power al-
location technique for match-line sensing in content-addressable mem-
ories,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 38, no. 11, pp. 1958–1966,
Nov. 2003.
[5] C. A. Zukowski and S. Y. Wang, “Use of selective precharge for low-
power content-addressable memories,” in Proc. Int. Symp. Circuits and
Syst., 1997, pp. 1788–1791.
[6] K. H. Cheng, C. H. Wei, and S. Y. Jiang, “Static divided word matching
line for low-power content addressable memory design,” in Proc. Int.
Symp. Circuits and Syst., 2004, pp. 629–632.
[7] A. Efthymiou and J. D. Garside, “An adaptive serial-parallel CAM ar-
chitecture for low-power cache block,” in Proc. Int. Symp. Low Power
Electron. and Design, 2002, pp. 136–141.
[8] K. Pagiamtzis and A. Sheikholeslami, “A low power content-address-
able memory (CAM) using pipelined hierarchical search scheme,”
IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39, no. 9, pp. 1512–1519, Sep. 2004.
[9] C. S. Lin, J. C. Chang, and B. D. Liu, “A low-power precomputation-
base fully parallel content addressable memory,” IEEE J. Solid-State
Circuits, vol. 38, no. 4, pp. 654–662, Apr. 2003.
[10] Y. J. Chang, F. Lai, and C. L. Yang, “Zero-aware asymmetric SRAM
cell for reducing cache power in writing zero,” IEEE Trans. Very Large
Scale Integr. Syst., vol. 12, no. 8, pp. 827–836, Aug. 2004.
[11] S. P. Mohanty, N. Ranganathan, and S. K. Chappidi, “Peak power min-
imization through datapath scheduling,” in Proc. IEEE Computer Soc.
Annu. Symp. VLSI (ISVLSI), Feb. 2003, pp. 121–126.
Yen-Jen Chang (M’02) received the M.S. degree
in computer science and information engineering
from Chung-Yuan Christian University, Jhongli City,
Taiwan, R.O.C., in 1997, and the Ph.D. degree in
computer science and information engineering from
National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, in 2003.
He joined the faculty of the Department of Com-
puter Science at National ChungHsing University,
Taichung, Taiwan, in February 2004 and is currently
an Associate Professor. His research interests are
computer architectures, low-power VLSI design,
and embedded system and SoC design
Yuan-Hong Liao, photograph and biography unavailable at the time of
publication.
