1 
 
 
建構與治理數位服務創新知識網路 
中文摘要 
在數位技術大幅進展而數位服務市場與社群大幅變動下，數位內容與知識
密集服務正與平台為基礎之網路經濟交互推動而快速成長。在此發展趨勢下，
有關創新知識網絡上如何進行知識創造與移轉，促成有效的協同發展開創性數
位服務之深入研究，格外有其重要性。 
過去對於服務創新的相關研究對知識服務及創新網絡之相關性研究顯少
著墨，因此本研究從知識密集服務網絡活動的個案，包括電路設計服務及數位
音樂與線上遊戲服務，探討如何在市場與組織高度不確定性中，運用網絡組織
之架構與機制以獲致數位服務營運模式之創新。本計畫之目的在發展得以促成
建構及治理服務創新網絡之知識中介協調模式。此模式之核心是提供知識及價
值創造與保護之數位服務需求解析之動態本體論(dynamic ontology) ，包含其
規範與施行法則以動員、整合與治理知識網絡之行動參與者。本研究藉由檢驗
新創組織網絡間呈現多元之知識實體運作，以動態組合檢視知識移轉與聚合效
應為其帶來運用網絡組織作開創性之服務，實現體驗經濟與價值創造。本研究
藉由對知識密集服務網絡個案作縱深分析，檢驗新創組織網絡間呈現多元之知
識實體運作，以檢視知識移轉與聚合為其帶來運用網絡組織作開創性之服務，
實現體驗經濟與價值創造。 
關鍵詞：創新網路、組織知識實體論、知識密集服務、協同創新、中介與治理結
構 
 
3 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Inspired by a combination of digital technology advances with major social and 
market shifts, digital services have thrived on a rapidly expanding network 
economy.  With the general trends toward a great variety of technology and 
globalization settings, there is a great need for a comprehensive research on 
the knowledge creation and transfer on the knowledge network to facilitate 
collaborative development for new digital services.  
Service sector innovation and entrepreneurship is recognized as important for 
value creation (e.g., Mansury and Love, 2008; Amit and Zott, 2001; Hitt et al., 
2002; Kodithuwakku and Rosa, 2002). The literature finds that successful 
identification and exploitation of opportunity is based on a firm’s prior 
knowledge (Ardichvili et al., 2003; Shane, 2000; Drejer, 2004) and draws on its 
innovation practices (Alam, 2006; Chakravarthy, 1997; Lumpkin and Dess, 
1996). 
Our previous studies of innovation and entrepreneurship on knowledge 
intensive service in Taiwan (Hung, Liu and Chu, 2003, Liu, et al, 2004, Liu, et al 
2005, Chu and Wu, 2005; Hung and Chu, 2005, Chu and Hsu, 2006) indicated 
that value creation arises from the synthesis of entrepreneurial actions via 
reorganization of partnerships, network of resources and intellectual capital. 
Many start-ups and established firms in knowledge services encounter the 
problems in restructuring organization relationship (Childerhouse, et al, 2002; 
Heikkila, 2002; Meridith, 2006.) As such, we propose that the embedded 
organization knowledge provides the essence for the new ideas and aids in the 
proper recombination and mobilization of resources and exploitation of market 
opportunities.  
The core problem facing the innovator and entrepreneurs in the knowledge 
intensive service industries is the intermediation of the market demand and 
value (Howells, 2006; Sidhatha & Maheshkumar, 2007; OECD, 2006 & 2007.). 
The study extend the existing literature by highlighting the importance of the 
mutual understanding of service knowledge creation and transfer among the 
partners in the network with the underlying entrepreneurial actions in providing 
value-added services (e.g., Agrawala, et al 2005; Mckelvey, 2004.) In addition, 
the findings in the emerging business practices with the use of the prototype 
platform in this research can contribute to service firms engaging in the value 
creation through delivery of the content, services and experience. 
 
5 
 
predictive of early entrepreneurial activity and early linkages and legitimating 
activities affect persistence of entrepreneurial activity (Hoang and Antoncic, 
2003; Sexenian and Li, 2003;Carayannis and Von Zedtwitz, 2005). The 
diversity of social network and experience is conducive to the demand 
management activities which straddling the organization boundary. One core 
concept adopted in this research for the service creation is the coordination 
and mediation among the partners. Coordination can be better understood 
through the governance and transaction cost economics (Williamson, 1996; 
Jones, Bowonder & Wood, 2003.)  This research used the organization 
ontology to mediate the complex problems of service creation and 
management. Organization ontology is a formal explicit specification of the 
shared conceptualization or organization model. It consists of formal 
descriptions of entities and their properties, relationships, constraints, and 
behaviors, as well as the rules for combining entities and relations (Neches, et 
al, 1991; Fox, et al, 1996; Gruninger and Lee, 2002; Corcho, et al 2003). This 
research used the ontology concept not only to link business organization but 
also to re-organize the business resources.   
As such, an organizational ontology will need to model organizations as being 
made of networks of social actors, processes, and institutions. Indeed, 
organizational ontology is often considered to include a set of actors, 
institutions, activities, rules and procedures. The action perspective of the 
organizational ontology emphasizes the social activities by which the 
actors/agents generate the space of coordinated actions in which they work 
(Fox, et al, 1996; Gruninger and Lee, 2002; Fernandez-Breis and 
Martinez-Bejar, 2002.) This research thus adopted the collaborative integration 
of dynamic scalable ontologies (Chu and Chien, 2005; Rezende, et al 2005; 
Aziz, et al 2005; Guarino and Welty, 2001.)    
 
Social Capital for Digital Services 
Social capital has increasingly been considered a valuable intangible asset for 
digital services, since it provides human intellect, structural routines and 
network of relationships that can lead to competitive advantage. In the dynamic 
market and technology environment the digital content service industries (e.g., 
on-line game and digital music) facing, the types of human team, operation 
routines, and the network relationships would affect the creation of new market 
opportunities. Intellectual capital is considered to include (1) human capital – 
the knowledge embedded in the mind of the human worker, (2) structural 
capital – the organization routines of the business, and (3) relational capital – 
7 
 
 
Research Method & Results 
 
The data collection, data analysis, and conceptualization are conducted 
iteratively in the process of investigation.   We use focused interviews 
(Merton et al., 1990) and electronic correspondence to fill the gaps of historical 
events in the selected knowledge service firms to collect the service ontology 
data on the representative firms in a variety of knowledge intensive service 
activities – IC design, manufacture and logistics services, on-line 
entertainment services including music and game service providers, 
encompassing the learning objects, media and delivery activities. 
For data analysis, this research used the analytical techniques of chronology 
analysis (Yin, 1994) that allocating events in a chronology which can help 
clarify the causal relationship of events. Accordingly, we established and 
illustrated the collaborative development process of the firms to show the 
relationship and protocols among intellectual capital, organizational knowledge, 
and service creation opportunities. This stage of research explored the 
mediation factors of service opportunity recognition and exploitation. In this 
study, we adopt the “appreciative theorizing” approach to establish the process 
for successful opportunity recognition/exploitation in an iterative fashion using 
a handful of digital service firms.  
In the second stage in-depth longitudinal case studies of the intermediary 
service activities, we rely on our theoretical sensitivities (Glaser, 1978) to 
engage in the iterative process of data collection, data analysis, and 
conceptualization.  
The case study and analysis of various digital service firms pointed to a staged 
model for the ontological engineering of intellectual capital. Typically, 
ontological engineering has as its goal effective support of ontology 
development and use throughout the design evaluation, deployment, mapping, 
sharing and reuse (Gruninger and Lee, 2002; Hatala, et al, 2005). The 
ontology in the context of the digital service cases refers to the relations, 
combinations, and exchanges of the elements pertaining to the service 
resources and mechanisms. For example, the ontology for exercising the 
network ties in the service network influences the access to the parties and the 
anticipation of value for a particular initiative (e.g., links are prevalent in the 
leading digital and analog circuit design firms in the new design-production-test 
collaboration arrangements.) The ontology directed to fostering the trust and 
identification factors in anticipating the value and motivating the action of an 
9 
 
integration services. 
 
This research adopted case study and system demonstration approach to 
explore, analyze and compare the associated ontological transformations of 
selected IC firms, specialized in IC technology development involving design, 
productions, and system integration. The main outcome of this research is an 
ontological engineering model to illustrate the particular capabilities of 
identifying innovation opportunity and enhancing knowledge exchange and 
creation. The model implies that a new service expansion needs combination 
capabilities for knowledge and opportunity. Therefore, new knowledge capital 
can be generated and regenerated to strengthen the experience, convenience 
and quality benefits to customer. We also base our investigation of the effects 
of intellectual capital on opportunity identification upon the cross-organization 
social network.  
 
REFERENCES 
Agrawala, M., Hariharanb, G., Kishorec, R., and Rao, H.R. 2005 ‘Matching 
Intermediaries for Information Goods in the Presence of Direct Search: An 
Examination of Switching Costs and Obsolescence of Information,’ Decision 
Support Systems, 41 pp. 20– 36 
Alam, I. 2006 ‘Removing the Fuzziness from the Fuzzy Front-end of Service 
Innovations through Customer Interactions, Industrial Marketing 
Management 35 pp. 468 – 480. 
Amit, R. and Zott, C. 2001. Value Creation in E-Business. Strategic 
Management Journal, 22: 493-520. 
Ardichvil, A. and Cardozo R. 2003. Sourav Ray, A theory of entrepreneurial 
opportunity identification and development. Journal of Business Venturing. 
Aziz, H. Gao, J., Maropoulos, P. and Cheung, W.M. 2005. Open Standard, 
Open Source and Peer-to-Peer Tools and Methods for Collaborative Product 
Development, Computers in Industry, 56 (2005), pp. 260-271.  
Barnes, D. and Hinton, M. 2007, Developing a Framework to Analyze the 
Roles and Relationships of Online Intermediaries, International Journal of 
Information Management, 27, pp. 63–74. 
Bontis, N., Crossan, M., and Hulland, J. 2001. Managing an organizational 
learning system by aligning stocks and flows, Journal of Management 
Studies.  
11 
 
Edvinsson, L. and Sullivan, P. 1996. ‘Developing a model for managing 
intellectual capital,’ European Management Journal, 14(4). 
Fernandez-Breiz, J. T. and Martinez-Bejar, R. 2002 ‘A cooperative framework 
for integrating ontology.’ International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, 
Vol. 56, pp. 665-720. 
Fox, M. S., Barbuceanu, M. and Gruninger, M. 1996. An organisation ontology 
for enterprise modeling: preliminary concepts for linking structure and 
behaviour, Computers in Industry, Vol. 29, pp.123-134. 
Glaser, B., 1978, Theoretical Sensitivity, Mill Valley, CA: Sociology Press. 
Glaser, B. G. and Strauss, A. L. 1967. The Discovery of Grounded Theory. 
Chicago, IL: Aldine. 
Gruninger, M. and Lee, J. 2002, ‘Ontology applications and design,’ 
Communications of the ACM, Vol. 45(2) Feb. 
Hansen, M.T. 1999.  The Search-Transfer Problem: The Role of Weak Ties in 
Sharing Knowledge Across Organizational Subunits, Administrative Science 
Quarterly. 
Hipp, C. and Grupp, H. 2005 Innovation in the Service Sector: The Demand for 
Service-Specific Innovation Measurement Concepts and Typologies, 
Research Policy, 34, pp. 517-535. 
Hitt, M.A., Ireland, R.D., Camp S.M., and Sexton, D.L., 2001. Guest editors; 
introduction to the special issue strategic entrepreneurship: entrepreneurial 
strategies for wealth creation. Strategic Management Journal, 22: 479-491.                
Hitt, M.A., R.D., Ireland, S.M., Camp and D.L., Sexton, 2002, ‘Strategic 
Entrepreneurship: Integrating Entrepreneurial and Strategic Management 
Perspectives’, pp.1-16. in Hitt, M.A., Ireland, R.D., Camp S.M., and Sexton, 
D.L. (ed.), Strategic Entrepreneurship: Creating a New Mindset, Oxford, 
MA: Blackwell Publishers. 
Hoang, H. and Antoncic, B. 2003. Network-based Research in 
Entrepreneurship: A Critical Review, Journal of Business Venturing, 18. pp. 
165-187. 
Howells, J. 2006. ‘Intermediation and the Role of Intermediaries in Innovation,’ 
Research Policy 35, pp. 715–728 
Hung, S. and Chu, Y., 2005 Stimulating New Industries from Emerging 
Technologies: Challenges for the Public Sector, Technovation.                             
Ireland, R.D., M.A., Hitt, S.M., Camp and D.L., Sexton, 2001, Integrating 
Entrepreneurship Actions and Strategic Management Actions to Create Firm 
13 
 
Management Society, Phoenix, AZ 
Nahapiet, J.E. and Ghoshal S. 2002. Social capital, intellectual capital, and the 
organizational advantage in Choo, C.W. and Bontis, N. The Strategic 
Management of Intellectual Capital and Organizational knowledge, 
Oxford. 
Neches, R., Fikes, R. E., Finin, T., Gruber, T. R., Senator, T. and W. R. 
Swartout, 1991. Enabling Technology for Knowledge Sharing, AI Magazine 12 
(3) pp.36–56. 
OECD. 2004. Digital Delivery of Business Services, OECD Report. 
OECD 2005. Promoting Innovation in Services, OECD Report. 
OECD 2005. Digital Broadband Content: Mobile Content – New Content for 
New Platform, OECD Report. 
OECD. 2006 Innovation and Knowledge Intensive Service Activities, OECD 
Report. 
OECD 2006. The Future Digital Economy: Digital Content Creation, 
Distribution and Access, OECD Report. 
OECD 2006. Digital Broadband Content: Digital Content Strategies and 
Policies, OECD Report. 
OECD 2007. Globalization and Innovation in the Business Service Sector, 
OECD Report.  
Rezende, J.L. et al 2005. Peer-to-Peer Collaborative Integration of Dynamic 
Ontologies, 9th international Conference on Computer Supported 
Cooperative Work, ACM. 
Saxenian, A.L. and Li, C.Y. 2003. Bay-to-Bay Strategic Alliances: The Network 
Linkages between Taiwan and the US Venture Capital Industries. 
International Journal of Technology Management,  25(1/2), pp.136-150. 
Shane, S. and Venkataraman, S., 2003 Guest editors’ introduction to the 
special issue on technology entrepreneurship, Research Policy.  
Sidhartha R. D. and Maheshkumar P. J, 2007 Process innovativeness in 
technology services organizations: Roles of differentiation strategy, operational 
autonomy and risk-taking propensity, Journal of Operations Management, 
25, pp. 643–660. 
Spender, J.C. 1996. ‘Making knowledge the basis of a dynamic theory of the 
firm,’ Strategic Management Journal, 17(2), pp. 45-62.   
 1 
 
出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           99 年 8 月 30 日 
報告人姓名 朱詣尹 服務機構及職稱 
國立清華大學工業工程與工程管
理系 副教授 
 時  間 
地  點  
August 3 – 6, 2010 
美國首都華盛頓 
Washington, D.C., USA 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC98-2221-E-007-020 
建構與治理數位服務創新知識網
路 
發表論文 
題目（如有） 
 (中文)數位服務網絡學習與治理之協同知識本體論  
 (英文) Collaborative Ontology for Learning and Governing of Digital Service 
Network 
簡要報告內容包括下列各項： 
一、參加目的與經過 
美國 National Council of Professors of Educational Administration (NCPEA
全美教育管理教授學會)年會今年在美國首都華盛頓 Washington, D.C., USA
舉行。此研討會是目前國際上有關教育與學習之行政與管理的主要研討會之
一。2010 年的研討會於八月三日至六日舉行。此次大會主題，Promoting 
“Capitol” Ideas 探討未來之教育治理與領導。在此議題下邀請了許多學習科
技、教育政策與管理學者專家探討教育領導與學習治理之專題演講與討論。
共有來自五十餘所大學、研究單位與業界的學者專家提出近百篇論文。 
大會之重點在於探討新興之學習理論與教育政策及治理之實務議題，包
括教育治理、科技政策、學習策略與評估、協同學習、內容發展與管理、智慧資
本、領導政策管理、教學資源與治理、教育與電子化等議題。除了論文發表，大
 3 
 
方面研究表現仍可加強。由於我國之高科技產業創新及科技教育上的發展在
新興的經濟體中表現甚為耀眼，使得這兩個領域及交互建構領域中兼顧理論
與實務的少數論文受到與會者之注意。 
建議我國學術界應多鼓勵數位服務創新及數位社群學習這兩個領域及交
互關聯的相關學術研究及成果研究與發表，包括有助於科技產業創新之數位
學習理論與實務以及運用科技創新促進數位學習社群網絡之理論與方法技術
之議題。鼓勵這兩個領域及交互關聯的相關領域之國際性學術研討會在國內
舉辦，國際水準論文期刊之設置與養成，跨學門領域間合作之研究、整合性
研究計畫之推動、及跨國間之比較研究之推展等。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
（1） 研討會報導與論文年鑑集 
Irby, B., Alford, B., Perreault, G and Zellner, L. (eds.) Promoting Critical 
Ideas of Leadership, Culture and Diversity: 2010 NCPEA Yearbook of the 
National Council of Professors of Educational Administration, Lancaster, 
PA: Proactive Publications, 2010 
（2） 研討會會議論文  
六、其他 (無) 
 
2 
 
1. Introduction 
On web-based collaboration in the business and social world of digital services, business and 
education learning depends on a number of linkages to relevant information to facilitate accomplish 
learning objectives. The sources of the relevant information, including the expanding learning objects 
in the form of digital content that can be used and reused to support learning, are plentiful and readily 
accessible on the Web. Now the question is how to effectively gather and organize the learning objects 
for diverse groups of learners which are distributed on the web in order to satisfy individual and group 
learning objectives for collaborative innovation in the digital content industries.  
Web-based collaborative learning methods have been shown effective in increasing professional 
knowledge. In such environment, a variety of learning objects, such as digital content resources that 
can be reused to support learning, may be accessed on demand on the Web. This study built on prior 
efforts in the computer-mediated learning field toward standardization of metadata elements to 
facilitate a common method for identifying, searching, and retrieving learning objects for the 
collaborative learning. The study constructed a mechanism of distributed e-learning objects sharing 
based on the semantic web. The ontology construction mechanism focused on integrating domain 
knowledge as learning object ontology implemented on the service network. In addition, the 
communication and collaboration ontologies can be constructed in the system to include the concepts 
for modeling the communication processes such as opinion exchange, persuasion, compromise, and 
agreement, as well as the concepts for modeling the collaborative process such as learning goal, 
learning group type, and learning scenario. The purpose was to use these ontologies to describe 
learning materials precisely and to disclose the relationships before matching the consumption and 
provision of distributed learning objects. The effect of “observational learning” by sharing these 
sequenced learning sessions are illustrated. Furthermore, the implications of the framework for the 
collaborative innovation in the digital service via “learning by doing” are also highlighted. 
2. Background 
2.1 Learning objects for web-based learning 
Web-based learning is evolving as “on-demand” education alternative sharing across community 
networks with shared understanding on the ontology. Ontology enables the organization of learning 
materials around small pieces of semantically annotated and enriched learning objects (Chu and Chien, 
2005). Learning objects could be digital entities deliverable across the networks, accessed and used by 
the participants simultaneously and collaboratively, potentially could increase the speed and efficiency 
of learning. To facilitate web-based learning, network governance mechanisms may play a key role for 
mediating learning resource and objects.  This involves taking individual and group learning objects, 
combining and sequencing them in accord with mediating principles. Web-based learning can be 
reactive, responds to the problems at hand; to be distributed, for the content to come from the 
4 
 
3. Framework for Ontology-based Digital Service Learning Network (DSLN) 
This section presents overall system architecture of our ontology-based service learning system 
scenario. There are several agents identified for supporting the operations: the agent for learner, agent 
for rule provision, and agent for interfacing the networks.  There are also explicit repositories for the 
matching and learning rules. The production of DSLN planning objects that may be used or reused in 
the construction of the DSLN module need to be annotated or "enriched" with the metadata 
information: 
As indicated earlier, many drivers of these services hinge on the articulation of demand side 
factors, which tend to require collaborative experimentation and learning on the viability of these 
services. In this research, we examined a broad context of collaborative learning using governing 
ontology as a guide, which illustrates various modes of services, from digitally mastering, mediating, 
outsourcing, and delivering services. This framework categorizes the forms of the collaborative 
knowledge services from face-to-face to fully cross-border digital delivery. A series of case studies 
were conducted using the organization ontology, including knowledge that can be inferred as being 
made of networks of social actors, processes, and institutions. The action perspective of the 
organizational ontology emphasized the social activities by which the actors/agents generate the space 
of coordinated actions in which they work. This research adopted some of the experimental concepts 
and approaches which have been explored for the collaborative integration of dynamic ontologies in 
successive scaling (Chu and Chien, 2005; Rezende, et al 2005; Aziz, et al 2005; Guarino and Welty, 
2001.) 
One means of effective demand creation and management is through the creation, dissemination 
and sharing of the potential demand knowledge, such as customer preference and value knowledge 
among the demand chain’s constituents. The top-level ontology will include the subject demand 
knowledge domain taxonomy (Malucelli, et al, 2006; Meredith, 2006) as well as relationships 
taxonomy. The domain taxonomy account for market demand drivers such as market environmental 
determinants, derived preference on demands, and temporal parameters.  The relationships taxonomy 
support interaction protocol to facilitate the ontology-based solution integration to deal with the 
network dynamics and operational uncertainties which are typical in the demand management in 
emerging industries of digital content services. For example, the derivation for the digital service 
learning objects can be guided by the service content domain relation ontology which is derived from 
the knowledge of the service creation and delivery relation model in combination with the 
commitments from the content resources providers. The framework provides a dynamic recombination 
of dispersed intellectual/social capital on the digital content business and social networks.   
4. Case Analysis Results 
Through the case studies of the digital service learning networks, this research observed that 
network participants draw on organization knowledge, intellectual capital, resource and network 
6 
 
elements in the external network (Scott, 1995; Au and Fukuda, 2002; Daft, 2004.) Specifically, 
relationally diverse social networks increase the spanning of service learning networks.. 
4. Conclusion 
This research adopts case study and system prototype approaches to explore dynamic 
ontological transformations of digital service networks. The model demonstrated that new 
knowledge capital can be generated and regenerated to strengthen the matches for supply and 
demand of learning objects, contents and resources. Demand and supply articulation and mediation 
appeared to play a central role in identifying collaborative innovation opportunity and enhancing 
knowledge exchange/creation through a variety of business and social community networks.  
The study extends the previous results by highlighting the need to leverage the ontology 
matching capability to conduct collaborative experimentation and to integrate ontology elements in 
both scope and scale and the need to promote the reusability and flexibility of ontology construct. In 
addition, an important practical finding pertains to the recognition process in the governance of 
cross-organization value creation and circulation through recognizing and valuation of demands in 
delivering digital services in the networks of business and social context. 
5. Reference 
Au, K.Y. and Fukuda, J. 2002 Boundary Spanning Behaviors of Expatriates, Journal of World Business, 
37(2002) pp. 285-296. 
Aziz, H. Gao, J., Maropoulos, P. and Cheung, W.M. 2005. Open Standard, Open Source and 
Peer-to-Peer Tools and Methods for Collaborative Product Development, Computers in Industry, 56 
(2005), pp. 260-271.  
Chu, Y. and Chien, C. 2005. Constructing Collaborative Distributed Objects Sharing on the Semantic 
Web, The 9th World Multi-Conference on Systemics, Cybernetics and Informatics (WMSCI 2005) , 
Orlando, FL, July. 
Chu, Y. and Hsu, W. 2006 Organization Ontology for Innovation and Entrepreneurship for 
Cross-border Knowledge Services in the Globalizing IC Design Industries, PICMET (Portland 
International Conference on Management of Engineering and Technology.)  
Chu, Y. and Wu, D. 2005. Building Organizational Ontology to Identify Technology Entrepreneurial 
Opportunities, Proceedings of 14th International Conference on Management of Technology. 
Daft, R.L. 2004 Organization theory and Design, Mason, OH: South-Western. 
Guarino, N. and Welty, C. 2002 Evaluating Ontological Decisions with OntoClean, ACM Special Issue 
on Ontology Applications and Design. 45(2) pp. 61-65 
Hung, S. and Chu, Y., 2005 Stimulating New Industries from Emerging Technologies: Challenges for 
the Public Sector, Technovation.                                                                          
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 建構與治理數位服務創新知識網路
計畫主持人: 朱詣尹
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-007-020- 學門領域: 服務系統與科技管理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
None 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
