 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
研發細水霧系統及氣流對水霧運動之影響 
The Development of a Water Mist Systems and the influence of 
air flow on spray motion 
 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E150-054 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：蔡榮鋒 國立虎尾科技大學 自動化系 
rf_tsai@nfu.edu.tw 
 
 
摘要 
國外所研發之固定式之細水霧滅火系統，原本
只能撲滅密閉空間之汽油火災。本研究加以改
良，研發成：(1) 易移動之水霧式滅火機、及
(2) 遮蔽性火災之消防系統。本研究，證實農
用噴霧機或高壓清洗機均可將水加壓至
100bar，搭配適當之水霧噴頭，可於 20 秒內撲
滅其油火災。遮蔽性火災非常難滅，強制通風
之遮蔽性火災尤其難滅。本研究，證實火羽熱
氣流之捲吸效應，可將水霧送入火焰底部之燃
燒反應區，冷卻可燃氣体，及中斷燃燒反應。
實驗結果顯示，適當地設計水霧幕消防系統，
藉捲吸效應不僅可撲滅開放式油類火災，亦可
撲滅強制通風之遮蔽性火災，並達成滌煙、隔
煙、隔熱等逃生功能，對於高樓之消防、逃生
及避難均有極大助益，有必要繼續研發、推
廣，以提高社會大眾之生命安全。 
 
Abstract 
The disadvantage of water mist technology 
in suppressing open fires with high ventilation 
was overcome by using water spray curtains with 
Forafac® WM as an additive.  The experiments 
were carried out in a scenario of 3x3x12 M3 with 
strong ventilation of up to 92.5 M3/min, 30 times 
of the desire values.  The study successfully 
extinguished open gasoline fires with forced 
exhaust within 35 to 55 seconds, by using water 
spray with 0.45~1. % Forafac® WM.  The 
results suggest that entrainment effect is an 
important mechanism to deliver water droplets 
into the fuel pool, and the use of 0.45~1. % 
Forafac® WM can generate a protective barrier 
on the fuel surface to prevent ignition and 
re-ignition of fuel.  Both mechanisms do not 
only make the suppression of open fires of highly 
flammable liquids with high ventilation possible 
but also accelerate the suppression process with 
ease.  . 
 
1. 前言 
Water-mist fire suppression system 
(WMFSS) has been widely used as an alternative 
of HALON and gaseous agent since it can 
quickly suppress a Class B fires in confined 
space with much less water than the sprinklers.  
Its performance has been confirmed by Back, 
Downie, Drysdale, Mawhinney, Ndubizu, 
Wighus and many others.  The principle, 
advantage of existing WMFSS technology is 
quite well-known, and can be easily obtained 
through Internet search-engine, and its relating 
information is, therefore, not provided in this 
paper.   
 
However, Kim et al. (2001, 2002) reported that 
there existed some difficulties in suppressing fire 
under strong ventilation conditions.  Forced 
exhausts are legally-compulsory fire-safety 
equipment, and used to expel smoke from fire 
scenarios of buildings.  But, forced exhaust 
usually accelerates the growth of fire by 
introducing fresh air into the scenario if its 
closeness is diminished.  Artificial fire-setting 
usually causes serious damages of human lives 
and properties and has become a serious issue 
and main reason of building fires.  
 
 Fire fighting foams can spread at the 
surface of fuel to prevent fuel gasification and the 
heat release rate close to the fuel surface, and are 
commonly used extinguish class B fires 
involving liquids of polar (i.e. methanol) or 
non-polar solvents (i.e. heptane).  Consequently, 
the combination of water spray and agents acting 
like fire fighting foams becomes a logical choice 
to suppress artificial-setting fires, usually 
 3
Figures 2b~2d, and the fires were extinguished 
between 45 and 51 seconds with temperature 
Tflame up to 377℃.  The results suggest that an 
increase in the quantity of gasoline and flow rate 
of exhaust air led to a higher value of Tflame due 
to higher combustion efficiency.   
 
 The values of fuel weight increased with 
time once the water spray switched-on.  The 
results confirm the existence of entrainment 
effect, and the use of 2 % Forafac® WM did 
easily suppress gasoline fires with exhaust air up 
to 65.9 M3/min, around 21 times than the desired 
value.   
 
b. concentration of Forafac®-WM  
 Experiments of Flow 2a to 2d were carried 
with a constant fuel load of 4000 CC and flow 
rate of exhaust air of around 65.9 M3/min, and 
the concentration of Forafac® WM decreased 
from 2 % to 0.26 %.  Figures 3a~3d shows that 
the fire extinction time of Flow 2a to 2d were 
between 38 and 59 seconds for gasoline fire up to 
350 ℃.  Results of Flows 1 and 2 suggest that a 
decrease in the concentration of Forafac® WM 
from 2 % to 0.45 % does not significantly affect 
the suppression time or lead to a decrease in fire 
suppression efficiency.   
 
c. discussions  
 Experiments of Flows 3a and 3b were 
carried with a flow rate of exhaust air of 92.5 
M3/min and 0.26 % Forafac® WM, and used to 
compare with those of Flow 2d and 2e, 
respectively.  Figure 4b shows that the 
extinction time of Flow 3b was around 90 
seconds, and the decease in Tflame was slower 
than Flows 1 and 2.  Accordingly, the study 
suggest that water spray with 0.45~1. % 
Forafac® WM is useful in suppressing a gasoline 
fire with forced exhaust and those of 0.26. % or 
fewer may be less effective in fire suppression.  
It should be also noted that fast fire suppression 
does not usually correspond to a rapid decrease in 
temperature Tflame since much less amount of 
water is imposed to absorb heat.  As a result, 
water sprays of high concentrations of Forafac® 
WM may not have more advantages in 
suppressing gasoline fires of forced exhaust. 
 
4. 結論與未來工作 
The study successfully extinguished open 
gasoline fires with forced exhaust up to 92.5 
M3/min, within 35 to 55 seconds, by using water 
spray with 0.45~1. % Forafac® WM.  The 
results suggest that entrainment effect is an 
important mechanism to deliver water droplets 
into the fuel pool, and the use of 0.45~1. % 
Forafac® WM can generate a protective barrier 
on the fuel surface to prevent ignition and 
re-ignition of fuel.  Both mechanisms do not 
only make the suppression of open fires of highly 
flammable liquids with high ventilation possible 
but also accelerate the suppression process with 
ease.   
 
感謝 
Tsai, R.F. *, Lee, C.K., Lin, S.Y., (2006),Part 
B:with Forced Exhauset, 6th 
Iwma-2006,Hungary. 
Pabon, M., LeFort, G. and Marshall A.W. (2004) 
Improvement of water mist systems on class B 
fires, 4th International Water mist conference 
(IWMA), Rome, Italy. 
 
參考文獻 
1. Grant, G. Brenton, J. and Drysdale, D. (2000) 
Fire suppression by water sprays, Progress in 
energy and combustion science, 26, pp. 79-130 
2. Dlugogorski, B.Z. Hichens, R.K. Kennedy, 
E.M. and Bozzelli JW (1997) Water vapor as 
an inerting agent, Proc. Halon Options 
technical working conference, Albuquerque, 
New Mexico, USA. 
3. Kim, M.B., Jang, Y.J. and Kim, J.K. (1996) 
Burning rate of a pool fire with 
downward-directed sprays, Fire safety J., 27, 
pp. 37-48. 
4. Mawhinney, J. R. and Richardson, J.K.A., 
(1997) Review of water mist fire suppression 
research and development, Fire technology, 
Vol. 33, No. 1, pp. 5490. 
5. Tsai, R.F., Lee, C.K, Shu Y.-L, Liang, B.C. 
(2003) The use of a Visual System to quantify 
Geometric Characteristics of Sprays, 3th 
International Water Mist Conference. 
6. R.F. Tsai, C.K. Lee, THE INFLUENCE OF 
UPRIGHT AIR FLOW ON THE MOTION 
OF SPRAYS: PART A- THE 
VISUALIZATION TECHNIQUE, 10th Asian 
Congress of Fluid Mechanics 17-21 May 
2004,University of Peradeniya, Sri Lanka. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5
 
 
 
 
 7
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
█ 可申請專利  █ 可技術移轉                                      日期：97 年 04 月 10
日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：研發細水霧系統及氣流對水霧運動之影響 
計畫主持人： 蔡榮鋒  
計畫編號： NSC95-2221-E150-054 學門領域：熱流 
技術/創作名稱 長通道消防系統 FIRE CONTROLLING SYSTEM FOR LONG PASSAGE 
發明人/創作人 蔡榮鋒、何明錦 
中文： 
一種長通道消防系統，應用於具有一入風口及一出風口之一長通
道，包含一第一水霧幕裝置、一第二水霧幕裝置，以及至少一第三
水霧幕裝置。其中第一水霧幕裝置係配置於入風口之頂部，第二水
霧幕裝置係配置於出風口之頂部。第三水霧幕裝置係配置於入風口
與出風口間之長通道之頂部，以將長通道分割為複數個消防區間。
技術說明 英文：  
A fire controlling system for long passage is utilized in a long passage 
with an inlet and an outlet. The fire controlling system for long passage 
includes a first water mist apparatus, a second water mist apparatus, 
and at least a third water mist apparatus. The first water mist apparatus 
is disposed on a top of the inlet and the second water mist apparatus is 
disposed on a top of the outlet. The third water mist apparatus is 
disposed on a top of the long passage between the inlet and the outlet 
to divide the long passage into several areas. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
1. 以商店街、醫院、旅館、等大型公共場所之長通道及走廊逃生
暨消防設備。 
2. 鐵公路隧道及半遮敝性火災之隔煙、滅火系統。 
技術特點 
1. 本發明之實施例中，第一水霧幕裝置可潤濕流進火場的空氣；
第三水霧幕裝置噴出之水平水霧可吸附濃煙，並降低濃煙溫度；第
三水霧幕裝置裝置噴出之垂直水霧可分割火場，提供隔煙與隔熱之
作用；第二水霧幕裝置可避免濃煙隨著抽風設備直接排出，降低濃
煙擴散之情形。 
2. 本發明之實施例可應用在商店街、大樓長廊等處，藉由第三水
霧幕裝置將長通道分隔為數個消防區間，可有效地延長逃生時間，
降低人員之損傷。 
3. 本發明之實施例可應用在鐵公路隧道等長通道，藉由噴霧裝置
可提高遮蔽性火源附近之水霧密度，大幅地提升滅火效率。 
附件二 
 9
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          97 年 04 月 15 日 
報告人姓名 蔡榮鋒  服務機構 
及職稱 
國立虎尾技術學院  
自動化系  教授 
     時間 
     地點 
96 年 11 月 28-30 日 
法國、巴黎 
本會核定
補助文號
NSC95-2221-E150-054 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第 7 屆國際細水霧研討會  
 (英文) IWMA- 2007, 7th International Water Mist Conference 
發表論文 
題目 
 (中文) 1. f Forafac® WM 對強制通風下汽油火災滅火之影響   
 (英文)  1. The Influence of Forafac® WM on the fire suppression of a Gasoline fire with 
forced ventilation 
一、 參加會議經過 
  本人執行 96 年度國科會專題計畫「研發細水霧系統及氣流對水霧運動之影響」，特
別參加由本領域最專業之國際細水霧協會(IWMA)，所舉辦之第七屆國際細水霧研討
會；會議從 11 月 28 至 30 日，法國、巴黎舉行。IWMA 每年舉辦一次學術研討會，會
議主席仍為挪威消防研究實驗室(SINTEF)之 Ragnar Wighus，研討會之議程，讓與會
者皆能充分發表研究心得並相互交流，請參考，http://www.iwma.de/網站。 
 
  本次參加的學 者 專 家 約兩百位， 會議主席專 題 演 講 ”Equivalency-The 
principle for Acceptance of Fire-fighting systems、Extrapolation of test results 
to large scale-status of calculation tools，歐盟繼 2007 年 12 月公佈細水霧之
認證標準，解說陸基型細水霧系統之設計及評估規範之可能問題。本次會議，口
頭發表論文 18 篇、詳細的時間表可參考附件一，並安排到法國 CSTB 研究院，
觀摩細水霧在模擬隧道之滅火實驗，該研究正在起始階段，模擬隧道（ø1×50 米），其截
面積比我的實驗小（3×3×12M3），但較長。其實只要有場地，我的成果隨時可以進行
5×5×1200M3 隧道之滅火實驗。亞洲除本人發表論文兩篇外，大陸與韓國有很多消防廠
商及業者出席，未來需求顯然很大、第三天舉行會員大會及閉幕。  
 
二、 與會心得 
  本人在此研討會，了解歐盟對細水霧系統之認證程序與原則，及未來設計規範發展
趨勢及。會議中，丹麥 VID ApS 主席 Carsten Palle，挪威 SINTEF 之 Ragnar Wighus 及
美國 FM Bert Yu，英國及以色列之消防單位 等對本人研究深感興趣，邀請訪問、建立
長期合作之關係。 
 
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
法國杜邦 Dr. Martial. Pabon，邀請參觀相關消防研究部門，並免費獲得 140 ㎏ 抗復燃介
面活性劑 ForaFac WMX-1，作為未來合作研究之用。 
四、 建議 
五、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1.Proceedings. & 2.人員名單 
六、 其他 
 
附件三
 
