 2 
前言 
 小波影像處理技術相當受到國內外學術界的重視，2006 年 Professor Pi 提出了一個簡易的方法，
可以直接在影像壓縮空間下預估小波子頻道的機率密度函數 (probability mass function; PMF)，檢索
JPEG2000 影像資料庫，避免不必要的解壓縮計算；然而，此方法仍難有效預估區域性特徵值。對影像
分割而言區域性特徵值的預估和攫取是必須的，本研究計畫是發展一個簡易有效的方法能在影像壓縮
空間下直接進行影像分割，減少不必要的解壓縮計算。 
 
研究目的 
我們曾根據 JPEG2000 所採用的算數編碼法 (即 MQ coder) 提出了 context-based rate distortion 
estimation，預估編碼區塊的壓縮失真率 (rate distortion slope; RDS)，並依序找出重要的編碼區塊優先
進行壓縮編碼，因為編碼端和解碼端都有 MQ table，所以編碼端不需要儲存或傳輸 RDS 預估結果，解
碼端亦可同樣預估 RDS；不重要的編碼區塊甚至不需要編碼，大幅降低了計算和儲存空間的需求。我
們根據 MQ table 可以攫取出 MQ 特徵值，利用簡單的 K-means 演算法進行群集分析，模擬結果顯示：
少部份的 JPEG2000 位元資料串即可獲得高品質的影像切割結果，因此，MQ 特徵值應用深具發展潛力。 
 
文獻探討 
The JPEG2000 standard adopts wavelet transform as the underlying transform method, which provides 
various advantages, e.g. joint space/spatial frequency localization, subband decomposition with orientation 
selectivity, self similarity across wavelet subbands of the same orientation, and energy clustering within each 
subband. Pi, Tong, Choy, and Zhang (2006) proposed a scheme to estimate the probability mass function 
(PMF) of a wavelet subband by counting the number of 1-bits, which can be used to extract image features in 
the compressed domain directly; thus, the burden of decoding computations can be avoided. Though the 
counting operation is computationally efficient, the local PMF is still needed for the image segmentation task. 
Motivated by the embedded block coding with optimized truncation (EBCOT) algorithm, which is the core of 
JPEG2000, we had proposed context-based rate distortion estimation (CBRDE) for rate control of JPEG2000. 
CBRDE is based on the MQ table, which is available at both encoder and decoder; thus, there is no need to 
encode all of the code blocks of an image, and waste of computational power, transmission time and memory 
space can be avoided. 
The advantage of feature-based image segmentation is due largely to computational efficiency [1]-[3]. It 
is noted that the extracted features might have their limitations to characterize various image textures. Early 
research work on feature extraction is mainly focused on analysis at one single scale [4]. As observed in the 
 4 
where c is a wavelet coefficient,  1,0;2
1
0



i
n
i
i
i xxx , n is the number of bit-planes, and )(iP  is the 
thi  
bit-plane PMF. Motivated by the MQ coder, a simple scheme is proposed to estimate the local PMF as 
follows. 






1MPS if_1
0MPS if_
)1(
ValueQe
ValueQe
xP ii                              (2) 
where )1( ii xP  is the probability of 1-bit for variable ix  on the 
thi  bit-plane, ValueQe_  is the 
probability of less probable symbol (LPS) stored in the MQ table, and MPS denotes the more probable 
symbol. As a result, the joint PMF represented by equation (1) can be obtained directly form the ValueQe_  
stored in the MQ table. 
 
結果與討論 
The proposed MQ feature is evaluated on the Berkeley image set [17]. The color images shown in Fig. 
1(a)-1(f) are representative of the six classes of natural images, namely animal, urban, landscape, object, 
water and portrait. The bi-orthogonal 9/7-wavelet filters adopted by JPEG2000 are used. The MQ features of a 
JPEG2000 image are first filtered by using the windowing scheme [18], and then clustered by using the 
simple K-means algorithm for image segmentation. The segmentation results are shown in Fig. 1(g)-1(l), 
respectively. For comparison, the segmentation results using the compression-based texture merging (CTM) 
algorithm with 1.0  [18] are given in Fig. 1(m)-1(r). It is noted that the performance of the simple 
K-means algorithm with MQ features is comparable with the CTM algorithm. 
For 480320  or 320480  color images, the average execution time is about 4.1 seconds. As the MQ 
feature vectors are constructed in the JPEG2000 domain, the proposed scheme saves computational time 
considerably. 
 
References 
[1] Y. Xia, D. Feng, and R. Zhao, “Adaptive segmentation of textured images by using the coupled 
Markov random field model,” IEEE Trans. IP, vol. 15, pp. 3559-3566, 2006. 
[2] T. Kanungo, D. Mount, N. Netanyahu, C. Piatko, R. Silverman, and A. Y. Wu, “An efficient k-means 
clustering algorithm: analysis and implementation,” IEEE Trans. PAMI, vol. 24, pp. 881-892, 2002. 
 6 
 
   
                           (a)              (g)               (m) 
   
                           (b)              (h)               (n) 
   
                           (c)              (i)               (o) 
   
                           (d)              (j)               (p) 
   
                           (e)              (k)               (q) 
             
                           (f)              (l)               (r) 
 
Figure 1 Segmentation results compared with the CTM algorithm [18] 
(a) ~ (f): Original color images 
(g) ~ (l): Segmentation results by clustering the MQ feature vectors 
(m) ~ (r): Segmentation results by using the CTM algorithm 
 2 
參加會議的學者、專家來自世界各地，不僅吸引學術界的菁英參與且有不少業界的研發人才
共襄盛舉，個人聆聽演講並隨即和與會之各國學者交換研究心得。我的論文是口頭報告，被安排
在 7 月 11 日下午，所發表之論文題目是: 「Image Segmentation in the JPEG2000 Domain」，報告時
間約 25 分鐘，有 3 位 (1 位澳洲和 2 位新加坡) 與會學者提出寶貴的建議以及很深入的問題，會後
亦與我研究未來可能的應用與後續發展。該會議所接受的論文研究水準很高，讓我有很棒的機會
與其他學者討論研究心得進而達到國際學術交流之目的。 
 
二、與會心得 
ICWAPR 國際會議的 Program Committee 皆為知名的研究學者與先進，頗具學術地位。該會議不僅
使各國研究學者相互交換研究經驗，而且可拓展各國在影像處理相關領域之研究成果。心想學術研究
若能藉由參與國際學術會議，與各國學者交換意見、討論想法及分享心得，定能促進學術交流、提昇
研究水準及改良研發技術，進而造福人群。此行，一方面參加國際會議，了解最新的研究情況，另一
方面做文化知性之旅，增廣見聞。希望有機會能至各國參加各類大型的國際會議以增廣見聞。 
 
最後，非常感謝「國科會」的補助，讓我有機會認識更多專家、學者，對未來的研究幫助很大，
更有持續的動力推進研究發展。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(略) 
四、建議(無) 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
論文光碟和紙本論文集 
六、其他 
論文首頁如下： 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/01
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以JPEG2000為基礎的影像特徵分析及應用於影像分割和壓縮編碼之研究
計畫主持人: 辛錫進
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-239-034- 學門領域: 影像處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
技轉接洽中 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
