tabulated by the vendor, and are ready for use in
circuit simulation; the complicated on-wafer
characterization of this transistor can be omitted.
Using this vendor-provided information, the
transistor’s smal-signal and noise model can
indeed be retrieved, though which may not be
critical in the circuit simulation but they are
important in analysis and further performance
optimization.
As this transistor is originally manufactured
for tens of GHz application, its small intrinsic
gate-source and gate-drain capacitance (100fF
and 24fF, respectively) makes the input
matching of the LNA over a wide bandwidth
very difficult, or almost impossible, if a constant
in-band gain has to be maintained. By using two
transistors in parallel for the first-stage of the
LNA, the intrinsic gate-source and gate-drain
capacitance of the combined transistor can be
treated as twice those of the single transistor.
The composite trans-conductance is 120mS,
with corresponding shunt resistance of 104Ω. 
Three transistors in parallel for the first-stage of
the LNA may render a much looser constraint
for the input matching, but its high power
consumption rules out its adoption unless a
much lower frequency range is intended.
As mentioned, the first-stage of this LNA is
made of two resistors in parallel to relax the
constraint on input matching. In the schematic,
the gate bias is through a large resistor, which
wil minimize the impact on this amplifier’s 
noise performance, as any input signal loss will
result in inevitable noise deterioration. And since
the gate bias current is in the range of
micro-amperes, the voltage drop along this
resistor is tolerable. Granted, gate bias for this
octave-bandwidth amplifier can be fed through
RF-grounded quarter-wave transmission line,
which will present extremely high impedance on
the transistor’s gate node. Of course, ifthe
bandwidth of this LNA is not merely octave but
multi-octaves, the simple transmission-line
approach cannot be used.
Fig. 2. The measured results of the 3-6GHz NEC LNA. Due
to the out-of-band oscillation (above 20GHz), this amplifier
cannot function properly
Fig. 3. Photograph of the 9-25GHz TSMC 0.18um LNA.
its impact of the amplifier’s noise temperature is 
negligible still. With both the simulated
scattering parameters and noise temperature
deemed acceptable, this LNA is made.
Oscillation is observed in the measurement of
the packaged amplifier, as shown in Fig. 2.
In the second-version LNA design, the first
and second stages are still made of in-parallel
transistors, and the gate biases are also through
large resistors for the reasons mentioned above.
By removing the oscillation-prone RF-grounded
quarter-wave metal lines, the drain biases are
now fed by R-L branches, which means each
corresponding external drain voltage need to
increased to allow for the voltage drop across the
resistors. Furthermore, it is now two different
external voltages needed for biasing the
first-stage and second-stage because the resistors
on the R-L branches are not the same. The output
gain tapering shunt circuits are simplified too.
As easily seen on the simulated results, the
high-frequency out-of-band gain response is not
that good as the previous version, but this
deterioration is minor in importance. The
sticking idea is that, with a simplified circuit for
the LNA, it will be less likely that this amplifier
will oscillate, and its measured results should be
more in agreement with their simulated
counterparts. The slightly out-of-band gain
Fig. 7. Photograph of the gain variance measurement.
Fig. 8. Measured gain variance vs. integration time (seconds
in the X-axis) of the measurement system. The amplifier is
removed from the set-up, and the input of the power detector
is connected to 50Ohm
Fig. 9. Measured gain variance of the measurement system
where the input of the power detector is short-circuited
Fig. 10. Measured gain variance vs. integration time of a
commercial amplifier which has its input connected to
50Ohm
