electroless Cu plating [9] for 3D Cu MPC fabrication at nano scale dimension. It is therefore important 
to manufacture various metallic PC to investigate light emission peak owing to various intrinsic 
property of itself. This experiment is also important for metal replacing fabrication of 3D MPC just 
using electroless plating technique. And study converting the resulting thermal radiation into 
electricity under heating any different PBG sample with a thermal source [10]. In this study a 3D 
cupper photonic crystal is realized with a large infrared PBG > 2 µm. It is implied that thermal 
excitation can give rise to PBG emission with sharp emission peaks at < 1.5 µm. 
 
2. Experiment 
The 3D copper photonic-crystal sample is fabricated with a poly silicon (Si) mold which was come 
from a modified silicon process [11, 12]. In the first step, a layer of silicon dioxide is deposited, 
patterned, and etched to create a mold. The mold is filled with a 0.18-µm-thick poly-silicon film and 
then planarized. The same process is repeated for each layer. At the end of the process, the silicon 
dioxide is released by BOE etching, leaving a 5 layers poly-Si freely standing thin film. In the Fig. 1, a 
scanning electron microscope image of a five-layer 3D Si photonic crystal sample is shown. The 
sample consists of layers of one dimensional Si rods with a stacking sequence that repeats itself every 
four layers [12, 13]. The rod-to-rod pitch is ~650 nm, the rod width is 180 nm, and rod height 273 nm.  
In order to transfer the poly-Si of MPC into Cu thin film we used electroless Cu plating method in 
which the poly-Si as the seed layer can be replaced by Cu metal. The electrolyte of plating in our 
process is 7.5g/L cupric sulfate (CuSO4) and 0.5% buffered oxide etch (NH4F/HF mixture in 6:1 
volume ratio) diluted with 99% DI water. The processing condition is at an ambient temperature for 15 
min replacing time. The transmission of Cu MPC is measured with Fourier transform infrared 
spectroscopy (FTIR) that is composed with commercial Michelson interferometer and manmade 
optical system. The range of scanned incidence light is 0.7 ~26 µm. The transmission of pure Si wafer 
is adopted as the background in measurement. Two modes of incidence light P and S polarized were 
used to investigate the polarization dependence of MPC samples. 
 
3. Result and Discuss 
The scanning electron microscopy (SEM) picture in Fig. 2 shows the five layers of Cu metal photonic 
crystal (MPC) structure. In this picture the initial poly-Si rod is now replaced and covered with Cu 
film. The rough surface is probable induced from the poly Si grain structure under electroless Cu 
plating. This rough surface will affect the refraction phenomena and transmitting property while the 
light is entering. For comparing the photonic band gap behavior with poly Si mold the Fourier 
transform of infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) measuring was adopted. The transmission of Cu MPC is 
shown as Fig 3.  
searcher’s work [11] while the numbers of layer in 3D PC is larger than 12, the optical properties are 
near isotopic. This is expected, since for an infinite crystal the two orientations cannot be 
distinguished.  
 
 
 15
 
 
10
 
50
 
 
 
2.5 5.0 7.5 10.0 12.5 15.0
0
0
0
200
Tr
an
sm
is
si
on
 %
Wavelength (µm)
 Intensity of Cu/Si P-mode
 Intensity of Cu/Si S-mode Figure 5 The transmission of 5 layers 
3D Cu metal photonic crystal using 
transmitting intensity of Si as the 
background. There is a photonic band 
gap during 1.6~13 µm period for P 
polarization incidence condition. 
On the other hand, the spectral reflectivity of these finite woodpile crystals can be calculated based 
on the generalization of the method of ‘‘exact eigenvalues and eigenfunctions’’ used in the study of 
lamellar gratings [14, 15]. The woodpile structure under consideration can be described as a stack of 
gratings [15]. The substrate can be modeled as being infinite since the backside of the supporting Si 
wafer is unpolished. But for transmission measurement the backside of sample need polished to 0.2 
µm in order to mitigate scattering effect of the incident light [16]. It was found that decreasing the 
width of the bars leads to a shift of the band edge towards longer wavelength. In general the 
measurements and theory on woodpile photonic crystals have mostly concentrated on perfect 
structures [15]. However, experimentally such crystals do not exist. In fact, a careful observation of 
the SEM images in Fig. 1 and 2 reveal a variation in pitch and rod shape that find its origin in the 
nature of the filet process and later influence in replacing step.  
The large PBG value in this Cu MPC is same as S. Y Lin work [16] in tungsten MPC. The peak 
absorption in Lin’s work is approximately ten times stronger than tungsten’s intrinsic absorption 
(2–3%) and is due to an enhanced density of photon states in a narrow band [17, 18]. Accordingly, the 
absorption will be enhanced at a narrow band supposed by authors in ref. [11, 19], thus achieving 
enhanced light emission possibility. That is at the first and second allowed bands, the density of state 
is enhanced because of its narrow bandwidth, i.e., flat dispersion [14]. Furthermore, the first and 
second bands are propagating Bloch modes, allowing for the extraction of PBG radiation into free 
space. Indeed, the PBG density of states is suppressed in the bandgap and enhanced by 300% in the 
allowed bands [3]. The thermal emission measurement of Cu MPC was taken at the vacuum chamber 
of 10-6 torr in S-Y Lin’s laboratory. The emission behavior is almost near a grey-body material which 
means the Cu-replacing process was not good enough to show the MPC effect. Therefore we will 
further improve our replacement experiment and poly-Si PC mode fabrication. 
 
