 2
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
1. Hu, Y. J., W. N. Wu, J. J. Yang, “Semantics-enabled Policies for Super-Peer Data 
Integration and Protection”, International Journal of Computer Science and Applications
Technomathematics Research Foundation, 2011 (submitted). 
2. Hu, Y. J., W. N. Wu, J. J. Yang, "Semantics-enabled Policies for Information Sharing 
and Protection in the Cloud", 3rd Int. Conference on Social Informatics (SocInfo2011),  
Oct. 6-8, 2011, Singapore, LNCS, Springer. 
3. Hu, Y. J. and Jiun-Jan Yang , "A Semantic Privacy-Preserving Model for Data Sharing 
and Integration", International Conference on Web Intelligence, Mining and Semantics 
(WIMS'11), May 25-27, 2011, Norway, ACM Press. 
4. 胡毓忠，雲端運算最新發展：建構數位圖書館於雲端環境中， 數位資源管理與雲端圖書
館自動化研討會,Nov.-5, 2010 (邀稿) 
 4
精簡報告 
提供具資料共享與保護的語意規範於雲端環境中 
Semantics-enabled Policies for Data Sharing and Protection in the Cloud  
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-004-010 
執行期間：2010/08/01-2011/07/31 
摘要 雲端運算平台提供方便與彈性的運算讓 web 之上的資訊整合更為容易。我們探索了資訊科技與法
律之間的整合並且運用語意式規範來塑模法規於雲端之上。提供資訊整合與保護的語意式規範是由本
體論與規則組合而成。「本體論」用來表示資訊整合與保護的抽象概念，而「規則」則是更進一步在本
體論建構完成之後用來具體落實上述的概念。我們將面對的挑戰將會是如何法治化語意式規範於雲端
運算平台之上，並且縮小法律與電腦規範之間表達上的落差以避免在電腦規範表示時所產生的語意含
糊，同時也必須要解決從多重法治區規範整合時所面臨的法治衝突。 
關鍵詞：語意式規範、雲端運算、資料整合與保護、本體論與規則、語意網 
Abstract. Cloud computing platform provides utility computing to allow people to have convenient and 
flexible information sharing services on the web. We investigate the inter-disciplinary area of information 
technology and law and use semantics-enabled policies for modeling legal regulations in the cloud. The 
semantics-enabled policies of information sharing and protection are represented as a combination of 
ontologies and rules to capture the concept of security and privacy laws. Ontologies are abstract knowledge 
representation of information sharing and protection extracted manually from the data sharing and protection 
laws. Rules provide further enforcement power after ontologies have been constructed. The emerging 
challenges of legalizing semantics-enabled policies for laws in the cloud are: to mitigate the gap between 
semantics-enabled policy and laws, to avoid any ambiguity in the policy representation, and to resolve 
possible conflicts between policies when they are required to integrate the laws from multiple jurisdictions. 
Keywords: semantics-enabled policies, cloud computing, data integration and protection, ontology and rule, 
semantic web 
 
 
 6
另外為了解決大範圍資料整合與保護的問題，我們也參考過去對等式資料管理系統(Peer Data 
Management System, PDMS)如 Piazza，來進行多重資料源的資料整合與保護。我們提出了
super-peer data integration management system 的架構，並且從中探討如何在這個架構之上
來進行廣域範圍資料整合與保護。基本上這個 super-peer 資料整合與保護的架構是延伸原來發表
在 WIMS＇11 的論文成果。我們已經將這個構想已經寫成論文並且投稿到 International Journal 
of Computer Science and Applications 的期刊[1]。 
至於在語意式規範應用在雲端資訊平台來進行資訊分享與保護的研究構想我們也完成了一篇論文
並且被 SocInfo 2011 研討會接受為全論文[2]。我們提出了三層雲端跨域資訊整合與保護的平台。
最底層是 Cloud Machine Domain (CMD) layer，中間層是 Cloud Virtual Domain (CVD) layer，
而最上層則是 Cloud Legalized Domain (CLD) layer。我們提出了語意式規範的本體論和規則可
以運用到 CLD layer 之上。實際上這個法治層的雲端資訊整合和保護所使用的技術就是先前發表
在 WIMS＇11 的論文結果。我們並且以個人資料保護法與國家安全法來規範雲端平台之上資料揭露
的範例來說明該如何以分階段的方式來揭露個人資訊以避免個人隱私權被侵犯。 
V. 結果與討論（含結論與建議） 
延續過去我們在語意式規範的研究成果，我們將其擴展到資料的整合與保護。並且更進一步應用
到雲端運算平台之上的整合與保護。因此過去一年的研究成果非常的豐碩。我們除了有已經發表
兩篇論文分別在 ACM（WIMS＇11）與 Springer(SocInfo2011)電子資料庫的世界知名研討會之外。
也將其中之一的 WIMS＇11 研討會論文延伸，並且投稿到 IJCSA 期刊。這些研究的基礎將會在未來
國科會已經審核通過並且執行中的兩年計畫：雲端資料跨域整合與保護(Data Integration and 
Protection for the Inter-Domain Data Cloud) (NSC 100-2221-E-004-011-MY2) 
(2011/08/01-2013/07/31)中繼續進行更深入的研究。 
VI. 具體的研究內容與成果。請參考下面已經發表或投稿的論文清單。論文詳見附件。 
1. Hu, Y. J., W. N. Wu, J. J. Yang, “Semantics-enabled Policies for Super-Peer Data Integration and 
Protection”, International Journal of Computer Science and Applications Technomathematics Research 
Foundation, 2011 (submitted). 
2. Hu, Y. J., W. N. Wu, J. J. Yang, "Semantics-enabled Policies for Information Sharing and Protection in 
the Cloud", 3rd Int. Conference on Social Informatics (SocInfo2011),  Oct. 6-8, 2011, Singapore, LNCS, 
Springer. 
3. Hu, Y. J. and Jiun-Jan Yang , "A Semantic Privacy-Preserving Model for Data Sharing and Integration", 
International Conference on Web Intelligence, Mining and Semantics (WIMS'11), May 25-27, 2011, 
Norway, ACM Press. 
4. 碩士生楊竣展（2011）論文：整合資料在雲端環境上的分享與隱私保護-以電子病歷資料為例 
 8
12.  Bonatti, P., Olmedilla, D.: Policy language specification, enforcement, and integration. project 
deliverable D2, working group I2. Technical report, REWERSE (2005) 
13.  Gruber, T.R.: A translation approach to portable ontology specifications. Knowledge Acquisition 5 
(1993) 
14.  Kagal, L., et al.: Using semantic web technologies for policy management on the web. In: 21st 
National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), AAAI (2006) 
15.  Tonti, G., et al.: Semantic web languages for policy representation and reasoning: A comparison of 
KAoS, Rei, and Ponder. In: 2nd International Semantic Web Conference (ISWC) 2003. LNCS 
2870 (2003) 419–437 
16.  Hu, Y.J., Boley, H.: SemPIF: A semantic meta-policy interchange format for multiple web policies. 
In: 2010 IEEE/WIC/ACM Int. Conference on Web Intelligenceand Intelligent Agent Technology, 
IEEE (2010) 302–307 
17.  Hosmer, H.H.: Metapolicies I. ACM SIGSAC Review 10 (1992) 18–43 
18.  Berger, S., et al.: Security for the cloud infrastructure: Trusted virtual data center implementation. 
IBM Journal of Research and Development (2009) 6:1–6:12 
19.  Bernstein, A.P., Haas, L.M.: Information integration in the enterprise. Comm. Of the ACM 51 
(2008) 72–79 
20.  Clifton, C., et al.: Privacy-preserving data integration and sharing. In: Data Mining and Knowledge 
Discovery, ACM (2004) 19–26 
21. Calvanese, D., Giacomo, G.D.: Data integration: A logic-based perspective. AI Magazine 26 (2005) 
59–70 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
技術/產品應用範圍 
 
個人資料整合與保護、雲端運算服務的加值 
技術移轉可行性及預期
效益 
 
本研究將持續進行中，將在未來 1-2 年完成雲端運算資料整合與
保護平台雛形系統平台建置成功之後，進行技術轉移。預期的效
益將會是強化現有雲端運算環境的資料整合、分享、與保護的加
值服務 
     註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下赴國外(或大陸地區)出差或研習心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 9 月 28 日 
一、 國外研究過程 
本研究案原申請期限為三年，經過評審之後僅通過一年。在計畫書中原來是希望能夠在三
年的計畫案中加入到 Dr. Thomas F. Gordon 所主持的歐盟 FP6 計畫：IMPACT 來進行跨國
研究與合作，並且分三年的方式以每年都參與計畫案的討論 
與成果的發表。但是後續的接觸和討論並未獲得 IMPACT 計畫案所有參與者的同 
意來加入他們的 FP7 IMPACT 歐盟跨國計畫案。因此只好另循管道來參與歐盟的 
FP6/FP7 計畫。 
 
計畫主持人在本計畫執行其間將本計畫案的研究成果投稿到 International 
Conference on Web Intelligence Mining and Semantics (WIMS) 2011 研討會， 
我們所提出的論文: A Semantic Privacy-Preserving Model for Data Sharing 
and Integration 有幸被接受為全論文(full paper)，本研討會所收到的投稿論 
文總數為 170 篇，而被接受為全論文的僅有 50 篇，因此接受率為 29.41％。台 
灣的投稿總數為 6 篇而我們則是唯一被接受的論文。本國際研討會的論文因為是 
由 ACM 電子圖書館所收錄，因此在品質上是有一定的水準。本計畫主持人基於本 
研討會是在北歐的挪威舉行，而主持人同時也是本研討會的議程委員，因此想藉 
由論文發表的機會一併來進行原有歐盟 FP6/FP7 跨國計畫案的合作事宜。 
 
本 WIMS-2011 的國際研討會的舉辦其間是 2011/05/25-05/27。主持人和其指導 
的碩士班學生楊竣展一起到挪威距離首都 Oslo 約 40 分鐘飛行距離的 Sogndal 
小鎮( http://wims.vestforsk.no/ )研討會的舉辦地。這些參與論文發表者主 
要是來自於歐洲幾個知名大學，如英國牛津大學，德國萊比錫大學，奧地利維也 
納大學及西班牙、義大利等其它知名大學。主持人除了在研討會的首日的場次發 
表論文之外，也接著主持後續場次的論文發表。這個研討會的幾個重要的 
keynote speakers 都是語意網、資訊檢索與探勘知名的學者，如美國 RPI 的 Jim 
Handlers, 西班牙 Yahoo 的 Peter Mika, 德國萊比錫大學 Soren Auer 等。從這 
幾個演講者的內容我們瞭解到語意網技術的發展趨勢主要是在 Linked Open 
計畫編號 NSC 99-2221－E－004－010－ 
計畫名稱 提供具資料共享與保護的語意規範於雲端環境中 
出國人員
姓名 胡毓忠 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立政治大學資訊科學系 
出國時間 
2011 年 5 月 25 日
至 
2011 年 5 月 27 日 
出國地點 
Sogndal, Norway 
 14
 
 
參加 WIMS＇11 研討會的全體大合照 
 
 
 
主持人參加 WIMS’11 發表論文： 
A Semantic Privacy-Preserving Model for Data Sharing and Integration 
WIMS’11 
PC Chair Report 
 
2
Jie Zhang   
John R Elliott   
Jong C. Park   
Jung‐jae Kim   
Kanagasabai Rajaraman   
Keith C.C. Chan  
Ken Currie   
Kevyn Collins‐Thompson  
Marek Obitko   
Markus Zanker   
Martine De Cock   
Michael Hausenblas   
Miguel‐Angel Sicilia   
Milan Milanovic   
Miltos Petridis  
Mohammad Essaaidi   
Nicola Fanizzi   
Paola Di Maio   
Paulo Alexandre Ribeiro Cortez   
Patrick Albert   
Pierre Maret    
Prasad Tadepalli    
Priti Srinivas Sajja  
Rajendra Akerkar (Chair)   
Reinhold Behringer   
Richi Nayak   
Robert West   
Roberto García González   
Rodrigo Capobianco Guido   
Sandra Lovrenčić   
Sang Yong Han   
Seiji Yamada    
Sławomir Zadrożny   
Tassilo Pellegrini   
Tim Furche   
Tommaso Di Noia   
Tzung‐Pei Hong    
Vasant Honavar    
Vijay Raghavan   
Viorel Negru   
Yasufumi Takama   
Yiannis Kompatsiaris   
Yiyu Yao   
Yorick Wilks    
Yuh‐Jong Hu   
Zhihua Cui    
Zora Konjovic  
 
Special thanks to: 
 Advisory committee 
Amit Sheth 
Frank van Harmelen 
Grigoris Antoniou 
Guus Schreiber 
Harold Boley  
James Hendler 
Takahira Yamaguchi 
 
 External reviewers  
Alexandru Cicortas  
Pasquale De Meo  
Timur Fayruzov  
Claudio Gentile  
Juan Manuel Gimeno  
Sheila Kinsella  
Le Duy Gnan  
Leonardo Lezcano  
Xiaoli Li  
Daniel Pop 
Azzurra Ragone 
Christoph Wieser 
Kostyantyn Shchekotykhin
 
 Submitting authors 
 EasyChair administrator 
 
WIMS’11 
PC Chair Report 
 
4
Statistics 
170 submissions, 50 full papers and 15 poster papers accepted. Acceptance rate 38.25%. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Submitted/Accepted by Topic
0
10
20
30
40
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
Topics
N
o.
 o
f P
ap
er
s
Submitted
Accepted
 
1. Semantics‐driven information retrieval 
2. Semantic agent systems 
3. Semantic data search 
4. Interaction paradigms for semantic search 
5. Evaluation of semantic search 
6. Knowledge Extraction for Building Expressive    
     Document Representation 
 
7. Text & Web mining 
8. Visualisation of Semantic Data 
9. Semantic deep Web and intelligent                     
     e‐ Technology 
10. Linked data application architectures 
11. Opinion mining and sentiment analysis 
12. Other 
  
 
 
Submitted/Accepted
0
50
100
150
200
1
Submissions
Accepted
  
International Conference on Web Intelligence, Mining and Semantics  
Sogndal, Norway  |   May 25 – 27, 2011 
 
Conference Program  
 
 
Wednesday 25.05.2011 
09:30 - 
10:30 Registration (Main lobby) 
10:45 - 
11:00 Opening ( Sogndal 2 - Auditorium) 
Agnes Landstad  Managing Director, WNRI 
James Hendler Member, WIMS'11 Advisory Committee 
Rajendra Akerkar  Chair, Program Committee 
Keynote Address (Sogndal 2 - Auditorium) 
Chair: Terje Aaberge 
11:00 - 
12:00 
The Semantic Web 10th Year Update 
James Hendler 
12:00 - 
13:30 Lunch Break 
Web Information Search & Retrieval- I (Room: Sogndal 1 ) 
Session Chair: Nicola Fanizzi 
A Semantic Privacy-Preserving Model  for Data Sharing and Integration      
Yuh-Jong Hu; Jiun-Jan Yang  
 
News Personalization using the CF-IDF Semantic Recommender      
Frank Goossen; Wouter IJntema; Flavius Frasincar; Frederik Hogenboom; Uzay Kaymak 
 
CATALOGA®: a Software for Semantic and Terminological Information Retrieval      
Annibale Elia; Alberto Postiglione; Mario Monteleone; Johanna Monti; Daniela Guglielmo 
Semantics and Ontology Engineering - I (Room: Sogndal 3 ) 
Session Chair: Michael Hausenblas  
Comparison of Ontology Reasoning Systems Using Custom Rules     
Hui Shi, Kurt Maly; Steven Zeil; Mohammad Zubair  
 
Tracing the Provenance of Linked Data using voiD      
Tope Omitola; Landong Zuo; Christopher Gutteridge; Ian C Millard; Hugh Glaser; Nicholas 
Gibbins; Nigel Shadbolt  
 
Publishing and Interacting with Linked Data     
Roberto Garcia; Josep Maria Brunetti; Antonio López-Muzás; Juan Manuel Gimeno; Rosa 
Gil  
Sessions 
WE-1 
 
13:30 - 
15:00 
Tutorial: Description Logic Reasoning for Semantic web ontologies - I (Room: 
Sogndal 2) 
Anni-Yasmin Turhan 
 
WIMS’11 Program  3
Erick Antezana; Ward Blondé; Aravind Venkatesan; Bernard De Baets; Vladimir Mironov; 
Martin Kuiper  
 
The RDF Foundry: Call for an Initiative to Build Enhanced RDF Resources for the 
Biological Data Integration      
Aravind Venkatesan; Erick Antezana; Ward Blondé; Mats Skillingstad; M Scott Marshall; 
Bernard De Baets; Vladimir Mironov; Martin Kuiper  
 
Optimal Recommender Systems Blending     
Fabio Roda; Alberto Costa; Leo Liberti 
 
Linking the (un)Linked Data through backlinks     
Michalis Stefanidakis; Ioannis Papadakis  
 
On the Distinctiveness of Tags in Collaborative Tagging Systems 
André Gohr; Alexander Hinneburg 
 
Implementation of a New Method for Stemming In Persian Language     
Asieh Estahbanati; Reza Javidan; Mashalla Abbasi Dezfooli 
 
Late-Breaking News (Room: Sogndal 1) 
Session Chair: Costin Badica 
 
AdMotional: Towards Personalized Online Ads 
Manfred Meyer, Markus Balsam, Arlo O'Keeffe, Christian Schlüter, Jens Fendler 
 
Evaluating Interaction Patterns for Linked Data 
Rosa Gil, Antonio López-Muzás, Josep Maria Brunetti, Juan Manuel Gimeno, Roberto 
García 
 
You Need Only One Clue for Effective Record Segmentation 
Cheng Wang, Tim Furche, Georg Gottlob, Giovanni Grasso, Giorgio Orsi, Christian 
Schallhart 
 
SeSam4: Semi-Semantic Models for Cross-Sector Portals 
Robert Engels et al. 
 
User-Centric Mapping for RDFa Web Mining 
Tewson Seeoun, Rob Brennan, Declan O’Sullivan 
 
Ontology Extraction from Social Semantic Tags 
Csaba Veres, Weiqin Chen, Andreas Opdahl, Kristian Johansen 
 
19:00 - 
20:00 Panel Discussion 
Semantic Web: What will happen in next 10 years? 
Moderator: Christian Schallhart 
Panelists: James Hendler, Sören Auer, Peter Mika, Marko Grobelnik 
20:00 - 
22:00  Welcome Reception 
 
 
 
 
 
WIMS’11 Program  5
13:00 - 
14:30 Lunch Break 
 
Collective and Web Intelligence - II (Room Sogndal 1) 
Session Chair: Michel Plantié  
Identification of Fine Grained Feature Based Event and Sentiment Phrases from 
Business News Stories     
Brett Drury; Jose Joao Almeida 
 
The Use of Data Mining Techniques in Location-Based Recommender System      
Nafiseh Shabib; John krogstie  
 
A Graph-based Approach to Measuring Semantic Relatedness in Ontologies      
Ahmad Hawalah; Maria Fasli  
 
A Register-based Annotation Scheme for CO3H      
Ritesh Kumar  
Intelligent e-Technologies and the Semantic Web (Room Sogndal 3) 
Session Chair: Jong C. Park 
Personalisation by Semantic Web Technology in Food Shopping      
Lillian Hella; John Krogstie  
 
Virtual Knowledge Communities for Semantic Agents      
Julien Subercaze; Pierre Maret  
 
Improving Search in Tele-Lecturing: Using Folksonomies as Trigger to Query 
Semantic Datasets to Extract Additional Metadata     
Franka Moritz; Maria Siebert; Christoph Meinel 
Tutorial: Utilising Linked Open Data in Applications - II (Room Sogndal 2) 
Michael Hausenblas 
 
 
Sessions 
TU-2 
 
14:30 - 
16:00 
 
Perl Hacker's Bootcamp (Room: Group Room 109) 
Organisers: Kjetil Kjernsmo and Gregory Todd Williams 
 
16:00 - 
16:15 Coffee Break 
16:15 - 
19:30 Social Event 
16:15   Departure from Quality Hotel Sogndal  
17:10   Arrival at the Boya glacier  
17:40   Departure from the Boya glacier  
18:00   Arrival at the Norwegian Glacier Museum in Fjaerland  
19:00   Departure from the Norwegian Glacier Museum in Fjaerland  
19:30   Arrival at Sogndal  
 
20:00 - 
23:00 Conference Dinner ( Banquet Hall: Fjøra 1) 
 
 
WIMS’11 Program  7
 
Optimized K-Means Clutering with Intelligent Initial Centroid Selection for Web 
Search using URL and Tag Contents 
S. Poomagal;T. Hamsapriya 
 
Some Experiences Using Social Networks in Spanish Public Administrations 
J. Ignacio Criado;Yolanda E-Martín;David Camacho 
 
Predicting the popularity of online articles based on user comments 
Alexandru Tatar;Panayotis Antoniadis;Marcelo Dias de Amorim;Jérémie Leguay;Arnaud 
Limbourg;Serge Fdida 
 
Applying Gini Coefficient to quantify Scientific Collaboration in Researchers Network
Giseli Rabello Lopes;Roberto da Silva;J. Palazzo M. de Oliveira 
 
Intelligent Social Media 
Yolanda E-Martin;Angel Moreno;Miguel Doctor;D. Diaz 
13:00 - 
14:30 Lunch Break 
Knowledge Representation Formalisms - II (Room: Sogndal 2a ) 
Session Chair: Anni-Yasmin Turhan  
Semantic Web Based Architecture for Managing Hardware Heterogeneity in Wireless 
Sensor Network      
Siniša Nikolić; Valentin Penca; Milan Segedinac; Zora Konjović  
 
Group Decision Making in Ontology Matching      
Mahdieh Kargar Ghavi; Mohammad Reza Khayyambashi  
 
Ontological Logic Programming       
Murat Sensoy; Geeth de Mel; Wamberto Vasconcelos; Timothy Norman  
 
Prediction of Class and Property Assertions on OWL Ontologies through Evidence 
Combination      
Giuseppe Rizzo; Nicola Fanizzi; Claudia d’Amato; Floriana Esposito 
Social Network Analysis - II (Room: Sogndal 3) 
Session Chair:Randi Karlsen  
Mining Social Networks and Their Visual Semantics from Social Photos      
Michel Crampes; Michel Plantié 
 
Managing Social Overlay Networks in Semantic Open Enterprise Systems      
Florian Skopik; Daniel Schall; Schahram Dustdar 
 
Towards a Framework for Weaving Social Networks Principles into Web Services 
Discovery      
Zakaria Maamar; Noura Faci; Youakim Badr; Leandro Krug Wives; Pédro Bispo dos 
Santos; Djamal Benslimane; José Palazzo Moreira de Oliveira 
 
Crawling Facebook for Social Network Analysis Purposes    
Salvatore Catanese; Pasquale De Meo; Emilio Ferrara; Giacomo Fiumara; Alessandro 
Provetti  
Sessions 
FR-2 
 
14:30 - 
16:00 
Tutorial: Just Enough Ontology Engineering- II (Room Sogndal 2b) 
Paola Di Maio 
 
 
16:00 - 
16:15 Closing (Sogndal 2 - Auditorium) 
 

Privacy protection policies represent a long-term promise
made by an enterprise to its users and are determined by
business practice and legal concerns. It is undesirable to
change an enterprise’s promises to customers every time an
internal access control rule changes. If possible, we should
enable the integration of Platform for Privacy Preferences
(P3P) and Enterprise Privacy Authorization Language (EPAL)
policies to provide accountable and transparent information
processing for data owners to revise their data usage per-
missions [2].
Although many organizations post online privacy policies,
they must realize that simply posting a privacy policy on
their websites does not guarantee true compliance with ex-
isting legislation. Following the OECD’s Fair Information
Principles (FIPs)1, an organization should provide norms
of personal information process for its data collection, re-
tention, use, disclosure, and destruction. An organization
must also be accountable for its information possession and
should declare the purposes of information usage before col-
lection. Moreover, an organization should collect personal
information with an individual’s consent and disclose per-
sonal information only for previously identified purposes.
In this paper we are addressing the following research issues.
More detailed modelling and implementation will be shown
in the later sections.
• Data sharing and protection services are considered in
a large number of servers. The incentives for using
the virtual platform (VP) is to avoid solving the com-
plex pair-wise problem of ontology matching and rule
integration between these servers. Therefore a uni-
fied global data sharing and protection service can be
achieved at the VP.
• Privacy protection policies are expressed as a combi-
nation ontology and rule, i.e. O +R, where ontol-
ogy O includes TBox schema and ABox instances, and
rules R include deductive rule set (RS) and facts (F).
Data sharing and protection in multiple servers are
achieved through a combination of semantics-enabled
formal protection policy (FPP).
• The challenge of designing a semantic privacy protec-
tion model is to ensure a soundness and a complete-
ness of data sharing and protection in multiple servers.
For the soundness criterion, we do not allow unin-
tended data being released to the data users through
the global policy schema (GPS) at the VP. Other-
wise, it violates the privacy protection policies. As for
the completeness criterion, we do not miss any eligible
shared data when a user asks for a data request ser-
vice at the VP. Therefore, shareable data obtained at
the VP should equal data obtained directly from each
server.
Each enterprise server declares its P3P privacy protection
policies that takes into account the FIPs criteria (see Fig-
ure 1). Then EPAL policies are established in each site,
corresponding to the P3P [24]. For each data request, the
1See http://www.privacyrights.org/ar/fairinfo.htm
data handling and usage controls are based on the EPAL
policies. However P3P and EPAL lack formal and unam-
biguous semantics to specify privacy protection policies so
they are limited in the policy enforcement and auditing sup-
port for the software agents. One of the research challenges
for the online privacy protection problem is to develop a
privacy management framework and a formal semantics lan-
guage to empower agents to enforce privacy protection poli-
cies. Agents must avoid any policy violation of each data
request. We attempt to establish a semantic privacy pro-
tection model to address this issue. Each server shares its
collected data with other servers but without breaking the
original data usage commitment to its clients [25].
The contributions of this paper are twofold. We first of-
fer a three layers semantic privacy-preserving model which
encompasses and extends the existing work on data shar-
ing and integration by using a combination of ontology and
rule for the representation of privacy protection policies. In
particular, we define a formal policy using ontology for pri-
vacy protection concept descriptions and rule for data query
and access control services. Then we focus on solving the
soundness and completeness of query rewriting problem us-
ing a perfect ontology merging and a perfect rule integration
from the local formal protection policies. Followed by each
possible data query at the VP, we briefly demonstrate how
the soundness and completeness criteria for privacy protec-
tion data integration can be achieved using this semantics-
enabled privacy-preserving model.
The paper is organized as follows. In section 2, we present a
semantic privacy-preserving model as a framework for data
sharing and integration services. In section 3, we define a
formal policy combination as an integration of formal poli-
cies from autonomous data sources. Each formal policy is
composed of ontologies and rules for each independent data
source. A privacy protection policy is a type of formal pol-
icy used for specifying a data usage constraint from a data
owner. In section 4, we formally define a formal policy com-
bination in terms of ontology mapping, merging, and align-
ment. Then we demonstrate how a perfect rule integration
is used for query rewriting at the VP corresponding to each
local schema. In section 6, we briefly prove the soundness
and completeness of privacy-preserving data sharing and in-
tegration based on this semantic privacy-preserving model.
We conclude with related work and discussion in the last
two sections.
2. A PRIVACY-PRESERVING MODEL
A semantic privacy protection model is proposed with three
layers, where the bottom layer provides data sources from
the relational databases, the middle layer provides a semantics-
enabled local schema for each independent service domain.
The top layer is served at the VP, which provides a unified
global view of privacy-preserving data sharing and integra-
tion services (see Figure 2).
We have a merged global ontology schema created by map-
ping and aligning local ontology schemas with a LAV source
description from multiple local schemas in the middle layer.
The idea of using description logic (DL) to model the local
and global schemas is to empower the ontology’s abstract
concept representation and reasoning capabilities. A query
Figure 2: A semantic privacy protection model
servers. For example, one server uses open policy assump-
tion, where no explicit option-out for data usage means
option-in, but the other server uses closed policy assump-
tion, where no explicit option-in for data usage means option-
out. We avoid this kind of policy inconsistency by requesting
all sites to use a uniform policy assumption, and to collect
option-in data usage choices from users whenever multiple
policies are integrated.
Previous studies for policy combination did not consider
solving the problem of merging multiple schemas and inte-
grating access control rules from multiple servers [4] [28]. In
this paper we propose a semantic privacy protection model
that allows flexibly combining TBoxes of privacy protection
policies without moving ABox instances from its original data
source until a data request service is initiated (see Figure 3).
Therefor the global ontology TBox schema and rules created
at the VP have the latest updated incoming data from each
server when a user asks a query.
Data integration aims at providing unified and transpar-
ent access to a set of autonomous and heterogeneous data
sources. The semantic privacy protection model providing
global ontology schema for data sharing is similar to the
data integration problem solved by DL − LiteA ontologies
shown in [8]. Here we are also focusing on data protection
besides data sharing and integration.
The goal of ontology-based data integration in DL− LiteA
is to provide a uniform access mechanism to a set of hetero-
geneous relational database sources, freeing the user from
having the knowledge about where the data are, what they
are stored, and how they can be accessed. The idea is based
on decoupling information access from its relational data
storage so users only access the conceptual layer shown as
ontology, while the relational data layer, hidden to users,
manages the data.
Compared with DL−LiteA, we have extended and used it as
a part of our semantic privacy protection model. We have
three layers of data sharing and integration infrastructure
instead of two layers shown in DL − LiteA so we face a
research challenge of ontology merging and rule integration
from the middle layer to the top layer when we enforce a
privacy protection policy (see Figure 3).
A semantic privacy protection model composed of three main
components:
• In the top layer at the VP, we have a global policy
schema (GPS), including a global ontology schema
(GS) aligned and merged from several local schemas
(LS), e.g. TBox and a set of rule integration at the
middle layer. The VP provides conceptual data ac-
cess and protection services that give users a unified
conceptual “global view” with access control power for
each data request.
• Ontology-based data sources are external, independent,
and heterogeneous, and each local ontology was com-
bined with logic program (LP)-based rules for each
server in the middle layer.
• Mapping language (ML), which semantically links a
GS and integrated rule set in the top layer to each
server’s ontology LS and privacy protection rules in
the middle layer.
3. A FORMAL POLICY COMBINATION
A formal policy combination (FPC) in a global policy schema
(GPS) allows data sharing as integration of FP from a va-
riety of servers.
Each FP is shown as K = O +R, where ontology
O = (T ,A) and ruleR = (RS,F), T is TBox, and A is ABox;
RS is a set of rules, and F is a set of facts.
FPC = ⊕
i
Ki = (
i
Oi,
i
Ri) = (
i
(T ,A)i,
i
(RS,F)i)
=((
i
Ti, 
i
Ai), (
i
RSi,
i
Fi))
Figure 4: A partial ontology schema for OECD FIPs’ attributes shown as owl : Class, and constraints shown
as owl : Property
3.2 Data Request Services
A server declares its privacy policy in P3P before a data
owner’s data is collected. Once a user accepts a server’s pri-
vacy declaration policy, the data usage constraints are speci-
fied as Figure 5, where FIP’s five attributes (?d, ?p, ?du, ?a, ?o)
for data, purpose, datauser, action, and obligation, are
classes, and hasOptInDatauser, hasOptInPurpose, etc., are
properties proposed as chains of usage constraints for at-
tributes. For each data request service, an initial feasi-
ble parameter input set is FS = input(?du, ?r, ?p), where
?du ∈ Datauser, ?r = read ∈ Action, ?p ∈ Purpose and
output dataset with associated obligations is output(?d, ?o),
where ?d ∈ Data, ?o ∈ Obligation. The feasible dataset
shown as ABox instances will be discovered by using SQWRL
datalog rules. Further permissible actions will be activated
when the following data protection policies are satisfied.
Figure 5: Five major FIP’s attributes, such
as data, purpose, etc are shown as owl : class
and chained by associated owl : Property, such as
hasOptInDatauser, hasOptInPurpose, etc.
3.3 FPPC at the VP
A data user still possibly collects a shareable data by ask-
ing each server individually without using a formal privacy
protection policy combination (FPPC). But the high com-
plexity of using query services for all of data sources hinders
people from using this data sharing approach. The other
possible approach to collect a shareable data is to combine
pair-wise servers’ policies. Then, we face another scalability
problem when more than two servers are intending to share
their data.
In this semantic privacy-preserving model, we propose the
VP infrastructure to allow a server in each data source to
offer its FPP at the VP to enforce FPPC. FPP in each
data source is shown as K = O +R, where ontology O =
(T ,A) and rule R = (RS,F). At the VP, we only map
and merge T , e.g. TBox but leave A, e.g. ABox instances in
its original RDB data source. Similarly, we only integrate
RS, a set of rules at the VP but leave F , a set of facts
in its original RDB data source. The benefit of using this
approach is to map and merge the TBoxes and to integrate
the RS with the updated data only once.
4. ONTOLOGYMAPPINGANDMERGING
A merged ontology come from mapping and alignment that
provides data integration services. In particular, data inte-
gration through ontologies, such as LAV is possible for mul-
tiple servers if a mapping languageML provides a semantic
mapping description between the GS and the underlying LS
for each server [14]. In LAV, the relationships between the
GS and the LS are established by making LAV assertions.
Every assertions has the form QLS  QGS , where QLS pro-
vides the views of the conjunctive query (CQ) over the global
schema GS for each data source, and QGS is a CQ over the
global schema GS at the VP.
A CQ for QLS can be defined as a privacy-aware authorized
view of each server so we do not disclose any non-shareable
data to the VP whenever each server submits its FPP for
ontology merging and rule integration. A CQ can be defined
as a subset of Datalog program, i.e. CQ containment prob-
lem, for query the relational database. This problem was
previously investigated in [34].
respective datalog rule, then we have the following semanti-
cally linking relationships by using ML’s mapping to align
the ontology’s class and property shown as follows:
Property p ∈ GS with its domain class dc and range class rc
that are mapped to property pi ∈ LSi with its domain class
dci and its range class rci. For each data request service
using a perfect mapping languageML, when p v pi, we use
property pi. Otherwise, when pi v p, we use property p for
the datalog rule ri. When dc v dci and rc v rci, we use
class dci and rci. Otherwise, when dci v dc and rci v rc,
we use class dc and rc for the datalog rule ri.
Here we did not explicitly consider an algebra operations,
such as intersection or union, for class/subclass with prop-
erty as shown in OWL-DL. Intuitively, this class/subclass
and property algebra operation problem can be transformed
to the generic class/property problem when terms from dif-
ferent data sources can be mapped and aligned at the VP.
Example 1. In Figure 6, after we map and align two local
partial ontology schemas, LS1 and LS2, into a merged par-
tial ontology global schema GS, we receive a data request
service with class P212. In the purpose class P, P111! P211,
but P212 ∈ GS does not have a corresponding subclass in
LS1, since P212 v P21 and P21! P11. When a data request
service asks for class P212 ∈ GS, mapping languageML will
map P212 to P11 for the datalog rule ri to query the LS1.
5. PERFECT RULE INTEGRATION
In FPPC, we define an integrated rule set
i
Ri = (
i
RSi,
i
Fi)
to enforce data query and protection services in 
i
Oi. In fact,
an integrated rule set 
i
RSi is a part of FPC that was cre-
ated by collecting the datalog rules, e.g. SQWRL queries, in
the formal policies FPi, from local servers. A datalog rule
ri in the Ri of FPi is shown as 2:
H ←− B1 ∧ B2∧, · · · ,∧Bn,
whereH, the query results (or views) are expressed as SQWRL
built-ins, such as sqwrl : select and the rule antecedent
Bi, are defined as a pattern matching specifications, i.e.,
query conditions that are either SQWRL built-ins or class
and property predicates from the ontology schema.
A perfect rule integration is defined for the integration of any
datalog rules as: ∃ri ∈ RSi in FPi, for the purpose of data
sharing and protection without causing conflicts with ∃r′i ∈

i
Ri, λi ∈ 
i
Oi, i.e., conditions do not exist for ∃ri |= λi ⇒
∃r′i 2 λi, or ∃ri 2 λi ⇒ ∃r′i |= λi. Then, ∃r′i ∈ 
i
Ri at the
VP can be activated and mapped by the perfect mapping
language ML into ∃ri, to enable a global data query and
protection service of multiple servers.
2This datalog rule is related to a CQ of the form:
vi ← conji(−→x i) [9]
Example 2. A rule r′i is one of the rules within the in-
tegrated rule set at the VP. It asks for a data set ?d
with related obligations ?o under the feasible parameter in-
put set FSi = (M1, TMarketing6, Read2), where data user
M1 is a marketing staff with a purpose of achieving tele-
phone marking TMarketing, A rule r′i is mapped to a rule
ri and a rule rj using the rule mapping processes when we
have done an upward perfect ontology mapping, alignment,
merging and a perfect rule integration. A downward perfect
mapping languageML operation maps the r′i’s predicates,
such as class, property to the corresponding predicates in
a rule ri and a rule rj with MUser(M1) v Datauser(M1),
TMarketing(TMarketing6) v Purpose(TMarketing6). There-
fore, real data query and protection services requested by a
rule r′i are performed by a rule ri and a rule rj .
A rule r′i queries at the ∀i 
i
Oi:
MUser(M1) ∧ TMarketing(TMarketing6)
∧datauserHasPurpose(M1, TMarketing6)
∧datauserHasAction(M1, Read2)
∧ hasOptInPurpose(?d, TMarketing6)
∧hasOptInDataUser(?d, M1)
∧ purposeHasObligation(TMarketing6, ?o)
−→ sqwrl : selectDistinct(?d, M1, TMarketing6, Read2, ?o)
A rule ri queries at the Oi:
V iew(Datauser(M1)) ∧ V iew(TMarketing(TMarketing6))
∧ datauserHasPurpose(M1, TMarketing6)
∧ datauserHasAction(M1, Read2)
∧ hasOptInPurpose(?d, TMarketing6)
∧ hasOptInDataUser(?d, M1)
∧ purposeHasObligation(TMarketing6, ?o)
−→ sqwrl : selectDistinct(?d, M1, TMarketing6, Read2, ?o)
A rule rj queries at the Oj :
V iew(MUser(M1)) ∧ V iew(Purpose(TMarketing6))
∧ datauserHasPurpose(M1, TMarketing6)
∧ datauserHasAction(M1, Read2)
∧ hasOptInPurpose(?d, TMarketing6)
∧ hasOptInDataUser(?d, M1)
∧ purposeHasObligation(TMarketing6, ?o)
−→ sqwrl : selectDistinct(?d, M1, TMarketing6, Read2, ?o)
Example 3. Under the data protection law, two hospitals,
A and B, have allowed to share their patients’ Electronic
Health Records (EHRs) after patients give their consents for
the medication purpose . A patient was hospitalized in the
hospital A for a surgery. After that, this patient went to the
hospital B for an outpatient medication. A physician in the
hospital B was authorized to query this patient’s shareable
EHR at the VP collected from hospital A and hospital B’s
RDB data sources. The vocabularies of partial ontology
schemas for hospital A’s local schema LSA, hospital B’s local
schema LSB , and the global schemaGS at the VP are shown
as Figure 7.
Hospital A has the following terms as its ontology’s local
schema LSA vocabularies:
Class: Clinic and HealthData with subClass SurgeryData
and HospitalizationData
Property: create with domain class as Clinic and range
Figure 7: A partial ontology for Electronic Health Record (EHR) sharing and privacy protection
Above qvb query is corresponding to a query as:
B : Person(?p) ∧ B : beMedicated(?p, ?c) ∧ B : own(?p, ?d)
∧ A : SuregeryData(?sd) ∧ A : create(?h, ?hd)
−→ sqwrl : select(?p, ?sd)
6. SOUNDNESS AND COMPLETENESS
In this section, we briefly demonstrate how the exact query
rewriting service satisfies the soundness and completeness
criteria by using the LAV source descriptions based on the
GPS = (
i
Oi,
i
Ri) at the VP: If q(x) is a CQ over 
i
Oi at
the VP and qvi(x) is a CQ over Oi using LAV source de-
scriptions from a data serveri, then ∀x q(x) ←→ ⊔
i
qvi(x).
In [15], authors showed that when a query has a finite num-
ber of maximally contained conjunctive rewritings, then the
complete set of its answers can be obtained as the union of
the answer sets of its rewritings. The datalog-rewriting was
introduced, in which query language is a hybrid language
with CARIN as its combination of O +R, and the rewrit-
ing language is a relational language. They also provided a
rewriting algorithm, and showed that the RewriteQuery is
sound and complete.
In comparison, we use LAV for rewriting queries and use
SWRL as a combination of O +R. A perfect ontology
merging and a rule integration ensure the soundness and
completeness of data sharing and integration in the seman-
tic privacy-preserving model. This will be briefly shown as
follow:
6.1 [Soundness]
For the soundness criterion, we do not allow any uninten-
tionally released (or protected) data for a user by using a
query rewriting service with a rule (query) r′i ∈ 
i
Ri at the
VP instead of using a direct query service as rules (queries)
ri ∈ Ri in each serveri, ∀i.
Theorem 1. [Soundness] After a perfect ontology align-
ment and rule integration with FPPC, ∃GPS = (
i
Oi,
i
Ri)
at the VP, Under a particular feasible parameter input set
FSi, if λj ∈ Oi is protected by a FPPi at each serveri, ∀i,
i.e., ∀i, ri ∈ Ri 2 λj, then r′i ∈ 
i
Ri 2 λj for the same
FSi, where λj is a protective data set in Oi.
Proof. (Sketch) If q(x) is a query over 
i
Oi at the VP
and qvi(x) is a query over Oi in a serveri, then we need to
prove the statement ∀x q(x) −→ ⊔
i
qvi(x). This statement
is equivalent to the original argument: If ri ∈ Ri 2 λj , then
r′i ∈ 
i
Ri 2 λj . The CQ q(x) is a query containment of
datalog rule r′i and the CQ qvi(x) is a query containment of
datalog rule ri ∈ Ri. The statement ∀x q(x) −→ ⊔
i
qvi(x)
is true because the local as view (LAV) schema mapping
only allow the protected concept λj in each serveri to be
connected to the global schema. After using a perfect ontol-
ogy alignment and a perfect rule integration with a perfect
mapping language ML, we avoid the following condition:
∃ri 2 λj ⇒ ∃r′i |= λj .
6.2 [Completeness]
As for the completeness criterion, we do not allow any eligi-
ble shared data being missed for a query by a query rewriting
service with a rule (query) r′i ∈ 
i
Ri at the VP instead of
using a direct query service as rules (queries) ri ∈ Ri in
each serveri, ∀i.
9. REFERENCES
[1] A. H. Anderson. A comparison of two privacy policy
languages: EPAL and XACML. In Proceedings of the
3rd ACM Workshop on Secure Web Services
(SWS’06), pages 53–60. ACM, 2006.
[2] I. A. Anto´n et al. A roadmap for comprehensive online
for privacy policy management. Comm. of the ACM,
50(7):109–116, July 2007.
[3] A. P. Bernstein and L. M. Haas. Information
integration in the enterprise. Comm. of the ACM,
51(8):72–79, July 2008.
[4] A. P. Bonatti et al. An algebra for composing access
control policies. ACM Trans. on Information and
Systems Security, 5(1):1–35, February 2002.
[5] P. Bonatti and D. Olmedilla. Policy language
specification, enforcement, and integration. project
deliverable D2, working group I2. Technical report,
REWERSE, 2005.
[6] J. d. Bruijn. RIF RDF and OWL compatibility.
Technical report, W3C, Oct. 2009.
[7] D. Calvanese et al. Description logic framework for
information integration. In Proc. of the 6th Int. Conf.
on Principles of Knowledge Representation and
Reasoning, pages 2–13. Morgan Kaufmann, 1998.
[8] D. Calvanese et al. Data integration through
DL− LiteA ontologies. In 3rd Int. Workshop on
Semantics in Data and Knowledge Base (SDKB),
volume 4925, pages 26–47. Springer, 2008.
[9] D. Calvanese et al. View-based query answering over
description logic ontologies. In Proc. of KR-2008.
AAAI Press, 2008.
[10] D. Calvanese and G. D. Giacomo. Data integration: A
logic-based perspective. AI Magazine, 26(1):59–70,
2005.
[11] D. Calvanses et al. Description logics for information
integration. In Computational Logic, LNAI 2408,
pages 41–60. Springer, 2002.
[12] C. Clifton et al. Privacy-preserving data integration
and sharing. In Data Mining and Knowledge
Discovery, pages 19–26. ACM, 2004.
[13] J. Euzenat and P. Shvaiko. Ontology Matching.
Springer-Verlag, 2007.
[14] M. Friedman et al. Navigational plans for data
integration. In Proc. of the Sixteen National
Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI’99), pages
67–73. AAAI/MIT Press, 1999.
[15] F. Goasdoue´ and M.-C. Rousset. Answering queries
using views: a KRDB perspective for the semantic
web. ACM Trans. on Internet Technology,
4(3):255–288, August 2004.
[16] C. B. Grau et al. Modular reuse of ontologies: Theory
and practice. Journal of Artificial Intelligence
Research, pages 273–318, 2008.
[17] C. B. Grau et al. OWL2: The next step for OWL.
Web Semantics: Science, Services and Agents on the
World Wide Web 3, pages 309–322, 2008.
[18] A. Halevy, A. Rajaraman, and J. Ordille. Data
integration: The teenage years. In VLDB’06, pages
9–16. ACM, 2006.
[19] Y. A. Halevy. Answering queries using views: A
survey. The VLDB Journal, 10(4):270–294, 2001.
[20] I. Horrocks et al. OWL rules: A proposal and
prototype implementation. Web Semantics: Science,
Services and Agents on the World Wide Web 3,
3(1):23–40, 2005.
[21] Y. J. Hu and H. Boley. Sempif: A semantic
meta-policy interchange format for multiple web
policies. In 2010 IEEE/WIC/ACM Int. Conference on
Web Intelligence and Intelligent Agent Technology,
pages 302–307. IEEE, 2010.
[22] S. Jajodia et al. Flexible support for multiple access
control policies. ACM Trans. on Database Systems,
26(2):214–260, June 2001.
[23] E. Jime´nez-Ruiz et al. Ontology integration using
mappings: Towards getting the right logical
consequences. In ESWC 2009, LNCS 5554, pages
173–187. Springer, 2009.
[24] G. Karjoth and M. Schunter. A privacy policy model
for enterprises. In 15th IEEE Computer Security
Foundations Workshop (CSFW). IEEE, June 2002.
[25] G. Karjoth, M. Schunter, and E. V. Herreweghen.
Translating privacy practices into privacy promises -
how to promise what you can keep. In POLICY’03.
IEEE, 2003.
[26] M. Lenzerini. Data integration: A theoretical
perspective. In Proceedings of the ACM Symposium on
Principles of Database Systems (PODS), pages
233–246. ACM, 2002.
[27] Y. A. Levy. Logic-based techniques in data integration.
In T. Yu and S. Jajodia, editors, Logic-based Artificial
Intelligence, pages 1–27. Kulwer, 2001.
[28] P. Mazzoleni et al. XACML policy integration
algorithms. ACM Trans. on Information and System
Security, 11(1), 2008.
[29] B. Motik, U. Sattler, and R. Studer. Query answering
for OWL-DL with rules. In 3rd International Semantic
Web Conference (ISWC) 2004, LNCS 3298, pages
549–563. Springer, 2004.
[30] A. Nash and A. Deutsch. Privacy in GLAV
information integration. In ICDT 2007, LNCS 4353,
pages 89–103. Springer, 2007.
[31] J. M. O’Connor and A. K. Das. SQWRL: a query
language for OWL. In OWLED, volume 529. CEUR,
2009.
[32] J. Park and R. T. Sandhu. The UCONABC usage
control model. ACM Trans. on Information and
System Security, 7(1):128–174, 2004.
[33] A. Poggi et al. Linking data to ontologies. Journal on
Data Semantics X, 4900:133–173, 2008.
[34] D. J. Ullman. Information integration using logical
views. Theoretical Computer Science, 239:189–210,
2000.
[35] S. D. C. d. Vimercati et al. Access control policies and
languages in open environments. In T. Yu and
S. Jajodia, editors, Secure Data Management in
Decentralized Systems, pages 21–58. Springer, 2007.
2 Yuh-Jong Hu, Win-Nan Wu, and Jiun-Jan Yang
In the NIST’s definition, cloud computing is a model for enabling convenient,
on-demand network access to a shared pool of configurable computing resources.
That can be rapidly provisioned and released with minimal management effort
and service provider interaction. The cloud model is composed of five essential
characteristics, e.g., on-demand self-service, ubiquitous network access, location-
independent resource pooling, rapid elasticity, and measured service.
A new spectacular phenomenon of information sharing and service integra-
tion has been created on the social web 2.0 since cloud services, such as SaaS,
PaaS, IaaS, were offered. Cross-border data integration in the cloud allows legal
authorities to exploit the legitimate law enforcement processes to collect and
use shareable personal information to counter international crimes. However, it
is difficult to foresee the consequences that may arise in the enforcement of na-
tional security policies through cross-border information sharing on the social
web without violating current privacy laws. Currently, the ‘model contracts’ and
the ‘Safe Harbor’ program are used for cross-border information sharing for the
transfer of personal data to third countries. Even though they are compliant with
the EU Data Protection Directive (EC/95/46), they may not offer a workable
solution to implement data sharing and protection services in the cloud [1].
1.1 Research Issues and Contributions
Research issues. We have identified several research issues on the semantics-
enabled policy enforcement of information sharing and protection in the cloud:
(i) policies are represented and interpreted without causing any ambiguity while
enforcing them for services, (ii) to ensure that policies that are compliant with
the laws, and information sharing and protection of legal concepts can be manu-
ally extracted from the laws in each judicial domain, (iii) to deploy and enforce
the policies for national security and privacy protection purposes, where ab-
stract semantics-enabled legal-aware policies are overlaid on the current OpenTC
cloud infrastructure to activate the lower level security policies1, (iv) to integrate
and unify semantics-enabled policies from multi-domains in order to have cross-
border data usage services, and (v) to enforce legalized policies when semantics-
enabled policies are deployed in the formal policy platform.
Our contributions. Our main contributions are: (i) semantics-enabled policies
are presented as a combination of ontologies and rules, and (ii) unifying privacy
protection policies with national security policies in the social network cloud.
For each information disclosure request, we intend to comply simultaneously
with national security laws to counter-crimes and with privacy laws to protect
civil rights. (iii) Automated policy integration is indicated as ontologies merging
and rules integration from multi-domains. The high-level abstract semantics-
enabled policies are mapped to national security and privacy protection policies.
(iv) A data request for a counter-crime example is demonstrated to enforce
national security. We intend to provide legal information sharing services without
violating the data protection law for each jurisdiction.
1 The EU FP6 Open Trusted Computing (OpenTC) project, http://www.opentc.net/
4 Yuh-Jong Hu, Win-Nan Wu, and Jiun-Jan Yang
P3P and EPAL privacy languages lack the formal and unambiguous semantics
for a policy administrator to specify the privacy protection policies. The formal
semantic policy resolves this problem by allowing a software agent to enforce
various privacy protection policies automatically. In addition, ACP and DHP
can be enhanced and used for information sharing and protection in the cloud.
One of the research challenges in solving the online privacy protection prob-
lem is to develop a privacy management framework using a formal semantics
language thus empowering agents to enforce privacy protection policies. Agents
also can detect and avoid any policy violations from each data request. We have
established a semantic privacy protection model to address this issue [7]. We
also intend to enhance the OpenTC’s two-layered trusted virtual cloud infras-
tructure by using this semantic privacy protection model in the cloud [8]. A
three-layered formal policy framework is presented to ensure the legal data shar-
ing and to avoid the data protection laws violation in the social network cloud
(see Figure 2). The purpose of information sharing is to permit legally collect-
ing personal identification information (PII), such as email, online location, and
phone numbers, in the social network cloud to counter-crimes.
We conclude that the dual objectives of greater national security and greater
privacy protection can be achieved through unifying national security policies
and data protection policies in the cloud. This statement is similar to the view-
points suggested in [9]. In fact, the semantic web technologies were applied to
a national security protection scenario to facilitate information sharing across
intelligence community boundaries [10]. Another one, the Information-Sharing
Agreement (ISAs) were constructed through agreed formal defined legal rules,
derived from policies, to regulate and direct the inter-agency data flow [11].
3 Semantics-enabled Formal Policies
The well-known semantic web layered architecture2 has undergone revisions re-
flecting the evolution of layers and their relationship. Semantics-enabled formal
policies are formulated as ontology and rule knowledge bases with ontology and
rule languages in the semantic web layered architecture. Many operations can
be automated, thereby reducing ad-hoc program coding to a minimum, and en-
abling automated documentation [12].
An ontology is a formal, explicit specification of a shared conceptualiza-
tion [13]. One key aspect of managing policies is the semantic heterogeneity and
conflicts among policies. Using ontology as a formal representation of a policy
and a meta-policy for solving the policy semantic heterogeneity and conflict are
very promising. Furthermore rules empower the policy enforcement for informa-
tion sharing and protection once the policy and meta-policy have been described
as ontology.
2 http://www.w3.org/2007/03/layerCake.svg
6 Yuh-Jong Hu, Win-Nan Wu, and Jiun-Jan Yang
3.2 Formal Policy Compliance
The cloud computing environment is an international global computer system
infrastructure. Once dispersed, computer resources are installed and data is in
the cloud, we face the challenges of providing legalized data sharing and pro-
tection services across jurisdictions. In the cloud, anyone can use anything from
anywhere at anytime, so we must harmonize the laws that come from different
jurisdictions. This also raises the regulation compliance issue where the formal
policies enforced in the cloud must satisfy the data usage criteria indicated in
the related laws.
Obviously current data protection and national security laws are not up-to-
date on handling the cloud’s cross-border data sharing and protection problems.
We need to address research issues, not only for a law refinement, but also for
a technology re-engineering. The ultimate objective of this study is to empower
the use of flexible and agile cloud resources without violating the laws.
Semantics-enabled formal policies are inflexible if they are only compliant
with current laws but do not comply with the new laws resulting from emerging
information technologies. We propose a formal policy framework with flexible
policy deployment, integration, and enforcement. In this framework, semantics-
enabled data protection and national security policies are automatically unified
to satisfy the purpose of national security enforcement through data sharing.
However, we must also ensure that data protection laws are not violated. In
this paper, a formal policy compliance of each data request is based on the data
usage context of a user. It is a pre-condition in retrieving shared information
that satisfies the laws. The laws that will be applied to a data request in a TLD
depends on the data usage context of a data user. The legal boundary of a TLD
is also based on the data usage context.
3.3 Formal Policy Framework
A trusted policy framework is essential to facilitate automatic policy integra-
tion and to meet the inter-domain’s service-access requirements in the cloud [2].
We need a framework to guarantee that formal policies are compliant with the
laws. In addition, they must be properly specified, verified, and enforced for any
possible data access across domains.
Based on the trusted virtual domain’s (TVD’s) two-layered infrastructure [18],
a semantics-enabled formal policy three-layered framework is presented (see Fig-
ure 2):
1. Cloud Machine Domain (CMD) layer
A group of physical cloud computers with various virtual machines (VMs)
are established within a trusted machine domain (TMD). A TMD allows a
grouping of cloud computers connected by a VLAN switch to be protected
as an isolated Intranet. Otherwise, a virtual privacy network (VPN) is set up
to use a secure channel for TMDs and to provide secure data transmission
between VMs.
8 Yuh-Jong Hu, Win-Nan Wu, and Jiun-Jan Yang
The CVD layer allows resource sharing among customers in the logical cages
model. This enables a more flexible and efficient management of the data
center’s resources [8]. The logical boundary of a TVD is a secure logical
domain, where security and storage usage policies are uniformly enforced
within a TVD across its members.
3. Cloud Legalized Domain (CLD) layer
Semantics-enabled policies are manually specified and are compliant with
the current laws for data sharing and privacy protection in a Trusted Legal
Domain (TLD). A TLD has a virtual legal boundary and use law compliant
semantics-enabled policies to regulate data access. The semantics-enabled
policies are translated into the network security and storage usage policies
of a TVD.
In the CLD layer, we use the legal cages model, compared with the logical
cages model on the CVD layer, to provide uniformly legalized data sharing
and protection services. A legal virtual boundary of a TLD defined for a per-
son (or software) has limited data access rights to serve a purpose within a
particular data usage context. For example, a national security law enforcer
has the right to access any suspect’s Facebook IP and email addresses from
the list of friends’ contacts whenever an investigation with certain evidence
is allowed to do so. However, whether to grant or deny a data request per-
mission still depends on an additional data usage context, such as where is
the data requester’s location, which data center is responsible for this data,
and what applicable laws are used for this request, etc. Furthermore, the
semantics-enabled policies can also define a permissible data flow between
any two TLDs and regulate the flow under each TLD’s law.
3.4 Formal Policy Deployment
Semantics-enabled policies are deployed in TLDs and enforced on the CLD layer
in a formal policy framework. We aim to represent and enforce the high-level
legal compliant semantics-enabled policies of TLDs. Thus the legal compliant
policies of TLDs can be flexibly mapped into the security and privacy policies of
TVDs. Consecutively, the security and privacy policies of TVDs are mapped into
the security services of TMDs. The possible mappings from TLD(s) to TVD(s)
are one-to-one, many-to-many that are similar to the mapping situations from
TVD(s) to TVD data center(s) (or TVDc) implemented in the Xen Cloud Plat-
form (XCP)3 [8].
The legal virtual boundary of a TLD is determined by a particular law that
regulates the data disclosure range and level, where the semantics-enabled poli-
cies are compliant with the law for this TLD. An intersection area is compliant
with applicable laws from multiple TLDs. When a data usage context is initiated
for a data user to request information, the possible semantics-enabled policies
3 XCP http://www.xen.org/products/cloudxen.html.
10 Yuh-Jong Hu, Win-Nan Wu, and Jiun-Jan Yang
4.1 Formal Policy Integration
People are getting aware of a more flexible and easier way to provide information
sharing services in the cloud. For example, it is much easier to counter-terrorism
through collecting a suspect’s profile in the social network cloud. A challenge
exists for how to achieve a privacy-preserving data integration and sharing ser-
vices [19]. We attempt to apply the semantics-enabled formal policies integrated
from various autonomous data sources in the cloud for information sharing once
the laws are available. Information integration collects the data from autonomous
and heterogeneous sources, and provides users with a unified view of these data
through a so called global schema. The global schema, which is a reconciled view
of the information, provides a single point of query services for end users. But
the design of a data integration system includes several different issues, so it is
very complex [20]. In this paper, we use a data integration service for information
sharing in order to achieve a privacy-preserving data usage in the social network
cloud.
4.2 Privacy Protection Policies
A privacy protection policy is a type of formal policy used for specifying a
data usage constraint created by a data owner. After a policy is accepted, it
represents a long-term promise made by an enterprise to its users. Therefore,
it is undesirable to change an enterprise’s promises to customers every time an
internal access control rule changes. If possible, we should enable the P3P and
EPAL policies to be accountable and transparent on information processing for a
data owner to revise the data usage permissions in the future [3]. A data owner’s
PII is usually collected by a data controller, analyzed by a data processor, and
accessed by a data user. All of these operations are protected under the privacy
protection law’s umbrella in a TLD b (see Figure 4). When a data request,
including collection, analysis, and use, is asked for. We first consider the data
usage context of this request. This allows us to decide how many and at what
level PII can be disclosed in order to comply with the privacy laws.
4.3 National Security Policies
When a national security officer intends to access a group of suspects’ PII, a
data usage context is also created for this request. The data usage context of
this information request includes a national security officer as a data user role,
an investigation for homeland security as a purpose, the location of this data
user, and the data itself. The policy ontology in Figure 1 details this concept
description. Formal policies, based on the national security laws, are fetched to
circumscribe the virtual boundary of a data usage in a TLD. Once the laws
are revised, the data usage context will be changed and the virtual boundary
of a data usage will be updated. Thus the formal policy framework in Figure 2
provides a flexible policy re-mapping while applying the new laws to redraw a
TLD virtual boundary.
12 Yuh-Jong Hu, Win-Nan Wu, and Jiun-Jan Yang
Fig. 4. A data usage context serves various information disclosure for TLDs.
legal domain and regulated by its own data protection and national security laws.
Unless there is an establishment of (international) mutual agreements, a TLD’s
legal regulations do not allow its PII to be shared and transported to other
TLDs. So the formal policies are only enforced locally without being unified
with each other. Given this situation, the data usage and storing is restricted in
a single legal domain, so the economic incentives of using a cloud’s resources are
hard to obtain.
4.5 Formal Policy Enforcement
Based on the policy ontology presented in Section 3.1, we reuse the vocabular-
ies of this ontology to describe the concepts of domain-policy and data-policy
for the policy enforcement rules in the TLD d. We demonstrate how to use the
information sharing and privacy protection policies to serve the purposes of en-
forcing national security and privacy protection for a data request in the TLD d.
According to the policy ontology (see Figure 1), when a data request ?x with
its data usage context ?c satisfy a DomainPolicy(?d)’s data usage context ?dc.
A user is allowed to enter the TLD ?tld enforcing the investigation of national
security(see rule (1)):
– A partial ontology for a domain policy:
hasTLD.DomainPolicy(d), hasTLD−.TLD(d).
hasCondition.DomainPolicy(d), hasCondition−.Condition(d).
hasPartOf.Condition(d), hasPartOf−.Purpose(investigation),
hasPartOf−.DataUser(securityPersonnel),
hasPartOf−.Location(TW), hasPartOf−.Evidence(things).
hasPartOf−.Consent(nill).
14 Yuh-Jong Hu, Win-Nan Wu, and Jiun-Jan Yang
References
1. Bruening, J.P., Treacy, B.C.: Cloud computing: privacy, security challenges. Pri-
vacy & Security Law Report (2009)
2. Takabi, H., et al.: Security and privacy challenges in cloud computing environ-
ments. IEEE Seurity & Privacy 8 (2010) 24–31
3. Anto´n, I.A., et al.: A roadmap for comprehensive online for privacy policy man-
agement. Comm. of the ACM 50 (2007) 109–116
4. Vimercati, S.D.C.d., et al.: Second research report on next generation policies,
project deliverable D5.2.2. Technical report, PrimeLife (2010)
5. Ardagna, A.C., et al.: A privacy-aware access control system. Journal of Computer
Security 16 (2008) 369–397
6. Karjoth, G., et al.: Translating privacy practices into privacy promises - how to
promise what you can keep. In: POLICY’03, IEEE (2003)
7. Hu, Y.J., Yang, J.J.: A semantic privacy-preserving model for data sharing and in-
tegration. In: International Conference on Web Intelligence, Mining and Semantics
(WIMS’11), Norway, ACM (2011)
8. Cabuk, S., et al.: Towards automated security policy enforcement in multi-tenant
virtual data centers. Journal of Computer Security 18 (2010) 89–121
9. Popp, R., Poindexter, J.: Countering terrorism through information and privacy
protection technologies. IEEE Seurity & Privacy 4 (2006) 24–33
10. Kettler, B., et al.: Facilitating information sharing across intelligence community
boundaries using knowledge management and semantic web technologies. In Popp,
L.R., Yen, J., eds.: Emergent Information Technologies and Enabling Policies for
Counter-Terrorism. Wiley (2005) 175–195
11. Buchanan, W., et al.: Interagency data exchange protocols as computational data
protection law. In: Legal Knowledge and Information Systems - JURIX, IOS Press
(2010) 143–146
12. Bonatti, P., Olmedilla, D.: Policy language specification, enforcement, and inte-
gration. project deliverable D2, working group I2. Technical report, REWERSE
(2005)
13. Gruber, T.R.: A translation approach to portable ontology specifications. Knowl-
edge Acquisition 5 (1993)
14. Kagal, L., et al.: Using semantic web technologies for policy management on the
web. In: 21st National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), AAAI (2006)
15. Tonti, G., et al.: Semantic web languages for policy representation and reasoning:
A comparison of KAoS, Rei, and Ponder. In: 2nd International Semantic Web
Conference (ISWC) 2003. LNCS 2870 (2003) 419–437
16. Hu, Y.J., Boley, H.: SemPIF: A semantic meta-policy interchange format for mul-
tiple web policies. In: 2010 IEEE/WIC/ACM Int. Conference on Web Intelligence
and Intelligent Agent Technology, IEEE (2010) 302–307
17. Hosmer, H.H.: Metapolicies I. ACM SIGSAC Review 10 (1992) 18–43
18. Berger, S., et al.: Security for the cloud infrastructure: Trusted virtual data center
implementation. IBM Journal of Research and Development (2009) 6:1–6:12
19. Clifton, C., et al.: Privacy-preserving data integration and sharing. In: Data Mining
and Knowledge Discovery, ACM (2004) 19–26
20. Calvanese, D., Giacomo, G.D.: Data integration: A logic-based perspective. AI
Magazine 26 (2005) 59–70
2 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
etc [Calvanses et al., 2002].
We face a data request for a tremendous amount of heterogeneous and scalable
data sources on the web. A peer data management system (PDMS) inherits the
spirit of PAYGO approach that enables a wide-scale data integration [Franklin et al.,
2005] [Madhavan et al., 2007]. In a PDMS, each peer exports data in terms of its own
schema, and information integration is achieved by establishing mappings among
the various peer schemas. In the super-peer network architecture, we group a set of
peers into a super-peer domain and organize them into a two-level architecture. In
the lower level, called the peers, and in the upper one, called the super-peer [Ben-
eventano et al., 2007]. More precisely, a peer integrates data sources into a local
ontology. A super-peer contains a data integration system, which integrates these
local peers’ ontologies into a global ontology through ontology mapping, alignment,
and merging. Therefore, a traditional data integration system can be viewed as a
special case of a PDMS.
Three approaches have been proposed to model a set of source descriptions that
specify the semantic mapping between the source schema and the global schema.
The first one, called global-as-view (GAV), requires that the each concept in the
global schema is expressed in terms of query over the data sources. The GAV deals
with the case when the stable data source contains details not present in the global
schema so it is not used for dynamically adding or deleting data sources.
The second one, called local-as-view (LAV), requires the global schema to be
specified independently from the sources, and the source descriptions between the
stable global schema, such as ontology and the dynamic data sources are established
by defining each concept in the data sources as a view over the global schema [Cal-
vanese and Giacomo, 2005] [Lenzerini, 2002]. LAV descriptions handle the case in
which the global schema contains details that are not present in every data sources.
The third one, called global-local-as-view (GLAV), a source description that
combines the expressive power of both GAV and LAV, allows flexible schema def-
initions independent of the particular details of the data sources [Friedman et al.,
1999] [Nash and Deutsch, 2007]. The data integration system uses these different
source descriptions to reformulate a user query into a query over the source schemas.
However, data integration is hampered by legitimate and widespread privacy con-
cerns, so it is critical to develop a technique that enables the integration and sharing
of data without losing a user’s privacy [Clifton et al., 2004].
Privacy protection policies represent a long-term promise made by an enterprise
to its users and are determined by business practices and legal concerns. It is un-
desirable to change an enterprise’s promises to customers every time an internal
access control rule changes. If possible, we should allow the integration of Plat-
form for Privacy Preferences (P3P) and Enterprise Privacy Authorization Language
(EPAL) policies to provide accountable and transparent information processing for
data owners to revise their data usage permissions [Anto´n et al., 2007].
Although many organizations post online privacy policies, they must realize
4 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
1.1. Research Issues and Contributions
In this paper we are addressing the following research issues:
• We aim at providing data integration and protection services for various
data sources to perform effective data sharing for different purposes in a
super-peer domain,. The incentives for using a super-peer model involve
the avoidance of solving the complex pair-wise ontology matching and rule
integration problems between peers. In addition, various complex ontology
evolution and compatibility issues among peers can be hidden in a super-
peer domain.
• Privacy protection policy representation and enforcement issues are also
addressed. Policies are expressed as a combination of ontologies and rules,
i.e. O + R, where ontology O includes TBox schemas and ABox instances,
and rule R includes deductive rule sets (RS) and facts (F). Data integration
and protection are achieved at the super-peer for multiple peers through a
combination of semantics-enabled formal protection policies (FPP).
• In a super-peer domain, the challenge of designing a semantic privacy pro-
tection model is to ensure a soundness and a completeness of data inte-
gration and protection within a super-peer domain. For the soundness cri-
terion, we do not allow unintended data being released to the data users
through the global policy schema (GPS) at the super-peer. Otherwise, it
violates the privacy protection policies. As for the completeness criterion,
we do not miss any eligible shared data when a user asks for a data re-
quest service at the super-peer. Therefore, shareable data obtained at the
super-peer should equal data obtained directly from each peer.
• In the multiple super-peer domains environment, we focus on using an emer-
gent semantic mapping technique from a super-peer domain to interconnect
with another one when additional information is requested on demand. This
wide-scale data integration and protection problem faces the challenge of
effectiveness data sharing without causing any semantic ambiguity of on-
tology mappings among super-peers. In addition, we avoid the undecidable
computation of query answering posed to the super-peer by using acyclic
schema mappings in a tree-based information query.
Our contributions. Our main contributions are: (i) We offer a three layer seman-
tic privacy-preserving model for a super-peer domain. This extends our previous
work on data integration for privacy protection policies [?]. We define a formal
policy using ontology for privacy protection concepts and rules for data query and
access control services. (ii) We focus on solving the soundness and completeness of
query rewriting problems for a super-peer domain by using a perfect ontology merg-
ing and rule integration. Followed by each possible data query at the super-peer, we
briefly demonstrate how the soundness and completeness criteria of a privacy pro-
tection data integration can be achieved. (iii)In the multiple super-peer domains
6 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
Fig. 2. A semantic privacy protection model in a super-peer domain
2.1. Formal Privacy Protection Policy
A policy’s explicit representation in terms of ontologies or rules depends on what the
underlying logic foundation of your policy language is. If your policies are created
from a DL-based policy language, such as Rein or KAoS, then ordinary policies
are shown as TBox schemas and ABox instances. Otherwise, policies are created
from an LP-based policy language, such as EPAL or Protune. In that case, ordinary
policies are a set of rules with predicates of unary, binary, or ternary variables and
facts [Bonatti and Olmedilla, 2005].
A formal policy (FP) is a declarative expression corresponding to a human legal
norm that can be executed in a computer system without causing any semantic
ambiguity. An FP is created from a policy language (PL), and this PL is shown as a
combination of ontology language and rule language. Therefore, an FP is composed
of ontologies O and rules R, where ontologies are created from an ontology language
and rules are created from a rule language.
A formal protection policy (FPP) is an FP that aims at representing and enforc-
ing resource protection principles, where the structure of resources is modeled as
ontologies O but the resources protection is shown as rules R.
A privacy protection policy shown as an FPP is a combination of ontologies and
rules, e.g., O + R, where DL-based ontologies, such as OWL-DL ontologies provide a
well-defined structure data model for data integration, while Logic Program (LP)-
based rules, such as datalog rules provide further expressive power for data query
and protection. There are numerous O + R combinations available for designing pri-
vacy protection policies, such as SWRL [Horrocks et al., 2005], and OWL2 RL [Grau
et al., 2008b]. Each O + R combination implies whatever expressive power we can
extract from ontologies for the rules and vice versa.
The SWRL is one of the O + R semantic web languages suitable for a policy
8 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
privacy protection policies without moving ABox’s instances from its original data
source until a data request service is initiated (see Figure 3). Therefore, the global
ontology’s schemas and rules created at the super-peer have the latest updated
incoming data from each peer when a user asks a query.
Data integration aims at providing unified and transparent access to a set of au-
tonomous and heterogeneous data sources. The semantic privacy protection model
providing global ontology schema for data integration is similar to the data inte-
gration problem solved by DL− LiteA ontologies shown in [Calvanese et al., 2008a].
Here, we are also focusing on data protection besides data integration.
The goal of ontology-based data integration in DL− LiteA is to provide a uniform
access mechanism to a set of heterogeneous relational database sources, freeing the
user from having the knowledge about where the data are, what are stored, and how
they can be accessed. The idea is based on decoupling information access from its
relational data storage so users only access the conceptual layer shown as ontology,
while the relational data layer, hidden to users, manages the data.
Compared with DL− LiteA, we have extended and used it as a part of our
semantic privacy protection model. We have three layers of data integration infras-
tructure instead of two layers shown in DL− LiteA so we face a research challenge of
ontology merging and rule integration from the middle layer to the top layer when
we enforce a privacy protection policy (see Figure 3).
A semantic privacy protection model is composed of three main components:
• In the top layer, we have a global policy schema (GPSsuper−peer), including
a global ontology schema (GSsuper−peer) aligned and merged from several
local schemas (LSpeer), e.g. TBox and a set of rule integration at the middle
layer. The super-peer at this layer provides conceptual data access and
protection services that give users a unified conceptual “global view” with
access control power for each data request.
• Ontology-based data sources are external, independent, and heterogeneous,
and each local ontology was combined with logic program (LP)-based rules
for each peer in the middle layer.
• Mapping language (ML), semantically links a GSsuper−peer and integrated rule
set in the top layer to each peer’s ontology LSpeer and privacy protection
rules in the middle layer.
3. A Formal Policy Combination
A formal policy combination (FPC) in a global policy schema (GPSsuper−peer) allows
data sharing as integration of FP from a variety of peers.
Each FP is shown as K = O + R, where ontology O = (T, A) and rule R = (RS, F),
T is TBox, and A is ABox; RS is a set of rules, and F is a set of facts.
10 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
Then a datalog rule, in the SWRL-based policy representation, allows us to use
a property chain to combine the two feasible classes together:
hasOptInPurpose.Data(?data) ∧ hasOptInPurpose−.Purpose(?purpose)
−→ hasOptInPurpose(?data, ?purpose) ←− (1)
Similarly, a hasOptInDatauser property has its domain and range classes shown as
follows:
T v ∀ hasOptInDatauser.Data, T v ∀ hasOptInDatauser−.Datauser.
Then, another datalog rule allows us to use another property chain to combine
another two feasible classes together:
hasOptInDatauser.Data(?data) ∧ hasOptInDatauser−.Datauser(?datauser)
−→ hasOptInDatauser(?data, ?datauser) ←− (2)
Based on (1) and (2), we have a feasible set of ABox instances with data, purpose,
and datauser combinations of an attribute set that was permitted from the original
dataowner to allow a particular type of datauser to ask for a data set with a per-
missive purpose. When a peer collects a customer’s data, the promise of data usage
will be ensured if a data user’s identity and usage purpose are verified successfully.
Otherwise, the data will be kept secret without a data user’s awareness.
These are easily extended to the other two attributes, action and obligation,
to complete the FIPs’ privacy protection criteria. An ordinary data user is allowed
to ask a query service with action = read at the super-peer. The other actions,
such as deletion or modify, are only allowed for a system administrator in the
middle layer when (s)he asks to delete a user’s data to satisfy the obligation of a
data retention period or for a data owner to update his or her own profile data.
3.2. Data Request Services
A peer declares its privacy policy in P3P before a data owner’s data
is collected. Once a user accepts a peer’s privacy declaration policy, the
data usage constraints are specified as Figure 5, where FIP’s five attributes
(?d, ?p, ?du, ?a, ?o) for data, purpose, datauser, action, and obligation, are
classes, and hasOptInDatauser, hasOptInPurpose, etc., are properties proposed
as chains of usage constraints for attributes. For each data request service, an ini-
tial feasible parameter input set is FS = input(?du, ?r, ?p), where ?du ∈ Datauser,
?r = read ∈ Action, ?p ∈ Purpose and output dataset with associated obligations
is output(?d, ?o), where ?d ∈ Data, ?o ∈ Obligation. The feasible dataset shown
as ABox instances will be discovered by using SQWRL datalog rules. Further per-
missible actions will be activated when the following data protection policies are
12 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
a conjunctive query (CQ) over the global schema GSsuper−peer, so CQGSsuper−peer is
a CQ over the global schema GSsuper−peer at the super-peer.
A QLSpeer  CQGSsuper−peer is defined as a privacy-aware authorized view of
each peer so we do not disclose any non-shareable data to the super-peer whenever
each peer submits its FPP for ontology merging and rule integration. A CQ can be
defined as a subset of Datalog program, i.e. CQ containment problem, for querying
the relational database. This problem was previously investigated in [Ullman, 2000].
On the other hand, the connection between the problem of answering queries
using extensions of views and the problem rewriting queries using views were studied
previously through an ontology expressed in DL [Goasdoue´ and Rousset, 2004].
In [Calvanese et al., 2008a], a relational data integration was obtained by mapping
each ontology element, e.g. class and property, in the LSpeer into an SQL query
of a relational data source. This is a GAV approach that focuses on mapping the
elements of the LSpeer to a view (SQL query) over the sources.
4.1. Perfect Ontology Alignment
A mapping can be shown as (uid, e1, e2, n, ρ), where uid is a unique identity for the
mapping, e1, e2 are entity names, such as class or property, and in the vocabulary of
O1, O2, n is a numeric confidence measure between 0 and 1, and ρ is a relation such as
subsumption (v), equivalence (≡), or disjointness (⊥) between e1 and e2 [Jime´nez-
Ruiz et al., 2009].
In this study, the entity names for describing the ontology’s class and property,
and the structure of using these entity names in the root of the ontology schema
for Oi to define the FIPs’ privacy protection criteria (see Figure 5) are required to
be the same. This is a strict constraint to achieve a perfect ontology alignment of
this study. Moreover, a perfect mapping language ML provides semantic mappings
for each entity e ∈ GSsuper−peer at the super-peer to the corresponding entities
ei ∈ LSpeeri.
A perfect ontology alignment obtained via a mapping (uid, ei, ej , n, ρ) and merg-
ing between Ti, i.e. TBox, in Oi and Tj in Oj satisfies the following conditions:
• ei ∈ Ti and ej ∈ Tj entity names are either defined for describing the root
class names which correspond to the privacy protection concepts, such as
purpose, action, datauser, data, and obligation or for property names,
such as hasOptInDatauser, hasOptInPurpose, etc; Furthermore, entity
names below the root class and root property are also defined for the de-
scriptions of the underlying subclass and subproperty names.
• A numeric confidence measure n is always equal to 1.
• ρ is either equivalence (≡) or subsumption (v) between entity names of Ti
and Tj schemas. In an equivalent (≡) case, we can find a pair of one-to-one
corresponding entity names for ei ∈ Ti and ej ∈ Tj in the same layer of the
respective ontology schema with n = 1; In a subsumption (v) case, there
are subclass or subproperty entity names not in the same layer so ei ∈ Ti
14 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
a corresponding class c′i ∈ LSpeeri on the same lower layer of a schema tree as
c ∈ GSsuper−peer. All of the ABox instances ai in the class name entity ci, i.e., ai ∈ ci
are still feasibly collected for this data request. This is because class ci is a legal
domain class or range class for a particular property in the datalog rule for enforcing
its privacy protection.
Similarly, a property p ∈ GSsuper−peer is mapped to another equivalent prop-
erty pj ∈ LSpeerj for the associated datalog rule’s body conditions. Then property
p! pj might be on a lower layer in the schema tree when compared with property
pi ∈ LSpeeri. We still regard property pi as feasible for its enforcement of the datalog
rule on data integration and protection. Finally, if we consider mappings for binding
property and class from the aligning ontology schema GSsuper−peer to LSpeeri and
LSpeerj to the respective datalog rule, then we have the following semantically link-
ing relationships by using ML’s mapping to align the ontology’s class and property
shown as follows:
Property p ∈ GSsuper−peer with its domain class dc and range class rc that are
mapped to property pi ∈ LSpeeri with its domain class dci and its range class rci.
For each data request service using a perfect mapping language ML, when p v pi, we
use property pi. Otherwise, when pi v p, we use property p for the datalog rule ri.
When dc v dci and rc v rci, we use class dci and rci. Otherwise, when dci v dc
and rci v rc, we use class dc and rc for the datalog rule ri.
Here, we did not explicitly consider an algebra operations, such as intersection
or union, for class/subclass with property as shown in OWL-DL. Intuitively,
this class/subclass and property algebra operation problem can be transformed to
the generic class/property problem when terms from different data sources can be
mapped and aligned at the super-peer.
Example 4.1. In Figure 6, after we map and align two local partial ontol-
ogy schemas, LSpeeri and LSpeerj, into a merged partial ontology global schema
GSsuper−peer, we receive a data request service with class P212. In the purpose class
P, P111 ! P211, but P212 ∈ GSsuper−peer does not have a corresponding subclass in
LSpeeri, since P212 v P21 and P21! P11. When a data request service asks for class
P212 ∈ GSsuper−peer, mapping language ML will map P212 to P11 for the datalog rule
ri to query the LSpeeri.
5. Perfect Rule Integration
In FPPC, we define an integrated rule set 
i
Ri = (
i
RSi,
i
Fi) to enforce data query
and protection services in 
i
Oi. In fact, an integrated rule set 
i
RSi is a part of FPC
that was created by collecting the datalog rules, e.g. SQWRL queries, in formal
policies FPi, from local peers. A datalog rule ri in the Ri of FPi is shown as:
H←− B1 ∧ B2∧, · · · ,∧Bn,
16 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
ing TMarketing, A rule r′i is mapped to a rule ri and a rule rj using the rule
mapping processes when we have done an upward perfect ontology mapping, align-
ment, merging and a perfect rule integration. A perfect mapping language ML with
downward operation maps the r′i’s predicates, such as class, property to the cor-
responding predicates in a rule ri and a rule rj with MUser(M1) v Datauser(M1),
TMarketing(TMarketing6) v Purpose(TMarketing6). Therefore, real data query
and protection services requested by a rule r′i are performed by a rule ri and a rule
rj.
A rule r′i query posed to the super-peer at the 
i
Oi:
MUser(M1) ∧ TMarketing(TMarketing6)
∧datauserHasPurpose(M1, TMarketing6)
∧datauserHasAction(M1, Read2)
∧ hasOptInPurpose(?d, TMarketing6)
∧hasOptInDataUser(?d, M1)
∧ purposeHasObligation(TMarketing6, ?o)
−→ sqwrl : selectDistinct(?d, M1, TMarketing6, Read2, ?o)
A rule ri query posed to a peeri at the Oi:
V iew(Datauser(M1)) ∧ V iew(TMarketing(TMarketing6))
∧ datauserHasPurpose(M1, TMarketing6)
∧ datauserHasAction(M1, Read2)
∧ hasOptInPurpose(?d, TMarketing6)
∧ hasOptInDataUser(?d, M1)
∧ purposeHasObligation(TMarketing6, ?o)
−→ sqwrl : selectDistinct(?d, M1, TMarketing6, Read2, ?o)
A rule rj query posed to a peerj at the Oj:
V iew(MUser(M1)) ∧ V iew(Purpose(TMarketing6))
∧ datauserHasPurpose(M1, TMarketing6)
∧ datauserHasAction(M1, Read2)
∧ hasOptInPurpose(?d, TMarketing6)
∧ hasOptInDataUser(?d, M1)
∧ purposeHasObligation(TMarketing6, ?o)
−→ sqwrl : selectDistinct(?d, M1, TMarketing6, Read2, ?o)
6. Soundness and Completeness
In this section, we briefly demonstrate how the exact query rewriting service satisfies
the soundness and completeness criteria by using the LAV source descriptions based
on the GPSsp = (
i
Oi,
i
Ri): If CQsp is a conjunctive query over 
i
Oi at the super-peer sp
within a super-peer domain pi, and CQpeeri is a conjunctive query over Oi using LAV
18 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
Theorem 6.2. [Completeness] After a perfect ontology alignment and rule in-
tegration with FPPC, ∃GPSsp = (
i
Oi,
i
Ri) at the super-peer sp within a super-peer
domain pi, Under a particular feasible parameter input set FSi, if λj ∈ Oi is share-
able by a FPPi at each peeri, i.e., ∀i, ri ∈ Ri |= λj, then r′i ∈ 
i
Ri |= λj for the
same FSi, where λj is a shareable data set in Oi.
Proof. (Sketch) If CQsp is a conjunctive query over 
i
Oi at the super-peer sp within
a super-peer domain pi and CQpeeri is a conjunctive query over Oi in a peeri, then
we need to prove the statement ∀x CQsp(x) ←−
⊔
i
CQpeeri(x). This statement is
equivalent to the original argument: If ri ∈ Ri |= λj , then r′i ∈ 
i
Ri |= λj . The
CQsp(x) is a query containment of datalog rule r
′
i and the CQpeeri(x) is a query
containment of datalog rule ri ∈ Ri. The statement ∀x CQsp(x) ←−
⊔
i
CQpeeri(x)
is true because the LAV schema mapping only allows the protected concept λj in
each peeri to be connected to the global schema. After using a perfect ontology
alignment and a perfect rule integration with a perfect mapping language ML, we
avoid the following condition: ∃ri |= λj ⇒ ∃r′i 2 λj .
7. Semantics of a Super-Peer Data Integration System
Inspired by [Calvanese et al., 2006] [Halevy et al., 2004], we define a super-peer data
integration system as a set of super-peer domains Π = {pi1, pi2, ..., pin}, where each
super-peer domain pij is an autonomous information site that exports its information
content in terms of the super-peer spj ’s schema to another super-peer domain.
7.1. Semantics of a Super-Peer Domain
In each super-peer domain pii, actual data is stored in a set of local data sources
DS = {ds1, ds2, ..., dsm}. Using the GAV local mappings, we associate a set of local
peer P = {peer1, peer2, ..., peern} in pii with each individual ontology schema to
the views of the related relational data sources, i.e., SQL queries. Furthermore,
through LAV semantic mappings, a set of peers P’s local ontology schemas are also
mapped and aligned into the super-peer sp’s global view. Formally, the semantics
of a super-peer domain is based on SWRL, a subset of the classical first-order logic
(FOL) semantics, that mitigates a possible semantic and syntax inconsistency when
data sources come from different peers. This FOL semantics approach is different
from the multi-modal epistemic logic approach used in [Calvanese et al., 2006]. We
avoid any possible cyclic schema mappings among a large number of peers by using
a tree-based information query through schema mappings among the super-peers.
This cyclic avoidance technique is similar to the Piazza PDMS approach [Halevy
et al., 2004]. This technique not only simplifies the unrestricted mapping among
multiple peers but it also meets the recent development trend of using a description
20 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
rule corresponding to pij ∈ Π contains mapping from one super-peer spj’s shareable
ontology schema symbol, Rj to another super-peer spi’s ontology schema symbols,
Ri. Therefore one edge from the super-peer spj’s symbol, Rj, to the super-peer
spi’s symbols, Ri, exists if there is a super-peer mapping assertion in Π whose tail
mentions Rj and whose head mentions Ri in a datalog rule.
Example 7.1. Under the data protection law, Hospitals A, B, and C, in three super-
peer domains are allowed to share their patients’ Electronic Health Records (EHRs)
after patients give their consents for medication (see Figure 7). A patient, Jong, was
hospitalized in Hospital A for surgery. After that, Jong went to Hospital B for an
outpatient medication. A physician in Hospital C was authorized by Jong to query
his shareable EHRs collected from Hospitals A and B’s super-peers, spa, spb for a
medical treatment. The partial ontology global schemas for Hospital A, B, and C are:
GSspa , GSspb , and GSspc (see Figure 8).
Fig. 7. The tree-based information query technique to share the hospitals A, B, C’s EHRs through the
GAV and LAV (GLAV) semantic mappings among GSspa , GSspb , and GSspc in their super-peers
Hospital A has the following terms as its super-peer’s ontology global schema,
GSspa , vocabularies:
Class: Clinic, HealthData, SurgeryData, and HospitalizationData
Property: create and beTreated with the respective domain and range class:
T v ∀ create.Clinic, T v ∀ create−.HealthData
T v ∀ beTreated.Individual, T v ∀ beTreated−.Clinc.
Hospital B has the following terms as its super-peer’s ontology global schema, GSspb ,
vocabularies:
22 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
Fig. 8. A partial ontology for EHRs’ sharing and privacy protection
def(V11HealthCenter)
LAV⊆ Hospital
def(V12PatientData)
LAV⊆ HealthRecord,
def(V13OutPatientData)
LAV⊆ HealthRecord ∧ ∀ hasMedType.OutPatient
def(V14produce)
LAV⊆ generate,
def(V15own)
LAV⊆ hasHealthRecrod,
def(V16beMedicated)
LAV⊆ beCured,
def(V17produce)
LAV⊆ generate,
def(V18Purpose)
LAV⊆ Purpose
A physician queries a patient’s EHRs at the spc of Hospital C by using a query
24 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
domain of interest of the information system at a high level of abstraction, and the
relationship between data at the sources and instances of concepts and roles in the
ontology is expressed by means of mappings, such as GLAV, GAV, LAV [Calvanese
et al., 1998] [Poggi et al., 2008].
Recently, various studies, such as PAYGO systems, have pointed out using a PDMS
in the wide-scale data integration system [Halevy et al., 2003] [Madhavan et al.,
2007]. This inspires us to put forth efforts in the peer data integration research.
However, PAYGO systems used a relation data model, which did not use any ontology-
based conceptual data modeling for schema mappings and information query. This
hampers the feasibility of information integration when the semantics for describing
real world entities is represented as an abstract concept. In the peer-to-peer data
integration systems [Calvanese et al., 2006], authors used multi-modal epistemic for-
malization to describe each peer as a rational agent that exchanges knowledge/belief
with other peers in a two-level peer-to-peer architecture. This epistemic modeling
is far more complex and infeasible in the real data integration system implemen-
tation. Therefore, the description logic DL− LiteA, a subset of the first-order logic
(FOL), adopted from the semantic web technique was proposed to solve the tradi-
tional data integration problem [Calvanese et al., 2008a] [Calvanese et al., 2008b].
In this paper, we use a three-level super-peer architecture with tree-based informa-
tion query through the GLAV schema mappings among super-peers to avoid any
possible peer-to-peer cyclic mapping problems.
Data integration is usually hampered by legitimate and widespread privacy con-
cerns, so it is critical to develop a technique to enable the integration of data that
does not lose privacy. We face a challenge to develop a privacy framework for data
integration that is flexible and clear to the end users [Clifton et al., 2004]. View-
based query answering over DL provides a framework to answer a query under the
assumption that the only accessible information consists of the precomputed an-
swers to a set of queries, called views. Privacy-aware access to data, each user is
associated with a set of views, called authorization views, which specify the infor-
mation that the user is allowed to access [Calvanese et al., 2008b].
The EFAF access control model is an extension of the FAF that provided the
solution for privacy protection [Jajodia et al., 2001] [Karjoth and Schunter, 2002].
This method is close to our solution, but its privacy protection control is more
on the logic program and less on the ontology schema used for structure data
modeling. This also prevents the data integration and protection in multiple sites.
The other similar model for enforcing the enterprise privacy protection goes to
the EPAL [Karjoth et al., 2003] [Vimercati et al., 2007]. Another OASIS XACML
is a policy language for privacy and digital rights protection. However, it is an
XML-based policy language so the policies based on XACML possibly might have
ambiguous semantics that prevent us from using a flexible policy combination in
multiple peers [Anderson, 2006].
26 Yuh-Jong Hu et al.
work. In Moro, G. et al., editors, Databases, Information Systems, and Peer-to-Peer
Computing, LNSC, pages 13–25. Springer.
Bernstein, A. P. and Haas, L. M. (2008). Information integration in the enterprise. Comm.
of the ACM, 51(8):72–79.
Bonatti, A. P. et al. (2002). An algebra for composing access control policies. ACM Trans.
on Information and Systems Security, 5(1):1–35.
Bonatti, P. and Olmedilla, D. (2005). Policy language specification, enforcement, and in-
tegration. project deliverable D2, working group I2. Technical report, REWERSE.
Calvanese, D. et al. (1998). Description logic framework for information integration. In
Proc. of the 6th Int. Conf. on Principles of Knowledge Representation and Reasoning,
pages 2–13. Morgan Kaufmann.
Calvanese, D. et al. (2006). Data management in peer-to-peer data integration systems.
Global Data Management, pages 177–201.
Calvanese, D. et al. (2008a). Data integration through DL−LiteA ontologies. In 3rd Int.
Workshop on Semantics in Data and Knowledge Base (SDKB), volume 4925, pages
26–47. Springer.
Calvanese, D. et al. (2008b). View-based query answering over description logic ontologies.
In Proc. of KR-2008. AAAI Press.
Calvanese, D. and Giacomo, D. G. (2005). Data integration: A logic-based perspective. AI
Magazine, 26(1):59–70.
Calvanese, D. and toehrs (2004). Logical foundations of peer-to-peer data integration. In
Proc. of the 23rd ACM SIGACT SIGMOD SIGART Sym. on Principles of Database
Systems PODS-2004, pages 241–251.
Calvanses, D. et al. (2002). Description logics for information integration. In Computational
Logic, LNAI 2408, pages 41–60. Springer.
Clifton, C. et al. (2004). Privacy-preserving data integration and sharing. In Data Mining
and Knowledge Discovery, pages 19–26. ACM.
Euzenat, J. and Shvaiko, P. (2007). Ontology Matching. Springer-Verlag.
Franklin, M., Halevy, A., and Maier, D. (2005). From databases to dataspaces: A new
abstraction for information management. SIGMOD Record, 34:27–33.
Friedman, M. et al. (1999). Navigational plans for data integration. In Proc. of the Sixteen
National Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI’99), pages 67–73. AAAI/MIT
Press.
Goasdoue´, F. and Rousset, M. C. (2004). Answering queries using views: a KRDB per-
spective for the semantic web. ACM Trans. on Internet Technology, 4(3):255–288.
Grau, C. B. et al. (2008a). Modular reuse of ontologies: Theory and practice. Journal of
Artificial Intelligence Research, pages 273–318.
Grau, C. B. et al. (2008b). OWL2: The next step for OWL. Web Semantics: Science,
Services and Agents on the World Wide Web 3, pages 309–322.
Halevy, A. et al. (2003). Schema mediation in peer data management systems. In Proc.
19th Int. Conference on Data Engineering (ICDE), pages 505–516.
Halevy, A. et al. (2004). The piazza peer data management system. Knowledge and Data
Engineering, IEEE Transactions on, 16(7):787 – 798.
Halevy, A., Rajaraman, A., and Ordille, J. (2006). Data integration: The teenage years.
In VLDB’06, pages 9–16. ACM.
Halevy, Y. A. (2001). Answering queries using views: A survey. The VLDB Journal,
10(4):270–294.
Hall, R. and Fienberg, E. S. (2010). Privacy-preserving record linkage. In Proc. of the 2010
Int. Conf. on Privacy in Statistical databases. Springer.
Horrocks, I. et al. (2005). OWL rules: A proposal and prototype implementation. Web
國外差旅心得報告：WIMS-2011 研討會參與研習及論文發表 
 
計畫名稱：提供具資料共享與保護的語意規範於雲端環境中 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-004-010 
執行期間：2010/08/01 ~ 2011/07/31 
計畫主持人：胡毓忠教授 國立政治大學資訊科學系 
 
本研究案原申請期限為三年，經過評審之後僅通過一年。在計畫書中原來是希望
能夠在三年的計畫案中加入到 Dr. Thomas F. Gordon 所主持的歐盟 FP6 計畫：
IMPACT 來進行跨國研究與合作，並且分三年的方式以每年都參與計畫案的討論
與成果的發表。但是後續的接觸和討論並未獲得 IMPACT 計畫案所有參與者的同
意來加入他們的 FP7 IMPACT 歐盟跨國計畫案。因此只好另循管道來參與歐盟的
FP6/FP7 計畫。 
 
計畫主持人在本計畫執行其間將本計畫案的研究成果投稿到 International 
Conference on Web Intelligence Mining and Semantics (WIMS) 2011 研討會，
我們所提出的論文: A Semantic Privacy-Preserving Model for Data Sharing 
and Integration 有幸被接受為全論文(full paper)，本研討會所收到的投稿論
文總數為 170 篇，而被接受為全論文的僅有 50 篇，因此接受率為 29.41％。台
灣的投稿總數為 6篇而我們則是唯一被接受的論文。本國際研討會的論文因為是
由 ACM 電子圖書館所收錄，因此在品質上是有一定的水準。本計畫主持人基於本
研討會是在北歐的挪威舉行，而主持人同時也是本研討會的議程委員，因此想藉
由論文發表的機會一併來進行原有歐盟 FP6/FP7 跨國計畫案的合作事宜。 
 
本 WIMS-2011 的國際研討會的舉辦其間是 2011/05/25-05/27。主持人和其指導
的碩士班學生楊竣展一起到挪威距離首都 Oslo 約 40 分鐘飛行距離的 Sogndal 
小鎮( http://wims.vestforsk.no/ )研討會的舉辦地。這些參與論文發表者主
要是來自於歐洲幾個知名大學，如英國牛津大學，德國萊比錫大學，奧地利維也
納大學及西班牙、義大利等其它知名大學。主持人除了在研討會的首日的場次發
表論文之外，也接著主持後續場次的論文發表。這個研討會的幾個重要的
keynote speakers 都是語意網、資訊檢索與探勘知名的學者，如美國 RPI 的 Jim 
Handlers, 西班牙 Yahoo 的 Peter Mika, 德國萊比錫大學 Soren Auer 等。從這
幾個演講者的內容我們瞭解到語意網技術的發展趨勢主要是在 Linked Open 
Data (LOD)的技術上，因此強調的 lightweight semantics（輕量型的語意）而
不是傳統重量型的語意（heavyweight semantics）。當然這個研究方向的選擇主
要是考量的現有資訊實務界的接受度是在輕量型的語意。比較特別的是 LOD 已經
在歐盟計畫發展中演進到第二代 LOD2 而且已經有不錯的研究成果和應用。 
 
A Semantic Privacy-Preserving Model
for Data Sharing and Integration∗
Yuh-Jong Hu
ENT Lab., Dept. of CS
National Chengchi University
Taipei, Taiwan, 11605
hu@cs.nccu.edu.tw
Jiun-Jan Yang
ENT Lab., Dept. of CS
National Chengchi University
Taipei, Taiwan, 11605
98753036@nccu.edu.tw
ABSTRACT
In this paper, we encompass and extend previous ontology-
based data integration system. A semantic privacy-preserving
model provides authorized view-based query answering over
a widespread multiple servers for data sharing and integra-
tion. The combined semantics-enabled privacy protection
policies are used to empower the data integration and access
control services at the virtual platform (VP). The ontology
mapping and merging algorithm with a local-as-view (LAV)
source description that creates a global ontology schema at
the VP by integrating multiple local ontology schemas for
data sharing. The perfect rules integration of datalog rules
enforces the data query and protection services. Semantics-
enable policies are combined together at the VP, but the ac-
cess control criteria specified in each server are still satisfied.
Therefore the soundness and completeness of data sharing
and protection criteria are ensured to support the validity
of policy combination. This guarantees the trustworthiness
of data sharing and protection services in multiple servers.
Categories and Subject Descriptors
H.3.3 [Information Storage and Retrieval]: Information
Search and Retrieval—query formulation; H.3.5 [Information
Storage and Retrieval]: Online Information Services—
data sharing ; K.4.1 [Computers and Society]: Public
Policy Issues—privacy, regulation
General Terms
WWW, Semantic Web, Database
∗Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of
this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit
or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice
and the full citation on the first page. To copy otherwise,
to republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists,
requires prior specific permission and/or a fee. WIMS’11,
May 25-27, 2011 Sogndal, Norway Copyright c 2011 ACM
978-1-4503-0148-0/11/05... $10.00
Keywords
data sharing and integration, semantics-enabled policy, pri-
vacy protection, query rewriting, ontology and rule
1. INTRODUCTION
Large enterprises spend a great deal of time and money on
data (or information) integration [3]. Data integration is
the problem of combining the data from autonomous and
heterogeneous sources, and providing users with a unified
view of these data through so called global (or mediated)
schema. The global schema, which is a reconciled view of the
information, that provides query services to end users. The
design of a data integration system is a very complex task,
which includes several different issues: heterogeneity of the
data sources, relation between the global schema and the
data sources, limitations on the mechanisms for accessing
the sources, and how to process queries expressed on the
global schema, etc [11].
Three approaches have been proposed to model a set of
source descriptions that specify the semantic mapping be-
tween the source schema and the global schema. The first
one, called global-as-view (GAV), requires that the each con-
cept in the global schema is expressed in terms of query over
the data sources. The GAV deals with the case when the
stable data source contains details not present in the global
schema so it is not used for dynamically adding or deleting
data sources.
The second one, called local-as-view (LAV), requires the
global schema to be specified independently from the sources,
and the source descriptions between the stable global schema,
such as ontology and the dynamic data sources are estab-
lished by defining each concept in the data sources as a view
over the global schema [10] [26]. LAV descriptions handle
the case in which the global schema contains details that are
not present in every data sources.
The third one, called global-local-as-view (GLAV), a source
description that combines the expressive power of both GAV
and LAV, allowing flexible schema definitions independent
of the particular details of the data sources [14] [30]. The
data integration system uses these different source descrip-
tions to reformulate a user query into a query over the source
schemas. However, data sharing and integration are ham-
pered by legitimate and widespread privacy concerns so it
is critical to develop techniques that enables the integration
and sharing of data without losing a user’s privacy [12].
Figure 1: A semantic privacy protection model extended from the integration of P3P and EPAL for data
sharing and protection in multiple servers
is defined as an SQWRL datalog rule in the SWRL-based
policy to access to a global ontology [31]. Each SQWRL
data service query for a global ontology at the VP is mapped
to multiple queries as SQWRL datalog rules for each local
schema. This is a LAV query rewriting service which has
been investigated in databases but it is largely unexplored
in the context of DL-based ontologies [14].
2.1 Formal Privacy Protection Policy
A policy’s explicit representation in terms of ontologies or
rules depends on what the underlying logic foundation of
your policy language is. If your policies are created from DL-
based policy language, such as Rein or KAoS, then ordinary
policies are shown as TBox schema and ABox instances.
Otherwise, policies created from LP-based policy language,
such as EPAL or Protune ordinary policies are a set of rules
with predicates of unary, binary, or ternary variables and
facts [5].
In the SemPIF framework [21], we define Policy Interchange
Format (PIF) to follows W3CO +R standards [6] and strives
to provide a mechanism for agents to preserve different pol-
icy syntax and semantics throughout its policy integration
and interchange. In addition, agents can use meta-PIF, pro-
viding further management and reconciliation services of
PIF-enabled multiple policies across various domains. In
this paper, we apply the SemPIF framework for the privacy-
preserving data integration through a combination of formal
policies.
A formal policy (FP) is a declarative expression correspond-
ing to a human legal norm that can be executed in a com-
puter system without causing any semantic ambiguity. An
FP is created from a policy language (PL), and this PL
is shown as a combination of ontology language and rule
language . Therefore, an FP is composed of ontologies O
and rules R, where ontologies are created from an ontology
language and rules are created from a rule language.
A formal protection policy (FPP) is an FP that aims at
representing and enforcing resource protection principles,
where the structure of resources is modelled as ontologies
O but the resources protection is shown as rules R.
A privacy protection policy shown as an FPP is a combina-
tion of ontologies and rules, e.g., O +R, where DL-based on-
tologies, such as OWL-DL ontologies provide a well-defined
structure data model for data sharing, while Logic Program
(LP)-based rules, such as datalog rules provide further ex-
pressive power for data query and protection. There are nu-
merous O +R combinations available for designing privacy
protection policies, such as SWRL [20], and OWL2 RL [17].
Each O +R combination implies what expressive power we
can extract from ontologies for the rules and vice versa.
The SWRL is one of the O +R semantic web languages
suitable for a policy representation in the privacy protection
model. But this is not an exclusive selection. Other O +R
combinations, such as CARIN, OWL2 RL are also possi-
ble for modeling formal privacy protection policy whenever
their underlying theoretical foundations and development
tools are available. We fully utilize the SWRLTab develop-
ment tools and SQWRL OWL-DL query language [31] in
the Prote´ge´ to model and enforce semantic privacy protec-
tion policies.
We face a research challenge of combining SWRL-based pri-
vacy protection policies from multiple servers to ensure the
soundness and completeness of data sharing and protection
criteria. Another challenge is to solve the policy’s syntax
and semantics incompatibility when we allow policy combi-
nation in multiple servers. SWRL is based on the classical
first order logic (FOL) semantics that mitigates a possible
semantic and syntax inconsistency when policies come from
different servers.
But we still face a background policy inconsistency prob-
lem when default policy assumptions vary between different
Figure 3: A virtual platform for ontology mapping, merging, and rule integration from multiple servers
where
i is the index of a server i.
⊕ is an operator for formal policy combination,
 is an operator for ontology mapping and merging,
 is an operator for rule integration.
In a semantic privacy protection model, a formal protec-
tion policy combination (FPPC) allows data sharing and
protection from FPC = ⊕
i
Ki = (
i
Oi,
i
Ri), where 
i
Ri =
(
i
RSi,
i
Fi) provides data query and protection services in

i
Oi.
3.1 FPP for Privacy Protection
A privacy protection policy is a type of FPP. We designed
an ontology that declares the FIPs’ attributes as classes in an
FPP (see Figure 4). The attributes, purpose, datauser, data,
obligation, and action that allow people to specify the
constraints of privacy protection policies using related prop-
erty chains.
Constraint properties is a type of owl : ObjectProperty that
specify what are the feasible domain and range classes of the
above attributes. For example, a property hasOptInPurpose
has its domain and range classes shown as follows:
T v ∀ hasOptInPurpose.Data,
T v ∀ hasOptInPurpose−.Purpose.
Then a datalog rule, in the SWRL-based policy representa-
tion, allows us to use a property chain to combine the two
feasible classes together:
hasOptInPurpose.Data(?data)
∧ hasOptInPurpose−.Purpose(?purpose)
−→ hasOptInPurpose(?data, ?purpose) ←− (1)
Similarly, a hasOptInDatauser property has its domain and
range classes shown as follows:
T v ∀ hasOptInDatauser.Data,
T v ∀ hasOptInDatauser−.Datauser.
Then another datalog rule allows us to use another property
chain to combine another two feasible classes together:
hasOptInDatauser.Data(?data)
∧ hasOptInDatauser−.Datauser(?datauser)
−→ hasOptInDatauser(?data, ?datauser) ←− (2)
Based on (1) and (2), we have a feasible set of ABox instances
with data, purpose, and datauser combinations of an at-
tribute set that was permitted from the original dataowner
to allow a particular type of datauser to ask for a data set
with a permissive purpose. When a server collects a cus-
tomer’s data, the promise of data usage will be ensured if a
data user’s identity and usage purpose are verified success-
fully. Otherwise, the data will be kept secret without a data
user’s awareness.
These are easily extended to the other two attributes, action
and obligation, to complete the FIPs’ privacy protection
criteria. An ordinary data user is allowed to ask a query
service with action = read at the VP. The other actions,
such as deletion or modify, are only allowed for a system
administrator in the middle layer when (s)he asks to delete a
user’s data to satisfy the obligation of data retention period
or for a data owner updates his or her own profile data.
On the other hand, the connection between the problem of
answering queries using extensions of views and the problem
rewriting queries using views were studied before through
an ontology expressed in DL [15]. In [8], a relational data
integration was obtained by mapping each ontology element,
e.g. class and property, in the GS into an SQL query of a
relational data source. This is a GAV approach, focusing
on mapping the elements of the GS to a view (SQL query)
over the sources. However, our approach is more like LAV ,
where each term in a SQWRL query for each LSi is defined
as a view for a SQWRL query in the GS.
4.1 Perfect Ontology Alignment
A mapping can be shown as (uid, e1, e2, n, ρ), where uid is
a unique identity for the mapping, e1, e2 are entity names,
such as class or property, and in the vocabulary of O1, O2,
n is a numeric confidence measure between 0 and 1, and ρ
is a relation such as subsumption (v), equivalence (≡), or
disjointness (⊥) between e1 and e2 [23].
In this study, the entity names for describing the ontology’s
class and property, and the structure of using these entity
names in the root of the ontology schema for Oi to define
the FIPs’ privacy protection criteria (see Figure 5) that are
required to be the same. This is a strict constraint to achieve
a perfect ontology alignment of this study. Moreover, a per-
fect mapping languageML provides semantic mappings for
each entity e ∈ GS at the VP to the corresponding entities
ei ∈ LSi.
A perfect ontology alignment obtained via a mapping
(uid, ei, ej , n, ρ) and merging between Ti in Oi and Tj in Oj
satisfies the following conditions:
• ei ∈ Ti and ej ∈ Tj entity names are either defined for
describing the root class names which corresponding to
the privacy protection concepts, such as purpose, action,
datauser, data, and obligation or property names,
such as hasOptInDatauser, hasOptInPurpose, etc; Fur-
thermore entity names below the root class and root
property are also defined for the descriptions of the
underlying subclass and subproperty names.
• A numeric confidence measure n is always equal 1.
• ρ is either equivalence (≡) or subsumption (v) between
entity names of Ti and Tj schemas. In an equivalent
(≡) case, we can find a pair of one-to-one correspond-
ing entity names for ei ∈ Ti and ej ∈ Tj in the same
layer of the respective ontology schema with n = 1;
In a subsumption (v) case, there are subclass or sub-
property entity names not in the same layer so ei ∈ Ti
and ei v ej ∈ Tj , and vice versa.
4.2 Query Rewriting Services
SWRL combines OWL-DL’s ontology language with an ad-
ditional datalog rule language, where a datalog rule language
is shown as an axiom of ontology, a little extension of the
OWL-DL language that overcomes the limitations of prop-
erty chaining in the OWL-DL language [20]. The computa-
tion complexity of answering SWRL-based policies might
be undecidable regarding the verification of rights access
permission unless these policies satisfy the DL− Safe con-
ditions [29].
SPARQL is a query language for the RDF(S)-based ontolo-
gies. OWL2 QL is another query language for the OWL2-
based ontologies. We did not use SPARQL query language
or OWL2 QL, since our current local and global ontologies
are modelled as the OWL-DL ontology language. In fact,
SPARQL might not be able to query the complete seman-
tics of the OWL-DL’s ontologies. The OWL-DL’s ontology
queries can be shown as the SQWRL datalog rules, where
the CQ conditions are shown as the rule’s body and the
query results, i.e., views are shown as the rule’s conclusion.
SQWRL uses SWRL’s strong FOL semantic foundation as
its formal semantics so this query language provides a small
but powerful array of operators that allows users to con-
struct queries over OWL-DL ontologies [31].
For each data request query service, a perfect mapping lan-
guage ML provide the semantically linking of an entity
name e ∈ GS in the datalog rule at the VP to the entity
name ei ∈ LSi in the datalog rule at serveri, where LSi is
the TBox of Oi, and e is a class or a property name. If there
does not exist an ei ∈ TBoxi in a subtree of the LSi on the
same layer as e ∈ TBox in the global tree of GS, then we
can recursively find a superclass or superproperty of e′i with
e v e′i as the corresponding entity name, with a confidence
measure of n = 1.
To successfully fulfill the semantically linking of any entity
name e ∈ GS via ML, an ontology schema designer must
follow the principles we propose using the specifications of
concepts and relations for the FIPs on the root layer of each
ontology’s local schema’s LSi. But we still allow the de-
signer to use different entity name string, ei ∈ LSi below
the root layer of each local schema and to have an entirely
different underlying subtree structure. We use Prompt ontol-
ogy mapping algorithm first to synchronize the entity names
between LSi and further perform the ontology mappings
and aligning operations. Finally we perfectly merge their
schemas even if the subtrees of the local schemas are vari-
ant.
We use ML to map the name of a class entity c ∈ GS to
one of the equivalent local ontology schema’s class entity
name in a deeper subtree, say cj ∈ LSj , i.e., c! cj in the
datalog rule’s conditions of each data request service. When
the class semantics for c is c v ci in the LSi , i.e., we do
not have a corresponding class c′i ∈ LSi on the same lower
layer of a schema tree as c ∈ GS. All of the ABox instances
ai in the class name entity ci, i.e., ai ∈ ci are still feasibly
collected for this data request. Because class ci is a legal
domain class or range class for a particular property in the
datalog rule for enforcing its privacy protection.
Similarly, a property p ∈ GS is mapped to another equiva-
lent property pj ∈ LSj for the associated datalog rule’s body
conditions. Then property p! pj might be on a lower layer
in the schema tree when compared with property pi ∈ LSi.
We still regard property pi as feasible for its enforcement of
the datalog rule on data sharing and protection. Finally, if
we consider mappings for binding property and class from
the aligning ontology schema GS to LSi and LSj to the
Figure 6: Partial ontology mapping for class alignment and ontology merging
class as HealthData, i.e.,
T v ∀ create.Clinic
T v ∀ create−.HealthData
Hospital B has the following terms as its ontology’s local
schema LSB vocabularies:
Class: Person, HealthCenter, and PatientData with sub-
Class OutPatientData
Property: own, beMedicared with their respective domain
and range class are shown as follows:
T v ∀ own.Person, T v ∀ Own−.PatientData.
T v ∀ beMedicated.Person,
T v ∀ beMedicated−.HealthCenter.
The VP offers the following vocabularies:
Class: Patient, Hospital, Surgery, and HealthRecord
Property: beCured, hasHealthRecord, generate with their
respective domain and range class are shown as follows:
T v ∀ beCured.Patient, T v ∀ beCured−.Hospital
T v ∀ hasHealthRecord.Patient
T v ∀ hasHealthRecord−.HealthRecord
T v ∀ generate.Hospital
T v ∀ generate−.HealthRecord
Use LAV approach to define each class and property in these
two hospital local schemas as views in terms of the global
schema’s vocabularies shown as follows:
Views use at the VP created from the hospital A local schema’s
vocabularies are:
def(V1Clinic) = Hospital
def(V2HealthData) = HealthRecord
def(V3SuregeryData)
= HealthRecord ∧ ∀hasMedType.Surgery
def(V4HospitalizationData)
=HealthRecord ∧ ∀ hasMedType.Hospitalization
def(V5create) = generate
Views use at the VP created from the hospital B local schema’s
vocabularies are:
def(V6Person) = Patient
def(V7HealthCenter) = Hospital
def(V8PatientData) = HealthRecord
def(V9OutPatientData)
= HealthRecord ∧ ∀ hasMedType.OutPatient
def(V10beMedicated) = beCured
def(V11own) = hasHealthRecrod
A physician queries a patient’s surgery record at the VP by
using a merged global ontology schema based on LAV query
rewriting instead of directly requesting each hospital. An
original datalog-based SQWRL rule for a query q at the VP
is shown as:
Patient(?x) ∧ beCured(?x, ?y) ∧ hasHealthRecrod(?x, ?r)
∧ HealthRecord(?r) ∧ hasMedType(?r, Surgery)
∧ generate(?y, ?r) −→ sqwrl : select(?x, ?r)
Query rewriting of the q in terms of two CQs, e.g., qva and
qvb, uses views defined at the VP:
V6Person ∧ V10beMedicated ∧ V11own ∧ V9OutPatientData ∧ V5create
−→ sqwrl : select(?x, ?r) ←− (qva)
Above qva query is corresponding to a query as:
B : Person(?p) ∧ B : beMedicated(?p, ?c) ∧ B : own(?p, ?d)
∧ B : OutPatientData(?od) ∧ A : create(?h, ?hd)
−→ sqwrl : select(?p, ?od)
V6Person ∧ V10beMedicated ∧ V11own ∧ V3SuregeryData ∧ V5create
−→ sqwrl : select(?x, ?r) ←− (qvb)
Theorem 2. [Completeness] After a perfect ontology
alignment and rule integration with FPPC, ∃GPS = (
i
Oi,
i
Ri)
at the VP, Under a particular feasible parameter input set
FSi, if λj ∈ Oi is shareable by a FPPi at each serveri, ∀i,
i.e., ∀i, ri ∈ Ri |= λj, then r′i ∈ 
i
Ri |= λj for the same
FSi, where λj is a shareable data set in Oi.
Proof. (Sketch) If q(x) is a query over 
i
Oi at the VP
and qvi(x) is a query over Oi in a serveri, then we need to
prove the statement ∀x q(x) ←− ⊔
i
qvi(x). This statement
is equivalent to the original argument: If ri ∈ Ri |= λj , then
r′i ∈ 
i
Ri |= λj . The CQ q(x) is a query containment of
datalog rule r′i and the CQ qvi(x) is a query containment of
datalog rule ri ∈ Ri. The statement ∀x q(x) ←− ⊔
i
qvi(x)
is true because the local as view (LAV) schema mapping
only allows all of the shareable concepts λj in each serveri
to be exported to the global schema. After using a perfect
ontology alignment method and a perfect rule integration
method with a perfect mapping languageML, we avoid the
following condition: ∃ri |= λj ⇒ ∃r′i 2 λj .
7. RELATEDWORK
Data integration is a pervasive challenge faced in the ap-
plications that need to query across multiple autonomous
and heterogeneous data sources. This problem has been re-
ceived considerable attention from researchers in the fields
of Artificial Intelligence and Database System more than a
decade [18] [27]. A logic of the Description Logic (DL) fam-
ily is used to model the ontology managed by the integration
system, to formulate queries posed to the system, and to per-
form several types of automated reasoning supporting both
the modeling, and the query answering process [11]. The
ontology expresses the domain of interest of the information
system at a high level of abstraction, and the relationship
between data at the sources and instances of concepts and
roles in the ontology is expressed by means of mappings,
such as GLAV, GAV, LAV [7] [33].
Unfortunately, data integration and sharing are hampered
by legitimate and widespread privacy concerns so it is crit-
ical to develop a technique to enable the integration and
sharing of data without losing privacy. We face a chal-
lenge to develop a privacy framework for data integration
that is flexible and clear to the end users [12]. View-based
query answering over DL provides a framework to answer
a query under the assumption that the only accessible in-
formation consists of the precomputed answers to a set of
queries, called views. Privacy-aware access to data, each
user is associated with a set of views, called authorization
views, which specify the information that the user is allowed
to access [9].
We encompass and extend previous ontology-based data in-
tegration system. A semantic privacy-preserving model pro-
vides authorized view-based query answering over a widespread
multiple servers for data sharing and integration. The com-
bined semantics-enabled privacy protection policies are used
to empower the data integration and access control services
at the virtual platform.
The role-based access control (RBAC) model is used to en-
force the access control policies with a static role assign-
ment for a stand-alone system. It is therefore not useful for
solving the privacy protection problem. In fact, the RBAC
model did not consider the prime elements of the FIPs, so
it is not intended for a privacy protection problem. In [32],
the UCONABC might be useful for the privacy protection
problem, but it did not explicitly allow the data sharing and
protection in multiple sites.
The EFAF access control model is an extension of the FAF
that provided the solution for privacy protection [22] [24].
This is the closest method to our solution, but its privacy
protection control is more on the logic program and less on
the ontology schema for the structure data modelling. This
also prevents the data sharing and protection in multiple
sites. The other similar models for enforcing the enterprise
privacy protection go to the following EPAL [25] [35]. OA-
SIS XACML is a policy language for privacy and digital
rights protection. But it is an XML-based policy language
so the policies based on XACML possibly might have am-
biguous semantics that prevent using a flexible policy com-
bination in multiple servers [1].
8. CONCLUSION AND FURTHER STUDY
We propose a semantic privacy protection model which en-
compasses and extends the existing works on data sharing
and integration. We intend to solve the privacy protection
problem to provide data sharing and integration in multiple
servers by using one of ontology and rule language combi-
nations, e.g. SWRL. Another OWL2 combination will be
considered for the future [17]. This can be extended to a
modular reuse of ontologies for data sharing and protection
in the cross-domain cloud computing environment [16].
The perfect ontology alignment through ontology mapping
and merging creates a global ontology schema at the VP by
integrating multiple local ontology schemas from different
data sources. In addition, the perfect rule integration by
the perfect mapping language avoids any possible data usage
conflicts between datalog rules from different data sources at
the VP. In fact, a datalog rule is considered as a conjunctive
query, which provides data query and protection services in
each server.
However this perfect ontology alignment is impossible with-
out the requirements of using same ontology schema for the
root layers for multiple servers with the LAV schema map-
ping. We face another policy hidden conflict challenge if
background default policy assumptions are vary between dif-
ferent servers. All of these need further study.
Finally semantics-enabled policies are combined together at
the VP, so we simplify the data sharing and protection ser-
vices. But the soundness and completeness criteria are still
preserved for data sharing and integration purposes. This
supports the trustworthiness of a policy combination for
multiple servers.
Acknowledgements
This research was partially supported by the NSC Taiwan
under Grant No. NSC 99-2221-E-004-010.
  
International Conference on Web Intelligence, 
Mining and Semantics  
May 25 – 27, 2011    |   Sogndal, Norway 
wims.vestforsk.no 
 
Program Committee Chair 
Report 
 
 
 
The International Conference on Web Intelligence, Mining and Semantics (WIMS'11) will take place 
under  the  auspices  of  Western  Norway  Research  Institute  from  May  25‐27,  2011  in  Sogndal, 
Norway.  
 
We have  just completed review process of submitted papers.   This report gives a summary of the 
overall review process. 
 
In my capacity as Program Committee Chair I personally thank those of you who were able to review 
submissions for the WIMS’11 conference.  Thanks for devoting your valuable time for the WIMS’11 
review activity. Though it is a new conference, WIMS’11 is very fortunate to have such enthusiastic 
authors, PC members, Advisory members,  and  all others who  share our WIMS  vision of building 
remarkable  research  conference  about  intelligent  approaches  to  transform  the World Wide Web 
into a global reasoning and semantics‐driven computing machine.  
 
 I  do  hope  you  and  your  group  members  can  make  time  in  your  busy  schedule  to  attend  the 
conference. Thanks! 
 
We are looking forward to meeting you in Sogndal! 
‐  Rajendra Akerkar
 
The Program Committee 
Adrian Giurca  
Alexander Gelbukh   
Alfio Massimiliano Gliozzo   
Alejandro Jaimes   
Alessandro Provetti   
Alex Conconi   
Alexander Mädche   
Alexandre Passant   
Andre C P L F de Carvalho   
Andreas Blumauer   
Anna Fensel   
Arjen P. de Vries   
Christoph Lange   
Costin Badica   
Daniel Lemire   
David Camacho   
Debajyoti Mukhopadhyay   
Diana Santos   
Dietrich Rebholz‐Schuhmann   
Dragan Gasevic    
Eetu Mäkelä   
Elena Zamsa    
Eriks Sneiders   
Esma Aimeur   
Fabio Rinaldi   
François Bry   
Giacomo Fiumara   
Grzegorz J. Nalepa   
Henry Hexmoor 
Ivan Jelinek   
Jacques Calmet   
Jidi (Judy) Zhao   
WIMS’11 
PC Chair Report 
 
3
Process: overview 
We used the free conference support system EasyChair throughout the process. 
May 25, 2010: Call for papers published 
November 20, 2010:  Papers due 
November 29, 2010: Decision‐making started 
January 7, 2011: Review reports due 
January 8, 2011: Review‐editing began 
January 16, 2011: Notification 
 
Process: submissions 
November 20, 2010:  170 submissions received. 
Used EasyChair to disable new submissions, but allow revisions. 
I turned oﬀ web submission at midnight, but accepted email (re‐)submissions until 5pm Nov 
28, 2010. 
November 21–29 , 2010: Submissions assigned to PC members  
November 29, 2010:  E‐mails about assigned papers to PC members 
 
Process: decisions 
January 7, 2011:  PC reviews due. 
Except 4 PC members, all others submitted their review reports using EasyChair. 
Target of 65 acceptances (50 full papers and 15 posters) —max allowed by single‐track 
schedule. 
In‐depth discussion of 4 controversial papers, some additional reviews.  
Some delays, but overall very thorough and professional reviews by PC and external 
reviewers. 
January 15, 2011:  Decisions complete. 
 
Process: reviews and notification 
January 8, 2011:  Review editing began. 
Chair edited reviews of all submissions with a team of selected PC members. 
Goals: clarity, correctness, and incorporation of discussion. 
January 16, 2011: Notifications and reviews sent from EasyChair. 
WIMS’11 
PC Chair Report 
 
5
 
 
WIMS’11 Program  2
 
15:00 - 
15:30 Coffee Break 
Web Information Search & Retrieval - II (Room: Sogndal 1) 
Session Chair: Yuh-Jong Hu  
ELS: A Word-Level Method for Entity-Level Sentiment Analysis   
Nikolaos Engonopoulos; Angeliki Lazaridou; Georgios Paliouras; Costas Chandrinos 
 
Real Understanding of Real Estate Forms     
Tim Furche; Georg Gottlob; Giovanni Grasso; Xiaonan Guo; Giorgio Orsi; Christian 
Schallhart 
 
ForAVis - Explorative User Forum Analysis      
Franz Wanner; Thomas Ramm; Daniel A. Keim  
 
The InfoAlbum: Image Centric Information Collection     
Randi Karlsen; Børge Jakobsen  
Semantics and Ontology Engineering - II (Room: Sogndal 3) 
Session Chair: Andreas L Opdahl  
Improving the Usability of Integrated Applications by Using Visualizations of Linked 
Data     
Heiko Paulheim  
 
Toward A Semantic Vocabulary For Systems Engineering      
Paola Di Maio  
 
Logical Structure Analysis of Scientific Publications in Mathematics     
Nikita Zhiltsov; Valery Solovyev  
 
Disambiguating Entity References within an Ontological Model     
Joachim Kleb; Andreas Abecker  
Sessions 
WE-2 
 
15:30 - 
17:00 
Tutorial: Description Logic Reasoning for Semantic web ontologies - II  (Room: 
Sogndal 2 ) 
Anni-Yasmin Turhan 
 
 
Poster Session ( Main lobby) 
Session Chair: Sören Auer 
Sessions 
WE-3 
 
17:00 - 
18:30 
 
An Iterative Voting Method Based On Word Density For Text Classification     
Wang Jiaxun; Li Chunping  
 
A Correlation Analysis of Social Media      
Konstantinos N. Vavliakis; Konstantina Gemenetzi; Pericles A. Mitkas  
 
Teacher Education with Share.TEC Web-Based Repository System      
Dimo Boyadzhiev  
 
Improving Web Database Search Incorporating Users Query Information     
Rakesh Rawat; Richi Nayak; Yuefeng Li  
 
Recommender Systems by means of Information Retrieval   
Alberto Costa; Fabio Roda  
 
Semantic Systems Biology: Eenabling Integrative Biology via Semantic Web 
Technologies  
WIMS’11 Program  4
Thursday 26.05.2011 
 
  
Keynote Address (Sogndal 2 - Auditorium) 
Chair: Svein Ølnes 
09:00 - 
10:00 
Making Things Findable 
Peter Mika 
10:00 - 
10:30 Coffee Break 
Keynote Address (Sogndal 2 - Auditorium) 
Chair: Robert Engels  
10:30 - 
11:30 
Creating Knowledge Out of Interlinked Data 
Sören Auer 
Collective and Web Intelligence - I (Room: Sogndal 1) 
Session Chair: Marko Grobelnik 
Distributed Agent-Based Ant Colony Optimization for Solving Traveling Salesman 
Problem on a Partitioned Map     
Sorin Ilie; Amelia Badica; Costin Badica  
 
Page Segmentation by Web Content Clustering      
Sadet Alcic; Stefan Conrad  
 
A Study on the Impact of Crowd-Based Voting Schemes in the ’Eurovision’ European 
Contest      
Gema Bello Orgaz; Raul Cajias; David Camacho 
Designing an Architecture for Improving Web Query Processing in Heterogeneous 
Databases Access 
Mohd Kamir Yusof, Ahmad Faisal Amri Abidin, Surayati Usop, Sufian Mat Deris 
 
Intelligent Web & NLP (Room: Sogndal 3) 
Session Chair: Alessandro Provetti  
Semantic Web and Language Resources for e-Government: Linguistically Motivated 
Data Mining     
Annibale Elia; Daniela Vellutino; Federica Marano; Alberto Maria Langella; Antonella Napoli 
 
Towards automatic thematic sheets based on discursive categories in biomedical 
literature     
Julien Desclés; olfa Makkaoui; Jean-Pierre Desclés 
 
Improving Accessibility to Web Documents for the Aurally Challenged with Sign 
Language Animation     
Jin-Woo Chung; Ho-Joon Lee; Jong C. Park  
Tutorial: Utilising Linked Open Data in Applications - I (Room Sogndal 2) 
Michael Hausenblas 
 
 
Sessions 
TU-1 
 
11:30 - 
13:00 
 
Perl Hacker's Bootcamp (Room: Group Room 109) 
Organisers: Kjetil Kjernsmo and Gregory Todd Williams 
WIMS’11 Program  6
 
 
Friday 27.05.2011 
 
Keynote Address (Sogndal 2 - Auditorium) 
Chair: Pierre Maret 
09:00 - 
10:00 
Open Social Learning Communities 
Ashwin Ram 
10:00 - 
10:30 Coffee Break 
Keynote Address (Sogndal 2 - Auditorium) 
Chair: David Camacho 
10:30 - 
11:30 
Many Faces of Text Processing 
Marko Grobelnik 
Knowledge Representation Formalisms - I (Room: Sogndal 2a ) 
Session Chair: Chunping Li 
Semantic Annotations for Modelling Language Interoperability     
Andreas L Opdahl  
 
A solution to the exact match on rare item searches     
Morten Goodwin  
 
SWRL-F - A Fuzzy Logic Extension of the  Semantic Web Rule Language      
Tomasz Wiktor Wlodarczyk; Chunming Rong; Marting O'Connor; Mark Musen 
 
R2DF Framework for Ranked Path Queries over Weighted RDF Graphs      
Juan Cedeno; K. Selcuk Candan 
 
Large Knowledge Collider - A Service-oriented Platform for Large-scale Semantic 
Reasoning  
Alexey Cheptsov; Matthias Assel; Georgina Gallizo; Irene Celino; Daniele Dell'Aglio; Luka 
Bradeško; Michael Witbrock; Emanuelle Della Valle 
Social Network Analysis - I (Room: Sogndal 1 ) 
Session Chair: Peter Mika 
Graph Visualization Tool for Twittersphere Users based on a High-Scalable Extract, 
Transform and Load System      
Pablo Aragón; Íñigo García; Antonio García 
 
Measuring Profile Distance in Online Social Networks      
Niklas Lavesson; Henric Johnson  
 
What have fruits to do with technology? The case of Orange, Blackberry and Apple.   
Surender Reddy Yerva; Zoltan Miklos; Karl Aberer 
Sessions 
FR-1a 
 
11:30 - 
13:00 
Tutorial: Just Enough Ontology Engineering- I (Room Sogndal 2b) 
Paola Di Maio 
Workshop: Social Data Mining for Human Behaviour Analysis 
(SoDaMin) I (Room: Sogndal 3 ) 
Chairs: David Camacho and Costin Badica 
Session 
FR-1b 
 
11:30 - 
13:00  Multiple-Membership Communities Detection in Mobile Networks 
Nikolai Nefedov 
Yuh-Jong Hu <yjong.hu@gmail.com>
Re: call 8: FP7 ICT- 2011.4.4 – Intelligent Information
Management
3 封郵件
Rajendra Akerkar <rak@vestforsk.no> 2011年6月15日下午2:49
收件者: Yuh-Jong Hu <hu@cs.nccu.edu.tw>
Dear Dr. Hu,
I am very glad for receiving your message and for your interest.
I am attaching herewith a project idea. This call will be open next month with deadline in January 2012.
If you know any other suitable call, please let me know. 
In case you have additional ideas, corrections, suggestions etc. I would be only glad if you let me know.
You may further edit the file and send to me. Let us have a brainstorming before we form a formal
consortium. 
Thank you very very much for your time, and hope to hear from you before 22 June.
Regards,
Rajendra
________________
Rajendra Akerkar
Senior Researcher/Professor
Vestlandsforsking/Western Norway Research Institute
P.Box 163
6851 Sogndal, Norway
Phone: +47 916 85 607
One-page-EUproject.doc
46K
Yuh-Jong Hu <hu@cs.nccu.edu.tw> 2011年6月15日下午3:52
收件者: Rajendra Akerkar <rak@vestforsk.no>
Dear Rajendra,
For me, this is the first time to participate the FP7 project submission so I am not quite sure how is the exact
processes.  Maybe you can tell me more about the current status of this proposal preparation, such as how
many people are interested in (or have committed)  this proposal submission. Is the FP7 closing to end? 
Currently,  I am interested in Intelligent Information Management, especially on  intelligent data integration
and protection using ontology and rule from tremendous amount of structure data, such as RDB. However, we
are more focus on the ontology-based semantic part. So we are dealing with the issues of ontology
mapping/merging/alignment as well as ontology modular and reuse for data integration and protection.
Besides, we are considering using the cloud computing platform with possible  cross judicial domain of data
integration and protection. Possible applications are electronic health record (EHR) sharing for medical
diagnosis or information sharing for counter-terrorists. We have several professors from the law school
supporting this research issues. If possible, please create a discussion forum, Linkedin or Facebook. I am
happy to participate and contribute.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/03
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 提供具資料共享與保護的語意規範於雲端環境中
計畫主持人: 胡毓忠
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-004-010- 學門領域: WEB 技術 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 語意式規範於雲端資料整合與保護
(英文) Semantics-enabled Data Integration and Protection in the Cloud
成果歸屬機構
國立政治大學 發明人
(創作人)
胡毓忠,吳穩男,鄭迪嶸,鄭國平
技術說明
(中文) 雲端運算平台提供方便與彈性的運算讓web之上的資訊整合更為容易。我們探索
了資訊科技與法律之間的整合並且運用語意式規範來塑模法規於雲端之上。提供
資訊整合與保護的語意式規範是由本體論與規則組合而成。「本體論」用來表示
資訊整合與保護的抽象概念，而「規則」則是更進一步在本體論建構完成之後用
來具體落實上述的概念。我們將面對的挑戰將會是如何法治化語意式規範於雲端
運算平台之上，並且縮小法律與電腦規範之間表達上的落差以避免在電腦規範表
示時所產生的語意含糊，同時也必須要解決從多重法治區規範整合時所面臨的法
治衝突。
(英文) The semantics-enabled policies of information sharing and protection are represented as a 
combination of ontologies and rules to capture the concept of security and privacy laws. 
Ontologies are abstract knowledge representation of information sharing and protection 
extracted manually from the data sharing and protection laws. Rules provide further 
enforcement power after ontologies have been constructed. The emerging challenges of 
legalizing semantics-enabled policies for laws in the cloud are: to mitigate the gap 
between semantics-enabled policy and laws, to avoid any ambiguity in the policy 
representation, and to resolve possible conﬂicts between policies when they are required 
to integrate the laws from multiple jurisdictions.
產業別 資訊服務業；研究發展服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 個人資料整合與保護、雲端運算服務的加值
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
本研究將持續進行中，將在未來1-2年完成雲端運算資料整合與保護平台雛形系統平台建
置成功之後，進行技術轉移。預期的效益將會是強化現有雲端運算環境的資料整合、分
享、與保護的加值服務
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
專書 1 1 100% 章/本 
Unifying Semantic 
Privacy Protection 
Web Policies for 
the Rights 
Management (DRM) 
System, 
in Introduction to 
the Semantic Web: 
Concepts, 
Technologies and 
Applications, 
iConcepts Press, 
2010. 
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100% 楊竣展，楊協達 
博士生 1 1 100% 吳穩男 
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之
成果如辦理學術活
動、獲得獎項、重要
國際合作、研究成果
國際影響力及其他協
助產業技術發展之具
體效益事項等，請以
文字敘述填列。) 
’ Semantics-enabled Policies for Super-Peer Data Integration and 
Protection’ 已投稿於 International Journal of Computer Science and 
Applications (IJCSA)(審稿中）。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
