MRI are effective for breast cancer diagnosis, the 
cost and resource required are too large to be used 
as a screening modality.Terahertz radiation, often 
called T-rays, lies between microwaves and infrared 
light in the electromagnetic spectrum, with a 
frequency of between 0.1 THz and 3 THz languished 
unexplored. It can penetrate through optically opaque 
paper and clothing, but interact with metal and 
biological molecules, so objects hidden beneath 
clothing can be revealed by THz imaging. Bio-
molecules have a rich spectrum of vibrational and 
rotational transitions those lie in the range of 0.1 
THz and 3 THz. Because different biological molecules 
absorb different frequencies of terahertz radiation, 
T-ray imaging should thus be treated as the 
genuine ’molecular imaging’ technique. A recent 
report in Radiology studied the THz contrast between 
normal and breast cancer tissues, which indicated the 
capability for THz radiation to distinguish cancerous 
from normal breast tissues. We thus propose this 
project to perform in vivo animal studies on the 
breast cancer diagnosis by using THz fiber 
endoscopes.The development of THz radar fiber 
endoscope is to improve the image acquisition speed 
to the level of seconds. 
英文關鍵詞： cancer、breast cancer、THz, fiber, radar, endoscope, 
molecular imaging, quantum dots, contrast agent 
 
1 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □期中進度報告 
   使用兆赫波內視鏡檢測癌症的活體動物實驗 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-002-047-MY3 
執行期間：97 年 8 月 1 日至 100 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立台灣大學 光電工程學研究所 
 
計畫主持人：孫啟光教授 (光電工程學研究所) 
共同主持人：李文正醫師 (醫學院放射線科) 
計畫參與人員：陳華博士後研究員、黃郁儒博士生助理、呂任棠碩士生助理 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
■赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權 ■一年 □二年後可公開查詢 
 
 
中   華   民   國    100 年    12 月    12 日 
 
 
 
附件一 
3 
 
 
二、 英文摘要: 
Keywords: cancer、breast cancer、THz, fiber, radar, endoscope, molecular imaging, quantum dots, contrast 
agent 
 
The incidence of breast cancer in Taiwan increases these years. According to the report of the Department 
of Health, Executive Yuan, breast cancer ranked 4th among the ten major causes of cancer death in Taiwan 
during year 2010. Early detection is the only way to reduce the mortality of breast cancer. In clinical practice, 
the methods to detect breast cancer include physical examination (self examination or exam by physician), 
breast ultrasound, X-ray mammography and breast magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). X-ray mammography 
is the only proved method for screening breast cancer. Although ultrasound and MRI are effective for breast 
cancer diagnosis, the cost and resource required are too large to be used as a screening modality.  
 
There are several problems associated with X-ray mammography. Mammography utilizes ionizing X-ray, 
which may induce malignancy. Breast lesion may be obscured on X-ray by dense fibroglandular structure in 
some of the woman. In Taiwan, the incidence of dense breasts is higher than other Western countries. The 
cancer detection rate of mammography is thus lower in Taiwan. Besides, the average age of breast cancer 
patients is younger in Taiwan than other Western countries. Young females (especially of child-bearing age) 
have more dense breasts and are more susceptible to ionizing radiation. A new noninvasive examination is 
needed for better early detection of breast cancer. 
 
Terahertz radiation, often called T-rays, lies between microwaves and infrared light in the electromagnetic 
spectrum, with a frequency of between 0.1 THz and 3 THz languished unexplored. It can penetrate through 
optically opaque paper and clothing, but interact with metal and biological molecules, so objects hidden beneath 
clothing can be revealed by THz imaging. Bio-molecules have a rich spectrum of vibrational and rotational 
transitions those lie in the range of 0.1 THz and 3 THz. Because different biological molecules absorb different 
frequencies of terahertz radiation, T-ray imaging should thus be treated as the genuine “molecular imaging” 
technique. A recent report in Radiology studied the THz contrast between normal and breast cancer tissues, 
which indicated the capability for THz radiation to distinguish cancerous from normal breast tissues. We thus 
propose this project to perform in vivo animal studies on the breast cancer diagnosis by using THz fiber 
endoscopes. 
 
For the past, under the support of NSC, we have successfully developed a compact THz system for imaging and 
detection, and have demonstrated a high-sensitivity THz microchip for illicit drug detection. We have also 
successfully demonstrated two different types of THz PE fibers with a record high coupling efficiency and 
record low attenuation loss on the order or lower than 0.001 cm-1. Based on these novel findings, we recently 
have successfully demonstrated the first ever transmission type fiber-scanning THz imaging systems, operated 
at room temperature with a compact system arrangement, and the first ever epi-type fiber-scanning THz 
endoscope. Under this proposal, we will modify our preliminary system to suite the live animal studies. 
 
To improve the project performance, we also propose the development of THz radar fiber endoscope. The 
5 
 
Terahertz radiation, often called T-rays, lies between microwaves and infrared light in the electromagnetic 
spectrum, with a frequency of between 0.1 THz and 3 THz languished unexplored. It can penetrate through 
optically opaque paper and clothing, but interact with metal and biological molecules, so objects hidden beneath 
clothing can be revealed by THz imaging. Bio-molecules have a rich spectrum of vibrational and rotational 
transitions those lie in the range of 0.1 THz and 3 THz. Because different biological molecules absorb different 
frequencies of terahertz radiation, T-ray imaging should thus be treated as the genuine “molecular imaging” 
technique. A recent report in Radiology studied the THz contrast between normal and breast cancer tissues, 
which indicated the capability for THz radiation to distinguish cancerous from normal breast tissues. We thus 
proposed this “補助傑出學者研究計畫＂ project to perform in vivo animal studies on the breast cancer 
diagnosis by using THz fiber endoscopes. This animal study was not proposed in the other NSC project and is 
with its high urgency due to international competition. 
 
For the past, under the support of NSC, we have successfully developed a compact THz system for 
imaging and detection, and have demonstrated a high-sensitivity THz microchip for illicit drug detection. We 
have also successfully demonstrated two different types of THz PE fibers with a record high coupling efficiency 
and record low attenuation loss on the order or lower than 0.001 cm-1. Based on these novel findings, we recently 
have successfully demonstrated the first ever transmission type fiber-scanning THz imaging systems, operated 
at room temperature with a compact system arrangement, and the first ever epi-type fiber-scanning THz 
endoscope. Under this proposal, we plan to modify our preliminary system to suite the live animal studies, 
including sensitivity and speed. To this end, the specific aims of the research program are: 
 
1. To conduct live animal studies to verify the feasibility of THz imaging for early breast cancer diagnosis. 
2. To investigate the performance of THz imaging system by examining the slice of breast tissue. 
3. To investigate different sub-THz frequency range for the optimization of in vivo penetration capability, 
image resolution, and sensitivity for cancer imaging. 
4. To modify our demonstrated THz subwavelength fiber endoscope system to suite the requirement for in vivo 
animal studies. 
5. To develop THz radar fiber endoscope to improve the image acquisition speed to the level of seconds. 
6. To develop THz molecular contrast agent to enhance the image contrast and to provide an engineering tool 
for researcher to manipulate the THz molecular imaging contrast for early cancer detection. 
7.To investigate the bending loss of THz pipe waveguides for future flexible THz imaging system. 
五、文獻探討: 
Recent advances in generating and analysing THz radiation, together with an avalanche of US research 
funding for antiterror applications, are now helping researchers to examine its imaging applications. For Taiwan, 
there are already several groups working on optical generating of THz radiations. However, all other groups are 
working on the time domain terahertz spectroscopy. We are the only group working on the CW domain. Prof. 
C.-L. Pan (潘犀靈) at 清華大學 is also working on the T-ray imaging but with a time-domain approach. We 
have strong collaboration and our work will provide mutual benefits to each other.  
 
7 
 
sensitivity. Our in vivo study on the subcutaneous xenograft mouse model will encourage broad and further 
investigations for future early cancer screening by using THz imaging system. 
The fiber-scanning transmission T-ray imaging system consists of a frequency tunable THz source YIG 
oscillator module and a room-temperature-operated Schottky diode detector. It was performed at 108GHz. 
The highly flexible THz sub-wavelength PE fiber adopted was with a diameter of 600μm and a length of 
40cm. The T-ray, emitted from YIG oscillator module, was first modulated by a chopper, and then collimated 
by a pair of off-axis parabolic mirrors and focused into the fiber with a substantially low attenuation constant 
~10cm-1. Behind the fiber output end, a PE lens was used to focus T-ray onto a anesthetized mouse (Fig. 2) 
and then the transmitted power was detected by the Schottky diode detector. The imaging was obtained by a 
direct 2D (x-y) scanning of the fiber output end and detector, and the S/N ratio of room-temperature imaging 
system was higher than 105:1.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. (a) Schematic diagram of the THz fiber-scanning transmission imaging system. (b) Photograph of the 
T-ray imaging system. (c) A direct 2D (x-y) 10mm×10mm scanning image of air. Power transmission was 
measured at different fiber bending angles, and the maximum angle-induced 1D fiber bending loss is about 
10%. The S/N ratio of the imaging system is 105:1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
 
coefficient change was 0.25mm−1, corresponding to a cancer volume of 1.3mm3. For the images from the 23th 
day to the 33th day, the color bar was defined according to the maximum measured absorption coefficient, 
while from the 13th day to the 17th day, the image color bar was defined according to the 23th day. 
For future development of in vivo THz transmission imaging to early detect breast cancer, we did the 
first step to confirm the possibility in a developed subcutaneous xenograft mouse model. This result indicates 
the potential of T-ray imaging for noninvasive early cancer detection with a high-sensitivity and without the 
need of exogenous labeling. Combining with other molecular imaging means, including high-resolution 
optical microscopy but with a much smaller viewing area, our study indicates the capability of T-ray 
transmission imaging for live animal study on early cancer developments. 
 
項目二結果: 
 
Performance of THz fiber-scanning near-field microscopy to diagnose breast tumors (Opt. Express 19, 
19523-19531 (2011)) 
 
 To investigate the capability of THz imaging system for breast cancer detection, we also developed a 
THz near-field imaging system for examination of breast tissue section and studied its performance. In the 
near-field imaging system (Fig. 4), a CW Gunn oscillator module emitted 320GHz waves that were collected 
by a pair of off-axis parabolic mirrors and focused into a sub-wavelength PE fiber. To improve the spatial 
resolution, behind the fiber output end, we integrated a bull’s-eye metallic spatial filter with a subwavelength 
aperture (200μm-diameter) to achieve both high transmission power (10-fold higher than transmission 
through a single bare aperture of the same size) and near-field spatial resolution (240μm< λ/4) beyond the 
diffraction limit. THz waves radiated from the fiber output end was normally incident onto the substrate side 
of the metallic spatial filter and the transmitted THz radiation from the exit side of the aperture illuminated the 
sliced samples, which were fixed on a 150μm-thick coverglass and held on a microscope stage. The 
transmitted power was then detected by a room-temperature-operated Schoktty diode detector. 
 
Fig. 4. Schematic of the THz fiber-scanning near-field microscopy. 
 
 Based on tissues from 20 female patients (mean age: 53 years; rang: 36-72 years), we found that images 
acquired in the THz transmission-illumination mode can all clearly distinguish breast tumor tissues from 
normal tissues without H&E staining (Fig. 5). Our study indicates great potential of the THz fiber-scanning 
near-field microscopy for future automation, which is critical for fast and complete pre-screening on breast 
tumor pathological examinations and for assisting quick definition of the tumor margins during the surgical 
procedure such as breast-conserving surgery. 
11 
 
項目三結果:  
Fiber-Based Swept-Source THz Radar (Opt. Lett. 35, 1344-1346 (2010)) 
We demonstrate an all-terahertz swept-source imaging radar operated at room temperature by using 
terahertz fibers for radiation delivery and with a terahertz-fiber directional coupler acting as a Michelson 
interferometer. By taking advantage of the high water reflection contrast in the low terahertz regime and by 
electrically sweeping at a high speed a terahertz source combined with a fast rotating mirror, we obtained the 
living object’s distance information with a high image frame rate. Our experiment showed that this 
fiber-based swept-source terahertz radar could be used in real time to locate concealed moving live objects 
with high stability. 
The THz radar consists of of a terahertz-fiber directional coupler, a rotational parabolic mirror, a fast 
frequency sweeping (YIG oscillator) source, and a Schottky detector (Fig. 6). The swept-source terahertz 
radar is an interferometric system similar to the swept-source optical coherence tomography relying on the 
interference between a split and a later recombined terahertz field. With its compact size, real-time imaging 
capability, and by using the fiber for radiation delivery and signal interferometry, the terahertz swept-source 
radar system operating at different frequency ranges can be ideal for various high-speed ranging and sensing 
applications including living object identification (Fig. 7). 
 
 
Fig. 6. Schematic diagram of the fiber-based swept-source terahertz radar 
 
13 
 
0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0
0
50
100
150
200
 
  Bulk water
 water in 2.4-nm nanopores  water in 1.5-nm nanopores
P
ow
er
 a
bs
or
pt
io
n 
co
ef
fic
ie
nt
 (c
m
-1
)
Frequency (THz)
 
Fig. 8. The measured power absorption coefficient of adsorbed water in MCM-41. The power absorption 
coefficients of bulk water (black solid squares) are also plotted for comparison 
 
We have utilized the THz time domain spectroscopy (THz-TDS) to measure the power absorption 
coefficients of the nano-confined water. The MCM-41 with two different pore sizes, 1.5 and 2.4nm, are used 
to investigate the size-dependent effects. It is observed from Fig. 8 that THz waves suffer lower power 
absorption in nano-confined water. 50% enhanced THz transparency can be achieved by the injection of the 
MCM-41, which could be served as a good candidate for contrast agent in the future THz imaging systems. 
 
項目五結果: 
 
Bending loss of THz pipe waveguides (Opt. Express 18, 26332-26338 (2010)) 
 
 Because THz sub-wavelength fibers are vulnerable to environmental disturbance and suffer high bending 
loss, we recently proposed THz pipe waveguides (Fig. 9), which are a good candidate for future flexible THz 
imaging systems. We further investigated the bending loss characteristics of the pipe waveguides (Fig. 10). It 
is found that the pipe waveguides not only suffer low guiding loss but also possess unexpectedly bending loss 
despite their leaky mode nature. Our results indicate that the pipe waveguides with lower guiding loss suffer 
lower bending loss due to stronger mode confinement (Fig. 11). It is expected that these easily available, low 
loss, and low bending loss THz pipe waveguides have a high potential for next generation THz imaging 
systems. 
n1
n1
n2
(a) (b)  
 
Fig. 9. (a) Structure of the pipe waveguide. (b) Cross section of the pipe waveguide (n1 = 1). 
15 
 
 
八、計畫成果自評: 
本計劃除少部分因經費遭大幅刪除獲新發現而必須停止之部分，其餘均已按照預定進度進行，本計畫
除已達成預期之目標，並已引起國際高度重視，獲受邀於國際上最重要之International Conference on 
Infrared, Millimeter, and Terahertz Waves，發表以In Vivo THz Fiber-Scanning Mammography of Early 
Breast Cancer in Mice為題之Keynote演講。本計畫之主要成果文章＂ High-sensitivity in vivo THz 
transmission imaging of early human breast cancer in a subcutaneous xenograft mouse model＂並獲選入
Virtual Journal for Biomedical Optics 6 (11), November 30, 2011 issue。因本計畫所發表之文章如下： 
 
(A) SCI期刊論文: 
1. H.-W. Chen, C.-M. Chiu, J.-L. Kuo, P.-J. Chiang, H.-C. Chang, and C.-K. Sun, “ Subwavelength 
dielectric-fiber-based terahertz coupler,” Journal of Lightwave Technology 27 (11), pp. 1489-1495 (2009). 
2. C.-H. Lai, Y.-C. Hsueh, H.-W. Chen, Y.-J. Huang, H.-C. Chang and C.-K. Sun, “Low-Index Terahertz Pipe 
Waveguides,” Optics Letters 34 (21), pp. 3457-3459 (2009). 
3. C.-H. Lai, B. You, J.-Y. Lu, T.-A. Liu, J.-L. Peng, C.-K. Sun, and H.-C. Chang, “Modal characteristics of 
antiresonant reflecting pipe waveguides for terahertz waveguiding,” Optics Express 18 (1), pp. 309-322 
(2010). 
4. Y.-W. Huang, T.-F. Tseng, C.-C. Kuo, Y.-J. Huang, and C.-K. Sun, “THz fiber-based swept-source imaging 
radar,” Optics Letters, 35(9), pp. 1344-1346 (2010). 
5. J.-T. Lu, Y.-C. Hsueh, Y.-R. Huang, Y.-J. Hwang, and Chi-Kuang Sun, "Bending loss of terahertz pipe 
waveguides," Optics Express, Vol. 18, pp. 26332-26338 (2010). 
6. C.-H. Lai, C.-K. Sun, and H.-C. Chang, “Terahertz antiresonant-reflecting-hollow-waveguide-based 
directional coupler operating at antiresonant frequencies,” Optics Letters 36 (18), pp. 3590-3592 (2011). 
7. H. Chen, T.-H. Chen, T.-F. Tseng, J.-T. Lu, C.-C. Kuo, S.-C. Fu, W.-J. Lee, Y.-F. Tsai, Y.-Y. Huang, E. Y. 
Chuang, Y.-J. Hwang, and Chi-Kuang Sun, “High-sensitivity in vivo THz transmission imaging of early 
human breast cancer in a subcutaneous xenograft mouse model,” Optics Express Vol. 19, pp. 21552-21562 
(2011) ; Virtual Journal for Biomedical Optics 6 (11), November 30, 2011 issue. 
8. H. Chen, W.-J. Lee, H.-Y. Huang, C.-M. Chiu, Y.-F. Tsai, T.-F. Tseng, J.-T. Lu, W.-L. Lai, and Chi-Kuang 
Sun, “Performance of THz fiber-scanning near-field microscopy to diagnose breast tumors,” Optics 
Express, Vol. 19, pp. 19523-19531 (2011). 
 
(B)國際研討會論文: 
1．H. Chen, C.-C. Kuo, C.-Y. Chen, Y.-W. Hwang, H.-W. Chen, Y.-J. Hwang, and C.-K. Sun, “Attenuation 
Measurement of Breast Cancer in Nude Mice in Terahertz Frequency Range,” in Program Proceeding of the 
6th Asian Conference on Ultrafast Phenomena, paper P60, pp. 166-167, Taipei, Taiwan (2010). 
2．J.-T. Lu, Y.-C. Hsueh, C.-H. Lai, Y.-J. Huang, H.-C. Chang, and C.-K. Sun, “Terahertz Anti-resonant 
Reflecting Pipe Waveguide,” in Program Proceeding of the 6th Asian Conference on Ultrafast Phenomena, 
paper P61, pp. 168-169, Taipei, Taiwan (2010). 
3. T.-F. Tseng, Y.-W. Huang, C.-C. Kuo, Y.-J. Huang, and C.-K. Sun, “THz-fiber based swept source imaging 
radar,” in Program Proceeding of the 6th Asian Conference on Ultrafast Phenomena, paper P62, pp. 170-171, 
Taipei, Taiwan (2010). 
4. J.-T. Lu, C.-H. Lai, Y.-R. Huang,Y.-C.Hsueh, Y.-J. Huang, H.-C. Chang, and C.-K. Sun, “Investigation on 
17 
 
Early Breast Cancer in Nude Mice," 2010 International Conference on Optics and Photonics in Taiwan, 
paper OPT6-O-20, Tainan, Taiwan (2010). 
6. Y.-R. Huang, K.-H. Liu, C.-Y. Mou, and C.-K. Sun, “Terahertz Investigation of the Confined Water in 
MCM-41,” 2010 International Conference on Optics and Photonics in Taiwan, paper OPT3-O-11, Tainan, 
Taiwan (2010). 
 
(D)舉辦學術活動 
The 6th Asian Conference on Ultrafast Phenomena, 10th-13th, Jan, 2010, Taipei, Taiwan. 
  
19 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表 
                                                              日期：100 年 12 月 12 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：使用兆赫波內視鏡檢測癌症的活體動物實驗 
計畫主持人：孫啟光教授 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-002-047-MY3           
領域：生醫光電 
研發成果名稱 
（中文）使用兆赫波內視鏡檢測癌症的活體動物實驗 
（英文）Diagnose Cancer with THz endoscopes: Animal Studies In 
        Vivo 
成果歸屬機構 國立台灣大學暨行 政院國家科學委員會
發明人 
(創作人) 孫啟光教授 
技術說明 
（中文）我們成功建立出兆赫波光纖化穿透式影像系統作為早期
乳癌檢測之用。該系統利用 YIG 震盪器產生 108 GHz 的兆赫波，
並由直徑為 600 微米的次波長聚乙烯光纖傳遞兆赫波，光纖的損
耗係數約為 10-3cm-1，在光纖的輸出端我們放至一個聚乙烯透鏡，
將兆赫波聚焦在已麻醉的裸鼠上，並利用室溫運作的蕭機特二極
體作為兆赫波偵測器。利用二維的移動平台同時移動光纖的輸出
端以及偵測器，我們便能取得兆赫波穿透訊號。此系統的訊雜比
可達 105:1。和目前臨床的 X光攝影相比，我們的兆赫波影像系統
更具早期乳癌檢測的潛力。 
 
（200-500 字） 
（英文）We developed a THz-fiber-scanning transmission imaging 
system for early breast cancer detection. The imaging system consists 
of a frequency tunable THz source YIG oscillator module and a 
room-temperature-operated Schottky diode detector. It was performed 
at 108GHz. The highly flexible THz sub-wavelength PE fiber adopted 
was with a diameter of 600μm. The T-ray, emitted from YIG oscillator 
module, was first modulated by a chopper, and then collimated by a 
pair of off-axis parabolic mirrors and focused into the fiber with a 
substantially low attenuation constant ~10cm-1. Behind the fiber 
output end, a PE lens was used to focus T-ray onto a anesthetized 
mouse and then the transmitted power was detected by the Schottky 
diode detector. The imaging was obtained by a direct 2D (x-y) 
scanning of the fiber output end and detector, and the S/N ratio of 
room-temperature imaging system was higher than 105:1. Compared 
with the state of the art clinical X-ray mammography, THz imaging is 
thus with a potential to serve as an alternative method to early detect 
breast cancer with a much smaller size. 
產業別 生醫光電 
附件三 
21 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                 日期： 100 年 12 月 12 日 
一、參加會議經過 
二、與會心得 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
六、其他 
 
 
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-002-047-MY3 
計畫名稱 使用兆赫波內視鏡檢測癌症的活體動物實驗 
出國人員
姓名 陳華博士後研究員 
服務機構
及職稱 國立台灣大學 光電工程學研究所 
會議時間 100 年 5 月 1 日至  100 年 5 月 6 日 會議地點 美國巴爾地摩市(Baltimore) 
會議名稱 
(中文) 雷射和光電學之國際會議 
(英文)  Conference on Lasers and Electro-Optics (CLEO) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 以高感光度的兆赫波光纖雷射掃瞄裸鼠體內的早期乳腺癌 
(英文)  High-Sensitivity in vivo THz Fiber-Scanning Mammography of  
        Early Breast Cancer in Nude Mice 
附件四 
23 
 
目前臨床手段，兆赫波檢測具有非侵入性的優點。我在這個會議上發表了此研究成果，
不僅把我們的工作介紹給國際同仁，讓國際同仁更加瞭解我們的工作，同時，還獲得了
許多的討論與迴響，獲得了許多新知，這對未來我們實踐應用上的發展有非常大的幫助，
同時藉由別人的研究成果與討論，也啟發了我許多未來的研究方向。 
除了發表自己的研究成果之外，我也把握這次難得的機會積極和國際同行進行交流。
通過和 Oklahoma State University 的 Daniel Grischkowsky 教授，Weili Zhang 教授，以及
日本 Advanced Science Institute 的 Yuye Wang 博士之間的交流，不但對目前國際上兆赫
波研究小組的進展及其方向有了一定的瞭解，而且更深入的認識到我們自己研究組的優
勢與不足。我們在兆赫波波導，影像系統的開發處於國際領先地位，但是，由於國科會
資金補助有限，我們實驗室先進的兆赫波儀器有限，尤其在兆赫波輻射源方面還落後與
國際同行。同時，在會議之餘，許多國際著名廠商也利用此一年一度光電盛會展示出他
們的最新產品。這次參觀展覽最大的驚奇出現在 Coherent Inc.的攤位，因為我親眼見到
了超快雷射界的變色龍 Chameleon，全部電子化控制，不再需要任何手調旋鈕。跟過去
的超快雷射比起來，這樣的雷射穩定度相當大，並且不容易受人為操作不當而使得雷射
狀況每況愈下，對研究者來說，這是一項相當大的鼓舞。 
通過此次的會議，我通過口頭報告的形式向國際同仁介紹了我們實驗室最近取得的
研究成果，同時瞭解了最新的國際研究動態。通過取長補短，相信我們在以後的工作中
會出現更多有價值的研究成果。 
 
Conference on Lasers and Electro-Optics (CLEO)會議是全世界最
豐富、最趨於完整的光電學術研討會之一，其領域包含了雷射、光纖、
生醫光電晶片、光通訊以及近年來迅速發展的兆赫波科技(THz 
technology)，在此發表的論文必須經過嚴格篩選才能夠順利發表，因
此在此會議中發表的論文都具有相當程度的水準。此次我所發表的
「High-Sensitivity in vivo THz Fiber-Scanning Mammography of Early 
Breast Cancer in Nude Mice」獲選以演講方式發表。 
   此次我的研究是利用我們自行設計、發展的兆赫波穿透式影像系
統，對活體動物的乳癌模型進行早期偵測。該研究在研究方法，模型
建立上均為國際首例。更重要的是，我們利用兆赫波影像技術，實現
了在活體動物體內癌症的早期檢測，其成果屬於國際領先。其重要性
更加突出，因為：根據美国癌症协会（ACS）统计数据表明，乳腺癌
是妇女中的一个最常见的癌症，在女性中發病几率约为12％。此外，
乳腺癌是妇女第二大癌症死因。乳腺癌的死亡率為3％。由此可見，
乳癌的早期檢測研究不但可以減輕病患的病情，更會降低死亡率。而
我們的研究提出了一種新型的乳癌的早期檢測手段，且相對目前臨床
手段，兆赫波檢測具有非侵入性的優點。我在這個會議上發表了此研
究成果，不僅把我們的工作介紹給國際同仁，讓國際同仁更加瞭解我
們的工作，同時，還獲得了許多的討論與迴響，獲得了許多新知，這
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/12/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 使用兆赫波內視鏡檢測癌症的活體動物實驗
計畫主持人: 孫啟光
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-002-047-MY3 學門領域: 生醫光電 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 使用兆赫波內視鏡檢測癌症的活體動物實驗
(英文) Diagnose Cancer with THz endoscopes: Animal Studies In Vivo
成果歸屬機構
國立臺灣大學 發明人
(創作人)
孫啟光,李文正醫師
技術說明
(中文) 我們成功建立出兆赫波光纖化穿透式影像系統作為早期乳癌檢測之用。該系統利
用YIG震盪器產生108 GHz的兆赫波，並由直徑為600微米的次波長聚乙烯光纖傳
遞兆赫波，光纖的損耗係數約為10-3cm-1，在光纖的輸出端我們放至一個聚乙烯
透鏡，將兆赫波聚焦在已麻醉的裸鼠上，並利用室溫運作的蕭機特二極體作為兆
赫波偵測器。利用二維的移動平台同時移動光纖的輸出端以及偵測器，我們便能
取得兆赫波穿透訊號。此系統的訊雜比可達105:1。和目前臨床的X光攝影相比，
我們的兆赫波影像系統更具早期乳癌檢測的潛力。
(英文) We developed a THz-fiber-scanning transmission imaging system for early breast cancer 
detection. The imaging system consists of a frequency tunable THz source YIG oscillator 
module and a room-temperature-operated Schottky diode detector. The T-ray, emitted 
from YIG oscillator module, was first modulated by a chopper, and then collimated by a 
pair of off-axis parabolic mirrors. Behind the fiber output end, a PE lens was used to 
focus T-ray onto a anesthetized mouse and then the transmitted power was detected by 
the Schottky diode detector. Compared with the state of the art clinical X-ray 
mammography, THz imaging is thus with a potential to serve as an alternative method to 
early detect breast cancer with a much smaller size.
產業別 其他專業、科學及技術服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 此兆赫波影像系統可用於早期乳癌檢測
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
目前乳癌檢測是經由身體檢查（自我檢查與醫師觸診）、超音波檢查、X 光攝影與磁振
造影等方式。只有X光攝影被證實可以有效的發現早期乳癌。超音波檢查與磁振造影雖然
也可以檢查乳癌，但是檢查耗時、成本較高，還無法大量使用作為篩檢的工具。此外 X 
光為游離性輻射，具有致癌的風險，因此需要開發新的非侵入式檢驗方式，以便早期發
現乳癌。
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
The 6th Asian Conference on Ultrafast Phenomena, 10th-13th, Jan, 2010, 
Taipei, Taiwan 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
