synthesizer, a demodulation circuit, and a micro-
controller. Besides, two SoC chips were bonded 
on a PCBs to make two wireless modules with 
antennas for the transmission experiment. One 
of the wireless modules transmits data to the air 
through an antenna, and the other receives data 
well from the air. The supply voltage of the SoC 
is 3 V, and power consumption is 93 mW. 
三、研究方法 
Fig. 1 shows the block diagram of the 
wireless transceiver SoC consisting of the 
transceiver (RX and TX), the fractional-N 
frequency synthesizer (PLL), and the micro-
controller. In Fig. 2, the fractional-N frequency 
synthesizer is composed of a LC voltage-
controlled oscillator (VCO), a prescaler divider, 
a programmable divider, a third-order modulator 
(DSM), a differential to single amplifier, a 
phase-frequency detector (PFD), a charge pump 
(CP), and a loop filter. 
 Fig. 1 The block diagram of the wireless transceiver SoC. 
PFD VCO
Programmable Divider 
÷N
FRef
CP Loop Filter FOUTFDiv
UP
DN
IP VC Div. 2
Differential
2/3 Cell
DSM
 Fig. 2 The block diagram of the fractional-N frequency 
synthesizer. 
The receiver includes a low noise amplifier 
(LNA), a mixer, an IF filter, IF amplifiers, a 
demodulator, and a comparator. The LO signal 
for the mixer is provided by the fractional-N 
frequency synthesizer. After the mixer, a low-
pass filter (LPF) realized by the flip-frog 
architecture is used to suppress high frequency 
signal, such as leakage LO and RF signal. The 
IF amplifiers following the IF filter are utilized 
to amplify RF signal to rail-to-rail amplitude. 
The output waveform of the IF amplifiers is 
rectified by the demodulator. The comparator is 
used to compare the output voltage of the 
demodulator with a reference dc voltage (Vref) 
for amplifying the voltage difference, and the 
output buffer reshapes the demodulated signal to 
digital format. 
In the synthesizer design, the first stage of 
the programmable divider is a differential 2/3 
cell implemented by current-mode logic (CML) 
because operation frequency is too high for 
digital circuits. The second stage of the 
programmable divider is a truly-modular 
programmable divider operating with an order-
adjustable the ∆Σ modulator to generate 
fractional division ratio. The ∆Σ modulator uses 
the MASH1-1-1 architecture and has 12-bit 
inputs. The inputs of the DSM, which are 
relative to the fractional division ratio, are 
controlled by the micro-controller. The overall 
synthesizer circuits are controlled by 24-bit data 
latches, which  are used to command the 7-bit 
integer modulus, the modulus signal of the 
programmable divider, the order of the ∆Σ 
modulator, the /2 or /3 control signal, the 
polarity of the PFD, the switches of the switched 
capacitors, and the charge pump current 
branches.    
 
Fig. 3 The die photograph of the wireless transceiver SoC. 
