III. 研究內容 
1. INTRODUCTION 
INCE the regulations by Federal Communication 
Committee (FCC) in United States in 2002, the 
ultrawideband (UWB) system has experienced a blooming 
growth in both industrial and academic fields. By dividing 
the allocated spectrum into sub-frequency bands, the 
ultrawideband system for wireless personal area networks 
(WPANs) provides high speed data transmission rate up to 
hundreds of Mbps in a 10-meter area. Meanwhile, the 
impulse-radio-based ultrawideband system, which transmits 
and receives baseband pulses without a carrier, is still very 
attractive to a variety of applications owing to its low circuit 
complexity, no need of mixing circuit, undetectable power 
spectral density, and high immunity against multi-path 
interference. In an impulse-radio-based ultrawideband 
system, subnanosecond impulses are used not only for 
transmitting the data streams but also for downsampling the 
received pulses in the receiver. It features various 
advantages over conventional communication radios [1]-[3]. 
The aim of this paper is to investigate a new 
impulse-radio-based ultrawideband RF front-end module 
for in-vehicle communication. A prototype module is 
realized with the help of a new multilayered magic-T [4]. 
The magic-T features a wide bandwidth and compact size. 
The design concept, methodology and simulated and 
experimental results will be discussed in Section II of this 
paper.  
 The magic-T in Section II was optimized for 
microwave sampler application. A microwave sampler is an 
essential component in an impulse-radio-based 
ultrawideband communication system. Essentially, a 
microwave sampler can be viewed as a down-conversion 
mixer in time domain [5]. Dissimilar to a conventional 
mixer, nevertheless, a microwave sampler applies 
subnanosecond pulses instead of continuous wave at its 
local oscillator (LO) port. It has the ability to sample a 
periodical RF signal at shot instants. By utilizing the 
equivalent time sampling (ETS) theorem [6], a down-scaled 
version of the periodical signal at the RF port can be 
reproduced at the intermediate frequency (IF) port with a 
very low repetition frequency. In this sense, a microwave 
sampler is simply a mixer which is capable of 
down-converting an arbitrary periodical RF signal with a 
great amount of harmonics [5]. It replaces the functionality 
of the down-converter mixing circuit in a conventional 
communication system. With the microwave sampler, the 
mixer, voltage-controlled oscillator and the phase-lock loop 
can be removed without causing damage. It greatly reduces 
the complexity of the proposed module. Several literatures 
have been devoted themselves to investigating the 
microwave sampling circuits [7]-[9]. Most of the designs 
are developed with balanced diode configurations and 
magic-Ts. The balanced structures are especially suitable 
S
       
(a)  (b) 
Fig. 1 Configuration of the proposed (a) magic-T and (b) microwave sampler. 
 
 
Fig. 2 Electric field distributions of the Magic-T along the cross
section A-A’. (a) Difference port excitation. (b) Sum port excitation.
the radial open stub and the cross-junction of the microstrip 
line and slotline. A microstrip T-junction along with a 
quarter-wavelength impedance transformer is printed on the 
bottom layer (Layer 3) of the magic-T. The layer 
in-between (Layer 2) is a common ground plane with a 
coupling slotline etched on it. A short-circuited radial stub 
is etched at one end of the coupling slot. Essentially, the 
microstrip line on the top layer and the slotline on the 
common ground plane form a wideband Marchand balun. It 
plays a key role in further broadening the operation 
bandwidth of the magic-T.  
In the magic-T, the port 1 serves as the difference (∆) 
port whereas the port 4 acts as the sum (Σ) port. The ports 2 
and 3, on the other hand, are the output ports of the circuit. 
Shown in Fig. 2(a) and (b) are the electric field distributions 
along the cross section A-A’ of the magic-T as the 
difference and sum ports are excited, respectively. The 
operation principles have been well explained in [4] and 
will not be repeated here for brevity. The proposed magic-T 
was designed using EM simulator Ansoft HFSS 10.1, and 
was fabricated on a multilayered FR4 epoxy substrate each 
with a thickness of 0.8 mm. The dielectric constant and loss 
tangent of the substrate are 4.4 and 0.022, respectively. The 
optimized dimensions are given as follows: L1 = 23 mm, L2 
 
Fig. 4 Configuration of the proposed microwave sampler along with the pulse generators and active lowpass filter. 
 
Fig. 5 Measured waveforms (a) at the RF port, (b) across the sampling diodes, (c) at the IF port, and (d) at the filter output of the microwave
sampler.  
 
Gaussian-like impulses at its output. The operating principle 
has been well explained in the literatures [4], [19] and will 
not be addressed here for the sake of simplicity. The 
proposed microwave sampler was also designed on a 
multilayered FR4 epoxy substrate. The design features a 
compact size of 25 by 28 by 1.6 mm3.  
To validate the performance of the proposed microwave 
sampler, in the experiment we employ a similar shunt-mode 
pulse generator at the RF port. A tunable attenuator is 
inserted in-between the RF pulse generator and the magic-T 
to provide an adequate attenuation. It mimics the received 
waveform by the receiving module over air interface. Both 
pulse generators are driven by Agilent vector signal 
generators E4438C. The operating frequencies of RF and 
LO signals are 294.9 MHz and 294.4 MHz, respectively. 
Figure 5(a) shows the measured waveform at the RF port of 
the microwave sampler. The measurement was taken by an 
Agilent real-time digital oscilloscope 54855A along with 
the 1134A probing system. The sampling rate is 5 
GSample/s. The RF pulse has a peak voltage of -120 mV 
and the pulse width is 1 ns. Figure 5(b) depicts the 
measured waveforms across the sampling diodes. The 
waveforms are with equal amplitude but reverse pulse 
polarity. The Gaussian-like strobe signals are converted into 
monocycle pulses at the diode junction due to 
multi-reflections. The monocycle waveform is more 
preferable since it can force the sampling diode to turn off 
rapidly and helps improve the sampling accuracy [9].  The 
pulse width of the sampling strobe is 380 ps, and the 
voltage difference across the diodes is higher than 1 V. The 
output waveform at the IF port is shown in Fig. 5(c). The IF 
signal actually consists of thousands of LO strobes. Each 
strobe signal was amplitude-modulated by the RF signal at 
the sampling period. The IF pulse has a peak voltage of -70 
mV, which corresponds to a conversion loss of 9.4 dB in a 
50-ohm system. The pulse width of the IF signal is 0.5 µs, 
and the repetition frequency is 500 kHz. Additionally, it is 
worthwhile to mention that owing to the nonzero 
reverse-biased junction capacitance of the sampling diode, 
the RF signals may AC couple to the IF port even when the 
sampling diodes are turned off. It gives rise to the RF 
leakage shown in Fig. 5(c). To filter out the high frequency  
         
 
(a) (b) (c) 
Fig. 8 (a) Geometry, (b) return loss, and (c) xy-plane radiation pattern of the planar monopole antenna for transceiving ultrawideband signals.  
 
                     
          (a)  (b) 
Fig. 9 Photographs of the fabricated (a) transmitting module and (b) receiving module.  
 
 
|1 1 | 3.093 .LO RFt f f ps∆ = − =
components, to a higher frequency range. It therefore 
facilitates the transmission over air interface using an 
ultrawideband antenna with acceptable size. The pulse 
generator is optimized by the software Agilent ADS 2006. 
The elements are given by L1 = 6.8 nH, R1 = 33 Ω, R2 = R3 
= R4 = 12 Ω, C1 = 0.5 pF, and C2 = 1 pF. All the stubs are 
1-mm-long 50-ohm microstrip lines. The pulse generating 
network is followed by a power amplifier, and the output 
modulated pulse train is transmitted to free space via an 
ultrawideband antenna. Figure 8(a) illustrates the antenna 
used for transmitting and receiving the modulated pulse 
train. The antenna is a planar monopole antenna developed 
in our laboratory. The bottom part of the radiator is 
described by an elliptical profile. It helps improve the 
impedance matching over a wide bandwidth. The pentagon 
on the upper part of the antenna may further lengthen the 
electrical current path and hence lower down the lowest 
operating frequency. The overall antenna size including the 
finite size ground plane is 60*60 mm2. The geometric 
parameters are La = 22.4 mm, Lb = 12 mm, r1 = 22 mm, r2 = 
20 mm, and LGND = 20 mm. The simulated and measured 
return losses are shown in Fig. 8(b). The agreement 
between the results is very well. The operating bandwidth 
with return loss better than 10 dB is from 2 to more than 11 
GHz. The simulated and measured radiation patterns at 4 
GHz, i.e. the center frequency of the pulse spectrum, are 
illustrated in Fig. 8(c). For simplicity here only the 
co-polarized component, Eθ, in the xy-plane is shown. 
Referring to the figure, the antenna demonstrates quite 
omnidirectional pattern at the principal plane. The measured 
antenna peak gain, which occurs at the broadside direction, 
is 2.7 dBi.  
The receiving module consists of a template pulse 
generator, a microwave sampler, and an active lowpass 
filter. In Fig. 6(b) the multilayered microwave sampler has 
been represented by its equivalent circuit model. The 
template pulse generator has a similar configuration to the 
shunt-mode pulse generator used in the transmitting module 
except that the frequency of the crystal oscillator is now 
24.5536 MHz. By a multiplier factor of 12, the output clock 
rate is 294.6432 MHz. Unlike the transmitting module, 
however, here a pulse generator alone is adequate enough 
for generating LO strobes for sampling the received 
waveform. The strobe impulse converts into a pair of 
monocycle pulses with reverse polarity in the microwave 
sampler, as has been demonstrated in Fig. 5(b). The RF 
waveform received by the ultrawideband antenna is first 
divided into two branches by the T-junction of the sampler. 
It is then periodically sampled by the strobe impulses at the 
balanced sampling bridge. According to the equivalent time 
sampling theory [6], the equivalent sampling interval 
between two consecutive samples can be evaluated by    
 
(1) 
 
In other words, if the pulse width of the RF signal is 500 ps, 
every single pulse reconstructed at the IF output will consist 
of more than 160 samples. Accordingly, the receiving 
module is capable of downsampling subnanosecond pulses 
with high accuracy. An active filter is connected to the 
        
Fig. 11 Experimental setup for demonstrating the proposed            Fig. 12  Sampled waveforms at the output of the receiving 
ultrawideband RF front-end module over air interface.            for various bit patterns. 
 
 
Fig. 13  Received amplitude versus the separation distance
between the transmitting and receiving antennas. 
[2] L. Yang and G. B. Giannakis, “Ultra-wideband communications: an 
idea whose time has come,'” IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, vol. 
21, no. 6, pp. 26-54, Nov.2004. 
[3] C. Fang, Y. Zheng and C. L. Law, “An ultra wideband transmitter 
based on up conversion architecture,” in Proc.  IEEE Int. Workshop 
on Radio-Frequency Integration Tech., Nov. 2005, Singapore, pp. 
38-41. 
[4] T. G. Ma and C. F. Chou, “A compact multilayered magic-T in 
microstrip form and its application to microwave sampler,” in 2008 
IEEE Int. Microw. Symp. Dig., Jun. 2008, Atlanta GA, pp. 887-890. 
[5] K. A. Remley and D. F. Williams, “Sampling oscilloscope models 
and calibrations,” in 2003 IEEE Int. Microwave Symp. Dig., Jul. 2003, 
Philadelphia PA, pp. 1507-1510. 
[6] R. Lawton, S. Riad, and J. Andrews, “Pulse & time-domain 
measurements, Proc. IEEE, vol. 74, pp. 77-81, Jan. 1986. 
[7] K. Madnani and C. S. Aitchison, “A 20GHz Microwave Sampler,” 
IEEE Trans. on Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 40 , no. 10, pp. 
1960-1963, Oct. 1992 
[8] K. Madani, “A hybrid 0.5 - 20 GHz microwave sampler,” in IEE 
Colloquium on Multi-octave Microw. Circuits, Nov. 1991, London 
UK, pp. 3/1-3/4. 
[9] J. Han and C. Nguyen, “Coupled-slotline-hybrid sampling mixer 
integrated with step-recovery-diode pulse generator for UWB 
applications,” IEEE Trans. on Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 53, no. 6, 
pp. 1875-1882, June 2005. 
[10] J. Ohm, and M. Alberty, “Microwave phase detectors for PSK 
demodulators,” IEEE Trans. on Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 29, no. 7, 
pp. 724-731, Jul. 1981. 
[11] B. Stec, C. Recko, and W. Susek, “Multibit microwave frequency 
discriminators,” in Proc. 2006 Int. Conference on Microw., Radar & 
Wireless Communications, May 2006, pp. 240-242. 
[12] D. M. Pozar, Microwave Engineering, 3rd ed., John Wiley & Sons, 
2005. 
[13] J. P. Kim and W. S. Park, “Novel configurations of planar multilayer 
magic-T using microstrip-slotline transitions”, IEEE Trans. Microw. 
Theory Tech., vol. 50, no. 7, pp. 1683-1688, July 2002 
[14] K. U-yen, E. J. Wollack, J. Papapolymerou, and J. Laskar, “A 
broadband planar magic-T using microstrip–slotline transitions,” 
IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 56, no. 1, pp. 172-177, Jan. 
2008.  
[15] L. Fan, C.-H. Ho, S. Kanamaluru and K. Chang, “Wide-band reduced 
uniplanar magic-T, hybrid-ring, and de Ronde’s CPW-slot couplers”, 
IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Tech., vol. 43, no. 12, pp. 2749-2758, 
Dec. 1995.  
[16] S. Gruszczynski, K. Wincza, and K. Sachse, “Design of compensated 
coupled-stripline 3-dB directional couplers, phase shifters and 
magic-Ts (part II: broadband coupled-line circuits),” IEEE Trans. 
Microw Theory Tech., vol.  54, no. 9, pp. 3501-3507, Sep. 2006. 
[17] M. W. Katsube, Y. M. M. Anter, A. Ittipiboon, and M. Cuhaci, “A 
novel aperture coupled microstrip magic-T”, IEEE Microw. Guided 
Wave Lett., vol. 2, no. 6, pp.245-246, June 1992. 
[18] M. Davidovitz, “A compact planar magic-T junction with 
aperture-coupled difference port,” IEEE Microw. Guided Wave Lett., 
vol. 7, no. 8, pp. 217-218, August 1997. 
[19] R. Hall, S. Hamilton and S. Krakauer, “Impulse-Shunt Made 
Harmonic Generation,” in Proc. 1966 ISSCC, pp. 66-67. 
 
 
一、參加會議經過 
首先感謝  貴會的出國差旅費補助，俾使敝人在經濟壓力負擔較輕的前提下，參與
本年度由 IEEE Microwave Theory and Techniques 學會所主辦、年度國際最大型微波研討
會 - 2008 國際微波年會(International Microwave Symposium, IMS)。本年度會議於六月中
旬假美國亞特蘭大舉辦。敝人能夠參與代表微波領域之最新發展趨勢及技術成就的頂級
研討會，實屬每年非常寶貴的機會與經驗。 
敝人自去(96)年開始即著手與碩士班指導學生積極進行研究工作，順利將論文即時
完成，並投稿至 IMS 會議獲得接受。由於 IMS 會議之接受率僅 45~50%左右，扣除海報
張貼及十分鐘口頭報告的短論文，能夠獲得二十分鐘口頭報告時間的論文僅 25%左右。
此次敝人與碩士班學生周金鋒所投稿的論文：『A Compact Multilayered Magic-T in 
Microstrip Form and Its Application to Microwave Sample』，因具有獨特之創見，獲得 IMS
會議之 20 分鐘口頭報告之機會，實屬不易。 
 懷著能夠聆聽國際最頂尖之微波會議的興奮心情，敝人與過去同窗台大林坤佑教
授、中央張鴻埜教授，於 6/12 下午提前搭乘達美航空公司之航班，經東京轉機飛往亞特
蘭大，歷時二十餘小時方抵達亞特蘭大。近年來由於油價持續攀高，機票亦水漲船高，
目前出國要找到便宜的機票越來越不容易，此次尤賴張鴻埜教授的積極接洽，讓我們在
有限的預算下買到相當划算的機票，實在非常感謝！亞特蘭大當地時間與台灣之時差為
12 小時，抵達後前兩天曾央請敝人在 Georgia Tech.甫獲博士學位的彭盛裕博士引領參觀
校園， Georgia Tech.的樸實校園環境與良好設備令人印象深刻。 
6 月 16 日首先參與 RFIC 會議的全日議程，RFIC 目前雖不是敝人的研究領域，但一
直是自我期許邁向的研究方向，也是時代之潮流所趨，因此能夠參與此一會議，對自我
的成長有相當的意義。敝人共參加  RMO1B: Broadband Circuit Techniques, Session 
RMO3B: UWB Front-end ICs及 Session RMO4C: RF Switches and Switchable Components
等議程。此外，次日(週二）上午選擇未參加 IMS 的 plenary speech，而聆聽 RFIC 議程
之議程包括 UWB LNA’s.及 WLAN and Broadband Power Amplifiers。敝人期待能夠持續
瞭解 RFIC 領域的發展，並於未來陸續投入相關研究中。當日下午則開始參與 IMS 議程，
包括 TU3A: Wireless communication front-end technologies, TU4A: UWB techniques and 
radar systems 及 TU4B: RF MEMS tunable and reconfigurable MEMS circuit等。其中TU4B
議程中的數篇論文都十分有趣，相當引人啟發。另外值得一提的是，現代科技的日新月
異確實提供了我們非常良好的研究環境。舉例來說，敝人於會場內聽到有趣的論文，隨
時可用 MSN 將論文傳回給在台灣的學生，要求他們立即觀摩與研讀，並於返國時交換
意見。透過網際網路的發展，對於研究趨勢發展的專注能力得以大大提升，在如此競爭
的環境中，我們怎麼能有所懈怠呢！ 
當日除參與議程外，亦抽空前往展覽會場參觀。由於商業展覽傳統上一直是 IMS 會
議中相當重要的一環，透過與展覽廠商的交流，除了可以瞭解目前市場上產品研發、儀
器設備、元件更迭的最新狀況，亦可獲得許多寶貴的資訊。此次我們除對於量測設備的
廠商如 Agilent, Tektronix, Anritsu 以及模擬軟體如 Ansoft, IE3D 等持續關注外，透過不斷
的詢問與交流，我們獲得了許多寶貴的資訊。此外，敝人亦特別注意元件廠商的相關資
訊，並蒐集資料攜回台灣供學生參考。本次參展書商 Artech house 還提供 USD 19 的特
價書籍特賣會，此價錢較之在台灣購買書籍，仍非常划算，因此我們當然毫不客氣針對
有用的書籍採購一番。 
