 I
中文摘要： 
本計畫為一年期的個別型研究計畫，主要的目的係設計一個應用於 WiMAX
自動重傳請求機制之可適性確認回報方法。在以 IEEE 802.16e 技術為基礎的無
線都會網路中，由於無線傳輸通道變化迅速，再加上訊號衰落及多重路徑的影
響，使得移動用戶端(Mobile Station)與基地台(Base Station)間的資料傳輸可能出
現遺失或錯誤的現象，因此，IEEE 802.16e 標準中利用自動重傳請求(Automatic 
Repeat reQuest，ARQ)機制，並支援四種確認(ACK)回報方式告知傳送端資料的
接收狀況，由於每種 ACK 回報方式有其適用的場景及條件，而 IEEE 802.16e 標
準中並未設計選擇 ACK 回報方法的機制。本計畫提出一個稱為 SARS 的 ARQ
回報策略，該策略將藉由評估每種 ACK 回報方法的回報效能決定出具有較小
overhead 和較大回報能力的回報方法。從我們的模擬結果可以發現，相較於只用
單一種回報方法，SARS 確實能動態選擇出較佳的回報方法，有效降低回報時產
生的 Overhead 及減少反應時間。 
 
 
關鍵詞：全球互通微波存取、自動重傳請求、回覆確認、ARQ 區塊 
A Design of An Adaptive Acknowledge Report Scheme for the
Automatic Repeat Request (ARQ) Mechanism in the WiMAX
System
1 Introduction
Due to the significant loss of signal strength along the propagation path for the certain spectrum, the
transmission range is contra-proportional to the link data rate. In addition, blocking, random fading,
multi-path and interference frequently result in unstable signal quality or even service discontinuity
owing to frame error and loss. Conventionally, this problem has been tackled by adopting the automatic
repeat request (ARQ) mechanism, which is designed for handling reliable data delivery over an unreliable
channel, and thus the frame loss probability will be of limited value or even zero. The majority of the
prior researches on the ARQ mechanism general deals with the topics of delivery delay [1, 2, 3] and
packet size [4, 5]. The delay performance of the ARQ mechanism considering the channel condition,
formulated by a Markov chain, is studied and analyzed, and numerous algorithms have been proposed
to mainly determine the proper packet size in order to avoid bandwidth waste.
For an ARQ-enabled connection in IEEE 802.16e networks, the transmitter logically segments the
medium access control (MAC) service data unit (SDU) into a set of ARQ blocks of fixed size and associates
each block with a unique block sequence number (BSN). The receiver has the responsibility to report the
status of the received ARQ block to the transmitter by using the message-based ARQ acknowledgement
scheme to notify and trigger the transmitter to retransmit erroneous ARQ blocks to receiver. Regarding
to various binary statuses of an amount of consecutively received ARQ blocks, four major ACK report
types, denoted as selective ACK (SA), cumulative ACK (CA), cumulative with selective ACK (CSA),
and cumulative ACK with block sequence ACK (CBSA), are defined to conserve the overhead of report
messages, while maximizing the number of ARQ blocks reported in the message.
Due to the inevitable frame error rate, both transmitter and receiver are requested to support all
kinds of ACK report types. Four report types are not identical in report efficiency, which is evaluated by
the message overhead (i.e., the number of bits in an ARQ feedback message) and the report capability
(i.e., the number of blocks expressed in an ARQ feedback information element (IE)). Unfortunately, the
ARQ mechanism in the IEEE 802.16e standard does not provide the decision rule or clue to selecting
the most appropriate ACK report type, and there is few study concentrates on the report efficiency
of the IEEE 802.16e network. Additionally, the current consensus of studies and implementation is
that the receiver adopts single ACK report type for every connection due to the reduction of the extra
computation overhead for selection strategy. However, the improper ACK report type may render the
potential overhead, waste the channel bandwidth, and limit the overall report capability.
In this project, we propose a new strategy, namely smart ARQ report strategy (SARS), which evalu-
+ARQFeedback Message
ARQ Header 32 ARQ ACK Maps
CID 16
LAST 1
ACK Type 2
BSN 11
Number of ACK Maps 2
0x1 0x0 0x2 0x3
No ACK Maps Number of ACK Maps
SF:1 (=0)
SAM:2
L1:6 (Length)
L2:6 (Length)
Reserve: 1
SF:1 (=1)
SAM:3
L1:4 (Length)
L2:4 (Length)
L3:4 (Length)
SF : Sequence Format
SAM : Sequence ACK Map
L1: Length of Sequence 1
L2: Length of Sequence 2
L3: Length of Sequence 3
CA SA CBSA-2CSA CBSA-3
16
(bits)
16 16 16
Figure 1: ARQ feedback message formats of types CA, SA, CSA, and CBSA.
Table 1: Message overhead and report capability of each ACK report type.
Type OHmax OHmin RCmax RCmin
SA 32+16·Nmap 32+16 16·Nmap 16
CA 32 32 BSN 1
CSA 32+16·Nmap 32+16 BSN+16·Nmap-1 16
CBSA-2 32+16·Nmap 32+16 BSN+(64+64)·Nmap-1 2
CBSA-3 32+16·Nmap 32+16 BSN+(16+16+16)·Nmap-1 3
receiver is allowed to combine types CBSA-2 and CBSA-3 in an ARQ Feedback IE when there are two
or more ACK Maps.
3 Pre-Analysis
In order to compare the efficiency of the four report types, we use the feedback message overhead and
report capability respectively termed OH and RC as the primary metrics. The message overhead is the
number of required information bits for an ARQ Feedback IE, and the report capability is the number
of ARQ blocks whose binary reception statuses are reported in an ARQ Feedback IE. According to the
ARQ feedback message format shown in Fig. 1, we show the message overhead and report capability of
various report types listed in Table 1, where OHmax, OHmin, RCmax, and RCmin are the maximal OH ,
minimal OH , maximal RC, and minimal RC, respectively. In addition, Nmap indicates the number of
ACK Maps and BSN stands for the reception statuses of the ARQ blocks, i.e., the value of the BSN
field. Obviously, the 11-bit BSN can indicate the reception statuses of 211 ARQ blocks at most.
The result shown in Table 1 confirms that using different ARQ report type will result in dissimilar
performance. Evidently, two reasons to make the strategy to ACK report type selection complicate
are 1) the tradeoff between message overhead and report capability and 2) the wide range of report
3
efficiency. As shown in Table 2, CSA always produces the least message overhead and the fewest feedback
messages among three types. As a result, whenever the non-grouping category is considered to be used,
type CSA should be selected as the best report strategy. On the other hand, in Table 3, CBSA-2 and
CBSA-3 are not identical in report capability due to various combinations of binary sequence. CBSA-3
outperforms CBSA-2 in most cases, but shows the disappointing report efficiency when PG→B is equal to
0.01. It implies that both CBSA-2 and CBSA-3 should be adopted for different kinds of binary patterns.
4 Smart ARQ Report Strategy (SARS)
In the current mobile network, the ARQ mechanism is performed by the transmitter and receiver on a per
connection basis, and all the connections may be simply associated with single ACK report type, as the
optimal ACK report type selection strategy requires the extra computation overhead. This is a sensible
design, but by no means the most efficient one. From our pre-analysis, it is evident that the strategy
of using single report type is unlikely to achieve the maximal report capability as well as the minimal
overhead all the times, and therefore such inflexible strategy consumes more bandwidth to report less
information. According to Tables 2 and 3, SARS will consider types CSA, CBSA-2 and CBSA-3, and
determine the appropriate type to optimize report efficiency. For the sake of brevity, all the ensuing
discussions apply for ARQ feedback occurring on single connection only, unless otherwise noted.
Whenever ARQ feedback deems appropriate and necessary, the receiver issues an ARQ feedback
message to the transmitter to trigger the retransmissions of erroneous ARQ blocks and/or slide the
transmission window. Using the original binary status sequence to evaluate the efficiency of each report
type is a straightforward design, but by no means the most efficient one. Two drawbacks of using the
original binary sequence to evaluate the efficiency are 1) the slow speed of OH and RC measurements,
and 2) the extra computation overhead required for the CBSA ARQ feedback message.
Fig. 3 shows the framework of SARS, which includes a decimal transformer and an evaluator to
speedup the evaluation and determination of the appropriate report type. The original binary status
sequence is transformed as a decimal sequence associated with a binary status sequence. Each value in
the decimal sequence denotes the number of consecutive ARQ blocks with the same reception status. The
reception statuses of block groups are carried in the correspondent binary status sequence. For example
shown in Fig. 3, the binary sequence (1,0,1,0,1,1,1,1,1,0,0,1,1,0,1) will be transformed as the decimal
sequence (1,1,1,1,5,2,2,1,1) and the correspondent binary status sequence will be (1,0,1,0,1,0,1,0,1). It is
worthwhile to note that the number of elements in the decimal sequence is equal to the number of status
transitions plus one.
Computation overhead, as another key efficiency metric, has also been considered in SARS, and thus
we propose a two-stage smart ARQ report strategy. The first stage determines the superior report type
in the grouping category, say type CBSA-x, and the second stage determines the actual report type by
comparing the efficiency of type CSA with that of type CBSA-x. The main goal of the first stage is to
design an efficient selection policy. As defined in the standard, the maximal numbers of consecutive ARQ
blocks per group in types CBSA-2 and CBSA-3 are 64 and 16, respectively. The two values are helpful
to determine the appropriate type for each decimal sequence. Let gi and Ngi respectively denote the
i-th group and the size of group gi in a Sequence ACK Map. According to these two threshold values,
the report capabilities of type CBSA-2, denoted as RC2, and type CBSA-3, denoted as RC3, are easily
5
RCCBSA−x denote the overhead and report capability produced by type CBSA-x. Algorithm 1 shows
the proposed SARS algorithm, in which ATi indicates the selected ACK type, where i = 1, 2, 3 stand for
types CSA, CBSA-2 and CBSA-3, respectively.
Algorithm 1 SARS algorithm
Input: ARQ block binary status sequence
Output: ATi
Initialize, nCSAmap = 0 and n
CBSA
map = 0;
Generate the decimal sequence;
Generate the binary status sequence corresponding to the decimal sequence;
while nCSAmap ≤ Nmap do
Calculate OHCSA and RCCSA;
n
CSA
map ++;
end while
Calculate CSA utility, UCSA;
while nCBSAmap ≤ Nmap do
Calculate Ng1 and Ng2 ;
if Ng1 ≤ 16 and Ng2 ≤ 16 then
Calculate OHCBSA−3 and RCCBSA−3;
i = 3;
else
Calculate OHCBSA−2 and RCCBSA−2;
i = 2;
end if
n
CBSA
map ++;
end while
Calculate CBSA utility, UCBSA;
if UCSA > UCBSA then
i = 1;
end if
5 Performance Evaluation
In the simulation, we use the utility defined in Eq. (1) and the number of produced report messages
(termed NM) as the primary metrics to evaluate the report efficiency of different strategies. We consider
the scenario with an error channel and the block error distribution follows a two-state Markov model as
shown in Fig. 2. The network under investigation only includes one BS and one MS, and one ARQ-enabled
connection is established from BS to MS. The total number of ARQ blocks sent from BS to MS is 5000,
and all ARQ blocks are assumed to arrive at receiver in order. Suppose BS and MS have sufficient buffer
space, and thus always can respectively buffer produced and received data blocks. An ARQ Feedback
IE consists of a 32-bit ACK header and four 32-bit ACK Maps. We assume that retransmissions of
erroneous ARQ blocks are always successful, and the timeout consideration in the transmitter or receiver
is ignored.
Fig. 4 depicts the utility as a function of the number of produced report messages for the strategy
with type CSA, the CBSA adaptive strategy, and SARS under the stable channel condition. It is obvious
that small values of PG→B and PB→G imply low probability of channel state transition. The simulation
model is more realistic because the transmitter usually encapsulates a number of fixed-size ARQ blocks
into an MAC frame. As the receiver fails to receive the whole MAC frame, all the packed ARQ blocks in
this frame need to be retransmitted. Therefore, the adoption of SARS and the CBSA adaptive strategy
7
1 10 20 30 400
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
No. of produced report messages (NM)
Ut
ilit
y
CSA
CBSA Adaptive
SARS
Figure 6: The utility of different report strategies under the very good channel condition in which
PG→B = 0.01 and PB→G = 0.99.
Fig. 6 illustrates the relation between the utility and the number of produced report messages under
the very good channel conditio. Significantly, the MS can successfully receive most of ARQ blocks,
thereby the number of status transitions in the binary sequence is quite few. It can be observed that
SARS can sustain a stable and high utilization, even though it yields a little bit worse utility as the
number of produced report messages grows. More specifically, it also indicates that SARS produces the
fewest report messages, as compared to the strategy with type CSA and the CBSA adaptive strategy. In
addition, three strategies are most effective in the very good channel condition. Nevertheless, this highly
desirable feature of insensibility is particularly indispensable for handling varying channel condition, as
the receiver might encounter any kinds of binary reception sequences to be reported.
6 Conclusions
In this project, we argue that the primary reasons of the report efficiency deterioration in the IEEE
802.16e ARQ mechanism are twofold: irregular binary reception sequence and usage of single ARQ report
type. We propose a new smart ARQ report strategy, namely SARS, to maximize the report capability,
while trying to reduce the overhead resulted from report messages. According to the observation and
heuristic experience, SARS adaptively selects types CSA, CBSA-2 and CBSA-3 to report the binary
statuses of received ARQ blocks. The key concept of SARS is to evaluate the efficiency of the three
report types and to choose the best report type for the binary reception sequence to be reported. The
simulation results further confirm that SARS can sustain a stable report efficiency, and avoid bandwidth
degradation caused by the produced feedback messages. As a conclusion, the proposed SARS strategy,
which combines types CSA, CBSA-2 and CBSA-3, can work very well to provide an efficient ARQ report
solution for handling all kinds of channel conditions.
References
[1] M. Rossi, L. Badia, and M. Zorzi, “Exact statistics of ARQ packet delivery delay over markov channels
with finite round-trip delay,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference
(GLOBECOM), Dec. 2003, pp. 3356–3360.
9
 1
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
 ■ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計畫的主要內容係鑽研 WiMAX 核心技術之相關議題，目的是希望設
計一個可適性的 ACK 回報機制以支援 IEEE 802.16e ARQ 機制。若從研發技
術層面而言，本計畫的研究成果可結合不同服務類型(包括 UGS、ertPS、
rtPS、nrtPS 及 BE)的排程以符合並改善 WiMAX 系統中資料傳輸的品質服務
(QoS)，進而提升系統效能。若從國家發展層面而言，本計畫確實配合現階段
國家重點科技技術之發展，相信透過本計畫的執行，不但可以掌握 WiMAX
之關鍵技術，更能提昇國內 WiMAX 相關之技術水準。本計畫提出的機制若
能再增加理論分析，並提出更符合本研究問題的定理或特性，將可提升本研
究成果的品質，更可以發表在無線網路及無線通訊相關領域的學術期刊。 
 
二、 與會心得 
無線與光通信會議是一個每年均舉辦的國際學術會議，此會議的參與者主
要是由大陸、美國、台灣、香港及新加坡等地的相關領域專家學者，目的是希
望能提供這些地區無線與光通信技術學術與產業間的交流平台。今年的 WOCC
會議在上海張江高科技園區舉行，會議共有兩天，第一天及第二天上午安排多
場的 Plenary Sessions，其餘的時間則為各領域的議程，議程的內容相當豐富，
遍及無線通信、無線網路、光通信與多媒體通訊等各個領域，也因此與會人士
也有為數不少來自於學術界與企業界的先驅。 
本次會議的主題與我的研究方向相符合，除了發表自己的研究成果外，還
藉此認識多位從事相關研究之研究生及學者，互相交換名片，以便日後共同研
討，對個人研究工作確實有很大的助益。此次參加 WOCC 2010 得到許多的經
驗，不論是在研究議題上或是接觸到來自不同國家、學校的學者上都是莫大的
收獲，尤其是能夠提早獲得別人的研究成果與業界的技術進展，並且可以立即
與發表進行討論與交流，確實是一個難得的經驗。 
最後，感謝國科會補助本人出國參加國際會議，經由此次的活動，不但增
加自己的專業知識及提升研究能量，更增加本人的國際觀與視野。 
 
三、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
(1) 會議論文光碟一片。 
(2) 會議論文議程手冊一本。 
(3) 環保帶一個。 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王勝石 計畫編號：98-2221-E-159-016- 
計畫名稱：設計一個應用於 WiMAX 自動重傳請求機制之可適性確認回報方法 
成果項目 
量化 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
國內 
論文著作 
期刊論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100%  
專書 0 0 100%   
專利 申請中件數 0 0 100% 件  已獲得件數 0 0 100%  
技術移轉 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
碩士生 4 4 100% 
人次 
 
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
專任助理 0 0 100%  
國外 
論文著作 
期刊論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100%  
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
專利 申請中件數 0 0 100% 件  已獲得件數 0 0 100%  
技術移轉 
件數 0 0 100% 件  
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
碩士生 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
專任助理 0 0 100%  
