行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
細胞離子通道微流元件研發 
計畫執行起訖: 96.08.01 至 97.07.31 
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-002-195 
國立台灣大學應用力學研究所 
主持人: 胡文聰 
 
中文摘要 
本計畫闡述利用二氧化碳雷射作用在玻璃
表面之簡單的程序，藉著玻璃熱回熔的效
應形成ㄧ沙漏狀的孔洞，適合用於細胞電
生理之研究以及製作單細胞微陣列。本研
究並提出新穎之兩階段式雷射鑽孔法，可
穩定地製作出 1-10 微米之孔洞。由細胞與
玻璃間的緊密電阻值量測之結果顯示，此
種製程之孔洞非常適合用來量測離子通道
之訊號，且成功地量測到 HEK-293T 細胞
本身之離子通道反應。此外，本工作亦呈
現單細胞微陣列抓取之結果。此方式製作
之微孔洞可與微流體系統整合，提供快速
溶液交換應用於單細胞片膜鉗制技術量測
細胞膜離子通道，或以單細胞微陣列的形
式探討單細胞層級之細胞行為差異。 
Keywords: 離子通道，片膜鉗制，沙漏狀孔洞，微
流元件，雷射鑽孔 
 
ABSTRACT 
This work presents a simple process of reflow of 
melted glass by CO2 laser to form an 
hourglass-shaped aperture for cellular 
electrophysiological study, and trapping single cells 
in array configuration for single cell analysis. A 
two-stage laser drilling technique was proposed to 
stably fabricate 1-10µm apertures. Resulted seal 
resistance quality is well-suited to measure 
electrophysiological activities, and endogenous 
ion-channel in HEK 293T cells was successfully 
measured. Single-cell trapping on microaperture 
array was also demonstrated. This approach can be 
integrated with microfluidics in a single cell patch for 
fast solution exchange, or array configuration for 
studying individual heterogeneous behavior in 
single-cell level.  
 
Keywords: ion channel, patch clamp, hourglass 
aperture, microfluidics, laser drilling 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Ion channels are protein macromolecules 
that modulate specific ions across the cell 
membrane. Function disorders of ion 
channels are related to various diseases; 
hence ion channels serve as significant drug 
targets. Neher and Sakmann1,2 performed 
seminal work on patch-clamp technique and 
set the standard on electrophysiology study 
for decades. However, the intensive labor 
and low throughput hinder its application on 
drug screening purpose.  
 
Recently, chip-based electrophysiological 
microfluidic devices have been 
demonstrated in several approaches. In all 
cases, a tight seal between cell membrane 
and substrate of the cell-trapping aperture is 
vital to allow measurement of ion channel 
 
 
 
FIG. 1 Illustration of laser drilling process 
used. Glass substrate is melted and 
vaporized due to high intensity, Gaussian 
distributed CO2 laser beam (TEM00). The 
reflow of melted glass forms the hourglass 
feature discussed here. 
 2
to 7.3 by NaOH.  
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
A two-stage laser pulses command 
illustration is demonstrated in Fig. 2A. The 
first stage is composed of a number of 
pulses with longer duration than the second 
stage pulses. These laser pulses drill through 
the glass substrate and form an 
hourglass-shape aperture with diameter 
typically larger than 10µm. The second stage 
comprised a series of shorter duration pulses 
is designed to maintain the reflow of melted 
glass back to the core of the aperture to 
reduce its diameter to 1-10µm.  
 
The side (edge) view of the 150 µm glass 
slide, Fig. 2B, shows the laser path as 
predominately Gaussian and penetrated the 
majority of the glass thickness. At the tip of 
the Gaussian profile, the hourglass feature is 
clearly seen; it bottlenecks at the aperture 
followed by an expanding funnel structure 
towards the other surface. The diameter of 
the funnel is approximately 30 µm on the 
glass surface and 20 µm deep (from the 
beam exiting surface to the aperture).  
 
Micrographs from the “funnel side” are 
shown in Figs. 2C in isometric view. The 
aperture is shown to be smooth, circular and 
debris-free. The first two characteristics are 
most likely benefits of the reflow process; 
the melted glass aided by local surface 
tension resulted in the desirable features. 
Debris-free is due to series of short pulses 
and just sufficient energy for penetration.  
 
SEM image of fabricated apertures with 
different number of second stage pulses is 
showed in Fig. 3. The apertures correspond 
to different number of pulses between 0 to 
10 in 2 interval revealed gradually reduced 
aperture diameters. The smallest size of the 
aperture in this demonstration was around 
3µm. 
 
Figure 4 shows the relationship between the 
number of second stage laser pulses verses 
aperture diameter. Results show the more 
the second stage pulses, the smaller the 
 
 
FIG. 2 (A) Illustration of two-stage laser 
pulses command to fabricate apertures with 
diameter of 1-10µm. (B) Side-view 
micrograph of the hourglass-shaped aperture. 
(C) Isometric SEM image of the aperture 
captured from the laser exiting surface. 
 
aperture diameter. This result verifies the 
concept of the two-stage laser pulses 
approach. By properly choosing the number 
of second stage pulses, different size of the 
aperture would be generated according to 
diverse applications.  
 
The aperture size was predominantly 
governed by the energy intensity and density 
of laser emission. Frequency, duration, and 
number of laser pulses define the melted 
region of the glass and, hence, affect the 
shape and size of the aperture. Generally, the 
dimension of the hole in laser drilling 
process is limited by the wavelength of laser. 
However, smaller aperture size was achieved 
by exploiting the heating characteristics of 
glass and its associated reflow of material. 
 
Planar patch-clamp application with 
fabricated aperture in the range of 1-3µm 
was presented. Whole cell current recording 
of endogenous channels in HEK 293T cell 
without leak subtraction is shown in Fig. 5A. 
Voltage steps were elicited between -100 
and +80 mV in 20 mV interval from holding 
potential of -80 mV. Strong ion channel 
activation appeared at positive membrane 
potential. Seal resistance at whole cell 
 4
 
 
FIG. 5 Measured ion-channel current via 
fabricated 1~3µm aperture as a planar 
patch-clamp chip. (A) Whole cell current 
recording of endogenous channels in HEK 
293T cell without leak subtraction. Strong ion 
channel activation appeared at positive 
membrane potential. (B) The current-voltage 
relation obtained from the whole cell current 
traces. 
 
1-10µm. We can acquire a decreasing 
aperture size by increasing the number of 
second stage laser pulses. The fabricated 
aperture can be used in single-cell analysis 
such as planar patch-clamp application or 
microarray for single-cell trapping. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
The support by the National Science Council 
through the current grant is greatly 
appreciated. 
 
REFERENCE 
1 E. Neher and B. Sakmann, Nature 260, 799 
(1976). 
2 O. P. Hamill, A. Marty, E. Neher, B. Sakmann, and 
F. J. Sigworth, Pflug Arch Eur J Phy 391, 85 
(1981). 
3 N. Fertig, R. H. Blick, and J. C. Behrends, 
Biophys J 82, 3056 (2002). 
4 A. Stett, C. Burkhardt, U. Weber, P. van Stiphout, 
and T. Knott, Receptor Channel 9, 59 (2003). 
5 N. Fertig, M. Klau, M. George, R. H. Blick, and J. 
C. Behrends, Appl Phys Lett 81, 4865 (2002). 
6 T. Lehnert, M. A. M. Gijs, R. Netzer, and U. 
Bischoff, Appl Phys Lett 81, 5063 (2002). 
7 T. Lehnert, D. M. T. Nguyen, L. Baldi, and M. A. 
M. Gijs, Microfluid Nanofluid 3, 109 (2007). 
 
 
 
FIG. 6 (A) SEM image of microaperture array 
fabricated by two-stage laser drilling 
technique. The size of the apertures was 
uniformly less than 8µm. (B) Fluorescent 
image of single-cell trapping on 
microaperture array. Individual HEK 293T 
cells with calcein AM stain were trapped on 
the aperture by applying negative suction. 
 
8 R. Pantoja, J. M. Nagarah, D. M. Starace, N. A. 
Melosh, R. Blunck, F. Bezanilla, and J. R. Heath, 
Biosens Bioelectron 20, 509 (2004). 
9 T. Sordel, S. Garnier-Raveaud, F. Sauter, C. Pudda, 
F. Marcel, M. De Waard, C. Arnoult, M. Vivaudou, 
F. Chatelain, and N. Picollet-D'hahan, J Biotechnol 
125, 142 (2006). 
10 B. Matthews and J. W. Judy, J Microelectromech S 
15, 214 (2006). 
11 W. L. Ong, J. S. Kee, A. Ajay, N. Ranganathan, K. 
C. Tang, and L. Yobas, Appl Phys Lett 89, 093902 
(2006). 
12 K. G. Klemic, J. F. Klemic, M. A. Reed, and F. J. 
Sigworth, Biosens Bioelectron 17, 597 (2002). 
13 C. Ionescu-Zanetti, R. M. Shaw, J. G. Seo, Y. N. 
Jan, L. Y. Jan, and L. P. Lee, P Natl Acad Sci USA 
102, 9112 (2005). 
14 A. Y. Lau, P. J. Hung, A. R. Wu, and L. P. Lee, Lab 
Chip 6, 1510 (2006). 
15 C. C. Chen and A. Folch, Lab Chip 6, 1338 (2006). 
16 K. G. Klemic, J. F. Klemic, and F. J. Sigworth, 
Pflug Arch Eur J Phy 449, 564 (2005). 
17 X. H. Li, K. G. Klemic, M. A. Reed, and F. J. 
Sigworth, Nano Lett 6, 815 (2006). 
18 K. Schroeder, B. Neagle, D. J. Trezise, and J. 
Worley, J Biomol Screen 8, 50 (2003). 
 6
部一個淨空的視野，輔助醫生施行治療。而此種塗料在患部塗抹，也可以幫助破損、切斷的組織
再生，原理就是凝膠可以輔助傷部兩端的細胞在裡面傳遞，加速修復速度。 
中國大陸學者也有很不錯的研究，在 DNA 的展開以及截斷，他們利用 AFM 的探針來達成這種
需求。而在微流體領域中的 TAS(Total Analysis System)晶片也很前衛，利用 24 個控制器閥配
合 PDMA 微流道來執行 DNA 的純化、裂解等。另一位女研究生研究的是磁珠操控，利用交疊的電極
所生磁力來對磁珠進行精準定位。 
台灣學者在進行電磁波對生物影響的試驗、尿液檢測晶片等。清華大學學生在精子湧動力的
報告有很不錯的成果，利用穩定流場的邊界特性進而測量精子的湧動力，若精子能夠穿越兩道並
行流場的介面層，則表示精子的狀態仍是活潑的。而另一位同實驗室的女學生則是利用電漿對工
作物表面的親水性處理特性，進而製造更強的毛吸現象，進而獲得液體閥門的效果。台灣的 NHRI 
(National Health Research Institute)也正在分析奈米粒子對生物體的相容性問題，其中也包
含了奈米粒子用於治療方面的果效，是國內生醫產業的先驅。此次研討會中亦有學者從事 3D 體內
造影的軟體研發，利用核磁共振技術架構體內的立體圖，並填補適當或有利醫生判斷的色彩於表
面。泰國有學者從事 DNA 的 PCR 放大的模擬研究，讓生物樣本來回沖刷於三電極之上；美國也有
學者來演講關於受損神經再造的技術，他們利用外加的控制電路作為人工的腦部海馬腺體的部份
回授電路，再利用微米探針做為橋樑，幫助老年癡呆症患者或者是腦功能受損的病患。 
在會議期間分別與兩位國內外教授聚餐，分享並交換研究內容與心得，因此了解各學校不同
的研究風氣和教學方法。教授們也相互了解學生學習的狀況與未來規劃，不外乎是積極的學習態
度、獨立的研究能力、跨領域學習、英文寫作與表達能力等。在分享研究過程中，也學習到不同
研究團隊對相同主題的不同思維，對自己研究的題目也藉此機會向教授們請教問題。 
  
Integration of a Micromixer and Tweezers for Cells and 
Bio-molecules Assay in a Microchannel 
Cheng-Ming Lin, Yu-Shang Lai, Hsin-Ping Liu, and Andrew M. Wo    
Abstract - We present a new approach for bio-assay with two 
important microfluidic elements, mixer and tweezers, in a 
microchannel. These two components are utilizing the same 
mechanism and similar geometry in microchannel, but working in 
different directions. Both two devices are composed of a suspended 
bridge with a gold-lead, rectangular flat-plate as the primary 
structure. When an AC current passed through the gold leads under 
an external magnetic field, the plate will oscillate laterally due to 
Lorenz force. Under high operating frequency, the oscillation will 
generate two counter vortices outside of the Stokes’ layer above the 
plate. Therefore we use this phenomenal effect as an active mixer 
and a hydrodynamic tweezers for bio-assay. In contrast to other 
approaches, the two devices in a microchannel allow cells or 
molecules to flow freely through unobstructed region, mixed with 
reagents, trapped, and controlled released. This is believed to be the 
first account of utilizing a mixer and tweezers, both with a pair of 
counter micro-vortices, in a microchannel for bio-molecules study.  
BACKGROUND 
Mixing is an essential need in bio-applications, such as 
biochemical analysis, drug screening, DNA sequencing and 
enzyme synthesis etc. Mixing techniques – passive (e.g. [1]) and 
active (e.g. [2, 3]) – have been established and much advances 
made with microfluidics. However, for bio-assay, trapping and 
monitoring bio-particles in real time is further important after 
reagents treatments. Optical tweezers are most wisely used in 
single cells in suspension, and dielectrophoretic (DEP) method [4] 
was also applied. Shelby et al. [5] utilized microvortices, a 
hydrodynamic approach, particularly vortical flow, to manipulate 
a bioparticle within a confined region, and applied the technique 
to nano-particles [6]. Lutz et al. [7] trapped cells using 
microeddies behind circular cylinder. In this work we present a 
new arrangement with two devices leveraging on a pair of 
counter-rotating micro-vortices to mix and trap bio-particles in a 
sequence. In contrast to other approaches, this device allows 
bio-particles to flow freely through unobstructed region, mixed 
with reagents, trapped, and controlled released.  A new integrated 
microfluidic system with two microfluidic components, mixer 
and tweezers, for processing bio-molecules or micro cells in a 
single chip is presented. 
CURRENT RESULTS 
Fabrication methods utilized conventional lithography, shown 
in Fig. 1. Silicon wafer coded with silicon nitride (~1µm) was 
 
 
Microfluidics Laboratory, Institute of Applied Mechanics, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan, R. O. C.  
Contact Author: Cheng-Ming Lin is with  Microfluidic Laboratory, Institute of 
Applied Mechanics, National Taiwan University; No. 1, Sec. 4, Roosevelt Road, 
Taipei, 10617 Taiwan, R. O. C. (phone:+886-2-3366-5658; fax:+886-2-3366-5657 
e-mail: chmlin@ntu.edu.tw). 
sputtered with metallic layer (0.22µm thickness of Au/Cr). 
Photoresist (Shipley 1813) was patterned to define the 
microelectrode structure. Unnecessary metal was removed by 
etchant. By repeating the procedure of coating photoresist and 
developing, the cavity underneath the oscillatory structure was 
formed. Reactive ionic etch (RIE) removed the silicon nitride 
unprotected by photoresist. Potassium hydroxide (KOH) 
performed bulk micromachining to remove unwanted silicon to 
suspend the structure. Figure 2 illustrated our mixer and tweezers 
design with two counter microvortices (depicted in Fig. 3) 
appeared above the two edges of the oscillatory structure. Figure 4 
shows the micromixer was placed in a microchannel, from 
top-view of the flow without (Fig. 4(a)) and with the 
micro-vortices activated at 90kHz and 10Vp-p (Fig. 4(b)), both 
under a relatively high background velocity of 1.5 mm/s (or 
Reynolds number of 0.074 based on this velocity and the channel 
height of 50µm). Flow observed with 0.9µm fluorescent particles 
to serve as nanoscale particles, and it suggests effective mixing in 
a short distance after 500µm. In tweezers, CHO (Chinese hamster 
ovary) cells were trapped by micro-vortices, tweezers, shown in 
Figure 5.  Quantitatively, for example, the tweezers, can trap the 
cells under 140µm/s background flow at 7Vp-p input voltage. 
Figure 6 shows proteins (anti-rabbit IgG, Invitrogen Corp.) 
marked with fluorescent dye eventually trapped by the tweezers at 
3Vp-p input voltage. This approach which involves these two 
devices in a microchannel is useful for cells treatments and 
bio-molecules assay.    
 
REFERENCES 
[1] A. D. Stroock, S. K. W. Dertinger, A. A. Igor Mezic, H. A. Stone, G. M. 
Whitesides, ”Chaotic Mixer for Microchannels,”, Journal of Science, vol 295, 
pp.647-650 (2002). 
[2] S.K. Hsiung, C.H. Lee, J.J. Lin and G.B. Lee, ”Active micro-mixers utilizing 
moving wall structures activated pneumatically by buried side chambers,” 
Journal of Micromechanics and Microengineering, vol. pp129-138 (2006). 
[3] N. Sasaki, T. Kitamori, H.-B. Kim, ”Rapid mixing based on AC 
electroosmosis in microchannel,” 9th International Conference on 
Miniaturized System for Chemistry and Life Science (2005). 
[4] B. M. Taff and J. Voldman, "A scalable addressable 
positive-dielectrophoretic cell-sorting array," Analytical Chemistry, vol. 77, 
pp. 7976-7983, Dec 2005. 
[5] J.P. Shelby, S.A. Mutch, and D.T. Chiu, “Direct manipulation and 
observation of the rotational motion of single optically trapped 
microparticles and biological cells in microvortices”, Analytical Chemistry, 
2004. 76(9): p. 2492-2497. 
[6] J.P. Shelby, and D.T. Chiu, “Controlled rotation of biological micro- and 
nano-particles in microvortices”,  Lab on a Chip, 2004. 4(3): p. 168-170. 
[7] B.R. Lutz, J. Chen, and D.T. Schwartz, “Hydrodynamic tweezers: 1. 
Noncontact trapping of single cells using steady streaming microeddies”,  
Analytical Chemistry, 2006. 78(15): p. 5429-5435. 
