  
摘    要 
 
醫學顯像技術被廣泛的應用於病患的病症檢查，因此在醫院裡大量的醫學影像被產生。對於大
量的醫學影像資料需要有效的被管理。一般的影像資料管理方式都是以人工註解的方式加以分類。
本研究以影像內涵做為特徵並使用支持向量機(Support Vector Machines)對未加註解的影像進一
歩分類。本研究我們使用相關向量表示法來描述影像內涵空間關係之特徵，所提出之相關向量表示
法可接受不同亮度之影像並不受影響。基於轉換之相關向量表示法再進一歩擷取出不變動量及相對
相關之影像特徵，以做為影像分類之依據。 
支持向量機主要在解決非線性及高維模式識別問題。已經應用於手寫體識別、三維目標識
別、人臉識別、文本圖像分類等實際問題中，性能優於已有的學習方法，表現出良好的學習能
力。在本研究中使用 9000 張已分類的醫學影像做為訓練集，來測試 1000張未分類的影像。在
實驗結果中証實所提出的影像特徵能夠有效的表示影像內涵提高影像分類的正確率。 
 
關鍵字: 醫學影像分類；支持向量機 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
The importance of digital image retrieval techniques increases in the emerging fields of 
medical imaging, picture archiving and communication systems. In this report, content based 
image retrieval method and a multi-class classification method based on support vector machines 
is used to classify un-annotated medical images. Radiography medical image always contain 
particular anatomic regions (lung, liver, head, and so on). Thus, similar images have similar 
spatial structures. In this article, we use a relative vector representation to denote the local spatial 
relationship between pixels. The relative vector representation transforms the gray value to 
relative vector which is an illumination invariant coefficient. Based on the illumination invariant 
coefficient, two image features was derived. We calculate the invariance moment and 
correlogram from relative vector as the image feature. 
We investigate a supervised learning approach to associate image features with semantic 
categories for image classification. A support vector machine (SVM) is used to elucidate image 
feature characteristics for image classification. Several image visual features are proposed to 
describe the visual content of medical images.The SVM is trained by 9000 images to predict the 
categories of 1000 test images. Experimental results show that using a combination of all the 
image features will achieve the highest recognition accuracy, and that the spatial relationship is a 
very important feature in medical image data because medical image data have similar anatomic 
regions (such as the lungs, liver, head, and so on). 
 
Key-words: - Medical Image Classification; Support Vector Machine; 
2 
 
when applied to medical images. The rest of this paper is organized as follows: In Section 2, the 
employed image features are described. Section 3 illustrates the SVM model that is used to 
classify the training data. In Section 4, the experimental results are discussed. Finally, Section 5 
provides concluding remarks and future directions for medical image retrieval. 
2 Image Content Representations 
This section describes the image features used for medical image representation. In an image 
retrieval system, image features are extracted from pixels and the gray value of a pixel is direct 
related to illumination. The extracted features are then used for similarity comparison. For fast 
response, image features must be concise, and for precision, image features must contain 
meaningful information to represent the image itself. Image features will directly affect the 
retrieval result. In this report we propose an illuminative invariant image features to emphasize 
the contrast of an image and classify images with less illuminative influence. We describe the 
relative relationships between neighbor pixels instead of directly calculated image feature from 
pixels.  
 
2.1 Co-related image feature. 
 
Color histogram [9] is a basic method and has good performance with regards to representing 
image content. The color histogram method gathers statistics about the proportion of each color 
as the signature of an image. However, in medical image data, the images are gray. Histogram 
method quantize the gray value into 256(0~255) levels, and calculate the ratio of each level as a 
histogram. The histogram method lacks spatial information between neighbors and illumination 
influence. 
In this article, we propose an illumination invariant relative feature to represent the content of 
medical image. The brightness will affect the gray value in digital computer. However, human’s 
perception emphasizes the contrast rather than the illumination of an image. The representation 
we designed considers human’s perception that has illumination invariant character. 
We consider the relationship between neighbor pixels as relative features and defined three 
relative relationships that are irrelevant to illumination: equal, bigger, and less. Previous 
techniques using single pixel as the basic unit of measure are dominated by the absolute gray 
value. We propose a relative local feature in which each pixel refers to two neighbor pixels as a 
basic unit of measure to generate relative vectors. Thus, the basic unit of measure is a relative 
vector and thus illumination invariant. The detailed definition of relative vector is defined as 
following: 
 
Definion 1: Relation R, any two neighbor pixels pi and pj have a relative relationship; the relation 
R is defined as follows: 
R(pi, pj)={  0  if gray_value(pi)-gray_value(pj)=0 
1  if 0<gray_value(pi)-gray_value(pj) <= 5 
4 
 



n
i
i uddstd
1
2)(  
For each class, we get the ud and std as the moment of spatial distribution to describe the global 
spatial relationship. An image will first be translated into an illumination invariant vector space. 
We calculate the occurrence frequency, average distance and standard deviation of each class as 
the feature of an image. As an image, signature representation totally has 375 vectors in total. 
 
2.2 Correlogram feature.  
 
Based on the relative vector, the extracted image feature is more stable than directly operate on 
gray value in different illumination. After the relative feature transform, we analyze the relative 
vector by modified correlogram algorithm. The definition of the correlogram is in Eq. (2). Let D 
denote a set of fixed distances {d1, d2, d3,…, dn}. The correlogram of an image I is defined as the 
probability of a color pair (ci, cj) at a distance d. 
}||{Pr)( 212
,
,
21
dppcpI j
Ipcp
d
cc
i
ji


  .          (2)  
For computational efficiency, the autocorrelogram is defined in Eq. (3) 
}||{Pr)( 212
, 21
dppcpI i
Ipcp
d
c
i
i


  .              (3)  
The modified correlogram algorithm works as follows. Any two vectors have a distance. The 
distance between two vectors is measured by the L2 distance, and we estimate the probability that 
the distance falls within an interval. The distance intervals are set as {(0,4), (4,8), (8,16), (16,36), 
(36,56), (56,100)}.We calculate the probability of each interval as the correlogram vector. For 
125 classes, we totally have 750 feature bins.  
Up to now, we have translated the raw medical image into an illumination invariance domain and 
image features were extracted.  
 
2.3 Gabor Texture feature 
Gabor filter is widely adopted to extract texture features from images for image retrieval 
[18], and has been shown to be very efficient. Gabor filters are a group of wavelets, with each 
wavelet capturing energy at a specific frequency and a specific direction. Expanding a signal 
using this basis provides a localized frequency description, therefore capturing local 
features/energy of the signal. Texture features can then be extracted from this group of energy 
distributions. The scale (frequency) and orientation tunable property of Gabor filter makes it 
especially useful for texture analysis.  
The Gabor wavelet transformation Wmn of Image I(x, y) derived from Gabor filters 
according to [18] is defined in Eq. (4) 
.),(),(),( 1111 
 dydxyyxxgyxIyxW mnmn  (4) 
6 
 
classified. 
In the image features used in our experiment. The co-related feature contains spatial information. 
The correlogram moment considers the image rotation and shift. Correlogram feature describes 
the relation of edge and the relative vector has rotation and shift invariant characters. The Gabor 
method describes the texture feature.  
In the experiments, we examine the efficiency of each feature as showed in table 1. The error rate 
of co-related feature is 17.6% that is the best result between individual features. Correlogram 
feature have error rates of 26.5%. Gabor Texture feature have error rates of 22.3%. All features 
are considered will have the best result of overall with an error rate of 15.8%. Combining all 
features will improve the results of experiments. In medical image data, the spatial distribution of 
pixels is very significant. 
 
Image features SVM kernel 
function 
error rate% 
Co-related vectors: 125 vectors RBF 17.6 
Co-related vectors: 125 vectors polynomial 18.8 
Correlogram feature RBF 26.5 
Correlogram feature polynomial 31.4 
Gabor Texture feature RBF 22.3 
Gabor Texture feature polynomial 27.4 
All features RBF 15.8 
All features polynomial 17.9 
Table 1: The experiment results of different features. 
 
One experiment for a nearest neighbor classifier that scales down images to 64*64 pixels and 
uses the Euclidean distance for comparison has an error rate of 28.6%, which means that 286 
images are misclassified. This experiment shows that the proposed image feature and SVM 
method has a better performance than the Euclidean distance metric. The image feature we 
proposed is also batter than Gabor texture feature. 
 
5. Conclusion 
In this report, proposed image features are examined for medical image data. The medical image 
application is unlike general-purpose images. In general purpose images, the representation 
always considers the invariance in image rotation, zooming and shift. Medical images have more 
stable camera settings than general purpose images; therefore, the spatial information becomes 
very important in medical images, and we must improve the representation regarding spatial 
relation in these kinds of images. 
The support vector machine as a classifier is very efficient, but it seems that the SVM lacks the 
ability of feature selection. In the future, we plan to develop the feature selection technology for 
SVM to improve the performance.  
 
