 行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫  成果報告 
 
光合微生物燃料電池開發之研究 
 
計畫類別：個別型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96 - 2218 - E - 155 - 004  
執行期間：96 年 10 月 30 日至 97 年 7 月 30 日 
 
計畫主持人：藍祺偉 
 
計畫參與人員： 碩士班研究生-兼任助理人員 : 林揚盛 
               碩士班研究生-兼任助理人員 : 王懷俐 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：精簡報告  
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
J出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年J二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：元智大學 
 
中   華   民   國    97 年  09  月   27  日 
 
 
 
前言 
生物燃料電池(Biofuel cell)是一種
利用生物觸媒將化學能轉化成電能的裝
置，其可分為微生物(microbial-based 
biofuel cells) 及 酵 素 燃 料 電 池
(enzymatic biofuel cell)[1]。利用微生
物生產能量具有以下優點：一、原料廣泛，
可利用一般燃料電池所不能利用的多種有
機、無機物作為燃料，甚至可利用光合作
用，或利用廢棄物為基質，開發綠色替代性
能源之同時，可兼顧台灣環境永續發展。
二、操作條件溫和，可在常溫、常壓及接近
中性的環境中工作，提昇電池使用安全性；
三、微生物燃料電池可應用在不同的地區如
偏遠無電力設施的地區，以及可在微小尺寸
下運作。四、生物電池相較於其他發電系
統，在環境保護與永續發展上沒有污染破壞
環境的問題。目前研究的微生物燃料電池所
產生電流範圍約在0.04-3.3 mA之間。與酵
素燃料電池相比，微生物型生物燃料電池對
燃料的利用效率比較低，其原因是副反應較
多，此外微生物代謝碳水化合物所產生的還
原性物質均被細胞膜隔離在胞內，因此微生
物和電極接觸時，僅有極少的電子交流，導
致低能源轉換效率。 
光合微生物燃料電池為一種直接型生
物燃料電池，其最大的特色在於可同時利用
生物體的代謝作用(在照光和不照光均可進
行，亦即呼吸作用)之外，其還可利用光合
作用過程中所產生的電子(照光下)，其作用
機制如圖1所示，其基本的生物化學反應可
由下式表示： 
 
和一般微生物型生物燃料電池相較，光
合微生物燃料電池無須依賴於碳水化合物
基質的代謝，直接利用光合作用的機制產生
電子流，因此可延長電池之壽命與操作。和
一般的太陽能電池相較，光合微生物燃料電
池最大的差異在於其在不照光的情況下仍
然可藉由呼吸作用持續產生電力，因此可減
少隨著太陽光強度的輸出變動。本研究將以
光合微生物為對象，以石墨板為電極比較在
不同光照強度及培養成分下產電差異。 
 
實驗材料與方法 
微生物及培養基成份 
    光 合 細 菌 Rhodopseudomonas 
palustris(ATCC collection No:17001)，取
自於財團法人食品工業發展研究所生物資
源 保 存 及 研 究 中 心 。 培 養 基 配 方 為
American Type Culture Collection (ATCC )
所提供之成分，K2HPO4 1g/L、MgSO4 
0.5g/L、Yeast extract 10g/L，培養溫度為
30℃。培養 7 天至 stationary phase，用 OD660
測 量 值 為 9 ( 測 量 儀 器 : Amersham 
Bioscuence 型號:Ultrospec 2100 pro)，作為
光合微生物燃料電池產電潛能實驗測試用。 
實驗方法    
光合微生物燃料電池反應測試模組 1
組 1 進行實驗，在不同光照強度下(0~5000 
lux)，探討光合微生物產電潛能。結果顯示
光照強度與電流密度呈現正比例關係(參照
圖 6)，而在無光照情形下(暗反應)其電流
密度僅為 0.14 mA m-2。實驗亦發現陰極若
操作時間超過 24 小時其在電極表現容易形
成生物膜，進而影響電子傳遞行為並且導致
電流密度下降。，美國加州柏克萊大學團隊
於西元 2006 年發表世界第一個利用葉綠體
及 Phylum Cyanophyta(藍綠藻的一種)之微
體光合作用燃料電池模組，在不同光照強度
下發現理論最大電流密度可達 9.6 mA 
cm-2，然而葉綠體光合作用燃料電池模組實
際在 5.2μV 測量到僅為 1.0μA cm-2(相當
於 0.052 mW m-2)，其團隊亦發現光照強度
與電流密度呈現正比例現象，然而光合微生
物其電子傳遞若為介電質傳導型態，在無介
電質的輔助下量測的電流密度值將遠低於
理論值。 
 
3.不同測試模組比較與分析 
為改善先前測試模組電流密度過低的
結果，以同樣的改質電極大小裝置於測試模
組 2，並以濃縮的微生物細胞填置於陰極在
光照強度 5000 lux 下進行比較。結果指出
測試模組 2展現較佳的電流密度，最大電流
密度可達 1.14 mA m-2。顯示擴大質子交換
膜面積及減少陰極槽體積及提高生物濃度
可有效改善電流密度。 
 
 
 
結論與建議 
本研究展現光合微生物燃料電池的可
行性，電極的改質可改善電池效能使最大功
率達到 1.78 mW m-2。而增強光照強度、擴
大質子交換膜面積與縮短電子傳遞距離亦
可以增進電池電流密度，然而最大電流密度
與傳統微生物燃料電池相較仍有一段差
距，此外當電池操作時間超過 24 小時容易
形成生物膜導致電池效能減低。未來本團隊
仍將持續開發及改善光合微生物燃料電池
的效能，探討介電質的影響及應用奈米技術
改質電極。 
 
自我評估 
本研究完成預期 1 mW m-2 最大功率目
標，並完成國際會議論文及國內會議論
文投稿各一篇，SCI 論文投稿正在準備
中，預期會有兩篇完成投稿。 
 
參考文獻 
1 Bullen,R.A., Arnot,T.C., Lakeman,J.B. and 
Walsh,F.C. (2006) Biofuel cells and their 
development.  Biosensors and Bioelectronics, 
21, 2015-2045. 
2 Rismani-Yazdi,H., Carver,S.M., 
Christy,A.D. and Tuovinen,O.H. (2008) 
Cathodic limitations in microbial fuel cells: 
An overview.  Journal of Power Sources, 
180, 683-694. 
3 Zhang,T., Zeng,Y., Chen,S., Ai,X. and 
Yang,H. (2007) Improved performances of E. 
coli-catalyzed microbial fuel cells with 
composite graphite/PTFE anodes.  
Electrochemistry Communications, 9, 
349-353. 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
圖 1、光合微生物燃料電池工作原理 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 2、光合微生物燃料電池測試模組 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 3、光合微生物燃料電池測試模組 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 5、奈米碳管組裝電極 SEM 圖 
 
 
Time (min)
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70
C
ur
re
nt
 d
en
si
ty
 (m
A
 m
-2
)
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
0 lux
3000 lux
4000 lux
5000 lux
 
圖 6、不同光照強度下微生物燃料電池電流密度比較 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
        
畫編號 NSC96-2218-E-155-004- 
計畫名稱 光合微生物燃料電池開發之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
藍祺偉，元智大學化學工程與材料科學系助理教授 
會議時間地點 民國 97 年 5 月 4 日至 7 日，美國紐奧爾良 
會議名稱 30th Symposium on Biotechnology for Fuels and Chemicals 
發表論文題目 Direct Power Generation by Utilising Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Construction of a Photomicrobial Fuel Cell 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
97/05/02-03   週五、週六   去程                   (台北→美國紐奧良) 
97/05/04-07  週日~週四 參加 30th Symposium on Biotechnology for Fuels and Chemicals 國際
研討會                                       (美國路易斯安納州紐奧良市) 
97/05/08-09   週五、週六  回程                    (美國紐奧良→台北) 
 
二、 與會心得 
美國工業微生物學會成立於西元 1949 年，為美國最主要亦是最大的微生物研究學術學
會，主要任務在於結合學術界研究能量及工業界需求拓展微生物於各領域的應用，每年舉辦
Symposium on Biotechnology for Fuels and Chemicals 的學術研討會年會及工業微生物展覽為
年度最主要的活動，參加者來自全球各地學術單位及工業界，參加此次學術研討會並發表壁
報論文(Direct Power Generation by Utilising Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Construction of a 
Photomicrobial Fuel Cell)不僅可與世界各地學者進行研究經驗交流、增加本研究團隊於國際研
討會能見度外並且了解全球微生物應用最新相關技術以及應用方向。 
此次第 30 屆研討會主題主要十二大類：(1) Advances in Bioenergy; (2) Advances in 
Microbial Science and Technology; (3) Pretreatment and Biomass Recalcitrance: Fundamentals and 
Progress;(4) New Biofuels and Biomass Chemicals; (5) Advances in Enzyme Science and 
Technology; (6) The New Biofuels Industry: Biomass Availability and Supply Chain; (7) Special 
Topic Session: International Bioenergy Centers: Plans for the Future; (8) Advances in 
Bioprocessing and Related Separation Technology; (9) The New Biofuels Industry: Bioenergy 
Environmental Feasibility and Sustainability; and (10) Biorefining Technology Deployment and 
臨的糧食及能源問題，(2)生物技術製程發展將是此世紀全球暖化減緩關鍵之一及(3)各種研
究更應朝向低污染的方向，生物技術應用在工業上本來具備低污染之優勢，但是效率及產率
穩定性應是生化工程研究應專注的重點。 
而在壁報論文討論時段中，本研究團隊提出的＂Direct Power Generation by Utilising 
Rhodopseudomonas palustris and Construction of a Photomicrobial Fuel Cell＂研究受到許多專家
及學者的甚至產業代表的詢問以及有非常熱絡的討論。本研究利用光合微生物燃料可同時利
用生物體的代謝作用(在照光和不照光均可進行，亦即呼吸作用)之外，其還可利用光合作用
過程中所產生的電子產生能量(照光下)。和一般微生物型生物燃料電池相較，光合微生物燃
料電池無須依賴於碳水化合物基質的代謝，直接利用光合作用的機制產生電子流，因此可延
長電池之壽命與操作。討論中、來自英國倫敦帝國理工學院(Imperial college)的 Leak 博士認
為本研究的概念是非常新穎的，直接利用光合微生物的優勢開發燃料電池，Leak 博士也提出
可利用生物薄膜形成方式甚至直接固定於特定電極材料上，此想法與本團隊今年度申請的專
案研究補助計畫的研究方向不謀而合，期間亦提出未來共同合作研究之可能性，收穫良多。 
 
三、 結論 
能源與環境是人類社會永續發展的基石，21 世紀人類面臨水資源匱乏、溫室效應、化石
能源高漲，以及因資源過度開發與工業發展所可能衍生的潛在環境衝擊等挑戰。此等挑戰啟
動了全球產業再造風潮，生物技術的成熟令產業在清潔化與生態化的發展模式下，使得經濟
效益密切結合環境效益，也促使綠色能源與環境科技成為新世紀的產業發展趨勢，此趨勢更
引發 21 世紀經濟競爭環境的改變。能源與環境永續技術秉持建構生產、生活與生態並重之社
會，期能創造優質的、安全的、經濟的及資源保育的永續發展環境，同時開創新興能環產業。 
 
四、 誌謝 
感謝行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫 NSC96-2218-E-155-004-1 補助新台幣五萬元
參加國外學術會議及元智大學支助並同意運用經費出國參加國際會議與交流。 
 
五、 附件 
1. 壁報論文討論中部份產業界專家及學者交換意見留下的名片 
2. 大會會議論文集 
2» Thank you to our 2008 Symposium sponsors
» The 2008  
Organizing Committee
Jonathan Mielenz, Conference Chairman 
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN 
Thomas Klasson, Conference Chairman 
USDA-Agricultural Research Service, New Orleans, LA 
Jim McMillan, Conference Co-Chairman 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO
Bill Adney, Conference Co-Chairman 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO
Doug Cameron 
Khosla Ventures, Menlo Park, CA
Brian Davison 
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN
Jim Duffield 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO
Bonnie Hames 
Ceres. Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA
Susan Hennessey 
DuPont, Inc., Wilmington, DE
Thomas Jeffries 
USDA-Forest Service, Madison, WI
Lee Lynd 
Dartmouth College, Hanover, NH
Amy Miranda 
USDOE - Office of the Biomass Program, Washington, DC
Dale Monceaux 
AdvanceBio, LLC, Loveland, OH
Lisbeth Olsson 
Technical University of Denmark, Lyngby, Denmark
Jack Saddler 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada
Jin-Ho Seo 
Seoul National University, Seoul, Korea
Sharon Shoemaker 
University of California, Davis, CA
David Thompson 
Idaho National Laboratory, Idaho Falls, ID
Charlie Wyman 
University of California, Riverside, CA
Gisella Zanin 
State University of Maringa, Maringa, Parana, Brazil
 
» 2008 SIM Officers
President 
Carol D. Litchfield 
George Mason University, 
Mansassas, VA 
Past President 
Paul Cino 
Jamson, PA 
President-Elect 
George Pierce 
Goergia State University, 
Atlanta, GA 
Secretary 
Elisabeth D. Elder 
Louisiana State University-Alexandria 
Alexandria, LA 
Treasurer 
Valerie R. Benning 
In-Pipe Technology Co., LLC 
Wheaton, IL 
SIM Directors 
Neal C. Connors 
Merck & Co., Inc. 
Rahway, NJ 
Thomas Jeffries 
USDA-Forest Service 
Madison, WI 
Badal C. Saha 
USDA/ARS/NCAUR 
Peoria, IL 
Janet Westpheling 
University of Georgia 
Åthens, GA 
» Charles D. Scott Award
Initiated in 1995, the Charles D. Scott Award recognizes individuals who have made distinguished contributions to enable 
and further the use of biotechnology to produce fuels and chemicals. The award is named in honor of Dr. Charles D. Scott, 
who founded the Symposium on Biotechnology for Fuels and Chemicals and chaired the conference for its first ten years. A 
member of the National Academy of Engineering and a past director of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers, Chuck 
performed research and development on many novel bioprocessing systems while at ORNL, including high productivity 
bioreactors, immobilized microbes, enzymes in organic media, and coal bioprocessing. 
» Bärbel Hahn-Hägerdal
Bärbel Hahn-Hägerdal is professor of Applied Microbiology at Lund University, 
Sweden. A highly accomplished scientist, Bärbel’s research has helped advance 
the development of industrial yeast strains for lignocellulosic hydrolysate 
fermentation, especially recombinant pentose-fermenting strains of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Her extensive research has resulted in more than 250 
publications as well as a portfolio of patents and patent applications. Equally 
important, she has helped train the next generation of researchers, with more 
than 30 Ph.D. students graduating under her supervision.
Bärbel is a board member of the Swedish Research Council, a member of the 
International Commission for Yeast and the Swedish representative on the 
International Energy Agency’s “Bioconversion of Lignocellulose” task. In these 
capacities, she has coordinated numerous national, Nordic and European Union 
research projects to advance metabolic engineering for bioenergy applications. 
She also regularly reviews research papers for international scientific journals and research proposals for the EU and 
scientific societies in Europe and overseas. 
Bärbel obtained a Ph.D. in Biochemistry from Lund University and completed a postdoctoral fellowship at the University of 
Pennsylvania, USA. She has been a visiting scientist at AIST, Tsukuba, Japan, and a visiting professor at universities in Brazil 
and South Africa, where she is an Extraordinary Professor at the University of the Free State, Bloemfontein.
» Past Awardees of the Charles D. Scott Award
1995 – 17th Symposium – Donald J. Johnson 2002 – 24th Symposium – Sharon Shoemaker
199 – 18th Symposium – Bruce Dale 2003 – 25th Symposium – Thomas W. Jeffries
1997 – 19th Symposium – Raphael Katzen 2004 – 26th Symposium – Guido Zacchi
1998 – 20th Symposium – Jack Saddler 2005 - 27th Symposium – Lee Lynd
1999 – 21st Symposium – Charles E. Wyman 200 – 28th Symposium – Brian Davison
2000 – 22nd Symposium – Karel Grohman 200 – 28th Symposium – Mark Finkelstein
2001 – 23rd Symposium – Patrick Foody 2007 - 29th Symposium – Lonnie O. Ingram
8» Banquet Speaker
John Magill, Curator/Historian, The Historic New Orleans Collection,  
New Orleans, LA
Banquet Speaker - John Magill is Curator / Historian at The Historic New Orleans 
Collection.  Born in New Orleans, he was brought up in California and attended 
the University of New Orleans where he received a Master’s Degree in history. His 
field of study has been the urban growth of New Orleans, and he has written and 
lectured extensively on the subject.  His articles have appeared in publications 
such as New Orleans Magazine, Gambit, Preservation in Print, Louisiana Cultural 
Vistas and The Historic New Orleans Collection Quarterly.  He has contributed to 
several books including Charting Louisiana: 500 Years of Maps, Classic New Orleans, 
Marie Adrien Persac: Louisiana Artist and most recently with television producer 
Peggy Scott Laborde he has written Canal Street: New Orleans’ The Great Wide 
Way.  He is currently working with Mrs. Laborde on another book: Christmas in 
New Orleans which will be out in 2008. Exhibitions at The Historic New Orleans 
Collection to which he has contributed include “A Pelican’s-Eye View: New Orleans 
through Bird’s-eye Views,” “From Bank to Shore: The Development of New Orleans Neighborhoods,” “ The Long Weekend: 
Arts and French Quarter Preservation between the World Wars” and “A Mystical Bal Masque: the Mystic Club Ball” and The 
Collection’s current exhibit “Surrounded by Water: New Orleans, The Mississippi River & Lake Pontchartrain.”  He received a 
2006 first place Press Club of New Orleans award for an article of his that appeared in Cultural Vistas and also the Louisiana 
Endowment for the Humanities “Individual Achievement in the Humanities” award for 2007.
10
» Registration
Grand Foyer, 2nd floor, during the following hours:
 Sunday, May 4 8:30 AM – 5:00 PM 
Monday, May 5 7:15 AM – 5:00 PM  
Tuesday, May 6 7:15 AM – 12:00 PM 
Wednesday, May 7 7:15 AM – 5:00 PM
Programs will be distributed at the meeting to all attendees. 
(Extra copies of the meeting program onsite are $50).
Name badges must be worn for admittance to the scientific 
sessions, exhibits and special functions. 
Smoking is not permitted in the hotel.
Special Needs
The Organizing Committee and SIM want to ensure your 
comfort and convenience at the Symposium.  If you have any 
Special Needs, please let us know at the registration desk.
Editor’s Desk 
Grand Foyer, 2nd floor
The editor’s desk will be open Sunday, May 4 – 8 during 
registration hours.
» 29th Symposium Proceedings 
If you attended the 29th Symposium and are to receive 
a copy of the proceedings book or DVD, please pick up 
your copy at the Editor’s Desk during registration hours.
» 0th Symposium Manuscripts 
Manuscripts for the 30th Symposium proceedings may 
be submitted at the Editor’s Desk.
 The URL for manuscript submission for the 30th 
Symposium Proceedings is: 
http://www.editorialmanager.com/abab/ 
 Instructions for authors may be found at: 
http://www.springer.com/humana+press/journal/
12010?detailsPage=contentIt 
 Deadline for all submissions is May 22, 2008.
Internet Lounge 
Astor Ballroom Gallery, 2nd floor
An Internet lounge is available to all attendees.
Sunday – Wednesday 7:30 AM – 9:00 PM
Speaker ready room 
Burgundy Room, 2nd floor Mezzanine
Speakers may review their presentations in the during the 
following hours:
 Sunday 7:00 AM– 9:00 PM 
Monday–Wednesday 7:00 AM – 9:00 PM
Placement Service 
Grand Foyer, 2nd Floor
SIM will feature a Placement Service during Symposium 
hours. Post your resume or view available positions.
In addition, the National Renewable Energy Laboratory 
(NREL) in Golden, CO will have a recruiter present to discuss 
employment at NREL and current opportunities available.  
Resumes will be accepted for open positions.
Membership Table
The SIM Membership Committee would like to welcome 
new members, first-time attendees and students to the 
Symposium.  Please visit the membership table to learn 
more about SIM and its memberships benefits.  The 
membership table will be located in the Registration area.
Information and Message Center
Messages and announcements will be posted on the 
bulletin board in the Registration Area and updated daily. In 
case of emergency, registrants may be contacted through 
the Astor Crowne Plaza at 1-504-962-0500.
» Meals
Poster Reception/Light Buffet 
Astor Ballroom, 2nd floor
Sunday-Monday 6:00 PM – 9:00 PM
Continental Breakfast 
Grand Foyer, 2nd floor
Monday – Wednesday 7:15 AM – 8:00 AM
Invited Speaker's Breakfast  
Bourbon Room, 2nd Floor Mezzanine
Breakfast for invited speakers/session chairs on day of 
presentation
7:15 AM – 8:00 AM
Lunch – on your own
Wednesday Night Banquet Information 
Grand Foyer, 2nd Floor
 Reception  
6:00 PM
Banquet, Award Presentations, Guest Speaker  
Astor Ballroom, 2nd Floor
 Sponsored by Novozymes 
7:00 PM 
Organizing Committee Meeting 
Bourbon Room, 2nd floor Mezzanine
 Tuesday, May 6 
12:45 AM – 1:45 PM
ASTM International Committee Meeting 
Toulouse Room, 2nd floor Mezzanine
 E48 on Biotechnology 
Wednesday, May 7 
1:00 PM - 5:30 PM
Hospitality Suite - Sponsored by KATzEN 
International 
Bienville Room, 2nd Floor Mezzanine
 Monday - Wednesday 
Opens at the close of the Evening Sessions
12
» Tabletop Exhibits
Company representatives will be available during the 
Symposium. Please visit the exhibitors during the show 
hours listed. 
Grand Gallery, 2nd floor
Sunday, May 4 5:30 PM – 9:00 PM
Monday, May 5 9:30 AM – 11:30 AM, 2:30 – 3:30 PM 
                                     and 5:30 PM – 9:00 PM
Tuesday, May 6 7:30 AM – 10:30 AM
 
Applikon Biotechnology, Foster City, CA
Appropriate Technical Resources, Inc (ATR) – Laurel, MD
ATR is the US partner of Infors.  With 40 years of experience, 
INFORS provides innovative fermenter and control systems 
for research and process engineering.  The Multitron 
environmental stackable shakers; provide cooling, lighting, 
humidity and CO2 control.  Terrafors solid state fermenter 
is a unique instrument for the study of bioremediation and 
biodegradation.
Biolog, Inc., Hayward, CA
Biotechnology for Biofuels, London, England
Biotechnology for Biofuels is an open access, peer-reviewed 
online journal featuring high-quality studies describing 
technological and operational advances in the production 
of biofuels from biomass.
CAS, Columbus, OH
Ceres, Inc. — The Energy Crop Company™, Thousand 
Oaks, CA
Ceres, Inc. is a leading developer of high-yielding, dedicated 
energy crops that can be planted as feedstocks for 
cellulosic ethanol production and other biomass conversion 
processes. Its development efforts cover switchgrass, 
sorghum, miscanthus, energycane and short-rotation woody 
crops. Founded as a plant genomics company, Ceres holds 
one of the world’s largest proprietary collections of fully 
sequenced plant genes. The privately held company also 
licenses its technology and traits to other organizations.
Colorado Center for Biorefining and Biofuels, Boulder, 
CO 
The Colorado Center for Biorefining and Biofuels (C2B2) 
is a cooperative research and education center devoted 
to the conversion of biomass to fuels and other products. 
C2B2 provides private industry with one-stop access to 
researchers, laboratories, students, and educators from four 
pioneering institutions, each having unique strengths in 
biofuel and biorefining application areas. 
www.c2b2web.org
DASGIP Biotools LLC, Shrewsbury, MA
Dionex Corporation, Sunnyvale, CA
 
Flownamics, Inc. - Madison, WI
Flownamics was founded in 1995 with the vision to assist 
developers in fermentation and cell culture operations in 
the biotech industry.  Our focus is to design high quality 
products that are easy to operate.  We’ve accomplished this 
with our FISP sterile, in-situ, cell free sampling probes and 
FAISS on-line bioreactor sampling system.
GenPrime - Spokane, WA
GenPrime is committed to becoming the leading provider 
of advanced testing technologies for a secure and healthy 
world. GenPrime’s Yeast Activity MonitorTM helps more than 
20% of US ethanol plants make ethanol more efficiently on 
a consistent basis. GenPrime is currently developing a rapid 
test for detection of bacterial infections of the fermentation 
process. GenPrime also provides products to the homeland 
security and clinical industries.
John Wiley & Sons, Hoboken, NJ
John Wiley & Sons is a global publisher of print and 
electronic products, providing professional and consumer 
books, online products and scientific, technical and medical 
journals; including Biofuels, Bioproducts and Biorefining, 
the new definitve source of information on sustainable 
products, fuels and energy.  Opt in for complimentary access 
at www.interscience.wiley.com/biofpr 
Microbac Laboratories Hauser Division, Boulder, CO
Microbac Laboratories Hauser Division is a full service, ISO 
17025 accredited laboratory.  The Hauser Division provides 
chemical, microbiological and physical testing services.  
It has over fifteen years experience in the analysis of a wide 
variety of biomass types including solid, liquid and slurry 
samples.  It also have experience developing separation 
technologies, SSF studies and bench scale conversion 
techniques.
National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) , Golden, 
CO
The National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) is the 
nation’s primary laboratory for renewable energy and 
energy efficiency research and development.  NREL’s mission 
and strategy are focused on advancing the U.S. Department 
of Energy’s and our nation’s energy goals. The laboratory’s 
scientists and researchers support critical market objectives 
to accelerate research from scientific innovations to market-
viable alternative energy solutions.  The National Bioenergy 
Center and the Chemicals and Biosciences Center at NREL 
work to carry out the agenda of the Office of the Biomass 
Program of the Department of Energy’s  Office of Energy 
Efficiency and Renewable Energy along with other related 
goals.
1
Sunday, May 4, 2008
7:30 AM – 9:00 PM Internet Lounge 
 Astor Gallery, 2nd Fl
8:30 AM – 5:00 PM Registration/Editor’s Desk 
 Grand Foyer, 2nd Fl
10:00 AM – 5:00 PM Poster set up  
 Astor Ballroom, 2nd Fl
1:00 PM – 2:00 PM Opening remarks/Keynote 
 Grand Ballroom, 2nd Fl
2:15 PM – 5:45 PM Session 1 (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom D, 2nd Fl
2:15 PM – 5:45 PM Session 2 (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom A - C, 2nd Fl
5:30 PM – 9:00 PM Exhibits open/Reception 
 Grand Gallery, 2nd Fl
6:00 PM – 9:00 PM Poster Session I (Sessions 1-) 
 Astor Ballroom, 2nd Fl
Monday, May 5, 2008
7:15 AM – 5:00 PM Registration/Editor’s Desk 
 Grand Foyer, 2nd Fl
7:15 AM – 8:00 AM Continental Breakfast 
 Grand Foyer, 2nd Fl
7:15 AM – 8:00 AM Speakers Breakfast 
 Bourbon Room, 2nd Fl Mezz.
7:30 AM – 9:00 PM Internet Lounge  
 Astor Gallery, 2nd Fl
8:00 AM – 12 Noon Session  (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom A-C, 2nd Fl
8:00 AM – 12 Noon Session  (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom D, 2nd Fl
9:30 AM – 11:30 AM Exhibits Open
   Grand Gallery, 2nd Fl
12 Noon – 1:30 PM Lunch on your own
1:30 PM – 5:30 PM Session  (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom, A-C, 2nd Fl
1:30 PM – 5:30 PM Session  (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom, D, 2nd Fl
2:30 PM – 3:30 PM Exhibits open 
 Grand Gallery, 2nd Fl
5:30 PM – 9:00 PM Exhibits open/Reception 
 Grand Gallery, 2nd Fl
6:00 PM – 9:00 PM Poster Session II (Sessions -12) 
 Astor Ballroom, 2nd Fl
Tuesday, May 6, 2008
7:15 AM – 12:00 Noon Registration/Editor’s Desk 
 Grand Foyer, 2nd Fl
7:15 AM – 8:00 AM Continental Breakfast  
 Grand Foyer, 2nd Fl
7:15 AM – 8:00 AM Speakers Breakfast 
 Bourbon Room, 2nd Fl Mezz
7:30 AM – 10:30 AM Exhibits Open 
 Grand Gallery, 2nd Fl
7:30 AM – 9:00 PM Internet Lounge  
 Astor Gallery, 2nd Fl
8:00AM – 12 Noon Session 7 (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom A-C, 2nd Fl
8:00 AM – 12 Noon Session 8 (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom D, 2nd Fl
12:15 PM – 1:45 PM Organizing committee lunch 
 Bourbon Room, 2nd Fl Mezz 
Free afternoon
7:00 PM – 9:00 PM  General Session: International  
 Bioenergy Centers  
 7:00 PM – 9:00 PM 
 Grand Ballroom, 2nd Fl
Wednesday, May 7, 2008
7:15 AM – 5:00 PM Registration/Editor’s Desk 
 Grand Foyer, 2nd Fl
7:15 AM – 8:00 AM Continental Breakfast  
 Grand Foyer, 2nd Fl
7:15 AM – 8:00 AM Speakers Breakfast 
 Bourbon Room, 2nd Fl Mezz
7:30 AM – 9:00 PM Internet Lounge  
 Astor Gallery, 2nd Fl
8:00 AM-12 Noon Session 9 (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom, A-C, 2nd Fl
8:00 AM – 12 Noon Session 10 (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom D, 2nd Fl
12 Noon   Poster Dismantling
1:00 PM – 5:30 PM  ASTM International Committee  
 E8/Biotech 
 Toulouse Room, 2nd Fl Mezz
1:30 PM – 5:30 PM Session 11 (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom D, 2nd Fl
1:30 PM – 5:30 PM Session 12 (Concurrent) 
 Grand Ballroom A-C, 2nd Fl
6:00 PM – 7:00 PM Reception 
 Grand Foyer
7:00 PM – 9:30 PM Banquet 
 Astor Ballroom
» Program at a Glance
Su
nd
ay
, M
ay
 4
1
Session 2: Advances in Microbial Science and 
Technology 1 
Chairs: J. Doran-Peterson, University of Georgia, Athens, GA 
and D.A. Hogsett, Mascoma Corporation, Lebanon, NH  
Grand Ballroom A-C, 2nd floor 
2:15 PM – 5:45 PM
2:1 PM 2-01:  Fermentability of Corn Stover 
Hydrolysates Resulting from Different 
Pretreatments: a Side-by-Side 
Comparison Using Recombinant 
Ethanologens
  M.W. Lau*, B.E. Dale and V. Balan, 
Michigan State University, East Lansing, 
MI
2: PM 2-02:  The Development of TM22: A Novel 
Thermophilic Bacillus Capable of High 
Yield Ethanol Production
  K. Eley*, R. Cripps and T. Atkinson, TMO 
Renewables Ltd, Guildford, United 
Kingdom; B. Rudd and M. Todd, Novacta 
Biosystems Ltd, Welwyn Garden City, 
United Kingdom
:1 PM 2-0:  The Fungal Path for D-Galacturonic 
Acid Catabolism
  S. Hilditch and P. Richard*, VTT Technical 
Research Centre of Finland, Espoo, 
Finland
: PM Break – Sponsored by Mascoma Corporation
:1 PM 2-0:  Mining the Natural Biorefinery in 
a Lignocellulose Degrading Insect, 
Tipula abdominalis 
  J. Doran-Peterson* and D.M. Cook, 
University of Georgia, Athens, GA
: PM 2-0:  De novo Biocatalyst Design: 
An Alternative Strategy for the 
Petroleum-Free Synthesis of 
Biobutanol
  E. Leonard* and K. Jones Prather, MIT, 
Boston, MA
:1 PM 2-0:  Metabolic Engineering of 
Thermoanaerobacterium 
saccharolyticum for High Yield 
Ethanol Production
  A.J. Shaw*, K. Podkaminer, S. Rogers and 
L.R. Lynd, Dartmouth College, Hanover, 
NH; J. Bardsely, P. Thorne and D. Hogsett, 
Mascoma Corporation, Lebanon, NH
:0 PM – 
9:00 PM Exhibits Open/Opening Reception
 Grand Gallery, 2nd Floor 
Poster Session I – Sponsored by Genencor 
Chairs: V.G. Yachmenev, USDA-ARS, Southern Regional 
Research Center, New Orleans, LA  and E. Wilkerson, ORNL, 
Oak Ridge, TN 
Astor Ballroom, 2nd Floor  
6:00 PM – 9:00 PM
Advances in Bioenergy Feedstocks and Plant 
Science
 1-07 Chemical and Physical Characterizations of 
Liriodendron tulipifera on Growth Periods
  B.W. Koo*, B.C. Min, N. Park, C. Eom, H. Yeo and I.G. 
Choi, Seoul National University, Seoul, South 
Korea; K.O. Ryu, Korea Forest Research Institute, 
Kyoungi, South Korea
 1-08 Improved Multivariate Calibration Models for 
Corn Stover Feedstock and Dilute-Acid 
Pretreated Corn Stover
  E. Wolfrum* and A.D. Sluiter, NREL, Golden, CO
 1-09 Biohydrogen and Biodiesel Co-Production with 
Treatment of High Solid Food Waste
  z. Chi*, Y. zheng and S. Chen, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA
 1-10 Structural and Quantitative Determination of 
Lignin in Biomass by qPyGC-MS
  A.S. Ragab*, B.A. Jerome, B.R. Hames and S.R. 
Thomas, Ceres, Inc., Thousand Oaks, CA
 1-11 Seaweeds as Novel Feedstocks for Bio Alcohol
  Y.J. Kim*, H.J. Ryu, C. Kim, M.K. Shin and G.S. Kim, 
Korea Institute of Industrial Technology 
(KITECH), Cheonan-si, South Korea; K.K. Oh, 
Dankook University, Cheonan, South Korea; J.S. 
Kim, Kyong-Gi University, Suwon, South Korea
 1-12 Introducing for the First Time Giant Reed 
(Arundo donax) as Ideal Feedstock for 
Future Biorefinery
  R. Bura*, S. Doty, R. Gustafson and W. McKean, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA
 1-1 Comparison of Methods for the Quantification 
of Fructose-Equivalents in Straws
  M.H. Penner*, S.K. Nguyen and E. Kim, Oregon State 
University, Corvallis, OR
 1-1 Conversion of Kraft Paper Mill Sludges into 
Ethanol by Simultaneous Saccharification 
and Fermentation
  L. Kang*, W. Wang and Y.Y. Lee, Auburn University, 
Auburn, AL
 1-1 Ethanol Production as a Supplementary Unit in 
Kraft Paper Mill
  L. Kang*, W. Wang and Y.Y. Lee, Auburn University, 
Auburn, AL
Su
nd
ay
, M
ay
 4
18
Advances in Microbial Science and Technology 1
 2-07 Lignocellulose Biodegradation by Wood-
Feeding Termites: Fundamentals and 
Applications
  J. Sun, Mississippi State University, Poplarville, MS
 2-08 Regulation of Pyruvate Metabolism Induced 
by End Product Loading in Clostridium 
thermocellum 270
  T. Rydzak, R. Sparling*, C.R. Carere, N. Cicek and D.B. 
Levin, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, 
Canada
 2-09 Miscanthus giganteus Cell Wall Degradation 
by Neurospora crassa
  C. Tian* and N.L. Glass, University of California, 
Berkeley, Berkeley, CA
 2-10 Development of Efficient Escherichia coli 
Cells with Minimal Metabolic Functionality 
for Ethanol Production
  C.T. Trinh and F. Srienc*, University of Minnesota, St. 
Paul, MN
 2-11 Impact of Inoculum Production Conditions 
on Stress Tolerance and Fermentation 
Efficiency of Natural Xylose-Fermenting 
Yeasts Presented Xylose and Glucose
  P.J. Slininger* and z.L. Liu, National Center for 
Agricultural Utilization Research, USDA-ARS, 
Peoria, IL
 2-12 Withdrawn
 2-1 Evaluation of Thiamine-Synthesis Pathway 
and Gluconolactonase Deficient Mutants of 
zymomonas mobilis for Overproduction of 
Higher Value Intermediates
  Y.J. Jeon*, A. Alvin, C.J. Svenson, B.A. Neilan and P.L. 
Rogers, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia
 2-1 Fermentation of Biomass Derived Glucose/
Xylose Mixture to  Ethanol Using Several 
Strains of Pichia stipitis
  J.M. Moore*, S. Kleff and F. Teymouri, MBI 
International, Lansing, MI; J. Headman Van 
Vleet, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI; 
T.W. Jeffries, USDA Forest Service, Madison, WI
 2-1 Engineering Actinobacillus succinogenes for 
Succinate Production
  C. Vieille*, J. McKinlay and B. Schindler, Michigan 
State University, East Lansing, MI
 2-1 Dekkera bruxellensis and Lactobacillus vini 
–A New Stable Consortium for Industrial 
Bioethanol Production
  J. Schnürer*, J. Blomqvist and V. Passoth, Swedish 
University of Agricultural Sciences (SLU), 
Uppsala, Sweden
 2-17 Application of Pichia pastoris for the Production 
of Biochemicals: Production of Riboflavin as 
a Test Case
  H. Marx* and D. Mattanovich, BOKU - University of 
Natural Resources and Applied Life Sciences, 
Vienna, Austria; M. Sauer, FH Campus Wien - 
University of Applied Sciences, Vienna, Austria
 2-18 Strain Engineering Enables the Conversion 
of Inexpensive Raw Materials into a Variety 
of Higher-Value Products via a Single 
Uniform Fermentation Process
  K.A. Jarrell*, G.O. Reznik, B.G. Kennan, M.A. Pynn and 
J.J. Todd, Modular Genetics, Inc., Cambridge, 
MA
 2-19 Co-Production of Riboflavin and Biobutanol 
in Clostridium acetobutylicum
  X. Cai* and G. Bennett, Rice University, Houston, TX
 2-20 Expression Analysis During Fermentation of 
Xylose and Cellobiose by Yeasts
  J.R.H. Van Vleet, C. Lu and J.Y. Bae, University of 
Wisconsin, Madison, WI; B. Lin, S.S. Nelson and 
T.W. Jeffries*, USDA Forest Service, Madison, WI
 2-21 Fermentation Behaviors of Hypocrea 
jecorina RUT C-0 for Cellulase Production 
Using Lactose as Substrate
  C.M. Lo*, Q. zhang and L.K. Ju, University of Akron, 
Akron, OH
 2-22 Effects of Overexpression of NADPH-
Regenerating Glucose -Phosphate 
Dehydrogenase on Caprolactone 
Production in Recombinant Escherichia coli 
Harboring Cyclohexanone Monooxygenase 
Gene
  W.H. Lee, S.Y. Shin*, Y.K. Park, H.J. Shin and J.H. Seo, 
Seoul National University, Seoul, South Korea
 2-2 Withdrawn
 2-2 Withdrawn
 2-2 Using Systems Biology to Optimize 
Microbial Fuel Production
  A.M. Redding*, A. Mukhopadhyay, P.D. Adams 
and J.D. Keasling, Joint Bioenergy Institute, 
Berkeley, CA
 2-2 Elucidating Mechanisms of Acetate 
Tolerance in E. coli Using SCALES
  N. Sandoval* and R.T. Gill, University of Colorado, 
Boulder, CO
 2-27 Butanol Tolerance in a Selection of 
Microorganisms
  E.P. Knoshaug* and M. zhang, National Renewable 
Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO
Su
nd
ay
, M
ay
 4
20
 2- Fermentative Hydrogen Production by a 
Mixed Nitrogen-Fixing Bacterial Culture
  S.D. Hafner, HydroQual, Inc., East Syracuse, NY
 2- Semi-Continuous Xylitol Production from 
Sugarcane Bagasse Hemicellulose by Ca-
alginate Entrapped Yeast Cells in a Bench-
Scale Stirred Tank Reactor
  W. Carvalho*, L. Canilha and S.S. Silva, Escola de 
Engenharia de Lorena, Universidade de São 
Paulo, Lorena, Brazil
 2-7 The Influence of Rice Bran Extract as 
Nutrient on Xylitol Production
  E.A. Martinez, Institute of Technological Research, 
São Paulo, Brazil; J.A.F. Santos, W. Carvalho*, 
J.B. Almeida e Silva and A.M.R. Prata, Escola de 
Engenharia de Lorena, Universidade de São 
Paulo, Lorena, Brazil
 2-8 Bio-Alcohol Production from Syngas
  S. Salim*, S. Haemers, R. Wijffels and A. Rinzema, 
Wageningen University, Wageningen, 
Netherlands; A. Hoogendoorn, Ingenia, 
Eindhoven, Netherlands; H. Van Kasteren, Telos, 
Tilburg, Netherlands
 2-9 Bioremediation of Marine Sandy Sediments 
Impacted by Petroleum
  F.P. De França* and A.C. Silva, Universidade Federal 
do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
 2-0 Withdrawn
 2-1 Development of Software Sensors for Real 
Time Operation: Application for Bioethanol 
Production
  E. Ccopa Rivera*, N. Murilo Nascimento Lima, R. 
Ramos de Andrade and A. Carvalho da Costa, 
State University of Campinas, Campinas - SP, 
Brazil; R. Maciel Filho, State University of 
Campinas, Campinas, Brazil
 2-2 Proteomic Analysis of zymomonas mobilis 
Responding to Acetate Treatment
  C. Hsieh*, W. Hsiao, C. Chang and L.W. Shih, National 
ChiaYi University, ChiaYi, Taiwan
 2- Study on Mass Transfer of Isopropylbenzene 
and Oxygen in a Two-Phase Partitioning 
Bioreactor in the Presence of Silicone Oil
  J.M. Aldric*, Faculté des Sciences Agronomiques de 
Gembloux, Gembloux, Belgium; J. Destain and 
P. Thonart, Faculté Universitaire des Sciences 
Agronomiques de Gembloux, Gembloux, 
Belgium; J.P. Lecomte, Dow-Corning SA, 
Seneffe, Belgium
 2- Designing an Efficient SSF Process for Co-
Fermentation of Xylose and Glucose
  K. Olofsson*, M. Bertilsson and G. Lidén, Lund 
University, Lund, Sweden
 2- A Plasmid-Based System for the Use in 
Coupling Non-Selectable Phenotypes to 
Selectable Phenotypes
  P. Handke* and R.T. Gill, University of Colorado, 
Boulder, CO; M.D. Lynch, OPX Biotechnologies, 
Inc., Boulder, CO
 2- Metabolic Profiling of White-Rot Fungi, 
Phanerochaete chrisosporium and 
Dichomitus squalens Cultured with 
Lignocellulose Biomass
  J.S. Bak* and K.H. Kim, Korea University, Seoul, 
South Korea
 2-7 Construction of a Xylose-Utilizing 
Recombinant Diploid Industrial Strain 
of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and its 
Cofermentation with Glucose and Xylose
  X. Bao*, X.R. zhang, Y. Shen and W.L. Shi, Shandong 
University, Jinan, China
 2-8 Microbial and Genetic Analysis of a 
Microbial Community Actively Decaying 
Poplar Biomass
  D. Van der Lelie* and S. Taghavi, Brookhaven 
National Laboratory, Upton, NY; S.Y. Ding and 
M.E. Himmel, National Renewable Energy 
Laboratory, Golden, CO
 2-9 Cellulase Production by Solid-State 
Fermentation in Different Bioreactors 
Scales
  I.R. Pinheiro*, J.G.D. Klemz and B.V. Kilikian, 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil
 2-0 Cellulases Production by Solid-
State Fermentation Using Different 
Agroindustrial Residues
  I.R. Pinheiro*, J.G.D. Klemz, D. Matsumoto, R.D.G. 
Ferreira and B.V. Kilikian, Universidade de São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil
 2-1 The Potential of Bioethanol Production 
from Citrus Fruit Processing Waste
  M. Ballesteros*, M.J. Negro, I. Ballesteros, J.M. Oliva 
and P. Manzanares, CIEMAT, Madrid, Spain
 2-2 A Novel Approach for Conversion of Xylose 
to Ethanol Using Native Strains of Yeast
  K. Rao*, S. Varanasi and P. Relue, The University of 
Toledo, Toledo, OH
Su
nd
ay
, M
ay
 4
22
 -2 Xylan Redistribution During Dilute Acid 
Pretreatment of Corn Stover
  R. Brunecky*, T.B. Vinzant, M.E. Himmel and 
D.K. Johnson, National Renewable Energy 
Laboratory, Golden, CO; S.E. Porter, 
GeoSynFuels, LLC, Golden, CO
 -2 Spectroscopic Analysis of Biomass 
Feedstock Fines
  W.F. Bauer*, G. Elias, P.A. Pryfogle and J.K. Partin, 
Idaho National Laboratory, Idaho Falls, ID
 -27 Factors Affecting Lignin/Protein 
Measurements in Dilute Sulfuric Acid 
Treated Herbaceous Feedstocks
  R. Katahira*, D.W. Templeton, D.J. Schell and M.F. 
Davis, National Renewable Energy Laboratory, 
Golden, CO
 -28 A Rapid Simultaneous Saccharification and 
Fermentation (SSF) Technique to Determine 
Ethanol Yields
  A. Isci*, P.T. Murphy and R.P. Anex, Iowa State 
University, Ames, IA
 -29 Structural Analysis of Residues from 
Enzymatic Hydrolysis 
  A. Várnai* and L. Viikari, University of Helsinki, 
Helsinki, Finland; M. Siika-aho, VTT Technical 
Research Centre of Finland, Espoo, Finland
 -0 Identification of Phenolic Compounds 
in Lignocellulosic Hydrolysates and 
its Detoxification by Enzyme for the 
Production of Butanol by Clostridia
  D.H. Cho* and Y.H. Kim, Kwangwoon University, 
Seoul 139-701, South Korea; Y.J. Lee and 
B.I. Sang,  Korea Institute of Science and 
Technology, Seoul South Korea 
 -1 The Effect of Ultrasonic Irradiation 
on Physical Characteristics and 
Saccharification of Concentrated Biomass 
Slurries
  S. Rezania* and E.R. Berson, University of Louisville, 
Louisville, KY
 -2 Cellulase Production from Paper Mill Sludge 
by Trichoderma Reesei Rut C-30
  W. Wang*, L. Kang and Y.Y. Lee, Auburn University, 
Auburn, AL
 - Alkaline Pretreatment of Switch grass
  R. Gupta* and Y.Y. Lee, Auburn University, Auburn, 
AL
 - Rapid High Performance Liquid 
Chromatography Analysis of Sugars 
in Aqueous Extracts and Dilute-Acid 
Hydrolysates of Herbaceous Biomass
  R.S. Sevcik*, R.A. Mowery and C.K. Chambliss, Baylor 
University, Waco, TX
 - Comparison of Accelerated Solvent 
Extraction and Soxhlet Methods for 
Aqueous Extraction of Herbaceous Biomass
  R.S. Sevcik*, S. Shipley and C.K. Chambliss, Baylor 
University, Waco, TX
 - What are the Consequences of Bark 
and Whitewood Utilization During 
Bioconversion of Yellow Poplar to Ethanol?
  R. Bura*, S. Doty, R. Gustafson and W. McKean, 
University of Washington, Seattle, WA
 -7 Dilute Acid Hydrolysis of Wheat Straw 
Oligosaccharides
  L.C. Duarte*, T. Silva-Fernandes, F. Carvalheiro and 
F.M. Gírio, INETI, Lisboa, Portugal
 -8 Evaluation of Acid and Enzymatic 
Hydrolysis from Hemicellulose 
Hydrolyzates on Mixed Pulping Wood
  B.H. Um* and P.V. Walsum, University of Maine, 
Orono, ME
 -9 Effect of Drying Method on AFEX 
Pretreatment and Enzymatic Hydrolysis of 
Year-Old Poplar
  R.J. Garlock*, V. Balan and B.E. Dale, Michigan State 
University, East Lansing, MI
 -0 Optimizing the Hydrolysis of Sugarcane 
Bagasse Hemicellulose with Dilute 
H2SO through Empirical Modeling: An 
Experimental Approach to Increase the 
Yield of Xylose Recovery
  L. Canilha* and M. Giulietti, Institute of 
Technological Research, São Paulo, Brazil; W. 
Carvalho, G.J.M. Rocha, M.D.G.A. Felipe and J.B. 
Almeida e Silva, Engineering College of Lorena-
University of São Paulo, Lorena, Brazil
 -1 Effects of the Extraction with Ethanol or 
Cyclohexane/Ethanol on the Structural 
Composition of Sugarcane Bagasse
  L. Canilha*, E.A. Martinez and M. Giulietti, Institute 
of Technological Research, São Paulo, Brazil; W. 
Carvalho, L.D.F.O. Barbosa and J.B. Almeida e 
Silva, Engineering College of Lorena-University 
of São Paulo, Lorena, Brazil
 -2 Development of High Throughput 
Pretreatment Systems for Cellulosic 
Biomass
  J. DeMartini*, H. McKenzie, M. Studer and C. Wyman, 
University of California, Riverside, Riverside, CA
 - Multiple Valuation of Residues Generated 
by the Agro Food Processing Industry
  I. Alegría*, M. zazpe, B. zarranz, I. del Campo and 
I. Echeverria, Renewable Energy National 
Centre (CENER), Sarriguren, Spain; C. González-
Ferrero, A. Yetano, A. Romo and P. Navarro, 
Centro Nacional de Tecnología y Seguridad 
Alimentaria, San Adrián, Spain
Su
nd
ay
, M
ay
 4
2
 -2 The Severity Factor Influence over the 
Diluted Acid Hydrolysis of Sugar Cane 
Bagasse and the Fermentability of 
Hemicellulosic Hydrolysates for Ethanol 
Production
  G. Vargas Betancur, A. Mano Silva, P. Garcia de Melo 
and N. Pereira*, Federal University of Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
 - Genencor Pretreatment Survey
  R.E. Warner* and C. Mitchinson, Genencor, A 
Danisco Division, Palo Alto, CA
 - Microscopic Investigation of Enzymatic 
Hydrolysis of Pretreated Wheat Straw
  J.B. Kristensen*, H. Jørgensen and C. Felby, 
University of Copenhagen, DK-1958 
Frederiksberg C, Denmark
 - Exploring Advanced Characterization Tools 
to Study the Structure of the Plant Cell Wall 
at the Submicron Scale
  J.M. Yarbrough*, M.E. Himmel and S.Y. Ding, 
National Renewable Energy Laboratory, 
Golden, CO; E. Chandler, W. Amir and J.A. 
Squier, Colorado School of Mines, Golden, CO
 - Pretreatment and Fractionation of Corn 
Stover by S.E.A.A. (Soaking In Ethanol and 
Aqueous Ammonia)
  T.H. Kim, Iowa State University, Ames, IA; J. Nghiem* 
and K.B. Hicks, USDA-ARS, Wyndmoor, PA
 -7 Detecting Cellulase Penetration into Corn 
Stover Cell Walls by Immuno-Electron 
Microscopy
  B.S. Donohoe*, M.J. Selig, S. Viamajala, S.R. Decker, 
W.S. Adney and M.E. Himmel, National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO
 -8 pH and Buffer Effects on Xylose Degradation 
Rates and Products
  Y. Lu* and N.S. Mosier, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN
 -9 Phanerochaete chrysosporium Conditioning 
of Grasses: Enzyme Activity and Hydrolysis 
to Sugars
  S. Mahalaxmi*, C.R. Jackson and C. Williford, 
University of Mississippi, University, MS
 -70 Study on Biomass Biodegradation by White 
Rot Fungi for Fuel Ethanol Production
  X. zhang*, C. Xu and H. Yu, College of Life Science 
and Technology, Huazhong University of 
Science & Technology, P.R. China, Wuhan, China
 -71 Ethanol Production from Sugarcane 
Bagasse by a Dilute Ammonia Process
  G.A. DeQueiroz*, T. Ramachandran and V. Bazan, 
Louisiana State University Agricultural Center, 
Saint Gabriel, LA
New Biofuels and Biomass Chemicals
 -07 Chemical Characterization of Fast Pyrolysis 
Bio-Oils Produced from Pretreatments of 
Pine Wood Feed Stocks
  E.B.M. Hassan*, P.H. Steele and L.L. Ingram, 
Mississippi State University, Mississippi State, 
MS
 -08 Stable Butanol Production by Immobilized 
Clostridium acetobutylicum 82 with 
Polyethylene Glycol Gel Carrier in a 
Membrane-Extractive Fermentor
  S.M. Lee, M.O. Cho, Y. Um, Y.C. Chung and B.I. Sang*, 
Korea Institute of Science and Technology, 
Seoul, South Korea; J.H. Kim, Dongguk 
University, South Korea
 -09 Antioxidant Activity of Low-molecular-
weight Lignin Fraction from Organosolv 
Pretreatment of Wood for Ethanol 
Production
  X. Pan* and L. Shuai, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, WI; J.Y. zhu, USDA Forest Service, 
Forest Products Laboratory, Madison, WI
 -10 Succinic Acid Production from Forest Based 
Raw Materials
  D. Hodge*, C. Andersson, J. Helmerius, J. Vinblad 
von Walter, U. Rova and K. Berglund, Luleå 
University of Technology, Luleå, Sweden
 -11 Activated Carbon Derived from Fast 
Pyrolysis Liquids Production of Agricultural 
Residues and Energy Crops
  I.M. Lima*, Agricultural Research Service, Southern 
Regional Research Center, New Orleans, LA 
and A.A. Boateng, USDA-ARS, Eastern Regional 
Research Center, Wyndmoor, PA
 -12 Manipulation of Multienzyme Catalysis with 
In-Situ Enzymatic Cofactor Regeneration for 
Production of Methanol from Biomass CO2
  P. Wang* and F.S. Baskaya, University of Minnesota, 
St. Paul, MN; M.C. Flickinger, North Carolina 
State University, Raleigh, NC
 -1 Enhancing Succinic Acid Production by 
Improving Fitness of E.coli Production 
Strains
  A. Singh* and R.T. Gill, University of Colorado, 
Boulder, CO
 -1 Chemical and Biochemical Conversion of 
Sugarcane Residues to Obtain Chemicals 
and Products
  L.R.M. Oliveira, M.B.W. Saad, S.M. Luz, R.Y. Moriya, 
G.A.A. Labat, S.L. Pereira, K. Pereira, R.G. 
Candido, N. Mori, G.J.M. Rocha and A.R. 
Gonçalves*, Engineering School of Lorena- EEL-
USP, Lorena-SP, Brazil; D.S. Ruzene, University 
of Minho, Braga, Portugal
Su
nd
ay
, M
ay
 4
2
 -1 Bioethanol Production from Different 
Cellulosic Sources Using Simultaneous 
Saccharification and Fermentation
  V. Ferreira, M.D.O. Faber and N. Pereira Jr.*,  Federal 
University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil
 -2 Direct Power Generation by Utilising 
Rhodopseudomonas palustris and 
Construction of a Photomicrobial Fuel Cell
  Y.S. Lin, M.H. Jian and J.C.W. Lan*, Yuan-ze 
University, Taoyuan, Taiwan
 - Optimization of Fermentation Medium 
for Biological Hydrogen Production by 
Thermotoga neapolitana
  X. Yu* and C.M. Drapcho, Clemson University, 
Clemson, SC
 - Production of Astaxanthin from Corn 
Fiber as a Value-Added Co-Product of Fuel 
Ethanol Fermentation
  N.P. Nghiem* and D. Johnston, USDA Agricultural 
Research Service, Wyndmoor, PA; J. Montanti, 
Clemson University, Clemson, SC
 - Biogas Production by Bacillus sp. Anaerobic 
Cultivations: New Trend of Alternative 
Energy Source in Urbanized Areas
  L.C. Martins das Neves*, C. Fernandes de Melo 
Souza, M. Ishii and T.C. Vessoni Penna, School 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of São 
Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; A. Converti, Università 
degli Studi di Genova, Genova, Italy
 - Influence of Microwave Pyrolysis Conditions 
on Char Properties
  F. Yu* and P. Steele, Mississippi State University, 
Mississippi state, MS; z. Le, Nanchang 
University, Nanchang, China
 -7 Optimization Strategies for PHA Production 
Using Rhodospirillum rubrum Cultured on 
Synthesis Gas in a Continuous Reactor
  D.C. Chipman*, D.W. Choi, S.T. Jones and R.C. Brown, 
Iowa State University, Ames, IA
 -8 Production of the Polysaccharide Curdlan 
on the Ethanol Fermentation Co-Product 
Thin Stillage
  T.P. West, South Dakota State University, Brookings, 
SD
 -9 Sequential Process Production of 
Bioethanol from the Castor Bean Seed Cake 
(Ricinus communis L.) Generated from the 
Biodiesel Process 
  W.C. Melo, L.C.S. Carlos and N. Pereira Jr.*, Federal 
University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil; L.M.M. Santa Anna, Petrobras
 -0 ZrO2-SiO2 -Supported Solid Acid ClO
-/Fe2O-
La2O as Catalyst for Straw Liquefaction
  A. Bai, z. Le*, z. Chen, L. Hong and Y. Huang, 
Nanchang University, Nanchang, China; F. 
Yu, Mississippi State University, Mississippi 
state, MS; R. Ruan and S. Deng, University of 
Minnesota, St. Paul, MN
 -1 Effects of Treatment Variables on 
Supercritical Gasification of High-Diversity 
Grassland Perennials
  B. zhang*, z. zhang, M. Von Keitz and K. Valentas, 
University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN
 -2 Effect of Yeast Extract Supplementation on 
Curdlan Production from Condensed Corn 
Distillers Solubles
  T.P. West, South Dakota State University, Brookings, 
SD
 - Effects of NADH-Dependent Xylose 
Reductase on Cofermentation of Glucose 
and Xylose to Ethanol by Recombinant 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae
  S.H. Lee, H.J. Jung*, Y.C. Park and J.H. Seo, Seoul 
National University, Seoul, South Korea; S. 
Watanabe, T. Kodaki and K. Makino, Advanced 
Energy, Kyoto, Japan
 - Studies on Kinetics of the Biodiesel Fuel 
Production Process Catalyzed by Free and 
Immobilized Lipases
  R.M.R.G. Almeida*, A.C.S. da Silva, R.R.L. Araujo, 
D.A. Mendonça and L.M.O. Ribeiro, Federal 
University of Alagoas, Maceio, Brazil
 - Model Simulation of In vitro Synthetic 
Enzymatic Pathway for Novel Hydrogen 
Production with its Predictions
  X. Ye* and Y.-.H.P. zhang, Virginia Tech University, 
Blacksburg, VA
 - Heterologous Expression, Purification, and 
Characterization of a New Phosphorylase 
from Clostridium thermocellum
  X. Ye* and Y.-.H.P. zhang, Virginia Tech University, 
Blacksburg, VA
 -7 Fast Pyrolysis and Bio-Oil Production from 
Agricultural Residues and Energy Crops
  C.A. Mullen* and A.A. Boateng, USDA-ARS, Eastern 
Regional Research Center, Wyndmoor, PA
 -8 Fast Biodiesel Production by One-Phase 
Reaction
  J.Y. Park*, D.K. Kim and J.S. Lee, Korea Institute 
of Energy Research, Daejeon, South Korea; 
z.M. Wang, Guangzhou Institute of Energy 
Conversion, Guangzhou, China
M
on
da
y,
 M
ay
 5
28
10:0 AM -0:  Impact of Surfactants on 
Pretreatment of Corn Stover
  Q. Qing*, M. Studer, B. Yang and C. 
Wyman, Center for Environmental 
Research and Technology, Riverside, CA
11:00 AM -0:  Effects of Genetic Modified and 
Mutant Straws on Bio-Ethanol 
Production
  z. Li*, A. Jiang, R.L. Johnson, J. Wilson 
and S. Chen, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA; Y. Liu and W. 
Liao, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, MI; C. Liu, Genencor, Palo Alto, 
CA; T. Koehler, R. zemetra and E.J. Souza, 
University of Idaho, Moscow, ID
Session 4:  New Biofuels and Biomass Chemicals 
Chairs: H.P. Blaschek, University of Illinois at Urbana-
Champaign, Urbana, IL and A.A. Boateng, USDA-ARS, Eastern 
Regional Research Center, Wyndmoor, PA 
Grand Ballroom D 
8:00 AM – 12:00 Noon 
8:00 AM -01:  Catalytic Conversion of Biomass to 
Hydrocarbons Utilizing Aqueous-
Phase Reforming
  R. Cortright, Virent Energy System, 
Madison, WI
8:0 AM -02:  A Comparison of Rigorous Process 
and Economic Data for Biochemical 
and Thermochemical Ethanol 
Production Technologies
  A. Aden* and T. Foust, National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, 
CO
9:00 AM -0:  Membrane Contactor for Efficient 
Alcohol Recovery
  S. Snyder, Argonne National Laboratory, 
Argonne, IL
9:0 AM Break – Sponsored by DSM
10:00 AM -0:  Ethanol from Diverse Feedstocks - 
Coskata’s Syngas Biotechnology Path
  R. Datta, Coskata, Inc., Warrenville, IL
10:0 AM -0:  Microbial Factories for the 
Production of Fit-for-Purpose 
Hydrocarbonbiofuels from Sugar 
Feedstocks
  N. Renninger, Amyris Biotechnologies, 
Emeryville, CA
11:00 AM -0:  Biobutanol – Next Generation 
Advanced Biofuel
  W.D. Provine, DuPont Company, 
Wilmington, DE
12:00 PM – 
1:0 PM  Lunch - On Your Own!
Session 5:  The New Biofuels Industry: Biomass 
Availability and Supply Chain
Chairs: D.J. Parrish, Virginia Tech University, Blacksburg, VA 
and B. Bigelow, Weyerhaeuser, Federal Way, WA
Grand Ballroom A-C, 2nd Floor  
1:30 PM – 5:30 PM 
1:0 PM -01:  Follow-Up to the Billion-Ton 
Renewable Assessment Report: Status 
and Plans
  R. Perlack, Oak Ridge National 
Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN
2:00 PM -02:  If Switchgrass is the Silver Bullet, How 
Do We Get it into the Gun?
  D.J. Parrish* and J.H. Fike, Virginia Tech 
University, Blacksburg, VA
2:0 PM -0:  The Case for Corn Stover
  M.J. Blaylock* and D.A. Lee, Edenspace 
Systems Corporation, Chantilly, VA; C. 
Wiltse and B.W. Ferguson, Edenspace 
Systems Corporation, Manhattan, KS
:00 PM Break – Sponsored by Gevo
:0 PM -0:  Biomass Yield and Quality of Pacific 
Northwest Grown Switchgrass for 
Biofuel
  S.C. Fransen*, Washington State 
University, Prosser, WA and H.P. Collins, 
USDA-ARS, Prosser, WA
:00 PM -0:  Simulation and Modeling of Forest 
Residue Supply Logistics System
  S. Mani*, D. Greene and S. Baker, 
University of Georgia, Athens, GA; 
S. Sokhansanj, Oak Ridge National 
Laboratory, Oak Ridge, TN
:0 PM -0:  The Impact of Biomass Availability 
and Processing Cost on Optimum Size 
for Biomass Processing
  E. Searcy and P.C. Flynn*, University of 
Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada
M
on
da
y,
 M
ay
 5
0
Advances in Enzyme Science and Technology
 -07 Unnatural Reactions to Convert Cellulosic 
Biomass to Fuels and Chemicals
  R. Kazlauskas*, W.W. AlDajani, Q. Jing, A. Katona, 
J. Schilling, J. Tewait, U. Tschirner and D. Yu, 
University of Minnesota, Saint Paul, MN
 -08 Acceleration of Enzymatic Conversion of 
Agricultural Waste Biomass into Bio-fuels 
by Low Intensity, Uniform Ultrasound Field
  V.G. Yachmenev*, B.D. Condon, K.T. Klasson, A.H. 
Lambert and J. Smith, Southern Regional 
Research Center, New Orleans, LA
 -09 The Production of Recombinant 
Cellobiohydrolase Enzymes in 
Transplastomic Tobacco: Challenges and 
Prospects
  T. ziegelhoffer*, J.A. Raasch and S. Austin-Phillips, 
University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI
 -10 Jatropha curcas L. Seed Lipase Study
  J.S. Sousa*, E.D.C. Cavalcanti, M.L.E. Gutarra and 
D.M.G. Freire, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; D.A.G. Aranda, 
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio De 
Janeiro, Brazil
 -11 Withdrawn
 -12 Withdrawn
 -1 Cellulignin Hydrolysis Using Immobilized 
Cellulases
  W. Sabino Adriano, R. Elias Martins, D. Sousa 
Rodrigues, R. Campos Giordano and R.L.C. 
Giordano*, Universidade Federal de São Carlos, 
São Carlos, SP, Brazil
 -1 Utilization of Dairy Manure for Ligninolytic 
Enzymes Production by the White-Rot 
Fungus Phanerochaete chrysosporium
  C. Li*, D. Singh, z. Li and S. Chen, Center for 
Bioproducts and Bioenergy, Pullman, WA
 -1 Alkaline Active Hemicellulases from 
Bacteria Isolated from an Extremely 
Alkaline Lake Ecosystem
  B.A. Plantz*, K.W. Nickerson and V.L. Schlegel, 
University of Nebraska, Lincoln, NE; J. Shaffer, 
University of Nebraska, Kearney, Kearney, NE; 
G. Sarath, USDA-ARS, Lincoln, NE
 -1 Methods of Increasing β-glucosidase 
Expression in Trichoderma reesei for 
Improved Hydrolysis of Pretreated Corn 
Stover
  S. Merino* and S. Maiyuran, Novozymes, Davis, CA
 -17 Cloning of Cellulase and Regulation Factor 
Genes in Penicillium decumbens and 
Analysis of the Mutation Mechanism of 
Strain JU-A10
  X. Sun, z. Liu, X. Wei, X. Song and Y. Qu*, Shandong 
University, Jinan, China
 -18 Biochemical Characterization of β-
Glucosidases from Different Families
  H. Ding*, S. Myers and R. Benyamino, Novozymes, 
Davis, CA
 -19 Fundamentals of Enzymatic Hydrolysis of 
Cellulose through a Restart Approach
  B. Yang* and C.E. Wyman, Center for Environmental 
Research and Technology, Riverside, CA; C. 
Mitchinson, Genencor, A Danisco Division, Palo 
Alto, CA
 -20 The Effect of Corn Stover Pretreatment on 
Enzyme Inhibition
  D.L. Higgins*, E. Quatrini, F. Xu and M. Torry-Smith, 
Novozymes North America, Franklinton, NC
 -21 Purification and Characterization of 
a Family  Glycoside Hydrolase from 
Geobacillus thermoleovorans IT-08 with 
Dual Function Arabinofuranosidase/
Xylosidase Activity
  K. Wagschal*, C. Heng, C.C. Lee, G.H. Robertson, W.J. 
Orts and D.W.S. Wong, USDA Western Regional 
Research Center, Albany, CA
 -22 Comparing Performance of Several 
Commercially Available Cellulases on 
Pretreated Corn Stover
  A. Mohagheghi*, N. Dowe and D.J. Schell, National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory, Golden, CO
 -2 Production and Preliminary Chemical and 
Biochemical Characterization of Aspergillus 
awamori β-Glucosidase and Xylanase
  R.S.T. Sposina, R.R.B. Olivieri and E. Bon*, Federal 
University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil; F.G. Siqueira and E.X.F. Filho, University 
of Brasília, Brasília, Brazil
 -2 Effects of Xylanases Addition on Enzymatic 
Hydrolysis of Biomass
  C. Liu*, C. Gutierrez, T. Huang and C. Mitchinson, 
Genencor, A Danisco Division, Palo Alto, CA
 -2 Enzyme Pools for Sugar Cane Bagasse 
Hydrolysis
  L.M.F. Gottschalk*, R.A. Oliveira, R.R.O. Barros and 
E.P.S. Bon, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
 -2 An A-Glucuronidase Enzyme Activity Assay 
Adaptable for Solid Phase Screening
  C.C. Lee*, K. Wagschal, R. Kibblewhite-Accinelli, W. 
Orts, G. Robertson and D. Wong, USDA Western 
Regional Research Center, Albany, CA
 -27 Improved Cellulase Performance on Pulp 
and Paper Substrates
  T. Huang*, R. Warner and C. Mitchinson, Genencor, A 
Danisco Division, Palo Alto, CA
M
on
da
y,
 M
ay
 5
2
 -8 Cell-Free Ethanol Production
  E.J. Allain, Appalachian State University, Boone, NC
 -9 Influence of Formic Acid in a Pre-Purified 
Xylose Reductase Aiming Enzymatic 
NAD(P)H Regeneration System
  R.F. Branco, J.C. Santos, B.F. Sarrouh and S. Silva*, 
University of São Paulo - Engineer School of 
Lorena, Lorena, Brazil
Advances in Microbial Science and Technology 2
 7-07 Production of Ligninase from Wheat 
Straw Using a Pelletized Phanerochaete 
chrysosposium Culture
  W. Liao* and Y. Liu, Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, MI; z. Li and S. Chen, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA
 7-08 Cell Immobilization Application on the 
Ethanol Production
  A.V. Alarcón-Elias*, E. Duran-Paramo, C.A. Jimenez-
Sierra and G. Valencia Del Toro, UPIBI-National 
Polytechnic Institute, Mexico City, Mexico
 7-09 Importance of Morphology of Trichoderma 
reesei for Production of Cellulases
  L. Lehmann*, L. Olsson and T. Hobley, Center for 
Microbial Biotechnology, Technical University 
of Denmark, DK-2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark; 
S.M. Stocks and H.S. Jørgensen, Novozymes, 
DK-2880 Bagsvaerd, Denmark
 7-10 Changes in Proliferation Characteristics 
and a Filter Paper Degrading Ability of the 
Trichoderma Strain, B, After the Second 
Colchicine Treatment
  H. Toyama*, H. Kawamata and S. Minamisawa, 
Minamikyushu University, Miyazaki, Japan
 7-11 Simultaneous Saccharification and 
Fermentation of Pretreated Olive Pruning 
for Bioethanol Production
  P. Manzanares*, M.J. Negro, J.M. Oliva, F. Saez, I. 
Ballesteros and M. Ballesteros, CIEMAT, Madrid, 
Spain; C. Cara, E. Ruiz and E. Castro, University 
of Jaen, Jaen, Spain
 7-12 Systems-Level Analysis and Engineering 
of Escherichia coli for the Production of L-
Valine
  J.H. Park, K.H. Lee, T.Y. Kim, Y.S. Jang* and S.Y. Lee, 
Department of Chemical and Biomolecular 
Engineering (BK21 program), BioProcess 
Engineering Research Center, Daejeon, South 
Korea
 7-1 Screening of Microorganisms for 
Bioconversion of Limonene to A-Terpineol
  I. Rottava*, I.C.R. Costa and O.A.C. Antunes, 
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil; C. Grando, G. Toniazzo, 
A.J. Mossi and R.L. Cansian, URI - Campus de 
Erechim, Erechim, Brazil
 7-1 Systems Metabolic Engineering of 
Escherichia coli for L-Threonine Production
  K.H. Lee, J.H. Park, T.Y. Kim, Y.S. Jang* and S.Y. Lee, 
Department of Chemical and Biomolecular 
Engineering (BK21 program), BioProcess 
Engineering Research Center, Daejeon, South 
Korea
 7-1 Development of Shuttle Vectors for Succinic 
Acid Producing Rumen Bacteria
  Y.S. Jang*, J.W. Lee and S.Y. Lee, Department of 
Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (BK21 
program), BioProcess Engineering Research 
Center, Daejeon, South Korea
 7-1 Effects of Dissolved CO2 Levels on the 
Growth of Mannheimia succiniciproducens 
and Succinic Acid Production
  H. Song, J.W. Lee, S. Choi* and S.Y. Lee, Department 
of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering 
(BK21 program), BioProcess Engineering 
Research Center, Daejeon, South Korea
 7-17 Nisin Biosynthesis by Lactococcus lactis in 
Bioreactor Using Diluted Skimmed Milk as 
Culture Media
  L.J. Arauz, A.F. Jozala, G.S. Pinheiro, P.G. Mazzola, 
A. Pessoa and T.C.V. Penna*, School of 
Pharmaceutics Sciences, São Paulo, Brazil
 7-18 Kinetic Modeling of Batch Fermentation for 
Succinic Acid Production by Mannheimia 
succiniciproducens
  H. Song, J.M. Park, S. Choi* and S.Y. Lee, Department 
of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering 
(BK21 program), BioProcess Engineering 
Research Center, Daejeon, South Korea
 7-19 Proteome Characteristics of Succinic Acid 
Overproducing Bacterium, Mannheimia 
succiniciproducens
  J.W. Lee, H. Song, S. Choi* and S.Y. Lee, Department 
of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering 
(BK21 program), BioProcess Engineering 
Research Center, Daejeon, South Korea; J.S. 
Yoo, Korea Basic Science Institute, Daejeon, 
South Korea
 7-20 Biological Hydrogen Production by Bacillus 
smithii: A Kinetic Study
  J. Lovelady*, D.J. Carrier and E.C. Clausen, University 
of Arkansas, Fayetteville, AR; J.L. Gaddy, 
Bioengineering Resources, Fayetteville, AR
 7-21 Characterization of a Phosphoglucose 
Isomerase Homoethanologenic Escherichia 
coli Mutant
  G. Huerta-Beristain*, G. Gosset and A. Martínez, 
Instituto de Biotecnología, UNAM, Cuernavaca, 
Mexico
M
on
da
y,
 M
ay
 5

 7-9 Influence of Nutrient Supplementation on 
Ethanol Batch Production Rates
  R.M.R.G. Almeida*, A.M. dos Santos, B.P.C. da Silva 
and E.G. de Oliveira, Federal University of 
Alagoas, Maceio, Brazil
 7-0 Global Gene Expression Analysis in Pichia 
stipitis:  Examining the Effect of Carbon 
Source and Oxygen Level Using Batch 
Cultivation and Continuous Culture
  J.R.H. Van Vleet* and C. Lu, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, WI; T.W. Jeffries, USDA Forest Service, 
Madison, WI
 7-1 Exploring the Applicability of Crude 
Glycerol from Biodiesel Production as 
Substrate for Obtaining Biomolecules by 
Hansenula anomala CCT 28
  J.D. Rivaldi*, B.F. Sarrouh, R.F. Branco and S.S. 
da Silva, Escola de Engenharia de Lorena, 
Universidade de São Paulo, Lorena - SP, Brazil
 7-2 Modeling Oxygen Uptake Rates in a 
Rhamnolipid Type Biosurfactant Production
  F.A. Kronemberger* and C.P. Borges, COPPE / UFRJ, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; L.M.M. Santa Anna, 
Petrobras; A.C.L.B. Fernandes, IQ/ UFRJ, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil; D.M.G. Freire, Universidade 
Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
 7- Bioethanol Production from Xylose Using 
Recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
Expressing Protein Engineered NADP+-
Dependent Xylitol Dehydrogenase
  A. Matsushika*, National Institute of Advanced 
Industrial Science and Technology, Hiroshima, 
Japan; S. Watanabe, T. Kodaki and K. Makino, 
Kyoto University, Kyoto, Japan; S. Sawayama, 
National Institute of Advanced Industrial 
Science and Technology, Kure, Japan
 7- Photobiological Production of Hydrogen 
from Water by Cyanobacterial hydrogenase
  z. zhang*, N.D. Pendse and A.B. Khodursky, 
University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN; K.N. 
Phillips and J.B. Cotner, University of Minnesota
 7- Simultaneous Saccharification and 
Fermentation of Oxalic Acid Pretreated 
Corn Cob to Ethanol Using Xylose-
Fermenting Pichia stipitis CBS 0
  J.W. Lee*, Forest Products Laboratory, USDA-FS, 
Madison, WI, R.C.L.B. Rodrigues, Universidade 
de São Paulo, Lorena, SP, Brazil and T.W. Jeffries, 
USDA Forest Service, Madison, WI
 7- Hydrogen Production by Novel Clostridium 
Strains
  K.S. Bowman*, F.A. Rainey and W.M. Moe, Louisiana 
State University, Baton Rouge, LA
 7-7 ZWF1 Overexpression in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae Protects Cells from Furfural-
Induced Damage to Cellular Membranes, 
Chromatin, and the Actin Cytoskeleton
  z. Cai, L. Qing, A. Sandra, C. William and S.W. 
Gorsich*, Central Michigan University, Mount 
Pleasant, MI
 7-8 Development and Operation of a Solid-
State Fermentation Bioreactor for Lipase 
Production Using an Agro-Industrial 
Residue as Culture Medium
  M.L.E. Gutarra*, M.G. Godoy and L.R. Castilho, 
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; J.N. Silva, M.V.M. Silva 
and D.M.G. Freire, Instituto de Química, 
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil
 7-9 Employment of a Low Cost Methodology for 
Simultaneous Biological Detoxification of 
Castor Bean Waste and Lipase Production 
by Filamentous Fungus
  M.G. Godoy* and M.L.E. Gutarra, Universidade 
Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; 
F.M. Maciel, S.P. Felix and O.L.T. Machado, 
Universidade Estadual Norte Fluminense, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil; J.V. Bevilaqua, Petrobras, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; D.M.G. Freire, Instituto 
de Química, Universidade Federal do Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
 7-0 Fed-Batch Simultaneous Saccharification 
and Fermentation for Bioethanol 
Production by a Thermotolerant Yeast
  E. Tomás-Pejó*, J.M. Oliva and M. Ballesteros, 
CIEMAT, Research Centre for Energy, 
Environment and Technology, Madrid, Spain
 7-1 Expression of a Heterologous Xylose 
Transporter in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae 
Strain Engineered to Utilize xylose 
Increases Xylose Uptake and Improves 
Xylose/Glucose Co-Consumption
  R.E. Hector*, N. Qureshi, S.R. Hughes and M.A. Cotta, 
United States Department of Agriculture, 
Agricultural Research Service, National Center 
for Agricultural Utilization Research, Peoria, IL
 7-2 Ethanol Impact on Xylose Metabolism in S. 
cerevisiae 2A(LNH-ST)
  A. Athmanathan*, M. Sedlak, N.W.Y. Ho and N.S. 
Mosier, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
 7- Combined Effect of Acetic Acid and 
Controlled pH on the Co-fermentation of 
Glucose and Xylose by Recombinant Yeast
  E. Casey*, M. Sedlak, N.W.Y. Ho and N.S. Mosier, 
Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
M
on
da
y,
 M
ay
 5

Advances in Bioprocessing and Related 
Separations Technology
 9-07 Study of the Production of Biodiesel in 
Supercritical Medium Using Reactive 
Distillation
  F.L.P. Pessoa and P.W. Falcão*, Universidade Federal 
do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
 9-08 Effect of BSA Treatment of Cellulosic 
Biomass on Continuous Enzymatic 
Hydrolysis and SSF
  S. Brethauer*, M. Studer, B. Yang and C. Wyman, 
University of California, Riverside, Riverside, CA
 9-09 Continuous Hydrogen Production During 
Fermentation of Alpha-Cellulose by the 
Thermophilic Bacterium Clostridium 
thermocellum
  L. Magnusson*, R. Sparling, N. Cicek and D.B. Levin, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB, Canada
 9-10 Towards Optimal Operation of Distillation 
Column for Bioethanol Production
  T.L. Junqueira and M.R. Wolf Maciel, State University 
of Campinas, Campinas-SP, Brazil; R. Maciel 
Filho*, State University of Campinas, Campinas, 
Brazil
 9-11 Biofuels Process Model Development with 
SuperPro Designer
  C.D. Jensen, Merrick and Company, Aurora, CO
 9-12 Rhamnolipids-Enabled Affinity Foam 
Fractionation of Trichoderma β-glucosidase
  Q. zhang*, C.M. Lo and L.K. Ju, University of Akron, 
Akron, OH
 9-1 Liquid-liquid Equilibria for Castor 
Oil+Glycerol+Alcohol
  F.L.P. Pessoa, B.B. França* and F.P. Moraes, 
Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio 
de janeiro, Brazil; A.M.C. Uller, Universidade 
Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
 9-1 Continuous Flash Fermentation Applied for 
the Production of Biobutanol
  A.P. Mariano*, State University of Campinas 
(UNICAMP) - School of Chemical Engineering, 
Campinas-SP, Brazil, D.D.A. Franceschi, 
Universidade Estadual Paulista (Unesp), 
Rio Claro, Brazil and R. Maciel Filho, State 
University of Campinas, Campinas, Brazil
 9-1 Real-Time Optimization of the 
Biotechnological Process for Acrylic Acid 
Synthesis: Determination of the Optimality 
Conditions
  B.H. Lunelli and D.N.C. Melo, State University of 
Campinas, Campinas - SP, Brazil; R. Maciel 
Filho*, State University of Campinas, Campinas, 
Brazil; E.C. Vasco de Toledo, Petrobras SA, 
Paulínia Refinery, Paulínia, Brazil
 9-1 Production of Biodiesel and Potential 
Pharmaceuticals from Cottonseed Oil
  T. Walker*, Clemson University, Clemson, SC and H. 
Joshi, Clemson University, Clemson
 9-17 A Continuous Plug-Flow System for 
Hydrothermal Processing of Aqueous 
Biomass
  K. Hennessy* and C. Yang, University of Minnesota, 
Saint Paul, MN; B. zhang, P. Chen and R. Ruan, 
University of Minnesota, St. Paul, MN
 9-18 Effects of Neutralising Agent, Organic 
Acids, and Osmolarity on Succinic Acid 
Production by Escherichia coli AFP18
  C. Andersson*, J. Helmerius, D. Hodge, K.A. Berglund 
and U. Rova, Luleå University of Technology, 
Luleå, Sweden
 9-19 Biodiesel Production from Various Oils in 
Supercritical Fluid Condition by Candida 
antartica Lipase B and its Analysis Using 
Solubility of Fatty Acids
  J.H. Lee*, C.H. Kwon, Y.S. Song, J.W. Kang and S.W. 
Kim*, Korea University, Seoul, South Korea; J.S. 
Lim, Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd, Suwon-City, 
South Korea; C. Park, Kwangwoon University, 
Seoul, South Korea
 9-20 Evaluation of Green Fluorescent Protein 
Purification Using Different Purification 
Methods
  M. Ishii, L.C.M.D. Neves*, M.F. Minaguti, C.F.M. Souza 
and T.C.V. Penna, School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, 
Brazil
 9-21 Soft-Lens Properties of Poly-Sorbitan 
Methacrylate Hydrogel
  S.H. Park*, G.T. Jeong, J.H. Park, H.S. Yang and D.H. 
Park, Chonnam National University, Gwangju, 
South Korea
 9-22 Screening and Optimization of Medium 
Composition for Poly(γ-glutamic acid) 
Production by Bacillus sp. RKY through 
Statistical Approaches
  J.N. Kim*, J.H. Jeong, Y.J. Wee and H.W. Ryu, 
Chonnam National University, Gwangju 500-
757, South Korea
 9-2 Development of Efficient Purification 
Process for Poly(γ-glutamic acid) from 
Newly Isolated Bacillus sp. RKY
  J.H. Jeong*, J.N. Kim, Y.J. Wee and H.W. Ryu, 
Chonnam National University, Gwangju 500-
757, South Korea
M
on
da
y,
 M
ay
 5
8
 9-9 Effect of Polyethylene Glycol on the 
Stability of Green Fluorescent Protein
  L.C.L. Novaes, F.M. Magaldi, A. Pessoa Jr. and T.C.V. 
Penna*, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, 
University of São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil; H.O. 
Johansson, Lund University, Lund, Sweden
 9-0 Physical Properties of Miscanthus 
Influencing Feedstock Quality
  T.H. Ulrich*, C.T. Wright, C.W. Radtke, L.M. Petzke, 
D.M. Stevens, P.A. Pryfogle and J.R. Hess, Idaho 
National Laboratory - Battelle Energy Alliance, 
Idaho Falls, ID
 9-1 Minimizing Mass Transport Effects in a 
Continuous Process for Production of 
Ethanol from Starch
  J. Trovatti, R.C. Giordano* and R.L.C. Giordano, 
Universidade Federal de São Carlos, São Carlos, 
SP, Brazil
 9-2 Evaluation of Kinetics and Nutritional 
Parameters on Rhodotorula glutinis Growth 
and Pigmentation
  M.M.T. Almeida and G.A.S. Pinto*, Embrapa - 
Brazilian Agricultural Research Corporation, 
Fortaleza/CE, Brazil
The New Biofuels Industry: Biomass Environmental 
Feasibility and Sustainability
 10-07 Synergistic Interactions between Poplar 
and Endophytic Bacteria to Improve Plant 
Establishment and Sustainable Feedstock 
Production on Marginal Soils
  S. Taghavi, S. Monchy and D. Van der Lelie*, 
Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, NY
 10-08 MicroDrivE – A Research Program on 
Sustainable Bioethanol and Biogas Systems
  J. Schnürer, Swedish University of Agricultural 
Sciences (SLU), Uppsala, Sweden
 10-09 Increasing Profit Margins in Biofuels 
Production
  Y.S. Liu* and M.E. zappi, University of Louisiana at 
Lafayette, Lafayette, LA; S.R. Saraf, Exponent, 
Houston, TX
 10-10 Removal of Total Nitrogen in Waste-Water 
Using Biological Treatment Process (I)
  E.T. Lim*, Chonnam National University & Taerim 
Industry Co., Ltd, Gwangju, South Korea; S.H. 
Bhang, Taerim Industry Co., Ltd, Jeonnam, 
South Korea; G.T. Jeong, S.H. Park, J.H. Park 
and D.H. Park, Chonnam National University, 
Gwangju, South Korea
Biorefining Technology Deployment and 
Demonstration
 11-07 Bioethanol Subproducts as a Basis of Plant 
Biorefinery
  J. Destain*, P. Laurent, B. Ndoye, M. Paquot and P. 
Thonart, Gembloux Agricultural University, 
Gembloux, Belgium
 11-08 Production of Value Added Chemicals from 
Xylan Extraction in a Kraft Pulp Mill and the 
Effect on Pulp Quality
  J. Helmerius*, U. Rova, K.K.A. Berglund and D. 
Hodge, Luleå University of Technology, Luleå, 
Sweden; J. Vinblad von Walter, Smurfit Kappa 
Kraftliner AB, Piteå, Sweden
 11-09 The IBUS process - Large scale SSF at high 
dry matter content (>2% WIS)
  M. Østergaard Petersen and J. Larsen, DONG 
Energy, Kraftværksvej 53, DK-7000 Fredericia, 
Denmark
Advances in Enzyme Science and Technology 2
 12-07 Evaluation of Acremonium cellulolyticus 
Enzyme Cocktail on Efficient Enzymatic 
Hydrolysis of Douglas-Fir Pretreated by Ball 
Milling
  H. Inoue*, S. Yano, A. Hideno, X. Fang and S. 
Sawayama, National Institute of Advanced 
Industrial Science and Technology, Kure, Japan
 12-08 Cellulosic Ethanol: Hydrolytic Enzymes 
Produced by Wild Aspergillus niger 12 
and Mutant Aspergillus niger TB8 from 
Tropical Environments
  S. Couri*, A. Xavier and S. da Costa, Embrapa 
Agroindústria de Alimentos, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil
 12-09 Optimization of Inductor Concentration 
and Fermentation Conditions for Lipolytic 
Enzyme Production by Isolated Bacterium 
Strain from Petroleum Contamined Soil
  I.C. Feitosa, I.G. Muratori, M.M.D. Prado, A.S. Lima 
and C.M.F. Soares*, Universidade Tiradentes, 
Aracaju - SE, Brazil; H.F.D. Castro, University of 
São Paulo, Lorena - SP, Brazil; G.M. zanin, State 
University of Maringa, Maringa - PR, Brazil
 12-10 Oleic Acid Delays and Modulates the 
Transition from Respiratory to Fermentative 
Metabolism in after Exposure to Glucose 
Excess
  D. Feria Gervasio, INSAT Institute National des 
Sciences Apliquées de Toulouse, Toulouse, 
France
Tu
es
da
y,
 M
ay
 6
0
» Tuesday, May 6 
Registration/Editor’s Desk 
Grand Foyer, 2nd Floor  
7:15 AM – 12:00 Noon
Continental Breakfast  
Grand Foyer, 2nd Floor  
7:15 AM – 8:00 AM 
Speakers Breakfast  
Bourbon Room, 2nd Floor Mezzanine 
7:15 AM – 8:00 AM
Exhibits open
Grand Gallery, 2nd Floor 
7:30 AM – 10:30 AM
Session 7:  Advances in Microbial Science and 
Technology 2 
Chairs: B.C. Saha, USDA-ARS-NCAUR, Peoria, IL and M.H. 
Emptage, DuPont, Wilmington, DE 
Grand Ballroom A-C, 2nd floor 
8:00 am – 12:00 noon 
8:00 AM 7-01:  Substrate Selective Uptake to Remove 
Acetate and Convert Sugar Mixtures
  M.A. Eiteman,* A. Lakshmanaswamy, 
K.C. Reilly and E. Altman, University of 
Georgia, Athens, GA
8:0 AM 7-02:  Expression of Ethanol and Hydrogen 
Synthesis Pathway Genes during 
Growth on Cellulose in Clostridium 
thermocellum ATCC 270
  C.R. Carere, D.B. Levin*, N. Cicek and 
R. Sparling, University of Manitoba, 
Winnipeg, MB, Canada
9:00 AM 7-0:  Metabolic Engineering of 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae for Succinic 
Acid Production
  J.M. Otero, S.G. Poulsen, J. Nielsen and 
L. Olsson*, BioCentrum-DTU, Lyngby, 
Denmark
9:0 AM Break – Sponsored by BIO
10:00 AM 7-0:  Production of Substituted Aromatics 
from Biomass-Derived Feedstock 
by Engineered Solvent-Tolerant 
Pseudomonas putida S12
  H.J. Ruijssenaars, TNO - Netherlands 
Organization for Applied Scientific 
Research, Delft, Netherlands
10:0 AM 7-0:  ZWF1 overexpression in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae protects 
cells from furfural-induced damage to 
cellular membranes, chromatin, and 
the actin cytoskeleton
  z. C. L. Qing, A. Sandra, C. William and S. 
W. Gorsich,*  Central Michigan University 
Mount Pleasant, MI
11:00 AM 7-0:  Engineering Escherichia coli for the 
Efficient Conversion of Glycerol to 
Ethanol and Co-Products
  S.S. Yazdani* and R. Gonzalez, Rice 
University, Houston, TX
Session 8:  Pretreatment and Biomass 
Recalcitrance: Fundamentals and Progress 2 
Chairs: B.E. Dale, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 
and E.R. Berson, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 
Grand Ballroom D, 2nd floor  
8:00 AM – 12 Noon
8:00 AM 8-01:  Application of Leading Pretreatment 
Technologies to Poplar Wood: Sugar 
Recovery, Fermentation Performance, 
and Cost Estimates
  C. Wyman*, Center for Environmental 
Research and Technology, Riverside, 
CA, B.E. Dale, Michigan State University, 
East Lansing, MI, R.T. Elander, National 
Renewable Energy Laboratory, 
Golden, CO, M.T. Holtzapple, Texas 
A&M University, College Station, TX, 
M.R. Ladisch, Purdue University, West 
Lafayette, IN, Y.Y. Lee, Auburn University, 
Auburn, AL, C. Mitchinson, Genencor, A 
Danisco Division, Palo Alto, CA and J.N. 
Saddler, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada
8:0 AM 8-02:  Profiling of Cell Wall Polymers from 
Wheat Straw during Pretreatment and 
Enzymatic Hydrolysis Using Novel 
Microarrays
  A. Alonso-Simon, J. Øbro and W.G.T. 
Willats, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark; J.B. Kristensen, 
H. Jørgensen* and C. Felby, University of 
Copenhagen, DK-1958 Frederiksberg C, 
Denmark
9:00 AM 8-0:  Decreasing of Recalcitrance of 
Sugarcane Bagasse Cellulose by 
Steam Pretreatment
  L.R.M. Oliveira, G.J.M. Rocha and A.R. 
Gonçalves*, Engineering School of 
Lorena- EEL-USP, Lorena-SP, Brazil
9:0 AM Break – Sponsored by BIO
10:00 AM 8-0:  Fundamentals on Size Reduction for 
Biomass Conversion
  J.Y. zhu* and R. Glesiner, USDA Forest 
Service, Forest Products Laboratory, 
Madison, WI; G. Wang, Tianjin University 
of Science and Technology, TianJian, 
China; X. Pan, University of Wisconsin, 
Madison, WI
W
ed
ne
sd
ay
, M
ay
 7
2
10:0 AM 9-0:  Enrichment of Electrogenic Consortia 
in Microbial Fuel Cells for Conversion 
of Acetate to Electricity
  A.P. Borole*, C. Hamilton and C. Tsouris, 
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak 
Ridge, TN; D. Aaron, University of 
Tennessee, Knoxville, TN; D. Leak, 
Imperial College, London, United 
Kingdom; T. Fuller, Georgia Institute of 
Technology, Atlanta, GA
11:00 AM 9-0:  Engineering Challenges for 
Development of High Intensity 
Nanostructured Biocatalytic Coatings 
for Gas-Phase and Waste Carbon 
Conversion to Chemical Intermediates 
and Fuels
  M.C. Flickinger, North Carolina State 
University, Raleigh, NC
Session 10:  The New Biofuels Industry: Biomass 
Environmental Feasibility and Sustainability 
Chairs: R. Anex, Iowa State University, Ames, IA and W.W. 
Wilhelm, USDA-ARS, Lincoln, NE  
Grand Ballroom D 
8:00 AM 10-01:  Biofuel Production Limited by 
Renewal of Water and Nitrogen 
Resources
  T.R. Sinclair, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL
8:0 AM 10-02:  Life Cycle Consumptive Water Use in 
Fuel Production
  M. Wu* and M. Wang, Argonne National 
Laboratory, Argonne, IL
9:00 AM 10-0:  Biochar for Environmentally-
Friendly Bioenergy
  J. Lehmann, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
NY
9:0 AM Break – Sponsored by Nedalco
10:00 AM 10-0:  Life Cycle Assessment of 
Polyhydroxyalkanoates (PHA)
  S. Kim and B.E. Dale*, Michigan State 
University, East Lansing, MI
10:0 AM 10-0:  Environmental and Economic 
Analysis of the Fully Integrated 
Biorefinery
  E.D. Sendich* and B.E. Dale, Michigan 
State University, East Lansing, MI; C.A. 
Rotz, USDA-ARS, University Park, PA
11:00 AM 10-0:  Market-Mediated Land Use Change 
Consequences of Crop-Based Biofuel 
Production
  A.D. Jones* and A.E. Farrell, University of 
California, Berkeley, Berkeley, CA
12:00 PM
 – 1:0 PM Lunch - On Your Own! 
Session 11 :  Biorefining Technology Deployment 
and Demonstration
Chairs: W. Soetaert, Ghent Universiy of Belgium and J.S. 
Tolan, Iogen Corporation, Ottawa, ON, Canada 
Grand Ballroom D 
1:30 PM-5:30 PM 
1:0 PM 11-01:  MixAlco Process: Fuels and 
Chemicals from Biomass
  M.T. Holtzapple* and C.B. Granda, Texas 
A&M University, College Station, TX
2:00 PM 11-02:  BBI International Cellulosic Ethanol 
Project Update
  M.A. Yancey*, B. Duff, S. Birkmire and C. 
Lindeman, BBI International, Denver, CO
2:0 PM 11-0:  Bioethanol, Biohydrogen and Biogas 
Production from Wheat Straw and its 
By-Products in a Biorefinery Concept
  P. Kaparaju*, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
University of Copenhagen, 
Frederiksberg, Denmark; M. Serrano 
and I. Angelidaki, Technical University 
of Denmark, Kgs Lyngby, Denmark; A.B. 
Thomsen, Risoe National Laboratory, 
Roskilde, Denmark
:00 PM Break – Sponsored by Nedalco
:0 PM 11-0:  An Advanced Biorefinery Based on 
Wood Feedstock
  G. Roedsrud* and G. Johansen, 
Borregaard, Sarpsborg, Norway
:00 PM 11-0:  Integrated Biorefining at Ghent Bio-
Energy Valley
  Prof. Wim Soetaert, Faculty of Bioscience 
Engineering, Ghent University, 9000 
Gent, Belgium
:0 PM 11-0:  Status of Iogen’s Process for 
Production of Ethanol from Cellulose
  B. Foody* and J.S. Tolan, Iogen 
Corporation, Ottawa, ON, Canada
