walls could direct early, lateral energy to the 
perimeter seats on the two sides. The emphaszed 
energy would cause reduction in reverberation time 
but can be resolved by using lower, less tilted 
reflective surfaces. 
英文關鍵詞： Vineyard Hall, multi-dimensional evaluation, 
surrounding seats, reverberatrion time, strength, 
voice source 
 
1 INTRODUCTION 
 
 The presence of “vineyard” style concert halls is growing because of the intimate 
performer-audience relations and the large seating capacity it may offer [1].  When compared 
with a rectangular hall, commonly noticed acoustical difficulties include shadowed high 
frequency components at seat surrounding the stage, and insufficient strength and early 
reverberation at all seats [2] [3] [4]. 
Two distinctive features could be identified in a vineyard hall, a stage reached out to the 
audience that shortened source-receiver distance and terraced rows of audience seats that 
created seating division [3].  Integration of both features first appeared at the innovative 
Berlin Philharmonic Hall where divided, terraced seating as opposed to large, integrated 
seating was introduced to enhance sound reflections. A tent-like ceiling profile was used to 
further insure early reflections for the seats near the perimeter. 
As pointed out by Cremer, the acoustician of the Berlin Philharmonic Hall, one of the 
major acoustical problems occurred at the seats surrounding the stage when listening to vocal 
sound where both acoustical and visual deprivation existed. The acoustical side of the 
problem could be easily solved in a recital hall by introducing a frontal terrace near the stage 
[5].  It would be much more difficult to do so in a symphony hall because a nearby frontal 
terrace may result in excessive floor rake towards the rear of the hall.   
Considering all seats, a vineyard hall might still suffer from insufficient overall strength 
and early reverberation [4] [6].  This can be attributed to less wall surfaces and greater floor 
rake than those appeared in a shoebox hall [4].  Designing a surrounded, vineyard concert 
hall with terrace seating is challenging also because various parts of the audience need to be 
taken care of simultaneously.  The size and orientation of individual reflective surfaces need 
to be adjusted carefully [7]. 
In attempt to enhance wall reflections, most modern vineyard halls were narrower than the 
pioneer Berlin Philharmonic Hall [4].  The Auditorior Nacional de Musica at Madrid even 
applied step wise parallel walls between side terraces to ensure evenly distributed reflections 
[3].   
A more active approach for promoting wall reflections was to reversely splay and 
downward tilt the walls and terraces to form a reverse-fan shape [3].  A hexagon or polygon 
shape could be developed by further splaying the front portion of the hall to direct sound 
toward the rear.  It would become a “leaf shape” if successive splaying was applied [9]. A 
polygon or leaf shape not only benefited the hall acoustically but also provided better viewing 
angle for the audiences than a rectangular shape. Nevertheless, wall tilting should be used 
with caution because of the risk of lowering early decay time. 
There also remain visual concerns for a vineyard hall since a significant portion of seats 
were on terraces.  View obstruction of the orchestra was unavoidable for the terraces adjacent 
to the stage.  Nevertheless, balance between view obstruction and acoustical performance 
could be obtained by setting appropriate height and slope of the terraces [8]. Higher terraces 
with a greater slope would provide greater reflection coverage but result in more rapid energy 
decay [6]. 
This paper investigated the multi-dimensional effects of various design techniques based on 
computer modeling. It was aimed to promote distribution early, lateral energy, sustain early 
energy decay, and mitigate difficulties due to source directivity.   
 
2 METHOD 
 
 The basic geometry of the “semi-surround” Concertgebouw, Amsterdam was used to 
develop alternative design schemes that contain design features appeared in well-known 
vineyard halls. A volume in the range of 19,000 m3to 22,500 m3 was used.  Acoustical 
proportion and shape when maintaining the same room volume (19,000 m3), stage area (200 
m2) and audience area.  The width and length was increased to 32 m and 45 m, respectively. 
The height difference between the side terraces and the stage floor was set to 3 m and the step 
difference between rows of terrace seating to 0.5-m.  Roughly 2/3 of the stage can be seen if 
seats were staggered.  The percentage of surrounding seating area to total seating area was 27 
%. The results of various acoustical measures are summarized in Table 1.  Low clarity (C80) 
and lateral energy fraction (LF80) could be observed.   The 3.8-dB spatial decay of early 
strength (DG80) was rather high.  All facts indicated strong needs for early, lateral energy, 
especially for remote seats. 
Possible locations and aiming to situate terraces and reflective surfaces were analyzed by 
superimposing ellipses corresponding 50-ms delay reflection for various receiver locations.  
The red ellipses and blue ellipses in Figure 2 represent the ones for the frontal audiences and 
the surrounding audiences, respectively.   
In attempt to approximate the gradually widened ellipses stepwise side terraces were 
adopted.  A sunken main section was formed by introducing a 10-m away frontal terrace to 
direct on-axis energy of the singer to the surrounding seats.   This was compared with the one 
with an 18-m away terrace.  The first row of the frontal terrace was 2.5-m above the stage 
floor and 3-m over the sunken main section.   The terrace was bended on two sides to a 
trapezoid shape. As indicated in Figure 2 stepwise division of side terraces can also be 
applied to the surrounding seats.  As a result four schemes were developed that compared the 
schemes with 10-m frontal terraces (left) to the ones with 18-m terrace (right) and the 
schemes with stepwise terraces on the audience side only (top) to the ones with stepwise 
terraces on both sides (bottom) (Figure 3). 
Table 2 summarizes simulated data of various acoustical measures comparing the four 
schemes to the ones with linear side terrace.  The spatial decay of early strength (DG80) for 
both schemes with linear side terraces remained high. The strength for remote seats was 
significantly improved when average G80 became greater and DG80 became smaller by making 
the linear side terraces stepwise.  Lateral energy fraction (LF80) was also boosted to around 0.2, a value 
normally derived from a shoebox hall.  The 10-m away frontal terrace was effective in increasing 
the 2-kHz band voice strength for the surrounding seats (G80v_surr) by 2 dB.   
The DG80 values for the two schemes with 10-m away frontal terraces were, however, greater than 
the predicted value by the revised theory.  Based on the geometrical analysis it appeared that reversely 
splayed rear side wall would be useful in projecting extra reflections to the remote seats. 
 
4 POLYGONAL SHAPE 
 
Schemes in polygonal shape were created where the front side walls were splayed and 
the rear side walls were reversely splayed.  The side terraces were modified accordingly.  As 
shown in Figure 5, the front portion was splayed to a 3/10 angle towards the audience.  The rear 
portion was raised and splayed to a 1/2 angle towards the stage to disclose larger bounding wall area.  
The percentage of surrounding seating area decreased slightly to 25 % and the hall width in the 
middle increased slightly to 33.4 m. 
The terrace bounding walls were tilted 1/20 for the middle portion and 1/8 for the rear portion, 
since they were meant to direct 1st order reflections.  Front and middle portions of the side walls 
were also tilted 1/10.   The rear portion of side walls and the rear wall were tilted 1/5 where each of 
the rear side wall was expected to direct 1st order reflections to the terrace seats on the other side.  
1/6 splaying and 1/10 reverse splaying for the middle portions of side terraces were compared.  The 
former was expected to direct energy toward the rear while the latter was aimed for the seats on the 
side.  A similar splaying can be found in the New Danish Radio Concert Hall [8]. 
 
could not be identified clearly by these hall averge values.  By examing early strength of 
invidual seats it was found that after expansion the much wider middle portion of the hall 
yielded insufficient early energies for the seats along the side and surrounding the stage 
(Figure 10).  The four extra terraces plus the local reflectors were effective in directing 
reflections laterally to these areas that reduced the dispersion among seats.  The logrithm fit 
of the data point was nearly identical to the predicted line based on Barron’s revised theory. 
The left graph in Figure 11 shows the progressively decreased EDT and T30 by 
introducing corner terraces and local reflectors. The reduction of reverberation was 9 %, 
twice of just noticeable difference. This can be rectified by applying less tilted walls.  The 
tilted bounding walls of the corner terraces were kept to ensure useful early, lateral energy to 
the remote side seats while the significantly tilted (near 1/2 tilting) local reflectors were 
removed.   In order to enhance late energy the side fan-shaped terrace walls were tilted up 
slightly and the rear terrace wall was set to vertical as opposed to 1/3 down (Figure 10).  As 
indicated by the right graph in Figure 9 both T30 and EDT climbed back by 6 % in average.  
In addition two terraces on both ends of the hall were introduced where the bounding walls 
were nearly vertical and sending reflections to the neighbor terrace from a position lower than 
the removed reflectors (Figure 12).  Extra boost in both acoustical measures was observed 
and T30 reached 1.8 s (Figure 11). 
A 1/20 scale model of the expanded scheme with extra terrace division has being 
constructed to verify the simulated results.   Measurements will be taken concering the effects 
of scatter property and aiming of reflective surfaces. 
 
6 CONCULSIONS 
 
 While it is generally accepted that designing a vineyard concert hall is more risky than 
designing a rectangular hall due to its scattered reflective surfaces, deficiency at the seats 
surrounding the stage associated with directional sources makes it even more challenging.  
This research was carried out to systematically examine the possibility of satisfying multi-
dimensional parameters by applying various design techniques. 
 The following conclusions can be draw: 
1. Without making active effort 2-kHz band voice strength for the surrounding seats 
(G80v_surr) was only -7.5 dB for a hall containing roughly 1/4 of seats surrounding the 
stage.  The energy could be effectively compensated for by roughly 3 dB in the design 
schemes with a frontal terrace 10 m from the stage. However, using splayed side terrace 
walls only may provide nearly half of the compensation.  
2. The high-frequency compensation for the surrounding seats can be realized without 
significantly affecting the spatial decay of energy for all seats.  The spatial decay of 
strength (DG80) can be smaller than 3dB, a value closed to the prediction by the revised 
theory.  
3. Seating capacity approaching 2000 and hall width reaching 37 m may cause lacking of 
early energy for the seats on the side and surrounding the stage.  This could be resolved 
by introducing extra terraces at the four corners of the hall that provided reflections 
laterally to these seats plus local reflectors to ensure early energy at these terraces.  The 
dispersion among seats became much smaller. 
4. Both reverberation time (T30) and early decay time (EDT) could be, however, 
significantly reduced by introducing significantly tilted-down surfaces (plus the already 
increased per seat absorption).  Using lower and less tilted terrace bounding walls can be 
effective in rectify the situation. 
5. Future study will be conducted to verify the unoccupied conditions based on scale model 
measurements. 
 
Table 1 – Occupied 1-kHz band acoustical measures of the prototype scheme. 
 
T30 (s) EDT (s) C80 (dB) G (dB) LF80 DG80 (dB) G80v_surr (dB) 
1.78 1.76 1.8 2.0 0.173 3.8 -7.4 
 
 
Table 2 – Occupied 1-kHz band acoustical measures comparing the schemes in rectangular 
shape with varying terrace layouts. 
 
Stage - F. Terrace 
Distance (m) 
Side Terrace  EDT (s) LF80 G (dB) DG80 (dB) G80v_surr (dB) 
18 Linear 1.90 0.170 2.1 3.9 -7.5 
18 Stepwise Frontal Side 1.86 0.212 2.8 3.7 -7.0 
18 Stepwise Both Sides 1.89 0.190 2.6 2.9 -6.7 
10 Linear 1.75 0.160 1.7 4.6 -5.5 
10 Stepwise Frontal Side 1.71 0.217 2.6 3.6 -4.9 
10 Stepwise Both Sides 1.83 0.196 2.4 3.5 -4.9 
 
Table 3 – Occupied 1-kHz band acoustical measures comparing the schemes in polygonal 
shape with varying  terrace layouts and terrace aiming. 
 
Stage - F. Terrace 
Distance (m) 
Aiming of Middle 
Side Terraces 
EDT (s) LF80 G (dB) ITDG (ms) DG80 (dB) G80v_surr (dB) 
18 Reversely Splayed 1.81  0.241 2.6 40.4 2.8 -7.3 
18 Splayed 1.84 0.239 2.6 34.8 2.0 -7.0 
10 Reversely Splayed 1.79 0.252 2.5 38.9 3.9 -5.0 
10 Splayed 1.76 0.255 2.6 35.0 3.4 -5.1 
 
 
Table 4 –Occupied 1-kHz acoustical measures for two schemes with room size expanded to 
22,500 m3. 
 
 
Terrace EDT (s) LF80 G (dB) DG80 (dB) G80v_surr (dB) 
No extra terrace  1.56 0.246 2.1 2.5 -5.6 
Extra detached terraces 1.48 0.300 2.2 2.6 -4.9 
Extra terraces with local reflectors 1.42 0.300 2.2 2.7 -4.7 
 
  
 
 
Fig. 3 –Perspective images comparing the schemes with 10-m frontal terraces (left) to the 
ones with 18-m terrace (right) and the schemes with stepwise terraces on the frontal audience 
side only (top) to the ones with stepwise terraces on both sides (bottom). 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 – Simulated 1-kHz G80 as a function of S-R distance comparing the four schemes with 
varying frontal terrace position and terrace layout on the stage side. 
 Fig. 7 –  2-kHz echograms (left) and reflection paths (right) for a surrounding seat (S-R = 18-m) 
comparing the scheme with 18-m frontal terrace (top) to the one with 10-m terrace (bottom). 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8 –  2-kHz echograms (left) and reflection paths (right) for a surrounding seat (S-R = 18-m) 
comparing the schemes with varying frontal terrace location applied with local reflectors. 
 
Fig. 11 –  Simulated mid-frequency EDT and T30 comparing the schemes applied with local 
reflectors and extra division of side terraces (left) and comparing the schemes applied with 
tilted-up reflectors and extra division on the two ends (right). 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 12 – Perspective image of the geometrical features introduced to lengthen reverberation. 
Hall Concerning the Audience and the Performers)，報告廣受設計師喜愛但設計難度
較高的梯田式音樂廳。本研究以電腦數值解析為工具，透過多向度指標之使用，探
討中大型梯田式廳堂各種設計策略之功效。所探討之方案包括正交與斜角兩種梯田
席位安排，並比較不同席位分割與牆面角度對聲場的影響。主要研究結果顯示當使
用 10 m 遠之舞台正面梯田席位時，可有效補償人聲表演時舞台周邊席位高頻音量
之不足；若進一步搭配漸層退縮之正交側面梯田席位或斜角之側面席位時，可獲得
合理的能量隨距離衰減，但會造成初期衰減時間之下降。但此問題可由小幅的牆面
下傾獲得改善，並具有較優之側向能量表現。但當席位數增加至約 2000 且中央處
寬度達到 36m 以上時，額外的梯田區塊分割則成為必要的手段。 
 
二、與會心得 
1. 從永續發展思考之廳堂容積控制 – 音樂廳設計因為座椅的選用、舞台面積、
反射(初期與後期)的控制影響餘響時間，不良的控制會形成容積的浪費。由高齡
96歲的國際聲學泰Beranek之發表顯示 當前部分廳堂的單位席次容積可高達每
席 16 m3，明顯高過每席 10 m3的上限。由於室容積直接影響鋼料與混凝土的使
用，過大的容積不但增加了造價，也間接了增加碳排放，雖然音樂廳在整體建
築產所佔的比例很少，但具大跨距結構的大型音樂廳混凝土用量可觀，仍值得
業主與設計產業注意。 
2. 樂團練習室之勞工安全問題 – 大型樂團可常態產生造成聽力損失的高音
量，因此由德國與北歐地區領導的歐盟授權團隊，已經開始積極探討樂團音
樂家的勞工安全問題，其試用場合包括樂團練習室與歌劇表演的樂池空間。
本次丹麥團隊的研究以練習室為主題，以大數量的現場試驗為基礎，探討吸
音材與容積對室內音量的雙重影響，未來並將議題擴大到樂團不同位置聽到
的音量。另一篇英國的研究則探討樂池內具吸音效果隔音屏的應用，顯示在
樂團管樂區段使用此種隔屏之必要性。 
 
三、參觀活動 
本次會議中國際知名的日本 Nagata Acoustics 團隊發表多篇實務工作上之論
文，也透過其安排，參觀了近鄰於香港的深圳音樂廳，其內部包括的一個大型音
樂廳與小型多功能劇場。 
1. 該大型音樂廳為中國第二個梯田式音樂廳，由日本建築師磯崎新設計，甫開
幕 4 年，有 1668 席(如圖 1 所示)。由於配合其自負盈虧的營運模式，該場館
仿效美國，採用了會員制的營運方式，因此舞台正前方有一個會員專屬席位
區，具有特別大的排間距供便利會員進出。該廳堂的寬度與長度近似，因此
大量採用擴散且下傾的反射面，舞台上並配置了一塊可調整高度的大型反射
板。 
 
圖 2. 深圳音樂廳多功能小劇場 
 
 
 2 
provided superior lateral energy fraction and voice source strength for the surrounding 
seats. 
 
Keywords: Vineyard concert halls, Room acoustics, Design strategies, Computer 
simulation 
 
1. Introduction 
 
The presence of “vineyard” style concert halls is growing because of the dynamic 
atmosphere being created and the large seating capacity it may offer [1].  When 
compared with a rectangular hall, commonly noticed acoustical difficulties include 
shadowed high frequency components at seat surrounding the stage, and insufficient 
strength and early reverberation at all seats [2] [3] [4]. 
Two distinctive features could be identified in a vineyard concert hall, terraced 
rows of audience seats and a stage reached out to the audience that shortened 
source-receiver distance [3].  Integration of both features first appeared at the 
innovative Berlin Philharmonic Hall where divided, terraced seating as opposed to 
large, integrated seating was introduced to enhance sound reflections.  A tent-like 
ceiling profile was used to further insure early reflections for the seats along the 
perimeter. 
As pointed out by Cremer, the acoustician of the Berlin Philharmonic Hall, one of 
the major acoustical problems occurred at the seats behind vocalists where both 
acoustical and visual deprivation existed.  The acoustical side of the problem could 
be easily solved in a recital hall by introducing a frontal terrace near the stage [5].  It 
would be more difficult to do so in a much larger symphony hall because a nearby 
frontal terrace may result in excessive floor rake towards the rear of the hall.  There 
exist other acoustical problems for the seats surrounding the stage [4].  Taking the 
seats on the left hand side of the stage for example, violin sounds would be shadowed 
by the player’s shoulders.  But the acoustical imperfections could be compensated 
for by the intimate visual contact at these seats. 
Considering all seats, a vineyard hall might still suffer from insufficient overall 
strength and early reverberation [4] [6].  This can be attributed to less wall surfaces 
and greater floor rake than those appeared in a shoebox hall [4].  Designing a 
surrounded, vineyard concert hall with terrace seating is challenging also because 
various parts of the audience need to be taken care of simultaneously. In a hall with 
large, parallel walls this could be easily accomplished. Individual reflective surfaces 
needed to be fine tuned otherwise ample energy directed to one location may cause 
defects in others [7].  
 4 
 
2.1 Acoustical simulation 
 
Odeon 9.2 software package was employed.  The absorption data for occupied and 
unoccupied upholstered chairs presented by Beranek were adopted [10].  The 
absorption coefficient considered as residual absorption in concert halls was assigned 
to the rest of the surfaces. 
 
2.2 Acoustical measures 
 
Well accepted energy related acoustical measures provided by Odeon were used.  
These included early decay time (EDT), reverberation time (T30), strength (G), and 
lateral energy fraction (LF80).  Spatial decay of strength (Gdecay) was calculated as 
the decay corresponding to doubling of source-receiver distance based on logarithm 
regression of G data.  Distribution map of strength (G) and echograms of impulse 
responses were also used to illustrate the consequences of design changes.  
Distribution map of G for the violin, one of the dominant sounds in an orchestra, was 
directly generated from the software package.  Impulse responses exported from 
Odeon were processed using Hypersignal-Acoustic software package where the 
macro procedures were developed by National Taiwan University of Science and 
Technology. 
 
2.3 Verifying the settings for computer simulation 
 
Calculation settings were verified by comparing simulation data to field measured 
data at the Concertgebouw, Amsterdam by Beranek.  A model was developed that 
possessed similar proportion and volume of the Concertgebouw.  The model was 
rectangular with length, width and height set to 42 m, 28 m, and 17 m, respectively.   The 
semi-circular stage was simplified to a trapezoid one with 6-rows of seats behind it.  The 
extra high stage floor of the Concertgebouw was lowered to 1 m above the stall and the 
stage area was set to 180 m2.  A 0.5-m structure depth and 0.5-m high solid railings were 
applied to the balconies.   
The absorption data for lightly upholstered chairs presented by Beranek were 
adopted for the audience seating except a 56 m2 front aisle area.  Acoustical data were 
calculated for a combination of two sound sources and 39 receiver positions. A front source 
was placed 2.5-m from the front edge on central axis and a rear source was 7-m deeper into 
the stage and on the stage riser.  31 receiver positions were distributed over the frontal 
seating area including the stall and the balconies, and 8 over the surrounding seating area. 
 6 
wide, end stage scheme, weak spots were found at frontal, remote seats instead.  However, 
nearly identical inter-quartile ranges (IQR), the difference between the third and the first 
quartiles of a data set, were found for both schemes, indicating similar energy distribution 
from a violin. 
 
3.2 Introducing orthogonal terraces 
As shown in figure 4, the 28-m wide, surrounded stage reference scheme was used 
to derive a prototype scheme, designated as Prototype VA, with orthogonal terraces.   
The balconies were converted into terraces by eliminating the seats under balcony 
overhangs, pushing in the walls behind these seats, adding the eliminated seats back 
to the terraces, and integrating the sloped stall with the balcony.  This changed the 
overall proportion and shape when maintaining the same room volume and audience 
area.  The width and length was increased to 32 m and 45 m, respectively. The 
height difference between the side terraces and the stage floor was set to 3 m and the 
step difference between rows of terrace seating to 0.5-m.  Roughly 2/3 of the stage 
can be seen if seats were staggered.  The percentage of surrounding seating area to 
total seating area was increased to 27 %. 
In attempt to direct reflections to the surrounding seats, two alternative schemes 
were developed by introducing a frontal terrace 10-m to the stage front line that 
reduced the area of the stall and raised the rear portion of the hall.  The scheme 
designated as Prototype VTL used a linear, frontal terrace that was 3-m above the 
stage floor.  The 20-m apart linear side terraces were retained and merged with the 
frontal terrace towards the rear of the hall.  In the other scheme designated as 
Prototype VTS the frontal terrace was lowered by 0.5-m and bended on two sides of 
the front edge to a trapezoid shape to compensate for the reduced wall surfaces. 
Stepwise side terraces as appeared in Auditorior Nacional de Musica, Madrid was 
used that significantly increased the area of the terrace bounding walls. 
A voice source, designated as a talk-raised source in the software package, was 
used in additional to the omni-directional source at the front position that represented 
a solo singer in front of an orchestra.  A 30 m2 area along the front edge of the stage 
floor was set to sound reflective when using the voice source.  2-kHz band voice 
strength for the surrounding seats (Gv_surr) was calculated as an additional index (Fig. 
4).   
Table 3 summarizes simulated data of various acoustical measures for the 3 
prototype schemes.  When compared with the reference scheme, all 3 schemes 
resulted in a shorter early decay time (EDT) and a higher clarity (C80).  The 
differences in EDT were as large as 0.2 s for the two schemes with frontal terraces.  
All 3 prototype schemes yielded a higher average strength than the reference scheme.  
 8 
1. In terms of achieving high Gv_surr and low Gdecay, applying the 6 features generally 
made more improvements for Prototype VTL than for Prototype VTS because the 
latter one could be considered as a progressive version of the former one. 
2. Overall, wall inclining yielded the most satisfactory results among the three types 
of features.  It was effective in increasing Gv_surr when maintaining a low Gdecay.  
A long EDT could be derived by a 1/10 inclining but a prominently greater LF80 
was found instead by increasing the inclining to 1/6.  LF80 was positively 
correlated with inclining angle. 
3. Applying ceiling pitch was only effective in decreasing Gdecay.  1/3 pitched 
pyramid ceiling would, however, caused significant drop in Gv_surr and EDT while 
providing the lowest Gdecay.  This might not be a serious problem if the plane 
surfaces could be transformed to curve surfaces or only portions of the ceiling was 
pitched. 
4. Recessing the remote side seats made small improvements in Gdecay for Prototype 
VTL and in Gv_surr for Prototype VTS.  Other acoustical measures were little 
affected. 
For a violin source, 2-kHz band strength was uniformly distributed in Prototype 
VA (IQR = 2.2 dB) and VTS (IQR = 2.5 dB).  The deviation was much greater in 
Prototype VTL (IQR = 3.6 dB) but can be reduced when applied with 1/10 inclining 
on side walls (IQR = 3.1 dB)).  This indicated that equally good distribution of the 
violin sound could be achieved in a vineyard hall even with increased percentage of 
the surrounding seats. (Figure 8).   
 
4.2 Splaying of terraces and side walls 
 
Prototype VLS, the prototype with stepwise side terraces and trapezoid shape 
frontal terrace, was modified to derive design schemes in leaf shape.  As shown in 
Figure 9, the terrace on each side was divided to 3 portions.  The front portion was 
splayed to a 3/10 angle towards the audience.  The rear portion was raised and 
splayed to a 1/2 angle towards the stage to disclose larger area of the bounding walls.  
The area was further enlarged by lowering the frontal terrace and moving it 1-m 
backwards. The percentage of surrounding seating area decreased slightly to 25 % and 
the maximum hall width became 36.8 m. 
The splaying of the front and the rear portions of side terraces was fixed.  The 
terrace bounding walls were kept inclined, 1/20 for the middle portion and 1/8 for the 
rear portion, since they were meant to direct 1st order reflections.  Six design 
schemes were derived with varying shape of the middle portion of terraces and wall 
inclining. 
 10 
5. Summaries 
 
While it is generally accepted that designing a vineyard concert hall is more risky 
than designing a rectangular hall due to its scattered reflective surfaces, deficiency at 
the seats surrounding the stage associated with directional sources makes it even more 
challenging.  This research was carried out to systematically examine the possibility 
of satisfying multi-dimensional parameters by applying various design techniques. 
Computer simulation was employed with the hall volume set to 19000 m3. A 
simplified model of the semi-surrounded Concertgebouw, Amsterdam was used as the 
reference for comparison.  Design schemes with orthogonal and splayed terraces were 
developed where seating area was around 1220 m2 and the percentage of surrounding 
seats was in the range of 25% to 27%.  The following conclusions can be draw: 
1. While containing the shortest source-receiver distance, the 28-m, surrounded stage 
reference scheme benefited from slightly higher overall strength (G) than the other 
classical schemes with an end stage and/or smaller hall width.  2-kHz band 
energy distribution of a violin source was similar in the reference scheme and in 
the 24-m wide, end stage scheme although weak spots were different. 
2. For either the reference scheme or the prototype vineyard scheme with orthogonal 
terraces, 2-kHz band voice strength for the surrounding seats (Gv_surr) was less 
than -2 dB.  The energy could be effectively compensated for in the design 
schemes with a frontal terrace 10-m form the stage that, however, caused 
significant drop in early decay time (EDT).  Extra large spatial decay of strength 
(Gdecay) was found in the prototype with a frontal terrace and linear side terraces 
but could be mitigated by converting the linear side terraces to stepwise terraces 
and slightly lowering the frontal terrace to expose greater area of the side terrace 
bounding walls.  The much wider prototype schemes did not make noticeable 
changes in lateral energy fraction (LF80).  
3. A correlation analysis based on wall or ceiling design features applied to each of 
the two schemes with frontal terrace showed independence among most acoustical 
measures except that EDT correlated with T30 and C80.  This suggested that 
goals can be set independently for various acoustical measures. 
4. Among the features on hall envelope, wall inclining yielded the most satisfactory 
results where Gv_surr was increased and Gdecay was lowered.   A longer EDT 
could be derived by using a 1/10 inclining while a greater LF80 was found when 
increasing the inclining to 1/6.  Applying pyramid ceiling pitch only improved 
energy distribution by providing a lower Gdecay but would cause significant drop in 
EDT when setting the ceiling to a steeper 1/3 pitch.  Making the remote side 
 12 
Table 1.  Unoccupied 1-kHz band acoustical measures comparing the simulated 
results to the field measured data of the Concertgebouw. 
   
Data Seats Source T30 (s) EDT (s) C80 (dB) G (dB) LF80 
Simulation Frontal Front 2.53 2.65 -2.4 4.7 0.170 
  Rear 2.58 2.72 -2.8 3.9 0.184 
 Surrounding Front 2.54 2.76 -1.8 5.6 0.169 
  Rear 2.63 2.92 -0.6 5.8 0.121 
 Average  2.56 2.72 -2.3 4.6 0.171 
Measurement   2.62 2.66 -3.1 5.7 0.170 
 
 
Table 2.  Mid-frequency acoustical measures for occupied condition comparing the 
four classical schemes with varying room proportion and stage position. 
 
Proportion  Stage position T30 (s) EDT (s) C80 (dB) G (dB) Gdecay (dB) LF80 
28 m x 42 m Surrounded  1.91 1.94 1.0 1.9 2.2 0.215 
 End 1.92 2.04 0.7 1.4 2.3 0.214 
24 m x 49 m Surrounded  1.96 1.98 0.8 1.7 2.1 0.203 
 End 1.93 1.96 0.6 1.4 2.2 0.212 
 
 
 
Table 3.  Various acoustical measures for the occupied prototypes introducing 
orthogonal terraces. 
 
Prototype T30 (s) EDT (s) C80 (dB) G (dB) Gdecay (dB) Gv_surr (dB) LF80 
VA (arena with no 
frontal terrace) 
1.93 1.86 1.8 2.9 2.3 -2.8 0.211 
VTL (frontal terrace with 
linear side terraces) 
1.87 1.76 1.6 2.3 3.5 -1.4 0.209 
VTS (frontal terrace with 
stepwise side terraces)  
1.80 1.73 1.6 2.6 2.6 -1.4 0.219 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 14 
   
 
Figure 1.  Perspective images of the reference scheme and the other 3 classical 
schemes with varying room proportions and stage position where the stage size, 
audience area, and room volume were fixed. 
 16 
 
Figure 4.  Dimension comparison of half plans (right) and perspective images of the 
3 prototype schemes with orthogonal terraces (right). 
 
Figure 5.  Simulated mid-frequency strength (G) from an omni-directional source as 
a function of distance comparing prototype VA (cross) to prototype VTL (circle) and 
prototype VTS (triangle).  The thin line, the dashed line, and the thick line represent 
the logarithm fit of the data for the three prototypes, respectively. 
 18 
 
 
Figure 6.  Perspective images of the 12 design schemes with 6 design features 
applied to prototype VTL and prototype VTS. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 20 
 
Figure 8.  Simulated distribution maps of 2-kHz band strength (G) from the violin, 
front source for prototype VA (top) , prototype VTL (left middle), prototype VTS 
(right middle) and the latter two with 1/10 inclining of side walls (bottom).  Each 
color step in the scale represents 1 dB difference.  Inter-quartile range (IQR) value 
is shown for each scheme. 
 
 
 
 
 
 22 
Figure 10.  1-kHz band echograms and reflection paths for a seat near the rear 
corner showing progressive changes from the scheme with vertical walls (top) to the 
one with inclined side walls (middle) and the one with both inclined side and rear 
walls (bottom) for the seating layout with trimmed 1/6 splaying lower terraces.  
Only 1st and 2nd order reflections up to 80-ms delay are shown in the path diagrams.  
Mid-frequency strength (G) and lateral energy fraction (LF80) values are shown for 
each scheme. 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 梯田式音樂廳之室內聲場設計策略與要因分析
計畫主持人: 江維華
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-011-092-MY2 學門領域: 建築都巿
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
