 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
一新型利用複合光柵雙模光波導製作之大角度光折向反射鏡元件 
 
A novel large-angle integrated optical deflector using complex gratings 
on a dual-mode waveguide 
 
計畫編號：NSC 95-2221-E-006 -344 
執行期間：95 年 8月 1 日至 96 年 7月 31 日 
主持人：蔡宗祐 副教授     國立成功大學微電子工程研究所 
 
 
 
中文摘要 
    這個計劃提案的目的是設計、模擬並驗證一個新型的大角度折向積體光元件。其設計
想法是- 光波由單模進入雙模波導管，在雙模光波導上加上複合式光柵，以全反射基模與
第一階模態，並利用模態干涉自我映像原理將反射光引導到另一單模光波導達到近180o 角
折向的積體光元件。初步的模擬評估顯示複合式光柵必需要先抑制反射頻寬的色散現象。
因此，此計劃的初步研究即是利用無足化(apodizing) 結構設計低散射的反射光柵。模擬
驗證一個具高斯分佈波導寬度的側壁型光柵可以產生一個中心頻率 1550nm 的無足化
(apodized)反射頻譜 
 
關鍵詞：無足化光柵，有限差分時域法，光子能隙。 
 
Abstract 
An accurate design for an apodized integrated optical wavelength filter using 
Gaussian-distributed sidewall Bragg grating is proposed, 2-dimensionally simulated 
and analyzed using the finite-difference time-domain method. It is verified that for 
various grating periods, the central wavelengths of the reflection bands are all fixed 
at designed 1.55 µm with the side lobes well suppressed. 
 
Keywords: Apodized Bragg grating, finite difference time domain (FDTD), 
photonic band gap (PBG) 
 
 3
filters using Gaussian-distributed lateral grating widths (x dimension) with constant duty cycles 
were manufactured and analyzed by Hastings et al (2002, p.2753). The device scheme is shown 
in Fig.1, where dg and Wm are the widths of the grating and the waveguide respectively, and lg 
and lm are the corresponding lengths. The factors lg, lm and Wm were constants, and dg varied by a 
Gaussian function along the z direction. In such a design, Bragg condition that a period is an half 
of wavelength was not exactly sustained in the grating, giving rise to a position deviation of the 
reflection band from the supposed wavelength. In this paper, an accurate design for a 
well-apodized reflection band at a certain wavelength is proposed and 2-dimensionally verified 
using the finite-difference time-domain (FDTD) method.  A commercial software OptiFDTD 
produced by Optiwave Company was used for simulation and data analysis.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2. Design and simulation 
The device shown in Fig. 2(a) is a single-moded waveguide filter assisted with lateral one-side 
toothed grating, where Wg and Wm were constants, and lg and lm were Gaussian distributed along 
the stacking periods (z direction).  
Figure 1. Top view of  an apodized waveguide filter of sidewall grating using 
a Gaussian-distributed width, dg.  
lg 
lm 
z 
Single-moded input 
x 
Wm 
dg 
 5
where ng,λ and nm,λ were the effective refractive indices of the fundamental mode at the 
wavelength in vacuum λ guided in the corresponding widths Wg and Wm. The Gaussian variation 
of lg along the z-propagation direction was  
2
,
2
( ) exp
4
g
g
g g
s N
l s k
n Nλ
λ ⎛ ⎞⎛ ⎞−⎜ ⎟= −⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠
,                         (2) 
where s was the period step count of the grating and Ng was the number of grating periods. The 
maximum lg was λ/(4ng,λ). The factor k was used to assure that the minimum lg’s at the ends of 
the grating were realistic for manufacture and simulation.  
Assuming glass substrate, the refractive indices of the waveguide and the cladding were 
nr=1.5 and nc=1.  For 1.55-µm TE-wave single-mode guiding, the widths Wg and Wm were 
chosen to be 0.6 µm and 0.5 µm. Then the corresponding effective indices ng,λ and nm,λ were 
calculated to be 1.317 and 1.279. The difference between Wg and Wm determines the difference of 
ng,λ and nm,λ that affects the bandwidth of grating reflection. The value of k was calculated to be 
1.64 for the minimum lg of 20 nm. The variations of lg and lm are shown in Fig. 2(b). In the FDTD 
software, the mesh grid sizes ∆x and ∆z were both set to be 20 nm, and the time step size ∆t was 
accordingly calculated to be  4.4×10-17 sec for satisfying the numerical stability criterion of the 
FDTD method. It was also verified that no significant difference was observed using higher 
resolution, such as ∆x and ∆z of 10 nm and ∆t of 2×10-17 sec. Because of limit of computer 
capacity, the grid dimensions of 20 nm were then employed for obtaining reliable results in 
reasonable simulation time. 
Three apodized reflection bands using Ng= 100, 200 and 400 in comparison with the case of 
 7
where Pr and Pin are the z-component Poynting vectors of the reflected wave and the input. 
Nevertheless, it is cumbersome and unpractical to calculate eq.(3) using the FDTD method. For a 
single-mode waveguide, it is justified to assume that the reflected wave and the input are all 
guided in the fundamental mode. Then the reflection spectrum R(λ) can be approximated by  
0, 0
0, 0
( )
( )
( )
r at x z
in at x z
P
R
P
λλ λ
= <
= =
−≈
                    (4) 
In the paper, the absolute values of Pr(λ) and Pin(λ) were approximated by 2( )ob λℑ and 
2( )in λℑ , where obℑ  and inℑ were the Fourier transforms of the E-field amplitudes of the 
reflected wave and the pulsed input, observed at the positions (x=0, z=-100 µm) and (x=0, z=0) 
respectively. Such an approximation is convenient and reliable for the cases of single-mode 
waveguides. However erroneous deviation can occur when the reflected wave is composed of the 
fundamental mode and some lossy modes excited by the grating. The deviation of reflectivity 
from 100% was observed only in the case of 400-period unapodized grating. It is believed that 
the toothed structure of the unapodized grating excited more lossy modes in reflection than the 
others, giving rise to the incorrect approximation. The bandwidth and edge sharpness of a 
500-period grating are shown in decibel in Figure 4.  The bandwidth at -3 dB and -20 dB was 
correspondingly about 27 nm and 33 nm. According to Bloch theorem (Yariv and Yeh 1983), the 
photonic band gap ∆λg of an infinite grating can be approximated by 
2 2
, ,
2 2
, ,
2j g j m
g
j g j m
n n
n n
λλ π
−∆ ≈ ×+ ,            (5) 
 
