the corresponding sensing parameters based on 
the prompt formulas. As the advanced progress 
on the manufacture technologies, the 
measurement setup of buck-optics can be 
replaced using the components of 
integrated-optics. The advantages of a compact 
structure are easily packaged with other 
electronic devices, which will be more 
potential to develop a portable electro-optical 
measurement system. In this study, a novel 
integrated polarization state analyzer was 
proposed and demostrated experimentally in an 
x-cut lithium niobate (LiNbO3) substrate for 
the first time. By the suitable mask designs, the 
process with three photo mask steps have been 
use to fabricate the proposed integrated 
devices on a chip. 
 
PRICINPLES AND MASK DESIGNS 
Fig.1 shows one of the traditional 
buck-optics arrangements of a polarization 
interferometer. Optical devices, such as a 
polarization beam splitter, mirror, beam splitter, 
and half wave plate, shall be well alignment on 
the optical path to obtain a precise 
measurement. In the past two decades, a 
several of waveguide devices including a 
polarization splitter, polarization converter, 
interferometer, and waveguide polarizer, have 
been successfully implemented in different 
materials such as glass, silicon, silica fiber, and 
LiNbO3 [2, 3]. For the demands of process 
integration and performance optimizations in 
all composed elements, LiNbO3 based devices 
are the most popular due to reliable packages 
and stable device performance have been 
proven. For examples, fiber pigtailed optical 
modulators and scramblers are commercially 
available. In order to replace the necessary 
elements as used in buck-optics, the proposed 
integrated polarization state analyzer consists 
of cascaded waveguide devices including a 
polarization splitter [2, 4], a polarization 
converter [3], an optical interferometer, and 
waveguide polarizer [5] as shown in Fig. 2. It 
needs, at least three photo mask steps, to finish 
the complete structures. To save the mask 
frame size, there are three divided regions to 
put layout pattern for these three layers as 
shown in Fig. 3. The middle region is for the 
Ti-diffused waveguide layer. The buffer layer 
for depositing SiO2 films was located in the 
top region. The electrode layer for depositing 
an Al film was located in the bottom region. 
The main waveguide patterns of the 
polarization state analyzer as shown in Fig. 4, 
and the G1 and L1 in the inset table are 
waveguide gap and waveguide length of the 
polarization splitter, respectively. Except the 
main waveguide patterns of the polarization 
state analyzer, some testing device groups are 
included for experimental evaluations in the 
optimizations of process conditions. 
 
EXPERIMENTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
Waveguide patterns were formed by a photo 
lithograph process with the first mask of 
waveguide layer. The Ti film of 310 Å was 
deposited by an E-gun evaporator. In order to 
enhance the contrast of alignment mark images 
for the following mask alignments after 
thermal diffusions. A shadow mask was used 
to protect main device patterns, and the area of 
alignment mark was opened to be further 
deposited with the Ti film of 300 Å. After 
photo resistant removing and cleaning, a 
Vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 55-58, 1998. 
[2] E. W. Taylor, Member, "Ionization-refractive index 
and polarization effects in LiNbO3:Ti directional 
coupler waveguides," J. Lightwave Technol., vol. 9, 
no. 3, pp.335-340, 1991. 
[3] T. Kawazoe, K. Satoh, I. Hayashi, and H. Mori, 
"Fabriction of integrated-optic polarization 
controller using z-propagating Ti-LiNbO3 
waveguides," J.Lightwave Technol., vol. 10, no. 1, 
pp. 51-56, 1992. 
[4] W. P. Huang, Member, IEEE, C. L. Xu, Student 
Member, IEEE, and S. K. Chaudhuri, Senior 
Member, IEEE "Application of the finite-difference 
vector beam propagation method to directional 
coupler device," IEEE J. of Quantum Electronics, 
vol. 28, no. 6, June 1992. 
[5] L. Sun and G. L. Yip, "Analysis of metal-clad 
Optical waveguide polarizers by the vector beam 
propagation method," Appl. Opt., vol. 33, no. 6, pp. 
1047-1050, 1994. 
[6] Ruey-Ching Twu, "Single-Polarized Zn-Diffused 
Optical Switch on a Y-Cut LiNbO3", CLEO/QELS 
2005, Paper No. JTuC64, Baltimore, USA (May 
2005). (EI) ( 出席會議 / 國科會補助 : NSC 
93-2215-E-218-016). 
[7] Ruey-Ching Twu, Chia-Chih Huang, Chin-Yu 
Chang, and Way-Seen Wang, “Ridge-type 
Zn-indiffused Mach-Zehner Modulator in LiNbO3,” 
AP-MWP 2006, Paper No. C-32, Kobe, Japan 
(April 2006). ( 出席會議 / 國科會補助 : NSC 
94-2215-E -218-003). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                      
 
 
 
Fig. 5. (a) Measurement setup for waveguide mode profiles. (b) A measured mode profile 
shown on the display of a notebook computer. 
Fig.4. Testing structure parameters of the integrated polarization state analyzer. 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                     日期：95 年 10 月 30 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：積體化鈮酸鋰光極化狀態解析器之研製(2/2) 
計畫主持人：涂瑞清  南台科技大學電機工程系        
計畫編號：NSC 94-2215-E-218-003  學門領域：光電學門 
技術/創作名稱  
發明人/創作人 涂瑞清 
中文： 
利用極化干涉術所衍生之光學量測已廣泛被應用在光學感測元件
及製程監測上，其中極化干涉器，可以用來量測入射光之極化狀態
變動。隨著半導體製程技術之演進，原來在塊材光學元件為主的光
學量測系統，也可以被積體光學元件所取代。在本計畫中首次在實
驗上成功驗證在 x-cut 鈮酸鋰基板上，製作積體化極化狀態解析
器，而此光電量測系統晶片，具有與光波導感測元件及周邊光電元
件作系統整合之優勢。 
 
技術說明 
英文： 
Optical measurement based on a polarization interferometry has 
been widely used in the field of optical sensors and process monitors. 
As we know, a polarization interferometer can measure the variations 
of a polarization state of a light beam. As the advanced progress on the 
manufacture technologies, the measurement setup of buck-optics can 
be replaced using the components of integrated-optics. In this study, a 
novel integrated polarization state analyzer was proposed and 
demostrated experimentally in an x-cut lithium niobate (LiNbO3) 
substrate for the first time. The electro-optical measurement chip 
exhibiting compact size will be potentially integrated with other optical
waveguide sensors and peripheral photonic devices to achieve system 
integration purpose in the future. 
 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
1. 光電量測產業 
2. 生醫光電晶片模組 
附件二 
