 II
中、英文摘要及關鍵詞 
 
    在先前的某個螺槳之一系列單獨實驗中，我們觀察到在降低前進係數的過程中，螺槳
葉尖渦經歷了一個從無空化到空化，又返回無空化狀態但卻充滿微氣泡的過程。這個過程
是一個相當理想的機會讓我們研究螺槳葉尖渦在不同的空化狀態下的紊流結構。我們使用
質點影像測速法(PIV)來進行實驗。實驗發現，在空化狀態或是充滿微氣泡狀態下的葉尖渦
平均環流(或是平均動能)皆比無空化狀態下的值來的大，然而紊流動能的趨勢正好相反。這
樣的現象暗示了因為蒸氣態與液態的交互作用所造成特殊的紊流-平均流之間的能量傳輸。 
 
關鍵詞: 螺槳葉尖渦、空化、微氣泡群、質點影像測速法、紊流、平均流、能量傳輸。 
 
    In a previous series of open water tests for a certain marine propeller, we kept decreasing the 
advance coefficient and observed the propeller tip vortex going through a process from 
non-cavitating to cavitating and back to non-cavitating but  micro-bubble-filled conditions. This 
process provides an excellent opportunity for investigating the flow structure and the turbulence 
associated with the tip vortex under different statuses of cavitation. Particle image velocimetry 
technique is used to measure the instantaneous velocity distributions at six experimental 
conditions parameterized with the advance coefficient and the cavitation number. The results 
show that the mean circulation (or mean kinetic energy) of either the cavitating or the 
micro-bubble-filled tip vortex is greater than that of the single-phase (liquid) counterpart, 
whereas the turbulent kinetic energy associated with the tip vortex has an opposite trend. These 
phenomena imply that extraordinary kinetic energy sources/transfers within the flow exist due to 
interactions between the vapor and the liquid phases of the tip vortex fluid. 
 
Keywords: propeller tip vortex, cavitation, micro-bubble cluster, PIV, turbulence, mean flow, 
energy transfer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proceedings of the 7th International Symposium on Cavitation 
CAV2009 – Paper No. 182 
August 17-22, 2009, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA 
 
1 
 
Experimental Investigations on the Flow Structure and Turbulence of the Propeller Tip Vortex 
at Different Cavitation States 
 
 
Yi-Chih Chow 
National Taiwan Ocean University 
Keelung, Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
Wen-Chuan Tsai 
National Taiwan Ocean University 
Keelung, Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
 
 
 Yaw-Huei Lee 
National Taiwan Ocean University 
Keelung, Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
In a previous series of open water tests for a certain marine 
propeller, we kept decreasing the advance coefficient and 
observed the propeller tip vortex going through a process from 
non-cavitating to cavitating and back to non-cavitating but  
micro-bubble-filled conditions. This process provides an 
excellent opportunity for investigating the flow structure and 
the turbulence associated with the tip vortex under different 
statuses of cavitation. Particle image velocimetry technique is 
used to measure the instantaneous velocity distributions at six 
experimental conditions parameterized with the advance 
coefficient and the cavitation number. The results show that the 
mean circulation (or mean kinetic energy) of either the 
cavitating or the micro-bubble-filled tip vortex is greater than 
that of the single-phase (liquid) counterpart, whereas the 
turbulent kinetic energy associated with the tip vortex has an 
opposite trend. These phenomena imply that extraordinary 
kinetic energy sources/transfers within the flow exist due to 
interactions between the vapor and the liquid phases of the tip 
vortex fluid. 
INTRODUCTION 
Our previous work (Chow et al. [1]) attempted to clarify 
the origin of the formation of “fog-like micro-bubble cluster” 
(FMBC) observed with a typical six-blade, NACA-profile 
propeller operating in a uniform flow. Figure 1 shows the 
dramatic change from a clear propeller tip vortex cavity (Fig. 
1a, at a higher advance coefficient) to a FMBC (Fig. 1b, at a 
lower advance coefficient). This phenomenon was at first 
speculated as a result of the tip vortex cavitation (TVC) 
bursting (see English [2]). However, by combining 
experimental (including flow visualization and particle image 
velocimetry, PIV), numerical, and theoretical approaches, 
Chow et al. [1] reached a quite different conclusion that the 
sheet cavitation, i.e., the attached cavitation on the suction side 
of the propeller, causes reduction of the pressure drop from the   
outside to the inside of the tip vortex and thus suppresses the 
TVC, and simultaneously generates the FMBC that later gets 
entrained into the tip vortex. This finding may have a 
significant impact on the concept of propeller design, which at 
the present stage doesn’t take into consideration the effect of 
sheet cavitation on the TVC.  
While the aforementioned work focuses on the mechanism 
of the FMBC phenomenon, the present study continues that 
effort but directs the attention to the flow structure and the 
turbulence of the tip vortex, which undergoes the vanishing 
process of TVC described in [1]. As a matter of fact, the flow in 
the wake of a propeller is complicated and turbulent (e.g., Lee 
et al. [3] and Calcagno et al. [4]). The major complexity of this 
flow is caused by the tip vortices and associated cavitations. 
For example, detailed measurements for a ducted rotor done by 
Chesnakas and Jessup [5] and Oweis and Ceccio [6] have 
shown interesting phenomena such as the vortex-vortex 
interactions and their effects. Therefore, it is crucial to 
accurately model and predict the characteristics of the tip 
vortex and TVC for propeller design purposes. Kim and Rhee 
[7] and Rhee and Joshi [8] pointed out that turbulence modeling 
is one of the two major issues in numerical simulations of the 
tip vortex flow (the other one is mesh generation). An example 
that numerically studied the turbulence and its modeling 
associated with tip vortex flows is Chen [9], who concluded 
that the Reynolds stresses in the tip vortex flows are difficult to 
predict using several popular turbulence models.  
 
  
(a)    (b) 
Figure 1: (a) Tip vortex cavitation, and (b) fog-like micro-
bubble cluster. 
 3  
difference is expected since no TVC occurs for either case. At 
( 78.0J , 5.2  ) TVC occurs, resulting in strong reflection 
of laser light during the experiment that overwhelms particle 
images close to the TVC area and hence no reliable data 
obtained in that area (Fig. 3d). It is clearly evident that the 
common characteristics of these mean flow structures are the 
non-uniformities caused by the propeller wake.  
In order to elucidate the major trends of the flow and 
turbulence, we circumferentially average all the variables as: 
 
     

drfrF  20 ,21   (3) 
 
where  ,rf  is a mean variable and function of polar 
coordinates  ,r  whose origin is located at the vortex center. 
The mean, circumferentially-averaged circumferential velocity 
( V ) distributions of six  ,J  conditions are shown in Fig. 4, 
along with the radial velocities ( rV ) at 76.0J  as a 
demonstration that rV  is negligible in all cases.                            
It is evident that one may use an ideal vortex model to 
generally match the measured vortices. In other words, V  of 
the vortices shown here first increases almost linearly with 
radius like a forced vortex (viscous effect) and then decreases 
like a free vortex (potential effect). Burgers model (see Franc 
and Michel [10]), or Lamb-Oseen vortex (see Green [11]) can 
be used to fit the data (not shown): 
     
     2256.11
2
are
r
rV     (4) 
 
where  is the circulation of the vortex and a is the radial 
location where  rV  is maximum. However, V  of the outer 
part of the vortex (the free-vortex part) decreases slower than a 
true free vortex, possibly due to the interaction with the 
propeller wake where excessive vorticity gets entrained to the 
outer part of the vortex. 
Figure 4a compares V  profiles at 90.0J , 0.78 and 0.76, 
and atm  . Due to the high ambient pressure, no TVC occurs 
in either case (Table 1). It is clearly evident that the maximum 
V  (
max
V ) and a of the vortex increases with decreasing J. 
Therefore,   of the vortex increases with decreasing J, 
conforming to the fact that the loading of the propeller 
increases with decreasing J. When 5.2  , as shown in Fig. 
4b, not only the TVC status but also the trend of the V  profile 
changes. Between the cases of 78.0J  and 0.76 at 5.2   , 
the trend of the V  profile with respect to 
max
V  reverses as 
opposed to the cases at atm   while a keeps increasing 
(much more) with decreasing J. This phenomenon implies the 
key role the other phase of the fluid (either TVC or FMBC) 
plays in altering the flow structure of the tip vortex. 
In order to elucidate this point, we rearrange the 
presentation of data of Fig. 4 and show the comparisons of V  
of the same J at different   in Fig. 5. At 78.0J , as shown in 
Fig. 5a, maxV  of the cavitating tip vortex ( 5.2  ) is 
significantly less than that of the non-cavitating one ( atm  ), 
which somehow is expected due to the fact that the sheet 
cavitation attached to the propeller blade may cause unloading 
of the blade tip (Chow et al. [1]). Nevertheless, the cavitating 
tip vortex is much larger than the non-cavitating one while the 
diameter of the TVC is only about 0.2 ~ 0.3 mm, i.e., the 
volume expansion caused by the generation of the TVC doesn’t 
catch up with the size increase of the tip vortex. The reason 
why this is so may lie somewhere else. One may look at this 
problem in the perspective of vortex strength (kinetic energy) 
and calculate the circulation   according to: 
 
   rdrraV a  22 0max     (5) 
 
where  r  is the mean, circumferentially-averaged vorticity.          
Notice that when calculating  for a cavitating vortex the area 
occupied by the cavitation should be taken out of consideration. 
The results are:   8.56,78.0 5.2  J  m2/s and    2.38,78.0  atmJ   m2/s, i.e., 
       
    atmJJ   ,78.0,78.0 5.2   (6) 
 
This is an interesting result in that it seems to suggest that the 
cavitating tip vortex obtains extra energy from some source(s) 
other than the mechanical work done by the propeller. One 
likely source which provides extra energy to the tip vortex is 
the cavitation process, i.e., the vaporization of water that does 
work to the liquid water by vapor cavity expansion. To confirm 
this speculation, more theoretical analyses involving 
thermodynamics need to be done to prove or disprove this 
theory.         
Figure 5b shows the comparison between  5.2,76.0  JV  and  atmJV   ,76.0 . Similar to 
the cases of 78.0J  (Fig. 5a), at 76.0J   5.2max  V  is 
significantly less than  atmV  max  and  5.2 a  is much 
greater than  atma   , resulting in   4.845.2    m2/s 
and    3.46 atm  m2/s, i.e., 
 
    atmJJ   ,76.0,76.0 5.2   (7) 
 
This time no TVC (i.e., no vaporization of water) but FMBC 
(i.e., many micro bubbles) involves in “energizing” the tip 
vortex. This result appears to be connected with the 
phenomenon of bubble drag reduction (McCormick and 
Bhattacharyya [12]). The mechanism of bubble drag reduction 
is still inconclusive. However, a theory proposed by Lo, L'Vov, 
and Procaccia [13] that shows the oscillation of bubble is the 
key to the drag reduction may have some implications on the 
energy budget of the FMBC-filled tip vortex. Again, advanced 
theoretical analyses are required. 
 
2. Turbulence Characteristics: 
The Reynolds stress ( ijr ) is defined as: 
 5  
[10] Franc, J.-P., Michel, J.-M., 2004, Fundamentals of 
Cavitation, Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht, 
The Netherlands. 
[11]  Green, S. L. 1995, Fluid Vortices, Kluwer Academic 
Publishers, Dordrecht, The Netherlands. 
[12] McCormick, M. E., Bhattacharyya, R., 1973, “Drag 
Reduction of a Submersible Hull by Electrolysis,” Naval 
Engineers Journal, Vol. 85, No. 2, pp. 11-16. 
[13] Lo, T. S., L'Vov, V. S., Procaccia, I., 2006, “Drag 
Reduction by Compressible Bubbles,” Physical Review 
E, Vol. 73, No. 3, p 036308. 
[14] Benedict, L. H., Gould, R. D., 1996, “Towards Better 
Uncertainty Estimates for Turbulence Statistics, ＂ 
Experiments in Fluids, Vol. 22, No. 2, pp. 129–136. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7  
      
(a)                                                                                       (b) 
Figure 4: Circumferential velocity distributions  rV  of varying J at conditions of (a) atm  , and (b) 5.2  . 
           
(a)                                                                                       (b) 
Figure 5: Circumferential velocity distributions  rV  of varying   at conditions of (a) 78.0J , and (b) 76.0J . 
      
(a)                                                                                       (b) 
Figure 6: Turbulent kinetic energy distributions  rk  of varying J at conditions of (a) atm  , and (b) 5.2  . 
 9
On a Peculiar Phenomenon of Fog-like Micro-Bubble Cluster 
Formation and its Mechanism Apparently Associated with 
Propeller Tip Vortex Cavitation 
 
 
Yi-Chih Chowa, Yaw-Huei Leeb, and Ching-Yeh Hsinc 
Department of Systems Engineering and Naval Architecture 
 National Taiwan Ocean University 
No.2, Beining Rd., Keelung City 202, Taiwan (R.O.C.) 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                 
a Corresponding Author, Assistant Professor,  ycchow@ntou.edu.tw 
b Lecturer, lyh@mail.ntou.edu.tw 
c Associate Professor, hsin@mail.ntou.edu.tw 
 11
1. INTRODUCTION 
Cavitation is, in short, a phenomenon of the formation of vapor cavities in a liquid. Its 
complex, multi-phase nature, as well as positive and/or negative effects it may have on 
a specific fluids application, has drawn substantial attention from researchers of many 
different disciplines, e.g., marine hydrodynamics, naval architecture, fluids engineering, 
bubble dynamics, fluid physics and thermodynamics, acoustics, bio-medical 
engineering, etc. Particularly, naval architecture industry has a long history of studying 
the cavitation induced by ship propellers because of its detrimental impacts in three 
major categories: erosion, noise, and vibration (see Kuiper1). In other words, cavitation 
and associated effects constitute substantial portion of ship problems encountered by 
naval architects and marine engineers. Among all the types of cavitation generated by a 
propeller, the so-called “tip vortex cavitation” (denoted as TVC) resulting from vortices 
shed from propeller tips is the major cause of severe noise problems at ship stern (e.g., 
Raestad2). The TVC issues have become more significant recently due to the increasing 
demand of highly-loaded propellers that deliver tremendous thrust for modern merchant 
ships and at the same time generate strong TVC. Therefore, considerable research 
efforts have been invested in TVC-related subjects as reviewed by Kuiper3 and Arndt.4 
In general, the structure of TVC is quite stable (see Brennen5 and Arndt4). Under 
certain conditions, however, TVC bursts (such phenomenon is denoted as TVCB). 
English6 is believed to be the first to report the TVCB phenomenon. He also claimed 
that TVCB is responsible for the generation of high-frequency noise. Since then, there 
have been just few open literatures focusing on the subject even though its application 
remains important. After English,6 Hadler et al.7 investigated the problem of propeller-
induced vibration with converted Maersk “E” class ships and made connections 
between TVCB and the “vortex breakdown” phenomenon mainly observed in 
 13
splits into several smaller vapor packs. This observation is quite different from the 
visualization result of Chow et al.11 whose experiments were conducted in a cavitation 
tunnel with a six-blade, NACA-profile propeller operating in a uniform inflow. What 
Chow et al.11 observed was that when the advance coefficient of the propeller was 
reduced below some threshold, the tube-shaped TVC was replaced with a fog-like 
micro-bubble cluster (denoted as FMBC) which looked very different from the  
relatively large vapor packs observed in Konno et al.,10 resulting in an impression that 
the TVC had burst into FMBC. Motivated by such a peculiar phenomenon, the present 
study is aimed at elucidating the origin of the FMBC formation, i.e., whether or not 
caused by TVCB, and by doing so shedding some new light on the mechanisms (if not 
just one) of TVCB.  
This paper is organized as follows. Section 2 describes the experimental setup of 
this study. Section 3 examines results of our visualization experiments as to determine 
the origin of FMBC. Section 4 analyzes results of our flow measurements and 
numerical simulations in order to elucidate the dynamics of the tip vortex and support 
the conclusion of Section 3. Finally, Section 5 concludes our study and discusses the 
implication of our results to the TVCB phenomenon. 
 
2. Experimental Setup 
We perform visualization experiments and particle image velocimetry (PIV) 
measurements in a cavitation tunnel. The visualization system and the PIV system share 
a CCD camera and a data acquisition system which also synchronizes all the devices 
with the encoder signal of the motor that drives a model propeller. The major difference 
between these two systems is the light source. Three model propellers are chosen for 
 15
C. Model propellers 
Three model propellers are chosen to be tested: 
(1) the propeller designated as P1 is the aforementioned six-blade, NACA-profile 
propeller from whose test we observed the FMBC formation; (2) the propeller 
designated as P2 has 5 New-Section blades (Eppler and Shen12), whose design is to 
reduce the sheet cavitation; (3) the propeller designated as P3 has endplates on its five 
blade tips, whose design is to suppress its tip vortices. We perform visualization 
experiments associated with these three propellers for comparison purposes: (1) we test 
P1 to reproduce the results of our previous experiments, i.e., TVC disappears and 
FMBC forms; (2) we experiment on P2 to see how a reduced sheet cavitation affects the 
formation of FMBC; (3) experiments with P3 are to investigate whether the existence of 
TVC is necessary for the FMBC formation. Finally, we perform PIV measurements on 
the tip-vortex flow generated by P1 to measure the size and the velocity distribution of 
the tip vortex. 
 
3. Origin of FMBC: results of visualization experiments 
We repeat the experiment of Chow et al.11 with the same six-blade, NACA-profile 
propeller (P1). The advance coefficient (J) of this open-water test starts at 0.82 and 
keeps decreasing while keeping the cavitation number (σ) constant. For the range J = 
0.82 ~ 0.80, it is found that the diameter of TVC is slightly increasing with decreasing J 
(i.e., increasing propeller thrust) as expected (Figs. 2a-b). For the range J = 0.79 ~ 0.77, 
the TVC enters a transition state and becomes increasingly thinner (Figs. 2c-e). It is not 
until J is lowered down to and below 0.76 that the TVC fully disappears and the FMBC 
clearly forms (Fig. 2f). At the first glance this phenomenon seems to suggest that the 
TVC had burst into FMBC, and we have followed this TVCB notion for some time. 
 17
sheet cavitation, not from the TVC. Based on this observation it should suffice to say 
that FMBC formation is originated from sheet cavitation. Another illuminating evidence 
comes from the results of experiments associated with P3. Figure 3e shows a pretty 
quiet flow at J = 0.80 without signs of any cavitation, even TVC. This indicates that the 
tip endplates of P3 do an excellent job of suppressing tip vortices. When J equals 0.65, 
TVC still doesn’t show up and a sheet cavitation exists with FMBC trailing behind (Fig. 
3f). Notice that the traces of VC coming from the side of sheet cavitation are also 
evident in this image. To summarize, similar FMBC phenomena can occur with or 
without the presence of TVC. In other words, TVC is not likely to be the source of 
FMBC, and the only option left for the origin of FMBC formation is no other than the 
break-up of sheet cavitation. 
 
4. Disappearance of P1’s TVC 
The previous visualization results suggest that FMBC most likely comes from the 
bursting of sheet cavitation. If it were so, P1’s TVC must’ve ceased to exist instead of 
having burst into FMBC at or below J = 0.76. This is an interesting phenomenon in that 
the minimum pressure within the tip vortex should suffer an uncommon increase with J 
below some threshold that suppresses its TVC, along with the FMBC shed from the 
sheet cavitation getting entrained into the tip vortex and sustained for a long distance 
downstream that makes it look like a TVCB phenomenon. This scenario, even 
intriguing, is still hypothetical that its verification needs more data and analyses beyond 
the visualization results. In this section, we first present data of PIV measurements and 
the associated analyses utilizing results of numerical simulation that confirm the TVC 
vanishing scenario just described. Secondly, a simple scaling law of TVC inception for 
 19
    22256.11
2
are
r
rv      (2) 
where   is the circulation of the vortex and a is the radial location where  rv  is 
maximum. It is found that our data can’t be well represented by Burgers model with a 
single set of ( , a). Therefore, we divide the whole range of the data into three regions: 
the core region ( ar  ), the transition region ( ara 2 ) and the outer region ( ar 2 ), 
and fit the data of the core and outer regions separately as shown in Fig. 5. It is well 
known that Burgers model takes into account the diffusion of vorticity and the 
coefficient a represents the length scale of such vorticity diffusion. Our data clearly 
show that these vortices undergo multi-scale diffusion processes of vorticity and these 
processes are obviously “faster” than that predicted by the model. This phenomenon 
may be partly caused by turbulence which promotes extra mixing of vorticity. The more 
complete explanation of associated phenomena requires further experimental 
investigations and is well beyond the scope of this paper. Nevertheless, this analysis 
enables us to proceed to the evaluation of the minimum pressure occurring within the 
vortex core as follows. 
  The radial equilibrium equation is expressed as: 
 
r
v
r
P 2
  (3) 
where P is the fluid pressure and   the fluid density. Integrating Eq. (3) from 0r  to 
  and normalizing it for each J yields  JCPo , the pressure coefficient evaluated at the 
vortex center as a function of J: 
          0
2
2
2
2
2
1 rdr
Jv
UU
JPJPJC
S
S
o
Po


 (4) 
 21
 
2
*
*
2
1
S
P
U
PC

  (8) 
and  
    JPJP PP *  (9) 
is assumed. Using Eqs. (4) and (7), the coefficient of the minimum pressure within the 
vortex core,  JCP min , can be formulated as: 
         *
2
min
2
1 PPPPo
S
ino
P CJCJC
U
PJPJC 

 (10) 
Since *PC  is unknown, the absolute value of  JCP min  cannot be determined. 
Nevertheless, we only need to evaluate the difference of  JCP min  between cases of 
known and unknown TVC statuses in order to determine whether the minimum pressure 
of the vortex core of the case of unknown status is high enough to prohibit cavitation 
from occurring. For example, one can define the difference  JCP min  using Eq. (10): 
 
     
         90.090.0
90.0minminmin
PPPoPPPo
PPP
CCJCJC
CJCJC


 (11) 
where we already know from the previous experiments that at J = 0.90 there is no TVC. 
Theoretically, TVC should not occur in the cases with the condition   0min  JCP , i.e., 
   90.0oo PJP  . Figure 7 shows  JCP min  of all five J’s obtained using  JCPP  
evaluated at five radius coordinates within 80% to 90% radii. Notice that  JCP min  is 
further zeroed at the average value of the five  90.0minPC  data points. It is clearly 
evident from Fig. 7 that   076.0min PC , which implies that TVC should not occur. This 
result confirms the observations of the previous visualization experiments and our 
postulation that FMBC does not come from TVCB, since TVC does not even exist in 
this case.                        
 23
in Eq. (12), it should be redefined in the similar manner as the local pressure at TVC 
inception and can be approximated by: 
    JPJP Pii   (14) 
where  JPPi  is the local average pressure on the pressure side at TVC inception. 
Hence, Eq.(12) can be rewritten as 
         JJKCJU
PJP
J L
in
vPi
i
4.02
2
Re
2
1 


  (15) 
where  
            


 1
0
2
cxdJCJC
JU
UJC PSPP
in
S
L  (16) 
    
cJUJ in Re  (17) 
where c is the chordlength of the 0.9 radius profile,  JCPS  (in Eq. (16)) is the pressure 
coefficient of the 0.9 radius profile on the suction side of the propeller, and   ( in Eq. 
(17)) is the fluid kinematic viscosity. Combining Eqs. (15)-(17), we can obtain the 
equation for  JCPPi , i.e.,  JCPP  at TVC inception: 
           JUJCKJC inPPPPi 6.121  (18) 
where 1K  is a dimensional constant. Here on Eq. (18) we impose an experimental 
observation (not shown) that at 85.0J  sheet cavity covers the whole chord of the 
suction side at 0.9 radius, i.e.,    JCPS  at 0.9 radius. Furthermore, we introduce 
two ratios,  JC  and  J :  
     JC
JC
J
PP
PPi
C   (19) 
 25
that at J = 0.76 TVC can’t occur (   172.076.0 C ), consistent with the conclusion of 
PIV results shown in the previous section. Also evident is the tip unloading effect 
represented by 1  that is mainly responsible for the low value of 321  , which in turn 
makes  76.0C  less than one. Therefore, by using this simple scaling law, we identify 
the major mechanism that causes the TVC of P1 to vanish as the reduction of tip 
loading due to the sheet cavity generated on the suction side of the propeller.              
 
5. Conclusions 
We have utilized and combined experimental, numerical, and theoretical approaches in 
an attempt to unriddle the phenomenon of FMBC and its connection with TVC and/or 
TVCB. Conclusions can be reached as follows: 
(1) Our visualization experiments show that the occurrence of TVC is not a necessary 
condition for the formation of FMBC. Also strong correlations between FMBC and 
sheet cavitation are observed. 
(2) PIV measurements with the aid of numerical simulations are used to examine the 
pressure level inside P1’s tip vortex core. The results indicate that the vortex core 
pressure is high enough to keep any cavitation from occurring when FMBC dominates 
the whole tip vortex trajectory. 
(3) A simple scaling law highlights a tip-unloading effect due to sheet cavitation that 
may explain the mechanism causing the disappearance of P1’s TVC. 
(4) Combining (1)-(3), it is clearly evident that sheet cavitation, even though 
surprisingly, plays two key roles in the phenomenon: suppressing TVC and generating 
FMBC. 
The conclusions drawn above may have an interesting implication on TVCB. 
The pressure fluctuation experienced by the tip vortex due to either the non-uniform 
 27
Acknowledgements 
This project is sponsored by the National Science Council of Taiwan under the grant 
number NSC 96-2218-E-019-001. The authors would like to thank Prof. Y.-Z. Kehr for 
his inspiring comments to the topic and the model propellers of his design used in the 
experiments. Also thanks are due to the graduate students of the PIV Lab and the MCT 
Lab at NTOU for their assistance in setting up and performing all the experiments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 29
13. Franc JP, Michel JM (2004) Fundamentals of cavitation. Kluwer Academic 
Publishers.    
14. Hsin CY (1990) Development and analysis of panel methods for propellers in 
unsteady flow. Ph.D. Dissertation, MIT. 
15. Hsin CY (1999) Development of a higher-order boundary element method to the 
propeller flow field analysis and cavitation prediction. CSBC technical report, CSBC-
RD-444. 
16. Fruman DH, Dugue C, Pauchet A, et al (1992) Tip vortex roll-up and cavitation. In: 
Proceedings of 19th International Symposium on Naval Hydrodynamics, Seoul, Korea.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 31
Table 1. 
J inU  (m/s) PPC    C  1  2  3  321 
0.76 19.26 0.60 4.15 0.72 
0.85 17.37 0.28 8.96 1.00 
 
0.27 
 
0.85 
 
2.16 
 
0.49 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 33
 
 
FIG. 1. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 35
   
   (a)      (b) 
   
   (c)      (d) 
   
   (e)      (f) 
 
FIG. 3. 
 
 
 
 
 37
 
         (a)            (b) 
 
         (c)            (d) 
 
         (e)  
 
FIG. 5. 
 39
 
 
FIG. 7. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  41
    除了從自己的論文報告的討論中受益，另外也很重要的是去接觸新的題目，了解其他人
的工作方法，進度和成果，或許在此過程中可以得到靈感，觸類旁通，對自己目前的研究有
相當的幫助，或是產生興趣而轉到新的方向。在所聽到的論文報告中，最有感受的為 erosion 
(浸蝕)相關議題，而第一場的 plenary talk 即為探討研究 erosion 的方法論，其講題和講者介紹
如下： 
講題：Cavitation erosion: towards a new approach 
講者：Prof. Jean-Pierre Franc, University of Grenoble, France 
Prof. Franc is the Research Director (CNRS), Turbomachinery and Cavitation Research Group, 
Laboratory of Geophysical and Industrial Fluid Flows (LEGI) of the Grenoble University Insitut 
National Polytechnique de Grenoble (INPG) and Université Joseph Fourier, France. He has 
published extensively in the area of cavitation, and is the author of ‘La cavitation: mécanismes 
physiques et aspects industriels’, and the co-author of ‘Fundamentals of Cavitation’. 
 
J-P Franc 在 cavitation 上的研究，如同簡介所說，是有目共睹的，他的書”Fundamentals of 
Cavitation”成為這個領域的一本重要且最新的參考書。Cavitation erosion 可說是在造船領域中
一個極需解決的問題但是也是最難的問題之一，此題目的研究有很多年的歷史，國際上的研
究也很廣泛，例如 G. Bark of the Chalmers University of Technology 和 H. Kato of the University 
of Tokyo，這次的會議中也有六篇相關論文。這個課題有幾個重要的關鍵詞:erosion load, scaling 
law, erosion risks, damage rate, experimental observation, high-speed photography, numerical 
simulation, multi-phase RANS,   
 
    其他的 plenary talk 的內容也都很精采，雖然聽者不見得是這個方向的專家，不可能了解
所有的細節，但一定或多或少受到了啟發並刺激了思考。雖然大會論文集並沒有收錄他們的
presentation 而成為一遺憾，但其實真正重點不在於細節，而是在他們所傳遞的觀念和思考方
法。茲將其他的 plenary talk 的講題和講者訊息陳列如下： 
 
講題：Physical and mathematical problems of hydrodynamics for high speed underwater motion 
with supercavitation 
講者：Dr. Vladimir V. Serebryakov, Institute of Hydromechanics - Kiev, Ukraine 
 
講題：Numerical aspects of the collapse of non-spherical bubbles 
講者：Prof. Hiroyuki Takahira, Osaka Prefectural University, Japan 
 
講題：Naval Propeller Cavitation: Historical Development of Design, Evaluation and Prediction 
講者：Dr. Stuart Jessup, Naval Surface Warfare Center, Carderock Division, USA 
 
講題：Nozzle-geometry-dependent breakup of diesel jets by ultrafast x-ray imaging: implication of 
in-nozzle cavitation 
講者：Dr. Jin Wang Argonne National Lab, USA 
 
  40
CAV2009 與會心得 
CAV2009：the 7th International Symposium on Cavitation, August 17-22, 2009, Ann Arbor, 
Michigan, USA. 
    這次參與此國際會議，除了在會議中報告本實驗室的成果，更因為它是國際上最具規模
針對空化現象(Cavitation)所舉辦的學術研討會，會中總共有將近 120 篇的論文發表，另外還
有六篇邀請專題報告(plenary talk) 。總共四整天的會議，應可說是幾乎涵蓋所有關於 cavitation
的課題和應用，各 session的主題列舉如下: 
1. Acoustic cavitation 
2. Advanced experimental methods 
3. Cavitation in biomedical applications 
4. Bubble dynamics 
5. Cavitation for environmental remediation 
6. Cavitation erosion 
7. Cavitation in manufacturing processes 
8. Cavitation in Naval context 
9. Cavitation in hydraulic and power systems 
10. Cavitation in turbomachineries 
11. Cryogenic cavitation 
12. Hydrodynamic cavitation 
13. Numerical computation for cavitating flows 
14. Sono-Luminescence cavitation 
15. Super cavitation 
    筆者的報告被安排在 Hydrodynamic cavitation的 session，題目為: 
Experimental Investigations on the Flow Structure and Turbulence of the Propeller Tip Vortex at 
Different Cavitation States (論文 1) 
內容主要是關於一發生在螺槳上之奇特的霧狀微汽泡群(fog-like micro-bubble cluster, FMBC)
現象以及伴隨的平均流及紊流特性，細節可見論文 1。有一特定的六葉 NACA螺槳在合適的
空化係數(cavitation number)下，隨著前進係數(advance coefficient)的降低，會從無葉尖渦空泡
(tip vortex cavitation, TVC)的狀態發展成有葉尖渦空泡，再轉變成無葉尖渦空泡而成為
FMBC，可說是提供了葉尖渦流場受不同水蒸氣形態(cavitation和 FMBC)的影響的測試環境。
本文發現葉尖渦流場似乎因水蒸氣形態的出現或形成而有增加動能的趨勢，而紊流動能有回
傳至平均流動能的趨勢。報告完後，有數位聽眾給予意見，大致為指出未來可進行的驗證此
觀察的方向: 
1. 對螺槳吸入面(suction side)的片狀空泡(sheet cavitation)作詳細的觀察，看看是否因它的影響
造成葉尖渦的能量改變。 
2. 葉尖渦的軌跡會擺動，可能造成在數據分析上出現假象，造成旋渦的半徑被高估，旋渦的
環流量(circulation)過高。 
其中第二個方向正是我們緊接著要進行的工作;從聽眾的反應和意見的內容我們可以說達成
了學術交流的效果，獲益良多。 
  42
國立台灣海洋大學在 cavitation的研究上一直不遺餘力，然而與國際上的研究規模與成果比較
仍有些許的差距，相信透過這些國際會議上的學術交流能幫助我們找到方向，突破瓶頸，學
習到新的思維與方法，最後得到具有國際水準的成果。 
 2  
 In the present study, we perform PIV measurements of the 
tip vortex flow under different experimental conditions that will 
be explained in the next section: experimental setup. Then 
results, related analyses, and conclusions follow. 
 
EXPERIMENTAL SETUP 
As shown in Fig. 2, we perform PIV measurements of the 
propeller tip vortex in a cavitation tunnel. This cavitation tunnel 
is a close-loop, circulation type of water tunnel with pressure 
control capable of performing de-aeration processes. The cross-
sectional area of the test section is 0.5 m × 0.5 m. The 
maximum flow speed in this facility is 11.7 m/s, and the inflow 
uniformity can be maintained quite well with several flow 
straighteners along the loop. An adjustable inclined-shaft 
dynamometer is integrated with this tunnel. In the present 
experiment, we only use the dynamometer as the propeller shaft 
leveled horizontally with rotational speed control. 
The PIV system we utilize consists of a 180 mJ/pulse 
double-head Nd:YAG laser, light-sheet generation optics,  a 
cross-correlation, 15Hz, 1600x1200 pixels, CCD camera 
(LaVision Image ProX), an image acquisition system capable of 
synchronization based on the trigger signal from the motor 
encoder, and hollow glass spheres with an average diameter of 
5μm as seeding particles. The light sheet position and the phase 
angle of the propeller are carefully adjusted for imaging the 
transverse section of the tip vortex. One thousand image pairs 
are acquired at a fixed phase for each experimental condition 
(details follow). PIV images obtained are analyzed using 
LaVision’s DaVis software to generate flow velocity vector 
maps. 
To evaluate the accuracy the analysis algorithms and 
procedures are able to achieve, we take several images acquired 
in the measurements and transform them by translation and 
rotation of known values (in pixel) to form semi-artificial PIV 
image pairs. Then we feed these manufactured image pairs to 
the analysis software and compare the outcomes with the 
known vector maps. The average difference between these two 
sets of values is found to be 0.6 pixel, which translates to 3% 
uncertainty in instantaneous velocity with the typical particle 
image displacement of 20 pixels. Other uncertainty contributors 
include rotational speed variation, inflow variation and optical 
misalignment, which are estimated to be almost one order of 
magnitude less than that incurred in the analysis algorithms and 
procedures as mentioned above, i.e., they are negligible.                
In Chow et al. [1] we used three model propellers: the first 
one has 5 New-Section blades whose purpose is to reduce the 
sheet cavitation; the second one has endplates on its five blade 
tips to suppress its tip vortices; the third one, also the one used 
in this study, is a six-blade, NACA-profile propeller that 
generates the FMBC phenomenon. As mentioned in the 
introduction section, we use this propeller to investigate the 
flow structure and the turbulence of the tip vortex associated 
with different statuses of TVC. The two experimental 
parameters that control the status of TVC are the advance 
coefficient, J, and the cavitation number, σ. Their definitions 
are: 
 
 
nD
UJ 0   (1) 
and 
 
2
02
1 U
PP vr

    (2) 
 
where 50 U m/s is the inflow velocity to the propeller, 
3.26~2.22n  round/s is the propeller rotational speed, 
25.0D  m is the diameter of the propeller, rP  denotes the 
reference pressure of the tunnel, vP  denotes the vapor pressure 
of the liquid fluid (water), and   denotes the density of water. 
We focus on 90.0J , 0.78 and 0.76, and atm   
( rP atmospheric pressure) and 5.2  ( 5.2 , and lower than 
atm ). TVC statuses under combinations of J’s and  ’s are 
listed in Table 1. 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Schematic of the integrated experimental setup. 
 
Table 1: TVC statuses under 6 experimental conditions. 
 
J\  90.0J  78.0J  76.0J  
atm   No TVC No TVC No TVC 
5.2   No TVC TVC FMBC 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
1. Mean Flow Characteristics: 
Each mean flow velocity field is obtained by averaging 
1000 realizations at the same phase. Assuming the errors 
associated with the instantaneous velocities are random, the 
errors associated with the mean velocities can be estimated 
as %1.01000%3  , i.e., it is very small and can be 
neglected. This phase-averaging procedure also enables us to 
calculate the Reynolds stresses and related parameters of 
turbulence (details follow). Figure 3 shows the induced velocity 
vector maps of tip vortex flows under 6 experimental 
conditions described by Table 1. They are obtained by 
subtracting the mean velocity vector at the location where the 
mean vorticity peaks from the measured velocity vectors. 
Mean-flow velocity distributions of both cases of 90.0J  
being almost identical regardless of   (i.e., ambient pressure) 
 4  
 
   jiij uurr ,   (8) 
 
where the over-bar denotes the phase-averaging operator, iu  
denotes the i-direction velocity fluctuation about the mean 
value, and i, j are indices that 1 represents the x-direction and 2 
represents the y-direction. According to Benedict and Gould 
[14], the uncertainty in ijr , ijr , can be estimated using 
 
 21222 ])1[(96.1 NuuCr jiijij    (9) 
 
where    2122 jiijij uurC   and 1000N  is the ensemble size. 
Therefore, 
 
 %8.8]1000)11([96.1 21222221111  rrrr   (10) 
 
     We also use Eq. (3) to obtain the circumferentially-averaged 
Reynolds stress  rRij . And the circumferentially-averaged 
turbulent kinetic energy (k) is defined as:    
 
    22112
1 RRrk    (11) 
 
Figure 6a shows the k profiles of 90.0J , 0.78 and 0.76 at 
atm  . The k distributions peak at the vortex center (the 
small deviation shown in the curve of 76.0J  is possibly due 
to the resolution being not fine enough for this region). 
Interestingly, the k peak value (kmax) of 76.0J  is lower than 
that of 78.0J , despite the fact that the (mean) circulation of 
76.0J  is greater than that of 78.0J . When 5.2   as 
shown in Fig. 6b, kmax of both 76.0J  and 0.78 become much 
lower than that of 90.0J , with kmax of 76.0J  being the 
lowest. This phenomenon suggests that the other phase of the 
fluid (either TVC or FMBC) influences not only the mean flow 
but also the turbulence. 
We rearrange Fig. 6 into Fig.7 to highlight the substantial 
differences between the cases of single-phase and multi-phase. 
Figs. 7a-b show almost 2/3 (67%) drop of kmax from single-
phase cases to multi-phase cases. These turbulent kinetic 
energies may have two ways to go: one is the regular cascading 
process (a larger eddy breaks into smaller eddies) that k is 
finally dissipated by viscosity; the other is the inverse 
cascading process (smaller eddies merge into a larger eddy) that 
k is finally injected back to the mean flow. The “energized” 
mean tip vortex flows discussed previously seem to imply that 
k takes the latter route to help augment the mean flow. 
Following this argument, the vapor phase in the form of either 
TVC or FMBC must serve as an effective agent to inversely 
transfer energy from turbulent motions to mean flows.  
CONCLUSION 
PIV measurements are performed on the propeller tip 
vortex flow undergoing the process from non-TVC to TVC to 
FMBC conditions ( 5.2  ), as well as all-time non-TVC 
conditions ( atm  ). It is clearly evident from our results that 
the vapor phase of the fluid in the form of either TVC or FMBC 
“energizes” the flow of the liquid phase by directly doing work 
on the flow and/or serving as an agent to extract energy from 
the turbulence to the mean flow. Our future works includes 
performing more detailed measurements in order to obtain the 
kinetic energy spectra of the flow to identify the role the TVC 
or the FMBC plays in the flow processes. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
This project is sponsored by the National Science Council 
of Taiwan under the grant number NSC-96-2628-E-019-030-
MY2. The authors would like to thank Prof. Y.-Z. Kehr for the 
model propeller of his design used in the experiments. Also 
thanks are due to the graduate students of the PIV Lab and the 
MCT Lab at NTOU for their assistance in setting up and 
performing the experiments. 
REFERENCES 
[1]  Chow, Y.-C., Lee, Y.-H., Hsin, C.-Y., 2009, “On a 
Peculiar Phenomenon of Fog-like Micro-Bubble Cluster 
Formation and its Mechanism Apparently Associated 
with Propeller Tip Vortex Cavitation,” submitted to 
Experiments in Fluids.  
[2]  English, J. W., 1979, “Cavitation-Induced Hull Surface 
Pressures: Measurements in a Water Tunnel,” 
Proceedings of symposium on propeller induced ship 
vibration, Royal Institution of Naval Architects, London, 
pp 1-11. 
[3]  Lee, S. J., Paik, B. G., Yoon, J. H., Lee, C. M., 2004, 
“Three-Component Velocity Field Measurements of 
Propeller Wake Using a Stereoscopic PIV Technique,” 
Experiments in Fluids, 36, pp. 575-585.07-138. 
[4]  Calcagno, G., Di Felice, F., Felli, M., Pereira, F., 2002, 
“Propeller Wake Analysis Behind a Ship by Stereo PIV,” 
Proc. 24th Symp. on Naval Hydrodynamics, Fukuoka, 
Japan. 
[5] Chesnakas, C. J., Jessup, S. D., 2003, “Tip-Vortex 
Induced Cavitation on a Ducted Propulsor,” Proc. 4th 
ASME/JSME Joint Fluids Eng. Conf., Honolulu, U.S.A. 
FEDSM2003-45320 
[6] Oweis, G. F., Ceccio, S. L., 2005, “Instantaneous and 
Time-Averaged Flow Fields of Multiple Vortices in the 
Tip Region of a Ducted Propulsor,” Experiments in 
Fluids, Vol. 38, pp. 615-636. 
[7] Kim, S. E., Rhee, S. H., 2004, “Toward High-Fidelity 
Prediction of Tip-Vortex Around Lifting Surfaces,” 
Proc. 25th Symp. on Naval Hydrodynamics, St. John's, 
Canada. 
[8]  Rhee, S. H., Joshi, S., 2005, “Computational Validation 
for Flow around a Marine Propeller Using Unstructured 
Mesh Based Navier-Stokes Solver,” JSME International 
Journal, Series B, Vol. 48, No. 3, pp. 562-570. 
[9] Chen, B., 2000, “RANS Simulation of Tip Vortex Flow 
for a Finite-Span Hydrofoil and a Marine Propulsor,” 
Ph.D. thesis, The University of Iowa, Iowa City, IA. 
 6  
      
(a)                                                                                       (b) 
      
(c)                                                                                       (d) 
      
(e)                                                                                       (f) 
 
Figure 3: Mean-flow induced velocity vector maps at conditions of (a) 90.0J  and atm  , (b) 90.0J  and 5.2  ,  (c) 
78.0J  and atm  , (d) 78.0J  and 5.2  , (e) 76.0J  and atm  , and (f) 76.0J  and 5.2  . Contour plots indicates 
the velocity magnitudes. 
