both video layer types. We also design fast and 
effective algorithms to bridge the gap between 
theoretical throughput capacity and implementation 
concerns. Thus, the basic video quality can be 
efficiently guaranteed to all subscribers while 
creating most utility out of limited resources on 
enhancement information. To overcome the inevitable 
packet loss in a multicast session, an FEC rate 
adaptation scheme to approach theoretical performance 
is also presented. Favorable performance of the 
proposed algorithms is demonstrated by simulations 
utilizing realistic Mobile WiMAX parameters. 
英文關鍵詞： Resource allocation, scalable video, multicasting, 
OFDMA, mobile WiMAX 
 
3 文獻探討
ଞჹဂኞ (multicast) ຎૻᔈҔܭՉ୏ᆛၡ΢的ၗྍϩଛ (resource allocation) ୢᚒǴ߈ԃٰ
ςӧ୯ሞ΢ڙډຫٰຫӭ的ख़ຎǶځύǴၮҔ፾ᔈ܄ (adaptive) 的ፓᡂ與ጓዸ方法ٰၲԋ的
WiMAX ӭቫဂኞၗྍന٫ϯ的౛論ςว߄ܭ [3, 4]Ƕ文獻 [3] ύǴբޣගрΑၗྍϩଛ的方法Ǵ
Ӄჹ܌Ԗ٬Ҕޣගٮ୷ҁቫ (base layer) 的୍ܺǴฅࡕӆගٮᚐѦ的уமቫ (enhancement layer)
๏೽ϩ的٬Ҕޣٰന٫ϯس಍的ᕴᡏਏҔॶ (total utility)ǶਏҔॶӧԜۓက฻ਏܭ٬Ҕޣ܌གڙ
ډ的ჴሞቹႽࠔ፦ǶӕԃǴ文獻 [4] Ψගрᜪ՟的଺法Ǵ੝ձа೥Јᄽᆉ法 (greedy algorithm) ٰ
ᒧ᏷໺ଌӚঁቹႽቫਔ؂ঁ OFDMA ૻਣ܌٬Ҕ的ന٫ፓᡂ與ጓዸ方法Ǵനࡕ目的ᗋࢂӧܭനε
ϯس಍ਏҔॶǶᗨฅа΢的ٿᅿࢎᄬς࿶ӧӭቫຎૻဂኞ΢ౢғଅ獻Ǵךॺᇡࣁӵ果ਔ໔ື΢ό
ӕ的ૻਣϐ໔Ψૈ୼଺ന٫ϯ的ԵቾǴஒёаၲډ׳ଯ的س಍տӗໆ (throughput)Ƕ߈යว߄的
文獻告ນךॺǴӵ果עਔ໔ື΢的ന٫ϯ與前ӛᒱᇤ׳҅ (forward error correction, FEC) ଺᏾ӝ
(Ψ൩ࢂ؂ԛѝ໺๏೽ϩ٬ҔޣǴԶճҔਔ໔΢的೯ၰࠔ፦ᡂϯӧځд໺ଌᐒ཮ϒаံى)Ǵᗋё
຾΋؁ගଯဂኞᐒڋ的ਏ౗Ϸᛙۓ܄ǴΨ൩ዴҥΑᐒၶԄဂኞ (opportunistic multicasting) 的ཷ
ۺ [5, 6]Ƕܭࢂӧ文獻 [7] ύǴբޣᆙௗ๱ගрΑၮҔڰۓ FEC ጓዸ౗的ᐒၶԄဂኞ௨ำᄽᆉ法Ǵ
ՠࢂჹܭཥ΋жӭቫ的 SVC ቹႽӵՖၮҔځύǴаϷ੿ჴᕉნύ཮ၶډ的 FEC ጓዸ౗ፓ᏾ୢ
ᚒǴךॺۘ҂ૈவύளډှเǶӢԜךॺගрΑಃ΋ঁ᏾ӝᐒၶԄ௨ำ與ёፓԄຎૻጓዸ的ֹ᏾
౛論與ᄽᆉ法Ǵ٠Ъӧीฝ୺Չය໔೏ IEEE Trans. of Mobile Computing ௗڙว߄ [8]Ƕ
4 研究方法
4.1 ౛論ϩ݋
२ӃǴࣁΑዴᇡ結ӝӭቫဂኞ與ᐒၶԄ௨ำૈ୼ቚ຾᏾ᡏ的߄౜ǴךॺჹᐒၶԄ೯ૻ方法ӧ
ဂኞᕉნΠ的ᓬᗺς࿶଺Αಃ΋໘ࢤલϿ的ֹ᏾౛論ϩ݋ǴԜᕉნ的੝܄ࣁ܌Ԗ٬Ҕޣനಖࣣሡ
ाԋфԏډӕኬ的΋ҽၗૻǴԶ೸ၸ FEC ฻ߥៈᐒڋǴၸำύό΋ۓ؂ঁ OFDMA ૻਣ೿ሡा
ௗԏԋфǶ܌ᔈҔ的௢Ꮴଷ೛ࣁ i.i.d. 的 Rayleigh ೯ၰǴ٠ଷ೛٬Ҕޣ的ૻᏓК (signal to noise
ratio, SNR) ࣁᒿᐒᡂኧ XiǴԜਔૻဦ的ф౗ࢂаࡰኧϩѲٰ଺૰১ (fading)ǶҗԜёа௢рૻဦ
ၨ১的ᜐጔՉ୏ઠѠ (mobile station, MS) ဂϐ的ಕᑈϩѲڄኧ (cumulative distribution function,
CDF)FX(x)Ƕӆҗ SNR ϩѲ܌௢ள的೯ၰ容ໆ (channel capacity)Ǵךॺёаளрᒧۓ٠Ъᒧ᏷
፾྽的ፓᡂ與ጓዸ方法 (modulation and coding schemes, MCSs) ϐࡕӚঁ MS ϐտӗໆǶനࡕӆ
ۓကᒿᐒᡂኧ X(L) ࣁಃ L ε的 XiǴ൩ૈ୼ளډ྽ᕴ٬Ҕޣኧࣁ G ਔǴፓ᏾ MCS ٬ளӧࢌ΋ਔ
2
ځύ Dv,l ࣁቹႽቫ (v, l) ӧচೲ౗ Rv,l уΕ፾྽ FEC ࡕϐ໺ଌೲ౗ǴI ࣁҗ MCSǴmǴϷ MS
ӣ報ϐ೯ၰࠔ፦ q ܌،ۓ的ࡰҢڄኧǴc(m) ࣁ؂ൂՏၗྍ的容ໆǶ೭告ນךॺӧ܌Ԗ MS ύǴന
λ OFDMA ૻਣௗԏ౗ځჴ൩ࢂന౛གྷ的 FEC ጓዸ౗ǴԶӧဂኞᕉნΠ᏾ᡏၗྍ的ሡाໆ཮೏
ௗԏ౗നե的 MS ܌،ۓǶ
ӆௗΠٰǴёаவ܌ሡ的ၗྍໆଞჹ୷ҁቫ (base layer) 與уமቫ (enhancement layer) ೛ۓന
٫ϯୢᚒǶჹ୷ҁቫٰᇥǴ目的ࢂा܌Ԗु᎙ԏຎ的٬Ҕޣࣣёаԋфჹຎૻှዸ (Nv,l = Nv)Ǵ
ӢԜᒧ᏷ന٫ MCSǴm˜Ǵ的ा؃ࣁ٬ҔനϿ的ၗྍໆǴٰၲԋ܌ԖΓ೿ૈԏ࣮的目的ǴΨ൩ࢂ：
m˜ = argmin
m
S(Nv)
= argmax
m
{
c(m) · min
i∈Nv,l
Qi
}
(5)
ӧ஥Ε٠෧ϯ௞ࣁۓॶϐ Rv ϐࡕǴёа࣮рനಖሡाനεϯനλ OFDMA ૻਣௗԏ౗與೯ၰ容
ໆ的४ᑈǶԶჹܭуமቫǴךॺ׆ఈന٫ϯ的ࢂൂՏၗྍ܌ଅ獻的ਏҔॶ uv,l(utility)ǴӢԜԖ٤
MS ёૈֹӄό཮ԏډࢌ٤уமቫǶ與୷ҁቫ࣬КΨӭΑᒧ᏷目኱ဂಔ Nv,l 的؁ᡯ：(
m˜, N˜v,l
)
= arg max
(m,Nv,l)
uv,l · |Nv,l|
Sv,l
= arg max
(m,Nv,l)
{
c(m) · min
i∈Nv,l
Qi
}
· |Nv,l| (6)
ךॺ࣮ډӧуமቫሡाᒧ᏷目኱ဂಔ的όӕǴаϷाݙཀٿঁന٫ϯୢᚒௗڙډᕴၗྍໆ΢ज़的
ज़ڋǶ
4.2 ᐒၶԄဂኞᄽᆉ法
२ӃǴךॺѸ໪ा٩Ᏽ೯ၰރݩǴ،ۓന٫的 FEC ߥៈКٯǶ
Kb =

⌊
N ·mini∈Nv,l Q(b−1)Ni · fm
⌋
, b > 1⌊
N
2
⌋
, b = 1.
(7)
ӆٰǴѸ໪ाૈ୼ଓᙫૻਣ的ௗԏК౗ QkiǶӧԜךॺόૈ୼٬Ҕ(3)ǴԶၮҔΑаΠ的ࡰኧ៾
ख़׳ཥ方Ԅٰջਔଓᙫ與௨ำ
Qki =

(
1− 1tc
)
Qk−1i +
1
tc
I(mk−1, qk−1i ) , k > 1
1 , k = 1
(8)
аΠҔ຀ᔕำԄዸٰϩձᇥܴҔܭ୷ҁቫϷуமቫ的ٿᅿᄽᆉ法Ƕӵ Figure 2܌ҢǴ؂΋ঁૻ
ਣ k ೿཮Ӄ༊᏾܌Ԗ的 CQI ӣ㎸ၗૻǴϐࡕ m˜k ൩ёа೏،ۓ຾Զനεϯ目኱໨ǶࣁΑԖਏ的ၮ
4
1: repeat
2: for all eligible (v, l) do
3: ﬁnd m˜kv,l using Figure 2, Line 3 to Line 6, ∀i ∈ Nv,l
4: calculate G˜v,l using (9)
5: end for
6: schedule (v, l) in descending order of G˜v,l until no resource
left subject to layer dependency
7: if end of an FEC block then
8: for all eligible (v, l) do
9: ﬁnd i˜ = argmaxi∈Nv
∣∣{j : Qkj ≥ Qki , j ∈ Nv}∣∣ ·Qki
10: update Nv,l using i˜
11: end for
12: update Kb using (7)
13: end if
14: until end of video session
Figure 3: ࡭ុՏᒧ᏷܄的уமቫၗྍϩଛཛྷ൨ m˜kv,l 與 Nv,l 的຀ᔕำԄዸǶ
5 結果與討論
ךॺа MatlabࣁѳѠǴ௦ҔWiMAX forum܌ࡌ᝼的 COST231Ϸ ITU Vehicular AኳࠠǴኳ
ᔕ mobile WiMAX Π 10MHz ᓎቨ的 PUSC ኳԄǶຎૻ方य़೛ۓ Rv,l = 250KbpsǴٰКၨаΠѤ
ᅿ௨ำ方Ԅ：1) ीฝύ܌ගр的 OLMǹ2) ڰۓ FEC ߥៈК౗ӧ rb = 0.7ǹ3) ڰۓ FEC ߥៈК
౗ӧ rb = 0.3ǹ4) ߚᐒၶԄ௨ำӵ [3, 4]Ǵ٠Ъע FEC ୔༧ߏࡋ೛ӧ཮ౢғӝ౛的 1 ࣾដۯᒨ的
N = 200Ƕ
ਥᏵа΢ന٫ϯ௢ᏤϷ܌໒วϐᄽᆉ法܌଺ဂኞൂՏၗྍտӗໆኳᔕ結果ᡉҢ：࣬ჹߚᐒၶԄ
ဂኞǴΨ൩ࢂܭ؂ঁ OFDMA ૻਣ೿פനૻဦࠔ፦നৡ的٬Ҕޣٰ،ۓ MCSǴаዴߥ܌Ԗु᎙
٬Ҕޣ೿ૈԋфኞܫቹТ的଺法ǴԖ 106% 的຾؁ǴԶӵ果ؒԖҔךॺ܌ࡌ᝼的 FEC ጓዸ౗،
ۓ法ǴुۓΑό಄ӝ೯ၰᕉნ的ጓዸ౗ (ӧԜךॺа 0.7 Ϸ 0.3 ࣁٯ) ǴΨஒளډၨৡ的結果Ǵӵ
Figure 4Ƕ
Figure 5的ࢊރკКၨΑѤᅿ方法的ѳ֡҅ೕϯᕴਏҔॶǶԜკύёమཱ࣮р୷ҁቫ與уமቫ
ӚԾ的ଅ獻ǴΨу΢Αௗ FEC ှዸࡕ的ཞѨ౗Ѹ໪λܭ 5% ωૈᆉࢂ΋ঁԋфௗԏ的٬ҔޣǶך
ॺว౜ӵ果 FEC 的ߥៈόىǴӵ rv,l = 0.7 的ٯηǴ཮೷ԋࡐε的ਏҔॶཞѨǶჹܭуமቫ的߄
౜ǴOLM ё࿯࣪Πၨӭ的ၗྍ๏уமቫǴԶౢғܴᡉ的ᓬ༈Ƕ
ନΑᕴਏҔॶǴךॺΨև౜Α؂ঁ٬Ҕޣ܌ૈௗԏډനଯቹႽቫ的ϩѲӵ Figure 6ǶOLM ё
ᡣ 44% 的٬Ҕޣԋфှዸനଯࠔ፦的ቹႽቫǶځд的方法೿཮٬ளௗԏ的٬Ҕޣ෧Ͽ܈ࢂѝૈှ
ዸၨեࠔ፦的ቹႽቫǶᕴکٰᇥǴOLM ࣬ჹܭځд的方法ܴᡉԖၨ٫的߄౜Ƕ
6
References
[1] “IEEE Standard for Local and metropolitan area networks Part 16: Air Interface for Broad-
band Wireless Access Systems Amendment 3: Advanced Air Interface,” IEEE Std 802.16m-
2011(Amendment to IEEE Std 802.16-2009), no. May, pp. 1 –1112, 2011.
[2] A. Ghosh, “LTE-advanced: next-generation wireless broadband technology [Invited Paper,” IEEE
Wireless Communications, vol. 17, no. 3, pp. 10–22, Jun. 2010.
[3] W.-H. Kuo, T. Liu, and W. Liao, “Utility-Based Resource Allocation for Layer-Encoded IPTV
Multicast in IEEE 802.16 (WiMAX) Wireless Networks,” Communications. IEEE International
Conference on, pp. 1754–1759, 2007.
[4] S. Deb, S. Jaiswal, and K. Nagaraj, “Real-Time Video Multicast in WiMAX Networks,” INFO-
COM 2008. The 27th Conference on Computer Communications. IEEE, pp. 1579–1587, 2008.
[5] W. Ge, J. Zhang, and S. Shen, “A Cross-Layer Design Approach to Multicast in Wireless Net-
works,” Wireless Communications, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 6, no. 3, pp. 1063–1071, 2007.
[6] U. C. Kozat, “On the Throughput Capacity of Opportunistic Multicasting with Erasure Codes,”
in 2008 IEEE INFOCOM - The 27th Conference on Computer Communications, Apr. 2008, pp.
520–528.
[7] Q. Qu and U. C. Kozat, “On the Opportunistic Multicasting in OFDM-Based Cellular Networks,”
Communications, 2008. ICC ’08. IEEE International Conference on, pp. 3708–3714, 2008.
[8] C.-W. Huang, S.-M. Huang, P.-H. Wu, S.-J. Lin, and J.-N. Hwang, “OLM: Opportunistic Layered
Multicasting for Scalable IPTV over Mobile WiMAX,” IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing,
pp. 1–9, 2011.
8
 2 
實驗室對通訊底層較為了解的優勢，可結合新一代應用發展令人興奮的新研究。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
四、建議 
 多媒體領域相當廣泛，因此在子會議名稱的設定格外困難，希望能在多媒體通訊
領域再加以細分。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 大會手冊，論文匯整 USB碟。 
六、其他 
 無 
 
 
 
Joint Opportunistic Spectrum Access and
Scheduling for Layered Multicasting over Cognitive
Radio Networks
Pavol Polacek, Ting-Yeu Yang, and Chih-Wei Huang
Department of Communication Engineering, National Central University, Jhongli, Taiwan
Email: {995403602, 965003033}@cc.ncu.edu.tw, cwhuang@ce.ncu.edu.tw
Abstract—Cognitive radio (CR) represents an exciting new
paradigm on spectrum utilization and potentially more band-
width for exploding multimedia traffic. We focus on the layer
encoded video multicast problem over CR and contribute 1) a
quality based ranking in opportunistic spectrum access (OSA)
for sub-channel selection, and 2) opportunistic layered multicas-
ting (OLM) inspired scheduling designed particularly for CR
networks. The 2-step ranking in OSA takes outcomes of periodic
sensing and prediction to expand the system-wide throughput
while keeping collision rates acceptable. By tracking group
receiving rate across CR sub-channels and data expiration time,
we are able to realize the OLM advantage under much more
challenging CR environments. The overall joint opportunistic
spectrum access and scheduling (OSAS) algorithm finds precise
transmission parameters to heuristically reach maximum system
utility. Favorable results comparing OSAS with not fully oppor-
tunistic methods demonstrate OSAS to be the best performing
one.
I. INTRODUCTION
Multimedia communication is exploding with growth.
Thanks to the advances of multimedia application, mobile
computing platform and wireless communication technology,
the research area has attracted serious attention in order
to seamlessly provide interactive and ubiquitous multimedia
experiences. To make it happen, the pursuit of higher system
capacity in resource limited wireless networks is critical and
never-ending.
Cognitive Radio (CR) represents an exciting new com-
munication paradigm with advanced spectrum management
enabling improved channel utilization and overall available
bandwidth [1]. The bandwidth demanding multimedia appli-
cations are excellent candidates to fully exploit the potential
of CR. However, research efforts has been focused mainly on
spectrum access; the application specific performance issues
have been relatively less touched. A novel aspect of view
considering spectrum access and application level quality of
service (QoS) as a whole is desired to achieve maximal user
experience.
Among emerging multimedia services, the demand of video
multicast becomes promising. As numbers of mobile data
enabled handheld devices, such as smartphones and tablets
grow rapidly, a considerable group of users are expected
to access popular video channels through wireless networks
simultaneously in the near future. Under the situation that
advances of state-of-the-art wireless communication standards
might not be able to keep up with growth of multimedia traffic
[2], multicast becomes one of more effective transmission
approaches to be widely considered. Thus, the scope of this
paper is on a joint spectrum access and multicast scheduling
framework to maximize video applications user experience.
Wireless multimedia communication has been well stud-
ied in many aspects. For multicast scheduling in non-CR
networks, resource optimization schemes for layer encoded
video over WiMAX using adaptive modulation and coding
schemes (MCS) has been shown in [3]. The authors propose
a resource allocation scheme that firstly serves all mandatory
layers and then offers additional enhancement layers to some
scheduled users by optimizing the total utility, which is
commonly defined to be proportional to the amount of quality
of experience (QoE) of users, within a scheduled frame.
Based on efficient opportunistic multicasting concept [4], the
OLM [5] significantly enhances the system-wide performance
for video transmission in OFDMA networks via aggressive
MCS selection and adaptive forward error correction (FEC).
In CR networks, [6] proposed a cross-layer optimization
approach with opportunistic spectrum access (OSA) regarding
fine grained scalable (FGS) videos.
Focusing on the layer encoded CR video multicast problem,
we contribute 1) a quality based ranking in OSA for sub-
channel selection and 2) OLM inspired opportunistic schedul-
ing designed particularly for CR networks. The 2-step ranking
in OSA take outcomes of periodic sensing and prediction to
expand the system-wide throughput while keeping collision
rate acceptable. By tracking group receiving rate cross CR
sub-channels (SC) and data expiration time, we are able
to realize the OLM advantage in a much more challenging
CR environment. The overall joint opportunistic spectrum
access and scheduling (OSAS) algorithm finds precise MCS
and FEC rate combination to heuristically reach maximum
system utility. Favorable results comparing OSAS with not
fully opportunistic methods demonstrate OSAS to be the best
performing one.
The paper is organized as follows: Section II introduces the
CR network setup and tools for video scheduling, Section III
addresses the joint opportunistic transmission formulation and
the OSAS algorithm. The results of extensive simulations are
presented and evaluated in Section IV. Final conclusions are
drawn in Section V.
Another ranking method used for comparison is ranking the
SUs according to the value of ppctr of the PC they belong to,
without the knowledge of their achievable throughput.
B. Opportunistic Layered Multicasting in CR
As the resources provided by OSA in each time-slot are
highly variable and at times limited, it is important for the
scheduling and resource allocation algorithm to be effective
and flexible.
The theoretical advantages of opportunistic over non-
opportunistic multicasting are shown and a comparison by
simulation is done in [5]. The main difference from original
OLM is the PU presence and the effects it has on the CR
system, which is calling for a novel approach. In our model,
a collision occurs for all SUs subscribed to video at the same
time and the effect of PU collisions on the average throughput
is therefore with respect to a multicast group (i.e. independent
from the number of users in a multicast group). The theoretical
advantage of opportunistic multicasting is preserved and is
demonstrated applicable in the presented situation.
OLM is based on two optimization problems, first resource
usage minimization for mandatory (base) video layers and
second maximization of system-wide transmission gain for
enhancement layers. Both problems can be solved by one
algorithm, as the first optimization problem presents a sub-
problem of the second.
In order to be able to solve the optimization problem for a
CR system, we need to alter the definition of effective average
slot throughput [5]. The effective average slot throughput T
f
i
for user i on channel f can be expressed, if we consider both
channel quality and PU collisions:
T
f,i , lim
k→∞
1
k
k∑
j=1
aˇj,f · I(mj,f , qj,fi ) ·Dv,l (2)
where aˇj,f denotes PU involvement and I(mj,fi , q
j,f
i ) is the
receiving capability of SUs.
We use FEC protection for OLM to counter losses caused by
PU collisions and channel quality fluctuations. A dynamically
adjustable flow-based block erasure (N,K) FEC scheme is
designed. For every interval of length N · tts, video data is
encapsulated to form a FEC block of N fragments, where K
fragments are used for video data transmission and the N−K
fragments to carry FEC protection. We consider every user,
that is able to receive at least K fragments able to retrieve
all video data. Depending on the achievable throughput of
each SC, one layer l of video v (further denoted as (v, l))
FEC frame fragment might be transmitted over several SCs
and a failure in any one of them will cause a failure of the
whole transmission of the given (v, l) fragment to user i. The
transmission success can be expressed as:
%k,i(v,l) =
∏
h
aˇh,k · I(mk,h, qk,hi ) (3)
where h is the set of all SCs used for (v, l) transmission.
In order to be able to determine the FEC rate necessary
to protect multicast video data and identify the bottleneck
user i˜, we define an equation based on exponentially weighted
recursion for (v, l) fragments receiving rate of user i:
Q
i,k
(v,l) =

1, k = 1
Q
i,k−1
(v,l) (1− 1tc ) + 1tc · %
k,i
(v,l), trans. in k
Q
i,k−1
(v,l) , no trans. in k
(4)
where tc is the average window size.
After identifying the bottleneck user with lowest Q
i,k
(v,l)
among a group of subscribers, we adjust the MCSs used
for data transmission to match the SNR requirements and to
maximize the capacity of transmission at k to this user. The
selected MCS for each channel are denoted m˜.
In terms of video layer arrangement, each video v is being
subscribed by a set of SUs, defined as Nv . Furthermore, we
define a subset of Nv denoted N(v,l), which is a set of SUs
that get scheduled to receive (v, l). A SU is admitted to (v, l),
if the MCS and FEC code rate selected for (v, l) reflect its
channel conditions.
For mandatory video layers, all subscribed users are sched-
uled. Nv,l is updated only for enhancement layers at the end
of an FEC block, when the algorithm searches for the best
subset of users, by picking the bottleneck station i˜ resulting
in maximum utility. We consider all i dependent terms in (7)
to find:
i˜ = arg max
i∈Nv
∣∣∣{j : Qj,k(v,1) ≥ Qi,k(v,1), j ∈ Nv}∣∣∣ ·Qi,k(v,1)) (5)
where resulting Nv,l =
{
j : Q
j,k
(v,1) ≥ Q
i˜,k
(v,1), j ∈ Nv
}
im-
plies only stations capable of receiving the same or more FEC
fragments than i˜ are scheduled for this layer. So the best Nv,l
can be continuously updated.
The number of resource tiles consumed, if each tile can use
a different MCS can be derived from the following equation:
ξv,l = arg min
S
S :
S∑
j=1
c(m˜j) ≤ Dv,l
 (6)
Note, that c(m˜j) is picked based on the order of SC ranking.
The order which the (v, l)s that are going to be scheduled
can be determined by using the equation of utility gain per
resource unit (tile) and the result from (6):
G˜v,l ,
u(v,l) · |Nv,l|
ξv,l
(7)
A (v, l) achieves higher utility gain in the situation, when more
users are subscribed, the higher the utility function u(v,l) is,
or the fewer tiles are used for transmission.
Finally, due to potential fluctuating of the CR system
throughput over time, it is also important to consider maximum
tolerable delay of video playback and adjust the layer ranking
to give higher priority to urgent fragments. We incorporate a
steady increase in the value of G˜v,l, from the moment is has
been stored up until krise time slots, when the value of G˜v,l
Each primary channel is further divided into 15 SCs with 24
sub-carriers. A cell with three sectors is considered in our
simulation, where a BS is located in the center and SUs are
uniformly distributed within the cell at the beginning of the
simulation. In each iterations, the users move in a random
direction within the cell radius.
For propagation loss, we adopt, the COST 231 suburban
model with standard deviation of lognormal shadowing 8 dB
is used. Besides, ITU Vehicular A power delay profile [10] is
also used in our simulations.
The PC occupation by the PU was on average 20%. Proba-
bility of miss-detection was set to 0.2 and probability of false
alarm to 0.4. One channel was being sensed at each time-slot
and a margin factor fm = 0.83 for FEC rate computation was
used. PU collision γ threshold was set to 0.1.
We compare our presented algorithm to three other algo-
rithms. The overall layout stays the same with key differences
listed in table II. First is our presented algorithm that has been
already described in detail. Method two is an OSAS variant
that accesses the spectrum in a more cautious way. Third is a
non-opportunistic scheduling scheme as presented in [3], [11]
and fourth is a non-opportunistic scheduling schemes with
a basic amount of FEC equal to γ to counter the expected
collisions.
TABLE II
SCHEMES OVERVIEW
Scheme ID 1 2 3 4
Channel access OSA NOSA OSA OSA
Q
f,k
i Yes Yes No No
FEC Dynamic Dynamic No γ
m˜ OLM OLM NOLM NOLM
Ranking 2 step 2 step ppctr p
pc
tr
B. Baselayer Performance
First we present the mandatory layers performance. The
video rate in all figures was adjusted every time slot to fill
out all the available tiles, except figure 4(b), where a layer
of R(v,l) = 500 Kbps was used. The number of subscribed
users ranged from 10 to 100. The FEC block length was set
to N = 250 and the simulation duration was 4000 time slots.
Fig. 3 shows the average total system throughput. Scheme
1 offers clearly a superior performance in terms of effective
system throughput, thanks to a higher number of tiles available
through OSA and higher per tile throughput due the usage of
higher rate MSC and FEC protection.
FEC protection provided by OLM schemes enables sub-
scribers to decode a much higher portion of the transmitted
data. In the long term, the effective throughput advantage of
scheme 1 is between 30% and 92%.
Fig. 4(a) depicts the average tile throughput comparison for
all presented schemes. Difference in throughput is due to the
different OLM and NOLM performance. Both OLM schemes
perform similarly and only scheme 1 will evaluated further.
The highest value was 258 Kbps and the lowest value 208
10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
Number of users
Av
er
ag
e 
to
ta
l a
va
ila
bl
e 
th
ro
ug
hp
ut
 (M
bp
s)
 
 
OSAS
NOSAS
OSNOLM
OSNOLM+FEC
Fig. 3. Average total system throughput. Scheme 1 clearly offers the highest
available bandwidth.
Kbps. Scheme 3 has a highest tile throughput of 199 Kbps
and lowest equal to 108 Kbps. Scheme 4 falls from 187 Kbps
to 107 Kbps.
Fig. 4(b) shows the tile consumption for a R(v,l) = 500
Kbps base layer. Tile consumption is again comparable for
both OLM schemes, with values ranging from 3.1 to 4.3
tiles. Schemes 3 and 4 also perform similarly, with scheme 4
consuming the most resources. NOLM schemes values range
from 3.53 to 4.95 tiles for scheme 3 and 3.7 to 4.97 tiles for
scheme 4.
Decoding error rate is depicted in Fig. 5. FEC protection
provides a clear advantage in a CR environment with possible
collisions. Schemes 1 and 2 experience no video data loss
thanks to a adaptive FEC rate. Scheme 3 experiences a great
deal of decoding error rate due to collisions and fluctuating
channel conditions, whereas it is reduced for scheme 4, by
providing a basic FEC protection.
C. Overall Performance
The number of subscribed users of videos were |Nv| =
{100, 70, 40}, with Rv,l = 500 Kbps for all video layers.
Other simulation parameters stayed the same for this simula-
tion. Our simulation does not include real video sequences. For
scheduling comparison purposes, we use the utility function
to capture the corresponding subjective video quality gain of
user experiences when up to the l-th enhancement layer are
successfully decoded.The summarized normalized utility can
be seen in Fig. 6.
Schemes 1 and 2 performed the best with the difference
in performance due to lower amount of resources available to
scheme 2. All subscribers are able to decode the mandatory
base-layer and 16% more subscribers are able to decode the
highest enhancement layer. Scheme 3 clearly achieves the
lowest utility, due to transmission and collision loss coupled
with no FEC protection. Scheme 4 is able to handle a certain
amount of transmission loss, but 2% of subscribers were not
able to decode the base layer and enhancement layers utility
is less than half of OLM schemes.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用於第四代行動網路多媒體之群播資源管理
計畫主持人: 黃志煒
計畫編號: 100-2218-E-008-009- 學門領域: 通訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
領先全球提出機遇式多層群播 (Opportunistic Layered Multicasting, 
OLM)，這是目 前所能檢索到第一個用於第四代行動網路上整合多層群播與機遇
式排程的資源分配機制。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
