2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
以超音波振盪複合旋轉多頭電極強化真空潛弧合成奈米流體Ⅲ
計畫編號：NSC 95－2212－E－027－106
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日
主持人：張 合 國立台北科技大學機械工程系
This study proposes a new method, the electrical arc discharge system with orthogonal
electrodes, for preparing nanocomposite fluid with the basic ingredients of Cu-Fe-O elements.
The proposed system carries the advantages of high-power electric arc heating system, excellent
stability of the electric arc, and well-developed control technology. In the fabrication process,
the positive electrode is fitted with copper rod and negative electrode is fitted with iron rod, and
the two electrodes are processed in the insulating processing liquid. The nanocomposite fluid
generated by the synthesis system is analyzed by morphology analysis, heat transfer analysis,
magnetism analysis, rheological testing. The experiment generates satisfactory result of
nanocomposite fluid with an average diameter of 25 nm by processes conditions of vacuum
pressure that is set at 30 torr, peak current of 7A for arc discharge, breakdown voltage of 250V
and duration time of 10μs. The experimental results showed that the nanocomposite fluid is 
composed of Fe, FeO, Cu, and Cu2O. SEM image shows that Fe and Cu are in spherical shape,
FeO is in square shape, and Cu2O is in coniferous shape. In heat transfer experiment, the
experimental temperature is set at room temperature of 30 , the average heat transfer℃
coefficient is 0.708 W/m , which is 16.3 % higher than that of deionized water. The magnetism℃
test shows that the magnetic retentivity of the fluid is 47.27 (Oe), which is a soft magnetic fluid.
1. Introduction
Because of its small size, the ratio of the
numbers of atoms on the surface of nano
material with its volume increases and the
surface potential also increases, and judging
from its material property, it will create many
new nano properties along with the reduction
of size, change of composition and difference
in structures. For example, the crystalline
phase and the array non-crystalline
permutation structure are different from the
structure of bulk material, therefore its
properties are different from that of the bulk,
such as optical, magnetic, heat transfer,
diffusion, electricity and mechanical
properties, which is also probable to mix the
metals or polymers which cannot be mixed
primarily into alloys [1~3].
Based on its characteristics, the
application of nano copper at present includes:
1. treatment of surface electric conduction
coatings of metals and non-metals. Since the
nano copper powder carries highly reactive
surface, under the condition of no oxygen,
coating can be implemented at a temperature
that is lower than the melting point of the
powder. This technology can be applied to
the production of micro-electronic apparatus.
2. Copper and its nano powder alloy can be
used as catalysts that are highly efficient and
having a strong selectivity. They can be
used as the catalyst during the reactive
process of carbon dioxide and hydrogen to
compose methyl alcohol. 3. By replacing
the expensive metallic powder with nano
copper to fabricate electronic material with
superior performance, the production cost can
considerably be reduced. In the aspect of
nano iron, by taking the advantages of nano
iron powder in high performance magnetic
recording material, such as high coercivity,
large saturation magnetization (reaching
1477km2 /kg), high signal to noise ratio and
good anti-oxidation property etc., it can
4arc has occurred. Such submerged arc
occurs at a definite zone will partially heat the
dielectric fluid that vaporizes rapidly and
enlarges the total size. By the inertial
confinement action of the surrounding
dielectric fluid, high pressure is produced,
enabling the vaporized material to rapidly
remove from the surface of the metal material
and condense inside the dielectric fluid. The
purpose of the pressure balanced system is to
maintain the stability of the vacuum pressure.
It is composed of vacuum valve, accumulator
and vacuum pump. When the pressure
reaches critical pressure, vacuum valve will
open and induce through the accumulator and
vacuum chamber, and the accumulator is used
to decrease the pressure inside the vacuum
chamber into default value. The vacuum
pressure of this experiment is set at 25~30 torr.
During the nanoparticle fabrication, the size
of the nanoparticles can be effectively
improved under a low pressure environment.
Therefore, the decrease of working pressure
can improve the space for vaporized inflation,
and also reduce the probability of nanoparticle
collision during the formation process,
suppressing the particles for growing too fast.
When fabricating nanocomposite fluid,
the positive electrode is pure copper rod,
whereas the negative electrode is pure iron
rod. Vacuum the chamber to the vacuum
level of around 30 torr, and start the
processing upon setting the voltage, current,
pulse-on and pulse-off time. After discharge,
unload all the pressure of the vacuum
chamber, and the Cu-Fe nanocomposite fluid
can be acquired. In the aspect of
examination of the material properties of
copper/iron nanocomposite fluid, this research
uses HORIBA LB-500 particle size analyzer
to measure the distribution of particle size and
the size of the particle. TEM and FEG-SEM
are employed to measure and analyze the
structure and morphology of the
nanocomposite fluid. As to the magnetic
property analysis of the nanocopper/iron
composite fluid, SQUID of Quantum Design
MPMS7 is used to undergo permeability
measurement experiment. XRD pattern is
employed to undergo analysis towards the
composition and structure of the fabricated
nanocomposite fluid.
3. Results and Discussion
The method of fabricating nanocomposite
fluid developed in this paper is to use copper
having 10 mm diameter to be the positive
electrode, and iron having 10 mm diameter to
be the negative electrode. The process
parameter are 30 torr of vacuum pressure and
220V of breakdown voltage are adopted.
Upon the high temperature vaporization of the
submerged arc, nanoparticles produced are
break away from the melting zone. They
will then rapidly condense in the dielectric
fluid of 0 , suppressing their growth and℃
acquiring the nanocomposite fluid. After
several times of statistical calculation towards
the experiment, it is discovered that
satisfactory acquirement of particles having
an average particle size of 25 nm is possible
under the current of 7A and 10 µs of pulse-on
and pulse-off time. Next, instantly bake the
acquired fluid into nanopowder and use XRD
to undergo composition analysis. The result
is presented as the XRD pattern of
nanocomposite fluid shown in Figure 1.
Upon comparison of the peak, it is known that
the fabricated nanocomposite fluid is
composed of Fe, Cu, FeO and Cu2O. Since
the fluid is baked into powder after
fabrication, it is judged that copper ions and
iron ions would generate oxidant with the
oxygen ions in the water and produce FeO
and Cu2O.
After analyzing the composition of the
fluid, related instrumental examination of
EDS and FEG-SEM etc. is proceed towards
the experiment. Further judgment and
confirmation is underwent towards the
composition and morphology of the particles
inside the fluid. Figure 2 shows the
appearance of Fe that is not yet oxidized.
Figure 3 is the EDS pattern of its comparison.
From Figure 4, it can be seen that Si is shown
in EDS pattern. It is because in the
experiment, the fluid is dripped on the silicon
substrate, so as to undergo inspection. Since
the depth of the electron beam is as deep as
1μm, which is already larger than the 
6occur in nanofluid, apparently improving the
thermal conductive increase rate. Besides,
when the nanocomposite fluid is under the
temperature of 10 and 20 as℃ ℃ in Figure 9,
when the concentration is smaller than 0.2％,
thermal conductive increase rate will
obviously increase along with the increase of
the concentration. But when the
concentration is larger than 0.2％, since the
phenomenon of aggregation and precipitation
has occurred to the fluid, thermal conductive
increase rate does not increase significantly.
In the aspect of magnetic examination
[9], under the environment of having
-1.4*104~+1.4*104 magnetic field intensity,
this experiment measures the hysteresis curve
of the nanocomposite fluid, which is shown in
Figure 10. It is observed from the figure that,
the saturate magnetization is 6.33 emu/g,
coercivity is 47.27 (Oe), residual
magnetization is 0.088 emu/g. The
coercivity of this experimental fluid is lower
than 200 (Oe), therefore presenting a property
of soft magnetization, and can be regarded as
paramagnetic fluid.
In the investigation of rheological
property, this experiment adopts
nanocomposite fluid having two different
particle sizes of 550nm and 100nm, which
then uses Brookfield’s rheological analyzer to 
undergo measurement. We use 2ml of nano
composite fluid is extracted for examination,
and rotational range of the cone adopted in the
test is set at 10~90 (cm/s) [10]. The
measurement time for every speed is 4
minutes and the room temperature is set at 25
℃. Experiment mainly investigates into
shear stress, shear rate and viscosity and their
relation is shown in Figure 11. When 0.3 Pa
of shear stress is employed, shear rate can
only be occurred to nanocomposite rate.
Also, under the condition of employing the
same shear stress, the larger the average
particle size of the nanoparticles, the larger
the shear rate, therefore the fabricated
nanocomposite fluid is a Bingham fluid.
Figure 12 shows that under the same shear
rate, when the particles of the nanofluid are
larger, the viscosity is larger. Therefore the
particle size is virtually a factor affecting the
viscosity of nanocomposite fluid.
4. Conclusions
This paper uses vacuum submerged arc
processing system to fabricate nanocomposite
fluid. During the processing, criteria such as
breakdown voltage, temperature of dielectric
fluid and vacuum pressure current, pulse-on
and pulse-off time, etc. is set, so as to acquire
a better processing parameter. Then,
examination of the material morophlogy,
composition, thermal conductivity, rheology
and magnetism etc. is underwent towards the
nanocomposite fluid that is fabricated under
these processing parameters. The following
conclusion is acquired from the experiment
result and analysis:
1. From the experiment result, it is known
that a good result of nanocomposite fluid
having an average particle size of 25 nm can
be acquired under the condition of 250V of
voltage, 30 torr of vacuum pressure, 0℃ of
dielectric fluid, 7A of current, and 10 µs of
pulse-on and pulse-off time.
2. From the XRD pattern, it is known that the
fabricated nanocomposite fluid is composed
of Fe, FeO, Cu and Cu2O.
3. FEG-SEM image shows that the Fe and
Cu in the nancomposite fluid are in round
shape, whereas FeO is in square shape and
Cu2O is in coniferous shape.
4. In the aspect of thermal conductivity
experiment, it is confirmed that adding
nanoscale particles can practically improve
the thermal conductivity coefficient of the
working fluid. The higher the temperature,
and the higher the concentration of the added
powder, the better the efficacy of improving
the thermal conductive coefficient.
5. The result of magnetic examination
shows that the coercivity of this fluid is 47.27
(Oe), residual magnetization is 0.088 emu/g,
which is a soft magnetic fluid.
6. From the result of rheological
examination, it is known that the fabricated
nano composite fluid is a Bingham fluid.
Also, the larger the particle size of the
particles inside the fluid, the larger the shear
rate of the fluid.
8Figure 5 EDS pattern of copper
nanoparticle
Figure 6 FE-SEM image of FeO
nanoparticle
Figure 7 FE-SEM image of Cu2O
nanoparticle
0.56
0.58
0.6
0.62
0.64
0.66
0.68
0.7
0.72
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4
Concentration (wt%)
Th
er
m
al
C
on
du
ct
iv
ity
(W
/m
℃
)
10℃
20℃
30℃
Figure 8 Relation between weight
concentration and thermal conductivity under
different temperature
1
1.02
1.04
1.06
1.08
1.1
1.12
1.14
1.16
1.18
0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4
Concentration(wt%)
Th
er
m
al
C
on
du
ct
iv
ity
R
at
io
n(
ke
ff
/k
L)
10℃
20℃
30℃
Figure 9 Relation between weight
concentration and thermal conductivity ration
under different temperature
Figure 10 Hysteresis curve of nanocomposite
fluid
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-027-106
計畫名稱 以超音波振盪複合旋轉多頭電極強化真空潛弧合成奈米流體(Ⅲ)
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
張 合
會議時間地點 11st -13rd January, 2007 in Hong Kong.
會議名稱 Asia Pacific Conference on Optics Manufacture 2007 (APCOM2007)
發表論文題目
1.A novel nanofluid Synthesis System for Preparation of Nanofluid
2.Synthesis of ZnO Nanoparticles by a Novel Gas Condensation System
一、參加會議經過
此 次 至 希 臘 香 港 參 加 Asia Pacific Conference on Optics Manufacture 2007
(APCOM2007)研討會，本人 1 月 10 日晚上抵達香港，11 日到會議地點 Hong Kong
Polytechnic University 報到，上午 9 點進開幕式，由 Prof. Guo Fan Jin, 及 Prof. W.B. Lee
主持，開幕式中也接觸了幾位大陸的朋友，他們分別來自清華與交大，也有許多未教授
來自香港大學，言談中他們在奈米技術領域都做的很有特色，不輸給台灣的大學。隨後
進行兩場 Plenary Session， 講題為 An Overview of Micro-optics in Mainland China 及
Design and Ultra-precision Machining of Freeform Optics and Optical Microstructures。此次
大會共安排 5 場 Plenary Session，講題內容甚為廣泛，包括光學製造、元件、系統及奈
米製程等。此外，下午 2:00~5:00 有 5 位中國工程院院士所主講之先進光學技術展望院
士高峰論壇，論壇內容十分精彩，與會者討論亦十分踴躍。11 日下午即開始分組會議
研討，大會之 keynote speakers 所做之研討報告共有 12 人次之多，會議研討分成 5 個廳
同時舉行，此次大會共有 250 篇 paper 作報告，分別來自 13 個國家與 70 個機構或學校
之研究人員發表。分組會議 Session 主要包含 4 個大項之主題，包括： Advanced
Machining and Machine Tools Design, Optics Design and Fabrication, Optics Design and
Fabrication, Metrology and Nano/ Micro Device and Instrumentation, 本人參與研討主要為
Metrology and Nano/ Micro Device and Instrumentation 這個 Session，包括由 Prof. Yuan
A novel nanofluid Synthesis System for Preparation of Nanofluid
Ho Chang1,a and Shih-Chieh Lin1,b
1 Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Taipei University of Technology
1 Sec., 3, Chung Hsiao E. Road, Taipei, Taiwan, China
af10381@ntut.edu.tw, bct5568020@ntut.edu.tw
Keywords: Nanofluid, Roundness, Suspension stability
Abstract. In this study, the author uses a novel nanofluid synthesis system to fabricate a TiO2
nanofluid. The improvement of the proposed nanofluid synthesis system focus mainly on the
pressure control system, coolant circulation system, parameter control system and the machine
dimension of the original submerged arc nanofluid synthesis system This helps to achieve an
experimental machine with a fabrication condition to produce more stable and finer TiO2 nanofluids
with a particle size of good reproducibility. Experiment is proceeded towards 15 sets of TiO2
nanofluid fabricated by the proposed system are tested under the experimental conditions of 250 V,
6 A of peak current,2μsof discharge pause off time and 15 days of settling time. The experimental
results show that the average Zeta potential of TiO2 nanofluids are -54.2 mv, and the difference
between the data and the average value of each set is less than 7%. Furthermore, the average
particle size is 45.3nm, and the difference between the data and the average value of each set is less
than 6%. The fabricated TiO2 particles have an Anatase structure, and in the aspect of roundness
measurement, the produced TiO2 has a good roundness of 0.3 nm. Experiment proves that the
roundness of the fabricated TiO2 nanoparticles are much better than those fabricated by aerosol
methods. Also, the fabricated nanofluid has a high suspension stability.
Introduction
The photocatalytic reaction of photolysis can provide an effective and rapid transformation of
harmful organic mineralization [1-3] in the environment into less harmful products, such as CO2,
H2O, N2, etc. It is expected to be extensively applied in the following scopes: (1) Sewage
treatment: it can be applied for poison detoxification and degradation of organic and some inorganic
materials in industrial and agricultural sewage, as well as from daily life. (2) Air purification: it
can be applied for the photocatalytic degradation of oil fumes, industrial waste gas and exhaust gas
from automobiles. (3) Sanitation and bacteria eradication: it can be used for self-cleaning glass
with a coating that can dissolve the pollution materials in the air, as well as photocatalysts
containing photolysis that can automatically eradicate bacteria on the walls and floors of public
areas such as hospitals.
For photolysis, TiO2 is the most extensively used and researched due to the following
   on dttItVW ps0 (1)
Therefore, as long as the material allows the passage of electricity, processing can be employed
easily regardless of its hardness. After Mr. and Mrs. Lazarenko, and Lazarenko invented this
method, it has been extensively researched and applied, and is now widely used in the processing of
molds and special materials. It is regarded as the most widely applied electricity processing
method having the most outstanding achievement.
Experimental Equipment and Process Design
In this study, the improved submerged arc nanofluid synthesis system (SANSS) is used to fabricate
metallic nanoparticles [8,9]. The main technology of such kind of fabrication is to use the targeted
metallic nano-material as the electrodes, and let the submerged high-temperature vaporized metal
pass through a low-temperature dielectric liquid, so that it will condense into nanoparticles.
Figure 1 illustrates the experimental equipment, which is composed of: (A) arc spray control system,
(B) constant pressure control system, (C) cooling system, (D) vacuum chamber and (E) parameter
control system, in which the heating device can provide a stable electric arc as the heat source
required to produce the nanoparticles. At the same time, important fabrication parameters such as
different peak current, voltage, pulse duration time and pause time can be set. A constant pressure
control system is used in the vacuum chamber, so that suitable vacuum pressure can be maintained.
Inside the vacuum chamber, deionized water is used as the dielectric liquid, and the metallic rod is
placed at the bottom, so that it can maintain a suitable gap with the rod made of the same material
on the heating system. The temperature control system can be set at different condensation
temperatures, enabling the nucleation of the particles, while at the same time, suppressing their
growth and thereby obtaining smaller nanoparticles.
A
B
A
D
C
E
Fig. 1 Schematic of the improved submerged arc nanofluid synthesis system (SANSS)
Fig. 2 Comparison between the improved SANSS and the original system: (A) relation between
temperature change and time, and (B) relation between pressure change and time.
In order to confirm the stability of the improved SANSS and the reproducibility of the
experimental results, a Zeta potential analyzer is used to measure the Zeta potential of the nanofluid.
Also, superfine particle size distribution analyzer of high concentration is used to analyze its
average particle size. The Zeta potential can be used as an indication of the stability and
dispersion of the particles caused by the electrostatic repulsion, and then further investigates into its
important association with the density of its surface charge. Although the surface charge cannot
be measured, it can be induced by the change of the Zeta potential value. When the Zeta potential
of a common colloidal system is lower than -40m V, its electrostatic repulsiveness can be stabilized
and the fluid will be thoroughly mixed and evenly dispersed. By adjusting the pH value, a certain
amount of surface charge can be produced on the surface of the particles, forming an electrical
double layer. The repulsive force between the electrical double layer neutralizes the mutual
attractive force between the particles, allowing greater level of stability of the TiO2 nanofluid. The
experiment is proceeded with 15 sets of TiO2 nanofluid fabricated by the improved SANSS having
the same experimental condition (250V of voltage, 6 A of electric current, 2μsof discharge pause
off time and 15 days of settling time), and the experimental results are shown in Figure 3. Figure
3(A) shows the average Zeta potential is -54.2mv, and the difference between the data and the
average value of each set is less than 7%. Figure 3(B) shows that the average value of the average
particle size is 45.3nm, and the difference between the data and the average value of each set is less
than 6%. The experimental results therefore demonstrate that the improved SANSS has good
stability.
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
Ze
ta
po
te
nt
ia
(m
V
)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16
m
ea
n(
nm
)
(A) (B)
Fig. 3(A) Change of Zeta potential and (B) change of average particle size of the TiO2 nanofluid
under the same experimental conditi equipment ons
Under an environment of constant low temperature and low pressure, when the processing
parameters of the system are controlled appropriately, a nanofluid with consistent size and good
stability can be fabricated. Other than any other parameters, a more idealistic particle size
This study shows improvements made to the original SANSS and its superiority after improvement.
Our research team has fabricated nanoparticles with this fabrication method and then further
analyzed the system stability by means of the Zeta potential and average particle size of the
nanoparticles. EDAX is used to undergo property analysis, and TEM and FE-SEM are used to
observe the particle size. The following conclusions are obtained from the experimental results
and analysis:
1. In terms of pressure and temperature, the improved SANSS has a higher accuracy of system
control.
2. According to the experimental results of 15 sets made by the same fabrication conditions, the
average surface charge is -54.78mV, and the difference between the experimental result with the
average value of each is less than 7%. Furthermore, when the average particle size is
48.3nm, the difference between the experimental results and the average value of each is less
than 6%. Therefore, the fabrication stability of the improved SANSS is very good.
3. By using the fabricated TiO2 particles to undergo TEM and FEG-SEM tests, the average particle
size is around 15nm.
4. The fabricated nanoparticles is TiO2 of anatase structure, which is the best structure for its
photocatalytic reactivity.
References
[1] D. F. Ollis, E. Pelizzetti and N. Serpone: Environ. Sci. Technol. Vol. 25 (1991), p.1522
[2] Legrini, E. Oliveros and A. M. Braun: Chem. Rev. Vol. 93 (1993), p. 671
[3] K.C.G. Low, S.R. McEvoy and R.W. Matthews: Environ. Sci. Tech. Vol. 25 (1991), p. 460
[4] L. Linsebigler, G. Lu and J.T. Yates: J. Chem. Rev. Vol. 95 (1995), p. 735
[5] A. Wold: Chem. Mater. Vol. 5 (1993), p. 280
[6] M. Scgiavello: Photocatalysis and Environment (Kluwer Academic Publications, Dordrecht
1988).
[7] L.C. Lee, L.C. Lim, V. Narayanan and V.C. Venkatesh: Tools Manu. Vol. 28 (1988), p. 354
[8] H. Chang, C.S. Jwo, C. H. Lo, M. J. Kao and S.H. Pai: J. Allo. Compou. Available online 13
October (2006)
[9] H. Chang, T.T. Tsung, Y.C. Yang, L.C. Chen, H.M. Lin, C.K. Lin and C.S. Jwo: Int. J.
Advan.. Manu. Tech. Vol. 26 (2005), p. 552
it gets close to the cooling tank, the original material vapor will first form into atomic clusters, then
into single nanoparticles and finally aggregate on the surface of the cooling tank. Finally, the
nanoparticle powder can be collected by a scraper.
ZnO is a metallic oxidized material with a Wurtzite structure having a symmetrical P63mc in
the Hexagonal close-packed HCP. Its melting point is 1800℃ and since this structure is hexagonal
and symmetrical, without a symmetrical center, it has high piezoelectricity. When it forms into
ZnO single crystals under a zinc and oxygen environment, the so-called metal redundant (or oxygen
vacancies) phenomenon occurs along with zincinterstitials or oxygen vacancies towards this single
crystal, producing an n-type semiconductor of displacement type that is applicable to luminescence
devices. Furthermore, since ZnO has a high reflection rate (1.96~2.1) [6], it can perform optical
penetration at the wavelength of 400~200nm, demonstrating its characteristics of high photoelectric
and non-linear optical coefficient [7-9]. Based on the basic theory of gas condensation method,
this research develops an innovative nanoparticle synthesis system, whose the main experimental
equipment include: heating device, pressure balance system, and automatic dry powder collection
system. The powder produced by this processing is evenly distributed on the surface of automatic
nanoparticle collector, and by means of automatic scraping equipment, the nanopowder can be
massively produced in large volume.
Experimental
Figure 1 shows the proposed schematic diagram of the experimental equipment of the nanoparticle
fabrication system by means of high frequency gas condensation method. It is composed
primarily of a high frequency induction heating system, temperature feedback system, vacuum
pressure balanced system, real-time monitoring system and nanoparticle collection system [10].
The high frequency induction heating system can provide steady current to melt the material, melt
and then vaporize it. By the setting of the high frequency current, the temperature feedback
system can capture the signal of thermal couple from the AD/DA card, so as to control the
temperature inside the crucible and the speed of material vaporization. The vacuum pressure
balanced system can maintain the vacuum pressure required for experiment inside the vacuum
chamber. The real-time monitor system is built inside the vacuum chamber, and it is composed
mainly of components such as a USB transmission line, special designed USB vacuum converter,
USB white light bulb, and CCD monitor. Researchers can clearly monitor the complete action
inside the vacuum chamber and the metallic vaporization process by computer, which is referential
to the timing of activating the automatic collection system and observing the action of each
component inside the vacuum chamber. The automatic nanoparticle collection system is placed in
the vacuum system, which acts as segregating system together with the vacuum system. The
liquid nitrogen is induced into the low-temperature storage tank, and inside the cooling collector,
nitrogen becomes nitrogen gas upon heat absorption and vaporization, which is then induced to
leave via the pressure release opening. The nanoparticle collection system is composed of a
transformer device, DC motor, and pressure adjustable and rotating powder scraping mechanism.
When the metal material vaporizes, the powder accumulating on the surface of the collector can be
Inert gas
Induction
coil
Accumulator
Vacuum pump
Liquid
nitrogen
Electromegnetic
valve
Variable
speed motor
Nanoparticle
collecter
High
freruency
induction
system
Throttle valve
Monitor
Fig.1 Schematic diagram of the high frequency gas Fig. 2 FESEM image of ZnO nanoparticle
condensation fabrication system produced by the automatic collector
in the proposed system
During the process of vaporization, due to the gas convection, the vaporized smog rapidly
loses its energy and condenses into nanoparticles when it collides with the atoms of inertgas.
Along with the He, the nanoparticles will then rush rapidly towards the surface of the very
low-temperature collector, and then condense and form into nanoparticles. Under the criteria of a
lower pressure and lower collection temperature, the growth of nanoparticles is constrained.
During the collection process, liquefied nitrogen is continuously injected into the collector to
maintain a processing temperature at -196℃, as well as working pressure at 10torr. In addition,
the working inert-gas is He and the collection distance is 25mm, enabling the collection surface of
the collector to maintain at a low temperature stably. Upon FESEM measurement, the result of the
acquired nanoparticle is shown in Figure 2. All the nanoparticles are in the structure of a
hexagonal prism and its average particle size is 20nm. Figure 2 shows that the size of the ZnO
nanoparticle is very consistent.
Based on a fixed proportion, the nanoparticles are placed in the deionized water for 72hr, 168hr
and 336hr to observe their oxidation and precipitation status. In order to verify that the
nanoparticles in the deionized water will change over time, this study uses FE-SEM images to
observe the nanofluid. Figure 3(a) is the FE-SEM image of the ZnO nanofluid after placement of
72hr. This image clearly shows that the particle is in a ZnO nanostructure. However, this
research uses physical method to produce nanoparticles, so a dispersant is not used for dispersion of
the nanofluid, and therefore this figure shows that ZnO has started to grow but still maintains the
regular shape of a hexagonal prism. Its axial length is around 250 nm. Figure 3(b) shows the
FE-SEM image of the same nanofluid after placement for 168hr. Although the former shape of the
nanoparticle can still be identified, it can be clearly observed that it has grown into a hexagonal
prism of around 500nm. Figure 3(c) shows the FE-SEM image of the same nanofluid after
placement of 336hr. It can be clearly seen that the nanoparticles do not have a fixed shape and
their distribution is not obvious, but in turn, they become oxidized material clustering and growing
irregularly.
different pH value. Figure 5 shows the measured Zeta potential of ZnO nanofluid having different
pH value. Figure 6 shows the measured mean secondary particle size of the nanofluid having
different pH value. Comparing Figure 5 and Figure 6 can be seen that the mean secondary particle
size of the ZnO nanofluid on the isoelectric point is the largest. When the pH value is larger than
9.27, the surface of the particles carry negative electricity. When the pH value is smaller than 9.27,
the surface of the particles carries positive electricity. Therefore, because of a smaller Zeta
potential, clustering occurs in the particles with pH values between 7 ~ 11, making an obvious
increase of the mean secondary particle size [12,13].
2 4 6 8 10 12 14
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
Z
et
a
po
te
nt
ia
l(
m
V
)
pH
Fig. 5 Zeta potential measured by ZnO
2 4 6 8 10 12 14
100
1000
P
ar
ti
cl
e
si
ze
(n
m
)
pH
Fig. 6 The measured mean secondary particle size of
Frist, the zinc bulk of weight 52 gram is put under 10 torr of vacuum pressure to vaporize. At
preset heating temperature of 595℃ and collection distance of 25nm. Figure 7 shows that during
the collection time between 1~6 minutes, the nanoparticle collection is faster, confirming that the
vaporization process tends to proceed during this time segment. During the collection time of 7 ~
10 minutes, the collection of nanoparticles tends to slow down.
This experiment shows that as the material starts to vaporize, the collection speed of
nanoparticles changes. Therefore when controlling the automatic collection system, we should
make proper adjustment based on this characteristic. Within the time range of 1 ~ 6 minutes as the
metal starts to vaporize, the scraper rotational speed should be set at 1/12 rps. From 7 ~ 10
minutes, it should be set at 1/16 rps to maintain a consistent collection rate of the nanoparticles.
