II 
 
中文摘要 
生醫研究者使用搜尋引擎尋找所需資訊時經常遭遇以下困難：在輸入端方面，現今的查詢
方式以關鍵字為主。然而，生醫研究者需要更複雜的語意查詢。在輸出端方面，搜尋結果
往往含有許多雖具有查詢的關鍵字，相關度卻不高的文獻。此外，搜尋到的相關文章是非
結構化且缺乏整理的，因而生醫研究者無法快速地找到有興趣的資訊（如蛋白質交互作用
的描述），亦無法同步參照生醫資料庫。為協助生醫研究者克服此困難，本計畫應用具有語
意分析能力之多項資訊擷取技術，開發了 BIOSMILE web search 系統(BWS)。BWS 是一個
以網頁為主的 NCBI PubMed 搜尋應用系統，以生醫動詞為主軸分析文章並提供使用者關連
性的資訊，例如:主詞、受詞、位置、方式、時間等。當系統接收使用者的關鍵字輸入後，
BWS 將搜尋相關的 PubMed 摘要並以蛋白質交互作用的強弱度做排序。使用者也可以在那
時選取文章做進一步的分析，比如:BWS 將在那文章標註生醫關連資訊。最後，分析結果可
用摘要或表格方式呈現。BWS 到現在已經被超過三十個生物學家測試使用過而且問卷結果
也 顯 示 了 測 試 者 高 度 地 滿 意 BWS 的 功 能 以 及 可 用 性 。 BWS 可 在 此 網 址
http://bioservices.cse.yzu.edu.tw/BWS 免費使用。 
關鍵詞：命名實體辨識、語意角色標註、文件分類、資訊檢索 
英文摘要 
When designing new experiments or identifying areas for new research, biomedical researchers 
must search through vast amounts of experimental data and results. In this endeavor, they 
encounter the following difficulty. Current biomedical search engines only support 
keyword-based search; however, biomedical researchers often need semantic search tools to 
better specify their search queries. On the output end, search results usually include many 
irrelevant articles containing query keywords, and relevant articles are often unstructured, making 
it difficult for biomedical researchers to efficiently find useful information (e.g., descriptions of 
protein-protein interactions). Furthermore, search results are not hyperlinked to other biomedical 
databases. In this project, we have developed a new search engine—BIOSMILE web search 
(BWS). BWS is a web-based NCBI PubMed search application, which can analyze articles for 
selected biomedical verbs and give users relational information, such as subject, object, location, 
manner, time, etc. After receiving keyword query input, BWS retrieves matching PubMed 
abstracts and lists them along with snippets by order of relevancy to protein–protein interaction. 
Users can then select articles for further analysis, and BWS will find and mark up biomedical 
relations in the text. The analysis results can be viewed in the abstract text or in table form. To 
date, BWS has been field tested by over 30 biologists and questionnaires have shown that 
subjects are highly satisfied with its capabilities and usability. BWS is accessible free of charge at 
http://bioservices.cse.yzu.edu.tw/BWS. 
Keywords: Named Entity Recognition, Semantic Role Labeling, Text Categorization, 
Information Retrieval 
2 
 
研究計畫前言與目的 
Biomedical papers provide a wealth of information on genes and proteins and their interactions 
under different experimental conditions. Today’s biologists are able to search through a massive 
volume of online articles in their research. For example, using NCBI PubMed search, a user can 
retrieve articles from a database of over 4600 biomedical journals from 1966 to the present, 
updated daily. However, users of basic search engines, such as PubMed search, may need to 
further scan or read retrieved articles in more detail to pick out specific information of interest. 
Needless to say, search services that can identify and mark up key relations, biomedical verbs, 
entities and terms can save biologists much time. Several advanced search services for 
biomedical journal articles have already been developed. iHOP (http://www.ihop-net.org) 
(Fernández, Hoffmann, & Valencia, 2007), for example, retrieves sentences containing specified 
genes and labels biomedical entities in them, graphing co-occurrence among all entities. MEDIE 
(http://www-tsujii.is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jp/medie/) is another advanced search tool that can identify 
subject–verb– object (syntactic) relations and biomedical entities in sentences. Our proposed 
system, BIOSMILE web search (BWS), has similar features to the above systems. It can label 
biomedical entities in sentences and summarize recognized relations. Before analyzing relations 
in an article, our system firstly identifies named entities (NE), e.g. DNA, RNA, cell, protein and 
disease names. However, identifying NEs in natural language is a challenging task, especially 
with biomedical articles due to the absence of a standard nomenclature and ever evolving range 
of biomedical terms. To tackle this problem, BWS integrates our previous named entity 
recognition (NER) system, NERBio (Tsai et al., 2006) (Dai, Hung, Tsai, & Hsu, 2007), which 
was developed for the BioCreAtIvE II Gene Mention (GM) tagging task (Wilbur, Smith, & 
Tanabe, 2007) and BioNLP/ NLPBA Bio-Entity Recognition shared task (Jin-Dong, Tomoko, 
Yoshimasa Tsuruoka, & Collier, 2004). Furthermore, for researchers interested in protein–protein 
interaction (PPI), BWS classifies articles as PPI-relevant or -irrelevant using a system (Dai et al., 
2007) (Tsai, Hung, Dai, & Lin, 2007) we developed for the BioCreAtIvE II Protein Interaction 
Article Sub-task (IAS) (Krallinger & Valencia, 2007). In addition to identifying NEs, BWS 
provides semantic analysis of relations, which is somewhat broader than the relation analysis 
performed by iHOP and MEDIE. BWS can identify a range of semantic relations between 
biomedical verbs and sentence components, including agent [deliberately performs the action (e.g. 
Bill drank his soup quietly)], patient [experiences the action (e.g. The falling rocks crushed the 
car)], manner, timing, condition, location and extent. These relations can be important for precise 
definition and clarification of complex biomedical relations. For instance, the sentence ‘KaiC 
enhanced KaiA–KaiB interaction in vitro and in yeast cells’, describes an enhancement relation. 
BWS can identify the elements in this relation, such as the action ‘enhanced’, the enhanced 
‘KaiA–KaiB interaction’, and the location ‘in vitro and in yeast cells’. A state-of-art semantic 
relation analysis technique, semantic role labeling (SRL) (Carreras & Màrquez, 2004) [also called 
shallow semantic parsing (Pradhan, Ward, Hacioglu, Martin, & Jurafsky, 2004)], is applied to 
extract these complex relations. BWS integrates our biomedical semantic role labeler, 
BIOSMILE (Tsai, Chou et al., 2007), to annotate SRL. 
4 
 
features is often selected using some metric, most commonly information gain (Forman, 2003). 
Finally, given a training corpus of documents which have each been marked with their true class, 
a model can be created which predicts the most likely class of a document given the document 
representation. There are many different classification techniques, some of the most common 
being naive Bayes (McCallum & Nigam, 1998), SVMs (Joachims, Nedellec, & Rouveirol, 1998) 
and KNN (Sebastiani, 2002). Many of these techniques have been successfully applied in the 
bioinformatics domain.  
研究方法 
In the following section, we describe the RIA model, which we used to develop BWS’s interface. 
RIA provides an interactive and user friendly environment while seamlessly incorporating all of 
BWS’s functions. We also introduce the Adobe Flex technology, which is the RIA solution we 
adopted to implement BWS. Then, we describe BWS’s two main modules in details. 
BWS as a RIA 
RIA is a new model for web development that transfers the processing necessary for the user 
interface to the web client but keeps the bulk of the data back on the application server. RIAs 
provide many benefits over traditional web applications: (i) RIAs offer a richer interface that 
provides a more engaging user experience without the need for page reloads; (ii) RIAs offer 
real-time feedback and validation to the user, triggered by user events; (iii) the look and feel of a 
traditional desktop application can be replicated in an RIA; (iv) RIAs can also provide a full 
multimedia experience, including audio and video and (v) RIAs have capabilities such as 
real-time chat and collaboration that are either very difficult or simply impossible with traditional 
web applications. However, creating a successful RIA based web application is difficult, as many 
different technologies must interact to make it work, and browser compatibility requires a lot of 
effort. In order to make the process easier, several open source frameworks have been developed, 
as well as commercial ones. We have adopted the Adobe Flex framework 
(http://www.adobe.com/products/flex/) to streamline development. Adobe Flex is an open source 
framework released by Adobe Systems for building expressive web applications that could 
deploy consistently on all major browsers. It provides a fast client runtime based on the 
ubiquitous Adobe Flash Player software. 
Module 1: searching and tagging 
As shown in Figure 2, this module is depicted in the top block. It comprises three sub-modules, 
including a search engine, a biomedical NE recognizer and a biomedical PPI abstract classifier. 
The search engine accepts users’ queries and retrieves matching PubMed abstracts. Each query is 
wrapped as a remote web service call and sent to the NCBI Entrez Utilities Web Service 
(Wheeler et al., 2008). The input of this sub-module can be a PMID or a list of keywords and is 
compatible with original PubMed Search. The biomedical NE recognizer, which is based on 
NERBio (Tsai et al., 2006) (Dai et al., 2007), is employed to label DNA, RNA, cell, protein and 
disease names in all retrieved abstracts. In NERBio, NER is formulated as a word-by-word 
6 
 
constructed a biomedical SRL system, BIOSMILE (Tsai, Chou et al., 2007), which uses the 
maximum entropy model (Berger, Della Pietra, & Della Pietra, 1996) as its underlying machine 
learning model. For optimal performance, SRL systems like BIOSMILE require fully parsed 
sentences. Therefore, to parse PUBMED abstracts retrieved online by BWS, we constructed a 
BFP, which is based on the Charniak parser (Charniak, 2000) with the GENIA corpus (Tateisi et 
al., 1997) as its training data. Its performance is reported in the Results section. 
結果與討論 
Prediction performance 
In this section, we report the prediction performance for our NE recognizer, PPI abstract classifier, 
BFP and biomedical SRL system. The performance is evaluated in terms of three metrics: 
precision (P), recall (R) and F-measure (F), which are defined as follows: 
 
 RecallPrecision
RecallPrecision
measureF



2
 
 
items recognized ofnumber  the
items recognizedcorrectly  ofnumber  the
Precision   
 
items  trueofnumber  the
items recognizedcorrectly  ofnumber  the
Recall   
 
We used the datasets provided by the BioCreAtIvE II GM tagging task (Wilbur et al., 2007) and 
IAS task (Krallinger & Valencia, 2007) to evaluate our NER system (NERBio) and PPI article 
classifier, respectively. Details on these two independent training and test datasets can be found at 
http://biocreative.sourceforge.net. The precision, recall and F-measure of NERBio are 82.59, 
89.12 and 85.76%, respectively. Our PPI abstract classifier achieved an F-measure of 80.85% 
(with a precision of 91.2% and a recall of 78.4%). To evaluate our BFP, we used the GENIA 
Treebank (GTB) Beta version for the experimental datasets. The 300 abstracts released on 11 
July 2005 are used as the training set, while the 200 abstracts released on 22 September 2004 are 
used as the test set. Table 1 shows the details of these two datasets. The precision, recall and 
F-measure of BFP are 85.00, 86.93 and 83.16%, respectively. Our previous work (Tsai, Chou et 
al., 2007) reported that the precision, recall and F-measure of biomedical SRL (the core 
technology of biomedical semantic relation analysis) are 87.56, 82.15 and 84.76%, respectively 
under the condition that gold standard parses are given. To evaluate the actual performance of 
biomedical SRL on online retrieved sentences, our in-lab biologists annotated a gold-standard 
dataset that is composed of 100 randomly selected PubMed abstracts with 315 PASs. Table 2 
shows the evaluation results for different semantic roles. 
As you can see in Table 2, our biomedical SRL system achieved satisfactory F-measures (87.18 
8 
 
Fernández, J. M., Hoffmann, R., & Valencia, A. (2007). iHOP web services. Nucleic Acids Res., 
35(Web Server issue), W21-W26. 
Forman, G. (2003). An extensive empirical study of feature selection metrics for text 
classification. The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 3, 1289-1305. 
Fukuda, K., Tamura, A., Tsunoda, T., & Takagi, T. (1998). Toward information extraction: 
identifying protein names from biological papers. Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing, 
707-718. 
Hanisch, D., Fluck, J., Mevissen, H. T., & Zimmer, R. (2003). Playing biology's name game: 
identifying protein names in scientific text. Pacific Symposium on Biocomputing, 
403-414. 
Hanisch, D., Fundel, K., Mevissen, H. T., Zimmer, R., & Fluck, J. (2005). ProMiner: 
Organism-specific protein name detection using approximate string matching. BMC 
Bioinformatics, 6(Suppl 1), S14. 
Hoernig, R., Rauh, R., Strube, G., Hoernig, R., Rauh, R., & Strube, G. (1993). Events-II: 
Modeling event recognition. In S. G & W. K. Amsterdam (Eds.), The Cognitive 
Psychology of Knowledge (pp. 113-138): Elsevier Science. 
Jin-Dong, K., Tomoko, O., Yoshimasa Tsuruoka, Y. T., & Collier, N. (2004). Introduction to the 
bio-entity recognition task at JNLPBA. Proceedings of the International Workshop on 
Natural Language Processing in Biomedicine and its Applications (JNLPBA-04), 70-75. 
Joachims, T., Nedellec, C., & Rouveirol, C. (1998). Text categorization with support vector 
machines: learning with many relevant features. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the 
European Conference on Machine Learning. 
Krallinger, M., & Valencia, A. (2007). Evaluating the Detection and Ranking of Protein 
Interaction Relevant Articles: the BioCreative Challenge Interaction Article Sub-task 
(IAS). Proceedings of Second BioCreAtIvE Challenge Evaluation Workshop, 29-39. 
Lafferty, J., McCallum, A., & Pereira, F. (2001). Conditional random fields: Probabilistic models 
for segmenting and labeling sequence data. Paper presented at the International 
Conference on Machine Learning (ICML).  
McCallum, A., & Nigam, K. (1998). A comparison of event models for naive bayes text 
classification. 
Nobata, C., Collier, N., & Tsujii, J. (1999). Automatic term identification and classification in 
biology texts. 
Pradhan, S., Ward, W., Hacioglu, K., Martin, J. H., & Jurafsky, D. (2004). Shallow Semantic 
Parsing Using Support Vector Machines. Paper presented at the Proceedings of the 
Human Language Technology Conference/North American chapter of the Association for 
Computational Linguistics annual meeting (HLT/NAACL-2004).  
Sebastiani, F. (2002). Machine learning in automated text categorization. ACM computing surveys 
(CSUR), 34(1), 1-47. 
Shah, P. K., & Bork, P. (2006). LSAT: learning about alternative transcripts in MEDLINE. 
Bioinformatics, 22(7), 857-865. 
Tateisi, Y., Ohta, T., & Tsujii, J.-i. (1997). Annotation of Predicate-argument Structure on 
10 
 
計畫成果自評 
 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況。 
本計畫主要的目的在於研發各項具語意分析能力的生醫資訊擷取技術，再將其應用到建構
高效率更新生醫資料庫資訊的輔助工具程式。經過一年的計畫執行時間，我們成功地建立
了生物文獻搜尋系統 BIOSMILE web search (BWS) ，是一個以網頁為主的 NCBI PubMed 搜
尋應用系統，我們並把一些重要的生物文獻探勘元件整合在此系統中，讓使用者可以藉由
簡單的搜尋動作，利用我們的系統整理歸納搜尋的結果，再以網頁的方式呈現給使用者。
在本年度中本計畫執行的結果與我們原提出計畫的目標相同。 
 
研究成果之學術或應用價值、是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利。 
在學術期刊發表方面我們也將我們發展的系統網站投稿到生物資訊頂尖期刊 Nucleic 
Acids Research (SCI IF=6.878) 的 Web Servier issue，在投稿的過程中，我們對使用
者的使用滿意度作了調查與統計，也獲得了蠻正面的評價。故本計畫的執行結果不論在學
術和應用方面都有不錯的成果。 
 
主要發現或其他有關價值等。 
透過本計畫之執行，研究者對未來之生物文獻研究提出下列若干建議： 
（一）持續修正生物文獻探勘元件的準確度 
一個生物文獻探勘系統是由許多元件串接而成，而使用者看的是資料經過所元件處理後的
成果，故每一個元件所產生的錯誤都會累積到下面一個串接的元件。藉由一個能讓使用者
使用的介面好處在於我們容易看到系統運算的結果，並容易收集的錯誤的狀況，藉由分析
與歸納錯誤的結果，能方便我們最佳化各個生物文獻探勘元件。 
（二）使用者導向的開發系統介面 
1. 使用者的選擇：在評估前應審慎選擇評估對象，最好以使用者族群為主，深入瞭解
一切面向，才能完成全面性的評估工作。 
2. 網站設立目標：網站應說明主要服務對象、服務項目和欲達到的效果，作為架設網
站的遵循方向及評估時的檢視工具。 
3. 使用者的閱讀習慣和目的：使用者的閱讀方式往往決定介面的呈現，而尋找資料的
目的，則會影響搜尋行為和網站功能，在本計畫中我們就是藉由以原本 PubMed 資
料庫的搜尋方式為主體，在不改變使用者使用習慣下，串接生物文獻探勘元件，將
搜尋的結果分析統整後呈現給使用者。 
12 
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表(二) 
□ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98 年 11月 30日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：具深度語意分析能力之生醫文獻探勘技術與應用系統 
計畫主持人：蔡宗翰         
計畫編號：NSC 97-2218-E-155-001             
學門領域：生物資訊 
技術/創作名稱 基因與蛋白質名稱辨認及正規畫元件 
發明人/創作人 蔡宗翰 
技術說明 
中文： 
因為基因的命名時常是非常混亂的，同一個名子很有可能會容易跟
其他的基因或醫學專有名詞有混亂的情況發生。本技術就在於將給
予的論文中句子含有基因的資訊辨別出來後，將其對應到資料庫中
所指的特定基因，給予他特定的 EntrezGene ID。這對於資料擷取及
收尋引擎系統都有很大的幫助，藉由找到 EntrezGene ID 也可以更進
一步連結到其他生物資料庫的資訊。 
英文： 
Because named entities of genes are usually very ambiguous, to 
identify gene name in text to gene in public database is usually very 
hard. This technique returns EntrezGene identifiers corresponding to 
the human genes and direct gene products appearing in a given 
sentence from abstract. This has relevance to improving document 
indexing and retrieval, and to linking text mentions to database 
identifiers in support of more sophisticated information extraction 
tasks. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
論文書目管理系統，圖書館軟體，資料庫搜尋引擎 
技術特點 
藉由整合資料庫所有基因對應基因名稱的資料，藉由資訊擷取，比
對背景資識相關度，有效率地將文章中的基因名稱找出，並提供其
唯一的資料庫編號。 
推廣及運用的價值 
對於自動化的生物文章資訊擷取很大的助益。 
14 
 
附錄 
FIGURES 
 
Figure 1. BWS search interface. The left frame (No. 1) shows the search history. In the search 
box (No. 2), a user can enter either a PMID or keywords. The rest of the work space shows a 
table that retrieved abstracts. Each abstract is hyperlinked to the original PubMed abstract (No. 3). 
For each snippet, BWS annotates gene or protein names in light blue color (No. 4). A graduated 
bar meter is also presented (No. 5) in the "Protein-Protein Interaction" column to indicate the 
abstract's relevance to PPI. (BWS search results) 
16 
 
 
 
Figure 3. A parsing tree. 
 
 
Figure 4. A parsing tree annotated with semantic roles. 
18 
 
附件： 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           97年  1 月  20 日 
報告人姓名 蔡宗翰 
 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
元智大學資工系 
 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2008/1/16-2008/1/18 
哈爾濱 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2008 年亞洲資訊檢索論壇 
 (英文) The Asia Information Retrieval Symposium (AIRS 2008) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 中文命名實體標註之半聯結式標註方法 
 (英文) Semi-joint Labeling for Chinese Named Entity 
Recognition 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                           97年  1 月  20 日 
報告人姓名 蔡宗翰 
 
 
服務機構 
及職稱 
元智大學資工系 
 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2008/1/16-2008/1/18 
哈爾濱 
本會核定 
補助文號 
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2008 年亞洲資訊檢索論壇 
 (英文) The Asia Information Retrieval Symposium (AIRS 2008) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 中文命名實體標註之半聯結式標註方法 
 (英文) Semi-joint Labeling for Chinese Named Entity 
Recognition 
附
件
三 
