二、各年度執行之計畫內容： 
z 第一年  -  多頻天線設計與細胞規畫之研究(1/3) 
 
An Ultrawide-Bandwidth Tapered Resistive Bowtie Horn Antenna 
 
Abstract: An ultra-wideband antenna based on a microstrip / 
slotline feed structure, a bowtie horn, and a rolled edge 
termination was developed. In addition, resistive sheets 
(R-cards) were introduced into the antenna guiding structure. 
Since the resistive sheets can attenuate creeping wave, a 
better performance can be obtained in this antenna design. 
 
摘要：本計劃所設計與製作之天線是應用在無反射
實驗室內之發射端天線，此天線是利用microstrip 與
slotline 兩種傳輸線結合而成一寬頻饋入結構，再加
上類似 bowtie 的漸變式結構做為天線輻射體，此外
亦採用阻抗性反射板(R-cards)來降低邊緣散射現
象。由模擬與量測結果可得一頻寬為3~20GHz 之極
寬頻天線。 
 
Index Terms－bowtie horn , R-cards , tapered resistance , 
Y-Y transition. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
A bowtie antenna [1,2]is developed in this paper as a 
transmitter in the applications of antenna measurement 
inside an anechoic chamber. The antenna has 
characteristics of relatively stable radiation pattern and 
a very wideband operation at high frequencies. The 
antenna introduced is a marriage between a slotline and 
bowtie antenna, which are well suited for this 
combination because of their excellent broadband 
impedance, pattern characteristics and the natural feed 
mechanism that the tapered slotline provides to the 
bowtie antenna. Performance will be examined and 
discussed in the paper. 
II. ANTENNA STRUCTURE 
The structure of the bowtie antenna is described in this 
section. The design is divided into two sections of feed 
structure and radiators, where the R-cards and 
absorbers can be further employed to treat the 
diffraction and back-radiation. 
(A) Feeding structure. 
A broadband feed network was employed. In 
particular, we use a microstrip to slotline Y-Y 
transition balun[3~5]to make the feeding structure. 
Two types of the Y-Y transition balun as shown in 
Figure 1(a) and (b) were examined, which provides a 
balant excitation to the antenna with advantages of 
good impedance match to enhance the antenna 
radiation. 
The Y-Y transition employs a microstrip line and a 
slotline placed on the opposite sides of a substrate. The 
ends of each transmission lines branch out into a “Y” 
shape, in which one side of the “Y” is terminated with 
a short circuit while the other side with an open circuit. 
Thus, the slotline and microstrip modes will couple. 
Any reflected energy will cancel out due to phase 
reversal caused by equidistant short-open terminations, 
which is similar to complementary matching 
techniques. This Y-Y transition feed network was 
demonstrated to have ultrawide-bandwidth (about 
2~18GHz), and therefore provides an excellent 
transition from a 50 ohm microstrip line to the slotline 
section of the bowtie antenna. 
(B) Antenna guiding structure 
The radiator of the antenna was constructed by 
integrating a tapered slotline and a bowtie TEM horn. 
In order to improve the impedance transition from the 
slotline to free space, the bowtie guiding structure has a 
smoothing curved shape that consists of Vivaldi, linear, 
and rolled-edge sections[1,2] as shown in Figure 2. The 
descriptions of each section are shown in the following. 
(1) Vivaldi Section 
( ) ( )aA x - xa a a by - y = e - A x - x  - 1  for x x x   (1)≤ ≤  
where A is the exponential factor and is given by 
( ) ( )( )aA x - xtan 2 e  - 1                                (2)A θ=  
with θ being the flare angle shown in Figure 2. 
(2) Linear Section 
( ) ( )( )b b b cy - y tan 2 x - x   for x x x     (3)θ= ≤ ≤  
(3) Blended Rolled Edge Section 
( ) ( )( ) ( )ex = x sin 2 1.0 cos             (4)b fθ α α+ −  
( ) ( )( ) ( )ey = y cos 2 1.0 cos            (5)b fθ α α− −  
where if linear blending 
( ) 1.0                                            (6)sf α α α= −  
and if cosine blending 
( ) ( )cos 2                                        (7)sf α πα α=  
Also 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )
( )
e
c
x sin cos 2 cos sin 2
       - sin 2 x                                           (8)
a b
b
α θ α θ
θ
= +
+  
pp.231-233, Apr.1976. 
[4] A.L. Sinopoli, “A slotline/bowtie hybrid antenna for use as a 
compact range feed,” M.S.thesis, Dept.Elect.Eng., Ohio State 
Univ., Columbus, 1992. 
[5] Wes Grammer and K. Sigfrid Yngvesson, “Coplanar Wavegiude 
Transitions to Slotline: Design and Microprobe 
Characterization , ” IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory Tech., vol. 
41, No.9, September 1993. 
 
Table I. The design parameters of the bowtie antenna 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) Type I 
 
 
 
(b) Type II 
 
Figure 1: The microstrip to slotline Y-Y transition balun 
 
 
 
Figure 2: The guiding structure geometry and related 
parameters of the bowtie antenna 
 
 
 
 
z 第二年  -  多頻天線設計與細胞規畫之研究(2/3) 
 
1. 概論 
本年度天線技術發展的重點，主要有四；第
一為針對衛星通訊用之天線進行發展，第二
為Wimax 可應用之天線，第三為GPS接收之
天線進行發展，第四為應用於多頻之改良型
U 模型平板天線進行發展，衛星天線主要是
針對碟型天線之饋入天線進行技術開發，目
標在使雙頻操作下，號角天線之輻射能有一
致性，進行使碟型面之使用能最佳化；
Wimax 天線之開發在產生一天線得以整合
WLAN 及Wimax 等頻段，且具高增益之天
線，可應用於家庭內之接收，而GPS 天線在
於發展縮小化之天線，使未來應用的整合更
方便，最後新型天線發展技術；並以U-slot 
天線作為發展範例，評估天線表現。各天線
均已開發完整protype或應用實際系統之開
發，符合預期需求。 
 
2. 應用於碟形天線饋入之號角天線設計 
2.1波浪型號角天線操作原理 
波浪型號角天線主要操作原理是利用
架構上之孔徑大小不同來造成電波發射。
1 2D D  (如圖一)控制了 11TM 的發射直徑比
率，而直徑 3D 主要控制了電波的發射。 
在高頻時，因為在高頻時 3D λ 較大，
所以本身內部孔徑便有較大的增益；而且在
孔徑與外部之環交界區， 11TM  與 11TE  會互
相抵消。因此外部之環(Scalar ring)對於天線
發射並沒有太大的影響。在低頻時，孔徑直
徑 3D 小於波長，所有將有較少之增益，而有
較多的能量與外部之環進行耦合，藉由調整
環之長度與位置（ 2L , 3L , 4L , 5L ），便可在
10% −15% 波束寬內得到近乎完美之交互
極化。 
根據以上兩點可得知，在高頻時可以藉
由調整波導內部來達到交互極化之最小
化，在低頻時可以藉由外部波導來調整交其
互極化，如此便可以達到天線在雙頻帶之最
佳化。 
 
 
圖一：天線架構放大圖 
 
2.2 波浪型號角天線最佳化方法 
在天線最佳化方面採用基因演算法作
為最佳化程式內之核心運算方法。並且藉由
開發之程式利用VBScript 檔與HFSS 溝
通。由於HFSS 程式內提供了絕大部分控制
HFSS 繪圖等功能之VBScript 檔，於是我們
只需要將所需要之Script 檔確認後，便可以
利用最佳化程式控制HFSS 內部繪圖以及相
關模擬設定 
圖一為一個波浪型號角天線剖面圖，由
圖可知此天線為對稱架構，所以在進行最佳
 
圖（a） 
 
圖（b） 
圖三: Wimax 天線架構及Return Loss 
 
4. 應用於GPS 接收之微帶天線 
本縮小化GPS 天線如圖四所示之中
心頻率為1.575GHz，而其尺寸為30×30 
mm，介電質為9.8，並擁有一定的天線效
能，相較於其它製程較複雜、成本較高的
縮小化設計原理（如：嵌入被動元件或增
加基板介電常數等），本GPS 天線在製
程上可一次蝕刻完成，毋須額外加入晶片
電容或電阻，除了製程簡單外亦節省了製
作成本，且可以縮小到一定的尺寸，整體
而言此GPS 天線具有相當之優越性。 
 
（a）天線實體大小 
 
圖六:底層是一片與中心線夾角50 度的矩
型長條金屬之改良式U 型槽孔平板天線
的逆程損耗 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Probe-fed corner-truncated RHCP patch 
antenna for GPS reception. 
 
 
In order to accommodate the LNA 
module, a cavity is formed within the 
substrate of the patch. As indicated in the 
model shown in Figure 2, the 2.4 mm thick 
substrate is divided into three layers. The 
cavity is placed in the middle layer with a 
12 by 16 mm2 footprint and a 1 mm 
thickness. Except the LNA chip placed on 
top of the microstrip trace, the cavity is left 
empty. 
 
 
 
Figure 2: Circuit layout of the patch antenna and 
transmission line with a cavity in the substrate for 
embedding LNA. 
 
. 
3. Experiment Results 
 
The LNA-embedded patch antenna 
described above was fabricated to validate 
the proposed design. The LNA used is 
TM1006 from Taiwan Microelectronics. 
Both the simulations and tests on prototypes 
show that adding the LNA cavity only 
produces a small change in the resonant 
frequency. The movement of center 
frequency is in the order of tens of MHz, 
which can be compensated by rescaling the 
patch size. Figure 3 shows different layers 
of the fabricated prototype, including top 
view of the patch, bottom view of the 
patched cavity and the middle layer that 
hosing the transmission line and the LNA 
module. Simulations and measured return 
loss spectra of the patch are exhibited in 
Figure 4. Both results indicated the patch is 
resonant at 1.575 GHz with an at least -18 
dB null. Above observation indicates that 
adding the LNA cavity imposes limited 
influences on the patch antenna 
performance. 
 
 
 
(a) Top patch 
 
 
 
(b) Middle layer trace 
Conference, 2004 IEEE, pp. 131-134, 
2004. 
[5] J. D. Kraus, Antennas, 2nd ed., McGraw 
Hill, 1988. 
[6] C. A. Balanis, Antenna Theory: 
Analysis and Design, 2nd ed., Wiley, 
1997.  
 
 
 
Figure 5: Measurement setup for evaluating LNA 
performance under various radiation power levels.  
 
 
 
(a) S11 
 
 
 
(b) S21 
 
Figure 6: Measurement (a) S11 and (b) S21 of LNA 
under various radiation power levels.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
then curled up into a cylinder to form the antenna, which can be cost effectively 
fabricated.  
2. Slot Array with RF Switches 
The antenna configuration proposed is illustrated in Figure 1. Its cylindrical 
enclosure comprises several horizontally placed slots. In the middle is a dipole 
used to feed peripheral slots. The distance between the dipole and the enclosure is 
quarter wavelength. In principle, vertically polarized E fields can get across 
horizontal slots on a conducting plane providing that the slot length is larger than 
half wavelength. As the figure indicates, the rear part of the horizontal slots is 
blocked by vertical sections while the front sides of the slots are left open. 
Therefore, the area where slots are shorted serves as the reflector. 
 
Figure 1: The proposed cylindrical beam switching antenna configuration. 
Figure 2 provides the simulated pattern on the H-plane of the slot array described 
above. The front slot is half wavelength long. Ten short stubs are put around the 
sides and rear of the cylinder. The spacing between short stubs is around 0.12λ. 
The 3 dB beamwidth is about 110° and the front-to-back ratio is approximately 14 
dB. This result indicates that radiation from the dipole can only escapes through 
long enough slits. The antenna is fabricated using copper sheets and copper tape 
stubs. Figure 3 shows the measured H-plane pattern. The 3 dB beamwidth is 
about 120° while the front-to-back ratio is about 13 dB. The measured results 
show good agreement with simulated ones. 
 
Figure 2. Simulated H-plane pattern of a 5 slot array with a λ/6 spacing between 
slots and rear side shorted. 
Dipole feed
Circular slots
Slots shorted 
by RF switches
5866
