摘要 
腦機界面系統(BCI)提供一個腦部和電腦直接做溝通的管道。為了達
到降低訓練時間和降低使用者的負擔，我們使用一個三選項的界面實作以
P300 為基礎腦機系統。為了增進線上系統溝通的效能和效率。我們提出一
投票策略來達到系統可自動且即時的依使用者做調整，以增進線上系統的
效能。更具體來說，我們結合步進線性鑑別分析和活動窗口(moving window)
來產生時序特徵做投票。透過這些時序特徵我們可以決定門檻值使得線上
系統可以在維持一定的分辨率的條件下動態決定結果。三個健康的受試者
和七個健康的受試者分別被邀請參與離線和線上的實驗。研究結果顯示，
我們的系統比 Sellers 和 Donchin 在 2006 所發表的四選項腦機系統有更
好的效能。在離線分析我們達到 7.7 bits/min 的資訊轉移率，而當線上
系統達到 5.23 bit/min 的轉移率時則有 100%的分辨率。這些結果都證明
了比四選項系統 1.8 bit/min 資訊轉移率有更好的效能，也顯示了適應性
在腦機界面系統上的優點。 
 
關鍵詞：腦機介面系統、事件相關腦電波、P300、逐步線性區別分析 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proceedings of 2009 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, Nov. 27-29, 2009 
Abstract—Brain–computer interface (BCI) provides a 
channel for direct communication between brain and 
computer. To reduce training time and subjects’ burden, 
our P300-based BCI system is implemented by using a 
three-choice paradigm. In order to improve the perfor-
mance and efficiency of online BCI system, we propose a 
voting strategy to automatically make the online system 
adaptable to users. More specifically, we combine stepwise 
linear discriminant analysis (SWDA) with moving window 
to produce the temporal features for voting. Through the 
automatic threshold determination, the online system can 
dynamically make decision while maintaining the accuracy 
of classification. Three and seven healthy subjects are re-
cruited to participate in the offline and online experiments, 
respectively. In offline analysis, the transfer rates can 
achieve up to 7.7 bits/min, while the transfer rates of online 
testing can achieve up to 5.28 bits/min. These results sug-
gest that the performances of our system are better than 
Sellers’s four-choice system in which transfer rate is 1.8 
bits/min, thus indicating the advantage of the adaptability 
in BCI system. 
 
Keywords —Brain-computer interface system; Event re-
lated potentials; P300; Stepwise linear discriminant analysis  
I. INTRODUCTION  
Brain-computer interface (BCI) provides a channel to 
communicate with external world only through cerebral 
activity, thus replacing the normal pathway of commu-
nication by using muscles [1]. The electroencephalo-
graphy (EEG) is commonly used in the BCI system. 
When a subject is performing specific tasks, the EEG 
signals induced by the subject’s neuronal activities are 
recorded and analyzed. Then, the analyzed EEG signals 
will be translated to the corresponding commands to 
control prosthesis or cursor, spell words, and answer 
questions. Nowadays, there are many developments of 
BCI systems such as motor-imagery based and 
ERP-based BCI systems. In the existing BCI studies, 
P300-based BCI systems are commonly conducted, be-
cause P300 ERP can be reliably measured without initial 
user training. 
Farwell and Donchin presented the first P300-based 
BCI speller [2] [3]. Since the work of Farwell and 
Donchin several researchers have proposed extensions 
and modifications of the basic speller paradigm. In ad-
dition, other applications of P300 ERP have been pro-
posed such as virtual apartment [4], cursor control [5] 
and brain-controlled wheelchair [6].  
In order to provide a realistic application for ALS 
patients in daily life, Seller and Donchin proposed a 
four-choice paradigm which is tested on three healthy 
subjects and three ALS patients [7]. Four words included 
“Yes”, “No”, “Pass” and “End” were presented ran-
domly as auditory, visual, or auditory and visual stimuli. 
In their system, eye movement is not necessary because 
of the smaller field of view. Under this paradigm, the 
P300 response remained stable in healthy subjects and 
ALS patients. However, a practical online BCI system 
should have real time response and flexibility in various 
situations. In the past studies of P300 BCI systems, most 
of them focused on the improvement of discriminant 
accuracy with fixed number of stimulus, but pay less 
attention to the adaptability of online BCI system. Serby 
[8] proposed the thresholding technique that is able to 
dynamically adapt to stop, and the threshold is designed 
based on the classification score. The performance of the 
system is improved by this technique. 
The purpose of our system is to develop techniques 
that can determine the amount of acquired data by esti-
mating whether the embedded information is enough. 
Thus, the voting method is to compute the standard of 
reliability by temporal features produced by a moving 
window and SWDA, and the votes can be derived from 
the temporal features. Additionally, we can use the per-
centage of votes to be the standard of reliability. Com-
pare to the system using fixed number of trials to predict 
the result, our system using voting method can save time 
of predicting while the standard of reliability show that 
the number of recorded trials is enough to make a correct 
prediction. In this sense, if the predicted result has low 
standard of reliability, we can record more data to reduce 
the probability of errors through this technique. In this 
study, we perform two parts, offline analysis and online 
testing. In offline analysis, we use performance evalua-
tion to examine the technique. Additionally, we validate 
the system performance by way of online testing. 
II. MATERIALS AND METHOD 
A. Participant 
We invited three subjects (two males and one female) 
and seven subjects (four males and three females) in 
offline and online experiments, respectively, all aged 
between 22 and 24. All subjects were healthy college 
students. Subjects are asked to wear the EEG cap and sit 
on a comfortable chair, putting his/her hands on the lap.  
Liang-Wei Chen Yong-Sheng Chen* Li-Fen Chen 
Department of Computer Science Department of Computer Science Institute of Brain Science 
National Chiao Tung University National  Chiao Tung University National Yang-Ming University
Hsinchu, Taiwan Hsinchu, Taiwan Taipei, Taiwan 
e-mail:nova.iie96g@g2.nctu.edu.tw e-mail: yschen@cs.nctu.edu.tw e-mail: lfchen@ym.edu.tw 
Three-choice Brain-computer Interface System through Classifica-
tion and Voting of Temporal Features 
*Corresponding author. 
Proceedings of 2009 CACS International Automatic Control Conference 
National Taipei University of Technology, Taipei, Taiwan, Nov. 27-29, 2009 
. 
 
. Figure 3. Analysis results in different percentage of votes. The left figure show the probability of achievement and discriminant accuracy in seven 
threshold (70, 75, 80, 85, 90, 95, 100 percentage of votes), and the epoch number range from 1 to 10. The colors in the figure are defined in the color 
bar which shows the degree. The right figure show the comparison of accuracy of the threshold is set to 80%, 100% and only using SWDA. 
 
V2╴3, and V1╴3 are derived while trial 3 is recorded. On 
the analogy of this procedure, the process continues until 
a stopping rule is satisfied. For equipollence, the vote 
subsets of the same windows size represent one vote to 
make the decision. In other words, all the votes of the 
same window size have to gather statistics and produce 
one result. For instance, the Vs1 is computed from ga-
thering statistics of the vote sets V1, V2…, Vn. Finally, n 
votes Vs1, Vs2…, Vsn are derived while n trials are rec-
orded. Additionally, the n votes can be seen as n tem-
poral features to make a decision. The percentage of 
votes of three condition results could be seen as the 
standard of reliability. Thus, if we have the prior know-
ledge, a decision can be made only after a predefined 
threshold is reached; otherwise, the next trial is recorded. 
The procedure of our online system is shown in Fig-
ure 2. After signal preprocessing, all the epochs are de-
rived with different moving window size according to 
each recorded epochs. Additionally, all votes are ob-
served while computing the score of each feature epochs. 
At the next step, the percentage of votes in accordance 
with three conditions is used to make the decision. If the 
percentage of votes is over the threshold and over 3 trials, 
a decision is made and the feedback would be presented 
on the screen. Otherwise, the next trial would be rec-
orded until reaching the threshold. However, the deci-
sion must be made while 10th trial is recorded even 
though not reached the threshold. 
III. RESULTS 
 
 
In offline experiment, we use bootstrap method to 
evaluate the performance from the recorded data. We 
examine the probability of achievement and accuracy in 
different voting thresholds (Figure 3). In addition, we 
also compare the accuracy of SWDA with or without 
voting method. The performance is actually improved by 
the proposed voting method. Through our method, less 
epochs are needed to predict the result with higher clas-
sification accuracy.  
Additionally, we simulate the offline data as online 
recorded data. In this procedure, we test the data tri-
al-by-trial until the threshold is reached. We evaluate the 
performance in different threshold settings. Moreover, 
eighteen data of each subject are examined in this pro-
cedure. In this analysis, the communication rate is 
speeded up as shown in Table 1. 
We also use bit rate to evaluate the performances of 
three recruited subjects in offline analysis, and the 
maximum and average information transfer rate are 
shown in Table 1. For instance, subjects 3 has the 
maximum transfer rate 5.74 with 76.9% accuracy by 
using SWDA, and the average transfer rate is 1.65 with 
64.9% accuracy. Furthermore, the maximum transfer 
rate 7.09 with 97.93% accuracy by setting the threshold 
to 80%.  
The online testing results are shown in Table 2. The 
accuracy rate of three subjects are higher than 89% (eight 
correct and one incorrect). Furthermore, the accuracy 
rate of five subjects are higher than 78% (seven correct 
and two incorrect). We believe that the voting method 
has its effectiveness and stability. 
Table 1. The maximum bit rate/min and average bit rate/min of three subjects by the discrimination only SWDA, voting threshold is set to 80
, and testing in online simulation procedure. 
 
 Bit rate/min Subject 1 Subject 2 Subject 3 
Bootstrap analysis result (SWDA) Max 7.70 (83.40%) 3.64 (82.10%) 5.74 (76.90%) 
Average 2.45 (66.69%) 1.63 (68.01%) 1.65 (64.98%) 
Bootstrap analysis result (80% votes) Max 7.70 (83.40%) 4.88 (78.40%) 7.09 (97.93%) 
Average 3.24 (84.15%) 2.75 (89.03%) 2.67 (73.82%) 
Online simulation (80% votes) Max 5.28 (100.00%) 5.28 (100.00%) 2.26 (100.00%) 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告  
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-009-139 
計畫名稱 結合生物反饋之新世代腦機介面及其在移動載具控制之應用－子計畫三：
運動想像腦電波之腦機介面系統(I) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
陳永昇  助理教授 
國立交通大學 資訊工程學系 
會議時間地點 May 26-29, 2009, Wuhan, China 
會議名稱 The Sixth International Symposium on Neural Networks 
發表論文題目 Lead Field Space Projection for Spatiotemporal Imaging of Independent Brain Activities 
 
參加會議經過與與會心得：  
International Symposium on Neural Networks 涵蓋類神經網路基礎研究及其應用，以及人
腦神經科學研究之相關技術發展，今年會議在中國武漢市舉行，大會邀請的 Keynote Speech 
相當精彩，包括前 IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering 的 Editor in Chief、Department 
of Electrical and Biomedical Engineering, University of Florida 的 Professor Jose Principe，與波
蘭 Department of Computer Engineering, Czestochowa University of Technology 的 Professor 
Leszek Rutkowski，這些優秀的演講讓我們滿載而歸。 
我們在5月29日發表了研究論文：“Lead Field Space Projection for Spatiotemporal Imaging 
of Independent Brain Activities”。這篇論文的重點在我們發展出一個演算法，可以利用 Lead 
Field 空間投影的方法，針對獨立成份分析法所解析之獨立腦波成份來計算其相對應的腦皮質
區活動分布。這個方法的優點在於計算十分簡便，也具相當高的準確度。 
 
