行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫; 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
 
題目：創新異質整合智慧型手機相機模組之研究 
子計畫一：微機電防手振平台之設計、製作與測試 
 
The design, fabrication and test of MEMS image stabilizer 
計畫類別：□ 個別型計畫  ; 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 99－2220－E－009－044 
執行期間：99 年 08 月 01 日至 100 年 07 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：邱俊誠 
共同主持人：無 
計畫參與人員：林君穎 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ;完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、列
管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立交通大學電機與控制工程學系 
 
中   華   民   國  一百  年 五  月  卅一  日 
 2
from moving too far, sticking with pull-in 
phenomenon and circuit shorting of electrostatic 
actuating XY stage. Thought pull-in phenomenon 
will not happen in thermal actuating XY stage, 
the coupling movements induce the nonlinear 
effect to thermal actuator, to avoid the coupling 
movement and heat conductive problems, the 
decoupling structure and insulator SU8 are 
designed in thermal actuating XY stage. 
 
Key words: XY stage, electrostatic, comb drive, 
thermal actuator, SOI process 
 
二、 計畫緣由與目的 
 The MEMS-based XY stage can be realized 
by using micro fabrication processes due to 
advances in device miniaturization and high 
precision systems [1]. There are several actuator 
types of MEMS-based XY stage are used to drive 
the stage, one of main types is the electrostatic 
actuator, which usually be used in optical 
applications [2-7] and probe position systems [8] 
because it has good controllability and low 
power consumption, the applications of 
electrostatic XY stage include SPM 
(Scanning Probe Microscopy) probe [9,10], data 
storage [11-13], and nano-position control 
[1,14-16] .  
 However, electrostatic actuators usually 
require high driving voltage, for this reason, the 
step-up circuit must be designed very large, to 
decrease driving voltage, circuit size and 
increase actuating force, thermal actuators are 
researched and designed to generate larger 
actuating displacement [26].  
 The camera function has a growing role in 
cell phone applications. In addition to meeting 
the consumer demand for increased pixels, 
digital single lens reflex (DSLR) camera 
functions are now being embedded in 
commercial cell phones. Anti-shake technology 
is among the many new technologies developed 
for mobile phones. The increasing number of 
camera pixels exacerbates the problem of image 
blurring caused by hand shaking. Image 
stabilization is the typical solution to this 
problem [17]. Among the familiar elements of 
image stabilization include lens shifting, [18] 
CCD shifting, [19] and signal processing [20]. 
The conventional anti-shaking technique in 
DSLRs, signal processing, is now used in mobile 
phones. Although signal processing requires no 
additional hardware and does not affect 
miniaturization of the system module, 
performance and reliability depend on the 
algorithm used. Given the demand for device 
miniaturization, the lens shifting anti-shaking 
approach is inadequate since adding a movable 
lens causes nonlinearity in control that must be 
compensated for by a complex control algorithm 
which must be corrected by a complex control 
algorithm. Although it requires an actuating 
system, IS shifting is less disruptive of 
miniaturization; the overall size of the system is 
also easier to reduce compared to lens shifting 
method. [17] The MEMS device enables 
suspended microstructures to be moved precisely 
and integrated with microelectronic circuits 
monolithically on a chip. [21] For the above 
reasons, a satisfactory image stabilizer design is 
needed to miniaturize cell phone camera 
modules.  
 A MEMS-based 2-dimensional decoupling 
thermal actuating XY stage is describe in this 
paper, which is designed and fabricated to 
reduce driving voltage and chip size. The 
 4
 
  Figure 2 Schematic illustration of the XY stage. 
 
Table 1. Specifications of the image stabilizer. 
 
 
 Figure 2 shows the schematic illustration of 
electrostatic actuating XY stage, the design 
include decoupling beams, signal output beams 
and comb fingers, and the specifications of the 
electrostatic stage are shown in table 1. 
 
3.1.2  Thermal actuating XY stage 
Figure 3 shows a simple schematic diagram 
of the electro-thermal chevron actuator of the 
proposed image stabilizer.  
 
Figure 3 Force acting on the chevron thermal actuator. 
Applying voltage to pads generates an 
electro-thermal mechanical force, which changes 
the relative displacement between the XY stage 
and pads. When estimating driving displacement, 
several boundary conditions are assumed: 1. the 
actuator is heated uniformly, 2. pad temperatures 
are fixed at 300K, and 3. the expansion 
coefficient is a constant equal to Si expansion 
coefficient, 2.5 ppm/K. Under these conditions, 
the driving displacement is linearly related to 
temperature. Driving displacement can also be 
predicted by the equations below [27]:  
 
2
2 / 2A o
yEI M M Fy F x
x
∂ = = − −∂            (4) 
where boundary conditions are: 
 
0| 0xy = = ; 0 / 2| | tanx x L Ay yx x
δ δ θδ δ= == = ; 
)(
EWT
FLL
L
EET +Δ=××Δ= ασ           (5) 
where EI is the flexural rigidity, F is the 
reaction force along x-axis used to model the 
effects of thermal stress, Fo is the output force. 
In Figure 3, L, W and T are the length, width and 
thickness of the actuator, respectively.  The ΔT 
is the temperature change, ΔL is the change in L 
due to F, and α is the thermal expansion 
coefficient. Peak deflection is obtained by 
setting output force to zero, and peak output 
force is obtained by setting deflection to zero. 
The relationship between the lateral force for 
peak deflection and peak output force can be 
derived as follows: 
 
max max2 tano AF F θ=                       (6)
 
 6
from the IS pads to the electrical routing pads in 
the device structure and from the electrical 
routing pads in the device structure to the output 
PCB pads. Figure 7 schematically depicts the 
entire device design. According to the kinematic 
design shown in Figure 1, a main decoupling 
beam is designed separately in each direction to 
satisfy decoupling requirements. Each 
thermal-driven actuator has a push-only design, 
and each operates in only direction, i.e., X+, X-, 
Y+, or Y-. For the symmetrical springs design, 
the electrical routings have a balanced layout as 
well as two signal output springs and pads in 
each direction. The signal output springs are 
designed to be as thin as possible so that 
stiffness does not affect the overall spring 
constant system. Because of the isolation layers 
and the isolator SU-8, each electric potential 
between the structure and the signal output is 
independent.  
 
 
              (a)                            (b) 
Figure 6 Illustration of driving modes of decoupling XY 
stage: (a) in X-direction only and (b) in both X- and 
Y-directions. 
 
 
Figure 7 Structure design of XY stage. 
 
3.2 Design and calculation of stage movement  
Most commercial cell phones have a 200 
mega pixel or 300 mega pixels camera but no 
anti-shake function. People are always moving 
and are unable to picture without moving. Any 
vibration during the taking of a picture causes 
blurring. Figure 5 displays relationship between 
blurring pixel number and the angle of hand 
shaking. When the camera moves through an 
angle dθ in the horizontal plane, the blur pixel 
number can be represented as: 
 
H
L
PdBP θ
θ=                        (7) 
Where θL is the horizontal angle and PH 
denotes the total horizontal pixel number. 
Typical low-cost camera systems have an 
angular field of view of 35º to 45º. For a 300 
mega pixels image sensor with a field of view of 
45º, experimental data [25] indicate that a 0.08º 
horizontal drift occurs in 2s of hand shaking, as 
recorded by an IDG-1000, a dual-axis gyroscope 
from InvenSense [25]. In this project, image 
sensor Micron MT9T012 with 3 mega pixels 
(2056x1544) is employed as the image sensor 
that is bonded on the designed device.  
 8
flip-chip bonder monitor. Figure 10(a)-(c) show 
the IS absorbing process. Before absorption, the 
spectroscope is used to align the pick-up head 
and sensor (Figure 10(b)). Figures 10(d)-(f) 
show how the combination processes of the XY 
stage and IS align sensor bumps and pads of XY 
stage. Figures 10(e) and 10(f) show 3N force is 
applied to the IS then to reflow the bumps to 235
° C, and figure 11 shows the reflow profile. 
 
 
   Figure 10 Flip-chip bonding process of the image         
   stabilizer. 
 
Figure 11 Reflow profile of flip-chip process 
 
 
四、 量測結果 
4.1 Electrostatic actuating XY stage 
The effectiveness of the 2-D decoupled image 
stabilizer was assessed. During the static driving 
test, the actuator was driven by DC voltage. 
Actuator displacement was measured by a White 
Light Interferometer (WYKO) (Fig. 12). When a 
51V driving voltage was applied to the proposed 
device in the x-direction, moving displacement 
in the x-direction was 25μm and displacement 
along the vertical y-axis was only 0.42μm. When 
a 54V driving voltage was applied to the 
proposed device in the y-direction, moving 
displacement in the y direction was 25μm and 
displacement along the vertical x-axis was only 
0.34μm. In the x-direction, the experimental 
decoupling ratio of x displacement to y 
displacement was 59.52, conforming to the 
system requirement that the decoupling ratio 
exceeds 11.1. In the y-direction, the 
experimental decoupling ratio of y displacement 
to x displacement was roughly 73.53, 
conforming to the system requirement that the 
decoupling ratio exceeds 11.1. Figure 13 
presents displacement variation with driving 
voltage. In the dynamic characterization, a 
MEMS Motion analyzer (MMA) system is set 
up to evaluate resonant frequency of the 
proposed image stabilizer. Figure 14 plots the 
measurements as resonance frequency reaches 
1.123 kHz. Experimental results indicate that the 
resonance frequency is 2.1% lower than the 
simulated first natural frequency of 1.123 kHz. 
This discrepancy is caused by the inaccuracy of 
the fabrication process and weight variation of 
the image sensor. Furthermore, the simulation 
model does not consider the weight of PDMS, 
possibly causing some difference in simulated 
and actual weight.  
 
 10
 
Figure 16 Static measurement of XY-stage in x- and 
y-directions 
 
 
Figure 17 Measurement results for resonant frequency. 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 17 Measurement results for thermal imaging in 10 
volts 1Hz. (a) Thermal actuator without isolator. (b) 
Thermal actuator with isolator. 
 
五、 結論與討論 
An integrated micro decoupling XY stage is 
designed and fabricated. The integrated XY stage 
is designed to load an image sensor. It can be 
applied in commercial cell phone cameras as an 
anti-shake system. This proposed device is 
mainly composed of a silicon-based XY stage, a 
comb actuator and a chevron  thermal actuator, 
which are fabricated by SOI wafer with ICP 
etching process. Precise calculation of the ICP 
etching rate and a favorable structure layer 
design can increased the yield of the fabrication 
process. A stopper and isolator SU8 are 
effectively prevent pull-in and thermal 
conductive problems. The actuating 
displacements of electrostatic and thermal XY 
stage are all fit the project requirement 25μm 
and the decoupling ratio are 59 and 19, which 
are  larger than the project requirement 10 so 
that the structures can avoid the lateral 
movement when the stages are actuated.  
 
六、 參考文獻 
[1] Lining Sun, Jiachou Wang, Weibin Rong, Xinxin Li 
and Haifei Bao  ,A silicon integrated micro 
nano-positioning XY-stage for nano-manipulation, J. 
Micromech. Microeng. 18 (2008), 125004  
[2] Kazuhiro Takahashi, Makoto Mita, Hiroyuki Fujitaand 
Hiroshi Toshiyoshi, A high fill-factor comb-driven 
XY-stage with topological layer switch architecture, 
IEICE Electron. Express 3 (2006), 197-202 
[3] H. N. Kwon, J.-H. Lee, K. Takahashi, and H. 
Toshiyoshi, Micro XY Stages with Spider-leg Actuators 
for Two-dimensional Optical Scanning,” Sens. Actuator 
A-Phys. 130-131 (2006), 468–77  
[4] S. Kwon and L.P. Lee, Stacked Two Dimensional 
Micro-lens Scanner for Micro Confocal Imaging Array, 
Proc. IEEE MEMS '02 (2002), pp 483-6  
[5] Laszczyk, K.   Bargiel, S.   Gorecki, C.   Krezel, J., 
 12
[24] Legtenberg R, Groeneveld A W and Elwenspoek M, 
Comb-drive actuators for large displacements, J. 
Micromech. Microeng. 6 (1996), 320-9  
[25] D. Sachs, S. Nasiri, and D. Goehl: Image 
Stabilization Technology Overview  
[ http://www.invensense.com/shared/pdf/ImageStabilizatio
nWhitepaper_051606.pdf ]. 
[26] Chih-Chun Lee, Wen-Chih Chen, Sz-Yuan Lee and 
Weileun Fang, Design and Implementation of a novel 
polymer joint for thermal actuator current and thermal 
isolation, IEEE MEMS conference (2010), page.156-159. 
[27] L.Que, J.-S. Park, and Y.B. Gianchandani, 
Bent-Beam Electro-Thermal Actuators For High Force 
Applications, Journal of Micro Electro Mechanical 
Systems (1999), pp. 31-36.  
[28] Chun-Ying Lin, Jin-Chern Chiou, Design, Fabrication 
and Actuation of 4-axis Thermal Actuating Image 
Stabilizer, Micro & Nano Letters, Vol. 6, Iss. 7, (2011), pp. 
549–552 
 
 2
二、與會心得 
此會議為量測領域相當重要的大型國際會議，在準備報告的過程中，不論是服裝
儀容與外語能力，都在出發前多做準備，本人到會場報到時感受到會議人員的專業
與大會的用心，所有的資料都用個人的方式包裝，會議人員也都親切相待，會議期
間每天都有相當多場的口頭論文發表，我會選取對於個人相關研究有關或對其題目
有興趣的場次去聆聽，包含雷射控制、薄膜製作與感測器應用的場次。藉由發表者
的論文加強我感測技術領域知識與相當多的思考方向，由於先前準備充足發表過程
相當順利，發表後的五分鐘問答時間由主持人提出建議，對我的實驗相當有助益，
讓我覺得此次會議是趟非常值得的行程。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
 
四、建議 
參加此類國際知名大型研討會，不僅可以了解世界上相同領域的研究方向以及研究
深度之外，並且能提升研究水準與拓展國際視野，因此有志於長期研究的學者或是
研究生更應鼓勵多參與國際性的研討會，藉由和與會的學者互相討論也可以激發出
不錯的研究想法。所以，若能夠持續在經費上得到國科會的適當補助，對於研究學
者或是研究生將會有極大的幫助。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議摘要集一本：內容包含會議所有投稿之摘要 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一：微機電防手振平台之設計、製作與測試(3/3)
計畫主持人: 邱俊誠
計畫編號: 99-2220-E-009-002- 學門領域: 晶片科技計畫--整合型學術研究
計畫
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
