 II
中文摘要 
 
 
原子力顯微鏡(Atomic Force Microscope - AFM)最大的優點在於可以即時的以奈
米級的解析度觀測導電或非導電的樣品的三維結構。 
然應用於維持探針與樣品定原子力之控制系統為傳統之 PID 控制系統，由於機器之使
用者非一定具備自動控制理論之背景，因此如何適當的調整 PID 控制器之增益值以於掃圖
的過程中維持探針與樣品間固定之原子力作用，進而得到較佳的圖像品質，需經歷一段訓
練的過程。此外，當顯微鏡於實際樣品掃圖時，常常必須一再地調整回饋控制系統之增益
值，此種情況，往往使得新的顯微鏡使用者的訓練時間加長，正更嚴重的是新的顯微鏡使
用者也往往因為擷取不到較佳的樣品像，而加深了學習上的挫則感。因此一個智慧型的自
動探針定原子力回饋控制系統，用以動態的維持掃圖時探針與樣品間一個固定的原子力作
用是必須的。 
然衡諸國內外市面上所有的原子力顯微鏡，並無顯微鏡具備此一功能，幾乎所有的原
子力顯微鏡使用者，於掃圖的過程中都必須一再的以類比或數位式之方式調整 PI 控制器的
增益。 
如何提升顯微鏡自動化與人性化操控的程度，讓所有的使用者皆能快速的學會使用，
將會變成所有奈米顯微術的專家與研究人員們共同之課題與挑戰。於第一年度的計畫中吾
人希冀研發出一以模糊控制理論為根基之智慧型探針定原子力回饋控制器，藉由此一智慧
型控制器動態的調整控制器，以達成樣品與探針間定原子力作用之目標。而於次一年度的
計畫，則將著眼於將第一年度之計畫成果實際以硬體機械與電子系統實現，以實際驗證數
位化智慧型控制器相較於傳統 PID 控制器之優點與特性表現。再則，於第三年度的計畫，
研究之重心將著眼於整合敝實驗室多年來於奈米顯微技術的研究成果，經適當的軟體、電
子、與機械系統的最佳化與最適化設計，完整開發出一台”智慧型多功能原子力顯微鏡”，
提供給學術界與工業界使用。預期此一自行研發之奈米級顯微鏡將具備低價格、高性能、
多工作模式、智慧型操控介面等絕對性競爭優勢。 
 
關鍵詞：奈米, 原子力顯微鏡, 相位差, 壓電陶瓷管, 連續式類比高敏感度相位差偵測器。 
 
4 
 
INTRODUCTION: 
In 1986, Binnig, Quate, and Gerber invented the atomic force microscope (AFM) to investigate 
nano-scale surfaces of insulators in a noninvasive manner [1]. The techniques are especially good 
for examining local properties of materials for a wide range of material properties, including surface 
topology, surface and near surface friction, ferroelectric domain structure near surfaces, electric 
potential and impedance at surfaces and the atomic structure of crystals at surfaces [2-4]. 
One of the applications which receive more attentions recently of the AFM is the dynamic- 
mode AFM. In this operating mode, the cantilever is vibrated by an external sinusoidal input and its 
deflection is detected optically. The operation of a typical AFM is described as Fig. 1, which 
consists of a micro-cantilever with a sharp tip, a sample position system, a detection system, and a 
feedback control system. Generally, depends on the position of the tip relative to the sample, the tip 
will suffer from long range attractive force and short range repulsive force as seen in Fig. 2, hence 
is a highly nonlinear function of the deflection of the cantilever. Many experimental and theoretical 
studies have confirmed the existence of complex chaotic behavior under certain operating 
conditions [5-6]. 
In practical sample scanning, the probe with a sharp tip is disposed to face the surface of a 
sample through a safe approaching mechanism which moves the sample toward the tip step by step 
in nano-scale exploiting a precision stepping motor. The mechanism is achieved while a deflection 
of the cantilever oscillation amplitude is detected. This implies the existence a force interaction 
between the tip and the sample. Successively, the scanning of the sample will be operated under a 
constant force interaction between the tip and the sample. As the sample is moved laterally, the 
AFM scans the surface of the sample using the probe two-dimensionally. In the meantime, 
depending on the topography of the sample and hence the tip-sample distance, the amplitude of the 
microcantilever will changed accordingly and this subsequent change forms a basis for imaging the 
topography of the sample. A signal corresponding to the structure of the sample is detected from the 
probe by the detecting device optically. Usually, to maintain a constant tip-sample force interaction 
during lateral scanning of the sample, a feedback controller loop is exploited to regulate the first 
harmonic amplitude of the oscillating cantilever by moving the sample vertically relative to the 
cantilever. A piezoelectric scanner tube is typically employed to position the sample relative to the 
cantilever both in the lateral and the vertical direction. 
 In recent years, systems and control perspectives have significantly contributed to the analysis 
of dynamic-mode AFM and to the development of novel modes of imaging. Many control based 
methods have demonstrated considerable improvements for AFM imaging at higher speeds [7-11]. 
In [7], a feedback mechanism based on fuzzy logic has been applied to operate a combined atomic 
force microscope (AFM) / scanning tunneling microscope (STM), which is able to measure the 
resonance frequency shift of the cantilever-type spring and the mean tunneling current 
simultaneously. Later, by using the feedback linearization and the singular perturbation technique, a 
robust output high-gain feedback controller for the AFM under high data sampling rate is proposed 
6 
 
from the sample, the interaction force is minimal. Hence, according to Fig. 3, consider the vertical 
motion of the tip and the free cantilever, the equation of motion of the cantilever without tip-sample 
force interaction is  
),2cos()()()(
...
tfAtkztztzm ddeff     (1) 
where z(t) denotes the position of the tip at time t, and  are the effective mass, the 
damping coefficient of the cantilever motion, and the spring constant, respectively. The cantilever 
with sharp tip is excited through an actuator-piezo element with the excitation amplitude at a 
fixed frequency . Using Eq. (1), the eigenfrequency and the quality factor of the free cantilever 
are
eff
o m
kf
2
1
 and 

 oeff fmQ
2
 , respectively.  
Once the oscillating cantilever is move closer to a sample, the tip-sample force initiates. The 
cantilever starts experiencing relatively weak attractive forces and on further approach to the 
sample, the interaction force starts becoming repulsive in nature. Thus, in this condition Eq. (1) is 
modified as  
),2cos())(),(()()()(
....
tfAtztzFtkztztzm ddtseff     (2) 
where  is the nonlinear tip-sample interaction force [7] as seen in Fig. 2 which demonstrates a 
long range attractive force and short range repulsive force. Note that is a function of the 
absolute tip-sample separation. Note that the tip-sample interaction force, which usually performs 
highly nonlinear characteristics, is a source of uncertainties in AFM model and is one of the key 
problems to implement a reliable manipulation mission. Further, its properties rely heavily on 
tip-sample distance, tip geometry and sample material properties, operating environment. Mostly, a 
common force model for the interaction of an intermolecular pair is known as Lennard-Jones 
potential [11] which is  
                                         (3) 
which shows both attractive and repulsive terms. Parameter  in Eq. (3) depends on the distance 
between the tip as a manipulator and sample which is considered as uncertainty in our model. 
During sample scanning, electric voltages are applied between the inner and outer diameter 
of a thin-walled tube whose outside electrode is separated into four 90o segments as seen in Fig. 3. 
The tube is silvered inside and out and operates on the transversal piezo effect. Typically, the 
voltage signals subjecting to two opposite electrodes are with the same magnitude but are out of 
phase.  Hence, the applied voltages placing on opposing electrode will lead to bending of one end 
if the other end is clamped. The flex in the X and Y directions will move the sample laterally. 
Sample position is provided by the piezoelectric tube, which can position the sample in two lateral 
directions and one vertical direction. In general, when the sample translates horizontally relative to 
the tip, any change in the height of the surface causes the tip-sample force to change and hence the 
8 
 
of the considered plant to be controlled. Besides, the fuzzy logic shows advantages over traditional 
control techniques both in terms of robustness and ease in implementing the control rules. It is more 
beneficial when the considered processes are too complex to be analyzed by conventional 
quantitative analysis techniques or when the available information of system are interpreted 
qualitatively, inexactly, or contains modeling uncertainty. 
The block diagram of PD-like fuzzy logic controller is shown in Fig. 5, where G1, G2, and 
G3 are the gains of scaling factor. In this controller, the input variables are defined as the cantilever 
deflection error e(t) and the change of the cantilever deflection error e(t), which is de(t). The output 
is the controlled quantity U(t) which is used to dynamically adjust the applied voltage of the Z-axis 
to regulate the vertical position of the sample to achieve a constant tip-sample force interaction. 
With its nonlinear characters in essence, the fuzzy control performs well in all kinds of control systems 
and the fuzzy rules can be used to represent such a complex object. To achieve this, the fuzzy set is 
defined for the input error variable e(t), and the derived change in error from the previous error 
input, de(t), as well as the output U(t).  
The membership functions of the fuzzy controller, e(t), de(t) are defined on [-10, 10] as seen 
in Figs. 6 and 7. After the fuzzy input and output variables are ascertained, the definition of the 
membership function related to language variable should be done. The membership functions LP, SP, 
ZE, SN, and LN represent large positive, small positive, approximately zero, small negative, and 
large negative. This paper uses a triangular membership function to conduct the fuzzification. The 
inputs of SP and SN are asymmetric triangle membership functions. The others are symmetric 
triangles. The fuzzy controller is designed using T-S model [14]. It uses rules of the form: 
If e(t) is A and de(t) is B, then U(t) is f where f is a constant. 
Accordingly, rules of the PD-like fuzzy logic controller are shown in Table. 1. Then the control 
input is based on this table. The output of the fuzzy controller is a fuzzy subset. Only after it has 
been defuzzificated and converted to an accurate quantity, can it be used to control its object. 
Generally, there are three common defuzzification methods: (1) maximum membership degree 
method (2) weighted average method (3) median method. Fig. 8 shows the surface viewer of the 
fuzzy control rule. The simulation result is shown in Fig. 9. The resulting trace and retrace signals 
are shown in Fig. 9. It is seen that there is a significant improvement in imaging compared to the 
traditional proportional plus integral controller. 
The control effort is considered as a good measure of the sample surface profile. By adopting 
the controller developed here, the signals to be measured are the deflection of the cantilever. The 
adaptability and flexibility of the fuzzy controller system allows the tip to trace over individual 
atoms without damaging the surface. Despite that the topology of the surface is arbitrary and is not 
known a prior, the cantilever tip can succeed in tracking task subject to only very little error. The 
image quality of the sample can be improved. The continuous manual gain-scheduling as that in the 
traditional PI control system can be alleviated. 
 
10 
 
[6]. M. Ashhab, M.V. Salapaka, M. Dahleh, and I. Mezic, “Control of Chaos in Atomic Force 
Microscopes,” Proceedings of the 1997 American Control Conference, Albuquerque, New 
Mexico, June 1997, pp. 196-202. 
[7]. F. M. Battiston, M. Bammerlin, C. Loppacher, R. Luthi, E. Meyer, and H.-J. Guntherodt, 
“Fuzzy Controlled Feedback Applied to a Combined Scanning Tunneling and Force 
Microscope,” Applied Physics Letters, 72, 25(1998), pp. 25-27. 
[8]. S. H. Hsu and L. C. Fu, “Robust Output High-gain Feedback Controllers for the Atomic Force 
Microscope Under High Data Sampling Rate,” Proceedings of the 1999 International 
Conference on Control Applications, Vol. 2, Hawaii, USA, August 22-27, 1999, pp. 1626-1631. 
[9]. A. Sebastian, M. V. Salapaka, and J. P. Cleveland, “Robust Control Approach to Atomic Force 
Microscopy,” Proceedings of the 42nd IEEE Conference on Decision and Control, Maui, Hawaii 
USA, December 2003, pp. 3443-3445.  
[10]. R. Vazquez, F.-J. Rubio-Sierra, and R. W. Stark, “Transfer Function Analysis of a Surface 
Coupled Atomic Force Microscope Cantilever System,” Proceedings of the 2006 American 
Control Conference, Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA, June 14-16, 2006, pp. 532-537.  
[11].Y. Wu, Q. Zou, and C. Su, “A Current Cycle Feedback Iterative Learning Control Approach to 
AFM Imaging,” Proceedings of the 2008 American Control Conference , Seattle, Washington, 
USA, June 11-13, 2008, pp2040-2045. 
[12]. A. Sebastian, A. Gannepalli, and M. V. Salapaka, ”A Review of the Systems Approach to the 
Analysis of Dynamic-Mode Atomic Force Microscopy,”, IEEE Trans. on Control Systems 
Technology, Vol. 15, No. 5, 2007, pp. 952-959. 
[13]. L. X. Wang, “A Course in Fuzzy Systems and Control,” Prentice Hall, PTR, 1997. 
[14].P. Pivonka, “Comparative Analysis of Fuzzy PI/PD/PID Controller Based on Classical PID 
Controller Approach,” Fuzzy Systems, FUZZY-IEEE’02, 2002. 
[15]. R. K. Mudi and N. K. Pal, “A Self-tuning Fuzzy PI Controller,” Fuzzy Set Systems, Vol. 115, 
No. 2, pp. 327-328,2000. 
[16]. Y. Zhao and E. G. Collins, “Fuzzy PI Control Design for an Industrial Weigh Belt Feeder,” 
Fuzzy systems, Vol. 1, No.3, JUNE 2003. 
 
12 
 
 
Fig. 3 The microcantilever deflection detection system of the microcantilever
14 
 
 
Fig. 6 The membership function plots of e(t). 
 
 
 
Fig. 7 The membership function plots of de(t). 
 
