 2 
Some of our laboratory members had cooperated with the industrial engineers of the cooperative 
company for at least one year. Actually, we still discuss some further cooperative opportunities from IC 
industry field to pharmacy industry field. Inside this project planning, we include one full-time master-degree 
research assistant (RA), one full-time college-degree RA, and two part-time college students. At last, we had 
helped cooperative company to hire and train all of the RAs the required image processing knowledge within 
the project execution period. At last, the full-time master-degree RA (Mr. H. M. Hsieh) had entered the 
cooperative company for further working. On the other hand, the full-time college-degree RA (Miss S. C. 
Hsiao) had resigned and entered another private organization in the mid-term of this project. Subsequently, we 
hired another corresponding RA (Miss F. Y. Ke) to act and execute the relate tasks. That is, we had trained two 
full-time college-degree RAs with related knowledge within our project execution period. Two of our 
part-time college students (Mr. P. Y. Yao and Mr. F. B. Hsieh) had well trained and still study in our university. 
Up to the engineers of cooperative company, we as well trained related knowledge for at least four engineers 
such as Manager H. W. Chia, Mr. T. M. Sun, Mr. S. J. Lin, and Mr. K. C. Hwang. 
 
技術研發成果說明： 
 
P. H. Cheng, W. L. Lee, C. H. Kuo, H. W. Chia, M. H. Hsieh, and T. M. Sun, "A Convex Hull Image 
Recognition and Its Industrial Application: Discriminate the Abnormally Electroplated and Bended Contact 
Pins," the 4th IEEE International Conference on Intelligent Information Technology Application (IITA2010), 
Qinhuangdao, China, Nov. 5-7, 2010, pp. 297-300. 【EI】 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
The integrated circuits (ICs) contact pin manufacturing is a rather mature industrial process. However, 
the quality control testing mainly depends on manual and eye detection. It consumes a huge of manpower. 
Based on the impact of the quality of the integrated circuits (ICs) contact pins, an enhanced real-time 
automatic detection methodology with low cost video equipment is necessary in order to reduce errors and 
omissions caused by the loss of the manual detection. Byrne and Sheahan [1] as well proposed their three 
methods to assist factory to solve the surface quality detection and inspection for electroplating. 
The online ICs contact pins detection system in industry through developing IC pins of real-time video 
detection system to check such as area-scanning, the products with the differences in sample selection is 
rather mandatory in the electroplating factory for enhancing efficiency, reducing costs, increasing customer 
satisfaction, and enhancing the objectives of industrial competitiveness. For example, the normal IC contact 
pins before electroplating is shown in Fig. 1. A horizontal abnormal bended pin pair is at the third pin pair 
 4 
A. Required Methods 
Our research team utilizes and integrates techniques including edge detection [2][3], convex hull 
computation [4][8] and the least squares method [5] in the proposed solution. The edge detection aims at 
identifying points in the digital image at which the image brightness changes sharply or more formally has 
discontinuities. On the other hand, the convex hull computation means that a non-ambiguous and efficient 
representation of the required convex shape is constructed as in (1) where          . That is, P is a set of 
points and      
 
   . 
          
 
     
B. Facilities 
In order to solve our research problem, the hardware facilities include 1394 color-level CCD with 1024 x 
768 pixels. On the other hand, we as well utilize two popular image processing libraries, OpenCV [7] and 
Matrox Imaging Library (MIL), to generate our prototypes. After confirmed the minimum requirements by 
our electroplating factory, we schedule a programming team to develop the secure and self-sourced codes by 
using the Microsoft Visual C#.NET 2008 Express Edition. 
C. Image Processing Procedure 
Our development team proposes an image processing procedure to detect the horizontal abnormal bended 
IC contact pins. Meanwhile, the vertical abnormal bended detection could use the similar procedure to achieve 
the same goal. Fig. 4 shows the flowchart for image processing based our methodology with three phases: 
alignment phase, reference phase, and detection phase. Each phase includes four, six and four steps, 
respectively. 
The first phase is alignment phase which includes four fundamental steps. That is, we try to use edge 
detection method to find the bottom line of the targeted IC contact pins. In step two, we obtain the slope of the 
bottom line. Thirdly, we refer to this slope and compute the required rotate angle. Subsequently, we can rotate 
the targeted image with normalization. 
Reference phase as well includes six steps. We let users circle specific pin pair and set the referred point. 
Then system computes the referred angle and executes the edge detection for IC contact pins. At last, the 
convex hull, the slope and distance will be calculated. Finally, detection phase contains four tiny steps. We can 
define a reasonable threshold to detect the abnormal bended IC contact pins [6]. 
 
 6 
 
 
Figure 8.  Normalized rotation process. 
Inside the first step of our second phase, we let users circle a specific pin pair which is shown in Fig. 9. 
In Fig. 10(a), in order to compute the changing angle, our system let users setup the corresponding referred 
points which is based on the specific pin pair. 
 
 
Figure 9.  Circle specific pin pair. 
 
 
Figure 10.  (a) Setup referred points; (b) compute slope and distance for vertex; (c) template for single IC 
contact pin. 
Then we use edge detection again to find out the edge of the IC contact pins shown in Fig. 11. 
Subsequently, we execute two dimension convex hull computations with ten fixed points as in (1) to obtain 
the external coordinates of specific IC contact pin pair shown in Fig. 12. 
 
Figure 11.  Draw the edge with edge detection method. 
  
 
           
(a)          (b)          (c) 
 
 
 8 
 
Figure 15.  Electroplated silver detection with NAND operation. 
IV. DISCUSSION 
Normally, there are some research methods that we can adopt and utilize them to solve our problem. 
However, some of them are not realizable and acceptable for our users and customers. Some issues about the 
proposed method are discussed as follows. Intuitionally, each pair of IC contact pins has the same contour that 
we might utilize its shape to detect the other ones. For example, the single IC contact pin template is shown in 
Fig. 10(c). 
Then computer remembers the template image and try to recognize the following pins one by one which 
is shown in Fig. 16. That is, each pair of pins can be recognized by our system under a given similarity ratio. 
For example, the similarity ratio from left to right in Fig. 16 is 96%, 98%, 98%, 98%, 99%, 99%, respectively. 
At last, users can define the acceptance threshold value to detect the abnormal bended pins pair based on their 
own requirements. 
 
 
Figure 16.  Recognition by template matching with similarity ratio. 
 
However, such an intuitional method is not flexible and suitable for the real status of the electroplating 
factory. That is, the original IC contact pins were stamped by stamping machine. They might be slightly left or 
right bended a little angle in advance. Therefore, the system should supply a prior threshold range for 
compensation to recognize such a bended status. If the slight bended angle is under a reasonable threshold, 
then it is also acceptable for later electroplating process. Anyhow, the shape bended status irregularly is 
depended on its bended angle, it is quite difficult for system to use template to recognize the bended status. 
Also, a real challenge will occur for our future research. 
V. CONCLUSION 
We propose an efficient image processing methodology to discriminate the abnormal bended pins with a 
color camera. Such an effective development of dynamic color-scale image detection processing and its 
application enables our online detection system possible in the electroplating factory. The proposed the 
 
 
 10 
2. 健康產業：居家照護之動態影像看護、老人跌倒辨識、長期臥病翻身警示等。 
3. 醫療業：醫療影像檢測等。 
4. 機器人產業：機器人視覺辨識等。 
5. 保全業：動態保全影像辨識、即時保全警示服務等。 
6. 國防工業：動態敵蹤即時辨識等。 
7. 遊戲娛樂產業：影像辨識類遊戲等。 
 
推廣及運用的價值：如增加產值、增加附加價值或營利、增加投資/設廠、增加就業人
數等。 
 Obviously, our research outcomes can be production or customized for several industrial utilization. 
Because most of the electroplating factories had moved from Taiwan to other countries for low cost issues, 
our products should be well packed with appropriate modules in order to fit all of these foreign factories 
utilization. We analyze and estimate our product can be sold for at least two million NT dollars per package. It 
will be one of our challenges for further sell and deploy our research outcomes to these foreign factories in the 
near future. Meanwhile, the supporting lines for our project will be another important issue. However, it is 
quite plus that the market is existed as well as the well trained engineers are required for related industry. On 
the other hand, we had aroused some feasible ideas from this industry-college cooperative project and had 
proposed two patent applications for healthcare services at the end of this year in Taiwan. 
 
※ 備註：依規定，精簡報告係可供國科會立即公開之資料，並以 4 至 10 頁為原則，如
有圖片或照片請以附加檔案上傳，如因涉及專利、技術移轉案或其他智慧財
產權、影響公序良俗或政治社會安定等，而不宜對外公開者，請勿將其列入
精簡報告；原則上本會將公開精簡報告，完整報告原則上不予公開。 
 
98 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鄭伯壎 計畫編號：98-2622-E-017-003-CC2 
計畫名稱：導線架針腳電鍍動態影像即時檢測之研發 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 0%  
研究報告/技術報告 3 3 100% 
評估報告文件，系
統規劃文件，測試
報告文件，成果精
簡報告，期末成果
報告等 
研討會論文 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 0%   
申請中件數 0 1 100% 
國內專利申請正
在撰寫中, 預計
近期內確認後申
請 
專利 
已獲得件數 0 0 0% 
件 
 
件數 0 0 0% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 0% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 0%  
博士生 0 0 0%  
博士後研究員 0 0 0%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 3 3 100% 
人次 
謝銘鴻, 蕭士璇, 
柯妃宴 
期刊論文 0 1 33% 
國外SCI期刊論文
正在撰寫中, 預
計近期內投稿 
國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 0% 
篇 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
