2 
metallic parallel plates
3D fishnet metamaterial
(a)
(b)
z
yx
(c)
1.9 mm
2.2 mm
12 mm
9 mm
metal strip
(d)
Fig. 1. Structure configuration: (a) metamaterial inside metallic parallel
plates, (b) photo of the 3D fishnet metamaterial, (c) unit cell of the metama-
terial, and (d) front view of the fishnet structure.
dielectric constant 3.55 and thickness 0.508mm using photo
lithography and chemical etching process. The dimensions
of the metal strip were attached in the figure. Notice that
the same pattern was printed on both sides of the dielectric
substrate. The metallic parallel plates are made by aluminum
with thickness 1.6mm. The distance between the parallel plates
is denoted as h (12.8mm). Moreover, a line source made from
a coaxial probe was placed in the center of the metamaterial
as an excitation source.
III. CHARACTERIZATION OF THE METAMATERIAL
A. Phase Relation
As far as a periodic medium is concerned, the dispersion
(or phase) relation of the eigen-wave supported in the medium
is an important issue to be studied in detail. Returning to the
unit cell of the metamaterial shown in Fig. 1(c), the top and
bottom surfaces of the unit cell are perfect electric conductors.
Since the metamaterial is regarded as an infinite 2D periodic
structure, from the Floquet-Bloch theory the phase differences
along the x and y directions are kxdx and kydy , respectively.
After specifying the boundary conditions on the unit cell,
we are able to solve the eigen-value problem of the closed
structure using finite-element method. Notice that the eigen-
value (frequency) obtained corresponds to a propagating mode
subject to given phase constants kx and ky . After iterating
the phase constants kx and ky , we could determine the phase
relation (the relationship among frequency, kx and ky). Figure
2 shows the contour map of the phase relation, the horizontal
and vertical axes respectively represent the phase constants (kx
and ky) along the x- and y-axis, in the unit of 1/meter. Because
of the symmetry in the unit cell along the x- and y-axis,
the phase relation also preserves the symmetry. The circles
in colored lines with smaller radius are the phase relation of
wave in the metamaterial calculated from 7.2 GHz to 8.0 GHz
with 0.2 GHz step, while the circles with larger radius (ko)
are those in the air for reference. Apparently, the neff of the
wave in the metamaterial is much smaller than that in the air.
Notice that below 7 GHz no real frequency was found, it is
due to the cutoff phenomenon (plasma-like property) of this
structure.
7.2
7.2
7
.4
7.4
7.4
7
.6
7.6
7.6
7.
8
7.8
7
.8
7.8
8
8
8
8
kx
k y
—
7.2GHz
—
7.4GHz
—
7.6GHz
—
7.8GHz
—
8.0GHz
-200 -150 -100 -50 0 50 100 150 200
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
8
8k y
Fig. 2. Phase relation of waves propagating in the metamaterial.
The phase relation given above reveals an important infor-
mation concerning the propagation of wave at the interface
between the metamaterial medium and air. For easy interpre-
tation, we assumed that the metamaterial medium and air have
the refractive index neff and 1.0, respectively. The incident
and transmitted angles in the metamaterial medium and air are
4(a)
(b)
(c)
Fig. 4. Electric-field strength in the structure with metamaterial (a), and
without metamaterial (b); Poynting vector distribution in the structure with
metamaterial (c); all the results were evaluated at 7.5 GHz.
C. Radiation Characteristics
In the next example, we demonstrate the spatial power-
splitting characteristic of the original structure equipped with
flared opening on each of the four output ports, as shown in
Fig. 5(a) and 5(b). The radiating far-field patterns along the
X-Y and X-Z plane were measured in an anechoic chamber
using a vector network analyzer (HP 8722D) and standard horn
antennas. In this design, the flared opening was employed to
enhance the directivity of the original structure. As is well
known in microwave and millimeter wave engineering, the E-
plane horn antenna uses a flared opening to taper its dominant
waveguide mode from the waveguide end to a large opening
while maintaining its field uniformity. Here, the same design
was utilized to obtain a uniform electric-field distribution on
the flared opening.
(a)
z
x y
(b)
Fig. 5. The top view (a) and side view (b) of the spatial beam-splitting
structure.
Figure 6 depicts the reflection coefficient against frequency
of the structure shown in Fig. 5(b). The vertical- and
horizontal- axis individually represents the reflection coeffi-
cient (in dB) and frequency (in GHz). The line in blue- and
red- color is the measured and calculated result, respectively.
From this figure, it is obvious to see that the impedance
bandwidth is around 0.2 GHz with VSWR less than 2.
As mentioned previously, the structure under consideration
can be employed as a spatial beam splitter. As far as a beam
splitter is concerned, the beam pattern should be an important
issue to be studied. In the next example, we carry out the
numerical simulation for determining the far-field radiation
pattern. Specifically, the measured pattern was also plotted
for verifying the design concept. As shown in Figs. 7,
the red- and blue- color curve represents the measured and
simulated pattern, respectively. Figures (a), (c) and (e) are
those for X-Y plane, while (b), (d) and (f) are for X-Z
plane. The operational frequency and antenna gain (in dBi)
were attached in respective figure. Notice that because of the
smaller dimension along the flared-openning direction than
the width along x− (or y−) axis the beam pattern has wide
beam-width along the X-Z plane. From these figures, we
may conclude that the four cone-type beam patterns indeed
can serve as a spatial beam splitter to distribute the input
power to four axes. Significantly, the excellent agreement
between the numerical and measured results again confirm
the near-zero-index property of the metamaterial utilized in
this research. Although not shown in the figures, we have
measured the cross-polarization patterns and found that they
are much smaller than those of co-polarization.
IV. CONCLUSION
In this paper, an artificial medium based on the 3D fishnet
structure was developed. Using the effective medium ap-
proach, we regarded the 2D periodic structure as a homo-
geneous medium and extracted its effective parameters such
as the permittivity, permeability, refractive index and wave
impedance. Interestingly, we find that the medium possesses
出席國際會議心得報告  
 
研討會名稱與地點︰2010 Asia-Pacific International Symposium on 
Electromagnetic Compatibi l i ty,  Beij ing, China, Apri l  12-16  
 
感謝在國科會專題研究計畫的補助下參加2010年在中國北京所舉辦的泛
太平洋國際電磁相容研討會。很榮幸在大會的邀請下擔任該會之
Technical Program Committee委員並且擔任Special Session之主席。本次
會議中，我所發表的論文題目為”Cross-talk suppression using the 
substrate-integrated waveguide with moats”，基板整合波導(substrate 
integrated waveguide)之傳播特性與傳統金屬導波管(metall ic waveguide)
相似，然而由於其輕薄短小且易於與主動元件結合之特點，近年來已經
逐漸被廣泛使用於毫米波電路與天線系統，具有相當高之系統整合度，
然而也由於其高整合度，substrate integrated waveguides之間的電磁干擾
問題也變成影響系統特性之關鍵因素。本次所發表的論文除了精確分析
產生電磁干擾的物理機制外，並且提出Fabry-Perot resonator的新觀點成
功得解釋電磁耦合原因。重要得是我們利用自行研發之新型substrate 
integrated waveguide with moats outside the via-hole arrays，獲得相當
好的隔離效果，大幅降低波導間之電磁耦合與干擾。 
電磁相容的研究在亞洲逐漸受到重視，過去電磁相容問題在業界大都是
靠著“老師傅“的經驗傳承，缺乏系統性分析，因此對於目前多層印刷
電路板(multi layer printed circuit board)結構可說是束手無策。這次研討
會中，針對印刷電路板系統之電磁干擾問題亦有special session來介紹目
前所使用的各種電磁數值方法在此一問題上之解決方法，個人認為此類
電磁邊界問題太過複雜，欲獲得與實驗一致的結果似乎不可行，因此在
此一領域的研究上還有相當大的發展空間。 
 
 
Regarding the theoretical investigation relating the guided‐wave and leaky‐wave characteristics  of  the  SIW,  various  numerical  method,  such  as  the  finite‐difference frequency‐domain method [ ], generalized multipole technique [ ], and numerical  multimode  calibration  procedure  incorporating  the  finite‐element method  [  ], were developed.  In  addition  to  the  rigorous  full‐wave  analysis,  the empirical  formula  for  practically  design  the  SIW  was  also  developed.  As  was indicated in [], the via‐hole array is equivalent to a solid metal wall as the ratio of pitch width to via‐hole radius  is smaller than 4 and that of waveguide width to via‐hole radius is greater than 8.  In addition to the commonly used SIW, a new type of SIW by adding moat (slit) outside  the  via‐hole  array  [JEMWA]  was  developed.  From  the  measured scattering  parameters  and  calculated  dispersion  relation,  it  is  apparent  to  see that the new structure can maintain an excellent guiding characteristic but using a sparser via‐hole array compared with the conventionally used one. Besides, the cutoff frequency can be reduced to broaden its operational bandwidth. Incidentally, since numerous microwave and millimeter‐wave components, such as  filter, resonator, multiplexer, and even slotted antennas, have been designed based  on  the  SIW,  the  integration  of  SIW‐based  components  and  circuit  in  a printed  circuit  board  becomes  an  option  for  microwave  circuit  and  system. However,  as  far  as  the  integration  is  concerned,  the  electromagnetic  coupling between  lines  in  close  proximity  shall  be  a  problem.  To  evaluate  the electromagnetic coupling between SIWs, the two parallel and identical SIWs (like a coupler) were implemented on a printed circuit board to measure its coupling coefficient. It is interesting to observe that the resonance coupling occurs in the structure  and,  moreover,  the  coupling  strength  does  not  decrease  as  the separation distance between the two SIWs increases. As will become clear later on,  the  region  bounded  by  the  two  SIWs  can  be  regarded  as  a  Fabry‐Perot resonator for contributing the resonance coupling.   
Structure configuration  Figure 1 depicts the structure configuration to be analyzed and measured in this research.  As  shown  in  this  figure,  two  adjacent  and  co‐parallel  SIWs  were fabricated  in  a microwave  dielectric  substrate  RO4003 with  relative  dielectric constant  3.55.  Each  of  the  SIWs  was  fed  by  a  micro‐strip  line  with  tapering transitions  at  its  both  ends.  The  via‐hole  radius,  pitch width  between  adjacent via‐hole, moat width, and channel width of the waveguide are denoted by r, p, w and a, respectively. Parameter d represents the separation distance between the two SIWs.   
Electromagnetic  coupling  between  SIWs  and  a  strategy  for  crosstalk 
reduction From  the  results  reported  in  [1],  we  may  clearly  observe  that  the  moats  can further  suppress  the  electromagnetic‐wave  leakage  from  the  via‐hole  array. Intuitively,  such  a  new  waveguide  may  mitigate  the  electromagnetic  wave coupling between two adjacent and co‐parallel waveguides.  In  the  following  example,  we  fabricated  two  SIW  circuits  with  and  without moats, respectively, shown in Fig. 1. Each of which contains two SIWs separated by  the  same  distance d.  The  structure  parameters were  attached  in  the  figure caption for easy reference. It is noted that the pitch width in the two cases both 
In this paper, we numerically and experimentally examined the electromagnetic coupling between two SIWs that are close to each other. It is interesting to find that  the coupling  is  considerable even  the via‐hole  is dense enough. Through a systematical investigation in the electric field distribution, we may conclude that such  a  coupling  is  caused  by  the  excitation  of  resonant  modes  in  the  cavity between the two SIWs. In addition to the demonstration for the electromagnetic coupling taking place in conventionally used SIWs, we also provide a strategy for suppressing  the  coupling  by  adding  moats  outside  the  via‐hole  array.  The excellent  performance  in  preventing  the  wave  leakage  from  the  waveguide effectively removes the path of electromagnetic interference. 
 Invited Talk on the topic “Wave Propagating Characteristics in a Substrate Integrated Waveguide with Moats” Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, Ritsumeikan University, Kusatsu, Japan, November 10, 2009   
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃瑞彬 計畫編號：98-2221-E-009-038- 
計畫名稱：人造電磁材料之特性分析與應用研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 1 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
