 2
中文摘要 
 
目前，覆晶（flip-chip）封裝技術已經成為高階電子元件封裝的最佳選擇。由於銲點的
尺寸變小，屆時通過銲點的電流密度(current density)可能高達 104 A/cm2以上。在此電流密
度下，電遷移(electromigration)效應對銲點可靠度之影響將變的相當重要。在目前發表的失
效機制中，皆是在銲點晶片端之電子流入口處，電遷移導致的孔洞（void）迅速生成，對
銲點可靠度造成影響。事實上，此區域除了銲料外還包含了一相當薄的UBM（under bump 
metallization）層，在銲點的可靠度中亦扮演相當重要的角色。本研究目的即在探討電遷移
效應對Ni UBM消耗及銲點失效機制兩者間的相互影響。實驗結果發現，晶片端靠近電子流
入口端處，局部Ni UBM被加速消耗。當局部的Ni UBM被消耗殆盡後，接著一多孔狀結構
在原來Ni UBM位置形成，因此電子流無法繼續通過此處。本實驗發現Ni UBM消耗主導了
銲點失效的機制即失效時間。因此擁有較厚的Ni UBM的覆晶銲點，有較長的通電壽命。 
目前本研究計畫已直接產出 19 篇國外期刊論文[1-19]，及 14 篇國內外會議論文發表
[20-33]，成果豐碩。另外參與本計畫之博士生林彥良並獲得中央大學 2005 校長獎學金。 
 
關鍵字：電遷移、覆晶封裝、銲點、UBM 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4
一、 前言 
近幾年來，覆晶（flip-chip）封裝技術已經成為高階電子元件封裝的最佳選擇。〝覆晶
封裝〞其名乃是一種藉由翻轉晶片並以錫球直接與基板作連接的方法而來。因此 I/O 可以
分布在整各晶片的表面，藉由此特性晶片尺寸可以大幅縮小。 
然而，隨著元件尺寸的縮小，銲點的尺寸跟著變小。由於流經銲點的電流不變，因此
銲點中的電流密度將快速增加，而電遷移所導致的銲點失效將成為銲點可靠度重要的考量
[34-37]。在覆晶封裝的元件中，電流密度在導電線路中並非均勻分布。電子流由內導線流
入銲點時，電流密度將由高電流密度轉變為低電流密度。如此的電流密度轉變導致電子流
入口處產生嚴重的 current crowding 現象。此一現象將在覆晶銲點的失效機制中相當重要並
且決定了失效機制 [9-15, 36]。根據文獻的報導， current crowding 效應所導致失效的機制
目前有兩種。其中一個機制為孔洞的生成與發展機制[36]。另一個機制則是導致 Cu UBM
的快速 dissolution 造成銲點失效[12-15]。一般而言，與銲料反應時 Ni 抵抗 dissolution 能力
較 Cu 為佳。然而，覆晶銲點中 UBM 所使用的 Ni 膜通常小於 1 m　 ，因此，Ni UBM 的消
耗仍然是可靠度重要的考量之一。此外，銲點中的 current crowding 效應也可能加快局部的
Ni UBM 消耗。 
 
二、研究目的 
一般而言 Ni 抵抗 dissolution 的能力較 Cu 為佳，但是對於生長較厚的 Ni thin film，有
其實際的困難，其主要的原因是 sputtered 或是 evaporated Ni 有極高的內應力，且內應力會
隨膜厚快速增加，造成 Ni 膜脫落。但無論如何，業界均希望以最薄的 Ni 膜達成可靠度的
要求。因此，本年度的研究目標是了解復經銲點通電時，Ni 層抵抗 UBM dissolution 的能
力。進而了解 Ni 可行之最薄厚度。本年度之目標若能順利達到，將可提供工業界極其有用
的實際資訊。 
 
三、研究方法 
本實驗所使用之 die 及 substrate 上的線路基本上是所謂 daisy chain 設計，有許多可供
外接電阻量測的引線，以監看線路電阻隨時間的變化。銲點的結構示意圖如圖 1 所示。晶
片端的 Al 內導線寬度為 60 μm，厚度為 1μm。晶片端之 UBM 為 Cu/Ni(V)/Al 三層。其中
Cu 與 Ni 層皆為 sputter-deposited。Cu 層厚度為 0.8 μμ。本實驗中，為了探討不同的 Ni UBM 
厚度與銲點失效機制與時間的關係，使用三種 Ni(V) UBM 厚度分別為 0.3，0.5，0.8μm。
而晶片端開孔的直徑為 90 μm。基板端所使用的表面處理層為 Au(0.1 μm)/Ni(5μm)表面處理
層。覆晶銲點的銲料為共晶的鉛錫，銲點直徑為 125 μm。 
當電遷移測試時，試片放置於 150°C恆溫的烘箱中，通以定電流 0.32A。因此，銲點在
開口處的電流密度為 5x103 A/cm2。為了觀察UBM消耗與銲點內微結構的變化，每隔一段通
電時間即取出數個試片，經過拋光後利用FE-SEM（ field-emission scanning electron 
microscope）檢驗。並且利用EPMA（electron probe X-ray microanalyzer）進一步分析介金
屬的成分與種類。而每種Ni UBM厚度的平均失效時間 (Mean-Time-To-Failure, MTTF)數據
皆是由 22 個覆晶試片置於 150°C恆溫的烘箱通以 0.32A下的失效時間之所求得。因此，本
實驗所的銲點的MTTF數值有相當高的可信度。 
 
 6
六、計畫成果自評 
在此為期三年的總計畫中，我們已順利達成本年度預期進度。目前本研究計畫已直接
產出 19 篇國外期刊論文[1-19]，及 14 篇國內外會議論文發表[20-33]，成果豐碩。另外參
與本計畫之博士生林彥良並獲得中央大學 2005 校長獎學金。 
且計畫主持人榮膺擔任多場國外相關研討會主持人工作[38-61]，並獲國際知名期刊
Journal of materials Research 聘為 principle editor，並數次擔任 Journal of Electronic Materials
之 guest editor 工作。本研究在所有成員努力不懈投入研究工作下，獲得令人振奮之研究成
果。並已在學術舞台建立國際知名度。 
 
七、參考文獻 
1. Y. L. Lin, Yi-Shao Lai, Y. W. Lin, and C. R. Kao, “Effect of UBM thickness on the 
mean-time-to-failure of flip chip solder joints under electromigration,” Journal of Electronic 
Materials, 37, p.96, 2008. 
2. J. R. Huang, C. M. Tsai, Y. W. Lin, and C. R. Kao, “Pronounced electromigration of Cu in 
molten Sn3.5Ag alloy,” Journal of Materials Research, 23, p.250, 2008. 
3. Y. W. Lin, Yi-Shao Lai, Y. L. Lin, C. T. Tu, and C. R. Kao, “Tin whisker growth induced by 
high electron current density,” Journal of Electronic Materials, 37, p.17, 2008 
4. C. W. Chang, S. C. Yang, Chun-Te Tu, and C. R. Kao, “Cross-interaction between Ni and Cu 
across Sn layers with different thickness,” Journal of Electronic Materials, 36, p.1455, 2007. 
5. S. C. Yang, C. E. Ho, C. W. Chang, and C. R. Kao, “Massive Spalling of Intermetallic in 
Solder-Substrate Reactions due to limited Supply of the Active Element,” Journal of Applied 
Physics, 101, 084911, 2007 
6. (Invited Review Article) C. E. Ho, S. C. Yang, and C. R. Kao, “Interfacial reaction issues for 
lead-free electronic solders,” Journal of Materials Science – Materials in Electronics, 18, 
p.155, 2007. 
7. C. E. Ho, Y. W. Lin, S. C. Yang, C. R. Kao, and D. S. Jiang, “The effect of limited Cu supply 
on the soldering reactions between SnAgCu and Ni,” Journal of Electronic Materials, 35, 
p.1017, 2006. 
8. C. W. Chang, Q. P. Lee, C. E. Ho, and C. R. Kao, “Cross-interaction between Au and Cu in 
Au/Sn/Cu ternary diffusion couples,” Journal of Electronic Materials, 35, p.366, 2006. 
9. Y. L. Lin, Yi-Shao Lai, C. M. Tsai, and C. R. Kao, “Effect of surface finish on the failure 
mechanisms of flip-chip solder joints under electromigration,” Journal of Electronic 
Materials, 35, p.2147, 2006. 
10. Y. L. Lin, C. W. Chang, C. M. Tsai, C. W. Lee, and C. R. Kao, “Electromigration-induced 
UBM consumption and the resulting failure mechanisms in flip chip solder joints,” Journal of 
Electronic Materials, 35, p.1010, 2006. 
11. C. M. Tsai, Yi-Shao Lai, Y, L. Lin, C. W. Chang, and C. R. Kao “In-Situ observation of 
material migration in flip-chip solder joints under current stressing,” Journal of Electronic 
Materials, 35, p.1781, 2006. 
12. C. M. Tsai, Y. L. Lin, J. Y. Tsai, Y. S. Lai, and C. R. Kao, “Local melting induced by 
electromigration in flip-chip solder joints,” Journal of Electronic Materials, 35, p.1005, 
 8
29. 謝育忠，高振宏，＂電遷移效應對銅/錫/銅線路結構影響之研究,＂ 中國材料學會 2004
年會論文集, PB1-30, 2004. 
30. C. M. Tsai and C. R. Kao，”Electromigration induced local melting in flip-chip solder joints,” 
中國材料學會 2004 年會論文集, PB1-36, 2004. 
31. Y. H. Lin, Y. C. Hu, C. M. Tsai, and C. R. Kao, “New electromigration failure mode in flip 
chip solder joints,” Proceeding of the 2003 SMTA International Conference, Chicago, p.312, 
2003. 
32. 胡應強，林永河，蔡家銘，高振宏，” Electromigration and Thermomigration Phenomena in 
Interconnect,”中國材料學會 2003 年會論文集, PM-14, 2003. 
33. 謝育忠，王祥文，蔡瑞云，高振宏，”電遷移效應對純錫線路結構影響之研究,”中國材料
學會 2003 年會論文集, PM-27, 2003. 
34. S. Brandenberg and S. Yeh, Proceedings of the 1998 Surface Mount International Conference 
and Exhibition (SMTA, Edina, MN, 1998), p.337. 
35. E. C. C. Yeh, W. J. Choi, K. N. Tu, P. Elenius, and H. Balkan, Appl. Phys. Letts. 80, 580 
(2002). 
36. W. J. Choi, E. C. C. Yeh, and K. N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys. 94, 5665 (2003). 
37. K. N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys., 94, 5451 (2003). 
38. Session Chair for the symposium: “Pb-Free Electronic Solders: Alloy Design, 
Characterization and Service Reliability,” at The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society 2007 
Annual Meeting, Orlando, FL, February 25 – March 1, 2007. 
39. Session Chair for the symposium: “Advanced Electronic Packaging Symposium,” at 
Materials Research Society Fall Meeting, Boston, MA, November 27 – December 1, 2006. 
40. Discussion Leader, Gordon Research Conference on High Temperature Materials, Colby 
College, Maine, July 16-21, 2006. 
41. Session Chair for the symposium: “Phase Stability, Phase Transformations & Reactive Phase 
Formation in Electronic Materials V,” at The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society 2006 
Annual Meeting, San Antonio, TX, March 12-16, 2006. 
42. Session Chair for the symposium: “Lead- Free Solder Implementation: Reliability, Alloy 
Development, and New Technology,” at The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society 2006 
Annual Meeting, San Antonio, TX, March 12-16, 2006. 
43. Seminar, “Three Interesting Materials Interaction Problems in Advanced Electronic 
Packages,” presented at The Intel Technology Forum, a worldwide seminar series 
(broadcasted over worldwide Intel sites), December 2, 2005. 
44. Session Chair for the symposium: “Current Topic in Electronic Packaging: Pb-Free Solders, 
Thermal Management,” at Materials Science & Technology 2005 Conference, Pittsburgh, 
PA, September 25-28, 2005. 
45. Session Chair for the symposium: “10th International Symposium and Exhibition on 
Advanced Packaging Materials: Processes, Properties and Interface,” IEEE, Irvine, CA 
(Beckman Center of the National Academies in Irvine), March 16-18, 2005. 
46. Session Chair for the symposium: “Phase Stability, Phase Transformations & Reactive Phase 
Formation in Electronic Materials IV,” at The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society 2005 
Annual Meeting, San Francisco, CA, February 13-17, 2005. 
附圖 
 
 
 
圖 1、本實驗所使用之銲點剖面結構示意圖。 
 
 
 
圖 2、在 5×103 A/cm2 、150℃下通電，不同通電時間之銲點微結構(a) 150，(b) 300，(c) 400，
與(d) 420 小時。 
 
 
 10
Effect of UBM Thickness on the Mean Time to Failure
of Flip-Chip Solder Joints under Electromigration
Y.L. LIN,1 Y.S. LAI,2 Y.W. LIN,3 and C.R. KAO3,4
1.—Department of Chemical & Materials Engineering, National Central University, Jhongli
City, Taiwan. 2.—Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Kaohsiung City, Taiwan.
3.—Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei,
Taiwan. 4.—e-mail: crkao@ntu.edu.tw
Flip-chip solder joints with Cu/Ni/Al underbump metallurgy (UBM) on the
chip and an Au/Ni surface finish on the substrate were studied under current
stressing at an ambient temperature of 150C. Three different Ni thicknesses
in the Cu/Ni/Al UBM (0.3, 0.5, and 0.8 lm) were used in order to investigate
the effect of the Ni thickness on reliability. The solder used was eutectic
Pb-Sn, and the applied current density was 5 · 103 A/cm2. The results show
that the combined effect of current crowding and the local Joule heating near
the entry points of electrons into the joints induced asymmetric Ni UBM
consumption. Once the Ni was exhausted in a certain region, this region be-
came nonconductive and the flow of electrons was diverted to the neighboring
region. This neighboring region then became the place where electrons en-
tered the joint, and the Ni UBM there was consumed at an accelerated rate.
This process repeated itself, and the Ni-depleted region continued to extend,
creating an ever larger nonconductive region. The solder joints eventually
failed when the nonconductive region extended across the entire contact
window of the joints. This failure model supports the observation that joints
with a thicker Ni tend to have a longer average lifetime.
Key words: Flip chip, electromigration, solder
INTRODUCTION
As flip-chip solder joints become smaller, the joints
have to endure an ever higher current density. Be-
cause of this increase, failures caused by electromi-
gration become a real reliability concern.1–9
Depending on the experimental conditions, such as
the temperature, current density, UBM, and surface
finish design, and circuit design, several failure
mechanisms have been identified, including void
formation and propagation,10,11 the local melting
mechanism,12 and the UBM dissolution mecha-
nism.13,14 Recently, it was pointed out that the
asymmetrical consumption of the Ni layer in UBM
could also caused failures.15,16 To extend the lifetime
of those solder joints that are prone to fail through
the asymmetrical consumption of the Ni layer, the
use of a thicker Ni UBM layer is a logical avenue.
Nevertheless, there is no published report to verify
this strategy. In this study, we focus on the effect of
Ni UBM thickness on the lifetime of flip-chip solder
joints. Specifically, three different Ni thicknesses,
0.3, 0.5, and 0.8 lm, were used to study the effect of
Ni thickness on the mean time to failure (MTTF) of
flip-chip solder joints under current stressing.
EXPERIMENTAL
The test chips had a daisy-chained circuit and
were mounted on substrates. The solder joints had
the configuration illustrated schematically in Fig. 1.
The chips had Al interconnect lines, which were
60 lm wide and 1 lm thick. The diameter of the
contact window was 90 lm. The UBM on the chips
had a Cu/Ni/Al structure. The Cu (0.8 lm) and the
Ni layers were sputter-deposited. Three different Ni
(Received March 13, 2007; accepted August 24, 2007;
published online: September 26, 2007)
Journal of ELECTRONIC MATERIALS, Vol. 37, No. 1, 2008 Special Issue Paper
DOI: 10.1007/s11664-007-0293-3
 2007 TMS
96
shown in Fig. 4c, no void occurred in the solder joint
even though the MTTF value (384 h) suggested that
it was about to fail. The joint failed at 420 h, as
shown in Fig. 3d. The coarsened Pb-Sn eutectic
structure was replaced by a finer one, suggesting
that the entire joint had melted at failure. Figure 3d
also shows that no electromigration-induced void
can be seen in the solder.
Fig. 4. (a) Higher-magnification micrograph for the UBM region of Fig. 3a. This micrograph is a composite picture from several micrographs that
have a smaller field of view. (b) Higher-magnification micrograph for the UBM region of Fig. 3b. (c) Higher-magnification micrograph for the UBM
region of Fig. 3c.
Fig. 3. Microstructures of the joints with 0.3 lm Ni that had been stressed at 150C for (a) 150, (b) 300, (c) 400, and (d) 420 h. The electrons
entered the joints from the upper-right corner.
98 Lin, Lai, Lin, and Kao
Cu-Cr UBM and solder.18 It was commented that
the porous layer might have a high electrical resis-
tance.18 In other words, the porous structure
resulting from the reaction between Cu-Cr and
solder might also have the ability to divert the
electrons.
Failure Mechanism and the MTTF
The void formation and propagation mechanism
was reported to be a major failure mechanism under
several different stressing conditions.2,3,10–12 In this
mechanism, a void forms in the solder at the location
with the highest local current density, and the
electrons are diverted around the void, making the
solder next to the edge of the void become the highest
current density region. This causes the void to grow
toward the region with the highest current density.
This process repeats itself, and the void gradually
propagates until an open circuit is created. However,
in this study, the role of the void was replaced by the
porous structure, which presumably was noncon-
ductive. Once the porous structure formed, the
electrons were diverted to nearby region, causing
the porous structure to extend toward that region.
The joints failed when the porous structure extended
all the way across the joint. In the void formation
and propagation mechanism, one key factor deter-
mining the MTTF is the incubation time for void
nucleation.11 Once the void nucleates, its propaga-
tion can cause the joint to fail very quickly. In the Ni
UBM consumption mechanism observed in this
study, the key factor determining the MTTF was the
time required to consume a certain thickness of the
Ni UBM. As can be seen in Fig. 2, the thicker the Ni
UBM, the longer the MTTF.
Void formation and propagation and Ni UBM
consumption are competing mechanisms. If a void
nucleates before the Ni UBM is consumed, void
formation and propagation will be the dominant
mechanism. Conversely, if the Ni UBM is consumed
before the void nucleates, Ni UBM consumption will
be the dominant mechanism. If the UBM design and
the materials used are kept the same, the stressing
conditions, which include the applied current den-
sity, the environmental temperature, the heat dis-
sipation capacity of the package, and the chip/
package circuit design, which determines the
amount of Joule heating, will determine the domi-
nant mechanism.
SUMMARY
It was found that the combined effect of higher
local current density and the resulting local Joule
heating in Ni UBM was able to produce locally
accelerated Ni consumption. Once the Ni UBM was
exhausted at a location, a porous structure formed.
As this structure was nonconductive, the electrons
were diverted to the neighboring region where Ni
UBM was still intact. This process repeated itself
and eventually the porous structure extended
across the entire contact window, causing the joint
to fail. For the solder joints that failed according to
this mechanism, a thicker Ni UBM was able to in-
crease the MTTF. This study found that the MTTF
for the solder joints with 0.3, 0.5, and 0.8 lm Ni
UBM were 384, 736, and 1,269 h, respectively.
The role of the porous structure in the Ni UBM
consumption mechanism was similar to the role
played by the void in the void formation and prop-
agation mechanism in that they were both noncon-
ductive and could divert the electrons to nearby
regions. The diverted electrons then caused the
porous structure or the void to extend toward the
new high-current-density region. These two mech-
anisms competed with each other, and the final
failure mechanism depended on the chip/package
design and the stressing conditions.
Fig. 6. (a) Meshes of the finite-element model used in this study. (b)
Calculated current density distribution for 0.3 lm Ni UBM. (c) Cal-
culated current density distribution for 0.5 lm Ni UBM. (d) Calculated
current density distribution for 0.8 lm Ni UBM.
100 Lin, Lai, Lin, and Kao
Pronounced electromigration of Cu in molten
Sn-based solders
J.R. Huang and C.M. Tsai
Department of Chemical & Materials Engineering, National Central University, Jhongli City, Taiwan
Y.W. Lin and C.R. Kaoa)
Department of Materials Science & Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei City 106, Taiwan
(Received 25 July 2007; accepted 5 October 2007)
The high local temperature in flip-chip solder joints of microprocessors has raised
concerns that the solder, a low melting temperature alloy, might locally liquefy and
consequently cause failure of the microprocessors. This article reports a highly
interesting electromigration behavior when the solder is in the molten state. A
6.3 × 103 A/cm2 electron current was applied to molten Sn3.5Ag solder at 255 °C
through two Cu electrodes. The high current density caused rapid dissolution of the
Cu cathode. The dissolved Cu atoms were driven by electrons to the anode side and
precipitated out as a thick, and sometimes continuous, layer of Cu6Sn5. The applied
current caused the dissolution rate of the Cu cathode to increase by one order of
magnitude. A major difference between the electromigration in the solid and molten
state was identified to be the presence of different countering fluxes in response to
electromigration. For electromigration in the molten state, the back-stress flux, which
was operative for electromigration in the solid state, was missing, and instead a
countering flux due to the chemical potential gradient was present. An equation for
the chemical potential gradient, d/dx, required to balance the electromigration flux
was derived to be d/dx  N°z*eJ, where N° is Avogadro’s number, z* is the
effective charge of Cu, e is the charge of an electron,  is the resistivity of the solder,
and J is the electron current density.
I. INTRODUCTION
To meet the demand for decreasing packaging size, the
electron current density through the flip-chip solder
joints of microprocessors has to increase with every new
generation of devices. It is anticipated the current density
through flip-chip solder joints will soon reach 104
A/cm2.1 At such a current density level, two concurrent
processes, electromigration and Joule heating, present
challenging materials problems.2 Several failure mecha-
nisms have been reported for flip-chip solder joints under
the stressing of high current density. In the void forma-
tion-and-propagation mechanism,3,4 a void first initiates
at the current density crowding region. It then extends
along the under bump metallurgy (UBM)/solder inter-
face, and eventually forms a gap between the UBM and
the solder, resulting in an open circuit failure. The main
process responsible for this mechanism is electromigra-
tion. Joule heating plays a secondary role in raising the
local temperature. Nevertheless, Joule heating can play a
more dominating role under certain conditions. Recently,
the local melting of the solder induced by Joule heating
was identified as an operative failure mechanism.5,6
Moreover, Alam et al.6 pointed out the rapid Cu disso-
lution reported in the literature7−9 was in fact caused by
the contact of the Cu UBM with the molten solder. Be-
cause under certain conditions solder can become molten
during current stressing, the knowledge of electromigra-
tion behaviors in molten solder alloys becomes important.
The objective of this study is to examine Cu electro-
migration in molten Sn3.5Ag (wt%) solder, which is an
important lead-free solder alloy. For comparison, elec-
tromigration in the solid state is also performed for the
same system at the same current density.
II. EXPERIMENTAL
The configuration of the current stressing experiment
is shown in Fig. 1. A capillary tube with a 450-m inside
a)Address all correspondence to this author.
e-mail: crkao@ntu.edu.tw
This author was an editor of this journal during the review and
decision stage. For the JMR policy on review and publication of
manuscripts authored by editors, please refer to http://www.
mrs.org/jmr_policy.
DOI: 10.1557/JMR.2008.0024
J. Mater. Res., Vol. 23, No. 1, Jan 2008 © 2008 Materials Research Society250
cathode was not homogeneous along the cathode/solder
interface. The presence of a trapped air bubble was able
to hinder the dissolution of nearby Cu, probably through
disrupting the electron flow through that region. When
the time reached 120 min and beyond, Cu6Sn5 no longer
had the rod morphology but exhibited the layered mor-
phology, as shown in Figs. 3(c) and 3(d).
To clarify the effect of the electron current, samples
were put through the same thermal histories as those of
Fig. 3, i.e., at 255 °C for different periods of time, but
with no current applied. The effect of electron current
can be seen by comparing Fig. 3 with Fig. 5, which
shows the no-current samples kept at 255 °C. As can be
seen in Fig. 5, only a small amount of Cu6Sn5 scallops
and a thin layer of Cu3Sn formed at the Cu/solder inter-
faces on both sides. The microstructure in Fig. 5 is typi-
cal of the Cu/solder reaction and has been reported many
times in the literature.11,12 The consumed thickness of
each Cu wire for the no-current cases is shown in Fig. 4. As
seen in Fig. 4, application of the electron current accelerated
Cu consumption by about one order of magnitude.
Figures 3–5 clearly show that the dissolution of the Cu
cathode was caused by the applied current because oth-
erwise the Cu dissolution was quite small. Please note
that the dissolution of the two Cu electrodes was asym-
metrical when a current was applied. Only the dissolution
of the Cu cathode was accelerated, and the consumption
rate of the Cu anode did not increase. In fact, the con-
sumption rate of the Cu anode was even smaller than the
no-current case, and this is not shown in Fig. 4 because
it is too small to be measured accurately.
FIG. 3. Micrographs showing the sequence of events during current stressing at 255 °C. The current density through the molten solder was 6.3
× 103 A/cm2, and the electrons flowed from the left side to the right: (a) after 30 min, (b) 60 min, (c) 120 min, and (d) 180 min of current stressing.
FIG. 4. Consumed thickness of the Cu cathode versus time. Also
shown is the consumed thickness for each of the Cu wires at 255 °C for
the case of no applied current.
J.R. Huang et al.: Pronounced electromigration of Cu in molten Sn-based solders
J. Mater. Res., Vol. 23, No. 1, Jan 2008252
Cu foil was attacked by the solder on both surfaces, the
single-side dissolution rate should then be 4.35 m/min.
The experimental conditions (a small piece of thin foil
dipped into a very large amount of solder) used by Huang
et al. approached the limit c ≈ 0. In other words, the value
4.35 m/min can be considered the maximum dissolu-
tion rate of Cu into Sn3.5Ag at 250 °C. As shown in
Fig. 4, the initial dissolution rate, estimated by using
linear extrapolation, was 1.3 m/min when the electron
current was applied. This value is below the maximum
value of 4.35 m/min. Therefore, one may conclude ap-
plying the current did not “accelerate” the dissolution
beyond the maximum rate. It only somehow retained the
high dissolution rate that the system would experience
during the early stage of the dissolution. In other words,
from Eq. (1), the applied current somehow reduced the
value of c near the interface so the dissolution rate could
remain high even though enough Cu atoms had entered
the molten solder to make c approach cs.
Before discussing how the applied current reduced the
c value near the interface, we need to gain an idea of the
value of cs and the amount of dissolution needed to reach
cs. According to the binary Cu–Sn phase diagram,16 the
saturation solubility of Cu in Sn at 255 °C is ≈1.6 wt%.
Assuming the Cu wires in Fig. 1 can dissolve only in the
longitudinal direction, one can estimate to have the sol-
der in Fig. 1 saturated with Cu at 255 °C, a total length
of 9.2 m has to be dissolved from the two Cu wires. The
value was in qualitative agreement with the consumed
thickness of the Cu wires for the case where no current
was applied (see Fig. 4). Figure 4 shows that, at 30 min,
6 m of Cu had been consumed on each Cu wire (for a
total consumed thickness of 2 × 6  12 m) when no
current was applied. After 30 min, the consumed
thickness increased only very slightly. To sum up, if no
current was applied, the solder became saturated with Cu
very quickly (≈30 min). Afterward, the dissolution rate
approached zero according to Eq. (1). At this stage, the
FIG. 6. Micrographs showing the sequence of events during current stressing at 200 °C, which is below the SnAg eutectic temperature at 221 °C.
The current density through the solder was 6.3 × 103 A/cm2, and the electrons flowed from the left side to the right: (a) after 180 min,
(b) 2400 min, and (c) 4000 min of current stressing.
J.R. Huang et al.: Pronounced electromigration of Cu in molten Sn-based solders
J. Mater. Res., Vol. 23, No. 1, Jan 2008254
The analysis above is able to explain the trend shown
in Fig. 4 that the consumption rate of the Cu cathode
decreased as time increased, particularly at the later stage
of the experiment. This trend can be understood by not-
ing in Fig. 3 the length (x) of the remaining solder
between the Cu cathode and Cu6Sn5 decreased with time.
As x decreased, the absolute value of Jchemical increased
according to Eq. (3). In other words, Jchemical was able to
counter Jem flux to a greater and greater degree, and the
net Cu flux Jtotal decreased, resulting in a smaller Cu
consumption rate.
V. SUMMARY
High electron current density caused the Cu cathode to
dissolve at an accelerated rate, which was one order of
magnitude greater than the no-current case. The dis-
solved Cu atoms were then driven by the electron current
to the anode side and precipitated out as Cu6Sn5. Unlike
electromigration in the solid state, there was no back-
stress flux to counter the electromigration flux in molten
solder. There was, instead, a chemical potential flux to
counter the electromigration. The chemical potential gra-
dient, d/dx required to balance the electromigration flux
was derived to be d/dx  N°z*eJ.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors thank the National Science Council of
Taiwan, Republic of China, for financial support through
grants NSC-95-2221-E-002-441 and NSC-95-2811-E-
008-004.
REFERENCES
1. K.N. Tu: Recent advances on electromigration in very-large-scale
integration of interconnects. J. Appl. Phys. 94, 5451 (2003).
2. J.W. Nah, J.O. Suh, and K.N. Tu: Effect of current crowding and
joule heating on electromigration induced failure in flip chip com-
posite solder joints tested at room temperature. J. Appl. Phys. 98,
013715 (2005).
FIG. 8. Micrographs showing the two Cu/solder interfaces at 200 °C when no electron current was applied: (a) after 180 min, (b) 2400 min, and
(c) 4000 min.
J.R. Huang et al.: Pronounced electromigration of Cu in molten Sn-based solders
J. Mater. Res., Vol. 23, No. 1, Jan 2008256
Tin Whisker Growth Induced by High Electron Current Density
Y.W. LIN,1 YI-SHAO LAI,2 Y.L. LIN,3 CHUN-TE TU,4 and C.R. KAO1,5
1.—Department of Materials Science and Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei,
Taiwan. 2.—Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Kaohsiung, Taiwan. 3.—Department of
Chemical & Materials Engineering, National Central University, Jhongli, Taiwan. 4.—Henkel
Accurus Scientific Co., Ltd., Tainan, Taiwan. 5.—e-mail: crkao@ntu.edu.tw
The effect of electric current on the tin whisker growth on Sn stripes was
studied. The Sn stripes, 1 lm in thickness, were patterned on silicon wafers.
The design of the Sn stripes allowed the simultaneous study of the effect of
current crowding and current density. Current stressing was performed in
ovens set at 30, 50, or 70C, and the current density used ranged from
4.5 · 104 A/cm2 to 3.6 · 105 A/cm2. It was found that the stress induced by the
electric current caused the formation of many Sn whiskers. A higher current
density caused more Sn whiskers to form. Of the three temperatures studied,
50C was the most favorable one for the formation of the Sn whiskers. In
addition, the current-crowding effect also influenced whisker growth.
Key words: Tin whisker, electromigration, current crowding
INTRODUCTION
The Sn surface finish is a very promising lead-free
replacement for the eutectic PbSn surface finish for
electronic components. Nevertheless, one key con-
cern about the Sn surface finish is the tendency for
the spontaneous growth of tin whiskers.1,2 Tin
whisker growth is a well-known stress relief phe-
nomenon. Excessive growth of long whiskers pre-
sents the possibility that two neighboring circuits
might be bridged, causing short circuit failure. The
first published report of tin whiskers dates back to
the 1940s.3 Since then, many researchers have
studied the factors affecting whisker formation.4–12
It is generally accepted that the coupling of two
irreversible processes is necessary for tin whisker
growth.12 First, a continuous compressive stress
must be generated in the Sn to maintain the driving
force. Second, the continuous stress generation in
Sn is relaxed through the growth of whiskers to
maintain dynamic equilibrium.12 Any process that
can generate compressive stress may contribute to
the growth of the Sn whiskers. To date, sources of
compressive stress originating from mechanical,
thermal, and chemical processes have been identi-
fied.
It is widely known that electromigration can
generate back-stress in metal lines. When an elec-
tric current passes through a metal line with a finite
length, the atoms in the metal line are pushed by
the moving electrons in the direction of the electron
flow. The electromigration of the metal atoms builds
up a compressive stress field on the anode side. This
led to the possibility that electric current might also
contribute to the formation of the Sn whiskers.
Recently, it was indeed observed that electron flow
could cause Sn whisker growth in straight Sn
lines.13 It was reported that the whisker growth
rate was faster when the applied current density
was higher.13 However, the geometry of the Sn
stripes used was limited to straight lines,13, and the
effect of current crowding was not investigated. One
of the objectives of this study is to use Sn stripes of a
more complicated geometry so that the effect of
current crowding can be studied.
EXPERIMENT
The Sn line pattern used in this study is shown in
Fig. 1. The circles are the contact pads for the
electrodes. Any two of the five pads could serve as
the electron input or output terminals so that elec-
trons could pass through the desired segment(s) of
the pattern. The width of the segments ranged from
(Received March 15, 2007; accepted July 23, 2007;
published online September 11, 2007)
Journal of ELECTRONIC MATERIALS, Vol. 37, No. 1, 2008 Special Issue Paper
DOI: 10.1007/s11664-007-0219-0
 2007 TMS
17
Fig. 2a were stressed continuously for 1 h, and were
then examined under SEM. The specimen in Fig. 2b
was a different specimen and was stressed continu-
ously for 5 h without interruption. All the other
specimens in this study were handled this way. We
did try to use one specimen for multiple stressing-
SEM cycles. In other words, we tried to apply the
current stress again to the same specimen after the
SEM observation so that we could follow the growth
of each individual Sn whisker. Unfortunately, during
SEM observation, the accumulated internal stress in
the Sn stripes was relieved due to the e-beam irra-
diation. The e-beam irradiated Sn stripes had to go
through an incubation period for the stress to accu-
mulate before the whisker would grow again. As a
result, the extent of the Sn whisker growth from a
specimen that goes through two 2-h stress-SEM
cycles will be different from that of a specimen that
goes through a continuous 4-h stressing.
Figure 2a shows that after 1 h of current stress, a
few whiskers had formed at region A. At regions
B–E, where the current density was lower, no
whiskers could be observed. Figure 2b and c shows
that many more whiskers had formed and that
these whiskers tended to grow longer with time.
There were only a few isolated whiskers in region B
and no whisker at all in regions C–E after 10 h of
current stress.
It should be noted that no whisker at all was
observed in sample set 5. In other words, when
there was no applied current, no whiskers would
grow. Therefore, it can be concluded that the growth
of tin whisker in this study was driven by electric
current alone.
After 12 h of stress, an open circuit formed due to
local melting of the Sn stripe, as shown in Fig. 2d.
With the growth of the whiskers, Sn atoms were
driven away from a certain region, causing the local
cross-sectional area of the Sn stripe to decrease. The
decrease in the local cross-sectional area increased
the local current density, driving more Sn atoms
away. This vicious cycle continued until the Sn
stripes could not carry such a high local current
density and it melted locally.
When the current applied was reduced to 0.1 A
(sample set 3), a few whiskers were observed only
after 10 h of stressing, as shown in Fig. 3a. As before,
longer aging increased the number, as well as the
length, of the whiskers, as shown in Fig. 3b. In
summary, at 50C environmental temperature, the
incubation time for the whicker growth increased
from about 1 h to 10 h when the current density was
decreased from 3.6 · 105 A/cm2 to 1.8 · 105 A/cm2.
Temperature Effect
Sample sets 2, 3, and 4 underwent the same test
parameters except the oven temperature. A com-
parison of the results from these three sets of
Fig. 2. SEM images at location A of sample set 1 after (a) 1 h, (b)
5 h, (c) 10 h, and (d) 12 h of current stress.
Tin Whisker Growth Induced by High Electron Current Density 19
Fig. 6a. During the acquisition of the results shown
in Fig. 6, the locations A and B had been by-passed.
In other words, the electron current left the Sn
stripe through the contact pad between location B
and location C shown in Fig. 1. If locations A and B
had not been by-passed, the Sn stripe would have
failed at location A after about 12 h of current
stress. It can be clearly seen that whiskers only
appeared at the inner corners of the 90 turn
between the two connecting line segments. There
was no whisker at the outer corners of the 90 turn.
The number of whiskers at the inner corner
increased with the stress time, as shown in Fig. 6b
and c. It should be pointed out that the inner cor-
ners were where the current-crowding effect was
important. A finite element simulation of the cur-
rent density distribution for location C is shown in
Fig. 7. The simulation shows that the inner corners,
indeed, have the highest current density and the
highest current density gradient.
The average current density at location C of
sample set 1 was, in fact, relatively low: only one-
quarter of that at location A. As shown in Fig. 2a,
it took only 1 h for some whiskers to form at
location A, due to its higher current density, and the
formation of whiskers here was not limited to the
inner corners. In contrast, even after 50 h of current
stress, at location C no whisker was observed,
except at the inner corners, as shown in Fig. 6a.
Apparently, current crowding was able to cause the
whiskers to form at a relatively low average current
density, which, otherwise, would not have induced
the whisker growth, even after a relatively lengthy
period of current stress.
SUMMARY
The stress generated by the electromigration was
able to induce the Sn whisker growth. When the
current density was 3.6 · 105 A/cm2, some whiskers
formed in as short a time as 1 h. Increasing the
current density caused more whiskers to form and
then to grow at a higher rate. When the current
density was reduced to 4.5 · 104 A/cm2, no whiskers
Fig. 5. (a) SEM images at location A of sample set 4 after 30 h of
current stress. (b) Zoom-in micrograph of the circle in (a). The growth
of the whiskers was replaced by the growth of the hillocks.
Fig. 6. SEM images at location C of sample set 1 after (a) 50 h, (b)
75 h, and (c) 100 h of current stress. The electric current did not
pass through locations A and B during the current stressing.
Tin Whisker Growth Induced by High Electron Current Density 21
Effect of Surface Finish on the Failure Mechanisms of
Flip-Chip Solder Joints Under Electromigration
Y.L. LIN,1 Y.S. LAI,2 C.M. TSAI,1 and C.R. KAO3
1.—Department of Chemical & Materials Engineering, National Central University, Jhongli City,
Taiwan, Republic of China. 2.—Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Kaohsiung City,
Taiwan, Republic of China. 3.—Department of Materials Science & Engineering, National
Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of China; e-mail: kaocr@hotmail.com
Two substrate surface ﬁnishes, Au/Ni and organic solderable preservative
(OSP), were used to study the effect of the surface ﬁnish on the reliability of
ﬂip-chip solder joints under electromigration at 150°C ambient temperature.
The solder used was eutectic PbSn, and the applied current density was 5 3
103 A/cm2 at the contact window of the chip. The under bump metallurgy
(UBM) on the chip was sputtered Cu/Ni. It was found that the mean-time-
to-failure (MTTF) of the OSP joints was six times better than that of the Au/Ni
joints (3080 h vs. 500 h). Microstructure examinations uncovered that the
combined effect of current crowding and the accompanying local Joule heating
accelerated the local Ni UBM consumption near the point of electron entrance.
Once Ni was depleted at a certain region, this region became nonconductive,
and the ﬂow of the electrons was diverted to the neighboring region. This
neighboring region then became the place where electrons entered the joint,
and the local Ni UBM consumption was accelerated. This process repeated
itself, and the Ni-depleted region extended further on, creating an ever-larger
nonconductive region. The solder joint eventually failed when the nonconduc-
tive region became too large, making the effective current density very high.
Accordingly, the key factor determining the MTTF was the Ni consumption
rate. The joints with the OSP surface ﬁnish had a longer MTTF because Cu
released from the substrate was able to reduce the Ni consumption rate.
Key words: Flip-chip, electromigration, solder, failure mechanism.
INTRODUCTION
The failure of solder joints triggered by high cur-
rent density is one of the key reliability concerns of
the ﬂip-chip devices.1–14 To counter the negative
effects caused by high current density, several ap-
proaches have been proposed and deployed. Two
well-known approaches involve better circuit and
interconnect designs. The ﬁrst is to distribute the
current load to as many solder joints as possible so
that the current carried by each joint becomes
smaller. The second is to ﬁne-tune the geometry of
the interconnect as well as that of the under bump
metallurgy (UBM) so that the high local current
density region and the current-crowding region fall
on materials that are more resistant to high current
density rather than on solders, which are more sus-
ceptible to problems caused by high current density.
Experimenting with new UBM and surface ﬁnish
combinations is also an approach that has high
potential. In this paper, two different substrate sur-
face ﬁnishes, Au/Ni and organic solderable preser-
vative (OSP)/Cu, were used in combination with the
Cu/Ni/Al UBM to study the effect of the surface ﬁn-
ish on the reliability of ﬂip-chip solder joints under
current stressing. After assembly, the Au layer
of the Au/Ni surface ﬁnish, the Cu layer of the
Cu/Ni/Al UBM, and the OSP will disappear from
the interface, leaving the Ni or Cu layers beneath
exposed to solder. As a result, the materials se-
quence for the Au/Ni joints and the OSP joints will
be Ni/solder/Ni and Ni/solder/Cu, respectively. One
interesting aspect of the Ni/solder/Cu combination
is that Ni and Cu can diffuse across the solder to
interact with the other element,15,16 causing the
Ni consumption rate to decrease and the Cu con-
sumption rate to increase. It is interesting to see if
this cross-interaction will inﬂuence the reliability of
solder joints under current stressing.(Received March 9, 2006; accepted June 29, 2006)
Journal of ELECTRONIC MATERIALS, Vol. 35, No. 12, 2006 Regular Issue Paper
2147
joint failed, as shown in Fig. 2d. The joint experi-
enced a complete melting, as evidenced by the ﬁne-
grain eutectic PbSn structure. At the time of failure,
the thermal couple also registered a temperature
higher than the eutectic temperature.
Figures 2a–2c also clearly demonstrate the trend
that Pb atoms were driven toward the anode (sub-
strate) side. At 2,700 h, shown in Fig. 2c, the Sn-rich
phase had aggregated into a large continuous region
near the cathode side. Figures 6a–6d show the solder
joints with the opposite polarity; i.e., electrons entered
the joints from the substrates and left the joints
through the chip. Again, Pb atoms were driven toward
the anode side, but then the anode side was the chip
side. These two observations show that Pb atoms,
which had a higher diffusivity at 150°C,6,9 migrated
in the same direction as that of the electrons. This is a
positive proof that electromigration was the main
driving force for solder migration in this study.
Au/Ni Surface Finish
Figure 7 shows the microstructures of the Au/Ni
joints at different stressing time. The test conditions
were the same as those for the OSP joints. The
microstructure before current stressing is shown
in Fig. 7a. The 0.8-mm Cu layer of the UBM had
completely been replaced by Cu6Sn5, and the Au
layer of the surface ﬁnish had been replaced by
(Cu1xNix)6Sn5. In other words, the 0.8-mm Cu layer
had been completely consumed during the assem-
bly of the joints. The reason for the formation of
(Cu1xNix)6Sn5, instead of Ni3Sn4, on the substrate
side can be found in the literature.14–16 It is mainly
because the presence of a small amount of Cu has
the ability to change the solder/Ni reaction product
from a Ni3Sn4-based compound to a Cu6Sn5-based
one. As shown in Fig. 7a, AuSn4 particles were
clearly visible. When the original 0.65 mm Au of
the surface ﬁnish dissolved completely into the sol-
der, the effective Au concentration became 1.45
wt.%, which was a value favorable for the formation
of AuSn4.
16 After 300 h current stressing, as shown
in Fig. 7b, the Cu6Sn5 near the upper-right corner of
the joint had become (Cu1xNix)6Sn5, but for those
Cu6Sn5 elsewhere over the UBM, no Ni can be
detected. After 550 h of current stressing, as shown
in Fig. 7c, on the substrate side, a nearly conti-
nuous layer of (Au1yNiy)Sn4 had formed over the
(Cu1xNix)6Sn5 layer. In the literature, (Au1yNiy)Sn4
had been reported to form over the Ni3Sn4 layer
after aging in order to have itself saturated with
Ni.16 The result of this study shows that (Au1yNiy)Sn4
can also form over the (Cu1xNix)6Sn5 layer in order
to yield Ni. The ﬁne-grain microstructure in Fig. 7d
shows that the joint had failed through melting
when the current stressing time reached 600 h.
Shown in Fig. 8a is the zoom-in micrograph of the
UBM region of Fig. 7b. According to the condition of
the Ni layer, three regions can be identiﬁed from right
to left: the two-phase region, the region in which Ni
had been exhausted, and the region in which some
Ni remained. With further current stressing, more
Ni was consumed, as shown in Fig. 8b. The amount of
Fig. 2. Microstructures of the OSP joints that had been stressed at 150°C for (a) 700 h, (b) 1,700 h, (c) 2,700 h, and (d) 3,000 h. The electrons
entered the joints from the upper-right corners.
Effect of Surface Finish on the Failure Mechanisms of
Flip-Chip Solder Joints Under Electromigration 2149
Fig. 6. Microstructures of the OSP joints that had been stressed at 150°C for (a) 0 h, (b) 300 h, (c) 700 h, and (d) 1,700 h. The electrons entered
the joints from the substrates and left the joints through the chip.
Fig. 7. Microstructures of the Au/Ni joints that had been stressed at 150°C for (a) 0 h, (b) 300 h, (c) 550 h, and (d) 600 h. The electrons entered
the joints from the upper-right corners.
Effect of Surface Finish on the Failure Mechanisms of
Flip-Chip Solder Joints Under Electromigration 2151
rate. When the overall conducting cross-section area
decreased due to the propagation of the two-phase
structure, the average current density increased.
The higher average current density caused the incu-
bation time for the void nucleation to decrease, and
a void was able to nucleate before the Ni UBM
immediately above the nucleation site being con-
sumed completely. This was indeed what can be
observed in Fig. 5, which shows that the Ni UBM
above the void was still intact. The void could con-
tinue propagating to the left as long as the Ni UBM
above had not been exhausted.
CONCLUSIONS
A key ﬁnding from this work is that the joints
with the OSP surface ﬁnish had a MTTF six times
greater than those with the Au/Ni surface ﬁnish.
The evolution of the microstructure led us to con-
clude that the OSP joints had a longer MTTF
because these joint had a slower Ni UBM consump-
tion rate. The lower consumption rate was due to
the Cu-Ni cross-interaction effect that had been
reported in the literature.15,16
This study also shows that the combined effect of
higher local current density and the resulting local
Joule heating was able to produce accelerated local
Ni consumption. Once the Ni UBM was completely
consumed at a certain location, a two-phase struc-
ture formed. This two-phase structure was presum-
ably nonconductive, and the ﬂow of electrons was
diverted to the neighboring region. In other words,
the role played by the two-phase structure was
quite similar to the role of void in the void forma-
tion-and-propagation mechanism reported in the
literature.2,4 The void formation-and-propagation
mechanism and the Ni UBM local consumption
mechanism reported in this study were in competi-
tion as both the void and the porous structure
were nonconductive and were able to divert the
electrons.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work was supported by the National Science
Council of Taiwan, Republic of China, through
Grant Nos. NSC-94-2216-E-008-001 and NSC-94-
2214-E-008-005.
REFERENCES
1. C.Y. Liu, K.N. Tu, T.T. Sheng, C.H. Tung, D.R. Frear, and
P. Elenius, J. Appl. Phys. 87, 750 (2000).
2. E.C.C. Yeh, W.J. Choi, K.N. Tu, P. Elenius, and H. Balkan,
Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 580 (2002).
3. Y.C. Hu, Y.H. Lin, C.R. Kao, and K.N. Tu, J. Mater. Res. 18,
2544 (2003).
4. W.J. Choi, E.C.C. Yeh, and K.N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys. 94, 5665
(2003).
5. Y.C. Hsu, T.L. Shao, C.J. Yang, and C. Chen, J. Electron.
Mater. 32, 1222 (2003).
6. H. Ye, C. Basaran, and D. Hopkins, Appl. Phys. Lett. 82,
1045 (2003).
7. T.L. Shao, Y.H. Chen, S.H. Chiu, and C. Chen, J. Appl. Phys.
96, 4518 (2004).
8. T.L. Shao, S.W. Liang, T.C. Lin, and C. Chen, J. Appl. Phys.
98, 044509 (2005).
9. J.W. Nah, J.O. Suh, and K.N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys. 98, 013715
(2005).
10. Y.H. Lin, C.M. Tsai, Y.C. Hu, Y.L. Lin, and C.R. Kao,
J. Electron. Mater. 34, 27 (2005).
11. H. Gan and K.N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys. 97, 063514 (2005).
12. Y.H. Lin, Y.C. Hu, C.M. Tsai, C.R. Kao, and K.N. Tu, Acta
Mater. 53, 2029 (2005).
13. C.M. Tsai, Y.L. Lin, J.Y. Tsai, and C.R. Kao, J. Electron.
Mater. 35, 1005 (2006).
14. Y.L. Lin, C.W. Chang, C.M. Tsai, and C.R. Kao, J. Electron.
Mater. 35, 1010 (2006).
15. C.M. Tsai, W.C. Luo, C.W. Chang, Y.C. Shieh, and C.R. Kao,
J. Electron. Mater. 33, 1424 (2004).
16. C.E. Ho, S.C. Yang, and C.R. Kao, J. Electron. Mater. 31,
1264 (2002).
17. L.C. Shiau, C.E. Ho, and C.R. Kao, Solder. Surf. Mt. Tech. 14,
25 (2002).
Effect of Surface Finish on the Failure Mechanisms of
Flip-Chip Solder Joints Under Electromigration 2153
a conﬁguration illustrated schematically in Fig. 1.
The chips had Al interconnect lines, which were
60 mm wide and 1 mm thick. The UBM on the chips
had the Cu/Ni/Al structure. The Cu and the Ni layers
were sputter-deposited and were 0.8 mm and 0.5 mm
thick, respectively. The diameter of the contact
window was 90 mm. On the substrate side, the
metal that is in direct contact with solder was
30-mm-thick Cu. The solder was 63Sn37Pb eutectic
solder, and the solder joints had a nominal diame-
ter of 125 mm.
During electromigration test, the assembled chips
and substrates were kept in a oven set at 150°C. A
constant 0.32-A current was passed through the
solder joints, producing a nominal current density
of 5 3 103 A/cm2 (based on the opening area of the
contact window). In order to study the UBM con-
sumption and the void formation, the solder joints
were cross-sectioned after current stresses at
different periods of time and examined using a
scanning electron microscope (SEM). The compo-
sitions of the intermetallic compounds were
determined by the electron probe microanalysis
(EPMA).
Certain samples were cross-sectioned in half before
current stressing in order to observe the micro-
structural change in-situ during electromigration.
Current stressing for these in-situ samples was car-
ried out at room temperature (30°C). A constant
0.96-A current was passed through the solder joints,
producing a nominal current density of 3 3 104 A/cm2
(based on the opening area of the contact window
after sectioning). During current stressing, thermal
couples were attached to the chip and to the BT
substrate to monitor the temperature. The surface
microstructure changes were monitored with a SEM.
In order to perform observations, we had to stop the
current stressing and place the specimen under the
microscope. After the observation, current stressing
was resumed using the same specimen. In other
words, the current stressing was interrupted sev-
eral times.
RESULTS
Room Temperature in-Situ Observation
Figure 2a and b shows the microstructures near
the entrance of the electrons into the solder joint
before current stressing and after current stressing
for 2 h, respectively. These two micrographs show
the same area of the same solder joint. As shown in
Fig. 2a, the 0.8-mm Cu of the UBM had been con-
sumed completely during the assembly. The EPMA
analysis revealed that the phase above the solder
was Cu6Sn5. The Ni layer was still intact after
assembly. Inside the solder, the Pb-rich phase was
the bright phase, while the Sn-rich phase was the
darker phase. In Fig. 2b, the electrons entered the
joint from the upper-left corner. After current
stressing for 2 h, it can be seen by comparing Fig.
2a and b that the circled Pb-rich phase had shrunk
in size, which implied that more Pb had been driven
away by electromigration. At the same time, the
Sn-rich phase inside the circle had grown in size,
Fig. 2. SEM micrographs showing the UBM/solder interface during in-situ observation: (a) before current stressing, and (b) after being stressed
with 3 3 104 A/cm2 current density at 30°C for 2 h.
Fig. 1. Schematic drawing showing the solder joint conﬁguration
used in this study.
JOBNAME: jem 35#5 2006 PAGE: 2 OUTPUT: Wednesday May 3 11:16:56 2006
tms/jem/117584/1607-R18
Electromigration-Induced UBM Consumption and the
Resulting Failure Mechanisms in Flip-Chip Solder Joints 1011
DISCUSSION
Intermetallic Formation
In this study, the intermetallic compound formed
between solder and Ni was always Cu6Sn5. The
compound Ni3Sn4 did not form between the solder
and Ni because Ni3Sn4 is not in thermodynamic
equilibrium with the solder when the Cu concentra-
tion in solder is higher than about 0.5 wt.%.18–23
There was plenty of Cu in the solder joints used in
this study. The ﬁrst source was the thin Cu layer
originally over the Ni UBM, and the second source
was the thick Cu layer from the substrate side.
Role of the Current Crowding
It had been reported that current crowding could
shorten the lifetime of devices through the void for-
mation-and-propagation mechanism.17 In the joints
used in this study, it was found that in the early
stage the main effect of current crowding was the
accelerating local Ni consumption. In Fig. 5b, which
shows region near the far right, the Ni UBM had
been consumed completely. In Fig. 5c, which shows
region to the left of Fig. 5a, part of the Ni UBM still
existed.
The porous structure in Fig. 6a formed at the
original location of the Ni UBM after Ni had been
exhausted. Moreover, this porous structure occurred
only near the far right of the contact window, where
the current crowding was initially the highest. We
propose that this structure formed due to the rapid
out-diffusion of Ni driven by the local high current
density.
Role of the Local Joule Heating
Local Joule heating was another important factor
that contributed to Ni consumption during electro-
migration. As the current density distribution in the
solder joint was not uniform, the local Joule heating
was also not uniform. The results of the in-situ
experiments indeed showed that the temperature
near the electron entrance to the joint, where the
local current density was the highest, was higher
than the rest of the joint. This higher local temperature
Fig. 4. Microstructures of different solder joints that have been stressed at 53 103 A/cm2 at 150°C for (a) 700 h, (b) 1700 h, (c) 2700 h, and (d) 3000 h.
JOBNAME: jem 35#5 2006 PAGE: 4 OUTPUT: Wednesday May 3 11:17:03 2006
tms/jem/117584/1607-R18
Electromigration-Induced UBM Consumption and the
Resulting Failure Mechanisms in Flip-Chip Solder Joints 1013
made the local Ni consumption rate higher, as a
high temperature accelerates both the reaction rate
and the diffusion rate.
Interplay Between Ni Consumption and the
Void Formation-and-Propagation
As shown in Fig. 4b and c, the void initiated near
the middle of the cathode side and propagated to the
left. Interestingly, the void did not form at the far-
right corner. We also note that a porous structure
occurs at the contact area between IMC and Al line
near the electron entrance, as shown in Fig. 5. We
propose that the formation of the porous structure
somehow inhibited the formation of the void. The
porous structure might in fact be electrically non-
conductive, and electrons were diverted to the left
once the porous structure formed. Consequently,
the void could not nucleate in the solder below the
porous structure, as the porous structure had blocked
the ﬂow of the electrons through that region.
It was reported that void formation due to electro-
migration needed an incubation time for the accu-
mulation of vacancies.3,15 However, this study
shows that if, during the incubation time, the Ni
UBM is completely consumed at a certain place,
the electrons would then be blocked there and the
void would not be able to nucleate there. Because
the Ni UBM consumption rate would be the highest
near the corner where the electrons entered the
joint due to the combined effect of higher local cur-
rent density and higher local temperature, the
Ni UBM would be completely consumed near that
corner. Consequently, the void would not be able to
form ﬁrst near the corner of the joint.
A schematic drawing is shown in Fig. 8 to illus-
trate the sequence of events. As shown in Fig. 8a,
the Cu layer on the UBM has been completely con-
sumed, and the intermetallic was in direct contact
with the Ni layer of the UBM after assembly. The Ni
UBM at the upper-right corner was consumed quickly
to form the porous structure due to the higher local
temperature and the higher local current density
there as shown in Fig. 8b. When the porous struc-
ture formed, the electrons were diverted to the left.
This decreased the overall cross-section area of the
joint, and the average current density increased. A
higher average current density made the incubation
time for vacancy nucleation decrease, and a void was
able to nucleate next to the porous structure before
the Ni UBM immediately above the void could be
consumed completely. Once the void formed, the
void propagated to the left and eventually the joint
failed, as shown in Fig. 8c. In short, the formation of
the void and the formation of the porous structure
were competing with each other. If the porous struc-
ture formed ﬁrst, then the void would not be able to
nucleate there. On the other hand, if the void could
nucleate before the UBM above lost its conductivity,
then the joint would fail by the void formation-and-
propagation mechanism.
CONCLUSION
It was found that the Ni UBM consumption
played an important role on the eventual failure
mechanism. At the corner of a joint where the elec-
trons entered the joint, higher local current density
and higher local temperature accelerated the local
Ni UBM consumption. Once the Ni was completely
consumed at a certain place, the electron ﬂow was
locally blocked, and the electrons were diverted else-
where. The void would then not be able to nucleate
in the solder below. However, if the void could nucleate
Fig. 7. Zoom-in view for the left side of the void shown in Fig. 4b. This
ﬁgure shows that the void could continue to propagate to the left as
long as the Ni UBM had not been exhausted.
Fig. 8. Schematic drawings showing the sequence of events during current stress at 150°C with 5 3 103 A/cm2: (a) before current stressing,
(b) after 700 h, and (c) after 2,700 h.
JOBNAME: jem 35#5 2006 PAGE: 6 OUTPUT: Wednesday May 3 11:17:14 2006
tms/jem/117584/1607-R18
Electromigration-Induced UBM Consumption and the
Resulting Failure Mechanisms in Flip-Chip Solder Joints 1015
In-Situ Observation of Material Migration in Flip-Chip Solder
Joints under Current Stressing
C.M. TSAI,1 YI-SHAO LAI,2 Y.L. LIN,1 C.W. CHANG,1 and C.R. KAO3
1.—Department of Chemical & Materials Engineering, National Central University, Jhongli
City, Taiwan. 2.—Advanced Semiconductor Engineering, Inc., Kaohsiung City, Taiwan.
3.—Department of Materials Science & Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan;
e-mail: kaocr@hotmail.com
This investigation studies how electron ﬂow distribution and the vacancy
concentration gradient affect the diffusion of solder atoms in a ﬂip-chip solder
joint under current stress. The migration of materials was traced by monitor-
ing the positions of 21 Pb grains of the eutectic PbSn solder joint. Experimen-
tal results indicate that the displacements of the Pb grains were not uniform
along the electron ﬂow direction. Additionally, certain Pb grains exhibited
lateral displacements. The nonuniform material migration is attributable to
the combined effect of electromigration and the vacancy concentration gra-
dient, which was caused by electromigration. By measuring the displacements
of the Pb grains, we estimated that the DZ* value of Sn in eutectic SnPb solder
was 5 3 1010 cm2/s.
Key words: Electromigration, ﬂip-chip, PbSn solder
INTRODUCTION
Electromigration has long been known to cause
failures in the interconnect lines of electronic devi-
ces, and recently electromigration has also become
one of the major reliability concerns for ﬂip-chip
solder joints.1–5 The electromigration problem in
ﬂip-chip joints is rather difﬁcult to solve due to the
complicated geometry of the solder joint. At the
electron entrance to the solder joint, the path of
electrons goes through a 90° turn and the cross-
sectional area for electron ﬂow increases by a factor
of 100. This change in both electron ﬂow direction
and the cross-sectional area makes current crowding
very pronounced.6–8 Furthermore, near the electron
entrance, where the local current density is high
and the current crowding effect is strong, the local
temperature is also high due to a Joule heating
effect. The combined effect of high local current den-
sity, strong current crowding, and high local tem-
perature causes the rate of material migration at
this location (hereinafter, the current crowding
region) to be the highest throughout the solder joint.
Our previous study on electromigration in eutec-
tic SnPb solder joints at a mean current density of
3.1 3 104 A/cm2 (at the contact window) indicated
that the measured temperature near the current-
crowding region increased from room temperature
to 108°C by Joule heating.9 Such a temperature
is 83% of the eutectic PbSn temperature, and the
lattice diffusion became the dominant mechanism
of diffusion of Pb and Sn in the PbSn substrate. In
the present investigation, the temperature and the
current density were the same as those adopted in
an earlier work.9 Therefore, the dominant mecha-
nism of atom migration is the vacancy diffusion
through the lattice. Because both Pb and Sn diffuse
in solders by the vacancy diffusion mechanism, a
vacancy ﬂux is established, in the opposite direction
of the material migration ﬂux.
This study examines how electron ﬂow distribu-
tion and the vacancy concentration gradient affect
the diffusion of solder atoms in a ﬂip-chip solder
joint under current stress. An in-situ observation
is also made of the migration of materials caused
by the diffusion of Pb and Sn of the ﬂip-chip solder
joints under current stress at room temperature.
The migration of materials is traced by monitoring
the positions of the easily observable Pb grains of
the eutectic PbSn solder. In order to correlate the
material migration with the electron current distri-
bution, the electron current distribution was calcu-
lated using the ﬁnite-element approach.
EXPERIMENT
Figure 1a schematically depicts the samples used
for in-situ electromigration testing. The solder was
eutectic PbSn, and the solder joint had a normal
diameter of 125 mm. The under-bump metallurgy(Received March 1, 2006; accepted April 28, 2006)
Journal of ELECTRONIC MATERIALS, Vol. 35, No. 10, 2006 Regular Issue Paper
1781
JOBNAME: jem 35#10 2006 PAGE: 1 OUTPUT: Thursday September 14 23:35:47 2006
tms/jem/126189/1731-R2
that the circled Pb grain had moved upward under
current stressing. Since the electrons ﬂowed down-
ward from the chip side to the substrate side, in this
particular case, the Pb grain was concluded to have
moved in a direction opposite that of the electron
ﬂow. Since electromigration drives diffusion in the
same direction, the upward movement of this Pb
grain must be caused by the downward diffusion
of the Sn atoms in the Sn-rich matrix. Brieﬂy, Sn
was concluded to be the dominant diffuser under
current stress in this study. This result was reason-
able because the solder temperature was about
108°C during current stressing and Sn had been
reported to be the dominant diffusing species at
temperatures below 120°C.12
The circled Pb grain in Fig. 3 not only moved
upward, but also rotated counterclockwise during
current stressing, as indicated by the arrow in Fig.
3a–d. High-resistance Sn grains have been reported
to rotate to reorient themselves with respect to the
neighboring low-resistance grains for in-current
stressing experiments on the Sn stripe.13 However,
at this stage, whether the observed rotation of the
Pb grain herein is caused in this way is unclear.
Analysis of Motion of Pb Grains
The positions of 21 Pb grains were monitored
during current stressing, as shown in Fig. 4a, to
analyze the diffusion behavior of Sn and Pb under
current stressing. The unreacted Cu conducting
trace at the lower left-hand corner was taken as
the ﬁxed frame of reference. The positions (x and y
coordinates) of these 21 Pb grains during current
stressing were recorded and plotted in Fig. 4b. All
of these 21 Pb grains moved upward with current
stress, revealing that Sn was pushed downward by
electromigration throughout the entire joint.
In Fig. 4c, the solder joints were divided into three
regions according to the distance migrated in the
vertical direction after 1,000 min of stressing. The
displacement was 2–3 mm in the vertical direction in
region A, 5–6 mm in region B, and 8–10 mm in region
C. In the central region C, much of the material had
migrated, indicating that most of the electrons
passed through C. In region B, the migration was
less substantial, and in region A, the migration was
the smallest, indicating that fewer electrons passed
through regions A and B than passed through
region C. In short, the experimental results demon-
strated that the distribution of the current ﬂow was
very inhomogeneous in the solder bump.
Fig. 2. (a) Microstructure of the solder joint before current stressing. (b) Two-dimensional ﬁnite element mesh, which involved initial patterns of
Sn matrix and Pb grains shown in (a), used for the calculation.
Fig. 3. SEM images of the cross-sectioned surface of the same joint
during current stressing after (a) 0 min, (b) 240 min, (c) 400 min,
and (d) 1,000 min current stressing. Electrons entered the solder bump
from its upper-right-hand corner and exited through its lower side.
JOBNAME: jem 35#10 2006 PAGE: 3 OUTPUT: Thursday September 14 23:35:54 2006
tms/jem/126189/1731-R2
In-Situ Observation of Material Migration in Flip-Chip
Solder Joints under Current Stressing 1783
the region of high current density, the Sn atoms
were driven downward by electromigration. As the
Sn atoms diffused away, a vacancy ﬂux diffused in
the opposite direction, reaching the region near
the interface between Cu and the solder. Therefore,
the concentration of vacancies increased. In order
to decrease the vacancy concentration here, the va-
cancy diffused to the right, and consequently an
opposite Sn ﬂux diffused to the left. This Sn diffu-
sion ﬂux to the left was responsible for the disap-
pearance of the Sn-rich region.
The current density simulation yields information
on the electron ﬂow direction and the density at
every location. Figure 7a shows the information at
selected locations. Based on the assumption that the
migration of Pb grains presented in Fig. 4b can be
adopted to approximate the relative magnitude and
the reversal direction of the Sn ﬂux, Fig. 7b plots the
Sn ﬂux at selected locations. Figure 7c plots the
data in Fig. 7a and b together. This ﬁgure shows
that for the majority of these selected locations,
the directions of electron charge ﬂow match the ini-
tial movements of Pb grains, whichmay provide sup-
porting evidence of the correlation between these
two phenomena. Notably, the experimental observa-
tions were made over a period during which the
vacancy ﬂux diverged, inducing additional diffusion
(current crowding effect), but the numerical results
refer only to the directions of initial ﬂow of electron
charges, because the numerical model considered
only the solder bump at its initial stage. Further-
more, the numerical model also cannot represent
the diffusion of complex atoms.
According to the above discussion, electromigra-
tion induced a primary Sn ﬂux and the vacancy gra-
dient induced a secondary Sn ﬂux. The primary Sn
ﬂux directly induced by electromigration was direc-
ted downward, and the secondary Sn ﬂux induced
by the vacancy concentration gradient was directed
from right to left. Since the direction of the electron
charge ﬂow matched that of the Sn atoms nicely in
region C, the dominant diffusion mechanism in
region C was inferred to be by electromigration only.
Therefore, the medium Pb grain displacement in
region C, 9 mm, is used to calculate the DZ*. Based
on the assumption that the Sn matrix had the same
displacements but in the opposite direction as the
Pb grains under stressing, the drift velocity n of Sn
is estimated to be 9 mm/1,000 min. The mean atom
drift velocity n caused by the electron current is
given by the following equation:
n 5
DeZ
kT
rj (1)
where D is the diffusion coefﬁcient, e is the electron
charge, Z* is the effective charge number of the Sn
atom, r is the metal resistivity, j is the electron cur-
rent density, k is Boltzmann’s constant, and T is the
absolute temperature. Here, the average current
density of 3.1 3 104 A/cm2 is used for j, and T is
381 K. The r value is 32 mVcm at 100°C.14 From
Eq. 1, DZ* was calculated to be 5 3 1010 cm2/s.
CONCLUSIONS
The effect of electromigration and current crowd-
ing on solder bump was observed in situ. In the
central region of the joint, the Sn ﬂux was driven
mainly by direct electromigration, and produced a
primary Sn ﬂux in the same direction as the elec-
tron ﬂow. Furthermore, a secondary Sn ﬂux was
near the current crowding region. This ﬂux was
generated by the vacancy concentration gradient
and was toward the current crowding region. The
vacancy concentration gradient was induced by
direct electromigration. The displacements of the
Pb grains were measured, and the DZ* value of
Sn in eutectic SnPb solder was estimated to be
5 3 1010 cm2/s.
Fig. 6. Zoom-in pictures showing the upper-right corner of the joint (a) before stressing and (b) after stressing for 400 min.
JOBNAME: jem 35#10 2006 PAGE: 5 OUTPUT: Thursday September 14 23:36:24 2006
tms/jem/126189/1731-R2
In-Situ Observation of Material Migration in Flip-Chip
Solder Joints under Current Stressing 1785
Local Melting Induced by Electromigration in Flip-Chip
Solder Joints
C.M. TSAI,1 Y.L. LIN,1 J.Y. TSAI,1 YI-SHAO LAI,3 and C.R. KAO1,2
1.—Department of Chemical & Materials Engineering, National Central University, Jhongli City,
Taiwan. 2.—Institute of Materials Science & Engineering, National Central University, Jhongli City,
Taiwan; e-mail: crkao@ncu.edu.tw. 3.—Stress-Reliability Laboratory, Advanced Semiconductor
Engineering, Inc., Taiwan.
A new electromigration failure mechanism in ﬂip-chip solder joints is
reported. The solder joints failed by local melting of a PbSn eutectic solder.
Local melting occurred due to a sequence of events induced by the microstruc-
ture changes in the ﬂip-chip solder joint. The formation of a depression in the
current-crowding region of a solder joint induced the local electrical resistance
to increase. The rising local resistance resulted in a larger Joule heating,
which, in turn, raised the local temperature. When the local temperature rose
above the eutectic temperature of the PbSn solder, the solder joint melted and
consequently failed. The results of this study suggest that a dynamic, coupled
simulation that takes into account the microstructure evolution, current den-
sity distribution, and temperature distribution may be needed to fully solve
this problem.
Key words: Electromigration, ﬂip chip, PbSn solder, local melting
INTRODUCTION
The electromigration failure is one of the major
reliability concerns in ﬂip-chip technology.1–3 In cir-
cuit design today, each solder joint will carry more
than 0.2 A, and this will reach 0.4 A in the near
future. At present, the diameter of a solder joint is
about 100 mm, and it will soon be reduced to 50 mm.
This means that the average current density in such
a 50-mm joint is about 104 A/cm2 when a 0.2 A cur-
rent is applied. Furthermore, due to the geometry of
a ﬂip-chip solder joint, current crowding occurs at
the solder/interconnect interface, which is also the
entrance of the electrons into the joint. The current
density in current-crowding region is about 1 order
of magnitude higher than the average current den-
sity in solder joint.4 In addition, the current density
needed to cause electromigration in eutectic PbSn is
2 orders of magnitude smaller than that for Al and
Cu interconnects.5–7 These are the reasons why
electromigration in ﬂip-chip solder joints can be
the major reliability problem in microelectronic
devices. Many studies have been carried out recently
on this subject.8–20
In the literature, the void formation-and-propaga-
tion mechanism has been identiﬁed to be a major
failure mechanism due to electromigration in ﬂip-
chip solder joints.4 In this mechanism, a void ﬁrst
initiates from the current-density crowding region.
Then it extends along the under bump metallurgy
(UBM)/solder interface across the entire contact and
forms a gap between the UBM and solder. The for-
mation of the gap at the UBM/solder interface indu-
ces open circuit failure.
Furthermore, during propagation of the void, the
presence of the void and the microstructure changes
induced by the void also affect the electrical charac-
teristics of the solder joint. With the presence of the
void, the effective current density increases as the
total available cross-sectional area for electrical con-
duction decreases. In addition, the resistance of the
contact area rises due to this smaller conduction
area. These two factors make the Joule heating at
the contact area increase. This, in turn, raises the
temperature of the solder joint; thus the tempera-
ture of the solder joint increases as the void grows.
If the temperature rises above the melting point of
the solder before a complete gap forms between the
UBM and the solder, the solder joint will melt, which
may lead to the failure of the joint. Nevertheless, the(Received June 20, 2005; accepted November 22, 2005)
Journal of ELECTRONIC MATERIALS, Vol. 35, No. 5, 2006 Regular Issue Paper
1005
JOBNAME: jem 35#5 2006 PAGE: 1 OUTPUT: Wednesday May 3 04:33:57 2006
tms/jem/117584/1606-R17
local? As shown in Fig. 4b, in the lower part of this
joint there were several large Pb-rich grains that
did not melt. This suggests that the melting was
local. To the best of our knowledge, the local melting
of the current-crowding region has never been
reported before. This result indicates that, in addi-
tion to the void formation-and-propagation mecha-
nism, solder joints under current stressing could
also fail through the local melting mechanism.
The top surface temperature of the chip during
the current stressing is shown in Fig. 5. It should be
noted that the temperature proﬁle shown in Fig. 5
was from a different sample shown in Figs. 2–4. The
sample shown in Fig. 5 follows the same failure
mechanism as that of the sample shown in Figs.
2–4; the temperature and resistance proﬁles were
also quite similar. The temperature increased
rapidly from room temperature to 108°C within
5 min. of the current stressing. Subsequently, the
temperature increased very slowly until the cur-
rent-stressing time reached 85 h, after which the
temperature rose rapidly and went beyond the PbSn
eutectic temperature at 183°C. More speciﬁcally,
the temperature rose from 122 to 150°C in 40 min.
Fig. 3. Zoom-in micrographs for the upper-right corner of Fig. 2a–c, respectively.
Fig. 4. SEM micrographs of the solder joint after 80 h of current stressing. (a) Zoom-in view of the current-crowding region. The ﬁne grains
suggested that this region melted and resolidiﬁed. (b) Micrograph showing the same joint in (a) but with a larger ﬁeld of view. In the lower part of
this joint are several large Pb-rich grains that did not melt. This suggests that melting was local.
Fig. 2. SEM micrographs of the same solder joint during in-situ current stressing: (a) before current stressing, (b) after 10 h of current stressing,
and (c) after 30 h of current stressing.
JOBNAME: jem 35#5 2006 PAGE: 3 OUTPUT: Wednesday May 3 04:34:01 2006
tms/jem/117584/1606-R17
Local Melting Induced by Electromigration in Flip-Chip
Solder Joints 1007
change, local resistance rise, and local temperature
rise. Eventually, the solder joint failed catastrophically.
CONCLUSIONS
It was shown through in-situ observation that
ﬂip-chip solder joints under current stressing could
fail through a local melting phenomenon. Before the
local melting, a depression formed due to electromi-
gration near the main current-crowding region. It
was proposed that this depression induced a local
increase in resistance. The rising local resistance
combined with the higher local current density
resulted in the rise of the local temperature at the
main current-crowding region. When the local tem-
perature went beyond the melting point of solder,
local melting occurred. After the local melting, the
joint would fail rather quickly.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
This work was supported by the National Science
Council (Grants NSC-93-2214-E-008-008 and NSC-
93-2216-E-008-010).
REFERENCES
1. S. Brandenberg and S. Yeh, Proceedings of the 1998 Surface
Mount International Conference and Exhibition (Edina, MN:
SMTA, 1998), p. 337.
2. K. Zeng and K.N. Tu, Mater. Sci. Eng. R 38, 55 (2002).
3. J.D. Wu, P.J. Zheng, K. Lee, C.T. Chiu, and J.J. Lee, Pro-
ceedings of the 2002 Electronic Components and Technology
Conference (Piscataway, NJ: IEEE, 2002), p. 452.
4. E.C.C. Yeh, W.J. Choi, K.N. Tu, P. Elenius, and H. Balkan,
Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 580 (2002).
5. C.Y. Liu, C. Chen, C.N. Liao, and K.N. Tu, Appl. Phys. Lett.
75, 58 (1999).
6. C.Y. Liu, C. Chen, and K.N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys. 88, 5703
(2000).
7. Q.T. Huynh, C.Y. Liu, C. Chen, and K.N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys.
89, 4332 (2001).
8. K.N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys. 94, 5451 (2003).
9. Y.C. Hu, Y.H. Lin, and C.R. Kao, J. Mater. Res. 18, 2544
(2003).
10. T.Y. Lee, K.N. Tu, and D.R. Frear, J. Appl. Phys. 90, 4502
(2001).
11. H. Ye, C. Basaran, and D. Hopkins, Appl. Phys. Lett. 82,
1045 (2003).
12. H. Ye, C. Basaran, and D. Hopkins, Int. J. Solids Struct. 40,
4021 (2003).
13. J.W. Nah, K.W. Paik, J.O. Suh, and K.N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys.
94, 7560 (2003).
14. Y.C. Hsu, T.L. Shao, C.J. Yang, and C. Chen, J. Electron.
Mater. 32, 1222 (2003).
15. T.L. Shao, K.C. Lin, and C. Chen, J. Electron. Mater. 32,
1278 (2003).
16. A.T. Wu, K.N. Tu, J.R. Lloyd, N. Tamura, B.C. Valek, and
C.R. Kao, Appl. Phys. Lett. 85, 2490 (2004).
17. K. Jung and H. Conrad, J. Mater. Sci. 39, 1803 (2004).
18. Y.H. Lin, C.M. Tsai, Y.C. Hu, Y.L. Lin, and C.R. Kao,
J. Electron. Mater. 34, 27 (2005).
19. Y.H. Lin, C.M. Tsai, Y.C. Hu, Y.L. Lin, J.Y. Tsai, and C.R.
Kao, Mater. Sci. Forum 475–479, 2655 (2005).
20. Y.H. Lin, Y.C. Hu, C.M. Tsai, C.R. Kao, and K.N. Tu, Acta
Mater. 53, 2029 (2005).
Fig. 7. Joint resistance of the solder joint during current stressing.
JOBNAME: jem 35#5 2006 PAGE: 5 OUTPUT: Wednesday May 3 04:34:09 2006
tms/jem/117584/1606-R17
Local Melting Induced by Electromigration in Flip-Chip
Solder Joints 1009
R53 current-stressing with the objective of investigating this
54 failure mechanism in greater detail. In situ experiments
55 of this nature are signiﬁcantly more diﬃcult to perform
56 compared to the conventional technique of stressing-
57 then-sectioning, as multiple attempts are required before
58 achieving a single successful observation. Nevertheless,
59 in situ observation oﬀers the advantage of monitoring
60 the evolution from the beginning to the end using the
61 same specimen, thus generating a more complete picture
62 of the failure mechanism.
63 2. Experimental
64 The Si chip used in this study had the dimensions of
65 3300 · 3300 · 300 lm, and had 5 · 5 solder joints evenly
66 distributed on the chip surface. Only two of the solder
67 joints, located near one corner of the chip, were sub-
68 jected to the current-stressing, one with electrons ﬂow-
69 ing from the substrate side to the chip side (No. 1
70 joint) and the other with the opposite ﬂow direction
71 (No. 2 joint). The conﬁguration and dimensions of the
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
2 Y.H. Lin et al. / Acta Materia
AM 5269 No. of Pages 7, DTD=5.0.1
25 January 2005; Disk Used
ARTICLE IN PRESSUN
CO
Fig. 1. Schematic drawing showing the conﬁguration and dimensionsRE
Nos. 1 and 2 joints are shown in Fig. 1. The electrons
exited the No. 2 joint through the lower-left corner as
shown in Fig. 1. The solder was eutectic PbSn, and the
joints had a nominal diameter of 125 lm. The UBM
on the chip side was a layer of 14 lm thick Cu with a
dish-shaped rim, and the metallization on the substrate
side was a 0.2 lm layer Au and a 3 lm layer Ni over
the Cu conducting trace. The UBM opening area that
was directly exposed to solder had a diameter of
90 lm. The Cu line on the chip had a cross-sectionalof the ﬂip chip used in this study: (a) plane view and (b) side view.CT
ED
PR
OO
F
area of 50 · 5.5 lm. Standard underﬁll was applied be-
tween the chip and the substrate.
To observe the electromigration in situ, the two sol-
der joints were cross-sectioned in half, and polished be-
fore the current-stressing. The cross-section cut across
the center of each joint as shown schematically in Fig.
1. Current-stressing was carried out at an ambient tem-
perature of 30 C. A constant 1.27 A current was passed
through the Nos. 1 and 2 joints, producing a nominal
current density of 4 · 104 A/cm2. This nominal current
density was calculated on the basis of half of the opening
area of the UBM. The local current density in the Cu
line on the chip between Nos. 1 and 2 solder joints
was 9.2 · 105 A/cm2 since the Cu lines had a much smal-
ler cross-section area (50 · 5.5 lm before being sec-
tioned). The local current density in the Cu line on the
substrate was 5.5 · 105 A/cm2 as the conducting cross-
section there was larger.
The surface microstructure changes were monitored
with a scanning electron microscope (SEM). In order
to perform the observation, we had to stop the cur-
rent-stressing, and place the specimen under the micro-
scope. After the observation, the current-stressing was
resumed using the same specimen. In other words, the
current-stressing was interrupted several times. The re-
ported current-stressing time was cumulative. That is
to say that the reported current-stressing time was the
summation of all the time that current had passed
through the specimen before a speciﬁc observation.
The phases were identiﬁed using the energy dispersive
X-ray spectroscopy.
The surface temperature of the backside of the chip
(the side without any active devices) at the location di-
rectly opposite to Nos. 1 and 2 joints was monitored
by attaching a ﬁne-gauge thermocouple to the backside
surface. During current stressing, the temperature of the
chip rose above the ambient temperature (30 C) as a re-
sult of the Joule heating eﬀect. The backside surface
temperature of the chip (the side without any active de-
vices) would rise with the current-stressing time and
reach a stable temperature of 166 C in about 6 min.
During observation, the specimen cooled to room tem-
perature. Since the cross-sectional area of the Cu lines
on the chip was much smaller than that of the solder
joints as well as that of the Cu conducting traces on
the substrate, the Cu lines on the chip had a higher over-
all electrical resistance than the sum of the total resis-
tance of the solder joint and the Cu conducting traces
on the substrate. Consequently, the primary heat source
due to Joule heating was the Cu lines on the chip. In this
study, the total electrical resistance of the Cu lines on
the chip was about 0.026 X, and the constant current
passed through Nos. 1 and 2 joints was 1.27 A. As a re-
sult, the Joule heating power from Cu line on the chip
was 0.042 W. The temperature gradient between the
lia xxx (2005) xxx–xxx137Cu lines and backside surface of Si chip can be estimated
CT
ED
PR
OO
F
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253peared. Between the void and the Cu UBM, a thin re-
254gion of newly formed Cu6Sn5 that did not have the
255scallop morphology was present. The presence of this
256newly formed Cu6Sn5 suggests that Cu was converted
Fig. 3. (a) SEM image showing the zoom-in view for the void in Fig.
2(e); (b) SEM image showing the zoom-in view for the void in Fig.
2(g); (c) SEM image showing the zoom-in view for the lump in Fig.
2(i).
terialia xxx (2005) xxx–xxx
AM 5269 No. of Pages 7, DTD=5.0.1
25 January 2005; Disk Used
ARTICLE IN PRESSUN
CO
RR
E
Fig. 2(a) and (b) show the cross-sections of Nos. 2
and 1 joints, respectively, before applying current. The
bright areas in the joints are Pb-rich regions and dark
areas are Sn-rich regions. There were scallop-type
Cu6Sn5 compounds formed over the disk-shaped Cu
UBM. These Cu6Sn5 formed during the two reﬂows to
produce the specimen. The intermetallic compound over
the Ni layer on the substrate side was too thin to be re-
solved by SEM. The two black dots in Fig. 2(b) are
embedded diamond particles from polishing.
After 30 min of current-stressing, no change in micro-
structure that could be directly attributed to electromi-
gration was observed, as shown in Fig. 2(c) and (d).
However, after 50 min, a void was observed near the en-
trance of electrons into the No. 2 joint, as shown in Fig.
2(e). This location of this void is consistent with the sim-
ulation and observation of Yeh et al. [4]. The initiation
of the void at this location is due to the substantial cur-
rent-crowding here. Yeh et al. also reported a long per-
iod of incubation time in their electrical resistance
monitoring. In our study, we similarly noticed that
nothing pronounced occurred at least during the ﬁrst
30 min, and a rapid change occurred after the observa-
tion of the ﬁrst void at 50 min. Fig. 3(a) shows the
zoom-in view of the void in Fig. 2(e). As can be seen
here, this void formed between Cu6Sn5 and the solder.
It should be noted that at this stage those Cu6Sn5 scal-
lops immediately above the void were still intact. In
addition, there were many small particles, between Cu
and Cu6Sn5, extruding above the surface. Our prelimin-
ary analysis using electron microprobe revealed they
were probably newly formed Cu6Sn5. Detailed analysis
for their identity is underway. Despite the formation
of a void in the No. 2 joint at 50 min, there still was
not any clear evidence of change due to electromigration
in No. 1 joint, as shown in Fig. 2(f). Similar to the No. 2
joint, there were many small particles extruding above
the surface between Cu and Cu6Sn5 in the No. 1 joint.
Consequently, it can be concluded that the formation
of these particles was not related to the direction of elec-
tron ﬂow.
After 65 min, the void had quickly propagated to the
left and become larger, as shown in Fig. 2(g). When the
time reached 75 min, the void grew even larger, as
shown in Fig. 2(i). From the series of images shown in
Fig. 2(a), (c), (e), (g), and (i), we can see that the se-
quence of events can be described as below. A void ﬁrst
initiated at the upper-right corner of the No. 2 joint.
This location coincided with the high current crowding
region. Once the void formed, the electrons were di-
verted to the left of the void, causing the void to grow
to that direction. Consequently, the void propagated
along the UBM/solder interface. Fig. 3(b) shows the
zoom-in view of the void in Fig. 2(g). Above this void,
those Cu6Sn5 scallops that formed during reﬂow had
4 Y.H. Lin et al. / Acta Madisappeared, and part of the Cu UBM had also disap- 257into Cu6Sn5 ﬁrst, and Cu6Sn5 was then dissolved into
R370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
398
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425
426
427
428
429
430
431
432
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444
445the void nucleation, the joint failed very quickly. This
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
456
457
458
459
460
461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474
475
476
477
teria
AM 5269 No. of Pages 7, DTD=5.0.1
25 January 2005; Disk Used
ARTICLE IN PRESSUN
CO
RR
E
In other words, the No. 1 joint was still electrically con-
ductive at 87 min. The melting of this joint was probably
caused by the heat generated in the No. 2 joints. The
standoﬀ here decreased from 73 to 65 lm, not as large
as that of the No. 2 joint. This observation also supports
the proposition that the No. 1 joint was melted due to
the heat from the No. 2 joint. The letters F, G, and H
are used to marked some of the traceable features in
Fig. 2(j) and (l). As can be seen in these two ﬁgures, re-
gions F and G still retained the outlines of the grains.
This observation suggests that the melting was partial,
and parts of the joint did not melt. This is probably be-
cause regions F and G were Pb-rich grains, as shown in
Fig. 2(j), and these large Pb-rich grains had a melting
point higher than the PbSn eutectic temperature of
183 C. The proposition that the No. 1 joint melted
due to the heat from the No. 2 joint can additionally
be explained from the following arguments. The stea-
dy-state temperature here depended on the heat input
rate (Joule heating and heat conduction from the higher
temperature regions nearby) and the heat output rate
(dissipation through heat conduction away to lower
temperature regions nearby). Before substantial micro-
structural change occurred in the No. 2 joint, the heat
input to the No. 1 joint was only due to the local Joule
heating. The heat conduction from the No. 2 joint was
small and negligible at this stage.When the void in No.
2 joint grew to very large, the local resistance there in-
creased. The increasing local resistance made the local
temperature of the No. 2 joint increase. The moment
the No. 2 joint melted, this temperature increase became
even larger. At this stage, the heat conduction from the
No. 2 to No. 1 joint could no longer be ignored. With
this extra heat input from the No. 2 joint, the tempera-
ture of the No. 1 joint increased over its steady-state
temperature, and the No. 2 joint eventually melted.
Comparing the re-polished surfaces shown in Fig.
2(m) and (n), we can see that the Cu UBM in No. 1 joint
did not dissolve as extensively. In other words, electro-
migration in the No. 1 joint did not produce a similar
extensive metal dissolution and failure. There are two
possible reasons for the diﬀerence [6]. The ﬁrst has been
pointed out earlier and is due to the fact that the con-
ducting trace on the substrate side is thicker than on
the chip side. A thicker conducting line can reduce cur-
rent crowding by spreading out the current distribution.
The second is that Ni on the substrate side is more resis-
tant to dissolution driven by electromigration than Cu
is. It is known that the rate of Ni dissolution into molten
eutectic SnPb solder is one order of magnitude slower
than that of Cu, and this might also be true in solid
state. Nevertheless, electromigration still had a clear ef-
fect on the No. 1 joint, such as the location of the
Cu6Sn5 intermetallic. As shown in Fig. 2(n), Cu6Sn5
was distributed more randomly in this joint. One inter-
6 Y.H. Lin et al. / Acta Maesting question is that why had Cu6Sn5 not just formedCT
ED
Pleads to the suggestion that the incubation time is a goodindicator of the real lifetime of a joint under current-stressing. A theory that can predict the incubation time
will then be just as good as a theory than can predict the
lifetime of a solder joint for practical applications. Be-
fore the void nucleation, the joint underwent very little
microstructure change. On the other hand, the joint
experienced substantial changes in microstructure be-
fore failure. Therefore, it should be much easier to de-
rive a theory for the void nucleation than for the
whole failure process. In other words, it would be more
sensible to concentrate future theoretical or modeling ef-
forts toward predicting the incubation time, instead of
the lifetime before failure.
4. Conclusion
The void formation-and-propagation failure mecha-
nism induced by electromigration were observed in situ.
In the joint with electrons ﬂowing from the chip side to
the substrate side, no apparent microstructure change
was observed in the ﬁrst 30–50 min. After this incuba-
tion period, a void nucleated near the current crowding
region. This void then propagated across the UBM very
quickly, and eventually resulted in the failure of the sol-
der joint in about another 40 min. The failure was con-
current with the melting of the joint. Re-polishing of the
failed joint revealed that an extensive Cu UBM dissolu-
tion had occurred. The dissolved Cu atoms were driven
to the substrate side and formed Cu6Sn5. The results of
this study show that the geometry of the UBM might
have to be optimized to achieve a more uniform current
distribution in order to reduce failures caused by the
current crowding. This study also shows that modelingOO
F
near the anode side (the Cu UBM/solder interface) since
there was plenty of Cu nearby and the electromigration
factor also favored the formation of Cu6Sn5 there. What
was the driving force for Cu6Sn5 to be distributed
throughout the joint? Recently, it had been pointed
out that Cu and Ni could cross-interact across a solder
joint [17]. This interaction can drive the Cu atoms from
the Cu/solder interface to the solder/Ni interface to form
(Cu1  xNix)6Sn5. It can be seen in Fig. 2(n) that much
of this compound did form near the solder/Ni interface.
The electromigration is the factor responsible for driving
this compound away from the solder/Ni interface to in-
side the solder. In other words, the Cu–Ni cross-interac-
tion drove the Cu atoms to the solder/Ni interface to
form the compound, and electromigration drove some
of this compound back into the solder.
It should be pointed out that the importance of the
incubation time before void nucleation cannot be over-
emphasized. According to the results of this study, after
lia xxx (2005) xxx–xxx478the incubation time is a more sensible way of approach-
Electromigration-Induced Failure in Flip-Chip Solder Joints
Y.H. LIN,1 C.M. TSAI,1 Y.C. HU,1 Y.L. LIN,1 and C.R. KAO1,2
1.—Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, National Central University Chungli
City, Taiwan. 2.—E-mail: kaocr@hotmail.com
The electromigration failure mechanism in flip-chip solder joints through the
rapid dissolution of the Cu metallization was studied in detail. The ambient
temperature was found to be a very important factor in this failure mecha-
nism. When the ambient temperature was changed from 100°C to 70°C,
the time to failure changed from 95 min to 31 days. The results of this study
indicate that temperature, as an experimental variable, is not less important
than the current density in electromigration study. The surface temperatures
of the chip and substrate during electromigration were also measured. The
temperature of the Si chip was reasonably homogeneous because of the fact
that Si is a very good thermal conductor. It was also reasoned that the high
thermal conductivity of the PbSn solder could not support a temperature
gradient large enough to induce thermomigration across the solder joint in
the present study. Experimentally, no evidence of mass transport caused by
thermomigration was observed.
Key words: Electromigration, thermomigration, solder, flip chip
Journal of ELECTRONIC MATERIALS, Vol. 34, No. 1, 2005 Regular Issue Paper
1
(Received December 29, 2003; accepted July 22, 2004)
INTRODUCTION
One of the major advantages of flip-chip technol-
ogy is its superior electrical performance because
of its shorter electrical connection length between
the chip and substrate. Flip-chip technology has
been the dominating packaging solution for high
performance chips and will remain so in the fore-
seeable future. As the chip complexity increases, the
input/output (I/O) density on each chip also in-
creases. To accommodate the continuing rise of the
I/O density, the diameter of the flip-chip solder joints
must shrink. The shrinking of the solder joints in-
evitably raises the current density passing through
the flip-chip solder joints. It is anticipated that cur-
rent density will reach 104 A/cm2 in a few years. Two
phenomena have to be considered in view of this high
level of current density: electromigration1–8 and ther-
momigration.9 Electromigration had been shown to
cause failures in flip-chip solder joints through a void
formation and propagation mechanism.4 Recently, it
was found that electromigration could also cause fail-
ure through the mechanism of rapid Cu under-bump
metallization (UBM) dissolution.7 A review article on
electromigration was published very recently.8
Thermomigration had also been proposed to cause
reliability problems in flip-chip solder joints.9 Dur-
ing current stressing, heat is generated due to Joule
heating. Because the cross-section area of the metal
lines on the chip side is much smaller than those of
the solder joints and the metal conducting traces
on the substrate side, the metal lines on the chip
have a higher overall electrical resistance compared
to those of the solder joints and the metal conducting
traces on the substrate. Therefore, the primary heat
source due to Joule heating is the metal lines on a
chip. This local heat source induces a temperature
gradient across the solder joint, going down from
the chip side to the substrate side. Because of this
temperature gradient, thermomigration creates a
net atom flux toward the cooler side. This net atom
transport leads to the formation of voids near the
chip side9 and could cause joint failures.
In this study, we looked into the failure mecha-
nism through Cu UBM dissolution reported earlier7
in greater detail. Specifically, we would like to know
the effect of ambient temperature on this failure
mechanism. We also monitored the chip surface
temperature and the substrate surface temperature
so that we could evaluate the importance of ther-
momigration in our samples during high-intensity
current stressing.
JEM-1207-R5  12/2/04  5:14 PM  Page 1
backside surface temperature of the chip (the side
without any active devices) when the ambient
temperature was set at 100°C. Also shown is the
backside surface temperature of the substrate
(opposite to the side where the chip was mounted).
The temperatures in Fig. 3 were measured by plac-
ing fine-gauge thermocouples on the backsides of
the chip or the substrate at the locations immedi-
ately above or below solder joint No. 2. It should be
noted that the metal line on the chip between joints
No. 1 and 2 was the primary heat source during
current stressing. In Fig. 3, both temperatures
increased initially due to Joule heating, and then
reached steady-state temperatures in a few minutes
when the Joule heating was balanced by heat dissi-
pation. When the ambient temperature was 100°C,
the steady-state temperatures for the backside chip
surface and backside substrate surface were 157°C
and 131°C, respectively. When the ambient temper-
ature was 70°C, these two temperatures evolved
similarly, but the steady-state temperatures become
122°C and 98°C, respectively. The steady-state tem-
peratures, such as those reported here, depend on
the heat generation rate (due to Joule heating) and
the heat dissipation rate. The heat generation rate
is proportional to the product of the voltage drop
across the circuit and the applied current. Most of
the voltage drop in a flip-chip system occurs across
the chip itself. Therefore, the heat generation rate
depends strongly on the chip resistance design. The
heat dissipation rate depends strongly on factors
such as die size, heat sink, underfill, etc. As will be
described later, temperature is a very important
factor in electromigration of solder joints, so both
the chip resistance design and the heat dissipation
capability are important factors for a given current
stressing experiment. The current density alone is
not enough to fully characterize an electromigration
experiment in a flip-chip system. The voltage drop
across the chip and the heat dissipation conditions
have also to be described in reporting electromigra-
tion study. Of course, it is always best to monitor the
surface temperature and joint temperature directly.
The backside surface temperatures of the chip at
other locations were also monitored in this study. As
shown in Fig. 1 for the case of 100°C ambient tem-
perature, the backside of the chip was divided into
nine regions, and the steady-state temperatures for
these nine regions were recorded. The temperature
difference diagonally across the chip, which covers
a distance of several thousands microns, was very
small, only 6.2°C. This can be attributed to the fact
that Si is a very good thermal conductor (thermal
conductivity  148 Wm1K1). From this observa-
tion, we can reasonably expect that the front-
side chip surface temperature in contact with joint
No. 2 was not very different from 157°C because the
thickness of the Si wafer was only 300 µm.
It is very difficult to experimentally measure the
temperature profile across the solder joint from the
chip side to the substrate side. This temperature
profile information is important to judge the contri-
bution of mass transport through thermomigration.
Accurate prediction of this temperature profile can
only be resorted to elaborate computer simulation.
Here, only qualitative considerations are presented.
The PbSn eutectic has a thermal conductivity of
50 Wm1K1, which is about one third that of Si.
The height of the solder joints was about 100 µm.
The substrate was made of FR-4 and had a very
poor thermal conductivity (0.35 Wm1K1). The
thickness of the substrate was 500 µm. As shown in
Fig. 1, the backside surface temperature of the sub-
strate directly below joint No. 2 was 131°C. Conse-
quently, the total temperature difference between
the backside of the chip and the backside of the 
substrate near joint No. 2 was (157  131)  26°C.
Considering the thermal conductivities of Si, PbSn 
solder, and FR-4, as well as the thickness of the Si
wafer, solder joint, and the substrate, one can rea-
sonably expect that the actual temperature drop
across the solder joint itself was a small fraction of
the 26°C. Most of the temperature drop occurred
within the substrate. This small temperature differ-
ence across the solder joint itself leads one to sug-
gest that thermomigration may not be an important
factor within the solder joint in our study.
Observations from Experiments at 100°C
Ambient Temperature
Figure 4 shows the event of microstructure evolu-
tion in the No. 2 solder joint. A more detailed de-
scription for Fig. 4 had been reported in a previous
letter.7 In each micrograph, electrons entered the
joint from the upper-left corner and left through the
lower-right corner. The progress of Cu dissolution in
the upper-left corner as a function of time is clearly
visible. The effect of current crowding can be seen
very clearly because of the asymmetric dissolution.
It took only 95 min for the bump to fail through
extensive Cu dissolution. Not only the dish-shaped
Cu UBM, but also part of the Cu line was consumed.
The dissolved Cu regions were backfilled with sol-
der. The part of the Cu line that was backfilled with
solder had a much higher tendency to fail because
the local current density was much higher there and
because the solder is less resistant to electromigra-
tion than Cu. The dissolved Cu atoms were driven
by electromigration to the anode side, and a large
amount of Cu6Sn5 formed. Figure 5 is a top-view
optical micrograph for the No. 2 joint after 95-min
current stressing. The solder had been etched away
to reveal the failure site. The regions in which Cu
had been dissolved and backfilled with solder are
also clearly visible.
As had been pointed out in a previous letter,7 elec-
tromigration did not produce similar metal dissolu-
tion and failure in the No. 1 joint (electron flowing
from the substrate side to the chip side). It had been
pointed out that there were three possible reasons
for the difference.7 The first is that Ni on the sub-
strate side is more resistant to dissolution than Cu.
Electromigration-Induced Failure in Flip-Chip Solder Joints 3
JEM-1207-R5  12/2/04  5:14 PM  Page 3
ture gradient across the No. 3 joint was even higher
than that of the No. 2 joint. This is because the 
temperatures of the No. 2 and 3 joints on the chip
side were very close (Fig. 1) because of the fact that
Si is a very good conductor. On the substrate side,
because FR-4 is a poor thermal conductor, the tem-
perature difference between the No. 2 and 3 joints
must be greater. Even though the No. 3 joint had a
greater temperature gradient, there was no evidence
of thermomigration in Fig. 2b of Ref. 7.
In our current stressing experiments, the separa-
tion of the Pb-rich phase was also observed. The
Pb-rich phase formed near the anode side in both
the No. 1 and 2 joints, as shown in Fig. 6. Figure 6a
and b is optical micrographs for the No. 1 and 2
solder joints after current stressing for 45 min. The
dark areas are the Pb-rich phase. A SEM image
and an EDX mapping are shown in Fig. 6c and d,
respectively, for the No. 2 joint. The Pb atoms were
driven to the anode side because Pb diffused faster
than Sn did at the temperature of this experiment.8
Electromigration also had a clear effect on the loca-
tion of the Cu6Sn5 intermetallic. As shown in Fig. 6a
and b, Cu6Sn5 always formed near the anode side.
The electrons were able to drive the Cu atoms toward
the anode side and formed Cu6Sn5 there. More inter-
estingly, in the No. 1 joint, we also detected a small
amount of Ni dissolved into Cu6Sn5 and formed
(CuxNi1x)6Sn5. This indicates that electromigration
was also able to drive Ni atoms from the Ni layer in
the substrate surface finish toward the anode side.
Observations from Experiments at 70°C
Ambient Temperature
At 70°C environmental temperature, the same
failure mechanism still operated, but at a much
Electromigration-Induced Failure in Flip-Chip Solder Joints 5
Fig. 6. (a) Optical micrograph for the No. 1 joint after 45-min current stressing at 100°C environmental temperature. (b) Optical micrograph for
the No. 2 joint after 45-min current stressing at 100°C environmental temperature. (c) The SEM image for the sample shown in (b). (d) The EDX
element map for the sample shown in (b).
JEM-1207-R5  12/2/04  5:14 PM  Page 5
joints without certain modifications. Several factors
make the direct adoption of Black&apos;s equation
difficult: complexity in geometry, the current crowd-
ing effect, the presence of a temperature gradient,
and the presence of multiple materials (solder and
UBM) as well as their interactions. It is highly de-
sirable that a counterpart of Black&apos;s equation
can be derived for electromigration in solder joints.
This is because industry needs such an equation to
serve as a guide to set its design rules. The search-
ing of such an equation will be a highly important
and rewarding research area.
The results of this study indicate that the ambient
temperature and, more importantly, the joint tem-
perature are dominant factors in current stressing
experiment. These temperatures are mainly deter-
mined by the Joule heating and the heat dissipation.
The Joule heating is a variable that can be easily
controlled and is well characterized in all the studies
reported in the literature. The heat dissipation, how-
ever, is more complicated, and is a variable that
tends not to be well characterized in the past. This
ambiguity makes it difficult to compare re-sults from
different laboratories. Therefore, in future studies,
factors relating to heat dissipation have to be de-
scribed clearly. Of course, the actual joint tempera-
ture, if it can be measured, will give an even better
characterization of electromigration study.
CONCLUSIONS
The surface temperatures of the chip and sub-
strate during electromigration were measured. The
temperature of the Si chip was reasonably homoge-
neous because of the fact that Si is a very good
thermal conductor. It was also reasoned that the
high thermal conductivity of the PbSn solder could
not support a temperature gradient large enough to
induce thermomigration in the present study.
The effect of temperature on the time-to-failure is
very strong. When the ambient temperature was
changed from 100°C to 70°C, the time to failure
changed from 95 min to 31 days. Therefore, in future
studies, factors relating to heat dissipation have to
be well controlled. Development of techniques to ac-
curately measure or simulate the joint temperature
distribution during current stressing will be an im-
portant step in studying electromigration in flip-chip
solder joints.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work is supported by the National Science
Council of the Republic of China through Grant 
Nos. NSC-92-2216-E-008-006 and NSC-92-2214-E-
008-003.
REFERENCES
1. Semiconductor Industry Association, 1999 International
Technology Roadmap for Semiconductor (San Jose, CA:
Semiconductor Industry Association, 1999).
2. S. Brandenberg and S. Yeh, Proc. 1998 Surface Mount Int.
Conf. Exhib. (Edina, MN: SMTA, 1998), p. 337.
3. T.Y. Lee, K.N. Tu, and D.R. Frear, J. Appl. Phys. 90, 4502
(2001).
4. E.C.C. Yeh, W.J. Choi, K.N. Tu, P. Elenius, and H. Balkan,
Appl. Phys. Lett. 80, 580 (2002).
5. K. Zeng and K.N. Tu, Mater. Sci. Eng. R 38, 55 (2002).
6. J.D. Wu, P.J. Zheng, K. Lee, C.T. Chiu, and J.J. Lee,
Proc. 2002 Electronic Components and Technology Conf.
(Piscataway, NJ: IEEE, 2002), pp. 452–457.
7. Y.C. Hu, Y.H. Lin, C.R. Kao, and K.N. Tu, J. Mater. Res. 18,
2544 (2003).
8. K.N. Tu, J. Appl. Phys. 94, 5451 (2003).
9. H. Ye, C. Basaran, and D. Hopkins, Appl. Phys. Lett. 82,
1045 (2003).
10. J.R. Black, IEEE Trans. Electron Dev. ED-16, 338 (1969).
Electromigration-Induced Failure in Flip-Chip Solder Joints 7
Fig. 8. (a) Microstructure of the No. 1 joint after current stressing at 70°C environmental temperature for 31 days. Electrons flowed from the chip
side to the substrate side. (b) Microstructure of the No. 3 joint after current stressing at 70°C environmental temperature for 31 days. No current
passed through this joint.
JEM-1207-R5  12/2/04  5:14 PM  Page 7
Online Proofing Guidance Page
FIRST STEP:
Install Adobe Acrobat Reader if you do not already have this or another Acrobat product installed on your
computer. You can do this free of charge by connecting to the Adobe site and following the instructions at:
http://www.adobe.com/products/acrobat/readermain.html
SECOND STEP:
Please download and print your PDF file — we recommend that you save this file to disk, rather than
opening it from within your Browser.
From a PC:
1. Right-click on the file/article link.
2. Select ‘‘Save Target as’’
3. Select a desired location on your computer to save the file to, and click on ‘‘Save’’
4. Open your PDf file directly with Acrobat Reader or another Acrobat product.
5. Print this file as you normally would with any typical application. Example: Go up to your
toolbar, select ‘‘File’’, select ‘‘Print’’.
From a MAC:
1. Hold the mouse button down over the link.
a. In Internet Explorer, select ‘‘Download Link to Disk’’ from the resulting pop-up menu
b. In Netscape, select ‘‘Save this Link as’’ from the resulting pop-up menu
2. Select a desired location on your computer and click on ‘‘Save’’
3. Open your PDF file directly with Acrobat Reader or another Acrobat product.
4. Print this file as you normally would with any typical application. Example: Go up to your menu
bar, select ‘‘File’’, select ‘‘Print’’.
THIRD STEP:
Please go through the file you have just printed and thoroughly and clearly mark any revisions you would
like to see implemented in your paper. If you have had any changes in phone/fax or e-mail addresses since
your paper was submitted, please send us this new information.
PLEASE NOTE:  Your corrections (modifications, deletions, additions, etc.) MUST be marked on the proof itself
(either the hard copy proof, or the printed-out .PDF file) for return to the printer.  We will no longer accept corrections
indicated in a letter, summarized on a separate page, or inserted within the .pdf file itself.
FOURTH STEP:
You may choose one of the following methods to return your revised paper:
1. Regular mail, or via a courier service (please be advised that choosing to return your proof via regular mail from
outside the United States can cause lengthy delays in the proof arriving here at the printing facility).
2. Fax
3. Scan the revised pages and attach to an E-mail.


on
. Lo
ional
; pu
f res
tatio
rain
trop
e va
grain
boun
reep
exp
that the driving force is the reduction of interfacial energy. grain boundaries will result in grain rotation.
APPLIED PHYSICS LETTERS 86, 241902 s2005dMoldovan et al. suggested analytically a new growth law by
introducing the grain-rotation-induced grain coalescence in
the polycrystalline materials.5 Harris et al. observed the
“rigid body rotation” of grains in a gold thin film during
thermal annealing and the rotation rate has a strong depen-
dence on the grain size.6 Molecular dynamics has been uti-
lized to simulate the grain rotation mechanisms.7 The driving
force on the abovementioned studies came mainly from ther-
mal energy sdependence of grain boundary energy on the
misorientation angled. In this letter we present a new mecha-
nism in which the grain rotation is induced by electromigra-
tion, and the driving force is the reduction of resistance when
a grain is rotated from a high to a low resistance orientation
with respect to the applied current direction. Resistance of
the line consists of bulk resistance of grains plus resistance
of grain boundaries. Grain rotation simultaneously leads the
drop of flux divergence and minimizes the misorientation.
The scattering of electrons at the grain boundaries should
Many studies have been focused on electromigration in
metal interconnects.8–14 However, these studies were based
on electrically isotropic materials, such as aluminum or cop-
per. The vacancy flux mainly causes the stress gradient in the
direction parallel to the current flow but not in the direction
normal to the current flows, hence there is no grain rotation.
In Fig. 1, we consider a simple and ideal geometrically
FIG. 1. Schematic diagram of grain 2 with “bad” orientation between grain
1 and 3 which have “good” orientation. The height of the grain is “h,” the
width is “d,” and the width of grain boundaries is “d.” Inside the grain
boundaries, “v” stands for vacancies and the arrows indicate the direction ofElectromigration-induced grain rotati
Albert T. Wu,a! A. M. Gusak,b! and K. N. Tu
Department of Materials Science and Engineering, UCLA
C. R. Kao
Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, Nat
Republic of China
sReceived 3 February 2005; accepted 22 April 2005
Electromigration in beta-Sn has shown a 10% drop o
the material. The drop was proposed due to reorien
driving force as well as the atomic mechanism of g
considered in this letter. We propose that the aniso
vacancy fluxes at the grain boundaries and induces th
the grain boundary. The vacancy gradients along the
stress. The opposite sign of the stress along grain
rotation of the grain by grain boundary diffusion or c
of the model seems to agree well with the observed
of Physics. fDOI: 10.1063/1.1941456g
White tin sor beta-Snd has a body-center tetragonal crys-
tal structure. Its lattice parameters are a=b=0.583 nm and
c=0.318 nm, and its electrical conductivities are 13.25 and
20.27 µV cm repectively. Lloyd1 reported a voltage drop in
tin line under electromigration for one day. Electromigration
in tin occurs primarily by lattice diffusion due to the low
melting temperature and may lead to a noticeable micro-
structural change affected by its anisotropic conductivity.
Synchrotron white beam x-ray microdiffraction has been
used to study grain-by-grain changes in thin film Sn strips
under electromigration.2 Not only the grains align them-
selves to the low resistance grains, but the surface morpho-
logical changes also tend to suggest that the realignment
might have been caused by grain rotation under the applied
current.
On grain rotation, Li et al. has proposed that the emer-
gence of subgrains can be a thermodynamically favorable
mechanism for recrystallization.3 Hermann et al. suggested
4adElectronic mail: tcwu@ucla.edu
bdOn sabbatical leave from Cherkasy National University, Ukraine.
0003-6951/2005/86~24!/241902/3/$22.50 86, 24190
Downloaded 03 Jul 2005 to 140.115.56.200. Redistribution subject toin anisotropic conducting beta tin
s Angeles, California 90095-1595
Central University, Chungli, Taiwan,
blished online 6 June 2005d
istance due to the anisotropic properties of
n of grains to reduce the resistance. The
rotation under electromigration has been
ic resistivity causes the divergence of the
cancy fluxes to/from the free surface along
boundaries correspond to the gradients of
daries generates a torque which leads to
. The rate of rotation estimated on the base
erimental data. © 2005 American Institute
drop as well, hence the drop of total resistance.
It requires a torque consisting of a force and a moment
arm to rotate an object. Due to the anisotropic properties of
beta tin, we suggest a plausible mechanism which can gen-
erate a torque under an applied electric current. The
electromigration-driven vacancy fluxes are different in the
neighboring grains of different orientations. This difference
leads to supersaturation with vacancies at the boundary at the
anode and undersaturation at the boundary at the cathode.
Since the top surface of tin line is stress-free and can be
considered to be a good sink/source of vacancy, it should
have equilibrium vacancy concentration, the vacancy gradi-
ents and fluxes should build up in vertical directions. Vertical
vacancy gradients imply vertical stress gradients along the
grain boundaries. Thus they indicate transversal forces sup
and downd acting on atoms at the two grain boundaries of the
grain. This pair of forces is the origin of the torque. In this
letter, we show that the atomic flow or diffusion along thevacancy flows.
© 2005 American Institute of Physics2-1
 AIP license or copyright, see http://apl.aip.org/apl/copyright.jsp
Jvx
bulk
= − Jv
c cos u − Jv
a sin u .
By following the same logic, the angular velocity would be
v =
du
dt
= K cos2 u ,
where
K =
4096dDGB
kT
1
h2
Z*ej
Dv
GB sDv
a,bulkra − Dv
c,bulkrcd .
Therefore,
v =
du
dt
=
Xv
GB
Xv
bulk
4096d
kTh2
Z*ejsDva,bulkra − Dvc,bulkrcdcos2 u .
s12d
For a real tin strip sample, as can be seen in Fig. 2, the
sample was tested at current density of 23104 A/cm2 at
100 °C. The grain size is around 50 µm, and the grain bound-
ary width is about 0.5 nm. The effective charge number of tin
is 17. The DGB at 100 °C is 2310−7 cm2/s. The only un-
known parameter is the ratio of vacancy concentration in the
grain boundary and in the bulk. At 100 °C, it is reasonable to
take this ratio to be 100. The calculated time for the grain to
rotate is 447 h. The experiment shown in Fig. 2 was carried
out for 500 h. In Ref. 2, it states that fine tin grains were also
rotated under electromigration. In this sample, the grain size
is more equiaxial and to be 1 µm in diameter. If we plug-in
all the known values, the calculated time to rotate one grain
for a size of 1 µm is about 3 h. The experiment was per-
formed for 7 h. From both results we can verify that the
model is in good agreement with the experimental data.
Generally speaking, diffusion under stress screepd does
not lead to grain rotation. If we apply an elastic compressive
stress but no electromigration to the three-grain structure as
depicted in Fig. 1, creep may occur by transporting mass to
the free surface, either by Nabarro–Herring creep within the
grains or by Coble creep along the two grain boundaries or
both. There will be no grain rotation. However, grain rotation
occurs when torque generated along these two boundaries
due to an opposite grain boundary diffusion. Flux divergence
FIG. 2. sad Sn strip under electromigration at the current density of 2
3104 A/cm2 at 100 °C for 30 h. sbd morphology of the strip shows grains
rotation after the electromigration for 500 h.
241902-3 Wu et al.occurs in these two grain boundaries because of the conse-
quence of anisotropic conducting and diffusion behavior of
Downloaded 03 Jul 2005 to 140.115.56.200. Redistribution subject tobeta-Sn. These two grain boundaries can be regarded as the
cathode and anode of the “bad” grain, and the polarity effect
produces the opposite stress states in the cathode and anode,
in turn the opposite creep direction along the two grain
boundaries. In an isotropic conductor such as Al and Cu, we
do not have such a behavior and no grain rotation is ex-
pected.
It is worth noting that while grain boundary diffusion has
been assumed to play a key role in the proposed mechanism
of grain rotation, lattice diffusion is part of the flux diver-
gence. Actually it is very likely that the morphological
change observed at 100 °C, as shown in Fig. 2, should have
involved a large fraction of lattice diffusion. In other words,
both Nabarro–Herring creep and Coble creep may have con-
tributed equally to the grain rotation driven by electromigra-
tion.
The rotation of grain 2 minimizes the flux divergence
and results in reduction of resistance. As in Eq. s12d, the
torque would be maximized when c-axis is the same direc-
tion as current flows. No doubt not all grains in a beta-Sn
sample will rotate in electromigration. As discussed, the
grain which rotates depends not only on its own orientation
sor resistivityd, but also on the orientation of its nearest
neighboring grains. There will be a distribution of orientation
misalignment between pairs of neighboring grains. Only
some of them will rotate.
In summary, a mechanism of grain rotation has been
proposed to depict the microstructure evolution in aniso-
tropic conducting materials in electromigration. We propose
that the divergence of the vacancy fluxes from two neighbor-
ing but differently oriented grains induces a vacancy flux sor
an atomic flux in the reverse directiond along the grain
boundary between them. The flux divergence exists because
of the anisotropic conduction. The grain boundary diffusion
or creep will result in a rotation of the grain. The rate of
rotation estimated on the base of the model seems to agree
well with the observed experimental data.
This project has been supported by Semiconductor Re-
search Corporation Contract No. NJ-1080, and Civilian Re-
search and Development Foundation Contract No. UEI-
2523-503736. The authors would like to thank Professor J.
C. M. Li at the University of Rochester for suggesting the
problem of grain rotation in electromigration.
1J. R. Lloyd, J. Appl. Phys. 94, 6483 s2003d.
2A. T. Wu, K. N. Tu, J. R. Lloyd, N. Tamura, B. C. Valek, and C. R. Kao,
Appl. Phys. Lett. 85, 2490 s2004d.
3J. C. M. Li, J. Appl. Phys. 33, 2958 s1962d.
4G. Hermann, H. Gleiter, and G. Bäro, Acta Metall. 24, 353 s1976d.
5D. Moldovan, V. Yamakov, D. Wolf, and S. R. Phillpot, Phys. Rev. Lett.
89, 206101-1 s2002d.
6K. E. Harris, V. V. Singh, and A. H. King, Acta Mater. 46, 2623 s1998d.
7A. J. Haslam, S. R. Phillpot, D. Wolf, D. Moldovan, and H. Gleiter, Mater.
Sci. Eng., A 318, 293 s2001d.
8M. Shatzkes and J. R. Lloyd, J. Appl. Phys. 59, 3890 s1986d.
9J. J. Clement and J. R. Lloyd, J. Appl. Phys. 71, 1729 s1992d.
10R. Kircheim, Acta Metall. Mater. 40, 309 s1992d.
11M. A. Korhonen, P. Børgesen, K. N. Tu, and C. Y. Li, J. Appl. Phys. 73,
3790 s1993d.
12H. K. Kao, G. S. Cargrill III, and C. K. Hu, J. Appl. Phys. 89, 2588
Appl. Phys. Lett. 86, 241902 ~2005!s2001d.
13V. Sukharev and E. Zschech, J. Appl. Phys. 96, 6337 s2004d.
14I. A. Blech, J. Appl. Phys. 96, 6337 s2004d.
 AIP license or copyright, see http://apl.aip.org/apl/copyright.jsp
on the equator in Fig. 1(b) indicate that Sn grains formed
(100) fiber texture along the Z axis and the high resistivity c*
lies on the X–Y plane, pointing toward various directions.
From the microstructure aspect, Figs. 2(a) and 2(b) re-
spectively, show, the grain-by-grain results. The gray scale
indicates the XY in-plane direction of the grains (determined
as the angle between the X axis and the projection of the
(100) axis on the XY plane). We use the big bump as a
reference marker for the sample. In Figs. 2(a) and 2(b), the
regions of interest (1 and 2) are indicated by black rect-
angles. In region 1, the angle of the (100) of the biggest grain
is about 4° with respect to the electron flow direction; in
region 2, this angle is about 5°. In both cases, the (100) axis
is therefore close to the low resistivity direction and these
grains have low resistance. We found that the low angle large
size grain in region 1 has grown under current stressing by
comparing Figs. 2(a) and 2(b). Furthermore, in regions 1 and
2 [Fig. 2(a)], the reference black rectangles not only contain
low angle grains, but also some neighboring small size
grains with higher value angles. It can be clearly seen that
these high angle grains have shrunk after electromigration
and the neighboring small angle grains have enlarged.
From the point of view of driving force, the results
strongly suggest that low-resistance grains have grown at the
FIG. 2. Grain maps of tin stripes angle: (a) as-received sample and (b) after
electromigration. The grey scale refers to the angle between the X axis and
the projection of (100) on X–Y plane.
Appl. Phys. Lett., Vol. 85, No. 13, 27 September 2004expense of neighboring high-resistance grains in order to
minimize the energy dissipation caused by resistance. The
energy consumption in a grain is given by P= I2R, where I
and R are, respectively, the current and the resistance in the
Downloaded 05 Oct 2004 to 140.115.56.200. Redistribution subject tograin. The larger the resistance, the more the dissipation.
Hence, the high-resistance grains may realign themselves to
the low-resistance grain to reduce energy dissipation, result-
ing in a voltage drop. Perhaps this may contribute to the
driving force of microstructure evolution under electromigra-
tion.
Let us assume that an ideal Sn line consists of all grains
with c* pointing toward electron flow direction and, under
electromigration, all of them (100%) are assumed to rotate
with either a* or b* pointing toward the electron flow direc-
tion, we would then have a maximum resistance drop of
s20.27 mV cm–13.25 mV cmd /20.27 mV cm=35%. After
one day of electromigration, Lloyd1 observed a resistance
drop of several to 10%, indicating about 28.5% s10/35d of
the c* oriented grains had transformed. Following the same
calculation, our sample was stressed under current for 7 h, so
only 8% ss7/24d328.5% <8% d of the grains in the line
would have reoriented along the X axis. In Fig. 2, the reori-
ented grains are about 6% of total line length. Hence, the
agreement is good. On the other hand, it is unlikely that the
whole line consisted of grains only with a* or c* oriented
toward the length direction. If Sn stripe, as shown in Fig. 1,
has a random distribution of grains with c* on the XY plane,
only about one-third of the large angle grains may have
chance to transform into the low angle grains and we expect
an upper limit of voltage drop about 35% 31/3<12%. Fur-
thermore, if there are no low angle grains presented next to
the high angle grains, the latter will be hard to transform to
reduce resistance. Therefore, on the basis of the above dis-
cussions, we expect a voltage drop of several to 10% to be
very reasonable.
If grain growth is caused by joule heating in which the
resistance varies in different grains, the driving force will be
a reduction in the grain-boundary area as in normal grain
growth. However, this is highly unlikely in our case because
the microstructure in the Sn stripe has been stabilized during
the postdeposition annealing at 150 °C for 60 days before
electromigration. Besides, Sn is a good thermal conductor so
the temperature gradient between grains is very small. The
effect of anisotropic strain energy has also been discussed
and found to be negligible.1
From the point of view of kinetics, electromigration-
induced grain growth has been rarely reported in literature.
During electromigration in Al lines, stressed by a current
density of 63103 A/cm2 at 340 to 540 °C over several
hours, it was reported that the grain boundaries move toward
the anode, i.e., grain boundaries move in the direction of
electron flow.13 Surface grooving was observed when the
motion was interrupted for examination. Furthermore, the
measured activation energy is close to that of lattice diffusion
rather than grain-boundary diffusion. In Fig. 2, grain bound-
aries were also moving toward the anode. Although we did
not measure the activation energy, the temperature was high
enough for lattice diffusion to be dominant.
Figure 3 shows a schematic diagram depicting a high
angle grain boundary. If a high current density is applied so
that electrons flow from left to right, as indicated by the
arrow, we would expect that electrons will push atoms on the
left side of the grain boundary to break away from grain 1,
Wu et al. 2491jump across the boundary, and reorient themselves to grain 2.
If this were the case, we would observe that the grain bound-
ary moves toward the cathode, and would measure an acti-
vation energy closer to grain-boundary diffusion rather than
 AIP license or copyright, see http://apl.aip.org/apl/copyright.jsp
The Study of Microstructure Evolution of Tin Grains Due to 
Electromigration by Using Synchrotron X-ray Microdiffraction 
Albert .T. Wu1, K.N. Tu1, J. R. Lloyd2, N. Tamura3, B. C. Valek3 and C. R. Kao4
1Dept. of Materials Science and Engineering, UCLA, Los Angeles, CA 90095
2IBM T. J. Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights, NY 10598   
3Advanced Light Source, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 94720  
4Dept. of Chemical & Materials Engineering, National Central University, Chungli, Taiwan, ROC   
Subject Categories: Electronic Materials, Characterization 
                                      Abstract 
When a white Sn (ȕ-Sn) thin film stripe is subjected to 
electromigration, it shows a voltage drop typically about 
10%.  The reason might be due to the dependence of 
resistivity on anisotropic crystal structure of ȕ-Sn; the c-
axis is about 35% higher than a- and b-axes. Synchrotron x-
ray micro-diffraction (~1µm in beam diameter) has been 
used to achieve grain-by-grain analysis of the changes of 
grain orientation in the Sn stripe before and after 
electromigration. Grain growth was observed under 
electromigration; the low-resistance grain grew at the 
expense of a neighboring high resistance grain. The Grain 
boundary moves toward the anode, in the same direction of 
electron flow. 
Introduction 
White tin (ȕ-Sn) has a body-center tetragonal 
structure, and its lattice parameters are a = b = 5.83Å and c 
= 3.18 Å. While applying a current density of 6.25 x 103
A/cm2 at 150o C on a Sn stripe, a phenomenon in which 
voltage drops of up to 10% in 1 day was reported by Lloyd 
[1]. Electromigration in white tin (Tm = 232
oC) is of 
interest because the electromigration occurs primarily by 
lattice diffusion which may lead to a noticeable 
microstructural change. ȕ-Sn has the resistivity of 13.25 
µȍ-cm along the a and b axes and 20.27 µȍ-cm along the c 
axis. We suggest that the observed voltage drop may be 
caused by a reorientation of Sn grains to realign themselves 
so that their a or b axis are along the current direction, 
effectively reducing resistance. We used synchrotron 
radiation white beam X-ray microdiffraction [2] to study 
grain-by-grain changes in thin film Sn stripes under 
electromigration. In this letter, we report that under 
electromigration, low resistance grains in Sn stripes grow at 
the expense of neighboring high resistance grains. A 
mechanism of grain growth under electromigration, very 
different from that in conventional grain growth by thermal 
annealing, is proposed and discussed.  
Experimental 
The Sn stripe was prepared at IBM Watson Research 
Center and had a dimension of 2 Pm (height) x 4 Pm (width) 
x 200 Pm (length) and was annealed at 150oC for 60 days 
to stabilize its microstructure. The X-ray microdiffraction 
station was set up on beamline 7.3.3. at the Advanced Light 
Source (ALS) in Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory. 
The sample was raster-scanned under a 1 Pm X-ray white 
beam and a Laue diffraction pattern was taken by a CCD 
detector at each step. Each grain can be treated as a single 
crystal with respect to the microbeam since the grains in 
our sample were larger than 1 Pm. The sample was scanned 
before and after electromigration testing (with a current 
density of 6.25 x 103 A/cm2 for 7 hours at 150oC). From the 
Laue patterns, grain orientation can be measured with a 
0.01q precision and compared.  
Results and Discussion 
Figure 1(a) and 1(b) show respectively the grain-by-
grain results. The gray scale indicates the XY in-plane 
direction of the grains (determined as the angle between the 
X-axis and the projection of the (100) axis on the XY 
plane). In Fig. 1(a) and 1(b), the regions of interest (1 and 2) 
are indicated by black rectangles. In region 1, the angle of 
the (100) of the biggest grain is about 4o with respect to the 
electron flow direction; in region 2, this angle is about 5o.
In both cases, the (100) axis is therefore close to the low 
resistivity direction and these grains have low resistance. In 
region 1 and 2 (Fig. 1(a)), the reference black rectangles 
not only contain low angle grains, but also some 
neighboring small size grains with higher value angles. It 
can be seen that these high angle grains have shrunk after 
electromigration and the neighboring small angle grains 
have enlarged. We found that the low angle large size grain 
in region 1 has grown under current stressing by comparing 
Fig. 1(a) and 1(b).  
From the point of view of kinetics, electromigration-
induced grain growth has been rarely reported in the 
TMS Letters • Volume 1 Issue 8 • Pb-Free and Pb-Bearing Solders
165
表 Y04 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-002-109 
計畫名稱 電遷移對覆晶元件銲點之影響(3/3) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
高振宏 教授 
臺灣大學材料系 
會議時間地點 美國 Detroit 市 2007年9月16日   至   2007年9月20日 
會議名稱 材料科學與科技2007年會議 Materials Science & Technology 2007 Conference 
發表論文題目 Massive Spalling of Intermetallic Compound in Solder Joints 
 
 
(一)參加會議經過 
 本屆材料科學與科技2007年會議 (Materials Science & Technology 2007 
Conference)於9月16日至9月20日在美國密西根州 Detroit 市舉行。本次會議由美國材
料四大學會共同舉辦，分別是 TMS (The Minerals, Metals, & Materials Society), ASM 
International, ACerS (American Ceramics Society), AIST (Association for Iron 
& Steel Technology)。大會包含47項主題會議同時進行，有來自世界各國近3500人與
會，與會者來自學術界、工業界、政府單位等。本會議是國際材料界每年定期舉行之主
要會議之一。這次會議在市中心COBO Convention Center舉行，會議設施相當完備。 
 筆者於9月16日深夜出發，9月17日清晨(星期一)到達旅館，隨即於9月16-20日全程
參加研討會。筆者於20日下午前往機場搭乘飛機回台，並9月22日早上4時抵達台灣。本
次行程極為忙碌，但各方面收穫也相當充實。 
 筆者本次於主題會議” Lead-Free Soldering: Emerging Issues in Manufacturing, 
Performance, and Reliability＂ 發表一invited talk, 題目為"Massive Spalling of 
Intermetallic Compound in Solder Joints＂，為時40分鐘。 
