 2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
高頻帶利用效率分碼多工技術之研究(3/3) 
(完整報告) 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-006 -345 
執行期限：96年 8月 1日至 97年 7月 31日 
主持人：陳曉華,國立成功大學工程科學系（所） 
 共同主持人：林茂昭,國立臺灣大學電機工程學系暨研究所 
 
一、中文摘要 
第三代行動通訊技術從概念到商用系統的
日漸成熟使我們有必要考慮未來可能的新
世代行動通訊系統的架構。相比於目前使用
的第三代行動通訊系統，新世代行動通訊系
統應能提供更快的資料傳輸速度。顯然，可
借由二種不同的方式來達到這個目的。最簡
單的方法是直接將更寬的頻帶分配給新世
代行動通訊系統，以提供高速資料傳送速
度。但是，其條件是存在足夠多的空閑頻寬
以供其使用。另外一個方法是採用具更高頻
帶利用效率的無線分碼多工擷取技術，以提
供新世代行動通訊系統所應具有的高速資
料傳送功能。很明顯，第一種方法的實施有
賴於採用更高的載波頻率，例如在 10-30 
GHz，以便能利用那里大量的空閑頻段以供
B3G系統來使用。但是，可用來作為地面行
動通訊系統載波頻率的最高頻率仍受到行
動通道各種傳播特性之限制：即頻率不能太
高以至於其傳播特性將明顯地受到气候條
件之影響。因此，相比之下，較為現實的方
法應該是靠提昇分碼多工擷取技術之頻帶
利用效率，以便在一定的頻段內能盡可能提
高其資料傳播速度。 
 本計劃之目的是研究如何設計一種所
謂的『雙向同性空間界面技術』，以便能從
根本上大大提昇一個以CDMA為基礎的無
線通訊系統的性能。為了實現第四代無線通
訊系統中雙向高速資料傳送的目的，目前
二、三代無線通訊系統中上、下鏈性能不一
致的問題必須解決。此一問題在未來的第四
代無線通訊系統中將變得更為突出：這是由
於未來的第四代無線通訊系統將有可能為
用戶提供所謂的『行動伺服器』的功能，即
用戶行動臺也將可能作為一個資料源而不
再只是作為一個資料的接收終端而已，以致
於上鏈的資料傳送速度將大大超過下鏈的
資料傳送速度。在本計劃中我們將針對可實
現『雙向同性空間界面技術』的二種可能的
方法作一詳細研究：一種方法是使用『雙向
同性展頻技術』來保証不論在上鏈或下鏈都
有一均勻一致的傳送性能；另一種方法是使
用一套精確的上鏈同步控制技術，從而為在
上鏈中使用理想正交碼（例如，OVSF 碼或
Walsh-Hadamard碼等）鋪平道路。『雙向同
性展頻技術』的使用可大大減小多用戶間干
撓（MAI），這也是在目前的第二、三代無
線通訊系統中最主要的干撓源。在本計劃中
我們將針對減小多用戶間干撓（MAI）的訴
求提出一種新型的CDMA 技術：
CC/DS-CDMA 技術。這一新型的分碼多工
架構的基礎就是建立在『雙向同性展頻技
術』之上的，并具有幾個十分優良的特性，
例如，該系統不再存在令人頭痛的多用戶間
干撓（MAI）問題，也沒有多路經干擾，并
且該系統之運作也不再受敏感的遠近效應
之影響，而且以上優良的特性不論在上鏈或
下鏈都存在。至少在理論上我們可以將原先
的一個主要受干擾限制的CDMA系統單純
化成一個主要受雜訊限制的通訊系統，從而
有希望在不增加系統複雜度的條件下，大大
提昇一個CDMA 系統的性能。 
特別值得一提的是，本計劃從批准開始
執行距今已經有三年的時間，從本計劃的執
行過程中我們已經獲得了一些相當有价值
的結果。部分成果也已經投稿，有些正在准
備論文當中。特別令人高興的是，我們己初
步尋找到了一種可以用來設計無干擾分碼
多工系統的實用互補碼，我們稱之為“超級
互補碼”。這種碼不僅可保証實現無干擾的
工作，也同時可支持更多用戶。將有相當之
實用价值。 
 4 
on the way in many developed countries. The 
maturing of the 3G mobile communication 
technologies from their concepts to 
commercially deliverable systems motivates 
us to start to work on the possible 
architectures for the future generations of 
mobile or wireless communications. Although 
at the time when this report is being written 
nobody is very sure what the futuristic 
mobile/wireless communications will look 
like, what can be sure at this moment is that 
the future wireless systems ought to deliver a 
much higher data rate than what achievable in 
current 3G systems. Some people expect that 
the possible data rate for the 4G systems 
should be roughly at a range of 100 to 1000 
Mbps, depending on the coverage and 
mobility of the mobile terminals. Bearing this 
objective in mind, our question is how to 
guarantee such a high data rate in a highly 
unpredictable and hostile mobile channels, 
and what types of air-link architecture are 
qualified to deliver such a high date rate 
services.   
 
Considering the constraints on the available 
radio spectrum suitable for terrestrial mobile 
communications (from a few hundreds MHz 
to less than 100 GHz), we would like to argue 
that probably the most relevant and feasible 
way to achieve such a goal promised by the 
B3G systems is to work out some enabling 
technologies capable to improve as much as 
possible the air-link bandwidth efficiency of 
the systems. In this proposed research project, 
we have tackled this issue comprehensively by 
proposing some new CDMA architectures that 
could offer a great potential for its application 
in the future mobile communications. 
 
It is well known that all current CDMA-based 
2-3G standards (i.e. IS-95, cdma2000 and 
W-CDMA) use traditional direct-sequence 
CDMA techniques based on an identical 
principle that each bit is spread by one single 
spreading code comprising N contiguous 
chips to attain certain processing gain or 
spreading factor. The bandwidth of all those 
systems is determined by the chip width of the 
spreading codes used. Thus, it is natural to 
define a merit parameter called "spreading 
efficiency" (SE) in unit of bit(s) per chip to 
measure the bandwidth-efficiency of a CDMA 
system. Therefore, it is clear that the SE's of 
all conventional CDMA-based mobile 
communication systems, such as IS-95, 
cdma2000 and W-CDMA, are equal to 1/N, 
which is far less than one. This in turn 
explains why those systems cannot offer a 
better bandwidth-efficiency.  
 
In recent a few years, we have been working 
on a possible solution to improve the SE of a 
CDMA system with the help of a new 
spreading technique based on orthogonal 
complementary codes, taking into account 
various implementation constraints of a 
practical CDMA system as follows. First, the 
new CDMA architecture ought to be 
technically feasible by currently available 
digital technology. Second, the new system 
should not introduce too much multiple access 
interference (MAI) to ensure a higher capacity 
potential than that of the conventional CDMA 
systems. Third, the proposed system should 
preferably have an inherent ability to mitigate 
multipath problems in mobile channels. The 
multi-carrier CDMA architecture based on 
orthogonal complementary codes is one such 
proposal, which can satisfy all 
above-mentioned requirements. We have 
demonstrated in our recently published paper 
its capability to achieve a high 
bandwidth-efficiency and satisfactory bit error 
rate performance owing to its innovative 
signaling design in both down-link and 
up-link channels. We have also discussed 
several peculiarities pertaining to the new 
architecture in its receiver design. In this 
research project, the technical limitations 
associated with the new system have also been 
addressed. The MAI-free operation of the CC 
CDMA architecture in both down-link and 
up-ink is proposed. 
 
三、計畫成果自評 
This project has finished the 3-year research 
works and now we are at the end of the 
research project. What we can say about the 
project at this moment is that everything has 
been going very well. All proposed research 
topics have been under very active 
investigation in the project. We have obtained 
some very exciting results as expected in the 
proposal of this research project. Some results 
in fact have been achieved much earlier than 
expected in the research proposal. Some 
publications in major technical journals 
 6 
chunk of 10 MHz spectrum, ending up with a 
bandwidth efficiency merely 0.0144 b/s/Hz, 
which is far from satisfactory. One of the most 
important characteristics of CDMA is that it 
allows users in a cell to send their information 
at the same frequency and same time 
simultaneously by using different codes. 
Therefore, orthogonality or 
quasi-orthogonality among CDMA codes or 
sequences plays a critical role. However, 
design approaches for all traditional CDMA 
codes were based solely on periodic 
auto-correlation functions (ACFs) and 
periodic cross-correlation functions (CCFs). 
Neither aperiodic ACFs/CCFs nor partial 
ACFs/CCFs had been taken into account, let 
alone many other environmental factors, such 
as asynchronous transmissions in up-link 
channels and multipath interference, etc. In 
this sense, limitations in the design 
approaches applied to those traditional CDMA 
codes are responsible for a strict 
interference-limited performance in all 2-3G 
CDMA systems due to the presence of 
multiple access interference (MAI) and 
multipath interference (MI). Therefore, a 
much greater effort has to be made to develop 
some more relevant and smarter design 
approaches to address all those problems 
effectively. In particular, we want to see if it is 
possible to obtain some new types of CDMA 
code sets that could provide inherent 
immunity against MAI and MI. If so, 
implementation of an interference-free CDMA 
is not only a dream. 
 
Future Gigabit wireless systems should 
support high-speed packet-switched data 
applications due to their operation in an all-IP 
wireless platform. In this respect, the channel 
in a future CDMA system will be filled up by 
short data bursts, which will force all receivers 
to capture the bursts sent to them. This makes 
design criteria of a CDMA receiver very much 
different from what used to be in a traditional 
CDMA system aimed for slow-speed 
continuous transmissions. The frequent 
detection on short packets (especially at edges 
of the packets) requires that the CDMA codes 
should maintain a sufficiently good partial 
ACFs and CCFs, in addition to their 
acceptable complete ACFs and CCFs, making 
the code design problem an extremely 
challenging task. 
 
Complexity is another important issue we 
have to deal with in development of next 
generation CDMA technologies. It is well 
known that introduction of CDMA to civilian 
mobile cellular systems in the 80’s created 
many new interesting research topics, such as 
open- and closed-loop power control to 
mitigate near-far effect, multi-user detections 
to tackle multiple access interference 
problems, RAKE receiver to obtain temporal 
diversity gain, smart-antenna to suppress 
co-channel interference, etc. Unfortunately, 
neither of those CDMA sub-systems is simple, 
which not only increases overall 
implementation cost, but also makes it very 
hard to further miniaturize mobile terminals. 
Their existence also increases power 
consumption of mobile handsets as well. Thus, 
the new generation CDMA technologies 
should offer a superior performance and yet a 
relatively low implementation complexity. 
 
We have to note that all aforementioned 
problems associated with next generation 
CDMA technologies are closely related. 
Therefore, they should be taken into account 
as a whole rather than individually. Whenever 
a conflict occurs, to achieve a good balance or 
trade-off is the key to an excellent overall 
system design. In this paper, the issues on the 
next generation CDMA architecture will be 
addressed from the perspectives of spreading 
and carrier modulation techniques, CDMA 
codes design approach and other system 
implementation versus performance issues. 
The paper will start with a generic CDMA 
system model, for which the choice of 
spreading and carrier modulation schemes, 
CDMA codes and other implementation issues 
will be discussed. We will further demonstrate 
why only orthogonal complementary codes 
are suitable to implement an interference-free 
CDMA with the help of the REAL approach, 
which reveals an important conclusion that 
cell-wise capacity of such an orthogonal 
complementary code (OCC) based CDMA 
system is equal to the number of element 
codes assigned to each user. In fact, this paper 
presents some follow-up work of our earlier 
study [1] and will address the issues that were 
not tackled then. 
 
II. ASSUMPTIONS AND SYSTEM 
 8 
Figure 1 illustrates variable numbers of 
relative offset chips between two consecutive 
bits in an OS-CDMA system, where only two 
short element codes, (+ + + -) and (+- ++), 
which should be assigned to the same user and 
sent via different carriers (f1 and f2), are 
shown in Figure 1 for illustration simplicity. 
 
Therefore, we can introduce a merit figure 
of”spreading efficiency” (SE) to describe how 
many data bits can be conveyed in one chip 
duration. If a fixed chip width is considered, 
the SE figure just gives bandwidth efficiency 
of a CDMA system. The greater the SE is, the 
higher the bandwidth efficiency of a CDMA 
system will be. Obviously, we have the 
relation between number of relative offset 
chips n and SE as SE=1/n, or 1/N£ SE£ 1. 
Therefore, the use of n=1 relative offset chip 
in an OS-CDMA scheme leads to the highest 
SE figure equal to one, which is exactly N 
times higher than that of a DS-CDMA system, 
and thus a substantial gain in bandwidth 
efficiency can be achieved. Unfortunately, all 
unitary codes, such as Gold [2], Kasami [4], 
Walsh-Hadamard [5] and OVSF codes, etc., 
are not suitable for the OS-spreading due to 
their excessively high cross-correlation 
functions between any two codes if modulated 
by an OS-spreader. Only orthogonal 
complementary (OC) codes can be 
successfully applied to an OS-CDMA system, 
giving an MAI-free operation, because of their 
ideal cross-correlation functions between any 
two OC codes sent in either synchronous or 
asynchronous channels. For this superior 
property of the OC codes, we name it as 
isotropic MAI-free operation. Therefore, an 
OC code based OS-CDMA system has a great 
advantage over its counterparts in terms of 
cell-wise average capacity, in addition to its 
extremely high bandwidth efficiency. 
 
B. Binary versus M-ary Carrier 
Modulations 
If a transmitter is implemented with a 
spreading modulator followed by a carrier 
modulator, the choice of the latter depends 
very much on the former’s operation mode 
(either DS or OS spreading). For instance, if 
DS-spreading is considered, the simplest form 
of the carrier modem can be BPSK (although 
other more complex modems, such as QPSK 
and others, can also be applied). However, if 
using an OS-spreader, we have to deal with a 
multi-leveled baseband signal, as shown by 
the shaded blocks in Figure 1. The dynamic 
range of the composite multileveled signal 
depends on relative offset chips n between 
two neighboring bits and element code length 
N. In general, if each chip takes only binary 
values, the dynamic range, DOS, of the output 
signal from an OS-spreader can be 
DOS=N/n+1, where 1£ n£N and the notation 
dxe stands for the smallest integer greater than 
x. The output signal from an OS-spreader has 
to be modulated by a multi-leveled or M-ary 
digital modem, such as M-QAM, M-PSK or 
M-PAM, etc., where M³DOS and DOS is 
always an odd number, as shown in Figure 1. 
Also note that appearance frequencies for 
different levels in the composite multi-leveled 
signal are different, with zero appearing most 
frequently if n<N. The greater the absolute 
value of a level is, the less frequently it 
appears. Thus, the histogram for the different 
levels gives a Gaussian-shaped envelope with 
its center or the mean value being zero. If an 
M-QAM modem should be used to map each 
level to a particular constellation point in its 
2-dimensional constellation plan, then comes 
an interesting design problem on how to 
minimize the average symbol or bit error rate 
with respect to the ways to map all DOS levels 
onto the same number of constellation points, 
which can be placed onto any points in an X-Y 
plan. 
 
Therefore, the use of OS-spreading can 
enhance bandwidth efficiency due to its very 
high SE approaching to one for n=1. However, 
realization of this high bandwidth efficiency is 
conditioned on a relatively low power 
efficiency of an M-ary modem. If the latter 
fails to perform satisfactorily in a channel 
where many impairing factors such as 
multipath interference and noise may exist, its 
bandwidth efficiency will become a problem. 
On the other hand, DS spreading can never be 
comparable with the OS-spreading in terms of 
bandwidth efficiency with its SE being only 
1/N , where N is the element code length. 
However, the output signal from 
DS-spreading forms a binary bit stream, 
which can be modulated via extremely power 
efficient BPSK or QPSK scheme. Therefore, 
the overall performance difference between a 
DS-spreader cum BPSK/QPSK modem and an 
 10 
we need some new code design approach that 
could take real working environment into 
account. Our objective is to find new 
generation CDMA codes, which should offer 
an inherent immunity against major impairing 
factors, such as MAI and MI, without the help 
of external sub-systems, such as multi-user 
detection, power control, etc. 
 
In this paper we would like to introduce a new 
method, called ”Real Environment Adapted 
Linearization” (REAL) approach, to design 
those desirable CDMA code sets. The word 
linearization here reflects the fact that it 
converts a non-linear problem into a linear 
one by making use of some carefully selected 
seed code, as explained next. Figure 2 
illustrates the differences between traditional 
code design approach and the REAL approach. 
It is seen from the figure that the new 
approach considers many real working 
conditions that the traditional methods never 
did. To formulate a design problem as general 
as possible, we start with a generic 
complementary code set with its set size, flock 
size and element code length being K, M and 
N, respectively. It is noted that any unitary 
code becomes only a special case with M=1. 
Here, we do not impose any constraints on the 
values each chip may take, which can be 
either binary, real or complex. If letting all 
chips in a code set be independent variables, 
we will have in total KMN unknown variables 
to solve in order to obtain wanted new code 
set.In the REAL approach we should consider 
all impairing factors shown in Figure 2(b) and 
its design procedure is explained next for two 
different scenarios: (1) DS-spreading CDMA 
and (2) OS-spreading CDMA. 
 
B. The REAL Approach for DS-Spreading 
Let us consider again a generic CDMA system, 
where K mobiles are communicating with a 
base station through both asynchronous 
up-link and synchronous down-link channels 
under multipath interference. First, assume 
only one code x is present in the system, 
where x={x1, x2, …, xM}, xm={xm;1, xm;2, … , 
xm;N} and 1£m£M. Observing at a correlator 
tuned to x, we can write down all possible 
output signal patterns, which represent either 
even periodic auto-correlation functions 
(EPACFs) or odd periodic auto-correlation 
functions (OPACFs) with all possibly delayed 
versions due to different multipath returns, as 
shown in the lower two shaded portions of 
Figure 3(a). The first (transparent) row in 
Figure 3(a) represents the local correlator 
bank of the receiver. It is to be noted that 
different element codes should be sent via 
different carriers and combined only after 
individual matched-filtering at a receiver. 
Obviously, the EPACFs (light shaded rows, 
caused by same signed consecutive bits) are 
the results from down-link synchronous 
transmissions; while the OPACFs (dark 
shaded rows, caused by different signed 
consecutive bits) are from up-link 
asynchronous transmissions. In the REAL 
approach, both EPACFs and OPACFs should 
be taken into account at the same time to 
ensure that they should work properly in any 
working conditions. Thus, letting correlation 
function between the 
local correlator and the first row indicated 
by ”0 chip delay” be NM (which in fact yields 
auto-correlation peak), and correlation 
functions between the local correlator and all 
the rest rows be zero, we obtain a non-linear 
equation set with in total 2N-1 non-linear 
equations and NM unknown chips or variables 
to determine. 
 
Now we introduce the second code y to the 
system. Thus, observing at a receiver tuned to 
y, we can establish 2N-1 non-linear equations 
also from Figure 3(b) due to the incoming 
code x, where all cross-correlation functions 
(both even periodic cross-correlation functions, 
EPCCFs, and odd periodic cross-correlation 
functions, OPCCFs) caused by all possible 
multipath returns and transmission modes, 
either up-link or down-link, have been 
considered. Of course, code y itself should 
also satisfy the conditions for an ideal 
auto-correlation functions (for both EPACFs 
and OPACFs), similar to what shown in 
Figure 3(a) but with x been replaced by y. It 
should be noted that the non-linear equations 
established by EPACFs and OPACFs in fact 
specify the conditions for isotropic MI-free 
operation, and those established by EPCCFs 
and OPCCFs specify the conditions for 
isotropic MAI-free operation. Thus, the 
solutions, if any, to all those non-linear 
equations will yield the code sets that 
guarantee isotropic MI-free and MAI-free 
operation in a CDMA system. 
 12 
only complementary codes can be possibly 
used to implement an OS-CDMA system as 
long as the number of relative offset chips is 
less than N, or 1£n£N. 
2) Any orthogonal complementary code set, 
obtained from the REAL approach to offer 
isotropic MI-free and isotropic MAI-free 
operation in a DS-CDMA system (as 
discussed in the previous subsection), can 
always be used in an OS-CDMA system to 
provide isotropic MAI-free operation. 
3) Define auto-correlation 
interference-free-window (ACIFW) as the 
widest time opening, in which all 
auto-correlation side lobes for any code are 
zero, and cross-correlation interference 
free-window (CCIFW) as the widest time 
opening, in which all cross-correlation 
functions for any pair of codes are zero. Thus, 
any OC code sets obtained from the REAL 
approach for DS-spreading always have its 
ACIFW and CCIFW with the largest possible 
value, or ACIFW=N-2 and CCIFW=N, if they 
are used in a DS-spreading system. On the 
other hand, any orthogonal complementary 
code sets obtained from the REAL approach 
for DS-spreading usually have their 
ACIFW<N-2 and CCIFW=N if they are 
applied to an OS-CDMA system, implying 
that they could offer an MAI-free operation in 
an OS-CDMA system, but not always an 
MI-free operation in an OS-CDMA system in 
multipath channels with an arbitrary delay 
spread. However, if the ACIFW of an OC 
code set can be made larger than the delay 
spread of the multipath channel, an MI-free 
operation can still be made possible. 
 
Figure 4 shows the openings of ACIFW and 
CCIFW for an orthogonal complementary 
code set working in an OS-CDMA system. It 
is seen from Figure 4 that the ACIFW is equal 
to n/2 chips if the number of relative offset 
chips is n, implying that we have to use a 
slower transmission rate if we want to 
empower an OS-CDMA with greater 
immunity against multipath interference. This 
leads to another interesting conclusion with 
the OS-CDMA system: 
 
The immunity against MI for an OS-CDMA 
system depends on the highest transmission 
rate or the SE figure (with a fixed chip width), 
which represents also the bandwidth 
efficiency. The higher the transmission rate or 
the SE figure is, the poorer its immunity 
against MI will be. In general, an OS-CDMA 
system can work in an interference-free mode 
if the number of relative offset chips n can be 
made at least two chips larger than the delay 
spread of a multipath channel. Two examples 
of the OC code (OCC) sets generated by using 
the REAL approach are shown. The first 
example code set (M=K=4 and N=4) is given 
in Table I (a), which has been used in the 
simulation shown in Figure 6, and the second 
example OCC set (M=K=4 and N=8) is 
illustrated in Table I (b). 
 
V. IMPLEMENTATION AND 
PERFORMANCE ISSUES 
The implementation issues of an OCC-CDMA 
system as well as its performance are 
discussed next. 
 
A. FDM versus TDM for Element Code 
Division 
To implement an OCC-CDMA system, an 
important requirement is to send M element 
codes, which are assigned to a specific user, 
via separate channels to an intended receiver, 
where each element code should be de-spread 
separately and their outputs should be 
combined to form a decision variable. The 
most straight-forward way to implement 
element codes division in an OCC-CDMA 
system is to use frequency division multiplex 
(FDM) method, in which M element codes are 
sent through M different carriers fm, where 
1£m£M. In this way, an OCC-CDMA system 
looks just like a multi-carrier (MC) CDMA 
scheme. However, the major difference 
between an OCC-CDMA/FDM system and a 
traditional MC-CDMA lies in the fact that the 
former uses different carriers to convey 
different information without providing any 
diversity in frequencies, while the latter 
usually does. 
 
Obviously, another scheme to implement 
element code division in an OCC-CDMA is to 
send element codes in different time slots or 
simply via time division multiplex (TDM) 
method. The FDM and TDM implementations 
of element code division offer distinct system 
operational advantages. One of the benefits 
for using FDM is to allow an OCC-CDMA 
system to work harmonically with frequency 
 14 
correlator in an OCC/DS-CDMA system, as 
long as bit synchronization can be achieved 
prior to the data detection process. In other 
words, the OCC/DSCDMA is a system with 
an excellent near-far resistance, as shown in 
Figure 6. Therefore, complicated open-loop 
and closed-loop power control is no longer a 
necessity. More precisely, the power control 
in an OCC/DS-CDMA system is used merely 
to reduce unnecessary power emission at 
terminals, whose requirements on response 
time and accuracy can be made much more 
relaxed than necessary in a conventional 
DS-CDMA system. For an OCC/OS-CDMA 
system, a similar conclusion can be drawn 
with respect to the power control requirement, 
due to its ideal MAI-free property. However, 
OS-spreading scheme is not always MI-free 
(dependent of the value of n) and thus the 
requirements on the power control could be a 
bit higher than in an OCC/DS-CDMA system. 
 
E. Suitability for Burst Traffic 
As an important requirement for a CDMA 
technology suitable for future Gigabit all-IP 
wireless communications, we should pay 
sufficient attention to detection efficiency at 
edges of a packet or burst. In this sense, an 
OCC-CDMA scheme is in particular well 
suited as shown in the upper parts of Figure 5, 
which illustrates the signal detection process 
for the first (or the rightmost) bit of a packet. 
In detecting those bits at the edges of a packet, 
partial ACFs and partial CCFs of the codes 
will become extremely important. It is seen 
from the figure that the OCC/DS-CDMA 
system yields zero partial CCFs, which ensure 
an ideal performance for signal detection even 
on the edges of a frame or packet. This 
observation is significant due to domination of 
burst traffic in future wireless systems. 
 
F. Easy Rate Matching 
One of the most interesting merit figures for 
an OS-spreading OCC-CDMA system is its 
continuously adjustable transmission rates 
without any complex rate-matching algorithm 
that is required in W-CDMA standard due to a 
tree-like code generation process of the OVSF 
codes. The unique OS-spreading technique 
adopted by the OCC/OS-CDMA system can 
easily slow down transmission rate by simply 
shifting more than one chip (at most N chips) 
between two consecutive offset stacked bits. If 
N chips are shifted between two consecutive 
bits, the OS spreading reduces to a 
DS-spreading, yielding the lowest data rate. 
On the other hand, the highest data rate is 
achieved if only one chip is shifted between 
two neighboring offset stacked bits. In doing 
so, the highest spreading efficiency equal to 
one can be obtained, implying that every chip 
can carry one bit information. Figure 1 shows 
how OS-spreading can offer an agile 
rate-matching algorithm for a various data 
transmission rates. 
 
The OS-spreading also helps to support 
asymmetrical transmissions in up-link and 
down-link channels, pertaining to thriving 
Internet applications (such as web browsing, 
etc.). The data rates in up-link and down-link 
can be made truly scalable, such that the 
rate-on-demand is achieved by simply 
adjusting relative offset chips between two 
neighboring spreading modulated bits. It 
should be stressed that such an agile 
rate-matching property for an 
OCC/OS-CDMA system can never be made 
possible if using any other traditional unitary 
codes, such as Gold codes [2], OVSF codes, 
Walsh-Hadamard codes [5], etc. 
 
Yet another advantage of the rate-change 
scheme implemented in OCC/OS-CDMA is 
that the same processing gain will apply to 
any different transmission rates. However, the 
rate-matching used in the UMTS-UTRA and 
W-CDMA standards is processing gain 
dependent; the slower the transmission rate is, 
the higher the processing gain or spreading 
factor will be, if transmission bandwidth is 
kept constant. To maintain an even detection 
efficiency for different rates at a receiver, the 
transmitter has to adjust its transmitting power 
for different rate services. 
 
G. The Issues to Be Explored Further 
As mentioned previously, a CDMA system 
based on OC codes needs different channels to 
send different element codes assigned to the 
same user. In general, either frequency or time 
can be used to separate the element codes, 
resulting in an either FDM or TDM scheme. 
For an OCC-CDMA system based on the 
FDM scheme, we should be very careful with 
the ways how to minimize the impact of 
frequency-selectivity or variable propagation 
 16 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. Variable SE figures and agility in changing 
transmission rate in an OCC/OS-CDMA system, where only 
two short element codes are shown and sent via two different 
carriers f1 and f2. The top layer of the figure considers 
DS-spreading scheme or a special case of OS-spreading with 
number of relative offset chips being N=4. The composite 
multi-leveled signals (shaded blocks) are also shown, together 
with the offset stacked binary signal (transparent blocks). 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. (a) Factors taken into account in the traditional code 
design approaches and (b) Factors taken into account in the 
REAL approach. 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. (a) All possible patterns of even periodic 
auto-correlation functions (EPACFs) and odd periodic 
auto-correlation functions (OPACFs) of a generic 
complementary code. (b) All possible patterns of even 
periodic cross-correlation functions (EPCCFs) and odd 
periodic cross-correlation functions (OPCCFs) of a generic 
complementary code. The set size, flock size and element 
code length are K, M and N, respectively. All possible 
multipath returns, asynchronous transmission mode and 
random bit patterns have been taken into account. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. The widths of auto-correlation interference-free 
window (ACIFW) and cross-correlation interference-free 
window (CCIFW) in an OCC/OS-CDMA system versus n, 
where n is relative offset chips between two consecutive bits, 
as shown in Figure 1. Obviously, if n=N, an OCC/OS-CDMA 
system will become a OCC/DS-CDMA system. 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. Illustration of MI-free and MAI-free operation for a 
2-user OCC/DS-CDMA system in asynchronous up-link 
channels, where a two-ray multipath channel is considered 
with both inter-path delay and inter-user delay being one chip 
for illustration simplicity. The parameters of the OC codes 
used in this figure are K = M = 2 and N = 4. The 3-bit data 
information sent is (+ - +). 
 
 18 
7. Jianhua He, Zuoyin Tang and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2008). Performance Comparison 
of OFDM Bandwidth Request Schemes 
in Fixed IEEE 802.16 Networks, IEEE 
Communications Letters, vol. 12, no. 4, 
pp. 283-285, April 2008. 
8. Peng Cheng, Zhaoyang Zhang, 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, and Peiliang Qiu, 
(2008). A FRAMEWORK OF 
CROSS-LAYER DESIGN FOR 
MULTIPLE VIDEO STREAMS IN 
WIRELESS MESH NETWORKS, 
COMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS, 
Elsevier, Computer Communications, pp. 
1529–1539, Volume 31, Issue 8, May 
2008. 
9. Kun Yang, Shumao Ou, and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2008). On effective offloading 
services for resource-constrained mobile 
devices running heavier mobile internet 
applications, IEEE Communications 
Magazine, Volume: 46, Issue: 1, pp. 
56-63, January 2008. 
10. Cheng-Xiang Wang, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
Xuemin Hong, and Mohsen Guizani, 
(2008). Cognitive Radio Network 
Management -- Tuning in to Real-Time 
Conditions, IEEE Vehicular Technology 
Magazine, vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 28-35, March 
2008. 
11. Xia Chen, Honglin Hu, Haifeng Wang, 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Mohsen Guizani, 
(2008). Double Proportional Fair User 
Pairing Algorithm for Uplink Virtual 
MIMO Systems, IEEE 
TRANSACTIONS ON WIRELESS 
COMMUNICATIONS, vol. 7, no. 7, pp. 
2425-2429, July 2008. 
12. Jianhua He, Zuoyin Tang, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, and Shu Wang, (2008). An 
Accurate Markov Model for Slotted 
CSMA/CA Algorithm in IEEE 802.15.4 
Networks, IEEE Communications Letters, 
vol. 12, no. 6, pp. 420-422, June 2008. 
13. Bo Rong, Yi Qian, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
(2008). AN ENHANCED SIP PROXY 
SERVER FOR WIRELESS VOIP IN 
WIRELESS MESH NETWORKS, IEEE 
Communications Magazine, pp. 108-113, 
January 2008. 
14. Honglin Hu, Yan Zhang, and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2008). An effective QoS 
differentiation scheme for wireless mesh 
networks, IEEE Network Magazine, vol. 
22, no. 1, pp. 66-73, January/February 
2008. 
15. Dionysios Skordoulis, Qiang Ni, 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Adrian P. Stephens, 
Changwen Liu, and Abbas Jamalipour, 
(2008). IEEE 802.11n MAC frame 
aggregation mechanisms for 
next-generation high-throughput 
WLANS, IEEE Wireless 
Communications, vol. 15, no. 1, pp. 
40-47, February 2008. 
16. Lie-Liang Yang and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
(2008). Error Probability of Digital 
Communications Using Relay Diversity 
over Nakagami-m Fading Channels, 
IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, vol. 7, no. 5, pp. 
1806-1811, May 2008. 
17. Tao Jiang, Mohsen Guizani, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, Weidong Xiang and Yiyan Wu, 
(2008). Derivation of PAPR distribution 
for OFDM wireless systems based on 
extreme value theory, IEEE Transactions 
on Wireless Communications, vol. 7, no. 
4, pp. 1298-1305, April 2008.   
18. Honglin Hu, Jijun Luo, and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2008). Radio resource 
management for cooperative wireless 
communication systems with organized 
beam-hopping techniques, IEEE Wireless 
Communications, vol. 15, no. 2, pp. 
100-109, April 2008. 
19. Xiaojiang Du, Mohsen Guizani, Yang 
Xiao and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2008). 
Secure and Efficient Time 
Synchronization in Heterogeneous 
Sensor Networks, IEEE Transactions on 
Vehicular Technology, Volume: 57, Issue: 
4, page(s): 2387-2394, July 2008.  
20. Kejie Lu, Yi Qian, Mohsen Guizani, and 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2008). A framework 
for distributed key management scheme 
in heterogeneous wireless sensor 
networks, IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, vol. 7, no. 2, pp. 
639-647, February 2008. 
21. Sghaier Guizani, Habib Hamam, 
Xiaojiang (James) Du and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2008). Ad hoc systems backboned 
by fibers: Limitation and solutions, 
International Journal of Sensor Networks 
(IJSNet), ISSN (Online): 
1748-1287 - ISSN (Print): 1748-1279, 
 20 
Access Channel, IEEE Communications 
Letters, Volume 11, Issue 5, 
Page(s):384 – 386, May 2007. 
37. Kejie Lu, Yi Qian, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
(2007). A secure and service-oriented 
network control framework for WiMAX 
networks, IEEE Communications 
Magazine, 2007, Volume 45, Issue 5, 
Date: May 2007, Pages: 124-130. (This 
paper was ranked as the No. 1 in terms of 
number of online accesses in all IEEE 
magazine papers in July 2007, 
http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/xpl/topAccesse
dArticles.jsp?punumber=35) 
38. Yang Yang, Feiyi Huang, Xuanye Gu, 
Xiaodong Zhang, Xuanye Gu, Mohsen 
Guizani, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2007). 
Double Sense Multiple Access for 
Wireless Ad Hoc Networks, Elsevier's 
Computer Networks Journal, 
http://www.elsevier.com/wps/find/journal
description.cws_home/505606/descriptio
n#description, Pages 3978-3988, Volume 
51, Issue 14, October 2007. 
39. Honglin Hu, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Kai Guo 
and Martin Weckerle, (2007). Cross-layer 
adaptive resource allocation for OFDM 
systems with hybrid smart antennas, IET 
Communications (formerly IEE 
Proceedings - Communications), vol. 1, 
no. 5, pp. 831-837, October 2007.   
http://www.iee.org/Publish/Support/Auth
/authproc.cfm 
40. Kun Yang, Jie Zhang and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2007). A flexible QoS-aware 
service gateway for heterogeneous 
wireless networks, IEEE Network, vol. 
21, no. 2, pp. 6-12, March/April 2007. 
41. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Mohsen Guizani and 
Werner Mohr, (2007). Evolution toward 
4G Wireless Networking, IEEE Network 
(Editorial), vol. 21, No. 1, pp. 4-5, 
January/February 2007. 
42. Kun Yang, Yumin Wu, and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2007). QoS-Aware Routing in 
Emerging Heterogeneous Wireless 
Networks, IEEE Communications 
Magazine, vol. 45, no. 2, pp. 74-80, 
February 2007. 
43. Xiaojiang Du, Ming Zhang, Kendall E. 
Nygard, Mohsen Guizani and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2007). Self-healing sensor 
networks with distributed decision 
making, accepted for publication in 
International Journal of Sensor Networks 
(IJSNet), ISSN (Online): 
1748-1287  -  ISSN (Print): 1748-1279, 
http://www.inderscience.com/ijsnet., vol. 
2, nos. 5/6, pp. 289-298, 2007. 
44. Hsiao-Hwa Chen and Yang Yang, (2007). 
Network Coverage and Routing Schemes 
for Wireless Sensor Networks (Editorial), 
Computer Communications, Volume 30, 
Issue 14-15, Pages 2697-2698, October 
2007. 
(www.elsevier.com/locate/comcom) 
45. Andreas Konstantinidis, Kun Yang, 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Qingfu Zhang, (2007). 
Energy-aware topology control for 
wireless sensor networks using memetic 
algorithms. COMPUTER 
COMMUNICATIONS, Elsevier, pp. 
2753-2764, Volume 30, Numbers 14-15, 
October 2007. 
46. Yang Yang, Hui-Hai Wu, and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2007). SHORT: Shortest Hop 
Routing Tree for Wireless Sensor 
Networks, International Journal of 
Sensor Networks (IJSNet), ISSN 
(Online): 1748-1287 - ISSN (Print): 
1748-1279, 
http://www.inderscience.com/ijsnet, vol. 
2, no. 5/6, 2007, pp. 368-374. 
47. Hsiao-Hwa Chen and Mohsen Guizani, 
(2007). "Wireless Sensor Networks", 
International Journal of Sensor Networks 
(IJSNet) (Editorial), ISSN (Online): 
1748-1287 - ISSN (Print): 1748-1279, 
http://www.inderscience.com/ijsnet, vol. 
2, nos. 5/6, pp. 287-288, 2007. 
48. Xi Zhang, Jia Tang, and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2007). Space-Time 
Diversity-Enhanced QoS Provisioning 
for Real-Time Service over 
MC-DS-CDMA Based Wireless 
Networks, Wireless Communications and 
Mobile Computing Journal, Volume 8, 
Issue 6, Pages 733 - 744, Jun 2007.  
49. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Yu-Ching Yeh, Qi Bi 
and Abbas Jamalipour, (2007). On a 
MIMO-based open wireless architecture: 
space-time complementary coding, IEEE 
Communications Magazine, vol. 45, no. 
2, pp. 104-112, February 2007. 
50. Xiaojiang Du, Yang Xiao, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, and Mohsen Guizani, (2007). Two 
Tier Secure Routing Protocol for 
Heterogeneous Sensor Networks, IEEE 
 22 
63. Yumin Wu, Kun Yang and Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, (2006). ARCA – An Adaptive 
Routing Protocol for Converged Ad Hoc 
and Cellular Networks, Journal of 
Communications and Networks (JCN), 
Vol. 8, No. 4, Page(s): 422-431, 
http://jcn.or.kr, December 2006. 
64. Xi Zhang, Hang Su and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
(2006). Cluster-Based Multi-Channel 
Communications Protocols in Vehicle Ad 
Hoc Networks, IEEE Wireless 
Communications, Volume 13, Issue 
5, Page(s): 44 – 51, October 2006. 
65. Yang Xiao, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Bo Sun, 
Ruhai Wang, and Sakshi Sethi, (2006). 
MAC Security and Security Overhead 
Analysis in the IEEE 802.15.4 Wireless 
Sensor Networks, EURASIP Journal on 
Wireless Communications and 
Networking, Volume 2006, Article ID 
93830, Pages 1–12. 
66. Yang Yang, Hai-Feng Yuan, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, Wen-Bing Yao, and Yong-Hua 
Song, (2006). Traffic Agents for 
Improving QoS in Mixed Infrastructure 
and Ad Hoc Modes Wireless LAN, 
EURASIP Journal on Wireless 
Communications and Networking 
(JWCN), Pages: 46-46, Volume 2006, 
Issue 2 (April 2006) 
http://www.hindawi.com/journals/wcn/in
dex.html   
67. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Zengying Fan & Jie Li, 
(2006). Autonomous Power Control 
MAC Protocol for Mobile Ad Hoc 
Networks, EURASIP Journal on Wireless 
Communications and Networking, 
Volume 2006, Article ID 36040, pp. 1-10, 
doi:10.1155/WCN/2006/36040. 
68. Yi Qian, Rose Qingyang Hu, and 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, A call admission 
control framework for voice over 
WLANs, (2006). IEEE Wireless 
Communications, Volume: 13, Issue: 1, 
pp. 44-50, February 2006. 
69. Sherman Shen, Mohsen Guizani, 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Robert Caiming Qiu 
and Andreas F. Molisch, (2006). Ultra 
Wideband Wireless Communications – 
Theory and Applications, IEEE Journal 
of Selected Areas in Communications 
(Editorial), VOL. 24, NO. 4, APRIL 
2006. 
70. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, A. J. Han Vinck, Qi Bi 
and F. Adachi, (2006). The Next 
Generation of CDMA Technologies, in 
IEEE Journal of Selected Areas in 
Communications (Editorial), VOL. 24, 
NO. 1, pp. 1-3, January, 2006. 
71. Song Ci, Mohsen Guizani, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, and Hamid Sharif, Self-Regulating 
(2006). Network Utilization in Mobile 
Ad-Hoc Wireless Networks, IEEE 
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 
vol. 55, No. 4, pp. 1302-1310, July 2006. 
72. Xi Zhang, Jia Tang, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, 
Song Ci and Mohsen Guizani, (2006). 
Cross-Layer Based Modeling for Quality 
of Service Guarantees in Mobile Wireless 
Networks, IEEE Communications 
Magazine, vol. 44, No. 1, pp. 100-106, 
January, 2006. 
73. Xiaojiang Du, Yang Xiao, and 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2006). Secure Cell 
Relay Routing Protocol for Sensor 
Networks, Special Issue on Wireless 
Networks Security, Wiley's Journal of 
Wireless Communications and Mobile 
Computing (WCMC), Volume 6 ,  Issue 
3, Pages: 375 – 391,  May 2006.  
74. Ruidong Li, Jie Li, Peng Liu and 
Hsiao-Hwa Chen, (2006). On-Demand 
Public-Key Management for Mobile Ad 
Hoc Networks, Wiley's Journal of 
Wireless Communications and Mobile 
Computing (WCMC), pp. 295-360, No. 6, 
2006. 
75. Li-Peng Wang, Yang Yang, Hsiao-Hwa 
Chen, Yong Hua Song, (2006). On the 
Variable Capacity Property of 
CC/DS-CDMA Systems, IEEE 
Transactions on Vehicular Technology, 
vol. 55, no.3, pp. 774-778, May 2006. 
76. F. Chiti, R. Fantacci, D. Marabissi, L. 
Innocenti, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, and M. 
Guizani, (2006). Punctured Hopping 
CDMA Techniques: Fundamentals and 
Application to UWB Communications, 
IEEE Journal of Selected Areas in 
Communications, Volume 24, Issue 4, 
Part 1, Page(s):731 – 737, April 2006. 
77. Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Yu-Ching Yeh, Xi 
Zhang, Aiping Huang, Yang Yang, Jie Li, 
Yang Xiao, Hamid R. Sharif & A. J. Han 
Vinck, (2006). Generalized Pairwise 
Complementary Codes with Set-Wise 
Uniform Interference-Free Windows, 
 24 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期： 年 月 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱： 
計畫主持人：         
計畫編號：             學門領域： 
技術/創作名稱  
發明人/創作人  
中文： 
 
 
（100~500字） 
技術說明 
英文： 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
 
技術特點 
 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
附件二 
 1 
 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
 
計畫編號：NSC96-2221-E-006-345 
高頻帶利用效率分碼多工技術之研究(3/3) 
執行期間：96年 8月 1日至 97年 7月 31日 
 
陳曉華  國立成功大學工程科學系（所） 
Email: hshwchen@ieee.org 
 
In 19 -23 May 2008, I attended IEEE ICC 2008, which was held in Beijing, China. My 
attendance in this conference was supported by NSC under the research grant 
NSC96-2221-E-006-345. 
 
In this conference, I also chaired Radio Communications Committee (RCC) meeting held in 
conjunction with ICC 2008. I also attended IEEE ComSoc Technical Activity Committee (TAC) 
meeting as the chair of RCC and the vice chair of Security of Information networks Technical 
Committee. In this conference, I also published six papers. The detail information of the 
published papers is given in the reference list below.  
 
Before the end of this report, I would like also to give some of my comments on the way to 
support academia scholars to attend the international conferences. I truly believe that we should 
encourage more scholars, especially those who perform academically well, to attend the major 
IEEE conferences, symposia, workshops to promote the academic exchanges with those from 
other countries. I would like to suggest that NSC could offer some well-performing scholars with 
TWO times international conference attendance in a yearly basis, instead of only ONE as current 
system is allowed.   
 
References: 
1. Cheng Li, Pu Wang, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, and Mohsen Guizani, A Cluster Based On-demand 
Multi-Channel MAC Protocol for Wireless Multimedia Sensor Networks, accepted for 
presentation and inclusion in the Proceedings of IEEE ICC 2008 (WN), Beijing, China, May 
19-23, 2008. http://www.ieee-icc.org/ 
2. Rahul Khanna, Huaping Liu, and Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Proactive Power Optimization of Sensor 
Networks, accepted for presentation and inclusion in the Proceedings of IEEE ICC 2008 (WN), 
Beijing, China, May 19-23, 2008. http://www.ieee-icc.org/ 
3. Hongwei Liao, Xinbing Wang, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Adaptive Call Admission Control for 
Multi-Class Services in Wireless Networks, accepted for presentation and inclusion in the 
Proceedings of IEEE ICC 2008 (WN), Beijing, China, May 19-23, 2008. 
http://www.ieee-icc.org/ 
4. Xuemin Hong, Cheng-Xiang Wang, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, and John Thompson, Performance 
Analysis of Cognitive Radio Networks with Average Interference Power Constraints, accepted 
for presentation and inclusion in the Proceedings of IEEE ICC 2008 (WCS), Beijing, China, 
May 19-23, 2008. http://www.ieee-icc.org/ 
5. Xiaojiang Du, Yang Xiao, Mohsen Guizani, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Defending DoS Attacks on 
Broadcast Authentication in Wireless Sensor Networks, accepted for presentation and inclusion 
in the Proceedings of IEEE ICC 2008 (INS), Beijing, China, May 19-23, 2008. 
http://www.ieee-icc.org/ 
6. Honggang Wang, Dongming Peng, Wei Wang, Hamid Sharif, Hsiao-Hwa Chen, Energy-aware 
Adaptive Watermarking for Real-Time Image Delivery in Wireless Sensor Networks, accepted 
for presentation and inclusion in the Proceedings of IEEE ICC 2008 (INS), Beijing, China, May 
19-23, 2008. http://www.ieee-icc.org/ 
