2 
（一）中文摘要 
    
由於凸集合、凹函數，以及凸函數等概念，在求解單目標最佳化問題及多目標最佳化問
題上的重要性。相關文獻中已提出各種不同概念的廣義凸集合、廣義凹函數，以及廣義凸
函數。例如，Pini 及 Singh 所提出的 Φ1-凸集合、(Φ1 ,Φ2 )-凸函數，以及(Φ1 ,Φ2 )- 凹函數等
概念。 
本研究將 Pini 及 Singh 所提出的 Φ1-凹函數的概念推展至模糊集合，提出
supp-Φ1-concave 模糊集，並推導出 supp-Φ1-concave 模糊集的一些重要性質；此外，並進
一步地探討 supp-Φ1-concave 模糊集在模糊最佳化及模糊決策的各種可能的應用，提出一
個多目標Φ1-凹規劃的一般模式。 
 
關鍵詞：Φ1-凸性，Φ1-凹性，模糊集合，模糊決策，模糊最佳化。 
 
（二）英文摘要 
Various generalizations of convex sets and concave functions have been appeared in the 
literature. For example, Pini and Singh introduced the concept of (Φ1,Φ2)-convexity and 
(Φ1,Φ2 )-concavity from a unified point of view: the function Φ1 describes a generalized 
convex combination of arguments, and Φ2  determines generalized convex combinations of 
values. In this way, a large number of well-known, and new convexity or concavity conditions can 
be included. 
In this research, we extend the concept of Φ1-concavity to fuzzy sets by proposing the 
concept of supp-Φ1-concave fuzzy sets, and formulated several fuzzy nonlinear programming 
problems based on the proposed supp-Φ1-concave fuzzy sets. In addition, we further study the 
concept of convexity and generalized convexity for fuzzy mappings defined through the linear 
ordering on the set of fuzzy numbers by Goetshel and Voxman. 
Keywords: Φ1-convexity, Φ1-concavity, fuzzy sets, fuzzy decision making, fuzzy optimization.  
 
（三）報告內容  
1. 前言 
   Since almost all practical encountered decision problems can be treated as fuzzy decision 
making problems. In Bellman and Zadeh’s seminal approach [1], fuzzy decision making 
problems are essentially reduced to the maximization of the aggregation of objectives and 
constraints. Thus, the study of the properties of concavity and generalized concavity before 
and after aggregation should be a very useful approach for solving fuzzy decision making 
problems. 
The concept of concavity and generalized concavity were considered by several authors in 
fuzzy decision making problems. For example, in Ramik and Vlach [5], the concept of 
4 
conditions can be included 
The concept of concavity and generalized concavity were considered by several authors in 
fuzzy decision making problems. For example, in Ramik and Vlach [5], the concept of 
concavity and quasiconcavity was extended to fuzzy sets by introducing the concept of 
supp-concave fuzzy sets and supp-quasiconcave fuzzy sets. In [7], we extended the concept of 
preincavity and prequasiinncavity to fuzzy sets by proposing the concept of supp-preincave 
fuzzy sets and supp-prequasiinncave fuzzy sets. 
Motivated both by earlier research works and by the importance of concavity and 
generalized concavity, the concept of Φ1-concavity and Φ1-quasiconcavity proposed by Pini 
and Singh [4] is extended to fuzzy sets. 
 
4. 研究方法 
Consider the following multiple objectives optimization problem (P): 
 
( ) ( ) ( )
( )
1 2maximize   , ,...,
subject to     0,   1,..., ,
l
j
f x f x f x
g x j m
⎡ ⎤⎣ ⎦
≥ =  
   where nx R∈ , and 1 1: , 1,..., , : , 1,..., .n ni jf R R i l g R R j m→ = → =  
The basic methodological complexity in solving multiobjective optimization problem  is 
due to the incommensurability and the conflicting nature of the multiple objectives. One 
effective way to handle such difficulties is by the use of the fuzzy decision proposed by 
Bellman and Zadeh [1]. When applying Bellman and Zadeh’s approach [1] for solving 
problem (P), this problem reduces to finding the maximum or maxima of the aggregation of 
the objectives and constraints. Obviously, knowing the properties of concavity or generalized 
concavity concerning the individual functions and properties of concavity or generalized 
concavity concerning the individual functions and the aggregated results would reduce the 
difficulties and point to simpler ways of aggregation. 
Another advantage of knowing the properties of concavity or generalized concavity is lies 
in the aggregational flexibility of fuzzy sets. Various forms of aggregation for the multiple 
criteria can be chosen giving greater flexibility for expression the decision. Many different 
aggregation approaches with different degree of computational requirements have been 
proposed. In general, t-norm aggregation operators [11] with compensatory properties are 
preferred. It is important to determine the conditions under which the selection of aggregation 
result in a concave or generalized concave optimization 
However, in order to formulate these desirable resulting problems, we must have a 
complete, or, at least, reasonable understanding about the basic concavity or generalized 
concavity properties of fuzzy sets. In this research, we extend the concept of Φ1-concavity and 
6 
 6.  J. Ramik and M. Vlach, Generalized Concavity in Fuzzy Optimization and Decision 
analysis, Kluwer Academic publishers, 2002. 
7.  Y. R. Syau and E. S. Lee, Preincavity and fuzzy decision making, Fuzzy Sets and 
Systems 155 (2005) 408-424. 
 8.  Y. R. Syau, Lixing Jia and E. Stanley Lee, Φ1-concavity and fuzzy multiple objective 
decision making, Computers & Mathematics with Applications 55 (2008) 1181-1188. 
 9.  Y. R. Syau, Ly-Fie Sugianto and E. Stanley Lee, A class of semicontinuous fuzzy 
mappings, Applied Mathematics Letters 21 (2008) 824-827. 
10.  Y. R. Syau and E. S. Lee, A note on convexity and semicontinuity of fuzzy mappings, 
Applied Mathematics Letters 21 (2008) 814-819. 
11.  J. Yen and R. Langari, Fuzzy Logic: Intellience, Control, and Information, 
Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1999. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
