中文摘要
近年來，以電池為電力來源的無線感測器網路(WSNs)技術，被廣泛的應用在各式各樣的環境偵測上．
而感測器因為靠電池推動，故限制了感測器的工作時間．傳統做法上，感測器不是傳送一個完整的可
能性比值(log-likelihood ratio)到融合中心(FC)，就是傳送一個位元．對平行融合網路而言，因為
每個節點的決定都要傳送到融合中心，如此的做法可以降低全體的傳輸率．然而在本研究中，我們在
二維及四維的系統架構下，提出一個新的偵測過濾方法，有效得減少無線傳輸上的能源消耗．有別於
傳統感測器網路，新機制中是將感測器設計為，當觀測值可信賴程度超出某設定門檻時，才傳送一個
二維資訊 1或-1 到融合中心；反之，則不送任何資訊給融合中心．針對無線感測網路是觀察二維及四
維的現象，分別使用了二進制及四進制編碼，研究並分析其錯誤率，並與傳統系統相比較．在新機制
下，花費在無線傳輸上的低能源消耗之目標可達成，而且與傳統系統相比，還能達成更低的錯誤率．
關鍵詞：無線感測器網路, 高能源效率, 偵測過濾
Introduction
The wireless sensor network (WSN) technology has been widely applied on various environment
detections in recent years. Usually the power of a single sensor is from its battery, and hence
the working time and/or the complexity of the processing of a sensor on the observation of the
environment and on the wireless transmission to the fusion center (FC) is quite limited. Therefore,
power saving has become an important issue in the design of a WSN system.
The power consumption of a sensor is basically spent on three parts, i.e., the observation on the
phenomenon of the environment, the processing of the decision made by the sensor, and the wireless
transmission to the FC. In this study, an energy-saving mechanism on the wireless transmission in
a WSN system is examined and better error performance is also achieved under the proposed
mechanism.
Goal
Conventionally in a WSN system, a phenomenon in a specified environment is first observed by a
sensor, a decision based the observation is made, and then each sensor transmits a signal carrying
the information of the decision to the FC. The FC makes an overall decision on the phenomenon
after collecting all the information from each of the sensors. The observation made by the sensor
is, however, probably unreliable and hence an erroneous decision is made. Nevertheless, a signal
carrying incorrect information is transmitted to the FC. In this study, a testing algorithm on the
reliability of the observation made by each sensor is established, and the sensor transmits data to the
FC only when the reliability is beyond a specified threshold, or the sensor makes no transmission and
remains in a latent status defined as censoring, and hereby energy saving is achieved. The binary
and quaternary hypotheses on the phenomenon of the environment have been both assumed, and a
binary code and a quaternary code have been applied respectively for data transmission to the FC.
The results indicate that the goal of energy saving is attained while the error performance under
the proposed censoring mechanism is better than that of a conventional WSN system, especially
when the observation made by the sensor on the environment is unreliable and hence mistakes tend
to happen on the decision made by the sensor.
Related Work
The wireless sensor networks (WSNs) technology has been widely applied in recent years [1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7]. The working time and/or the complexity of the processing of a sensor is quite limited [1].
Conventionally in the distributed parallel fusion network [8], a sensor makes its own decision without
exchanging the information with other local sensors. In the sensor censoring scheme ([9, 10, 11, 12]),
a sensor first investigates the reliability of its observation and then transmits data to the FC only
when the reliability is beyond a specified threshold. In the scheme presented in [9], the entire
log-likelihood ratio (LLR) value is transmitted, whereas in [10], only a single-bit indicating signal,
namely “1”, is sent to the FC if the LLR falls within the “send” region. To increase the amount of
information available to the FC when performing the global decision making process, the LLR is
divided not into two regions as in [10], but into three in this study. The scheme introduced in [11]
applies an equal gain combining (EGC) rule to decide if the observation vector falls in the unreliable
region. If the observation vector falls in the unreliable region, the local sensor will not transmit
its decision to the FC and continue to take another sensor observation. Our proposed scheme is
System Model
Both binary and quaternary hypotheses on the phenomenon of the environment in a WSN system
are assumed and analyzed respectively.
Binary Hypothesis Testing
Two equally possible outcomes H0 and H1 of the phenomenon of the environment are assumed.
The total number of the sensors is m. The observation value made by the k-th sensor is Zk and the
distribution of Zk is shown in Figure 1. For example, when H0 occurs, Zk = a + ηk where a > 0
is the strength of the phenomenon and ηk is a standard normal random variable for k = 1, 2, ..., m.
The decision of the k-th sensor on the phenomenon based on Zk is Uk. All Zk’s are assumed i.i.d.
and each with the following pdf.
fZk|H0(z) =
1√
2pi
e−(z−a)
2/2, fZk|H1(z) =
1√
2pi
e−(z+a)
2/2.
Conventionally the decision rule of Uk is Zk
Uk=H0
>
<
Uk=H1
0.
−t t−a a0
Censoring
H1 H0
Figure 1: Decision Regions of H0, H1 and Censoring
In this study a testing algorithm shown in Figure 1 is adopted on the reliability of the observation
Zk; i.e., a threshold ±t is set on the decision rule.
Uk =


H0 Zk ≥ t
censoring −t < Zk < t
H1 Zk ≤ −t
(1)
where censoring is defined as the k-th sensor fails to choose among H0, H1, H2 and H3 and no data
is transmitted to the FC. A conventional sensor without this testing algorithm can be considered t
set to −∞.
H0 : (a, a)
H2 : (a,−a)
H1 : (−a, a)
H3 : (−a,−a)
Zk,1
Zk,2
−t t
t
−t
censoring
Figure 3: Quaternary Hypothesis Testing: Model II
Model II
Four equally possible outcomes H0, H1, H2 and H2 are shown in Figure 3. The observation made
by the k-th sensor is Zk = (Zk,1, Zk,2) in a two-dimensional vector space. For example, when H0
occurs, Zk = (a+ ηk,1, a+ ηk,1). The decision Uk of the k-th sensor after a threshold t is set on the
reliability of Zk is
Uk =


H0 Zk,1 > 0, Zk,2 > 0,max{Zk,1, Zk,2} ≥ t
H1 Zk,1 < 0, Zk,2 > 0,max{−Zk,1, Zk,2} ≥ t
H2 Zk,1 > 0, Zk,2 < 0,max{Zk,1,−Zk,2} ≥ t
H3 Zk,1 < 0, Zk,2 < 0,max{−Zk,1,−Zk,2} ≥ t
censoring |Zk,1| ≤ t, |Zk,2| < t
(3)
where censoring is defined as the k-th sensor fails to choose among H0, H1, H2 and H3 and no data
is transmitted to the FC. A conventional sensor without this testing algorithm can be considered t
set to 0.
In each of the models, after Uk is determined, the signal sk transmitted to the FC by the k-th sensor
is assumed two bits under BPSK modulation, and the received signal at the FC is rk = (rk,1, rk,2) =
sk + nk. Similarly to that in the binary hypothesis testing, the FC makes a final decision Uˆ under
both soft-decision and hard-decision decoding rules.
0 0.2 0.4 0.6
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
a = 0.5
a = 0.5
a = 1
a = 1
a = 2
a = 3
a = 2
a = 3
(a) E/N0 = 1dB
Pe
qc
0 0.2 0.4 0.6
10−12
10−10
10−8
10−6
10−4
10−2
100
(b) E/N0 = 10dB
 
 
a = 0.5
a = 1
a = 2
a = 3
Pe
qc
Soft−decision Decoding
Hard−decision Decoding
Gaussian Approximation
Simulation
Figure 6: Quaternary Hypothesis Testing, Model II, 10 sensors(m = 10)
because when a sensor makes a mistake on its observation, the damage caused at the FC is more
significant for high SNR than for low SNR, e.g., an erroneous signal with power 10dB versus with
power 1dB. Hence, transmitting no signal, i.e. censoring, becomes a better option for the sensor.
When the observation is unreliable, i.e. a small, and the censoring rate is low, the error performance
of the hard-decision rule is better than that of the soft-decision rule. Moreover, the optimum
censoring rate of the hard-decision rule is lower than that of the soft-decision rule. This is because
an error clipping function exists in the hard-decision decoding. For example, the outcome of a hard-
decision decoder is -1 when the received signal is either -1.5 or -15.0, while the entire information
of the received signal is employed in the EGC rule of the soft-decision decoding. Thus, when the
observation is unreliable and erroneous signals are transmitted to the FC, the damage cannot be
alleviated under the soft-decision rule. Nevertheless, when the observation is more and more reliable
and hence the chance that a senor makes a mistake on its observation made by is lower and lower,
the error performance of the soft-decision rule is eventually better than that of the hard-decision
rule.
Conclusion
A methodology of energy saving defined as censoring has been proposed and examined under various
environments in WSN systems. The error performance of the censoring mechanism has been ana-
lyzed nd compared to that of the conventional WSN system. The goal of power saving is attained
while better error performance is also achieved, especially when the reliability of the observation
made by the sensor on the environment is low.
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/11
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 無線感測器網路中二維與四維分散式高能源效率偵測過濾式決策融合
計畫主持人: 鄭文凱
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-260-011- 學門領域: 通訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
