超高效率次世代太陽電池之理論探討與元件設計
摘要
這個計畫，乃特別針對超高效率次世代太陽電池理論上重要課題，做進一步的探討和研
究，這個計畫提供實現超高效率次世代熱載子太陽電池的一個基本理論基礎和元件設計概
念。
關鍵字：太陽電池、熱載子、超晶格。
4報告目錄:
第一章: 前言.......................................................6
第二章: 研究目的...................................................6-7
第三章: 文獻探討...................................................7-14
第四章: 研究方法...................................................14
第五章: 研究結果討論與計畫成果自評................................14-15
參考文獻...........................................................15-16
附錄一: 計畫發表之論文.............................................17-29
6六、 新材料。
須注意的是，當然這樣的分類，只是方便討論，既非完全包括所有可能的技術發展，而彼
此之間也並非毫無關聯。詳細的討論，請參閱[1]一文。在各種可能的超高效率太陽電池中，
熱載子太陽電池則是理論上最有可能挑戰效率 85%熱力學極限值的元件。因此，熱力學極
限值的理論探討和熱載子太陽電池的元件設計的問題，將是這計畫的主要目標。
歸納上述的討論來說，至今實驗室被實現的任何太陽電池的效率，和太陽電池理論上
的效率極限值，能存在一段很大的差距。而這個計畫，則是針對這樣的差距，對太陽電池
的熱力學極限值，做一更精細的理論探討，對熱載子太陽電池做一實際的元件設計。而這
樣的工作，將讓的挑戰熱力學效率極限值的熱載子太陽電池，能於不久的未來在實驗室上
被實現。至於進一步更詳細的說明，則討論如下。
三、文獻探討
一般的太陽電池理論，將半導體太陽電池的效率區分為三種不同的物理限制：
一、單能隙(單接面)太陽電池的限制 (可達之 one-sun 最高效率約 31%)。
二、多能隙(多接面)太陽電池的限制 (可達之 one-sun 最高效率約 69%)。
三、熱力學的限制 (可達之 one-sun 最高效率約 85%)。
底下我們將針對這些效率限制的物理限制和其相對應的可能解決方法做一簡單的敘述與說
明。
一般而言，單一半導體做成的太陽電池，假設所有的入射光子，只要其能量大於半導
體的能隙，都將被吸收而產生一個電子-電洞對。產生的電子和電洞又遵循理想 p-n 二極體
的工作原理輸出電壓電流，則這樣的太陽能電池，當其能隙為 1.35eV，其最高效率能達
31% 。對於單晶矽半導體太陽能電池，理論上其最高效率應有 28%。但很明顯，這只是理
論上最佳的估計。而實際上，即使是 texturing 和 anti-reflection coating 也不能保證消除所
有的反射。金屬接屬的遮蔽(shading)也不能讓所有照射到太陽電池上太陽光完全百分之百
地入射。由於材料本身的限制，也不能保證能量大於半導體的能隙的入射光子都可以被吸
收。因為存在像自由載子吸收(free-carrier absorption)的其他光吸收過程，被吸收的光子也不
完全百分之百地產生電子-電洞對。晶片的品質、材料本身、或製造過程的不完善，所可能
引起的電子-電洞複合電流、串聯電阻、並聯電阻，也無法讓太陽能電池輸出電壓電流關係
百分之百遵循理想的 p-n 二極體。
至於如何超越單能隙、單接面太陽電池的物理限制，最明顯的方法，就是使用多能隙、
多接面的結構。在單能隙太陽電池中，只要是能量大於半導體的能隙的入射光子可以被吸
收產生電子-電洞對。這樣一來，不管入射的光子的能量有多高，大於半導體的能隙的部分
之能量，就會提供產生電子和電洞相對於能隙的額外動能而處於高能態，而這高能態的電
子和電洞便會以釋放聲子的方式回到能隙附近。也就是說，光子能量多於半導體的能隙的
部分，就會以放射聲子的方式釋放給聲子，聲子的能量增加自然表現在晶體溫度的增加。
使用多能隙、多接面的結構，最主要的用途是要減少這種不必要的能帶內的能量釋放
(intraband energy relaxation)，降低釋放聲子的機率，減少熱能的產生。其元件結構設計，就
是要讓入射的光子先通過高能隙的 p-n 二極體，先吸收高能量的的光子，然後再通過低能
8已知太陽表面溫度 sT = 5760K，而環境溫度假設為 aT =300K，則太陽能電池內的載子溫度 為
cT =2470K，太陽電池將有最高效率 max =85%，如圖一所示。而這是太陽電池以理想 p-n
二極體的方式工作，並且去除載子能帶內的能量釋放(使用多接面結構)和能帶間的能量釋放
後，所能得到的最高效率。也就是說，理論上，只要能完全抑制能帶間和能帶內的能量釋
放，熱載子太陽電池最高效率可高達 85%—這正是這項研究計畫最主要的研究動機。雖然
實際上元件中的能帶間和能帶內的能量釋放是不可能能完全抑制，但使用熱載子機制形成
超高效率太陽電池的潛力是無庸致疑的。
圖一、太陽電池效率的熱力學極限。
前面所講述的太陽電池效率之熱力學限制，廣泛的被一般的討論太陽電池書籍文獻引
用，而用來說明理論上太陽電池能達成的最高效率的極限值約為 85%。
其實由熱力學出發來討論太陽電池效率極限這理論是由 Landsberg & Tong 提出[16]，後來
有些作者加以修正或推廣[17]-[19]，但仍然是使用熱力學的理論觀點。
當然這樣的理論基礎，如果仔細來看的話，並非是一個完全的理論，這是因為它引用
的熱力學的第二定律和 Carnot 引擎做功的原理，並沒有考慮實際工作元件的真實情況。我
們知道，熱力學是一巨觀物理理論，而不是微觀。再者，實際上元件工作不是處於真正的
熱平衡的條件，頂多只能說是一種準熱平衡(quasi-equilibrium)。而且，實際工作元件是不
可能全域(global)平衡，而是區域(local)平衡。也就是說，在工作實際元件內，載子或聲子
的溫度在元件內的分佈是空間的函數，而不是像前述使用熱力學理論所假設單一溫度值 cT
或 aT 。也因為如此，所謂太陽電池效率的理論上限值 85%，嚴格來說，恐怕只是一種合理
的猜測，並不是一個正確的理論值。
10
圖二、熱載子太陽電池的能帶結構示意圖
理論上，熱載子太陽電池的構想是有相當的吸引性，實際上卻有一些技術上的問題亟
待克服。首先，因為要形成熱載子的首要條件，就是在載子進行能帶間的能量釋放之前，
必須讓載子通過能量帶通選擇器，因此光吸收層必須很薄，也就是說，做為光吸收器的材
料必須要有很大的光吸收係數。因為要篩選高能量的熱載子要，二個能量帶通選擇器的材
料的能隙必須大於光吸收器的，而且能量帶通允許的能量範圍不能太大。最後，二端電極
的金屬接觸的功函數差距最好能大於光吸收層的能隙，而且各自的 Fermi 能階的位置，又
必須要其他部分相配合。這種種的限制，大地提高了熱載子太陽電池研究的複雜性。也正
因為如此，任何熱載子太陽電池實際上的實驗製作，幾乎不可能在依賴嘗試錯誤(try and
error)的方式進行。熱載子太陽電池的元件設計與理論探討，將是研究發展熱載子太陽電池
的首要工作。
而另外值得一提的是，當然還有其他的方法，可以達成太陽電池的熱載子條件要求，
例如使用單面雙電極的結構，在同一晶片上 monolithically 製成數個太陽電池，其中一部分
的太陽電池串聯起來，作為提供一部分的太陽電池的偏壓，讓有偏壓太陽電池運作在熱載
子的狀況。又例如使用聲子晶體結構來抑制載子在能帶間的放射聲子的能量釋放，如此一
來，太陽電池自然地運作在熱載子的狀況。
前面所討論的是一般的熱載子太陽電池，並沒有涉足任何的材料或結構。但筆者認為
超晶格將是最有可能實現熱載子太陽電池。一方面，超晶格的技術已經相當成熟，它成功
Metal
contact
Optical absorberHole
energy
selector
Electron
energy
selector
Metal
contact
12
在幾項重要的基本問題，有待進一步的探討與釐清。舉例而言，在 Martin Green 等人的文
中，並沒有給定熱載子太陽電池實際的元件材料與結構，也沒有針對載子能量釋放過程做
任何實際的估算，因此元件中載子的溫度及能量分佈之實際情況，也就無從得知。如此一
來，甚至元件本身是否在熱載子的條件下工作，也無法確定。就因為這樣，熱載子太陽電
池元件的特性(如效率、開路電壓、和閉路電流等等)就沒有辦法得到一個可靠的定量計算結
果，而熱載子太陽電池所具有超高效率的優點，也似乎只停留在理論上的約略臆測階段而
已。假使這些基本的問題沒有辦法得到正確的解決，使用熱載子太陽電池來達成超高效率
的目標便會大打折扣，甚至無法達成。
正因如此，這個研究計畫主要還是為了解決上述的問題，讓熱載子太陽電池元件的物
理特性有一定量性的計算結果，如此才能讓熱載子太陽電池研究與發展向前邁進。針對這
樣的目標，這個計畫的研究工作主要分為二部分，一為設計元件的材料與結構，另一部分
則為元件的物理特性之理論計算與模擬。前一部分的工作，就是針對熱載子太陽電池的五
個重要部份(光吸收器、能量帶通選擇器、和金屬接觸)的材料和結構做仔細且正確的選擇與
設計，這材料和結構的選擇與設計，不僅要考慮其能讓熱載子形成的條件，還要注意設計
的元件製作所需涉及的實際的技術問題及其可行性。當然，材料和結構的選擇與設計至少
須要依循下列一些基本原則。
首先，光吸收器的設計，除了要吸收入射陽光外，也要盡可能的抑制能帶間和能帶內
的能量釋放，來形成熱載子。如此一來，光吸收層必須很薄，而且其載子的 mobility 必須
要很高，盡量讓載子做能量釋放之前，到達能量帶通選擇器。然而為了又要充分的吸收入
射陽光，做為光吸收器的材料必須要有很大的光吸收係數。也就是說，光吸收器的材料須
要高 mobility、低能量釋放、和大光吸收係數。
其次，因為要篩選高能量的熱載子，二個能量帶通選擇器的材料的能隙必須大於光吸
收器的能隙。而能量帶通允許的能量範圍不能太大，太大的話，就可能讓分佈在低能態的
載子通過，減低熱載子形成的條件。但能量帶通允許的能量範圍也不能太小，帶通能帶越
小的話，光電流就越小，元件輸出的功率就越小。因此能量帶通選擇器的能帶結構，必須
配合載子實際的能量分佈情形，來做適當的設計。
最後，二端電極的金屬接觸的功函數差距提供元件一個內建電場，讓在光吸收層吸收
入射陽光產生的電子-電洞對得以因內建電場而分離。然而，這功函數的差距最好要能大於
光吸收層的能隙，這是為了避免到達金屬接觸的熱載子在金屬的能帶間做不必要的能量釋
放，造成輸出電壓的減低。不僅如此，其各自的 Fermi 能階的位置，又必須要與對應的能
量帶通選擇器相配合，避免在能量選擇器和金屬接觸之間形成額外的內建電場，抵消減弱
了原來不同功函數金屬接觸之間形成的內建電場。當然，元件最終的輸出電壓還是要由載
子在元件中的空間分佈和能量分佈來決定，而這分佈又取決於元件的材料結構與工作情
況，這些都必須透過理論計算才能得知其切實的數值。
當元件的材料與結構設計完成後，接著就須要針對元件的物理特性做理論上的計算與
模擬。也就是說，而熱載子太陽電池元件的物理參數，如轉換效率、開路電壓、閉路電流、
填充係數、和頻譜響應等，必須要能夠精確計算得知。這樣才能知道元件設計是否正確，
元件工作的物理特性是否達到設計的要求。但這裡必須強調的是，熱載子太陽電池和一般
的太陽電池不一樣的是，熱載子太陽電池元件輸出電流與電壓，大部分是取決於熱載子的
能量釋放和其造成的熱載子能量分佈，畢竟這就是熱載子太陽電池特殊的地方。因為一旦
14
這個計畫的主要研究結果已經寫成論文 (如附件一)，論文將在 2009 年 12 月 IET
Optoelectonics (原先 IEE Proceedings: Optoelectronics) 出現。其中對超高效率太陽電池使用
embedded 的低能隙材料所必須面對的基本物理限制，做一詳盡的理論計算。
超高效率太陽電池(或稱為第三代太陽電池，次世代太陽電池) ，雖然它在實驗上至今
可能尚未被實現，甚至並沒有在實驗上做任何直接的嘗試。正因如此，這個計畫「超高效
率太陽電池之理論探討與元件設計」，提供一個必要的理論基礎和其元件設計的一般準則，
這將是研究太陽電池目前所須的基礎工作，而其研究成果與結論也是發展高效率太陽電池
所迫切須要，甚至不可或缺的。
參考文獻
[1] 蔡進譯，“超高效率太陽電池從愛因斯坦的光電效應談起”，物理雙月刊 ，27 卷 5
期，701-719頁，2005 年 10 月。
[2] C. Y Tsai, “Theoretical model for the optical gain coeficient of indirect-bandgap
semiconductors,” J. Appl. Phys. vol. 99, 053506, 2006.
[3] C. Y Tsai, C. H. Chen, T. L. Sung, C. Y. Tsai, and J. M. Rorison, “Theoretical modeling of 
carier and latice heating efects for frequency chirping in semiconductor lasers,” Appl.
Phys. Lett., vol. 74, pp. 917-919, 1999.
[4] C. Y. Tsai, C. H. Chen, T. L. Sung, C. Y. Tsai, and J. M. Rorison, “Theoretical modeling of 
the small-signal modulation response of carrier and lattice temperatures with the dynamics
of nonequilibrium optical phonons in semiconductor lasers,” IEEE J. Select. Topics
Quantum Electron., vol. 5, pp. 596-605, 1999.
[5] S. W. Feng, C. Y. Tsai, Y. C. Cheng, C. C. Liao, C. C. Yang, Y. S. Lin, K. J. Ma, and J. I. Chyi,
“Phonon-replica transition in InGaN/GaN quantum wel structures,” Optic. and Quantum Electron.,
vol. 34, pp. 1213-1218, 2002.
[6] C. Y. Tsai, Chih-Hsiung Chen, Tei-Li Sung, Chin-Yi Tsai, and J. M. Rorison, "Theoretical
modeling of nonequilibrium optical phonons and electron energy relaxation in GaN,” J.
Appl. Phys., vol. 85, pp. 1475-1480, 1999.
[7] C. Y. Tsai, “Using in-line PECVD to grow SiNx:H anti-reflection coating for
multi-crystaline silicon solar cels,” Characterisation of Photovoltaic Materials and
Devices, London, Apr. 26, 2006.
[8] C. Y. Tsai, “Ultra-high-efficiency solar cells: theory and practice,” (invited talk), National
Science Council-Technical University of Madrid (NSC-UPM) Workshop on Solar Energy,
Madrid, Spain, May 23, 2006.
[9] 蔡進譯,“第三代超高效率太陽電池,”(邀請演講), 太陽電池技術與應用研討會
(二), 國立中興大學, 2006年6月2日.
[10] 蔡進譯,“超高效率半導體太陽能電池技術,”(邀請演講), 新能源技術與應用研討
會, 財團法人光電科技工業協進會台北, 2006年11月8日.
16
Appendix 1: The following article will be published in IET -Optoelectronics
Dec. 2009.
Effects of carrier escape and capture processes on quantum well
solar cells: A theoretical investigation
Chin-Yi Tsai
Department of Applied Physics, National University of Kaohsiung, 811 Kaohsiung,
Taiwan
Chin-Yao Tsai
Auria Solar, No. 9, Daye 1st Rd. Tainan Science Park, Tainan 74146, Taiwan
Abstract
A theoretical model is proposed to study the effects of carrier escape and capture processes on
the photocurrent of quantum well solar cells (QWSCs). The results show that solar cells with
very deep QWs will suffer from extremely slow escape processes and their photocurrent can be
inferior to their bulk counterparts. The results suggest that only when the escape time is at least
two-order of magnitude smaller than the carrier lifetime of QWs, solar cells will benefit from QW
structures. The optimal band gap energies of QW materials for achieving the maximum
photocurrent are also calculated and discussed.
There exist ongoing efforts to improve the efficiency of solar cells. Solar cells with
quantum well (QW) structures undoubtedly provide an interesting subject worth of more
investigations [1]. Unlike other quantum structures, such as quantum wires, boxes, or dots, the
material growth technologies of QWs are more or less mature and their physics is rather well
understood. The fact that the device performance demonstrated by QW lasers is far more
superior to their bulk counterparts somehow suggests that QW solar cells might have higher
efficiency than their bulk counterpart. This is not a pure conjecture because the major
18
0w net RwI I I   , (4)
where I is the output photocurrent, netI is net capture current, RbI and RwI are the
recombination currents in the bulk and the QWs, respectively. In fact, netI , RbI , and RwI can
be calculated from the first principles, and thus the correspondent time constants can be evaluated
by net b cap w escI q N N   , Rb b bI q N  Rw w wI q N  and b dI q N  for a given
specific operating condition. From Eq. (3) and (4), the output photocurrent I is simply the
superposition of the photocurrent photonI and the dark current darkI :
( ) ( )photon dark b w Rb RwI I I I I I I      , (5)
as in the general case of a solar cell. Similar forms of Eq. (5) have been used by several
previous works without considering the effect of carrier escape and capture processes (i.e.,
0netI  ) [12].
There are several possible routes for a carrier to escape from a QW to become a free carrier,
such as phonon-assisted, photo-assisted, intraband and interband (i.e., Auger) carrier-assisted, and
direct tunneling. Usually, phonon-assisted and direct tunneling are the two major channels for
carrier escape processes. For typical p-i-n solar cells with electric field in an i-region much less
than 50 kV/cm, the phonon-assisted escape process is known to be the dominant process [13].
In our previous work, the carrier escape and capture processes between the unconfined bulk states
and the confined quantum states have been calculated from first-principles by evaluating the
carrier-polar optical phonon interactions, and the details of their physical meaning have been
discussed and will not be repeated here [8,9]. The results indicate that the quasi-Fermi energy
of the confined states must be different from that of the unconfined states in order to have a net
current flow between them. The experimental evidence for quasi-Fermi level differences
between barrier and wells in QWSCs has been given in [14]. It should be noted that the escape
and capture processes actually do not consume any photocurrent; they simply determine the
proportion of the carrier populations (or more precisely, the quasi-Fermi energy levels) between
the barrier and the QWs. This quasi-Fermi energy separation between the barrier and QWs will
consequently modify the proportion of the dark recombination currents in the bulk and the QWs,
and then the output current and voltage will be determined by the carriers in the barrier. The
separation of the qausi-Fermi energy levels between the barrier and the QWs has been
experimentally identified in some previous work, and it has been suggested that it might be due to
the effect of hot carriers [1,14,15]. The effects of hot carriers on QW lasers have been
extensively investigated [16]. Their effect on QWSLs is an interesting issue but will not be
discussed here.
As it has been pointed out in our previous publication, the escape and capture times are not
constants and they depend on the qausi-Fermi energy levels (and thus the carrier densities) in the
bulk i-region and QWs. If this is the case, then the problem should be solved numerically.
However, if the escape and capture times are treated as time constants for a device at a given
20
current is usually rather small compared to the drift part, and it only becomes important at a very
high-injection condition (e.g., devices operated with concentrators) where electron and hole
densities are almost equal and the electric field resulted from the space charge in the i-region is
very small and can be neglected. However, the effect of space charge on carrier escape has been
previously investigated [7].
Usually the carrier lifetime for direct-bandgap material, such as GaAs, is in the range of
nano-seconds if the spontaneous emission of photons is the dominant recombination process,
while the drift time or the diffusion time of typical QWSC structures calculated from the above
model is in the range of pico-second. Therefore, the condition of 1 can be safely assumed
for most of the cases. Consequently, the expression for the photocurrent can be further
simplified to
(1 )
1
b wI II
 
 
 
 
(8)
The calculated results from Eq. (8) for different values of  and  are shown in Fig. 3. For
possible values of  (from 0.1 to 100) in typical QWSCs, the results suggest that only when the
escape time is at least two-order of magnitude smaller than the carrier lifetime of QWs, solar cells
will benefit from QW structures.
The device design issue regarding the potential depth of QWs, which is determined by the
bandgap energy of QW materials, can be calculated and discussed by using our model. It should
be noted that the using of InGaAs strained QWs in our calculation only serves as an illustrative
purpose and does not account for practical material growth problems. Using novel techniques,
such as stress-balance QWs, to achieve deep potential-well has been successfully investigated
and studied [1]. The calculated results clearly demonstrate that there exists an optimal band gap
energy of QW materials for achieving the maximum photocurrent. In the cases of very fast
carrier transport, the results shown in Fig. 4(a) indicate QWs generally have beneficial effect on
the photocurrent. On the contrary, in the cases of very slow carrier transport, as shown in Fig
4(b), the photocurrent contributed from the QW states becomes less significant, while the
photocurrent contributed from the unconfined bulk states is severely degraded by the carrier
escape processes. QWSCs with very deep potential depth could be inferior to their bulk
counterparts, even in the cases of very long carrier lifetime (i.e. nearly perfect material
conditions). It should be noted that QWSCs are generally designed to be operated under light
concentration. If this is the case, the devices will operate at a high-injection condition and with
a longer transport time. As a result, the effects of carrier escape and capture processes will
become more important and should therefore be considered in the device design for QWSCs
operated with concentrators.
In conclusion, a theoretical model is proposed to study the effects of carrier escape and
capture processes on the photocurrent of QWSCs. The results show that solar cells with very
deep QWs will suffer from extremely slow escape processes and their photocurrent will be
inferior to their bulk counterparts. The optimal band gap energies of QW materials for
achieving the maximum photocurrent are calculated and discussed. The results clearly
22
References
1. Mazzer, M., Barnham, K.W.J., Ballard, I.M., Bessiere, A., Ioannides, A., Johnson, D.C.,
Lynch, M.C., Tibbits, T.N.D., Roberts, J.S., Hill, G., and Calder, M.C.,: ‘Progress in
quantum well solar cells’, Thin Solid Films., 2006, 511-512 , pp. 76-83
2. Zachariou, A., Barnes J., Barnham, K.W., Nelson, J., Tsui, E.S.M., Epler, J., and Pate, M.,:
‘A carrier escape study from InP/InGaAs single quantum well solar cells’, J. App. Phys.,
1998, 83, (2) pp. 877-881
3. Ramey, S.M. and Khoie, R.,: Modeling of multiple-quantum-well solar cells including
capture, escape, and recombination of photoexcited carrier in quantum wells’, IEEE Trans.
Electron Devices, 2003, 50, (5), pp. 1179-1188
4. Alemu, A., Coaquira, J.A.H., and Freundlich, A.,: ‘Dependence of device performance on
carrier escape sequence in multi-quantum-well p-i-n solar cells’, J. App. Phys., 2006, 99, (8),
084506
5. Nelson, J., Paxman, M., Barnham, K.W.J., Roberts, J.S., and Button, C.,:‘Steady state carrier escape from single
quantum wels’,IEEE J. Quantum Electron., 1993, 29, (6), pp. 1460-1468
6. Barnes, J., Tsui, E. S. M., Barnham, K. W. J., McFarlane, S. C., Button C. and Roberts, J. S.,:
‘Steady state photocurrent and photoluminescence from single quantum wells as a function
of temperature and bias’, J. Appl. Phys., 1997, 81, (2), pp. 892-900
7. McFarlane, S.C., Barnes, J., Barnham, K. W. J., Tsui, E. S. M., Button, C. and Roberts, J.S.,:
‘Space charge effects in carrier escape from single quantum well structures’, J. Appl. Phys.,
1999, 86, (9), pp. 5109-5115
8. Tsai, C.Yi, Tsai, C.Yao, Lo, Y.H., Spencer, R.M., and Eastman L.F.,: ‘Nonlinear gain
coefficient in semiconductor quantum-well lasers: effects of carrier diffusion, capture, and
escape’, IEEE J. Select. Topics Quantum Electron., 1995, 1, (2), pp. 316-329
9. Tsai, C.Yi, Eastman, L.F., Lo Y.H., and Tsai, C.Yao,: ‘Breakdown of thermionic emission
theory for quantum wells’, Appl. Phys. Lett., 1994, 65 (4), pp. 469-471
10. Connolly, J.P., Ballard, I.M., Barnham, K.W.J., Bushnell, D.B., Tibbits, T.N.D. and Roberts,
J.S.,: ‘Eficiency limits of quantum well solar cels’, Proc. 19th European Photovoltaic
Solar Energy Conf., Paris, 2004, pp. 355 - 358
11. Connolly, J. P., Führer1, M. F., Johnson, D.C., Ballard, I.M., Barnham, K.W.J., Mazzer, M.,
Tibbits, T.N.D, Roberts, J.S., Hill, G. and Calder, C.,: ‘Mirrored strain-balanced quantum
well concentrator cels in the radiative limit’, Proc. 4th International Conference on Solar
Concentrators for the Generation of Electricity or Hydrogen, El Escorial, Spain, 2007, pp.
21–24
12. Anderson, N.G.,:‘Ideal theory of quantum well solar cells’, J. App. Phys., 1995, 78, (3), pp.
1850-1861
13. Kuo, D.M.–T. and Chang, Y.C.,: ‘Dynamic behavior of electron tunneling and dark current
in quantum-well systems under an electric field’, Phys. Rev. B, 1999, 60, (23), pp.
15957-15964
24
Figure Captions
Fig. 1. (a) A schematic diagram of a p-i-n bulk solar cell. (b) A schematic diagram of a p-i-n
QWSC, in which the gray areas indicate the QWs. (c) A schematic energy band diagram of a
p-i-n QWSC. (d) The ranges of light absorption from unconfined bulk states and confined QW
states. The solar spectrum is modeled as a 5800 K black-body radiation normalized to 100
mW/cm2.
Fig. 2. Carrier transport (diffusion or drift) times as a function of the width of the intrinsic
region for different output voltages. ocV stands for the open-circuit voltage. Note that the
carrier transport is mainly limited by the drift process at low-injection conditions while it is
limited by the diffusion process at high-injection conditions. The gray area indicates the
possible range of carrier transport times.
Fig. 3. Total photocurrent (divided by the photocurrent contributed from QWs, i.e., wI I ) as a
function of the ratio carrier lifetime in QWs and the carrier escape time ( /w esc  ) at different
ratios of the carrier transport time and the carrier capture time ( /d cap  ). Note that the dot line
indicates the maximum photocurrent contributed from unconfined bulk states and confined QW
states without the effects of carrier escape and capture processes.
Fig. 4. The photocurrent density contributed from confined QW states (dot line), unconfined
bulk states (dash line), and their sum (solid line) as a function of the QW band gap energy at
different carrier lifetimes of QWs. The dash-dot line represents the photocurrent of a p-i-n bulk
device without QWs. (a) The ratios of the carrier transport time and the carrier capture time
from the barrier to the QWs is assumed to be 0.1 to represent the ideal cases of very fast carrier
transport processes in the bulk i-region. (b) The ratios of the carrier transport time and the carrier
capture time from the barrier to the QWs is assumed to be 100 to represent the cases of extremely
slow carrier transport processes in the bulk i-region.
26
Fig. 2
28
Fig. 4
(b)
(a)
Effects of Carrier Escape and Capture Processes on 
Quantum Well Solar Cells 
 
Chin-Yi Tsai 
Department of Applied Physics, National University of Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung, 811 Taiwan 
Chin-Yao Tsai 
E-Ton Solar Technology, No. 492, Sec. 2, Bentian Rd., Tainan,709 Taiwan 
 
Abstract-A theoretical model is proposed to study the effects of 
carrier escape and capture processes on the photocurrent of 
quantum well solar cells (QWSCs).  The results show that solar 
cells with very deep QWs will suffer from extremely slow escape 
processes and their photocurrent can be inferior to their bulk 
counterparts.  The optimal band gap energies of QW materials 
for achieving the maximum photocurrent are also calculated and 
discussed. 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
 
There exist ongoing efforts to improve the efficiency of 
solar cells.  Solar cells with quantum well (QW) structures 
undoubtedly provide an interesting subject worth of more 
investigations [1].  The fact that the device performance 
demonstrated by QW lasers is far more superior to their bulk 
counterparts somehow suggests that QW solar cells might 
have higher efficiency than their bulk counterpart.  This is 
not a pure conjecture because the major advantage of 
implementing QWs in solar cells that they can absorb the 
additional photons below the band gap energy of the bulk 
materials.  In fact, using different materials to absorb 
different spectral portions of sun light is a well-known 
practice for improving the efficiency of solar-cells.  
Conventionally, this can be achieved by using 
mechanically-stacked or monolithic tandem structures.  
However, another method to achieve broader absorption of 
solar spectrum is to use quantum or nano structures with 
smaller band gap energy being directly embedded into 
existing bulk solar cells.  In spite of the promising features 
of QWSCs, there are some questions or problems in device 
design remaining to be answered or solved.  One of them is 
regarding the potential depth of the QWs.  As we know, 
deeper QWs can absorb a wider spectrum of the incident sun 
light; however, they inevitably suffer from slow carrier escape 
processes.  In other words, carriers generated in a deep QW 
cannot efficiently escape from the QWs into the barrier and 
then transport out of the device to contribute as useful 
photocurrents.  Although the effects of carrier capture and 
escape processes on QW lasers have been investigated, their 
effects on QWSCs are less well understood [2]-[4]. 
 
II. THEORETICAL MODEL 
 
In this work, a simple but illustrative theoretical model will  
be proposed to investigate the effects of carrier escape and 
capture processes on the photocurrent of QWSCs.  A bulk 
GaAs p-i-n structure is adopted and InGaAs QWs are formed 
in the i-region (as shown schematically in Fig. 1).  To focus 
our discussion on the effects of escape and capture processes 
on the QWSCs, a simple 2-N model is used, in which the 
device is controlled by the carrier population of the 
unconfined bulk state bN and that of the confined QW 
state wN in the i-region.  The contributions from the bulk p- 
capture escapeincident 
p n i 
p n 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
Fig. 1.  (a) A schematic diagram of a p-i-n bulk solar cell. (b) A 
schematic diagram of a p-i-n QWSC, in which the gray areas indicate the 
QWs. (c) A schematic energy band diagram of a p-i-n QWSC. (d) The 
ranges of light absorption from unconfined bulk states and confined QW 
states.  The solar spectrum is modeled as a 5800 K black-body radiation 
normalized to 100 mW/cm2.
NUSOD 2008
978-1-4244-2307-1/08/$25.00 ©2008 IEEE 79
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Cheng Kung University. Downloaded on October 28, 2009 at 05:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
