 - 1 -
 
總計畫：金屬微成形製程分析及其應用 
子計畫四：金屬薄板矩形材微拉/引伸製程之研究(I) 
A Study on Micro Stretch / Drawing Processes of Metallic Thin Rectangular Blank 
 
計畫編號：NSC 98 - 2221 - E - 167 - 001 
執行期間： 98 年 8 月 1 日至 99 年 11 月 30 日 
計畫主持人：  陳聰嘉  副教授   國立勤益科技大學 機械工程系 
計畫參與人員：田竣榮  研究生   國立勤益科技大學 機械工程系 
許振原  研究生   國立勤益科技大學 機械工程系 
莊復凱  研究生   國立勤益科技大學 機械工程系 
葉峻銘  研究生   國立勤益科技大學 機械工程系 
黃炫彰  研究生   國立勤益科技大學 機械工程系 
 
一、摘要 
本計畫之目的為透過有限元素建模，以探討不
同板材厚度的U形引伸除荷後的回彈現象，進而推
論微觀與巨觀兩者間之成形差異。本文乃基於
updated Lagrangian formulation (ULF)理論，推導出
增量型彈塑性有限元素計算法，用於模擬板材U形
引伸成形製程之分析。由於非線性幾何變化的問
題，材料非線性的行為和邊界條件隨變形而變化，
因此模擬過程必須以增量的方式進行，以達到線性
之要求；在處理接觸面間不連續性的黏滯、滑移狀
態的問題上，使用修正的庫倫摩擦法則，並採用
r-minimum法則去限制線性關係的每一個增量間距
的大小。本文亦採用選擇性減化積分法(SRI)，應用
到剛性矩陣中。使用此有限元素分析法，可以精確
地分析板材U形引伸成形製程的完整變形過程，意
指可以成功地描繪出全部的變形歷程，透過這些變
形歷程可得知金屬板材的成形狀況，可預知實際衝
壓過程的成形問題。經由本研究可發現，板材最薄
的地方會產生在垂直轉角處。在這個研究結果中，
很明顯地證明了這個計算法，能夠有效地模擬U形
引伸成形製程。 
 
關鍵字：有限元素、U形、引伸 
 
二、前言 
有關金屬微成形之製程，Gelge等人[1]提到產品
從傳統的尺寸慢慢縮小成微小尺寸。而微成形的成
形參數與傳統的成形參數可能不再相同，此變化的
性質稱為尺寸效應，尺寸效應可分為兩大類：第一
類尺寸效應(Size Effects of First Order)，就是把尺寸
縮小，然後仍可以用傳統理論來分析。第二類尺寸
效應(Size Effects of Second Order)，尺寸縮小後之結
構如晶粒尺寸(Grain Size)仍維持不變，使得工件幾
何尺寸與晶粒尺寸之比例關係在縮小過程中發生變
化，使得傳統連體力學材料為連續且均質之假設不
適用，此稱之為第二類尺寸效應。Vollertsen等人[2]
將尺寸效應更加詳細分類在微觀的尺寸下，許多因
素跟傳統尺寸會有不同的結果，如成形極限、成形
負荷、回彈、模具材料之選擇及適合微成形之裝置
等。微成形過程中，摩擦為一個重要的因素，Kals
等人[3]利用環壓縮實驗來探討未加潤滑劑之過程
中，其材料之摩擦係數不會隨試件幾何尺寸縮小而
增加或是減少。在Buschhausen與Tiesler等人[4，5]
的雙杯擠製實驗(Double Cup Extrusion，簡稱DCE)
研究，在加潤滑劑之條件下，可發現隨著工件尺寸
縮小其摩擦力越大。在實驗發現微觀尺寸會有動態
摩擦 (Open Lubricant Pockets)與靜態摩擦 (Close 
Lubricant Pockets)兩種。靜態摩擦能保持住潤滑劑使
得成形力能較為平均的傳到工件而使摩擦力較小。
而動態摩擦是不論工件尺寸多小，其動態摩擦區域
是固定不變的。由於動態摩擦所佔工件區域固定，
且隨著工件之縮小，靜態摩擦所佔工件區域越來越
少，直到消失，而使摩擦力越來越大。 
將平板料片放置在引伸沖模中使其引伸變成U
形之製品，此種形狀的變化稱為U形引伸，此加工
法是沖壓製程最常見之板材成形方法之一。U形引
伸成形過程，為沖頭下降前，使板材於下模與壓料
板之間受到夾持。沖頭繼續下降時，板材受到沖頭
R角與模穴R角之作用而彎曲。板材成形完成後，沖
頭升起，壓料板也隨之升起，進而取出製品，完成
U形引伸加工之製程。U形引伸加工為板材成形的最
重要加工方法之一，常應用於機器外殼、消費電子
產品之外殼等各種板金加工上，因此U形引伸在板
令Ns=ηN，則上述公式便可以表示為帶有尺度
參數的材料流動應力模型︰ 
( )( , ) ( ) (1 )( ( ) )R R
km M
d
εσ ε η η τ ε η τ ε= + − +    (10) 
其中，(m, M≧2，0≦η≦1)  
對於微細薄板成形，設薄板材料晶粒的直徑為
d，試樣的寬度為w，厚度為t，則材料表面晶粒數為︰ 
2
1             if  
s
s
w tN
d
N w t d
+⎧ = −⎪⎨⎪ = =⎩ =                   (11) 
2
wtN
d
=
                                (12) 
則︰ 
2
2 2s
w t
N d w t dd
wtN t
d
η
+ − + −= = = i
w
           (13) 
一般情況下，對於微薄板，有w>>t，則w>>d，
則公式可以簡化為︰ 
2 1w t d
w
+ − ≈
                          (14) 
d
t
η =                                (15) 
 
四、數值分析 
本研究是採用四邊形四節點殼元素推導剛性矩
陣，並且以CAD套裝軟體來作處理，因模型為對稱，
故採1/4模型進行分析模擬，可節省運算時間，將所
建立的板材外形作網格分割處理，轉為資料檔，輸
入彈塑性3D有限元素程式進行數值分析。將所模擬
出來的分析結果輸出到CAD套裝軟體，再作解讀分
析，在CAD軟體中可以顯示出變形圖以及應力與應
變分佈圖。以上這些資訊可用來當作模具設計及壓
縮製程的參考依據。本研究採用之材料性質，如表1
所示。在板材U形引伸模擬中，模具的有限元素網
格化是採用四邊形的元素。圖1描劃模具和沖頭的配
置圖。圖2為角度回彈後所量測的角度。在微引伸製
程中，探討兩種材料模型與實驗結果的差異，觀察
U形引伸變形情況，研究中所使用的模具幾何形狀
和模擬形態配置，如圖3所示。圖4顯示示胚料網格
化後的四邊形元素。 
4.1 邊界條件 
在板料U形引伸成形的過程中，胚料會與沖
頭、模穴、壓料板接觸。因此無論與模具接觸或離
開的節點都必須被定義。節點被區分為接觸節點和
自由節點。沒有接觸的節點定義成自由節點，並且
所有的座標位置都使用空間座標(X，Y，Z)；與模
具接觸的節點，依據右手定律定義當時的座標位置
(ξ，η，ζ)，故Ｙ與η方向都朝向紙內。 
所有的接觸面都是在滑動與黏滯摩擦的狀態之
間斷斷續續交替產生，有時候會導致計算上的困
難，所以處理摩擦的條件需要特別注意。Oden和
Pries[8]提出了修正的庫倫(Coulomb)摩擦法則，他們
的假設包含了滑動和黏滯這兩種接觸摩擦的狀態，
這個摩擦法則有效地解決滑移方向不連續變化的黏
滑摩擦問題；此U形引伸成形製程的模擬條件，是
假設摩擦係數μ= 0.05，來描述此摩擦狀況。 
4.2 彈塑性問題的處理 
在變形量增加的期間，胚料是彈性或是塑性，
在每一增量時應先做判斷，使元素在每一增量上應
該保持不變，rmin處理的方法亦被應用在彈塑性狀態
之判斷。 
4.3 除荷處理 
回彈作用在U形引伸成形製程中是一個很重要
的關鍵因素，因此U形引伸成形製程除荷後的行為
應該被考慮；當模具完全地移開時，回彈開始計算，
新力量的邊界條件被指定在所有接觸的節點上，並
且設定為 f fΔ = − 。 
 
五、實驗結果與討論 
在計算過程中，當板材與模具接觸時，衝頭的
負荷會快速增加。圖5(a)-(e)表示不銹鋼薄板與銅薄
板在不同材料厚度模型下，衝頭負荷與衝頭衝程兩
者之間的關係。由此負荷模擬可發現幾項特性，成
形初期階段衝頭的負荷快速增加，而且無論傳統或
者修正的材料模型與實驗曲線差異並不明顯，然後
保持一定程度之負荷後，曲線會快速上升。而比例
因子修正的負荷與衝程趨勢較符合實驗結果。 
圖6繪出薄金屬微引伸製程中五個階段幾何變
形圖，圖中清楚的顯示出引伸時，板材逐漸地變形，
直到進入除荷狀態，在整個為引伸製程中，接觸、
分離和整個摩擦狀況，在所有的接觸的介面上都藉
由rmin法則，精確地計算出結果。 
5.1 材料對模形的影響 
本計畫提出以不同材料模型進行微引伸製程分
析並探討兩者間的差異。研究中對於模擬與實驗薄
金屬分別量測其厚度和外形。 
以兩種不同材料的模型分析結果，如圖7至圖10
所示，可發現最薄厚度都發生在衝頭轉角位置，傳
統材料模型最薄厚度範圍比起修正後的來的大。由
應力分佈情況可明顯看出在衝頭轉角會有應力集中
現象，其主要原因為該區域材料流動較為劇烈，較
大的應力則發生在傳統巨觀模型上。 
 - 3 -
  
  
0.0 0.4 0.8 1.2 1.6
Stroke/mm
0.0
50.0
100.0
150.0
200.0
250.0
Lo
ad
/N
Simulation           μ          t        L         W
sus304  0.05  1mm  5mm  2.5mm
cu          0.05  1mm  5mm  2.5mm
Experiment                   t        L         W
sus304     1mm  5mm  2.5mm
cu             1mm  5mm  2.5mm
 
 
圖2 角度量測示意圖 
 
 
 
 
 
圖5(a) 沖頭負荷比較圖 (t=1mm) 
 
0.0 0.4 0.8 1.2 1.6
Stroke/mm
0.0
40.0
80.0
120.0
160.0
200.0
Lo
ad
/N
Simulation            μ             t          L         W
sus304  0.05  0.5mm  5mm  2.5mm
cu          0.05  0.5mm  5mm  2.5mm
Experiment                  t          L         W
sus304    0.5mm  5mm  2.5mm
cu            0.5mm  5mm  2.5mm
 
圖3 模具組合圖 
 
 
 
 
 
圖5(b) 沖頭負荷比較圖 (t=0.5mm) 
 
 
圖4 板材網格化後的四邊形元素 
 
 
 
 
 圖5(c) 沖頭負荷比較圖 (t=0.2mm) 
  
 
 - 5 -
  
 
 
(a) (b)
Stress (MPa) Stress (MPa)
Stress (MPa)
Stress (MPa)Stress (MPa)
(c)
(d) (e)  
圖11 電子壓床 
 
 
 
圖9 SUS304不銹鋼微引伸應力分佈：(a)厚度1.0mm 
(b)厚度0.5mm (c)厚度0.2mm (d)厚度0.1mm (e)厚度
0.05mm 
 
 
圖12(a) 厚度0.1mm實驗成品 (cu)  
 
(a) (b)
(c)
(d) (e)
Strain (mm/mm) 
Strain (mm/mm) Strain (mm/mm) 
Strain (mm/mm) 
Strain (mm/mm) 
 
 
 
圖12(b) 厚度0.1mm實驗成品 (sus304) 
 
 
 圖10 SUS304不銹鋼微引伸應變分佈：(a)厚度1.0mm 
(b)厚度0.5mm (c)厚度0.2mm (d)厚度0.1mm (e)厚度
0.05mm 
圖12(c) 厚度0.05mm實驗成品 (左sus304；右cu) 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 - 7 -
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
▉  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 □未發表之文稿 ▉撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ▉無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ▉無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
預計將本計畫之研究成果撰寫成 2 篇研究論文，投稿至國際期刊或研討會，將研究成果與
相關學者共享。 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
一、學術成就方面： 
（1）建立一套泛用型微成形實驗之平台與微成形實驗流程，主要包括標準試片的製作流
程及微拉/引伸加工製程之研究。 
（2）完成銅、鐵系平均晶粒尺寸與薄板厚度的 U 形微引伸加工製程之成形性研究。 
（3）完成機構設計、自動控制與試片準備之系統整合。 
（4）預計將研究成果撰寫成數篇研究論文，投稿至國際期刊或研討會。 
二、技術創新、社會影響及其他應用方面： 
隨著零組件微小化的加工技術日新月異地進步與應用日漸激增之需求，傳統模具的零件
（元件）製作技術已經不符合現今工業設計的要求，以高強度、精度與微小的零組件成為
達成隨身產品製作的手段，然而，材料微小化的過程中，其機械性質與巨觀的材料性質並
不相同。因此，研究材料在微米級尺寸的機械性質的行為表現成為探討微米級成形性的基
礎研究。若能瞭解微米級之機械性質與巨觀條件下的不同處，則有助於產業界微米級零組
件之研發與製作，亦將藉由產業界研發能力之增強，而帶動國家整體競爭力之提升。 
附件二 
 - 9 -
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：98年10月31日 
計畫編號 NSC 98 - 2221 - E - 167 - 001 - 
計畫名稱 金屬微成形製程分析及其應用－子計畫四：金屬薄板矩形材微拉/引伸製程之研究 
出國人員
姓名 陳 聰 嘉 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立勤益科技大學 機械工程系(所) 
副教授 
會議時間 98 年 10 月 26 日至 98 年 10 月 29 日 會議地點 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
會議名稱 (中文)2009 高等材料與製程技術研討會 
(英文)Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies (AMPT 2009) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 彈塑性有限元素分析鋁管徑向壓縮製程 
(英文) AN ELASTO-PLASTIC FINITE ELEMENT ANALYSIS OF THE RADIAL 
COMPRESSION OF ALUMINIUM TUBE BETWEEN RIGID PLATES 
一、參加會議經過 
此研討會之主題是針對各種加工工程領域(包括AI Applications in Manufacturing, 
Material testing and Characterizations, Metal Forming, Nanotechnology, Advances in 
Machining, Micro-Machining & Processing, Advances in Titanium Processing and 
Technology, Casting and Solidification, FEA Applications in Manufacturing, Optimization 
in Manufacturing, CFD Applications in Forming, Green Manaufacturing, Numerical 
Methods in Manufacturing, Processing of Polymers and Composites, Welding and Joining, 
Advances in Polymers, Advances in Biomedical Applications, Surface Engineering and 
Finishing, Computer Applications in Manufacturing, Grinding, Non Traditional 
Machining, Thermal Modeling and HT, Heat Treatment and Aging, Metallic Materials, 
Plasticity 等)的研究發表與心得交換，讓與會者能透過此研討會共享研究成果。此研
討會由 International Islamic University Malaysia 主辦，本人將近年來於金屬製程之研
究心得，應用於鋁管徑向壓縮製程之成果，藉由參加此次研討會，與世界各國之學
者專家做一次面對面的溝通與交換心得，了解各國在有關板材塑性加工方面之進
展，做為日後研究之參考。研討會分為 25 場 Sessions 發表，Session 1 發表的主題為
AI Applications in Manufacturing，Session 2 發表的主題為 Material testing and 
Characterizations，Session 3 發表的主題為 Metal Forming，Session 4 發表的主題為
 1
 3
四、建議 
此次經國科會補助，使筆者得有機會參加這次的國際會議，除了發表研究論文
並了解各國先進所給予之見解外，並進而獲悉世界各國在塑性工程領域方面之新思
維與將來研究之趨勢，可謂受益良多。此次會議之舉行，International Islamic University 
Malaysia 挑起主辦的責任，希望將來我們也能有一些機會能結合各校之力量，舉辦
一些這類型國際性的研討會，藉此不但可提升學術風氣外，亦可提高我們的國際地
位。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Proceeding of Advances in Materials and Processing Technologies. 
六、其他 
 
 
 
the tube. Two kinks are formed in the center portion, and is known as the buckling of the tube. 
Redwood [8] in a discussion of DeRuntz and Hodge model cited that Burton and Craig proposed 
a modified model in which the tube is flattened in the contact zones without separation 
throughout the entire compression process. Horizontal plastic hinges were also considered as in 
the DeRuntz and Hodge model. Johnson [9] reported a quasi-static compression of a circular 
tube occurring between rigid, parallel plates and that the effect of friction will be small and strain 
hardening in the plastic hinges will be much more significant. Reid and Reddy [10] studied the 
effect of strain hardening on the lateral compression of tubes between rigid plates and concluded 
that the neglect of strain hardening is a reasonable approximation in situations in which 
geometry changes affect the major load carrying mechanism. Obviously, the above description is 
limited to the analysis with an elementary theory. Gotoh and Shibada [11] simulated the lateral 
compression processes of a tube and sphere for the material modes of J2F (J2-flow theory) and 
J2G (J2-Gotoh’s corner theory) without the friction effect. 
However, a precise numerical simulation of the entire large deformation process is a 
complicated task. The complexity is the high non-linearity of a large deformation owing (1) the 
complicated geometry due to large displacements, large rotations and large strains; (2) the non-
linear constitutive behavior of the material due to the inelastic characteristic of a large 
deformation and (3) the non-linear characteristic of deformation-dependent boundary conditions 
varying throughout the loading. All make it difficult to simulate the entire deformation process. 
The finite-element method, being accompanied by the rapid advancement of the digital computer, 
is recognized as the most powerful method owing to its flexibility and accuracy. It can both 
overcome the complications of geometrical and material non-linear symptoms and handle the 
highly non-linear contact boundary conditions well. 
The non-linear boundary conditions, such as the contact-separation conditions of nodes, the 
alternation of the sliding-sticking state of friction, are formulated in an incremental way. The 
static explicit approach to the solution is used to avoid the convergence problem. Owing to the 
changes of contact-separation and sliding-sticking friction on the contact boundary, this method 
is suitable for predicting the final shape of the workpiece after springback which is mostly 
required by the industry. In order to assure the accuracy of this explicit integration scheme, a r-
minimum technique proposed by Yamada et al. [12] is used to choose the size of the increment, 
in which the state of elements and boundary conditions must be considered unchanged during the 
increment step. The developed FE code is a 3-D program which can be used to simulate the sheet 
metal forming process under plane strain, plane stress and asymmetric conditions. 
The purpose of the present work is to provide a rate-independent elasto-plastic finite-element 
analysis, on the basis of an updated Lagrangian formulation, to simulate the entire process of the 
lateral compression of a tube between rigid plates under plane strain conditions. The whole 
deformation history and the distribution of stress and strain during the forming process were 
obtained by carefully considering the moving boundary condition in the finite-element method. 
Results in this study clearly demonstrated that the computer code for simulating the radial 
compression of aluminum tube was efficient. 
 
2. DESCRIPTION OF THE BASIC THEORY 
 
2.1 Variational Principle 
The updated Lagrangian formulation is based on the modified principle of virtual velocity 
[13]: 
{( 2 ) }
t
J
ij ik ik ij jk ik ij i i
V S
D D L L dV f v dSσ σ δ σ δ δ− + =∫ ∫ .                                                         (1) 
output to CAD software to establish the deformation figure of stress and strain distribution. The 
above information can be used as a reference support designing a tool and its use in 
manufacturing. The material characteristics of the aluminum tubes (JIS A1050-H18 aluminum) 
analyzed in this simulation are as follows: thickness: t = 0.9mm; yield stress: yσ = 135MPa; 
stress-strain: 0.02147.0(0.0141 )pσ = +ε MPa. Poisson's ratio ν  and Young's modulus E are 0.33 
and 70600MPa, respectively. 
In simulating radial compression of aluminum tube, the finite element mesh of the tool is 
triangular elements. Figure 1(a) depicts the profile of the die and punch head. Figure 1(b) 
presents rectangular elements when the blanks are meshed. In simulating the blank, appropriate 
boundary conditions must be imposed. Conditions are set on the nodes such that the direction of 
rotation or displacement of nodes is constrained. In the simulation, the X-axis’s nodes of the 
blank were constrained the displacement in the Y-direction and the rotation in the X-direction. 
Additionally, the Y-axis’s nodes of the blank were constrained the displacement in the X-
direction and the rotation in the Y-direction. Table 1 presents the data related to the tool and 
blank finite element meshes. 
 
 
                      
(a)                                                                                                  (b) 
Fig.1 (a) The profile of the tools. (b) The mesh of tube in a radial compressive simulation. 
 
 
Table 1: Tool and blank finite elemental meshes. 
Tool and Blank Element type Node number Element number 
Punch Triangle 3403 6560 
Aluminum tube Rectangle 777 720 
 
 
3.1 Boundary Conditions 
In forming a radial compression of aluminum tube, the tube contacts the two flat, parallel, 
rigid plates. Therefore, whether the node contacts or moves away from the tool must be 
determined. The node is classified as a contact node or a free node. Because of the symmetry of 
the tube, only a half of the tools and tubes are modelled. Figure 2(a) presents the boundary 
conditions pertaining to the combination of the tube and tools system. The node that does not 
touch the tool is defined as the free node, and its global coordinates are (X, Y, Z). The node that 
 
4. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
In order to verify the performance of the FE code, a published experimental data of lateral 
compression of a tube carried out by Gotoh and Shibada [11] is predicted. The predicted punch 
load shows good agreement with that of the experiment, thereby demonstrating the realiability of 
the finite element model. Figure 2(b) presents the relationship between the punch’s load and 
punch’s stroke. When compression proceeds, the contact points of load application move out 
around the tube, this has the effect of shortening the arm which has produced high moments; 
therefore the punch load can be further increased. In the meantime, the geometrical constraints 
are produced on both sides of the diameter of tube, which increases with compression. If the 
material strain hardens in the plastic range, this effect will still further increase the load-carrying 
capacity under severe compression. 
Figure 2(c) shows deformed shapes and nodal displacement increments of compressed tubes 
in the range of punch strokes from 2 to 8 mm to observe the formation of buckling. In Figure 
2(c), the compressed tube is obviously buckled, the separation occurring from the outset between 
the tube and the plate in the center of the contact zone and increasing its degree as the 
compression proceeds, which is also named as a kink, and the geometrical constraints form on 
both sides of the diameter. It is implied that the collapse mode of DeRuntz and Hodge [7], which 
consists of four plastic hinges, is applicable in this compression process. This figure clearly 
shows that the tube was compressed gradually until it enters the unloading state. At the contact 
interface, penetration, separation and friction throughout the compressed process were accurately 
specified by the extended r-minimum method. 
Figure 3 shows the von Mises stress distribution for different punch strokes. The stress unit 
of the color bar is MPa in the picture. When the stroke reaches 4.0 mm, the maximum stress 
takes place in both ends of the Y-axis. In the final stage, when the stroke is 8.0 mm, the 
minimum stress is both ends in the Y-axis of compressed tube and the greatest stress takes place 
on the both sides of Y-axis, so the phenomenon of stress concentration is occurred, its value is 
149.0MPa. During unloading, the compressed tube has a large residual stress at the both ends in 
the Y-axis. 
Figure 4 shows the contours of the principal strain. When the stroke is 4.0 mm, the principal 
strain of both sides of the diameter is clearly a maximum, because the geometrical constraints 
form on both sides of the diameter. In the final step, when the stroke is 8.0 mm, the maximum of 
principal strain is at the both sides of the diameter, its value is 4.39. In the unloading step, the 
principal strain in the compressed tube remains largest at the both sides of the diameter. 
Figure 5 plots the reaction force distribution of various strokes. The force unit of the color 
bar is Newton in the picture. The reaction distribution figure clearly shows the contact between 
the tube and the tools. When the stroke is 4.0 mm, the shell element contacted with the tools is 
nearly Y-axis both sides, as the stroke is 8.0 mm, aluminum tube and tools contact increasing, 
prove this simulation program is feasible in the treatment that contacts, and greatest reaction 
force is 1.83*101 newtons. 
Figure 6 plots the thickness distribution of final strokes. The thickness unit of the color bar is 
mm in the picture. The figure shows the thickness distribution during the unloading step. The 
thickness distribution figure shows that thinnest thickness locates in Y-axis central place. 
Consequently, if a crack exists, it must be on the Y-axis central place. 
 
 
  
(a)The punch stroke U = 4.0 mm 
 
 
(b)The punch stroke U = 8.0 mm 
 
 
  (c)The final shape after unloading 
Fig.4 Show the contour of the principal strain 
 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
The theoretical computation employed the elasto-plastic large-strain finite-element method 
with selective reduced integration to develop the simulation program. The large non-linearity of 
the process was taken into account in an incremental manner and a r-minimum technique was 
adopted to limit the size of each increment step for a linear relation. The finite-element model 
yields the following conclusions. 
A. Using the finite element method, we analyzed the entire deformation progress of the 
compressed tube process precisely, implying that the complete history of deformation can be 
traced successfully. 
B. The deformed geometry, the distribution of the stress and strain, and the distribution of 
thickness are predicted effectively by the finite-element model. This information may be used 
to improve the manufacturing and design of tools. 
C. In compressed tube processes, since the thinnest part of the tube is on the Y-axis central place, 
if the crack exists, it must be on the Y-axis central place. 
D. Since the tools are depicted using CAD software, the finite-element model can be applied to 
any arbitrary tools used in the workshop in general compressed processes. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
The authors would like to thank the National Science Council of the Republic of China for 
financially supporting this research under Contract No. NSC97-2221-E-167-005 and the 
National Center for High-performance Computing for computer time and facilities. 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] Carney JF, III, Austin CD, Reid SR, Modeling of steel tube vehicular crash cushion, ASCE 
Transportation Engineering, Vol.109(3) (1983), 331-346. 
[2] Reid SR, Drew SLK, Carney JF, III, Energy absorbing capacities of braced metal tubes, 
International Journal of Mechanical Sciences, Vol.25(9-10) (1983), 649-667. 
[3] Watson AR, Reid SR, Johnson W, Thomas SG, Large deformations of thin-walled circular 
tubes under transverse loading-II, International Journal of Mechanical Sciences, Vol.18 
(1976), 387-397. 
[4] Watson AR, Reid SR, Johnson W, Large deformations of thin-walled circular tubes under 
transverse loading-III, International Journal of Mechanical Sciences, Vol.18 (1976), 501-
509. 
[5] Johnson W, Reid SR, Reddy TY, The compression of crossed layers of thin tubes, 
International Journal of Mechanical Sciences, Vol.19 (1977), 423-437. 
[6] Mutchler LD, Energy absorption of aluminium tubing, Transactions of ASME, Journal of 
Applied Mechanics, Vol.27 (1960), 740-743. 
[7] DeRuntz JA, Hodge PG, Crushing of a tube between rigid plates, Transactions of ASME, 
Journal of Applied Mechanics, Vol.30 (1963), 391-395. 
[8] Redwood RG, Discussion of Ref. 2, Transactions of ASME, Journal of Applied Mechanics, 
Vol.31 (1964), 357-358. 
[9] Johnson W, Impact Strength of Material, Arnold, London, (1972). 
[10] Reid SR, Reddy TY, Effect of strain hardening on the lateral compression of tubes between 
rigid plates, International Journal of Solids and Structures, Vol.14 (1978), 213-225. 
[11] Gotoh M, Shibada Y, Elasto-plastic finite element analysis for one and two dimensions of 
lateral compression of tube, Spring Proceedings on Plastic Working, Cho-Fu, Tokyo: 18 
May 1989, 571-574 (in Japanese). 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/02/22
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫四：金屬薄板矩形材微拉/引伸製程之研究
計畫主持人: 陳聰嘉
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-167-001- 學門領域: 加工與製造
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
