 2
摘  要 
傳統的火災偵測器必須充分地接觸目標物(熱或煙霧)以致於延遲發出警報。本研究採用
多波段紅外線與紫外線的量測技術，提出一個可以在遠端迅速「監看」物體的溫度變化，
以及判定煙火的系統裝置。在此研究中，我們提出了包括溫度、熱的二氧化碳氣體、以及
火燄的閃爍度與紫外線能量等四項特徵來分析火的特性，並且成功地使用四種感測器和一
個紅外線轉換器來評估這些特徵。實驗的結果顯示，組合兩個 PIR 感測器去偵測二氧化碳
輻射的用法可以避開環境中紅外線的干擾，準確地看到燃燒的表徵。這種新的偵煙方法在
系統中被採用以取代傳統煙粒子密度的偵測方式。此外，一項由藍色光感測器與紫外線感
測器的組合被有效地用來拾取火燄中紫外線的成份，以協助我們辨識一個乾淨安全的家庭
用火。這些資訊透過一個資料擷取卡與 LabVIEW 軟體呈現在個人電腦上。本研究的成果將
為發展新型火災偵測器的設計者提供一個有價值的參考。 
關鍵詞：多波段紅外線，紫外線，火燄 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Conventional fire detectors must touch sufficient targets (heat or smoke) so that they delay 
respond to the alarm. By using multi-infrared and ultraviolet measuring techniques, we 
proposed a system that could remotely and accurately monitor the variance of object’s 
temperature and identify the smoke in this study. In this study, we propose four kinds of 
features including temperature, hot CO2 gas, flicker and the UV energy of the flame to analyze 
the fire traits. We use four kinds of sensors and one IR transducer to evaluate these features 
successfully. Experimental results show that the use of two pyroelectric sensors can eliminate 
the interference from the surroundings and accurately “see” the appearance of combustion by 
detecting the CO2 emission line. This novel usage of detecting smoke is adopted in system 
instead of the conventional usage of detecting the particle density of smoke. Otherwise, the 
combination of a blue and a UV sensor is used effectively to pick up the UV component of the 
flame, and then aid we identify a clean, safe household fire. The information is presented on a 
personal computer using LabVIEW software and a DAQ interface. Results of this study provide 
a valuable reference for designers in developing a novel fire detector. 
Keywords: Multi-infrared, Ultraviolet, and Flame 
 4
  The information is recorded on a personal computer via a data acquisition card (DAQ card) 
controlled by the LabVIEW (Laboratory Virtual Instrument Engineering Workbench) software. 
Experimental results show that the proposed system accurately monitors the development of fires. 
A trained back-propagation network is used off-line to estimate the probability of fire, to verify 
that the measuring system effectively collects the information concerning the behavior of fires. 
This study may provide a useful reference for researchers who are attempting to design more 
effective fire alarms.  
 
II. METHOD 
A. Fire behavior  
Fire is a chemical reaction that produces heat and light. The behavior of fires can be elicited 
from the variance in temperature and the color of light. A strong atomic carbon line at 247.8 nm 
and the broadband in the UV fluorescence centered at 320nm are observed [12] for organic carbon. 
A low-pollution, safe gas (like liquefied petroleum gas) burner provides a hydrocarbon flame. 
The CH, OH, CN and C2 bands of its spectrum extend from below 220 nm to 600 nm [12, 14], so 
the flame is a blue color. If the gas is mixed into carbohydrate, the flame exhibits an extra glow, 
which may indicate the beginning of fire hazard. Therefore, the flicker and the extra glow are two 
fire signatures in luminous detection. 
When upholstery smolders without a visible flame, some products of heating processes are 
CH4, CO, CO2 and H2O. These absorbs in the IR region. The asymmetric stretching vibrations of 
the carbon dioxide molecules is responsible for strong radiation around the 4.3µm band [1,7-10] 
from hot smoke particles.  
Heat flux is critical to the ignition of a fire, and it has both convective and radiative components. 
During the convective heating of wood, the autoignition temperature is about in the range from 
300 oC to 500 oC. In the radiant heating of wood, autoignition occurs at above 600 oC. The 
critical ignition flux of plywood (1cm thickness) is about 16KW/m2 [13]. The ignition temperature 
(Tig) of a solid depends on the concentration of decomposed fuel in the heating materials. 
Smoldering always occurs in thick materials and is difficult to detect. For example, the ignition 
temperature of 1/2inch-thick plywood is about 350 oC. It can be ignited within only 40 seconds 
under a heat flux of 25 KW/m2. Therefore, detecting the appearance of hot smoke during 
smoldering combustion and the variation in temperature below 350 oC is very important. 
 
B. Sensors and signal conditioner 
Based on the above analysis, a multi-sensor system that comprises a thermopile transducer, 
two pyroelectric IR sensors, two IR phototransistors, a blue photodiode and a UV sensor, is 
adopted to detect the variables.  
  
1. Detection of temperature 
From the Stefan-Boltzmann law, the total radiation power Me emitted by an object’s 
temperature Tobj can be expressed as 
4
obje TM εσ=      
 6
and the variation can be eliminated by the output of the UV sensor. A UV sensor UV10T2E10L 
made by PerkinElmer Co., with a peak response at 280 nm, and a lens can sense remotely. A blue 
LED that works at 428 nm, as a critical wavelength of calibration is used to adjust the output of 
two sensors, to cancel out the interference from the background. The CH bands whose 
wavelengths are below 428 nm are effectively measured. Therefore, the signal detected by UV 
sensor should be a real response to the target in the distance. The amplitude of the signal detected 
from a gas burner (at around 400o C) as a full scale to calibrate the gain of circuits and thus 
quantify the UV components for various flames.  
.  
C. Experimental structure 
Laptop
DAQ
card
signals
conditioning
thermopile
transducer
sensors set
fire source
kerosene
lamp
radiator
pyroelectric sensor
other
sensors
cord
 Fig. 1 the simplified experimental structure 
   Figure 1 shows the simplified experimental structure. The sensors are set up around the 
thermopile transducer, and are aimed at the measured target using a laser-pointer. The tested 
samples include candle, tobacco smoke, coal-fire embers and an oil-filled electric radiator. Others 
include a kerosene lamp and an alcohol fire, which conform to the UL268 standard or CEN10, 
which is specified in the European Committee for Standardization. The kerosene lamp has a 
diameter of 60mm and the thickness of the smoke is controlled by adjusting the length of the 
lamp wick. The oil-filled electric radiator (W45 cm × H58cm) made by DBK Co., it has ten 
radiators, which has a maximum power of 1500W. Except the oil-filled electric radiator, some 
smaller fire samples are placed in/on a burning chamber, which is a stainless cylinder of height 
40cm and diameter 34cm. The set of multi-sensors is 20 cm above and 60 cm in front of the 
burning chamber. 
A teakettle is heated on a gas burner to simulate the flame, and some paper is heated by a 
radiator to simulate smoldering. The teakettle is made of stainless and has a capacity of 1.6 liters. 
It is filled with water. The surface of the teakettle is blackened by some black-tapes to increase its 
emissivity, to enable the temperature to be measured accurately. In the smoldering experiments, 
three sheets of brown paper were lapped and stuck on the surface of a radiator. The radiator made 
by Elstein Co., is an infrared heater that is 245 mm long and 60 mm wide. It operates at AC 230 
V / 400 W, causing the paper to smolder by supplying a heat flux of 27 KW / m2.  
 
III. SYSTEM TESTING AND THE RESULTS 
