 2
The organization of the report is as follows. Section 
II presents the architecture of system in detail. Section Ⅲ 
proposes the methods of tracking and measuring the 
position and height of patient’s body. Section IV 
describes the method of detecting and recognizing the 
gestures. Section V introduces the methods of skin 
detection, eyes detection, and facial expression 
recognition. Section VI gives a series of experiments to 
evaluate the performance of each method. Finally, we 
make a conclusion and propose the future work in Sec-
tion VII.  
II. THE ARCHITECTURE OF THE SYSTEM 
This section introduces the architecture of the 
system in detail. The main configuration of our system 
contains a personal computer, a CCD camera, and a 
video capture card while RS-232 interface is used for 
communications between them. Fig. 1 shows an 
overview diagram for this system. The PC performs the 
main algorithm and sends control signals to adjust the 
tilting and rotational angles of the camera. For the 
purpose of this report, establishing a safety caring system, 
the computer regulates the sickbed in order to provide 
better cares for patients. 
 
 
Fig. 1. The architecture of the system 
 
The goals of main functions constructed in this 
system are represented as follows. 1.  Regulate the 
sickbed for a patient having a comfortable sleeping via 
detecting the position where a patient lies on the bed. 2. 
Track the movement of the patient and alarms an 
accident has happened when the patient gets off the 
sickbed. 3. Recognize the hand gestures to understand 
the demands and feelings from the patient. 4. Recognize 
the facial expressions. If the patient has some painful 
expressions, there will be an alarm to notify nurses. 
 
III. MEASURING THE PATIENT’S HEIGHT AND POSITION 
ON THE SICKBED AND TRACKING THE PATIENT 
This section introduces the process of functions 1 
and 2 mentioned in the last section. 
Function 1: Measure the patient’s height and position on 
the sickbed when the patient lies on the sickbed. 
Therefore, the sickbed can be adjusted according to the 
measurements. In order to get the target object from the 
image, the images subtraction method is used to remove 
the background. Suppose the background has been taken 
and modeled in the system. The target object (the patient) 
in the present image can be obtained by image 
subtraction. As we can imagine, the result after 
subtraction must have some noise caused by signal 
interference and the variation of the environment. In 
general, the noise belongs to the high frequency signal; 
therefore it can be suppressed by mean filter. By the way, 
we paste two red markers at the specific positions on the 
sickbed. Based on the distance between two red markers’ 
positions, we can measure the height of the patient when 
the patient lies on the sickbed as (1). When we get the 
patient’s height and his position on the sickbed, the 
information would be transmitted through RS-232 to 
control the sickbed to be adjusted such that the patient 
will lie at correct and comfortable position. 
 
(cm)height 
PN
(cm) distance real
TW =                (1) 
 
where TW is the pixels’ number between two markers 
and PN is the pixels’ number corresponding to the 
patient’s body. 
Function 2: When the patient gets off the sickbed, the 
system can track the moving of the patient and detect is 
there any accident happening via the camera. Here, we 
assume the patient wears the hospital’s uniform with a 
specific color green. Since the RGB color model is easy 
to be influenced by various luminance conditions, 
therefore the HSI color model is used to represent the 
image pixels instead of the RGB model. The HSI color 
model includes three components: hue, saturation, and 
intensity. After a number of trials and errors, the patient’s 
green uniform is in the range of hue οο 150~100 , 
10>− BG  and 10>− RG . If the above three conditions 
hold, the green uniform is detected. In order to detect the 
moving of the patient, we use updating background 
image method as follows. 
 
  )1,()),(1(),(),()1,( +−+=+ tsItstsItstsI REFREF γγ           (2) 
 
  
⎪⎩
⎪⎨
⎧
=
moving isobject ,1
existsand staticisobject,5.0
existnot  doesand staticisobject,0
),( (s,t)I
t)(s,I
ts REF
REF
 
 
γ    (3) 
 
where ),( tsI REF  is the background image in the pixel s 
with time t and )1,( +tsI  is the current image in the pixel 
s with time t+1. If the patient is static, the patient will 
become a part of background since the background 
image updates continuously in time sequences. 
Therefore, we will regard the accident is happening and 
the nurses will be notified. 
RS-232 
PC  
 Capture card 
Camera 
 4
the time cost of image processing such that the real time 
operation can be realized, we only recognize the painful 
expression of the patient. 
 
VI. EXPERIMENTS AND RESULTS 
In this section, we will exhibit the practical 
experiment of safety caring system. The testing results 
are shown in our designed user interface. 
 
A. The measurement of height and position of patient 
Before the experiment, we should set up a 
background image. The background image is shown as 
fig. 4(a). Then two position marks are labeled in 
experimenting region. The distance between these two 
position marks is 110 cm. While a tester is standing on 
the experimenting region, the tester’s height could be 
estimated by the two position marks in captured image. 
As shown in fig. 4(b), tester’s height is 166 cm. Also, the 
safety caring system obtains a shift value. This shift 
value means the sickbed has to shift up 12 cm. That is 
because the tester’s top has to align the upper position 
mark in this system. In order to align the upper position, 
the measurement computer will transmit the shift value 
to sickbed controller by RS232. Then the sickbed can 
move for aligning the tester’s top to red position mark. 
 
  
(a)                                      (b) 
Fig. 4. (a) setting up background image; (b) testing result 
 
B. Tracking Patient 
This safety caring system can track and label the 
patient who wears patient uniform automatically. In case 
the patient falls down accidentally, the system will alarm 
the nurses. 
 
  
Fig. 5. Tracking patient 
 
C. Gesture recognition 
In the user interface of gesture recognition, the 
patient’s gesture is shown in left window. The edge of 
patient’s gesture is exhibited in right window of user 
interface. And the result of gesture recognition is stated 
in right-up window. There are totally five kinds of 
gesture defined in this system. The following figures 
show the test results. 
 
   
(a)                                 (b) 
   
(c)                                  (d) 
 
(e) 
Fig. 6. Gesture recognition result 
 
The gesture recognition is mainly utilized to control the 
sickbed. The functions and RS-232 transmission codes 
of all recognizable gestures are defined in Table 1. 
 
Table 1. Definition of gestures 
Finger 
number Function RS-232 Code
1 rising up the head of sickbed 0x08 
2 falling down the head of sickbed 0x09 
3 rising up the bottom of sickbed 0x12 
4 falling down the bottom of sickbed 0x13 
5 massage function ON/OFF 0x10/0x14
 
D. Facial expression recognition 
In facial expression recognition, we detect the 
wrinkle between eyebrows whether eyes close or open. 
The decision result of whether eyes close or open is 
presented in the middle-up of the user interface. The left 
window shows the original image of tester’s face. The 
right window presents the processed image of tester’s 
face. Also, the detected eyes which are framed in red 
rectangles are shown in left window. Fig. 12 shows 
various results in which the painful expressions of the 
patients are successfully detected. 
 
  
