1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
單邊控制策略之擴充與可控性                              
計 畫 編 號：NSC 98-2221-E-004-002- 
執 行 期 限：98 年 8 月 1 日 至 99 年 7 月 31 日 
主 持 人：趙玉 政治大學資管系 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：  
一、中文摘要 
傳統僵局預防方法受增加太多控制器之苦。  李和周
提議把虹吸管分成一初步和依靠的； 後者能更進一
步被透過強烈和弱的依靠的虹吸管。  他們顯著降低
控制器的數量借由初步虹吸管添加控制器。  不過，
計算Petri網的初等虹吸管需要昂貴列舉所有虹吸
管。  更進一步，可以達到的狀態的數量是比最佳少
得多的。  在一論文內，我們提議一邊理論給一著名
的S3PR三倍的狀態的數量。  這個提議把它延長到更
錯綜複雜的資源分發系統(例如ES3PR， S2LSPR 和
S
3
PMR那樣的系統)。  在另一篇文章，我們消除透過
發現新關於初步虹吸管的理論列舉全部虹吸管的問
題︰ (1) 任何身體弱依靠的虹吸管已經被控制並且
不需要控制器。  (2) 任何n(n>3)依靠的虹吸管  已
經被控制並且不需要控制器。這工作提議把它延長到
更錯綜複雜的資源分發系統 。 更進一步，我們提議
延長上述一邊的理論在保留多項式複雜性的優勢沒
有完全的虹吸管列舉時是更許可的(即可達到更多的
狀態數量)。 
關鍵詞:Petri 網，僵局， 控制，虹吸管，
最佳化 
Abstract 
Traditional deadlock prevention approaches suffer from 
adding too many monitors. Li and Zhou proposed to divide 
siphons in a Petri net into elementary and dependent ones; 
the latter can further be distinguished by strongly and 
weakly dependent siphons. They add monitors to 
elementary siphons only significantly reducing the number 
of monitors. However, the computation of elementary 
siphons in a Petri net is expensive since the complete 
siphon enumeration is needed. Further, the number of 
reachable states is much fewer than the optimal. In an 
earlier paper, we proposed one-sided theory to triple the 
number of states for a well-known S
3
PR. This proposal 
extends it to more complicated resource allocated systems 
such as ES3PR, S2LSPR, and S3PMR. In another paper, we 
eliminated the problem of enumerating all siphons by discovering 
new theory about elementary siphons: (1) any weakly dependent 
siphon is already controlled and needs no monitor. (2) any 
n-dependent siphon (n>3) is already controlled and needs no 
monitor. This work proposes to extend it to more complicated 
resource allocated systems. Further, we propose to extend 
the above one-sided theory to be more permissive while 
retaining the advantage of polynomial complexity with no 
complete siphon enumeration. 
Key Words: Petri nets, deadlock, control, 
siphon, optimization 
二、緣由與目的 
Ezpeleta et al. proposed a class of PN called systems 
of simple sequential processes with resources (S
3
PR) [1]. 
Liveness can be enforced by adding a control place 
and associated arcs to each emptiable siphon S to 
prevent S from becoming empty of tokens. However, 
this method generally requires adding too many control 
places and arcs to the original Petri net model. Further, 
to avoid the generation of new SMS, Ezpeleta et al. [9] 
moved all output (called Type-2, or source) arcs of each 
VS to the output (called source) transition of the entry 
(called idle place) of input raw materials to limit their 
3 
the same number of control places as those of traditional 
ones, but with 3 fewer control arcs for both the 
elementary-siphon and the all-siphon approaches, while 
not producing new SMS. The total number of reachable 
states roughly doubles using the proposed one-sided 
approach, compared with the traditional approaches. 
This confirms that our approach is more permissive.  
Further, we propose to extend the above one-sided 
theory to be more permissive while retaining the 
advantage of polynomial complexity with no complete 
siphon enumeration. by exhausting different kinds of 
resource circuits for each type of RAS.  
We will also explore the issue of controllability as 
we have done in [14] where we discovered very 
important theory: Any weakly or n-dependent (n>3) 
siphon is already controlled if a monitor is added for 
each elementary siphon for it to be limit-controlled.  
As a result, we need not explore all dependent siphons; 
only elementary and n=2 dependent siphons are to be 
explored; the number of which is polynomial. 
We will investigate whether the same good 
theoretical properties hold for one-sided control. We 
further propose to further reduce the number of arcs that 
need to be moved. Thus, the net is less disturbed and 
reaches more states. 
三、Results 
There are two ways to improve. (1) Selectively 
move some control arcs. (2) Find better controllability.  
(1) For instance, we observe three of new circuits 
(from which to synthesize new problematic siphons) in 
Table I contain the path [t8 V7 t17]. Hence, it is much 
effective to move the end (t17) of arc (V7 t17) to end at t15. 
While some control arcs should not be moved since the 
corresponding new SMS is always controlled and need no 
monitor. In our earlier paper, we uniformly move control 
arcs on only one side, which is overly conservative. For the 
net in Fig. 1, we only move two arcs and the resulting 
reachable states increase from 15999 (the uniform 
one-sided method) to 16101. This is much better compared 
with the rearrangement method by Li and Zhou where it 
takes much time to try different arc arrangements, yet it 
reaches fewer states. The INA test (the corresponding input 
file is net02.pnt) indicates that it is live. The issue is that 
among so many new circuits generated, which of them 
should we select to move arcs? We propose to solve the 
problem by analyzing various new control siphons to see 
which are already controlled and need no monitors. Our 
earlier work helps to resolve the issue. 
  We have explored control elements associated with 
all possible resource siphons and explored their 
controllability. As a result, some control elements can be 
eliminated. Based on this result, we identify the minimal 
amount of control arcs that need to be moved to avoid 
generation of new SMS. 
As a result, fewer monitors are required and the 
controlled model reaches more states.  For instance, we 
observe three of new control circuits (from which to 
synthesize new problematic siphons) for the well-known 
S
3
PR contain the path [t8 V7 t17]. Hence, it is much effective 
to move the end (t17) of arc (V7 t17) to end at t15. While 
some control arcs should not be moved since the 
corresponding new SMS is always controlled and need no 
monitor. In our earlier paper, we uniformly move control 
arcs on only one side, which is overly conservative. For 
well-known S
3
PR, we only move two arcs and the 
resulting reachable states increase from 15999 (the 
uniform one-sided method) to 16101. This is much better 
compared with the rearrangement method by Li and Zhou 
where it takes much time to try different arc arrangements, 
yet it reaches fewer states. 
(2) Unfortunately, we find that the good 
controllability for the elementary-siphon 
approach cannot be extended to the proposed 
approach.  This is because one formula 
involving the compensation factor no longer 
holds. However, the controllability for a 
2-compound siphon still holds except that the 
compensation factor is reduced from c+a to c or 
a depending on which side is chosen to move 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
