 
 
 
 
SUMMARY 
 
This research proposal will study the smart control strategies for active or semi-active devices under 
seismic excitations using the concept of decentralized control algorithm. As the development of 
sensors is growing up, the active or semi-active control has a high ability to vary the measurement of 
the structural system applying on the feedback control. In general, the centralized control combined 
whole information of the measurement to generate the control force while the decentralized control 
focused on the local sub-systems to obtain controllers with respect to the location of control devices 
and measurement subjects. Based on the H2 control theory, acceleration feedback control can be 
easily realized on the problem of the centralized and decentralized control algorithms. For theoretical 
investigation the building structure with twenty stories, in which the 20-story structure uses as the 
benchmark control problem of nonlinear buildings provided by ASCE, will be used to study the 
decentralized control theoretically by employing actuators and MR dampers. `The procedure to 
balance the control performance and the capacity of control devices is also proposed in this paper. 
Various control techniques, especially in methods of the decentralized control, are considered to 
evaluate the control efficiency under different ground motions. They are: (a). Partially decentralized 
control, (b). Fully centralized control, (c) Half centralized control, (d) Fully decentralized control, (e) 
Partially decentralized control (coupled & uncoupled). Finally, the developed centralized / 
decentralized control algorithms will be verified using wireless sensors and tested it on the control of 
a 3-story steel frame structure (NCREE benchmark model). There are four separated reports were 
presented in the final report: 
1. Application of a wireless sensing and control system to control a torsion-coupling building with 
MR-dampers, 
2.  Application of Centralized and Decentralized Control to Building Structure: Analytical Study 
3. Decentralized Civil Structural Control using Real-time Wireless Sensing and Embedded 
Computing 
4.  Output-Only Modal Identification of a Cable-Stayed Bridge Using Wireless Monitoring Systems 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Application of a wireless sensing and control system to control   
a torsion-coupling building with MR-dampers 
 
Sung-Chieh Hsua, Kung-Chun Lua, Pei-Yang Linb, Chin-Hsiung Loha, Jerome P. Lynchc  
aDepartment of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 10617, Taiwan            
bNational Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering, Taipei, Taiwan 
cDept. of Civil & Environmental Eng., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA  
 
摘要 
 
本文旨在研究房屋結構加裝半主動控制元件之減振成效，針對三層樓質量偏心結構物配合兩
組磁流變減振器(MR damper)進行扭轉控制(Torsion Control)震動台實驗。 
    利用集中式與分散式控制理念操控磁流變減振器之輸出控制力，配合有線量測系統進行半
主動控制實驗。集中式控制是以全部量測反應回饋計算控制力；分散式控制是以局部量測反
應回饋推估控制力進而達到結構控制效益。配合 2H -LQG、 ∞H -LQG 的控制理論，針對下列
四種不同控制方式進行研究：(a) 2H  centralized control、(b) 2H  decentralized control、(c) ∞H  
centralized control、(d) ∞H  decentralized control，運用有限的加速度量測做為系統之回饋訊
號，比較其控制效果。 
    由於科技的進步，感應器的研發，使得控制方式不再僅是以電纜線作為傳輸的有線控制系
統；而是可用電波傳輸資料的無線控制系統。因此也應用 2H 集中式控制理論、配合無線感應
器(wireless sensors)量測技術、結合 MR-阻尼器進行扭轉控制實驗，進而討論有線與無線控制
之差異，驗證無線控制系統之可行性。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
system, a wireless sensing and control system needs to be developed. With regards to the sensing 
system, a wireless system could decrease the trouble encountered when monitoring large-scale 
structures with wired systems [Straser and Kiremidjian, 1998]. Recently, Lynch et al. [2004] 
extended the wireless monitoring system to include embedded damage identification algorithms. 
Lynch et al. [2006a] also proposed a closed-loop control strategy with MR dampers using wireless 
sensor networks. The work opens up the possibility of applying wireless sensor networks to real-
time structural control problems. Recently, work on the experimental verification of wireless sensing 
and control system to control a 3-story symmetric structure using MR-dampers subjected to 1-D 
earthquake excitation had been conducted by Loh et al.  [2007]. The advantages of using wireless 
sensors for structural sensing and control had been verified using a symmetric building structure in 
the laboratory.  In order to understand the applicability of a wireless control system to control a more 
complicated dynamic  structural response to earthquake excitation, a torsion-coupling building 
structure has been designed. The potential use of the wireless sensing and control system to control 
this torsion-coupling building structure is verified herein.  
Various semi-active devices have been proposed to generate control forces using viscoelastic-plastic 
fluids that can dissipate vibration energy in a structural system. For example magnetorheological  
(MR) dampers are a new class of semi-active control device that uses MR fluids to provide 
controllable dampers that are quite promising for civil engineering applications [Spencer et al. 1997; 
Li et al. 2000; Jansen et al. 2000; Jalili et al. 2002]. This paper presents the potential use of wireless 
communication and embedded computing technologies within real-time structural control 
applications to control a torsion-coupling steel structure using two MR-dampers installed in the first 
floor. Then the H2-LQG acceleration feedback control strategy is proposed for controlling the MR-
damper. The effectiveness of the proposed wireless control algorithms and the usefulness of MR-
dampers for the structural response reduction (including torsion-coupling) are demonstrated.  
2. EXPERIMENTAL HARDWARE PLACEMENT  
2.1 Test Structure 
A three-story three dimensional steel-frame structure was designed and constructed at the National 
Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering (NCREE) in Taipei, Taiwan. The building, as 
shown in Fig. 1a, consisted of only one bay with a floor area of 3m by 2m and an inter-story height 
of 3 m. Each column and girder of the structure is selected as a H150×150×7×10 steel I-beam; the 
 
 
 
 
45 cm/sec, respectively, while for the 7kN damper they are approximately 1.5 cm and 15 cm/sec 
respectively. For simulation purposes, a mathematical model for the MR damper is needed to 
evaluate the control force. In this study, the mathematical form of the MR-damper is expressed as 
follows: 
xxaaf a && ])([exp 321 −=                                                                (1) 
where a1, a2 and a3 are voltage dependent parameters, and x&  is the shaft velocity of the damper. A 
series of tests are conducted on both dampers to determine the model parameters. Validation of the 
MR damper models (20kN and 7kN, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: Comparison of the force-displacement and force-velocity relationship of MR-dampers between the 
performance test data and the numerical simulation: (a) for the case of random displacement and random 
voltage (20kN MR-damper); (b) for the case of random displacement and random voltage (7kN MR-
damper). 
 
 
respectively) are shown in Fig. 2 for the case of a random displacement applied to the dampers while 
random voltage values are applied; good agreement is observed in the damper’s force-velocity 
relationship obtained during testing and simulation. All coefficients of this model (in Eq. 1) depend 
on the MR-damper’s voltage level, with the driving voltage in this experiment ranging from 0 to 1.2 
V. 
2.3 Sensing System 
Two stand-along sensing systems are included in the structure for this experiment. The first group of 
sensors are intended to measure the structural responses at each floor which are fed to controllers to 
calculate the control forces (i.e. acceleration response from each floor). The second group of sensors 
are installed to measure relative velocity between the ends of each MR-damper. These relative 
(a) 20kN- Random displacement and voltage  (b) 7kN – Random displacement and voltage 
 
 
 
 
actuation unit. On the first floor, the two wireless sensors acting as controller are installed and 
connected to the two MR-dampers (20kN and 7kN, respectively) via VCCS (voltage to current 
converter).  
The operation of the  WiSSCon system can be explained in 5 steps as follows: (Step 1) boot-up the 
system from both a PC server and the wireless sensors.  (Step 2) the server checks all the wireless 
sensing and control units in the network through the wireless transceiver and reset the clock once the 
synchronization process is verified. (Step 3) from the embedded code, each wireless control unit 
broadcasts a beacon to all other units in the network sequentially announcing that a new time step 
begins. For centralized control, the clock is set at 20 milliseconds for each sensing unit to receive the 
signal from other units in this study. For centralized control, a total of 60 milliseconds are needed for 
all units that receive all the signals from other units.  An additional 35 milliseconds is reserved for 
calculating the control force and hence, a total of 95 milliseconds is required to conduct control at 
each time-setup. This is the reason to set the sampling rate at 10Hz for centralized control. (Step 4 
and Step 5) feedback the results to the PC server and exit the control program. Fig. 4a shows the 
photo of the test structure in NCREE. A close-up picture of the MR-damper in the first floor is also 
shown in Fig. 4b. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3: Schematic diagram detailing the sensing and control system employed in the 3-story structure:  
(a) installation locations and (b) relationship between U1~U3 (sensors) and U1a and U1b are (controller). 
 
Direction of excitation 
 
 
 
 
where Q is a weighting matrix related to the structural system response and R is another weighting 
matrix related to the control force. z[k] is the state vector defined as { }321321321321 θθθθθθ &&&&&& xxxxxxz = .  
Through minimization of the objective function, J, the control force can be obtained: 
][][)2(][ 122d
T
d
1
d
T
d kkk zGzPABPBBRu ×
− =+−=                                            (3) 
where G is the control gain matrix. Eq. 3 shows that the control force, u[k], is associated with the 
full-state vector z[k]. Considering the limited number of sensors installed in the structure, a Kalman 
estimator transforms response measurements into an estimate of the full-state vector. 
To minimize computation time, a voltage-velocity-command force relationship is pre-embedded in 
the microcontroller of the wireless sensors interfaced to the MR-dampers. To embed the control 
surface into the microcontroller, as shown in Fig. 5, it is necessary to discretize the control surface so 
that the control voltage can be obtained from the measured damper velocity and the desired control 
force (also calculated by the microcontroller). Thirteen levels of voltage (between 0 and 1.2 V) are 
pre-assigned; based on the measured velocity and the calculated command force, the voltage for the 
MR-damper can be roughly estimated and sent to the VCCS to convert the voltage into an equivalent 
current used to attain the MR-damper damping coefficient.  Fig.6 shows the computation embedded 
in the WiSSCon system.   
  
In this study three different control strategies are considered:   
(1) Passive-off case: the voltage of the two MR-dampers are both set to 0 V;  
(2) Passive-on case: the voltage of the two MR-dampers are both set to 1.2 V;  
(3) H2-LQG centralized control using the WiSSCon system.  
 
Due to the limitation of the wireless communication in the WiSSCon system the sampling rate for 
applying voltage command signals to the MR dampers is set at 10 Hz.  
 
3.2 Validation on wireless communication 
In order to verify the measurement accuracy of the wireless control system and the validity of the 
embedded algorithms, the command voltage generated by the wireless control system will be 
compared to that recorded by the NCREE tethered 
 
 
 
 
 
data acquisition system. As presented in Fig. 7, the command voltage calculated by the wireless 
sensor and applied to an MR damper during the El Centro earthquake record is identical to that 
measured by the tethered data acquisition system. Next, the acceleration response of the structure, as 
measured by each wireless sensor, is compared to the same acceleration response time-history 
wirelessly received by the other wireless sensors during an excitation.  This comparison is intended 
to identify any issues associated with the communication of data in the wireless control system.  As 
shown in Fig. 8, the comparison of the recorded acceleration data between the NCREE wired data 
acquisition system and the wireless sensors show remarkable agreement with no data loss identified 
during communication. 
4. DISCUSSIONS ON THE EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS  
In this control experiment, three different control systems are implemented: (1) NCREE data 
acquisition system (Pacific Series 5500 Digital Conditioning System with a sample rate of 200Hz) 
for passive-on and (2) passive-off control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8: Comparison on the recorded acceleration data between NCREE wired data acquisition system and wireless 
communication module; (a) from acceleration sensor of A3a, (b) from acceleration sensor of A3b. 
 
Location: A3a (a) 
Location: A3b  A
cc
el
er
at
io
n 
(m
/s
ec
/s
ec
) 
(b) 
 
 
 
 
El Centro earthquake ground motion record behave well during the passive cases.  For the case of 
passive–on, attainment of the higher capacity of the 7kN damper was observed.  Comparison 
between passive-off and wireless control system reveals that significant control forces can be 
generated by using the WiSSCon system. This suggests the exponential-type MR-model is suitable 
to apply a consistent (repeatable) control force to the structure. 
4.3 Comparison of control effectiveness among different control solutions 
An evaluation of the MR-damper performance during experimentation is important in assessing the 
effectiveness of the control system. First, the centralized WiSSCon system is used to control the test 
structure; during a second round of testing, the NCREE control system is used to implement the 
passive-on and passive-off control test. A comparison between the closed-loop feedback control and 
the passive mitigation methods is made.  For cases of passive-on (constant 1.2 V supplied to each 
MR-damper to attain the maximum damping coefficient), passive-off (constant 0V supplied to the 
MR-dampers to attain the minimum damping coefficient), and wireless 10Hz centralized control, 
peak structural responses and response variances are compared.  The results of the comparative 
study are presented in Fig. 11. Because the goal of this control design (selection of the weighting 
matrix Q and R in Eq.2) is to reduce the acceleration response of the structural system, it is observed 
that for all of the floors, acceleration response is greatly reduced using the wireless H2-LQG control 
algorithm.  The closed-loop control solution is certainly better than the cases of passive-on and 
passive-off. As for torsion reduction (expressed in terms of relative displacement between two 
sensors on the same floor) the control effect is not so obvious. It is concluded that centralized control 
using the wireless sensing system can reach the control effectiveness even for complex structural 
behavior (torsion-coupling). To have a better control effectiveness, selection of weighting matrices 
(Q and R) needs to be carefully examined in future study. 
5. CONCLUSIONS  
From the shaking table test of the 3-story torsion-coupling steel frame with the installation of two 
MR-dampers in the first floor, the control effectiveness of the wireless control system is examined.  
To provide a benchmark for comparison purposes, a wired control system using a wired data 
acquisition system permanently installed in the NCREE shaking table facility is implemented.  Three 
major performance attributes of the wireless control system were examined: (1) validation of the 
 
 
 
 
reduction or displacement reduction) so as to develop a good control surface, and (c) decentralized 
control algorithms can also be applied for more complicated structural systems. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
Fig. 11: Comparison of the control effectiveness (translation and torsion) from the recorded structural responses 
among three different schemes, i.e. passive-on, passive-off, and H2-LQG wireless control system; (a) 
comparison of peak acceleration and displacement, (b) comparison of response root-mean-square value.  
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS 
This research has been supported to Prof. C. H. Loh by National Science Council under grant No. 
NSC 95-2221–E-002-311. Additional support has been provided to Prof. J. P. Lynch (University of 
Michigan) by the National Science Foundation (Grant CMS-0528867). 
(a) 
Pe
ak
 A
cc
el
er
at
io
n 
(m
/s
ec
/s
ec
) 
To
rs
io
n,
 θ
 (r
ad
/s
ec
) 
(b) 
R
M
S 
of
 p
ea
k 
ac
ce
le
ra
tio
n 
(m
/s
ec
2 )
 
R
M
S 
of
 T
or
si
on
 re
sp
on
se
 (r
ad
/s
ec
) 
 
 
 
 
12. Wang, Y., Lynch, L. P., Law, K. H., “Design of a low-power wireless structural monitoring 
system for collaborative computational algorithms,” Proceedings of SPIE 10th annual Int. 
Symposium on Nondestructive Evaluation for Health Monitoring and Diagnostics, San Diego, 
CA, March 6-10, 2005. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
force by solving the Ricatti equation, such as H2 control theory proposed by Yang et al. [1986] and 
Limebeer et al. [1994]. The control gain developed from control algorithm is related to the state 
response of the structure. Many studies also focus on the computer-aid technologies, combining with 
the effective physical meaning of civil engineering, to obtain a control system with the highly 
nonlinear and time-adaptive gain. More smart control methods, such as the application of neural 
network, fuzzy logic theory, and genetic algorithm, are also developed and applied to structural 
control. Ghuboussi [1995] proposed a neuro-control method based on the active control devices, and 
Kim [2000] proposed a sliding mode control method combining with fuzzy logic theory to a 
benchmark structure.  
A general centralized control system is to generate control gain from the measurement 
information of globally structural system. Because of the high dimensionality of the full finite 
element model of the structure, the multiple inputs and outputs, and the complex performance 
criteria, it is difficult to design a control strategy to achieve the desired stability and robustness of 
control effectiveness for a large-scale structure. This centralized control system has a risk to 
shutdown the control server when the external force is so large to cause the malfunction of sensors 
or computer system. Moreover, for a large-scale structure system, such as high-rise buildings or 
cable-stayed bridges, the centralized control system is not easily to be implemented because of the 
long distance of sensors from one to another. Therefore, a concept of decentralized control is 
proposed to transform the global control system into several local control systems. Lynch et al. 
[2002] proposed a series of control methods with the decentralized idea for a high-rise building. Xu 
et al [2003] proposed a decentralized active tendon control method for a cable system with neural 
networks. Generally, the advantage of decentralized control is to decrease the risk on the failure of 
control systems. This trend of structural control has been gradually focusing on the local system 
control so as to reduce the cost and increase the reliability of control implementation. 
Based on the ability to dissipate the hysteretic energy and to generate different levels of force 
commands, the semi-active control devices, such as MR dampers, have been developed and applied 
to control of structure in recent years [Dyke et al., 1996; Spencer et al., 1999; Yang et al., 2002; 
Occhiuzzi et al., 2003]. A number of control algorithm to mitigate the seismic and modeled a 
magnetorheological damper for simulation was also studied [Dyke et al., 1996]. This study proves 
the effectiveness of MR dampers in the application of structural control. The highly voltage-
 
 
 
 
The general form for the damping matrix is derived from the proportional method based on stiffness 
and mass matrices of the structural system. The critical damping ratio for each mode is assigned as 
2%. The state-space formulation of Eq. (1) is expressed as 
gz Az Bu Ex= + + &&&  
where                                1 1 1
0 0 0
,  ,  ,  
Ix
z A B E
x M K M C M b− − −
⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤= = = =⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥−Γ− −⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦&
                                 (2) 
and the measurement output equations may be obtained as 
s gy C z D x F u= + +&&                                                          (3) 
Here, ys is the measurement vector with respect to sensors and C, D, and F are measurement system 
matrices. Generally, for system with less degree of freedoms such as low-rise building, the state-
space equation combined with the measurement system is sufficient to be used for control study. 
However, for a large scale structure, in control design it is necessary to consider the reduced order 
system. This reduced order model can also be developed in the lumped mass system. The discrete 
form of the reduced-order state-space equations combined with the relative measurement system can 
be represented as 
,
[ 1] [ ] [ ] [ ]
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
red red red red red
d d d d d g
red red red red
d s d d d g d
z k A z k B u k E x k
y k C z k D x k F u k
+ = + +
= + +
&&
&&                             (4) 
where [ ]kz redd  is the reduced order state vector in discrete form, Ad is the system matrix which is 
derived from M, C, and K matrices in discrete form, Bd is a matrix which is transformed from the b 
matrix and Ed is related to the distribution vector. The measurement output, yd,s, consists of Cd, Dd, 
and Fd matrices. In general, the measurement, such as displacement, velocity, and acceleration 
responses, can be chosen arbitrarily. In this research only the acceleration response is chosen as 
measurement. Four different control algorithms will be discussed: Fully centralized control 
algorithm, Half-centralized control algorithm, Fully decentralized control algorithm and Partial 
decentralized control algorithm. A brief description on different control strategy is described: 
 
Fully Centralized Control of Structural System 
In developing the fully centralized control algorithm the entire structural system and all control 
forces are considered to generate the control gain together. Every control force is dependent on each 
element of the state vector and other control forces. From the mathematical point of view, in fully 
 
 
 
 
Half Centralized Control of Structural System 
The difference between the centralized and the half centralized control is on the coupling effect 
among control forces. The half centralized control algorithm assumes each column of reddB  to be 
independent. It means that to obtain the control gain only one location of control devices is 
considered. The discrete state-space equation can be rewritten as 
,
[ 1] [ ] ( ) [ ] [ ]
[ ] [ ] [ ] ( ) [ ]
red red red red red
d d d d i i d g
red red red red
d s d d d g d i i
z k A z k B u k E x k
y k C z k D x k F u k
+ = + +
= + +
∑
∑
&&
&&                              (9) 
where “i” indicates any column vector from the matrix reddB  with respect to any control force ui. 
Consider the i-th sub-system of the structure, the objective function becomes 
 
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
k T Tred red
i d d i i
k initail time
J z k Qz k u k Ru k
→∞
=
= +∑ )                                                   (10) 
Here, R
)
 is not a matrix any more and may vary with different control forces because every objective 
function focuses on one control force of its own sub-system. The number of objective functions is in 
corresponding to the number of subsystems as defined. Following the procedure of the centralized 
control, the control gain, Gi, can be obtained by solving the Ricatti equation, and the control force 
can be calculated as follows: 
1[ ] (2 ( ) ( ) ) ( ) [ ] [ ]
T Tred red red red red red
i d i d i d i d d i du k R B P B B PA z k G z k
−= − + =)                             (11) 
where Gi is a row vector with the same length as the full-state vector, and combine all the control 
gain to obtain the system control gain 
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
=
n
new
G
G
G
G M
2
1
                                                                     (12) 
and n is the column length of reddB . The state estimation can then be expressed as: 
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]( )kzGFkzCkyLkzGBkzAkz rednewreddredredddrednewreddredreddred ˆˆˆˆ1ˆ −−++=+                 (13) 
which is similar to Eq.(8). Finally, the control force can be generated by the Kalman estimator  plus 
the control gain. 
 
Fully Decentralized Control of Structural System 
 
 
 
 
Besides the fully decentralized control, the partially decentralized control provides a more 
practical approach for real implementation. The partially decentralized control divides the global 
systems into several sub-systems, and each sub-system may cover more DOFs than the fully 
decentralized control method and each sub-system has its own control devices. For example, a 
building with 20 stories can be separated into four groups of sub-systems, in which every sub-system 
contains five continuous stories as a set of sub-system. Moreover, each sub-system does not cross 
the story to the other, such as 1~5 stories are set to the 1st sub-system and 6~10 stories are set to the 
2nd sub-system, etc. This decentralized control method is named as the “uncoupled” method of the 
partially decentralized control. For this case, the reduced-order model must be modified 
appropriately as 
, ,
[ 1] [ ] ( ) [ ] [ ]
( ) [ ] ( ) [ ] ( ) [ ] ( ) [ ]
red red red red red
d d d d i i d g
red red red red
d s j d j d d j g d j i i
z k A z k B u k E x k
y k C z k D x k F u k
+ = + +
= + +
∑
∑
&&
&&                               (17) 
Here, “i” is a vector related to how many control positions are installed in one of the specific sub-
system and “j” is also a vector related to how many output measurements are used in the specific 
sub-system. For the case of the building with 20 stories, index i contains four sets as 2~5, 7~10, 
12~15 and 17~20, respectively, and index j contains four sets for the acceleration feedback as the 
absolute accelerations from 1~5, 6~10, 11~15, and 16~20 stories, respectively. The following step is 
to use H2 control theory combined with the Ricatti equation to obtain the control gain. The modified 
objective function is shown as 
 
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
k T Tred red
i d d i i
k initail time
J z k Qz k u k Ru k
→∞
=
= +∑                                  (18) 
where R is a matrix related to the index i. And the control gain can be obtained as  
1[ ] (2 ( ) ( ) ) ( ) [ ] [ ]
T Tred red red red red red
i d i d i d i d d i du k R B P B B PA z k G z k
−= − + =                           (19) 
where the dimension of the Gi matrix depends on the locations of control devices in each of the 
specific sub-system and the length of the full-state vector. For example, the Gi matrix of the first set 
for the building with 20 stories will have the dimension of 4×40. But the dimension for the control 
gain of the specific sub-system violates the idea of independence and un-correlation for each sub-
system. Because the quantity of each element in the G-matrix of the control gain for the pre-assigned 
sub-system is relatively large as compare to the value of other element outside the DOFs of this sub-
 
 
 
 
Fully Coupled Method 
The fully coupled method of the partially decentralized control is to improve the generation of the 
control gain by eliminating the minor elements from the system equation. First, the reduced-order 
state-space equation must be reformulated from the fundamental equation of motion and expressed 
as 
ˆˆred red red red
ii ii ii ii ii ii ii g iM x C x K x M x bu+ + = − Γ +&& & &&                                         (22) 
where “ii” is a vector related to the DOF of the specific sub-system only, and “i” is a vector related 
to the DOF of the control locations in that specific sub-system, Γˆ  is part of the Γ in Eq. (1), and bˆ is 
also part of the b in Eq. (1). The discrete state-space equation can be rewritten as 
, , , , ,
, , , , , ,
[ 1] [ ] [ ] [ ]
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
red red red red red
d ii d ii d ii d ii i d ii g
red red red red
d s ii d ii d ii d ii g d ii i
z k A z k B u k E x k
y k C z k D x k F u k
+ = + +
= + +
&&
&&                                           (23) 
Here, ii contains four sets as ii=1 is the1st set for 1~7 stories, 2nd for 4~12, 3rd for 9~17, and 4th for 
14~20 and i also contains four sets as i=1 is the 1st set for the control forces on 2~5 stories, 2nd is the 
control forces on 7~10 stories, 3rd is the control forces on 12~15 stories, and 4th is the control forces 
on 17~20 stories. Next, every objective function for four sub-systems can be defined as 
, ,
 
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]
k
T Tred red
ii d ii ii d ii i i i
k initail time
J z k Q z k u k R u k
→∞
=
= +∑                               (24) 
Here, every sub-system is viewed as an independently lumped mass system but every independent 
sub-system considers the coupled DOFs of stories cross the other sub-system. The dimensions for 
the matrix of control gains and the length of the state vector correspond to the dimension in each 
sub-system. Therefore, there are four sets for control gains and Kalman estimators and the control 
force for the four sub-systems is expressed as:  
[ ]
[ ]
[ ]
[ ]
1,4 1 1 1 14 14 40
2 ,4 1 2 2 20 14 40
3,4 1 3 3 20 14 40
4 ,4 1 4 4 14 14 40
[ ] [ ]
[ ] [ ]
[ ] [ ]
[ ] [ ]
u k G z k
u k G z k
u k G z k
u k G z k
× ××
× ××
× ××
× ××
=
=
=
=
 
 
Acceleration Limitation Method 
To consider the possibility of malfunction of sensors under the severe external loadings, the 
combination of fully decentralized and half-centralized control can be applied. The fully 
 
 
 
 
model of the MR damper in structural control of this study is the combination of the modified bi-
viscous model and the bilinear model. The modified bi-viscous model contains six parameters: the 
pre-yield viscous damping Cpr, the post-yield viscous damping Cpo1 and Cpo2, the two yield forces f1 
and f2, and yield velocity respect to the high yield force v1. The behavior of the bi-linear model is 
divided into two parts: the pre-yield and the post-yield conditions. The pre-yield damping Cpr is 
assumed to be much greater than the post yield damping Cpo so as to ensure the yield force obtained 
at low velocity. There are four independent parameters in the bi-linear model: fy, fu, vy, and vu . For 
control the command voltage is sent to the modified bi-viscous model with the states as input and 
then generates the corresponding force. A voltage constraint function with a second-order 
polynomial function between voltage and commend force is used to define the lower bound of the 
force. If the corresponding commend force is greater than the lower bound, the output force is still 
using the force generated by the modified bi-viscous model, on the contrary, the output force is 
obtained from the bilinear model (as shown in Figure 3). 
Sensors    Accelerometers are selected as the feedback responses in this structural control research. 
The placement of sensors is different from case by case for this study the absolute floor acceleration 
will be used. EL Centro earthquake ground motion with peak acceleration of 3.417 m/sec2 
(California earthquake of May 16, 1968) was selected as excitation. 
Evaluation Criteria    To evaluate the proposed control methods, three different types of evaluation 
criteria are defined which including peak response values, root-mean-square (RMS) response values, 
and maximum control force. Each value in the evaluation criteria is compared to the result form 
structural response without control. In the first two evaluation criteria the peak-value and RMS-value 
of the inter-story drift ratio, acceleration, and base shear responses among all floors are considered. 
The definition of the evaluation criteria (Ji, i=1~7) is shown in Table 1. 
Control Frame    For this control system, it is convenient to use the Simulink in MATLAB to 
construct the whole control details, as shown in Figure 4. It demonstrates the complete citcuit of the 
control system based on this benchmark problem. In this control frame, the control algorithms was 
embedded in the controller by using a discrete state-space model so as to build a compensator and 
the control gain which combined with the Kalman estimator. Besides, the block of MR dampers 
implies the nonlinear velocity-based model to simulate the behavior of MR dampers. The 
 
 
 
 
input. Sixteen compensators are involved in this control system; for example, if the control device 
placed between the 2nd and 3rd floors and the 3rd floor acceleration response will be used as the 
feedback signal to the compensator. The main difference of these three control ceases is the 
collocation of the control gain and using the Kalman estimator to estimate the full-state of the system. 
From the analysis of peak absolute acceleration responses and the inter-story drift ratio, the fully 
decentralized control methods shows a little better reduction in acceleration response, while the peak 
drift ratio value is very similar in these three cases, as shown in Figure 5. This figure also shows the 
control effectiveness in reduction of base shear and acceleration response among all control methods. 
Among these three methods, from practical application the fully decentralized control is most 
promising. It means that the fully decentralized control method can use limited response information 
to realize the semi-active control in the structural implementation. Figure 6 shows the comparison 
on the story drift ratio and maximum floor acceleration response between uncontrolled and 
controlled (Centralized, Half Centralized, and Fully Decentralized control algorithms) responses 
under El Centro earthquake excitation. Table 3 indicates the detailed information of control 
performance under four different excitations using the evaluation criteria. 
Second Category of Control Cases 
The variation among these three partially decentralized control cases is the difference on the 
selection of subsystems. The partially decentralized control method with uncoupled sub-system is to 
divide the whole structure into four groups (in this case study) and each sub-system contains five 
floors. For instance, the first group of these four subsystems involves the 1st floor to 5th floor with 
four MR dampers installed in each floor from 2nd floor to 5th floor and five accelerometers. On the 
other hand, the partially decentralized control method with coupled subsystems uses the overlap 
DOFs between adjacent subsystems. For the same example a group of the 1st floor to 7th floor is 
viewed as the first subsystem, the group of the 4rd floor to the 12th floor is as the second subsystem, 
the group of the 9th floor to the 17th floor is as the third subsystem, and the group of the 14th floor to 
the 20th floor is as the forth subsystem. For example, the second subsystem has four MR dampers 
with the measurement of nine acceleration responses from 4rd floor to the 12th floor. Moreover, the 
partially decentralized control method with fully coupled subsystems has the same placement to the 
control method with coupled subsystems. But the major difference is the derivation of the control 
 
 
 
 
algorithm can be carried out successfully for a large-scale structural system. The simulation 
results demonstrate that decentralized control provides almost the same control effectiveness 
(indices) as the centralized control. 
2. An advantage of the decentralized control is the robustness in the face of failure of control 
system during strong earthquake. Given one subsystem fails, the other subsystems can be 
capable of compensating accordingly and ensure suitable global performance of the system. 
3. From the example of ASCE 20-story benchmark model the application of de-centralized control 
using MR-dampers to mitigate the seismic response of the building was examined. The control 
effectiveness is almost the same as the centralized control but with more robustness in the face of 
failure of control system due to uncertainty of external loading.  
 
REFERENCES 
 
Dyke, S.J., Spencer, B.F., Sain, M.K. and Carlson, J. D., “Modeling and control of 
magnetorheological dampers for seismic response reduction,” Smart Materials and Structures, 5, 
1996, 565-575.   
Dyke, S.J., Spencer, B.F., Quast, P. Sain, M.K., Kaspaari, D.C. and Soong, T.T., “Acceleration 
feedback control of MDOF structures,” ASCE, J. of Engineering Mechanics, 122(9), 1996, 907-
917. 
Ghaboussi, J. and Joghataie, A., “Active control of structures using neural network,” Journal of 
Engineering Mechanics (ASCE) 1995; 121:555-567. 
Kim, S.B. and Yun, C.B., “Sliding mode fuzzy control: theory and verification on a benchmark 
structure,” Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics. 2000; 29: 1587-1608. 
Limebeer, D.J.N.,and Anderson, B.D.O., “A Nash game approach to mixed H2/H∞ control,” IEEE 
Transactions on Automatic Control 1994; 39:69-82. 
Lin, P.Y., P.N. Roschke, C. H. Loh and C. P. Cheng, “Semi-Active controlled based-isolation 
system with MR dampers and pendulum system,”, 13WCEE, Vancouver, August, 2004, paper 
#691. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: ASCE benchmark building for structural control research [Ohtori et al.2004].  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Flowchart of MR damper model. Both bi-viscous model and bi-linear model are used to 
simulate the damper. 
 
 
 
 
 
Bi-viscous Model 
Bi-linear Model 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Performance index for case of EL Centro earthquake excitation  
(1st: Peak drift ratio, 2nd: Peak base shear, 3rd: Peak floor acceleration, 4th: Norm drift 
ratio, 5th: Norm base shear, 6th: Norm floor acceleration). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7: Comparison on the story drift ratio and maximum floor acceleration response between 
uncontrolled and controlled (Partially Decentralized control algorithm using uncoupled, 
coupled, and fully coupled methods) responses under El Centro earthquake excitation. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1: the definition of J indices                             
       
       
J1 ,
max
Re ( )
max
max
i
t i
i
excitation
lDis t
h
DriftRatio
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
     
excitation: El Centro, Hachinohe, Northridge, Kobe            
t: duration of each earthquake record                       
i: indication of floor                                    
Rel. Dis: relative displacement between consecutive floors     
h: the height of i-th floor                                
Drift Ratio max: maximum drift ratio in the uncontrolled case    
       
J2       ,
max
max ( )
max
it i
excitation
AbsAcc t
AbsAcc
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
      
Abs. Acc: absolute acceleration of i-th floor                  
Abs. Acc max: maximum absolute acceleration in the 
uncontrolled case                                       
       
J3        
max
( )
max
i i
i
excitation
m AbsAcc t
BaseShear
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
∑
     
m: i-th floor mass                                       
BaseShearmax: maximum base shear response in the 
uncontrolled case                                      
       
J4       
,
max
Re ( )
max
max
i
t i
i
excitation
lDis t
h
DriftRatio
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
     
: root-mean-square value                                
       
J5       ,
max
max ( )
max
it i
excitation
AbsAcc t
AbsAcc
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
     
                                                     
       
J6       
max
( )
max
i i
i
excitation
m AbsAcc t
BaseShear
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
∑
    
                                                    
       
J7       ,
max ( )
max
140
jt j
excitation
CF t
kN
⎛ ⎞⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
      
j: number of control devices                              
CF: control force value                                  
140 kN: capacity of each MR damper                      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: the result of J indices 
 
The case of the El Centro earthquake record 
 Centralized Control Decentralized Control 
 Fully 
Centralized 
Control 
Half 
Centralized  
Control 
Fully 
De- 
centralized 
Partially- 
De-
centralized 
(uncoupled) 
Partially- 
De-Centralized 
(coupled) 
Partially- 
De-centralized. 
(Fully coupled)
J1 0.80417 0.80538 0.74849 0.78789 0.78012 0.76126
J2 0.78155 0.77803 0.6877 0.75383 0.75056 0.73243
J3 0.73845 0.72396 0.76247 0.76253 0.74007 0.74847
J4 0.65797 0.64937 0.67346 0.68311 0.68746 0.68421
J5 0.5805 0.56892 0.55378 0.58773 0.57883 0.57985
J6 0.70817 0.70278 0.72893 0.74138 0.74253 0.75046
J7 0.88543 0.91025 1 0.92232 0.90616 1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Introduction 
As an effective method of reducing the dynamic response of structures during earthquakes or typhoons, 
structural control technologies have attracted a great amount of interest from structural engineering 
researchers and practitioners over the past few decades (Soong and Spencer, 2002).  About 50 buildings and 
towers were instrumented with various types of structural control systems from 1989 to 2003 (Chu et al., 
2005), with evident reduction in structural dynamic responses being reported.  Current structural control 
systems can be categorized into three major types: (a) passive control (e.g. base isolation), (b) active control 
(e.g. active mass dampers), and (c) semi-active control (e.g. semi-active variable dampers).  Passive control 
has the advantage of power efficiency, while active control has the advantage of being adaptable to real-time 
excitations.  As a hybrid between these two approaches to structural control (active and passive), semi-active 
control effectively combines the advantages of both systems.  Examples of semi-active actuators include 
active variable stiffness (AVS) devices, semi-active hydraulic dampers (SHD), electrorheological (ER) 
dampers, and magnetorheological (MR) dampers.  Another attractive feature of semi-active control systems is 
that they are inherently stable because their actuators do not apply mechanical energy directly to the structure.   
 
In both semi-active and active control systems, sensors are employed in the structure to collect real-time 
structural response data during dynamic excitation (e.g. wind or earthquake).  The response data is then fed 
into a single or multiple control decision modules (controllers) in order to determine control forces and apply 
commands to system actuators in real-time.  According to these command signals, the structural actuators 
generate control forces intended to reduce unwanted structural vibrations.  In traditional semi-active or active 
control systems, coaxial wires are normally used to provide communication links between sensors, actuators 
and controllers.  For a typical low-rise building, the installation of a commercial wire-based data acquisition 
(DAQ) system can cost upwards of a few thousand dollars per sensing channel (Celebi, 2002).  As the size of 
the control system grows (defined by the nodal density and inter-nodal spatial distances), the additional 
cabling needed may result in increases in installation time and expense (Solomon et al., 2000).  To capitalize 
 
 
 
 
network through a common wireless communication channel.  Each wireless sensor can record response data 
from sensors, calculate control forces, communicate state data, and command actuators.  In order to 
investigate the effects of communication latencies on centralized and decentralized wireless control strategies, 
centralized and decentralized output feedback control algorithms are implemented.  The decentralized control 
method is developed by applying appropriate shape constraints to the gain matrix of a normal optimal output 
feedback control problem.  Numerical simulations show that the higher sampling rates achievable by 
decentralized control may compensate for the disadvantage of incomplete sensor data from which control 
decisions are made.  Large-scale shake table experiments are conducted on a 3-story steel frame structure 
installed with MR dampers to compare the performance of different decentralized and centralized control 
schemes. 
 
2. A Prototype Real-time Wireless Sensing and Control System 
To illustrate the architecture of the prototype wireless sensing and control system, Fig. 1 shows a 3-story 
structure controlled by three actuators.  Wireless sensors and controllers are mounted on the structure for 
measuring structural response data and commanding actuators in real-time.  Besides the wireless sensing and 
control units that are necessary for data collection and the operation of the actuators, a remote command 
server with a wireless transceiver is included in the system to initiate the operation of the control system and 
to log the flow of wireless data.  To initiate the operation of the control system, the command server first 
broadcasts a start signal to all of the wireless sensing and control units.  Once the start command is received, 
the wireless units that are responsible for collecting sensor data start acquiring and broadcasting data at a 
preset time interval.  Accordingly, the wireless units responsible for commanding the actuators receive the 
sensor data, calculate desired control forces, and apply control commands within the specified time interval 
allotted at each time step.  The following describes in detail the design of the wireless sensing and control 
units.  Specific attention is paid to the control signal generation and wireless communication modules of the 
wireless unit since both are integral to the performance of the global control system. 
 
 
 
 
used internationally on the 2.4GHz radio band.  When a wireless unit is designated as a sensing unit, its 
wireless transceiver is primarily used to send sensor data out to the wireless network.  In contrast, for a 
wireless control unit, its wireless transceiver receives sensor data from the network.  After receiving the 
sensor data, the ATmega128 microcontroller embedded in the wireless control unit computes the desired 
control forces.  Once the control force calculation is completed, the wireless control unit issues commands 
(voltage signals) to the actuator through the control signal generation module. All of the hardware 
components of the wireless sensing unit, not including the wireless transceiver, consume about 32mA when 
active and 80μA when in stand-by mode.  The additional power consumption of the two wireless transceivers 
(9XCite and 24XStream) will be presented in section 2.3. 
 
2.2 Control Signal Generation Module 
A separate hardware module is designed to be connected with the wireless sensing unit, which permits the 
unit to generate analog voltage signals for commanding actuators.  At the core of this control signal 
generation module is the single-channel 16-bit digital-to-analog (D/A) converter, the Analog Device AD5542.  
The AD5542 receives a 16-bit unsigned integer from the ATmega128 and converts the integer value to an 
analog voltage output spanning from -5 to 5V.  Additional support electronics are included in the control 
signal generation module to offer stable zero-order hold voltage outputs at high sampling rates (1 MHz 
maximum).  The wide voltage output range (-5 to 5V) of the control signal generation module, particularly the 
negative output range, is one of the key features of the module’s design.  With the wireless sensing unit 
designed to operate on 5V, the Texas Instruments PT5022 switching regulator is integrated in the signal 
generation module to convert the 5V regulated power supply into a stable -5V reference.  Another auxiliary 
component required for the AD5542 to generate a bipolar -5 to 5V output signal is a rail-to-rail input and 
output operational amplifier, for which the National Semiconductor LMC6484 operational amplifier is 
selected.  The typical slew rate of the LMC6484 is about 1.3V/μs, which means that the output voltage can 
swing about 1.3V within 1μs.  This output gradient is compatible with the microsecond-level settling time of 
 
 
 
 
The wireless sensing unit is designed to be operable with two different wireless transceivers: 900MHz 
MaxStream 9XCite and 2.4GHz MaxStream 24XStream. Pin-to-pin compatibility between these two wireless 
transceivers makes it possible for them to share the same hardware connections in the wireless unit. Because 
of the different data rates, embedded software for using the two transceivers is slightly different. This dual-
transceiver support offers the wireless sensing and control unit more flexibility in terms of not only use in 
different geographical areas, but also provides different data transfer rates, communication ranges, and power 
consumption characteristics. Table 1 summarizes the key performance parameters of the two wireless 
transceivers. As shown in the table, the data transfer rate of the 9XCite is twice that of the 24XStream, while 
the 24XStream provides a longer communication range but consumes more battery power.  The peer-to-peer 
communication capability of the two wireless transceivers makes it possible for the wireless sensing and 
control units to communicate with each other, thus supporting flexible information flow among multiple 
wireless units.  In this study, validation tests of the wireless sensing and control system are performed using a 
test structure at the National Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering (NCREE) in Taipei, Taiwan.  
Because of the local frequency band requirements in Taiwan, the MaxStream 24XStream wireless transceiver 
operating on the 2.4GHz spectrum is employed for the experimental tests.  
 
As previously discussed, one critical issue in applying wireless communication technology to real-time 
feedback structural control problems is the communication latency encountered when transmitting sensor data 
from the wireless sensing units to the wireless control units.  The anticipated transmission time of the 
24XStream radio for a single data packet is illustrated in Fig. 4.  The transmission time consists of the 
communication latency (TLatency) of the radios and the time to transfer data between the microcontroller and 
the radio using the universal asynchronous receiver and transmitter (UART) interface (TUART).  Assume that 
the data packet to be transmitted contains N bytes and the UART data rate is RUART bps (bits per second), 
which is equivalent to RUART /10 bytes per second, or RUART /10000 bytes per millisecond.  It should be noted 
 
 
 
 
An optimal feedback control design normally requires adequate real-time structural response data to compute 
optimal control forces.  For example, if a multi-story building is modeled by a lumped-mass structural system 
with actuators deployed among adjacent floors, real-time floor displacements and velocities that constitute the 
state-space vector are needed for a typical linear quadratic regulator (LQR) controller (Franklin et al., 2003).  
However, due to instrumentation complexity and cost, not all structural response data may be available in 
practice.  To address this difficulty, output feedback control methods can be used to provide an optimal 
control strategy under the constraint that only part of the state-space variables are measured in real-time.  This 
section first presents the basic formulation of an optimal centralized output feedback control solution and then 
proposes a modified algorithm that allows the output feedback gain matrix to be constrained.  The output 
feedback gain matrix is then formulated for various decentralized control architectures using the constrained 
gain matrix algorithm detailed herein.   
 
3.1 Formulation for Centralized Linear Output Feedback Control 
The output feedback digital-domain LQR control solution can be briefly summarized as follows.  For a 
lumped-mass structural model with n degrees-of-freedom (DOF) and m actuators, the system state-space 
equation considering l time steps of delay can be stated as: 
[ ] [ ] [ ]1k k k l+ = + −d d d d dz A z B p , where [ ] [ ][ ]
k
k
k
⎧ ⎫⎪ ⎪= ⎨ ⎬⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭
d
d
d
x
z
x&  (3) 
Here, [ ]kdz  represents the 2n × 1 discrete-time state-space vector, [ ]kdx  is the relative (to the base) 
displacement of the structural degrees-of-freedom, [ ]k l−dp  is the delayed m × 1 control force vector, dA  is 
the 2n × 2n system matrix (containing the information about structural mass, stiffness and damping), and dB  
is the 2n × m actuator location matrix.  The primary objective of the time-delay LQR problem is to minimize 
a global cost function,  J, by selecting an optimal control force trajectory dp : 
 
 
 
 
This system is equivalent to the original system (Eq. 3) by proper definitions of the augmented matrices and 
vectors: dA  and dB  are the augmented state-space system matrices, dD  is the augmented output matrix, Q  is 
the augmented weighting matrix, and ldZ  is the second statistical moment of the augmented initial 
disturbance.  As a result, the following nonlinearly coupled matrix equations are simultaneously solved for an 
optimal output feedback gain matrix dG , the Lagrangian matrix, L, and a constant matrix, H: 
( ) ( ) ( )T T T+ + − + + =d d d d d d d d d d d dA B G D H A B G D H Q D G RG D 0  (11a) 
( ) ( )T l+ + − + =d d d d d d d d dA B G D L A B G D L Z 0  (11b) 
( )2 2T T T+ + =d d d d d d d d dB H A B G D LD RG D LD 0  (11c) 
Interested readers are referred to Chung et al. (1995), where the time-delay optimal control solution is derived 
in detail. 
 
3.2 Heuristic Solution for Centralized and Decentralized Output Feedback Gain Matrices 
An iterative algorithm to solve the continuous-time feedback control problem has been presented by Lunze 
(1990).  The algorithm (Fig. 5) starts from an initial estimate for the gain matrix dG .  Within each iteration 
step i, the matrix Hi and Li are solved respectively using the current estimate of the gain matrix idG .  Based 
on the Hi and Li matrices computed, a searching gradient iΔ  is calculated and the new gain matrix 1i+dG  is 
computed by traversing along a gradient from idG .  An adaptive multiplier, s, is used to dynamically control 
the search step size.  At each iteration step, two conditions are used to decide whether 1i+dG  is an acceptable 
estimate.  The first condition is trace( 1i l+ dH Z ) < trace( i ldH Z ) which guarantees that 1i+dG  is a better solution 
than idG .  The second condition is that the maximum magnitude of all the eigenvalues of the matrix 
( )1i++d d d dA B G D  is less than 1 which ensures the stability of the augmented system. 
 
 
 
 
 
the output matrices, dD , for these three control architectures are summarized in Table 2.  As defined by these 
matrices, one centralized and two decentralized velocity feedback patterns are adopted.  An LQR weighting 
matrix Q minimizing inter-story drifts over time and a diagonal weighting matrix R are used when designing 
the optimal gain matrices for all the simulations presented herein.  Various combinations of centralization 
degrees (1: fully decentralized; 2: partially decentralized; 3: centralized) and sampling time steps ranging 
from 0.005s to 0.1s (at a resolution of 0.005s) are simulated.   
 
To assess the performance of each control scheme, three ground motion records are used for the simulation: 
1940 El Centro NS (Imperial Valley Irrigation District Station), 1999 Chi-Chi NS (TCU-076 Station), and 
1995 Kobe NS (JMA Station) earthquake records.  Performance indices proposed by Spencer et al. (1998) are 
adopted.  In particular, two representative performance indices employed are:  
( )
( )
,
1 El Centro
Kobe
,Chichi
max
max ˆmax
it i
it i
d t
PI
d t
⎧ ⎫⎪ ⎪= ⎨ ⎬⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭
, and 2 El Centro
Kobe
Chichi
max ˆ
LQR
LQR
J
PI
J
⎧ ⎫⎪ ⎪= ⎨ ⎬⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭  (13) 
where 1PI  and 2PI  are the performance indices corresponding to inter-story drifts and LQR cost indices, 
respectively.  In Eq. (13), ( )id t  represents the inter-story drift between floor i (i = 1, 2, 3) and its lower floor 
at time t, and ( )
,
max it i d t  is the maximum inter-story drift over the entire time history and among all three 
floors.  The maximum inter-story drift is normalized by its counterpart ( )
,
ˆmax it i d t , the maximum response of 
the uncontrolled structure.  The largest normalized ratio among the simulations for the three different 
earthquake records is defined as the performance index 1PI .  Similarly, the performance index 2PI  is defined 
for the LQR control index LQRJ , as given in Eq. (4).  When computing the LQR index over time, a uniform 
time step of 0.005s is used to collect the structural response data points, regardless of the sampling time step 
of the control scheme; this allows one control strategy to be compared to another without concern for the 
different sampling time steps used in the control solution. 
 
 
 
 
the structure with a maximum acceleration of 9.8m/s2.  The excitation has a maximum stroke and force of 
±0.25m and 220kN, respectively.  The test structure and shake table are heavily instrumented with 
accelerometers, velocity meters, and linear variable displacement transducers (LVDT) to measure their 
dynamic response.  These sensors are interfaced to a high-precision wire-based data acquisition (DAQ) 
system permanently installed in the NCREE facility; the DAQ system is set to a sampling rate of 200 Hz.  A 
separate set of wireless sensors are installed as part of the wireless control system.  
 
For the wireless system, a total of four wireless sensors are installed following the deployment strategy shown 
in Fig. 1.  Each wireless sensor is interfaced to a Tokyo Sokushin VSE15-D velocity meter to measure the 
absolute velocity response of each floor of the structure as well as at the base (i.e. table top velocity).  The 
sensitivity of the velocity meter is 10V/(m/s) with a measurement limit of ±1 m/s.  The three wireless sensors 
on the first three levels of the structure (C0, C1, and C2) are also responsible for commanding the MR dampers.  
Besides the wireless control system, a traditional wire-based control system is installed in the structure for 
comparative analyses.  Centralized and decentralized velocity feedback control schemes described earlier 
(Table 2) are used for both the wired and the wireless control systems.  As shown in Table 3, different 
decentralization patterns and sampling steps are tested.  For the test structure, the wire-based system can 
achieve a sampling rate of 200Hz, or a time step of 0.005s.  Mostly decided by the communication latency of 
the 24XStream wireless transceivers, the wireless system can achieve a sampling rate of 12.5Hz (or a time 
step of 0.08s) for the centralized control scheme.  This sampling rate is due to each wireless sensor waiting in 
turn to broadcast its data to the network (about 0.02s for each transmission).  An advantage of the 
decentralized architecture is that fewer communication steps are needed, thereby reducing the time for 
wireless communication.  As shown in Table 3, the wireless system can achieve a sampling rate of 16.67Hz 
for partially decentralized control and 50Hz for fully decentralized control. 
 
4.2 Magnetorheological (MR) Damper Hysteresis Model 
 
 
 
 
[ ] [ ] [ ] ( )1 1Tz k z k k V= − + −Φ Θ  (16a) 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ){ }1 2 3 4 5 TV V V V V Vθ θ θ θ θ=Θ  (16b) 
[ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ] [ ]{ }2 Tk t x k x k z k x k z k x k z k z k x k z k= ΔΦ & & & & &  (16c) 
The five parameters in vector ( )VΘ  are modeled as low-order polynomial functions of the damper voltage V.  
Similarly, the damping coefficient, C(V), is modeled as a linear function of the damper voltage V.  For each 
MR damper, the constant coefficients in the polynomial functions ( )VΘ  and C(V) are pre-determined and 
validated through a series of calibration experiments with the damper (Lin et al., 2005).  In these experiments, 
a displacement-controlled actuator is employed to command displacements to the damper piston while the 
damper cylinder is fixed to a  reaction frame.  A load cell is then used to measure the damper force, so that the 
force-displacement time histories of the damper can be recorded.  In order to compute the constant 
coefficients in the modified Bouc-Wen model, sinusoidal and random displacement are first applied to the 
damper with the damper command voltage fixed at multiple levels.  Then the model is validated through 
experiments when random displacement time histories are applied to the damper with the command voltage 
randomly varied.  
 
In the real-time feedback control tests, hysteresis status updating for the MR dampers is an integral element in 
the calculation of damper actuation voltages.  At each sampling time step, a wireless control unit first decides 
the desired control force for the MR damper using the control algorithms described in Section 3 (Eq. 8).  
Meanwhile, the unit calculates the damper hysteresis status according to the modified Bouc-Wen model (Eq. 
16).  According to the hysteresis status, the wireless control unit decides the appropriate command voltage 
needed to be applied to the MR damper to attain a damping force closest to the desired control force.  Fig. 8 
illustrates the comparison between the control force desired by the wireless control units and the actual force 
(as measured by the load cells) achieved by the MR dampers on Floor-0 and Floor-1 during a centralized 
control test.  The ground excitation in this test is the 1940 El Centro NS earthquake record scaled to a peak 
ground acceleration of 1m/s2.  The strong similarity between the desired and achieved control forces validates 
 
 
 
 
systems achieve considerable gain in limiting inter-story drifts.  Running at a much shorter sampling time step, 
the wired centralized control system achieves slightly better control performance than the wireless centralized 
system in terms of mitigating inter-story drifts. 
 
To further study different decentralized schemes with different communication latencies, Fig. 10 shows the 
peak inter-story drifts and floor accelerations for the original uncontrolled structure and the structure 
controlled by the four different wireless and wired control schemes, as defined in Table 3.  Three earthquake 
records, the 1940 El Centro NS, 1999 Chi-Chi NS, and 1995 Kobe NS records, are employed for the 
experimental tests, with their peak ground accelerations all scaled to 1m/s2.  Compared with the uncontrolled 
structure, all wireless and wired control schemes achieve significant reduction with respect to maximum inter-
story drifts and absolute accelerations.  Among the four control cases, the wired centralized control scheme 
shows good performance in mitigating both peak drifts and peak accelerations.  For example, when the 1940 
El Centro NS earthquake is employed (Fig. 10a), the wired centralized control scheme achieves the smallest 
peak drifts and second smallest overall peak accelerations.  This result is expected because the wired system 
has the advantages of lower communication latency and utilizes sensor data from all floors (complete state 
data).  The wireless schemes, although running at longer sampling steps, achieve control performance 
comparable to the wired system.  For all three earthquake records, the fully decentralized wireless control 
scheme (case #1) results in low peak inter-story drifts and the smallest peak floor accelerations at most of the 
floors.  This result illustrates that in the decentralized wireless control cases, the higher sampling rate 
(achieved due to lower communication latency) potentially compensates for the lack of data available since 
sensor data from faraway floors is ignored. 
 
5. Summary and Conclusions 
This paper investigates the feasibility and effectiveness of decentralized wireless control strategies in civil 
structures.  The adoption of wireless telemetry for structural control applications is advantageous because it 
 
 
 
 
Chu, S.Y., Soong, T.T. and Reinhorn, A.M. (2005), Active, Hybrid and Semi-active Structural Control, John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd, West Sussex, England. 
Chung, L.L., Lin, C.C. and Lu, K.H. (1995), “Time-delay Control of Structures,” Earthquake Engineering & 
Structural Dynamics, 24(5), 687-701. 
Eker, J., Cervin, A. and Hörjel, A. (2001), “Distributed Wireless Control Using Bluetooth,” Proc. of IFAC 
Conf. on New Technologies for Control System, Hong-Kong, China, November 19-22, 2001. 
Franklin, G.F.,  Powell, J.D. and Workman, M. (2003), Digital Control of Dynamic Systems, Pearson 
Education, New Jersey. 
Lian, F.-L., Moyne, J. and Tilbury, D. (2002), “Network Design Consideration for Distributed Control 
Systems,” IEEE Transactions on Control Systems Technology, 10(2), 297-307. 
Lin, P.-Y., Roschke, P.N. and Loh, C.-H. (2005). “System Identification and Real Application of a Smart 
Magneto-Rheological Damper,” Proc. of the 2005 International Symposium on Intelligent Control, Limassol, 
Cyprus, June 27-29, 2005. 
Lunze, J. (1992), Feedback Control of Large-scale Systems, Prentice Hall, Hertfordshire, UK. 
Lynch, J.P. and Law, K.H. (2002). “Decentralized Control Techniques for Large-scale Civil Structural 
Systems,” Proc. of the 20th International Modal Analysis Conf., Los Angeles, CA, USA, February 4-7, 2002. 
Lynch, J.P. and Tilbury, D. (2005), “Implementation of a Decentralized Control Algorithm Embedded within 
a Wireless Active Sensor,” Proc. of the 2nd Annual ANCRiSST Workshop, Gyeongju, Korea, July 21-24, 
2005. 
Lynch, J.P. and Loh, K. (2006a), “A Summary Review of Wireless Sensors and Sensor Networks for 
Structural Health Monitoring,” Shock and Vibration Digest, 38(2), 91-128. 
Lynch, J.P., Wang, Y., Loh, K., Yi, J., and Yun, C.-B. (2006b), “Performance Monitoring of the Geumdang 
Bridge using a Dense Network of High-Resolution Wireless Sensors,” Smart Materials and Structures, IOP, 
15(6), 1561-1575.. 
Lynch, J.P., Wang, Y., Swartz, R. A., Lu, K. C., and Loh, C. H. (2006c).  “Implementation of a Closed-Loop 
Structural Control System using Wireless Sensor Networks,” Journal of Structural Control and Health 
Monitoring, Wiley, in review.   
MaxStream, Inc. (2005). XStream™ OEM RF Module Product Manual, Lindon, UT, USA. 
Ploplys, N.J., Kawka, P.A. and Alleyne, A.G. (2004), “Closed-loop Control over Wireless Networks,” IEEE 
Control Systems Magazine, 24(3), 58-71. 
Sandell, N., Jr., Varaiya, P., Athans, M. and Safonov, M., “Survey of Decentralized Control Methods for 
Large Scale Systems”, IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, 23(2), 108-128. 
Seth, S., Lynch, J.P. and Tilbury, D., “Feasibility of Real-Time Distributed Structural Control upon a 
Wireless Sensor Network,” Proceedings of the 42nd Annual Allerton Conference on Communication, Control 
and Computing, Allerton, IL, USA, September 29 - October 1, 2004. 
Solomon, I., Cunnane, J. and Stevenson, P. (2000). “Large-scale Structural Monitoring Systems,” Proc. of 
SPIE Non-destructive Evaluation of Highways, Utilities, and Pipelines IV, Newport Beach, CA, March 7-9, 
2000. 
Soong, T.T. and Spencer, B.F., Jr. (2002). “Supplemental Energy Dissipation: State-of-the-art and State-of-
the-practice,” Engineering Structures, 24(3), 243-259. 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Key performance parameters of the wireless transceivers. 
Table 2. Different decentralization patterns for the control simulations and experiments. 
Table 3. Different decentralization patterns and sampling steps for the wireless and wire-based control 
experiments (degrees of centralization are defined as shown in Table 2).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sensor Signal 
Digitization
4-channel 16-bit 
Analog-to-Digital 
Converter ADS8341
Computational Core
Wireless 
Communication
Wireless Transceiver: 
20kbps 2.4GHz 
24XStream, or 40kbps 
900MHz 9XCite 
Control Signal 
Generation
16-bit Digital-to-Analog 
Converter AD5542
Structural 
Sensors
128kB External 
SRAM 
CY62128B
8-bit Micro-
controller 
ATmega128
SPI
Port
SPI
Port
Parallel 
Port
UART
Port
Structural
Actuator
Wireless Sensing Unit
 
(a) 
 
ATmega128 Micro-
controller
Connector to 
Wireless Transceiver
Sensor 
Connector
A2D Converter 
ADS8341
Octal D-type 
Latch AHC573
SRAM 
CY62128B
 
(b) (c) 
 
Figure 2. Wireless sensing unit: (a) functional diagram detailing the hardware design of the 
wireless sensing unit interfaced with the actuation signal generation module; (b) printed 
circuit board for the wireless sensing unit (9.7 × 5.8 cm2); (c) package of the wireless 
sensing unit (10.2 × 6.5 × 4.0 cm3). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
time
time
Sending Unit
Receiving Unit
Data packet sent from 
ATmega128 to 24XStream
Data packet coming out of 24XStream 
and going into ATmega128
TLatancy TUART
 
 
Figure 4. Communication latency of a single wireless transmission. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
2
3
0
0.05
0.1
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
Degree of Centralization
Maximum Drift Among Three Stories
Samping Time (s)
P
er
fo
rm
an
ce
 In
de
x 
PI
1
 
(a)  
1
2
3
0
0.05
0.1
0
0.5
1
Degree of Centralization
LQR Index
Samping Time (s)
P
er
fo
rm
an
ce
 In
de
x 
PI
2
 
(b) 
  
0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
1.1
1.2
1.3
Samping Time (s)
P
er
fo
rm
an
ce
 In
de
x 
PI
1
Maximum Drift Among Three Stories
1 - Decentr.
2 - Partially Decentr.
3 - Centr.
(c) 
0 0.02 0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
Samping Time (s)
P
er
fo
rm
an
ce
 In
de
x 
PI
2
LQR Index
1 - Decentr.
2 - Partially Decentr.
3 - Centr.
(d) 
 
Figure 6. Simulation results illustrating control performance indexes for different sampling time 
steps and centralization degrees: (a) 3D plot for performance index PI1; (b) 3D plot for 
performance index PI2; (c) condensed 2D plot for PI1; (d) condensed 2D plot for PI2. 
 
 
 
 
 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
-1
0
1
x 104
Time (s)
Fo
rc
e 
(N
)
Force Provided by the MR Damper on Floor-0
Desired by Unit C0
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
-1
0
1
x 104
Time (s)
Fo
rc
e 
(N
) Measured
 
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
-1
0
1
x 10
4
Time (s)
Fo
rc
e 
(N
)
Force Provided by the MR Damper on Floor-1
Desired by Unit C1
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40
-1
0
1
x 104
Time (s)
Fo
rc
e 
(N
) Measured
 
(a) (b) 
Figure 8. Damper forces desired by the control units and achieved by the MR dampers during an 
experiment run: (a) force provided by the MR damper on Floor-0; (b) force provided by the MR 
damper on Floor-1. 
 
 
 
 
 
0 0.005 0.01 0.015 0.02 0.025
1
2
3
Drift (m)
S
to
ry
Maximum Inter-story Drifts
No Control
Wireless #1
Wireless #2
Wireless #3
Wired
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5
1
2
3
Acceleration (m/s2)
Fl
oo
r
Maximum Absolute Accelerations
No Control
Wireless #1
Wireless #2
Wireless #3
Wired
(a)  
0 0.005 0.01 0.015 0.02 0.025
1
2
3
Drift (m)
S
to
ry
Maximum Inter-story Drifts
No Control
Wireless #1
Wireless #2
Wireless #3
Wired
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5
1
2
3
Acceleration (m/s2)
Fl
oo
r
Maximum Absolute Accelerations
No Control
Wireless #1
Wireless #2
Wireless #3
Wired
(b) 
0 0.005 0.01 0.015 0.02 0.025
1
2
3
Drift (m)
S
to
ry
Maximum Inter-story Drifts
No Control
Wireless #1
Wireless #2
Wireless #3
Wired
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5
1
2
3
Acceleration (m/s2)
Fl
oo
r
Maximum Absolute Accelerations
No Control
Wireless #1
Wireless #2
Wireless #3
Wired
(c) 
Figure 10. Experimental results of different control schemes under three earthquake excitations 
scaled to peak ground accelerations of 1m/s2: (a) 1940 El Centro NS; (b) 1999 Chi-Chi NS; (c) 
1995 Kobe NS. 
 
 
 
 
Output-Only Modal Identification of a Cable-Stayed Bridge 
Using Wireless Monitoring Systems 
 
by 
Jian-Huang Weng1   Chin-Hsiung Loh2  Jerome P. Lynch3   Kung-Chun Lu1 
Pei-Yang Lin4   Yang Wang5 
 
 
1 Graduate Student, Department of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan. 
2 Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan. e-mail: 
lohc0220@ccms.ntu.edu.tw   Tel: +886-2-2363-1799 
3 Assistant Professor, Department of Civil & Environmental Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
USA 
4 Associate Research Fellow, National Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering, Taipei, Taiwan. 
5 Assistant Professor, School of Civil & Environmental Engineering, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, 
USA. 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
The objective of this paper is to present two modal identification methods that extract dynamic 
characteristics from output-only data sets collected by a low-cost and rapid-to-deploy wireless 
structural monitoring system installed upon a long-span cable-stayed bridge.  Specifically, an 
extensive program of full-scale ambient vibration testing has been conducted to measure the 
dynamic response of the 240 meter Gi-Lu cable-stayed bridge located in Nantou County, Taiwan. 
Two different output-only identification methods are used to analyze the set of ambient vibration 
data: the stochastic subspace identification method (SSI) and the frequency domain decomposition 
method (FDD). A total of 10 modal frequencies and their associated mode shapes are identified from 
the dynamic interaction between the bridge’s cables and deck vibrations within the frequency range 
of 0 to 7 Hz.  The majority of the modal frequencies observed from recording cable vibrations are 
also found to be associated with the deck vibrations, implying considerable interaction between the 
deck and cables. 
 
 
 
Keywords: Frequency domain decomposition, stochastic subspace identification, wireless structural 
monitoring, cable-stayed bridge. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provides including rapid and reconfigurable installations. Recently, Lynch et al. has extended their 
work to include computational microcontrollers in the hardware design of wireless sensors so that 
various system identification and damage detection algorithms can be embedded for local execution 
by the sensor [6-8].  To date, a handful of bridges and buildings have been instrumented with 
wireless monitoring systems including the Alamosa Canyon Bridge (New Mexico), Geumdang 
Bridge (Korea), WuYuan Bridge (China), Voigt Bridge (California) and a historic theater in Detroit, 
Michigan [9].  These extensive field studies attest to the accuracy and reliability of wireless sensors 
in traditional structural monitoring applications. 
The purpose of this study is to employ a rapid-to-deploy wireless structural monitoring system 
prototyped by Wang, et al. [10] for monitoring long-span bridges during ambient excitation 
conditions. Towards this end, this study will focus on the experimental determination of the dynamic 
properties of the newly retrofitted Gi-Lu cable-stayed bridge (Nantou County, Taiwan) using 
ambient vibration responses recorded by a wireless structural monitoring system. The wireless 
monitoring system consists of a distributed network of wireless sensors in direct communication 
with a high-performance data repository where data is stored and analyzed.  To extract the bridge 
modal characteristics, both the frequency domain decomposition (FDD) and stochastic subspace 
identification (SSI) methods were embedded in the central repository to autonomously identify the 
dynamic properties of the bridge. The paper concludes with a discussion on the results obtained 
using the wireless monitoring system, including observation of the interaction between cable and 
deck vibrations. 
 
AMBIENT VIBRATION MEASUREMENTS 
The cable-stayed bridge selected for this study is the Gi-Lu Bridge, located in Nantou County, 
Taiwan. This bridge is a modern pre-stressed concrete cable-stayed bridge which crosses the 
Juosheui River. The bridge has a single pylon (with a 58 meter height above the deck) and two rows 
of harped cables (68 cables in total) on each side. The bridge deck consists of a box girder section 
2.75 m deep and 24 m wide and is rigidly connected to the pylon; the deck spans 120 m on each side 
of the pylon. On September 21, 1999, during the final construction stages of the Gi-Lu Bridge, a 
significant earthquake (Chi-Chi Earthquake) with ML = 7.3 struck the central part of Taiwan. Only 
three kilometers away from the epicenter, Gi-Lu Bridge was subjected to very strong ground 
 
 
 
 
Wireless sensors for structural monitoring:  A core element of this study was to assess the 
capabilities of a low-cost wireless structural monitoring system to rapidly collect the dynamic 
responses of a large-scale civil infrastructure system. A network of wireless sensing units, developed 
by Wang et al. [10] were installed upon the Gi-Lu Bridge in lieu of a traditional tethered structural 
monitoring system which are known to suffer from high-costs and laborious installations. The design 
of the wireless sensing unit is optimized for structural monitoring applications and includes three 
major subsystems: the sensing interface, the computational core, and the wireless communication 
system. The sensing interface is responsible for converting analog sensor outputs spanning from 0 to 
5V on four independent channels into 16-bit digital formats. Any sensing transducer can be 
interfaced to the wireless sensing unit with accelerometers, strain gages, displacement transducers 
and velocity meters all previously interfaced.  The digital data is then transferred to the 
computational core by a high-speed serial peripheral interface (SPI) port. Abundant external memory 
(128 kB) is associated with the computational core for local data storage (up to 64,000 sensor data 
points can be stored at one time) and analysis.  For reliable communication on the wireless channel, 
the Maxstream XStream wireless modem operating on the 2.4 GHz wireless band is selected.  The 
outdoor communication range of the modem is up to 300 m line-of-sight which is sufficient for most 
large-scale civil structures.  To enhance the range and reliability of communication in this study, 
directional antennas (D-link) were attached to each sensing unit to concentrate the energy associated 
with the wireless transmission in a concentrated beam pointed towards the central data repository.  In 
summary, the hardware profile of the wireless sensing unit used in this study is presented in Fig. 2. 
Embedded within each wireless sensing unit’s computational core is software that automates 
operation in the field.  A core element of the embedded software is a reliable communication 
protocol for the transfer of data between wireless sensing units and the data repository [10].  The 
protocol also is responsible for ensure the independent clocks associated with each wireless sensor is 
accurately time synchronized with the centralized repository.  To synchronize the system, a beacon 
signal is broadcast by the central data repository; upon receipt of the beacon signal, each wireless 
sensing unit resets its internal clock to zero and begins to collect sensor data.  Upon completion of its 
data collection tasks, data is communicated one wireless sensing unit at a time to the repository.  The 
repository is required to confirm receipt of the data; should confirmation not be received by a 
wireless sensing unit, it will continue to transmit its data until the data successfully logged by the 
 
 
 
 
Stochastic Subspace Identification:  Consider a discrete-time stochastic state-space model: 
                                      
1
s s
k k k
s s
k k k
x Ax w
y C x v
+ = +
= +                                                           (1) 
where the superscript “s” denoting “stochastic” since the system is assumed to be excited by a 
stochastic component (i.e. broad-band noise). The SSI method is used to identify the system matrices, 
A  and C , from the system output measurements, sky  (i.e. ambient vibration measurements).  Fig. 4 
presents the detail procedure for identification of the system matrix, A , by the SSI method: 
1. Using output measurement data, the Hankel matrix, sY , can be constructed: 
0 1 1
1 2
1 2 2
1 1
1 2
2 1 2 2 2
s s s
j
s s s
j
s s s s
i i i j ps li j
s s s s
i i i j f
s s s
i i i j
s s s
i i i j
y y y
y y y
y y y Y
Y
y y y Y
y y y
y y y
−
− + − ×
+ + −
+ + +
− + −
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥≡ ≡ ∈⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
L
L
L L L L
L
L
L
L L L L
L
R                      (2) 
where i  is a user-defined index and must be larger than the order, n , of the system.  Since 
there are only l  degrees-of-freedom measured, (in this study, l=10 or 12 depending upon 
whether 10 or 12 measurement locations are used in the three test setups), the output vector sky  
must contain l rows and the matrix sY  must contain 2li rows. Here, j  corresponds to the 
number of columns of the Hankel matrix.  To ensure all of the r  time samples of the output 
vector sky  populate the Hankel matrix, the number j  can be equal to 2 1r i− + .  According to 
the expression of Eq. (2), the Hankel matrix is divided into the past, s li jpY
×∈R , and the future, 
s li j
fY
×∈R , parts. For the reference-based stochastic subspace identification method, the Hankel 
matrix plays a critically important role in the SSI algorithm. 
2. Row Space Projections: 
The orthogonal projection of the row space of the matrix s li jfY
×∈R  on the row space of the 
matrix s li jpY
×∈R  is defined as s sf pY Y  which can be calculated by the following formula: 
 
 
 
 
          2
1
li n
i
i
C
C A
C A
C A
×
−
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥Γ ≡ ∈⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
L
R                                                  (6) 
which contains information on the system matrix, A . 
5. Calculate the system parameter matrices A  and C  from iΓ : 
†
i iA = Γ Γ                                                                 (7) 
where ( )1l i ni − ×Γ ∈R  denotes iΓ  without the last l  rows and ( )1l i ni − ×Γ ∈R  denotes iΓ  without 
the first l  rows. The matrix C  can be determined from the first l  rows of iΓ as shown in Eq. 
(6). 
6. Calculate the eigenvalues, Nλ , and eigenvectors, 1N nλφ ×∈R , of A : 
( ) ( )det 0,   0
NN N
A I A I λλ λ φ− = − =                                      (8) 
It should be noted that the eigenvalues of A  occur in complex conjugated pairs and the 
subscript “ N ” denotes the number of these pairs. 
7. Determine the frequency Nω  and damping coefficient Nξ  from Nλ : 
2 2
 ( ) ,    
2
NN
N N
N N
ba rad
st a b
ω ξπ= =Δ +                                          (9) 
where                
                              ( )( )
Im
arctan
Re
N
N
N
a
λ
λ
⎛ ⎞= ⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
, ( )lnN Nb λ=     (10) 
8. Determine mode shapes NΦ  (with corresponding frequency Nω ) from C  and Nλφ : 
N NCφΦ =                                                                   (11) 
The elements in the vector, NΦ , are always complex numbers in practice. It can be imagined 
that the absolute value of the complex number is interpreted as the amplitude and the argument 
as the phase of a sine wave at a given frequency, Nω . 
 
 
 
 
 
Integral to implementation of the SSI method are two parameters that need to be determined a 
priori.  The first is the number of block rows, i , and the second is the appropriate order, n , of the 
system.  Both parameters directly influence the structure of the stochastic output Hankel matrix sY  
as it is constructed from the output data sequences according to i ; a reduced version of the Hankel 
matrix obtained by SVD is also determined according to the order, n .  The influence of both 
parameters on the corresponding system identification results can be explained by the number of 
block rows, i , affecting the precision of the SSI method while n  corresponds to the number of 
structural modes contained by the SSI model.  In this study, we start with determining n  by giving a 
fixed value of i  while j  is varied. In other words, the number of data points, r  (equal to 2 1i j+ − ), 
contained in the output vector, sky , varies in tandem with the value of j  selected.   
For illustration, a simple case is used to demonstrate how the system order is determined.  
Consider the case where only the vertical response of the bridge deck is measured from the 10 
wireless sensing units.  Fig. 5 plots the quantity of each singular value resulting from the 
decomposition of the projection of the past on the future outputs of the Hankel matrix as a function 
of the number of block columns j.  It is clear that the singular values rapidly diminish with the 
singular values stabilizing to a small value at the 22th singular value ( 22 0.0235s = ).  As a result of this 
qualitative observation, the order of the system is determined as n = 22.  With the system order 
determined, the analysis returns to determine the number of block rows i  using a fixed number of 
sampled data points, 5000r = .  To assess if a suitable number of block rows is selected, the 
sensitivity of the modal frequencies and damping coefficients are compared as a function of i . Fig. 
6 plots the identified modal frequency and damping coefficient of the first four modes as a function 
of i . The variability of the model frequencies looks small but the modal damping coefficients are 
uncertain and illegitimate when a small number i  is used. This figure also proves the hypothesis that 
i  is closely related to the precision of SSI method.  Considering the modal frequencies and damping 
coefficients determined for the vertical response of the bridge deck, the number of block rows is 
selected as 110 for this case ( 5000r = ).  Furthermore, it should be noticed that the system order n  
is directly linked to the number of modes contained in the SSI model.  In general, the number of true 
structural modes identified will not exceed half the number of modes contained in the SSI model.  
As a result, it is important to note that selection of an unwarranted large system order without 
 
 
 
 
integral to updating finite element models used by engineers to assess the condition of the structure 
over its operational life.  Toward this end, an analytical model of the Gi-Lu Bridge had been 
developed using a MATLAB- based computer program [16]. The code includes the use of traditional 
beam elements for the bridge structure and nonlinear beam elements to represent cables with sag and 
pre-tension forces.  After updating the analytical model, the first calculated fundamental frequency 
of the bridge model is 0.5148Hz which corresponds to the deck’s first vertical vibration mode.  
Table 2 shows the comparison between the identified deck vibration frequencies using ambient 
vibration data collected during field study and the numerical results of the updated model.  Excellent 
results are obtained with good agreement evident between the numerical model and the test data. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
The purpose of this paper is to conduct an ambient vibration survey of a long-span cable-stayed 
bridge and to develop a systematic method for the extraction of the dynamic characteristics of the 
bridge using data collected by a novel wireless monitoring system. The following conclusions are 
drawn from the full-scale measurements made on the Gi-Lu Bridge: 
1. The wireless sensing units were used in lieu of more costly tethered data acquisition systems. Less 
effort and man-power were required during the installation of the wireless monitoring system 
rendering it as ideally suited for rapid short-term field studies.  Because the wireless 
communication range in the open field can reach up to 300 m, it was possible to successfully 
collect data from at least 10 sensors (in this study) simultaneously with a sampling rate of 100 Hz.  
During data collection, the wireless monitoring system experienced no data loss as a result of a 
highly robust communication protocol.   
2. The measurement of structural response to ambient levels of wind and traffic has proved to be an 
effective means of identifying the dynamic properties of a full-scale cable-stayed bridge. The 
dynamic properties that have been identified from these measured responses are modal 
frequencies, mode shapes and estimates of modal damping ratios. 
3. To autonomously extract the dynamic characteristics of the bridge from structural response time 
histories, two different approaches were used: the SSI method and the FDD method. Detail 
description on the time domain dynamic characteristic identification using multiple output 
identification (SSI method) can extract the mode shape directly. The SSI method can provide a 
 
 
 
 
[2] Ozkan E, Main J, Jones NP. Long-term measurements on a cable-stayed bridge. IMAC-paper 
2001. 
[3] He X, Moaveni B, Conte JP, Elgamal A, Masri SF, Caffrey JP et al. System Identification of 
New Carquinez Bridge Using Ambient Vibration Data. Proc. of Int. Conf. on Experimental 
Vibration Analysis for Civil Engineering Structures, Bordeaux, France, Oct., 2005,26-28. 
[4] Wenzel H, Pichler D. Ambient Vibration Monitoring, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd, 2005. 
[5] Straser EG, Kiremidjian AS. A modular, wireless damage monitoring system for structure, 
Report No.128, John A. Blume Earthquake Center, CE Department, Stanford University, 
Stanford CA., 1998. 
[6] Lynch JP, Sundararajan A, Law KH, Kiremidjian AS, Carryer E. Embedding damage detection 
algorithms in a wireless sensing unit for operational power efficiency. Smart Materials and 
Structures 2004; 13(4): 800-810. 
[7] Lynch JP, Sundararajan A, Law KH, Kiremidjian AS, Kenny TW, Carryer E. Embedment of 
structural monitoring algorithms in a wireless sensing unit. Structural Engineering and 
Mechanics 2003; 15(3): 285-297. 
[8] Lynch JP. An overview of wireless structural health monitoring for civil structures.  
Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society of London. Series A, Mathematical and 
Physical Sciences 2007; 365(1851): 345-372.   
[9] Lynch JP, Wang Y, Loh K, Yi JH, Yun CB.  Performance Monitoring of the Geumdang Bridge 
using a Dense Network of High-Resolution Wireless Sensors, Smart Materials and Structures 
2006; 15(6): 1561-1575. 
[10] Wang Y, Lynch JP, Law KH. A Wireless Structural Health Monitoring System with 
Multithreaded Sensing Devices: Design and Validation, Structure and Infrastructure 
Engineering 2007; 3(2): 103-120. 
[11] Lynch JP, Wang Y, Lu KC, Hou TC, Loh CH. Post-seismic Damage Assessment of Steel 
Structures Instrumented with Self-Interrogating Wireless Sensors, Proc. of 8-th US National 
Conf. on Earthquake Engineering, paper No.1390, San Francisco, US, April, 2006. 
[12] Van Overschee P, De Moor B. Subspace algorithm for the stochastic identification problem. 
Automatica 1993; 29(3): 649-660. 
[13] Peeters B, De Roeck G. Reference-Based Stochastic Subspace Identification for Output-Only 
 
 
 
 
24
m
15
m
58
m
 
Figure 1a: Front view and top view of the Gi-Lu cable-stayed bridge. Locations of velocity 
meter-wireless sensor pairs installed (in vertical and transverse directions, for Test 1 and Test 2, 
respectively) along the bridge deck for the ambient vibration survey are also shown. 
 
 
 
Figure 1b: Installation location of the wireless sensors during Test 3; velocity meters are 
installed to record the ambient response of the deck and cables simultaneously. 
 
R-13   
R-27   
 
 
 
 
Figure 4: Flow chart of Stochastic Subspace Identification (SSI) technique. 
 
 
1. Form the output Hankel matrix sY  from the measurement 
sequence sy
%
 according to the user-defined index i . 
0 1 1 2 2
where  2 1
s s s s s s l r
j j i jy y y y y y
r i j
×
− + −⎡ ⎤= ∈⎣ ⎦
= + −
L L
%
R  
0 1 1
1 2
1 2 2
1 1
1 2
2 1 2 2 2
s s s
j
s s s
j
s s s s
i i i j ps li j
s s s s
i i i j f
s s s
i i i j
s s s
i i i j
y y y
y y y
y y y Y
Y
y y y Y
y y y
y y y
−
− + − ×
+ + −
+ + +
− + −
⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥≡ ≡ ∈⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
L
L
L L L L
L
L
L
L L L L
L
R
 
( )†s s s sT s sT s s li jf p f p p p p iY Y Y Y Y Y Y ×≡ = Ο ∈R
2. Calculate the orthogonal projection iΟ . 
3. Calculate SVD of iΟ  and determine the order n  by 
neglecting the smaller singular values in 2S . 
( ) 1 11 2 1 1 1
2 2
1 1 1
0
0
where  ,    and  
T
s T T
i T
li n n n j n
S V
USV U U U S V
S V
U S V× × ×
⎛ ⎞⎛ ⎞Ο = = ≈⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠
∈ ∈ ∈R R R
4. Calculate the extended observability matrix iΓ .
1/ 2
1 1
li n
i U S
×Γ = ∈R  
5. Calculate the system parameter matrices A  and C . 
†    and   the first  rows of 
where   denotes  without the last  rows
             denotes  without the first  rows
i i i
i i
i i
A C l
l
l
= Γ Γ = Γ
Γ Γ
Γ Γ
 
8. Calculate the mode shapes. 
N NCφΦ =
6. Solve the eigenvalue Nλ  and 
Eigenvectors 
Nλφ  of A . 
7. Determine the model frequency Nω  and damping 
coefficient Nξ  from the eigenvalue Nλ . 
( )
( )
( ) ( )
2 2
 rad sec    and   
2
Im
where  arctan   and  ln
Re
NN
N N
N N
N
N N N
N
ba
t a b
a b
ω ξπ
λ λλ
= =Δ +
⎛ ⎞= =⎜ ⎟⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6: Relationship between the estimated modal parameters, natural frequency (a) and 
damping ratio (b), and the number of block rows “ i ”. The sensitivity of the modal frequencies 
(a) and damping coefficients (b) can be identified with respect to “ i ”. 
 
 
 
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
10 30 50 70 90 110 130 150
Number of block rows i
Fr
eq
ue
nc
y (
Hz
)
1st mode 2nd mode 3rd mode 4th mode
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
16%
18%
20%
10 30 50 70 90 110 130 150
Number of block rows i
Da
mp
ing
 co
eff
ici
en
t
1st mode 2nd mode 3rd mode 4th mode
 
 
 
 
 
1st mode: 0.595Hz  2nd mode: 0.984Hz  
  
3rd mode: 1.544Hz  4th mode: 1.853Hz  
  
5th mode: 2.093Hz  6th mode: 3.158Hz  
  
7th mode: 4.785Hz  8th mode: 4.850Hz  
  
9th mode: 6.393Hz 10th Mode: 6.639Hz  
  
 
Figure 8a: Comparison of the identified bridge deck vertical mode shapes by using the reference-
based stochastic subspace identification and frequency domain decomposition methods. 
 
 
 
 
 
-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120
-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120
-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120
-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120
-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120
-120 -80 -40 0 40 80 120
 
 
 
 
(a) 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
0
100
200
300
400
500
Frequency (Hz)
Fo
ur
ier
 am
pli
tud
e
 
 
Horizontal measurement
Vertical measurement
Cable No.: R27
0.587
0.980
1.020
1.513
1.860
2.027
3.033 4.053
5.080
6.107
7.147
8.180
9.227
 
(b) 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
0
100
200
300
400
500
Frequency (Hz)
Fo
ur
ier
 am
pli
tud
e
 
 
Horizontal measurement
Vertical measurement
Cable No.: R13
0.600
0.980
1.540
1.806
1.860
3.607
5.413
7.227 9.073
 
(c) 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Frequency (Hz)
Fo
ur
ier
 am
pli
tud
e
 
 
Vertical measurement = T07
Vertical measurement of cable R27 = T11
0.60
1.02
0.60
0.98
1.52
1.52
1.86
1.86
2.02
2.00
3.04
4.06
3.16
4.96
5.04 6.40 7.16
8.20
 
Figure 9: Fourier amplitude spectrum of cable vertical and horizontal vibration data (Fig. 9a 
for cable R-27 and Fig. 9b for cable R-13). The number in the box is the identified dominant 
frequency of cable. Comparison on the Fourier amplitude spectrum of cable vibration and deck 
vertical vibration is shown in Fig.9c. 
 
 
 
 
 
出席國際会議報告書 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reference-based damage diagnosis of structure using  
Embedded statistical model 
 
Chin-Hsiung Loh, Ai-Lun Wu, Shieh-Gown Huang, Shu-Hsien Chao 
Department of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 106-17, Taiwan            
ABSTRACT 
This paper presents a damage assessment method using the measurement data of restoring force from a sub-structural 
system. A normalized hysteretic energy (NHE) for bi-linear model is developed as a function structural period and 
system ductility, which serves as a reference-based model for damage assessment. The stiffness degradation, strength 
deterioration and pinching effect in the inelastic hysteretic model are then determined from a series of nonlinear time 
history analysis of an inelastic SDOF system. Next, modification factors on the NHE for sensitivities of the inelastic 
model parameters are developed. Based on the identified model parameters by measuring the inelastic hysteretic 
behavior of the restoring force incorporated with the reference-based NHE model and the modification factor, the 
percentage of structural damage in relating to strength and stiffness degradation can be evaluated. Verification of the 
proposed method by simulation and experimental data of the cyclic loading and shaking table tests of the RC frame are 
conducted. 
Keywords: Inelastic hysteretic model, strength degradation, stiffness degradation, pinching effect, statistical analysis 
 
1. INTRODUCTION 
Structural health monitoring attempts to detect structural damage from environmental disturbance examine the damage 
extension and even damage location. Generally, system identification can be employed in damage assessment using two 
different methods, namely parametric identification and nonparametric identification. Through the result of 
identification damage can be evaluated. Several damage detection techniques for obtaining this information have been 
proposed in recent years [Doebling et al,, 1996]. Modal strain energy (MSE), i.e., a function of mode shape and 
elemental stiffness, has been adopted initially as the indicator for modal selection [Lim et al. 1994; Doebling et al,, 
1997], and has later been considered as a damage indicator [Stubbs et al. 1996; Shi et al. 2000,2002].  Zapico et al. 
(2001) have studied the application of neural networks to global damage of large-scale structures, such as bridges. Masri 
et al. (1996, 2000) presented a method for establishing a reference-based neural network by training the structural 
response such as restoring force from the “healthy” system. The output response (restoring force) from networks differs 
from the actual values once the measured response (velocity and displacement) is fed into the established networks. The 
error between the actual and predicted values may result from the change in structural characteristics, and can be viewed 
as the “damage extent”. To ensure computational efficiency when estimating seismic demand, Lee et al. (1999) 
presented an embedded statistical model on structural system reduction factor to calibrate the reference-based model by 
considering various hysteretic characteristics independently. The embedded model can be extended to different types of 
seismic demands in relate to structural damage properties. The effect of different hysteretic behaviors with regard to 
reference-based model damage assessment of the structure can be measured. 
This study presents a damage assessment methodology. A reference-based normalized bi-linear hysteretic energy (NHE) 
model is proposed as a function structural period and system ductility. Based on the Bouc-Wen hysteretic model the 
statistical-based modification factors on strength degradation, stiffness degradation and pinching effect with respect to 
the reference-based NHE model are then developed from a series of nonlinear time history response analysis with respect 
to various model parameters of an inelastic SDOF system. For damage assessment, from the measurement, the model 
parameters of the inelastic hysteretic behavior of the system are identified first, and incorporated with the proposed 
model, the percentage of structural strength and stiffness degradation can be clearly estimated. 
 
 
 
 
kγ , lγ : Degradation velocity 
sR , σ  and λ : The pinching effect of the hysteretic behavior 
 
1.2 Reference-based inelastic hysteretic model  
A reference-based hysteretic model has to be generated to perform the structural damage assessment, so that the model 
can be compared with the measured inelastic hysteretic system. A generalized bi-linear inelastic hysteretic model based 
on the proposed inelastic hysteretic model is presented to act as a reference model. Figure 1, the inelastic hysteretic 
diagram are presented with model parameters of 5.0,200,200,2.0,1,01.0 ====== slkh RN γγαα 3.0=σ  
and 5.0=λ . This model is defined as the reference-based inelastic hysteretic model. This figure also illustrates a 
hysteretic diagram comparing the exact bilinear model with the proposed generalized bilinear model. This reference-
based inelastic hysteretic model indicates that no strength and stiffness degradation occurs, and is similar to a bilinear 
hysteretic model. The response indices are then obtained by performing the seismic response analysis of the nonlinear 
SDOF system implemented by this reference-based inelastic hysteretic model. Based on statistical analysis, the seismic 
demand index can be calculated and represented as functions of system natural period and ductility ratios. This work the 
normalized hysteretic energy (NHE), proposed by Mahin and Bertero (1976, 1981), as the seismic demand index, 
defined as 
)( YY uF
HENHE =                                                                                  (5) 
Where HE denotes the hysteretic energy absorbed by the system for a specific level; Fy denotes the yield strength, and uy 
denotes the yield displacement. Because this qualitative measure includes the cumulative effects of repeated cycles of 
inelastic response, it is typically associated with structural damage.     
This reference-based model for normalized hysteretic energy (NHE) incorporated with the proposed inelastic hysteretic 
system is presented and defined as a function of the inelastic hysteretic model parameters: 
),,,,,,,,,( λσγγααμ slkh RNTfNHE =                                           (6) 
Because of the low sensitivity of parameters handN α  on the shape of restoring force diagram, the functional form 
only considers five parameters of the inelastic hysteretic model. The functional form can be reduced to 
),,,,,,,(2 λσγγαμ slk RTfNHE =                                                     (7) 
This functional form NHE, defined as refTNHE ),( μ , is established as a reference-based model. Sixteen earthquake 
ground motion data were chosen from rock site in Taiwan as input motion to the inelastic SDOF system to compute the 
NHE. The reference-based normalized hysteretic energy is proposed as a function structural period and ductility: 
23.0012.0,3.825.6
),(
+=−=
= −
μμ
μ
oo
Bo
oref
BAwhere
TATNHE                      (8) 
Figure 2 illustrates the regression results of NHE as a function of the structural period and ductility, as well as the 
regression line A0 and B0 as a function of the period. Equation (8) provides a reference model to compare with the 
measured NHE for damage assessment. 
2. DAMAGE ASSESSMENT USING STATISTICAL-BASED MODEL OF NHE  
Since the inelastic response of structural system during earthquake excitation does not act as the bi-linear hysteretic 
behavior, then the difference between the true inelastic response of the structural system and the reference-based 
bilinear hysteretic response must be examined [Chao and Loh, 2006]. Through sensitivity analysis on each of the 
inelastic hysteretic model parameter, the embedded statistical model of NHE is obtained by calibrating the reference-
base model with some modification factors to compensate the variation of model parameters on the hysteretic diagram. 
As mentioned earlier, several model parameters control the hysteretic behavior of the system, including kγ , lγ  
 
 
 
 
 
statistical models for normalized hysteretic energy. The embedded statistical models of hysteretic properties 
incorporated from the reference-based model were obtained. This model has one calibration factor and three 
modification factors corresponding to the post-yielding, stiffness, strength and pinching degradation in the hysteretic 
models.  
 
Table 1: Percentage change of NHE with respect to reference-based model  
                                                  for different values of ductility and α -value. 
NHE  α =0.01 α =0.05 α =0.10 α =0.15 
tμ =2 100.0% 99.1% 95.7% 93.8% 
tμ =3 100.0% 102.0% 101.6% 100.4% 
tμ =4 100.0% 103.8% 104.8% 102.9% 
tμ =5 100.0% 107.4% 108.4% 108.3% 
tμ =6 100.0% 110.9% 114.1% 113.4% 
 
  Table 2: Statistical model, which includes reference model and  modification factor, of NHE with respect to stiffness 
degradation, strength deterioration and pinching effect.  
stiffnessrefstiffness MTNHENHE ×= ),()( μ      
where kBstiffness eAM γ22= , and 1004.72 +−= μA , 0003.00005.02 −= μB  
 
strengthrefstrength MTNHENHE ×= ),()( μ  
where, lBstrength eAM
γ3
3=  and 39.03 5.136 −= μA , and 0012.00006.03 −= μB     
                                    
pinchingrefpinching MTNHENHE ×= ),()( μ      
where ))()(( 665544 BABABRAM spinching +++= λσ  and 83.19)(204 −−= μLnA   
92.109)(104 += μLnB , 3.98)(47.625 −= μLnA , 49.129)(74.185 +−= μLnB   
29.95)(76.186 +−= μLnA , and 35.52)(38.96 += μLnB        
 
3. VERIFICATION ON DAMAGE ASSESSMENT METHODOLOGY 
Damage is traditionally through the by calculating the damage index. The Park and Ang Damage Index, DIPA  (1985) and 
the Bozorgnia and Bertero Damage Index, 21 DIandDI  (2001 A,B), can only provide a quantitative measure of the 
damage. The proposed statistical-based damage assessment method can be adopted and verified using simulation data as 
well as the test data of a large structural system to qualify the damage caused by stiffness degradation, strength 
deterioration or pinching effect. Based on the measured structural dynamic responses of local system (or floor restoring 
force), the inelastic hysteretic model parameters are identified by the proposed inelastic model. The correction factor on 
the post yield stiffness of the inelastic hysteretic model between the reference model and the measured data is first 
determined. The modification factors of the stiffness and strength degradation are then obtained with the developed 
statistical model, from which the percentages of stiffness and strength degradation of the assessed structural system can 
be measured. 
Two different examples were employed to apply the proposed damage assessment scheme: (1) cyclic loading test data of 
two RC frames, (3) shaking table test data of RC frame. The inter-story restoring force and relative floor displacement 
 
 
 
 
Table 3: Identified model parameters from the restoring force diagram of specimen FE and SCFE in each floor. 
FE 1st Floor 2ne Floor SCFE 1st Floor 2ne Floor 
α  0.00 0.00 α  0.01  0.02  
N  0.48 1.71 N  1.04  0.66  
η  0.32 0.46 η  0.61  0.59  
kγ  12.06 17.91 kγ  38.28  31.99  
lγ  14.73 16.64 lγ  21.55  19.65  
sR  0.49 0.63 sR  0.76  0.82  
σ  0.19 0.24 σ  0.28  0.34  
λ  -0.04 0.02 λ  0.01  -0.01  
μ  3.25 2.25 μ  3.78  5.06  
RMS error 0.13 0.12 RMS error 0.19  0.20  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                          
Fig. 3a: Comparison on the force-displacement relationship between simulation and experimental results for specimen FE 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3b: Comparison on the force-displacement relationship between simulation and experimental results for specimen SCFE.  
 
 
 
FE
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  FE_1
st story FE_2nd story 
SCFE_1st story SCFE_2nd story 
SCFE
 
 
 
 
 
steel are 180kg/cm2 and 2800kg/cm2, respectively.  The 10-ton top floor and the 13-ton foundation are both designed to 
be strong comparing with the columns and are considered as rigid diaphragms. Preliminary modal analysis using 
displacement-based beam-column element with fiber sections using OpenSees (ver. 1.7.1) (McKenna and Fenves, 2000) 
shows that the dominant natural periods of the pure frame specimen is 0.24sec.   As shown in Figure 5b (top view or side 
view), each frame consists of four RC columns, a strong top floor and a strong foundation.  To excite the RC brick wall 
structure, various base excitations are applied by the shaking table. It should be noted that the white nose and seismic 
ground motion records are applied back to back sequentially in uni-axial direction. The response of the test structure to 
the Chi-Chi 1999 earthquake from station TCU078 seismic ground motion record is selected (for case of excitation 150 
gal, 500 gal, 1000 gal, 1500 gal and  1800 gal, back to back). Figure 5a shows the roof acceleration response for 
different level of input excitation. The hysteretic diagram (restoring force versus relative displacement) between input 
and output for different excitation level is also shown in Figure 6a. Inelastic behavior can be observed from the 
calculated system hysteretic behavior.  The modified Gauss-Newton method (Kunnath et al. (1997)) was used to identify 
the model parameters of the inelastic hysteretic model.  The above mentioned statistical-based damage diagnostic 
method was applied for different level of excitation data (for PGA=1000 gal, 1500 gal and 1800 gal input excitation and 
in between white noise excitation with PGA=50 gal was also applied, as shown in Figure 6b). Figure 6c shows that the 
percentage of stiffness degradation, strength deterioration and pinching with respect to the reference model. The damage 
index (Park & Ang damage index) for each test level are also evaluated as : DIPA=0.35 for 1000 gal, DIPA=0.38 for 1500 
gal  and DIPA=0.51 for 1800 gal, respectively. These results indicate that for different intensity level of excitation the 
structural system was subjected to different level of damage.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5. DISCUSSIONS AND CONCLUSIONS 
      This study presents a damage assessment method that can estimate not only the damage index, but also the 
percentage of strength and stiffness degradation. Two different statistical models for evaluating of damage are proposed, 
namely the reference-based model for normalized hysteretic energy (NHE) and the modification factors on reference-
based NHE for different hysteretic model parameters. The reference-based NHE  is established as a function of the 
structural natural period and the system ductility ratio. The effects of model parameters of the inelastic hysteretic model, 
such as post-yielding, stiffness degradation, strength deterioration and pinching effects on the NHE are then examined. 
The structural damage in relating to strength and stiffness degradation, pinching effect can be identified from the model 
parameters of the inelastic hysteretic behavior of the system and the statistically determined normalized hysteretic  
Fig. 5: (a) Recorded acceleration of top floor response for three different cases of input excitations, (b) Sketch of the test 
RC frame structure (unit: cm).   
(a) (b) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Doebling, S. W., Farrar, C. R., Prime, M. B., and Shevitz, D. W. “Damage identification and health monitoring of 
structure and mechanical systems from changes in their vibration characteristics: A literature review.” Research 
Rep. No. LA-13070-MS, ESA-EA, Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, N.M., (1996). 
2. Lim, T. W., and Kashangaki, T. A. L.. ‘‘Structural damage detection of space truss structures using best achievable 
eigenvectors.’’ AIAA J., Vol. 32, no. 5, 1049–1057 (1994). 
3. Doebling, S. W., Hemez, F. M., Peterson, L. D., and Farhat, C.. “Improved damage location accuracy using strain 
energy based on mode selection criteria.’’ AIAA J., Vol. 35, No. 4, 693–699 (1997). 
4. Stubbs, N., and Kim, J. T. (1996). ‘‘Damage localization in structures without base-line modal parameters.’’ AIAA 
J., Vol. 34, No. 8, 1644–1649. 
5.    Shi, Z. Y., Law, S. S., and Zhang, L. M.. “Structural damage detection from elemental modal strain energy change.” 
J. Eng. Mech., Vol. 126, No. 12, 1216–1223 (2000). 
6.    Shi, Z. Y., Law, S. S., and Zhang, L. M.. ‘‘Improved Damage Quantification from Elemental Modal Strain Energy 
Change.’’ J. Eng. Mech., Vol. 128, No. 5, 521–529 (2002). 
7.    Lee, L. H., Han, S.W. and Oh, Y.H, “Determination of ductility factor considering different hysteretic models”, 
Earthquake Engng. Struct. Dyn. 28, 957-977, (1999). 
8.    Zapico, J. L., Worden, K. and Molina, F. J., “Vibration-based damage assessment in steel frame using neural 
network,” Smart Materials and Structures, 10, 553-559 (2001). 
9.    Masri, S. F. et al.( 1996). ”Neural network approach to detection of changes in structural parameters,” Journal of 
Engineering Mechanics 122(5): 350-360. 
10.  Masri, S. F., A. Smyth , W.,  and  Chassiakos, A. G., Caughey, T. K., and Hunter, N. F.. “Application of neural 
networks for detection of changes in nonlinear systems,” Journal of Engineering Mechanics 126(7): 666-676,  
(2000). 
Fig.  7: Identified time-varying stiffness (equivalent linear system) for three different cases of input excitations 
 (500 gal, 1000 gal, ad 1500 gal).  
 
 
 
Input: 500 gal 
Input: 1000 gal 
Input: 1500 gal 
Time (sec)
Id
en
tif
ie
d 
St
iff
ne
ss
 (N
) 
 
 
 
 
Application of a wireless sensing and control system to control   
a torsion-coupling building with MR-dampers 
 
Sung-Chieh Hsua, Kung-Chun Lua, Pei-Yang Linb, Chin-Hsiung Loha, Jerome P. Lynchc  
aDepartment of Civil Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 10617, Taiwan            
bNational Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering, Taipei, Taiwan 
cDept. of Civil & Environmental Eng., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA  
ABSTRACT 
This study examines the potential use of wireless communication and embedded computing technologies (WiSSCon) 
within real-time structural control applications. Based on the implementation of the prototype WiSSCon system in a 
three story steel test structure with significant eccentricity, a centralized control architecture is implemented to mitigate 
the lateral and torsional response of the test structure using two MR dampers installed in the first story. During the test, a 
large earthquake time history is applied (El Centro) at the structure base using a shaking table.  Three major performance 
attributes of the wireless control system were examined: (1) validation of the reliability of wireless communications for 
real-time structural control applications, (2) validation of a modified exponential damper model embedded in the 
wireless sensors to operate the MR dampers, and (3) exploration of control effectiveness when using WiSSCon in a 
centralized architectural configuration.   
Keywords: Wireless active sensing system, H2-LQG control algorithm, MR-damper  
 
4. INTRODUCTION 
Active structural control has been successfully applied in many buildings and bridges. Yet, there are a number of 
challenges that remain. These challenges include: (1) the need to reduce cost and maintenance, (2) reliance on external 
power, (3) system reliability and robustness, and (4) acceptance by the profession [Dyke et al. 1996]. Semi-active control 
strategies appear to be particularly promising. For the installation of semi-active control devices in structures, extensive 
lengths of wires are often needed to connect sensors (to provide real-time state feedback) with a controller where control 
forces are calculated.  To improve the disadvantage of the wired control system, a wireless sensing and control system 
needs to be developed. With regards to the sensing system, a wireless system could decrease the trouble encountered 
when monitoring large-scale structures with wired systems [Straser and Kiremidjian, 1998]. Recently, Lynch et al. [2004] 
extended the wireless monitoring system to include embedded damage identification algorithms. Lynch et al. [2006a] 
also proposed a closed-loop control strategy with MR dampers using wireless sensor networks. The work opens up the 
possibility of applying wireless sensor networks to real-time structural control problems. Recently, work on the 
experimental verification of wireless sensing and control system to control a 3-story symmetric structure using MR-
dampers subjected to 1-D earthquake excitation had been conducted by Loh et al.  [2007]. The advantages of using 
wireless sensors for structural sensing and control had been verified using a symmetric building structure in the 
laboratory.  In order to understand the applicability of a wireless control system to control a more complicated dynamic  
structural response to earthquake excitation, a torsion-coupling building structure has been designed. The potential use of 
the wireless sensing and control system to control this torsion-coupling building structure is verified herein.  
Various semi-active devices have been proposed to generate control forces using viscoelastic-plastic fluids that can 
dissipate vibration energy in a structural system. For example magnetorheological  (MR) dampers are a new class of 
semi-active control device that uses MR fluids to provide controllable dampers that are quite promising for civil 
engineering applications [Spencer et al. 1997; Li et al. 2000; Jansen et al. 2000; Jalili et al. 2002]. This paper presents 
the potential use of wireless communication and embedded computing technologies within real-time structural control 
applications to control a torsion-coupling steel structure using two MR-dampers installed in the first floor. Then the H2-
LQG acceleration feedback control strategy is proposed for controlling the MR-damper. The effectiveness of the 
proposed wireless control algorithms and the usefulness of MR-dampers for the structural response reduction (including 
torsion-coupling) are demonstrated.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2: Comparison of the force-displacement and force-velocity relationship of MR-dampers between the performance test data 
and the numerical simulation: (a) for the case of random displacement and random voltage (20kN MR-damper); (b) for the 
case of random displacement and random voltage (7kN MR-damper). 
 
respectively) are shown in Fig. 2 for the case of a random displacement applied to the dampers while random voltage 
values are applied; good agreement is observed in the damper’s force-velocity relationship obtained during testing and 
simulation. All coefficients of this model (in Eq. 1) depend on the MR-damper’s voltage level, with the driving voltage 
in this experiment ranging from 0 to 1.2 V. 
5.3 Sensing System 
Two stand-along sensing systems are included in the structure for this experiment. The first group of sensors are 
intended to measure the structural responses at each floor which are fed to controllers to calculate the control forces (i.e. 
acceleration response from each floor). The second group of sensors are installed to measure relative velocity between 
the ends of each MR-damper. These relative responses (e.g. velocity between two floors) are used to calculate the 
voltage to be applied to the MR-damper.  
 
A prototype system, WiSSCon (Wireless Structural Sensing and Control System), designed for real-time wireless 
structural sensing and feedback control [Wang et al. 2005 and Lynch et al. 2006] is implemented to control the structure.  
In the WiSSCon system, wireless communication is used for the feedback of structural response data to wireless sensors 
serving as the control kernel (i.e. to calculate control solutions based on received data). The wireless sensing unit is 
responsible for recording the dynamic response of the structure while the wireless control unit receives responses and 
calculates a control action to be accomplished by the actuators.  For the calculation of control forces at each time-step, 
the wireless sensing unit designated as the control kernel (termed the wireless control unit) utilizes its local embedded 
computing resources to quickly process sensor data, generate control signals, and apply control commands to structural 
actuators within the designated time-step duration.  
5.4 Experimental setup 
The 3-story steel frame structure previously described is selected for testing on the shaking table of NCREE. Two MR 
dampers are installed in the first floor using invert V-type braces. The stiffness of the bracing was designed with stiffness 
much larger than the stiffness of each floor. As shown in Fig. 3a, a 7 kN MR-damper is installed close to the side where 
the eccentric masses are located while a 20 kN MR-damper is installed away from the location of the eccentric masses. 
As shown in Fig. 3b, sensing units U1 to U3 are in charge of monitoring the acceleration of each floor and broadcasting 
response data to the sensing and control units U1a and U1b at the base of the building. Actuation boards are connected to 
both U1a and U1b to allow each wireless sensor to output voltage signals.  They wirelessly receive response data from 
all sensing units to conduct the calculation of control voltages to be applied to the MR-dampers; U1a will control the 
20kN MR-damper and U1b unit will control the 7kN MR-damper. To evaluate the performance of the wireless control 
systems, the El Centro earthquake ground motion, normalized to PGA=200 gal, is the desired input ground motion to be  
applied by the shaking table. In the microcontroller of wireless sensors U1a and U1b, software is needed: one software 
module is the Kalman estimator (to estimate the full state response based on the measured acceleration data) and the 
other is to calculate the command voltage applied by the actuation unit. On the first floor, the two wireless sensors acting 
(a) 20kN- Random displacement and voltage  (b) 7kN – Random displacement and voltage 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4: Photo of the test structure; (a) 3-story steel frame on NCREE shaking table, and 
(b) a close-up view of the damper installation in the first floor. 
 
used to estimate the full state response from the measurement vector.  After estimation, the control force is calculated 
using the time-invariant gain matrix and the state estimate. The objective function of the H2 control algorithm is defined 
by: 
∑
=
×× +=
1
0kk
22
T
1212
T ]}[][][][{
k
kkkk uRuzQzJ                                                     (2) 
where Q is a weighting matrix related to the structural system response and R is another weighting matrix related to the 
control force. z[k] is the state vector defined as { }321321321321 θθθθθθ &&&&&& xxxxxxz = .  Through minimization of the 
objective function, J, the control force can be obtained: 
][][)2(][ 122d
T
d
1
d
T
d kkk zGzPABPBBRu ×
− =+−=                                            (3) 
where G is the control gain matrix. Eq. 3 shows that the control force, u[k], is associated with the full-state vector z[k]. 
Considering the limited number of sensors installed in the structure, a Kalman estimator transforms response 
measurements into an estimate of the full-state vector. 
To minimize computation time, a voltage-velocity-command force relationship is pre-embedded in the microcontroller of 
the wireless sensors interfaced to the MR-dampers. To embed the control surface into the microcontroller, as shown in 
Fig. 5, it is necessary to discretize the control surface so that the control voltage can be obtained from the measured 
damper velocity and the desired control force (also calculated by the microcontroller). Thirteen levels of voltage 
(between 0 and 1.2 V) are pre-assigned; based on the measured velocity and the calculated command force, the voltage 
for the MR-damper can be roughly estimated and sent to the VCCS to convert the voltage into an equivalent current used 
to attain the MR-damper damping coefficient.  Fig.6 shows the computation embedded in the WiSSCon system.   
  
In this study three different control strategies are considered:   
(1) Passive-off case: the voltage of the two MR-dampers are both set to 0 V;  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2) Passive-on case: the voltage of the two MR-dampers are both set to 1.2 V;  
(3) H2-LQG centralized control using the WiSSCon system.  
 
Due to the limitation of the wireless communication in the WiSSCon system the sampling rate for applying voltage 
command signals to the MR dampers is set at 10 Hz.  
6.2 Validation on wireless communication 
In order to verify the measurement accuracy of the wireless control system and the validity of the embedded algorithms, 
the command voltage generated by the wireless control system will be compared to that recorded by the NCREE tethered 
data acquisition system. As presented in Fig. 7, the command voltage calculated by the wireless sensor and applied to an 
MR damper during the El Centro earthquake record is identical to that measured by the tethered data acquisition system. 
Next, the acceleration response of the structure, as measured by each wireless sensor, is compared to the same 
acceleration response time-history wirelessly received by the other wireless sensors during an excitation.  This 
comparison is intended to identify any issues associated with the communication of data in the wireless control system.  
As shown in Fig. 8, the comparison of the recorded acceleration data between the NCREE wired data acquisition system 
and the wireless sensors show remarkable agreement with no data loss identified during communication. 
7. DISCUSSIONS ON THE EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS  
In this control experiment, three different control systems are implemented: (1) NCREE data acquisition system 
(Pacific Series 5500 Digital Conditioning System with a sample rate of 200Hz) for passive-on and (2) passive-off control 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 8: Comparison on the recorded acceleration data between NCREE wired data acquisition system and wireless 
communication module; (a) from acceleration sensor of A3a, (b) from acceleration sensor of A3b. 
 
Location: A3a (a) 
Location: A3b  
A
cc
el
er
at
io
n 
(m
/s
ec
/s
ec
) 
(b) 
 
 
 
 
of the structural system, it is observed that for all of the floors, acceleration response is greatly reduced using the wireless 
H2-LQG control algorithm.  The closed-loop control solution is certainly better than the cases of passive-on and passive-
off. As for torsion reduction (expressed in terms of relative displacement between two sensors on the same floor) the 
control effect is not so obvious. It is concluded that centralized control using the wireless sensing system can reach the 
control effectiveness even for complex structural behavior (torsion-coupling). To have a better control effectiveness, 
selection of weighting matrices (Q and R) needs to be carefully examined in future study. 
8. CONCLUSIONS  
From the shaking table test of the 3-story torsion-coupling steel frame with the installation of two MR-dampers in the 
first floor, the control effectiveness of the wireless control system is examined.  To provide a benchmark for comparison 
purposes, a wired control system using a wired data acquisition system permanently installed in the NCREE shaking 
table facility is implemented.  Three major performance attributes of the wireless control system were examined: (1) 
validation of the reliability of wireless communication for real-time applications, particularly on the control of the 
complicated structure, (2) validation of  the exponential damper model embedded in the wireless sensors to operate the 
MR dampers, and (3) exploration between the control effectiveness when using WiSSCon in a centralized architectural  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 10: Comparison of the force-displacement and force-velocity diagram between passive-on and passive-off, passive-off and 
H2-LQG wireless control for the 7kN MR-damper.     
 
 
(a) Damper force vs. displacement  
(b) Damper force vs. velocity 
Passive-off vs. Wireless Centralized Control 
Passive-off vs. Wireless Centralized Control 
Passive on vs. passive off 
Passive on vs. passive off 
