 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
使用新型色散傾斜補償之波長多工光纖傳輸研究 
The study of WDM fiber transmission systems using new type 
dispersion slope compensator 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2215-E-259-003 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：董正成 副教授   東華大學 電機工程學系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
本計畫研究『新型波長多工色散傾斜
補償器』。具有不同中心頻率的光纖光柵
(FBG)直接寫在色散補償光纖的不同位
置，作為反射濾波器，使不同波道的信號
在不同位置被反射，達到波長多工傳輸系
統中每個波道的色散累積值，皆能在單一
色散補償光纖上獲得完全補償。相較於傳
統的架構，新型的波長多工色散補償器具
有低損耗、易設計、低價格的優點。 
在實驗及理論模擬上探討『新型波長
多工色散傾斜補償器』的特性，進行設計、
製作出高效能色散補償器，並實際使用在
光纖傳輸系統。首先模擬波長多工光纖系
統之色散補償，對不同波道得出最佳之能
量提高因子(energy enhancement factor)、脈
衝寬度及雜訊濾波器之適當頻寬。在實驗
上將不同中心頻率之光纖光柵直接寫在色
散補償光纖的適當位置，製造出新型的波
長多工色散補償器。此補償器除了色散傾
斜補償之功能，在過濾雜訊、減低四波混
合及拉曼串音的非線性效應上有很好的表
現。 
 
關鍵詞：光纖；色散傾斜補償；波長多工；
光纖光柵 
 
Abstract 
 
I study a new type of dispersion slope 
compensator in WDM fiber transmission 
system. The fiber Bragg gratings (FBG) with 
different central frequencies, playing the role 
of bandpass filters, can be written at the 
different positions of a dispersion 
compensation fiber (DCF) to reflect the 
signals of different channels in WDM system. 
Therefore, the signals of different channels 
suffer different dispersion due to their 
different propagating distances in the DCF. 
The major merits of our scheme are that the 
accumulated dispersion of different channels 
can be in-line compensated, i.e., there are no 
division and combining loss, and the total 
length of DCF can be greatly reduced. 
This project is mainly to study the new 
type of dispersion slope compensator 
theoretically and experimentally. We will 
design the dispersion slope compensator and 
build the WDM dispersion-managed fiber 
transmission systems by using the new type 
of dispersion slope compensator. Firstly, we 
will develop the simulation program of the 
fiber transmission system with dispersion 
compensation to optimize the energy 
enhancement factor of pulse, the pulse width, 
and the bandwidth of optical filter. In 
experiment, we can mask grating with 
different center frequency on the different 
position of DCF to fabricate the new type of 
dispersion slope compensator. In addition to 
compensate the accumulated dispersion of 
transmission fiber, the new type compensator 
can be used to filter noise and reduce the 
nonlinear effect of FWM and Raman 
crosstalk. 
 
Keywords: Optical fiber、Dispersion slope 
compensation、Wavelength 
division multiplexing、Fiber 
Bragg grating 
 
二、前言 
 
For long distance optical fiber 
 4
compensation fiber is -85 ps/km/nm [5].  
In accordance with the object of new 
dispersion slope compensator we proposed, 
the dispersion slope compensator includes a 
dispersion compensation fiber, an optical 
circulator, and a plurality of fiber gratings. 
The optical circulator is connected between 
an optical fiber and the dispersion 
compensation fiber for introducing mixed 
optical signals propagating in the optical 
fiber into the dispersion compensation fiber. 
The fiber gratings are provided at 
predetermined positions of the dispersion 
compensation fiber so as to respectively 
reflect the mixed optical signals back to the 
transmission fiber through the optical 
circulator. Thus, accumulated dispersion of 
the mixed optical signals are fully 
compensated due to different propagating 
distances of each of the mixed signals in the 
dispersion compensation fiber. 
The reflectivity of each fiber gratings in 
the new dispersion slope compensator is 
predetermined by controlling the time period 
for exposing the germanium doped silicon 
fiber to ultraviolet rays in the manufacturing 
process. The optical signal propagating a 
long distance in the dispersion compensation 
fiber corresponds to the fiber gratings of high 
reflectivity. On the other hand, the optical 
signal propagating a short distance in the 
dispersion compensation fiber corresponds to 
the fiber grating of low reflectivity. In the 
way, the energies of optical signals are made 
equal to each other. 
We demonstrate a WDM transmission 
system using linear return-to-zero optical 
pulses of 24 ps pulsewidth. Without the DSC, 
Fig. 3 shows the pulsewidth of linear pulses 
after 50 km transmission. The pulsewidths 
are 38.42, 42.41 and 44.08 ps for three 
channels. It is seen that the pulses are 
broadened due to the group velocity 
dispersion. The accumulated dispersions are 
different for every channel. To compensate 
for the accumulated dispersion of each 
channel, we use FBGs with different center 
frequencies and positions for different 
dispersion compensations. The third-order 
dispersion of the fiber is positive. The 
optimum written position of each FBG along 
the dispersion compensation fiber for 
channels I, II, and III are 5.05, 5.18, and 5.32 
km, respectively. Thus, the dispersion 
compensation length for channel I, II, and III 
are 10.1, 10.36, and 10.63 km, respectively. 
By using the set of FBGs written at optimum 
position, Fig. 4 shows the pulsewidth of each 
channel pulses along 50 km transmission. 
The output pulsewidth of each channel pulse 
is recovered. The output spectrum of WDM 
signals is shown in Fig. 5. Therefore, the 
method can be used in an in-line 
compensator to compensate the accumulated 
dispersion of the each channel in a WDM 
system. 
Conclusion, the optical circulator, the 
dispersion compensation fiber and the fiber 
gratings used in the new dispersion 
compensator are all commercially available 
and inexpensive. The cost of building the 
dispersion slope compensation WDM 
transmission system can be greatly reduced. 
 
五、計畫成果自評 
 
This project has been performed 
thoroughly. The results are outstanding in the 
respects of the use of dispersion slope 
compensation in transmission systems. We 
have demonstrate a WDM dispersion slope 
compensation transmission system. The DSC 
includes a dispersion compensation fiber, an 
optical circulator and a series of fiber Bragg 
grating with different central wavelength. 
The experimental performance is represented 
by eye and data patterns, and optical 
spectrum. 
 
六、參考文獻 
 
[1]  E. Pincemin, D. Grot, C. Borsier, J. D. 
Ania-Castanon, and S. K. Turistsyn, 
“Impact of the fiber type and dispersion 
management on the performance of an 
NRZ 16 x 40 Gb/s DWDM transmission 
system,” IEEE Photon. Technol. Lett., 
vol. 16, pp. 2362-2364, 2004. 
[2]  T. Otani, M. Hayashi, M. Daikoku, K. 
Ogaki, Y. Nagao, K. Nishijima and M. 
Suzuki, “Investigation of system 
upgradability over installed fiber-optic 
cable using 40-Gb/s WDM signals 
toward multiterabit optical networks”, J. 
