 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
訊號處理在動力學疾病上抑制功能之研究 
Studies of inhibitory function in dynamical diseases via signal processing 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2221-E-007-004 
執行期限：99年 8月 1日至 100年 7月 31日 
主持人：張翔   國立清華大學電機系 
計畫參與人員：江孟儒  國立清華大學電機系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
根據動力學疾病的定義，人身是一複雜動力
系統，其中充滿着各式各樣的節律，它們不但彼
此作用且與外界環境交互作用，當生理節律消失
或超出正常範圍時，身體所產生的不諧和狀態，
即為動力學疾病。我們以分形布朗運動及分形高
斯雜訊理論為模型，在頻譜分析與分形估計之
下，探討神經抑制功能是否存在。結果顯示抑制
功能不存在，整個西方醫學的生理、病理、診斷、
治療方式均產生了極大的偏差。它亟需我們的重
新評價。 
 
關鍵詞：譜測度分析、分形理論、神經工程。 
 
Abstract 
 
According to the definition of dynamical 
diseases, human body is a complex dynamical 
system full of various kinds of rhythms. These 
rhythms will not only interact among themselves, 
but also interact with the external environment. 
Dynamical disease is defined as the condition that 
the rhythms disappear or they are out of normal 
boundary. Under such conditions, the body is not in 
harmony and it is imperative to use the techniques 
of signal processing in examining the normal and 
pathological conditions.  
 
Based on the fractal dimension estimation and 
spectral analysis of the theories of fractional 
Brownian motion and fractional Gaussian noise, we 
have found out that the neuromuscular functions 
and the mechanism of micturition are actually 
synergic rather than inhibitory.   
 
Hence, the physiology, pathology, diagnosis, 
and treatment of Western medicine are based on a 
false assumption. It is imperative to reevaluate the 
physiological functions via our signal processing 
techniques.  
 
Keywords: spectral measure analysis, fractal theory 
neural engineering.  
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
In neuroscience, there are two important tenets. One 
is the concept of inhibition, and the other is neuron 
doctrine. These two are also intertwined. As to the 
first tenet of inhibition, it began with the tetanic 
excitation of vagus nerve that caused a standstill of 
the frog’s heart by the brothers of Weber in 1845 
[1]. Some of the opponents of this view contended 
that the inhibition was due to over-stimulation and 
exhaustion of these nerve fibers. Hence, it is an 
artifact. In spite of this opposition, Valentin adopted 
similar idea in micturition by suggesting that the 
striated musculature of external urethral sphincter 
(EUS) was voluntarily relaxed while the bladder 
contracted [2]. In the same vein, the volitional 
elbow flexion was believed to display reciprocal 
innervations of antagonistic muscles [3]. This 
concept was referred to as reciprocal inhibition 
[3-8]. Thus, the idea of inhibition has included 
skeletal, smooth, and heart muscles altogether. 
Naturally, it was also required to assume that there 
were at least two groups of neurons to innervate 
these muscles. Interactions within each group were 
excitatory, but the interactions between the two 
were inhibitory. The motor interneurons that were 
thought to be responsible for the inhibition were 
called Renshaw cells [9, 10]. However, the real 
functions and roles of these cells in motor control 
and behavior were still lacking as could be seen 
from the following quotes of a recent review paper 
[11]: 
 4
四、結論 
  
Based on the fractal dimension estimation and 
spectral analysis of the theories of fractional 
Brownian motion and fractional Gaussian noise, we 
have found out that the neuromuscular functions 
and the mechanism of micturition are actually 
synergic rather than inhibitory. It is imperative to 
study in the future how the cooperation of 
physiological functions is achieved.  
  
五、參考文獻 
 
[1] E. A. Sharpey-Schäfer, Textbook of Physiology. 
Vols. 1 & 2. Y. J. Pentland, 1898 & 1900. 
[2] O. R. Langworhty, L. C. Kolb, and L. G. Lewis, 
Physiology of Micturition. Baltimore: The Williams 
& Wilkins Company, 1940. 
[3] C. S. Sherrington, The Integrative Action of the 
Nervous System. London, Cambridge Univ. Press, 
1906. 
[4] M. D. K. Breteler, K. J. Simura, and M. Flanders, 
“Timing of muscle activation in a hand movement 
sequence,” Cerebral Cortex Vol. 17, 2007, pp. 
803-815. 
[5] T. G. Brown, “On the nature of the fundamental 
activity of the nervous centres; together with an 
analysis of the conditioning of rhythmic activity in 
progression, and a theory of the evolution of function 
in the nervous system,” J Physiol. Vol. 48, 1914, pp. 
18-46. 
[6] T. S. Buchanan, G. P. Rovai, and W. Z. Rymer, 
“Strategies for muscle activation during isometric 
torque generation at the human elbow,” J. 
Neurophysiol. Vol. 62, 1989, pp. 1201-1212. 
[7] M. E. Busse, C. M. Wiles, and R. W. M. V Deursen,. 
“Muscle co-activation in neurological conditions,” 
Physical Therapy Reviews Vol. 10, 2005, pp. 
247-252. 
[8] G. E. Caldwell, J. C. Jamison, and S. Lee, 
“Amplitude and frequency measures of surface 
electromyography during dual task elbow torque 
production,” Eur. J. Appl. Physiol. Occup. Physiol. 
Vol. 66, 1993, pp. 349-356. 
[9] J. C. Eccles, “Excitatory and inhibitory synaptic 
action,” Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sri., Vol. 81, 1959, pp. 
247-264. 
[10] J. G. Nicholls, A. R. Martin, B. G. Wallace, and P. A. 
Fuchs, From Neuron to Brain: A Cellular and 
Molecular Approach to the Function of the Nervous 
System. Fourth Edition, Sinauer Associates, 2001. 
[11] F. J. Alvarez and R. E. W. Fyffe, “The continuing 
case for the Renshaw cell,” J. Physiol. Vol. 584, 
2007, pp. 31–45. 
[12] S. Chang, M. J. ,Chiang, S. J. Li, S. J. Hu, H.Y. 
Cheng, S. H. Hsieh, and C. L. Cheng, “The 
cooperative phenomenon of autonomic nervous 
system in urine storage,” Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 52, 
2009, pp. 72-80. 
[13] S. Chang, S. J. Hu, and W. C. Lin, “Fractal dynamics 
and synchronization of rhythms in urodynamics of 
female Wistar rats,” J. Neurosci. Meth. Vol. 139, 
2004, pp. 271-279. 
[14] S. Chang, S. J. Li, S. J. Hu, H.Y. Cheng, S. H. Hsieh, 
and C. L. Cheng, “Dynamic performance evaluation 
on the synergy of micturition in spinal cord-injured 
female rats under pharmacological effects,” Chinese 
J. Physiol. Vol. 52, 2009, pp. 81-92. 
[15] S. Chang, S. T. Mao, S. J. Hu, W. C. Lin, and C. L. 
Cheng, “Studies of detrusor-sphincter synergia and 
dyssynergia during micturition in rats via fractional 
Brownian motion,” IEEE Trans. Biomed. Eng. Vol. 
47 2000, pp. 1066-1073. 
[16] S. Chang, S. T. Mao, T. P. Kuo, S. J. Hu, W. C. Lin 
and C. L. Cheng, “Fractal geometry in urodynamics 
of lower urinary tract,” Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 42, 
1999, pp. 25-31. 
[17] S. Chang, M. C. Hsyu, H.Y. Cheng, S. H. Hsieh, 
“Synergic co-activation of muscles in elbow flexion 
via fractional Brownian motion,” Chinese J. Physiol. 
Vol. 51, 2008, pp. 376-386. 
[18] S. Chang, M. C. Hsyu, H.Y. Cheng, S. H. Hsieh, and 
C. C. Lin, “Synergic co-activation in forearm 
pronation,” Ann. Biomed. Eng. Vol. 36, 2008, pp. 
2002-2018,  
[19] W. Penfield, “Epilepsy and surgical therapy,” Arch. 
Neurol. and Psych., Vol. 36, 1936, pp. 449-484.. 
  
 
二、與會心得 
報告完畢之後，在座之中西醫專家展開熱烈討論。主持人特別做了如下的評論 “感謝
您的講演，非常之好的講演大大開闊了我們的眼界。我們期待在您的指導下，能開展
一些有意義的應用性工作。＂  
此次參加大會能夠與世界各國專家學者一起討論，並展示我們的研究成果，相信可
以令人了解到我們研究的領先地位。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
 
無 
四、建議 
 
下次我們也可以主辦類似會議以彰顯我們的領先地位！  
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
DVD光碟之論文集。 
 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
identically distributed complex standard Gaussian random 
variables that will contribute to the amplitudes and phases. In 
order to make sure that the total energy is finite in the 2L  
sense, we consider instead the  
dx
nxi
e
n n
t
tzE
πξ 2
0
)( ∑
∞
−∞== ∫ .                           
(1)                       Now, this integral converges 
almost surely and in the 2L  sense [17]. This expression is 
exactly the definition of Brownian motion adopted by Wiener 
[17] from the viewpoint of random waves. Notice that the 
integrated version of the electromagnetic field of dipole 
oscillators in Eq. (1) is introduced to make sure the total 
radiation energy at a generic point of the filed is finite. One of 
its advantages is that we can avoid the energy divergence 
problem one often encounters in quantum electrodynamics or 
quantum field theory. Here the increments of )(tzE are 
stationary and independent. However, in various applications 
of thermal radiation and modern physics, it is helpful to 
generalize it so as to include the case that the increments are in 
fact dependent. Thus, we modify the )(tzE  as follows: let { }),( ),( ∞−∞∈ttHE  be the fractional electric (or magnetic) 
field with Hurst parameter 0 < H < 1 starting with value 0e  
at time 0 and is denoted by   
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡ −+−−−+Γ=− ∫ ∫∞−
−−−
0
0
2/12/12/1
0 )()()(])()[()2/1(
1)( sdEstsdEsst
H
etE z
t
H
z
HH
H
for 0>t , where 0)0( eHE = . The definition is similar for the 
case 0<t . This expression is reduced to )(tzE when H = 1/2. 
Hence, it can be viewed as a generalization of the 
electromagnetic field in Eq. (1). This expression is the same as 
the so-called FBM defined in Ref. [18]. In addition, the spectral 
representation of the fractional electromagnetic field with the 
Hurst exponent 0 < H < 1 can be written as [19]:          
)(
~)2/1(1
)(2
)( νν
ν
νσ
dM
H
i
ti
e
HC
tHE
−−∫
∞
∞−
−= (2) 
where ππν
ν
ν
HHHdHHC sin)2(/0 12
2/
2
sin
8)(
2
2 Γ=∫
∞
+= , and )(
~
νdM is 
a complex-valued Gaussian random measure that satisfies 
)(
~
)(
~
νν dMdM =  and νν ddME =
2
)(
~
. Notice that the σ  in 
Eq. (2) is used to take into account all six components of the 
electromagnetic field strengths. Here, we still use the same 
notation )(tHE so that this article will not have too many 
symbols floating around.  
To obtain the spectral density of radiation, the increments 
of )(tHE  will be used below. In addition, only two properties 
of the FBM will be needed in our derivation. First, the 
fractional electromagnetic field is self-similar in the sense that 
the distribution of )(tHE will be equal to that of )(atHE
H
a
− . 
Here, the constant a represents the range of electromagnetic 
bandwidth that we are interested in. Secondly, its increments 
are stationary and are denoted as )()()( tHEttHEtHY −∆+≡  
for ),( ∞−∞∈t , where t∆ is the sampling rate. Hence, by scaling 
the process with parameter a, )()()( atHEtatHEatHY −∆+≡  
can be obtained from Eq. (2) as follows [15]:  
      
)(
~)2/1(1
)(2
)( ωω
ω
ωωσ
dM
H
i
ti
etia
e
HC
atHY
−−∫
∞
∞−
−∆=               
(3) 
To calculate its spectral density, we first let νω =a  in Eq. 
(3) and use the change of variable formula, to get 
 )/(
~)2/1(
/
/
1
/
)(2
)( adM
H
a
ai
ati
eti
e
HC
atHY ννν
ννσ −−∫
∞
∞−
−∆= . 
The spectral density for )(atHY  is then obtained by computing 
the covariance function on the left hand side of the above 
equation and reading off the spectral density function from its 
Fourier representation on the right via the Bochner’s theorem. 
Here, for simplicity, we will take the sampling rate t∆ to be 1:    
H
aH
ai
e
HC
vu
2
12
2
1
/
)(
2
2
2
+
−
=
ν
νσ
 .                              
(4) 
This expression is the derived spectral density function for the 
radiation formula. In Eq. (4), there are three parameters: 
,, aH and σ  need to be determined. First of all, the Hurst 
parameter H  is related to the average electromagnetic field 
intensities and it is inversely proportional to temperature. The 
temperatures we are interested in comparing with the Planck’s 
formula 
1
/
1
3
3
8
−
= kTh
ec
h
u ν
νπ
ν are in KTK 000,90900 << . For 
the spontaneous emission, the empirical formula we will use is 
KHT 450=  for 5.0005.0 << H . Note that this formula is very 
similar to the Wien’s displacement law CT =maxλ . Secondly, 
the parameter a  stands for the range of interest in 
electromagnetic spectrum. Given the value of maxν , it is 
obtained by solving the following nonlinear equation 
( ) )2/max(tan2/212/max aHa νν += . This equation is actually 
obtained by taking the derivative of Eq. (4) with respect to ν  
at maxν . Finally, σ  is obtained by making sure that the 
maximal value of vu  is the same as obtained experimentally 
at maxν . To sum up, we list the steps for parameters 
determination under KTK 000,90900 << as follows: 
selective photoelectric effects, all we have to do is to put Fig. 1 
on top of Fig. 2 and slide the former over the latter from the left 
to right. It is clear that the energy of the photo electricity will 
depend on how much the frequency (not the intensity) of 
radiation is overlapped with the pass band. Combining these 
two results, it shows that the emission and absorption of 
radiation can be explained very well by the undulatory theory. 
Since we know already that the transmission of radiation and 
light have to be explained in terms of waves, we can claim that 
the theory of optics, from generation, transmission, to 
absorption can be explained successfully without invoking the 
quantum theory at all.  
In other papers of this conference, we will try to use FBM 
and its increments to solve some open problems in quantum 
well, astronomy, and foundations of TCM [20, 21].   
V. CONCLUDING REMARKS  
It can be seen from the previous sections that the 
spontaneous emission of blackbody radiation can be modeled 
as undulatory FBM with 5.0<H  and the spiking phenomena 
in maser and laser dynamics can be explained under undulatory 
FBM with 15.0 << H . It has also been used to explain the 
selective effects in photo electricity. Hence, the theory of optics 
can be explained by the undulatory model without invoking the 
photon theory or quantum optics at all. It is believed that other 
phase transition problems in modern physics and physiology 
can also be explained by using the derivations in this paper. For 
instance, the urine storage and micturition problems in the 
lower urinary tract of physiology can also be explained from 
the perspective of phase transition. Consequently, physiology 
and physics are unified under the same notion of undulatory 
FBM.  
0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
x 10
14
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
x 10-15   Planck's  blackbody radiation and increments of FBM 
E
ne
rg
y 
de
ns
ity
Frequency (Hz)
 
 
data1
data2
data3
data4
data5
data6
 
Figure 1. Comparisons of Planck’s radiation formula with the increments   
 of the FBM over the range of interest with T=6000K (data 1 and 6), 
 5000K (data 2 and 5) , and  4000K (data 3 and 4). 
   
0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5
x 1015
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
x 10-15
Frequency (Hz)
sp
ec
tra
l d
en
si
ty
Fractional Brownian Motion and Blackbody Radiation formulae
 
 
data1
data2
      
Figure 2. Comparison of blackbody radiation formula with the 
increments    of the FBM over the range of interest and beyond that 
range 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported in part under the grant number 
NSC 99-2221-E-007-004 of NSC. 
REFERENCES 
[1] S. Chang, M. J. ,Chiang, S. J. Li, S. J. Hu, H.Y. Cheng, S. H. 
Hsieh, and C. L. Cheng, “The cooperative phenomenon of 
autonomic nervous system in urine storage,” Chinese J. Physiol. 
Vol. 52, 2009, pp. 72-80. 
[2] S. Chang, S. J. Hu, and W. C. Lin, “Fractal dynamics and 
synchronization of rhythms in urodynamics of female Wistar rats,” 
J. Neurosci. Meth. Vol. 139, 2004, pp. 271-279. 
[3] S. Chang, S. J. Li, S. J. Hu, H.Y. Cheng, S. H. Hsieh, and C. L. 
Cheng, “Dynamic performance evaluation on the synergy of 
micturition in spinal cord-injured female rats under 
pharmacological effects,” Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 52, 2009, pp. 
81-92. 
[4] S. Chang, S. T. Mao, S. J. Hu, W. C. Lin, and C. L. Cheng, 
“Studies of detrusor-sphincter synergia and dyssynergia during 
micturition in rats via fractional Brownian motion,” IEEE Trans. 
Biomed. Eng. Vol. 47 2000, pp. 1066-1073. 
[5] S. Chang, S. T. Mao, T. P. Kuo, S. J. Hu, W. C. Lin and C. L. 
Cheng, “Fractal geometry in urodynamics of lower urinary tract,” 
Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 42, 1999, pp. 25-31. 
[6] S. Chang, M. C. Hsyu, H.Y. Cheng, S. H. Hsieh, “Synergic 
co-activation of muscles in elbow flexion via fractional Brownian 
motion,” Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 51, 2008, pp. 376-386. 
[7] S. Chang, M. C. Hsyu, H.Y. Cheng, S. H. Hsieh, and C. C. Lin, 
“Synergic co-activation in forearm pronation,” Ann. Biomed. Eng. 
Vol. 36, 2008, pp. 2002-2018,  
[8] S. Chang, W. L. Chao,   M. J. Chiang, S. J. Li,  Y. T. Lu, C. M. 
Ma,  H. Y. Cheng, and  S. H. Hsieh,  “Effects of acupuncture at 
Neiguan (PC 6) of the pericardial meridian on blood pressure and 
heart rate variability,” Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 51, 2008, pp. 
167-177. 
[9]  S. Chang, Z. G. Chang,  S. J. Li,  M. J. Chiang,  C. M. Ma,  
H. Y. Cheng, and  S. H. Hsieh, "Effects of acupuncture at 
Neiguan (PC 6) on electroencephalogram," Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 
52, 2009, pp. 1-7. 
[10] S. Chang, “Physiological rhythms, dynamical disease, and 
acupuncture,”  Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 53 (2), 2010, pp. 72-90. 
[11] S. Chang, “The Rationale behind a Reticular Meridian Model for 
Chinese Acupuncture,” Proceeding of the 4th international 
Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedical Engineering 
(ICBBE), Chengdu, China, June 18-20, 2010, pp. 1-4. 
[12] W. S. Lam, W. Ray, P. N. Guzdar and R. Roy, “Measurement of 
Hurst exponents for semiconductor laser phase dynamics” Phys. 
Rev. Lett. 94, 010602, 2005. 
[13] A. Zoia, A. Rosso and S. N. Majumdar, “Asymptotic behavior of 
self-affine processes in semi-infinite domains” Phys. Rev. Lett. 
102, 120602, 2009. 
[14] O. Svelto, Principles of Lasers. 4th edition, New York: Kluwer 
Academic/Plenum Publishers, 1998. 
[15] S. Chang, “Fractional Brownian motion and Blackbody radiation,”  
Chinese J. Phys. (accepted), 2010. 
[16] A. Yariv, and P. Yeh, Photonics: Optical Electronics in Modern 
Communications. 6th edition, Oxford University Press, 2006. 
[17] Paley, R.E.A.C. and Wiener, N. Fourier Transforms in the 
Complex Domain, American Mathematical Society Providence, R. 
I., 1934. 
[18] B. Mandelbrot and J. W. Van Ness, “Fractional Brownian motion, 
fractional noises and applications,” SIAM Rev. 10, pp. 422-437, 
1968. 
[19] G. Samorodnitsky and M. S. Taqqu, Stable Non-Gaussian 
Processes. Chapman and Hall, New York, 1994.  
[20] S. Chang, “FBM and Its Increments as Undulatory Models,” The 
5th ICBBE, Wuhan, China, May 10-12, 2011. 
 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 9月 19 
日 
一、參加會議經過 
 
此次參加會議，除了担任分組主席外並做了學術報告，題目為 
“Fractional Brownian Motion and Its Increments as Undulatory Models” 主要的論述在於
表達以下觀點：In orthodox circulatory physiology, hypertension is meant to be the 
condition that the mean arterial pressure is greater than the upper range of accepted 
normality. Usually, the level normality of diastolic and systolic blood pressures is also given. 
According to statistics, approximately ninety percent of hypertensive patients are said to 
have essential hypertension. The ideas behind the drug treatments are either to increase the 
renal blood flow or decrease tubular reabsorption of salt and water. The mechanisms of them 
are to 1) block the active transport of sodium through the tubular wall, or 2) block the action 
of the rennin-angiotensin system on the renal vasculature, or 3) block the sympathetic 
transmitter substance on the renal vasculature, or 4) paralyze the smooth muscle of the renal 
vasculature.  
 
However, in circulation it is not the blood pressure but the blood flow that really matters. 
This is actually the essential focus in Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) when dealing 
with hypertension the misnomer. The basic philosophy in TCM is to deal with the proper 
計畫編號   NSC 99-2221-E-007-004  
計畫名稱 訊號處理在動力學疾病上抑制功能之研究 
出國人員
姓名 張翔 
服務機
構及職
稱 
國立清華大學教授 
會議時間 
2010年 12
月 6日至 
2010年 12
月 10日 
會議地
點 
上海, 中國大陸 
 
會議名稱 (中文)第二屆國際心臟病學大會 (英文) 2nd Annual International Congress of Cardiology 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Fractional Brownian Motion and Its Increments as  
Undulatory Models 
附件四 
 
 
Fractional Brownian Motion and Its Increments as  
Undulatory Models  
 
Shyang Chang 
Department of Electrical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University,  
Hsin Chu, Taiwan, ROC, 30013.  shyang@ee.nthu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract—Fractional Brownian motion (FBM) and its increments 
are important models in biomedical signal processing, physiology, 
and traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). They are also used to 
explain the theory of optics, laser dynamics, and phase transition 
problems in modern physics. Hence, it is imperative to investigate 
the essential ideas behind these models. Our analysis indicates 
that the reason why they can readily account for many of these 
diverse phenomena in physiology, biomedicine, TCM and physics 
is that they are intrinsically the random wave theories of 
continua initiated from complex dynamics. Meanwhile, to 
illustrate their power, the models are also applied to resolve some 
paradoxes in quantum mechanics and astronomical phenomena 
accompanying with the solar spectrum. 
Keywords-Astronomy; biomedical signal processing; complex 
dynamcis; fractional Brownian motion; laser; phase transition; 
quantum mechanics; traditional Chinese medicine; wave theory in 
continuum 
VI.  INTRODUCTION  
Fractional Brownian motion (FBM) and its increments have 
been applied successfully in the studies of biomedical signal 
processing, physiology, and traditional Chinese medicine 
(TCM) [1-11]. To explain the mechanism of acupuncture, a 
theory of reticular meridian network was proposed and could 
readily account for the simultaneous synchronization of brain 
rhythms, pain relief, and recovery of disorders in neurological 
functions. However, the neuron doctrine seems to be powerless 
in these respects. As a result, the TCM seems to be much closer 
to reality in therapeutics than the Western neurosciences [10, 
11]. Recently, the ideas of FBM and its increments have also 
been used to derive a new spectral formula that can describe 
the spontaneous emission of blackbody radiation without 
quantizing the energy at all [12].  In addition, the same 
models can also be invoked to explain the spiking phenomena 
in laser dynamics and the selective effects in photo electricity 
[13]. Hence, the theory of optics can be explained by these 
models without invoking the photon theory or quantum optics 
at all. It is described in [13] that physiology, TCM, and modern 
physics can be unified under the same notion of FBM. These 
results have reminded us the comments given by Joseph 
Needham in [14] that the Chinese physical view of the world is 
basically wave instead of atom and continuum instead of 
discontinuity. It will be interesting to investigate in this paper if 
the Chinese physical view is also closer to reality and truth than 
the modern Western physical view just like the aforementioned 
case in medicine. Let us start with the models at the outset.  
Before probing the models of FBM and its increments, first 
let us review briefly the history of Brownian motion (BM). As 
we all know that BM was documented by Robert Brown when 
he noticed the irregular movement of pollen grain suspended in 
water around 1827. Albert Einstein gave a quantitative 
description of this movement in 1905. Later on, Robert 
Millikan applied the description in the determination of the 
elementary electrical charge [15]. It is also well-known that the 
BM plays a very dominant role in the atomic theory of matter 
in addition to the atomic theory of electricity. According to 
Millikan, the atomic theory of matter took two thousand years 
to happen and more than one hundred years for the atomic 
theory of electricity [15]. Around the beginning of twentieth 
century, in spite of all the relationships between chemical 
elements and physics, a group of modern thinkers withheld 
their allegiance from such atomic theories. Yet, it was the BM 
that had led distinguished scholar and philosopher like 
Wilhelm Ostwald to confess that the BM had justified the 
experimental proof of the atomic theory of matter. The atomic 
hypothesis is thus raised to the position of a scientifically 
well-founded theory. However, the rigorous mathematical 
construction of the Brownian movement was not proposed until 
in the 1930s by Norbert Wiener [16]. In his derivation, the 
increments of Brownian motion were stationary and 
independent. As to practical applications, it is often suggested 
the existence of strong dependence between increments. 
Consequently, Benoit Mandelbrot proposed in 1968 the idea of 
FBM with correlated increments to cope with practical 
situations [17].  
The necessary requirements in the adoption of FBM and its 
increments in modeling are that they have to be consistent in 
explaining the observed natural phenomena and have the 
potential capability of prediction or interpretation of the 
is almost motionless. Hence, this model does not appear to be 
realistic in this case. On the other hand, if we demand the 
variance of displacement for the grain to be of visible size, then 
the mean motion of the pollen will be so huge that it will 
escape from our observation if collision happens. As a result, 
we will not be able to follow the trajectory of the pollen grain 
for a long time and measure its diffusion coefficient accurately 
at all under such condition. Practically, this means that if the 
values of universal constants in Section II can be accurately 
calculated are questionable. To sum up, the interpretation of 
BM as a model of the pollen grain in the fluid was bombarded 
by an astronomical number of water molecules is not a tenable 
argument via the random walk analysis. Hence, the atomic 
theories of matter and electricity are in jeopardy. We will also 
see later in this section that the atomic theory of radiation is 
also questionable. The lessons we have learned so far is that 
great care must be taken when we try to extrapolate our 
numerical results to any higher level of philosophical 
connotation.  
As to the BM definition of Wiener in Eq. (1), the trajectory 
of pollen grain at a generic point can be interpreted as the result 
of reaction to the superposition of infinitely many random 
harmonic oscillators originated by the fluid continuum. Due to 
the homogeneity and isotropy of bulk fluid and the principle of 
action equals reaction, it is reasonable to assume that Eq. (1) is 
also a reasonable description of the portion of fluid that is in 
constant interaction with the pollen. Hence, this equation 
implies that the theory of matter can be considered as a 
continuum that is consisting of random oscillators. The theory 
of radiation can also be viewed as the same set of random 
oscillators and the only difference is that matter can be 
considered as standing waves and radiation as travelling waves.  
Other advantages of this modeling of BM include that (1) one 
can derive rigorously the trajectories of BM are continuous but 
nowhere differentiable, and (2) its variance formula of 
displacement is proportional to the time t. It is generally agreed 
that these two hallmarks should be satisfied by any plausible 
model of BM. It is also fitting to mention here that the main 
drawback and absurdity with the wave-particle duality concept 
proposed by de Broglie is that if the particle velocity is slow 
enough, then its associated wavelength could be as large as a 
few thousand to a few million times of its own dimension.   
Next, let us consider the implications of FBM based on the 
weighted version of Wiener’s model of BM. Recently, a 
blackbody radiation formula that is based on the FBM 
for 2/10 << H  is derived in [12]. It is also extended to explain 
the selective effects of photo electricity and laser dynamics 
under a generalized uncertainty principle in [13]. The 
advantages of FBM approach are manifold. First of all, the 
FBM is in a 2L Hilbert space and has finite total energy. 
Henceforth, the increments of FBM will also be in 2L and have 
finite energy. Secondly, one cannot take the limit as the 
number of molecules tends to infinity in quantum mechanics 
and electrodynamics because the finite mean energy for each 
molecule will make the whole system energy diverge. Yet, the 
energy divergence problem can be completely avoided in the 
FBM approach. More importantly, the theories of optics and 
radiation can be unified under the same notion of FBM [13]. 
Notice that FBM and its increments are inherently based on a 
wave theory of continuum. It is now fair to claim that the 
Chinese physical view of the world is basically correct and 
much closer to reality than the Western modern physics. It is 
also proper to mention here that Planck’s formula can only 
describe the envelope of solar spectrum but not the fine details, 
such as tens of thousands of dips in it. In order to fix this 
problem, the FBM approach will be invoked in the next section 
to resolve paradoxes in quantum mechanics and astronomy.  
IX. PARADOXES IN QUANTUM MECHANICS & ASTRONOMY 
     In semiconductor electronics, the electric 
current between two metals separated by an oxide 
layer is usually explained by the tunneling effect of 
quantum mechanics. For instance, the tunneling 
diode and quantum well devices usually belong to 
this category. However, the sharp 
resonant-tunneling peaks are not observed in real 
devices, even at very low temperatures. The 
absurdity is even more obvious if one tries to 
calculate how thick a potential barrier that electrons 
can in fact penetrate. It turns out that the electric 
current is very sensitive to the thickness of oxide 
layer if quantum tunneling is used in the 
explanation. For instance, based on the solution of 
Schrodinger equation, if a gap of 1 nm would give 1 
A of electric current, 1.5 nm a current of 1 mA, and 
barriers of 2 nm would become practically opaque. 
In other words, the tolerance of thickness of oxide 
layer for a functional device based on quantum 
tunneling has to be within half of a nm or even less. 
However, one obvious paradox in the device 
industry is that how one can have so high the yield 
in semiconductor device when its errors in real 
manufacturing are more than tens of nm.  
     In astronomy, paradoxes are even more 
abundant. For instance, the dark lines in the solar 
spectrum are attributed to the absorption of the 
vapors in the solar atmosphere. Yet, it is hard to 
explain why this phenomenon can happen when the 
temperatures of the vapors in corona are actually 
much higher than those of the photosphere. 
Furthermore, all elements in the periodic table 
should have been vaporized under such high 
temperatures. It is therefore quite questionable that 
we would be able to eventually identify all these 
more than 26,000 solar dark lines with the chemical 
elements accurately at all. Other paradoxes in 
astronomy include that if the 3K cosmic 
background radiation is really derived from the 
residual of big bang, how come its intensities are 
pharmacological effects,” Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 52, 2009, pp. 
81-92. 
[25] S. Chang, S. T. Mao, S. J. Hu, W. C. Lin, and C. L. Cheng, 
“Studies of detrusor-sphincter synergia and dyssynergia during 
micturition in rats via fractional Brownian motion,” IEEE Trans. 
Biomed. Eng. Vol. 47 2000, pp. 1066-1073. 
[26] S. Chang, S. T. Mao, T. P. Kuo, S. J. Hu, W. C. Lin and C. L. 
Cheng, “Fractal geometry in urodynamics of lower urinary tract,” 
Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 42, 1999, pp. 25-31. 
[27] S. Chang, M. C. Hsyu, H.Y. Cheng, S. H. Hsieh, “Synergic 
co-activation of muscles in elbow flexion via fractional Brownian 
motion,” Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 51, 2008, pp. 376-386. 
[28] S. Chang, W. L. Chao,   M. J. Chiang, S. J. Li,  Y. T. Lu, C. M. 
Ma,  H. Y. Cheng, and  S. H. Hsieh,  “Effects of acupuncture at 
Neiguan (PC 6) of the pericardial meridian on blood pressure and 
heart rate variability,” Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 51, 2008, pp. 
167-177. 
[29]  S. Chang, Z. G. Chang,  S. J. Li,  M. J. Chiang,  C. M. Ma,  
H. Y. Cheng, and  S. H. Hsieh, "Effects of acupuncture at 
Neiguan (PC 6) on electroencephalogram," Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 
52, 2009, pp. 1-7. 
[30] S. Chang, M. C. Hsyu, H.Y. Cheng, S. H. Hsieh, and C. C. Lin, 
“Synergic co-activation in forearm pronation,” Ann. Biomed. Eng. 
Vol. 36, 2008, pp. 2002-2018. 
[31] S. Chang, “Physiological rhythms, dynamical disease, and 
acupuncture,”  Chinese J. Physiol. Vol. 53 (2), 2010, pp. 72-90. 
[32] S. Chang, “The Rationale behind a Reticular Meridian Model for 
Chinese Acupuncture,” Proceeding of the 4th international 
Conference on Bioinformatics and Biomedical Engineering 
(ICBBE), Chengdu, China, June 18-20, 2010, pp. 1-4. 
[33] S. Chang, “Fractional Brownian motion and blackbody radiation,”  
Chinese J. Phys. (accepted), 2010. 
[34] S. Chang, “Fractional Brownian Motion in Biomedical Signal 
Processing, Physiology, and Physics,” The 5th ICBBE, Wuhan, 
China, May 10-12, 2011. 
[35] J. Needham, Science and Civilization in China, Vol. IV:1, 
Cambridge University Press, 1962. 
[36] R. Millikan, The Electron, Chicago: The University of Chicago 
Press, 1917. 
[37] R.E.A.C. Paley and N. Wiener, Fourier Transforms in the Complex 
Domain, AMS, Providence, R. I., 1934. 
[38] B. Mandelbrot and J. W. Van Ness, “Fractional Brownian motion, 
fractional noises and applications,” SIAM Rev. 10, pp. 422, 1968. 
[39] G. Samorodnitsky and M. S. Taqqu, Stable Non-Gaussian 
Processes. Chapman and Hall, New York, 1994.  
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 訊號處理在動力學疾病上抑制功能之研究
計畫主持人: 張翔
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-007-004- 學門領域: 訊號處理
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
兩次國際會議，除了担任分組主席外並做了學術報告。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
