中文摘要 
廠房設施規劃問題（The facility layout problem, FLP）被持續探索，已有數十年之久。簡言
之，FLP 是將一群「部門」（departments）佈置在一個已給定的廠區內，同時盡量降低物料
於部門間流通所需之成本。吾人求解 FLP，經常需考慮種種需求或限制，諸如部門形狀（長
方形或非長方形）、部門間通道（aisle）配置、某些特定部門座落於廠房內位置之限制等。 
Montreuil 是首位提出 FLP 數學模型之學者[Mo90]。該模型假設廠房及所有部門形狀皆
為長方形，並且利用二元（0/1）變數來決定部門於廠區內之相對位置（這是為確保模型會
將部門兩兩分開，亦即不會佔據相同的廠房區域）。Montreuil 所提出的是一個混合整數模
型（mixed-integer program, MIP）。當時該模型以一般電腦求（最佳）解，問題至多只能含
六或七個部門。近年來，由於後續研究及資訊技術進步，最大問題已被推至九個部門[SFM03]
及十一個部門[MCS07]。然而，其求解過程皆需數個、甚至將近二十個小時方得以完成。
同時，十一個部門距現實問題（含二、三十個部門），仍有一段相當的差距。 
本計畫為上述 FLP 混合整數模型，提出一全新啟發式演算法，主要是利用圖形（graphs）
做為部門間相對位置操控之工具。亦即，將圖形節點 i 對應至部門 i，圖形節線（i, j）對應
至部門 i、j 於廠區內之相對位置。如此便可為 FLP 求解線性模型，而非困難的混合整數模
型。本計畫同時採用退火模擬演算法（simulated annealing），以驅動啟發式求解過程。 
 
關鍵詞：廠房設施規劃，混合整數模型，線性模型，圖形，退火模擬演算法 
 
英文摘要 
The facility layout problem (FLP) has been studied for several decades. Generally speaking, this 
problem is concerned with laying down a set of “departments” within a specific area inside a 
facility, while lowering as much inter-departmental material handling costs as possible. When 
solving the FLP, we need to consider a variety of requirements or restrictions, such as shape of 
the departments (rectangular or non-rectangular), aisles, location of some specific departments, 
and so on. 
Montreuil is one of the first researchers proposing a math model for the FLP (Mo90). He 
assumed that the facility and all the departments inside it are rectangular in shape (square 
included). Further, to prevent departments from overlapping with one another, he used binary (0/1) 
variables to determine the relative position which exists between any two departments. What 
Montreuil proposed is a mixed-integer model (MIP) and it is very hard to be solved to optimality. 
At that time, the largest solvable problems contain only 6 or 7 departments. Recently, due to 
continuous research and better information technologies, the largest solvable problems were 9 
departments in 2003 (SFM03) and 11 departments in 2007 (MCS07). However, it took several 
hours (sometimes as many as 20 hours) to solve these problems. Also, there is still a significant 
gap between 11-department problems and those in reality (containing 20 or even 30 departments). 
In this project, we developed a heuristic algorithm for the MIP proposed by Montreuil. We 
used graphs to determine and manipulate relative positions by letting each node i in the graphs 
correspond to department i in the facility and each arc (i, j) the relative position between 
departments i and j. By doing so, we can then solve linear programs for the FLP (instead of 
solving the much harder MIP’s). We also adopted simulated annealing to drive the solution 
graph has nodes the same number as that of the departments in the facility, with node m in the 
graphs corresponding to department m in the facility. Furthermore, there exists an edge (m, n) in 
the east-west graph if and only if department m is east of department n in the facility (as shown in 
Figure 1). Similarly, there exists an edge (m, n) in the north-south graph if and only if department 
m is north of department n in the facility. 
 
x
y
n
m
partial layout “east-west
graph” (partial)
m
n
 
Figure 1: Correspondence between edges in the east-west graph and east-west relative positions 
in the facility. 
 
 This GPR technique provides an easy way to set and change the RP of any two departments, 
allowing us to solve just linear programs for the FLP instead of the much harder MIP. But it is, 
however, not a trivial business in setting and manipulating edges of these two graphs. How to 
perform these tasks properly is our main contributions to the layout research and is described in 
the next section. 
 
計畫成果自評 
主要學理發現及學術價值 
Our main results for this NSC-supported project are the GPR technique (along with ways to use it 
properly). Initially, when both graphs are empty and edges are “added” to them (this corresponds 
to determining initial RP’s for department pairs), we found: 
Forming even a single circuit is absolutely forbidden in any graph, as the resulting linear 
program is definitely infeasible. Furthermore, if adding an edge, say, (m, n) to the 
north-south graph, will create a circuit, adding the “reversed edge” (that is, adding (n, m) to 
the same graph) will not. 
Also, we found it always better to “enforce an implicit RP”. That is, if edges (l, m) and (m, n) are 
found in, say, the east-west graph but (l, n) is not, making (l, n) an edge in the east-west graph 
will not hurt the feasibility of the resulting model. 
 We also invented two methods for creating a new graph pair from an existing one, which 
corresponds to creating a new layout from an existing one: 
 “Department relabeling” exchanges the node designations of two selected departments m 
and n, that is, the node for m becomes the node for n and vice versa in both graphs. Note that 
the resulting effect of this method is “department exchange”, a traditional method well 
known in layout literature used for layout improvement. 
Operations Research Letters, 23, 117-127. 
[Mo90] Montreuil, B. (1990). A modeling framework for integrating layout design and flow 
network design. Proceedings from the Material Handling Research Colloquium, 
43-58. 
[SFM03] Sherali, H. D., Fraticelli, B. M. P., and Meller, R. D. (2003). Enhanced model 
formulations for optimal facility layout. Operations Research, 51(4), 629-644. 
 行政院國家科學委員會出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                          　 99 年 01 月 23 日 
報告人姓名 王啟泰 服務機構及職
稱 
國立中央大學工業管理研究所 
助理教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
自 98 年 7 月 20 日至 98 年 7
月 28 日 
雲南昆明 
本會核定專題
研究計畫 
運用數學規劃、圖形、以及啟發式演算法來
規劃廠房設施 
NSC97-2218-E-008-015- 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第八屆國際資訊與管理科學研討會 
 (英文) The 8th International Conference on Information and Management Sciences 
發表論 
文題目 
 (中文) IBM 半導體製造之先進物料需求規劃系統 
 (英文) Advanced Material Requirements Planning Systems for Semiconductor 
Manufacturing at IBM 
□ 參加會議經過 
此為本人第一個國科會計畫，在此非常感謝國科會提供參加國際學術研討會之經費。本人全程參與此
研討會。於與會期間認識許多國內、外相關領域之學者專家，經由深入交談與討論，本人深感受益良
多，相信對未來研究必有諸多助益。 
 
本人於 7 月 23 日的「Plenary Talks」發表論文，內容為數年前本人仍於 IBM 服務時，親身參與的一
個專案（投稿此研討會時，因本人第一個國科會計畫仍為進行狀態，故無相關研究成果可供發表）。
論文發表時，現場反應極為熱烈，顯示出學術界對 IBM 從事研究之重視。論文發表後，獲國內某國
立大學教授邀請至該系所做專題演講，令本人深感振奮。 
 
大會除正式學術相關之議程外，並安排昆明當地文化及風景名勝之參訪。其中，世界級的石林及當地
少數民族的風土民情，令人印象深刻。 
 
□ 與會心得 
本會議聚集國際資訊及管理科學領域之教授、學者及專家於一堂，於此次研討會分享經驗，對於國內
工業管理與科技管理教育與研究的提升相當有幫助。本研討會並有許多業界專家與學生參與，更增添
其實務價值與教育功能。最主要收穫，在於與會專家學者對本人論文提出之寶貴意見，可作為修改論
文及投稿於一流學術期刊之參考（例如工業工程學刊、International Journal of Production Research、
European Journal of Operational Research 等）。在此非常感謝國科會之補助，方能有此機會。 
□ 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
 
□ 建議 
應鼓勵國內從事資訊及作業管理相關研究之學者參與此研討會。 
□ 攜回資料名稱及內容 
Advanced Material Requirements Planning Systems for 
Semiconductor Manufacturing at IBM 
 
Chi-Tai Wang1, R. John Milne2 
1Institute of Industrial Management, National Central University, 300 Jhongda Road, Jhongli, Taoyuan County 32001, Taiwan 
2IBM Corporation, 1000 River Road, Essex Junction, VT 05452, USA 
 
Abstract: This paper describes an innovative algorithm 
and computer system which uses two complementary 
decision making technologies to calculate material 
requirements in a modern semiconductor manufacturing 
environment. By adopting and integrating the best 
elements from the two technologies, this new MRP 
system is able to deliver quality results while finish the 
run in a limited time window. It has been used at IBM for 
several years. 
 
Keywords: material requirements planning (MRP), linear 
programming, heuristics, semiconductor manufacturing 
 
1 Introduction 
 
Material requirements planning (MRP) systems have been in 
use for decades (see, for instance, Orlicky, 1975).  MRP 
systems explode end-item demand through the bills of 
material (BOM) supply chain to determine planned 
manufacturing releases and planned purchase orders. MRP 
systems operate at a part number (PN)/plant level of detail 
which sometimes is referred to as stock keeping unit or SKU. 
In addition to calculating planned releases and planned 
purchase orders, MRP systems also determine need date 
priorities for existing purchase order receipts and 
work-in-progress (WIP) jobs. These priorities are 
determined by marrying the independent and dependent 
demand for an SKU with the assets (e.g., WIP and purchase 
orders) being used to support those demands. 
The above traditional MRP logic works well in the 
absence of options of choices, which, unfortunately, is not 
the case in many modern manufacturing industries. In the 
case of semiconductor and TFT/LCD, binning (categorizing 
certain PNs such as integrated circuit (IC) chips into various 
performance groups), substitution (using alternate PNs to 
replace the normally used PNs in manufacturing), and 
alternate manufacturing processes (which process should be 
used when and in what amounts) allow different paths along 
the production line to be selected to meet customer demand. 
Traditional MRP performs unsatisfactorily in the presence of 
such options of choices, for it lacks adequate logic to handle 
them (Lyon et al., 2001; Denton et al., 2006; Wang et al., 
2008). 
To better explain the shortcomings of traditional MRP, 
consider the following scenario encountered by modern 
semiconductor manufacturing firms. Multiple IC chips such 
as microprocessors are manufactured on a single wafer and 
then separated into individual chips by dicing the wafer. 
Despite that all chips are manufactured on a single wafer, 
testing each chip will reveal different levels of performance. 
For instance, assume the chips are designed for a particular 
clock speed of, say, 800 MHz. But test results may reveal 
that there is only a 50% yield (50% of the tested chips) 
meeting that design criteria. Of the remaining 50%, some 
may perform at a slower but still fast clock speed, say, 750 
MHz, and the rest at an even slower clock speed, say, 600 
MHz. This situation is well known as binning, and the tested 
chips are generally called binned parts. Binning can be 
observed at several stages along the semiconductor 
manufacturing process. Often, downgrade substitution is 
permitted among binned parts in that one with a higher 
performance level (say, 800 MHz chips) can be used by 
manufacturing processes which, under normal circumstances, 
would only use parts with a lower performance level (say, 
750 or 600 MHz chips). Part substitution can occur within a 
binning process as well as across different binning processes 
(as illustrated in Figure 1). Combining this with alternate 
manufacturing processes, yields, cycle times, inventories, 
and many other considerations, the result is a manufacturing 
environment with complexities far beyond the capability of a 
traditional MRP—if used it will very likely overestimate the 
required wafer starts. 
 
20%30%50%
W1
BA C
W2
EO F
60% 20% 20%
binning
downgrade substitution (within binning)
downgrade substitution (across binning)
 
 
Figure 1 – Illustration of binning and PN substitution. 
 
Therefore, it is obvious that a more intelligent MRP is 
needed to handle complexities associated with modern 
manufacturing industries (particularly, semiconductor and 
TFT/LCD) and deliver satisfactory results, while still 
intelligent and can be obtained in a reasonable time frame. 
The following are the key elements of AMRP. 
 
Partitioning Problems via Part Number Groups 
 
Generally speaking, it takes a (much) longer time to 
solve a math model compared to running a traditional MRP 
or a heuristic algorithm. Therefore, if time is a serious 
concern, it is obvious that math programming would only be 
used to solve the most complicated parts of the problem. 
From knowledge learned over the years, engineers at IBM 
are aware of certain scenarios which are better handled by 
math programming: 
 Alternate manufacturing processes. 
 Complex substitution, i.e., PNs which are involved in a 
substitution relationship are the output from different 
binning processes (such as PNs A and O or PNs C and F 
in Figure 1). 
In contrast to complex substitution, a simple substitution 
only involves PNs within the same binning process, such as 
PNs A, B, and C in Figure 1. It is worth noting that simple 
substitution does not need to be processed by mathematical 
programming to produce satisfactory results. 
In AMRP, there are three PN groups which form the 
basis of problem partitioning: 
 Non-critical: These are the PNs which the production 
planner knows can be run with traditional MRP logic, as 
can their components and sub-components. Typically, 
commodity or bulk PNs such as raw wafers are classified 
as a non-critical PN. 
 LPMRP: These are the PNs which either can be built 
using more than one process at a plant or are involved in 
a complex substitution. 
 MRP: PNs which are not classified as non-critical or 
LPMRP fall into this PN group automatically. 
Generally, some initial non-critical PNs are available to start 
an AMRP run. Then, other non-critical PNs can be identified 
quite easily by exploding the initial PNs through their bills 
of material supply chains. All PNs that lay below the initial 
non-critical PNs in the BOM must also be non-critical. 
LPMRP PNs can also be identified in a similar way.  
When AMRP runs, an LP tool (which will be described 
shortly) will be invoked to solve models comprising LPMRP 
PNs. As to other parts of the problem (formed by 
non-critical PNs or MRP PNs), they will not be handled by 
math programming. 
 
LP Tool 
 
IBM developed an LP-based software application as one 
of the tools used in the management of its semiconductor 
manufacturing supply chain. Primarily, this LP tool is used 
to handle parts of the supply chain which heuristic-based 
tools would fail to generate satisfactory results. It solves a 
linear model with decision variables corresponding to 
activities on the supply chain, including manufacturing start, 
customer shipment, PN substitution, inventory holding, 
sourcing, inter-plant transportation, and backordering. These 
variables must satisfy constraints which maintain balance of 
material flows at each stocking point, keep track of 
backorder quantities, prevent resources from overutilization, 
and meet sourcing requirements. The objective is to identify 
a lowest cost supply chain plan. Details about this LP tool 
can be seen in Lyon et al. (2001), Denton et al. (2006), and 
Wang et al. (2008). 
 
4 AMRP Algorithm 
 
On the surface, AMRP runs just like a traditional MRP that 
at each LLC, it processes data and makes calculations, nets 
out demands against supplies, and creates dependent demand 
on PNs located at some lower level in the BOM. Different 
from traditional MRP logic, however, AMRP would invoke 
math programming at certain LLCs when LPMRP parts are 
present. In this case, AMRP will call the LP tool described 
earlier to solve a linear model. Note that whenever the LP 
tool is called, it will always solve an LP comprising not only 
LPMRP PNs at the current LLC, but also all LPMRP PNs 
that are at some lower levels in the BOM (i.e., all component 
and sub-component PNs). This will allow better decisions to 
be made. The following is the logic (pseudo code) of AMRP. 
 
Advanced Material Requirements Planning (AMRP): 
 
1. Partition the problem with respect to non-critical, 
LPMRP, and MRP PNs. 
2. Set the LLC counter to 1 (assume that 1 is the top, or 
highest, LLC). 
 
(Repeat the following steps at each new LLC.) 
3. Check the presence of LPMRP parts. If their presence 
is detected, proceed to the next step; if not, proceed to 
step 6. 
4. Conduct an LP run. 
5. Utilize LP solutions to modify demands and receipts 
for the current LLC. 
6. Conduct regular MRP processes for the current LLC. 
7. Check if any of the receipts has a different need date 
(as adjusted by MRP). If yes, adjust LP solutions 
accordingly and return to step 5; otherwise, proceed to 
the next step. 
8. If the current LLC is not the bottom one, perform a 
regular MRP explosion to create dependent demand; 
then, increment the LLC counter by 1 and go back to 
step 3. If it is already the lowest LLC, go to step 9. 
9. Perform post processing to generate final results. 
 
5 Implementation and Business Impact 
 
AMRP is implemented in AIX scripts and C/C++. AIX is 
IBM’s version of the UNIX operating system and a number 
of scripts are written to drive the computer run of AMRP. In 
general, these scripts control the main flow of the computer 
