 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
具有電單極之輻射場型特性的開槽耦合介質共振天線之研究 
A study on a novel characteristic for slot-coupled DRA with 
electric monopole radiation patterns 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-130-005- 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：蔡慶龍   銘傳大學/電子工程系 
共同主持人：鄧聖明   銘傳大學/電子工程系 
計畫參與人員：楊依璇、謝宣威、曾喜群、與張詠晟 銘傳大學/電子系 
 
中文摘要 
 
本計畫提出一非常特別的現象即對開槽耦合
之介質共振天線能產生似電單極之輻射場型。當吾
人調整介質共振天線與耦合開槽之位移，使得耦合
開槽接近介質共振天線邊緣時，似電單極之輻射場
型因而產生。由於使用介質共振天線故其增益與效
益都很高。 
 
 
Abstract 
 
This paper presents a slot-coupled rectangular 
dielectric resonator antenna. While the coupling slot is 
offset to be close to the edge of the DRA, a novel 
characteristic of electric monopole-like radiation 
patterns occurs. These experimental results explain 
this fact. Additionally, the bandwidth for such a DRA 
is adjusted via the offset distance. 
 
 
Keywords: dielectric resonator antenna, electric 
monopole-like radiation pattern, 
slot-coupled 
 
I. Introduction: 
 
Generally, it has come to be seen as common sense 
that the characteristics of dielectric resonator antenna 
through a coupled slot can be equivalent to a magnetic 
dipole. Magnetic dipole-like patterns then are 
obtained [1-3].If designers wish to achieve electric 
monopole-like patterns, a vertical wire must be added 
within or on the edge of the dielectric resonator 
antenna [4-6]. Consequently, Radiation patterns like 
an electric monopole mounted on the ground plane, 
are contributed via a vertical wire with/without the 
excited modes of the dielectric resonator antenna. 
 
A novel approach has been devised for obtaining 
the electric monopole-like patterns in the dielectric 
resonator antenna through a coupled slot without 
requiring vertical conductor wire. A search of the 
DAR literature (at least by authors’ search) has failed 
to find any previous references to this approach. It is 
very interesting for authors to do this research. 
Additionally, the advantages of a slot-coupled antenna 
without wire lie in its ability to simplify the assembly 
between the wire and the DRA, the process of a hole 
in the DRA and ground plane, or the printing process 
at the edge of the DRA. Therefore, if these electric 
monopole-like patterns for DRA can be achieved 
through a coupled slot, the fabrication will become 
easier and cheaper, especially, for the antenna array 
made up of microwave DRA elements.  
 
In a slot-coupled DRA, if the coupling slot is 
placed in the center of the button surface of DRA, the 
slot-coupled to the DRA mode is equivalent to a 
horizontal magnetic dipole mode and then, enabling 
easy creation of magnetic dipole patterns. However, to 
create the electric monopole-like patterns requires 
placing a coupling slot near the edge of the DRA. The 
offset distance between the slot center and the edge of 
the DRA is essential for the frequency range and 
radiation patterns. In such a configuration of 
near-edge coupling, an electric monopole mode can be 
excited, thus resulting electric monopole-like patterns. 
Furthermore, the offset distance can be fine-tuned 
impedance matching and broadening the antenna 
bandwidth. Both patterns and matching thus can be 
satisfied.  
   
II. Antenna Configuration: 
 
Figure 1 shows the geometric configuration of a 
slot-coupled DRA fed by a microstrip line. FR4 
substrate with Ts = 0.6mm thickness is used. The 
ground-plane with an etched slot is located on the top 
surface of the substrate, and a microstrip line with 
width = 1.2mm is placed on its button surface. A 
length of microstrip line (Om = 18mm) is added from 
the slot center to the end of microstrip line to serve as 
a matching circuit.  The DRA dimensions are Lr = 
18.6mm, Wr = 18.6mm, and Tr = 6mm, respectively. 
Meanwhile, the substrate length and width are L = 
100mm and W = 100mm, respectively. Finally, the 
dimensions of the coupling slot are Ls = 20mm, Ws = 
