are the possible choices. However, in this research, we choose the boundary integral-equation 
method (BIEM) because it is based on a surface formulation, which automatically takes care 
of the discontinuities between different materials [5]. Besides, all the unknowns in the 
formulation are designated only on the structure boundaries and interfaces. These features 
result in a smaller number of unknowns when compared with other unstructured-mesh 
numerical techniques based on volumetric formulations, such as the FEM or the volume IEM, 
in which the unknowns are designated in the bulky domain. To deal with the periodicity 
property in a periodic problem based on the BIEM, one can usually apply the periodic 
Green’s function to the integral equation. However, the periodic Green’s function is usually in 
a form of infinite series and thus may suffer from the problem of slow convergence. Although 
certain techniques  have been developed for speeding up the convergence, the mathematical 
treatment and programming implementation in applying these techniques to the IEM are quite 
complicated and case-dependent [12,13]. Recently, a scheme of the BIEM was proposed, in 
which the periodic boundary condition was used and the free-space Green’s function was 
utilized in the major part of the unit cells [6]. However, the concept of the periodic Green’s 
function was still needed for the rest part of unit cells of homogeneous materials. 
In this research, we develop a novel hybrid technique combining the BIEM with the 
plane-wave expansion method. This technique has the advantage of retaining the flexibility of 
the BIEM in solving a problem of complex geometry. It also takes the advantage of using the 
plane-wave expansion method to express the fields in the homogeneous regions such as those 
outside the wave coupling area of major concern. In addition, the expansion coefficients can 
be connected to the equivalent electric and magnetic surface currents, which are the 
unknowns to be solved in the BIEM. Thus, we can apply the periodic boundary condition in 
the direction of periodicity and truncate the computation domain in the perpendicular 
direction. Such a choice can help in avoiding using the periodic Green’s function. The 
formulation can be applied to both metal and dielectric materials. Another advantage of this 
method is that the diffraction efficiency of any order can be directly calculated once the 
equivalent surface currents are solved such that the numerical calculation of the radiation 
integral is unnecessary.  
This paper is organized as follows. In section 2, the formulation of the plane-wave-
assisted BIEM is presented. The numerical verifications for the proposed method and the 
simulations on a metal-dielectric wavy structure are shown in section 3. Finally, conclusions 
are drawn in section 4. 
2. Plane-wave-assisted boundary integral-equation method 
In this research, we consider only the two-dimensional (2D) transverse electric (TE or p-wave) 
case, in which all quantities are independent of z. We assume that the electric field is 
polarized in the x-y plane and the magnetic field is along the z direction. The transverse 
magnetic (TM) case can be similarly treated. Before discussing the plane-wave-assisted 
method, let us recall the basic concept of the BIEM. The BIEM is based on the Stratton-Chu 
formulas [14, 15], which state that the total field at an observation point, ρv , in an enclosed 
homogeneous, (ε, µ), region can be calculated, in addition to the incident field, ( ,  )inc incE Hv v , by 
integrating all the contributions from the equivalent electric and magnetic surface currents, 
( ,  )J M
v v , on all boundaries of this region. If the observation point is located on a boundary 
(approaching from the interior of the region), the electric and magnetic fields in the 2D TE 
case can be expressed as 
On the virtual boundaries C3-C4 and C5-C6, the periodic boundary conditions are used. 
The fields on these boundaries in the interior region are related to each other through the 
Bloch condition. As to the field matching on the virtual boundaries C1 and C2, we develop a 
novel method based on the plane-wave expansion technique, which describes the field 
characteristics in the y-direction and provides a connection between the unknown coefficients 
of the expanded plane waves and those of the equivalent surface currents on the interior-
exterior interfaces, (C1 and C2). 
In Fig. 2, we show an alternative version of Fig. 1 to focus on the discussions of the 
interior-exterior interfaces.  
 
Fig. 2 An alternative version of Fig. 1 to focus on the discussions of the 
interior-exterior interfaces. 
In region 0, a plane wave with transverse wavevector kx is incident onto the interior region, 
producing the reflected wave. The total electromagnetic field includes both the incident and 
reflected parts, which can be expanded with a set of plane waves in the Bloch form as 
                        
( ) ( ) ( )
( ) ( ) ( )
( )
0
0
22
ˆ,
ˆ ˆ,
,  Re( ) 0,  Im( ) 0
yx
yx
L
ik y yi k G x
inc ref inc
L
L
ik y yi k G x
inc ref inc
L
y x y y
E E E E x y t h e e
H H H zH x y zh e e
k k k G k k
η − −+
=−
− −+
=−
⎧ = + = +⎪⎪⎪ = + = +⎨⎪⎪ = − + ≥ ≥⎪⎩
∑
∑
l
l
l
l l
l
l
l
l
l l l
v v v v
v v v
l
   .                    (3) 
Here, η is the intrinsic impedance of the background material, hl  is the coefficient to be 
solved, and G is the primitive translation wavevector of the 1D grating with period a. The 
incident wave can be in any form satisfying the Bloch condition. Here we define a vector 
ˆˆ ˆt z k= ×l l  for describing any order of the reflected electric field with  
( )ˆ ˆ ˆ yx kk Gk x y
k k
+= −
l
l
l
. 
As to the connection of the plane-wave expansion coefficients, hl , in Eq. (3) and the 
unknown equivalent surface current, J
v , at the interface y = y0 between regions 0 and 1, we 
consider the following equation for Jv  as 
                                                      E
H
⎡ ⎤⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤ = ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
bA B J
bC D M
.                                                     (9) 
Here, A, B, C, and D are coefficient matrices with their elements obtained by calculating a 
double integral over the domains of two basis functions. Also, J and M are column vectors 
formed with the unknown coefficients of the equivalent surface currents, J
v  and Mv , 
respectively. The incident fields, incE
v  and incH
v , are tested with the testing procedure to form 
the two column vectors, bE and bH, respectively.  
Certain matrix elements formed in testing the fields of Eq. (8) are in the form of 
                                                 ( )
1
0
( ) x
L N
i k G x
n n
L n
c f x e dx
− +
=− =
∑ ∑ ∫ ll
l
.                                                (10) 
Such an integration may be quite time consuming in computation. However, the integration 
with the factor ( )( ) xi k G xnf x e +l  can be analytically calculated. Also, it is only related to the outer 
summation in Eq. (10). These features remarkably save the computation time. Note also that 
once the equivalent surface currents are obtained through matrix inversion, the reflected and 
transmitted fields of any diffraction order in the exterior region can be readily calculated with 
Eq. (3) without numerical calculation of the radiation integral. This is one of the advantages 
of our method. 
3. Simulation results 
3. A. Numerical verifications 
To verify the numerical accuracy of the proposed method, we first consider a reflection-type 
highly-conducting metallic-lamellar grating with the dielectric constant εγ = -100 (n = i10), as 
depicted in Fig. 3.  
 
Fig. 3 A reflection-type metallic-lamellar grating with a grating period a, a 
groove depth d, and a groove width g. The incident wave is p-polarized with an 
incident angle θi. 
The numerical convergence in the calculation of diffraction efficiency of a highly-conducting 
lamellar grating has been a widely studied issue associated with the CWM, which is based on 
the concept of plane-wave expansion. In Fig. 4(a), we show the reflectance of the -1 order 
versus the groove width based on the CWM with the same parameters used in [9]. Both the 
period a and the groove depth d are set to be 500 nm. The groove width g is taken to be a 
varying parameter from 5 to 460 nm. The incident field is TE- or p-polarized with the 
wavelength λ0 = 632.8 nm and the incidence angle θi = 30o. Quite many sharp reflectance 
peaks and dips can be seen in Fig. 4(a), which have been proved spurious and are not the real 
physical features, even though we have used Li’s Fourier factorization in our calculation [16]. 
For comparison, Fig. 4(b) shows the result calculated with the proposed method. Here, one 
can see that the major reflectance variation curve is almost the same as that in Fig. 4(a). The 
that based on the CWM. Note that some other methods using the perfectly matched layer 
(PML) for truncating the computation domain in the perpendicular direction cannot lead to 
accurate results when the incident angle is large. In this situation, a lot of PML layers are 
needed and a large memory space for computing is required. 
3. B. Simulation results of a wavy structure 
After verifying the accuracy of the proposed method, we simulate a wavy layered structure 
with a substrate-metal-cover-air architecture. For numerical implementations, the substrate is 
assumed to be GaN (with the refractive index of 2.5), covered by Ag. The material of the 
dielectric cover has a refractive index nc, which is left as a varying parameter. The geometry 
of the structure is shown in Fig. 6, where a is the grating period, and A is the amplitude of the 
sinusoidal variation. The thicknesses of the silver layer and the dielectric cover layer are 
denoted by tm and tc, respectively. A wave is normally incident toward the +y direction from 
the substrate. 
 
Fig. 6 Schematic illustration of a wavy layered structure. The grating period is 
a, and the amplitude of the sinusoidal variation is A. The cover layer, with its 
thickness denoted by tc, has a refractive index nc. The thickness of the Ag film 
is tm. 
 
With the problem geometry, we will examine the zero-order transmittance and power loss 
versus the wavelength of the incident light for different structure parameters. Here, the power 
loss is calculated by subtracting all the diffracted power from the incident power. First, a set 
of standard parameters is chosen as a = 218 nm, A = 20 nm, tm = 44 nm, tc = 100 nm, and nc = 
2.5. We first assume that the cover has a refractive index the same as that of the GaN 
substrate and is thicker than the decay length of the SPP mode. Therefore, the problem 
geometry becomes symmetric. The assumption of 218 nm for the period a means to excite an 
SPP mode at λ0 = 650 nm according to the diffraction relation,  
  kx = n (2π/a) + kSPP.                                                      (11) 
Here, kx is the in-plane wavevector of the incident wave, kSPP is the wavevector of the SPP 
mode [1] at the planar Ag/GaN interface, and n is an appropriate integer. The result from Eq. 
(11) is an estimate based on the assumptions that the corrugation just causes a small 
perturbation and the Ag film is thick enough such that the optical activities of its upper and 
lower interfaces can be regarded independent. 
By taking the silver thickness tm as a varying parameter, changing from 44 to 28 nm, the 
transmittance and power loss versus wavelength are shown in Fig. 7. In Fig. 7(a), the 
transmittance peak location blue shifts as tm decreases. However, a shoulder is gradually 
formed on the long-wavelength side. The maximum peak reaches 0.78 at tm = 28 nm. At tm = 
44 nm, the transmittance peak is located at 656 nm, which is close to the designed wavelength 
from Eq. (11). In Fig. 7(b), one can see a major and a minor peak in all the power loss spectra. 
The major loss peak presents a red-shift trend while the minor one shows an opposite trend in 
decreasing tm. Comparing Figs. 7(a) and (b), one can see that the transmittance peak is always 
     
                                           (a)                                                               (b) 
Fig. 9 (a) Zero-order transmittance and (b) power loss versus wavelength. The 
results are calculated for different thicknesses of the cover layer. 
 
With the asymmetric structure of nc = 2.7 and a = 218 nm, we change other parameters 
into A = 20 nm, tm = 28 nm, and tc = 70 nm, based on the results in Figs. (7)-(9) to optimize 
the transmittance level. The results are shown in Fig. 10. 
       
                                   (a)                                                (b)                                        (c) 
Fig. 10 (a) Zero-order transmittance and power loss versus wavelength. The 
structure parameters used are a = 218 nm, A = 20 nm, tm = 28 nm, tc  = 70 nm, and 
nc = 2.7. (b) Distribution of the absolute value of the magnetic field at λ0  = 630 nm. 
(c) Distribution of the time-average Poynting vector at λ0  = 630 nm. 
By adjusting the parameters, the transmittance shown in Fig. 10(a) becomes larger than 0.7 
over a wide wavelength range from 610 to 700 nm. The transmittance peak value reaches 0.83 
at 630 nm. Figure 10(b) shows the distribution of the absolute value of the magnetic field at 
the transmittance peak wavelength with the amplitude of the incident magnetic field set at 
unity. The localized field distributions on the two sides of the Ag film manifest an SPP 
feature, showing that the enhanced transmittance is due to the coupling of the SPP modes on 
the two sides. This result is different from the situation of a slit grating structure, in which 
transmittance is mainly enhanced by the cavity-mode component in the slits [17]. The 
distribution of the time-average Poynting vector illustrated in Fig. 10(c) also shows a result 
different from that in a slit grating structure. Here, the power flow is directly passing through 
the metal film via the SPP coupling. Though we use the sinusoidal shape as the grating 
geometry to demonstrate the capability of the proposed numerical method, similar results can 
be obtained in other sinusoid-like shapes. Based on our numerical studies, transmittance as 
high as 0.8 can be reached by adjusting the cover layer thickness as long as its refractive 
index is not much larger than that of the substrate.    
