 2
Investigation of flow separation at micro scale and extended applications 
微尺度流場分離之現象探討與應用 
國立清華大學動力機械工程學系 
黃智永 助理教授 
摘要 
流場分離是流體力學中的一個重要的現象，會發生在巨觀與微觀的尺度之下。隨著 21 世紀微奈米
科技的興起，科學家開始注意到微尺度下的流場分析與研究。然而，因為實驗上的困難度隨著尺度的
縮小而增加，目前有關微尺度的流場分析與研究多半以理論分析和數值模擬為多數，僅有少數文獻是
以實驗方法去研究。因應微尺度實驗研究的需求，本計劃將以微粒子速度分析法與微分子壓力量測的
技術應用到微尺度的流場分離之研究。微粒子速度分析法可提供微米尺度的速度分布，微分子壓力量
測的技術將可觀察在分離流區域的壓力變化，整合壓力與速度的資料將有助於分析微尺度下分離流場
的物理現象。雖然微分子壓力量測的技術已發展 10 年以上，但將其應用在微系統內做流場量測卻是這
幾年較新的議題。所以此技術在微尺度下的研究仍然需要努力。在本研究上，已就螢光分子物理與化
學的特性進行分析，搭配不同的化學溶劑，與適當的黏著劑開發出一套可以運用在微流道當中的壓力
感測螢光塗料，並且同時建構出測量的方法與機制，以逐點校正的方式修正傳統單點校正方式的不足，
有效地增加量測的準確性與有效的量測範圍。本研究利用微直管/微突縮擴管來量測內部流場結構，並
對其流場現象加以探討。 
 
1. 緒論 
微機電系統(MEMS, Microelectromechanical Systems)是利用矽、石英或高分子材料來製做出微
米尺度的產品，在國防工業、生醫製藥、通訊電子產業等都可看到應用此技術所開發的微系統。此外，
微系統與大型機械最大的差異，就是尺寸縮小所造成的尺寸效應影響 [1]，例如在微米尺寸的流道底
下，表面張力相較於慣性力的重要性是逐漸提高，所以若考慮各物理參數在階數(order)為相近的力學
研究，就可以從事一些簡單的液體控制，像是利用介電泳來做液體傳輸[2]以及表面張力來趨動微流道
內流體[3]等。另外，還有其他應用例如在生物醫學晶片上面，因為微系統結構尺寸適合生物細胞或是
病毒的大小，所以時常被拿來當作細胞擷取、分離、混和及藥物植入等基本生化研究或是商業產品應
用。不管是在μ-TAS(micro Total Analytical System)或是實驗室晶片(Lab on chip)都是將多種生
化實驗上的過程如分離，混和，培養等，整合在一個微型的晶片上。而在這些微系統中所應用的流體
傳輸效應當中，流體力學扮演很重要的角色。古典流體力學討論以往都是在巨觀情況下進行分析，而
在近二十年因微系統技術的興起才有較多研究討論微奈米尺度下的流體現象。其中，有些物理現象因
傳統尺寸與微型尺寸的不同，有觀察到相當大的改變；例如就液體而言，如同之前敘述的，毛細現象
與邊界電雙層的現象一般在巨觀研究通常並不會考慮，但卻在微流場中扮演極重要角色。所以在微流
體這方面的研究是需要進行更多流體基本現象的探討與研究。本研究將使用專司微尺度下的量測工
具，對微流道中流體速度及壓力場做整體性的量測，比較與大尺度下流場之差異，並將其量測的準確
性做有系統的探討。在巨觀尺寸底下的流場速度分析，主要為尋找流場之速度剖面及速度向量分佈，
了解壁面剪應力與進行流場可視化，進而估算壓力變化與熱傳效率並幫助機構設計。而在壓力場的量
測上面，主要因為壓力參數可以利用動量守恆方程式，直接探討流場對結構施力情況，亦或是搭配速
度分佈，利用能量守恆方程式，找出流場當中的壓力損失。Pong et al. [4]最早使用微流道上佈植微
型壓力感測元件，量測微流道內氣體因為壓縮效應而從入口到出口有非線性的壓力分佈，並討論微流
道內壓縮性與稀薄性的趨勢。對於微尺寸下流場的研究，流場的稀薄效應的討論仍然是以模擬居多，
 4
正後轉成壓力值以供壓力量測。 
 
圖 1、PSP 量測示意圖 
 
3. 實驗方法 
3.1 微流道製作 
本研究所使用微流道幾何尺寸為 100 µm 寬(W)，67µm 的高(h)，流道長度為 1 cm(L)。微流道的材
料是 PDMS 高分子材料，是由 Dow Corning 公司所生產之 Sylgard 184 所組成。而微流道的製作是採用
軟蝕刻方式(soft-lithography)，先用矽晶片與 SU-8 負光阻所製作而成的底模，再用 PDMS 翻模而成。
本研究中分離流動研究所使用的緊縮流道在流道中心設計緊縮結構，緊縮比設計為二比一，詳細規格
如圖 2。 
 
圖 2、微緊縮管設計圖 
 
3.2 微粒子影像測速系統 
實驗中是利用螢光粒子稀釋液(Fluoro-Max，粒子直徑 0.71 µm)與去離子水混合後形成重量百分
濃度 2%之溶液後注射進微流道中，待微流道內流場達穩定時即可進行量測。實驗儀器主要有兩管
Nd:YAG 脈衝雷射組(532 nm LOTIS，LS-2134U)、外接訊號產生器(BNC model555)、螢光顯微鏡(Nikon 
E800)與 10x 物鏡(OPTEM)、CCD 照相機(pco. Sensicam, 1280 pixels(H) *1024 pixels(V))。CCD 照
相機的像素大小為 6.7 µm x 6.7 µm，具有雙快門功能，每秒最多可擷取 8 對影像，每對影像間隔時
間最短可達 200 ns。量測時使用外接訊號產生器可以精確控制兩束脈衝雷射光間隔的時間與激發的時
間，以及相機快門與曝光的時間。雷射激發後先經過兩面反射鏡，再通過光束放大器(Beam Expander)
後進入顯微鏡，到達待測微流道。微流道中流體驅動是使用針筒式幫浦(KDS120) ，整體實驗光路如圖
 6
域進行量測。實驗的雷諾數( )為 0.37，是屬於低雷諾數的範圍，所以入口長度的估算[14]在無滑
移的條件下入口長度約為 49.1 µm。經由公式(7)預測的結果，在 49.1 µm 之後的區域應該達到完全展
開。所以從流道入口開始到理論分析所得入口長度之間取 5 個截面，經過理論所得之入口長度後再往
下游取 3 個截面，將各截面的速度與理論分析所得完全發展區域速度分佈列於圖 5 中。由圖 5 中可以
觀察到，過了理論估算的入口長度 49.6 µm 之後，從流道中間往壁面延伸 80%的區域其速度分佈與理
論分析是很接近的。也就是說過了理論發展區，除了離壁面 10 µm 以內因壁面滑移影響而不符合速度
分佈解析解之外，大致的速度場仍可用無滑移條件的解析解[15]來預測。在微直管道完全發展區域量
測中，同樣以µ-PIV 方法量測當流量為 0.10 ml/hr 時在管道中段 0.5 cm 處與前後各約 135 µm 之無因
次化後的截面速度與理論分析結果比較圖，如圖 6，其中 Um 為 8 mm/s 為中心最大速度，實驗相對應
的雷諾數(Re)為 0.37。其中附圖部份為距離下壁面 15 μm 區域內速度局部放大圖。由圖 6 發現在流
道中段雖然已達速度完全發展的區域，但是在實驗量測上仍可觀察到在不同的截面最大速度約有 2.2%
之變化，與 Zheng et al. [16]所提到在完全發展區域的流場仍有速度變化的情形相符合。在圖 6 中
也可觀察到在靠近微流道邊界時因滑移的影響，近壁面的速度值會高於解析解。 
 
圖 5、入口處速度分佈圖 
圖 6、流道中段速度分佈圖 
4.2 微直管道壓力場驗證 
  
 8
 
圖 8、突縮擴區域速度分佈圖 
圖 9、突縮擴區域渦度圖 
圖 10、突縮擴區域流場可視化 
 
5.2 微突縮擴管內壓力量測 
在微突縮擴管的壓力分佈量測中使用與微粒子速度量測相同的微突縮擴管道，加上與先前微直管
壓力量測相同的螢光微分子技術與 PtTFPP/PDMS，針對 5 組不同的流量 5~72 sccm，其所對應的雷諾數
(Re)從9~544之間以空氣當作工作流體來取得在突縮擴結構前後的壓力變化。在流道兩邊近壁約6~8 µm
的地方，因激發光入射非平行入射所造成上下壁面附近會有陰影出現，對微分子螢光量測造成誤差，
因此在圖中以白色遮罩表示陰影所影響的邊界。管道內整體壓力分佈如圖 11 所示。可以觀察到壓力分
 10
本研究主要是針對微尺度下流場的量測與分析，並採用目前微尺度的實驗量測方法，將所得之實
驗結果加以分析討論。主要使用的量測工具為壓力感測塗料(PSP)及微粒子影像測速方法
(micro-PIV)，並在微流道結構當中量測出速度分佈及壓力分佈。研究中成功利用 0.71 µm 的螢光粒子
成功的量測出深寬比為 0.67 的微矩形直管速度分佈，發現約莫 80%的速度分佈與解析解吻合。利用 0.2 
µm 的螢光粒子，在緊縮比為 2:1、雷諾數為 46 的微突縮擴管進行流場可視化(µ-FV)，觀察出經過突擴
管後，流體的再接觸點為方柱高度的 2.95~3 倍。同時利用壓力感測塗料量測到深寬比為 0.67 矩形微
直管道內之壓力分佈，空間上解析度達 3 µm/pixel，並與一階滑移邊界的解析解吻合；管道內軸向壓
力量測點高達 3773 點，縱向壓力點達 37 點，可完整的表現微管道內的壓力分佈。研就中同時利用壓
力感測塗料量測出微突縮擴管道內之壓力分佈，雷諾數由 9~544 之間。研究中觀察到隨著雷諾數的減
小，其壓降的程度越低，前後壓力差異較小。推測是當雷諾數較小時因為流體的慣性力較小，通過突
縮擴管的流體分離所造成的壓降較小，所以由能量方程式可以知道，其壓力損失較小[19-22]。 
 
 
Abstract 
Flow separation is one of the most important phenomena in fluid mechanics. The physical phenomena raised 
with separation have been extensively investigated at macro scale, such as flow circulation and pressure drop 
at separation region. Not only the separation mechanisms at macro scale have been well studied and 
documented, its applications have also been extended to flow control and chemical mixing. Due to the 
increasing interests of Micro-Electro-Mechanical System (MEMS), researchers have been devoted in the 
investigation of the physics at micro scale. With the rarefaction effect and slip flow conditions dominating the 
flow at micro scale, the separation mechanisms are very different from those at macro scale and need to be 
studied. However, due to the difficulty of sensor implantation inside MEMS devices, most of investigations of 
flow separation are restricted to numerical simulations and theoretical analysis. Only few experimental results 
with limited information and discrete data points have been reported. A novel experimental technique, 
molecular based pressure and temperature sensors, has been introduced in MEMS research. It can provide 
detailed pressure/temperature information as fine as a few micrometers. The utilization of molecular sensors 
can help researchers observe the flow field at the separation region at micro scale. 
 
 
參考文獻 
[1] M. N. Sabry, 2000, “Scale effects on fuild flow and heat transfer in microchannels,” IEEE Transactions 
on Components and Packaging Technologies, vol. 23, pp. 562-567 
[2] I. Doh, Y. H. Cho, 2005, “A continuous cell separation chip using hydrodynamic dielectrophresis (DEP) 
process,” Sensors and Actuators A, vol. 121, pp. 59-65 
[3] A. Nag, B. R. Panda, and A. Chattopadhyay, 2005, “Performing chemical reactions in virtual capillary of 
surface tension-confined microfluidic device,” Parmana-Journal of Physics, Vol. 65, pp. 621-630  
[4] Pong, K., Ho, C., Liu, J., and Tai, Y., 1994, ‘‘Non-Linear Pressure Distribution in Uniform Micro 
Channels,’’ Proceedings of the ASME Winter Annual Meeting, ASME, New York, pp. 47–52. 
 12
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 ■撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
已發表在國際研討會論文兩篇，國內研討會兩篇；另有兩篇國際研討會論文已被
接受預計在 11 月初於日本仙台 8th ICFD 發表。已發表碩士論文一篇，國際期
刊一篇已投稿審查中，另有一篇正在撰寫中 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
本計劃已成功使用微分子壓力量測與微粒子影像測速技術，量測到微直管道
與微突縮擴管道內詳細的壓力與速度分佈圖。研究中量測微直管道內的壓力
與速度並與理論分析驗證，證明兩技術的準確性，並針對微突縮擴結構量測
週圍的迴流區與壓降的效應。微分子壓力量測技術在本研究中的準確度與解
析度已超越前人的研究。 
 
 
附件二 
 14
有德國、日本、中國大陸、泰國、俄羅斯、與台灣等多位學者參加。 
5. 在會議的第二天(6/7)下午以海報發表微分子技術應用在微尺度分離流場的研究，此研究是由國
科會補助的計劃研究成果，在報告後得到多位學者前來參加的熱烈討論。 
6. 會議中，除了在第二天有海報發表之外，也積極與各國專家學者討論當今微分子技術的流場分
離研究應用與未來在流場可視化的發展，討論學者包括 Dr. Juren Kompenhans (Institute of 
Aerodynamics and Flow Technology, Germany), Dr. Yasuki Nakayama (Tokai university, Japan), 
Prof. Kazuo Ohmi (Osaka Sangyo University, Japan), Prof. Akio Doi (Iwate Prefectural 
University, Japan), Prof. Yasuhiro Egami( Aichi Institute of Technology, Japan), Dr. 
Hiroyuki Kato (Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, Japan), Prof. Wanchai Asvapoostikul 
(King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi, Thailand). 
      ISMM 2011 海報 
  ISMM 2011 會議會場             
 
11th ASV 會場                             11th ASV 海報 
 
 16
Paper submitted to ISMM2011 conference: 
 
Experimental Investigation of Utilizing Molecule Based Pressure and Temperature 
Sensors in MEMS Research 
 
Chih-Yung Huang1，Chen-An Li1，Chih-Min Lai1  
 
1
 Dept. of Power Mechanical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
With the increasing interests and applications in MEMS technology, the physics inside these micro-sized 
space have drawn great attentions from researchers, not only for better understanding of the physics in the 
micro scale but also for improving the performance of MEMS devices. Due to the difficulty of sensor 
implantation in microfluidic devices, most of the investigations were carried out with numerical simulation 
and theoretical analysis. There has been few reported experimental approaches. In order to observe the 
physical phenomena experimentally inside the microfluidic devices, a novel experimental technique has been 
developed and applied for acquiring detailed pressure/temperature profiles. This technique utilizes molecule 
based pressure/temperature sensor, also known as pressure-/temperature- sensitive paint (PSP/TSP) [1,2]. The 
molecule based pressure/temperature sensors have the size less than a nanometer and are capable of global 
measurement providing detailed pressure/temperature map inside the microfluidic devices for both qualitative 
flow visualization and quantitative experimental data analysis. Promising results acquired using the molecule 
based pressure sensor inside a classic straight microchannel have been reported with the global pressure map 
showing the pressure distribution from the channel entrance to the exit and the spatial resolution was 
improved to a few micrometers. The applications of the molecule based pressure sensor provide the detailed 
pressure data not only in the continuum regime, but also in the transition regime at the condition of Kn 
number close to 0.4. The acquired results demonstrate the feasibility of extended applications at high Kn 
number condition and prove this technique as one of the only few experimental techniques that can be utilized 
at the pressure ranges from ambient to near vacuum for continued pressure measurements [2]. (This work is 
supported by the NSC project 99-2628-E-007-027) 
 
References 
[1] C. Huang, H. Sakaue, J. Gregory, and J. Sullivan, AIAA 2002-0256, 40th Aerospace Sciences Meeting 
& Exhibit, Reno, NV, (2002) 
[2] C. Huang, J. Gregory, and J. Sullivan, Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems, Vol. 16, No. 4, 
pp.777-785, (2007) 
 
Keywords: molecule based pressure/temperature sensors, MEMS, microfluidics 
Figures and Tables 
 
 18
Paper submitted to 11th ASV conference: 
Investigation of Flow Separation inside Micro Devices 
 
Chih-Yung Huang 1, Chih-Min Lai 1, Chen-An Li 1, Tong-Miin Liou 1 
1. Dept. of Power Mechanical Engineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, 30013, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
 
 Corresponding author Chih-Yung Huang 
cyhuang@pme.nthu.edu.tw 
 
1. Abstract  
 
Flow separation is one of the most important phenomena in fluid mechanics. The physical phenomena raised with 
separation have been extensively investigated at macro scale, such as flow circulation and pressure drop at the 
separation region. Due to the increasing interests of microelectromechanical system (MEMS) technology in the 21st 
century, researchers have devoted in the investigation of the physics at micro scale. With the dominating rarefaction 
effect and slip flow conditions at micro scale, the separation mechanisms are different from those at macro scale and 
require further study for detailed information. Molecule-based pressure sensor and micro particle image velocimetry 
(PIV) technique will be applied in this investigation for studying the flow field at the separation region at micro scale. 
Detailed pressure maps acquired with molecule-based pressure sensor will be provided as well as the velocity profiles 
obtained from micro PIV. 
 
        Keyword: Flow separation, molecule-based pressure sensor, micro-PIV 
 
2.  Introduction 
 
Flow separation is one of the most important phenomena in fluid mechanics and has been well investigated at macro 
scale. Detailed information of flow separation have been documented and its applications have been extensively utilized 
in flow control or chemical mixing. Due to the increasing interests of MEMS technology in the past few decades, 
researchers have devoted in the investigation of the physics at micro scale. With the dominating viscous effect, 
rarefaction effect and slip flow conditions at micro scale, the separation mechanisms differ greatly from the behaviors at 
macro scale. The suppression of separation with reduced Reynolds number in the microfluidics had been observed and 
reported. The pressure drop while passing through the constricted region in a microchannel has been reported with 
pressure measurement using sensors fabricated with MEMS technology [1, 2]. However, due to the difficulty of sensor 
installation inside the micro devices, there are only few experimental approaches have been reported for investigating 
the physical phenomena of separation at micro scale, especially at inner flow field [1]. A novel experimental technique 
utilizing molecule-based sensor, also known as pressure sensor paint (PSP), in pressure measurement has been 
developed and applied in MEMS research. The sensor was constructed with luminescent molecules, that are sensitive to 
the oxygen concentration in the environments, and their binders. During the measurement, a UV light source is used for 
excitation, and the intensity of emission light from the sensor will change with the pressure variation due to oxygen 
quenching. The higher the oxygen concentration, the lower the intensity is[3]. Applying the in-situ calibration, the 
luminescence intensity could be converted to the pressure profile showing the flow field inside the micro devices. 
Successful applications of experiments inside MEMS devices such as detailed pressure profiles inside classic straight 
microchannels have been reported [4, 5]. With the advantages of their small sizes, molecule based pressure sensors are 
capable of acquiring detailed pressure profile around the separation for both qualitative flow visualization and 
quantitative pressure data [6].  
 
3. Experimental 
 20
 
 
Fig. 2. Detailed pressure map around the constricted region inside the microchannel acquired with 
molecule-based pressure sensor of PtTFPP/PDMS 
constriction
region
 
Fig. 3. Pressure variation along the centre line inside the constricted microchannel. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Velocity profiles around the constricted region acquired by the micro-PIV technique with DI water as the 
working fluid. 
 
References  
 
[1] Lee Y., Wong M., Zohar Y., “Pressure Loss in Constriction Microchannels” , Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems, 
Vol.11, No.4, (2002), pp236-244 
[2] Alexeenko A., Gimelshein S., Levin D., “Reconsideration of Low Reynolds Number Flow Through Constriction 
Microchannels Using the DSMC Method”, Journal of Microelectromechanical Systems, Vol.14, No.4, (2005), pp847-856 
Constricted 
area 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 09 月 22 日 
一、參加會議經過 
1. The International Symposium on Microchemistry and Microsystem (ISMM2011) 是國際上有
關微化學與微系統的研討會，其重要性可視為亞州區的 micro-TAS。今年在韓國首爾舉辦，有美國、 
日本、中國大陸、韓國、新加坡、與台灣等多位學者參加。  
2. 在會議的第一天(6/2)下午以海報發表微分子元件在微系統的研究，此研究是由國科會補助的計
劃研究成果，在國際間具有領先的地位，在報告後得到各國參與人員的熱烈討論。 
3. 會議中，除了在第一天有進行發表之外，也積極與各國專家學者討論當今微化學與微系統技術
的應用與未來的發展，討論學者包括 Dr. Marc J. Madou (University of California, Irvine, USA), 
Mr. Danny van Noort (National univsersity of Singapore, Singapore), Prof. I-Ming Hsing 
(The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong), Prof. Madoka Takai (The 
university of Tokyo, Japan), Prof. Je-Kyun Park( Korea Advanced Institute of Science and 
Technology, Korea), Prof. Nae Yoon Lee (Kyungwon university, Korea)  
4.  6/5 抵達日本新潟參加 11th Asian Symposium on Visualization (11th ASV)。此會議是亞
洲區有關流場可視化的研討會，領域包含機械、航太、土木與生醫應用。今年在日本新潟舉辦，
計畫編號 NSC 99 －2628 －E －007 －027 － 
計畫名稱 微尺度流場分離之現象探討與應用 
出國人員
姓名 黃智永 
服務機構
及職稱 清大動機系助理教授 
會議時間 100年 6月 2日至 100 年 6 月 9 日 會議地點 首爾, 韓國與新潟,日本 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文) International Symposium on Microchemistry and Microsystem 
(ISMM2011) 與 11th Asian Symposium on Visualization (11th ASV) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文) Experimental Investigation of Utilizing Molecule Based Pressure 
and Temperature Sensors in MEMS Research (ISMM) 與 Investigation of Flow 
Separation inside Micro Devices (11th ASV) 
附件四 
 3
二、與會心得 
在會議中與多位國際知名學者有密切的討論。其中，與日本 Aichi Institute of Technology 的 
Prof. Egami 有談到未來就微分子在微流體中稀薄效應中的研究與合作，並規劃近期與 Nagoya 
University 的研究團隊洽談更進一步的合作，將有助於未來實質上的研究交流。最後，感謝國科
會的補助，使參與研討會能夠順利成行。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
四、建議 
微分子量測技術為國際間近期針對微系統內的流體現象進行實驗量測所開發，國內目前相關技術
發展的現況已可與國際間知名學校與研究單位並駕齊驅，未來應多參與國際間的研討會以增加國
內相關成果的曝光度，爭取國際合作的機會。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議議程、會議論文集 CD 與 USB 
六、其他 
 5
612nm  
high pass filter
Cover 
glass
Molecular 
sensor
Microfluidic 
device (a) (b)
 
Figure 1. (a) The schematic of pressure measurement using molecule based pressure sensor (b) The PDMS 
microchannel with molecule based pressure sensor coated on the cover glass 
(a)
(b)
 
Figure 2. (a) The pressure profile at the entrance inside a PDMS microchannel with air as working fluid, 
acquired with molecule based pressure sensor (b) The temperature profile at the entrance inside a PDMS 
microchannel attached to a heater and using DI water as working fluid, acquired with molecule based 
temperature sensor 
 
 
 
 7
 
The flow field around a constricted region inside a PDMS microchannel was investigated with the molecule-based 
pressure sensor. A 1cm long, 100µm wide, and 67 µm deep polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) microchannel was fabricated 
with standard soft lithography, with a pair of ribs (25 µm by 50 µm) at the centre of the channel as the constriction 
structure. Molecule-based pressure sensor, Pt(II)meso-tetrakis(pentafluorophenyl)Porphine (PtTFPP) with PDMS as the 
binder was selected as the pressure sensor in this study. The sensor was mixed with PDMS and coated on a glass slide 
by a spin-coater, and then bonded to the PDMS microchannel to form the device. During the experiments, a UV LED 
array was used for excitation and a 14 bit CCD camera (PCO 1600, 1600x1400 pixel) equipped with a long pass filter 
(600nm) was used as the photo-detector to acquire the luminescence signal from the pressure sensor. The schematics of 
experimental setup and the constricted microchannel are shown in Fig. 1.  
 
4.  Results and discussions 
 
The pressure map around the constriction region inside a microchannel has been successfully acquired with the inlet 
pressure of 56 kPa and exit pressure of 11.2 kPa, and the Knudsen numbers were 0.001 and 0.006, respectively. The 
Reynolds number at this test condition was 347, calculated based on the inlet condition. During the pressure 
measurement, air was filled inside the constricted microchannel to perform the experiment. Fig. 2 shows the pressure 
map in the constricted microchannel. The pressure variation along the centre line was plotted in Fig. 3 and the pressure 
drop while flow pass through the constricted area was observed. The decrease in pressure at the constricted region was 
due to the reduced area around the ribs as well as the separation mechanism at the corner downstream the ribs, which 
delays the pressure recovery further. Velocity profiles have been obtained with micro-PIV technique using identical 
microchannel device, but with DI water as working fluid. Flow circulation downstream the ribs has been identified from 
the velocity profiles in Fig. 4. With the benefit of global pressure/velocity maps acquired by the molecule-based 
pressure sensor technique and micro PIV technique, further investigations of asymmetric flow pattern raised with flow 
separation could be accomplished in the continued studies. 
 
Cover 
glass
Molecular 
sensor
Micro 
device Cross-section view
Top view
 
Fig. 1. Schematics of experimental setup and constricted microchannel devices 
 
 9
[3] Liu T., Sullivan J., “Pressure and Temperature Sensitive Paints”, Springer-Verlag, (2005) 
[4] Huang, C., Gregory, J., and Sullivan J. ”Microchannel Pressure Measurement Using Molecular Sensor”, Journal of 
Microelectromechanical System, Vol. 16, No.4, (2007), pp777-785 
[5] Guo X., Huang C., Alexeenko A., Sullivan J., “Numerical and Experimental Study of Gas Flows in 2D and 3D Microchannels”, 
Journal of Micromechanics and Microengineering, Vol 18, No. 2 (2008) 025034 
[6]  Guo X., Huang C., Alexeenko A. Sullivan J., “Modeling and Preliminary Experiment for Rarefied Gas Flows in Constricted 
Microchannels”, ICNMM2008-62287, Proceedings of the ASME 6th International ASME Conference on Nanochannels, 
Microchannels & Minichannels, (2008) 
 
Acknowledgement 
 
The authors thank the support from NSC project NSC99-2628-E-007-027 and the help from Prof. Wereley in the 
Department of Mechanical Engineering at Purdue University for EDPIV analysis. 
 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：黃智永 計畫編號：99-2628-E-007-027- 
計畫名稱：微尺度流場分離之現象探討與應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100% 國科會專題研究計畫成果報告 
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 1 2 100%  清大動機所碩士畢業論文 
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 4 75% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
