 II
Abstract 
 
The direct numerical simulation of coupling of a fluid-structure interaction is an 
important problem in computational mechanics. Any numerical analysis aims at 
finding engineering solution for the given conditions of interaction between the fluids 
and the structure. Such engineering problems have to be analyzed using the 
conservation principles of mass, momentum, energy and concentration. Thus the 
situations demand a multi-physic modeling of the fluid-structure interaction problems. 
In order to maintain conservation laws, other than the mass conservation, careful 
accounting of momentum, energy and concentration for the fluid-structure coupled 
system is very crucial to the numerical modeling. Furthermore, the effects of density 
stratification and the earth rotation can be easily incorporated too. As far as solutions 
of numerical methods are concerned, finite difference method, the finite element 
method, finite volume method, the method of fundamental solutions and differential 
quadrature method of both conventional and meshless numerical methods are adopted 
to analyze the fluid-structure interaction problems. The treatments of free surfaces 
and moving structures are proposed by Arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian (ALE), Volume 
of fluid (VOF) and level set methods. 
 The proposed research program will be achieved over a period of three years 
with a definite work allocation for each year. The first and second years of the 
research project will be devoted to the development of 2D numerical models for the 
fluid-structure system involving stationary solid structures with applications in the 
field of coastal engineering and oceanography with stratification and free surface. 
Furthermore, the free surface analysis for solitary waves generated by critical flow 
over a submerged solid structure will be carried out in this year. In the meantime, the 
2D model developed will be applied to simulate flow over structures of various 
geometries such as square and cylinder in homogeneous and satisfied fluids. After 
validating the model, we will accomplish the acceleration and deceleration of 
structures moving in a still fluid, and vibration of structures induced by the vortex 
shedding. In the third year, using the models developed in the first and second years, 
the work will be extended to develop numerical models to simulate the flow field for 
the moving structures as coupled system in 2D and 3D geometries. 
 
Keywords: fluid-structure interaction, free surface, direct numerical simulation. 
 
 2
particle. As far as the interior 
computational domain is concerned, the 
arbitrary Lagrangian-Eulerian method 
was proposed to deal with the interior 
unknown variables. In this method, the 
nodal point can be arbitrarity controlled 
in order to get finer mesh distribution. In 
this study, the velocity-vorticity 
formulation is used to solve non-linear 
inviscid and viscous flows with free 
surface. A detailed literature survey 
indicated that only a very few studies 
have been cited on free surface flow 
analysis using the velocity-vorticity 
formulation except the work of Lo and 
Young [1]. This project will extend this 
concept to develop a model for 3D free 
surface flow for both inviscid and 
viscous flows based on the 
velocity-vorticity formulation. In the 
present work we propose a numerical 
method for dealing with fully non-linear 
free surface boundary conditions by 
adopting a coupled numerical solution 
procedure to obtain the flow variables at 
the free surface. The most important 
issues in the free surface flow simulation 
are to track the accurate position of the 
free surface elevation and compute the 
corresponding velocities. The equations 
for free surface kinematic boundary 
conditions (FSKBC) and free surface 
dynamic boundary conditions (FSDBC) 
are solved by a coupled scheme using 
the Galerkin’s weighted residual finite 
element method to obtain the flow 
variables at the free surface of the 
computational domain. 
One major target in this proposal is 
to apply the immersed boundary (IB) 
method with unstructured finite-volume 
method (FVM) and projection method to 
simulate flows over the complex 
structures by introducing a mass source 
or sink as well as a momentum forcing. 
Instead of using high-order interpolation 
scheme to satisfy the no-slip condition, 
in our study the unstructured grids will 
make the grid line coincide with the 
immersed boundary. By such a way, the 
numerical results should have an 
obvious improvement near the immersed 
boundary. 
 In the recent years, the meshless or 
meshfree or mesh reduction methods 
have received a considerable attention as 
alternative numerical schemes to the 
classical mesh-dependent numerical 
methods. Therefore another unified 
numerical study in this project is to 
introduce the meshless schemes to 
model the fluid-structure interaction 
problems. The comparisons between the 
classic and the new meshless methods 
will be made to evaluate the feasibility if 
the new developed meshless scheme. 
Most of the numerical schemes based on 
the boundary element method treats the 
time derivative term in the diffusion 
equation wither using the Laplace 
transform [2-4] or the finite difference 
scheme [5] to advance the solution in the 
time domain. However, the main 
drawback of the boundary element 
method is to determine the singular 
integrals at the boundaries, which 
 4
Elements, Vol. 26, pp. 119-132. 
5. Bulgakov, V., Sarler, B., Kuhn, G., 
1998, Iterative Solution of Systems 
of Equations in the Dual Reciprocity 
Boundary Element Method for the 
Diffusion Equation, International 
Journal for Numerical Methods in 
Fluids, Vol. 43, pp. 713-732. 
6. Golberg, M.A., 1995, The Method of 
Fundamental Solutions for Poisson’s 
Equation, Engineering Analysis with 
Boundary Elements, Vol. 16, pp. 
205-213.  
7. Golberg, M.A., Chen, C.S., 1998, 
The Method of Fundamental 
Solutions for Potential, Helmholtz 
and Diffusion Problems, In 
Boundary Integral Methods - 
Numerical and Mathematical 
Aspects, ed. M.A. Golberg, 
(Computational Mechanics 
Publications) pp. 103-176. 
8. Young, D.L., Hu, S.P., Fan, C.M., 
Chen, C.W., 2006, Method of 
Fundamental Solutions and 
Cole-Hopf Transformation for 
Burgers’ Equations, Computational 
Fluid Dynamics Journal, Vol. 14, No. 
4, pp. 454-467. (invited paper) 
9. Young, D.L., Jane, S.J., Fan, C.M., 
Murugesan, K., Tsai, C.C., 2006, 
The Method of Fundamental 
Solutions for 2D and 3D Stokes 
Problems, Journal of Computational 
Physics, Vol. 211, pp. 1-8. (SCI & 
EI) 
10. Tsai, C.C., Young, D.L., Lo, D.C., 
Wong, T.K., 2006, Method of 
Fundamental Solutions for 
Three-dimensional Stokes Flow in 
Exterior Field, Journal of 
Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, Vol. 
132, No. 3, pp. 317-326. (SCI & EI) 
11. Young, D.L., Fan, C.M., Tsai, C.C., 
Chen, C.W., 2006, The Method of 
Fundamental Solutions and Domain 
Decomposition Method for 
Degenerate Seepage Flownet 
Problems, Journal of the Chinese 
Institute of Engineers, Vol. 29, No. 1, 
pp. 63-73. (SCI & EI)  
12. Young, D.L., Chen, K.H., Lee, C.W., 
2006, Singular Meshless Method 
Using Double Layer Potentials for 
Exterior Acoustics, The Journal of 
the Acoustical Society of America, 
Vol. 119, No. 1, pp. 96-107. (SCI & 
EI) 
13. Young, D.L., Chen, C.W., Fan, C.M., 
Tsai, C.C., 2006, The Method of 
Fundamental Solutions with 
Eigenfunction Expansion Method for 
Nonhomogeneous Diffusion 
Equation, Numerical Methods for 
Partial Differential Equations, Vol. 
22, No. 5, pp. 1173-1196. (SCI & 
EI) 
14. Tsai, C.C., Young, D.L., Chen, C.W., 
Fan, C.M., 2006, The Method of 
Fundamental Solutions for 
Eigenproblems in Domains with and 
without Interior Holes, Proceedings 
of  Royal  Society, Series A, Vol. 
462,  pp. 1443-1466. (SCI & EI)  
15. Tsai, C.C., Young, D.L., Chiang, 
J.H., Lo, D.C., 2006, The Method of 
 6
for Burgers’ Equations by 
Multiquadrics and Cole-Hopf 
Transformation, Journal of 
Aeronautics, Astronautics and 
Aviation, Series A, Vol. 39, No. 1, 
pp. 1-8. (EI) (invited paper) 
27. Young, D.L. 2007, Meshless 
Boundary Element Methods for the 
Analysis of Large Scale Engineering 
Problems, Engineering Science and 
Technology Bulletin, Vol. 91,(in 
press) (invited paper) 
28. Wu, N.J., Tsay, T.K., Young, D.L., 
2007, Computation of Nonlinear 
Free-surface Flows by a  Meshless 
Numerical Method, Journal of 
Waterway, Port, Coastal and Ocean 
Engineering, ASCE, (SCI & EI) 
(tentatively accepted, first revision 
submitted) (SCI & EI) 
29. Tsai, C.C., Young, D.L., Chiu, C.L., 
Fan, C.M., 2007, Numerical 
Analysis of Acoustical Modes Using 
the Linear Least Squares MFS, 
Journal of Sound and Vibration, 
(tentatively accepted, first revision 
submitted) (SCI & EI) 
30. Young, D.L., Tsai, C.C., Fan, C.M., 
Chen, C.W., 2007, The Method of 
Fundamental Solutions and 
Condition Number Analysis for 
Inverse problems of Laplace 
Equation, Computers & 
Mathematics with Applications. 
(accepted) (SCI & EI) 
