 I 
 
摘要 
    本研究主要探討水溶液中鈀銀及鈀銅雙金屬奈米粒子的合成及其在印
刷電路板無電鍍銅製程的應用。在銀鈀奈米粒子的合成中，以 UV 光譜觀
測銀離子及鈀離子前驅物的還原狀態，我們發現銀離子的還原速率較鈀離
子快許多，而由電子能譜儀及混合電位的觀測發現，銀鈀奈米粒子的結構
會受到高分子保護劑 PVP 含量影響，愈高的 PVP 含量會使銀離子的還原
速度加快，使奈米粒子的結構分佈偏向銀核-鈀殼的結構。而在銅鈀的系統
中，我們則以 X 光吸收光譜觀測鈀銅離子的還原速率，發現銅鈀粒子的合
成是以三階段進行還原反應，鈀離子會先緩慢成核，而後引發銅離子快速
還原在鈀核上，當銅離子完全還原後，未反應的鈀離子則全數還原在銅鈀
奈米粒子的表面，形成鈀殼的結構。將所合成的銀鈀奈米粒子及銅鈀奈米
粒子應用在無電鍍銅無電鍍製程時，發現此兩種活化劑在使用較少貴金屬
鈀的情況下，皆可達成與傳統商用錫鈀膠體相當的催化能力；且奈米金屬
粒子的穩定性較錫鈀膠體高許多，延長活化液可使用時間；有效降低使用
成本。 
 
 
 
 1 
 
1.Introduction 
Electroless metal depositions are employed in the circuitry formation on 
non-conductive substrate; the best known is the electroless copper deposition for 
plating-through-hole (PTH) process for printed circuit boards (PCBs).[1] A printed 
circuit board contains non-conductive composite substrate material (e.g. epoxy-glass, 
polylester-glass or polyamides) and holes were drilled through the non-conductive 
substrate to connect both sides. Copper metallization on non-conductive surface is 
accomplished with the aid of Pd catalysts called activator in the trade, among which 
the best known activator is Pd/Sn colloid. [1] The early developed Pd/Sn activation 
was the two-step process and then further modified to a single-step process, Pd/Sn 
colloidal activator. However, this colloidal Pd/Sn activator has serious instability due 
to the oxidation of protective Sn2+ layer, causing material loss. Thus searching for a 
possible new Pd activator is the aim of related works in this lab.  
Pd-based/SDS nanoparticles. A Pd/SDS nanoparticle system was first synthesized 
with surfactant, sodium alkyl sulfates, which acted as both protecting agent and 
reducing agent. [2-3] The gradual decomposition of surfacetant into alcohol provided 
the reducing power for metal ions, as shown below: 
−+⎯⎯ →⎯+ 24Re24 SOOHROHNaSOR nfluxn                                (Eq-1) 
+
−
+ ++→+ HPdCOOHRPdOHR nn 2012                              (Eq-2) 
  The particle size can be controlled by the chain length of surfactant in which a 
longer surfactant chain would yield smaller particles. Moreover, the nanoparticles can 
be either hydrophilic type or hydrophobic type, depending on the refluxing time. The 
nanoparticles formation and interesting phase transformation phenomenon (from 
hydrophilic to hydrophobic) relating to surfactant derived compounds were thus 
studied with surfactant sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) and the result can be sketched 
as below:[4] 
 
Figure 1 Schematic of the preparation of hydrophilic and hydrophobic Pd 
nanoparticles.[4]  
 3 
 
2.Experiments 
2.1 Synthesis of Ag/Pd/PVP and Cu/Pd/PVP nanoparticles 
Various amounts of PVP with a molecular weight of 8000 was dissolved in 44 mL 
deionized aqueous solution under stirring. The designed amount of precursors 
comprising Pd and Ag ions in various ratios was then dissolved in the solution. 1 mL 
of formaldehyde was added to the prepared solution, followed by gradually adding 5 
mL NaOH (1 N). The color of the solution quickly changed from brown to black, 
indicating the formation of nanoparticles. The reaction was completed in 30 min at 
room temperature. Additionally, the total precursor concentration was kept at 
4.5*10−4 mol in all cases. The concentration of colloidal nanoparticles was diluted to 
50 ppm prior to activation for electroless copper deposition. The colloidal 
nanoparticles were used as synthesized without any purification. 
2.2 Synthesis of Cu/Pd/PVP nanoparticles 
The Cu/Pd bimetallic nanoparticles were synthesized with or without complexing 
agent. For the preparation of Cu/Pd nanoparticles without complexing agent, 
0.000416 mol Pd (palladium nitrate, Merck) and 0.000208 mol Cu (copper (II) sulfate 
pentahydrade, SHOWA) were dissolved in 40ml DI water. The protecting agent, 0.5 g 
PVP (poly(N-2-pyrrolodone), MW≈29000, Aldrich), was added to the solution and 
stirred until dissolved. Half milliliter of formaldehyde (Merck) and 2ml of 1 N NaOH 
solution were mixed with 7.5 ml DI water and then slowly added to the prepared 
solution. The preparation of Cu/Pd with the complexing agent was performed 
similarly except that complexing agent, trisodium citrate anhydrous (SHOWA) or 
ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA, Baker Analyzed) were added prior to PVP 
addition. All the reducing reactions were performed at room temperature (about 
25°C). 
2.3 Characterization of Ag/Pd/PVP and Cu/Pd/PVP nanoparticles 
The growth mechanism of Ag/Pd nanoparticles was characterized by ex situ 
UV-visible absorption spectrometry (ex situ UV-vis). Ex situ UV-vis spectra were 
measured by controlling the amount of base added to the solution while synthesizing 
the nanoparticles. The measurement of ex situ UV-vis spectra was carried out with a 
HP 8453 UV-vis spectrophotometer. The surface composition distribution was 
characterized by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). The XPS analysis was 
done with a PHI Quantera SXM electron spectrometer. In order to perform a 
thiol-capped method, 1-dodecanethiol was added to the colloidal nanoparticles 24 h 
 5 
 
 
Figure 2-1 (a) Scheme for modified Pd/Sn activated electroless copper on blank FR-4 
 
Figure 2-1 (b) Scheme for Pd/based nanoparticles activated electroless copper on 
blank FR-4 
 
2.5 Electrochemical Measurements on Ag/Pd nanoparticles 
Quartz Crystal Microgravimetry (QCM) 
The QCM measurement was carried out in the electroless copper bath at room 
temperature. The working electrode was prepared by dropping 10 μL Pd-PVP or 
different molar ratios of Ag/Pd-PVP nanoparticle solution 
(25 ppm) uniformly on a 0.159 cm2 Au surface of the QCM substrate, and then the 
working electrode was dried by heating at 70°C for 5 min. The QCM substrate was an 
AT-cut quartz crystal with a fundamental frequency of 8.8 MHz sputtered with gold 
on the top of 100 Å titanium film from both sides and was connected to an 
oscillator )Seiko EGG PAR QA20-A9M-Au). A saturated calomel electrode (SCE) 
was used as the reference electrode. The amount of copper deposition was measured 
by the frequency change of QCM. 
 
3. Result and discussions 
3.1 Synthesis and characterization of Ag/Pd nanoparticles 
Ex situ UV-vis spectral analysis  
According to previous investigations [8-9], Ag/Pd-PVP nanoparticles, which had a 
Pd-rich surface, formed an inhomogeneous alloy structure, but the real growth 
 7 
 
that of the Ag absorption peak, probably because of the effect of Pd ions or the 
formation of a Ag/PVP bimetallic structure. At pH 1.76, the UV-vis spectra of Ag/Pd 
(1/1)-PVP nanoparticles still have a broad and weak absorption peak at around 
230–300 nm, which might result from the Pd ions, indicating that most of the Pd ions 
still existed in the solution at that moment. It follows from the above discussion that 
the growth mechanism of Ag/Pd-PVP nanoparticles may proceed as follows: When 
synthesizing Ag/Pd-PVP nanoparticles, some Ag ions are reduced in the initial period 
upon adding a few drops of sodium hydroxide solution, although the solution is still 
acidic. Then, as more base is added, reduction of both Ag ions and Pd ions is 
promoted by the Ag nuclei and the particles grow into the bimetallic alloy structure. 
Hence, the Ag/Pd-PVP nanoparticles are of inhomogeneous alloy structure, are 
Ag-rich in the core, and are Pd-rich at the surface, which was also detected in the 
previous study. The activity of Ag/Pd-PVP nanoparticles as an activator to catalyze 
the electroless copper deposition mainly comes from the Pd atom on the surface; 
therefore, our result seems to provide a more efficient Pd-based catalyst. 
 
Figure 4 Ex situ UV-vis spectra of (a) Ag/Pd (1/1)-PVP nanoparticles and (b) the 
early stage for preparation of Ag/Pd (1/1)-PVP nanoparticles. 
 
The effect of PVP on the Ag/Pd-PVP alloy structure 
PVP is essential for the stability of Ag/Pd nanoparticles, yet it also has an adverse 
effect on the catalytic activity. [8-9] So we did a quantitative analysis by varying the 
amount of PVP and observed its effect by XPS. Figure 5 reveals the XPS spectra of 
the Pd3d region with different amounts of PVP by the thiol-capped method. The Pd 
3d5/2 represents a complex binding energy, resulting from the formation of PdO2 (338 
eV), PdS (336.53 eV), and Pd (335.1 eV), respectively.[10] The thiol-capped method 
is also called the “coordination capture” method by which nanoparticles can be 
adsorbed on a thiol-modified group and leave free polymers in the solution.[11] For 
this reason, the chemical interaction between PVP and palladium on the surface of 
 9 
 
entangled around the nanoparticles. Therefore, Ag/Pd-PVP (PVP = 2.85 g) is more 
palladium-rich on the surface than Ag/Pd- PVP (PVP = 0.285 g), which shows less 
catalytic activity than Ag/ Pd-PVP (PVP = 0.285 g), as shown in the QCM data in Fig. 
6. So, a high surface ratio of palladium does not necessarily mean more activity, since 
the palladium-rich sample may be entangled by more PVP. 
 
 
Figure 6 XPS spectra of Ag3d: (a) Ag/Pd (3/7)-PVP, PVP = 0.285 g, and (b) Ag/Pd 
(3/7) -PVP, PVP = 2.85 g, by the thiol-capped method. 
 
3.2 Synthesis and characterization of Cu/Pd nanoparticles  
Cu XANES  
The Cu XANES spectra (Fig. 7) show 6 quenched states obtained at the end of each 
alkali addition along with one initial stage before alkali addition. The Cu K-edge 
XANES changed in a discordant pace, slowly at the beginning (red line) and more 
quickly in the middle of reaction (green and blue lines), then reached steady state 
(cyan, magenta, and wine lines). At the initial stage, the absorption above 8987 eV 
slightly moved to lower energy and appearance of absorption at 8979 eV suggests the 
consumption of CuCit tetragonal ions and formation of zero-valent Cu. With 
continuous alkali addition, absorption at 8979 eV increased rapidly indicating the 
reduction of large amount of CuCit ions to zero-valent Cu. There was no difference 
between the 5th and 6th quenched states, indicating no further change in Cu state. The 
final Cu state displayed characteristics similar to that of zero-valent Cu. The 
absorption resonances of Cu in Cu/Pd nanoparticles samples were not so clear as 
those in the Cu foil, implying the formation of the nanostructured zero-valnet Cu [12] 
(with possible existence of some residual divalent Cu) in the system. CuO is not 
considered to exist in this system since no absorption at 8984 eV was observed.  
Pd XANES  
In the detection of Pd K-edge, we took two more measurements than at the Cu K-edge 
 11 
 
Cu nanoparticle is not considered since CuCit can only be reduced on the surface of 
zero-valent Pd. The citric complex agent not only prevented the formation of copper 
hydroxide but altered the equilibrium potential of divalent Cu. [13] Besides, it was 
observed that the reduction rate of PdCit ions was slower than the free divalent Pd 
ions without complexing agent. The reduction of PdCit was slow hence the absorption 
resonance similar to Pd foil did not appear until the 8th addition of alkali solution. 
Pure Pd nanoparticle is also beyond our consideration, since the reduction of CuCit on 
Pd surface is too fast both for XANES and visual observation. Any exposed Pd active 
site can catalyze the reduction of Cu, and this is exactly the basic idea of electroless 
copper deposition. Furthermore, high activation energy of PdCit reduction can be 
inferred from slow reduction rate and this high activation energy may make 
preferential reduction of PdCit on Pd surface. So pure Pd nanoparticle is not 
considered even after the consumption of CuCit.   
From visible and XANES observation, there are factors involved in the synthesis of 
Cu/Pd nanoparticles with citric complexing agent, fast reduction of CuCit ions 
triggered by zero-valent Pd, slow reduction of PdCit ions, and the formation of Cu/Pd 
nanoparticles in designed Cu-to-Pd molar ratio (Cu/Pd = 1/2). As a result, a 
three-stage formation mechanism was proposed as schematically shown in Fig. 9. In 
the initial reduction phase, PdCit ions are slowly reduced to zero-valent Pd and serve 
as the reducing center for CuCit ions. After repeated alkali addition, the reduction of 
CuCit ions is promoted by the presence of zero-valent Pd. Significant amount of 
CuCit ions are reduced in this stage until it reaches the 5th and 6th quenched state 
shown in Fig. 7 (b). Meanwhile, the slow reduction of PdCit ions always remains 
slow as observed from the overlapping of spectra among each addition of alkali in Fig. 
8 (b). After large amount of CuCit ions have been reduced, the reaction enters the 
final stage - only the reduction of PdCit still proceeds upon further alkali addition. 
Thus Cu/Pd nanoparticles may have a Pd-rich surface structure. The more precise 
bimetallic structure, i.e. the core-shell or cluster-in-cluster, however, can not be 
determined in this stage since more structural information is needed. However, a 
random-alloy structure is unlikely since the Pd core must form first to be the active 
site for Cu reduction. Although the lack of detailed structural information makes it 
difficult to determine real structure of this Cu/Pd system (1/2), there is one thing for 
sure: the surface of these Cu/Pd nanoparticles is not preferentially occupied by Cu 
atoms but may have considerable Pd atoms on the surface because of the slower 
reduction rate of Pd complexing ions than Cu. This result has practical value since the 
reduction of Cu complexing ions is catalyzed by zero-valent Pd. If less unreacted 
PdCit ions remained in system or a faster Pd reduction rate occurred, the Cu/Pd 
 13 
 
 
Figure 10 Amount of copper after different times (s) of electroless plating by using 
Ag/Pd-PVP nanoparticles as activator 
 
Electrochemical measurement: QCM  
Figure 11 shows the QCM results, which reflect the deposition rate in terms of 
oscillation frequency and open-circuit potential in the system activated with Pd- PVP 
and different molar ratios of Ag/Pd-PVP nanoparticles. Theoreticallythe amount of 
copper deposited is sensitive to the frequency change as expressed by Sauerbrey’s 
equation 3 
݉ ൌ
∆୤Aඥµ஡
ିଶ௙బ
మ                                                       (eq-3) 
where ∆f is the frequency change caused by the addition of a mass per unit area to the 
crystal surface, A is the area of gold substrate (0.159 cm2), μ is the shear modulus of 
quartz (2.947*1011 g/cm s2), ρ is the density of quartz (2.648 g/cm3), f0 is the starting 
frequency, and m is the mass of copper deposited on QCM substrate. 
The measured results are summarized in Table II, which showsthat the characteristic 
of copper deposited on the QCM substrate is similar to that on the FR-4 substrate. The 
amount of deposit increases with increasing palladium molar ratios, i.e., Pd > Ag/Pd 
(3/7) > Ag/Pd (1/1) > Ag/Pd (7/3). Furthermore, we used QCM to measure the 
frequency change within the induction time, which represents the period of electroless 
copper activated by the activator only. As shown in Fig. 11b, within the induction 
time, the amount of copper deposited still increases with increasing palladium molar 
ratios, and only the amount of copper deposition by using Ag/Pd-PVP (3/7) 
nanoparticles as the activator is comparable to that with Pd- PVP nanoparticles. 
Therefore, based on the amount of copper deposited, 30 mol % fraction of silver is the 
highest possible amount of silver which can be used to replace palladium. 
 
 15 
 
alkaline solution was mainly activated by palladium, because the position and shape 
of the peak are similar to catalysis with the Pd-PVP nanoparticles, except the 
voltammograms for glassy carbon modified with Ag/Pd (7/3)-PVP. In the Ag/Pd 
(7/3)-PVP system, a peak at around 0.2 V was probably due to the electrode surface 
being covered by strongly adsorbed silver intermediates, but this peak did not appear 
for glassy carbon modified with Ag/Pd (3/7)-PVP and Ag/Pd (1/1)-PVP. Furthermore, 
the peak of formaldehyde oxidized on glassy carbon modified with Ag/Pd (7/3)-PVP 
seemed broader and more positive than the others. This means that the oxidation of 
formaldehyde with glassy carbon modified with Ag/Pd (7/3)-PVP was slower than the 
others. 
 
Figure 12 Voltammograms of glassy carbon (dashed line) and glassy carbon modified 
with Pd-PVP and Ag-PVP in solution of 0.1 M HCHO, 0.1 M NaOH, with scan rate 1 
mV/s. 
 
3.4 Catalytic activity of Cu/Pd nanoparticles for electroless copper 
deposition 
The catalytic activity of Cu/Pd nanoparticles was determined in a way similar to that 
for Pd/Sn system except that the predip and the accelerating step were omitted. The 
concentration of Pd/Sn colloidal activator was controlled at 60 ppm (i.e., the 
concentration of Pd atoms) and the total metal amount of Cu/Pd nanoparticles when 
applied as activator was also 60 ppm. The Cu/Pd nanoparticles synthesized without 
complexing agent were found to show poor stability and large amount of impurity, so 
we chose Cu/Pd system with complexing agent to be our candidate for further activity 
study. The specific activity of the Pd/Sn activator and Cu/Pd activator was defined as 
the amount of deposited copper relative to unit amount of catalytic metal on substrate 
and is shown in Fig. 13. The specific activity of Cu/Pd nanoparticles activator with 
fewer amounts of Pd atoms used was comparable to that of the Pd/Sn activator. The 
SEM observations (Fig. 14) of blank FR-4 substrate and copper deposited substrates 
 17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 14 The SEM images of (a) blank FR-4 substrate; deposited copper after (b) 
Pd/Sn activating; (c) Cu/Pd nanoparticles synthesized with trisodium citrate. 
 
4. Conclusion 
The growth of Ag/Pd nanoparticles in a medium containing PVP as a protective 
agent is affected not merely by the major metal constituents but also the amount of 
added PVP. The PVP has a favorable effect on Ag reduction, promoting the formation 
of Ag nuclei as a seed for subsequent particle growth. Therefore, the greater the PVP 
content, the more inhomogeneous is the alloy structure, rendering a structure which is 
silver-rich in the core and palladium-rich on the surface. Although the surface 
enrichment of Pd may favor an improved catalytic activity, the accompanying PVP 
molecules exert a negative influence. So the maximal amount of Pd which can be 
replaced by Ag is 30% if we want to maintain a catalytic activity comparable to 
 19 
 
5. Reference 
[1] Shipley, C. R. 1961,U.S. Patent No.3,001,920 
[2] Lee, C. L.; Wan, C. C.; Wang, Y. Y. Adv Funct Mater 2001, 11, 344 
[3] Lee, C. L.; Wan, C. C.; Wang, Y. Y. J Electrochem Soc 2003, 150, C125 
[4] Wang, W. L.; Wang, Y. Y.; Wan, C. C.; Lee, C. L. Colloids Surfaces A 2006, 275, 
11 
[5] Yang, C. C.; Wan, C. C.; Wang, Y. Y. J Colloid Interf Sci 2004, 279, 433 
[6] Chen, L. J.; Wan, C. C.; Wang, Y. Y. J Colloid Interf Sci 2006, 297, 143 
[7] Peng, C.; Lo, S. H. Y.; Wan, C. C.; Wang, Y. Y. Colloids Surfaces A 2007, 308, 93 
[8] Yang, C. C.; Wang, Y. Y.; Wan, C. C. J. Electrochem. Soc., 2005, 152, C96  
[9] Yang, C. C.; Wang, Y. Y.; Wan, C. C., J. Electrochem. Soc., 2006, 153, J27 
[10] J. F. Moulder, W. F. Stickle, P. E. Sobol, and K. D. Bomben, Handbook of X-ray 
Photoelectron Spectroscopy, p. 6, Physical Electronics, Eden Prairie, MN _1995_. 
[11] Wang, Y.; Liu, H., Polym. Bull., 1991, 25, 139 
[12] Montano, P. A.; Shenoy, G. K.; E.E. Alp, W. S.; Urban, J. Phys Rev Lett 1986, 56, 
2076-2079. 
[13] Ivanov, S.; Tsakova, V. J Appl Electrochem 2002, 32, 701–707. 
[14] Bindra, P.; Roldan, J. M.; and Arbach, G. V., IBM J. Res. Dev., 1984, 28, 679  
[15] Vaškelis, A.; Jagminienė,  A.; Tamašauskaitė-Tamašiūnaitė, L.; Juškėnas, R., 
Electrochim. Acta, 2005, 50, 4586 
[16] A. J. Bard and L. R. Faulkner, Electrochemical Methods, p. 725, John Wiley & 
Sons, New York _2001_. 
 
