Experimental 
ZnO nanorods have been grown on indium doped tin oxide (ITO) glass substrates. Before ZnO NRs synthesis, 
ZnO seed layer was deposited on ITO using physical deposition for 20 hours and annealed at 500°C for 30 
minutes in air. The substrates covered with the seed layer were then placed in a 200mL aqueous growth solution 
containing 0.5 mM polyethyleneimine, 10 mM zinc acetate dehydrate and 10 mM hexamethylenetetramine and 
heated to 90°C to initiate nanorod growth. Because nanorods growth slowed after 3Hr, substrates were repeatedly 
introduced to fresh solution baths for long rods array (Total reaction times of up to 24 Hr).  In order to link II-VI 
QDs onto the surfaces of ZnO NRs, 3-mercaptoproponic acid (3-MPA) and 11-mercaptoundecanoic acid (11-
MUA) were used as linker to modify the surfaces of ZnO NRs. The ZnO NRs array substrates were immersed 
into a solution containing 3-MPA or 11-MUA tetrahydrofuran (THF) solution of 34 mM for 24 hours, then 
washing with THF and toluene.  After linker molecules modification, the substrates were immersed in a CdSeS or 
CdS QDs toluene solution for another 24 hours. The morphology analysis of the nanorods was characterized by 
scanning electron microscopy (SEM, JEOL JSM 6500F) and transmission electron microscopy (Philips Tecnai 
F20, 200kV). The optical properties were analyzed by photoluminescence (PL) spectrophotometer (Hitachi 
F7000 spectroscopy). 
Results and Discussion 
Figure 1 (a)-(c) shows the SEM image of ZnO NRs.  From Figure 1 (a)-(b), the diameter distribution of ZnO 
NRs was very uniform and the perfect hexagonal facets of ZnO NRs can be observed.  From cross-sectional SEM 
analysis shown in Figure 1 (c), we know the length of ZnO NRs around 6µm grown vertically on ITO substrate. 
Figure 2 (a) and (b) shows the PL spectra of 3-MPA capped ZnO NRs before and after sensitizing with 
CdSeS and CdS QDs, respectively.  When the QDs were anchored onto the surfaces of ZnO nanorods, emission 
at 593 nm and 471nm can be observed due to the emission of CdSeS and CdS QDs, respectively. The emission 
peak positions are different to the ZnO emission peak around 387 nm.  In addition, the PL spectra of CdSeS or 
CdSe QDs anchored onto the ZnO NRs are identical to that of QDs CdSeS and CdS QDs dispersed in toluene.  
The detail carrier transport mechanism need to study more detail in the future. 
Conclusion 
In this work, QDs have successfully been anchored onto the surface of ZnO nanorods by using bifunctional 
surfactant, 3-MPA. However, the performance of QDs sensitized ZnO NRs solar cells still have poor 
performance compared with conventional dye-sensitized solar cell based on TiO2 nanoparticle thin film. How to 
increase the anchoring amount of QDs and prevent carrier recombination in the interfaces is our target in the 
future.. 
