 2
三、研究方法： 
No matter what kinds of OLEDs that you 
to fabricate, the first step is to clean your 
substrates. Before organic layer deposition, 
the water must be cleaned carefully. The 
substrates, which we adopted in this 
experiment, are ITO substrates. 
The device structure of WTOLEDs 
employing the different transparent cathodes 
shown in Fig. 1, was an ITO glass substrate 
for the anode, a 40-nm-thick film of NPB 
served as the hole transporting layer (HTL), a 
20-nm-thick emitting layer (EML) consisting 
of the Anthracene host doped with 0.4 % 
Rubrene, a 40-nm-thick layer of TPBI as for 
hole blocking layer (HBL), and a cathode 
consisting of a thin transparent metal and a 
60-nm-thick index-matching layer of Alq3. 
The WTOLEDs was obtained using 
blue-emitting Anthracene and red-emitting 
Rubrene. 
The luminance-current density-voltage 
(L-J-V) characteristics of the devices were 
recorded simultaneously by combining the 
spectrometer with Motech model PPS-2000 
programmable voltage-current source. The 
area for luminous measurement was 3 × 3 
mm2. All the measurements were carried out 
under atmosphere and room temperature. 
 
四、重要結果與討論： 
In this study, the high vacuum evaporation 
system is used deposit organic films and 
metal electrodes as shown in fig. 2. And fig. 3 
showed the current density-driving voltage 
(J-V) characteristics of the devices with 
various transparent cathodes. It is evident that 
at the same forward bias, the electric current 
in the device with Yb cathode is the greatest 
than the others. It implies that the electron 
injection property in the device with Yb 
cathode is more superior than that with Sm 
and Li cathodes. Fig. 4 exhibited the 
luminance from cathode vs. current density 
(L-J) characteristics of WTOLEDs made with 
various transparent cathodes. We observed 
the consistence that the highest luminance 
phenomenon occurred in the device with the 
Yb cathode. It is suggested that good electron 
injection property in the device with Yb 
cathode, an enhanced recombination between 
the electrons and holes in EML could be 
obtained, yielding a superior luminous 
property from cathode. 
To further elucidate the good electron 
injection property of the Yb cathode, the 
energy level diagram of WTOLED was 
shown in Fig. 5. Since the work function of 
Yb (2.6 eV) is the lowest than that of Sm (2.7 
eV) and Li (2.9 eV), the energy barrier for 
electron injection between HBL (TPBI) and 
cathode for the device with the Yb cathode is 
the smallest, providing a most effective 
electron injection property, and thus results in 
the best optoelectronic characteristics. 
Fig. 6 showed the luminance from cathode 
as a function of thickness of Yb cathode at a 
driving voltage of 17 V. It is evident that the 
luminance of device increases with the 
increasing thickness of Yb cathode from 20 
to 40 nm, and decreases thereafter. It implies 
that suitable thickness of transparent Yb 
 4
monohydroxide and tin dichloride”, Thin 
Solid Films, vol. 388, pp. 22-26, 2001.  
[7] S.L. Lai, M.Y. Chan, M.K. Fung, C.S. 
Lee, L.S. Hung, and S.T. Lee, 
“Applications of Ytterbium in organic 
light-emitting devices as high 
performance and transparent electrodes”, 
Chemical Physics Letters, vol. 366, pp. 
128-133, 2002.  
[8] Z. Xie, L.S. Hung, and F. Zhu, “A 
flexible top-emitting organic 
light-emitting diode on steel foil”, 
Chemical Physics Letters, vol. 381, pp. 
691-696, 2003.  
 
