Research Result 
Introduction 
 
Common genetic variants, including single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), copy number varioations 
(CNVs), insertions, and deletions, differ among members in the human population. Correlating these 
genetic variants with diseases or phenotypic differences is one of the great challenges in biology. Among 
these genetic variants, SNPs are the most abundant form observed in the human population. SNP is a 
single DNA base variation kept through the heredity. Recently, the Linkage disequilibrium (LD) analysis 
of human genome shows that SNPs in proximity tend to have strong LD (Altshuler et al, 2005; Hinds et 
al, 2005; Zhang et al, 2003, 2004). The LD structure of the entire human genome suggests that the 
chromosome can be roughly partitioned into high LD regions interspersed by low LD regions. Within 
each high LD region, only a small subset of SNPs (called “tag SNPs”) is sufficient to be typed, whereas 
the alleles of untyped SNPs can be indirectly predicted by typed tag SNPs, due to the strong LD among 
them (Bafna et al, 2003; Barrett et al, 2005; Carlson et al, 2004; Chang et al, 2005; Huang et al, 2005). 
With the advent of high-throughput genotyping array (e.g., Affymetrix 500K GeneChip array), the cost of 
typing tens of thousands of SNPs is greatly reduced. As a consequence, genome-wide association study 
using tag SNPs is adopted for studying complex diseases presumably induced by multiple unknown genes 
throughout the genome (Hu et al, 2005). It makes no assumption on the location of disease causative 
genes and is a promising approach for discovering unknown susceptibility genes of complex diseases. 
  
In this project report, we summarized our results on several problems in this line of study. The first 
problem studied the algorithms for the selection of tag SNPs using multimarker haplotypes. We designed 
and implemented a suite of algorithms. Our theoretical analysis and experimental results indicated that 
HapTagger consistently identifies a smaller set of tag SNPs and runs much faster than existing methods 
on a variety of real data sets. The second problem identified novel alternative splicing events and 
reconstructed the ancestral transcriptome using cross-species processed pseudogenes. We showed that the 
novel alternative splicing events can be identified by processed pseudogenes and these pseudogenes are 
fossils of ancestral trascriptome. The last problem studied the structure of CNVs by decomposing CNVs 
into small duplicons. A hidden markov model is proposed to delineate these duplicons and results are 
compared with previous methods. 
 
Problem 1: Tag SNP Selection Based on Multimarker Haplotypes 
Related Works 
SNP alleles may not be always successfully obtained if they failed to pass the quality control. 
Moreover, the obtained SNP alleles may be even flipped to other unexpected alleles due to genotyping 
errors (Zhang et al, 2004). The accuracy of tag SNPs are greatly affected by these missing data and 
genotyping errors because they are compressed information of other SNPs (Huang et al, 2005). 
Consequently, association studies based on tag SNPs with missing data or genotyping errors may lead to 
inaccurate results. Previous studies have been focusing on minimizing the number of tag SNPs. Most 
methods mainly rely on pairwise LD between two diallelic SNPs (Carlson et al., 2004; Hinds et al., 2005; 
Qin et al., 2006). However, these pairwise-LD-based methods tend to generate many singleton tag SNPs 
(Lee et al. 2007), which in turn affect a wide range of biological functions. Considering the functional 
importance of transcriptome diversity, it is of great interest to investigate transcriptome evolution (Boue 
et al. 2003). Cross-species EST-to-genome comparisons are suitable for identification of uncharacterized 
exons/alternatively spliced variants (ASVs) (Chen et al. 2006; Chen and Chuang 2005; Chen et al. 2007d; 
Chuang et al. 2004; Kan et al. 2004) and exploration of transcriptome evolution (Chen et al. 2006; Chen 
et al. 2007d). The power of novel exon/ASV detection of this comparative approach is negatively related 
to the genetic distances between the compared species (Chen et al. 2006).  
 
Results 
[2] Yao-Ting Huang, Feng-Chi Chen, Chiuan-Jung Chen, Hsin-Liang Chen and Trees-Juen Chuang. 
Identification and analysis of ancestral hominoid transcriptome inferred from cross-species transcript 
and processed pseudogene comparisons. Genome Research, 2008.  
 
Comparative transcriptomics studies in hominoids are difficult due to the lack of EST information in 
the great apes. Nevertheless, processed pseudogenes (PPGs), which are reverse transcribed ancient 
transcripts present in the current genome, can be regarded as a virtual transcript resource that may 
compensate for the paucity of ESTs in non-human hominoids. Here we show that chimpanzee PPGs can 
be applied to identification of novel human exons/alternatively spliced variants (ASVs) and inference of 
the ancestral hominoid transcriptome and chimpanzee exon loss events. We develop a method for 
comparatively extracting novel transcripts from PPGs (designated “CENTP”), and identify 643 novel 
human exons/ASVs. RT-PCR-sequencing experiments confirmed >50% of the tested exons/ASVs, 
supporting the effectiveness of the CENTP pipeline. With reference to the ancestral transcriptome 
inferred by CENTP, 47 chimpanzee exon loss events are identified. Furthermore, by combining outgroup 
and PPG information, we identify 20 chimpanzee-specific exon loss and 10 human-specific exon gain 
events. We also demonstrate that the ancestral transcriptome and exon loss/gain events inferred based on 
comparisons of current transcripts may be incomplete (or occasionally inappropriate) because ancestral 
transcripts may not be represented in the ESTs of existing species. Finally, functional analysis reveals that 
the novel exons identified based on chimpanzee transcripts are significantly enriched in genes related to 
translation regulatory activity and viral life cycle, suggesting different expression levels of the associated 
transcripts, and thus divergent splicing isoform composition between human and chimpanzee in these 
functional categories.  
 
 
Problem 3. Identification of Duplicons of Structure Variation 
 The structure variations (e.g., duplication and deletion) in the human genome are common variants 
differing humans. The advent of array comparative genomic hybridization enables efficient detection of 
structure variation in the human population. Recently, the structure of segmental duplication is known to 
consist of small subunits called duplicons. These duplicons are further detected in several genomic 
regions of structure variations. Therefore, the identification of these duplicons is able to indicate segments 
with high probability of structure variation in the human populations. We have developed a Hidden 
Markov Model (HMM) and is now testing the program on known human structure variations.  
 
missing data in genotyping. BMC Bioinformatics, 6:263, 2005. 
[14] Huang Y.-T. and Chao, K.-M. A new framework for the selection of tag SNPs using multimarker 
haplotypes. Journal of Biomedical Informatics, 2008 
[15] Huang Y.-T., Chen, F.C., Chen, C.J., Chen, H.L., and Chuang, T.J. Identification and analysis of 
ancestral hominoid transcriptome inferred from cross-species transcript and processed pseudogene 
comparisons. Genome Research, 2008. 
[16] Qin, Z., Niu, T., and Liu, J. Partitioning-ligation-expectation-maximization algorithm for haplotype 
inference with single-nucleotide Ploymorphisms. Am. J. Hum. Genet., 71:1242-1247, 2002. 
[17] Redon R., Ishikawa, S., Fitch, K.R., Feuk, L., Perry, G.H., et al. Global variation in copy number in 
the human genome. Nature, 444:444-454, 2006. 
[18] Stephens, M. and Donnelly, P. A comparison of bayesian methods for haplotype reconstruction from 
population genotype data. Am. J. Hum. Genet., 73:1162-1169, 2003. 
[19] Stram, D.O., Haiman, C.A., Hirschhorn J.N., Altshuler, D., Kolonel, L.N., Henderson, B.E., and Pike, 
M.C. Choosing haplotype-tagging SNPs based on unphased genotype data using a preliminary 
sample of unrelated subjects with an example from the multiethnic cohort study. Hum. Hered., 
55:27-36, 2003. 
[20] Weal, M.E., Depondt, C., Macdonald, S.J., Smith, A., Lai, P.S., Shorvon, S.D., Wood, N.W., 
Goldstein, D.B. Selection and avalulation of tagging SNPs in the neuronal-sodium-channel gene 
SCN1A: implications for linkage diequilibrium gene mapping. Am. J. Hum. Genet., 73:551-565, 
2003. 
[21] Zhang, K., Sun, F., Waterman, M.S., and Chen, T. Haplotype block partition with limited resources 
and applications to human chromosome 21 haplotype data. Am. J. Hum. Genet., 73:63-73, 2003. 
[22] Zhang, K., Qin, Z.S., Liu, J.S., Chen, T., Waterman, M.S., and Sun, F. Haplotype block partitioning 
and tag SNP selection using genotype data and their applications to association studies. Genome 
Research, 14(5):908-916, 2004. 
 
