 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
計畫名稱：軟體無線電系統晶片--子計畫一：軟體無線電射頻前端電路 
(NSC 97-2221-E-002-240)  
執行期限： 97 年 8 月 1 日 至  98 年  7 月  31 日 
主持人：呂學士 博士 台灣大學電子所教授 
計畫參與人員：廖芳仁、林冠廷、洪煒翔、王裕翔、蔡秉修 
台灣大學電子所研究生 
 
一、中文摘要 
 本計畫主要負責收發機的射頻前端電
路，包含有低雜音放大器、混波器、驅動放
大器以及發射機的低通濾波器的研製。我們
所研製的軟體無線電射頻前端電路俱備幾項
優點: 低功率消耗、晶片面積小、雜音指數
的頻率響應又相當平坦。 
 在低雜音放大器的設計上，我們提出了
一個結合電阻式並聯回授與串聯電感共振的
輸 入 匹 配 技 術 ， 使 放 大 器 可 達 成
800MHz~6GHz 的寬頻輸入阻抗匹配。在
1.5-V 的操作下就可達成寬頻增益與極低的
雜音指數。利用類似的方法，驅動放大器也
能達成 800 MHz ~6GHz 的寬頻匹配，並在
1.5-V 的操作下就可達成優良的線性度與輸
出功率。 
    發射機的低通濾波器能提供可變增益與
可變頻寬的功能。可變增益使得低通濾波器
能適度調整衰減量，以適應從數位類比轉換
器送過來的不同輸入信號強度，並能支援各
種不同無線通訊系統的規格。 
 
關鍵詞: 軟體無線電、射頻前端、低通濾波
器 
 
Abstract 
As a descendent of the project “the 
software defined radio system chip”, this 
project will be focused on the research and 
development of RF front-end circuits for SDR 
transceivers, including a low noise amplifier, 
mixers, a driver amplifier and the transmitter 
low-pass filter. The developed SDR front-end 
circuits offer the advantages of low power, 
small chip size, and flat NF.  
An input matching technique which 
combines of resistive shunt feedback and gate 
series inductor resonance is proposed. The low 
noise amplifier can achieve a wide-band 
matching, from 800MHz to 6GHz while 
exhibiting wide-band power gain and low noise 
figure. The proposed technique can also be 
applied to driver amplifier in order to achieve 
wideband matching. The driver amplifier can 
offer good linearity and large output power at 
1.5-V operation.  
The low-pass filter provides the functions 
of variable-gain and variable-bandwidth. With 
the variable-gain function, the filter can be 
switched to different attenuation modes to 
accommodate to the input signal level from 
digital-to-analog converter. With the functions 
of variable-bandwidth, it can adapt to the 
different bandwidth requirements of several 
wireless standards. Several auxiliary circuits are 
included: The auto-tuning-loop is adopted to 
achieve accurate corner frequency in the 
transmitter low pass filter. In addition, the 
DC-offset cancellation is developed to reduce 
the unwanted LO leakage in output spectrum. 
 
Keywords: software defined radio, RF 
front-end, low-pass filter 
 
二、緣由與目的 
The wireless industry has enjoyed a fast 
pace of growth due to the true convenience it 
offers users. Various radio access technologies 
have been individually optimized by trading 
data rate, range, and mobility to superlatively 
suit target applications. Cellular technology 
standards (GSM, EDGE, WCDMA, etc.) for 
 3
front-end circuit with design equations. This 
receiver frond-end has the merits of the 
broadband input impedance matching, wide 
bandwidth, flat NF, and small chip-area. In this 
proposal, an 800MHz to 6GHz SDR receiver 
front-end is examined by simulation in CMOS 
90nm technology. Comparing to the power 
consumed by the existing SDR (1.5V/28.5mW) 
[Abidi], the proposed topology shows its 
superiority in power saving (1.5V/17.3mW).  
Except for the receiver front-end, a 
transmitter front-end is proposed and simulated. 
Concerning how to realize power amplifier on 
silicon for SDR application is still a puzzle, a 
wideband and variable gain amplifier is adapted 
in the transmitter front-end instead. To achieve 
the different bandwidths required by different 
standards, a bandwidth-tunable low pass filter 
is invented and used (see Fig. 1). The low pass 
filter is equipped with the functions of DC 
offset cancellation (DCOC) and auto tuning 
loop (ATL), making the transmitter more 
compact and practical. 
In the first year of this program, effort will 
be devoted to the implementation of receiver 
front-end and low pass filter with DCOC 
function. In the second year, we will start to 
realize the transmitter front-end and ATL 
designs. The last year we shall finish the whole 
transceiver and integrate them with other 
sub-projects and complete the goal of SOC. 
   Up to now, there have been many 
wideband techniques proposed for the 
wideband LNA. For example, a cascode CMOS 
LNA with a bandpass response at the input for 
wideband impedance matching has been 
reported in [2]. The bandpass-filter based 
topology incorporates the input impedance of 
the cascode amplifier as a part of the filter. 
However, the adoption of the filter at the input 
requires a number of reactive elements, which 
inevitably results in a larger chip area and the 
NF degradation for on-chip implementation. 
Further, the matching bandwidth is not wide 
enough and the higher band NF is rising rapidly 
in higher frequencies while using this wideband 
technique. An efficient way to achieve a 
broadband matching with small power 
dissipation and chip area is the common-gate 
input topology. However, it has been reported 
that a common-gate LNA exhibits a lower gain 
and higher NF than a common-source 
amplifier. 
   In [3], a wideband matching with a first 
stage of the common-gate amplifier for LNA 
design has been implemented. However, the 
power gain is not enough due to one stage 
common gate amplifier used. The extra stages 
are needed to boost the gain. Thus the ripple is 
appeared in pass band due to the 
non-broadband inter-stage matching. [4] 
reported a noise-canceling technique to resolve 
the high NF issue for common-gate amplifier, 
but NF is still high, even higher than the LNA 
without using the noise-canceling technique 
reported in [5].  
    The distributed amplifier (DA) is widely 
used for wideband application due to its 
intrinsic broadband frequency response going 
all the way down to DC along with good input 
and output impedance matching. Scrutiny of 
previous publications reveals that conventional 
DAs [6]-[8] have the disadvantages of low gain, 
high power dissipation, and large chip area. The 
gain of these amplifiers is typically limited by 
their additive gain mechanism, which inevitably 
leads to large chip area and power consumption, 
and hence it still remains much effort to design 
wideband amplifiers. Yet, so far, high power 
consumption and large die area have hampered 
its wide-spread applications. A wideband 
approach that has the less passive components 
for reducing the chip size is preferred. Further, 
it is simultaneous with the wideband matching 
and broadband gain for wideband application. 
The conventional method, local resistive shunt 
feedback, is fitted for small chip size. A 3-5 
GHz cascode-type wideband LNA with 
resistive feedback [9] has been proposed to 
reduce the quality factor of the input series 
resonance circuit. But the bandwidth of that 
design is still limited by the quality factor of the 
input series resonance circuit and capacitive 
effect from active devices, and thus the input 
return loss and gain began to roll-off at 4.2 GHz. 
 5
 
The LPF provides the following features: 
coarse frequency tuning with adaptive power 
consumption by programming the digital word 
hr. Fine frequency tuning for RC process 
deviation compensation is achieved by 
programming the digital word hc. One of the 
power/performance trade-off we implemented 
is to reduce the stop-band attenuation 
performance in case where no large interferers 
or blockers signals are detected. This is 
accomplished by turning-off and bypassing 
biquadratic sections. Low on-resistance by-pass 
switches are implemented in each biquad. 
Furthermore, power consumption can be traded 
for increased kT/C noise by decreasing the 
capacitor sizes and the transconductance and 
increasing the resistor values at the same time. 
 
四、結果與討論 
A. Receiver front-end 
The topology of the proposed CMOS SDR 
receiver is shown in Fig. 3. The resistive 
shunt-shunt feedback with post-cascode 
inductor LNA [10] was applied to achieve input 
50ohm matching. A balun-type (micromixer) is 
also implemented in this receiver. The mixer is 
not only provide 50 ohms for inter-stage 
maximum power transfer, but also provide an 
useful single to differential transformation. The 
combination of these two circuits results in a 
very good receiver topology which is suitable 
for Software Defined Radio system. 
 
 
Fig. 3 Proposed SDR Receiver 
 
The input inductor Lg (1.2nH) and shunt 
resistor Rfb (320ohm) have been chosen 
carefully in order to achieve matching over 
0.8GHz to 6GHz. The post cascade inductor Lp 
(0.8nH) is not only used to extend the gain 
bandwidth, for reducing the NF at high 
frequency, but also compensate the insufficient 
gain of the mixer at high frequency. 
Furthermore, the RF choke inductor is used to 
be the load of this shunt resistive feedback low 
noise amplifier. The LNA draws Fig. 4 shows 
the simulation results of the input matching and 
gain response. The results show that the 
matching bandwidth is from 0.6GHz to 9.57 
GHz, and the 3dB gain bandwidth is from 
0.42GHz to 14GHz. The peak gain is around 
13dB and it is very flat over the band of 
interest. 
 
  
Fig. 4 Simulation results of S11 and S21 
Fig. 5 Simulation result of LNA noise figure 
 
Another serious issue is the noise 
performance of this LNA, Fig. 5 show the noise 
figure is under 3dB from 0.55GHz to 8.6GHz. 
It achieves a very flat and low noise response. 
To characterize the nonlinear behavior, 
two-tone test also applied to the circuit. Fig. 6 
shows that the linearity of the circuit is about 
-2.25dBm while the input power is -30dBm. 
 
  
Fig. 6 Two tone test of the SDR RX (IIP3) 
Fig. 7 Simulation results of output returned loss (S22) 
and the isolation (S12) 
 
Fig. 7 show the simulation results of 
output returned loss (S22) and the isolation 
(S12). Fig. 8 shows the stability factor that 
ensured the low noise amplifier is under 
un-conditionally stable. 
 
 7
Thus, the signal is ensured to be maximum 
power transfer. The circuit is implemented in 
UMC 90nm CMOS technologies. The layout is 
shown in Fig. 15 and the die photograph is 
shown in Fig. 16. The die area including testing 
pads is about 0.75 x 0.5mm2. The circuit was 
tested on board for RF characterization. The 
receiver draws 12.5 mA and the supply voltage 
is 1.2 V. 
 
  
Fig. 15 SDR Receiver Layout 
Fig. 16 Die photograph 
 
    Fig. 17 shows the input matching of the 
SDR receiver. The simulation indicates that the 
input return loss is below -10dB from 0.55GHz 
to 9GHz. Because of the intrinsic parasitic 
effect and slightly PCB vibration, the 
measurement result shows a slight different 
from the simulation results. The matching BW 
is 1.2GHz to 7GHz. 
 
  
Fig. 17 Input Return Loss 
Fig. 18 Conversion Voltage Gain 
 
    The conversion gain is depicted in Fig. 18. 
The RF frequency is down-converted to 10MHz 
for comparison. The difference between 
simulation and measurement is about 3dB. The 
measured peak gain is 21dB. Fig. 19 shows the 
transient response in oscilloscope. 
 
  
Fig. 19 Transient Response 
Fig. 20 Simulated Noise Figure of the SDR RX 
    Noise performance is also considered as 
shown in Fig. 20. The simulation result shows 
that the receiver has the noise response below 
4dB. Table 1 indicates the simulation and 
measurement results of the receiver front-end. 
 
 
Table1 Performance Summary 
UMC 90nm 
SDR RX Simulation Measurement
Matching 
Frequency 0.55-9 GHz 1.2-7GHz 
Peak Gain 24dB 21 dB 
3dB 
frequency 0.5-6 GHz 1.2-6 GHz 
Linearity -10dBm -16dBm 
Noise Figure <4dB N/A 
VDD 1.2V 1.2V 
Power 
consumption 13.2mW 15mW 
Die area 0.375 mm2 0.375 mm2 
 
 
 
Fig. 21 Measurement Setup for SDR Receiver 
 
    In this work, we used a special 
measurement technique, that is, we use on 
wafer for applying the input signal. On the 
other hand, we bonded the output to the PCB 
board to measure the output signal. The 
advantage of this novel technique is can 
eliminate the parasitic effect caused by the PCB 
board. Unfortunately, the drawback in using 
this technique isn’t easy to setup those 
equipments due to the vibration will possibly 
damage the probe. The s-parameter network 
analyzer is used for measuring input return loss. 
The spectrum analyzer is used for measuring 
the output signal, and the analog signal 
generator is used for applying the LO frequency 
to the receiver. 
 
 9
Fig. 30 shows that coarse cut-off 
frequency flexibility is achieved by 
programming the resistors arrays and the 
FLOAs in 32 discrete steps and it can be moved 
from 0.56 MHz to 13.22 MHz with a step of 
0.56 MHz. In addition to this coarse frequency 
tuning, the flexible LPF provides fine 
frequency tuning by configuring its 7-bit 
capacitors arrays. 
 
 
Fig. 30 Flexible LPF frequency tuning 
 
C. Conclusions 
    A brand new receiver front-end topology 
for Software-Defined-Receiver (SDR) 
communication system has been implemented 
in UMC 90nm CMOS technology. The 
proposed topology has several attractive 
properties. The novel wideband LNA and 
micromixer provides a method for wideband 
matching, high power, good linearity and low 
noise characteristic. The receiver also achieves 
a high and flat gain over the band of interest. 
Although noise figure has not been measure yet, 
the simulation result indicates the noise figure 
is below 4dB which is a very extraordinary 
result. The overall performance of the 
fabricated receiver front-end shows good 
agreement with the design idea. It seems this 
proposed topology is a suitable candidate for 
SDR communication system. 
This project also presented an efficient 
solution to design flexible analog baseband 
circuits. The flexible low-pass filter is suitable 
to be implemented in software-defined radio 
front-end. This complete baseband section is 
suitable to be implemented in a 
software-defined radio front-end, where a 
quality-of-service manager configures the 
analog blocks in the best power/performance 
trade-off according to the 
system/user/environment requirements 
五、參考文獻 
[1] R. Bagheri, A. Mirzaei, M.E. Heidari, S. Chehrazi, 
M. Lee; M. Mikhemar, W.K. Tang, A. A. Abidi, 
“Software-defined radio receiver: dream to reality,” 
IEEE Communication Magazine, pp. 111-118, Aug. 
2006. 
[2] A. Bevilacqua and A. M. Niknejad, “An 
Ultrawideband CMOS Low-Noise Amplifier for 
3.1–10.6-GHz Wireless Receivers,” IEEE J. 
Solid-State Circuits, vol. 39, pp. 2259-2268, Dec. 
2004. 
[3] Y. Lu, K. S. Yeo, A. Cabuk, and J. Ma, “A Novel 
CMOS Low-Noise Amplifier Design for 3.1- to 
10.6-GHz Ultra-Wide-Band Wireless Receivers,” 
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND 
SYSTEMS—I, vol. 53, pp. 1683-1692, Aug. 2006. 
[4] C. F. Liao and S. I. Liu, “A Broadband 
Noise-Canceling CMOS LNA for 3.1–10.6-GHz 
UWB Receiver,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 
42, pp. 329-339, Feb. 2007. 
[5] Y. Shim, C. W. Kim, J. Lee, and S. G. Lee, “Design 
of,” IEEE Microwave Wireless Comp. Letter, vol. 17, 
no. 10, pp. 721-723, Oct. 2007. 
[6] R. Liu, C. Lin, K. Deng, and H. Wang, "A 
0.5–14-GHz 10.6-dB CMOS cascode distributed 
amplifier," Symp. VLSI Circuits Dig. 17, pp. 139 - 
140, June 2003. 
[7] F. Zhang, P. R. Kinget, “Low-Power Programmable 
Gain CMOS Distributed LNA,” IEEE J. Solid-State 
Circuits, vol. 41, pp. 1333-1343, June 2006. 
[8] P. Heydari, “Design and Analysis of 
Performance-Optimized CMOS UWB Distributed 
LNA,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 42, pp. 
1892-11905, June 2007. 
[9] C. W. Kim, M. S. Kang, P. T. Anh, H. T. Kim, and 
S.-G. Lee, “An Ultra-Wideband CMOS Low Noise 
Amplifier for 3–5-GHz WIDEBAND System,” IEEE 
J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 40, pp. 544-547, Feb 
2005. 
[10] H. K. Chen, D. C. Chang, Y. Z. Juang, and S. S. Lu 
“A Compact Wideband CMOS Low-Noise Amplifier 
Using Shunt Resistive-Feedback and Series 
Inductive-Peaking Techniques,” IEEE Microwave 
Wireless Comp. Letter, vol. 17, no. 8, pp. 616-618, 
Aug. 2007. 
[11] C.C. Meng, S.S. Lu, M.H. Chuang and H.C. Chen, 
“ DC-8GHz 11dB Gain Gilbert Micromixer Using 
GaInP/GaAs HBT Technology", IEE Electronics 
Letters, vol. 39, no.8, pp. 637-638, April, 2003. 
 
2.Compact silicon-on-insulator rib waveguide bends 
combined with benzocyclobutene microprisms 
本論文主要在 SOI (silicon-on-insulator)上做出「肋」（rib）
形 waveguide（Fig.1(b)參照），在於 waveguide路徑上嵌入
一 以 benzocyclobutene （ BCB ） 材 質 製 的 微 菱 鏡
（microprism）而達成光線彎曲的目的。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
此 waveguide bends之模擬結果如 Fig.2所示。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
實際製出的 waveguide如 Fig.3所示。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3. Low loss high-mesa Si/SiO2 wire waveguides fabricated 
using neutral loop discharge (NLD) plasma etching for 
infrared absorption spectroscopy 
本論文主要提出一種高度相對高的直線式 SiO2/Si/SiO2 
waveguide，可以將光線侷限在兩 SiO2層間的 Si層，如 Fig.1
所示。實驗結果(Fig.2)顯示光線確實可有效侷限而突出於
側。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
