2. METHODOLOGY
It is able to produce micro features in a substrate when a light field incident on the photoresist presents the same intensity
distribution as the pattern of the features. A typical phase-shift pattern consists of an amplitude distribution of unity and a
binary phase distribution of two phase values of 0 and S radians. Due to the destructive interference, the micro features 
are created along the edges of 0 and S phase regions of the light field after the standard semiconductor manufacture. In
this paper, we present a method that can generate the phase-shift patterns in the back focal plane of a focusing lens, i.e.,
the optical far field, which is different from the conventional PSL. The key component of this method is a phase-only
diffractive optical element (DOE) and it is designed using the iterative Fourier-transform algorithm (IFTA) with dummy-
area constraints.
The apparatus of the proposed system, as shown in Fig. 1, is an optical Fourier system which consists of two focusing
lenses with each center located at the other’s focal point, with a plane of the DOE right in front of the first focusing lens,
and a plane of diffraction for photoresist right behind the second focusing lens. Such a system apparatus provides a two-
dimensional Fourier transform (2D FT) in the diffraction plane of the light field in the input plane of DOE [12]. The
relationship is given by
Uf(x,y) =  ^ `
f
y
yff
x
xf
DOE
jkf
UFT
fj
e
OO
K[
O   ,
,  (1)
where FT{} denotes the operation of a 2D Fourier transform, and UDOE([,K) and Uf(x,y) are the complex-valued
functions of the light field in the DOE and the diffraction planes, respectively. When the system is illuminated by a
monochromatic planar wave of unit amplitude, the complex-valued function of the diffractive field becomes a 2D FT of
the complex transmittance of the DOE. 
Fig. 1. The system apparatus for realization of the near-field phase-shift patterns in the diffraction plane of an optical Fourier
system. The diffractive field Uf is the two-dimensional Fourier transform of the input field UDOE. The DOE, playing as 
a remote phase-only mask, generates a phase-shift pattern in the diffractive plane, placing a PR film.
The goal of the proposed method is to generate a phase-shift pattern in the diffraction plane by use of a DOE located in
the input plane. The field distribution of a phase-shift pattern contains, as above mentioned, a unit amplitude and a binary
phase (0 and S) distributions, i.e., a phase-only complex-valued function. The field transmitted through the DOE is also
phase-only complex-valued, containing a unit amplitude and continuous or discrete phase. However, a phase-only
complex-valued function cannot be the Fourier transform of another phase-only complex-valued function. Therefore, we
adopted a method using semi-phase-only complex-valued functions as the field function in the diffraction plane, called
the Dummy-area method [13]. The field function neighboring around the origin in the diffractive plane is unit-amplitude
and binary-phase, and the field function in the outer region is a regular complex function of arbitrary phase and
amplitude values. The central and outer areas are called the signal and dummy areas, respectively. Figure 2 shows an
example of the signal- and dummy-area arrangement of the semi-phase-only field function. In the lithographic process,
the photoresist is placed only at the central area, and the light diffracted into the dummy area will not be used for 
Phase-only
DOE
Lens 1 Lens 2 PR film
UV
Plane
wave
UDOE Uff
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6462  64621C-2
Fig. 3. The flowchart of the iterative Fourier-transform algorithm (IFTA). The phase-only constraints in the DOE plane are
used to design the phase-only DOE. The semi-phase-only constraints in the diffraction plane are used to design the
phase-shift patterns.
signal region of zero- and unit-amplitude and the dummy-area region are observed. The phase of the diffractive field is
shown in Fig. 4 (b). The 0 and S radians of the central square were successfully generated as expected in a phase-shift
pattern. It is of interest to observe a periodic phase pattern in the zero-amplitude region although the reason is still
unknown. Surrounding the zero-amplitude phase region was random phase for the dummy area. Figures 4 (a) and (b)
construct a semi-phase-only complex-valued function of the diffractive field generated by the IFTA-designed DOE. A
binary phase-shift pattern of the DOE with a diffraction efficiency of 1.6% was obtained (the width of the dummy-area
was 35 pixels). In order to illustrate the destructive interference between the 0 and S regions, the simulated diffractive
field was interpolated to a larger matrix of 512-by-512 pixels. The interpolated phase and the intensity of the central unit-
amplitude region are shown in Figs. 4 (c) and (d). A dark fringe of 0 intensity, resulting from the destructive interference
of the two neighboring regions of 0 and S radians, was clearly observed which resembles the image intensity of the near-
field phase-shift pattern [5].
There are lots of DOE solutions to any diffractive pattern of a certain intensity profile. Besides the infinite number of the
trivial solutions of S phase difference by adding a bias phase, for example, there exists a range of phase differences
around S that can still result in dark fringes due to a ‘weak’ destructive interference. Here, we defined the ‘weak’
destructive interference as the interference from two phase values whose differences are not S. In Fig. 5, the phase-shift
intensity and the corresponding linear phase profiles of the diffractive field are shown. A linear phase-shift pattern of the
DOE with a diffraction efficiency of 1.5% was obtained (the width of the dummy-area was 35 pixels). It shows that the
dark fringes occurred only when the phase difference of neighboring regions was around S radians, and no fringes when
the phase variation was small. Having the same diffraction efficiency as the previous binary design, the linear phase-shift
DOE can be used to achieve more complicated lithographic patterns.
Constraints on Uf in the 
diffraction plane: 
- Fix the amplitude in the 0- and 1-
amplitude areas.
- Fix the phase in the 0 and S areas 
of the 1-amplitude area.
- Leave the phase in the 0-amplitude
area unchanged.
- Leave the amplitude and phase in
the dummy area unchanged.
Constraints on UDOE in the 
DOE plane:
- Fix the amplitude of all pixels.
- Quantize the phase in the case of a 
multilevel DOE design.
- Leave the phase unchanged in the 
case of a continuous-phase DOE
design.
2D FT 
2D FT -1
Performance
evaluationInitialization
Converge
No
Stop
Yes
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6462  64621C-4
a120
20 40 80 80 188 128
I I II I
20 40 80 80 100 120
200
400
600
800
1000
400 600 800 1000200
(a) (b)
(c) (d)
Fig. 5. The simulation results of the phase-shift pattern generated by the DOE in the diffraction plane. Figures (a) and (b) are
the interpolated intensity and the original phase of the diffractive field of the DOE. Figure (c) illustrates the linear
phase profile of the central 1-amplitude area, and (d) is the interpolated intensity profile. As long as the phase
differences of two adjacent pixels in each phase area were smaller than 0.3 radians, no significant variations of intensity 
occur. A dark fringe was generated on the edge of the two linear-phase areas.
4. CONCLUSION
We have presented a method of diffractive optics to generate the phase-shift patterns of the near-field PSL in the optical
far field. The apparatus of the method was a spatial Fourier-transform system in which a phase-only DOE plays as a 
remote mask of the photolithography. In the diffraction plane of the system, a phase-shift pattern generated by the DOE
was the intensity of a diffracted light field of a semi-phase-only complex-valued function. The phase-shift pattern was
optimized to obtain the highest diffraction efficiency using the IFTA with the dummy-area constraint. We successfully
generated a phase-shift pattern by the designed DOE that was analog to the near-field counterpart. In addition, two more
DOEs were also presented to generate the same phase-shift pattern but with different phase distributions. This means that
the proposed method is able to provide high capability of realizing complicated patterns which the conventional PSL
cannot generate. Other advantages of the proposed method include the spatial parallelism and low cost.
There are two drawbacks of the proposed method that might limit its application to the sub-wavelength lithography, a
large achieved minimum feature size and a low diffraction efficiency. Although the proposed method was able to create
the micro features of which sizes were beyond the diffraction limit, the physical size of the features were in the orders of
a few microns, i.e., about a magnitude of the operating wavelength. It was because the diffraction limit of the free-space
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6462  64621C-6
REFERENCES 
1. M. D. Levenson, N. S. Viswanathan, and R. A. Simpson, “Improving resolution in photolithography with a phase-
shifting mask,” IEEE Trans. Electron Devices ED-29(12), 1828-1836 (1982). 
2. Y. C. Pati and T. Kailath, “Phase-shifting masks for microlithography: automated design and mask requirements,” J. 
Opt. Soc. Am. A11(9), 2438-2452 (1994). 
3. H.-Y. Liu, L. Karklin, Y.-T. Wang, and Y. C. Pati, “The application of alternating phase-shifting masks to 140 nm 
gate patterning (II): mask design and manufacturing tolerances,” in Optical Microlithography XI, L. Van de Hove, 
eds., Proc. SPIE 3334, 2-14 (1998). 
4. J. A. Rogers, K. E. Paul, R. J. Jackman, and G. M. Whitesides, “Using an elastomeric phase mask for sub-100 nm 
photolithography in the optical near field,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 70(20), 2658-2660 (1997). 
5. J. Aizenberg, J. A. Rogers, K. E. Paul, and G. M. Whitesides, “Imaging profiles of light intensity in the near field: 
applications to phase-shift photolithography,” Appl. Opt. 37(11), 2145-2152 (1998). 
6. Z.-Y. Yuan, Y. Yin, and Y. Xia, “Optimization of elastomeric phase masks for near-field photolithography,” Appl.
Phys. Lett. 78(11), 2431-2433 (2001). 
7. J. Maria, S. Jeon, and J. A. Rogers, “Nanopatterning with conformable phase masks,” J. Photochemistry 
Photobiology A: Chemistry 166, 149-154 (2004). 
8. C. K. Ullal, M. Maldovan, M. Wohlgemuth, E. L. Thomas, C. A. White, and S. Yang, “Triply periodic bicontinuous 
structures through interference lithography: a level-set approach,” J. Opt. Soc. Am. A20(5), 948-954 (2003). 
9. J. H. Moon, S.-M. Yang, D. J. Pine, and W.-S. Chang, “Multiple-exposure holographic lithography with phase 
shift,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 85(18), 4184-4186 (2004). 
10. T. Horiuchi, T. Miyakawa, and S. Hosoda, "A new projection exposure method using a liquid crystal display as a 
switching matrix in place of a reticle," Jpn. J. Appl. Phys. 39, 324-329 (2000). 
11. M. Klosner and K. Jaina, "Massively parallel, large-area maskless lithography," Appl. Phys. Lett. 84(15), 2880-2882 
(2004). 
12. J. W. Goodman, Introduction to Fourier Optics, (2nd ed.) MacGraw-Hill, New York, 1996. 
13. H. Akahori, “Spectrum leveling by an iterative algorithm with a dummy area for synthesizing the kinoform,” Appl. 
Opt. 25(5), 802-811 (1986). 
14. J. Turunen and F. Wyrowski ed., Diffractive Optics for Industrial and Commercial Applications, Akademie Verlag, 
Berlin, 1997. 
15. F. Wyrowski, “Diffractive optical elements: iterative calculation of quantized, blazed phase structures,” J. Opt. Soc. 
Am. A7(6), 961-969 (1990). 
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 6462  64621C-8
表 Y04 2 
Frank Wyrowski (LightTrans, Germany): Wyrowski 博士也在我的報告結束後來找我，
他說我的報告內提到採用他的 IFTA 來設計繞射元件，因此覺得應該和我見個
面比較好些，這對我是個巨大的驚奇，因為當時眼前的人和我所預期的樣子相
差頗大，Wyrowski 博士的 IFTA 是在 1988 至 1990 年發表，是設計繞射元件中
相當重要的方法之一，他的書(1997 年)也非常具有份量，因此我所想像的
Wyrowski 應該是白髮蒼蒼，然而眼前卻是個短小經幹、頗具活力的壯年男子。
Wyrowski 博士告訴我目前他們公司(LightTrans)目前已開發出功能更完善的
IFTA 設計軟體，歡迎我到 LightTrans 的網站去試用。另外，他們也正在進行和
我的報告內容類似的研究，他對我非常感興趣，等待會議結束返回德國後，他
會把相關的論文寄給我，並希望保持聯絡，交換研究心得。在我撰寫本心得的
期間，已經收到 Wyrowski 博士寄來的資料 2 次，德國人的工作效率真是高啊。 
Joseph Mait (Army Research Lab., USA): Mait 博士是我出國前便已說好見面一談
的，因此雖然在我報告時，Mait 博士正在隔壁會議室主持另一個議題的口頭報
告而不克前來，我便在和 Wyrowski 聊完後去找他。Mait 博士是 OSA 發行的國
際期刊 Applied Optics/Information Process (Impact Factor 約 1.6~1.8)的現任主
編，他目前的研究重點在超高解析度光學影像的處理研究上，然而 90 至 05 年
間的研究重點在於繞射元件，他對繞射元件研究有極為深入的了解。今年初，
我將 05 年發表的論文寄給他並請他給些意見，起初他只回給我一封簡短的
E-mail，簡訴他對該論文的第一印象與看法，原本以為就此結束，未料時隔近
半年，他又寄給我一封 E-mail，並附上他寫的 5 頁心得草稿，感動之餘，便和
他約了此次 OSA 見面。和 Mait 博士長談之後，他瞭解了我遭遇的問題與處境，
便給我 3 個他認為可以幫我的人名及 E-mail，他尤其強調一定要告訴他們是 Joe 
Mait 介紹的，並且要我把他們的回覆告訴他。 
Alexander A. Sawchuk (E.E., Univ. of Southern California, USA): Sawchuk 博士的暱稱
是 Sandy，他是我博士論文的指導教授，目前擔任美國南加大(USC)電機系系主
任和 OSA 國際光學委員會(International Commission for Optics,或 ICO)教育委員
會(Education Committee)主席。Sandy 主要的工作在 USC 內是整合校內的電機
系成為電機學院，在 ICO 為推動國際間具有政經緊張地區或國家間的光學研究
合作計畫，如以色列與阿拉伯國家、印度與巴基斯坦、中國與台灣等，因此他
問我目前海峽兩岸的交流情形與政府對此類計畫的態度，並和中國大陸學者的
合作機會。另外，他也了解我在製作繞射光學元件所遭遇的困難，並告訴我可
能的解決途徑。 
Joseph W. Goodman (E.E., Stanford Univ., USA): Goodman 博士是光電領域的泰斗之
一，曾任 OSA 的會長，他所撰著的 Introduction to Fourier Optics 及 Statistical 
Optics 二書均為經典之作。我在研討會議場及光電展覽會場均與他有短暫晤
談，也談到我目前對垂直繞射光場分析的興趣與問題，Goodman 博士親切的了
解我的問題後表示願意想想看解決方法，雖然他確信此問題目前尚無適當的答
案，大師風範果然不同。 
除了和與會的數名學者交流之外，另一重大收獲是參加了為紀念前密西根大學
教授 Emmett Leith 所舉辦的專題研討。Leith 教授自去年(2005 年)以 78 歲高齡退休自
密西根大學，不料在去年年底因中風而驟逝，他畢生致力於光學、光資訊的研究，尤
其是將全像術由 Gabor (光學界唯一獲得諾貝爾獎者)手中發揚光大最為人樂道，參與
相關之重要研究(如綜合孔徑雷達 SAR)與培育傑出研究人才(如國立中央大學光電系 
表 Y04 4 
在補助參與國際學術性會議時，優先以口頭報告與新進學者為主，例如參加此次會議
的梁肇文助理教授(中央光電)就是完全自費，幸虧梁教授年青負熱誠才得參與，也還
好有他才能參觀 QED Technologies。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. 2006 FiO/90th Annual Meeting program: 會議議程及論文摘要 
2. CD of Meeting Proceedings: 會議論文光碟 
 
六、其他 
(無) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
