行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■成果報告   □期中進度報告 
 
利用磁振多迴訊穩定態成像達成高解析度及高對比的下丘腦影像(二) 
 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100－2221－E－006 －049 － 
執行期間： 100 年 8 月 1 日至 101 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立成功大學資訊工程學系(所) 
 
計畫主持人：吳明龍 
共同主持人：賴炳宏 
計畫參與人員：碩士班研究生-兼任助理：林柏宇、陳怡蓉、鄭彥翔 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國 101 年 10 月 30 日 
 
二、背景與計畫目標 
Balanced SSFP (bSSFP) is a pulse sequence with great clinical potential because of its short scan 
time, high SNR, and lower SAR (specific absorption rate). However, due to its sensitivity to field 
inhomogeneities, SSFP imaging is degraded by the banding artifact [1], especially in deep brain 
regions. Although banding artifact may be reduced with improved shimming and shortened 
repetition time (TR), it cannot be completely avoided in critical regions near air-tissue boundaries. 
Recently, partially-dephased SSFP (PD-SSFP) was developed to reduce banding artifact by 
applying a small dephasing gradient during data acquisition, and then reconstructing images 
through extrapolation and peak detection [2]. However, the PD-SSFP image quality is still less than 
optimal due to the residual artifact. Here we show that by designing a 3D multi-echo Steady-state 
Free Precession pulse sequence, banding artifact in SSFP can be completely eliminated. This 
technique is of high potential for imaging subthalamus because that multi-echo SSFP produces 
images with high T2* weighting and without banding artifact. The multi-echo SSFP images aim at 
improving both clinical diagnosis and deep brain stimulation (DBS) in PD. 
 
 
Deep brain stimulation is an effective therapy for treating symptoms related to Parkinson’s disease. 
DBS electrodes are implanted in the subthalamic nucleus (STN) using guidance from preoperative 
MRI registered to patient’s brain. Because several passes/adjustments may be needed to achieve 
optimal electrode placement and each pass or manipulation carries some risk and lengthens the 
procedure, a method for direct and robust visualization of midbrain nuclei is desirable in order to 
improve the accuracy of STN targeting on the first pass [3,4]. Due to the higher iron content in 
midbrain nuclei, such as red nucleus (RN) and substantia nigra (SN), T2- and T2*-weighted MRI 
have been used for imaging these regions. To provide a high contrast between midbrain nuclei and 
surrounding white matter in T2*-weighted imaging, the TE generally needs to be set to 20ms or 
longer. As a result, the scan time is 8-10 seconds per slice for gradient-echo imaging with matrix 
size of 256x256 [5]. In this study, we use 3D multi-echo SSFP technique for an improved 
visualization of midbrain nuclei, aiming at achieving high contrast-to-noise ratio with a reduced 
scan time. Because SSFP makes use of magnetization vectors excited from previous RF excitations, 
a heavy T2*-weighting can be achieved with a relatively short TE (< 10ms). In addition, the 
developed ME-SSFP technique enables banding-free image reconstruction, while conventional 
balanced SSFP (bSSFP) imaging is highly susceptible to banding-artifact, particularly in brain 
regions with pronounced susceptibility field gradients. The multi-echo SSFP method enables robust 
visualization of midbrain nuclei with scan times as low as 4 seconds per slice. 
 
三、材料及方法 
In multi-echo SSFP, the intentionally unbalanced waveform results in constant nonzero net phase 
dispersion for transverse magnetization during each TR, as shown in figure 1. Through consecutive 
RF excitations in SSFP, multiple steady states of magnetization are generated, with the phase 
[5] Elolf E., et al., Am J Neuroradiol 28:1093-94, 2007 
[6] Scheffler K., Concepts Magn Reson 11(5): 291-304, 1999 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure  3.  Brain  imaging  in  coronal  direction  comparing 
multi‐echo  SSFP  (ME‐SSFP)  (right)  with  balanced  SSFP  (left). 
Balanced  SSFP  presents  banding  artifacts  in  the  deep  brain 
region  due  to  field  inhomogeneity  as  pointed  by  arrows. 
ME‐SSFP  reveals  no  banding  artifact.  A  ROI  (yellow  box)  is 
selected  to  further  compare  local  image  contrast  as  shown  in 
Figure 4. 
Figure  4.  Zoom‐in  images  of  in  midbrain  region  comparing  SPGR,  balanced  SSFP 
(bSSFP), multi‐echo SSFP  (ME‐SSFP) at TRs of 10, 20 and 30ms.  It can be seen  that 
bSSFP  images  were  deteriorated  by  banding  artifacts.  Compared  to  conventional 
T2*‐weighted  SPGR  images, ME‐SSFP  provides  higher  contrast  between  red  nuclei 
and their surrounding tissues. ROIs in red nuclei and their surrounding tissues (circles 
on the upper right of the figure) are selected to calculate image contrast as plotted in 
Figure 5. 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                   日期： 2012 年 10 月 30 日 
一、參加會議經過 
國際醫用磁共振學會（International Society for Magnetic Resonance in Medicine, ISMRM）年會每年匯
集此領域最先進研究報告於會議當中；並同時吸引將近六千位此領域的專家學者齊聚會場，以針對
醫用磁振造影目前在臨床或研究上技術，交換意見及深入討論。本次會議於澳洲墨爾本舉行，會場
中心四周交通便利，亦有鄰近餐廳及超市，生活機能相當便利，縮短交通及用餐時間，有利於學者
們專心在議程上。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次會議開場演講由知名學者 Dr. Vivian S. Lee 發表演說，針對未來磁振造影及臨床醫療的發展方
向，分享她精闢的看法。其中印象最深刻的是，Dr. Lee 提到當前磁振造影技術發展的重要議題，在
於如何創造技術的價值，也就是需要思考技術是否提高對臨床診斷或治療的有效性。此外 Dr. Lee 也
分享她的觀察，許多醫學議題仍未獲得足夠的關注和研究資源(例如：心血管疾病)；未來的醫學研
究趨勢，勢必需要更貼近造成人口中重大死因的疾病，以確保研究資源的投入，有效地改進人民的
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－006 －049 － 
計畫名稱 利用磁振多迴訊穩定態成像達成高解析度及高對比的下丘腦影像(二) 
出國人員
姓名 吳明龍 
服務機構
及職稱 
成功大學資訊工程學系(所) 
助理教授 
會議時間 
2012 年 5 月 5 日
至 
2012年 5月 11日 
會議地點 澳洲墨爾本 
會議名稱 
(中文)國際醫用磁共振學會第二十屆年會 
(英文)The 20th Annual Meeting of the International Society for Magnetic 
Resonance in Medicine 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)利用三維磁化率權重反向雙迴訊穩定態技術改進中腦區域影像
呈現 
(英文) Midbrain nuclei visualization improved by susceptibility-enhanced 
3D inversed Double Echo Steady State (iDESS) imaging 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 利用磁振多迴訊穩定態成像達成高解析度及高對比的下丘腦影像(II)
計畫主持人: 吳明龍
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-006-049- 學門領域: 醫用電子
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
