The conformation properties of a flexible polyelectrolyte in
a good solvent have been studied by molecular dynamics. Below
a critical value of Coulomb interaction strengths, Winkler et
al.2 observe that the radius of gyration (or end-to-end distance)
rises with increasing interaction strength. Beyond the critical
value, the polyelectrolyte collapses into a dense coil, because
counterions condense on the chain and the formation of ion pairs
(dipoles) leads to a net attraction. Using Langevin dynamics
simulations and the self-consistent theory based on adsorption
mechanism, Muthukumar et al.4,13 have systematically investi-
gated the distribution of counterions around a flexible poly-
electrolyte as a function of zc, N, cs, chain flexibility, and 1/rT
(r and T are the dielectric constant of the solvent and
temperature, respectively). Their results show that the essential
features of counterion condensation for a flexible polyelectrolyte
are qualitatively different than the Manning theory for an
infinitely long, rigid polyelectrolyte. Although the degree of
ionization is found to be independent of N at essentially all
Coulomb strengths by Muthukumar et al., R is reported to
decline with increasing chain length by Winkler et al. for a given
Coulomb strength.
In theoretical studies, the effective charge (degree of ioniza-
tion) can be determined according to various definitions.14 The
simple and intuitive definition is the two-state approximation,
i.e., condensed and free counterions. The boundary between the
two states is chosen arbitrarily. For example, the counterions
are regarded as being in the condensed state if they are located
within a cutoff distance (say, 1.5 counterion diameter) perpen-
dicular to the chain backbone.2,4 Those counterions neutralize
an equivalent number of charges on the polyelectrolyte. The
effective charge is therefore the rest of the charge carried by
the polymer. Nevertheless, such a two-state definition of the
degree of ionization does not relate to thermodynamic quantities.
Another approach to charge renormalization is the electric
field felt by a counterion away from the parent macroion.15 That
is, owing to strong screening, the far-field behavior of a highly
charged macroion Z is explained by the one associated with a
weakly charged macroion Z*. The nonlinear Poisson-Boltz-
mann (PB) mean-field description of the counterion clouds is
often employed to calculate the electric field. Far from the highly
charged macroion, the thermal energy kBT dominates over the
electrostatic potential ª, and thus, the linearized approximation
of the PB theory, yielding the well-known Debye-Hu¨ckel (DH)
form, is adequate. Assuming that the full PB theory is able to
depict the electric field associated with a highly charged
macroion, the effective charge can be determined by matching
the DH form to the long distance behavior of the “exact” PB
solution. The effective charge based on such a definition can
also be determined experimentally by the effective interaction
potential between two macroions. For example, the DLVO
theory,16 named after Derjaguin, Landau, Verwey, and Over-
beek, was adopted to obtain Z* for spherical colloids.
Since a macroion solution, involving many charged macroions
and small ions, is a very complicated system, the Wigner-Seitz
(WS) cell is commonly adopted to study the physical properties
associated with macroions.7,11,14,15,17-19 The cell model ap-
proximation reduces the theoretical description of the whole
system to just one cell. While the interactions among macroions
are neglected, the interaction between small ions with their
“parent” macroion as well as with small ions is explicitly
accounted for in the same cell. Consequently, the cell model
approach can be considered an approximate attempt to factorize
the partition function in the macroion coordinates, and hence,
the many-macroion problem is replaced by a single-macroion
problem.20 The symmetry of the cell may reduce the problem
further to a one-dimensional one and allows an analytical
treatment.9 The radius of a spherical WS cell, R, can be related
to the concentration of macroions, cp, by R ) (4ðcp/3)-1/3.
In this paper, we investigate the charge renormalization of a
dilute, salt-free polyelectrolyte solution by Monte Carlo simula-
tions in the WS cell. To provide the effective charge with proper
thermodynamic meaning, the charge renormalization is per-
formed on the basis of the counterion chemical potential. This
definition enables a direct comparison with equilibrium experi-
mental results pertinent to polymer charge. The influences of
polyelectrolyte concentration and properties such as chain length,
bending rigidity, solvent quality, and line charge density on the
degree of ionization are examined. The simulation results are
compared to those calculated from the infinitely long charged
rod model and qualitatively explained by a simple model based
on two-phase approximation.
II. Simulation Details
A. Method. The Monte Carlo (MC) simulations are per-
formed to study the dilute polyelectrolyte solutions based on
the Wigner-Seitz cell model. The total volume of the isotropic
solution is divided into equal spherical cells; each of those
contains a single polyelectrolyte with its counterions. The
polyelectrolyte was modeled as a freely jointed chain of N hard
spheres of diameter d. The interactions between the bonded
beads are through the infinitely deep square-well potentials21
where œ ) 1.4. Bond crossing (phantom chain) can be prevented
by such a choice. There are Np (Np e N) regularly spaced,
charged monomers, each with point fundamental charge of -e.
The line charge density is defined as ì ) Npe/Nd. The middle
monomer is fixed in the center of the spherical cell of radius
R,22 which is related to the polymer concentration cp. The
counterion is also modeled as a hard sphere of diameter d with
point electric charge of +e. The electroneutrality condition
requires that Np ) Nc. Here, Nc is the number of counterions in
the cell. The athermally good solvent is simply represented by
a continuous medium of uniform dielectric constant r (80
for water). The electrostatic interactions among the charged
beads and counterions are taken to be the Coulomb energy
where 0 is the permittivity of vacuum, rij the distance between
the charged particles i and j, and zi ) (1.
A brief description of the MC simulations is given below.
The simulation details can be seen elsewhere.23 The MC
simulations are performed with the traditional Metropolis
algorithm in a canonical ensemble. While the middle monomer
of the polyelectrolyte is fixed in the center of the cell, the other
monomers and the small ions are allowed to move in the cell.
Note that in the cell model the interaction between species
belonging to different cells is ignored. The diameter of the
counterion is assumed to be d ) 0.4 nm and taken as the unit
for the spatial length. At 298 K, the dimensionless energy
parameter is given as e2/(4ðr0)kBTd ) lB/d ) 1.785 for water,
where lB ) e2/4ðr0kBT = 7.2 Å is the Bjerrum length. The
Ui,i+1 ) {∞ r < d0 ó e r < œd
∞ r g œd
(1)
Uel(rij) ){ zizje24ðr0rij rij g d
∞ rij < d
(2)
Effective Polyelectrolyte Charges J. Phys. Chem. B, Vol. 109, No. 47, 2005 22561
for various chain lengths with Np ) N. However, the exponents
are R ) 1.85 and 1.67 for monomer and counterion, respectively.
This result indicates that the charged polymer has a fractal
dimension df ) 1.15, which resembles a straight line. Similarly,
if the counterion cloud is regarded as a fractal object, one also
has c(r)  r-(3-df). Figure 3b illustrates that the shape of the
counterions surrounding the polyelectrolyte displays the fractal
dimension df ) 1.33. In other words, the shape of the
polyelectrolyte is more stringy than that of the counterion cloud.
If all counterions condense on the polyelectrolyte, one should
has the same exponents for both F(r) and c(r). However, the
expansion of the counterion cloud reveals that the counterion
entropy perturbs the electrostatic attraction.
B. Degree of Ionization. 1. Operational Definition. In a
dilute, salt-free polyelectrolyte solution, the counterion concen-
tration would be 〈c〉 ) cpNp/zc ) Np/[zc(4ðR3/3)] if all coun-
terions are released from the polyelectrolyte. However, the
electrostatic attractions lead to some counterions “binding” to
the polyelectrolyte and result in nonuniform counterion distribu-
tion around the charged polymer. It is therefore difficult to define
the free counterion concentration simply on the basis of the
counterion concentration at an arbitrary position. On the
contrary, the thermodynamic properties such as chemical
potential of counterions and osmotic pressure are uniform
everywhere in the polyelectrolyte solution. Hence, those ther-
modynamic quantities are ideal for defining the free counterion
concentration. The experimental measurement of counterion
concentration by ion-selective electrode is based on the principle
that the chemical potential of counterions in the polyelectrolyte
solution, í*, is equivalent to the salt solution of concentration
cb with the same chemical potential of counterions, i.e., í* )
í(cb). The free counterion concentration of the polyelectrolyte
solution is then defined by cb, and the degree of ionization is
given by R ) cb/〈c〉.
In a dilute 1:1 electrolyte solution of concentration cb, the
chemical potential of an ion follows the ideal form, í ) í0 +
kBT ln cb, where í0 is conveniently set to zero. In the spherical
WS cell model, the chemical potential is related to the counterion
concentration on the cell surface, c(R), because íex(R) f 0 as
shown in eq 5. As a consequence, the free counterion concentra-
tion in the polyelectrolyte solution based on the counterion
chemical potential is simply given by c(R). The degree of
ionization can then be obtained by
The effective charge associated with the charged polymer is
therefore obtained as NpR.
2. Infinitely Long Charged Rod and Manning Condensation.
The phenomenon of counterion condensation phenomenon has
been extensively studied for a salt-free solution of rigid
polyelectrolytes on the basis of the nonlinear Poisson-Boltz-
mann theory.11,12,19,20,26 In the classic model, an infinitely long,
charged cylindrical polyion of radius r0 and all of its counterions
are confined within a cylindrical cell of radius Rc. The exact
solution is available20,26 and indicates that the counterions cannot
Figure 2. Typical variation of the monomer and counterion concentra-
tions with the radial distance for N ) 180, ì ) 2.50 e/nm, and R )
150d.
Figure 3. Radial distributions of (a) monomer F(r) and (b) counterion
c(r) for various chain lengths N at R ) 150d.
R )
c(R)
〈c〉 (6)
Effective Polyelectrolyte Charges J. Phys. Chem. B, Vol. 109, No. 47, 2005 22563
radius is insignificant as Rc . r0, this consequence unmistakably
shows the opposite trend to our results for flexible polyelec-
trolytes with finite length.
Rubinstein et al.26,29 have pointed out that the rigid rod model
represents the situation in semidilute and concentrated solutions
where the distacne between chains is smaller than the chain
size. To generalize the Manning theory of counterion condensa-
tion to the dilute solution of rigid polyelectrolytes with finite
length, they present a two-zone model.26,29 Similarly to our WS
cell model, each charged rod is placed at the center of a spherical
cell of size R. The cell volume V ) cp
-1 is further divided into
two zones: a cylindrical zone (surrounding a rodlike polyion)
Figure 4. (a) Variation of the static structure factor with qRg for various
line charge densities at N ) 96. (b) Variation of the radius of gyration
with the line charge density for various chain lengths. (c) Variation of
the persistent length with the line charge density for various chain
lengths.
Figure 5. Variation of the degree of ionization with the dimensionless
line charge density lBì/e for various chain lengths.
Figure 6. Variation of the degree of ionization with the WS cell radius
(polymer concentration) for N ) 60 and ì ) 2.50 e/nm. In the inset,
the degree of ionization for the infinitely long charged rod model is
plotted against the cylindrical cell radius for different dimensionless
line charge density.
Effective Polyelectrolyte Charges J. Phys. Chem. B, Vol. 109, No. 47, 2005 22565
infinitely long charged polymer, the classical Odijk,32 Skolnick
and Fixman33 (OSF) theory describes that the persistent length
is a sum of intrinsic and electrostatic contributions, lp ) l0 +
le. By performing a perturbation calculation on a slightly bent,
rigid charged rod using the Debye-Hu¨ckel approximation, the
OSF model obtains the electrostatic persistent length32
where -1 denotes the Debye length and y ) L with L the
contour length of the chain. The OSF expression indicates that
le declines with increasing L and 2 (proportional to the
concentration of added salt). However, our simulation results
for the dilute, salt-free flexible polyelectrolyte solution show
an opposite trend. As shown in Figure 8, the persistent length
grows with increasing chain length. The increment is very
significant for high line charge density, i.e., ì  0.83 e/nm.
This consequence reveals that the parameter range in our
simulations is different from the regime applicable by the OSF
theory. Note that the definition of the persistent length in eq 9
indicates that lp is proportional to the chain length if the polymer
possesses a rodlike conformation. Since -1  Rg in the cases
we studied, the screening effect on the Coulomb repulsions
among monomers for a flexible polyelectrolyte with finite length
is insignificant. Thus, an increase in N for a high enough ì
enhances electrostatic repulsions and results in the formation
of a rodlike polymer. In fact, for N ) 180 and ì ) 2.50 e/nm,
we have Rg  44d, which is comparable to both the radius of
gyration associated with a rod with L ) Nd and the persistent
length lp  30d.
Although Muthukumar et al.4 found the degree of ionization
to be essentially independent of chain length by Langevin
dynamics simulation, Winkler et al.2 observed that R decreased
with increasing N by molecular dynamic simulation. In both
studies, the extent of counterion condensation was defined as
the fraction of ions within an arbitrarily chosen distance
perpendicular to the chain backbone. In the present investigation,
we clearly find that the degree of ionization based on eq 6 varies
with the chain length. Figure 9 shows that, as N grows at a
given line charge density, R declines. The larger the line charge
density, the more significant the decrease of the degree of
ionization. When the chain length or the line charge density is
increased, both the characteristic size (∝Nî(ì)) and the intrinsic
charge (∝ìN) rises. However, the increment of the latter is faster
than the former and therefore leads to an enhancement of the
electrostatic attraction (counterion condensation).
G. Simple Model: Two-Phase Approximation. Counterion
condensation is an essential feature of polyelectrolyte and can
be understood by the competition between translational entropy
and electrostatic interactions. A simple qualitative explanation
for our simulation results can be provided by using the two-
phase approximation.34 One can treat the condensed and free
counterions as two phases and assume that the phases are in
equilibrium. The chemical potential of the free counterion is
dominated by the translational entropy
where  is the volume fraction of the free counterions,  
(NpR)d3/8R3∝ cp. The chemical potential of the condensed
counterion is the Coulombic binding energy between the free
counterion and the polyelectrolyte
By equating the chemical potential, one obtains
Note that the function ln  varies gradually with . With Rg )
bNî and Npe ) ìNd, the degree of ionization is given by
Figure 8. Variation of the persistent length with the chain length for
various line charge densities. The solid lines are drawn to guide the
eyes.
le )
(ì/e)2lB
122 [3 - 8y + e-y(y + 5 + 8y)] (15)
Figure 9. Variation of the degree of ionization with the chain length
for various line charge densities. The solid lines are drawn to guide
the eyes.
íf = kBT ln 
íc = -kBT(NpR)zc
lB
Rg
R ) - 1Npzc(RglB) ln  (16)
R  ( 1zcìlBd)( 1N1-î) ln R (17)
Effective Polyelectrolyte Charges J. Phys. Chem. B, Vol. 109, No. 47, 2005 22567
