之攻擊以及蓄意監聽及散佈。因此，本計劃基於AACS的多媒體資料
保護機制，提出一套適用於在網路傳輸之視訊隨選VoD (Video on 
Demand)架構，並對於其中所可能遭遇資料竊取及背叛者追蹤問題進
行探討。 
在一套基於AACS之多媒體資料發行系統中，由於是透過網路傳
送VoD資料，因此可能會有攻擊者在網路上任一個節點進行監聽的
工作。此外，可能的攻擊者也會在數個攻擊點(Attack Points)擷取資
料，並且進行串謀攻擊。因此，我們也研究多媒體資料發行系統中
可能遭受的攻擊點，與其部分可能的解決之道。 
 
結果與討論 
本計劃之先期成果已部份發表，其延續研究也正在執行中(NSC 
96-3113-H-001-012)。 
2is used, if a malicious user eavesdrops on another user’s data,
then the multimedia plaintext belonging to that user can be
obtained. The techniques in [4], [20] belong to this category.
b) Transmitter-side Encryption and Receiver-side Finger-
print Embedding: Fingerprint embedding at the receiver-side
was first proposed in [9] for digital TV. In [3], [11], the
concept of [9] was applied to digital rights management
(DRM) in digital cinema. At the transmitter side, only one
global key-based encryption is necessary. This kind of design
can save a lot of computation time and bandwidth usage. In
this scenario, the receiver acts like a super node in a network,
not merely the user end. Thus, multimedia data can be sent to
different users via the receiver (super node) for multicasting.
At the receiver side, the received multimedia ciphertext can
be decrypted according to the global key. Meanwhile, the
multimedia fingerprint must be embedded into the multimedia
data to generate the fingerprinted multimedia data for each
user. A sealed set-top box is necessary in this scenario for joint
multimedia decryption and fingerprint embedding. However,
the sealed set-top box is still an open problem because the
multimedia plaintext is possibly revealed by the set-top box.
In addition, if the transmission has a real-time requirement, the
total load of decryption and fingerprint embedding gathered at
the receiver side (super node) will increase its computational
complexity.
c) Joint Fingerprinting and Decryption: In order to reduce
system complexity and achieve the real-time requirement,
Kundur and Karthik [7] proposed a joint fingerprinting and
decryption (JFD) method. The idea behind JFD is that the
multimedia ciphertext is partially decrypted such that the
un-decrypted parts imitate multimedia fingerprint embedding.
This kind of method is conceptually promising, achieving
partial multimedia decryption and multimedia fingerprint em-
bedding at the same time. However, the un-decrypted content
must satisfy the following two conflicting requirements. On
the one hand, the un-decrypted parts should not affect the
whole transparency of fingerprinted multimedia data. On the
other hand, the un-decrypted parts should preserve meaningful
encryption, i.e., the encrypted parts can intrinsically hide their
original content.
In this paper, we will present a new joint encryption and fin-
gerprinting (JEF) scheme, which can be incorporated into the
advanced access content system (AACS). Most importantly,
this method does not encounter the same problems as the
above three types of methods. In the next subsection, AACS
will be briefly described.
C. Advanced Access Content System
The advanced access content system (AACS) [1] was jointly
proposed by many famous companies, including IBM, Intel,
Microsoft, Panasonic (Matsushita Electric), Sony, Toshiba,
Walt Disney Company, and Warner Bros, for multimedia
publishing over HD-DVD and blue-ray disc. AACS is a spec-
ification for managing the stored content for the prerecorded
optical media (e.g., HD-DVD or blue-ray disc) for consumer
usage over PCs and electronic devices. AACS presents a dis-
tribution model to improve the functionality and interactivity
among the consumers, content providers, aggregators, and de-
vice manufacturers. For example, AACS is designed to support
the ability to make recordings of content as authorized. In ad-
dition, the proven cryptographic methods make AACS flexible
enough to interoperate with content protection technologies to
enable consumers to access the licensed and protected copies
of multimedia, while preventing the unauthorized reproduction
and distribution for the prerecorded optical media. Basically,
AACS contains four major parts: content owner, licensed
replicator, licensing entity for key management, and licensed
player at the user end.
D. Contributions of This Paper
AACS is indeed a suitable framework for multimedia con-
tent protection, but is currently designed for HD-DVD and
blue-ray disc. If the concept of AACS is applied to multimedia
(e.g., video) transmission over networks, the raised problems
need to be dealt with. Therefore, based on the four major
elements of AACS, a new multimedia content protection
framework for multimedia transmission, as shown in Fig. 1,
is proposed in this paper. Specifically, in order to achieve
secure transmission of multimedia content, a joint encryption
and fingerprinting (JEF) method is proposed and embedded
into AACS for content access control and traitor tracing. The
advantage of the proposed AACS-compatible JEF method is
that it does not suffer the difficulties of the existing joint
multimedia encryption and fingerprinting methods, as have
been discussed in Sec. I-B.
Content
Owner
Replicator
End
Key
Management
Center
User
End
Key Key
Content
Network
Transmission
Channel
End
Fig. 1. The conceptual framework for the proposed AACS-based multimedia
transmission method.
In this AACS-compatible JEF method, many attack points
exist that can be exploited to defeat it. Furthermore, multiple
attack points can be combined to form multi-point collusion
attacks, which also endanger the proposed system. In this
paper, we examine the security issues of the AACS-compatible
JEF system in its entirety and propose solutions to cope with
some security threats. This paper’s contributions include: (i)
4G) Set-top box attack: If the set-top box is not safe enough
such that the keys ki and kg can be derived from the set-top
box, the security of the whole system is suddenly degraded.
The global key kg may be sent to the replicator end for
obtaining the multimedia plaintext (at the attack point B).
H) Decrypted copy attack: When the decrypted multimedia
is transformed to the plaintext form, it will be collected for
use in a collusion attack. In particular, the collusion attack at
this attack point has been widely discussed [4], [7], [20], [22],
[24].
2) Multi-point Collusion Attacks: A multi-point collusion
attack is a combination of more than one single attack point.
In this paper, the most intuitive collusion attacks generated
from different attack points, producing meaningful plaintext
of multimedia content, are addressed and possible solutions
are presented. The combinations including point A are not
discussed here because it is assumed that the owner should
undoubtedly preserve his/her multimedia plaintext property. In
addition, the attack point H is also not included for multi-point
collusion because it serves as the conventional collusion point
that will be separately discussed. The multi-point collusion
attacks considered here are described as follows.
(C)+(G) collusion attack: The global encryption key kg , de-
rived and revealed from the set-top box, is sent to the replicator
end for obtaining the multimedia plaintext. At the content
owner end, the multimedia is encrypted twice by using the
encryption keys kg and kr, respectively. Since the replicator
can obtain kr legally, if the global key kg is illegally obtained
from the user end and colluded with kr, then the multimedia
can be completely decrypted to the plaintext form. In the
proposed JEF scheme, if (C)+(G) collusion attack happens,
then the rewritable fingerprint embedded at the content owner
end still can be detected. Therefore, the replicator end can be
recognized as being involved in the collusion attack, such that
the catch one requirement is satisfied.
(D)+(G) collusion attack: The attacker plays the role of
the system administrator at the replicator end (at point D) to
illegally distribute the fingerprinted copy generated using k i
and collude with the key kg obtained from point G. Once this
attack happens, an innocent user can be framed as the colluder
because the user fingerprint ki can be detected. This kind of
malicious attack still cannot be avoided. We also note that this
situation is still an open problem in biometric identification as
well [12].
(C)+(H) collusion attack: The multimedia data without user
fingerprint embedded can be obtained from C at the replicator
end. On the other end, the decrypted multimedia data can be
obtained from H at the user end. When both are available, the
copy-and-paste [6], [15], [16], [18] attack can be implemented.
The decrypted part at H can be replaced with that at C to
generate a decrypted copy with fake user fingerprint embed-
ded. In this paper, rewritable fingerprint embedding performed
at the content owner end is used to deal with this type of
collusion attack. Once a (C)+(H) collusion attack happens,
the fingerprint embedded at the content owner end can still be
detected. Therefore, the replicator end can be recognized as
being involved in the collusion attack, such that the catch one
requirement is satisfied.
(B)+(E)+(G) collusion attack: The attacker can eavesdrop on
the multimedia bitstreams from point B, and collude with kr
from the replicator end at point E and kg from the user end at
point G to successfully decrypt the eavesdropped multimedia
bitstream. Thus, the decrypted multimedia bitstream without
user fingerprint embedded is obtained. However, the rewritable
fingerprint embedding performed at the content owner end
according to ko still can be detected. Based on this, although
not all colluders participating in this collusion attack at the
attack points B, E, and G can be caught, the replicator end at
point G can be recognized as being involved in the collusion
attack such that the catch one requirement is satisfied.
B. System Overview
At the content owner end, as shown in Fig. 2, the content
owner end plays the role of multimedia content provider (e.g.,
Walt Disney or Warner Bros). Let either the images or videos
be the host media. Before transmission, multimedia data must
be compressed in order to save bandwidth. Since the con-
ventional discrete cosine transform (DCT)-based image/video
compression standards (e.g., JPEG, MPEG, H.26x), perform
compression in DCT domain, the proposed joint encryption
and fingerprinting method is also conducted in DCT domain.
In order to embed fingerprints, the widely applied digital
watermarking technique, spread spectrum (SS) watermarking
[5], is adopted. In addition, a novel concept of fingerprint
embedding called “rewritable fingerprint embedding (RFE)” is
proposed for dealing with multi-point collusion attacks. RFE
at the owner end aims at embedding the rewritable multimedia
fingerprints according to the content owner key ko for owner
identification. The design of RFE will be later described in
Sec. III. RFE can be currently thought of as a general digital
watermark embedding designed to embed the content owner
key (ko)-based fingerprint F into the multimedia to form the
content owner fingerprinted multimedia copy Y . In order to
encrypt the multimedia data effectively and fast, a light-weight
encryption scheme aimed at encrypting the AC signs of DCT
coefficients according to the global key kg is adopted. In
addition, kr is applied for encryption in the entropy coding
domain. The function of double-encryption is mainly used for
secure transmission at different attack points. If kg can be
obtained at the attack point G and is used at the attack point
B, then the multimedia plaintext still cannot be obtained due
to the protection of the second encryption based on k r.
At the multimedia replicator end, as shown in Fig. 2,
the received data should be decrypted in the entropy coding
domain by using the replicator end key, kr. After transforming
back to the DCT domain, the multimedia fingerprint F ′i ,
generated by the user identification key k i, will be embed-
ded into the multimedia data according to RFE for user
identification. Meanwhile, the multimedia data is light-weight
encrypted again according to the user identification key k i
before transmission out of the replicator end. Therefore, each
user will obtain a different version Y ′i of multimedia data.
The encryption keys, kg, kr, and ki, will be sent to the
key management center for storage and distribution. The key
management center is designed to manage the keys collected
6encrypted spectrum. The spectrum difference diff(f) =
X(f) − Y (f) represents the distortion in spectrum domain
caused by encryption. In the proposed JEF scheme, Shi and
Bhargava’s method [14] is applied for light-encryption, where
only the selected signs in DCT domain are modified. As
a result, the spectrum energies of X(f) and Y (f) can be,
respectively, represented as:
Eng(X(f)) =
∫
X2(f) · df, (11)
and
Eng(Y (f)) =
∫
Y 2(f) · df, (12)
where f is the frequency subband. For sign modification-based
encryption, the maximum spectrum difference at the subband
f is
diff(f) = X(f)−Y (f) = X(f)−(−X(f)) = 2·X(f) = 2·|X(f)|·(sign(X(f))). (13)
The smaller |X(f)| is, the less distortion is found in spectrum
subband f . Finally, the spectrum security metric can be defined
as:
Secφ =
∫
Wf · diff(f), (14)
which represents the degree of security at the point φ. In Eq.
(14), Wf is the weighting factor for the difference spectrum
subband f . It is determined according to the reciprocals of
the luminance mask derived in [2], called just noticeable
difference (JND), based on the human visual system.
Thus, the gain of PSSM defined between any two points,
φ1 and φ2, is:
GSec =
Secφ1
Secφ2
⎧⎨
⎩
= 1, no security gain;
> 1, security increasing;
< 1, security decreasing.
(15)
From different points of a multimedia security system, the
gain of GSec can reveal whether a certain stage of processing
increases the security or not.
V. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS
In the experiments, several standard images, including
baboon, lena, and pepper, with size of 512× 512 were used
for joint encryption and fingerprinting. AES [13] is selected
for encryption with the encryption unit of 128 bits. In order
to select at least 128 signs of DCT coefficients for blockwise-
encryption, an image was divided into blocks of size 16× 16.
In the experiments, the 128 largest DCT AC coefficients in
a 16 × 16 block were selected for encryption. The size of
fingerprints embedded using ko and ki was 64 bits. There was
1 fingerprint bit embedded in the (1, 2)-th subband of a DCT
block.
In the following, we will show (A) the persistent encryption
in our system; (B) the verification of the fingerprint embedding
factors; (C) the PSSM measurement results; (D) the resistance
to the collusion attack at the single attack point H; and (E)
the resistance to the multi-point collusion attacks.
A. Persistent Encryption
The encryption results generated at the different stages using
different keys are shown in Fig. 5. In Figs. 5 (a)∼(c), the visual
qualities of the encrypted images show that the transmitted
images in the proposed JEF scheme are always kept in the
encryption domain at the different points of the system. Fig. 5
(a) shows the image that has been decrypted at the replicator
end using kr but is still encrypted using kg . Fig. 5 (b) shows
the result with the user fingerprint F ′i embedded and another
encryption based on ki applied. The images in Fig. 5 (a)
and (b) show that, at the replicator end, the multimedia is
restricted to being processed in the encryption domain. Fig.
5 (c) shows the result that is processed in the sealed set-
top-box, as shown in Fig. 3. In Fig. 5 (d), the decrypted
multimedia with user fingerprint F ′i embedded shows that the
visual quality is acceptable. The PSNR between Fig. 5 (d)
and its corresponding original image is 41.78 dB. The above
results indicate that our method can achieve secure multimedia
transmission because the transmitted images are persistently
kept in the encryption domain at the different points of the
system.
(a) encryption by kg (b) encryption by kg + ki
(c) decryption by ki (d) decryption by ki + kg
Fig. 5. Visual quality comparison of Baboon: (a) the image encrypted by
kg ; (b) the image encrypted by kg + ki; (c) the image decrypted by ki; and
(d) the image decrypted by ki + kg (PSNR=41.78 dB).
B. Verification of Fingerprint Embedding Factors for RFE
Simulation results are shown to verify the derived finger-
print embedding factors for the RFE method. In the simulation,
the length of an original signal is set to 4 and its signal
strength is set to [6, 7, 4, 2]. Let the rewritable fingerprint
8shown in Table I. Since 0 < α′ < 1 is used as the scaling factor
for embedding, the α ′ values derived from α(α−1) and
−α
(1+α)
do not satisfy the requirement. In addition, the simulation also
shows that α(1+α) does not satisfy the requirement of rewriting
the owner’s fingerprint at the replicator end. As a result, in
order to achieve the requirement of RFE, the lower bound of
α′ has to be set to α(1−α) , which is identical to the analytic
results discussed in Sec. III.
TABLE I
THE α′S FOR DIFFERENT RFE STATES
fingerprint state (fb, f ′b) α′ α′ + 
(+1,−1) α(1+α) 0.0910
(−1,+1) α(1−α) 0.1112
(−1,−1) α(α−1) −0.1110
(+1,+1) −α(1+α) −0.0908
5) Transparency and False Alarm in Fingerprint Embed-
ding: Based on the above verification, α is set to 0.1 and
α′ +  is set to 0.12 for fingerprint embedding in these
experiments. The PSNR values between a cover image and
its watermarked version is shown in Table II. In this table, X
means the cover image, and Y means the image at the content
owner end that is embedded with the rewritable fingerprint
F and encrypted with kg . In addition, Y ′i means the image
that is first decrypted with kr, and then embedded with the
user fingerprint F ′i , which overwrites F , and finally encrypted
with ki. For the convenience of comparison, although Y and
Y ′i are in the encryption domain, the corresponding keys are
utilized to decrypt them to the plaintext domain to measure
the PSNRs. It can be observed from the results that when
the owner fingerprint is embedded, the PSNRs between X
and Y range from 40 to 46 dB. When user fingerprint F ′i is
embedded, the PSNR values between X and Y ′i fall within
the range of 38 ∼ 42 dB.
The false alarm verification is shown in Table III. If the
correct key is used, the bit error rate (BER) of the finger-
print, respectively, extracted from Y and Y ′i is zero. On the
other hand, if ko is used to detect the fingerprint from Y ′i ,
the obtained BER approximates 0.5, which implies that the
rewritable fingerprint F is actually overwritten at the replicator
end and satisfies the goal of designing RFE. In addition, if
ki is used to detect the fingerprint from Y , the obtained
BER approximates 0.5, which represents the fact that the
user’s fingerprint F and the content owner’s fingerprint F ′i
are uncorrelated.
TABLE II
TRANSPARENCY
Images PSNR
(Y,X)
PSNR
(Y ′i ,X)
Baboon 46.07 41.78
Lena 42.62 37.70
Pepper 40.97 39.15
TABLE III
FINGERPRINT DETECTION (FD) WITH CONTENT OWNER KEY AND USER
KEY.
Images
BER
FD of Y
with ko
BER
FD of Y ′i
with ki
BER
FD of Y ′i
with ko
BER
FD of Y
with ki
Baboon 0.00 0.00 0.45 0.52
Lena 0.00 0.00 0.44 0.50
Pepper 0.00 0.00 0.47 0.55
0 20 40 60 80 100
6
6.5
7
7.5
8
8.5
9
x 105
user key i
Se
c 
i
Baboon
Lena
pepper
Fig. 10. The spectrum security metric from different users.
C. PSSM measurement
The spectrum security metric Secφ is first calculated in a
blockwise manner and then accumulated for the whole image.
Fig. 10 shows the spectrum security measurement, which
ranges from 6.5× 105 to 8.5× 105, for different user keys. In
addition, the security gain GSec = Secφ1Secφ2 calculated between
the replicator end and content owner end is shown in Fig. 11,
where φ1 denotes the user fingerprint embedding point for the
i-th user at the replicator end and φ2 denotes the content owner
fingerprint embedding point at the content owner end. It can
be observed from Fig. 11 that the values of GSec are kept
at about 1, which means that, as long as the multimedia data
is kept in the encryption domain, its security is kept nearly
unchanged no matter how many encryptions and decryptions
are performed within our framework.
D. Single Collusion Attack
Because collusion at the attack point H is not the focus of
this paper, we only adopt a conventional orthogonal fingerprint
embedding technique [5] to evaluate the JEF method under
several common collusion attacks [22]. They are abbreviated
as follows: ave: average attack; min: minimum attack; max:
maximum attack; median: median attack; minmax: MinMax
attack; modneg: modified negative attack; rendneg: random-
10
[12] N. K. Ratha, J. H. Connell, and R. M. Bolle, “Enhancing Security
and Privacy in Biometrics-based Authentication Systems,” IBM Systems
Journal, Vol. 40, No. 3, pp. 614-634, 2001.
[13] J. Daemen, V. Rijmen, “The Rijndael Block Cipher,” AES Proposal:
Rijndael, pp. 1-45, 1999.
[14] C. Shi and B. Bhargava, “A fast MPEG Video Encryption Algorithm,”
Proc. ACM Intl. Conf. Multimedia, pp. 81-88, 1998.
[15] K. Su, D. Kundur, and D. Hatzinakos, “Statistical Invisibility for
Collusion-resistant Digital Video Watermarking,” IEEE Transactions on
Multimedia, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 43-51, February 2005.
[16] K. Su, D. Kundur, and D. Hatzinakos, “Spatially Localized Image-
dependent Watermarking for Statistical Invisibility and Collusion Re-
sistance,” IEEE Transactions on Multimedia, Vol. 7, No. 1, pp. 52-66,
February 2005.
[17] S. W. Sun, J. R. Chen, C. S. Lu, P. C. Chang, and K. C. Fan “Motion-
Embedded Residual Error for Packet Loss Recovery of Video Trans-
mission and Encryption,” Proc. IS&T/SPIE: Visual Communications and
Image Processing (EI127), Vol. 6077, 2006.
[18] M. D. Swanson, B. Zhu, and A. T. Tewifk, “Multiresolution Scene-based
Video Watermarking Using Perceptual Models,” IEEE J. Select. Areas
Commun., Vol. 16, pp. 540-550, May 1998.
[19] L. Tang, “Methods for encrypting and decrypting MPEG video data
efficiently,” Proc. ACM Intl. Conf. Multimedia, pp. 219-229, 1997.
[20] W. Trappe, M. Wu, Z. J. Wang, and K. J. R. Liu, “Anti-collusion
Fingerprinting for Multimedia,” IEEE Trans. Signal Processing, Vol.
51, pp. 1069-1087, Apr. 2003.
[21] J. Wen, M. Severa, W. Zeng, M. H. Luttrell, and W. Jin, “A Format-
compliant Configurable Encryption Framework for Access Control of
Video,” IEEE Trans. on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology,
Vol. 12, No. 6, pp. 545-557, 2002.
[22] M. Wu, W. Trappe, Z. J. Wang, and K. J. R. Liu, “Collusion-Resistant
Fingerprinting for Multimedia,” IEEE Signal Processing Magazine, pp.
15-27, Mar. 2003.
[23] X. Xu, S. Dexter, and A. M. Eskicioglu, “A Hybrid Scheme of
Encryption and Watermarking, ” IS&T/SPIE Symposium on Electronic
Imaging 2004, Security, Steganography, and Watermarking of Multime-
dia Contents VI Conference, Vol. 5306, pp. 725-736, 2004.
[24] H. Zhao and K. J. R. Liu, “Fingerprint Multicast in Secure Video
Streaming,” IEEE Trans. Image Processing, Vol. 15, No. 1, pp. 12-28,
Jan. 2006.
[25] W. Zeng and S. Lei, “Efficient Frequency Domain Selective Scrambling
of Digital Video,” IEEE Trans. on Multimedia, Vol. 5, No. 1, pp. 118-
129, 2003.
[26] B. B. Zhu, M. D. Swanson, A. H. Tewfik, “When seeing isn’t believ-
ing [multimedia authentication technologies],” IEEE Signal Processing
Magazine, Vol. 21, No. 2, pp. 40-49, 2004.
[27] B. B. Zhu, C. Yuan, Y. Wang and S. Li, “Scalable Protection for MPEG-
4 Fine Granularity Scalability,” IEEE Trans. on Multimedia, Vol. 7, No.
2, pp. 222-233, 2005.
表 Y04 
會議記錄光碟片 
六、其他 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
表 Y04 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          97  年 6  月  30 日 
報告人姓名 許朝詠 服務機構及職稱 
中央研究院資訊所 研究助理 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2008/6/23~2008/6/26 
Hannover, Germany 
本會核定
補助文號
 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第 9 屆 IEEE 國際多媒體與展覽會議 
 (英文) 9th IEEE Int. Conf. on Multimedia and Expo (ICME) 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)  
 (英文) 1. Scalable Multi-Layer Halftone Video Display for 
Electronic Paper 
2. Unequal Authenticity Protection of Video Multicasting 
參加會議經過 
本人此次出國參加 IEEE 國際多媒體與展覽會議(ICME)，多媒體領域重要之主流會
議之一，今年已是第 9 屆舉辦。ICME 最特別之處在於它是由 IEEE 四個 societies 所共同
贊助的會議，每年舉辦一次，由歐、美、亞洲輪流主辦。同時，IEEE Trans. on Multimedia
之 editor board meeting 也在 ICME 舉行。ICME 論文能見度高，在美國 IBM Watson 實驗
室被列為 rank 1 會議，便可知其重要性。參加 ICME 是知悉此領域的研究現況與未來發
展的最佳管道。今年共 811 篇論文投稿，接受 407 篇，錄取率為 48%，ICME 同其它 IEEE
多媒體相關會議，非以低錄取率取勝。 
ICME 論文發表共分三天舉行，每天上午第一場固定是 keynote talk，其餘時間由多
個 oral sessions 與 poster sessions 同時進行。June 24 第一場 keynote talk 是由 Prof. S. Thrun 
(Standford University, USA) 主講``Cars that Drive Themselves’’這個 talk 主要目的是講者
要介紹自動車的研究進展，特別的是報告兩個最近自動車的競賽結果。期間，也播放自
動車自動駕駛短片，相當有趣。June 25 上午 keynote talk 是由 CMU 的 Prof. T. Chen 主講
``Learning-based Methods for Multimedia。’’這個 talk 主要目的是講者強調 object detection
與 object discovery=object characterization + object localization 的不同，提出一套以 feature 
extraction + statistical learning 為主的 object discovery 方法。講者同時以 single image，
collection of images，與 video 三者為例，分別展示 region of interest object finding and 
tracking 與 video summarization 等應用。事實上，這場 keynote 與講者在去年 PCS 會議
所給的 keynote 是一模一樣的。June 26 上午 keynote talk 是由 Prof. Frank H. P. Fitzek 
(University Aslborg)主講``Social-Mobile Networks。講者介紹與我們周遭生活習習相關的
網路使用環境與技術，是一相當新穎的研究議題。 
在 regular paper 發表方面，我們特別對於 distributed video coding、duplicate 
detection、video search、quality of service、peer-to-peer、與 multicast 等方面的論文特別
有興趣，我們也獲得不少啟發，與再次思考自己的成果與現有其它方法的優劣與定位。
這次我們有兩篇論文須做口頭報告。第一篇所要發表的論文是「Unequal Authenticity 
Protection of Video Multicasting」，被安排於 6 月 25 日下午於「Multicast」session 發表；
另一篇所要發表的論文是「Compression of Halftone Video for Electronic Paper」，被安排
於 6 月 26 日下午於「Algorithms」session 發表。 
這次會議，國內學者與學生參與相當踴躍，約超過 20 位，若把國外華人算進去，
附件三
 
