的 BiFET製造技術，另一則為 GaAsSb/InP Type II的 DHBT結構與製程。兩者對比者而言均屬較具
挑戰性者，特別是與 Copin公司合作開發之 BiFET，主在功率放大器偏壓電路之簡易化應用以及類
比混波應用。作者(Dr. M. Sun)一種所謂之 merged BiFET 進行量產式分析。而由 Simon Fraser 
University 和 HKUST 合作提出之 InP/GaAsSb/InP DHBT 因具有製程上優勢更完成了截止頻率達
300GHz、崩潰電壓超過 6V的驚人結果。筆者雖有時差困擾，但因與會熱烈討論與不同且先進之技
術吸引亦不見疲憊。約莫半小時之休息，議程真正進入 Dr. Mike Barsky所主持之 Panel Session ”Is 
there a future role for compound semiconductors in consumer communications? Will it all be Si? 這對與會
者而言，儘管大部份對 Si 均有認知，但實際上大部還是執著於化合物半導體之研究者，是最關心
與期盼彼此意見交流的。即使 Si 製程仍是當今主流，大伙仍不免預期化合物製程上之精進改善，
Si製程之尺度瓶頸終究仍需化合物元件的一天。於眾人經驗分享之際，雖欲罷不能，終互勉以進入
下一議程 ”Rump Session” 討論： 
1、Focus on Fab Operations Management to reduce Cost. 
2、What is the Best Substrate for GaN Devices. 
3、Flexible Manufacturing, eg, R&D and Manufacturing in the same Facility. 
主題仍延續上一議程專注在化合物半導體未來之競爭力與趨勢，特別是展望爾後如何精簡成本以行
量產，如何選取基板以最佳化顯示面板、背光模組和白光光源所須之 LED技術等。會後返回下榻
旅館，終於可稍作調整以除飛行及時差疲憊。 
翌日，可說是會議議程中之重頭戲，包括各項口頭議程接踵而至，幾乎所有與會者均已陸續抵
達，除在議程中響應熱烈外，即便在短暫休息時刻裡，均見三五成群互相寒喧與意見討論交流者。
壁報論文發表則於中午正式展開，所有海報均集中於 Pacific Ballroom。此時又與議事中之報告截然
不同，與會者經過前些日子之認識與交流，在於此近距離討論下，更見彼此之求知甚切。筆者期間
報告個人在假晶性MHEMT之技術開發成果，說明空橋製造技術與電晶體 Bell-shape閘極電流效應
的特性(詳見發表論文)。大會另在傍晚進行接待聚會，將與會學者專家，廠商工程師等齊聚一室，
希望透過這種安排讓學者專家齊聚一堂，達到技術交流與為來合作之機會。討論議程也在 27日的
接待會後順利結束。由於班機安排在 30日中午，因此筆者也利用會後之空檔，走訪溫哥華市區如
    有關氮化物系列材料研發、藍光元件之技術開發一直以來也為國家積極推展之重點科技，事實上
學產界亦投下相當大的資金於此一領域，近一、二年在光電元件、特別是 LED顯然已有理想成果。
但是亦應積極著重於氮化物之外的化合物半導體與其他應用，如高功率元件發展以免處處落居他國
技術。另則製程設備之日新月異，該所支配的不僅是生產良率，也是科技進步與落後之象徵。我國
有幸一直處於世界電子科技之先端，當思及如何在保有設計、製造之優勢下，積極在追求製程技術
先趨性，急需藉由政府相關單位推動發展之。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱與內容： 
1. CS MANTECH Digest of papers “2006 International Conference on Compound Semiconductor 
Manufacturing Technology. 
 
六、其他：隨後附件為本次與會發表之論文。 
Fig. 3 (a) Common-source I-V and (b) gate-drain diode
characteristics for both types of MHEMTs. 
layer, 40 Å In0.5Al0.5As spacer layer, 6×1012 cm-2 silicon 
δ-doping, 150 Å In0.5Al0.5As Schottky layer, 150 Å 5×1018 
cm-3 In0.5Ga0.5As cap layer. Hall measurements indicate the 
electron mobility of 8300 cm2V-1s-1 and sheet carrier 
concentration of 3.86×1012 cm-2 at room temperature. As 
shown in Fig. 1(b), the inverse step graded buffer layer 
(GBL) were utilized to qualify the strain rate relaxation and 
efficient misfit dislocation filtering in order to obtain higher 
quality active layer in lattice-mismatched based [6], [7]. 
Both mesa-type and air-bridge MHEMTs shown in Fig. 
2 with a gate dimension of 1×100 µm2 and a drain-source 
spacing of 3 µm were fabricated using standard 
photolithography, wet-chemical selective etching, and 
lift-off techniques. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION  
 
Fig. 3(a) shows the common-source I-V characteristics 
for both types of MHEMTs, where the kink-effect 
phenomena are clearly observed due to the narrow-gap 
In0.5Ga0.5As channel layer. The IDSS at VGS=0 Vand VDS=2 V 
are 335 (325) mA/mm for an air-bridge (a mesa-type) 
MHEMT. The maximum transconductance available is 325 
(370) mS/mm for an air-bridge (a mesa-type) MHEMT. 
The gate-drain diode characteristics shown in Fig. 3(b) are 
used to investigate possible effects of gate-feeder metal 
located upon mesa sidewall of channel/buffer/GBL on the 
device performance including the kink behaviors. The 
measured gate-drain leakage currents at VGD=6 V are 8.5 
and 15.5 µA/mm for the air-bridge and mesa-type 
MHEMTs, respectively.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 SEM pictures show the fabricated (a) air-bridge and (b) 
mesa-type gates, respectively. 
Fig. 4 Gate leakage current as a function of gate-source voltage for
various VDS for (a) mesa-type and (b) air-bridge MHEMTs. 
