 II
多處理機系統的局部偵錯診斷研究 
Local Diagnosability Measures for Multiprocessor Systems 
 
 
計劃編號：95-2221-E-009-134-MY3 
計劃期限：95/8/1～98/7/31 
 
主持人：譚建民 國立交通大學資訊工程學系 教授 
 
中文摘要 
 
在此計劃中，我們研究連結網路的局部偵錯診斷問題。連結網路的診斷能力在可靠
度研究方面扮演了一個很重要的角色，相當多典型的錯誤診斷問題已經在文獻中被廣泛
的討論，且很多有名網路的診斷能力也已經被研究出來了。 
我們觀察了一些有關系統錯誤診斷的論文發現，全部的論文都是在探討一個系統的
總體錯誤診斷能力，而忽略了一些局部的資訊。而我們也知道若一個系統是被稱作t-可
診斷的，則在壞掉的處理器個數在t個以內條件下，所有的壞處理器都能被找出來。然而，
在一個t-可診斷系統，當壞處理器個數超過t個，它仍然有可能將壞處理機診斷出來。例
如：考慮一個多處理機系統，此系統是由兩個子系統組成，兩子系統分別為m-可診斷及
n-可診斷，這裡m>>n。所以此系統的總體錯誤診斷能力受限於n，但當壞掉的處理機個數
介於m及n之間，它仍然有可能將壞處理機全部診斷出來，因此，如果我們只考慮系統的
總體狀態，那我們將失去一些局部的診斷資訊。 
因此，在此計畫裡，我們提出了一個新的測量方式，稱作＂局部診斷能力＂，在此
測量方式下，我們研究的是一個處理機的局部診斷能力而非整個系統的總體診斷能力，
藉由此方式，我們可以藉由計算每個處理機的局部診斷能力來決定系統的總體診斷能
力。此外，我們也提出了一個新的診斷演算法，此演算法在診斷一個給定處理機的時間
複雜度為O(logN)且診斷所有壞處理機的時間複雜度為O(NlogN)，這裡N為處理機的總數。 
 
關鍵詞：錯誤診斷、診斷能力、局部診斷能力 
 IV
 
目錄 
 
封面……………………………………………………………………………I 
中文摘要………………………………………………………………………II 
英文摘要………………………………………………………………………III 
目錄……………………………………………………………………………IV 
報告內容…………………………………………………………………………1 
  一、前言、研究目的、文獻探討……………………………………………1 
  二、研究方法、研究成果……………………………………………………1 
  三、結論與討論………………………………………………………………3 
參考文獻…………………………………………………………………………3 
計畫成果自評……………………………………………………………………4 
附錄(已刊登國際期刊論文)……………………………………………………4
 2
diagnosability 及 strong local diagnosability property 等新名詞，我們已有新的
研究成果投稿，並且還在繼續努力撰寫論文。我們實驗室每週都定時做研討，研討內容
如下： 
 
一、 收集文獻 
我們藉由圖書館、國內外研討會及網路等，來收集所需要的相關文獻。 
 
二、 探討文獻及發現問題 
將所收集到的文獻作初步的探討後，由計畫中的成員將文獻做進一步的分析研究後，每
週定期報告其文獻的內容，以及分析其文獻，進而從文獻中發現可以做進一步研究之問
題，由主持人帶領成員選定研究之主題。 
 
三、 解決問題、程式撰寫、及定理證明由老師帶領博士班學生，共同研究並解決問題，
在研究的過程中，常常需要撰寫程式來輔助定理的證明。我們的實驗室已自行發展出一
些軟體程式供測試例子。最後將共同研究之成果整理好，完成完整的一篇論文。 
 
四、 成果發表 
近年來，我們已有多篇論文被國際知名期刊刊登。而本計畫的一些結果已分別刊登在許
多知名國際期刊及國際會議上，包括了 
 
2009年IEEE Transactions on Computers上: 
Chieh-Feng Chiang and Jimmy J. M. Tan, “Using Node Diagnosability to Determine 
t-Diagnosability under the Comparison Diagnosis Model,” IEEE Transactions on Computers, 
vol. 58, no. 2, pp. 251-259, Feb. 2009. 
 
2007年IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems上: 
Guo-Huang Hsu and Jimmy J. M. Tan, “A Local Diagnosability Measure for Multiprocessor 
Systems,” IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems, vol. 18, no. 5, pp. 598-607, 
May. 2007. 
 
2006年International Computer Symposium國際會議上: 
 
(1). Guo-Huang and Jimmy J. M. Tan “Local Diagnosability under the PMC Diagnosis Model 
with Application to Star Graphs,” Proceedings of the International Computer Symposium, vol. 
1, pp. 159-164 Dec. 2006. 
 
(2). Chieh-Feng Chiang and Jimmy J. M. Tan “A Novel Approach to Comparison-Based 
Diagnosis for Hypercube-Like Multiprocessor Systems,” Proceedings of the International 
Computer Symposium, vol. 1, pp. 165-169 Dec. 2006. 
此篇論文獲得了Computer Architecture, VLSI and Embedded Systems組，最佳論文獎。 
 
 
 4
計畫成果自評 
 
此次三年計畫成效顯著，包括發表了兩篇國際頂級期刊 IEEE Transactions on Computers 
以及  IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems，並且在國際研討會 
International Computer Symposium 上亦發表了兩篇論文，其中一篇並且獲得了最佳論文
獎。綜合所有產出，歸納此次計畫完全達成預期目標，相關論文請參考報告內容之四-研
究成果部份。 
 
附錄 
 
附錄為上述兩篇刊登於 IEEE Transactions on Computers 以及 IEEE Transactions on 
Parallel and Distributed Systems 的論文。 
and gave a polynomial-time algorithmwith time complexity
OðN5Þ to diagnose a system of N processors.
Following the diagnosis models above, most previous
studies focused on the diagnosis ability of a system in a
global sense but ignored some local systematic details. A
system is t-diagnosable if all the faulty processors can be
identified whenever the number of faulty processors is at
most t. However, it is possible to correctly point out all the
faulty processors in a t-diagnosable systemwhen the number
of faulty processors is greater than t. For example, consider
two hypercube systems Qm and Qn, which are m-
diagnosable and n-diagnosable [17], respectively, where m
and n are integers, and m n. A new system can be
generated by integrating these two systems with few
communication links in some way, and such a way may
cause the diagnosability of the new system to become n.
However, the strong diagnosis ability of some part of the
entire system, the part of the original m-diagnosable
subsystem Qm, is ignored. Thus, if only considering the
global status, we lose some local details of the system. See
Fig. 1 for an illustration.
In some circumstances, however, we are only concerned
about some substructure of a multiprocessor system, which
is implementable in very large-scale integration (VLSI). For
example, such a substructure can be a ring structure or a
path structure. If all processors in such a substructure can be
guaranteed to be fault free, the procedure is still workable
even though a few processors in some other part of the
system are faulty. Thus, the local substructure of a system is
more critical than the global status of the entire system.
In this paper,we present a novel idea on systemdiagnosis,
which we call node diagnosability. The node diagnosability
can be viewed as a local strategy toward system diagnosa-
bility. There is a strong relationship between the node
diagnosability and the traditional one. For this local sense,
we focus more on a single processor and require only
identifying the status of this particular processor correctly.
More specifically, every processor in a system has its own
node diagnosability. Under the comparison diagnosis mod-
el, we propose a sufficient condition to determine the node
diagnosability of a given processor x. On the basis of this
sufficient condition, we propose a useful local structure
called an extended star at processor x to guarantee its node
diagnosability. Along this way, we have an efficient
algorithm to determine the faulty or fault-free status of each
processor based on the extended star structure. For most
practical multiprocessor systems, the number of links
connecting to each processor is in the order of logN , where
N is the total number of processors. The time complexity of
our algorithm to diagnose a given processor is bounded by
OðlogNÞ and that to diagnose all the faulty processors in a
system with N processors is bounded by OðN logNÞ under
the comparison model, provided that there is an extended
star structure at each processor and that the time for looking
up the testing result of a comparator in the syndrome table is
constant. In general, the time complexity of our algorithm
can be represented as OðNÞ, where  is the maximum
degree of a processor in the N-processor system.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2
provides preliminaries and necessary background for
diagnosing a system. Section 3 introduces the concepts of
nodediagnosabilityandprovidesa sufficient condition to check
whether a system is t-diagnosable at a given processor. The
extended star local structure for guaranteeing a processor’s
node diagnosability is also introduced in this section. In
Section 4, we propose an efficient algorithm to determine the
faulty or fault-free status of a given processor. Finally, some
applications are discussed in Section 5, and our conclusions
are given in Section 6.
2 PRELIMINARIES
The topology of a multiprocessor system can be modeled as
an undirected graph G ¼ ðV ;EÞ, where V represents the set
of all processors, and E represents the set of all connecting
links between the processors.
Under the comparison model [12], [13], also called the MM
model, the system diagnosis is performed by a specific
testing procedure. For each processor w, which has two
distinct links to two other processors u and v, the diagnosis
can be performed by simultaneously sending two identical
signals from w to u and from w to v and then comparing
their returning responses in the reverse direction. Further-
more, in theMM* model [16], it is assumed that a comparison
is performed by each processor for each pair of distinct
connected neighbors. Throughout this paper, all discussions
are based on the MM* model, the complete version of the
MM model.
This diagnosis-by-comparison strategy can be modeled
as a labeled multigraph M ¼ ðV ;CÞ, called a comparison
graph, where V represents the set of all processors same as
that in G and C represents the set of labeled edges. For each
labeled edge ðu; vÞw 2 C, w is a label on the edge, which
means that processors u and v are being compared by a
comparator, the processor w.
In order to be consistent with the MM model, several
assumptions are needed [16]:
1. All faults are permanent.
2. A faulty processor produces incorrect output for
each of its given testing tasks.
3. The output of a comparison performed by a faulty
processor is unreliable.
4. Two faulty processors with the same input do not
produce the same output.
The output on a labeled edge ðu; vÞw 2 C is denoted by
rððu; vÞwÞ, which represents the comparison result of w for
the two responses from u and v. An agreement is denoted
by rððu; vÞwÞ ¼ 0, whereas a disagreement is denoted by
rððu; vÞwÞ ¼ 1. Since the comparator processor itself might
be faulty or not, the testing result might be unreliable. For
this reason, some conclusions are made: if rððu; vÞwÞ ¼ 1, at
least one member of fu; v; wg is faulty, or if rððu; vÞwÞ ¼ 0
and w is known to be fault free, both u and v are fault free.
252 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS, VOL. 58, NO. 1, JANUARY 2009
Fig. 1. An n-diagnosable system generated by integrating an
n-diagnosable subsystem and an m-diagnosable subsystem.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on May 21, 2009 at 02:58 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
paper for considering the node diagnosability is to keep the
local connective detail of a system that wemight neglect. For
example, for any two integersm and nwithm >> n  4, the
diagnosability of two hypercube systems Qm and Qn is m
and n [17], [11], respectively. Combining these two systems
with few communication links in some way may cause
the diagnosability of the new topology to become n. In this
situation, the strong diagnosis ability of some part of the
entire system, the substructureQm, is ignored. Therefore, the
need of keeping local information of each node is concerned.
In the previous studies on diagnosis, most results
focused on the diagnosis ability of a system in a global
sense: a system is t-diagnosable if all the faulty nodes can be
identified given that there are at most t faulty nodes. In
contrast to the global sense, we emphasize more on a single
node x in a local sense: we require only identifying the
status of one particular node correctly. More specifically, if
x belongs to a set of faulty nodes, we must correctly identify
x to be faulty, or x is identified to be fault free if x is indeed
fault free. In other words, we are only concerned about the
status of the node x.
We now introduce the concept of a system being
t-diagnosable at a given node.
Definition 1. A system GðV ;EÞ is t-diagnosable at node
x 2 V ðGÞ if given a test syndrome F produced by the system
under the presence of a set of faulty nodes F containing node x
with jF j  t, every set of faulty nodesF 0 consistent with F and
jF 0j  t must also contain node x.
An equivalent way of stating the above definition is
given below.
Proposition 1. A system GðV ;EÞ is t-diagnosable at node
x 2 V ðGÞ if for each pair of distinct sets, F1, F2  V ðGÞ such
that F1 6¼ F2, jF1j, jF2j  t, and x 2 F1F2, ðF1; F2Þ is a
distinguishable pair.
Then, we define the node diagnosability of a given node as
follows:
Definition 2. The node diagnosability tlðxÞ of a node
x 2 V ðGÞ in a system GðV ;EÞ is defined to be the maximum
number of t for G being t-diagnosable at x, that is,
tlðxÞ ¼ maxft j G is t-diagnosable at xg.
The concept of a system being t-diagnosable at a node is
consistent with the traditional concept of a system being
t-diagnosable in the global sense. The relationship between
these two is given as follows:
Proposition 2. A system GðV ;EÞ is t-diagnosable if and only if
G is t-diagnosable at every node.
Proof. We prove the necessary condition first. Suppose
that there exists a node y 2 V ðGÞ such that G is not
t-diagnosable at y. By Proposition 1, there exists an
indistinguishable pair ðF1; F2Þ with jFij  t, i ¼ 1 and 2,
and y 2 F1F2. This contradicts that G is t-diagnosable.
Next, we prove the sufficiency. Suppose G is not
t-diagnosable. Then, there exists an indistinguishable pair
ðF1; F2Þwith jFij  t, i ¼ 1 and2. Pick anynode y inF1F2;
the system isnot t-diagnosable at ybyProposition 1,which
is a contradiction. tu
Proposition 3. The diagnosability tðGÞ of a system GðV ;EÞ is
equal to the minimum value among the node diagnosability of
every node in G, that is, tðGÞ ¼ minftlðxÞ j x 2 V ðGÞg.
Proof. The result follows trivially from Definition 2 and
Proposition 2. tu
From Propositions 2 and 3, the relationship between the
traditional diagnosability and the node diagnosability was
pointed out. Through this concept, the system diagnosa-
bility can be determined by testing the node diagnosability
of each node. Especially in some well-known regular
networks, the diagnosability can be easily identified because
of the system symmetry. For example, in some graphs like
hypercubes, cube-connected cycles, or complete graphs, the
system diagnosability and the node diagnosability of each
node in the system are the same, and such a result can be
applied in other applications.
Now, we need some definitions for further discussion.
For any set of nodes U  V ðGÞ, G½U  denotes the subgraph
of G induced by the node subset U . Let H be a subgraph of
G and v be a node in H; degHðvÞ denotes the degree of v
in subgraph H. For a given set of nodes S  V ðGÞ, we use
G S to denote the induced subgraph G½V ðGÞ  S. Let S
be a set of nodes and x be a node not in S; we use Cx;S to
denote the connected component that x belongs to in G S.
In the following, we propose a sufficient condition for
verifying whether a system G is t-diagnosable at a given
node x.
Theorem 1. A system GðV ;EÞ is t-diagnosable at a given node
x 2 V ðGÞ if for every set of nodes S  V ðGÞ, jSj ¼ p,
0  p  t 1, and x =2 S, the cardinality of every node cover
including x of the component Cx;S is at least 2ðt pÞ þ 1.
Proof. We prove it using contradiction. Suppose system G
is not t-diagnosable at node x. According to Proposition
1, there exists an indistinguishable pair of distinct node
set ðF1; F2Þ with jF1j  t, jF2j  t, and x 2 F1F2. Let S
be the intersection of node sets F1 and F2; then, the
cardinality of S is less than or equal to t 1. (Otherwise,
if jSj ¼ t, then F1 ¼ F2.) According to the condition that
x =2 S and 0  jSj  t 1, the cardinality of every node
cover including x of the component Cx;S is at least
2ðt pÞ þ 1. Comparing this number with jF1F2j 
2ðt pÞ and x 2 F1F2, we get the fact that F1F2
cannot be a node cover of Cx;S . In other words, at least
one member (a node) of the node cover of Cx;S is outside
F1F2 (and also outside S according to the definition of
component Cx;S). Consequently, by the property of node
cover, there exists an edge e ¼ ðu; vÞ in Cx;S but outside
F1F2. Since edge e, nodes u and v, and node x belong to
the same connected component Cx;S , there is a path
leading from edge e to node x through set F1 (as shown
in Fig. 3a) or F2 (as shown in Fig. 3b). Then, by
condition 1 of Lemma 1, ðF1; F2Þ is a distinguishable pair.
This is a contradiction, and the result follows. tu
Under the comparisonmodel, Sengupta andDahbura [16]
proposed a polynomial-time algorithmwith time complexity
OðN5Þ to identify all the faulty nodes from a given syndrome,
where N is the total number of nodes. In this paper, we
present another algorithm using the concept of node
diagnosability and a specific systematic structure, called the
extended star structure, to diagnose all the faulty nodes. Our
algorithm has time complexity OðN logNÞ in some well-
knownmultiprocessor systems or interconnection networks.
254 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS, VOL. 58, NO. 1, JANUARY 2009
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on May 21, 2009 at 02:58 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
nodes fvk2 j 1  k  ng with jF2j ¼ n (as shown in Fig. 6);
ðF1; F2Þ is not a distinguishable pair according to Lemma
1 unless there are other edges or nodes. Thus, the node
diagnosability of x cannot be guaranteed to be n.
In most multiprocessor systems or interconnection net-
works, an extended star substructure at a given processor
does exist. For example, in the well-known multiprocessor
systems such as the hypercube, the crossed cube [7], the
twisted cube [10], the Mo¨bius cube [3], the star [1], the
mesh, and other hypercubelike graphs, an extended star
at a given processor can be carefully found because of the
regular recursive construction, as long as the dimension n
is suitably large. Based on this specific structure, a fault
diagnosis algorithm is introduced in the next section.
4 A DIAGNOSIS ALGORITHM
Given an extended star structure at a node, we shall present
a diagnosis algorithm to determine whether this node is
faulty or not for a given syndrome under the comparison
model. As stated in Theorem 3, the node diagnosability of a
node can be determined by the neighboring nodes (proces-
sors) around it. Intuitively, a node’s faulty/fault-free status
should also be determined by the comparison outputs of the
nodes surrounding it, and Theorem 4 provides an algorithm
for performing such procedure.
LetESðx;nÞ be an extended star at a given node x in V ðGÞ;
the diagnosing signals are sent back and forth inside
ESðx;nÞ. Since there are communication links between x
and vk1, vk1 and vk2, vk2 and vk3, and vk3 and vk4, for all
1  k  n, vk1, vk2, and vk3 can be the comparators of the
comparison model. After the comparison test, each com-
parator has a testing result denoted by 0 (1, respectively)
representing the agreement (disagreement, respectively).
Given an extended star ESðx;nÞ at a node x, we define rk ¼
ðr1; r2; r3Þ to be the testing result of an ordered triple
ðvk1; vk2; vk3Þ with respect to ESðx;nÞ, where r1 is the
comparison result of vk1 for the two responses from x and
vk2, r
2 is the comparison result of vk2 for the two responses
from vk1 and vk3, and r
3 is the comparison result of vk3 for the
two responses from vk2 and vk4. Then, rk can be in one of the
eight different states, which are rð0Þ ¼ ð0; 0; 0Þ, rð1Þ¼ð0; 0; 1Þ,
rð2Þ ¼ ð0; 1; 0Þ, rð3Þ ¼ ð0; 1; 1Þ, rð4Þ ¼ ð1; 0; 0Þ, rð5Þ ¼ ð1; 0; 1Þ,
rð6Þ ¼ ð1; 1; 0Þ, and rð7Þ ¼ ð1; 1; 1Þ. Let RðiÞ be the set of the
collection of all rðiÞ, for all 0  i  7. Obviously, the
summation of the cardinality of Rð0Þ to Rð7Þ is n, that is,P7
i¼0 jRðiÞj ¼ n.
Let x be a node in a system. Suppose that the degree of x
is n and suppose that there is an extended star ESðx;nÞ at x.
Then, the node diagnosability of x is n, which means that
we may not be able to identify all the faulty nodes if the
number of faulty nodes in ESðx;nÞ is nþ 1 or more.
Therefore, we assume that the number of faulty nodes is at
most n. Under this assumption, we have an efficient
algorithm to determine whether node x is faulty or not.
Theorem 4. Let x be a node with degree n in a system GðV ;EÞ.
Suppose that there is an extended star ESðx;nÞ  G at x.
Define rk ¼ ðr1; r2; r3Þ to be the testing result of ðvk1; vk2; vk3Þ
with respect to ESðx;nÞ. Then, rk can be in one of the eight
states (as illustrated in Fig. 7): rð0Þ ¼ ð0; 0; 0Þ, rð1Þ¼ð0; 0; 1Þ,
rð2Þ¼ð0; 1; 0Þ, rð3Þ¼ð0; 1; 1Þ, rð4Þ¼ð1; 0; 0Þ, rð5Þ¼ð1; 0; 1Þ,
rð6Þ ¼ ð1; 1; 0Þ, and rð7Þ ¼ ð1; 1; 1Þ.
Let RðiÞ be the set of the collection of all rðiÞ and jRðiÞj be
the cardinality of RðiÞ. Then, under the assumption that the
number of faulty nodes is at most n
i. x is fault free if jRð0Þj  jRð4Þj, or
ii. x is faulty if jRð0Þj < jRð4Þj.
Proof. Let lk ¼ ðvk1; vk2; vk3; vk4Þ be an ordered quadruple,
1  k  n, with respect to ESðx;nÞ. We prove the first
part of this theorem by contradiction. Suppose that the
number of faulty nodes in ESðx;nÞ is at most n and
suppose that x is faulty; the counting of all the other
faulty nodes is given as follows:
. For those lk with result rð0Þ, there are at least
three faulty nodes, which are vk1, vk2, and vk3.
. For those lk with result rð1Þ, there are at least two
faulty nodes, which are vk1 and vk2.
. For those lk with result rð2Þ, there is at least one
faulty node, which is vk1.
. For those lk with result rð3Þ, there are at least two
faulty nodes, which are vk1 and one of vk2, vk3, and
vk4 since the output of vk3 is a disagreement.
. For those lk with result rð4Þ, the number of faulty
nodes is uncertain.
. For those lk with result rð5Þ, there is at least one
faulty node, which is one of vk2, vk3, and vk4 since
the output of vk3 is a disagreement.
. For those lk with result rð6Þ, there is at least one
faulty node, which is one of vk1, vk2, and vk3 since
the output of vk2 is a disagreement.
. For those lk with result rð7Þ, there is at least one
faulty node, which is one of vk2, vk3, and vk4 since
the output of vk3 is a disagreement.
Thus, the number of faulty nodes is at least 1þ 3jRð0Þj þ
2jRð1Þj þ jRð2Þj þ 2jRð3Þj þ jRð5Þj þ jRð6Þj þ jRð7Þj ¼
7i¼0jRðiÞj þ ð1þ 2jRð0Þj þ jRð1Þj þ jRð3Þj  jRð4ÞjÞ.
256 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS, VOL. 58, NO. 1, JANUARY 2009
Fig. 6. An example of an indistinguishable pair in an incomplete
extended star structure with only the set of nodes fxg [ fvij j 1  i  n;
1  j  3g and the set of edges fðx; vk1Þ; ðvk1; vk2Þ; ðvk2; vk3Þ j 1  k  ng. Fig. 7. Eight different output states for Theorem 4.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on May 21, 2009 at 02:58 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
For each node x ¼ x1x2; . . . ; xn, there are n 1 nodes
adjacent to it, namely, x2x1x3x4; . . . ; xn, x3x2x1x4; . . . ; xn;
. . . ; xix2x3x4; . . . ; xi1x1xiþ1; . . . ; xn; . . . , a n d xnx2x3x4;
. . . ; xn1x1. Let v2;1; v3;1; . . . ; vi;1; . . . ; and vn;1 be these
nodes, respectively. For convenience of description, we
say that two nodes are adjacent to each other with a ð1 iÞ
edge if one node can be obtained by a transposition of
the first symbol with the ith symbol of the other node.
Accordingly, x is adjacent to vk;1 with a ð1 kÞ edge, for all
2  k  n. For each vk;1, there are ðn 2Þ more nodes
adjacent to it except for x. We can choose one of these
adjacent nodes of vk;1 with a ð1 kþ 1Þ edge if 2  k 
n 1 and with a ð1 ððkþ 2Þmod nÞÞ edge if k ¼ n. Let vk;2
be these nodes, for all 2  k  n, respectively. We
then find vk;3 as one of the adjacent nodes of vk;2 with
a ð1 kþ2Þ edge if 2  k  n 2 and with a ð1 ððkþ 3Þ
mod nÞÞ edge if n 1  k  n. Finally, we find vk;4 as one
of the adjacent nodes of vk;3 with a ð1 kþ 3Þ edge if 2 
k  n 3 and with a ð1 ððkþ 4Þmod nÞÞ edge if n 2 
k  n (Fig. 9).
Therefore, an extended star ESðx;n 1Þ at every node
x 2 V ðSnÞ can be retrieved for n  4. We note, however, that
for n ¼ 4, the construction strategy described above has to
be modified a little bit, since the construction strategy in the
last paragraph will cause all vk;4’s to be the same node, for
all 2  k  n. We can choose vk;4 as one of the adjacent
nodes of vk;3 with a ð1 3Þ edge for k ¼ 2, a ð1 4Þ edge for
k ¼ 3, and a ð1 2Þ edge for k ¼ 4 as a modified strategy.
Therefore, for n  4, the node diagnosability of each node
x 2 V ðSnÞ is n 1, and the diagnosability of Sn is n 1,
which is the same conclusion as that proposed by
Zheng et al. [20].
For most multiprocessor systems or interconnection net-
works, an extended star at a given node can be carefully
found, as long as the dimension n is suitably large. This
explains the fact that the node diagnosability of a given node
matches its degree in many cases.
As one more example, consider an m-dimensional
hypercube system Qm and an n-dimensional hypercube
system Qn, for m  n  5. The node diagnosability of each
node in Qm (Qn, respectively) ism (n, respectively). Let u be
a node in Qm and v be a node in Qn. A new system can be
formed by adding an edge ðu; vÞ between Qm and Qn.
Applying the extended star structure, the node diagnosa-
bility of each node in Qm (Qn, respectively) remains m (n,
respectively) except for u (v, respectively), while the node
diagnosability of node u (v, respectively) increases to mþ 1
(nþ 1, respectively). Overall, the diagnosability of this new
system is n.
We now measure the time complexity to diagnose all the
faulty nodes in a system. For most of the practical systems
with N nodes, the degree of each node is in the order of
logN . For example, the n-dimensional hypercube Qn has
N ¼ 2n nodes, and the degree of each node is n, n ¼ logN ;
the n-dimensional star Sn has N ¼ n! nodes, and the degree
of each node is n 1 ¼ OðnÞ ¼ OðlogNlognÞ ¼ Oð logNlog logNÞ. We
assume that a testing result of each comparator for each
pair of distinct neighbors with which it can communicate
directly is stored in a syndrome table. Given an extended star
structure ESðx;nÞ at a node x, assume that the time for
looking up the testing result of a comparator in the syndrome
table is constant c. Then, the time needed for determining the
faulty or fault-free status of node x is 3c logN ¼ OðlogNÞ.
Consequently, the total time for diagnosing all the faulty
nodes is OðN logNÞ.
As a result, for most practical multiprocessor systems,
especially some well-known symmetric and regular topol-
ogies like hypercube systems, the time for self-diagnosis is
OðN logNÞ, where N is the total number of processors in it.
On the other hand, the presented diagnosis algorithm is not
restricted to symmetric systems only. We can apply such a
method to diagnose a system node by node and, conse-
quently, to diagnose the whole system. In general, the time
complexity is OðNÞ, where  is the maximum degree of a
node in this system.
The time complexityOðN logNÞ obtained here is based on
the symmetry of most recently practical multiprocessor
systems. Applying the traditional approach by Sengupta and
Dahbura [16] results in an initiate result of time complexity
OðN5Þ. However, under some constraints like symmetry or
regularity of the systems, using the classical approach may
result in a better computational complexity than OðN5Þ,
especially on some special cases of hypercubes or other well-
known topologies. A recent paper can be referred on this
issue; Yang and Tang [19] address the fault identification of
diagnosable multiprocessor systems under the MM* com-
parison model and present an OðN3Þ time diagnosis
algorithm for an N-node system, where  and  are the
maximum and minimum degrees of a node, respectively.
6 CONCLUSIONS
The issue of identifying all the faulty processors is
important in the design of interconnection networks or
multiprocessor systems, which is implementable in VLSI.
The process of identifying all the faulty processors is called
diagnosis of a system. Under the asymmetric comparison
diagnosis model, each processor acts as a comparator to test
each pair of adjacent two processors. Further, Sengupta and
Dahbura [16] proposed a polynomial-time algorithm with
time complexity OðN5Þ to diagnose a system with total
number N of processors. In some circumstances, it is not
necessary to judge the status of all processors but several
ones in some substructure of the system such as a ring
structure or a path structure.
In this paper, we proposed a novel idea on system
diagnosis called node diagnosability. Opposite to that of the
traditional diagnosability, the concept of node diagnosability
puts more focus on a single processor and requires only
258 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON COMPUTERS, VOL. 58, NO. 1, JANUARY 2009
Fig. 9. An extended star structure in an n-dimensional star graph
with n  5.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Chiao Tung University. Downloaded on May 21, 2009 at 02:58 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
A Local Diagnosability Measure for
Multiprocessor Systems
Guo-Huang Hsu and Jimmy J.M. Tan
Abstract—The problem of fault diagnosis has been discussed widely and the diagnosability of many well-known networks has been
explored. Under the PMC model, we introduce a new measure of diagnosability, called local diagnosability, and derive some structures
for determining whether a vertex of a system is locally t-diagnosable. For a hypercube, we prove that the local diagnosability of each
vertex is equal to its degree under the PMC model. Then, we propose a concept for system diagnosis, called the strong local
diagnosability property. A system GðV ;EÞ is said to have a strong local diagnosability property if the local diagnosability of each vertex
is equal to its degree. We show that an n-dimensional hypercube Qn has this strong property, n  3. Next, we study the local
diagnosability of a faulty hypercube. We prove that Qn keeps this strong property even if it has up to n 2 faulty edges. Assuming that
each vertex of a faulty hypercube Qn is incident with at least two fault-free edges, we prove Qn keeps this strong property even if it has
up to 3ðn 2Þ  1 faulty edges. Furthermore, we prove that Qn keeps this strong property no matter how many edges are faulty,
provided that each vertex of a faulty hypercube Qn is incident with at least three fault-free edges. Our bounds on the number of faulty
edges are all tight.
Index Terms—PMC model, local diagnosability, strong local diagnosability property.
Ç
1 INTRODUCTION
THE problem of identifying faulty processors in a multi-processor system has been widely studied in the
literature [9], [16], [18]. The bases of this area and the
original diagnostic model were established by Preparata
et al. [16]. This model, known as the PMC model, has been
extensively studied [1], [2], [3], [4], [10], [11], [12], [13], [14],
[16]. In [10], Hakimi and Amin proved that a system is
t-diagnosable if it is t-connected with at least 2tþ 1 vertices.
They also gave a necessary and sufficient condition for
verifying if a system is t-diagnosable under the PMC model.
The hypercube structure [17] is a popular topology for
multiprocessor systems. An n-dimensional hypercube is
denoted by Qn and the diagnosability of Qn is shown to be
n [13] under the PMC model, n  3. In [15], Lai et al.
introduced a measure of diagnosability called conditional
diagnosability by restricting that a faulty set cannot contain
all the neighbors of any vertex. Based on this restriction, the
conditional diagnosability of the n-dimensional hypercube is
shown to be 4ðn 2Þ þ 1. Besides, Lai et al. introduced a
concept calleda strongly t-diagnosable systemandproved that
the n-dimensional hypercube is strongly n-diagnosable.
Essentially, it means that an n-dimensional hypercube is
almost ðnþ 1Þ-diagnosable except for the case where all the
neighbors of some vertex are faulty simultaneously. In [19],
Wang proved that the diagnosability of an incomplete
hypercube under some conditions can be determined by
simply checking the degree of each vertex under the PMC
model. An incomplete hypercube is a hypercube with some
missing edges. It is also called a faulty hypercube. There are
some results concerning the diagnosability of several varia-
tions of the hypercube [1], [5], [7], [8], [10], [13], [19]. In
classical measures of system-level diagnosability for multi-
processor systems, it has generally been assumed that any
subset of processors can potentially fail at the same time. As a
consequence, the diagnosability of a system is upper
bounded by its minimum degree.
We observe that the discussions in previous literature
about the diagnosability of a system consider the global
sense but ignore some local information. A system is
t-diagnosable if all the faulty processors can be uniquely
identified, provided that the number of faulty processors
does not exceed t. However, it is possible to correctly
indicate all the faulty processors in a t-diagnosable system
when the number of faulty processors is greater than t. For
example, consider a multiprocessor system generated by
integrating two arbitrary subsystems with a few commu-
nication links in some way, where the two subsystems are
m-diagnosable and n-diagnosable, respectively, and m >> n.
The diagnosability of this system is limited by n, but it is
possible to correctly point out all the faulty processors even
if the number of the faulty ones is between m and n.
Therefore, if we only consider the global faulty/fault-free
status, we lose some local systematic details.
In this paper, we propose a new measure of diagnosa-
bility, called local diagnosability, and study the local
diagnosability of each processor of a system. We can
identify the diagnosability of a system by computing the
local diagnosability of each processor. This measure of the
local diagnosability leads us to study the local diagnosa-
bility of each processor instead of the whole system. We
propose a necessary and sufficient condition, Theorem 3, to
determine the local diagnosability of a processor. We also
provide two useful structures, called the Type I structure
and the Type II structure, to determine the local diagnosa-
bility of a processor under the PMC model. Based on these
598 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS, VOL. 18, NO. 5, MAY 2007
. The authors are with the Department of Computer Science, National Chiao
Tung University, 1001 Ta Hsueh Road, Hsinchu, Taiwan 300, ROC.
E-mail: {gis91592, jmtan}@cis.nctu.edu.tw.
Manuscript received 13 June 2006; accepted 12 Sept. 2006; published online
9 Jan. 2007.
Recommended for acceptance by B. Parhami.
For information on obtaining reprints of this article, please send e-mail to:
tpds@computer.org, and reference IEEECS Log Number TPDS-0153-0606.
Digital Object Identifier no. 10.1109/TPDS.2007.1022.
1045-9219/07/$25.00  2007 IEEE Published by the IEEE Computer Society
Theorem 1 [15]. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph. G is t-diagnosable if
and only if, for each set of vertices S  V with jSj ¼ p,
0  p  t 1, each connected component ofG S has at least
2ðt pÞ þ 1 vertices.
3 LOCAL DIAGNOSABILITY
We first review some related results on systemdiagnosability
of somewell-known networks under the PMCmodel. In [13],
Kavianpour and Kim proved that the diagnosability of an
n-dimensional hypercube Qn is n. In [7] and [8], Fan proved
that an n-dimensional Crossed cube and an n-dimensional
Mo¨bius cube have diagnosability n under the PMCmodel. In
[19], Wang proved that the diagnosability of a faulty
hypercube can be determined by checking the degree of
each vertex under the PMC model, provided that the
minimum degree of the faulty hypercube is at least three.
We observe that the traditional diagnosability discussed
in most literatures describes the global status of a system.
In this paper, we study the local status of each processor
instead of the global status of a system. For example, for
any two positive integers m and n with m >> n  3, the
diagnosability of two hypercube systems Qm and Qn is m
and n, respectively. Combining Qm and Qn with a few
edges in some way may cause the diagnosability of the
new system to become n. In this situation, the strong
diagnosability of Qm is disregarded. For this reason, we are
motivated to study the local status of each processor. Given
a single vertex, we require only identifying the status of
this particular processor correctly. We now propose the
following concept:
Definition 1. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph and v 2 V be a vertex.G is
locally t-diagnosable at vertex v if, given a syndrome F
produced by a set of faulty vertices F  V containing vertex v
with jF j  t, every set of faulty vertices F 0 compatible with F
and jF 0j  t must also contain vertex v.
Definition 2. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph and v 2 V be a vertex. The
local diagnosability of vertex v, written as tlðvÞ, is defined to be
the maximum value of t such that G is locally t-diagnosable at
vertex v.
The following result is another point of view for
checking whether a vertex is locally t-diagnosable:
Lemma 6. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph and v 2 V be a vertex. G is
locally t-diagnosable at vertex v if and only if, for any two
distinct sets of vertices F1, F2  V , jF1j  t, jF2j  t,
v 2 F1F2, and ðF1; F2Þ is a distinguishable pair.
In the following, we study some properties of a system
being locally t-diagnosable at a given vertex and its
relationship between a system being t-diagnosable:
Proposition 1. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph and v 2 V ðGÞ be a
vertex. If G is locally t-diagnosable at vertex v, then
jV ðGÞj  2tþ 1.
Proof. We show this by contradiction. Assume that
jV ðGÞj  2t. We partition V ðGÞ into two disjoint subsets
F1, F2 with jF1j  t, jF2j  t. The vertex v is either in F1 or
in F2. Since V  ðF1
S
F2Þ ¼ ;, there is no edge between
V  ðF1
S
F2Þ and F1F2. By Lemma 2, ðF1; F2Þ is an
indistinguishable pair, which contradicts the assumption
that G is locally t-diagnosable at vertex v. So, the result
follows. tu
Proposition 2. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph and v 2 V be a vertex
with degðvÞ ¼ n. The local diagnosability of vertex v is at
most n.
Proof. Let F1 be the set of vertices adjacent to vertex v,
F1 ¼ NGðvÞ and jF1j ¼ n. Let F2 ¼ F1
Sfvg with
jF2j ¼ nþ 1. It is a simple matter to check that there is
no edge between V  ðF1
S
F2Þ and F1F2. By Lemma 2,
ðF1; F2Þ is an indistinguishable pair. Thus, G is not locally
ðnþ 1Þ-diagnosable at vertex v, so tlðvÞ  n ¼ degðvÞ. We
have the stated result. tu
Proposition 3. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph. G is t-diagnosable if
and only if G is locally t-diagnosable at every vertex.
Proof. To prove the necessity, we assume that G is
t-diagnosable. If the result is not true, there exists a
vertex v 2 V such that G is not locally t-diagnosable at
vertex v. By Lemma 6, there exists a distinct pair of sets
F1, F2  V with jF1j  t, jF2j  t and v 2 F1F2, ðF1; F2Þ
is an indistinguishable pair. By Lemma 1, G is not
t-diagnosable. This contradicts the assumption; hence, the
necessary condition follows.
To prove the sufficiency, suppose on the contrary that,
if G is not t-diagnosable, there exists a distinct pair of sets
F1, F2  V with jF1j  t, jF2j  t; thus, ðF1; F2Þ is an
indistinguishable pair. Being distinct, using the set
F1F2 6¼ ;, we can find a vertex v 2 F1F2. By Lemma 6,
G is not locally t-diagnosable at vertex v, which is a
contradiction. This completes the proof. tu
By Definition 2 and Proposition 3, we know that the
diagnosability of a multiprocessor system is equal to the
minimum local diagnosability of all vertices of the system.
Thus, we have the following theorem:
Theorem 2. Let GðV ;EÞ be a multiprocessor system. The
diagnosability of G is t if and only if
minftlðvÞ j for every v 2 V g ¼ t:
From Theorem 2, we can identify the diagnosability of a
system by computing the local diagnosability of each
vertex. Because many well-known systems are vertex-
symmetric, the diagnosability of these system can be easily
identified by this effective method.
Before studying the local diagnosability of a vertex, we
need some definitions for further discussion. Let S be a set
of vertices and v be a vertex not in S. After deleting the
vertices in S from G, we use Cv to denote the connected
component that vertex v belongs to. Now, we propose a
necessary and sufficient condition for verifying if a system
is locally t-diagnosable at a given vertex v.
Theorem 3. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph and v 2 V be a vertex. G is
locally t-diagnosable at vertex v if and only if, for each set of
vertices S  V with jSj ¼ p, 0  p  t 1, and v =2 S, the
connected component, which v belongs to in G S, has at
least 2ðt pÞ þ 1 vertices.
Proof. To prove the necessity, we assume that G is locally
t-diagnosable at vertex v. If the result does not hold, there
600 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS, VOL. 18, NO. 5, MAY 2007
respectively.
By Theorem 4 and Theorem 5, we have the following
result:
Theorem 6. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph and v 2 V be a vertex with
degðvÞ ¼ n. The local diagnosability of vertex v is n if G
contains a subgraph which is either a Type I structure
T1ðv;nÞ of order n or a Type II structure T2ðv;n 2; 2Þ of
order n at vertex v.
4 STRONG LOCAL DIAGNOSABILITY PROPERTY
We use a hypercube as an example to introduce our con-
cept of the strong local diagnosability property. An
n-dimensional hypercube can be modeled as a graph Qn,
with the vertex set V ðQnÞ and the edge set EðQnÞ. There are
2n vertices in Qn, and each vertex has degree n. Each
vertex v of Qn can be distinctly labeled by a binary n-bit
string, v ¼ vn1vn2 . . . v1v0. There is an edge between two
vertices if and only if their binary labels differ in exactly one
bit position. Let u and v be two adjacent vertices. If the
binary labels of u and v differ in the ith position, then the
edge between them is said to be in the ith dimension and
the edge ðu; vÞ is called an ith dimensional edge. Letting i be
a fixed position, we use Q0n1 to denote the subgraph of Qn
induced by fv 2 V ðQnÞjvi ¼ 0g and Q1n1 to denote the
subgraph of Qn induced by fv 2 V ðQnÞjvi ¼ 1g. Conse-
quently, Qn is decomposed to Q
0
n1 and Q
1
n1 by
dimension i, and Q0n1 and Q
1
n1 are ðn 1Þ-dimensional
subcubes of Qn induced by the vertices with the ith bit
position being 0 and 1, respectively. Q0n1 and Q
1
n1 are
isomorphic to Qn1. For each vertex v 2 V ðQ0n1Þ, there is
exactly one vertex in Q1n1, denoted by v
ð1Þ, such that
ðv; vð1ÞÞ 2 EðQnÞ. Conversely, for each vertex v 2 V ðQ1n1Þ,
there is exactly one vertex inQ0n1, denoted by v
ð0Þ, such that
ðv; vð0ÞÞ 2 EðQnÞ. Let Di be the set of all edges with one end
in Q0n1 and the other in Q
1
n1. These edges are called
crossing edges in the ith dimension between Q0n1 and Q
1
n1.
We also call Di the set of all ith dimensional edges.
In the previous section, we presented two sufficient
conditions for identifying the local diagnosability of a
vertex. It seems that identifying the local diagnosability of a
vertex is the same as counting its degree. We give an
example to show that this is not true in general. As shown
in Fig. 5, we take a vertex v in 2-dimensional hypercube Q2;
let F1 ¼ fv; 1g and F2 ¼ f2; 3g with jF1j ¼ 2 and jF2j ¼ 2. It
is a simple matter to check that ðF1; F2Þ is an indistinguish-
able pair. Hence, tlðvÞ 6¼ degðvÞ ¼ 2. We then propose the
following two concepts:
Definition 5. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph and v 2 V be a vertex.
Vertex v has the strong local diagnosability property if the
local diagnosability of vertex v is equal to its degree.
Definition 6. Let GðV ;EÞ be a graph. G has the strong local
diagnosability property if every vertex in the graph G has the
strong local diagnosability property.
By Definition 5 and Definition 6, we have the following
theorem:
Theorem 7. Let Qn be an n-dimensional hypercube, n  3. Qn
has the strong local diagnosability property.
Proof. We use Theorem 6 to prove this result, and we shall
construct a Type I structure of order n at each vertex for
n  3. We prove this by induction on n. Since an
n-dimensional hypercube Qn is vertex-symmetric, we can
concentrate on the construction of Type I structure at a
given vertex v. For n ¼ 3, degðvÞ ¼ 3 and it is clear thatQ3
contains aType I structureT1ðv; 3Þoforder 3 atvertex v (see
Fig. 6a and 6b). As the inductive hypothesis, we assume
that Qn1 contains a Type I structure T1ðv;n 1Þ of order
n 1 at each vertex for some n  4. Now,we consider that
Qn, Qn can be decomposed into two subcubes Q
0
n1 and
Q1n1 by some dimension. Without loss of generality, we
may assume that the vertex v 2 Q0n1. By the inductive
hypothesis,Q0n1 contains a Type I structure T1ðv;n 1Þ of
order n 1 at vertex v. Consider the vertex vð1Þ in Q1n1.
Vertex vð1Þ has an adjacent neighbor that is in Q1n1 due to
degðvð1ÞÞ ¼ n, where n  3. Thus, Qn contains a Type I
structure T1ðv;nÞ of order n at vertex v. By Theorem 6,
602 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS, VOL. 18, NO. 5, MAY 2007
Fig. 3. A cycle of length four and a Type I structure T1ðv; 1Þ of order 1 at v.
Fig. 4. Some examples of local diagnosability.
Fig. 5. An indistinguishable pair ðF1; F2Þ in Q2.
Fig. 6. A Q3 and a Type I structure T1ðv; 3Þ of order 3 at vertex v.
many edges can be removed from Qn such that Qn keeps
the strong local diagnosability property under the condition
that each vertex of the faulty hypercube Qn is incident with
at least two fault-free edges? First, we give an example to
show that a faulty hypercube Qn with 3ðn 2Þ faulty edges
may not have the strong local diagnosability property, even
if each vertex of the faulty hypercube Qn is incident with at
least two fault-free edges. As shown in Fig. 10a, we take a
cycle of length four in Qn, n  3. Let fv; a; b; cg be the four
consecutive vertices on this cycle, and S  EðQnÞ be a set of
edges, S ¼ S1
S
S2
S
S3, where S1 is the set of all edges
incident with a except ðv; aÞ and ðb; aÞ, S2 is the set of all
edges incident with b except ða; bÞ and ðc; bÞ, and S3 is the
set of all edges incident with c except ðv; cÞ and ðb; cÞ, then
jS1j ¼ jS2j ¼ jS3j ¼ n 2. The remaining degree of vertex v
in Qn  S is n, degQnSðvÞ ¼ n. As shown in Fig. 10b, let
F1 ¼ ðNQnSðvÞ fcgÞ
Sfvg and F2 ¼ ðNQnSðvÞ fagÞ
Sfbg,
then jF1j ¼ jF2j ¼ n and v 2 F1F2. It is clear that there is
no edge between V ðQnÞ  ðF1
S
F2Þ and F1F2. By Lem-
ma 2, ðF1; F2Þ is an indistinguishable pair, hence,
tlðvÞ 6¼ degQnSðvÞ ¼ n. So, some vertex of Qn  S may not
have this strong property if jSj  3ðn 2Þ. Then, we shall
show that Qn  S has the strong local diagnosability
property if each vertex of Qn  S is incident with at least
two fault-free edges and jSj  3ðn 2Þ  1. We need the
following results to construct a Type I structure or a Type II
structure at a vertex of a faulty hypercube.
Theorem 9 [20]. Let GðV ;EÞ be a bipartite graph with
bipartition ðX;Y Þ. Then, G has a matching that saturates
every vertex in X if and only if
jNðSÞj  jSj; for all  X:
Theorem 10 [20]. Let GðV ;EÞ be a bipartite graph. The
maximum size of a matching in G equals the minimum size of
a vertex cover of G.
Lemma 7. An n-dimensional hypercube Qn has no cycle of
length 3 and any two vertices have at most two common
neighbors.
For our discussion later, we need some definitions. Let
Qn be an n-dimensional hypercube and S  EðQnÞ be a set
of edges. Removing the edges in S from Qn, for a vertex
v in the resulting graph Qn  S, we define BGðvÞ ¼
ðL1ðvÞ
S
L2ðvÞ; EÞ to be the bipartite graph under v with
bipartition ðL1ðvÞ; L2ðvÞÞ, where L1ðvÞ ¼ fx 2 V ðQnÞ j ver-
tex x is adjacent to vertex v in Qn  Sg, L2ðvÞ ¼ fy 2
V ðQnÞ j there exists a vertex x 2 L1ðvÞ such that ðx; yÞ 2
EðQnÞ in Qn  Sg  fvg, and EðBGðvÞÞ ¼ fðx; yÞ 2 EðQnÞ j
vertex x 2 L1ðvÞ and vertex y 2 L2ðvÞg. L1ðvÞ (L2ðvÞ,
respectively) is called the level one (level two, respec-
tively) vertex under v (see Fig. 11).
Theorem 11. LetQn be an n-dimensional hypercube with n  3
and S  EðQnÞ be a set of edges, 0  jSj  3ðn 2Þ  1.
Assume that each vertex of Qn  S is incident with at least
two fault-free edges. Removing all the edges in S from Qn, the
local diagnosability of each vertex is still equal to its remaining
degree.
Proof. According to Theorem 6, we can concentrate on the
construction of Type I structure or Type II structure at
each vertex. Consider a vertex v in Qn  S with
degQnSðvÞ ¼ k. As shown in Fig. 11, let BGðvÞ ¼
ðL1ðvÞ
S
L2ðvÞ; EÞ be the bipartite graph under v. Then,
jL1ðvÞj ¼ k. Let M  EðBGðvÞÞ be a maximum matching
from L1ðvÞ to L2ðvÞ. In the following proof, we consider
three cases by the size of M: 1) jMj ¼ k, 2) jMj ¼ k 1,
and 3) jMj  k 2.
Case 1: jMj ¼ k. Since jMj ¼ k and jL1ðvÞj ¼ k, there
exists a Type I structure T1ðv; kÞ of order k at vertex v.
By Theorem 6, the local diagnosability of vertex v is
equal to k.
Case 2: jMj ¼ k 1. We shall show that there is a
Type II structure of order k at vertex v. As shown in
Fig. 12, let L1ðvÞ ¼ fx1; x2; . . . ; xkg and let ML2ðvÞ 
L2ðvÞ be the set of vertices matched under M,
ML2ðvÞ ¼ fy 2 L2ðvÞ j there exists a vertex x 2 L1ðvÞ
such that ðx; yÞ 2 Mg. So, jML2ðvÞ j ¼ k  1. Let
ML2ðvÞ ¼ fy1; y2; . . . ; yk1g and assume vertex xi is
matched with vertex yi for each i, 1  i  k 1. Then,
there exists a vertex xk 2 L1ðvÞ and xk is unmatched by
M. Since each vertex of Qn  S is incident with at least
two fault-free edges, there exists a vertex yi 2ML2ðvÞ,
i 2 f1; 2; . . . ; k 1g, such that ðxk; yiÞ 2 EðBGðvÞÞ. With-
out loss of generality, let ðxk; y1Þ 2 EðBGðvÞÞ. If the
remaining degree of y1 is at least three, as shown in
Fig. 13, there exists a Type II structure T2ðv; k 2; 2Þ
of order k at vertex v. By Theorem 6, the local
604 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS, VOL. 18, NO. 5, MAY 2007
Fig. 10. An indistinguishable pair ðF1; F2Þ, where jF1j ¼ jF2j ¼ n.
Fig. 11. The bipartite graph BGðvÞ.
Fig. 12. An illustration for Case 2 of Theorem 11 and Theorem 12.
Finally, we consider another condition: Each vertex of a
faulty hypercube Qn is incident with at least three fault-free
edges. Based on this condition, we prove that Qn keeps the
strong local diagnosability property no matter how many
edges are faulty.
Theorem 12. LetQn be an n-dimensional hypercube with n  3
and S  EðQnÞ be a set of edges. Assume that each vertex of
Qn  S is incident with at least three fault-free edges.
Removing all the edges in S from Qn, the local diagnosability
of each vertex is still equal to its remaining degree.
Proof. According to Theorem 6, we can concentrate on the
construction of Type I structure or Type II structure
at each vertex. Consider a vertex v in Qn  S with
degQnSðvÞ ¼ k. Let BGðvÞ ¼ ðL1ðvÞ
S
L2ðvÞ; EÞ be the
bipartite graph under v. Then, jL1ðvÞj ¼ k. Let M 
EðBGðvÞÞ be a maximum matching from L1ðvÞ to L2ðvÞ.
In the following proof, we consider three cases by the
size of M: 1) jMj ¼ k, 2) jMj ¼ k 1, and 3) jMj  k 2.
Case 1: jMj ¼ k. Since jMj ¼ k and jL1ðvÞj ¼ k, there
exists a Type I structure T1ðv; kÞ of order k at vertex v.
By Theorem 6, the local diagnosability of vertex v is
equal to k.
Case 2: jMj ¼ k 1.Wewill show that there is a Type II
structure of order k at vertex v. As shown in Fig. 12, let
L1ðvÞ ¼ fx1; x2; . . . ; xkg and letML2ðvÞ  L2ðvÞ be the set
of vertices matched under M, ML2ðvÞ ¼ fy 2 L2ðvÞ j
there exists a vertex x 2 L1ðvÞ such that ðx; yÞ 2Mg. So,
jML2ðvÞj ¼ k 1. Let ML2ðvÞ ¼ fy1; y2; . . . ; yk1g and
assume vertex xi is matched with vertex yi for each i,
1  i  k 1. Then, there exists a vertex xk 2 L1ðvÞ and
xk is unmatched by M. Since each vertex of Qn  S is
incident with at least three fault-free edges, there exists
a vertex yi 2ML2ðvÞ, i 2 f1; 2; . . . ; k 1g, such that
ðxk; yiÞ 2 EðBGðvÞÞ. Without loss of generality, let
ðxk; y1Þ 2 EðBGðvÞÞ. Since the remaining degree of y1
is at least three, as shown in Fig. 13, there exists a
Type II structure T2ðv; k 2; 2Þ of order k at vertex v. By
Theorem 6, the local diagnosability of vertex v is equal
to k and the result follows.
Case 3: jMj  k 2. We will see that this is an
impossible case. By Theorem 10, the minimum size of a
vertex cover of the bipartite graph BGðvÞ is no greater
than k 2. However, we claim that any k 2 vertices of
BGðvÞ can not cover all the edges of BGðvÞ. With this
claim, the case is impossible.
Now, we prove this claim. Suppose we take a vertex
cover with the minimum size and let V CL1ðvÞ  L1ðvÞ,
V CL2ðvÞ  L2ðvÞ, and V CL1ðvÞ
S
V CL2ðvÞ be the vertex
cover as shown in Fig. 14. V CL1ðvÞ and V CL2ðvÞ can
cover all the edges of BGðvÞ. Since
jV CL1ðvÞj þ jV CL2ðvÞj  k 2;
we rewrite this inequality into the following equivalent
form:
2ðk jV CL1ðvÞjÞ  2ðjV CL2ðvÞj þ 2Þ:
Let NVCL1ðvÞ ¼ L1ðvÞ  V CL1ðvÞ. Since each vertex of
Qn  S is incident with at least three fault-free edges, for
each vertex x 2 NVCL1ðvÞ, aside from the edge ðx; vÞ, at
least two edges connecting x must be incident with the
vertices in V CL2ðvÞ. So, the total number of edges
incident with the vertices in V CL2ðvÞ is at least
2jNVCL1ðvÞj. For each vertex y 2 V CL2ðvÞ, by Lemma 7,
at most two edges connecting y are incident with the
vertices in NVCL1ðvÞ. So, the total number of edges
incident with the vertices in NVCL1ðvÞ is at most
2jV CL2ðvÞj. Compare the lower bound 2jNVCL1ðvÞj
and the upper bound 2jV CL2ðvÞj. We have the following
inequality:
2jNVCL1ðvÞj ¼ 2ðk jV CL1ðvÞjÞ
 2ðjV CL2ðvÞj þ 2Þ > 2jV CL2ðvÞj:
The lower bound 2jNVCL1ðvÞj is greater than the
upper bound 2jV CL2ðvÞj. It means that some edges are
not covered by V CL1ðvÞ or V CL2ðvÞ in BGðvÞ. Thus, our
claim follows.
In Case 1, Qn  S contains a Type I structure T1ðv; kÞ
of order k at vertex v. In Case 2, Qn  S contains a Type
II structure T2ðv; k 2; 2Þ of order k at vertex v. We also
proved that Case 3 is impossible. By Theorem 6,
removing all the edges in S from Qn, the local
diagnosability of each vertex is still equal to its
remaining degree. tu
By Theorem 12, the following corollary holds:
Corollary 3. Let Qn be an n-dimensional hypercube with n  3
and S  EðQnÞ be a set of edges. Qn keeps the strong local
diagnosability property no matter how many edges are faulty,
provided that each vertex of Qn  S is incident with at least
three fault-free edges.
6 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we propose a new concept called local
diagnosability for a system and derive some structures for
determining whether a system is locally t-diagnosable at a
given vertex. Through this concept, the diagnosability of a
system can be determined by computing the local diagno-
sability of each vertex. We also introduce a concept for
system diagnosis, called the strong local diagnosability
property. A system has this strong property if the local
diagnosability of every vertex is equal to its degree. We
prove that the hypercube has this strong property. Then, we
consider an n-dimensional faulty hypercube Qn with a set of
faulty edges S  EðQnÞ, 0  jSj  n 2, n  3. We prove
that a faulty hypercube Qn  S keeps this strong property.
According to Theorem 2, the global diagnosability of Qn  S
is equal to the minimum local diagnosability of all vertices.
A conditional local diagnosability measure for systems is
also introduced in this paper. Assume that each vertex of a
faulty hypercube Qn is incident with at least two fault-free
edges, we prove that Qn has this strong property even if it
has up to 3ðn 2Þ  1 faulty edges. Finally, we prove that
Qn keeps this strong property no matter how many edges
are faulty, provided that each vertex of a faulty hypercube
Qn is incident with at least three fault-free edges.
We use the hypercube as an example to introduce the
concepts of the local diagnosability, the local structures, and
the strong local diagnosability property. In fact, many well-
known systems also have these local structures and this
606 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON PARALLEL AND DISTRIBUTED SYSTEMS, VOL. 18, NO. 5, MAY 2007
