 2 
一、前言 
環境中殘留許多化學物質皆會對環境生態造成影響，而影響程度則依化學物質之毒性強弱、暴露濃度
劑量、暴露途徑、及時間長短等因素有關。「新興污染物(emerging contaminants)」為以汙水再生為終極
目的之第三代汙水處理廠所面臨最具挑戰性的化學物質，其特質為”法規尚未規範或規範不全”及傳統
生物處理程序無法有效分解去除，其易穿透汙水處理廠之整治防線而排放至水體環境中。Ibuprofen 與
Naproxen 為一類非固醇類的抗發炎藥物，由於大量使用而在水體環境中有較高之檢出率，這類藥品具
有持久不易分解之特性，並易透過食物鏈關係，造成環境荷爾蒙效應。Laccase 是一種酵素，為含銅氧
化酶，有四個銅離子，可催化基值之氧化反應(Riva, 2006)，其反應機制是利用電子轉移，在 Laccase
催化後產生活性自由基，透過自由基進一步造成基質分解或聚合反應，最後氧分子則被氧化成水。由
於 Laccase 對於催化的基質比較沒有專一性(Majeau et al., 2010)，因此已被廣泛的應用在環境中的 PAHs、
含氯有機物質、農藥、氟化芳香族化合物等，可以去除土壤與水中的毒性物質、處理工業廢水、紙漿
和造紙業等應用(Zille et al., 2005)。固定化是將原本溶解態的(free)酵素改變成固定之非水溶液型態 
(immobilized)。將酵素固定於載體上，將使其環境適應力增加，且可有效的提升酵素活性、使用次數與
回收。重要的是，由酵素固定床法所生成之催化氧化產物(product)和基質(substrate)能容易的被分離開
來(Siddique et al., 1993)。Laccase 用在有機污染物分解上之優勢在於：1)容易分解不溶或者難溶解性的
大分子有機化合物；2)由於酵素本身的分解基質範圍較廣，加上對於基質之專一性不高，所以分解之
效率受到基質本身影響性不大。 
 
二、研究目的 
本研究之目的在於：(i)瞭解在不同水質條件下 Laccase 酵素分解 Ibuprofen 與 Naproxen 等新興汙染物質
之成效，以及(ii)開發以褐藻酸(alginate)為載體來包覆 Laccase 作為環境永續之固定化方法。 
 
三、實驗方法 
1. 酵素活性分析 
(i) Soluble Laccase：為了解 Laccase 於各種實驗條件下之活性，因此在降解實驗前由 ABTS 氧化之情形
來決定 Laccase 之活性。此方法首先混合 0.2 mM ABTS 在 50 mM 酒石酸鈉緩衝液中(pH 4.0)，之後將
Laccase 原液稀釋 10 倍後，接著於 420 nm 測定吸光值(ε420 = 36,000 M
-1
 cm
-1
)，得到吸光值後代入 Beer’s 
Law 公式(A=εbc)算其濃度。酵素表示單位設為 1U = 1μmol 氧化 ABTS/min。 
(ii) Immobilized Laccase：將固定化之 Laccase beads 取出 20 顆並加入 ABTS 與之反應 10s、20s、30s、
40、50s、60s，得其吸收值，由此可計算總製造顆數活性。 
 
2. Degradation of Ibuprofen, Naproxen by soluble and immobilized Laccase  
(i) Soluble Laccase：將反應使用的 Laccase 取 500 μL (pH 4.0)放置於透析膜中，並將兩端以透析夾夾住，
置於反應槽中開始反應，其實驗設置如圖 1 所示。反應槽中之 Ibuprofen 或 Naproxen 溶液初始濃度為
20 ppm；在反應的過程中連續通入空氣，以提供反應所需要的氧氣，同時並放置於攪拌器上。在不同
反應時間，將 Sample 經由 Millipore 0.22 μM filter 過濾後分析。於每組反應開始後，每天批次採樣之樣
本以高效能液相層析儀(HPLC, Zobrax SB-C-18 column)去分析各種物質之殘留濃度。 
(ii) Immobilized Laccase：褐藻酸包括法為本研究所使用之固定化酵素方法，褐藻酸鈉之黏稠水溶液，
在含鈣的水溶液中，會與鈣離子形成鍵結，褐藻酸聚合物連接成網狀而凝固或膠狀。首先將 1 mL 酵
素液加至 9 mL 去離子水稀釋，之後再加入 0.3 g 褐藻酸鈉，攪拌均勻後，若氣泡產生則使用超音波洗
淨器進行去除氣泡。接著如圖 2 所示之三個步驟來進行固定化與測試：(i) Step 1 以針筒或滴管將混合
 4 
 
 
圖 3、(a)倒立式共軛雷射顯微鏡下固定化珠子 Size；(b)本實驗室所產製 Laccase beads 之圖片 
 
三、結果與討論 
1. Soluble Laccase 
圖 4 為水相之 Laccase 在 30℃~60℃的活性測試結果。利用酵素活性分析法得知在 30℃，酵素活性為
1.62 U/mL，而 40℃為 1.12 U/mL，50℃為 0.80 U/mL，60℃為 0.24U/mL 等。此結果顯示當溫度越高，
Laccase 的活性就越低，溫度與活性成反比的趨勢。因此接下來之降解反應將溫度選於室溫下進行。而
圖 5 為水相之 Laccase 分別在 pH 3、pH 4 及 pH 5 的活性分析，其反應於室溫下進行。結果是 pH 3 時，
酵素活性為 4.02 U/mL，而 pH 4 時為 3.82 U/mL，pH 5 時為 3.07 U/mL。因此水相的 Laccase 酵素特性
是適合於室溫且 pH 3 的條件下有最佳的活性。接著將利用 Laccase 容易分解不溶或者難溶解性的大分
子之特性，應用在傳統污水處理程序無法有效分解的 Ibuprofen(IBP)與 Naproxen(NPX)。圖 6 為水相之
Laccase 在 pH 3~5 去除 IBP 之降解反應結果，此實驗之酵素活性為 3.56 U/mL，溫度在 27~28℃進行，
總反應時間為 120 hr。結果顯示在 pH 3 的條件下，其去除 IBP 效率最佳，約 55％被去除，其次為 pH 4
時去除效率約 35%，最後在 pH 5 時去除效率約 10%。此去除效率與圖 5 之結果有相關，pH 3 為活性
最高的時候，因此在 pH 3 時其降解率也具有最佳的效果。利用相同的實驗方法而將目標物質換成
Naproxen 後在酵素活性為 3.63 U/mL 而反應時間為 148 hr。其結果如圖 7 所示也是在 pH 3 之條件下具
有最佳之去除效率(43%)，其次為 pH 4 之 16%以及 pH 5 之 22%。而在圖 6 之 pH 3 及 pH 5 之條件下有
觀察到汙染物濃度有些微上升之現象，其原因是因為在反應中曝大量的氣體，以致於水分蒸發，造成
物質濃度上升，此現象在圖 7 也有相同的情況出現。但利用 Soluble Laccase 來降解 Ibuprofen 與 Naproxen
為可行性之作法且降解效率非常好。但如何有效回收再利用，則必須利用固定化來達到此目標。 
 
2. Immobilized Laccase
圖 8 為利用 Immobolized Laccase 於曝氣條件下降解 Ibuprofen 之效率，由結果可知再有包覆以及無包覆
(Blank) Laccase 之條件下，Ibuprofen 均有一定之去除效果，這結果顯示初期的吸附作用扮演非常重要
之角色，亦即水中之 Ibuprofen 將首先被吸附於載體上接著再進行擴散進入載體內與 Laccase 反應。此
外，圖 9 為在較少 Immobilized Laccase (400 beads)之作用下之長期降解結果，如前所述因為吸附作用
快速，擴散作用以及酵素化學反應作用為其速率決定步驟(rate limiting step)。在反應 300 小時之後，約
有近 50%之 Ibuprofen 被去除，此結果與圖 6 之結果相較(約 100 小時可達 50%之去除率)，可知擴散作
用之尺度(因為圖 6 為利用透析袋之實驗結果相對擴散作用較低)約與反應速率之尺度相當。 
 
 6 
 
四、結論 
本研究顯示用酵素來降解代表性之藥物類新興汙染物 Ibuprofen 以及 Naproxen 為可行之方法，目前利
用生物科技已可將 Laccase 酵素大量生產，故此降解方法在新興汙染物之處理上將具有很大之競爭力。
而本實驗也利用海藻膠為載體材料，成功的將 Laccase 酵素包覆其中並測試其降解新興汙染物 Ibuprofen
之成效。這種以環境友善材料(海藻膠)作為包附載體之作法，未來在實用上將有很大之發展潛力。 
 
五、參考文獻 
1. Riva, S., (2006). Laccases: blue enzymes for green chemistry. Trends in Biotechnology, 24(5): 219-226. 
2. Zille, A., Munteanu, F.D., Gubitz, G.M. and Cavaco-Paulo, A., (2005). Laccase kinetics of degradation 
and coupling reactions. Journal of Molecular Catalysis B-Enzymatic, 33(1-2): 23-28. 
3. Majeau., J.A., Brar, S.K. and Tyagi, R.D., (2010). Laccases for removal of recalcitrant and emerging 
pollutants. Bioresource Technology, 101: 2331-2350. 
4. Siddique M.H., Pierre C.C. St., Biswas N., Bewtra J.K., Taylor K.E. (1993). Immobilized enzyme 
catalyzed removal of 4-chlorophenol from aqueous solution, Water Research, 27, 883-890. 
 
 
 
 2 
除學術研討外亦學習到許多業界相關之最新資訊。 
2. 與國際間其他學者交流建立人脈。 
3. 低耗能汙水處理廠將是未來之趨勢。 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
四、建議 
無 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議集(proceedings) 
六、其他 
論文接受函與研討會全文如後附件 
  
Removal of Ibuprofen and Naproxen in Water by Soluble and 
Immobilized Laccase 
 
 
M. Sung*, C.C. Hsu*, and H.Y. Lu* 
 
 
* Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Tunghai University, 181 Sec. 3 Taichung Port Rd., 
Taichung 40704, Taiwan 
(E-mail: mhsung@thu.edu.tw; G99340004@thu.edu.tw;s963043@thu.edu.tw) 
 
 
Abstract 
The efficient removal of emerging pollutants from water by a chemical-free approach is important 
for a sustainable water reclamation system. Laccase is an enzyme that is capable of degrading a 
wide variety of phenolic contaminants in water. Its stability and lack of inhibitors have made it an 
attractive agent in enzymatic degradation. In this study, soluble laccase and laccase immobilized 
on resins are prepared to test its efficiency on the removal of Ibuprofen and Naproxen, which are 
both emerging pharmaceutical pollutants. Batch systems were adopted for the degradation tests. 
Various mediators, including 2,2 A-azinobis-(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonate) (ABTS), 2,2,6,6-
Tetramethyl-1-piperidinyloxy (TEMPO), and violuric acid (VA), are used to test the performance 
of the enzyme-mediator system. Results indicate that VA is the only mediator that can increase the 
overall removal efficiency of Ibuprofen and Naproxen. The immobilized laccase can remove 
approximately 50% of Ibuprofen in water, but cannot remove noticeable amount of Naproxen. 
 
Keywords 
Laccase; immobilization; emerging pollutants; water reclamation 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
The continuing presence of emerging water pollutants such as pharmaceuticals, personal care 
products, surfactants, and various industrial additives has made water reclamation more expensive 
than before due to the use of membrane filtration process, which is highly energy-intensive. Other 
alternatives to remove these pollutants are unconventional chemical and biological treatment 
processes. The Advanced Oxidation Processes (AOPs) have been proved to be an effective 
chemical treatment method in degrading these pollutants; however, their costs could be high if large 
quantities of water are to be treated. Consequently, various enzymatic treatments that are used alone 
(Garcia et al., 2011) or in combination with the filtration method (Kim et al., 2011) have been 
developed recently so that the goal of cost-effective treatments of these pollutants can be achieved.  
 
Laccases are multi-nuclear copper-containing oxidases that can catalyse the monoelectronic 
oxidation of substrates at the expense of oxygen (Riva, 2006). After the catalytic oxidation by 
laccases, the substrate becomes reactive radicals, which can further undergo laccases-catalyzed or 
nonenzymatic reactions such as polymerization, hydration, and hydrogen abstraction to produce less 
toxic derivatives (Majeau et al., 2010). With their low specificity on substrates, laccases have been 
applied to pulp delignification (Camarero et al., 2007) and to the oxidation of various environmental 
pollutants such as phenols, dyes (Zille et al., 2005), pesticides, endocrine disrupters, and polycyclic 
aromatic hydrocarbons (Collins et al., 1996). Very often laccases are employed together with the 
mediators, which are easily oxidizable substrates that can act as redox intermediates between the 
active sites of enzyme and a non-phenolic substrate. Due to the high redox potential of the mediator, 
laccases-mediator system can further oxidize contaminants that cannot be oxidized using laccases 
alone (Bourbonnais et al., 1997). 
 
The immobilization of laccases is an important step in field applications because it can eliminate 
some undesirable constraints of enzymatic proteins such as their non-reusability and high sensitivity 
to denaturing agents (Durán et al., 2002). Both physical and chemical immobilization methods are 
available. In general, chemical immobilization has the advantage to provide strong stable enzyme 
regardless of the presence of mediators. This proves that laccase is quite effective in removing 
Ibuprofen in water. After 1 minute, the degree of removal becomes insignificant. Such rapid initial 
removal implies that multiple mechanisms are involved during the removal process. In fact, it is 
suspected that the initial rapid removal of Ibuprofen is mainly due to adsorption onto laccase, which 
is always the first step in an enzymatic degradation process. Subsequent slow removal also implies 
that the step of oxidation is the rate limiting step in the entire process. Among three mediators tested, 
the VA is the only one that can enhance the removal. It has already known that the mediator can act 
as strong oxidants, carrying higher redox potentials than the central metal ions in the laccase, to 
degrade highly recalcitrant compounds. In addition, the 1-minute data for VA also implies that not 
only adsorption, but also a certain degree of oxidation has occurred within 1 minute. Because if the 
mechanism is pure adsorption, the 1-minute data for VA and for laccase alone would be the same. 
With the presence of VA, the removal efficiency is enhanced more than 20% at the 1-minute 
reaction time. Figure 2 shows the results for Naproxen. These results also have rapid removal at 1 
minute, implying the existence of the initial adsorption behaviour as observed for Ibuprofen. The 
VA is also found to be the best mediator for Naproxen and can cause a 20% increase in degradation 
as well.  
 
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1.2
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
C
/C
0
Time,min
Laccase degradation of Ibuprofen ABTS
VA
TEMPO
No  mediator
 
Figure 1. Degradation of Ibuprofen by soluble laccase (activity = 30 U/L) alone and in the presence 
of three different mediators. 
 
 Degradation by immobilized laccase 
Figure 4 shows the degradation results of Ibuprofen and Naproxen by immobilized laccase. It is 
evident that the degradation of Naproxen is low, but is relatively high for Ibuprofen. This differs 
from previous results in soluble laccase, where both Naproxen and Ibuprofen have close efficiencies 
of removal. It is hypothesized that the size of the substrate molecule (i.e., Naproxen or Ibuprofen) 
plays dominant roles in contributing to these discrepancies. Since there is no mediator in the 
immobilized laccase system, molecules in the system can only be oxidized when they bind to the 
central metals of the enzyme. Thus, if a molecule is too large it may have difficulty accessing the 
active sites. Consequently, the presence of mediator could be important in immobilized laccase 
systems. 
 
 
Figure 4. Degradation of Ibuprofen and Naproxen by immobilized laccase 
 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
From this study, it is found that in the soluble laccase system, both Ibuprofen and Naproxen have 
very close removal efficiencies under all conditions. The removal efficiency of up to 50% can be 
achieved. The only mediator effective for these two pollutants is violuric acid. In addition, it is 
observed that an optimum mediator concentration exists for their degradation. In the case of ABTS, 
the optimum concentration is 5 M. Finally, in experiments using immobilized laccase it is found 
that Ibuprofen can be removed effectively, but not Naproxen, which is too large to access active 
sites on laccase. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This study is funded by the National Science Council of Taiwan (Grant No. NSC 99-2628-E-029-
009). 
 
REFERENCES 
Bourbonnais, R., Paice, M.G., Freiermuth, B., Bodie, E. and Borneman, S., 1997. Reactivities of 
various mediators and laccases with kraft pulp and lignin model compounds. Applied and 
Environmental Microbiology, 63(12): 4627-4632. 
Camarero, S. et al., 2007. Paper pulp delignification using laccase and natural mediators. Enzyme 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/28
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 結合臭氧與固定式酵素床法處理水中酚類污染物之研究
計畫主持人: 宋孟浩
計畫編號: 99-2628-E-029-009- 學門領域: 環境工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
