 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫期中進度報告 
光纖乙太網路之高效能交換架構與軟體控制機制研究(2/2) 
Study on a high performance switching architecture and software 
control mechanisms for optical Ethernet (2/2) 
計畫編號：NSC94-2213-E-224-002 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：王文楓   國立雲林科技大學電子工程系 
計畫參與人員：李豐成  國立雲林科技大學工程研究所 
計畫參與人員：賴孟緯  國立雲林科技大學電子工程所 
計畫參與人員：許俊泓  國立雲林科技大學資訊工程所 
計畫參與人員：鄭志文  國立雲林科技大學資訊工程所 
 
1、中文摘要 
近年來，交換技術和架構設計一直不斷
地在演變和改進。直到今日，交換技術已經
成功應用於各種不同科技領域裡，例如：平
行電腦系統的訊息交換和網際網路的通訊
等。在本報告中，我們將介紹本次計畫的重
要成果—以輔助連線增進環狀交換架構效能
的新型態交換架構。由於網路置於矽晶片上
的應用與技術發展快速且蓬勃，對於交換核
心的設計有了新的思考，以往被視為不理想
的環狀交換架構被重新提出來思考，其原因
是由於環狀架構具有分散式的網路拓樸，可
以承受未來極大型矽晶片中線路延遲現象與
時鐘時脈不同步所造成問題的挑戰。我們已
經詳盡地分析了加入輔助連線對環狀交換架
構所提昇的效能，以及新架構的網路拓樸的
數學模型分析，利用這些分析獲得了一套應
用於此類交換架構的路由演算法。此一演算
法具有實際應用的價值，值得後續計畫延續
研究，並加以實用化及提出專利申請。 
關鍵詞：光纖乙太網路、交換架構、交換器 
 
Abstract 
In the last decade, switching technology 
and the related architecture design have 
evolved and progressed continuously. Up to 
this moment, switching technology has been 
applied to several technological domains 
successfully, such as the message passing in 
parallel computing systems and the 
communications of the Internet. In this report, 
we introduce a ring-based switch architecture 
equipped with supplemental links and aims to 
propose not only demonstration of the 
prototype feasibility but also further 
investigation on performance analysis. Ring 
topology, constituted by ring nodes connected 
with shared links, is restricted to the number of 
unidirectional links on a communication path 
between any pair of nodes, while existing 
mechanisms cannot substantially overcome the 
limitation. Hence, we initially explores 
conventional ring topology and existing 
mechanism, and then attempts to eke out the 
deficiencies of existing mechanism by adding 
supplemental links on the ring topology and 
preserve its advantages. From the performance 
analyses of the new ring topology, we further 
derive formulation for quick reference to its 
efficiency. By simulation, it demonstrates that 
all results correspond both to our original goals 
and to our formulation. 
Keywords: Optical Ethernet, Switching 
Architecture, Switch 
 
2、Motivations and Objectives 
In last decades, crossbar-based switch 
architecture has gained a lot of research 
interests, since it can provide full connections 
between input and output ports without internal 
blocking in switching fabrics [1]. Thus, it 
makes plenty of related research focus on how 
to achieve ultra high system performance. In 
the literature, numerous scheduling schemes 
were studied and proposed for crossbar-based 
architecture such as iSLIP, DRR, etc. For 
ring-based switch architecture, since there is 
only one link between any two neighbouring 
to the theoretically highest throughput of nearly 
100 percent [3-6].  
For crossbar-based IQ switches, packets 
kept in the FIFO (first-in-first-out) queue of an 
input port may generate HOL (Head-Of-Line) 
blocking [5-6]. The HOL blocking means that a 
HOL packet, failed in the scheduling process of 
switching mechanisms, blocks its next packet, 
where its destination output port is available, to 
transmit. Crossbar-based IQ switches can 
theoretically achieve the throughput of only 
58.6 percent [5]. In [5], Cao, Ali, et al. 
proposed a method, called virtual output 
queuing (VOQ), where HOL blocking is 
completely eliminated by using one queue for 
each output at every input port. This has been 
shown to be able to achieve a maximum 
throughput of nearly 100 percent under some 
sophisticated scheduling strategies.  
In single ring topology, ring nodes are 
connected by point-to-point links. Data 
transmission in single rings is unidirectional, 
and can be transmitted either clockwise or 
counter-clockwise. Fig. 1 shows the node 
structure of a typical ring node in ring networks 
based on a slotted and buffer insertion medium 
access control mechanism [10-11], which 
provides communication service through the 
connected ring links. In our study, a single ring 
node can emulate both the functions of input 
and output ports in packet switches, where the 
egress b in Fig. 1 is like the role of an output 
port and the combination of the ingress c and 
the buffer TxmBuf like the role of an input port. 
In Fig. 1, a daisy chain structure constituted by 
the upstream link a, the receiver Rx, the buffer 
InsBuf, the transmitter Tx, and the downstream 
link d of the node structure, together with the 
same part of other nodes, makes up the 
switching fabric of the proposed packet switch 
architecture. As a packet is sent into the switch 
from c, it will be transmitted to the next node 
directly based on no packets in TxmBuf and 
InsBuf; otherwise, it will be queued in TxmBuf 
temporarily. If the packet is sent from the 
upstream node via a, it will cut through InsBuf 
and Tx to reach the next node provided that 
there is no packets in InsBuf or no packet from 
TxmBuf is being transmitted; otherwise, it will 
be queued in InsBuf. If both InsBuf and TxmBuf 
hold packets, the packets in InsBuf get higher 
priority to prevent packet loss.  
 
Fig. 1: Node structure of a typical ring node 
 
Fig. 2: Enhanced single ring topology (6 nodes) 
with bidirectional supplemental links (6 links/3 
sets) 
 
Fig. 3: Node structure of a section boundary node 
Single ring networks constituted by the 
ring nodes shown in Fig. 1 suffer from the 
well-known weakness of ring topology, where 
the communication path between a pair of 
source and destination nodes is elongated as 
nodes increase. Even worse, different paths that 
share common consecutive links may possibly 
congest the link segment, increase packet 
propagation delay, and limit the maximum 
throughput of the ring-based packet switches. 
As a matter of fact, the above drawbacks are 
caused by the serious internal blocking of 
single ring topology. To cope with the above 
issues, Fig. 2 shows an example of our 
proposed ring topology with directional 
supplemental links, where there are six nodes 
 3
