一、 中英文摘要 
 
中文摘要 
近年來由於半導體製程日趨精密、生產步驟越來越多，進而延長了在製品在加工等候
區中的等候時間。為避免在製品等候加工的時間過長而成為不良品，工程師會在某些加工
機台前之等候線設立等候時間限制，藉以確保最終產出的良率。然而，等候時間限制的設
立也必定會影響生產線的流暢與產出。 
在前一年度的研究計畫中致力於等候時間限制下產能決策模式之研究。因此，本年度
之研究將著眼於現場的管控模式方面。雖然在產能決策模式中已加入保護性產能的觀念並
將當機模式考量於等候模型中，然而，現場的作業不時地受到不確定之動態因子所干擾。
因此，如何在這些不確定因素發生時給予適當的管控處理是不可或缺的。  
關於等候時間限制問題下之現場管控方法，吾人認為，其解決方法必須包含下列二個
方向，等候時間區段內的在製品水準與機台的投料控制。，本研究提出以存貨理論中的最
大存貨水準與最小安全存量的概念，輔以動態批量決策的手法，針對以上各種不同之等候
時間限制問題環境提出有效之投料與派工法則，以提供管理者進行現場管控時之依據。 
關鍵詞：等候時間限制；晶圓製造；現場管控；安全存量法則 
 
Abstract 
Recently, wafer fabrication has become more complicated and lengthening the product queue 
time. To ensure final product yield, engineers need to set up queue time limits for particular 
machines. There is no doubt that time constraint will influence the manufacturing efficiency 
which is a new challenge to wafer fabrication. In such a situation, the overall solution is 
necessary to overcome these difficulties. 
In the previous research, our study focuses on capacity planning under time constraint. The 
follow-up of our research will concentrate on shop floor control under time constraint. Although 
the concept of protective capacity has been applied and the queuing model is modified by adding 
the average machine failure behavior, the uncertainties always attack the processes of shop floor. 
Therefore, how to manage and control the shop floor under time constraints is indeed very 
important. 
The concept of (S,s) policy will be introduced in our shop floor control rules. Furthermore, there 
will be three situations of time constraints took into it, a segment of processes, sequential time 
constraints and batch process. By our rules, the WIP will be protected from over queue time by 
the upper bond of inventory, and the machine will avoid starvation by lower bond of it. 
By the result of our research, the fabs are getting effective and reasonable approaches to solve the 
problem of time constraints. 
Keywords: Time Constraints; wafer fabrication; shop-floor control; [S,s] policy 
 
 
題。本研究將以存貨理論中最大存貨水準與最小安全存量的觀點(S,s)，發展一套有效的派
工與投料法則，期望透過最高存水準來避免 WIP 過長的等候時間，並以最小安全存量來避
免機台挨餓。除在製品存貨水準制訂之外，本研究更進一步針對派工法則進行研究。吾人
認為，晶圓廠為一多產品且生產型態複雜之系統，因此，一套動態派工與生產批量決策手
法是必須的。本研究將透過上、下游系統最大處理能力與 WIP 超過時間限制之緊急程度之
間的交互關係，來決定機台加之工產品種類與生產批量，以因應生產系統中的各種情況。 
 
2. 文獻探討 
在本章節中，文人將針對上述三類等候時間限制問題之相關文獻進行討論。 
(1)單一時間限制機台：Lee 和 Jung【4】針對等候時間限制的系統提出了利用現場管理
的方法使系統達到最佳化，他們利用分散式現場管理排程的技術，減少了工件重新加工的
機率。Wolfgang 與 Joerg【5】則是提出 JIT 的看板(Kanban)派工方法來改善時間限制的影響。
此研究是針對晶圓製造廠中，濕蝕刻與爐管兩加工站間的時間限問題，提出一套有效的派
工方法來達到減少週期時間與增加機台利用率兩個目標。其中，Wolfgang 與 Joerg 將機台
當機與到達率不同兩要素考慮在內，並加入 JIT 即時生產的觀念，以減少存貨水準的增加。 
(2)一生產線段之間具有時間限制且生產線內之機台皆為單批作業機台，在該段起始加
工之後便一直存在時間限制，必須跨越多個工作站加工之後時間限制才會消除，而通常此
線段末端為瓶頸機台：由於管理者無法透過現有方法得知此生產線段內所能容納之存貨上
限，普遍存在在製品超過時間限制的疑慮，導致投料的不足，因而容易產生末端之瓶頸機
台閒置，造成產能的浪費。另一方面，工廠中總是存在著各種不確定因素，例如：機台當
機、統計波動以及報廢隨機等等。在製品存在的主要目的便是為了預防上述各種因素發生，
而其中又以機台當機最為重要【7】，加上晶圓廠背負著高昂機器設備折舊與成本回收的強
大壓力，各廠無不努力增加其機台利用率，盡可能地讓機器不要閒置造成浪費，因此生產
線上總是存在著大量在製品。但在時間限制之生產線段下，卻是不容許現場無限制的堆積
在製品，因為此舉將使機台超出負荷，容易導致大量等候中的在製品報廢。而且 Goldratt
清楚指出在工廠中，瓶頸資源產出才是決定整廠產出的重要關鍵【8】，本不該讓在製品任
意堆置於線上。其主要做法是設置緩衝(Buffer)，以防止瓶頸挨餓，但對於 Buffer 大小之決
定，卻是以長時間觀察日後空洞之填補情形作逐步修正【9】。對於如何明確、快速地決定
Buffer 值則並未深入作探討，更未曾考慮於類似時間限制條件下之特殊狀況。 
 (3)含批量機台之連續型時間限制機台，其中批量機台及後續之單批機台皆為時間限制
機台：批量工作站之產品除了需要等候批量工作站加工完畢外，還必須為了集批而增加額
外的等候時間。在過去針對批量機台現場管控模式之探討，若以對未來產品到達的資訊的
預測能力區分，主要可以分為兩大類：一、.資訊未知，二、資訊已知。而這些現場管控模
式主要目的是研究如何增加晶圓產出與降低產品週期時間或使等候線長度最短。在產品到
達的資訊未知方面，最早提出的學者 Neuts【10】發展出最小批量法則(Minimum Batch Size, 
MBS)，主要是利用現場管控模式來計算出爐管區的批量大小，但此研究是針對單一產品單
一機台所提出的派工法則。Bala 與 Gunvant【11】認為批量加工，會面臨著成批工件下載
和生產系統規畫的問題。學者對此分別提出了啟發式方法和模擬法來加以探討，其中啟發
式方法能幫助批量機台決定各批次的優先權，並提高機台的利用率。Rulkens et al.【12】則
是以動態模擬的方式，找出特定的生產情況下最佳的批量大小，從縮短批量機台的加工週
期（Cycle Time），進而縮短整個生產系統的加工週期。而後隨著晶圓廠技術的進步，批量
機台的現場管控模式已經不能滿足於單一產品單一機台的環境下，逐漸地走向多樣產品單
圖 1. 生產線段之時間限制 
3.1.1 存貨下限之計算 
設置存貨下限(s)之目的在於避免瓶頸機台閒置，首先必須推估上游機台之當機損失時
間，進而轉換為損失產能，最後將損失產能賺換成瓶頸機台所需之緩衝時間。其計算邏輯
如下： 
∑+−
−
= =
∑
= n
iPT
EC
XEC
s
iBT
BT
BT
n
i
ii
1
)( 1 μμ  
(1)
i
m
j
m
J
BTBTijiji TRAAX
i BT
jj
××−×= ∑ ∑
= =
)(
1 1
μμ  (2)
∑
=
×= i
m
j
ijiji CLEC
1
μ  (3)
ijijij TRACL ×−= )1(  (4)
3.1.2 存貨上限之計算 
存貨上限(S)的設置目的為避免在製品超過時間限制，具有時間限制的生產線段內，其
合理的 WIP（轉換為 time buffer）上限應保持在時間限制以下。然而，在機台當機所造成
產能損耗的影響之下，此上限值應透過上游各站之產能損耗因子進行修正。其計算邏輯如
下： 
'
1
1
)( ECPTTCS
n
i
ij −−= ∑−
=
 (5)
BT
rr
BT
n
i
ii XEC
XEC
EC μμ
−−
−
=
∑
=1'  
(6)
 
3.2 含批量機台之連續型時間限制問題 
在含批量加工站之連續型時間限制問題方面，本研究主要針對晶圓製造廠中爐管加工
區進行討論，此加工區包含爐管機台（批量加工）以及其上、下游工作站，而其中爐管機
台與其下游工作站前之等候線皆設有時間限制。加工環境如下圖所示： 
 
 
圖 2. 含批量加工機台之連續行等候時間問題 
 
在此本研究針對此一環境所提出之控管法則方面，包含爐管機台加工批量決策、上游
機台停工與復工、以及產品選擇。其管控邏輯與步驟分述如下： 
I.決策時點：當產品進入或離開爐管加工站或下游加工站時，必須進行管控決策 
II.上游機台之停工與復工： 
i. 當爐管加工站前之 WIP 量(B2)大於最大安全存量(S2)，或是爐管加工站之最小
加工批量數(MB)大於下游機台等候線之最大可容忍值(Tol)時，上游機台即應
Buffer1 
Proceeding 
operation 
(workstation 1) 
Buffer2
Furnace 
workstation 
(workstation 2)
Buffer3
Succeeding 
operation 
(workstation 3)
TC2 TC3 
 
三、 參考文獻 
 
1. Cunningham, J. A. (1990), “The Use and Evaluation of Yield Models in Integrated Circuit 
Manufacturing,” IEEE Transactions On Semiconductor Manufacturing, 3(2), 60-71. 
2. Robinson, J. K. and Giglio, R. (1999), “Capacity planning for semiconductor wafer 
fabrication with time constraints between operations,” 1990 Winter Simulation Conference, 
Phoenix, AZ, USA. 
3. Kim, J. H., Lee T. E., Lee H. Y. and Park D. B. (2003), “Scheduling Analysis of 
Time-Constrained Dual-Armed Cluster Tools,” IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor 
Manufacturing, 16(3), 521-534. 
4. Lee, S.H. and Jung, M.Y. (2003), “Timing constraints’ optimization of reserved tasks in the 
distributed shop-floor scheduling,” International Journal of Production Research, 41(2), 
397-410. 
5. Wolfgang, S. and Joerg, D. (1999), “Implementation of modeling and simulation in 
semiconductor wafer fabrication with time constraints between wet etch and furnace 
operations,” 1999 International Symposium on Semiconductor Manufacturing Conference, 
Santa Clara, CA, USA. 
6. Russ, M. D. and John, W. F. (2003), “A New Scheduling Approach Using Combined 
Dispatching Criteria in Wafer Fabs,” IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 
16(3), 501-510. 
7. Hopp, W. J. and Spearman, M. L. (1995), Factory Physic – Foundations of Foundations of 
Manufacturing Management, Chicago, IL:IRWIN. 
8. Goldratt, E. M. and Cox, J. (1992), The Goal, 2nd Edition, North River Press. 
9. 吳鴻輝、李榮貴(2001)，「限制驅導式現場排程與管理技術」，全華書局。 
10. Neuts, J. D. C. (1967), “A General Class of Bulk Queues with Poisson Input,” Annals of 
Mathematical Statistics, 38(3), 759-770. 
11. Bala R., and P. Gunvant (1998), “Modelling Furnace Operations Using Simulation and 
Heuristics,” 1998 Winter Simulation Conference, Washington DC, USA. 
12. Rulkens, H. J. A., E. J. J. van Campen , J. van Herk, and J. E. Rooda (1998), “Batch Size 
Optimization Of A Furnace and Pre-clean Area By Using Dynamic Simulations,” IEEE/SEMI 
Advanced Semiconductor Manufacturing Conference, Boston, MA, USA. 
13. Weng, W. W. and R. C. Leachman (1993), “An Improvement Methodology for Real-time 
Production Decision at Batch-process Workstations,” IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor 
Manufacturing, 16(3), 219-225. 
14. Glassey, C. R. and W. W. Weng (1991), “Dynamic Batching Heuristic for Simultaneous Pro- 
cessing,” IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor Manufacturing, 4(2), 77-82. 
15. Fowler, J. W., D. T. Phillips, and G. L. Hogg (1992), “Real-time Control of Multi-product 
Bulk-Service Semiconductor Manufacturing Process,” IEEE Transactions on Semiconductor 
Manufacturing, 5(2), pp.158-163. 
 
四、 計畫成果 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          97 年 8 月 14 日 
報告人姓名  杜瑩美 
服務機構
及職稱 中華大學 
工業工程與系統管理學系 
副教授 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
自 2008  年 7 月 31 日至  
2008 年  8 月 2 日 
美國波特蘭 
本會核定
補助文號
 
NSC 96-2221-E-216-038 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 2008 全球企業與國際管理學術研討會 
 (英文) 2008 Global Business & International Management Conference 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文)  
 (英文) Capacity Planning for Batch-serial Processes with Time Constraints in 
Wafer Fabrication 
2008 Global Business & International Management Conference  101
 
Capacity Planning for Batch-Serial Processes with Time Constraints 
in Wafer Fabrication 
 
Ying-Mei Tu, Department of Industrial Engineering and System Management 
Chung Hua University, Taiwan 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Over the past decade, wafer fabrication has become more complicated. To ensure final product yield, engineers 
need to set up queue time limits, named “time constraint”, for particular machines during wafer processing. Time 
constraint problems are more serious when the lots released from a batch workstation which often causes the peak 
workload on the downstream serial workstation. Under the time constraints environment, the peak workload will be a 
critical problem and hurt the performance of downstream workstation seriously. 
This work applied GI/G/m queuing network to develop a capacity planning model for batch-serial processes. By 
this queuing network model, the expected waiting time between batch-serial processes can be estimated. Managers can 
also determine the capacity through the setting of expected rate of exceeding time constraints. Furthermore, how the 
arrival smoothing of the upstream batch workstation will impact on the downstream serial workstation is also analyzed. 
The result showed that it can effectively decrease the waiting time on the downstream serial workstation through 
increasing the upstream batch machine numbers and decreasing the batch size. It also implied that increasing the 
number of downstream serial machines is not the only way under the batch-serial process with time constraint 
environment. Therefore, the investment function of batch-serial process equipment with time constraints can be 
established and support managers for investment decision. 
Keywords: Capacity Planning, Time constraints, Batch-serial processes, Queuing theory, Arrival smoothing 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Recently, wafer fabrication has become more complicated and tough to maintain high yield rate. To prevent 
copper film oxidation or fluorine precipitation of undesirable interface on wafer surface, the technology development 
engineers set up a period of time between processes to identify the lots that cannot exceed over the time limit which is 
called time constraint.  
As we know that there are many types of products and process flows in a wafer foundry. In order to keep high 
competitiveness, the factories have to achieve short cycle times, to keep low levels of inventory, to get high throughput 
under the lowest investment, and to maintain the flexibility of the production line. Therefore, the capacity planning is 
difficult under such variant environments. From this point of view, different product flows, low volume products, 
batching, hot lots, time constraints, and so on will generate a lot of problems for shop floor control especially in the 
areas with batching and un-batching processes. Generally, it will take long time to complete a full batch for batch tools 
and when the lots released from a batch workstation which often causes the peak workload on the downstream serial 
workstation. Regarding to batching process, Tu and Liou (2006) proposed a capacity planning to determine the number 
of batch tools under time constraints. However, it only took batching process into account. Generally, the waiting time 
of the downstream serial workstation will increase as the batch number increasing. It means that the batch number and 
number of batch tools will influence the performance of downstream serial workstation especially under time 
constraints. If the peak workload is heavy, the un-batching process will be difficult within time constraints. On the 
contrary, if managers intend to keep the queue time of lots within time constraints, then the batch size of batching 
process should be minimized or the number of downstream workstations should be increased. Minimized batch number 
will result in throughput reduction and impact on delivery. Increasing workstations number will raise the production 
cost. They both hurt the profit of company. Therefore, in order to achieve the production goal and keep the productivity, 
a good capacity planning which including batch-serial tools is imperative.    
Sivakumar and Chong (2001) pointed out that cycle time will be reduced by arrival and service rate smoothing. 
Therefore, Tu and Chen (2006) applied this concept in the furnace area to analyze how the arrival smoothing will 
impact on the batch-serial process, such as waiting time and throughput. The results showed that it can decrease the 
2008 Global Business & International Management Conference  103
 
mi
Queue
W(Q) W(U)
Batch workstation i Serial workstation j
EW(Q)
fictitious batch machine
2',
ii s
Cτ
2,
jb a
Cλ
2',
jj s
Cτ
mj
METHODOLOGY 
 
To take the factor of time constraints into capacity planning, this paper applies the concept of queuing theory. The 
expected waiting time obtained from queuing systems can work out the problem of time constraints. To choose the most 
suitable queuing model for this study is very important. Therefore, the model denoted by GI/G/m, represents multiple 
products, multiple servers, the arrival rate, and service rate obtained by any given distribution.  
Moreover, the un-batching of batch needs to be taken into consideration in the queuing systems. Therefore, there 
are two parts in our queuing systems. The first part is whole batches waiting for un-batching; the second part is a partial 
batch wait for processing. In addition, we view that the second part and the un-batch workstation as a fictitious batch 
machine. Note that there is one fictitious batch machine, so we can derive the total expected waiting time in GI/G/1 
queuing system. The parameters and performance measures of GI/G/1 queue are modeled in Figure 3.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Parameters and performance measures of GI/G/1 queue 
 
From Figure 3, W(Q) is the expected waiting time of any product by batch type to wait for un-batching. W(U) is 
the expected waiting time of any product to wait for processing. Summation of W(Q) and W(U) can derive the total 
expected waiting time in GI/G/1 queuing system denoted by EW(Q). Finally, the critical concept to consider time 
constraint problems is to apply the probability formulas to estimate the probability of expected waiting time, which is 
over time constraints. 
 
Data input 
The following data were required for the capacity planning model. 
f  different end products, 
pj
λ  total arrival rate (lot/time-unit) at workstation j, 
pkj
λ  mean arrival rate (lot/time-unit) of product k at workstation j, 
bj
λ  total arrival rate (batch/time-unit) at workstation j, 
b  batch size, 
kjp  the ratio of product k at workstation j, 
kjτ  mean service time of product k at workstation j, 
2
kjs
C  the SCV of service time of product k at workstation j, 
jρ  traffic intensity at workstation j, 
jm  machine numbers at workstation j, 
bλ  total arrival rate (batch/time-unit) of fictitious batch machine, 
2
ja
C  the SCV of batch arrival rate of fictitious batch machine, 
n total number of the upstream workstation of workstation j, 
2008 Global Business & International Management Conference  105
 
First, the service time for individual products of fictitious batch machine has to be aggregated into the mean 
service time (τb). The following is the equation for aggregation: 
j
b
j
b
m
ττ ×=  (9)
Second, we put the duration of τb to use, the adjusted mean service time (τj’) and SCV of service time (Csj2’) of the 
workstation j under machine failure are presented as follows: 
1
1
'
j
j
m
b jl
j
l jl jl
j m
b
l jl jl
MTTR
b
MTTR MTBF
b
MTBF MTTR
ττ
τ τ
=
=
×× + +=
+ +
∑
∑
 (10
)
2
2 2 2
12
2
1
( 1) ( 1)
' 1
( )( ')
j
j jl
j j
m
b jl
j s sd
l jl jl
s m
b
j
l jl jl
MTTR
b C C
MTTR MTBF
C
b
MTBF MTTR
ττ
τ τ
=
=
×+ + ++= −
+ +
∑
∑
 (11
)
Third, we adjust mean service time of fictitious batch machine under machine failure (τb’). The formula is 
represented as follow: 
'
' jb
j
b
m
ττ ×=  (12)
Finally, we find that the SCV of service time of the fictitious batch machine is equal to the SCV of service time of 
the workstation j (Csb2) from the following formulas. 
'
( ') ( ) ( ')jb j
j j
b bE E E
m m
ττ τ×= =  (13)
2'( ') ( ) ( ) ( ')jb j
j j
b bVar Var Var
m m
ττ τ×= =  (14)
2
2 2
2
2
( ) ( ')
( ') '
( ') ( ( '))
b j
j
jb
s s
b
j
j
b Var
mVarC CbE E
m
ττ
τ τ
= = =  (15)
Step 4*: System Performance Estimation 
The expected waiting time was referred to the revision queuing model which was modified from EW(M/M/m) 
approximation formula to GI/G/1 model by Whitt (1993)： 
2 2
( ) ( ) ( / /1 )
2
j ba s
C C
W Q EW M M
+= ×  (16)
( / /1) '
1
b
b
b
EW M M ρτ ρ= −  (17)
For un-batching behavior, the first lot of a batch arrives to the fictitious batch machine has not waited for 
processing. The last lot has to wait τb’. Thus, the average waiting time of any product to un-batch is: 
0 ' '( )
2 2
b bW U τ τ+= =  (18)
Therefore, the total expected waiting time of the GI/G/m queue is: 
( ) ( ) ( )EW Q W Q W U= +  (19)
From the obtained parameters, the probability of expected waiting time over time constraints can be calculated. 
The approximation method was referred to Whitt (1993). It can be obtained as follows: 
Because W(U) is a constant, so we assume TC'= ( )TC W U−  (20)
2008 Global Business & International Management Conference  107
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5. The peak workload of different batch size. 
 
The influence of arrival smoothing on system performance 
According to Tu and Chen (2006), the peak workload and the waiting time on the un-batch workstation will 
decrease through arrival smoothing. Nevertheless, the authors proposed different solution in this research, increasing the 
upstream batch machine to smooth the workload of downstream machine. The results showed that increasing the 
number of upstream batch machines not only decreasing the peak workload but also making the system performances 
better. It also implied that increasing the number of downstream serial machines is not the only way under the 
time-constraint environment. Based on this concept, if the investment function of batch-serial process equipment with 
time constraints can be established, it will be helpful for investment decision, particularly in diffusion area. 
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
This research applied GI/G/m queuing theory to develop a capacity planning model for batch-serial process with 
time constraints. Then it can be combined with the capacity determination model developed by Tu and Liou (2006) to 
develop the complete capacity determination model in the furnace area of semiconductor fabrication. 
This research also applied the concept of arrival smoothing in the batch-serial process with time constraints in the 
furnace area of semiconductor fabrication. The results showed that the smoother arrival rate, the better system 
performances. It also implied that increasing the number of downstream serial machines is not the only way under the 
time-constraint environment. Generally, the downstream serial machine is more expensive than the upstream batch 
workstation in the furnace area. If the investment function of batch-serial process equipment with time constraints can 
be established, it will be helpful for investment decision, particularly in diffusion area. 
Acknowledgement.  The authors would like to thank the National Science Council of the Republic of China for 
financially supporting this research under Contract No. NSC 95-2221-E-216-014 
 
REFERENCES 
 
Chung, S.H., and Huang, H.W. (1999). The block-based cycle time estimation algorithm for wafer fabrication factories. International Journal of 
Industrial Engineering, 6(4), 307-316. 
Fowler, J.W., Phojanamongkolkij, N., Cochran, J.K. and Montgomery, D.C. (2002). Optimal batching in a wafer fabrication facility using a 
multi-product G/G/c model with batch processing. International Journal of Production Research, 40(2), 275-292. 
Lin, C. W. (2004). Capacity determination model for sequential time constraints in wafers fab. Master Thesis, CHU, Hsin-Chu, Taiwan. 
Louw, L., and Page, D. C. (2004). Queuing network analysis approach for estimating the sizes of the time buffers in Theory of Constraints-controlled 
production systems. INT. J. PROD. RES., 42(6), 1207-1226. 
Park, Y., Kim, S. and Jun, C.H. (2002). Mean value analysis of re-entrant line with batch machines and multi-class jobs. Computers & Operations 
Research, 29(8), 1009-1024. 
Robinson, J. K., and Giglio, R. (1999). Capacity Planning for Semiconductor Wafer Fabrication with Time Constrains between Operations. 
Proceedings of the 1999 Winter Simulation Conference, 1(7), 880-887. 
Sivakumar, A.I. and Chong, C.S. (2001). Simulation-based analysis of cycle time distribution, and throughput in semiconductor backend 
manufacturing. Journal of Computers in Industry, 45(1), 59–78. 
Tu, Y.M., and Chen, C.L. (2006). The influence of arrival smoothing between batch and serial processes on system performance. The 7th Asia Pacific 
Industrial Engineering and Management Systems Conference 2006, Bangkok, Thailand, 1919-1924. 
Tu, Y.M., and Chen, H.N. (2006). Waiting time approximation with resource failure. International Conference of Pacific RIM Management, Hawaii, 
USA. 
Batch size=6 
1hr 
Batch size=2 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                          97 年 10  月 22 日 
報告人姓名  陳欣男 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
中華大學 
科技管理研究所 
博士班研究生 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2008/5/9 至 2008/5/12 
La Jolla, San Diego, CA, 
USA 
本會核定
補助文號
 
NSC 96-2221-E-216-038 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第 19 屆生產與作業管理學會年度會議 
 (英文) 19th Annual Conference of the Production and Operations 
Management Society 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 等候時間限制問題下之批量機台現場管控模式 
 (英文) Shop-Floor Control Model of Batch Machine under Time Constraints 
 
Abstract Number: 008-0213 
Shop-Floor Control Model in Batch Processes of Wafer Fabrication 
with Time Constraints 
 
YING-MEI TU*1 and HSIN-NAN CHEN2 
 
1: Department of Industrial Engineering & System Management, Chung Hua University, Taiwan 
No.707, Sec.2, WuFu Rd., HsinChu, Taiwan 300, R.O.C 
 
2: Graduate Institute of Management of Technology, Chung Hua University, Taiwan 
No.707, Sec.2, WuFu Rd., HsinChu, Taiwan 300, R.O.C 
 
Email: YING-MEI TU, amytu@chu.edu.tw 
*: Corresponding Author 
 
POMS 19th Annual Conference 
La Jolla, California, U.S.A. 
May 9 to May 12, 2008 
 
 
Abstract. Time constraint is a queue time boundary set between particular operations 
to ensure final product yield. Due to the dilemma of increasing machine efficiency or 
decreasing the queue time of WIP, the issues of time constraint become more complex 
if they exceeded TC, which will increase cycle time and decrease productivity. To 
control workstations with TCs effectively is an essential task for semiconductor 
industry. However, as the result of high production volume, expensive equipment, and 
time consuming processes, machines in wafer fabrication are usually required to 
operate at a high utilization level. Extremely high utilization of workstations will 
cause the difficulty in resolving issues of TC. 
The most familiar TC issue is set between wet etch and furnace operations, which 
wafers will be reworked at wet etch operation while they exceeded TC. In this stage, 
batch processing and long processing time will cause the dilemma of the management. 
Machine efficiency and require time for forming batches become a trade-off issue 
while determining batch size. Low machine efficiency or long batching forming time 
will both increase the waiting time and also increase the rate of exceeding TC (Rulken 
et al. 1998). To determine the batch size more effectively will be crucial for 
conquering the issues of TC in this stage. 
There were many studies related to batch size determination in wafer fabrications 
(Fowler et al. 1992, Glassry and Weng 1991, Weng and Leachmen 1993). These 
studies have attempted to optimize the performance of batch-processing workstation, 
for instance, maximize throughput and minimize cycle time. However, the succeeding 
operation of furnace workstation is still with TC. To optimize the output of furnace 
batch size is greater than the threshold, on the other hand, they will keep waiting. 
Weng and Leachmen (1993) introduced multi-product into MBS and proposed MBSX 
rule. In this policy, the customer with longest waiting time will have the highest 
priority in the queue. 
The look-ahead strategy was first addressed by Glassey and Weng (1991). They 
proposed the Dynamic Batch Heuristic (DBH) model with time horizon and take 
future arrival information into consideration to determine batch size dynamically. In 
this study, they proved that DBH can perform better performance than MBS. Fowler 
et al. (1992) introduced the concept of rolling horizon into DBH and proposed Next 
Arrival Control Heuristic (NACH) policy. NACH emphasize that the start of 
operation should be decided at every customers arriving and leaving. Van Der Zee et 
al. (1997) introduced multi-product and multi-server into NACH and proposed 
Dynamic Job Assignment Heuristic (DJAH). This study indicated that the cost 
considered should be unit time per item of batch. MBSX and DJAH are both 
methodologies common used in batch size determination in wafer fabrications. 
However, these methods are without considering TC issues. 
There were some studies related to shop floor control policies with TC. Lee and Jung 
(2003) proposed distributed shop floor scheduling to decrease the rate of wafers 
exceeding TC. They found the optimal schedule to meet all the timing and other 
TRij Mean time to be repaired of machine j at workstation i 
Ci Maximum batch size of workstation i 
TCi Time length of TC in buffer i 
PT Processing time of current batch at furnace workstation 
qix The number of WIP in the queue of product x at workstation i 
Wx1 The weight of product x which has not exceeded TC 
Wx2 The weight of product x which has exceeded TC 
 
3.2 Safety WIP level [Si,si] of workstations  
Setting of maximum WIP (Si) in front of workstation with TC is to prevent wafers 
exceeding TC. Therefore, Si should be maximum number of customers that 
workstation i can service within TC interval. The upstream operation should suspend 
processing if WIP level of workstation i is greater than Si. Moreover, to prevent 
machine idle, the WIP level should keep at a sufficient quantity to handle machine 
breakdown at upstream operation. The equations are given below: 
i
m
j
ijiii
i
TRmTCS μ×−×= ∑
=
)(
1
 (1)
ii CSs −= 2  (2)
 
3.3 Minimum batch size of furnace workstation 
∑∑
∈=∈=
=−×+−×=
21
1 2,1 2
2
,1 2
1 ,...,1),
1()1(
SS N
Skk xk
x
N
sil xl
xx pxTCT
W
TTC
WI  
Where, 
Txl is the waiting of the lth lot remaining under TC 
Txk is the waiting of the kth lot over TC 
Ns1 is the numbers of lot of product x under TC in the queue 
Ns1 is the numbers of lot of product x over TC in the queue 
(5)
 
3.6 Shop-floor control rule  
I. Decision points. The decisions should be made at the time of lots arrival or 
departure from furnace workstation or succeeding operation. 
II. Decisions of suspending and reinstating proceeding operation 
i. The proceeding operation should be suspended when B2 is greater than S2 or 
MB is greater than Tol. 
ii. When B2 is smaller than S2, the proceeding operation should be reinstated. 
III. Control rules for furnace workstation 
i. Selection of product. The product with largest emergency index should be 
selected into workstation. 
ii. Determination of batch size. The batch size (Q) should be determined by 
following rule: 
Succeeding 
operation 
 
7 
 
4 
 
2 
 
95% 
 
1 
Table 1. Detailed data of workstations 
 
The simulation program used in this research was eM-Plant version 7.0. The running 
horizon for each simulation was set at 360 days, 24 hours a day. The first 30 days 
comprised a warm-up period; therefore, the results are for the remaining 330 days. 
Each treatment was run 30 times to obtain average results. 
 
4.1 Results comparison 
In this section, the defective output (output wafers with ever exceeding TC) and 
average time length of exceeding TC of DBCTC, MBSX and DJAH were compared. 
Figure 2, 3 and 4 present the results of comparison. 
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
MBSX DJAH DBCTC
lot
s
 
Figure 2. Quantity of wafers exceeded TC set in 
front of furnace workstation (lots) 
 
exceeding TC effectively. 
 
5. Conclusions 
In this work, a dynamic shop-floor control policy for batch process with TC was 
proposed. With considering furnace workstation and succeeding operation 
simultaneously, the rate of wafers exceeding TC could be controlled effectively. 
Moreover, by adopting concept of [S,s] policy, managers can suspend operation or 
decreasing batch size dynamically to controlled the WIP level. The simulation 
experiments support that DBCTC could perform better performance than MBSX and 
DJAH in TC issues. 
The setup time is another critical factor for batch size determination. The required 
time for machine setting up will affect the result significantly. For instance, long setup 
time will result in larger batch size to reduce setup times. Future studies should 
address setup time into the model. 
 
Acknowledgement 
The authors would like to thank the National Science Council of the Republic of 
China for financially supporting this research under Contract No. NSC 
96-2221-E-216-038. 
