國科會專題研究計畫成果報告 NSC 94-2212-E027-024            多維模組特徵空間萃取方法應用於高維遙測影像資料融合  
                                                                
 1
多維模組特徵空間萃取方法應用於高維遙測影像資料融合 
 A multi-dimensional modular eigenspace feature extraction technique 
for the data fusions of high-dimensional remote sensing images 
 
張陽郎 Yang-Lang Chang 
國立台北科技大學電機工程系 
Department of Electrical Engineering,  
National Taipei University of Technology 
 
Email: ylchang@ntut.edu.tw 
 
中文摘要 
 
本計畫旨在探討高維(high-dimension)遙測影像(含多類「高光譜」hyperspectral 光學與「合成孔徑雷達」
synthetic aperture radar - SAR 遙測影像)資料融合特徵萃取之問題。「高維遙測影像資料融合」技術業已
成為各先進國家研究遙測影像一個新興且重要的領域，其重點是以資料融合的方式，將不同性質遙測
影像數據，將它們融合在一塊，進而增加遙測影像的分類辨識率，本計畫藉由我們先前所發展出來非
常適合應用於「高維資料融合」特徵萃取的「貪婪模組特徵空間(greedy modular eigenspaces)/特徵維度
ㄧ致化轉換(feature scale uniformity transformation)」演算法，透過改良的「多維模組特徵空間(multi- 
dimensional modular eigenspace)」技巧，定義一個新的「主軸分析 (principal components analysis - PCA)」
法中「完整多維特徵空間(complete modular eigenspace)」的「相關矩陣」(correlation matrix)，用以改善
原「貪婪模組特徵空間」所存在的「近似最佳化」特性，使成為一個「多維」的「最佳化模組特徵空
間」，並適用於任何型態的高維度資料中。適逢國科會主導之福爾摩沙衛星二號正式升空運轉之際，希
望透過本計畫建立台灣航太遙測影像研究之基礎能量，尤其近年來台灣飽受氣候異常、環境變遷及都
市人口膨脹等不同的問題，如何能有效控制天然災害及管理土地資源，並藉以提升國家決策資訊之精
準度，並應用於農漁業生產、環境保護、防災救災及國土開發，乃至於國防情報之上，並期以提升我
國航太科技、衛星技術及參與國際航太組織，執行國際航太研究計畫的能力，厚植我國學術研究和產
業技術之實力，進而提升國家競爭力。 
 
關鍵字: 高光譜遙測影像、合成孔徑雷達影像、資料融合、多維模組特徵空間、特徵維度一致化轉換。 
 
 
Abstract 
 
A novel study is reported for the high-dimensional data fusion of earth remote sensing. The proposed method 
is based on fusion of remote sensing images of the same scene collected from multiple sources. It will present 
a framework for fusion of multisource remote sensing images, which consists of two algorithms, referred to as 
the complete modular eigenspace (CME) and the feature scale uniformity transformation (FSUT). Based on 
our previous proposed greedy modular eigenspace (GME) method which was designed to extract features 
simple and efficient feature modules, the proposed CME method is intended to improve the performance of 
GME feature extraction optimally by modifying the correlation matrix operations before the principal 
component analysis is performed. The CME method is designed to extract features by a new defined 
multi-dimensional correlation matrix to optimize the modular eigenspace, while the FSUT is performed to 
fuse most correlated features from different data sources. The performance of the proposed method was 
evaluated by fusing MODIS/ASTER (MASTER) and the synthetic aperture radar (SAR) images. The 
experimental results demonstrated the proposed CME approach is an effective method for the feature 
extraction of high-dimensional fused data. It can improve the precision of classification significantly 
compared to conventional single source classification. Especially, a daily based, high-resolution, and 
spacecraft satellite imaging instrument of FORMOSAT-2 was launched by National Science Council in 2004. 
It’s time to develop the remote sensing techniques for improving the national power of Taiwan.  
 
Keywords: hyperspectral, SAR, data fusion, multi-dimensional modular eigenspace, feature scale uniformity 
transformation.  
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告 NSC 94-2212-E027-024            多維模組特徵空間萃取方法應用於高維遙測影像資料融合  
                                                                
 3
DFC)，專職遙測資料融合之方法、工具、理論與
理念之推廣；此外亦有學者們提出另一廣義的「資
料融合」，1999 年 Wald [10]重新定義了「資料融
合」不只是工具及資訊的融合，其更是結合各式
不同方法的一種架構，允許各類資訊以一種更常
規化的描述及更協調性的共同運作方式，對這些
待處理資料的本質與特性有更深一層的了解，並
對新的融合資訊做進一步的開發利用。 
 
「統計學」、「型態學」的研究趨勢，自從高
光譜技術發展至今，高維資料的目標偵測及影像
的辨識方法，相繼有各國的學者專家提出不同的
理論，依據 Chang 2003 年[11,12]研究歸納出，大
多數仍是以「統計學」(statistical approaches)的方
法為主，雖然「類神經網路」 (artificial neural 
networks)有著不需事先預知統計資訊分佈的優點
[13-15]，然對絕多數「統計學」的方式，只要是
有事先充分的資料分佈統計值，即可獲得較高的
「資料融合」影像分類辨識率，這對決策資料的
判斷是有絕對助益的，高光譜技術目前仍是以「統
計學」的方法為主。 
 
然更有學者 Benediktsson 1999 年[16]提出ㄧ
個結合「統計學」及「類神經網路」的「資料融
合」方法，嘗試於其間取得一個平衡的最佳辨識
率。目前「高空間及高光譜」解析度遙測影像「資
料融合」的研究趨勢，將以廣泛應用於影像處理
及 圖 形 識 別 上 的 「 型 態 學 」 (Morphological 
approaches)及「統計學」運算為技術發展之主流，
譬如於「高空間及高光譜」解析度的遙測影像上，
可用「統計學」上的直方圖(histogram)分析來觀察
資料分佈情況、中心位置、分散程度及分配型態，
並 配 合 「 型 態 學 」 的 相 對 空 間 (spatial 
relationships)、組織紋理(texture)或外型樣貌(shape)
等之特有特徵，加以強化分類辨識的能力
[17,18](本團隊發表於 2002 及 2004 年)。 
三、 研究方法 
綜觀近年來各國高光譜研究的方向，是以「統
計學」的方法為主，而應用於進階的「高空間及
高光譜」(高維)解析度的遙測影像的分類辨識技
術，又以「型態學」及「統計學」為技術發展之
主流，如何透過「資料融合」的方法，對這一些
高維高解析度的龐大遙測影像資料作分析，進一
步取得最佳的決策訊息，已成關鍵的核心主軸技
術；我們修正傳統「統計學」上廣為採用的「主
軸分析法」發展出「貪婪模組特徵空間/特徵維度
ㄧ致化轉換」(GME/FSUT)技術，搭配最適合「貪
婪模組特徵空間」(GME)特性的多類分類器，已
初步由實驗證實其絕佳的分類辨識率。 
然而在「貪婪模組特徵空間」(GME)轉換過
程中，仍是以利用傳統二維的「相關矩陣」其二
次統計量的關聯特性，依其二維空間上相鄰「相
關矩陣」的大小，將不連續頻譜次序重新排列，
貪婪快速地將兩兩相鄰、高相關聯度的不連續頻
譜連接在一塊，並組成「模組特徵空間」，此方法
是依據 1999年 Jia和Richards [8]的研究中所論及
的:連續光譜的資訊，通常都是連續且相關聯的，
意即相連的連續光譜，其通常有較相似的「相關
矩陣」之假設下所設計出來的。在此假設下，利
用「貪婪模組特徵空間轉換」法(GMET)，可以獲
得「近乎最佳化」的「模組特徵空間」，但若要嚴
格要求此方法適用於任何形式的高維度資料分析
中，將可能面臨到有一些非相鄰性，但有高關聯
度的不連續頻譜可能被摒棄於外的窘境。 
 
如何尋求此問題的解決之道，進一步將「模
組特徵空間最佳化」，確為一極具潛力而亟待克服
的問題，尤其是在面對「高維資料融合」計算中
所產生的高維度巨大資料量，所伴隨而來的高計
算複雜性，及高資源消耗度(如:耗用計算機記憶體
及 I/O 資源)的問題上，必有其降低無用計算量，
而又不失精確辨識率的可觀效益存在其間。本計
畫將「高光譜」與「合成孔徑雷達」遙測影像的
資料，透過改良的「完整多維特徵空間(CME)」
轉換法推導，將其轉換成一個多維的「最佳模組
特徵空間」，據以將此方法應用於任何種類的高維
度資料領域中，找出「最佳化」的「完整多維特
徵空間(CME)」出來，推導出一個適合通用型「高
維資料融合」特徵萃取的演算法，詳細「完整多
維特徵空間(CME)」方法之說明附於以下附件。 
四、 成果與討論 
我們選擇台灣嘉義縣東石鄉鰲鼓做為試驗
區，使用 NASA 環太平洋 II 計劃 (Pacrim II) 中
所獲得的 MASTER 影像資料（Hook et al., 2000）
[19]，有六種地表覆蓋形態做為實地調查之類別，
從 MASTER 的 50 個連續頻譜，選擇適用的 35 個
頻譜來實做 GME 方法。 
 
本計畫提出一個新的高光譜影像 CME/FSUT
特徵萃取方法，重新定義並推導出一個新的「主
軸分析 /多維相關矩陣」(PCA/Multi-dimensional 
correlation matrix)演算法，用以解決 GME 方法無
法保證達到「最佳化模組特徵空間」的缺陷。實
驗結果證實使用 CME 演算法取得的 MASTER 特
徵頻譜，對於後繼的分類有很好的分散度。我們
亦可將此技術應用在高維度資料集中，使用 CME
來選擇最重要的特徵頻譜，進一步得到更有效的
分類辨識率。相較於 GME 特徵，GME/FSUT 演
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告 NSC 94-2212-E027-024            多維模組特徵空間萃取方法應用於高維遙測影像資料融合  
                                                                
 5
sensing. The increment of such high-dimensional data 
volumes greatly enhances the information content, but 
provides a challenge to the current techniques for 
analyzing such high volume datasets. In this paper, a 
novel technique is proposed for hyperspectral feature 
extraction of earth remote sensing. It utilizes the inherent 
separability of different classes in hyperspectral images 
to reduce dimensionality and further to generate a unique 
complete modular eigenspace (CME) feature which is 
developed based on greedy modular eigenspace (GME) 
scheme [1]. The GME has shown effective in 
hyperspectral feature extraction. The GME was 
developed by grouping highly correlated hyperspectral 
bands into a smaller subset of band modular. CME is 
introduced to improve GME feature extraction by 
modifying the correlation matrix operations. It is 
designed to extract features by a new defined 
multi-dimensional correlation matrix to optimize the 
modular eigenspace.  
The CME is a spectral-based technique that explores 
the correlation among bands. Reordering the bands 
regardless of the original order in terms of wavelengths 
in high-dimensional datasets is an important 
characteristic of CME. It performs an iteration search 
algorithm, which reorders the new defined correlation 
coefficients (CC) in the corresponding new multi- 
dimensional correlation matrices row by row, to group 
highly correlated bands as CME feature eigenspaces, that 
can be further used for feature extractions. Each ground 
cover type or material class has a distinct set of 
CME-generated feature eigenspaces. It selects a subset of 
non-correlated hyperspectral bands using the unique 
separability of CME embedded between different classes. 
The proposed CME algorithm provides a fast procedure 
to select the most significant features for hyperspectral 
images compared to GME features.  
After finding a CME set, a feature scale uniformity 
transformation (FSUT) is next performed to unify the 
feature scales of these CME of different classes [2]. The 
FSUT selects each band by a simple logical operation. It 
can fuse different class sources with the same correlated 
features. It takes advantage of the special characteristics 
of CME to construct different classes into the most 
common feature subspaces. CME/FSUT makes use of 
CME scheme which tends to equalize all the bands in a 
subgroup with highly correlated variances. It can avoid 
the bias problems of transforming the information into 
linear band combinations which is a very common issue 
in the traditional principal components analysis (PCA) 
[3]. Our proposed FSUT, with full advantage of CME 
mechanism, can substantially reduce computational 
complexity and further improve classification accuracy 
as well. It also demonstrates the adaptability and 
flexibility of the proposed approach for high dimensional 
datasets.  
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In next 
section, the proposed CME/FSUT method is described in 
detail. In Section III, a set of experiments is conducted to 
demonstrate the feasibility and utility of the proposed 
approach. Finally, in the last section, several conclusions 
are presented.  
1
2
kn
lm
m
m
m
k
1
k
2
k
l
(a) (b)  
Figure 1.  An example illustrating (a) an original 2D-CMPM and (b) 
the reordered one after GME (2D-CME) transformation. 
II. METHODOLOGY 
A. Complete Modular Subspaces  
In our previous works, we proposed a GME set Φk, 
which is composed of a group of modular eigenspaces, 
for the class ωk as shown in Fig. 1. Each modular 
eigenspace Φkl includes a set of highly correlated bands. 
A visual correlation matrix pseudo-color map (CMPM), 
which was proposed by Lee and Landgrebe [4] to 
emphasize the importance of second-order statistics in 
hyperspectral datasets, is used to illustrate the magnitude 
of correlation matrices in our proposed GME scheme [1]. 
We define a correlation submatrix cΦ kl (ml×ml) which 
belongs to the lth modular eigenspace Φkl of a GME set, 
Φk = (Φk1,...Φkl,...Φ knk), for a land cover class ωk, where ml 
and n k  represent, respectively, the number of bands 
(feature spaces) in modular eigenspaces Φkl, and the total 
number of modular eigenspaces of a GME set Φk, i.e. l∈
{1,...,nk}. The GME scheme makes use of CCs, the 
degrees to which two or more quantities are linearly 
associated, as a reference to constructs the GME. At our 
convenience, the conventional CC of two dimensions 
(2D) used by GME is defined as ijDc2 . Given any pair 
of variables, ix and jx for a random vector x, the 2D-CC 
ijDc2 of ix and jx is defined as  
2/1222/1222 ]))ˆ[(])ˆ[((
)]ˆ)(ˆ[(
)(
),(
jjii
jjii
ji
ji
ijD uxEuxE
uxuxExxcov
c −−
−−== σσ
, (1) 
where ),( ji xxcov denotes the covariance of ix and jx , 
2
iσ  and 2jσ  are the variances of ix and jx , iuˆ and juˆ are 
the means of ix and jx , and E is the expectation value 
operation.  
The original correlation matrix cXk(mt×mt), where mt  is 
the total number of original bands (i.e. mt =Σ nk l=1 ml), is 
decomposed into n k  correlation submatrices cΦ k1
(m1×m1),...cΦkl(ml×ml),...cΦ knk(mnk×mnk) to build a GME set Φk 
for the class ωk. There are mt! (the factorial of mt) 
possible combinations to construct a candidate GME set. 
It is computationally expensive to make an exhaustive 
search to construct a GME set if mt is a large number. In 
the GME scheme [1], the absolute value of every 2D-CC 
ijDc2 in the correlation matrix cXk is compared to a 
threshold value tc (0≦|tc|≦1). Those adjacent ijDc2  
國科會專題研究計畫成果報告 NSC 94-2212-E027-024            多維模組特徵空間萃取方法應用於高維遙測影像資料融合  
                                                                
 7
ICME feature module ΦIl has a unique band set inside a 
box in gray. An example of the CME/FSUT in detail is 
demonstrated in Fig. 4. 
7
8    
9   
10   
11   
12   
13  
14 
1
2
3
4
5
6
20
21
22
23 
16
18
1719
15
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
20 
8    
9   
10   
11   
12   
13  
14 
15   
19    
21   
22   
23 
16
18
17
7  
8   9  
10  
11   
12   
13  
14 
15
17
19
2123 
16
18
20
22 
3
4
5
6
1
2
Class 1 Class k Class N
CME/FSUT
1I
2I
3I
4I
5I
6I
7
8I
9
10
11I
12I
I
I
I
 
Figure 4.  An example of the proposed CME/FSUT approach. The 
ICME modules ΦI are obtained in the final column (inside the gray 
bold CME modular eigenspace boxes). 
For convenience, we sort these ICME feature modules 
ΦIl according to the number of their feature bands in 
descending order. In Fig. 4, each ICME feature module 
ΦIl  has a unique band set inside a box in gray. The 
CME/FSUT utilizes the inherent separability of different 
classes in hyperspectral images to reduce dimensionality 
and further to generate a unique ICME feature. It selects 
a subset of non-correlated hyperspectral bands for 
hyperspectral images using the unique class separability 
of ICME. Here, we select one of the most similar 
(correlated) bands in each ICME module ΦIl, for all class 
ωk, arbitrarily to compose an identical ICME set ΦI. The 
CME/FSUT algorithm provides a quick feature 
extraction technique and an instant band selecting 
procedure to find the most significant hyperspectral 
features compared to the conventional feature extraction 
methods. 
III. EXPERIMENTS 
A plantation area in Au-Ku on the east coast of 
Taiwan was chosen for investigation. The image data 
were obtained by the MODIS/ASTER (MASTER) 
airborne simulator instruments as part of the PacRim II 
project [6]. A ground survey was made of the selected six 
land cover types at the same time. The proposed 
CME/FSUT method was applied to 35 bands selected 
from the 50 contiguous bands (excluding the low 
signal-to-noise ratio mid-infrared channels) of MASTER 
[6]. Six land cover classes were used in the experiments. 
One hundred and fifty labeled samples were randomly 
collected from ground survey data sets by iterating every 
fifth sample interval for each class. Thirty labeled 
samples were chosen as training samples, while the rest 
were used as test samples, i.e. the samples were 
partitioned into 30 (20%) training and 120 (80%) test 
samples for each test case. Three CC threshold values, tc 
=0.75, 0.80 and 0.85, were selected to carry out the CME. 
Three fixed ICME feature modular bands (three, four and 
five) were chosen for each class. The criterion for 
calculating the classification accuracy of experiments 
was based on exhaustive test cases. Finally, the accuracy 
was obtained by averaging all of the combined results as 
described above. 
3D-CME
Euclidean
Average
Bounds
5 Modular Bands
4 Modular Bands
3 Modular Bands
5 Modular Bands
4 Modular Bands
3 Modular Bands
Euclidean
PCA
5 Modular Bands
4 Modular Bands
3 Modular Bands
Euclidean
Lower
Bounds
5 Modular Bands
4 Modular Bands
3 Modular Bands
40.0%
45.0%
50.0%
55.0%
60.0%
65.0%
70.0%
75.0%
80.0%
85.0%
90.0%
95.0%
100.0%
3 4 5 6
Number of Ground Covers
%
 A
cc
ur
ac
y
 
Figure 5.  Classification accuracy comparison for 3D-CME, Euclidean 
average bounds, Euclidean PCA and Euclidean lower bound. 
To demonstrate the advantages of CME/FSUT 
method, four configuration groups were compared in Fig. 
5. The first group was for 3D-CME. In this case, the 
3D-CME was applied to four different combinations 
(three, four, five and six) of six ground cover classes in 
MASTER to generate the ICME. One band was 
arbitrarily selected from each ICME feature module to 
decompose the Euclidean distances and apply to 
minimum distance classifier. For the third and the fourth 
group, the same datasets were used as for the first group. 
The Euclidean average bounds and Euclidean lower 
bound represent respectively the average bands (between 
3D-CME and lower bound) and the worst lower bound 
feature bands obtained from original datasets described 
in [6]. The third group, Euclidean PCA, stands for the 
primary principal components of PCA from original 
datasets. Compared to the other groups, our proposed 
3D-CME has the best accuracy. It is obvious that 
CME/FSUT is superior to the conventional Euclidean 
average band and Euclidean PCA cases. 
Interestingly, two different ND-CME configurations, 
2D-CME (GME) and 3D-CME, were also compared in 
Fig. 6. The accuracies proved that the new proposed 
CME/FSUT method had the best performances than 
GME. Moreover, these encouraging results showed that 
satisfactory classification accuracy could be achieved 
with only a few computational time and small training 
samples in our proposed CME/FSUT method. 
IV.  CONCLUSION 
This paper presents a novel supervised classification 
technique to hyperspectral images. The CME/FSUT 
makes use of the ND-CME developed by grouping 
highly correlated bands into a small set of bands  
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
95年 10月 30日 
報 告 人 
姓 名 張 陽 郎 
服務機構
及 職 稱
國立台北科技大學 
副教授 
時間 July 31-August 4, 2006 
會 議 
地點 Colorado Convention Center, Denver, Colorado, 美國 
核定 
補助文號 NSC: 94-2212-E027-024 
(中文) 2006 IEEE 國際地球科學遙感探測暨第二十七屆加拿大遙感探測會議 
會議名稱 (英文) 2006 IEEE International Geoscience And Remote Sensing Symposium 
(IGARSS'2006)& 27th Canadian Symposium on Remote Sensing 
發表論文題目 
(共三篇) 
1. A Generalized Positive Boolean Function Approach to Supervised Multispectral 
Image Classification. 
2. A Parallel Computing Technique for Complete Modular Eigenspace Feature 
Extraction of Hyperspectral Images. 
3. Multispectral Subpixel Detection using Least Square Unmixing. 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
 
本會議為國際有關地球科學遙感探測之重要會議。此次會議由美國
IEEE 地球科學暨遙感探測學會 (Geoscience and Remote Sensing Society, 
IEEE - Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers)及加拿大遙感探測
學會(Canadian Remote Sensing Society)主辦。會議地點在美國科羅拉多
州丹佛市科羅拉多國際會議中心舉行。本次之會議中心主題為:Remote 
Sensing: A Natural Global Partnership Advance Program。 
此會議為國際間地球科學暨遙感探測之世界級重要會議，此次會議參
予踴躍，約有 1,500 人參加，投稿經審查後，共約 2,000 餘篇論文被接
受發表，可謂盛況空前。本人此次參加會議，共發表論文三篇，分別為: 
1.「A Generalized Positive Boolean Function Approach to Supervised 
Multispectral Image Classification」，2.「A Parallel Computing Technique for 
Complete Modular Eigenspace Feature Extraction of Hyperspectral Images」
及 3.「Multispectral Subpixel Detection using Least Square Unmixing」，其
中第一篇應邀為口頭報告，我們口頭發表「多光譜影像分類」(Multispectral 
Image Classification) 方法後，於討論期間，此 Section 主席，也是高光譜
影像的專家，任職美國空軍研究院的 Dr. Cooley，對我們的方法提出一些
問題，並當眾對我們的研究成果讚譽有加，當場並建議我們將此篇會議
論文改寫成期刊投稿到 IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sensing，此為對我們
研究成果的一大肯定，是為振奮。  
 
二、 與會心得 
 
於本次會中並邀請到多位國際知名學者，就遙感探測的之最新展及應
用提出演講，頗為精采。本人於會場見到於國際間遙測領域享有盛名的美 
 
