identified that SH2-ST2 may act as a stable seed in prompting amyloid fibril formations. Our 
results also demonstrated that hydrophobic interaction is the principle driving force to stabilize 
and associate the GGVVIA oligomers between β-strands; while the hydrophobic steric zipper 
formed via the side chains of V3, V4, and I5 plays a critical role in holding the two neighboring 
β-sheets together. Single glycine substitution at V3, V4, and I5 directly disrupted the hydrophobic 
steric zipper between these two β-sheets, resulting in the destabilization of the oligomers. Our 
simulation results provided detailed insights into understanding the aggregation behavior of the 
GGVVIA oligomers in the atomic level. It may also be helpful for designing new inhibitors able 
to prevent the fibril formation of Aβ peptide. 
The VEALYL peptide from B chain (residues 12-17) of insulin has been shown to form 
amyloid-like fibrils. Recently, the atomic structure of the VEALYL oligomer has been 
determined by x-ray microcrystallography and reveals a dry, tightly self-complementing structure 
between the neighboring β-sheet layers, termed as “steric zipper”. In this study, several molecular 
dynamics simulations with all-atom explicit water were conducted to investigate the structural 
stability and aggregation behavior of the VEALYL peptide with various sizes and its single 
glycine replacement mutations. The results of our single-layer models showed that the structural 
stability of the VEALYL oligomers increases significantly with increasing the number of 
β-strands. We further suggested that the minimal nucleus seed for VEALYL fibril formation 
could be as small as three or four peptides. Our results also revealed that the hydrophobic 
interaction between E2 and Y5 plays an important role in stabilizing the adjacent β-strands within 
the same layer; while the hydrophobic steric zipper formed via the side chains of V1, A3, L4, Y5 
and L6 locks the two neighboring β-sheet layers together. Mutation simulations showed that the 
