Introduction 
With the increasing demand for faster, smaller, and 
cheaper wireless communication systems, the UWB 
radio has become one of the most emerging 
technologies for scientific, commercial and military 
applications [1]-[4]. The UWB system, which follows 
a 3.1 GHz to 10.6 GHz spectrum allocated by the U.S. 
Federal Communications Commission, brings the 
convenience and mobility of wireless communications 
to high-speed interconnects in devices throughout the 
short-range, wireless personal area networks. Recent 
advances in UWB radio are also targeted for the 
medical imaging and sensing applications using UWB 
radar [5], [6]. The existing UWB systems are used 
only below 5 GHz, which causes performance 
degradation of communication speed [7]. Recently, the 
next-generation UWB transceivers are proposed and 
can be transmitted and received in all 14 bands of 
3.1-10.6 GHz spectrum, which is able to meet all 
regulatory requirements worldwide for applications 
based on certified wireless USB and WiMedia 
[8]-[10].  
One of the challenges of the implementation of 
UWB radio systems is the development of a suitable 
antenna that can be operated over a bandwidth of 7.5 
GHz. When considering the design of UWB antennas, 
not only the usual specifications over the entire 
frequency range, such as input impedance, gain, 
polarization, and radiation pattern, etc., but also a 
good time-domain performance, i.e. the pulse response 
with minimal distortion, are required. Numerous types 
of UWB antennas have been developed to realize their 
high-performance and small-size characteristics [11], 
[12]. However, these monopole/dipole-like UWB 
antennas using the unbalanced feed network can be 
affected by the environments containing nearby 
high-dielectric objects [13]-[16]. Although the 
magnetic-type antennas, such as the large current 
radiators, were proposed for UWB applications, these 
bulky three-dimensional constructions are not suitable 
for PCB fabrication [17], [18].  
In this paper, a novel UWB tapered loop antenna fed 
by the composite right/left-handed (CRLH) 
CPW-to-CPS transition proposed previously [19] is 
further investigated based on the frequency- and 
time-domain analysis. Compared with the 
conventional UWB antennas, this structure is 
implemented in uniplanar technology and there is no 
need to align the antenna layout on both sides of the 
substrate [20]. Additionally, this balanced-fed loop 
antenna configuration reduces the induced currents on 
the conducting environment and therefore the antenna 
performance would not be degraded [21]. Finally, to 
further explore pulse propagation effects in UWB 
radio such as scattering at boundaries, the 
time-domain characterization of the 
transmitting/receiving antenna system including the 
metal plane reflection is also studied. 
Antenna Design and Frequency-domain 
Characterization  
The geometry of the proposed UWB tapered loop 
antenna is illustrated in Fig. 1. For antenna design, this 
structure is decomposed into two parts, i.e., the 
tapered loop as a radiator and the feeding network 
implemented by the CPW-to-CPS transition. To 
enhance the operating bandwidth, a tapered profile of 
the loop is formed by gradually increasing the width 
of the conductor strip of the loop from the feed point 
to the direction of X-axis. The optimized edge length 
of outer perimeter, P0 and inner perimeter, Pi are 
related to the lowest and largest operating frequency 
of the signal respectively in UWB spectrum [22]. The 
compact CRLH 50Ω CPW-to- 200Ω CPS transition 
proposed previously by authors [19] is utilized to 
realize the balanced feed network that wideband 
tapered loop radiator required, as depicted in Fig. 1. 
All the circuits presented in this study are fabricated 
on the RT/Duroid 6010 substrate with 1-oz copper 
cladding, 0.254-mm substrate thickness, and a 
dielectric constant of 10.2. The full-wave simulator 
( , , )os t θ φ  of two identical UWB tapered loop 
antennas can be obtained by measurement with an HP 
8720C network analyzer and the pulse responses of 
the two-antenna system are obtained from the 
measured S-parameters [27] via the inverse Fourier 
transform on eq. (3) in anechoic chamber with 
different separations 0R  are shown in Fig. 6.  
Compared to the calculated results obtained from eq. 
(3) with iΓ = 0 by the inverse Fourier transform, good 
agreement is observed in these results and thus 
validates the proposed technology of the UWB 
antenna characterization in time domain. The 
estimated fidelity of the two-antenna system [28] with 
distances R0 = 25, 50, and 70 cm is separately 0.9463, 
0.9725, and 0.9565 that demonstrate that the pulse 
distortion of the proposed UWB antenna is very 
insignificant. To further characterize the reflection 
effect in the propagation channel, a metal plane behind 
the received antenna with D= 24 cm is added in the 
two identical UWB antennas separated by 25 cm, as 
shown in Fig. 7. The measured pulse response is 
depicted in Fig. 8 and compared with the calculated 
result using eq. (3) with R0 = 25 cm, R1 = 73 cm, 
and 1 1Γ = − . Results show that the reflected pulse 
coming from the metal plane is observed with a 
delayed time 1.6delay t ns= , which agrees well with the 
time duration of the reflected pulse by calculating 
2 /delay t D c= , where c is the velocity of light. 
Therefore, the immunity to multipath interference in 
UWB radio can be achieved by maintaining precise 
timing at the receiver. 
Conclusions 
The responses of the single antenna and the 
two-antenna system in both time and frequency 
domains have been investigated experimentally 
and theoretically. This study presents not only the 
frequency-domain parameters, such as return loss, 
gain, radiation pattern, etc., but also the pulse 
responses in time domain. These results indicate 
that the proposed wideband antenna possesses a 
low pulse distortion, and the received waveforms 
of the antenna-channel system are also 
determined according as the antenna transfer 
function and the propagation channel model 
including the reflection effect. Based on the 
frequency- and time-domain performances, the 
UWB tapered loop antenna can be applied to 
investigate the UWB radio systems with 
multi-gigahertz frequency bands. Future work 
will be focused on further investigation of the 
time-frequency analysis of UWB antenna arrays. 
計畫成果自評 
本計畫提出一新型超寬頻漸變環形天線，此天線以
複合左右手材料共面波導轉共面帶線電路作為平衡
式饋入網路，並針對該電路頻域與時域特性作分
析。此天線不僅具有涵蓋 3.1~10.6GHz 的寬頻阻抗
頻寬，並有近似全向性且高增益的輻射場型。相較
於傳統似單極或偶極形式的超寬頻天線，平衡式漸
變環形天線更不容易受到鄰近介質材料或導體的影
響產生敏感的耦合效應，更適用於超寬頻手攜式裝
置天線。此外，本計畫利用天線的轉移函數可描述
本天線系統架構在時域上的操作特性，也進一步探
討在此天線系統傳播通道模型中多重路徑反射的效
應。由計算與量測之頻、時域結果比較，證明本計
畫提出的超寬頻天線具有較低的脈衝波形失真，更
適合超寬頻通訊系統的應用。未來進一步的研究工
作將會著手於陣列天線於超寬頻系統的應用，利用
目前研究成果針對頻域與時域特性作深入研究與探
討。 
(A) 目前發表的相關研究成果如下 
1. S.-L. Chen and S.-G. Mao, “Frequency- and 
Time-Domain Modeling of Tapered Loop 
Antennas in Ultra-Wideband Radio Systems,” in 
IEEE APS/URSI Int. Symp. Dig., Albuquerque 
New Mexico, USA, July 8-14, 2006 
2. S.-G. Mao and S.-L. Chen, “Time-domain 
characteristics of ultra-wideband tapered loop 
antennas,” Electronics Letts., vol. 42, no. 22, pp. 
1262--1264, Oct. 2006. 
3. S.-G. Mao and S.-L. Chen, “Frequency and 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Measured Eφ  (solid line) and Eθ  (dotted line) radiation
patterns of the tapered loop antenna in  (a) XZ-plane and (b)
YZ-plane at 3, 5, 7, and 10 GHz. 
 
 
Fig. 4 Measured peak gain of the tapered loop antenna. 
 
Fig. 5 Fourth-derivative Gaussian pulse in time and
frequency-domain. (a) Waveform and (b) Spectrum. 
 
Fig. 2 Measured and simulated | S |11 of the tapered loop antenna 
with the 180° CRLH CPW-to-CPS transition.  
 
