 2 
 
Snakes are equipped these special gaits and are different 
from usual creatures in the nature. For their highly agility 
and highly environment adaption,   researchers attempt 
to realize the snake robot. 
To mimic the different kinds of postures of real 
snake, snake robots are usually designed to be like a chain 
with high degrees of freedom and homogeneity. We 
classify the general unit modules of snake robots to four 
classes: (a) Non-wheeled snake-like robot. There is no 
wheel on the modules[5][6][7][8]. (b) Wheeled snake-like 
robot. There are wheels on each segment [9][10][11]. (c) 
Expandable and contractible snake-like robot. Joints 
between two segmets is not rotative joints but they are 
rotated by expanding and contracting of the link that 
equipped on both side of the modules[12]. (d) 
Reconfigurable. Each segment is modulized and has 
multi-functions. This kind robot can not only be 
structured a snake robot but also other structures[13][14].  
 
Fig. 1 Non-wheeled snake robot of Shugen Ma. 
 
Fig. 2 The wheeled snake robot of Mori and Hirose. 
In order to describe the characteristic of snake 
serpentine, researchers used curvature to approximate the 
curve of real snake. Hirose[18] proposed that if a sinusoid 
function is used for the curcature, then the corresponding 
curve is vary similar to real  sanke motion trajectory. 
The following formula is used to describe the 
characteristic of snake serpentine.  
( ) sinab bs s c
L L
κ ⎛ ⎞= − +⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠  
(1)
2 sin sin
2 2i
b b ib ca
n n n n
θ ⎛ ⎞ ⎛ ⎞= + −⎜ ⎟ ⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠ ⎝ ⎠  (2)
Where κ  represent the curvature, and s is the 
length the body curve of snake. If a snake is considered as 
an n-link robot, then θ is the relative angle between 
each link for serpentine. And the curve of the body can be 
describe by the following : 
( ) ( )
( ) ( )
0
0
cos
sin
s
s
x s d
y s d
ζ σ
ζ σ
⎧ =⎪⎪⎨⎪ =⎪⎩
∫
∫
( )cosa b cζ σ σ= +  
(3)
If we want to control a snake robot serpentining, we 
can assign command to control each robot joint by 
parameter a, b, and c. 
( )( )sin 1i t iθ α ω β γ= + − +
2 sin ,  , 
2
b b ca
n n n
α β γ⎛ ⎞= = = −⎜ ⎟⎝ ⎠  
(4) 
 
4 . Method 
This main project is composed by three subsidiary 
project, thus we describe the method of researching one 
by one.  
Subsidiary project (1) : In order to make the snake 
robot behave more like a real one, we do not want to use 
a fixed model to describe the motion of the snake. 
Alternatively, we want to know some information 
whenever the snake is in motion and use this information 
as a feedback to adjust the robot’s movement. 
Subsidiary project (2) : The serpenoid curve is 
used to mimic the snake’s locomotion. Since we hope to 
make the system more robust, we propose a 
reconfiguration planning for the robot with wireless 
 4 
 
 
Fig. 4 Snake-like robot. 
A strain gauge is attached on each side of each 
module in order to measure the deformation in the 
mechanism when the snake-like robot performs serpenoid 
motion. Because of the swinging of the body during 
motion, forcers perpendicular to the body are present on 
the mechanism, and strain gauges are used to measure 
this deformation.  
A general purpose strain gauge is used, the 
CEA-06-250UN-350. A Wheatstone Bridge is used in 
combination with a differential amplifier in order to 
obtain these minute resistance changes in the sensors.  
Besides the strain gauges attached to each of the 
modules, a photo resistor is attached in the head of the 
snake-like robot. This photo resistor is in series with a 
1000 Ω precision resistor, and is supplied with a 5V 
power source from the amplifier board. The voltage 
across the photo resistor is sent to the 10-bit resolution 
analog to digital converter of the controller. When the 
sensor is facing the light source, the voltage read by the 
microcontroller is smaller, allowing the interaction 
between the light and the snake-like robot. 
[2] Unconventional Serpenoid motion 
From previous experiments, it is seen that when 
using conventional serpenoid motion for turning motion, 
the values recorded by the strain gauges do not show any 
specific characteristic that could be used to determine if 
the snake-like robot is currently performing a straight line 
motion or a turning motion. There, the question of what 
would happen if using a type of turning motion different 
from the conventional serpenoid motion arises. 
A method in which the snake-like robot is split into 
two sections is proposed. These two sections are a 
directing part and a propelling part. This idea of 
movement comes from the observation of real snakes’ 
movement. Real snakes perform indeed a serpenoid 
motion but the head of the snake looks as if it doesn’t 
swing in the same way as the body but as if stationary 
pointing towards the objective.  
Figure 4 shows the idea of this type of motion. The 
front part (consisting of 4 modules in our snake-like robot) 
becomes the directing section and the back part 
(consisting of the remaining 8 modules) becomes the 
propelling section.  
In this type of motion, the propelling section 
performs continuously the conventional serpenoid motion, 
according to equation (4) with 0γ = . The directing 
section also performs serpenoid motion according to 
equation (4) but with relatively small amplitude α . For 
straight line motion, 0γ =  , and for turning, γ is 
modified according to the desired turning motion. This 
way, the propelling section mainly provides the 
propulsion and the directing section is responsible of 
controlling the direction of the snake-like robot. 
[3] Experiments 
A. Strain Gauge 
A set of experiments are carried out with the 
proposed unconventional serpenoid motion. The values of 
the strain gauges from the front three modules are 
recorded. Data of the second module are of more 
importance, for which there is an obvious difference 
between right and left turn motion.  
Data recorded by the strain gauges sensors are 
shown in figure 5 and 6, while doing a straight line, left 
 6 
 
lightest direction is recorded. With this data of the lightest 
direction, the turning angle of the robot can be calculated.  
We use the above proposed unconventional motion 
for the snake-like robot, where the directing section 
consists of two modules and the rest belong to the 
propelling section. Therefore, the data of the lightest 
direction is used to calculate the turning angle for the 
second module using the relation. This turning angle can 
be calculated with the following equation: 
1 1
2 2
1
sin
sin
2 cos
x
x l xl
φθ φ
− ⎡ ⎤⎢ ⎥= ⎢ ⎥+ +⎣ ⎦        (5) 
The experiment is based on the setup mentioned 
above. Once the angle 1φ  of the sensor carried out, θ  
is sent to the second motor, which drives the first module 
at its bending angle, and 2φ  represents the previous 
angle of the second motor. Because two directing 
modules are used, the bending angles in the second and 
the third motor are both / 2θ .  
Figure 8 shows the process of light source tracking. 
In figure 8 a), the light is turned on and placed at the right 
of the robot, then within one cycle, the sensor notices the 
direction of the light and sends the corresponding angle to 
the 2nd and the 3rd motors, as seen in figure 8 b) to d), 
where the robot starts turning. After the robot has tracked 
the light, it is moved to the left side to see whether the 
robot can still track the light or not. The result is shown in 
figure 8 g), where the robot starts turning left, meaning 
that the robot has successfully tracked the light source 
again.  
 
Fig 8 Experiments 
Sub-project(2) 
Modeling, Simulations, and Experiments for 
Locomotion of Bio-mimetic Snake Robot 
1. Design Concept 
The snake robots can perform different kinds of 
locomotion and adapt to the complex environment. These 
traditional snake robots have the following features: 
a. Centralized system architecture [3: Li et al. 2004]; 
b. Link-type structure [1: Hirose 1993]; 
c. Wheels for real snake’s skin [4: Hirose and Mori 
2004]. 
The link-type structure as real snake’s vertebra can 
achieve a high degree-of-freedom motion, and the wheels 
can make directional frictions as real snake’s skin. 
Preserving the later two points, this paper will improve 
the first point: centralized system architecture. 
A centralized system may have a main module like 
snake robot’s head to plan and schedule the whole body 
as the traditional snake robot [3: Lin et al. 2004]. This 
 8 
 
Male connector
Connected with 
stepping motor  
Female connector
 
Fig. 11  The male connector and the female connector. 
The states of connection are connected and 
disconnected as shown in Figure 12. Since the female 
connector is fixed, a rotation about 90 degrees of the male 
connector can change the connection states. 
 
Fig. 12  The connection and the disconnection states. 
4. Summary 
This section summarizes the hardware 
implementation of the wireless modular snake robot. 
According to the design concepts and hardware 
components discussed above, the module with the 
microcontroller, wireless chip, motion actuator, 
connection actuator, and system board are shown in 
Figure 13. The back side of the module equips with the 
connection actuator, and the two buttons are used as 
touch sensors and equipped on the male and female 
connectors. 
 
Fig. 13  The modules. 
In this paper, four modules are prepared and the 
modular snake robot composed of all the modules is 
shown in Figure 14. In the next section, the 
reconfiguration planning for the proposed modular snake 
robot is discussed so that the connected modules can 
perform proper configuration and locomotion. 
 
Fig. 14  The modular snake robot is composed of  
the four modules. 
5. Reconfiguration Planning 
Based on the framework and hardware discussed 
above, this section proposes a reconfiguration planning 
for the robot with wireless communication and automatic 
connection. For the uni-module design, the key point is to 
determine the communication role and the connected 
situation for all the same modules. The reconfiguration 
planning proposed can determine the communication ID 
for wireless communication and the physical order as the 
connected situation. 
The goal of the proposed snake robot is to perform 
optimal serpenoid locomotion. The optimal locomotion is 
based on the serpenoid curve. The reconfiguration 
planning determines and illustrates physical order and the 
procedures of reconfiguration.  
6. Optimal Serpenoid Locomotion 
Equation (1) is the serpenoid curve which can be 
applied to mimic snake’s locomotion. Saito [6: Saito et al. 
2002] finds the optimal relationship is close to 2 / nβ π= , 
that means the snake robot has optimal efficiency under 
one period serpenoid locomotion. So the following 
application in the proposed method and experiments will 
confine the phase-shift parameter b to 2π . 
( ) sin( ( 1) ) , ( 1,..., 1),
where: sin( ) , , .
2
i t t i i n
b ca
n n
φ α ω β γ
βα β γ
= + − + = −
= = = −
  (6) 
Different from centralized architecture, the physical 
order i, the number of modules n, and the time variable t 
 10 
 
PC Host
ID=1ID=3
ID=2
n=3
N=3ID=2
i=1
START
n=3
ID=1
n=3i=2
ID=3
n=3i=3
Wait…Wait… Wait…
i=1 i=2 i=3
ON ON ON
PC Host
ID=1ID=3
ID=2
n=3
N=3ID=2
i=1
START
n=3
ID=1
n=3i=2
ID=3
n=3i=3
i=1 i=2 i=3
STARTSTARTSTART
3‐link serpenoid locomotion 
ON ON ON
 
(k)                         (l) 
Figure 16.  The example illustrates the procedures of  
how the three modules get their physical order. 
When the modules are connected and start the 
locomotion, an online checking is executed cyclically. 
The host sends online checking to the all modules, and 
then if the host receives the replies from all modules, that 
means the modules are all online and work normally. But 
if there is no reply from one or more modules, the 
modules are regarded as broken parts, and then the robot 
executes disconnection and reconfiguration. The 
reconfiguration is available when the modules are moved 
or added.  
Sub-project(3) 
Locomotion of Snake and Design of 
Advanced Vehicle 
There are two parts to analyze the motion of snake in 
this sub-project. First part is to simulate snakes serpentine, 
and second part is to compare effect of variable bending 
angle when snakes serpentine.  
1. Simulations of a snake-like robot 
serpentining 
In order to analyze snakes serpentining, a simultae 
system is built including a rough plane and a simulated 
snake-like robot which has eight segments and seven 
joints. The robot is controlled by assigning the control 
command derived from the dynamic model of snake-like 
robot. In the simulations, the simulated robot could 
serpentine forward smoothly, and interestingly the main 
axis of the robot is not always parallel with the moving 
direction. The robot serpentines forward and the robot tail 
swings symmetrically on moving axis. By showing the 
reactive force acted upon each segments, obviously the 
resultant of forces points to the moving direction, and this 
phenomenon shows why the robot serpentines forward. 
 
Fig. 17 Dynamics of the snake robot link. 
 
Fig. 18 Trajectory of snake robot and the acting force ditribution. 
2. Effects of variable bending angle on 
snake-like robot 
This part uses two ways to analyze the efficiency of 
snake-like robot. The first one is simulated analysis and 
the second one is physical analysis. A simulated 
snake-like robot moves with different motion commands 
in a simulated environment, and results of the simulations 
are analyzed to find out that which motion mode lets the 
snake-like robot move efficiently. In physical 
experiments, a snake-like robot is assigned different 
motion commands and moves on a smooth ground. 
Results of the experiments confirm the result of the 
simulations. 
This section talks about the efficiency simulation 
from previously mathematical mode. In these simulations, 
the same simulated system is used to obtain the 
efficiencies of robot motion in different motion modes. 
The simulated robot is controlled by different motion 
 12 
 
moving efficiencies in variable modes are improved about 
24 percent in average compare to the constant mode. 
 
Fig. 22 Efficiency experiment of snake robot locomotion 
3. Summary  
In this sub-project, serpentine locomotion is studied 
and efficiencies of snake-like robot assigned different 
mode are decussed in simulations and experiments. In the 
first part, the serpentine locomotion is simulatied by a 
computer system. The simulated snake-like robot’s tail 
swings symmetrically on the moving axis when the robot 
serpentints. Then the resultsnt of reactive forces push the 
robot to move forward. In the sncond part, efficiencies of 
a simulated snake-like robot and a physical one are  both 
decussed by assigning four different control modes to the 
robot. The results shows that the robot serpentines moer 
efficiently in variable modes than in constant mode, and 
the robot shows better performance in trapzoid mode. 
 
6 . Conclusion 
In this project , the goal is to analyze the dynamic 
characteristics of snake-like robot, and furthermore to 
explore the future development of snake-like robot. Three 
sub-projects study three part : a bio-mimetic snake-like 
robot design and contorl method decussion, snake-like 
robot modulization and recoufiguration design, and effect 
of variable bending angle mode on snake-like robot. In 
order explore characteristics of snake locomoton, some 
real snakes are observed and a dynamic snake model is 
stueied to build a simulated snake-like robot and a 
physical snake-like robot.  
In the first sub-project, a wheeled snake-like robot is 
built, and it has eight segments, seven joints, and one 
photo resistor to sense light source. There are two strain 
gauges on each side of each segment to sense the reactive 
forces from the ground, and we could analyze the action 
between robot’s wheels and the ground. A new control 
method based on obsevation of the real snake movement 
are proposed, and a system for light source tracking is 
developed. By attaching a photo resistor, the robot could 
automatically serpentine toward the direction of light 
source. 
In the second sub-project, in order to centralize a 
snake-like robot, a modular architecture is introduced. A 
reconfiguration algorithm is proposed to overcome 
problems which snake-like robots may face, and the 
robustness and adaptability of the proposed modular 
snake-like robot are shown in experimental results. 
In the third sub-project, a simulated snake-like robot 
is built, and motion efficiencies of snke robot assigned 
four different motion modes are decussion in simulated 
and physical environmet. The results in simulations and 
experiments shows that the robot serpentines more 
efficiently in variable modes than in constant mode. 
Following these results, snake-likr robot could be 
controlled better and more efficiently in the future. 
 
7 . Reference 
[1] Kevin J. Dowling, “Limbless Locomotion: Learning 
to Crawl with a Snake Robot,” Submitted in partial 
fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of 
Doctor of Philosophy in Robotics, The Robotics 
Institute Carnegie Mellon University, 1997. 
[2] Walter Mosauer, “On the Locomotion of Snakes”, 
Science 23, pp. 583-585, 1932. 
[3] J. Gray, “The Mechanism of Locomotion in Snakes” 
J. Exp. Biol. 23, pp. 101-120, 1946. 
[4] Archie Carr, The Reptiles, pp. 79-88, 1974. 
