1 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
高精密複合中心機開發與血液細胞計數晶片模具製作 
 
         計 畫 編  號：NSC97-2221-E-003-001- 
執 行 期 限：97年 8月 1日至 98年 10月 31日 
主 持 人：陳順同 
計畫參與人員：賴運正、黃瑋平、孫義勛、施勝禹 
執  行 機 構：國立台灣師範大學 機電科技學系 
 
一、 中文摘要 
    本計畫針對血液細胞計數晶片模具製作
開發超薄型電鑄圓盤立方晶氮化硼輪刀，專用
於脆性材料如光學玻璃的開溝加工等所需之
微型圓盤刀具。文中使用一種複合式的電鑄技
術，利用立方晶氮化硼微粉與鎳鑄液的均勻混
合，進行低成本陣列式超薄型立方晶氮化硼輪
刀製作，首先，將鋁基材利用 CNC車床加工
成所需形狀，再以複合電鑄將粒徑 0-2µm 的
立方晶氮化硼顆粒電鑄於模具上，以達到圓盤
輪刀胚料的製作。電鑄過程中，為使槽體內部
的注意具有良好的對流性，也提出一種由上至
下沖流滾鍍槽體設計，它能有效降提高立方晶
氮化硼的均佈率與鎳離子的置換性。於電鑄完
成後，利用微放電加工技術，將電鑄完成之圓
盤輪刀粗胚修整薄化成型，輪刀厚度可製
10µm。以製作完成的微立方晶氮化硼輪刀，
使用高速快淺研削對光學玻璃進行微細開溝
加工。由多次實驗證明，本研究能成功切出微
細溝槽，本技術將轉換至金屬模具的細溝加
工。 
關鍵字：立方晶氮化硼輪刀，微放電加工，複
合式電鑄，高速快淺研削。 
Abstract 
  In order to fabricate the biochip for counting 
the cells, a novel process technology is drawn up 
and proposed in the proposal. The precision 
hybrid machine center is developed and the die 
of the checkered biochip is made first of all. The 
proposal is expected to be finished within two 
years. In the first year, the contents include the 
building of the hybrid machine center and the 
establishing of the micro composite 
electroforming technology for the blanks of 
micro wheel tools. The electroforming solution 
and the abrasive are the nickel sulfa mate 
solution and the micro grit cubic boron nitride 
(CBN), respectively. There are three tasks will 
be process in the second year, they are the 
slicing of the array wheel tool with 15μm 
thickness by micro wire-EDM, the sharping of 
the tool with 10μm thickness using micro ECM, 
the grinding of micro precision V-groove on the 
hardened SKD11 steel by high cutting speed, 
shallow cutting depth and fast cutting feed rate, 
respectively. The all processes will be carried 
out on the developed machine center. It is 
believe that the proposal can solve the 
predicament of machining the micro precision 
V-groove for the difficult-to-machine materials. 
It is also looking forward to improving the 
dimensional accuracy and the surface roughness 
besides narrowing the micro groove’s width. 
The project is estimated that it is able to improve 
and contribute some novel manufacturing 
technologies in fabricating the die of the 
biochip. 
Keywords: CBN wheel tool, Micro EDM, 
Composite electroforming, High-speed & 
fast-shallow grinding 
 
3 
果。為了節省 CBN磨料與電鑄液用量，實驗
也特別規劃以小型電鑄槽為主。由於 CBN磨
料粒粒徑非常微小，粒子彼此間也愈緊密，表
面能及表面張力加大，凡德瓦爾力(Van der 
Waals Force)相對增加[1]，因此粒子結成團狀
物的機會也隨之增大，為了防止微細 CBN顆
粒在電鑄液中聚結成團；為此，本專題採用一
種微型複合式電鑄槽的對流設計，但在電鍍過
程中，因長時間的因素，造成 CBN磨粒沉澱，
因此藉由攪拌機構使 CBN磨粒均勻散布在電
鑄液中，再使用一微型電鑄液抽泵(Pump)，由
槽子底部抽取電鑄液，再由槽子頂端送入槽體
中，並將進液口(Liquid entrance)設計在液面以
之下方，以防止噴濺及電鑄液之擾動，如此構
成一密閉的流體循環系統，不需要任何界面活
性劑，即可獲得均勻的複合電鑄層[2]，如圖 3
所示。 
 
圖 3 複合沉積槽設計 
4.3電鑄機構設計 
    複合沉積微細 CBN磨粒，利用鑄液下旋
轉滾鍍，因此導電銜接處，往往會不慎藥液流
入，造成長時間電鑄時無法準確控制厚度及品
質不良，本計畫特別規劃設計螺紋防水設計，
可長時間在鑄液下滾鍍成形，透由微馬達帶動
皮帶，避免微馬達置於液下損壞，依皮帶與垂
直面之間 R角產生作用力可確實導電，並採
用 V溝設計可確保滾鍍時同軸心。漏斗式設
計將文章中提出，可大幅減少每公升之磨粒含
量，且達到磨粒聚集特定的目的。另一方面，
也可使安息中(Reposing)的立方晶氮化硼有足
夠的時間，讓鎳離子進行包覆與固定，如圖 4
所示。 
 
圖 4 滾鍍機構設計 
4.4漏斗式模具設計 
本計畫用之複合沉積槽特別由馬達至底
部將電鑄液抽離，再透由調節閥控制流量大
小，由上至下使微 CBN顆粒順利電著於基材
上，為提供金屬基材附近豐富的 CBN含量，
本計畫設計一種陣列型漏斗式模具(Funneled 
mold array)，如圖 5所示。當槽體內部的鑄液
流經此模具時，微細 CBN顆粒將由少量徐徐
匯整成多量，並以充沛的 CBN數量流經金屬
基材週邊，如此刀軸附近的 CBN含量便可提
高許多，再透過鎳離子的沉積，進而有效提高
CBN被電鑄的機率(Probability)，以提供適當
含量的切刃數。由於使用的微 CBN，粒徑在
0-2µm之間，在鑄液中的沉積速率為
0.014mm/sec[3]，鎳離子的沉降速率
0.206μm/A.dm2.min[4]，依據經驗法則，CBN
埋入率(Embedding rate)達到 CBN粒徑的
5%[5]以上時，即可使微粒 CBN固定在刀軸
上，依據 CBN顆粒降落的終極速度公式(1)，
使其微粒 CBN附著在刀軸上大幅增加，其微
粒 CBN自然落下時，水流也因 CBN的流動，
使鎳鑄液有置換性的功能，複合沉積參數如表
1所示。 
Vt=g(ρd-ρw)d2 / 18η           (1) 
Vt：顆粒的終極速度，g：重力加速度或
離心加速度，ρd：CBN 密度，ρw：沉降液體
的密度， d：CBN顆粒的直徑，η：液體黏度。 
5 
 
圖 8 輪刀最適屑袋寬度 
圖 8所示[6]是立方晶氮化硼磨粒間的屑
袋(Chip pocket)寬度，本研究設計 1-2µm，目
的在提供暫時容屑的合理空間，磨粒含量太
多，則無容屑空間，易造成填塞，反之，切刃
太少，易鈍化而失去研削能力。屑袋寬度以每
公升鎳沉積液的立方晶氮化硼含量控制之，圖
9所示即是立方晶氮化硼磨粒含量與屑袋寬
度關係，圖中得知 8g/L的立方晶氮化硼磨粒
含量能滿足屑袋寬度需求。 
 
圖 9立方晶氮化硼磨粒含量與屑袋寬度關係 
5-3 線切割機放電能量選用 
    由於複合材料內含大量不導電 CBN磨
粒，放電效率降低，本實驗利用兩種不同能量
做為實驗參數，利用高能量將 CBN輪刀修整
同心與雛型修整，將大部分複合材料去除，再
透由精加工能量將陣列式輪刀輪刀多道修整
型，可以大幅降低加工時程。如圖 10所示針
對複合材多道次精修能量比較，每道精修進深
5µm，對複合材料表面精修，1~3道精修能有
較大放電坑未能修平，本實驗選用精修 4次做
為實驗參數，既能兼顧時效性與輪刀平整性，
如圖 11所示修整陣列式輪刀外型，。 
 
圖 10放電能量之選用 
 
 
圖 11成型的輪刀表面 
5-4放電間隙與槽寬實驗 
本實驗利用 250µm的銅線針對複合材料
修整陣列式 CBN輪刀外型，先利用高能量將
CBN輪刀修整同心與雛型修整，將大部分複
合材料去除，在利用精修能量削正成形，為能
精確算出精修能量對於複合材料放電間隙，利
用相同能量針對複合材料放電加工，經由量測
為微槽寬度為 280µm，單邊放電間隙為 15µm， 
放電間隙補償後，透由 CNC路徑將輪刀削正
成形，如圖 12所示。 
 
圖 12 放電間隙量測 
7 
溝槽邊緣易生毛邊，甚至發生區塊崩落現象。
當進給速度降至 50mm/min時，上述現象便獲
大幅改善。 
 
圖 16 進給率與微溝品質 
 5-7切削深度影響 
    圖 17所示，為兩種研削深度的溝槽品質
比較，切深 1µm下，除了磨粒外，鎳結合劑
更有機會與玻璃接觸而產生較大切削阻力，部
份材料移除轉為脆性模式，導致微溝邊緣發生
崩落；若切深減為 0.5µm，則可減少研削阻力
而避免崩落發生。 
 
圖 17 研削深度影響 
5-8立方晶氮化硼含量與表面粗糙度關係 
立方晶氮化硼含量關係屑袋寬度，也影響
研削後的表面粗糙度，立方晶氮化硼含量愈
多，屑袋寬度愈小，單位時間參與磨削的磨粒
增多，所以每個磨粒對材料去除的負荷減少，
溝槽研削品質也隨之提昇。但過多的磨粒將導
致磨屑填塞而鈍化，摩擦及犁切效應增加，加
工品質受影響。圖 18顯示相同研削條件下，
立方晶氮化硼含量與研削面粗糙度關係，立方
晶氮化硼磨粒添加量由趨勢線得知，8g/L有
最低的研磨面粗糙度(Ra=0.0309µm)，此添加
量以下，輪刀參與磨削的切刃數少，磨粒負荷
大，鈍化快，表面粗糙度不佳；此含量以上，
切刃間隔小，容屑空間少，輪刀面易發生填塞
而產生摩擦，故表面粗糙度也變差。 
圖 19所示是依上述所得實驗條件，進行
田字溝槽的研削實驗結果，由結果得知溝寬及
溝深尺度分別為 15µm及 10µm，且就形狀精
度而言，溝寬平整，溝緣無任何崩落。此田字
造型被用於微型金屬模之翻製，以便量產捨棄
式細胞計數晶片。 
 
圖 18 立方晶氮化硼含量與研削面粗糙度關係 
 
 
圖 19 田字溝槽的研削實驗 
五、結論  
本研究第一階段已順利開發出厚度 15μm
的立方晶氮化硼輪刀，以及成功切割出寬度
15μm、深度 10μm 的光學玻璃微細溝槽。透
過特殊設計的沉積槽，立方晶氮化硼磨粒能均
佈於輪刀面上，並能有效控制 1-2µm 的屑袋
寬度，提供最佳容屑空間；經由微放電加工而
薄化成型的輪刀；直接以 CNC路徑定位於加
 出席 ISAAT-2009國際學術會議報告-1 
補助本校(國立台灣師範大學)教師出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                 98年  10月 06日 
報告人姓名 陳順同  
服務單位 
及職稱 
機電科技學系  
副教授  
會議時間 
與地點 
27-30 Sep. 2009 
Gold Coast, Australia 
經費核定
單位 
 
國立台灣師範大學 
研究發展處 
會議名稱 The International Symposium on Advances in Abrasive 
Technology (ISAAT) 
發表論文題目 Development and application of a micro-honing-tool 
報告內容： 
一、 參加會議經過 
    2009 國際先進磨粒技術研討會 (The International Symposium on 
Advances in Abrasive Technology)於 2009年 9月 27至 9月 30日在澳洲黃金
海岸(Gold Coast)舉行。此研討會是由國際磨粒技術委員會(The International 
Committee for Abrasive Technology)所舉辦，支援的學校有 The University of 
Queensland, The University of Sydney, The University of New South Wales, 
University of Wollongong以及 Ausinan Science & Technology Society等澳洲
大學。論文多半來自日本、澳洲、德國、瑞士、台灣、香港、新加坡，以及中
國大陸等國家，共計 122篇。台灣方面，包括台大、清大、師大等共投遞 8篇。
參與的學者來自全球相關領域的學界及業界專家，針對『研削技術』領域，進
行深入探討，包括研削材料的性質與製造技術，如金屬、聚合物，陶瓷材料等
的研削技術的發展，甚至超精密加工研削技術亦在列。ISAAT 在國際製造技術
領域中佔有極重要地位，所舉辦之研討會，除具高學術水準外，更能獲得科技
新知的交流、技術資料的蒐集及宣傳等，故常被視為瞭解國際先進製造技術現
況與未來發展的指標。本次研討會議主要議題包含： 
 出席 ISAAT-2009國際學術會議報告-3 
二、 會議心得： 
開幕典禮由大會主席 L. C. Zhang(University of Sydney, Australia)發表歡迎
詞及致謝詞，如圖 1所示，再由 ICAT主席致詞後，隨即便展開各 Section的討
論。為節省經費，本次研討會主辦單位未邀請任何 Keynote。Section A中，討
論光學玻璃研削技術，作者 Qing Liang Zhao等人於會中提到，以銅樹脂為結
合劑的鑽石砂輪，進行光學玻璃研削時，輔以線上電解研削技術 (ELID, 
Electrolytic in-process dressing)。磨粒分粗、細等級進行實驗，發現粗細磨粒
均能獲致奈米表粗的等級，而粗磨粒比細磨粒更易造成表面危害層，不過它也
能提供高效率研削加工。Manabu Iwai等人以 3D-CAD的螺旋式掃描技術對圓
弧溝槽(R-Shaped Groove Grinding)及表面粗糙度(Surface Roughness)進行研
削模擬，並建構其數學模式，給定四種參數模式，包括粒徑、突出高度、磨粒
尖端角度，以及研磨傾角等，發現最大的不平整度及進給角度改變量的趨勢幾
與表面粗糙度一致，也證實 3D-CAD 的螺旋式掃描技術能應用到圓弧溝槽研削
模擬。 
    Takashi Sato等人以磁性複合流體材料對金屬進行拋光加工，獲得一項結
論，在永久磁鐵迴轉作用所產生的波動磁場下，磁性複合流體裡的磁性粒子與
一個靜止的磁場相比，具有更高的粒子排列特性與累積作用。因此，磁性複合
流體具有較大的恢復能力與較低的拋除力。証實磁性複合流體應用到彈性工具
(Flexible tool)的拋光上，具有高性能精加工能力，也適合用於三次元的精拋加
工。許多專業知識外，更認識並結交到許多外國學者及專家朋友。2010年的
ISAAT會議將在台灣舉行，下屆主席廖運炫教授(台大)於晚宴中亦發表演說，如
圖 2所示，介紹下屆會議的舉辦內容，現場多位學者專家均表明很高的參加意
願，個人認為這是一趟成功的研討會之旅。 
 
 Development and application of a micro-honing-tool 
Shun-Tong Chen1, a, Ming-Chieh Yeh2, b 
No. 162, He-ping East Rd., Sec. 1, Taipei, 106, ROC 
achenst@ntnu.edu.tw, blaplacejames@yahoo.com.tw 
Keywords: Micro-honing-tool, Micro-EDM hole-drilling, Micro-wire-EDM, Micro-co-deposition. 
Abstract.  The major aim of this study is to present a novel technique for honing the micro-hole. It is 
difficult that regarding the finish machining of the micro-hole that the diameter is less than 300 m. 
First, a new process that to on-line accurately fabricate the micro-honing-tool using micro-EDM, 
micro-co-deposition and micro-wire-EDM is proposed for honing the micro-hole. A micro rod for as 
the substrate of the micro-tool is formed by wire-EDM and then co-deposited with 0-2 m 
CBN-abrasives. Subsequently, it is axially and crisscross cut for an appropriate length by 
micro-wire-EDM to make the crotched microstructure. The whole processes are able to be on-line 
realized since all working positions are recorded in detail and fabrication technologies are offered 
sufficiently on the same system. As a result, per the same fabrication-system, the micro-honing 
process is also on-line conducted. The finished micro-honing-tool is employed directly without 
unloaded and reloaded. The grinding-block can compactly stick on the wall surface of the micro-hole 
due to the radial elasticity of the micro-tool and then fast grind away the uneven surface by removal of 
micro amount. Experimental results demonstrated that the circularity and surface roughness on the 
hole-wall is evidently improved. Comparing with the obtained machining surface by micro-EDM 
hole-drilling, the original surface roughness of near one-sixth time can be achieved. It is indicated 
that the micro-hole can be honed accurately using the proposed technique. 
Introduction 
Productions are miniaturized resulting from the reasons of saving energy and space, accelerating 
reaction, attractive appearance and cost effective. Consequently, various micro machining techniques 
for making micro moulds have been developed. Micro holes with sub-millimetres in diameter are 
applied widely in the fields such as micro droplet spraying [1], nozzles for diesel and gasoline 
injectors, and aerosol spray nozzle [2], and ink-jet nozzles [3, 4]. Some of inner walls of the micro 
holes must be honed accurately so as to reduce the friction between the hole-wall and the delivered 
liquid. Some of momentous occasions, the micro moulds having micro holes are often made of the 
special hardened steel for resisting high temperature and high pressure.  It is typically difficult for 
drilling the micro holes on these materials with high hardness when using the traditional techniques. 
In addition, the micro-hole machining with accurate tolerance and surface roughness is also very 
difficult to be accomplished. The micro-EDM hole-drilling is suitable approach for fabricating the 
micro-hole since the non-contact electro-thermo machining mechanism, especially for the 
difficult-to-machine materials. However, the surface on the hole-wall will be created many micro 
craters affecting the roughness. A novel micro-honing approach that utilizes the material’s own 
elasticity to generate back-action force to fast grind the wall surface to improve efficiently the 
roughness is proposed and verified in the study.  The proposed approach is precision and inexpensive, 
and has been applied for honing in commercial miniature nozzles. 
Experimental apparatus 
The developed multi-function tabletop fabrication-system. In this study, a tabletop precision 
fabrication-system is developed as shown in Fig. 1(a) designed to increase substantially the 
machining accuracy for the micro parts. The fabrication-system offers a full suite of micromachining 
technologies comprising micro-EDM hole-drilling, micro-co-deposition, micro-wire-EDM, and 
micro-honing. The systempresents a vertical type with a C-shaped structure. The resolution and 
positional accuracy of the three axes are 0.01 m and 1 m, respectively. Once a work-piece is 
mounted on the machine table, it does not need to be unloaded and repositioned until all planned tasks 
Advanced Materials Research Vols. 76-78 (2009) pp 189-194
online at http://www.scientific.net
© (2009) Trans Tech Publications, Switzerland
Online available since 2009/Jun/24
All rights reserved. No part of contents of this paper may be reproduced or transmitted in any form or by any means without the written permission of the
publisher: Trans Tech Publications Ltd, Switzerland, www.ttp.net. (ID: 61.228.212.238-25/06/09,15:54:01)
 WEDG and co-deposition processes 
The outside diameter of the micro-honing-tool is designed and considered with micro inverted-taper 
to product reaction force acting on the inner wall during honing. The wire electro-discharge grinding 
(WEDG) process is employed as shown the first step in Fig. 2 so that achieves aforementioned results 
including very small diameter, accurate roundness and cylindricity in the substrate of the micro-tool. 
The created micro inverted-taper will offer the maximum deformation of 10 µm in single side of each 
grinding-block for honing. The substrate of the micro-tool is made of tungsten carbide to raise its own 
strength. The cleaning process is on-line conducted instantly via the micro ultrasonic cleaner after the 
substrate is finished preliminary process in WEDG as shown the second step. Subsequently, the 
precision co-deposition process is also carried out on the same system as shown the third step. A 
small circular grinding wheel that possesses micro and porous structure to convey the electrolyte and 
obstruct the fine abrasives flowing out from the abrasive-block is designed in the co-deposition tank 
as shown Fig. 3(a). The CBN-abrasives which apply to grind for the cold-working-tool-steel are filled 
in the small tank with grain size of 0-2 µm. The electrolyte is guided from the fluxing entrance to the 
co-deposition tank; and then through the tank after being fully mixed with the abrasives. Owing to the 
substrate in cathode is surrounded by numerous CBN-abrasives; it can obtain a good dispersive effect 
and multi-layered CBN-abrasives for the grains as seen from Fig. 3(b). Table 1 is the working 
conditions for co-deposition process. Obviously, the abrasives are used with minimum quantity in 
doing so. Additionally, the embedding rate of the CBN-abrasives with 0-2 µm in diameter is 
estimated about 0-1 µm. 
Table 1. Conditions for co-deposition process 
Parameter  Condition 
Ni(NH2SO3)2  600 g/l 
H3BO3  40 g/l 
NiCl2  5 g/l 
pH   4 
Temperature  45℃ 
Current density  2 ASD 
Abrasive’s dia.  0-2 m 
Content of CBN  1.0 g/l 
Co-deposition time  10 min 
Rotation speed of tool  20 rpm 
 
  
(a) Designed secondary tank (b) Co-deposited CBN-abrasives 
Fig. 3 Design and application of the on-line co-deposition tank 
Reverse micro-wire-EDM 
The finished co-deposited micro-tool must be slotted crisscross along the axis of the micro-rod to 
create the crotched elastic microstructure as shown the fourth step in Fig. 2. To obtain exact 
positioning between the micro-tool and micro-hole, the semi-finished micro-tool is cut out for a 
Advanced Materials Research Vols. 76-78 191
 2(b)); its maximum deformation at the free end of each beam is designed within 10 µm. The bumpy 
discharging surface around the hole-wall is then ground away with the removal of micro amount by 
the micro-honing-tool that slow downward feeds while fast rotations as shown the sixth step in Fig. 2. 
Table 3 shows the machining conditions for the honing process. As a result, besides the hole-wall, the 
uneven hole-edge resulting from imbalanced discharging energy is also honed away by the four 
pieces of concentric grinding-block in rotating to become smooth hole-edge and hole-wall as shown 
Fig. 5(a). Fig. 5(b) exhibits the microphotograph of the comparison of roughness before and after 
honing. The surface roughness, inspected by a 3D surface profiling system (SNU Precision 
Company, Korea), it is obtained Ra= 1.74 µm by micro-EDM hole-drilling and Ra= 0.31 µm by 
micro-honing as shown Fig. 6. It is apparent that the achieved surface roughness has been greatly 
improved nearly one-sixth that of the micro-EDM hole-drilling method. 
Table 3. Conditions for micro-honing 
Parameter  Condition 
Spindle speed  3000 rpm 
Feed rate  0.03 mm/min 
Honing depth  100 m 
Dielectric liquid  Lamp-oil 
 
  
(a) Finished part micro-hole (b) Close-up view of honing result 
Fig. 5 Verification for honing the micro-hole 
 
  
(a) The surface roughness after micro-EDM (b) The surface roughness after micro-honing 
Fig. 6  Comparison of surface roughness on the hole-wall before and after honing 
Advanced Materials Research Vols. 76-78 193
Advances in Abrasive Technology XII 
doi:10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMR.76-78 
 
Development and Application of a Micro-Honing-Tool 
doi:10.4028/www.scientific.net/AMR.76-78.189
Advanced Materials Research Vols. 76-78 195
  出席 AMPT2009國際學術會議報告-2 
技術資料的蒐集及宣傳等，故常被視為瞭解國際先進製造技術現況與未來
發展的指標。本次研討會議主要議題包含： 
1. Forming Processes: Bulk forming, Sheet forming, High energy rate 
forming; Powder Forming, Injection Molding, CIPing, HIPing etc. 
2. Casting, Joining and Related Processes: Casting and solidification, 
Welding, Mechanical fastening and Adhesive bonding, Heat 
treatment, Thermo mechanical treatments etc. 
3. Materials: Metallic materials, Ceramics, Polymers, MMC, PMC, 
CMC, Biomaterials, Magnetic materials, Electronic materials, 
Semiconductor and other advanced materials. 
4. Materials Removal Processes: Cutting, Grinding, High Speed 
Machining, Advanced machining processes. 
5. High Energy Beam Processing: Laser and Electron Beam in Cutting, 
Welding, Surface Melting, Surface Hardening and Ceramic Particles 
incorporation. 
6. Precision Engineering and Nanotechnology: Electroforming, Micro 
forming, Micro alloying, Net shape Manufacturing, Nanofabrication, 
Nano films, MEMS etc 
7. Surface Engineering: Surface coating by Electro and Electroless 
Plating, PVD, CVD, Thermal Coating, Nitriding, Carburising, 
Boriding. 
8. Computer Aided Engineering: FEA, CAD, CAM, CIM, Rapid 
Prototyping, Modeling and Simulation 
9. Green Manufacturing and Management: Industrial Pollution, Safety, 
Ergonomics and Ethical Aspects; Sustainable Design in 
Manufacturing, Waste management and Recycling, Quality Control; 
Management and Economic Aspects in Production Processes. 
二、 會議心得： 
    開幕典禮由大會主席 Prof. Hashmi MSJ(愛爾蘭籍)發表歡迎詞及致謝
詞，再由主席團各委員致詞及頒發優秀論文研究獎，隨即便展開各 Section 
  出席 AMPT2009國際學術會議報告-4 
  
圖 3 AMPT 2009 主席團討論與頒獎 圖 4個人於會場留影 
三、 建議事項： 
在參加會議有機會認識其它國家的人士，除了彼此能交換心得之外，
並可觀察各國研究領域與重點，這對於開拓視野、提升研究品質有莫大的
幫助。為提高台灣於此領域之學術地位，仍需教育部及各學術單位的支持
與鼓勵。 
四、 攜回資料： 
1.大會議程，2.論文集，3.隨身碟一支(1GB)。 
五、 註 1. 
1.國科會計畫『高精密複合中心機開發與血液細胞計數晶片模具製作(NSC 
97-2221-E-003-001)』，其所核『出席國際學術會議 60,000元』經費一項，
原要參加4M 2008 Conference Multi-Material Micro Manufacture, 研討會
日期為 9th-11th September 2008, 但因研究成果未能來得及申請此項研
討會，故向國科會申請變更參加澳洲舉辦的 ISAAT 2009國際研討會(The 
Twelfth International Symposium on Advances in Abrasive Technology), 
研討會日期為 2009 年 9 月 27 至 9月 30日，業已獲國科會准許(文號：
0980505FA03001)，個人在此項研討會中，發表一篇論文，註冊費為 721
元澳幣。 
2.個人今年向本校研發處申請出國補助，所核經費 44,000 元，作為前往澳
洲參加 ISAAT 2009研討會之經費分攤補助，此案近日將申報。 
3.除上述 ISAAT 2009國際研討會外，個人今年也再參加馬來西亞的 AMPT 
2009 國際研討會，並發表兩篇論文，如上述，註冊費分別為 463.5 元美
金及 309元美金，研討會日期為 2009年 10月 26至 10月 29日。 

unloaded. The micro grooves can be generated exactly by on-line “high-speed & fast-shallow 
grinding” technique that controls the quite shallow grinding in depth and the high cutting 
velocity. It is verified that the proposed approach can obtain effectively the high geometrical 
accuracy, dimensional accuracy and very good surface roughness in optical glass machining. 
This study presents a novel, practical and economical method for developing the ultra thin 
grinding wheel and making the micro grooves on optical glass. 
 
2. METHODOLOGY 
As the result of very fine groove grinding on the optical glass, it is considered that uses the 
diamond grain in 0-2µm grade to get precision fabrication, a novel fabrication approach that 
combines the micro co-deposition, w-EDM and high-speed & fast-shallow grinding techniques is 
proposed and on-line employed. First of all, the electrolytic solution mixing the diamond 
abrasives is as the co-deposition liquid to fabricate the blank of diamond wheel tool. The 
finished blank is mounted on the high-speed spindle and machined using micro w-EDM to 
develop the ultra thin wheel tool. Subsequently, the ultra thin wheel tool is positioned exactly to 
the proper place of the optical glass and switched to high speed so that on-line grinds the 
required micro grooves. It is noteworthy that the micro wheel tool is transferred and located fully 
according to the CNC path. Therefore, the on-line fabrication technique that joins the hybrid 
processes guarantees the obtained machining accuracy can be kept within the positional accuracy 
of the machine tool (1µm in our case). Fig. 1 shows the schemed procedure and methodology. 
  
Fig. 1 The methodology Fig. 2 The makeup of co-deposition tank 
 
3. EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS 
To fabricate the micro blank of wheel tool, a miniature co-deposition working tank with ideal 
convection that ensures a good dispersive effect for the abrasive grains is constructed [6]. Figure 
2 shows the makeup of co-deposition tank. The sulfa mate electrolyte mixing the great number 
of diamond grains is pumped out of the bottom of the tank and delivered back into the tank 
through its top. The construction provides a non-directional convectional liquid flow, thereby 
increasing the displacement of nickel ions and dispersion of diamond grains. A partition plate 
that separates the fluxing zone and depositing zone, and minimizes turbulent flow and improves 
deposition efficiency at the cathode is designed. The liquid is guided from the fluxing zone to the 
co-depositing zone through an array of holes and the gap between the partition plate and the 
bottom of the tank. A part of the electrolyte flows upward and circulates, while some part 
temporarily flows out of the tank to circulate outside. Significantly, the energy with which the 
solution impacts the micro substrate is reduced. The micro diamond grains can be uniformly 
dispersed in the liquid without aggregation. 
deposited amount and distribution rate of diamond grains in zone C are satisfactory because this 
zone has the lowest flux and it is at an appropriate distance from the anode, increasing the 
catching and fixing of the diamonds. Accordingly, zone C is selected as the co-deposition zone 
throughout the experiments. 
  
Fig. 5 Laddered co-deposition experiment Fig. 6 The function of chip pocket 
4.3 Experiment to identify optimal interval of chip pocket (cp) 
The abrasive must be enough fine in grain size and hard to generate exactly micro groove on 
the optical glass. The diamond grain with 0-2μm grade is given preference so as to have enough 
abrasives to participate in grinding in micro area and avoid blunting. The chip pocket in which 
indicates the interval among grains can store chips temporarily to prevent the obstruction of the 
wheel tool and blunting of the cutting edge as shown Fig. 6. 
An embedding rate of 50% for covering tightly the grain that has 0-2μm in diameter by nickel 
ions is suitable. For this reason, the grinding depth per stroke should be controlled exactly below 
1μm. Accordingly, the optimal interval of chip pocket (cp) among grains is 1-2μm. An 
experiment that controls the content of diamond grains per unit volume is conduct to determine 
the appropriate interval. Table 1 shows the co-depositing conditions. Figure 7 demonstrates the 
relationship between the content of diamond and the interval, and the surface roughness after the 
groove grinding. It is observable that the cp=1.6µm in average interval, while the surface 
roughness Ra=0.0309µm can be achieved when the content of diamond is set as 8 grams per litre. 
 Table 1. Co-deposition conditions  
 Ingredients  Range  
 Ni(NH2SO3)2•4H2O  450-550 (mℓ/ℓ)  
 Diamond grains  0-2 (µm) (5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 g/ℓ)  
 NiCl2•6H2O  6 (g/ℓ)  
 H3BO3  40 (g/ℓ)  
 Temperature  45 (°C)  
 pH  4  
  Current density  
30 min：1 ASD 
3 hr：10 ASD 
30 min：1 ASD 
 
Fig. 7 Effect of diamond content  Co-deposition time  4 hrs  
 
4.5 The influence of feed-rate 
The finished ultra thin wheel tool is moved directly to the grinding zone and employed in 
grinding the micro grooves on the optical glass. An experiment for grinding the hard-brittle 
material to get high accuracy and performance machining is carried out. The so called “high-
speed & fast-shallow grinding” approach in what uses very fast feed rate and very shallow 
grinding depth for machining the micro grooves is involved. Table 3 displays the grinding 
conditions. Figure 11 reveals the SEM microphotograph of the tentative results under different 
grinding speed. 
  
 Table 3. Hi-speed & fast-shallow grinding 
 Parameters  Conditions 
 Spindle speed  1125 (m/min) 
 Feed rate  300, 200, 100, 50 (mm/min) 
 Grinding depth  0.5 (µm/stroke) 
 Diamond grains  0-2 (µm), 8 (g/ℓ) 
 Coolant  Air 
     
Fig. 11 Representative SEM images of the 
finished micro grooves on the optical glass     
4.6 The influence of grinding depth 
To enhance the grinding efficiency to the optical glass, increasing the grinding depth is 
considered and assessed. The micro chipping has still been generated when using 1µm grinding 
depth. Since the cutting edge of the abrasive is so short that the removed chip is squeezed 
between the workpiece and the wheel tool. The grinding resistance increases following the more 
heavy squeezed force. Partial material removal is transferred to brittle regime causing the 
chipping occurred. In contrast, when the grinding depth is reduced down to 0.5µm/stroke, the 
micro groove can be ground smoothly because of the grinding resistance diminished. Figure 12 
proves the tested results. 
  
Fig. 12 The influence of grinding depth Fig. 13 Finished micro grooves grinding 
 
Pyrex glass with GC mold machined by dicing, Microsystem Technologies, Vol.13, 2006, pp.379-384 
5. C. S. Lim, M. H. Hong, A. S. Kumar, M. Rahman, X. D. Liuc, Fabrication of concave micro 
lens array using laser patterning and isotropic etching, International Journal of Machine 
Tools & Manufacture Vol.46, 2006, pp.552–558 
6. S. T. Chen, Y. C. Lai and C. C. Liu, Fabrication of a miniature diamond grinding tool using a 
hybrid process of micro-EDM and co-deposition, Journal of Micromechanics and 
Microengineering, Vol.18, No.5, 2008, (8pp) 
7. Marc De Vogelaere, Volkmar Sommer, Heike Springborn, Ursula Michelsen- Mohammadein, 
High-speed plating for electronic applications, Electrochimica Acta, Vol.47, 2001, pp.109-
116 
8. Saito C, 1979 The Construction and 100% Operational Skills of EDM (in Japanese) 
Mitsubishi Electric Ltd. pp 40-69 
 
2 
 
between the tool and workpiece [1]. Because of the machining mechanism for removing the 
material thickness of less than several microns is difficult, most mechanical processes cannot 
produce the workpiece with a high aspect ratio and high spatial resolution. On the other hand, 
positioning the micro workpiece and the micro tool on the existing machine tool and maintaining 
their machining accuracy are a real challenge. This main reason resulted from that the micro 
workpiece must be located on different working table with very high positioned accuracy during 
various processes. Although the approach used in the MEMS process, etching, electron beam, 
excimer laser and micro EDM can be employed for machining micro parts, some of these 
processes are expensive, some are poisonous and some are not able to break the metallic bond in 
difficult-to-machine materials [2]. 
Breaking from the traditional commercial wire cutting concept, a miniature precision 
technique that can fabricate the micro products with an extremely micro intricate slot-width on 
the difficult-to-machine materials is proposed in this study. The multidirectional miniature wire 
cutting device in which equips the steady system of wire-giving-receiving, the precision 
regulation system of wire tension, and the system of vibration-inhibition for controlling the 
stability of the tungsten wire with 13 µm in diameter is designed and employed to fabricate the 
micro products. The micro workpiece is clamped in the reverse direction on a miniature chuck 
that can provide a continuous, helical and indexical machining means. Using the developed 
machining technique, the partially finished micro part needs not be unloaded and repositioned 
until all the planned tasks are completed once the workpiece is mounted on the chuck. This 
increases the degree of freedom of machining, decreases the time of loading and unloading, and 
most importantly, the dimensional accuracy and geometry accuracy of the machined part can be 
guaranteed. 
2. EXPERIMENTAL APPARATUS 
2.1 Development of tabletop fabrication system 
For the most part, the micro w-EDM is carried out on a precision tabletop fabrication system 
as shown in Fig 1(a) designed in earlier research [3]. The fabrication system is a vertical type 
having a C-shape structure and including the functions of linear, circular and helical 
interpolation. The resolution and position accuracy of three axes are 0.1mm and 1mm, 
respectively. Currently, the fabrication system can also provide contact machining, non-contact 
machining and measuring technique on the same machine tool, such as micro high speed milling, 
micro EDMilling, micro co-deposition and on-line micro measuring. Each micro machining 
operation and measurement can all observe on-line through the high magnification toolmaker 
microscope. An exchangeable small working tank in which provides for different miniature 
apparatus for special machining process is designed on the fabrication system. The exchangeable 
tank is precisely mounted on the worktable via two taper pins and two locating bolt as shown Fig 
1(b). In this study, the designed miniature w-EDM device is installed in this exchangeable tank 
4 
 
  
(a) Micro w-EDM device design (b) V-groove design on the wire reel 
Fig. 2 Micro w-EDM device and precision V-groove design 
A so-called ‘reversed w-EDM process’ which the ultrafine tungsten wire is located beneath the 
micro workpiece is arranged and implemented in this study. In applying this method, the micro 
w-EDM device is mounted on the worktable while the micro workpiece is clamped on the 
miniature spindle by a micro chuck to accelerate the removal of debris and to eliminate the heat 
accumulated in the micro gap during machining. Machining can be carried out by a slantwise 
moving wire for the taper helical machining when adjusts the base of device to become slanting 
pose as shown in Fig. 2(a), The horizontal and vertical cutting can also be carried out whenever 
it is appropriate in fabricating a intricate part as depicted in the examples given in Fig. 3 without 
unloading, reloading and readjusting the micro workpiece. Via the reversed w-EDM, the 
discharge debris is spontaneously removed by gravity; the possible occurrence of short circuit 
discharge and the thermal deformation of the machined part are therefore minimized [4]. 
  
(a) Machining by horizontal wire arrangement (b) Machining by vertical wire arrangement  
Fig. 3 Machining directions planning for the ultrafine wire 
3. METHODOLOGY 
3.1 Electrical discharge power and servo feed control 
A discharge circuit of resistance capacitance (RC) is often employed as the micro EDM power 
6 
 
wire reel. The wire reel is subjected to a larger magnetic force and hence tightens the wire when 
d is deceased, and vice versa. Fig. 5(a) shows the regression relationship between the ultrafine 
wire tension T and the distance d. They can be expressed by the following equation, where k is 
the magnetic susceptibility. 
KTd2 =                       (2) 
Preliminary experiments of micro wire cutting on a piece of SUS304 plate, the optimal 
machined slot-width in which possesses of the narrowest and the smoothest slot is found, it is 
15.6 µm when taking the wire tension of 12.3 g, hence, the electric discharge gap on the single 
side is only 1.3 µm. Consequently, the corresponding distance d between two magnets is 1.5 mm 
as shown Fig. 5(b). Table 1 shows the machining conditions. 
Table 1. Parameters used in the experiment of slot-width machining 
Wire material Wire diameter Workpiece Polarity 
Tungsten wire f 13 µm SUS 304 Workpiece (+) 
Working voltage Capacitance  Feed rate Cutting thickness 
85 V 680 pF 0.1 mm/min 230 µm 
 
  
(a) Tension curve of ultrafine tungsten wire of 
the developed system 
(b) Relationship between the wire tension and 
the slot-width 
Fig. 5 Determination of optimum wire tension 
3.3 The proper design of miniature wire cutting device 
The high machining quality in micro w-EDM process is based on the excellent w-EDM device 
designed, besides using the appropriate electrical discharge conditions. Two important affecting 
factors including in the where of magnetic force driving and the stability of tungsten wire 
moving are determined to improve the machining accuracy for micro wire cutting. A simple 
experiment that changes the driving place of magnetic force is conducted for the better tension 
control. The machined slot presents an uneven surface at the edge of slot when the magnetic 
8 
 
dimensional accuracy of cutting slots are conducted to determine the proper working energy (i.e. 
the capacitance) and feed rate. They are the vertical and horizontal machining on the same wire 
cutting device, respectively (Referring to Fig. 3). Table 2 lists the machining conditions. Fig. 7 
shows the obtained dimension of slot-width and the corresponding to working capacitance under 
different machining feed rate and different discharge capacitance. 
Table 2. Machining conditions for the proper capacitance and feed rate 
Voltage Wire tension Workpiece Capacitance Feed rate 
85 V 12.3 g SUS304 
(t: 230 µm) 
100, 500, 680, 
1000 pF  
0.05, 0.10, 
0.15 mm/min 
From these experimental results, it can be readily concluded that the use of a capacitance of 
500 pF and feed rate of 0.05 mm/min results in a smallest slot-width of 14.5 µm, it implies that 
the smallest discharge gap is realized herein when taking vertical wire cutting. On the other hand, 
the smallest slot-width can be produced in 15.5 µm from horizontal wire cutting when using a 
capacitance of 680 pF and feed rate of 0.05 mm/min. The dimension of slot-width in the vertical 
cutting is smaller than that of the horizontal cutting since the debris deposed under vertical 
cutting is easier than that of the horizontal cutting. The debris is taken away downward due to 
gravity and the wire electrode running, hence the discharge short circuit and secondary discharge 
can be prevented in the gap. In addition, at the same working capacitance, it can be obtained a 
more small discharge gap resulting from a lower feed rate. As the foregoing, this is the reason 
that the metal burnt rate and the feed rate of wire electrode are kept under a state of balance.   
  
(a) Vertical wire cutting (b) Horizontal wire cutting 
Fig. 6 Determination of proper capacitance and feed rate 
The dimensional accuracy of the slot-width is very important in cutting micro parts. The kerf 
is consisted of the diameter of the ultrafine wire and two lateral discharge gaps. In our approach 
the slot-width is taken as the diameter of a micro tool, hence it has to be compensated by 
properly planning of the CNC tool path. After machining, the dimensional accuracy of the 
10 
 
A miniature relay device in which is designed with a dual comb-shaped electrode to be 
laterally driven through a vibrating actuator for the electric recording. The relay can be fast 
fabricated using the proposed technique. The machining method is shown as in the Fig. 3(b), a 
thin piece of SUS304 plate as a base material is horizontally clamped on the miniature chuck. 
The tungsten wire is vertically set up on the wire guide and cut the plate according to planned 
CNC path as shown in Fig. 8(a). Figure 8(b) shows the finished result. The stable wire running 
and wire moving would have resulted in the uniform smooth slot machining. Measuring under 
the SEM microphotograph reveals that the spacing of the cutting slot is only 15 µm where can 
correspond with the demanded accuracy of the micro relay. 
  
(a) Design and machining scheme of the relay (b) SEM microphotograph of the finished relay 
Fig. 8 Verification of vertical wire cutting mode 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
A novel miniature device for performing the precision micro wire cutting is successfully 
developed. The device in which equips with a tension regulator, a vibrating absorber and a pair 
of reels with precision micro V-groove to exactly control the tension and the stability of the wire 
is mounted in the designed exchangeable working tank. The possible vibration of the micro wire 
can be suppressed. The ultrafine tungsten wire with 13 µm in diameter is employed on the device 
by vertical or horizontal arrangement according to the need. An approach of magnetic coupling 
force to determine the appropriate tension of the ultrafine wire is also proposed and proved 
effective. Experimental results indicate the smallest and smoothest slot-width 14.5 µm can be 
obtained by vertical wire cutting. Two examples including micro Taipei landmark and micro 
relay are planned and machined successfully. In addition, a better machining efficiency and high 
dimensional and geometrical accuracy can be achieved with this technique. The developed micro 
w-EDM technique which is rapid, cost effective, environment friendly and easily controllable 
provides another alternative for manufacturing micro parts, particularly the 3-D intricate parts, 
and is expected to contribute to the field of precision industry. 
 
