2中文摘要:3D 立體視覺技術應用服務逐漸成為新世代網路服務重心，由於網路資源有限，所以容易造
成網路封包遺失、跳動、延遲等現象。使得網路傳輸資料量大之 3D 立體視訊品質不穩定。因此在網路
資源及網路品質變動下，針對高品質多媒體(如 3D 立體視訊)傳輸提供穩定的傳輸品質是重要的議題。
在本計畫裡，我們提出「立體視訊串流傳輸之品質服務網路系統設計(Design of Network QoS System for
3-D Video Streaming Transmission)」。依據 3D 立體視訊(即多視角視訊)影像提出視訊品質服務保證策略。
以服務等級協議進行視訊流量排程與管理，達到高品質的視訊網路傳輸。計畫裡提出整合應用端與網
路端之立體視訊串流傳輸的跨層級服務管理，第一階段於應用層進行研究分析，根據多視角攝影機資
訊(攝影機狀態參數)及影像編碼資訊(影像內容品質參數)，動態調整立體視訊網路傳輸的影像品質，提
供應用層角度的立體視訊串流傳輸品質服務。
關鍵詞：視訊串流、多視角視訊串流、品質服務、跨層級服務
英文摘要：3D video technology has become a key application in network service. Because of the limitation
of network bandwidth, there will be packet loss, jitter and delay in the delivery of 3D video transmission. So,
providing a stable quality of transmission is an essential issue. In this project, we propose a quality guarantee
strategy for 3D video streaming named “Design of Network QoS System for 3-D Video Streaming
Transmission”. This work contains three stages. In the first stage, the rate control method will be provided to
adapt the different domain of clients for 3D video delivery in application layer.
keywords: video streaming, multi-view video stream, QoS, cross-layer service management.
前言
近年來由於多媒體處理技術發展，Full HD 1080P高畫質螢幕、藍光高畫質影像光碟，高畫質、高
品質多媒體影音形成一股趨勢，隨著高畫質顯示器技術及微機電半導體技術發展成熟，3D顯示器成為
大勢所趨，以3D立體視覺顯示技術引領所帶動發展的3D立體影像科技，在3D CG及數位高畫質影像技
術基礎上，已成為下一波全球多媒體技術發展的目標。國內方面，2007年開始，奇美、友達、華映等
顯示器廠商紛紛推出一系列3D立體顯示器並於相關國內外展覽會上發表。研究機構及學術界如工研
院、台大、交大、清大、成大及中正等分別在3D立體顯示、3D立體影像處理及3D互動技術投入相關研
發，而工研院為推動國內3D立體影像技術研發、交流與產業應用發展，結合國內產、學、研成立3D互
動影像顯示產業聯盟(3DIDA)，設研發、標準及產業應用推動工作組群，並與顯示器廠商成立量測與標
準工作群組，開發3D立體影像量測技術，並將擬訂量測標準程序建議，提供國際標準組織進行標準訂
4視訊編碼(MVC: Multi-view Video Coding)的研究議題討論，根據多視角編碼資料特性、多視角應用情
境及網路傳輸進行議題討論[3-10]。一類是專注應用端研究，於多媒體的編碼與壓縮演算法，探討如何
針對高品質影音提供如高壓縮率影音處理機制，且依據編碼演算法的錯誤修補(Error Concealment)機制
進行多媒體串流資料傳輸錯誤或遺失時的影像修補，使得高品質多媒體網路傳輸能使用最少的網路資
源[11-13]。另一類是專注於網路端研究，將網路流量進行分類，依照時間需求性高低(Time-consuming)，
提供不同的服務，即差異性服務(Differential Service)，對高時間需求的網路服務，如即時性網路服務(網
路影像、網路電話等…)提供較高時間優先權的服務提供，相反的，較低時間需求的網路服務，如網頁、
電子郵件、檔案傳輸等服務，提供較低時間優先權的服務提供[14-16]。
計畫將依據立體視訊，即多視角視訊之影像資料特性，進行具品質服務之立體視訊串流傳輸研究
與系統設計之計畫，除了分別進行應用端與網路端研究外，更進一步提出針對多視角多媒體串流傳輸
進行整合應用端與網路端之跨層級服務管理。計畫研究內容分為三階層以達到多視角多媒體視訊品質
之網路品質服務提供，第一階段於應用層進行研究分析，根據不同的應用端以及多媒體的編碼與壓縮
演算法，提供舒適之傳輸介面，使得高品質多媒體網路傳輸使用最少的網路資源並使應用端能收到影
音。第二階段於網路層進行研究分析，將網路流量進行分類，依照傳輸時間需求性高低
(Time-consuming)，提供不同的服務，即差異性服務(Differential Service)，對高時間需求的多媒體資料
內容提供較高時間優先權的服務提供，低時間需求的網路服務則提供較低時間優先權的服務提供。第
三階段統整應用層與網路層，進行跨層級之多視角多媒體視訊服務管理，提供符合使用者需求(應用層)
及網路資源分配與管理(網路層)之立體視訊串流傳輸，由於應用層服務等級提供越高(傳輸越高品質或
越多視角之立體視訊)，則佔用越多的網路層資源(網路傳輸頻寬需求越高)，因此應用層與網路層的服
務提供是互相牽制(Tradeoff)的關係，如何有效的掌握應用層與網路層的資源狀況，並提出完善的服務
管理策略，即是本計畫之研究發展重點。
圖 2、3D-MOD 立體視訊串流傳輸之品質服務網路系統計畫研究概念
參考文獻：
614. Huey-Min Sun and Yung-Chuan Lin, “The Effect of Video Quality for Different Contents, Frame
Rates and Bit Rates,”National Computer Symposium (NCS), Jan 2005, Taiwan.
15. Huey-Min Sun; Yung-Chuan Lin and Wen-Lin Cheng, “Discussing The Influence on Different
Video Content Characteristics by the Subjective Quality Measurement Method,”The 17th
International Conference on Information Management (ICIM 2006), May 2006, Taiwan.
16. Huey-Min Sun; Yung-Chuan Lin and LihChyun Shu., “The Influence of Perceived Quality by
Adjusting Frames Per Second and Bits Per Frame under the Limited Bandwidth,”Lecture Notes in
Computer Science, Vol. 4781, 2007, p.p. 230-241.
研究方法
3D視訊顯示技術是未來發展的新方向。Multi-view video(MVV)可以改變人類看電視的習慣，並成
為多媒體娛樂的推動力，無論是桌上型電腦或是行動裝置。一個MVV系統會從同一個場景中，同時得
到多個來自不同角度的視訊資料，並傳送這些資料。
對於多視角影像應用上，Multi- view coding(MVC)是主要的核心技術之一。Multi- view coding(MVC)
被設計能夠有效壓縮多視角影像，並且提供隨機視角存取、視角可調式等等功能。對於提供自由觀看
視角影像的應用上，這些功能是必要的。
由於3D視訊影像串流需要同時得到多個來自不同角度的視訊資料，每當Multi-View Video增加一個
視角，資料量都會呈倍數增加，因此，所需要的網路頻寬也會大量增加。當網路條件不佳，網路上的
可用頻寬不足時，會造成接收端多媒體資訊延遲或遺失，影響到接收端畫面的流暢度和完整性，這對
於觀看者而言，是難以忍受的。因此，我們需要一些策略來避免因為網路可用頻寬不足，所造成的延
遲或遺失。因此，我們提出利用每個視角所需的網路頻寬，設定出層級，每個層級有相應的視角數量
和視角編號，再利用目前的網路可用頻寬來選擇可以滿足目前網路條件的層級。省略了Extractor，我們
將功能直接實作在Joint Multi-view Video Model(JMVM)的Assembler上，節省了在server上效能的消耗。
JMVM編碼時，不同視角的影像，編碼後會產生不同的位元串流，JMVM增加了Assembler這一個
步驟，將不同的位元串流合成為一個包含所有視角的位元串流，再經由給予Extractor參數operation point
的數值，來選擇要保留的視角。因此，我們考慮將Extractor的功能直接實作在Assembler上，在將不同
視角的位元串流合成一個位元串流前，就先決定好要被包含的視角。所以，合成出來的位元串流，只
會包含被選到的視角ID，我們就可以直接送到網路，不用再經過Extractor，可以節省在server端效能的
消耗。
Fig. 3 (a) Flow chart of original multi-view coding (b) Flow chart of multi-view coding without extractor
83. Select View Layer
得到傳送每個layer所需要的網路頻寬後，我們利用從client偵測到的可用頻寬資訊，來選擇可以滿足
目前網路條件的layer。我們比較網路條件與設定的Bandwidth Layer資訊，依據比較結果重新設定View
Layer。假設View Layer設定為0、2、3，若網路可用頻寬只夠提供到View Layer為0、2時，我們便將View
Layer重新設定為0、2；若網路條件可以滿足全部的View Layer，則View Layer維持不變。
4. View Selection
設定好最後要傳送的View Layer後，我們比較每個frame中NAL header的view id，只保留View Layer
中有包含的視角，完成我們的視角選擇機制。
Simulation Results
實驗環境包含一台主機作為server，一台主機作為client。主機間網路連線採用local area
network(LAN)，並利用頻寬限制器來動態調整兩台主機之間的網路可用頻寬。server端由JMVM編碼程
式將多視角影像壓縮成H.264格式，接收自client端的顯示需求和頻寬偵測軟體測試目前網路的頻寬狀
態，再由Assembler合成出滿足目前網路條件的視訊串流，透過網路傳送到客戶端，由客戶端解碼得到
的視訊資料。
Fig. 5 System Architecture
影像資料我們使用ballroom ( 640x480, 25fps, cameras with 20cm spacing)，我們選擇四個視角的影像
資料。針對每一個視角，我們採用GOP size等於5， 的編碼方式，每一個GOP之
間都是獨立的。表格中為四個視角的View id與平均Bitrate。
Table 2. Bitrate of Ballroom with different view id
Encoded file View id Bitrate(kbps)
ballroom_0.264 0 845
ballroom_1.264 1 1083
ballroom_2.264 2 854
ballroom_3.264 3 943
我們使用頻寬限制器動態調整server和client之間的網路頻寬，來測試我們的視角選擇策略。圖(4)
顯示，當client設定selectv為3時，Birate的變化，視角數量的變化，解碼之後得到的影像。
10
(b)
(c)
Fig. 7 Client set selectv to 1: (a)variation of video bitrate (b)the number of views (c)the decoded video
由實驗結果顯示，當網路條件變動時，我們可以動態調整位元串流所包含的視角，滿足目前的網
路頻寬，並在網路頻寬足夠時，以滿足client端的需求為優先。
結果與討論
這篇論文中，我們提出利用每個視角所需的網路頻寬，設定出層級，每個層級有相應的視角數量
和視角編號，再利用目前的網路可用頻寬來選擇可以滿足目前網路條件的層級。
實驗結果顯示，當網路條件變化時，我們可以動態調整位元串流所包含的視角，滿足目前的網路
頻寬，並在網路頻寬足夠時，以滿足client端的需求為優先。
論文發表
1. Yi-Mao Hsiao, Jeng-Farn Lee, Jai-Shiarng Chen and Yuan-Sun Chu, “H.264 Video Transmissions over
Wireless Networks: Challenges and Solutions, " Computer Communications 2011, pp.1661-1672. (SCI,
EI)
2. Jui-Pin Yang and Yuan-Sun Chu, “Pushout with Differentiated Dropping for High Speed
Networks," ICTTA 2011, May 2-4, Sydney Ausstralia, May 2011. (EI)
3. Yi-Mao Hsiao, Su-Wei Yeh, Jai-Shiarng Chen and Yuan-Sun Chu," A Design of Bandwidth
Adaptive Multimedia Gateway for Scalable Video Coding," IEEE APCCAS, Malaysia Dec.6-8.
2010. (EI)
2011年國際電信技術與應用學術會議(International Conference on
Telecommunication Technology and Applications)於2011年5月2日到
2011年5月4日在澳洲雪梨的Rydges Bankstown Hotel舉行。此會議屬
於小型的國際學術會議，大約有一百多位人士與會。參與的成員大部
分為澳洲、美國與亞洲的研究學者，發表最新的電信技術與應用。此
會議由國際著名學術機構：國際電腦科學與資訊科技協會
(International Association of Computer Science and Information
Technology)負責籌畫，同一時間地點也舉辦國際電腦通訊與管理會議
(International Conference on Computer Communication and Management)
以及國際智慧型建築與管理會議 (International Conference on
Intelligent Building and Management)，因此內容相當充實。
本次參與會議主題涵蓋範圍如下；
•Algorithms and Techniques
• 3G & 4G Mobile Communication Services
• Agents and Multi-Agents systems for ICT Integrated Circuits for
communications
• Antennas & Propagation
• Automation, Control and Robotics
• Bioinformatics and Bioengineering
• Biosignal Processing
• Business Information Systems
• Broadband & Inteligent networks
• Computational Inteligence
• Communication Systems
• Data Base Management
• Data Mining and Data fusion
• E-Commerce & E-government
• E-Health & Biomedical applications
Differentiated Dropping for High-Speed Networks』。報告結束之後，
有一些學者提問與建議，使我獲益良多。出席 ICTTA 2011 國際會
議照片如下；
二、與會心得
在國際學術會議中以英文發表自己的研究成果，並與與會人士相
互交流是非常難得且珍貴的經驗，也提供不同的思考模式，相信對於
未來研究能量的提升有很大的幫助。此外會議內容是最新的研究成
Pushout with Differentiated Dropping for High-Speed
Networks
Jui-Pin Yang 1 and Yuan-Sun Chu 2
1 Department of Information Technology and Communication, Shih-Chien University
2 Department of Electrical Engineering, National Chung-Cheng University
Abstract. Pushout (PO) queue management scheme is capable of fair buffer
utilization and good loss performance, but it is possessed of high
implementation complexity and poor protection against short-term burstiness
of lightly loaded flows. To improve above drawbacks, a simple but efficient
scheme, pushout with differentiated dropping (PDD), is proposed in this
paper. We design a weight function to estimate the weight of each active
flow according to corresponding traffic intensity, which provides
discriminative packet treatment when the buffer is full. The PDD maintains
two records, that is, maximum and sub-maximum products of queue length
and weight value. By comparing both with that of each arrival packet, the
PDD can correctly decide to accept, push out or discard the new arrival.
Simulation results show that PDD scheme can support better fair bandwidth
sharing than that of PO.
Keywords: pushout, differentiated dropping, queue management
1. Introduction
When a network router is equipped with an adequate queue management scheme,
low packet loss probability and high throughput are achievable. Furthermore, it is
beneficial to enhance fair bandwidth sharing and make the congestion control
mechanisms easier [1-2]. Roughly, we could classify the queue management schemes
into three kinds of categories including static threshold, dynamic thresholds and
ISBN 978-1-84626-xxx-x
Proceedings of International Conference on Telecom Technology and Applications
(ICTTA 2011)
Australia, 2-4 May, 2011, pp. xxx-xxx
the ActiveList of the DRR. When active flow j has empty queue, we do not remove
flow j from the ActiveList unless 0k,jm . This can reduce the frequency to insert or
remove records from the ActiveList. k,jI denotes the intensity estimation of active
flow j during time interval k, which is computed as:
1
1 1 
 

 k,jp
T
k,j
pk,j I)w(RC
m
wI
(1)
After flow intensity estimation, we would like to design a weight function. The
main idea of the PDD is that those flows with lower flow intensity will be assigned a
lower weight value. There are many probable choices to assign the weight values. The
simplest approach is to make the weight value of each flow linearly increase relative
to its flow intensity. However, the may lead to insufficient discrimination. Therefore,
a suitable weight function can greatly upgrade the fairness of bandwidth sharing.
Based on our simulations and analysis, we design a non-linear weight function in
which active flows with lower intensity are given relatively smaller weight values,
while active flows with higher intensity are given relatively larger weight values. We
select a particular weight function in equation (2) because it can differentiate active
flows. Here,  is a parameter and kjWF , is the weight value of active flow j during
time interval k.









1
1011
k,ik,i
k,ik,i
k,i II
I)I)((log
WF
 (2)
Next, the PDD maintains two records that have the maximum and sub-maximum
products of queue length and weight value using the max and submax variables. When
the full is filled up, the PDD estimates the product of queue length and weight value
of the arrival packet. By comparing its product with that of flow max and submax,
three actions are involved to deal with the arrival including acceptance, pushout or
discard. Equation (3) means that at least h resided packets with product max will be
pushed out (from the head of flow queue max), in order to make sufficient room to
Fig 1: Pseudo codes of the PDD scheme
3. Simulation Results
We consider a single congested link between two routers and both have the same
configuration which is composed of PDD (compared PO) queue management and
DRR scheduling. All network links have the same link capacity 10C Mbps. The
other parameters are set as follows; 10N , 20B Kbytes, 3.0pW , 16TR ms
and 10 . Each flow generates packets by a specific OFFON traffic model.
Furthermore, each flow has infinite data to transmit. To simplify the computer
simulations, we assume that all packets have the same size of 1 Kbytes. Ultimately,
total simulation time is set at 200 seconds and quantum size in the DRR is set at 1
Kbytes. We compare the performance of fair bandwidth sharing between PDD and PO.
Our previous surveys proved that the PO performs better than threshold-based
schemes [6]. Consequently, only the PO is selected as a comparison with PDD in
overall simulations. A pushout operation may involve one or more resided packets to
be pushed out that leads to additional overheads. Therefore, low packet pushout
probability is preferred. Unless otherwise specified, all parameters are applied to our
simulations.
In Figure 2, we plot normalized bandwidth ratio for each flow under different
buffer sizes. There are 10 flows, indexed from 1 to 10, and flows transmit several
times more than max-min fair rate. We describe average traffic load for each flow as
is set at 10 Kbytes. This may encourage network users to violate congestion control
mechanisms because they are able to occupy more bandwidth. Therefore, this may
greatly aggravate congestion. In the PDD, the flow 8 obtains the largest normalized
bandwidth ratio near 1.08. Higher traffic intensity will result in relatively higher
weights, so flow 10 properly obtains ideal normalized bandwidth ratio near 1.02.
When B is set at 60 Kbytes, both schemes equip with sufficient buffer size that
contribute to individual approximately best fairness. From the simulations, the PDD
not only achieves good fairness but also benefits to congestion control mechanisms.
In Figure 3, we discuss the effect of different average traffic loads which consist
of [1 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.8 1.9 (Mbps)]. All flows have close average traffic
loads, so their weights are approaching. In the PO, the flow 10 occupies the largest
normalized bandwidth ratio near 1.21 when B is set at 10 Kbytes. As for the PDD,
the flow 10 obtains the largest normalized bandwidth ratio near 1.12 when B is set
at 10 Kbytes. Besides, flow 1 obtains better fairness than that of Figure 3 under
various buffer sizes. The reason is that the probability of a full buffer becomes lower,
so more arrival packets of flow 1 are admitted to enter the buffer. From Figure 1 and
Figure 2, the PDD always provides better fairness than that of PO under different
traffic conditions.
Fig. 3: Normalized bandwidth ratio versus per flow under different buffer sizes
and average traffic loads from 1 Mbps to 1.9 Mbps
In Figure 4, we change the configuration that consists of different number of
function that contributes to provide more stable and good performance. In a word, the
PDD is a simple but effective queue management scheme suitable for high-speed
networks.
5. Acknowledgements
The authors acknowledge support under NSC Grant NSC 99-2221-E-158-003,
Taiwan, R.O.C.
6. References
[1] B. Braden. Recommendations on queue management and congestion avoidance in
the Internet. RFC 2309.
[2] A. Mankin, k. Ramakrishnan. Gateway congestion control survey. RFC 1254.
[3] M. Irland, Buffer management in a packet switch. IEEE Trans. Commun. COM-26
1978: 328-337.
[4] F. Kamoun, L. Kleinrock. Analysis of shared finite storage in a computer node
environment under general traffic conditions. IEEE Trans. Commun. COM-28
1980: 992-1003.
[5] A. K. Choudhury, E. L. Hahne. Dynamic queue length thresholds for
shared-memory packet switches. IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw. 6 (2) 1998: 130-140.
[6] J. P. Yang. Performance analysis of threshold-based selective drop mechanism for
high performance packet switches. Performance Evaluation, 57 2004: 89-103.
[7] S.X. Wei, E.J. Coyle, M-T.T. Hsiao. An optimal buffer management policy for
high-performance packet switching. in: Proceedings of GLOBECOM’91 1991, 
924-928.
[8] I. Cidon, L. Georgiadis, R. Guerin. Optimal buffer sharing. IEEE J. Sel. Areas
Commun. 13 (7) 1995: 1229-1239.
[9] S. Floyd and V. Jacobson. Random early detection for congestion avoidance.
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, 1(4), 1993: 397-413.
nt carefully.
2. Format your paper according to the Template carefully.
http://www.ictta.org/isi.template.doc (DOC Format)
3. Download and complete the Registration Form.
http://www.ictta.org/reg.doc (English)
4.Finish the payment of Registration fee by Credit Card. (The
detailed information can be found in the Registration form)
http://www.ictta.org/reg.doc (English)
5. Finish the Copyright Form
http://www.ictta.org/copyright.doc
6. Send your final papers (both .doc and .pdf format), filled registration fo
rm (.doc format), and copyright form (.jpg format) to us at ictta@vip.163.
com. (Before February 15, 2011) 2011 International Conference on
Telecom Technology and Applications (ICTTA 2011)
If the above requirements are met by the set deadlines, All r
egistered papers of ICTTA 2011 will be published in the Conf
erence proceedings, and will be indexed by Thomson ISI Proc
eedings. About 10 selected papers from the registered ones will
be published in the International Journal of Computer Theory an
d Engineering (IJCTE, ISSN: 1793-8201) free of charge..
Maybe some unforeseeable events could prevent a few authors not to atte
nd the event to present their papers, so
if you and your co-author(s) could not attend ICTTA 2011 to present your
paper for some reasons, please inform us. And we will send you, the offi
cial receipt of registration fee and proceedings after ICTTA 2011 free of c
harge. Please strictly adhere to the format specified in the conference tem
plate while preparing your final paper. If you have any problem in prepari
ng the final paper, please feel free to contact us via ictta@vip.163.com. F
or the most updated information on the conference, please check
the conference website at
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/19
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫二：立體視訊串流傳輸之品質服務網路系統設計(I)
計畫主持人: 朱元三
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-194-047- 學門領域: 積體電路及系統設計
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
