 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫年度報告 
以本體論為基之醫療知識整合服務系統設計與實現(I) 
Design and Implementation of an Ontology-based Medical Knowledge  
Integrated Service System (I) 
 
             計畫編號：NSC96-2218-E-037-002/NSC96-2218-E-327-005 
             執行期限：96 年 08 月 01 日至 97 年 07 月 31 日 
             主持人：陳育仁 國立高雄第一科技大學 會計資訊學系 
   共同主持人：陳裕民 國立成功大學 製造工程研究所 
               李金德 私立高雄醫學大學 醫療資訊管理學系 
   計畫參與人員：陳學聖 國立成功大學 製造工程研究所 
                           郭芷吟、王興政、鄭翊君 高雄醫學大學 醫療資訊管理學系 
                Abstract 
Collaboration among healthcare 
organizations depends on coordination, 
communication and control among 
healthcare organizations and effective 
sharing of medical information and 
knowledge.  
Medical services are 
knowledge-intensive activities. All 
information, knowledge, techniques and 
experience should be integrated, managed 
and shared using the Internet and 
information technology. Overall medical 
service quality and efficiency would be 
improved markedly if medical professionals 
and staff at different healthcare 
organizations could use and share medical 
knowledge resources. Therefore, a 
collaborative medical knowledge service 
would promote medical service quality. 
    This study presents a novel medical 
knowledge service system for 
cross-organizational healthcare collaboration 
such that all medical professionals and staff 
at different healthcare organizations could 
capture, store, manage, integrate and share 
medical knowledge. This system should 
improve medical service quality and 
efficiency, and promote competition in the 
healthcare industry. Thus, this study (i) 
proposes a collaborative medical knowledge 
service model, (ii) designs a collaborative 
medical knowledge service system 
framework, (iii) develops this proposed 
system, and (iv) evaluates the developed 
system based on user satisfaction. 
Keywords: Medical knowledge, knowledge 
service, collaboration, medical 
information system 
 
1. Introduction 
    The increasing complexity of medical 
services has generated an enormous 
requirement for knowledge and information 
specification at all stages of the medical 
services, including diagnosis, physical 
examination, treatment, surgical operation 
etc [11][16]. Each stage involves various 
aspects of medical knowledge and 
experience. They are the most valuable 
sources for capitalizing medical knowledge 
and know-how on building hospital memory, 
which may become part of hospital assets. 
Therefore, managing and sharing medical 
knowledge is the basis of and one of the key 
tasks in medical knowledge management.  
    Collaboration among healthcare 
organizations is an industry strategy for 
promoting competition [2][6][14][20][22]. 
The principal concept in this strategy is to 
use a systematic method and collaborative 
procedure when providing medical services. 
Additionally, for all related problems 
originating from each step in performing a 
medical service activity should be 
considered and effectively solved. Medical 
services utilize a wide range of applications, 
medical information, knowledge, techniques 
and experience; hence, a practical method 
 4
system framework, (iii) develops the 
medical knowledge service system and (iv) 
evaluates the developed system based on 
user satisfaction. 
    The remainder of this paper is organized 
as follows. Section 2 defines and 
characterizes cross-organizational healthcare 
collaboration, the process modeling of this 
collaboration, and the collaborative medical 
knowledge work model. Section 3 presents 
the functional requirements, system 
management framework, and system 
configuration framework. Section 4 
elucidates system modeling using Unified 
Modeling Language (UML), including 
functional modeling, structural modeling, and 
behavioral modeling. Section 5 shows results 
of a prototype medical knowledge service 
system implementation, an application 
example, and system evaluation from user 
satisfaction. Section 6 gives conclusions and 
directions for future work.  
 
2. Collaborative Medical Knowledge 
Service Model 
The characteristics of a 
cross-organizational healthcare 
collaboration are first identified. Based on 
these characteristics, a process model for 
cross-organizational healthcare 
collaboration is then established using 
process modeling methodology. Finally, the 
collaborative medical knowledge service 
model is utilized for development of the 
medical knowledge service system.  
 
2.1 Definition and characterization of 
cross-organizational healthcare 
collaboration 
“Collaboration” is a broad term that is 
used here to mean the informal cooperative 
relationships that build the shared vision and 
understanding needed for conceptualizing 
cross-functional linkages in the context of 
knowledge-intensive activities. 
Collaboration facilitates the acquisition and 
integration of resources through external 
integration and cooperation with other 
cooperative or supporting organizations, 
which is conducted based on consensus, 
trust, cooperation, and sharing by a 
multi-functional team of experienced 
knowledge workers. Collaboration is thus 
essential to knowledge generation and 
transfer.  
Based on this concept of collaboration, 
cross-organizational healthcare 
collaboration can be defined as a 
collaborative process for healthcare 
organizations that is an integrated, 
distributed and cooperative process, in 
which individuals in different disciplines 
cooperate via remote coordination, 
communication and control. The key to 
successful collaboration among healthcare 
organizations is complete understanding and 
effective sharing of medical resources, such 
as data, information, knowledge and 
application systems throughout the medical 
service cycle.  
    A collaborative process for healthcare 
organizations can be generated by 
outsourcing or subcontracting some medical 
services. These practices rely heavily on: (1) 
remote process formation, control, 
coordination and communication, (2) loose 
integration between medical services, 
application systems and knowledge, (3) 
management and sharing of medical 
knowledge from heterogeneous resources, 
and (4) easy and quick changes in the 
process itself when need for change exists.  
 
2.2 Process modeling of 
cross-organizational healthcare 
collaboration 
    Modeling a process for 
cross-organizational healthcare 
collaboration involves representing the 
characteristics and behaviors of process 
elements and their relationships. According 
to the analysis of characteristics in Section 
2.1, a process of cross-organizational 
healthcare collaboration can be seen as a 
complex dynamic system consisting of 
cooperative processes, in which each 
process is an activity flow triggered by 
real-word events and are performed by 
various medical organizational units using 
tools to process medical services.  
    Most process modeling methodologies 
use an activity as the basic modeling 
 6
hospital information systems (e.g. 
interactions among medical team members 
and the interactions between hospital 
information systems used when performing 
a medical service). A medical service 
activity can interact with none or any 
number of other medical service activities. 
Likewise, a medical service activity may 
have none or any number of server 
healthcare organizations. The resources that 
support a medical service activity can be 
tools, actors or reference knowledge.  
    Medical service activities in 
cross-organization healthcare processes can 
be classified as real medical service 
activities and virtual medical service 
activities. A medical service activity is real 
when it is performed by the leading 
healthcare organization. A medical service 
activity is virtual when it is outsourced or 
subcontracted, or supported by other 
healthcare organizations. Virtual medical 
service activities can be further classified as 
outsourced medical service activities, 
collaborative medical service activities, and 
cooperative medical service activities. The 
first class of medical service activities are 
those outsourced to and completed by a 
server healthcare organization without 
interactions with real medical service 
activities. The second class of medical 
service activities are those outsourced to and 
performed by a server healthcare 
organization with interactions with real 
medical service activities. The third class of 
medical service activities are those 
performed cooperatively by both the client 
healthcare organization and one or more 
consulting healthcare organizations. The 
inputs to medical service activities can be 
from the leading healthcare organization or 
allied healthcare organizations. Similarly, 
outputs from medical service activities can 
be sent to the leading healthcare 
organizations or allied healthcare 
organizations.  
    Higher-level medical service activities 
in cross-organization healthcare processes 
can be further decomposed into low-level 
medical service activities. This forms the 
hierarchical structure of cross-organization 
healthcare processes (Fig. 2), and reflects 
the hierarchical distributed, cooperative, and 
dynamic nature of cross-organization 
healthcare.  
 
 
Figure 2. Structure of the cross-organization 
healthcare process 
 
2.3 Collaborative medical knowledge 
service model  
    Figure 3 presents a collaborative 
medical knowledge service model. First, 
medical professionals and staff can capture 
all the medical records, images and related 
tacit knowledge originated from a medical 
service activity, and then immediately store 
this knowledge in a medical knowledge 
repository that encompasses illness 
description, medical drawings, medical 
images, medical data, clinical experience, 
and clinical intent and skills. Once a 
healthcare service activity is completed, the 
medical knowledge stored in the medical 
knowledge repository will be transferred to 
a historical medical knowledge case 
repository for future use by medical 
professionals and staff. 
    Furthermore, medical professionals and 
staff can solve clinical problems when 
performing medical service using the 
following five methods: (1) search for 
historical medical report or images from the 
historical medical knowledge repository, (2) 
search for similar historical medical 
knowledge cases from the historical medical 
knowledge case repository, (3) retrieve 
medical news/articles, including medical 
 8
 
Figure 4. Process model for identifying 
medical knowledge 
 
 
Figure 5. Medical service scenario and 
related medical knowledge 
 
Figure 6. Medical knowledge classification 
 
‧Who uses what medical knowledge and 
how that medical knowledge is used 
    Functional requirements for utilizing 
medical knowledge can be first identified by 
analyzing the behavior of each medical 
knowledge class identified in the paragraph 
above. These requirements are enhanced to 
meet the needs of cross-organization 
healthcare.  
(1) Capturing explicit and tacit medical 
knowledge: Medical professionals and 
staff can capture explicit medical 
knowledge (e.g., medical records and 
medical examination values) and tacit 
medical knowledge (e.g. treatment 
intents, surgical techniques and 
experience) during a medical service 
activity and store this knowledge in the 
medical knowledge repository.  
(2) Revising medical knowledge: If a 
medical professional needs to revise 
explicit or tacit medical knowledge, 
he/she can obtain the item from the 
medical knowledge repository, revise it, 
and then store it again in the medical 
knowledge repository.  
(3) Archiving medical knowledge: Once a 
medical service activity ends, the 
explicit and tacit medical knowledge 
stored in the medical knowledge 
repository will be immediately 
transferred to the historical medical 
knowledge case repository for future 
use.  
(4) Searching for historical medical 
knowledge: Medical personnel can 
search for particular medical knowledge 
case that are similar to a given medical 
service activity in the historical medical 
knowledge case repository. The 
efficiency of a healthcare service activity 
can be enhanced by referring to similar 
cases. Moreover, medical personnel can 
search for historical medical reports, 
image files and learning cases using the 
search function for the historical medical 
knowledge case repository. 
(5) Learning from medical news/articles: 
The development of medical techniques 
is becoming increasingly diversified, 
medical personnel can retrieve medical 
documents and studies  from the 
medical document database to learn 
about medical news or studies and 
 10
‧ Security management: Security 
management protects the internal 
knowledge resources of healthcare 
organizations.  
‧Medical knowledge repository: Based on 
the medical knowledge discussed in 
Section 3.1, the medical knowledge 
repository has an activity-based medical 
knowledge repository, historical medical 
knowledge case repository, medical 
document repository, and user/specialist 
repository. In these repositories, the 
representation of each class of medical 
knowledge and their relationships are 
presented, as shown in Fig. 8.  
 
Figure 7. System management framework of 
medical knowledge service 
Figure 8. Medical knowledge content 
representation 
 
3.3 System architecture design 
    The proposed system, which has a 
distributed, cooperative and autonomous 
configuration, supports medical knowledge 
services in a cross-organizational healthcare 
collaboration process, as shown in Fig. 9.  
    After process configuration and 
virtualization, the environment of the 
medical knowledge service system is 
configured to reflect the structure of the 
process. Copies of the medical knowledge 
repository management component, medical 
knowledge case repository management 
component, medical document repository 
management component, and user/specialist 
repository management component are 
installed on servers at the leading hospital. 
Similarity, copies of the medical knowledge 
repository management component, medical 
knowledge case repository management 
 12
4.2 Structural modeling (class diagram) 
    The class diagram is a static model that 
shows the classes and relationships among 
classes that remain constant in the system 
over time. The class diagram depicts classes, 
which include both behaviors and states, and 
relationships between classes. The following 
seven-step process is described to create a 
class diagram for the medical knowledge 
service system as shown in Fig. 12.  
Step 1. Create 
class-responsibility-collaboration 
(CRC) cards: The CRC cards are 
created by performing textual 
analysis to use case descriptions. 
Figure 11 shows a sample CRC card.  
Step 2. Examine common object lists: The 
second step is to brainstorm 
additional candidate objects, 
attributes, operations, and 
relationships using the common 
object list approach.  The following 
questions are utilized. What are the 
tangible things associated with the 
problem? What are the roles played 
by people in the problem domain? 
What incidents and interactions 
occur in the problem domain?.  
Step 3. Role-play the CRC cards: The third 
step is to role-play each use case 
using the CRC cards. Each CRC card 
should be assigned to an individual 
who performs the operations for the 
class on the CRC card.  
Step 4. Create a class diagram: The fourth 
step is to create a class diagram 
based on the CRC cards. This 
procedure is equivalent to creating 
the use case diagram from use case 
descriptions. Information on the 
CRC cards is simply transferred to 
class diagrams. Responsibilities are 
transferred as operations, attributes 
as attributes, and relationships are 
drawn as generalized, aggregate, or 
associative relationships.  
Step 5. Review the class diagram: The fifth 
step reviews the structural model for 
missing and/or unnecessary classes, 
attributes, operations, and 
relationships.  
Step 6. Incorporate patterns: The sixth step 
incorporates useful patterns into the 
evolving structural model. A useful 
pattern is one that allows an analyst 
to comprehensively describe an 
underlying problem domain. After 
identifying useful patterns, the 
analyst incorporates the patterns 
identified into the class diagram and 
modifies the affected CRC cards. 
This procedure includes adding and 
removing classes, attributes, 
operations, and/or relationships.  
Step 7. Review the model: The seventh and 
final step reviews the structural 
model, including both the CRC cards 
and class diagram.  
 
 
Figure 11. A CRC card
   14
4.3 Behavioral modeling (sequence diagram) 
    A sequence diagram is a dynamic model 
that shows the explicit sequence of messages 
passed between objects in a defined interaction. 
Since sequence diagrams emphasize time-based 
ordering of the activity that takes place among 
a set of objects, they are very helpful for 
understanding real-time specifications and 
complex use cases. This subsection presents a 
six-step process used to create the sequence 
diagram of ‘medical news/article searching’ 
(Fig. 13). 
Step 1. Set the context: The first step is to 
determine the sequence diagram context. 
The diagram context can be a system, 
use case, scenario of a use case, or class 
operation.  
Step 2. Identify which objects will participate: 
The second step is to identify the 
objects that participate in the sequence 
being modeled; that is, the objects 
interacting during the use case scenario.  
Step 3. Set the lifeline for each object: The 
third step sets the lifeline for each 
object. A vertical dotted line is drawn 
below each class to represent the class’s 
existence during the sequence. An X is 
placed below the object at the point on 
the lifeline at which the object goes out 
of existence.  
Step 4. Layout the message from the diagram 
top to bottom based on the order in 
which they are sent: This step adds the 
message to the diagram. This is 
archived by drawing arrows that 
represent the message being passed 
from object to object, with the arrow 
pointing in the message’s transmission 
direction. The arrows should be placed 
in order from the first message (at the 
top) to the last (at the bottom) to show a 
time sequence. Any parameters passed 
with the message should be placed in 
parentheses next to the message’s name. 
If a message is likely to be returned as a 
message response, then the returned 
message is not explicitly shown on the 
diagram.  
Step 5. Add the execution occurrence to each 
object’s lifeline: This step places the 
execution occurrence on each object’s 
lifeline by drawing a narrow rectangular 
box over top of the lifelines that 
represents when classes are receive 
messages.  
Step 6. Validate the sequence diagram: The 
final step validates the sequence 
diagram. The purpose of this step is to 
guarantee that the sequence diagram 
completely represents the underlying 
process(es). This procedure is done by 
guaranteeing that the diagram depicts 
all process steps.  
 
 
Figure 13. Sequence diagram for the ‘medical 
news/article searching’ 
 
5. System Realization and Evaluation 
    According to the results of system 
modeling with UML, the medical knowledge 
service system for cross-organizational 
healthcare collaboration is implemented in a 
distributed and collaborative environment. This 
section presents the implementation 
environment, presents implementation results 
using an example of laparoscopic surgery, and 
presents a system evaluation for user 
satisfaction.  
 
5.1 Prototype Implementation and application 
example 
    The medical knowledge service system for 
cross-organizational healthcare collaboration is 
equipped with an application server, web server, 
and medical knowledge server; these servers 
are located in the Medical Information System 
   16
5.2 System evaluation from the user 
satisfaction perspective 
    To measure user satisfactions, the Delphi 
method [3] has become a widely used tool for 
acquiring a consensus-based opinion from a 
panel of experts. Therefore, this study applies 
the Delphi method to assess the level of 
satisfaction in using the proposed system; the 
questionnaire is deigned as shown in Fig. 18. 
To explain the user satisfaction, 15 surgeons at 
Meurosurgery Division and 3 system 
administrators at Medical Information 
Department in Kaohsiung Medical University 
Hospital are interviewed. These surgeons, 
especially intern, indicated that they almost 
retrieve medical knowledge from the medical 
knowledge repositories for reference in every 
operation since they keenly needs those 
precious surgery experience the surgeon 
conducted in the past. Additionally, they also 
expressed they retrieve medical knowledge 
from other hospital or communicate with other 
hospital once they meet difficult operating 
cases.  
In the above investigation, the results as 
shown in Fig. 19 indicate that over 90% of 
users where satisfied with the proposed system 
for capturing, storing, managing and reusing 
medical knowledge of surgical operations.  
 
6. Conclusion and Future Work 
    This work presented a medical knowledge 
service model for cross-organizational 
healthcare collaboration, a system management 
framework of medical knowledge service and a 
systematic approach for developing the medical 
knowledge service system.  
The approach proposed in this study has 
the following seven phases: “definition and 
characteristics of cross-organizational 
healthcare collaboration”, “process modeling of 
cross-organizational healthcare collaboration”, 
“collaborative medical knowledge work 
model”, “functional requirements analysis, 
system management framework design and 
system configuration framework design”, 
“system modeling”, “system implementation 
and application example”, and “system 
evaluation”.  
The results and contributions of this study 
were as follows:  
‧ The medical knowledge service model may: 
(1) facilitate cross-organizational healthcare 
collaboration; (2) be a valuable reference 
model in medical industry that can be 
applied to other high knowledge-intensive 
industries such as software industry.  
‧ The system framework and prototype 
enable: medical staff to capture, store, 
manage, integrate and share medical 
knowledge (including tacit and explicit 
medical knowledge) in distributed 
environments.  
 
    Study findings of this study can enable 
cross-organizational healthcare collaboration 
and consequently increases medical service 
quality and efficiency, substantially reduces 
medical service time and costs, and increase 
competitiveness in the medical service industry.  
    Further work will proceed in two 
directions. This work presents a systematic 
approach for developing a medical knowledge 
service system for cross-organizational 
healthcare collaboration. Some core functions, 
such as medical knowledge case searching, do 
not consider medical knowledge content 
matching. In the future, the medical knowledge 
case searching based on the medical knowledge 
content matching techniques should be 
considered by accurately identifying the most 
similar medical knowledge cases. Additionally, 
future work will construct user profiles (i.e., 
matchmaker) to provide more personalized 
recommendations.  
 
Acknowledgements 
    The author would like to thank the 
National Science Council of the Republic of 
China, Taiwan, for financially supporting this 
research under Contract No. 
NSC96-2218-E-037-002. Ted Knoy is 
appreciated for his editorial assistance.  
 
References 
[1] Ali, S., Briand, L. C., Rehman, M. J., 
Asghar, H., Iqbal, M. Z. and Nadeem, A., A 
state-based approach to integration testing 
based on UML models, Information and 
Software Technology, Vol. 49, No. 
11-12, pp. 1087-1106, 2007. 
[2] Bricon-Souf, N., Bringay, S., Hamek, S., 
   18
Informatics, Vol. 57, No. 2-3, pp. 117-126, 
2000. 
[21] Tebibel, T. B. and Belmesk, M., An 
object-oriented approach to formally 
analyze the UML 2.0 activity partitions, 
Information and Software Technology, Vol. 
49, No. 9-10, pp. 999-1016, 2007. 
[22] Weaver, C. A., Warren, J. J. and Delaney, 
C., Bedside, classroom and bench: 
Collaborative strategies to generate 
evidence-based knowledge for nursing 
practice, International Journal of Medical 
Informatics, Vol. 74, No. 11-12, pp. 
989-999, 2005. 
[23] Weng, C., McDonald, D. W., Sparks, D., 
McCoy, J. and Gennari, J. H., Participatory 
design of a collaborative clinical trial 
protocol writing system, International 
Journal of Medical Informatics, Vol. 76, No. 
1, pp. 245-251, 2007.  
[24] Yan, H., Jiang, Y., Zheng, J., Fu, B., Xiao, 
S. and Peng, C., The internet-based 
knowledge acquisition and management 
method to construct large-scale distributed 
medical expert systems, Computer Methods 
and Programs in Biomedicine, Vol. 74, No. 
1, pp. 1-10, 2004. 
[25] Zhang, J., Sun, J., Yang, Y., Chen, X., 
Meng, L. and Lian, P., Web-based 
electronic patient records for collaborative 
medical applications, Computerized 
Medical Imaging and Graphics, Vol. 29, No. 
2-3, pp. 115-124, 2005.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1. The degree to which system function “Medical Knowledge Capture” supports surgeons in identifying tacit 
medical knowledge. 
□Very Useful (5)  □Useful (4)  □No Comment (3)  □Useless (2)  □Very Useless (1) 
2. The degree to which system function “Medical Knowledge Revision” supports surgeons in modifying explicit 
and tacit medical knowledge. 
□Very Useful (5)  □Useful (4)  □No Comment (3)  □Useless (2)  □Very Useless (1) 
3 The degree to which system function “Medical Knowledge Management” supports surgeons or administrators
   20
 
