Σ-△調變器的順滑模態理論與積體電路應用(III) 
“Sliding-Mode Theory of Sigma-Delta Modulators and the Integrated Circuit Applications” 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-110-092 
執行期間：96年 8月 1日 至 97年 7月 31日 
主持人：余祥華 中山大學電機工程系助理教授 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫延續本研究團隊所提出Σ-∆調變器的
順滑模態(Sliding Mode)理論[1-3]，發展新型
的具有寬輸入範圍的適應性調變器，Σ-Δ
調變器技術具有雜訊塑型之特性，可將量化
過程中產生的雜訊及諧波推往高頻帶，進而
達到高解析度的類比數位轉換。隨著Σ-Δ
調變器的階數增加，雜訊塑型效果將越為顯
著，其整體性能越佳，但遺憾的是，當Σ-
Δ調變器的階數大於二階時，會引發穩定性
的問題，導致穩定輸入範圍受到很大的限
制；本計畫針對此問題，提出一個新型適應
性Σ-Δ調變器，透過適應性法則調整雜訊
轉移函數的極點位置，使得雜訊轉移函數之
頻帶外增益下降，達到增加穩定輸入範圍的
目的，經由模擬及實作驗證，可以有效地大
幅提升穩定輸入範圍。 
英文摘要 
This project extends the previous research 
results on the sliding-mode theory of Σ-∆ 
modulation [1-3], develops a novel adaptive 
modulator with widen stable input range. Noise 
shaping is one of the distinguishing 
characteristics of the sigma-delta modulation 
technique that separates it from other types of 
pulse-width modulation schemes. In sigma-delta 
modulation, unwanted noise and harmonics 
caused by quantization are intentionally pushed 
toward the high-frequency band in order to 
achieve high resolution data conversion within 
the signal bandwidth. Due to its robust, high 
in-band linearity, the sigma-delta modulation 
technique finds numerous applications in 
industry.  Generally speaking, as the order of a 
sigma-delta modulator increases, the modulator 
performance becomes better, which 
unfortunately comes along with a decrease in the 
modulator’s stable input range. This project 
presents a novel adaptive law which is capable of 
on-line tuning the loop filter of a sigma-delta 
modulator and reducing the out of band gain of 
the resulting noise transfer function when the 
modulator input is large, thereby widening the 
stable input range of the modulator without 
significant sacrifice of the performance. The 
simulation and experimental results prove the 
effectiveness of the proposed adaptive 
sigma-delta modulator.  
二、 計畫目的與文獻回顧 
在學術上，已有許多針對Σ-Δ調變器穩
定輸入範圍問題的文章發表，主要可分為兩
類，一類是在Σ-Δ調變器架構中加入限制
器，直接限制輸入訊號振幅，避免輸入訊號過
大造成Σ-Δ調變器不穩定[4-6]，或是含過負
載回復機制(Overload Recovery Mechanism)來
避免因量化器產生過負載現象引發Σ-Δ調變
器不穩定[7, 8]。基本上而言，這類機制主要是
確保Σ-Δ調變器當輸入變小時能夠回復穩
定，但卻無法有效的增加Σ-Δ調變器穩定輸
+ + + +
4c3c2c1c0
c
0b 4b3b2b1b
2a1a 3a0a
s
1
)sgn(⋅ZOH
+
)(tr
)(ty
1x 4x3
x
2x 5x
)(tu
Filter  Loop
×
)(tw )(tw
×
s
η
×++ ++
Algorithm  Adaptive
+
s
1
s
1
s
1
s
1
 
圖三: 完整五階適應性Σ-Δ調變器架構圖 
 
    試圖選擇一個適應法則使 cost 函數會隨
時間變小。cost函數對時間微分 
)/)((/ dtdwwuryudtdJ −−−=          (2) 
為使(2)式小於零，可選擇適應法則如下 
∫ −−= udtwurytw )()( η           (3) 
其中η為調整增益，此值的大小會影響權重 w
的改變速率。對應此適應法則，我們可得完整
新型適應性Σ-Δ調變器架構，如圖三。 
權重收斂模擬：希望所選取之評價函數能
使適應性法則所產生的權重能符合當輸入訊
號較小時，權重值較大，使得原本性能不至於
損失太多；當輸入訊號越大，權重值隨之變
小，使得調變器能保持穩定運作的趨勢，現在
將透過模擬來觀察權重變化是否符合這樣的
趨勢，在不同輸入訊號大小時，適應性Σ-Δ
調變器之權重變化如圖四所示。結果與預期符
合。 
調變器功能模擬：在現實生活中，真實訊
號並非由單一頻率所組成，通常是由多個頻率
所組成，所以接下來將模擬在輸入訊號為多個
頻率組成的情況下，Σ-Δ調變器和適應性Σ-
Δ調變器的是否能夠正常的運作，而檢視其是
否能正常運作的最簡單方式，就是將調變器所
切換出的輸出訊號透過低通濾波器還原，再將
其還原訊號和輸入訊號相比，看其還原訊號波
形是否還和輸入訊號相同。首先利用頻率 0.5 
 
 
圖四: 權重 w收斂與輸入大小 L的關係 
 
圖五： 傳統Σ-Δ調變器給大幅值輸入訊號(藍)與
調變器輸出信號經低通濾波器後的數入重建訊號
(紅)，無法重建信號。 
 
圖六：適應性調變器輸入訊號(藍)與還原訊號(紅) 
kHz、1kHz、3kHz、5kHz 組成多頻率的輸入
訊號，最大振幅約 0.95。將此波形輸入於傳統
Σ-Δ調變器，並與輸出濾波後的重建波形作
比較，波形如圖五。相同波形輸入適應性Σ-
Δ調變器則記錄於圖六。由圖可見傳統Σ-Δ
調變器對於大輸入信號已失去功能了，而適應
性Σ-Δ調變器依然能正常工作。 
L=0.1 
L=0.3 
L=0.5 
L=0.7 
L=0.9 
 Fig. 1: Related Signal Minimization Problem: Quantized control 
u is synthesized to make error signal e as small as possible. 
 
A Simple Approach to Synthesizing Naïve Quantized Control for 
Reference Tracking 
 
SHIANG-HWUA YU 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
National Sun Yat-Sen University 
70 Lien-Hai Road, Kaohsiung 804 
TAIWAN 
shaun@mail.ee.nsysu.eud.tw 
 
 
Abstract: - This paper presents a systematic approach to designing a naïve quantized control law that combines a 
regular round-to-nearest quantizer with a closed-loop dynamic system to generate a coarsely quantized control 
force for reference tracking. The naïve quantized control law is derived from minimizing an instantaneous 
absolute value of a performance-index signal. The stability and performance of the derived quantized control 
law are analyzed, and its relation to internal model control is clarified. 
 
Key-Words: - Quantized control, internal model control, bang-off-bang control. 
 
1   Introduction 
The design of a quantized control law involves the 
determination of optimal quantization levels for the 
control force to perform a certain control task. 
Various methods have been developed to derive 
quantized control laws, for example, quantized 
control derived by dynamic programming [1,2], 
Walsh functions [3], LQG optimization [4,5] and 
receding horizon control [6,7]. However, these 
quantized control laws suffer from one or more of the 
following problems: (1) Stability is not proved; (2) 
Heavy computation is required; (3) Performance is 
not satisfactory. 
     The simplest type of quantized control is a naïve 
quantized control law, which generates the control 
force at every instant by directly rounding a linear 
feedback control to the nearest level in the admissible 
set. This paper presents a practical naïve quantized 
control law, supplying rigorous analysis for its 
stability and performance. The circuit realization of 
the proposed quantized control law requires only 
filters in combination with a simple round-to-nearest 
quantizer. 
 
 
2   Quantized Control Synthesis as a 
Signal Minimization Problem 
Consider the design of a quantized control law for 
reference tracking. Given a specified set S of 
quantization levels, the control signal u is selected 
from S at every instant of time so that the plant’s 
output y follows the reference signal r as closely as 
possible. This goal is achieved by minimizing a 
performance index, the magnitude of which is 
inversely correlated with the performance. As a 
performance index, an error signal e to be minimized 
is chosen to be a frequency-weighted sum of the 
tracking error y-r and control force u. hopefully, a 
compromise is achieved between minimizing y-r for 
good performance and minimizing u for stability and 
efficiency. An optimal control law can thus be 
derived by solving a related minimization problem 
shown in Fig.1, where filters W1 and W2 put different 
frequency-dependent weights on y-r and u, 
respectively. The value of u at each instant of time is 
optimally chosen from set S to minimize the 
instantaneous absolute value of e. 
 
 
3   Optimal Solution: Naïve Quantized 
Control 
Suppose that plant P and weighting functions W1 and 
W2 have the following minimal representations. 
Fig. 4: Equivalent Internal Model Control Structure 
noise e to r should be as small as possible to eliminate 
noise. To this aim, we may design 12−W  to 
approximately inverse P and make 1W  very large 
within control bandwidth. 
 
 
5 Internal Model Control Interpretation 
The stabilization mechanism of naïve quantized 
control can be further explained using the internal 
model control concept [9]. The quantizer input z in 
Fig. 3 can be expressed in s-domain as. 
 GEHRZ −=  (8) 
where 
 
21
1)(
WPW
W
sH += , 21
11)(
WPW
sG +−=       (9) 
According to (4), (6) and (8), the naïve quantized 
control system can be redrawn as the internal model 
control structure shown in Fig. 4. 
In the diagram, a pure unity gain which is 
regarded as an approximate linear model of the 
quantizer is used to cancel the effect of the quantizer. 
The quantization error e, the magnitude of which 
reflects the amount of the model error, is bounded by 
half the maximum quantization step for arbitrary z 
within the quantization range. Therefore, in the 
quantization range, the linear parts of the system, G 
and H, determine the stability. The requirement for 
the quantizer input not exceeding the quantization 
range and the linear parts of system G and H being 
internally stable turns out to be the sufficient stability 
conditions stated in Theorem 1.  
Note that, the departure of the quantizer from 
the pure unity-gain model grows with the quantizer 
input level beyond the quantization range. In this case, 
the stability of the naïve quantized control may not be 
guaranteed. This property imposes a limitation on the 
allowable input range of the native quantized control 
system. 
Corollary 1 (Allowable Input Range) Assume that 
all initial conditions are zero. With symmetric 
uniform quantization S={ M− , Δ+− M ,…, M }, 
the naïve quantized control system in Fig. 2 
satisfying the condition (C2) in Theorem 1 is stable if 
the reference input r satisfies the level constraint, 
    tGMH|tr ∀−+≤ −   ),||||2Δ2Δ(|||| )(| 111             (10) 
where transfer functions H and G are shown in (9), 
and || H ||1 denotes the absolute integral of the impulse 
response of the transfer function H. 
Proof. According to the linear system theory [8], 
Eq. (8) implies the following inequality , 
teGrHz ∀+≤ ∞∞   ,|||||||||||||||||| 11           (11) 
where ∞|||| r represents the peak absolute value of 
signal r. Making the right-hand side of (11) less than 
or equal to Δ5.0+M   and substituting  Δ5.0  for 
∞|||| e  yields the constraint (10) which prevents 
quantizer overload.                                                       ▄ 
 
According to experience, the bound of the stable 
input range given in (10) is quite conservative, due to 
the worst-case nature of the L1 norm.  
 
6   Choice of Weighting Functions 
W1 is designed mainly for performance. For good 
reference tracking and noise attenuation, W1 should 
be large within control bandwidth. One simple design 
is to choose W1 as the inverse of an elliptic filter, with 
the filter’s stopband set equal to the prescribed 
control bandwidth. In this design, W1 will have poles 
optimally spread over the jω-axis to achieve high 
gain within the control bandwidth. 
W2 is designed to compensate the plant 
dynamics and ensure the stability of the system. One 
simple method for choosing W2 is to set its 
denominator equal to the denominator of P and select 
its numerator to have all zeros of  PWW 1211
−+  in the 
open left half s-plane. There are several problems 
with the idea of incorporating the plant model in W2 
to cancel the plant dynamics. First, it is ordinarily 
difficult to realize W2 with its poles exactly 
coinciding with the poles of P, owing to the 
inaccuracy or drift of circuit components and the 
error of plant model. The incomplete cancellation of 
the plant dynamics may cause a large transient 
Finite Switching Frequency. Because of finite speed 
of the switching devices in real applications, it’s a 
common practice to realize the quantizer using 
clocked or hysteresis comparators to set a minimum 
time duration between two consecutive switchings of 
the quantized control force; this minimum time 
duration is commonly referred to as the dwell time in 
the switched control literature [10]. In this example, 
we set the dwell time equal to 10 μsec. The resulting 
naïve quantized control system is displayed in Fig. 5, 
where the dwell time is set by the period of a clock 
signal. The quantization only performs at each rising 
edge of the clock. The quantized control force is held 
constant in between two consecutive rising edges. 
Simulation Result. The naïve quantized control 
system is simulated with sinusoidal signals of 
different frequencies as the test inputs. The 
amplitudes of the test inputs are all 0.9. The tracking 
error is defined as y–r in Fig. 5. The performance is 
assessed by the RMS percentage of the tracking error, 
which is defined as the ratio of the 
root-mean-squared value of the tracking error y–r to 
that of the reference signal r. The simulation results 
are listed in Table 1. It shows that the tracking errors 
for the reference signals within the control bandwidth 
are all below one percent of the reference signals. For 
dc-level regulation, the regulation error can be as low 
as 0.03%. 
 
 
8 Conclusion 
A double-loop naïve quantized control law is derived 
from minimizing an error signal which is a 
frequency-weighted sum of the tracking error and 
control signal. The stabilization mechanism of the 
naïve quantized control is explained by connecting it 
with the famous internal model control. Some of the 
important features of the presented naïve quantized 
control are (a) ease of design (b) simple circuit 
realization using filters and a round-to-nearest 
quantizer (c) the ability to track a reference signal and 
eliminate the quantization noise within the control 
bandwidth. 
 
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 
This work is supported by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan, under Grant NSC96- 
2221-E-110-092. 
 
References: 
[1] R.M. Havira and J.B. Lewis, “Computation of 
quantized control using differential dynamic 
programming,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic 
Control, Vol. AC-7, pp. 191-196, 1972. 
[2] J.K. Arora and D.A. Pierre, “Optimal trajectories 
for multidimensional nonlinear process by 
iterated dynamic programming,” IEEE Trans. 
Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Vol. 3, No. 1, pp. 
85-91, 1973. 
[3] C.F. Chen and C.H. Hsiao, “Design of piecewise 
constant gains for optimal control via Walsh 
functions,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic 
Control, Vol. 20, No. 5, pp. 596-602, 1975. 
[4] R.E. Larson, “Optimum quantization in dynamic 
systems,” IEEE Transactions on Automatic 
Control, Vol. 12, No. 2, pp. 162-168, 1967. 
[5] T.R. Fischer, “Optimal quantized control,” IEEE 
Transactions on Automatic Control, Vol. 27, No. 
4, pp. 996-998, 1982. 
[6] D.E. Quevedo, J.A. De Doná, and G.C. Goodwin, 
“On the dynamics of receding horizon linear 
quadratic finite alphabet control loops,” 
Proceedings of the 41st IEEE conference on 
Decision and Control, Vol. 3, pp. 2929-2934, 
2002.   
[7] B. Picasso, S. Pancanti, A. Bemporad and A. 
Bicchi, ”Receding–Horizon control of LTI 
Systems with quantized inputs,” Proc. IFAC 
Conf. on Analysis and Design of Hybrid Systems, 
pp. 295-300, 2003. 
[8] J.C. Doyle, B.A. Francis and A.R. Tannenbaum, 
Feedback Control Theory, Macmillan 
Publishing Company, 1992. 
[9] M. Morari and E. Zafiriou, Robust Process 
Control, Prentice-Hall, 1989.  
[10] H. Ishii and B.A. Francis, “Stabilizing a linear 
system by switching control with dwell time,” 
IEEE Transactions on Automatic Control, Vol. 
47, No. 12, pp.1962-1973, 2002. 
