2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
改進在圓環中嵌入加權超圖形之近似演算法 
A Study of Improved Approximation Algorithms for Weighted Hypergraph 
Embedding in a Cycle 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-274-004 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日 至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：何漢彰  吳鳳技術學院 資訊工程系 
 
中文摘要 
我們考慮在圓環中嵌入加權超圖形
(WHEC)的問題，將一個超圖形中的超圖邊
當作一條路徑嵌入到相同節點的一個圓環
中，使得在圓環中的最大環節的擁塞情形能
夠最小化。此問題甚至在超圖邊無權值或是
超圖邊只有兩個節點都已知是完全艱難
(NP-Compete)。在此計畫中我們使用放鬆線
性規劃 (LP-relaxation)及多項式時間近似法
(PTAS)來提供接近最佳解的嵌入值。我們已
經改善之前的結果，並在 2006 年第 22 屆組
合數學研討會獲得最佳論文獎。 
關鍵字: 圓環中嵌入加權超圖形、完全艱
難、多項式時間近似法、放鬆線性規劃 
 
Abstract 
We consider the problem of embedding 
weighted hyperedges of a hypergraph as paths 
in a cycle on the same number of vertices, 
such that the maximum congestion of any 
physical link of the cycle is minimized. The 
problem, called Weighted Hypergraph 
Embedding in a Cycle (WHEC), is known to 
be NP-complete even when each hyperedge is 
unweighted or each weighted hyperedge 
contains exactly two vertices. In this project, 
we propose the LP-relaxation method and  
Polynomial Time Approximation Scheme 
(PTAS) to provide an embedding whose 
congestion is close to the optimum. We have 
improved the previous results and won the 
Best Paper Award at the 22th Workshop on 
Combinatorial Mathematics and Computation 
Theory 2006. 
Keywords: Weighted Hypergraph Embedding 
in a Cycle, NP-complete, Polynomial Time 
Approximation Scheme, LP-relaxation. 
 
一、前言 
The problem of Weighted Hypergraph 
Embedding in a Cycle (WHEC) is to embed m 
weighted hyperedges of a hypergraph as paths 
in an n-vertex cycle, such that the maximum 
congestion of any physical link in the cycle is 
minimized. Note that each vertex of the 
hypergraph actually is the same as the vertex 
in the cycle, i.e. the problem of mapping 
hypergraph vertices to cyclic vertices is not 
considered here. The WHEC problem is 
NP-complete even when each hyperedge is 
unweighted or each weighted hyperedge 
contains exactly two vertices [1]. 
In the special case when each hyperedge 
is unweighted, the problem, called unweighted 
WHEC, has many applications in electronic 
design automation, specifically in routing nets 
4 
when all hyperedges contain exactly only two 
vertices. Canley and Cohoon [2] showed that 
the unweighted WHEC problem is 
NP-complete in general, but solvable in 
polynomial time if the maximum congestion is 
bounded by a constant. Gonzalez [6] proposed 
two improved approximation algorithms that 
both generate solutions with maximum 
congestion at most two times the optimum. 
Carpenter et al. [7] provided a linear time 
approximation algorithm which routes the 
hyperedges in the clockwise direction starting 
from the lowest numbered vertex to the 
highest numbered vertex. This algorithm is 
also guaranteed to find a solution whose value 
is at most twice the optimal value. Recently, 
Gu and Wang present an algorithm to solve 
the unweighted WHEC problem with the 
performance ratio 1.8 by a re-embedding 
technique [19]. Lee and Ho present an 
LP-based algorithm to solve the unweighted 
WHEC problem with the performance ratio 
1.5 [17, 18]. 
When each weighted hyperedge contains 
exactly two vertices, the graph version of the 
WHEC problem is equivalent to the ring 
loading problem without demand splitting. 
Each demand must be entirely routed in either 
of the two directions. The ring loading 
problem is NP-complete and was studied by 
Cosares and Saniee [12], Schrijver, Seymour 
and Winkler [13], Wilfong and Winkler [14], 
Khanna [15], and Myung [16]. 
Several studies related to the multicast 
congestion problem on more general graphs 
have been performed. Vempala and Vocking 
[8] presented a randomized rounding 
algorithm for approximating multicast 
congestion to within O(log n) times the 
optimum. Carr and Vempala [9] proposed a 
randomized asymptotic algorithm for the 
multicast congestion problem to find a 
solution of congestion O(opt + log n), where 
opt is the optimal value of the maximum 
congestion. Jansen and Zhang [10] presented 
an improved approximation algorithm to 
overcome the difficulties of an exponential 
number of variables. 
 
四、研究方法 
(1) MILP-based approach 
In the project, we formulate the WHEC 
problem as a Mixed Integer Linear 
Programming (MILP) Formulation. The 
problem of weighted hypergraph embedding 
in a cycle is to embed m hyperedges as 
adjacent paths of an n-vertex ring such that the 
maximum congestion of adjacent paths over 
any physical link of the cycle is minimized. 
The vertex set of the hypergraph is actually 
the same as the vertex set of the ring. 
There are two classes of constraints in 
this problem. First, the connectivity 
constraints mean that each hyperedge hi must 
be connected by at least |hi|-1 adjacent paths, 
where |hi| is the number of adjacent vertices 
of hyperedge hi. Secondly, the capacity 
constraints ensure that each physical link can 
only be embedded at most the maximum 
congestion of hyperedges. The objective 
function of the MILP is to minimize the 
maximum congestion which is a continuous 
variable since the binary variable of 
hyperedge hi is multiplied by a non-negative 
real constant weight wi. 
(2) LP-based approximation 
