 2 
nanometers or less. For nanometric cutting, atomistic simulations are frequently employed. 
Belak and Stowers (1990) and Belak et al. (1991) conducted MD simulations to study both 
2-D and 3-D cutting of copper using the embedded-atom potential. Inamura et al. 
(1991,1992,1993,1994) conducted MD simulations under quasi-static conditions where 
only the change in the minimum energy positions, which are the mean positions of the 
vibrating atoms. Chandrasekaran et al. (1998) elucidated a formulation termed the Length 
Restricted Molecular Dynamics (LRMD) simulation to reduce the computational time and 
simultaneously decrease the memory requirements considerably. Komanduri et al. (1999) 
conducted MD simulations of machining with large negative rake angle tools simulating 
grinding. The simulation results are in good agreement with the experimental results. 
Komanduri et al. (1998) investigated the effect of tool geometry with tools of different edge 
radii relative to the depth of cut in nanometric cutting. Overall, although a sound foundation 
has been laid for the atomistic simulation of nanometric cutting, there still are many 
challenging machining problems yet to be investigated. 
From the literature review presented above, it is clear that the elastic-plastic 
deformation that occurs during nanometric cutting of a wokpiece is a complex 
phenomenon. Although this phenomenon is generally investigated using molecular 
dynamics simulations, this technique is very time-consuming since it adopts a 
high-resolution time step of at least one pico-second. Therefore, the present study adopts 
 4 
the layer can be considered as lying along an oblique plane. In this illustration, the x-axis 
represents one of a family of close-packed directions, i.e. <110>. During the cutting 
process, a rigid sharp diamond tool is cutting into a thin layer along the x-direction. Since 
the hardness of the diamond tool far exceeds that of the copper work material, the 
deformation of the tool is neglected during the cutting process. This assumption implies 
that there is no change in the relative positions of the tool atoms during the simulation 
process. The current simulation adopts boundary conditions in which the atoms at the 
base in the y-direction are fully constrained. Furthermore, the interatomic potential energy 
is assumed to be given by the sum of the pairwise empirical potentials, which depend only 
on the distance between the atoms. The current simulation employs the pairwise Morse 
potential to model the interatomic pairwise potential of the copper atoms in the cutting 
zone. This potential has the following form:        
        00 22 rrrrDr ijijij   expexp                                (1) 
where ri j is the distance between atoms “i” and “j”, and D, ,and ro are constants which 
are determined from the physical properties of the corresponding material. 
As shown in Figure 2, this potential model produces repulsive forces over the short 
range, attractive forces over the medium range, and then decays smoothly to zero over a 
long range. In this research, we take five times of the equilibrium distance 0.25 nm 
between two neighboring copper atoms as the cut-off radius. Since the tool is considered 
 6 
where the interatomic distance ri j is given by: 
     2122 /jjiijjiiij vyvyuxuxr                                 (4) 
The differential of the atomic distance with respect to  iju  can be expressed as: 
      ijjjiijjiijjiijjiiij udvyvyuxuxvyvyuxuxdr  ,,,
      ijudB                                                              (5) 
The principle of minimum work enforces the minimization of ijE  with respect to  iju  
such that: 
 
     0













ij
T
ijij
ij
FB
ru
E 
                                             (6) 
Equation (6) expresses the element equilibrium equation, which represents the 
equilibrium of the forces acting on atoms “i” and “j”.   
The residual force,  ij  , can then be defined as: 
     ij
T
ij
ij FB
r













                                                     (7) 
When the equilibrium equation is solved using an iterative procedure, it converges to 
zero with a tolerance of 1x10-7 N. In order to solve this nonlinear equilibrium equation in 
this way, it is necessary to differentiate  ij  with respect to  iju , i.e. 
 8 
internal force vector and the external force vector, respectively. The present simulation 
adopts the block diagonal Newton-Raphson iterative technique to solve Equation (12) to 
obtain the complete equilibrium path of the nanometric cutting process. 
     During the complex deformation process associated with the nanometric cutting 
process, the atomic structure of the substrate experiences structural instabilities which 
cause the iterative scheme to diverge. To overcome this divergence, it is necessary to add 
a suitable constant to each diagonal element of the tangent stiffness matrix in order that 
the non-positive eigenvalues of the tangent stiffness matrix are shifted to a positive value.  
C. Stress Calculation 
     In the atomistic simulation, the interatomic potential energy function determines the 
interactive forces between the atoms. Once the forces acting at each atom have been 
determined, the stress tensor at the atomic site can be determined (Horstemeyer et al., 
2002) in the following form: 
         
ij
m
N
ij
ij
ki
i
km rf
V



1
                                              (13)  
where i refers to the atom in question, j refers to the neighboring atom, ijmr  is the 
displacement vector from atom i  to atom j , N is the number of nearest neighboring 
atoms, and iV  is the volume of the atom in question. 
D. Deformation Measure Calculation 
The atomic strain tensor (Jeng and Tan, 2004) is calculated as: 
 10 
element atomistic model. In this simulation, a sharp rigid diamond tool is initially positioned 
2.4 Å  to the right end of the copper substrate. The tool is then moved horizontally 
incrementally to cut work material at the depth of cut. At each incremental displacement of 
the tool, the force equilibrium equations of the atoms, as determined by their inter-atomic 
potentials, are nonlinear functions of their incremental displacements. These equations are 
solved using the block diagonal Newton-Raphson iterative technique.  Although 
reasonable cutting speed is difficult to represent in a molecular dynamics simulation due to 
its high-time resolution requirements, the present finite element approach is quasi-static, 
and hence the tool can be considered to cut the substrate at an unspecified speed.  
         Figure 3 (b) presents the configuration of the substrate after cutting. As can be seen, 
several slip planes orientated at approximately 60 °  to the horizontal direction are 
propagated from the finished surface. This is to be expected since slip generally occurs 
along the closed-packed directions. This observation indicates that the most fundamental 
plastic deformation mechanism takes place during the nanocutting process. The slips 
occur as a result of the nucleation and propagation of dislocations. By neglecting the 
thermal vibrations of the atoms, the present study transforms the molecular dynamics 
formulation into a static finite element structural problem. Therefore, the stability of the 
crystalline structure can be monitored by the non-positiveness of the tangent stiffness 
matrix, Kt, of the present finite element formulation. The irreversible plastic deformations 
 12 
slip vector calculated using Equation (18). Corresponding to Figure 3 (b) and Figure 5 (b) 
representing y-component of slip vector can characterize the deformation of slip of atoms 
most precisely. This is due to the fact that the closed-packed directions are 60 ° or 120 ° 
from the horizontal. 
     After choosing the index for characterizing dislocations, we observe the index 
distributions at six different cutting distances shown in Figure 6 to realize the deformation 
evolution during the nanometric cutting process we simulated in this study. It can be seen 
in Figure 6 that in the chip formation process involved extrusion of the workpiece atoms by 
the tool to slip along the closed-packed direction. Several dislocations can be seen to emit 
from the finished surface by the tool after some cutting distance. From the observation 
above, we also evaluate the quality of the finished surface by observing the distributions of 
this deformation index under different cutting conditions. 
B. Parametric Study 
Following the discussion in the previous section, we choose two cutting parameters 
namely, the rake angle of the tool and the cutting depth, to evaluate the quality of the 
finished surface of the work material. Three rake angles, namely, 5°, 10° and 15° and three 
cutting depths, namely, 1 nm, 1.5 nm and 2 nm were chosen. We conducted atomistic 
simulations to elucidate how these two cutting parameters affect the quality of the 
nanometric cutting process. 
 14 
 
IV. Conclusions  
The current simulations of the nanocutting process adopt a nonlinear finite element 
formulation which ignores the thermal vibrations of atoms in the condensed matter, and 
hence enables a more computationally efficient approach for modeling the deformation 
evolution of the substrate during nanometric cutting than the conventional molecular 
dynamics simulation method. Simulations have also been conducted to examine the 
influence of the rake angle of the tool and the cutting depth upon the quality of the finished 
surface in the workpiece. 
The major findings of the present study may be summarized as follows: 
(1) The non-linear finite element formulation reported here was less time-consuming than 
the conventional molecular dynamics simulation method. 
(2) The current static finite element structural analysis indicates that plastic deformation 
of the substrate is the consequence of the instability of the crystalline structure of the 
substrate. Furthermore, the occurrence of this instability can be monitored by the 
non-positiveness of the tangent stiffness matrix of the crystalline structure. 
(3) The fundamental plastic deformation mechanism is evident in the present simulation 
results, namely, slip. Slip is caused by the nucleation and propagation of dislocations. 
(4) The quality of the finished surface in the workpiece decreases with increase in the 
 16 
Japan Society for Precision 25(4), 259-266. 
Inamura, T., Takezawa, N., Kumaki, Y., 1993. Mechanics and energy dissipation in 
nanoscale cutting. Annals of the CIRP 42(1), 79-82. 
Inamura, T., Takezawa, N., Kumaki, Y., Sata, T., 1994. On a possible mechanism of 
shear deformation in nanoscale cutting. Annals of the CIRP 43(1), 47-50. 
Inamura, T., Takezawa, N., Taniguchi, N., 1992. Atomic-scale cutting in a computer 
using crystal models of copper and diamond. Annals of the CIRP 41(1), 121-124. 
Jeng, Y.R., Tan, C.M., 2004. Theoretical study of dislocation emission around a 
nanoindentation using a static atomistic model. Physical Review B 69, 104109. 
Komanduri, R., 1993. Machining and grinding: a historical review of the classical 
papers. Applied Mechanics Reviews 46, 80-132.  
Komanduri, R., Chandrasekaran, N., and Raff, L.M., 1999. Some aspects of 
machining with negative rake tools simulating grinding: an MD simulation approach. 
Philosophical Magazine B 79(7), 955-968. 
Komanduri, R., Chandrasekaran, N., and Raff, L.M., 1998. Effect of tool geometry in 
nanometric cutting: an MD simulation approach. Wear 219, 84-97.  
Shaw, M.C., 1993. Some observations concerning the mechanics of cutting and 
grinding. Applied Mechanics Reviews 46, 74-79. 
Shet, C., Deng, X., 2000. Finite element analysis of the orthogonal metal cutting 
 18 
 
                (a) 
 
 
                                  (b) 
Figure 1 (a) Atomistic model used in present nano-cutting simulation, and (b) 
Three-dimensional illustration of mono-crystalline fcc copper substrate. 
 
 20 
 
Cutting Distance (0.1 nm)
C
u
tt
in
g
F
o
rc
e
(e
V
/0
.1
n
m
)
-100 -50
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 3 (a) Cutting force versus cutting distance curve. (b) Configuration of deformed 
substrate during nanocutting process. 
 22 
X (0.1 nm)
Y
(0
.1
n
m
)
0 50 100 150
0
50
100
150
2.7
2.3
1.8
1.3
0.9
0.4
0.0
(c) The distribution of norm of slip
vector (0.1 nm)
X (0.1 nm)
Y
(0
.1
n
m
)
0 50 100 150
0
50
100
150
1.9
1.2
0.5
-0.2
-1.0
-1.7
-2.4
(a) The distribution of x component
of slip vector (0.1 nm)
X (0.1 nm)
Y
(0
.1
n
m
)
0 50 100 150
0
50
100
150
1.9
1.2
0.5
-0.2
-1.0
-1.7
-2.4
(b) The distribution of y component
of slip vector (0.1 nm)
 
Figure 5 Contour subplots of x-component , y-component and norm of slip vector (Unit: 0.1 
nm). 
 
 
 
 
 24 
rake angle=5 , cutting depth=1 nm rake angle=5 , cutting depth=1.5 nm rake angle=5 , cutting depth=2 nm
rake angle=10 , cutting depth=1 nm rake angle=10 , cutting depth=1.5 nm rake angle=10 , cutting depth=2 nm
rake angle=15 , cutting depth=2 nmrake angle=15 , cutting depth=1.5 nmrake angle=15 , cutting depth=1 nm  
                                     
Figure 7 The distributions of slip vector in the y-direction component for nine different 
combinations of the two cutting parameters, namely, rake angle and depth of 
cut. 
 
 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/25
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 奈米切削加工之多尺度模擬
計畫主持人: 譚仲明
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-274-002- 學門領域: 加工與製造
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
