ii 
Contents 
 
 
Section 1:  Organization of the report                                 1 
 
Section 2:  Introduction                                            2 
 
Section 3:  Basic Concept of IEEE 1588                               3 
 
Section 4:  Proposed Dual Slave Clocks Method                        5 
 
Section 5:  Performance Evaluation and Discussion                     8 
 
Section 6:  References                                             11 
 
 
 
 
2 
Section 2  
Introduction 
 
Recently, the topic of clock synchronization of network nodes has attracted considerable 
attention owing to its relevance to a number of applications [1]. IEEE 1588 specifies the precision 
time protocol (PTP) [2] for synchronizing ”clocks” over the networks. IEEE 1588 is a 
master-slave synchronization protocol that targets synchronization accuracy of less than 1 μs. 
After a master-slave hierarchy has been established, time-stamped messages are exchanged 
between the masters and slaves to enable the slave to measure the time on the master clock. 
Accordingly, all network nodes can synchronize to the reference (also known as the grand master) 
clock. Most current approaches [3]–[5] involve clock synchronization that is based on the 
measurement of the link propagation delay. However, the conventional IEEE 1588 
synchronization assumes symmetric communication links, causing errors in the clock 
synchronization of asymmetric links such as xDSL. Another work [6] has adopted block burst 
transmission for the femtocell networks [7]. However, the block burst transmission does not 
conform to the IEEE 1588.  
This work presents a clock synchronization method that is based on dual slave clocks in a 
slave, suitable for symmetric and asymmetric communication links. Requiring no assumption of 
the symmetric propagation delay, the presented approach can still accurately estimate the 
one-way delay (OWD) of the communication links. The proposed approach fully conforms to the 
IEEE 1588. As well as measuring the link propagation delay, the proposed method can also 
measure the inherent clock skew and offset of a slave node, yielding a very precise slave clock. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Using the results of (1) and (2), the slave estimates the OWD Dω and the offset θ of the slave 
clock with respect to the master clock as, 
                           (3) 
              (4) 
The slave adjusts its time to minimize the clock offset, thereby synchronizing with the master 
clock. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
4 
                   (5) 
                           (6) 
where φ1,i and φ2,i are random jitters of slave clock 1 and clock 2 within a period, respectively. 
The random jitter φ1,i is assumed to be an independent Gaussian random variable (RV) with 
zero mean and variance σ2. Since clock 2 is derived from clock 1 and the period of clock 2 is 
twice that of clock 1, the variance of φ2,i is 2σ2 due to accumulation of random jitters at two 
positive edges of clock 1. Subtracting (6) from (5) yields  
 
         (7) 
 
Fig. 3. Schematic for the dual clocks generation. 
 
Fig. 4. Model for one way timing message exchange involving N messages. 
By inserting (7) into (6) yields 
 
 
 
 
6 
8 
ection 5 
 Evaluation and Discussion 
e conventional algorithm [3] and block burst 
tran
S
Performance
The performance of the proposed approach, th
smission [6] is evaluated by simulations. The offset θ of the slave clock is assumed to be 
50s. The clock frequencies of the two clocks used in the proposed approach are 50 MHz and 25 
MHz. The clock skew ε is 40 ppm. The standard deviation σ of the random jitter is ±40 ps. The 
master-to-slave propagation delay is 1 ms. The Sync interval is assumed to be 2s. This work 
considers asymmetric ratios (defined as the propagation delay of slave-to-master direction 
divided by that of the master-toslave direction) ranging from 1:1 to 8:1. Figure 5 plots the 
root-mean-squared-error (RMSE) of the estimated parameters, clock skew (11), offset (9), and 
link propagation delay (12), obtained using the proposed method, as a function of N. The RMSE 
declines and approaches the square root of the CRLB (13) as N increases. The same behavior is 
observed for all asymmetric ratios. To compare the accuracy of algorithms, the magnitude of bias 
error between the estimated and ideal values is defined as 
 
Fig. 5. RMSE of the estimated parameters as a function of N. Asymmetric ratio is 1:1. Note that 
the RMSE of clock skew is multiplied by 106 such that the RMSEs of the estimated parameters 
can be easily compared. 
10 
the proposed method are 1) compliance with the IEEE 1588, 2) applicability in symmetric and 
asymmetric environments, and 3) the ability to obtain a precise slave clock from information on 
link propagation delay and clock parameters. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 
計畫成果自評 
本研究已完成計畫之預期目標，研究主題與計畫書內容完全符合。並
且已經產出數篇期刊及會議論文，如以下所列。並有一篇專利申請，目
前正在審查中。後續硬體實現仍會持續改善，以達到理論與實務相互驗
證之成效。 
 
(A)期刊論文 
1. W. L. Chin* and S. G. Chen, Jun. 2009, “IEEE 1588 Clock Synchronization using Dual 
Slave Clocks in a Slave,” IEEE Commun. Lett., vol. 13, no. 6, pp. 456-458. (SCI) 
2. W. L. Chin* and S. G. Chen, Feb. 2009, “A blind synchronizer for OFDM systems based on 
SINR maximization in multipath fading channels,” IEEE Trans. Vehicular Tech., vol. 58, no. 
2, pp. 625-635. (SCI) 
3. W. L. Chin* and S. G. Chen, May 2009, “A low-complexity minimum-interference symbol 
time estimation for OFDM systems,” IEICE Trans. Commun., vol. E92-B, no. 5, pp. 
1828-1833. (SCI) 
 
(B)研討會論文 
1.   W. L. Chin* and J. L. Tzen, Sep. 2009, “Clock synchronization for energy-constrained 
wireless sensor networks,” presentated in IEEE PIMRC’09. 
 
 
技術說明 
中文： 
最近，因為與許多應用習習相關，網路節點的時鐘同步問題吸
引了相當多的注意。IEEE 1588 規範精準時間協定(precision time 
protocol, PTP)以同步分散於網路中的“時鐘＂。 IEEE 1588 是一
個主從式(master-slave)同步協定，目標達到誤差小於 1 微秒( s )
的精準度。在主從階層建立後，時間戳記(time-stamped)訊息在主
(masters)及從(slaves)間交換，以讓從量測出主的時間。最後，所有
網路節點都能跟參考時鐘(reference clock)(亦叫做最上層主時鐘)同
步。大部分現存時鐘同步方法都是基於鏈接傳遞延時(link 
propagation delay)的量測。然而，傳統的 IEEE 1588 同步假設通訊
鏈接為對稱的，因此造成在非對稱鏈接環境下的同步錯誤，例如數
位用戶迴路。由於這個問題，有一份研究對於微細胞網路(femtocell 
network)中建議採取區塊式叢傳輸(block burst transmission)方式。然
而，區塊式叢傳輸並不符合 IEEE 1588 的規範。 
本方法探討和設計適用於對稱和非對稱通訊鏈接環境中的時
鐘同步方法。在不須要對稱傳遞延時的假設下，本發明達成準確地
估測出通訊鏈接的單向延時(one-way delay, OWD)。提出之方法能
調適並遵從 IEEE 1588。除了量測鏈接傳遞延時外，所提出之方法
也能量測出從節點內的時鐘偏斜及時鐘偏移，以產生一非常精準的
從時鐘。 
 3
 5
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
1. 網路通訊產業 
2. 控制產業 
技術特點 
 優於 IEEE 1588 的規範，比次微秒更精準 
 鏈接傳遞延時、時鐘偏斜、時鐘偏移的估測演算法 
 單向延時的估測法 
 可適用於對稱及非對稱鏈接傳遞延時的環境中 
推廣及運用的價值 
高附加價值之網通產品，如: 
1. 整合至乙太網路卡或交換器 
2. 整合至無線(區域)網路卡 
3. 整合至 femtocell 家用基地台 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 
貴單位研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 
 
1 
目次 Index 
一、中文摘要 
二、英文摘要 
三、參加會議經過 
四、個人心得及建議 
Abstract 
  This paper is aimed to present the  experience of a graduate 
student named Chun-Lin Tseng for attending Personal Indoor and 
Mobile Radio Communications on IEEE the 20th Memorial Symposium 
on Personal Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications (IEEE 
PIMRC＇09) in Tokyo Japan. The content includes the motivations, 
procedures, experience for attending the conference, and tours 
in Tokyo. Finally, a suggestion is given in the last paragraph. 
  First, I would like to thank Professor Wen-Long Chin for 
giving me this opportunity to attend the IEEE The 20th Memorial 
Symposium on Personal Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications 
(IEEE PIMRC＇09) to present the paper entitled 『Clock 
Synchronization for Energy-Constrained Wireless Sensor 
Networks』 . 
  This is  my first time for going  abroad to participate in 
the international conference . Based on attendance of the 
seminar, I  learn the process of international conferences and 
seminars and overall conference structure. 
 
 3
參加會議經過 
    2009 年 9 月 13 號早上 10 點，搭乘日本航空 JAL-642 航
次波音 747 從桃園中正國際機場出發，這是相隔 5年後再次
搭乘飛機出國，也是我第一次到日本，不過這次出國的目的
跟以往有很大的不同，本次出國是個人第一次以自由行方式
出國，而出國主要目的在於參與國際會議發表論文，相較於
以往出國的心態有很大的不同。飛機在日本時間下午 1點 30
分抵達日本東京成田國際機場，由於是自由行的方式，在出
關時花了些許時間才完成出關手續，也讓我馬上體會到在這
陌生的國家及往後的研究生涯，獨立自主的重要性。出關後
第一件事是找交通工具到達下榻飯店，由於在台灣已經做了
很多功課，所以即使在充滿日文及漢字的看板上也能找到我
所需要交通資訊，先搭乘 Airport Limousine 到達新宿車
站，再轉搭乘東京地鐵丸之內線到四谷三丁目車站，出站後
步行 5分鐘後即到達今晚下榻的 JALCITY 。 
 
    9 月 15 號早上 7點吃完早餐後直接就往開會地點，東京
-目黑區前進，其中出現一些小插曲，由於先前在 google map
上找到的路線圖與實際會議地點有很大的出入，會議是在
 5
性學術發表，真的上了非常寶貴的一課，而希望藉由這次所
學到的經驗,在未來的通訊研究路程中有大大的幫助。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 7
  
 
CLOCK SYNCHRONIZATION FOR ENERGY-CONSTRAINED WIRELESS 
SENSOR NETWORKS 
Wen-Long Chin and Jiun-Lin Tzen
Department of Engineering Science
National Cheng Kung University 
Tainan 701, Taiwan, ROC 
 
 
ABSTRACT 
Due to the ability of sensor nodes to collaborate, time syn-
chronization is essential for many sensor network operations. 
This work presents a novel clock synchronization method for 
energy-constrained wireless sensor networks (WSNs). To 
conserve WSN energy, this study adopts the flooding time 
synchronization scheme based on one-way timing messages. 
Via the proposed approach, the maximum-likelihood (ML) 
estimation of clock parameters, such as clock skew and clock 
offset, can be obtained for clock synchronization. Addition-
ally, with the proposed scheme, the clock skew and offset 
estimation problem will be transformed into a problem inde-
pendent of random delay and propagation delay. In addition to 
good performance, the proposed method has low complexity.  
I. INTRODUCTION 
Advancements in fabrication technologies have enabled the 
development of tiny low-power devices capable of onboard 
sensing, computing, and communication tasks. Wireless sen-
sor networks (WSNs) are a special ad hoc network formed by 
networking these tiny devices within a certain area without 
any infrastructure [1], [2]. In recent years, WSNs have re-
ceived considerable attention due to their promising applica-
tions in various areas. Notably, WSNs comprise an infrastruc-
ture for future ubiquitous communication environments. 
Generally, two different approaches, sender-receiver syn-
chronization (SRS) or receiver-receiver synchronization 
(RRS), can be utilized to synchronize a pair of nodes [3]. The 
SRS approach is based on the classical model of two-way 
message exchanges between a node pair. Conversely, the RRS 
approach compares the time readings of a beacon packet from 
a common sender in a set of nodes. Most existing time syn-
chronization protocols utilize one of these two approaches. 
For example, reference-broadcast synchronization (RBS) [4] 
is based on RRS as it requires pairs of message exchanges 
among child nodes (except for the reference node) to com-
pensate for their relative clock offsets, whereas the time-sync 
protocol for sensor networks (TPSNs) [5]–[7] adopts SRS as 
it requires a series of pairwise synchronizations that assume 
two-way timing message exchanges. 
The energy constraints of WSNs are very strict [8]. Hence, 
increasing overhead for enhanced synchronization is not an 
effective solution. To overcome both of these challenges (i.e., 
communication overhead and enhanced performance) simul-
taneously, one can employ energy-efficient protocols de-
signed specifically for WSNs, as in [4], [5]–[7], and [9]. An-
other way is to reduce the amount of energy expended during 
clock synchronization via novel designs. This work adopts 
both strategies by utilizing a scalable protocol for flooding 
time synchronization. The conventional flooding time syn-
chronization protocol (FTSP) [9] requiring only one-way 
messages from a sender, without needing other message ex-
changes between receivers or other senders, is modified to 
achieve the goal. A novel low-complexity approach, which is 
suitable for the modified FTSP, is then presented. The maxi-
mum-likelihood (ML) estimation of clock parameters is also 
obtained. With the proposed scheme, the clock skew and off-
set estimation problem is transformed into a problem inde-
pendent of random delay and propagation delay. The aim of 
the proposed strategy is to reduce the amount of energy ex-
pended for both communication and computation while 
achieving good performance. When using the proposed 
method, the characteristics of the FTSP, such as scalability 
and low-bandwidth requirement, are preserved, while the 
needed complexity of the proposed method is greatly reduced. 
Hence, more power can be saved than that saved in previous 
work. 

Node B
Node A
T1,1 = 0
T2,1 T3,1
T4,1 T1,2
T2,2 T3,2
T4,2 T1,i
T2,i T3,i
T4,i T1,N
T2,N T3,N
T4,N. . . . . .
clock offset
d d
:
Fig. 1.  Model for two-way timing message exchange involving N such pairs.
II. RELATED WORK 
Efficient operation of a WSN largely depends on synchroniza-
tion of time among its nodes. Coordination among nodes dur-
ing power saving sleep/wake up modes, localization of sensor 
nodes, data aggregation, beamforming, and distributive com-
munication protocols require that all nodes run on a common 
time frame. Additionally, conventional network synchroniza-
tion protocols cannot satisfy the low-power and low-
complexity requirements of WSNs [8]. 
The Internet uses the network time protocol (NTP) [10] to 
provide distributed synchronization, which includes adjusting 
the frequency of the oscillator of each node. Although NTP 
synchronizes computer clocks in a hierarchical manner by 
using primary and secondary time servers, it is not suited to 
WSNs because it does not account for energy consumption 
and bandwidth constraints [7]. 
Some synchronization protocols have been designed in re-
cent years to deal efficiently with the specific requirements 
associated with long-term operation of WSNs. The TPSN [5] 
is a conventional sender-receiver protocol that assumes two 
operational stages: the level discovery phase followed by the 
  
 
  
Figure 4 shows the one-way timing message exchange of 
the conventional FTSP involving N messages, where   is the 
difference in clock frequencies between the sensor clock and 
the anchor clock (i.e., clock skew),   is clock offset, d is 
fixed propagation delay, Xi is the random access delay from 
the anchor node to the sensor node, and N is the number of 
observations. The sensor node runs at a frequency of  1  , 
which is normalized to the synchronized clock frequency of 
the anchor node. At time T1,i, the anchor node sends the i-th 
Sync message to the sensor node, which contains the value of 
T1,i. When receiving the i-th Sync message at the sensor node, 
the clock skew produces a time difference of . 
Therefore, the sensor node receives this message at time 
T d  1, i iX
  2, 1,1i i iT T d X      . Note that time values are read 
by clock counters. 
IV. PROPOSED CLOCK SYNCHRONIZATION 
To use only one-way Sync messages, two sensor clocks are 
utilized in a sensor node to trigger clock counters. Figure 5 
shows the one-way messaging scheme and its delayed version 
used by the proposed approach, where T1.i is the time when 
the i-th Sync message is sent, and  and  (or 2,iT 2,iT  2,iT   and 
) are the times of sensor clocks 2 and 1 when they receive 
the non-delayed (or delayed) Sync message, respectively. 
Note that the timing representation in Fig. 5 is different from 
that in Fig. 4 to emphasize that the random access delay be 
expended in the anchor node. After sending the original i-th 
Sync message (Type-0), which is the Sync message of the 
conventional FTSP, the delayed (by delay 
2,iT 
i ) message (Type-
1) is also sent for clock synchronization to notify sensor 
nodes the time elapse of i . The delay is folded and generated 
by a clock counter in the anchor node. The Type-1 Sync mes-
sage is treated as the highest priority packet1 which is a short 
packet conveying a relative time difference to the Type-0 
Sync message. Its arrival indicates receiving of a delayed 
message. 
Figure 6 (on the next page) shows the schematic that repre-
sents the generation of two sensor clocks. Clock 2 runs at a 
                                                          
1 In this paper, the packet is the same as the message unless otherwise 
stated. 
frequency of  1  , which is normalized to that of the an-
chor clock. A D-type Flip-Flop is employed to divide the fre-
quency by two; therefore, sensor clock 2 runs at a frequency 
of  1  , which is half that of sensor clock 1 running at a 
frequency of  2 1  . A single signal enables both sensor 
clocks. Hence, they have the same offset, which is assumed as 
 . 
d
2, 2,,  i iT T 
Anchor Node Sensor Node
Sync (Type-0)
T1,i
i
2, 2,,  i iT T 
Sync (Type-1)
Xi
d

Sensor Node
Anchor Node
T1,1 = 0
T2,1
T1,2
T2,2
T1,i
T2,i
T1,N
T2,N
. . . . . .
clock offset
: clock skew
d+Xi
:
(T1,i+d+Xi)
Fig. 4.  Model for one-way timing message exchange involving N messages.  Fig. 5.  Proposed approach. 
The proposed scheme makes more equations than before 
available to evaluate multiple unknown parameters with only 
one-way time transfer. To determine the clock skew and offset 
via a Sync message, receiving the i-th Type-0 Sync message 
lds yie
   2, 1, 1,1i i iT T d X i         
and 
    2, 1, 1,2 1i i iT T d X i          
where 1,i  is a random jitter of sensor clocks 1 and 2 when 
receiving the i-th Type-0 Sync message. The random jitter 1,i  
is assumed to be an independent Gaussian random variable 
(RV) with zero mean and variance 2 . Due to the synchro-
nous design, sensor clocks 1 and 2 have the same clock jitter. 
Likewise, when receiving the i-th Type-1 Sync message, 
    2, 1, 1,1i i i iT T d X i            
and 
   2, 1, 1,2 1i i i iT T d X i            
where 1,i  is a random jitter with zero mean and variance 2  
of sensor clocks 1 and 2 when receiving the i-th Type-1 Sync 
message. 
Now, with (2)–(5), the ML estimation of clock parameters 
can be obtained. To determine the clock skew without distur-
bance of the fixed propagation delay and the random access 
delay from the anchor node, subtracting (2) from (4) yields 
  2, 2, 1, 1,1i i i iT T .i          
Since , 1, 1d i i i,   
2
 is also a Gaussian RV with zero mean 
and variance 2   , assuming the observations  , 1Nd i i   are 
independently and normally distributed with the same mean 
