 2
Introduction 
The related studies to the mechanisms with variable chains are not quite much.  
There are rarely few studies dedicated to the conceptual design and topological 
representations of variable chains [1-4].  Yan and Liu proposed a definition of the 
mechanisms of variable chain as “one with variable chains if it has variable topologies 
which is characterized by the topological variability of kinematic pairs and it thereby 
can’t be represented by a sole mechanism schematic diagram.”[1]  Wohlhart [5] 
exhibits the mechanisms with the property of the variety position namely 
“Kinematotropic Linkages”.  Afterward, Galletti et al. [6-8] extended Wohlhart’s 
study systematic.  Dai and Jhones[9-11] suggested a new opinion on the nature of 
variable mobility. Besides, Lee and Herve[12,13] also propose the concept of 
discontinuous mobility mechanisms that can be regarded as those of the generalized  
kinematotropy, which the mobility of the joints may be discontinuity, and the active or 
inactive pairs may change the number of global or local degrees of freedom.  
Broadly speaking, kinematotropic linkages or discontinuous mobility mechanisms 
perform unusual function depending upon the singular kinematic geometry which 
leads to the change of the linkages mobility and can be categorized into variable chain 
mechanisms since the variable mobility may lead the topological structures making 
changes[14].  Although graph representation can give good illustration on each stage 
owing to the change of the number or connectivity of the links of variable chain 
mechanisms, we still like to propose a new manifestation for the sequential movement 
of variable chain mechanisms by composite function to facilitate the representation. 
 
 
Sequential Mechanism 
Graph Theory, a branch of the mathematics that takes the graph as the object for 
study.  In graph theory, the figure is comprised by the vertices and the lines that 
connected the vertices.  These graphs can illustrate the specific relation between the 
parts, the vertices usually stand for the parts and the lines that connect the vertices 
stand for the relation between the parts.  Some of the studies about the mechanisms 
usually represent the topology and the motion by graph.  We use the vertices to 
represent the parts of the mechanisms and the lines to represent the joints that connect 
the parts.  Besides illustrate the original topology, we also use the concepts about 
contraction and subdivision (Node expansion) of the vertices to show the change of 
the topologies.  In a graph G, contraction of edge e with endpoint u, v is the 
replacement of u and v with a single vertex whose incident edges are the edges other 
 4
movement and sequential movement.  There are variable designs of the mechanism; 
the different input can also result in the same output from the design of the 
mechanisms.  If we input a force into the mechanisms that can operate more than one 
parts at the same time, then the motion can be take as the parallel movement.  Giving 
an input into the mechanisms that can only enable one motion of the mechanisms, and 
transmit the motion one by another, then we can take it as a sequential mechanism, as 
shown in Fig. 4.  In this study, we only discuss the representations focus on the 
variable chain mechanisms with sequential movement.  
Here we would like to apply and develop some early ideas which is introduced 
by Werbos[15,16] to show that the mechanisms with sequential movement can also be 
represented by a composite function. 
Describing the movement of the variable chain mechanisms with sequence as a 
composite function, such as a family function,  
nnon
o
o
xxxxf
xxxf
xxf
a
a
a
11
212
11
...
...
−×××=
×=
=
 
if this family function satisfied  
),...,,(
...
),(
)(
11
122
11
−=
=
=
nonn
o
o
xxxfx
xxfx
xfx
 
xn is a composite function of only one variable xo.  This function can be called 
as a composite function with sequence.  Function of the edge can then be represented 
by directed edges to illustrate the sequence.  And the connected vertices represented 
to the function arguments that also represent the input motion of each/next stage.  
Consequently, the original input argument xo can transmit the motion through each 
output with sequence, and also effect the movement of next stage to obtain the 
required output finally. 
 
Example 
Lock is the typical variable chain mechanisms with sequential movement.  We 
take an ancient puzzle mechanical lock as an example, and apply the approach to 
 6
eliminates the obstacle of the shackle for preventing the rotation of the side panel. 
That also eliminates the function of the side panel that obstructs to slide the panel on 
the bottom of the lock body.  This enables to reveal the keyhole for inserting the 
appropriate key to open the lock.  
Before the operation of the four-stage open lock, we also take the lock body and 
the key as two independent parts.  When begin to operate the lock at the first, we 
input force to the system, and the topology of the lock begin to transfer two parts, a 
lock body and a lock-peg.  The third part, the side panel, also released furthermore.  
The movement of the bottom panel of the lock produces the fourth part.  After 
inserting the key and to squeeze the splitting-springs of the lock-peg, the two parts, 
the key and the lock-peg, combine for one part and can be contracted as a vertex, as 
shown in Fig. 6(b).  
If we use the composite function to represent the motion of the four-stage open 
locks, then it should be as below  
nn xPSPRSf
xRSf
xSf
a
a
a
××××=
×=
=
...
12
01
 
this family of function satisfied 
),...,,(
...
),(
)(
11
122
11
−=
=
=
nonn
o
o
xxxfx
xxfx
xfx
 
which, S represent the squeeze of the splitting springs, and R、P、…etc, represent the 
motion of rotation joint, prismatic joint, …etc. respectively.  Then the motion can be 
represented by a composite function xn directly, and also simplified the representation 
by drawing the graph by stages and by flow path. 
Furthermore, if we can describe the motion of the mechanism assisted by setting 
the coordinate of the mechanisms, we can manifest the motion of the mechanism 
more effective.  This can also help to distinguish the similar motion of the 
mechanisms.  The manifestation of the four-open lock can then be modified as,   
 8
Chains with Variable Topologies,” Transactions of the Canadian Society for 
Mechanical Engineering, Vol. 27, No. 1&2, 2003, pp. 131-143. 
3. Moon, Y. M. and Kota, S., “Design of Reconfigurable Machine Tools,” ASME 
Transactions, Journal of Manufacturing Science and Engineering, Vol. 124, No. 2, 
2002a, pp. 480-483. 
4.  Moon, Y. M. and Kota, S., “Generalized Kinematic Modeling of Reconfigurable 
Machine Tools,” ASME Transactions, Journal of Mechanical Design, Vol. 124, No. 
1, 2002b, pp. 47-51. 
5. Wohlhart, K., “Kinematotropic Linkages,” in Lenarcic, J. and Parenti-Castelli, V. 
(eds.), Recent Advances in Robot Kinematics, Kluwer Academic Publishers, 
Dordrecht, 1996, pp. 359-368. 
6. Galletti, C. and Fanghella, P., “Kinematotropic Properties and Pair Connectivities 
in Single-Loop Spatial Mechanisms,” Proceedings of 10th World Congress on the 
Theory of Machines and Mechanisms, Oulu, Finland, June 20-24, 1999. 
7. Galletti, C. and Fanghella, P., “Single-Loop Kinematotropic Mechanisms,” 
Mechanism and Machine Theory, Vol. 36, No. 6, 2001, pp. 743-761. 
8. Galletti, C. and Giannotti, E., “Multiloop Kinematotropic Mechanisms,” 
Proceedings of ASME Design Engineering Technical Conference, Montreal, 
Canada, September 29-October 2, 2002. 
9. Dai, J. S. and Jones, J. R., “Mobility in Metamorphic Mechanisms of 
Foldable/Erectable Kinds,” Proceedings of ASME Design Engineering Technical 
Conference, Atlanta, Georgia, September 13-16, 1998. 
10. Dai, J. S. and Jones, J. R., “Mobility in Metamorphic Mechanisms of 
Foldable/Erectable Kinds,” ASME Transactions, Journal of Mechanical Design, 
Vol. 121, No. 3, pp. 375-382, 1999. 
11. Li, D., Dai, J., Ren, Z., and Jia, Q., “Loop Characteristic Analysis of 
Parallelogram Combined Metamorphic Mechanism,” Machine Design and 
Research, Vol. 18, 2002 Supplement, pp. 120-121. 
12. Lee, C. C. and Herve, J. M., “Discontinuous mobility of one family of spatial 6R 
mechanisms through the group algebraic structure of displacement set, ” 
Proceedings of the ASME Design Engineering Technical Conference, v 5 A, 2002, 
p 645-653. 
13. Lee, C. C. and Herve, J. M., “Translational parallel manipulators with doubly 
planar limbs, ” Mechanism and Machine Theory, v 41, n 4, April, 2006, p 
433-455. 
14. C. H. Kuo, Structural Characteristics of Mechanisms with Variable Topologies 
Taking into Account the Configuration Singularity, Master thesis, National Chen 
Kun University, Taiwan, 2004. 
 10
Representation of the Variable Chain Mechanisms with Sequential movement 
Hsing-Hui Huang 
 
Figure Legends 
 
Fig. 1 Contraction 
Fig. 2 Subdivision (Node expansion) 
Fig. 3 Folding clock  
Fig. 4 Sequential movement of variable chain mechanism 
Fig. 5 Ancient Chinese lock 
Fig. 6 Four-stage open lock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 Subdivision (node expansion) 
 
u v u v 
w 
 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 4 Sequential movement of variable chain mechanism 
 
 
Xn 
… 
fxo 
fx Xo 
x 
 16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
(a) Mechanism 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
stage1                     stage 2                     stage 3  
 
 
 
 
 
 
stage 4                     stage 5                     stage 6  
 
(b) Graph representation 
 
Fig. 6 Four-stage open lock 
 
Lock body Key Key Lock body 
Side panel 
Key Lock body 
Side panel 
Bottom panel
Key Lock body 
Side panel 
Bottom panel 
Key Lock body 
Side panel 
Bottom panel
Lock-peg 
Key+Lock-peg Lock body 
Side panel 
Bottom panel
出國報告 hhhuang/2007.0702 
 2
 
本屆大會會場 
 
June 18 
Opening Ceremony (9:00 - 9:30) 
Keynote Speech: Eric Seinturier – Turbomeca (France) (09:30 - 10:30) 
Oral Paper Sessions (10:45 - 18:40) 
IFToMM Technical & Permanent Committee Meetings (18:40 – 20:00) 
Micropolis, Besançon. 
 
June 19 
Oral Paper Sessions (08:10 - 19:00) 
Keynote Speech: Dominique Jamet – Alstom (14:00 – 15:00) 
Micropolis, Besançon. 
Welcome Reception (19:30 – 22:00) 
ENSMM (Engineering school) 
 
June 20 
Oral Paper Sessions (08:10 - 12:50) 
