 
 2 
A Study of Decision-Making in Interfirm Industrial-Service 
Flexibility and Cooperative Network 
 
摘要 
本研究主要探討在高科技機械工業(High-Technology Machinery Industry, HTMI)中，企
業間的產業服務彈性(Industrial-Service Flexibility, ISF)與協力網絡(Cooperative Network)的
創造與執行。由於許多研究只針對企業間的策略夥伴關係中的策略，例如合資、技術轉移
協議、許可協議...等議題來進行討論，本研究旨在於從內部 ISF(Internal ISF)、外部
ISF(External ISF)、以及合作網絡(Cooperative Network)的角度，建立企業間的協議，並設計
中小企業(Small-and-Medium Enterprise, SME)間的服務業務流程網絡。本研究採用混合方法
(質化和量化)的研究設計，用以引導並分析在 HTMI 中的決策制定、ISF 內、外部的影響因
素、以及合作網絡間的關係。本研究發現，由於外部 ISF 對內部 ISF 的影響明顯高於內部
ISF 對外部 ISF 的影響，因此在 ISF 的內部與外部間相互的影響，存有一種顯著不平衡的關
係。 
關鍵詞：產業服務彈性、協力網絡、企業間策略、決策系統分析 
 
Abstract 
This study discusses the creation and implementation of industrial-service flexibility (ISF) 
and cooperative network strategies within interfirm contexts in the high-technology machinery 
industry (HTMI). Since many studies only focus on the interfirm strategy of strategic 
partnerships, such as joint ventures, technology transferring agreements, licensing agreements… 
etc., this study aims to create interfirm protocols for designing interfirm-service processes within 
a small-and-medium enterprise (SME) network from the perspectives of internal ISF, external ISF, 
and cooperative network. This study applies a mixed methods (qualitative and quantitative) 
research design to conduct decision makings and influential factors of internal ISF, external ISF, 
and cooperative network in HTMI. This study also finds that the mutual relationships between 
internal ISF and external ISF are significantly unbalanced due to the impact from the external ISF 
to internal ISF is more significant than the impact from the internal ISF to external ISF. 
Keywords: Industrial-Service Flexibility (ISF), Cooperative Network, Interfirm Strategies, 
Decision Systems Analysis (DSA) 
 
1. Introduction 
Industrial-service flexibility (ISF) is the ability to plan and implement a change in direction 
including responding to dramatic environmental events with little penalty in time, effort, cost, or 
performance (Upton, 1994 & 1995). Creating ISF is not only one response to deal with 
challenges facing the global competition, rapidly changing technology and shorter product life 
cycles, but also one process to handle the logistics flexibility concerning the possible connections 
between suppliers, assemblers and markets (Aprile, Garavelli & Giannoccaro, 2005). Previously 
successful ISF strategies by small-and-medium enterprise (SME) interfirms include the HTMI 
responses to new markets, to product-customer mobilities, creating partnership/relationship 
maintenance in the cooperative network, and nurturing competitiveness advantages for the 
industry. Since decision makers in interfirm networks in high-technology machinery industry 
(HTMI) lack of abilities and resources to arrive at “best practice” decisions for all firms in the 
network, these executives must somehow reach an interfirm operating consensus by simplifying 
and sharing information across firm boundaries (Lysonski & Woodside, 1989). 
The basic industrial structure of Taiwan is composed of SMEs, and it radically differs from 
 4 
that adopts flexibility-promoting standards will improve its performance. Although researchers 
and manufacturers understand the flexibility concept, they struggle with its application to 
industry (Gerwin, 1987; Sethi & Sethi, 1990). Newman, Hanna & Maffei (1993) explain 
flexibility as a fundamental instrument for dealing with uncertainty. External uncertainty can 
stem from the demand or the supply of the market; internal uncertainty can arise from internal 
failure, lack of materials, and delay. Toni & Tonchia (2005) distinguish between internal 
flexibility, shown by manufacturing systems (product/process design and production flexibility), 
and external flexibility (purchasing and distribution flexibility), demonstrated by how a 
manufacturer is perceived by its customers. A firm that modifies its value chain must have 
flexibility when varying the relative composition of the activities and analyzing the combination 
of influential factors within each activity. Volberda & Rutges (1999) classify flexibility into 
internal and external types. They define internal flexibility as management‟s capability to adapt to 
environmental demands quickly; they define external flexibility as the capability to manage 
environmental influences and to reduce the firm‟s vulnerability to environmental changes. 
External flexibility is relative to customer requirements and thus to a firm‟s competitive 
advantage. This notion of flexibility can be called „„first order flexibility‟‟ with regard to quality, 
cost, and time (Suarez, Cusumano & Fine, 1996), or “market-based flexibility” (Chen et al., 
1992). Toni & Tonchia (1998) indicate that the flexibility of manufacturing resources may derive 
from technology, work power, and the ability to serve infrastructural needs. Manufacturing 
flexibility is needed to manage production resources, uncertainty concerning customer requests, 
and the fluctuating pressures of the market (Gerwin, 1987; Koste & Malhotra, 1999). 
Manufacturing flexibility enables enterprises to produce the needed quantity of high-quality 
products quickly and effectively through tactics including minimized set-up times, cellular 
manufacturing layouts, preventive maintenance, quality improvement efforts, and dependable 
suppliers. These tactics depend on machining, labor, material handling, and routing flexibilities 
(Chen et al., 1992; Hyun & Ahn, 1992). 
Grönoos‟s (2000) addresses that services can be identified as simultaneously produced and 
consumed, intangible, and integrative characteristics with respect to external factors in the 
production process. Interactions between service providers and customers in business markets 
increasingly take place in the form of long-term business relationships (Ivens, 2005). In the 
long-term business relationships, service providers and customers do not usually plan ahead for 
the next economic transaction, but instead, they develop expectations covering a longer period of 
time (Heide & Stump, 1995). However, the longer the time of a business relationship is, the 
higher the level of uncertainty about the stability of the environment will take place. Based on the 
literatures, ISF can be classified as internal ISF and external ISF. The capability of internal ISF is 
related to the need for efficient operations; it is not directly related to market demand and 
environmental uncertainties, but instead, internal ISF is determined by the operations, tasks, and 
speeds that a machine can provide (Chen et al., 1992). Internal ISF provides the processes and 
infrastructures that enable the firm to achieve its desired levels of flexible capability. An 
enterprise that can coordinate its achievements of internal and external ISF can achieve a 
competitive advantage in a diverse, dynamically changing market. The capability of external ISF 
can be viewed as a link that unites corporate, marketing, and manufacturing strategies (Watts, 
Hahn & Sohn, 1993; Kathuria & Partovi, 1999). External ISF is the ability to manage 
environmental influences, and it relates to customer requirements and thus to a firm‟s competitive 
advantage. 
 
2.1.1 The Elements of Internal ISF 
Internal ISF can be described as management‟s capability to quickly adapt to internal 
business stresses. Internal ISF provides operational efficiency by means of effective business 
 6 
factory secures the cooperation of outsourcing factories that can help to produce the orders. 
Flexibility and reduction of cost are the main considerations of the “mother factory.” The 
outsourcing factories are expected to guarantee stable production; the advantages of this kind of 
transaction are greater for the mother factory than for the outsourcing factory. Taiwanese 
cooperative networks are only possible within the social context of traditional Taiwanese business 
culture, which reconciles the drive for profit and the need for human sympathy. Battat, Frank & 
Shen (1996) distinguish three types of cooperative networks. The first is a peripheral network of 
producer firms that supply parts, components, and services to a central firm for further processing 
and assembly. The second is a peripheral network of consumer firms that process the raw or 
semi-finished outputs of a central producer firm. The third is a horizontal collaborative network 
in which cooperative firms provide finished products to a central firm, which in turn markets 
them or uses them for its own turn-key projects. Liu (1999) indicates that the cooperative 
networks in the HTMI consist of six components: (1) production relations; (2) regional 
combinations; (3) profit seeking; (4) a high degree of coordination; (5) technology level; and (6) 
interpersonal network. 
 
2.3 The Importance of ISF to Taiwan high-technology machinery industry (HTMI) 
Chen et al. (1992) depicts that the SMEs in HTMI have the characteristics of unique 
production and operation of business trading system. Many links in product assembly and 
processing are closely connected. The HTMI production offers lower costs, better quality and 
on-time delivery to the desperately willing owners, professional managers and workers. However, 
the manufacturers need to have external satellite and the hardware and software support systems. 
Through many years, the reverse development and expand market in HTMI make upstream, 
midstream and downstream establish unbreakable relationships and flexibilities. Volberda & 
Rutges (1999) classify the industrial flexibility of HTMI into internal and external flexibilities. 
Internal ISF is defined as management‟s capability to quickly adapt to the demands in the 
environment, while external ISF refers to the capability of managing the environmental 
influences, so that the firm becomes less vulnerable to the changes of the environmental 
influences. The type of Taiwan‟s cooperation factories is neither like the “factions” relation of the 
primary and secondary in Japan, nor like the “consortium” relation of profit-oriented in America 
and Europe. The type of HTMI in Taiwan is to corporate synergy development of 
parallel-network relation due to several elements. The several key elements of HTMI operations 
are based on product technology, management style, fund deployment and trade network. This 
kind of combination of cooperated relation is formed by different sub-levels of labor resources. 
The combination logic of cooperated relation comes from the principle of profit and labor 
sympathy in traditional culture and social condition. 
Taiwan‟s SMEs respond to the orders of the demand which rise and fall greatly by 
outsourcing (Xie, 1992), and these SMEs are known for being flexible and quick to adapt 
changes in the highly demanding international market (Chang et al., 2003). If the orders are 
unable to be produced from the factory within regular hours, they will be outsourced to original 
equipment manufacturer (OEM) by factories. This outsourcing is formed by production units of 
different sizes, which lead to the ISF through a combining process. ISF enables the Taiwan‟s 
manufacturers to satisfy foreign buyers who have specific time requirements. Therefore, internal 
process of organizations must be combined with processes of other organizations, forming a 
so-called network production organization. This kind of organization characterizes the key point 
of development used for proving external sales (export-oriented industrialization) and leads to the 
industrialization over the last 30 years in Taiwan (Xie, 1991). HTMI is characterized by a 
complete central-satellite factory service system and strong support from peripheral industries. 
This character gives HTMI great abilities of ISF and powerful advantages in terms of production. 
 8 
2 Machine Tool Industry Deputy manager 9 
3 Machine Tool Industry Manager 15 
4 Machine Tool Industry Manager 11 
5 Machine Tool Industry CEO 13 
6 Machinery Industry CEO 19 
7 Machinery Industry CEO 23 
 
Table 2: Interview Experts‟ Backgrounds (third round of interview) 
No. Industry Professional Title Years of experience 
1 Precision Machinery Industry Manager 6.5 
2 Machine Tool Industry Director 8 
3 Machinery Industry General Manager 15.5 
4 Machine Tool Industry General Manager 17 
 
3.2 Decision Systems Analysis (DSA) 
This study applies DSA to formalize an interview procedure for managers who participate in 
various phases in the interfirm decision process of ISF. Capon & Hulbert (1975), Kaynak & 
Ghauri (1994), Howard and Morgenroth (1968), Ronkainen (1985), and Woodside (2003) 
indicate that the aim of DSA is to describe configurations in why and how a decision process 
actually occurs as well as the flow of thinking, interactions of participants, decisions, actions, and 
outcomes in the process. The phases of the manufacturing decision process provide opportunities 
to periodically review and evaluate changing needs, conditions, and alternatives. In order for 
participants in decision processes to make effective decisions, they may benefit from accurate 
understanding of how current decisions are being made. DSA permits the systematic description 
of a strategic decision process; the DSA description can be used as a basis for the formulation of 
processes. DSA can be used to check whether recommended policies have been carried out 
properly. DSA flowcharts can be adapted as a follow-up interviewing guide when charting the 
participation and roles of different groups and individuals (Ronkainen, 1985). Specially 
developed semi-structured interviewing procedures (Hulbert, Harley & Howard, 1972) are useful 
for creating a series of detailed flowcharts describing manufacturing process decisions. DSA 
includes drawing a series of preliminary flowcharts of the decision phases and interactions of 
managers. In the follow-up interviews, these preliminary flowcharts are shown to managers and 
executives to elicit additional details of the decision processes and so that corrections can be 
made. The preliminary flowcharts are then revised to enhance completeness and accuracy. The 
flowchart revisions should be shown to the managers in a third round of interviews, and can be 
shown to other managers who had observed the decision process but who had not been directly 
involved in the previous interviews. A final version of the flowcharts can be completed based on 
the third set of interviews. After the third round of interview, four main variables are obtained as 
internal ISF, external ISF, cooperative network, and ISF performance. The sub-variables of 
internal ISF are Labor Availability, Machine Availability, and material handling flexibility; the 
sub-variables of external ISF are product flexibility, volume flexibility, and delivery flexibility; 
the sub-variables of cooperative network are cost, quality, and delivery time. 
 
3.3 Structural Equation Model (SEM) 
 Figure 1 shows the SEM research framework in this study based on the results of DSA 
flowcharts.  
 10 
 According to literature review and DSA interview results, the ISF in this study is divided 
into internal ISF and external ISF. Upton (1995) describes internal ISF as what the firm can do 
and external ISF as what the customer can see. In other words, external ISF is relative to the 
needs of customer requirement and thus builds to a firm‟s competitive advantage, and internal 
ISF is relative to the need for efficient operations in firms, and it is not directly related to the 
external market demands and environmental uncertainties.  Watts et al. (1993) and Kathuria & 
Partovi (1999) also emphasize that the capability of ISF can be viewed externally as a linkage 
among corporate, marketing, and manufacturing strategy and considered internally to provide the 
processes and infrastructure that enable firms to achieve the desired levels of ISF capability. This 
study constructs the hypothesis that external and internal ISF are complementary flexibility, and 2 
hypotheses are listed as below. 
H 1: External ISF is positively influential to internal ISF 
H 2: Internal ISF is positively influential to external ISF 
 
 External ISF can extend the availability of products, which includes the function of product, 
production of volume and production of delivery, to improve a firm‟s ability to respond market 
needs quickly and achieve better performance of ISF. Since researchers and manufacturing 
managers indicate that ISF is a strategic imperative that enables firms to cope with uncertainty 
(Gerwin, 1987; Sethi and Sethi, 1990), this study constructs the hypothesis that external ISF is 
positively influential to ISF performance as below. 
H3: External ISF is positively influential to ISF performance 
 
 ISF is the organizational ability that increases the variety of product for customers to meet 
their expectations without extreme cost, time, labor resource, or quality loss (Son & Park, 1988; 
Son, 1987; Mandelbaum & Brill, 1989). It can be referred that machines keep operating without 
being idled, repaired, or reworked, and parts are processed directly without waiting for the next 
operation. This study constructs the hypothesis that internal ISF is positively influential to ISF 
performance. 
H4: Internal ISF is positively influential to ISF performance 
 
 Since most firms in Taiwan are SMEs, the cooperative activities are inevitably active and 
frequent, and the purpose of creating cooperative relationships resides in the sympathy of 
obtaining profit and labor due to traditional culture and social condition. Cooperative network is 
the main platform to support firms with intricate and systemic networks. Chen (1994) indicates 
that the main activities of Taiwan enterprises are operating and marketing, and the thriving and 
robust of SMEs heavily depend on professional division of labor and effective cooperative 
relationships. This study constructs the hypothesis that the cooperative network enhances the 
effect associated with external and internal ISFs on the effectiveness of ISF performance. 
H5: The cooperative network enhances the effect associated with external and internal 
ISFs on the effectiveness of ISF performance 
H5-1: External ISF is positively influential to Cooperative Network 
H5-2: Internal ISF is positively influential to Cooperative Network 
H5-3: Cooperative Network is positively influential to ISF Performance 
 
4. Findings and Discussions 
4.1 Results and Findings from DSA 
 Figure 3 depicts the prototypical production process as described in the first round of 
interviews with industry experts. Customers express their needs to the company‟s business 
department. The business department meets the research and development (R&D) department to 
 12 
centers over multiple paths?” are asked. If any of these two questions can be answered positively, 
it will proceed to the next issue. Because various types of machines may be incapable of 
performing the necessary operations, the first question in the third issue of machine availability is: 
“Can the machines perform the operations that the proposed in the customer requirements?”  If 
the machines cannot perform the necessary operations, the orders cannot be accepted. If the 
machines are appropriate, the business issue is one of productive capacity, and the production 
department must ask: “Do the machines have sufficient available capacity?”  If existing capacity 
is adequate, the process can go forward; otherwise, the production department must ask: “Can 
production lines insert orders?” If this question can be answered satisfactorily, production can 
proceed; otherwise production cannot proceed. Figure 4 shows a DSA flowchart concerning 
internal ISF. 
 
 Labor Availability Machine Availability Material Availability Customer‟s 
order 
Production 
Manager 
 Are the currently available 
laborers adequate for the 
proposed orders? 
 Can existing laborers 
work overtime? 
 Can the HR department 
employ part-time 
laborers? 
 
Is the material available? 
 
Can it transport different 
work pieces between various 
processing centers over 
multiple paths? 
 Can the machines perform the 
operations that are required 
for the proposed orders? 
 Do the machines have 
sufficient available 
capacity? 
 Can production lines 
insert orders? 
No 
No No 
No 
No 
Production 
No 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Decline orders 
No 
Yes 
 
Figure 4: DSA flowchart for Internal ISF 
 
4.1.2 External ISF 
 The production department makes three inquiries relevant to external ISF: the first inquiry 
concerns modification, the second concerns volume, and the third concerns delivery. In the first 
inquiry, the production department asks: “Can we expect this order to be modified?”, “Could the 
production department deal with any likely modifications?”, “Can the business department 
handle such modifications?”, and “Do these orders align with our company‟s strategic plan?” If 
any of these four questions can be answered positively, then the second inquiry can proceed; 
otherwise, it cannot. In the second inquiry, the production department asks three questions: “Can 
the manufacturing plant operate over a range of production volumes?”, “Can the manufacturing 
plant add the other production lines?”, and “Can it cooperate with partners in cooperative 
network?” If any of the three questions can be answered positively, then the third inquiry can 
proceed; otherwise, it cannot. In the third inquiry, if positive answer can be obtained by asking 
two questions of “Can the delivery date be met?” and “Can the delivery date be changed and met 
our delivery schedule?”, the company will proceed to manufacture the products. Figure 5 shows a 
DSA flowchart for external ISF. 
 
 14 
 
Relation Ability Delivery Ability Quality Ability 
Customer‟s 
order 
Production 
Manager 
 Is the company on the 
membership list of our 
cooperative network? 
 
Does the company have 
some interesting 
production ability that 
would be of use to our 
cooperative network? 
 
Can the company be 
convinced to join our 
cooperative network? 
 Does the company 
have a good record of 
quality performance? 
 
Can the quality 
performance be improved 
to reach our quality 
requirement? 
 Does the delivery 
date meet our 
requirement? 
 
Can the delivery 
date be adjusted to 
meet the deadline? 
No No 
No 
No Production 
No No 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Yes 
Decline orders 
No 
Yes 
Identify a 
company 
Cost Ability 
 Is the outsourcing price 
acceptable? 
 Is the price negotiable to 
reach our budget? 
No 
No 
Yes 
Yes 
 
Figure 6: DSA flowchart for inquiry concerning the Cooperative Network 
 
4.2 Results and Findings from SEM 
 Structural Equation Modeling (SEM) technique is regarded as a data analysis technique, 
which provided a comprehensive statistical approach to test hypotheses concerning relations 
among observed variables (Bagozzi & Fornell, 1982). Based on the studies of Anderson‟s & 
Gerbing‟s (1988) and William‟s & Hazer‟s (1986), this study applies SEM to analyze the validity 
and reliability, correlations, hypotheses verification, and path route analysis of variables and 
sub-variables. This study analyzes the ISF of SMEs in Taiwan HTMI. The supply chain in HTMI 
consists of raw material (upstream), design and manufacturing (midstream) and machinery 
manufacturing (downstream). There are 4,366 HTMI SMEs (out of total 4,868 HTMI firms) in 
Taiwan. HTMI firms have established an industrial cluster in the areas of Taichung city, and cities 
of Taichung and Taipei are the regions that cover most SMEs of HTMI in Taiwan. This study 
delivered 1,000 questionnaires to the HTMI, and 262 of them were returned. 250 retrieved 
questionnaires are valid, and the validity rate is 25%. Table 5 shows the descriptive analysis of 
SEM for the 250 returned questionnaires. 
 
Table 5: Descriptive analysis of SEM 
Item Percentage 
Gender 
Male Female 
76% 24% 
Experiences 
> 20 yrs 16-20 yrs 11-15 yrs 7-10 yrs 4-6 yrs < 3 yrs 
34.8% 15.6% 22% 11.2% 10.8% 5.6 
Educational 
background 
Ph.D. Master University High school Junior high Elementary 
1.2% 3.2% 41.6% 42.4% 10.8% 0.8% 
Professional 
Title 
Director Manager Administrative Engineer 
25.6% 20% 37.6% 16.8% 
 
4.2.1 Validity and Reliability 
To ensure the validity and reliability of the analysis, the sample adequacy values of KMO 
(Kaiser-Meyer-Olkin) are greater than 0.5, and Cronbach‟s α values are greater than 0.6. Table 5 
shows the values of variables and sub-variables of KMO and Cronbach‟s α in this study. 
 
Table 5: KMO and Cronbach‟s α values of variables and sub-variables (N=250) 
Variable KMO Cronbach‟s α Sub-variable Cronbach‟s α 
Internal ISF .724 .792 Labor Availability .830 
 16 
 
ξ1 
Internal 
ISF 
x2 x3 x1 
η1 
Cooperative 
Network 
x5 x6 x4 
ξ2 
External 
ISF 
η2 
ISF 
Performance 
 
λx11 
λx21 λx31 
 
λx42 
 
λx52 
 
λx62 
λy11 
λy21 
λy31 
λy42 
λy62 
γ11 
y2 
y3 
y1 
y5 
y6 
y4 
λy52 
γ12 
β21 
δ1 δ2 
 
δ3 
δ4 δ5 δ6 
ε6 
ε5 
ε4 
ε3 
ε2 
ε1 
δ1 
δ2 
Γ21 
Γ22 
Φ21 Φ12 
δi：measurement error of observed variables xi 
εi：measurement error of observed variables yi 
λxij：observed variables xi to coefficient of potential exogenous variable ξj 
λyij：observed variables yi to coefficient of potential exogenous variable εj.  
Figure 7: Analysis of SEM Estimation 
 
Table 6: Maximum Likelihood Estimation (MLE) Analysis of SEM 
Variables/sub-variables 
Estimated Parameters of MLE 
Loading Factors (λx/λy) Measurement Error(δ/ε) 
Internal ISF   
    Labor Availability 0.557*** 0.690 
Machine Availability 0.283*** 0.920 
Material Availability 0.670*** 0.551 
External ISF   
    Modification Ability 0.330*** 0.891 
    Volume Ability 0.662*** 0.562 
    Delivery Ability 0.684*** 0.532 
ISF Performance   
Cost Ability 0.614*** 0.623 
Quality Ability 0.812*** 0.341 
Delivery Ability 0.845*** 0.286 
=20.352 (P=0.621), d.f.=23, =0.885 
GFI=0.985, NFI=1.000, CFI=0.985 
RMR=0.031, RMSEA=0.000 
PNFI=0.497, PCFI=0.511 
Loading factor is the standardization value,*** p<0.001 
 
 Table 7 and Figure 8 depict the statistical route analysis in this study, and they demonstrate 
that external ISF has a significant impact on the internal ISF (β=.69, P<.001), which means that 
the external ISF operation obtained from outside of a firm usually affect the internal ISF in a firm. 
However, from the statistical data analysis, the internal ISF does not have a significant impact on 
the external ISF (β=-.18, P>.05), which means that a better internal ISF is not necessary for 
establishing a better performance on the external ISF. As the result, the mutual relationships 
between internal ISF and external ISF are unequally balanced. Furthermore, from the route 
analysis between internal ISF and cooperative network, the relationship between internal ISF and 
cooperative network is not significant (β=.15, P>.05), and this also demonstrates that the internal 
ISF of a firm provides a weak linkage to the cooperation with external firms. 
 In Table 7 and Figure 8, the estimations show that not only the external ISF has a significant 
impact on the ISF performance (β=.44, P<.05), but also the relationship between internal ISF and 
ISF performance is positively significant (β=.43, P<.01). These two estimations explain that in 
order to have better ISF performance (i.e. lower cost, higher quality and shorter delivery time), it 
 18 
HTMI has the cooperative network, which is a unique activity to connect manufacturing firms. 
After interviews with experts in HTMI, this study clearly establishes the research model of ISF in 
HTMI. 
 For the dimension of external ISF, due to the environmental impact of customers requests, 
the new product, modified product, volume and delivery time are all the elements that enterprises 
need to meet customers‟ requirements. Taiwan‟s SMEs have rapid responding capacities to cope 
with this requirement and uncertainty. After confirming the situation and final output, enterprises 
need to deploy and distribute the resources based on the current internal manufacturing structures. 
For the dimension of internal ISF, the utilization and management of firm-level resources are the 
primary elements of flexibility in Taiwan. The firm-level resources, such as labor, machine and 
materials provide the diversity of works and maintain the assurance of product‟s quality, price 
and delivery time. For the dimension of cooperative network, the cooperative network plays a 
role of intermediary agent to balance external and internal flexibilities. Since HTMI forms 
clusters in Taiwan, this represents that Taiwan has popular activity of cooperative network. 
Cooperative network improves HTMI SMEs and completes the cooperation of HTMI supply 
chains. According to the results obtained from DSA and statistical analysis, the external ISF 
represents the firms‟ flexibility to handle external relationships with other firms, and the internal 
ISF represents the firms‟ flexibility to handle internal manufacturing processes of production. 
However, the mutual relationships between internal ISF and external ISF are unbalanced 
significant. This demonstrates that the impact from the external ISF to internal ISF is more 
significant than the impact from the internal ISF to external ISF. This phenomenon implies that 
the explicit relationships with external firms contribute more to a firm‟s internal ISF due to the 
internal ISF is considered as an implicit flexibility and it is relatively hard to be internalized. 
Therefore, the interfirm strategy of ISF for firms in HTMI is better to absorb  
 Peripheral industries strongly support central factories and satellite factories and give the 
HTMI great ISF and powerful production advantages. HTMI SMEs use their network of 
relationships to cope with competitive market conditions, to benefit their international endeavors, 
and to enhance their managerial performance levels. ISF is a core ability of manufacturing firms. 
Each firm must achieve and sustain high flexibilities to survive in the global economy. Taiwan‟s 
manufacturing industries survive and thrive by means of such high ISF. 
 
 
References 
1. Aprile, D., Garavelli, A.C. and Giannoccaro, I. (2005), “Operations planning and flexibility 
in a supply chain,” Production Planning & Control, 16(1), 21-31. 
2. Anderson, J.C. and Gerbing, D.W. (1985), “The effect of sampling error and model 
characteristics on parameter estimation for maximum likelihook confirmatory factor 
analysis,” Multivariate Behavioral Research, 20, 255-271. 
3. Bagozzi, R.P. and Phillips, L.W. (1982), “Representing and Testing Organizational Theories: 
A Holistic Construal,” Administrative Science Quarterly, 273, 459-489. 
4. Battat, J.Y., Frank, I. and Shen, X. (1996). Suppliers to Multinationals: Linkage Programs to 
Strengthen Local Companies in Developing Countries. The International Corporation and 
the World Bank: Washington, DC. 
5. Capon, N., and Hulbert, J.M. (1975), “Decision systems analysis in industrial marketing,” 
Industrial Marketing Management, 4, 43-60. 
6. Chang, S.C., Yang, C.L., Cheng, H.C. and Sheu, C. (2003), “Manufacturing flexibility and 
business strategy: an empirical study of small and medium sized enterprises,” International 
Journal Production Economics, 83, 13-26. 
7. Chen, I.J., Calantone, R.J. and Chung, C.H. (1992), “The marketing-manufacturing interface 
 20 
30. Mandelbaum, M. and Brill, P.H. (1989), “Measurements of flexibility and adaptivity,” 
Journal of the Operational Research Society, 40, 603-609. 
31. Narasimhan, R., Talluri, S. and Das, A. (2004), “Exploring flexibility and execution 
competencies of manufacturing enterprises,” Journal of Operations Management, 22, 
91-106. 
32. Newman, W.R., Hanna, M. and Maffei, M.J. (1993), “Dealing with the uncertainties of 
manufacturing: flexibility, buffers and integration,” International Journal of Operations and 
Production Management, 13, 19-34. 
33. Ronkainen I.A. (1985), “Using Decision-Systems Analysis to Formalize Product 
Development Processes,” Journal of Business Research, 13, 97-106. 
34. Samra-Fredericks, D. (2003), “Strategizing as Lived Experience and Strategists' Everyday 
Efforts to Shape Strategic Direction,” Journal of Management Studies, 40, 141-174. 
35. Sethi, A. K. and Sethi, S. P. (1990), “Flexibility in manufacturing: A survey,” The 
International Journal of Flexible Manufacturing Systems, 2(4), 289-328. 
36. Son, Y.K. (1987). An economic model of advanced manufacturing systems. U.S.A., Auburn 
University. 
37. Son, Y.K. and Park, C.S. (1988), “An economic evaluation model for advanced 
manufacturing systems,” The Engineering Economist, 34, 1-26. 
38. Suarez, F.F., Cusumano, M.A. and Fine, C.H. (1996), “An empirical study of manufacturing 
flexibility in printed circuit board assembly,” Operations Research, 44, 223-240. 
39. Toni, A.D. and Tonchia, S. (1998), “Manufacturing flexibility: a literature review,” 
International Journal of Production Research, 36, 1587-1617. 
40. Upton, D.M. (1994), “The management of manufacturing flexibility,” California 
Management Review, 36(2), 72-89. 
41. Upton, D.M. (1995), “Flexibility as process mobility: The management of plant capabilities 
for quick response manufacturing,” Journal of Operations Management, 12, 205-224. 
42. Uzzi, B (1997), “Social Structure and Competition in Interfirm Networks: The Paradox of 
Embeddedness,” Administrative Science Quarterly, 42(1), 35-67. 
43. Van Manen, M. (1990), Researching Lived Experience, London, Ontario: Althouse Press. 
44. Volberda, H.W. and Rutges, A. (1999), “FARSYS: a knowledge-based system for managing 
strategic change,” Decision Support Systems, 26, 99-123. 
45. Watts, N.A., Hahn, C.K. and Sohn, B.K. (1993), “Manufacturing flexibility: concept and 
measurement,” Operations Management Review, 9, 33-44. 
46. Williams, L.I., and Hazer, J.T. (1986), “Antecedents and consequences of satisfaction and 
commitment in turnover models: A reanalysis using latent variable structural equation 
methods,” Journal of Applied Psychology, 712, 219-231. 
47. Winckler, E. and Greenhalgh, S. (1988). Contending Approaches to the Political Economy 
of Taiwan. New York: M.E. Sharpe. 
48. Woodside, A.G. (2003), “Middle-range theory construction of the dynamics of 
organizational marketing-buying behavior,” Journal of Business and Industrial Marketing, 
18(4/5), 309-335. 
49. Xie, G.X. (1991). The process of network labor: Taiwan‟s outsourcing system in outsourcing 
industry. Taiwan: Publisher. 
50. Xie, G.X. (1992). Invisible factories: Taiwan‟s outsourcing and the family OEM. Taiwan: 
Publisher. 
 
   
                                                                                   Photo by Wen-Hsiang Lai 
 
Sunday Session 2: 10:45-12:15 Room: Kashi 
Industrial Organization 
Session Chair: Sut I Wong Humborstad 
[0079] 
Interactive Relationship of Knowledge Transfer and Learning Capability in Enterprises 
Wen-Hsiang Lai, Feng Chia University, Taiwan 
[0071] 
An Empirical Investigation on Firms' Proactive and Passive Motivation for Bribery: Evidence from 
China 
Rui Wang, Peking University, China 
Xiaoyu Zhou, Peking University, China 
Yi Han, Peking University, China 
[0081] 
Empowerment and Industrial Democracy: The Scandinavian Model 
Sut I Wong Humborstad, BI Norwegian Business School, Norway 
   
The present knowledge transfer focuses on the process and extent of transfer while neglecting 
enterprise learning, causing the imported knowledge and technology unable to be applied, 
maintained, disseminated and further improved. Therefore, if enterprises direct more attention to 
knowledge characteristics, transfer patterns and the impacts occurred through the process of 
knowledge transfer, much of the knowledge could be reused to help promote business growth. 
Enterprises must devote significant resources to learning, transformation and innovation in order to 
keep ahead of the competition. Knowledge has been regarded as the most valuable asset of a 
company and the key to innovation, and enterprise learning is the source of knowledge 
accumulation and innovation, therefore, this study discusses from the viewpoint of outsourcing how 
organizations make improvement in human resources management, resource allocation and overall 
business dynamics to further enhance their competitiveness in the global market. 
 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：賴文祥 計畫編號：99-2628-E-035-048- 
計畫名稱：企業間「產業服務彈性」與「協力網絡」決策分析模式之研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 完成三篇國內之
研討會論文,並已
發表 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 3 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 3 67% 
預計完成三篇論
文投稿國際期刊,
現階段完成兩篇,
並均已投稿及審
查中 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 1 100% 
篇 預計參加國際研
討會(以投稿並已
接受口頭發表),
但因需接待美國
學生之暑期進修
及授課,無法前往
美國發表論文 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 博士生 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
