 
二、計劃緣由與目的 
Under certain conditions, lipases (EC 3.1.1.3) catalyze transesterification and lipid 
synthesis and can hydrolyze a variety of esters in organic solvent systems (1, 2). 
Many microorganisms produce different types of lipases (3-5). A number of potential 
applications for microbial lipases have been developed (1). Consequently, the use of 
these enzymes in industry is expected to increase. In the present work, we have 
undertaken the biochemical characterization and the genetic study of an extracellular 
lipase from A. hydrophila. The properties of this lipase are compared with those of the 
other lipases previously characterized from different strains of bacteria. During the 
cloning and characterization of clones containing gene encoding a lipase of V. 
vulnificus, one clone, which exhibited blue fluorescence when a long-wave UV lamp 
was used in the dark, was noted. We report here the cloning of this blue fluorescence 
gene and characterization of its property.  
 
三、結果與討論 
 Cloning of the lip gene of A. hydrophila and nucleotide sequence of lip gene 
 
To clone the gene encoding the extracellular lipase of A. hydrophila MCC-2, a 
genomic library of this organism was constructed in E. coli JA221. Transformed E. 
coli cells were screened on tributyrin-containing medium to select 
tributyrin-degrading clones. Plasmid DNA was isolated from these two independent 
clones and subjected to restriction endonuclease mapping. The results of subcloning 
revealed that a 2.9 kb HindIII-XhoI fragment was sufficient for the lipase production 
in E. coli JM109 (pLP12). The nucleotide sequence of the 2.9 kb DNA fragment 
encompassing the lip gene was determined on both strands. Computer analysis of the 
nucleotide sequence identified the ORF for lip, extending from an ATG codon at 
nucleotide 552 to a TGA stop codon at position 2804, which is sufficient to encode a 
protein of 751 amino acids corresponding to a molecular mass of 79921 Da. 
 
 Analysis of the Lip amino acid sequence 
The predicted amino acid sequence of Lip protein was compared with those of other 
well characterized lipasesfrom A. hydrophila strains. Significant divergence was 
observed between the predicted amino acid sequence of Lip protein and the 
lipase/acyltransferase, which has been cloned from strain Ah65. However, the Lip 
protein showed strong similarity to the H3 lipase and Apl-1 lipase, which have been 
cloned from strains H3 and JMP636, respectively. Over the entire sequence, the Lip 
protein was 67% identical to the H3 lipase and 65% identical to the Apl-1 lipase. 
Sequence alignment analysis showed that a major difference between Lip and these 
two proteins exists, namely that Lip lacks 37 amino acid residues corresponding to 
Gly-380 to Arg-416 in H3 lipase and Gly-380 to Ser-416 in Apl-1 lipase. In addition, 
Lip contains an additional 100 amino acids at the C-terminal end which are not 
present in either H3 lipase or Apl-1 lipase. No other significant similarities were 
observed with other nucleotide or protein sequences available in the EMBL-GenBank 
or SWISS-PROT databases. 
 
lipases (4, 8). In addition, our observation that cloned Lip protein was primarily 
localized to a membrane-bound site in E. coli differs from the findings of Anguita et 
al. (7). These authors observed that the H3 lipase gene product was present in the 
periplasmic space in E. coli. Based on the amino acid alignment shown, Lip protein 
contains an additional 100 amino acids at the C-terminal end which are not present in 
H3 lipase and lacks 37 amino acid residues that correspond to Gly-380 to Arg-416 in 
H3 lipase. The different enzyme properties described above may result from these 
major differences of amino acid sequence between the two enzymes. Clearly, further 
experiments are required to clarify this point. 
 
Cloning of the BfgV Gene. 
During the cloning and characterization of clones containing gene (vllY) encoding a 
novel hemolysin of V. vulnificus CKM-1, one clone, which exhibited blue 
fluorescence when a long-wave UV lamp was used in the dark, was noted. To define 
the gene responsible for this finding, plasmid (pBVF1) DNA was isolated from 
the clone and retransformed into E. coli JM109 and JA221, respectively. All 
transformants exhibited blue fluorescence in the presence of a UV source. Plasmid 
DNA was subjected to restriction endonuclease mapping and the results of subcloning 
indicated that the BfgV gene was located on the 1-kb HindIII–HindIII fragment. This 
fragment was subcloned into pUC19 yielding plasmid pUVF1. Southern hybridization 
studiesconfirm that the gene responsible for blue fluorescence is originated from V. 
vulnificus CKM-1 (data notshown). 
 
Nucleotide Sequence of BfgV and Overproduction of BfgV 
The nucleotide sequence of BfgV was determined for both strands. The sequence 
revealed that an ORF of 717 bp and encoded a polypeptide with a molecular mass of 
25,768 Da. A possible ribosomal binding site (Shine–Dalgarno sequence), AGGA, 
was found 7 bp upstream from the presumptive start codon ATG. At a point 21 bp 
downstream from the stop codon, there was a palindromic sequence between 
nucleotides 742 and 769. This structure was expected to function as a transcriptional 
terminator.Expression of the BfgV gene upon induction with IPTG in E. coli XL1B 
cells containing plasmid pUVF1. No major polypeptides could bedetected in E. coli 
cells or E. coli cells carrying only thepUC19 vector. The size of this protein is very 
similar to that predicted for the product of the BfgV gene. Furthermore, protein 
overexpression by the pET expression system in strain BL21 containing BfgV gene 
(pEVF) also revealed that a band with a molecular mass of approximately 27 kDa was 
observed (data not shown). The BL21 (pEVF) transformants exhibitedblue 
fluorescence when irradiated by UV source, just like those of E. coli XL1B containing 
pBVF1. 
 
spectra, respectively. Two excitation peaks were observed:one weak peak at 283 nm 
and the other at 352 nm. Only one major emission peak appeared at 456 nm.This 
emission wavelength corresponds to visible pale-blue color and coincides with the 
fluorescence emitting from the BL21(DE3)/pFP21 transformants which 
overexpressed bfgV. 
 
HPLC analysis of the alkaline extraction 
Because the fluorescent spectra of BfgV are similar to those of NAD(P)H-dependent 
oxidoreductase. We therefore speculated that BfgV may contain NAD(P)H and its 
fluorescence may be related to these cofactors. Thus, an alkaline extraction followed 
by reverse-phase HPLC analysis was adopted to determine whether the purified BfgV 
contained NAD(P)H or not. As shown in Fig.2, the alkaline extract of purified BfgV 
had a major peak retained at 3.36 min, a value identical to that of NADPH. This result 
suggested NADPH linked with BfgV . If NADPH were required for BfgV to fluoresce, 
elimination of NADPH should diminish the fluorescence intensity. Therefore, 
NADPH-dependent L L-glutamic dehydrogenase (GLDH;EC.1.4.1.3.) was used to 
confirm the role of NADPH in the fluorescence phenomenon of BfgV. When GLDH 
and its substrates, a ketoglutarate and ammonium chloride, were added into purified 
BfgV solution, the fluorescence intensity of BfgV immediately and significantly 
decayed within 40 s (data not shown). These results showed that not only does 
NADPH bind to BfgV, but also NADPH plays a key role in the fluorescent 
phenomenon of the BfgV. 
 
Efficient augmentation of the intrinsic fluorescence of NADPH by BfgV protein 
Since NADPH plays an important role in the BfgV fluorescence, the fluorescence 
intensity of purified BfgV was compared to that of free NADPH with the same 
concentration determined from this protein. The result showed the ratio of relative 
fluorescence intensity (RFI) of BfgV. NADPH complex to NADPH alone at 456 nm 
is about 10:1 as the excitation wavelength was set at 340 nm (optimum for free form 
NADPH). If the excitation were shifted to the optimum for BfgV. NADPH complex 
at 352 nm, the RFI ratio at 456 nm would slightly increase to 11:1 (data not shown). 
Therefore, the apo-BfgV protein has the ability to positively influence the intrinsic 
fluorescence of NADPH molecules bound to it. 
 
Localization of a transcriptional regulator gene in the vicinal upstream region of 
bfgV 
DNA sequence around bfgV revealed that there was no structure gene clustered with 
bfgV to form an operon. However,an open reading frame (designated as bfgR ) of 915 
selected candidates were subjected to the second step of broth culture for FI 
determination. One mutant, named A48, made the highest FI value and became the 
parent gene for the second round mutagenesis. In the second round work, error-prone 
PCR was adopted again and about 100,000 transformants were screened. 
Although more than 20 colonies displayed fluorescence brighter than those harboring 
A48 on plates, only five mutants B5, B9, B10, B13, and B17 made FI values 
20-30% larger than their parent A48. In the third round, DNA shuffing was applied to 
collect potentially beneficial mutations into a single gene. The five B-series mutant 
genes were used as parents for DNA shuffing and the wild type bfgV was also 
included to remove noxious mutations.Three recombinant genes, C8, C9, and C13 
selected from this process, had FI values slightly greater than the five B-series parents. 
Their deduced amino acid sequences revealed that these three mutants indeed 
contained chimera mutation patterns that were different from their five parents. Lastly, 
we returned to use random mutagenesis for the fourth round work. We mixed equal 
amount of C8 ,C9 ,and C13 DNA as the parents to extend genetic background and to 
avoid losing any promising lineage. One mutant, D7, selected from this cycle made 
the highest FI value, four times larger than wild type bfgV. 
 
Sequence analysis 
DNA sequences of all the bfgV mutants selected from each round were determined 
and compared. The average mutation frequency caused by error-prone PCR was 
0.66%. There were totally 21 base changes in D7 mutant gene and its direct 
progenitors. Twenty of them originated from error-prone PCR and the remaining one 
from shuffing procedure. Eight of the 12 DNA mutations in D7 resulted in amino acid 
substitutions. To confirm if all the eight substitutions (E40K,V76A, L77I, V83M, 
S124C, T171M, G176S,and E179K) were indeed critical for conferring the elevated 
fluorescence of D7 mutant protein, each of them was independently reverted to wild 
genotype by site-directed mutagenesis. The FI values of all the revertants decreased 
over 65%that of D7 with the exception of T171M revertant that showed a similar FI 
value as D7. Therefore, E40K, V76A, L77I, V83M, S124C, G176S, and E179K were 
the effective substitutions in D7 mutant protein. 
 
Fluorescent difference between BfgV and D7 mutant 
Escherichia coli hosts harboring D7 mutant gene showed a slightly different 
fluorescent color. When analyzed by fluorometer, BL21(DE3)/pD721 transformants 
exhibited an emission peak at 440 nm which was 16 nm shorter than that of 
BL21(DE3)/pFP21. However, their excitation maxima were similar to each other. 
 
