1 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
考慮耦合量和頻率相依的寬帶寬濾波器參數萃取方法 
Parameter extraction methods of wide-bandwidth bandpass filters 
with frequency-dependent couplings 
計畫編號：NSC 99-2218-E-150-050 
執行期限：99 年 11 月 1 日至 100 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：李鴻銘 國立虎尾科技大學電子工程系 
計畫參與人員：歐武龍，謝政憲，王新發  
 
中文摘要 
 
在本計畫中，我們提出了利用解析公式從寬帶
寬濾波器的電磁模擬響應萃取出電路參數的方法。在
濾波器電路模型中，諧振器間的耦合元件以電容及電
感等頻率相依元件取代傳統模型所使用的常數阻抗
倒轉器，因此能應用於寬頻的濾波器設計。為了使寬
帶寬的濾波器設計能有滿足規格的響應，我們利用最
佳化方法找出其設計參數。在比較萃取電路參數與理
想設計參數後，便能清楚掌握微調方向，我們利用一
個 8 階、50%寬帶為濾波器設計例子驗證我們所提出
來的方法能有效地診斷並微調電路尺寸使響應符合
規格需要。 
 
關鍵詞：導納/阻抗矩陣，電路微調，參數萃取，寬
帶寬濾波器。 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
A method for circuit elements parameter 
extraction with closed-form formulas of wide-band 
filters from their EM simulated response is presented. 
Lumped elements are used as the circuit model, in 
which the couplings between resonators are represented 
by capacitors and inductors rather than 
frequency-independent impedance inverters for 
wide-bandwidth applications. The design procedure of 
wide-band filters is then introduced. Optimization is 
used to obtain the desired filter parameters whose 
response fulfills the filter specifications. An 8-pole filter 
with a 50% bandwidth is given as a design example, 
which has shown that with the proposed approach, the 
wide-band filter can be diagnosed and fine tuned 
efficiently. 
 
Keywords: Admittance/impedance matrix, circuit 
tuning, parameter extraction, wide bandpass filters. 
 
 
I. Introduction 
 
Synthesis of direct-coupled-resonator filters, such 
as Butterworth, Chebyshev [1], and 
multi-coupled-resonator  (general Chebyshev) filters 
has been well documented [2]-[5]. These filters are 
described by coupling matrices in which the coupling 
coefficients are assumed to be frequency invariant. The 
model of constant coupling matrix is good in describing 
the physical realizations of narrow- and 
moderate-bandwidth filters. However, in a physical 
filter structure, it is well know that the couplings vary 
with frequency. Therefore, for wide-band applications 
the model of constant coupling matrix is no longer valid 
and needs to be modified. 
The tuning process is essential in filter design and 
is usually accomplished by tedious manual adjustments. 
Systematic tuning procedure can reduce plenty of 
design time, especially for high-order filters.  Several 
filter diagnose and tuning methods have been proposed 
and shown efficient filter tuning for narrow-bandwidth 
applications [6]-[9]. However, these studies use the 
model of constant coupling matrix, and they will fail in 
element extraction or result in an extracted coupling 
matrix with nonexistent elements as they are applied to 
wide-bandwidth filters. It is important to have 
one-to-one correspondence between the extracted 
coupling matrix and the filter physical structure for 
explicit dimension adjustment. 
In order to appropriately describe the 
frequency-dependent couplings, it is more reasonable to 
model the coupling structures with capacitors and 
inductors instead of constant impedance inverters. In 
this project, a new method of parameter extraction for 
filters with frequency-dependent couplings is presented. 
The input admittance of one-port open-circuited filters 
is formulated by rational functions, which are 
determined by the locations of zeros and poles.  
Recursive formulas for yielding resonant frequencies 
and coupling coefficients are also given. For filter 
synthesis, filter circuit elements are optimized to have 
responses satisfying the specifications.  With the 
extracted and synthesized parameters, it is 
straightforward to adjust the filter physical structure so 
that the resonant frequencies and couplings can 
approach the desired ones. An 8-pole filter with a 50% 
bandwidth is given as an example and it has 
successfully verified the proposed wide-band filter 
diagnosis and design method. 
 
3 
 
 
0
, 1 0 , 1 1
, 1
0 0 0 10 0 1 0 0 1
1
1i i i i i i
i i
i ii i i i
m L A Xk
Y Y Y Y
ω ω ω
ω ω ω
+
= + +
+
++ +
= = = . (17) 
Finally, in order to determine the external Q , the 
characteristic admittance of the first resonator should be 
given. The reflection coefficient at the input can be 
expressed by 
 
2
01 1
0 1 2
01 1
11 2
01 1
0 1 2
01 1
( )
( )
( )
( )
Y PG j A QS
Y PG j A Q
ω
ωω ω
ω
ωω ω
−
=
+
, (18) 
where 0G  is the source conductance. Therefore, the 
characteristic admittance can be found as 
 
2
0 01 1
01 2
1 1
( )
( )
R R
R
G Q
Y
A P
ω ω ω
ω
= , (19) 
where Rω  is the frequency at which the phase of 11S  
is 90− ° . The external Q  is then derived by 
 
2
01 01 1
2
0 1 1
( )
( )
R R
ext
R
Y QQ
G A P
ω ω ω
ω
= = . (20) 
 
III. Filter Synthesis and Tuning 
 
To proceed with circuit tuning, a set of filter 
parameters whose response satisfies the specifications is 
necessary. Optimization is employed for filter synthesis. 
The error function is described by 
 
2
1 11, 11,
1
2
2 21, 21,
1
1 11, 11,
2 21, 21,
( ) ( , ) ( )
( ) ( , ) ( )
( ) 0 for ( , ) ( )
( ) 0 for ( , ) ( )
P
i ckt i mask i
i
Q
j ckt j mask j
j
i ckt i mask i
j ckt j mask j
erf W S S
W S S
W S S
W S S
ω ω φ ω
ω ω φ ω
ω ω φ ω
ω ω φ ω
=
=
= ⋅ −
+ ⋅ −
= <
= <
∑
∑
, (21) 
where 1W  and 2W  are weighting factors, and 11,maskS  
and 21,maskS  are the filter specification masks. φ  is the 
set of variable parameters, which  are 0iω , 1C , , 1i iC +  
or 
, 1i iL + . The capacitors 2C  to nC  are given from the 
extraction results. By comparing the extracted and 
optimized parameters, 0iω , , 1i ik + , and extQ , it is clear 
to point out the mistuned parameters and modify them 
to approach the desired values. The process of 
parameter extraction is then repeated. Interpolation or 
extrapolation for the determination of dimension 
adjustment can make the tuning procedure more 
efficient. 
 
IV. Example 
 
The example to illustrate the proposed filter diagnosis 
and tuning approach is an 8-pole in-line filter in which 
the non-adjacent spurious couplings are intentionally 
suppressed. As shown in Fig. 2, the resonators are 
alternately coupled with capacitive and inductive 
couplings. Isolation walls are placed between 
non-adjacent resonators, so as to prevent the spurious 
couplings. The central frequency is designed at 2 GHz 
with a 50% bandwidth. The reflection coefficient should 
be lower than -20 dB in the passband. 
The responses of the EM simulation and extracted 
parameters of the initial design are shown in Fig. 3 and 
they have very good agreement. The extracted 
parameters are listed in Table I. The adjacent couplings 
( 12k , 23k , 34k ) are assumed to be either capacitive or 
inductive. However, the minor spurious couplings in the 
physical structure between the adjacent resonators 
would result in the accumulation of element extraction 
error, which will appear as the spurious capacitive 
element between the 4th and 5th resonator and the 
corresponding coupling coefficient 45ek . This spurious 
element is not sensitive to the alteration of the 
dimension and therefore it is reasonable to have its 
value fixed during the process of filter synthesis. In the 
optimization process, the starting values of circuit 
 
(a) 
(b) 
Fig. 2 (a) Structure of the first filter example: direct-coupled filter with 
non-adjacent couplings suppressed and (b) its side view. 
 
 
Fig. 3. EM simulation and extracted responses of the initial design. 
 
5 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
研究成果投稿至 IEEE Trans. Microwave Theory and Techniques 已獲接受，預
計 2012 年出刊。 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應
用價值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能
性）（以 500 字為限） 
傳統的濾波器電路模型假設諧振器間的耦合量為常數，在窄帶寬濾波器應用
之下相當合適，然而在寬帶寬濾波器設計中(15%~20%頻寬以上)，常數的耦合
係數並不合理，不能完整地描述濾波器整個通帶的響應。為了克服此問題，
本計畫提出一個適用寬帶寬濾波器的電路模型，建立由響應萃取出電路參數
的方法，考慮諧振器間的耦合型態為頻率的函數，如電容或電感耦合，其耦
合量和頻率成正比及反比，透過嚴密的數學推導，找出解析的參數萃取方法。
藉由本計畫所提出的方法，濾波器設計者由所萃取的參數和理想參數作比
較，很容易能得知需要調整的元件和調整量，有效率地縮短設計時程，使研
發成本降低，對於濾波器設計相關產業與技術帶來相當大的助益與提升。 
 
 2
人課堂上教學亦有所助益。在第三天、第四天及第五天是 Technical Session，讓各地
的學者分享自己的研究，主要的主題有微波毫米波電磁場分析、微波主動與被動電
元件、微波系統與應用等，本人則是利用有限的時間參加了數個與微波被動電路相
關的論文發表 Session，並利用中間空出之時間參觀業界廠商的發展現況，第五天下
午則是用 “poster” 的方式來報告本人在此會議中所發表之論文，和與會者相互深入
討論過程中，所給予的建議大多較為具體，使研究更加完整，比用 oral 方式報告而
言，能得到更直接的回饋。會議最後一天的 workshop 本人沒有參加。 
二、與會心得 
此次與會是本人第五次參加 IMS 研討會，盛況相對於前幾年而言，參與人數稍
有減少的趨勢，或許因 RF 的熱潮已逐漸退燒，相關研究也較回歸基本面，整體而言
也不算壞事。在本次會議中，本人觀摩了學生設計競賽項目中有關於 Triplexer 的題
目，令人驚訝的是從台灣過去的學生包辦了前三名，果然不負台灣原本有的 Filter 王
國的美名，足見得台灣在濾波器設計方面的實力堅強。 
另外次此與會和平常沒有見到面的國內學者相互交流外，也和之前本人在馬里
蘭大學博士後研究時的老師 Dr. Zaki 及 Dr. Atia 問候，他們如同以前一樣親切與關
心，雖然已經退休了，但是對於後進的提攜與指導還是不遺餘力，也讓身為晚輩的
自己相當崇敬。其間碰到以前美國實驗室的同學 Wei，除了互相寒暄外，也談論他在
自己研究工作計畫上遇到的問題，剛好和本人在寬帶寬濾波器的研究有關，因此我
們也討論幾種可解決的施行方式。 
在會議方面，本人主要參與的場次主要是和自己濾波器研究相關或與有興趣的
題目，高頻濾波器自 50 年代至今一直是微波學門的一個重要領域，至今仍不斷地有
1447 (Paper#) IMS2011 Review Decision
Hong-Ming Lee <lee.hongming@gmail.com> 
jpond@mtt-tpms.org <jpond@mtt-tpms.org> 2011年2月1日上午5:26 
收件者: lee.hongming@gmail.com
Please: Do not reply to this message.
Please: See below for points of contact and their e-mail addresses.
Dear Dr. Hong-Ming Lee
On behalf of the IMS2011 Technical Program Committee, we are pleased to inform you that your 
submitted paper (Registration Key: KKSJD3FtGvIi) entitled, Direct Synthesis of Transmission-Line Elliptic 
Bandpass Filters (Paper #1447),  has been accepted for presentation at IMS2011.
Please be advised that acceptance of your paper is conditional upon your refraining from publishing 
essentially the same content prior to your presentation, including prepublication in trade journals and 
other periodicals.
Your paper is scheduled as a Poster presentation. Your Poster paper has the unique identifier: THPD-3 
(which should be used in any correspondence). Poster Session THPD is tentatively scheduled to be held 
in Hall A on Thursday, June 9, 2011 starting at 12:00 PM. You must remain with your Poster during the 
entire 120 minute duration of the Poster Session. Please consult the IMS2011 website periodically for 
room changes, etc.
e require you to submit the final manuscript of your paper by Friday, 11 March 2011 at our paper 
submission web site for publication in the IMS2011 Digest (Electronic Proceedings)  and Program Book. 
Failure to submit your final manuscript by the deadline may result in removing your paper from the 
presentation at the Symposium. Instructions for final manuscript preparation for the symposium will be 
available on the Author Information web page of the IMS2011 website at: http://www.ims2011.org/ by 
February 10, 2011. Please follow the instructions which require that your manuscript is IEEE-Xplore 
compatible. An IEEE Copyright assignment must be received prior to Friday 11 March 2011; final 
manuscripts cannot be processed without this. An electronic copyright form must be completed as part of 
the uploading process of your final manuscript.
You may wish to submit an expanded version of your symposium paper to the Special Symposium Issues 
of the IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques. Because the extended paper should 
respond to and incorporate feedback from the conference, the deadline for submission is July 5, 2011, 
which is one month after the conference. To submit to the Special Issue, please follow the author 
instructions at  http://www.mtt.org/publications/Transactions/34-author-information-transactions.html. with 
the submission, please include a copy of your IMS paper. Because of short time between submissison 
and publication, papers requiring major revisions cannot be accepted for publication in the special issue.
On rare occasions, a few authors have encountered problems in getting permission to publish a paper 
after being accepted for publication. One paper had to be removed from all copies of the Digest after 
publication. This is inexcusable and causes all sorts of problems for everyone concerned. It is our policy 
that if a paper must be removed from the Digest, it will be done at the author's and/or the sponsoring 
organization's expense. By submitting your final manuscript you are accepting this responsibility.
Your Session Chair and Co-chair are:
Chair's name: Lee Phelps
Chair's affiliation: Northrop Grumman
Chair's e-mail: lee.phelps@ngc.com
Co-Chair's name: Nathan Bushyager
Co-Chair's affiliation: Northrop Grumman
Co-Chair's e-mail: nathan.bushyager@ngc.com
Gmail - 1447 (Paper#) IMS2011 Review Decision
 Direct Synthesis of Transmission-Line Elliptic Bandpass Filters 
Hong-Ming Lee 
Department of Electronic Engineering, National Formosa University, Yunlin, Taiwan 
Email: hmlee@nfu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract  —  A direct synthesis method of elliptic function 
transmission-line filters is presented in this paper. The filter 
designs start from elliptic lumped prototype filters, and then 
Richards’ transform is applied to obtain commensurate 
transmission-line circuits. To make the elliptic filters practicable 
in planar structures, two coupled-line structures and their 
equivalent circuits are introduced, and they can be assembled to 
realize the elliptic filters. Since the transmission-line filters are 
achieved with frequency scaling, passband filters with wide-
bandwidth responses can be obtained directly. An example of 
fifth-order elliptic filter with a 40% fractional bandwidth is given. 
The simulation and measurement results have shown the 
feasibility of the proposed filter design procedure. 
Index Terms — Coupled transmission lines, distributed 
parameter filters, elliptic filters, wideband. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
In order to meet the demand for fast-growing wireless 
communication technology, bandpass filters with high 
selectivity and compact size are always desired. Traditional 
microwave bandpass filter designs use lumped elements and 
constant coupling matrix to model the physical filter structure. 
The frequency-invariant coupling coefficient is good in 
describing the physical realizations of narrow-bandwidth 
filters. However, the assumption of constant coupling 
coefficients is invalid as the filter bandwidth becomes wider. 
Moreover, the model of lumped element may not be sufficient, 
especially for transmission-line filters. Elliptic or quasi-elliptic 
filters are usually used to enhance the selectivity in wide-
bandwidth applications such as ultra-wideband systems [1]-[5]. 
These studies provide specific design equations for 
transmission zeros of the elliptic filters. However, these filters 
cannot be designed with prescribed stopband rejection level, 
which is also an important specification of filters. Therefore, a 
general synthesis method of transmission-line elliptic filters 
for wide-bandwidth applications is necessary. 
It is well-know that Richards’ transform provides the 
transformation between short- and open- circuited 
transmission lines and lumped element inductors L and 
capacitors C, respectively. Under Richards’ transform, a 
distributed bandpass filter can be obtained directly from 
frequency scaling of lumped-element high-pass filter 
prototype [6]-[7], and therefore it is suitable for wide-
bandwidth applications. In Wenzel and Malherbe’s works, the 
elliptic filters were carried out by coaxial constructions with 
internal series stubs. However, series transmission-line 
components are not easy to be implemented with widely-used 
planar circuits. In this paper, two coupled-line structures, 
which can be employed to realize the elliptic filter, and their 
equivalent circuits are introduced. The design procedure of 
merging the coupled-line sections is also discussed. A fifth-
order elliptic filter with a 40% bandwidth, 20-dB return loss, 
and 35-dB stopband rejection is given as an example. The 
simulation and measurement results have shown the validity 
of the theoretical study. 
II. ELLIPTIC FILTER STRUCTURE 
Fig. 1 shows a fifth-order lumped-element elliptic high-pass 
filter and its response, of which the maximum attenuation in 
the passband is 0.044 dB (20-dB equiripple return loss), the 
minimum attenuation in the stopband is 35 dB, and the cutoff 
frequency is at 1 radcω′ = . By applying Richards’ transform, 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 1. (a) Fifth-order elliptic function highpass filter prototype
and (b) its frequency response. 
 Fig. 5. A single short-circuited stub with 0 672.1 Z = Ω  
connected to the middle coupled stubs is necessary to satisfy 
the required value of characteristic impedance of the stub in 
the filter equivalent circuit. It should be noted that the some 
short-circuited stubs can be combined, as depicted in Fig. 6, to 
enhance the feasibility. It is clear that in the filter 
configuration shown in Fig. 6, there are five half-wavelength 
resonators coupled alternately, and cross couplings exist 
between the first and third resonator and the third and fifth 
resonator. Merging the coupled-line sections can be done 
approximately with the following procedure, as shown in Fig. 
7. With the derived values of 0 1eZ  ( 0 2eZ ) and 0 1oZ  ( 0 2oZ ), the 
coupled-line width 1w  ( 2w ) and gap 1s  ( 2s ) can be 
determined with the help of computer-aided design tool.  The 
short-circuited stubs are supposed to be single stubs regardless 
of the coupling, and their characteristic impedances with line 
widths of 1w  and 2w  can be calculated. Then these two stubs 
are combined as a single short-circuited stub, and its line 
width 3w  is determined based on its characteristic impedance. 
Finally the gaps between the stubs are kept as 1s  and 2s , and 
this completes the design procedure. Although the coupled 
lines are designed approximately, it is sufficient to provide 
appropriate couplings and impedances for the resonators.  
III. SIMULATION AND MEASUREMENT RESULTS 
Since the filter design has a wide 40% bandwidth, broadside 
coupled lines with multilayer substrate are employed to meet 
the requirement of strong coupling. The filter is implemented 
 
Fig. 5. The elliptic bandpass filter realized by coupled-line
circuits. 
 
 
Fig. 6. Final configuration of the elliptic bandpass filter. 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. Approximate design to combine the short-circuited
stubs. 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Fig. 8. (a) Filter configuration for realization and (b)
electromagnetic simulation and measurement results. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 考慮耦合量和頻率相依的寬帶寬濾波器參數萃取方法
計畫主持人: 李鴻銘
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-150-050- 學門領域: 電磁
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
