in classrooms of different thermal characteristics. 
Based on the results of field comfort surveys an 
adaptive comfort model for children and teenagers was 
developed and compared to ASHRAE’s model for 
characterizing the requirements of thermal comfort 
among the students using naturally ventilated 
classrooms. The building energy regulation was found 
to have a significant impact on the level of thermal 
comfort in naturally ventilated classrooms. 
Topics II：A field survey was conducted from May to 
June, 2011, in two high-school classrooms in middle 
Taiwan, one adopting a centralized management for 
control of AC use while the other employing a user-
controlled, fee-for-service mechanism to investigate 
the influence of AC management scheme on thermal 
perception as well as adaptive behaviors of students 
in AC use. The AC usage was significantly affected by 
the managerial scheme selected in AC control. When 
the AC was in use, the mean top in the classroom 
regulated under central management was 2.9oC less 
than the value observed in user management. The 
cumulative hours of AC operation in central 
management was three folds of the level recorded in 
user management. Linear regression of thermal 
sensation vote against top indicated a greater 
thermal sensitivity in the user management group to 
the shift of top, reflecting on the fee-for-service 
characteristic of the user control mechanism. 
英文關鍵詞： adaptive thermal comfort model； naturally 
ventilation； hybrid ventilation； building thermal 
performance； indoor environmental control； energy 
management 
 
 2 
 
children and teenagers in their pre- or circum-pubescence, respectively. These students in general have a 
lower metabolism [15], faster heat loss [16], and greater sensitivity to change in the core temperature [17] 
compared to that of the adults. Owing to the age-dependent variation in thermoregulatory capacity, the 
thermal comfort of children and teenagers can also vary significantly from that of the adults. Thus, in this 
study an adaptive comfort model was established specifically for the children and teenagers based on field 
observations so to provide a mechanism for evaluating the indoor thermal comfort of the students in NV 
buildings. 
 
2.	Field	studies	on	adaptive	thermal	comfort	in	hot‐and‐humid	regions	
The adaptive comfort model is developed on the findings of field surveys concerning thermal comfort 
[18]. In the governing theory of adaptive thermal comfort, people are assumed to consciously or 
unconsciously respond to their exposure to a given thermal environment in order to restore their own thermal 
comfort [19]. The adaptive theory considers many opportunities to adapt, such as taking on/off clothing, 
opening/closing windows, and switching on/off fans. It also allows a broad range of thermally acceptable 
indoor environments in relation to the outdoor climate. 
After Brager and de Dear [20] developed the adaptive model in the 1990s, many field studies on the 
change of indoor thermal environment and the occupants’ strategies in acclimation were conducted around the 
world, including a substantial proportion of these performed in hot-and-humid regions of climates similar to 
that of Taiwan. For instances, De Dear and Fountain [21] investigated the indoor climates in the 
air-conditioned office buildings in the city of Townsville, Australia; Kwok [22] through field surveys 
evaluated the thermal comfort of the subjects in NV classrooms at Hawaii. Wong and Khoo [23] carried out a 
field study in NV classrooms in Singapore, and Henry and Wong [24] studied the thermal comfort conditions 
in NV houses in Indonesia. In China, field studies were conducted in different cities located in the 
hot-and-humid climatic region, such as those reported by Zhang et al. [25], Han et al. [26], Yang and Zhang 
[27], Ye et al. [28] and Yao et al. [29]. In Taiwan, Hwang et al. [30, 31] reported field surveys performed to 
realize the thermal comfort of occupants and the behaviors of thermal adaptation in different types of indoor 
thermal environment, including the university classrooms, office buildings and residential buildings. Hoof [32] 
reviewed various studies conducted in the Asian countries, and found that the thermally neutral and preferred 
temperatures determined from field observations were often higher than those based on the PMV model. In 
addition, Hoof’s analysis revealed considerable differences between the subjects in different countries. 
 
3.	Materials	and	Methods	
 
3.1. Thermal index 
There are a number of indices for expressing the effect of thermal environments on the human body. 
Examples are the PMV, Effective Temperature (ET*), Standard Effective Temperature (SET*), and operative 
temperature. These thermal indices integrate the effects of environmental variables (air temperature, air 
humidity, mean radiant temperature and air speed) and/or personal variables (clothing level and metabolic rate 
of activity) on thermal comfort. Humphreys et al. [33] reviewed a number of studies wherein the calculated 
 4 
 
difference is taken, and a weighting factor is applied to quantify the thermal discomfort. In the first measure, 
the weighting factor (wfop) is calculated as: 
limitn
limitop
op tt
tt
wf −
−+=1  (4) 
while in the second measure the weighting factor (wfppd) is calculated as: 
limit
actual
ppd PPD
PPDwf +=1  (5) 
where PPDactual is the actual percentage of the subjects dissatisfied with the identified thermal environment 
and PPDlimit the PPD limit of the specified comfort range. In this study, the significance of thermal discomfort 
during a warm or cool period of the year was evaluated as: 
i) For a warm period: 
∑∑ ⋅=⋅= twfIortwfI ppdhotppdophotop ,,           for top>tlimit(upper) (6) 
ii) For a cool period: 
∑∑ ⋅=⋅= twfIortwfI ppdcoldppdopcoldop ,,           for top<tlimit(lower) (7) 
The estimates of thermal discomfort as derived from Eqns. (6) and (7) were denominated as Iop and Ippd 
and expressed in hours. The weighting factors wfop and wfppd were those defined in Eqns. (4) and (5), 
respectively. The symbol t represented the length of time in hours during which the specified level of thermal 
discomfort was experienced. 
 
3.4 Thermal comfort survey 
A series of field surveys were conducted to evaluate the requirements of thermal comfort among the 
students using NV classrooms in different primary and secondary schools located in urban and suburban areas 
of Taichung, Taiwan. A total of 1,614 students, consisting of 823 girls and 791 boys, in 48 classrooms were 
recruited to participate in the comfort survey. Table 1 presents the gender and age distribution of the study 
participants. The field study was conducted from September 1, 2005, to February 5, 2006, corresponding to 
the session of fall semester in local primary and secondary schools. The survey was performed continuously 
each week in 2–5 classes throughout the semester. Approximately one-third of the participating classes were 
visited monthly, whereas the other classes were visited once or twice during the study. A total of 3,754 sets of 
environmental monitoring data and subjective questionnaires were collected, with 52% from high schools and 
the remainder from primary schools. 
In the comfort survey, a questionnaire was used to evaluate the students’ thermal perception in 
classrooms of different physical configurations and thermal characteristics. The measurement of 
microclimatic variables including air temperature, relative humidity, air velocity, and mean radiant 
temperature was simultaneously conducted in the classroom. The questionnaires were handed to the students 
30 mins after they entered the classroom to ensure the return of their metabolic rates to a sedentary state. The 
questionnaire was designed to examine the thermal sensations and preferences as well as the adaptive 
perf
 
Tab
 
para
orie
WW
exte
syst
AW
aWW
bAW
 
 
 
clas
con
 
 
As the cur
ormance of
le 2 Physica
meters 
ntation 
Ra 
rnal shadin
em 
SGb 
R is wind
SG is expr
sroom to m
dition at th
rent study 
 the buildin
l character
north-s
0.30 
g south: 
corrido
none 
 
153 
ow wall rat
essed in kW
Figure 1
easure the 
e specific 
focused on
g envelope
istics of the
A 
outh 
 
r space nor
io 
h/m2-yr 
: Locations
environmen
point in tim
 the mean t
, an indoor
 monitored
north
0.42
th: 
south
corrid
balco
2.2m 
123
 of the mon
tal variable
e of meas
6
hermal com
 climate ac
 classrooms
B 
-south 
:  
or space no
ny;  
in depth 
itored clas
s. The mea
urement an
fort level i
quisition s
 
classroom
east
0.55
rth: 
wes
corr
non
 
393
srooms (co
sured data 
d to calcu
n the NV c
ystem was 
C 
-west 
 
t: 
idor space e
e 
lor block) o
were used t
late the ins
lassrooms a
installed in
east
0.39
ast: 
wes
corr
balc
dep
267
 
n campus 
o indicate 
tantaneous
s affected 
 the center
D 
-west 
 
t:  
idor space
ony; 2.3m 
th 
 
the mean th
 top. The th
by the 
of the  
east: 
in 
ermal 
ermal 
 8 
 
a The average monthly outdoor temperatures were from Central Weather Bureau, Taiwan 
 
indoor thermal status in this month. The enhanced acclimation of students to the indoor microclimate in 
November could be a result of the students’ thermal sensational change being compensated by the effect of 
their clothing adaptation, which subsequently contributed to the relative small slope and low R2 values in the 
November regression model. 
Equation (8) presented a simple linear regression equation for the calculation of neutral temperature by 
which people experienced a neutral thermal sensation to the microclimate. At TSV = 0, a thermally neutral 
temperature (tn) could be derived from Eq. (8) for each of the surveyed months. As shown in Table 3, the tn 
varied significantly over the investigated period, ranging from 22.4°C in the coldest month (January) to 
29.2°C in the warmest month (September). Figure 2 shows the distribution of the tns against the mean 
monthly outdoor temperatures (tom) for each of the surveyed months. The field observations-fitted regression 
model revealed a strong dependency of the tn on the tom, and the model could be mathematically expressed as: 
omn tt ×+= 62.01.12    R2=0.923 (9) 
In comparison, the regression model established for NV buildings according to the ASHRAE Standard 
55 was: 
omn tt ×+= 31.08.17  (10) 
As demonstrated in Figure 2, the tn in warm months (September to November) for children and teenagers 
in Taiwan was higher than that predicted by the adaptive model in the ASHRAE Standard 55, while in the 
cold months (December and January) the tn was close to that recommended by the model in the ASHRAE 
Standard 55. Cautions should be taken that, as the model described in Eqn. (9) was derived from a regression 
analysis, this model was not to be applied to produce a tn estimate if the tom fell outside 16.8-28.2oC, the range 
of tom observed in this study and used for model validation. 
 
 
Figure 2: Comparison between neutral operative temperature of children and teenagers and that from the 
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
15 18 21 24 27 30
ne
ut
ra
l o
pe
ra
tiv
e t
em
pe
ra
tu
re
, °C
average monthly outdoor temeprature,  °C
observations ASHRAE model fitted model
 10 
 
4.3. Limits of thermal comfort zone 
In the evaluation of thermal discomfort among the students in the NV classrooms, a few subjects were 
found to experience the hot discomfort when the top dropped (∆t < 0) or the cold discomfort when the top 
increased (∆t > 0) (Figure 3). In addition, about 4% of the surveyed students expressed a status of thermal 
discomfort when the top was identical to the tn. Of the 4% experiencing thermal discomfort, three-fourths of 
them expressed hot discomfort and the rest cold discomfort, suggesting a preference among the surveyed 
students toward a slightly colder thermal status in the NV classrooms. This observation was supported by the 
higher level of Phot compared to the level of Pcold at ∆t = 0. As far as the thermal comfort zone was concerned, 
the ∆t values corresponding to 10% and 20% of hot discomfort were 1.7 and 2.9°C, respectively, whereas 
those corresponding to the same proportions of cold discomfort were -3.9 and -5.3°C. These results suggested 
that the students surveyed overall were more sensitive to the increase in top when staying in a NV classroom. 
Figure 4 shows the adaptive thermal comfort model developed for children and teenagers in this study 
compared to the model established in the ASHRAE Standard 55. In the thermal comfort zone defined for the 
students in the NV classrooms, the optimal, 80% acceptable, and 90% acceptable comfort top received a 
greater influence from tom than their counterparts defined in the comfort zone of the ASHRAE Standard 55 
did. 
 
 
Figure 4: Comparison between adaptive comfort model established for children and teenagers and that from 
the ASHRAE model 
 
The ISO 7730 established PPD limits corresponding to various categories of thermal comfort level [5]. 
To realize the thermal comfort requirements of the students in terms of top change in the NV classrooms, the 
∆t limits corresponding to the different comfort categories in the ISO 7730 were derived using Eqns. (11), (12) 
and (13) following the ISO PPD limits and presented in Table 4. 
 
5.	Thermal	comfort	as	a	function	of	AWSG	
 
16 
20 
24 
28 
32 
15 18 21 24 27 30
co
m
fo
rt 
op
er
at
iv
e t
em
pe
ra
tu
re
,°
C
mean monthly outdoor temperature
optimum
90% limits
80% limits
80%
90%
optimum
90% limits
80% limits 
ASHRAE 55
this study
 12 
 
Figure 5: Indoor operative temperatures measured during the hottest week 
 
 
Figure 6: Indoor operative temperatures measured during a cold and sunny week 
 
 
Figure 7: Distribution of change in operative temperature grouped by the ISO 7730 thermal comfort 
categories  
 
5.2 Levels of thermal comfort in naturally ventilated classrooms 
In Taiwan, during an academic year the months of May and June (the spring semester) and of September 
and October (the fall semester) are commonly considered as the warm period, whereas the months of 
December, January, February and March are regarded as the cool period. In this study, the primary concern 
with the thermal comfort in the warm and cool period was the hot discomfort and cold discomfort of indoor 
occupants, respectively. For the monitored classrooms, the school hours accumulated in the warm and cool 
period were 774 and 621 hrs, respectively. 
In this study, the hourly indoor top was used to calculate the departure of top from tn (∆t). Figure 7 shows 
16 
17 
18 
19 
20 
21 
22 
23 
24 
in
do
or
 o
pe
ra
tiv
e 
te
m
pe
ra
tu
re
, °
C
date
=123 =153 =267 =393
AWSG:
neutral temperature
1/22 1/23 1/24 1/25 1/26
12% 8% 5% 4%
5%
6% 6% 5%
11% 13%
8% 11%
58% 58%
50%
59%
45%
54%
29% 27%
7% 8%
14%
10%
31%
29%
17%
33%
4% 3%
7%
4%
14%
7%
25%
17%
4% 5% 11% 7% 11% 10%
29% 23%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
A B C D A B C D
fr
eq
ue
nc
y
> 2.4
1.7 –2.4
0.7 –1.7
-2.8 – 0.7
-3.9 –-2.8
-4.7 –-3.9
< -4.7
Unit: °C Top
warm periodcool period
 14 
 
AWSG74.171.61, ×+=hotopI  R² = 0.99 (15) 
In the cool period: 
AWSG33.068.102, ×−=coldppdI  R² = 0.82 (16) 
AWSG16.0-131.59, ×−=coldopI  R² = 0.94 (17) 
The magnitude of slope in these regression models revealed the thermal sensitivity of the students (i.e. 
the significance of thermal discomfort) toward a change in the AWSG: a positive slope indicated an increase 
in thermal discomfort with increasing AWSG; a negative slope suggested a reduction in discomfort when the 
AWSG increased. Overall, the level of thermal discomfort was more influenced by the AWSG change in the 
warm period than in the cool period. 
 
 
Figure 8: Correlations between the AWSG of monitored classrooms and the severity of thermal discomfort 
 
As Figure 8 shows, the Iop,hot dropped from 685 to 210 hrs and the Ippd,hot from 849 to 251 hrs when the 
AWSG decreased from 393 to 123 kWh/m2-yr. As the level of hot discomfort could be significantly alleviated 
by reducing the AWSG, careful treatment of the AWSG received in a NV classroom could offer an effective 
opportunity to improve the level of thermal comfort among the students. Typically, the comfort level in a NV 
classroom may be improved by adjusting the AWSG via two mechanisms: control of the classroom orientation 
and attachment of external sun -shading systems to the windows. The properties of the two mechanisms were 
represented by the term IH (the yearly incident solar radiation on the window) and K (the corrected factor for 
an external sun-shading device attached to the window) as described in Eqn. (1), respectively. By making a 
comparison among Classroom A (AWSG = 153 kWh/m2-yr), C (393 kWh/m2-yr) and D (267 kWh/m2-yr), it 
became apparent that the change in classroom orientation possessed a greater potential in alleviating the 
severity of hot discomfort (demonstrated as the difference in Iop or Ippd between Classrooms A and C in Figure 
8) than the attachment of a sun-shading system did (demonstrated as the difference in Iop or Ippd between 
0 
200 
400 
600 
800 
1000 
0 100 200 300 400 500
I o
p 
or
 I p
pd
, h
rs
AWSG, kWh/m2-yr
Iop,hot Ippd,hot Iop,cold Ippd,cold
 16 
 
z In the warm period, for the classrooms of an AWSG level in compliance with the 200 kWh/m2-yr norm 
defined in the building energy codes, the hourly top change Δt was considered thermally “unacceptable” 
according to the ISO 7730 thermal comfort classification in 10% of the hours the classroom was used. In 
comparison, the Δt in the “unacceptable” thermal comfort category was observed in 23-29% of the 
school hours in the classrooms of an AWSG > 200 kWh/m2-yr. During the cool period, a high percentage 
(72-80%) of school hours was identified wherein the Δt fell in the “acceptable” comfort category. 
z Linear correlations between the energy regulation AWSG and the indices of thermal discomfort 
significance, Iop,hot/Ippd,hot for the warm period and Iop,cold/Ippd,cold for the cool period, were established. The 
slopes of the regression models revealed that the Iop,hot/Ippd,hot was more sensitive to the AWSG received 
in the classroom in the warm period compared to the sensitivity of the Iop,cold/Ippd,cold in the cool period. 
The Iop,hot/Ippd,hot increased with increasing AWSG, whereas the Iop,cold/Ippd,cold decreased when the AWSG 
rose. 
In summary, the adaptive comfort model for children and teenagers developed in this study provided a 
mechanism for the assessment of thermal comfort in the NV classrooms in primary and secondary schools. 
The quantitative analysis of thermal comfort under influences of climatic conditions further illustrated how 
the level of thermal comfort in a NV classroom changed as a function of AWSG. These findings should prove 
useful for improving the efficacy of natural ventilation as a primary means of ventilation in Taiwan. Further 
study could focus on the cooling potential for the NV buildings in natural ventilation, as the effectiveness of 
natural ventilation as a mechanism of indoor environmental control could be influenced equally by the solar 
heat gain taking the form of AWSG as well as by the cooling potential of the buildings, as suggested by Yao et 
al. [14]. Identifying the variables involved in the process of building cooling and integrating these variables 
into the current energy regulation AWSG is a topic of interest. 
 
7.	Reference	
[1] Wargocki P, Wyon DP, The effects of moderately raised classroom temperatures and classroom 
ventilation rate on the performance of schoolwork by children, HVAC&R Res, 13 (2), 2007, 193-220 
[2] Kameda K, Shuzo M, Kazuhide I, Takamasa K, Study on productivity in the classroom (part 3): 
nationwide questionnaire survey on the effects of IEQ on learning performance, Proceedings of Clima 
2007 Wellbeing Indoors; 2007, 1608-1611 
[3] Construction and Planning Agency, Technical codes for energy conservation design of educational 
buildings, Ministry of the interior, Taiwan, 2005 
[4] ANSI/ASHRAE, Standard 55-2004: Thermal environmental conditions for human occupancy, American 
Society of Heating, Atlanta, Georgia: Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Inc., 
2004 
[5] EN ISO 7730, Moderate thermal environments—analytical determination and interpretation of thermal 
comfort using calculation of the PMV and PPD indices and local thermal comfort; 2005 
[6] CEN EN15251, Indoor environmental input parameters for design and assessment of energy performance 
of buildings - addressing indoor air quality, thermal environment, lighting and acoustics, 2006 
 18 
 
[26] Han J, Zhang G, Zhang Q, Zhang J, Liu J, Tian L, Field study of occupants thermal comfort and 
residential thermal environment in a hot-humid climate of China. Build Environ, 42, 2007, 4043-4050 
[27] Yang W, Zhang G, Thermal comfort in naturally ventilated and air-conditioned buildings in humid 
subtropical climate zone in China, Int J Biometeoro, 52(5), 2008, 385-398 
[28] Ye XJ, Zhou ZP, Lian ZW, Liu HM, August, Field study of a thermal environment and adaptive model in 
Shanghai, Indoor Air, 16(4), 2006, 320-326 
[29] Yao RM, Liu J, Li BH, Occupants' adaptive responses and perception of thermal environment in naturally 
conditioned university classrooms, Appl Energy, 87(3), 2010, 1015-1022, 
[30] Hwang RL, Cheng MJ, Lin TP, Ho MC, Thermal perceptions, general adaptation methods and occupant’s 
idea about the trade-off between thermal comfort and energy saving in hot–humid regions, Build Environ, 
44, 2009, 1128-1134 
[31] Hwang RL, Lin TP, Kuo NJ, Field experiments on thermal comfort in campus classrooms in Taiwan, 
Energy Build, 38, 2006,53-62. 
[32] van Hoof J, Forty years of Fanger’s model of thermal comfort: comfort for all?, Indoor Air, 18, 2008, 
182-201 
[33] Humphreys MA, Nicol JF, Raja IA. Field studies of indoor thermal comfort and the progress of the 
adaptive approach. J Adv Build Energy Res, 1, 2007, 55-88 
[34] ISO, International Standard 7726, International Standard Organization: Geneva, ISO 7726:1998, 
Ergonomics of the thermal environment -- Instruments for measuring physical quantities, 1998 
[35] Hwang RL, Lin TP, Chen CP, Kuo NJ, Investigating the adaptive model of thermal comfort for naturally 
ventilated school buildings in Taiwan, Int J Biometeorol, 53(2), 2009, 189-200 
[36] Lyons PR, Window performance for human thermal comfort, ASHRAE Trans, 106, 2000, 594-602 
[37] Sullivan R, Thermal Comfort Issues in the LRI Study, Internal Memorandum/Report, Windows and Day 
lighting Group, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA, 1986 
[38] Gennusa ML, Nucara A, Pietrafesa M, Rizzo G, A model for managing and evaluating solar radiation for 
indoor thermal comfort, Sol Energy, 81, 2007, 594-606 
[39] de Dear RJ, A Global database of thermal comfort field experiments. ASHRAE Trans, 104(1), 1998, 
1141-1152 
[40] Nicol F, Humphreys MA, Maximum temperatures in European office buildings to avoid heat discomfort, 
Sol Energy, 81, 2007, 295-304 
[41] Nicol F, Hacker Jake, Spires B, Davies H, Suggestion for new approach to overheating diagnostics, 
Proceedings of Conference: Air Conditioning and the Low Carbon Cooling Challenge, 2008 
 
 
  
 20 
 
ventilation performance in France by Cron and Inard [16], and the comparison of effectiveness of natural, 
mechanical, and hybrid ventilation in Greece by Niachou et al. [17]. Studies of similar aims were also pursued 
by Utzinger in the US [18], by Franks et al. in Switzerland [19], by Mumovic et al. in England [20], by Haase 
and Amato in Hong Kong [21], and by Ji et al. in southern China [22]. In areas of sub-tropical, 
warm-and-humid weather similar to that of Taiwan, hybrid ventilation has been shown to facilitate a reduction 
in energy expenditure in the buildings of various designs and purposes [21,22]. With its attributes in 
occupant-initiated environmental control and energy saving, the hybrid ventilation system gradually replaced 
the entirely AC-dependent ventilation and became a significant means of promoting indoor thermal comfort at 
school in Taiwan. 
The cost associated with AC use has been shown to be a factor dictating the choice of strategy adopted in 
the management of indoor environmental control. Hwang et al. [23] observed that in Taiwan the occupants of 
residential and office buildings would find the thermal status of an indoor environment typically considered as 
hot thermally acceptable when the occupants had to use AC at their own expense. Evaluating the effectiveness 
of an interactive system allowing for a direct control of AC by the occupants [24], Yoshifumi et al. also 
reported that the user request-commanded AC operation could reach 20% more energy saving compared to the 
level of energy consumption when the AC was regulated by centralized control and maintained at a constant 
26°C. In Taiwan, as the schools continued to adopt hybrid ventilation and phase out a complete reliance of 
IEQ adjustment on AC, these schools also became aware of the financial burden borne in AC use and the 
dominating effect of managerial scheme selected in indoor ventilation on the actual usage of AC. For a 
majority of these schools, the cost of AC usage is now shared by the users, i.e., the students, and two 
managerial strategies have been implemented in the actual AC operation. The first strategy employs a scheme 
of centralized management for AC usage (hereafter referred to as “central management”), in which each 
student was charged a fixed amount of AC user fee and the timing and intensity of actual AC use were 
determined by the school. Typically, the school based its decision of AC use on the mean daytime ambient 
temperature projected by the local weather service. In contrast, the second strategy adopted a fee-for-service 
feature to allow for a direct control of AC by the students (“user management”). Using a charge card 
pre-deposited by the students occupying the classroom, the students could activate or end an AC operation at 
their will through a control device installed by the school (Fig. 1); after each usage the users were informed of 
the expense generated from the AC usage via the digital display shown on the device. 
Here we presented a study that investigated the thermal perception of the students and their choice of 
using AC in two hybrid-ventilated classrooms, one adopting the central management and the other the user 
management scheme. Through field survey and simultaneous measurement of microclimatic variables, this 
study cross-analyzed the thermal perception of the students under different management schemes against the 
patterns of AC usage in relation to the thermal status in the classroom, with an ultimate goal of realizing the 
influence of the strategy selected in AC management in the hybrid ventilation on the behaviors of thermal 
adaptation of the students as well as on the energy utilization. 
 
2.	Material	and	methods	
The study was conducted in two high-school classrooms each located on a different campus in middle Taiwan. 
 22 
 
perception of the students on the classroom’s thermal status, and the on-site observation for the use of 
windows, ceiling fans, and AC in adjustment of the indoor microclimate. To determine the indoor thermal 
condition, environmental variables indicative of indoor thermal status including the air temperature, relative 
humidity (RH), globe temperature, and wind speed were continuously monitored. The air temperature, RH, 
and globe temperature were recorded using CENTER 314 Temperature/Humidity Datalogger (Center 
Technology Corp., Taipei, Taiwan) and the wind speed using a hot-wired omni-directional DeltaOHM 
thermo-anemometer HD2103.2 (DeltaOHM, Italy) in accordance with the ISO 7726 requirements on 
equipments for evaluating the status of thermal environment [25]. Five spots in the classroom and one outside 
were selected as points of climatic monitoring. 
The perception of the students toward the thermal condition in the classroom was gauged as a rank in 
thermal sensation, thermal preference, and thermal acceptability of the occupants using a questionnaire 
including all three perception scales (Fig. 2). The questionnaire survey was conducted twice a day, once in the 
morning around 10 am and the other in the afternoon at about 2 pm when the classroom was in use. During 
the course of the study, a total of 941 questionnaires were collected. The students were also requested to 
record by the hour the use of AC so that the patterns of AC usage could be explored. Fig. 3 exemplified a 
typical record for the use of environmental controls as reported by the students in the classroom from 8 am to 
5 pm. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Three scales of thermal perception employed in the questionnaire in this study for evaluating thermal 
perception of the students toward indoor thermal condition 
 
 
3.	Indoor	thermal	condition	in	relation	to	hybrid	ventilation	
 
As there were no spatial variations observed in the monitored microclimatic variables in both of the 
evaluated classrooms, for each variable the average of the levels measured at the five sampling locations in  
+3 Hot +1  +1 Cooler 
+2 Warm 
+1 Slightly warm 
0 Neutral    0 No change 
–1 Slightly cool 
–2 Cool    
–3 Cold –1  –1 Warmer 
 
Thermal sensation     Thermal acceptance      Thermal preference 
Acceptable 
Unacceptable 
 24 
 
the classroom was used to represent the instantaneous thermal status of the classroom at the time of 
measurement. 
Fig. 4 shows on a psychrometric chart the distribution of the operative temperature (top) inside the 
classrooms employing different managerial schemes in AC control during the investigated period; it also 
depicts how the AC was used as a part of hybrid ventilation in the classrooms. The top and RH in the 
classroom under user management ranged between 25-32°C and 45-95%, respectively; while their 
counterparts in the classroom regulated by central management were 25-31°C and 45-95%. Although the 
upper/lower bounds of top corresponding to the usage of hybrid ventilation were approximately the same in 
both schemes, the air temperature set to activate the AC and the hours accumulated on the AC use were 
significantly different. During the course of the study, the mean top measured in the classroom of user 
management was 29.3°C, 1.8°C higher than the mean top (27.5°C) in the classroom of central management. 
When only the top measured during active AC use was compared, the mean top in the classroom of user 
management was 30.3°C, 2.9°C higher than the level (27.4°C) observed in the classroom of central 
management. 
When the hours of cumulative AC use in the classrooms controlled by different AC managerial schemes 
were compared to their respective total hours of hybrid ventilation, the percentage of the AC use operated by 
central management was almost three folds of the level reported by the AC use managed by the users (Fig. 5). 
These results suggested that: when the occupants were in control of the ventilation mechanism, the 
fee-for-service characteristic of the user management scheme was conducive to a lower AC use compared to 
the energy utilization managed in a centralized manner, and the occupants were thermally more adaptive to 
the indoor thermal status. Fig. 5 also illustrated the deviation of the hours of actual AC use from those 
projected by the adaptive comfort model prescribed in the ASHRAE Standard 55-2004 [26]. Again, under  
 
 
Fig. 5. Percentage of actual air-conditioning (AC) use in hybrid ventilation in the classrooms of AC control 
operated under user vs. central management and projection of AC use based on ASHRAE Standard 
55 thermal comfort criteria 
 
34
21
37
60
0
20
40
60
80
ASHRAE
Standard 55
Actual use ASHRAE
Standard 55
Actual use
User management
Central management
A
C
 U
se
 in
 H
yb
rid
 V
en
til
at
io
n 
(%
)
 26 
 
where p(θ) was the probability of the AC being used in response to the outdoor temperature of θ, and a and b 
were constants. For the usage of AC in the classrooms controlled by user vs. central management in this study, 
the Logit model as described in Eq. (1) was re-defined to yield: 
User management:                            , R2=0.86            (2) 
Central management:                          , R2=0.80            (3) 
 
As Fig. 6 demonstrated, the likelihood of AC being used in the classroom in relation to the ambient 
temperature, as interpreted from Eqs. (2) and (3), closely tracked the distribution of the AC usage from field 
observation. The AC would be used at all time in hybrid ventilation if the ambient temperature rose to levels 
beyond 32 and 36oC in the cases of central and user management, respectively. In addition, the distribution of 
the AC use frequency by the ambient temperature exhibited a steeper slope in classroom where the AC was 
user-controlled, suggesting a greater capacity of the students to the thermal stimulus under the user 
management scheme. 
As far as energy-saving in relation to thermal comfort was concerned, an aspect of interest was the 
difference in the ambient temperature by which the AC would be activated between these two managerial 
schemes. In the classroom where the users were given the choice to determine the timing of AC activation, the 
AC was hardly used when the outdoor temperature was below 30°C, which was 5.0°C higher than that 
observed in the classroom employing the central management. The lower usage of AC in the user 
management group perhaps was associated with the fee-for-service feature of the managerial scheme: the 
students in this case were constantly reminded by the display of cost on the AC control panel installed in the 
classroom that the usage of AC was an expensive strategy of thermal adaption. As a result, the usage of AC 
was largely reduced. 
The inference presented above was also evidenced previously in Fig. 5, where the actual hours of AC use 
as controlled by the users (21%) was approximately one-third of the level observed when the AC was 
controlled via central management (60%) and much lower than the level predicted using the ASHRAE 
Standard 55-2004 thermal comfort criteria (34%). In comparison, the actual use of AC under central 
management was 23% greater than the level projected following the ASHRAE criteria (37%) as required for 
thermal adaption of the occupants. These findings clearly indicated that the mechanism employed in 
management of AC usage played a significant role in how the students reacted to the status of the indoor 
thermal environment. In the fee-for-service control, the incentive from saving on the electricity cost resulted 
in an increase in the tolerance of the occupants to the thermal stimulus indoors. In contrast, the greater 
exercise of cooling by AC in the central management than the level considered adequate by the ASHRAE 
criteria suggested that perhaps a higher threshold in the temperature for activating AC use could be targeted in 
the current practice of central management. 
38.3604.1
)(1
)(log −×=⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
− θθ
θ
p
p
01.2478.0
)(1
)(log −×=⎟⎟⎠
⎞
⎜⎜⎝
⎛
− θθ
θ
p
p
 28 
 
central management groups was 29.7 and 28.4oC, respectively, with the thermal neutrality for the central 
management group being 1.3oC lower than that of the user management group. 
 
 
Fig. 8.  Distributions of thermal acceptability vote (TAV) against operative temperature (top) as observed 
among indoor occupants in the classrooms operated under user vs. central management of 
air-conditioning use (presented in dots) and linear regression of the distributions (in lines). 
 
 
 
Fig. 9.  Distributions of thermal preference vote (TPV) divided into groups of cooler and warmer preference 
against operative temperature (top) as observed among indoor occupants in the classrooms operated 
under user vs. central management of air-conditioning use. 
 
When the percentage of the thermal acceptability vote (TAV) cast by different managerial groups was 
compared (Fig. 8), the proportion of the total TAV that identified the indoor thermal condition as “acceptable” 
was found to be greater in the user management group than in the central management group at most of the top 
0
20
40
60
80
100
23.0 25.0 27.0 29.0 31.0 33.0
TA
V
 in
 A
cc
ep
ta
bl
e 
C
at
eg
or
y 
(%
)
top (oC)
User management (observed)
Central management (observed)
User management (regressed)
Central management (regressed)
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
23.0 25.0 27.0 29.0 31.0 33.0
top (oC)
Cooler (user management)
Warmer (user management)
Cooler (central management)
Warmer (central management)
60
100
80
40
20
0
TP
V
 in
 C
at
eg
or
y 
of
 C
ha
ng
e 
 (%
)
 30 
 
a centralized management in AC use while the other employing a user-controlled, fee-for-service mechanism. 
The field survey was conducted from mid May to June of 2011, a period when the local weather transitioned 
from cool spring to warm summer. The followings are a summary of key findings from the study. 
As the results show, the mechanism employed in managing the use of AC played a significant role in 
how the students reacted to the variation in the indoor microclimate. The patterns of AC use by the students 
were significantly influenced by the managerial scheme selected in AC control. During the course of the study, 
the mean top in the classroom where centralized AC management was administered was 27.5°C, 1.8°C lower 
than the 29.3oC determined in the classroom managed under the fee-for-service scheme. When the AC was in 
active use, the mean top in the classroom operated under central management was 2.9oC less than the value 
measured in the user-controlled classroom. The cumulative hours of AC use in the central AC management 
was approximately three times the level observed in the user management. Two Logit models were derived to 
describe the probability of Taiwanese high-school students using AC as a strategy of thermal adaptation in 
response to change in the ambient temperature during summer time in the classrooms where distinct AC 
management schemes were employed: logit(p) = 1.04×θ－36.38 for the scheme of user management and 
logit(p) = 0.78×θ－24.01 for the scheme of central management. 
The study findings also indicated a significant impact of the AC control scheme to the thermal perception 
of the students toward the thermal status in the classroom. Through linear regression of the TSV to the top, the 
students in the user management group were found to be more thermally receptive to the shift in top than those 
in the central management group, and the difference in thermal perception between these groups was 
amplified when the top decreased to near the low end of the measured top. The top corresponding to thermal 
neutrality in the user management group was 1.3oC more than the level determined for the central 
management group; the user management group was also more adaptive in terms of accepting the thermal 
condition in the classroom than was the central management group. 
Overall, both schemes of AC control as currently practiced in many Taiwanese high schools and 
discussed in this study addressed the fundamental objective of applying hybrid ventilation as a means of IEQ 
control─reducing the energy consumption by AC use while delivering an indoor environment of thermal 
comfort. Nonetheless, based on the findings reported here, we suggest that the schools currently employing a 
central management of AC control in Taiwan could target a higher threshold in the air temperature for 
activating AC use or consider switching to the user management scheme so to achieve better conservation of 
energy while still maintaining an adequate level of thermal comfort for the students. 
 
7.	References	
[1]  Emmerich SJ, Simulated performance of natural and hybrid ventilation systems in an office building, 
HVAC&R Res. 2006; 12(4): 975-1004 
[2]  Liang HH, Lin TP, Hwang RL, Linking occupants’ thermal perception and building thermal performance 
in naturally ventilated school buildings, Appl. Energy, 2012; 94:355-363 
[3]  Heiselberg P, Tjelflaat PO, Design Procedure for Hybrid Ventilation, Natural and Hybrid Ventilation, 
HybVent Forum’99, Sydney, Australia, September (1999) 
[4]  Brager G, Baker L: Occupant satisfaction in mixed-mode buildings, Build. Res. Informat. 2009; 37(4): 
 32 
 
Finland, June 10-14 (2007) 
[21] Haase M, Amato A, An investigation of the potential for natural ventilation and building orientation to 
achieve thermal comfort in warm and humid climates, Sol Energy, 2009; 83(3):389–399.  
[22] Ji Y, Lomas KJ, Cook MJ, Hybrid ventilation for low energy building design in south China, Build. 
Environ. 2009; 44:2245–2255 
[23] Hwang RL, Lin TP, Cheng MJ, Ho MC, Thermal perceptions, general adaptation methods and occupant’s 
idea on trade-off among thermal comfort and energy saving in hot-humid regions, Build. Environ. 2009; 
44: 1128-1134 
[24] Murakami Y, Terano M, Mizutani Kan, Harada M, Kuno S, Field experiments on energy consumption 
and thermal comfort in the office environment controlled by occupants’ requirements from PC terminal, 
Build. Environ. 2007; 42:4022-4027 
[25] ISO Standard 7726, Ergonomics of the Thermal Environment—Instruments for Measuring Physical 
quantities. Geneva: International Standard Organization, 1998 
[26] ASHRAE Standard 55, Thermal environmental conditions for human occupancy, American Society of 
Heating, Refrigeration and Air-conditioning Engineers, Atlanta, Georgia, USA, 2004 
[27] Nicol JF, Characterising occupant behaviour in buildings: towards a stochastic model of occupant use of 
windows, lights, blinds, heaters and fans. In: Proceedings of seventh international IBPSA conference, 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, August 13-15 (2001) 
  
場
本
二
 
本人於
與熱烈討
次會議本
1. Th
co
2. A
ph
  
、 與會
會議期間
論海報發
人共發表
e therm
ntrols in 
lteration 
ysiology
心得 
除張貼
表內容
了兩篇
al percep
a hybrid
in therma
 toward t
與國
論文海報
。除此外
論文： 
tion of stu
-ventilate
l sensati
emperatu
外學者
在海報
2
，受到多
也聆聽與
dents an
d classro
on and th
re and m
 
 
一起討論
前與學生
 
位與會學
會學者研
d adaptiv
om 
ermoreg
oisture t
所發表論
合影 
者的注意
究成果之
e use of e
ulation re
ransients 
文 
   
，於海報
發表與參
nvironm
gistered 
張貼的
觀海報
ental 
in skin 
會
。

The thermal perception of students and adaptive use of environmental 
controls in a hybrid-ventilated classroom 
 
Wen-Mei Shih1, Shih-Yin Chang2, Ruey-Lung Hwang1,*, Chen-Peng Chen2 
 
1  Department of Architecture, National United University, Miaoli, Taiwan 
2  Department of Occupational Safety and Health, China Medical University, Taichung, 
Taiwan 
 
*Corresponding email: rlhwang6202@gmail.com 
 
Keywords: Management strategy, air-conditioning, indoor environmental control, comfort 
 
1 Introduction 
Hybrid ventilation is characterized by its 
alternative use of natural and mechanical (i.e. 
air-conditioning, AC) ventilation (IEA, 2000). 
In Taiwan, hybrid ventilation system is used as a 
predominant means of promoting thermal 
comfort in the classroom owing to its occupant-
controlled attribute. Here we present a study that 
investigated the thermal perception of students 
and their use of environmental controls in two 
hybrid-ventilated classrooms, each adopting a 
different strategy of AC use management. In the 
study, the status of the thermal environment, the 
thermal sensation of the students, and the 
patterns on the use of environmental controls 
(including window-opening, fans and AC) were 
simultaneously observed and cross-analyzed to 
realize the influences of the strategy employed 
in AC management on the thermal perception of 
students and the utilization of AC. 
 
2 Materials/Methods 
The study was conducted in the classrooms of a 
high school and of a university, both located in 
central Taiwan. The AC use in the high school 
employed a fee-for-service mechanism that 
allowed the students to gain entire control of AC 
(self management), whereas in the university the 
AC use was controlled by the school and would 
be activated when the local ambient temperature 
(temp) reached a threshold (central manage-
ment). The AC operated in both locations was a 
split system with no ventilation from the 
ambient air. The study was performed from May 
to June of 2010, 5 days a week when the 
classroom was in session. The subjects surveyed 
were the students of an age of 15-16 in the high 
school and of an age of 18-22 in the university. 
Microclimatic variables including air temp, 
relative humidity, globe temp, and wind speed 
were monitored continuously on-site using a 
temp/humidity datalogger and a thermo-
anemometer, both operated in accordance with 
the ISO 7726 requirements on evaluating the 
status of thermal environment (ISO, 1998). Five 
spots in the classroom and one outside were 
selected as points of climatic monitoring. When 
the classrooms were in use, a thermal sensation 
survey was conducted to assess the students  
perception toward the thermal environment and 
to record their use of AC by the hour. The 
perception was gauged as ranks in thermal 
sensation, comfort, acceptability, and preference 
of the occupants. The survey was conducted 
twice a day, once in the morning around 10 am 
and the other in the afternoon at about 2 pm. 
 
3 Results and Discussion 
Figure 1 shows how the AC was used as a part 
of hybrid ventilation during the investigated 
period in the classrooms employing different 
managerial schemes controlling AC use. While 
the upper/lower bounds of operative temp (To) 
corresponding to the use of hybrid ventilation 
were approximately the same under both 
schemes, the air temp set to activate the AC and 
the hours accumulating on the AC use were 
significantly different, suggesting a greater 
thermal adaptability of the AC users under self 
management to the change in the environment. 
 
When the hours of AC use under different 
management schemes were compared to the 
respective total hours of hybrid ventilation use, 
the percentage of AC use in self management 
was found to be substantially lower than that of 
central management (Figure 2), corresponding 
to the earlier inference that the fee-for-service 
characteristic of the self management scheme 
was conducive to lowering the AC use. 
Alteration in thermal sensation and thermoregulation registered in skin 
physiology toward temperature and moisture transients 
 
Shih-Yin Chang1,*, Chen-Peng Chen1, Ruey-Lung Hwang2 
 
1 Department of Occupational Safety and Health, China Medical University, Taichung, 
Taiwan 
2  Department of Architecture, National United University, Miaoli, Taiwan 
 
*Corresponding email: u9614022@cmu.edu.tw 
 
Keywords: Climatic chamber, indoor environmental control, step change, dermal, comfort 
 
1 Introduction 
Air conditioning is frequently used as a means 
of adjusting indoor microclimate and promoting 
thermal comfort in hot-and-humid areas such as 
Taiwan. However, when entering an air-con-
ditioned building from the ambient environment, 
people may experience temporary thermo-
regulatory shocks if the instantaneous change in 
air temperature (temp) or relative humidity (RH) 
exceeds the thermoregulatory capacity. de Dear 
et al. (1989) studied the impact of humidity on 
thermal comfort during step changes between 20 
and 80% RH, and found that the subject s 
thermal sensation changed as influenced by the 
transient absorption and desorption of moisture 
in clothing. Tsutsumi et al. (2007) examined the 
effect of moisture transient, and reported that, 
when people transitioned from a temp of 30oC 
and RH of 70% to a SET* of 25.2oC, a period of 
over 35 min was required in thermally adapting 
to the new environment. Here we present a study 
that investigated the adaptation of thermal 
perception and thermoregulation to step change 
in either temp or RH. The gender as a factor was 
also evaluated. 
 
2 Materials/Methods 
Three temperature steps (down-stepping from 
32/28 to 24oC and up-stepping from 20 to 24oC; 
RH maintained at 60%) and two moisture steps 
(RH down-stepping from 70 to 60% and up-
stepping from 50 to 60%; temp maintained at 
24oC) were created in a climatic chamber 
consisting of twin microclimate-controlled 
rooms, simulating the thermal transient people 
experienced in Taiwan when entering from the 
ambient environment (i.e. the outdoor chamber) 
into an air-conditioned building (the indoor 
chamber). In the experiment, the subjects (8 
males and 8 females) in t-shirt and long pants 
first stayed in sedentary position in the outdoor 
chamber for 30 min to acclimate, and then 
moved swiftly to the indoor chamber. The 
subject s sensational and thermoregulatory 
responses to the change in thermal environment 
were evaluated at 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 10, 20 min 
following their entry into the indoor chamber. 
The thermal perception was gauged using the 7-
grade thermal sensation vote (TSV) developed 
by the ASHRAE (ASHRAE, 2004), and the 
thermoregulatory responses were examined by 
measuring distinct stages of thermoregulation as 
manifested in skin physiology, including the 
change in skin capillary blood flow (SCBF), 
skin moisture, transepidermal water loss 
(TEWL), and skin temp. The variation in each 
indicator between groups of temp or moisture 
step was compared using t-test. 
 
3 Results and Discussion 
As Figure 1 shows, a significant change in all 
physiological indicators occurred in the first 2 
min after the subjects experienced a temp down-
step from 32 to 24oC. A cold sensation overshot 
was observed in the TSV, SCBF, TEWL, and 
skin temp in 1 min after the transient occurred. 
The change in TEWL revealed that the males 
required a longer period to adapt than the 
females did (p<0.05). The effect of temp 
transient was less noticeable when the step 
change was limited to 4oC. The effect of 
moisture step was the most significant when the 
subjects experienced a RH increase from 50 to 
60% (Figure 2); the SCBF, skin moisture, 
TEWL peaked approximately 5-6 min after the 
moisture transient occurred. When challenged 
by a temp down-step, the males physiologically 
adapted to the environment via increase in the 
skin moisture and TEWL, both resembling an 
invisible stage of sweating, whereas the females 

國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/10/02
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一：基於熱適應舒適模式的觀點評估房間的熱性能、熱環境與空調節能
計畫主持人: 黃瑞隆
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-239-028-MY2 學門領域: 建築都巿
無研發成果推廣資料
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100%  
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
