21. Introduction
Recently, researchers have found that a specific organ may closely correspond to a
specific spectral harmonic of the BPW [1-6]. For example, the kidney, renal artery,
and aorta combined show a coupled oscillation that is analogous to the resonance
circuits, and the kidney vascular system exhibits a resonant frequency at the
second harmonic of the BPW [7]. Thus, the abnormal value of the second spectral
harmonic of BPW often relates to diseases of the kidney. Moreover, research
results have revealed that the Chinese herbal drugs and acupuncture, which act on
some specific organ, can also cause an amplitude variation of a corresponding
spectral harmonic of the BPW [8,9]. These results further support the link between
spectral harmonics of BPWs and the status of organs. Moreover, the respective
close relationships between the first, third, as well as fourth spectral harmonics of
the BPW and the liver, spleen, and lung have also been reported and investigated
[9]. In summary, investigating of the spectrum of BPWs is valuable. However, the
criterion used to judge the normality or abnormality of the spectral harmonics of
BPWs is statistical and not objective. Therefore, comparison with the source
signal (ECG) of the blood circulation system helps to identify the status of the
cardiovascular system or organs on the basis of the BPW.
2. Experiments
2.1 Power Spectrum Analysis
To investigate the different characteristics of the blood circulation system between
two groups, a number of parameters were evaluated mainly using the
frequency-domain methods. First, Fourier analysis was applied to characterize the
quality of the BPW coupled with heart pumping (ECG). The power spectral density
(power spectrum) was estimated from the averaged periodogram, i.e., Welch’s method,
using a 500-sample window with an overlap of 400 samples.
The degree of spectral coincidence is measured by the correlation coefficient or
coupling efficiency () between the ECG’s power spectrum (Sxx) and the BPW’s
power spectrum (Syy); that is,
 
),(),(
),(
,
yyyyxxxx
yyxx
yyxx
SSCSSC
SSC
SS  , (1)
where C(Sxx,Sxx) is the auto-covariance of the power spectral density, Sxx, and C(Sxx,Syy)
4e.g. because of physical exercise, leads to blood redistribution and yields an unreliable
result. Although there are many possible reasons for changes in the natural frequency
of the arterial system that result in the vessel or organ diseases, we confined our
preliminary study to vascular-related diseases, such as hypertension, atherosclerosis,
and thrombus diseases. The correlation coefficients of healthy subjects are
1.0821.0  00, and those of patient subjects are 110.0542.0  . P value
(= )01.0(10742.3 10   ) meant that there is a significant difference between these two
group. The statistical results about coherence function are demonstrated in box plot in
Fig. 1. For healthy subjects, the mean value of S (=0.97) is larger than that (=0.92) for
cardiovascular patients. In addition, the small p-value (= 01.01092.7 5   ) indicates
that the coherence values S of healthy subjects and cardiovascular patients are
significantly different.
4. Discussion
From the macroscopic aspect, blood circulation is viewed as a forced
oscillation which is electrically driven by the heart. In spite of the quite distinct wave
patterns in the time domain, the power spectra of the ECG and BPW overlap well for
the normal, healthy subjects, yet deviate significantly for the patients with
vascular-related diseases. The results conform to the concept of frequency matching
and imply that there are close spectral relationships and information shared between
the ECG and the BPW, which can be used to measure the condition of blood
circulation. The correlation coefficient estimated for the frequency band 0-20Hz
further reflects much weaker coupling efficiency in the ECG-to-BPW system for the
abnormal subjects (mean = 0.542) in comparison with the normal subjects (mean =
0.821). Next, Using coherence function analysis, we found that for healthy subjects,
most spectral components of the input (ECG) are coherently coupled to those of the
response (BPW) (S=0.97), so that less perturbation is found. On the other hand, for
cardiovascular patients, the influence of perturbation signals on the output is relatively
important (S=0.92).
References
[1] W. R. Milnor, Hemodynamics, 2nd ed. Baltimore, MD: Williams & Wilkins Co,
1989.
[2] W. W. Nichols and M. F. O’Rourke, McDonald’s Blood Flow in Arteries,
Philadelphia: Lea & Fegiber, 1990.
