 2
of their cognitive map may reveal less difference among all these four experimental groups. (2) 
Users’ wayfinding capability may affect their construction of their spatial knowledge, 
wayfinding task performance, and metacognition. Their perceptions of interaction pleasure 
will also be affected. (3) The use of abstract symbols as wayfinding facilitator designs may 
simultaneous influence both the wayfinding performance in the virtual space and their internal 
perceptions. (4) Males’ spatial orientation capability tends to be better than females’, 
especially when the wayfinding task is difficult.  
Keywords: Wayfinding facilitator design, Virtual space, Gender, Metacognition, Strategy  
 
1. 研究動機與目的 
隨著資訊技術的進步與電腦設備的提昇，虛擬實境之應用亦日漸普及，虛擬環境為
透過電腦模擬而建構的虛構空間，因此有關空間知識與尋路研究亦從實質環境延伸到虛
擬環境，使得虛擬空間認知知識之建立與尋路成為重要的研究議題。本研究為探討在虛
擬環境中有關使用者後設認知策略與尋路輔助設計，對於使用者空間知識之建構與尋路
策略影響。本研究之目的為：(1)探討虛擬環境所附加之「尋路輔助設計」與「性別差異」
對使用者的空間知識建立與尋路策略、尋路績效、與後設認知之影響；(2)調查使用者於
虛擬環境中使用者的尋路能力對於空間知識建立與尋路策略的內在認知歷程之影響。 
 
2. 相關研究探討 
1960 年建築師 Kevin Lynch 於所著作的「都市意象」中使用「尋路(Wayfinding)」
一詞，用以陳述一個人擁有瞭解都市環境之能力與洞察力。而人們在尋路的過程中需要
運用認知地圖(Cognitive map)進行環境導覽，但是認知地圖形成的前提即為基本空間的
知識，又空間資訊是形成空間知識的基本要素(張天鳳，2005)。完整而正確的認知地圖
將決定使用者是否能順利完成尋路任務的關鍵，而為了建構完善的認知地圖概念，使用
者必須先具有充足的空間知識。空間知識具有三種類型：地標知識 (Landmark 
knowledge)、路徑知識(Route knowledge)、與俯瞰知識(Survey knowledge)。而 Lynch (1960)
認為城市彼此之間具有某些相似點，這些相似點可被視為組成或分解城市的「元素」，
首先他從環境中最突出的特徵「地標」(Landmark)開始，接著是連結地標的「路徑」
(Paths)，路徑的相會點「節點」(Nodes)，城市中被區隔開來的地域「區域」(Districts)，
及決定城市範圍的「邊界」(Edges)，此即為認知地圖所需包含的五個元素。而 Kato and 
Takeuchi (2003)的實驗中以轉彎(Turns)、方向(Directions)、與地標(Landmarks)為三個策
略項目。至於後設認知(Metacognition)的基本概念是思考使用者自身想法的意圖，自身
的想法包含了個人所知(如後設知識)、正在做的事情(如後設技巧)、或現在所認知的事
物或感情的狀態(如後設經驗)(Hacker, 2005)。 
從後設認知的觀點來看，由於尋路行為包含了個人的知識、認知、及經驗的結合應
用，以到達目的地為目標進行策略的修正，尋路行為本身即是一個後設認知的過程。因
此，本研究透過受測者自我評估其尋路能力，藉以探討受測者對於方向感知能力
 4
 
 
圖 1.文字輔助 圖 2.虛擬化符號設計輔助 圖 3.現實寫真照片輔助 
 
表 1. 實驗組別 
控制組 實驗組 
 均提供聲音輔助 
視覺尋路輔助 
性別     設計型式 無 文字輔助 
虛擬化符號 
設計輔助 
現實寫真照片 
輔助 
男 N1 A1 B1 C1 
女 N2 A2 B2 C2 
 
根據認知心理學中的 Magic Number Seven 法則，人類的短期記憶容量介於五到九個
意元(Chunks)(Miller, 1956)，故於本實驗中，受測者所接受的尋路任務將以五至九個特
殊地標為受測者建立空間知識的基礎。在考量本實驗之虛擬環境以及尋路任務路線等等
因素之後，在此虛擬環境城市中設置八個特殊地標，包含了六座特殊建築物與兩座橋樑。 
本研究之實驗情境為都市尋路，在路線設計的部份，實驗路線為連接各特殊地點之
最短路徑。而在測驗的部份，由於將測驗受測者之路徑知識，為避免選擇不同方向均能
以相同之路程到達特殊地標，特殊地標之位置必須小心設置，使路線為各個特殊地標間
之唯一最短路徑，以避免測驗過程具有爭議。特殊地標所代表之功能性建築將以一般民
眾生活互動頻繁之民生設施為主，以貼近一般使用者之需求，如飲食、教育、人文等方
面之功能性建築，此部份參考網路尋路軟體 Google Earth 中所提供之各種民生設施資
訊。本實驗所設置之六個特殊地標所代表之功能性建築分別為：咖啡店、餐廳、賣場、
學校、醫院、音樂廳與兩座橋樑，共設置八個特殊地標。而虛擬環境中其他所有建築物
之大小規模將以高樓大廈為前提，規模採隨機方式設定。 
 
3.2 實驗流程 
3.2.1 第一階段：自我探索與空間認知地圖建立階段 
此階段乃採取 Darken (1993, 1995)與 Darken and Peterson (1999)的研究指出人類尋路
行為中，主要以探索式(Exploration)搜尋任務為主，即使用者並無目標物，主要的目標
是對整體環境更加熟悉。故實驗中受測者需與實驗所建構之虛擬環境(如圖 4 與圖 5)進
行互動，受測者可於虛擬世界中自我隨意探索空間，任意練習在虛擬環境中練習熟悉移
動、轉向、轉動視野之控制，並且隨意留意特殊地標，以便其後進行尋路之實驗任務。
第一階段之虛擬空間任務並無時間與次數限制，僅供受測者自行判斷操作熟悉度與空間
 6
式，了解受測者自我評估的策略使用情形與績效，虛擬尋路問卷調查包含三大部分： 
 
表 2. 尋路任務績效代表意義 
 尋路任務績效 
路徑知識 
(Route knowledge) 
滿分 8，扣除「後退次數」與「轉彎錯誤次數」(得分)
俯瞰知識 
(Survey knowledge) 
任務完成時間(Sec) 
 
(1) 基本資料，主要為電腦與虛擬實境使用經驗調查。 
(2) 空間認知地圖繪製(如圖 6 與圖 7)，此部份乃在調查受測者對於該虛擬環境空間知識
了解程度。並輔以問答方式確定空間地圖之相關知識正確度而加以評分。此部分最
主要則是測量受測者之空間認知知識中俯瞰知識建立之正確度。 
(3) 尋路輔助設計資訊認知問卷(僅適用於隱喻程度上有差異的「虛擬化符號設計輔助」
與「現實寫真照片輔助」兩組)：此部分乃評估受測者對於尋路輔助資訊之提供之了
解程度，並藉以探討輔助資訊對於尋路之協助。 
 
圖 6. 受測者之空間認知地圖繪製圖例一 圖 7. 受測者之空間認知地圖繪製圖例二 
 
3.3 受測對象 
本研究採用受測者間之實驗設計，依照自變項分為八組(如表 1)，受測者募集方式
採用便利抽樣法，均為設計系學生。年齡範圍從 22 歲至 33 歲，男性 15 人，女性 22 人
共 37 人，以隨機方式分配至各組。 
 
3.4 實驗硬體設備與軟體環境 
本研究於台灣科技大學觀察實驗室進行實驗。實驗所使用之電腦硬體設備為 19 吋
 8
則優於無提供尋路輔助資訊的控制組。此外，性別並無產生差異(F 值=0.26，P 值
=0.616>0.05)，至於尋路輔助設計型式與男女性別之交互作用，其 F 值=0.68，P 值
=0.571>0.05，代表男女性別對此四種尋路輔助資訊(無尋路輔助資訊、文字輔助、虛擬
化符號設計輔助與現實寫真照片輔助)間並無交互影響。 
由此可以發現，若提供尋路輔助資訊給受測者，可讓受測者在進行探索式搜尋任務
時，受測者對於整體環境之熟悉更有效率。這其中又以提供直接式的文字輔助之尋路資
訊最為直接，最有效率。而有提供圖像化輔助資訊在尋路任務上亦優於無提供尋路輔助
設計的虛擬環境。 
 
4.1.2 第二階段之尋路任務一 
受測者在執行尋路任務的過程中，第二階段之尋路任務一，依雙因子變異數分析結
果(如表 3)，不論是「尋路輔助設計型式」(F 值=0.80，P 值=0.505>0.05)或「性別」(F
值=0.19，P 值=0.667>0.05)均對於任務一之尋路績效均無顯著差異存在。並且「尋路輔
助設計型式」或「性別」對於任務一之尋路績效亦無產生交互作用之影響(F 值=1.61，P
值=0.209>0.05)。 
 
4.1.3 第二階段之尋路任務二 
受測者在執行尋路任務的過程中，第二階段之尋路任務二，依雙因子變異數分析結
果(如表 3)，「男女性別」之主效應 F 值=5.80，P 值=0.023<0.05，故男女性別之差異對於
任務二之尋路任務績效有顯著差異。再由敘述統計結果進行比較可知，男性在任務二尋
路任務所花時間之 M=26.33 (SD=9.67)小於女性組別 54.59 (SD=49.28)，表示在虛擬環
境中，男性受測者對於任務二之尋路績效高於女性受測者。 
四種尋路輔助設計對於任務二之主效應 F 值=1.47，P 值=0.244>0.05，故四種尋路
輔助設計之差異對於任務二之尋路任務績效並無影響。 
而性別與四種尋路輔助設計之表交互作用的顯著性 F 值=1.51，P 值=0.234>0.05，
代表男女性別對此四種尋路輔助設計之間是沒有影響的。 
由此部分結果可以發現第二階段之任務困難度較高的任務二對應於任務一，男性尋
路績效高於女性，而尋路輔助設計並無影響，亦即男性受測者相對於女性受測者對於難
度較高的尋路任務有較好的尋路績效表現。 
再綜合此部份尋路任務績效可發現，尋路輔助設計對於不限時間的自我探索有助
益，以最為直接式的文字尋路輔助設計最為有效；圖像化輔助資訊也優於沒有提供尋路
輔助設計的組別可縮短受測者自我探索虛擬世界之時間，在較短時間內達到足夠之熟悉
度。但若是受測者均有足夠之認知空間熟悉後，四種尋路輔助設計在尋路績效上並無顯
著差異。反倒是男性受測者相較於女性受測者於難度較高的尋路任務上有較佳之反應，
可較快完成尋路任務。 
 
 10
4.3 空間認知地圖繪製分析 
本研究於實驗完成後，請受測者進行空間認知地圖之繪製，此部份之設計乃在調查
受測者對於該虛擬環境空間知識了解程度，並輔以問答方式確定空間地圖之相關知識正
確度而加以評分。此部分最主要則是測量受測者之空間認知知識中俯瞰知識建立之正確
度。本研究依據雙因子變異數分析(Two-way ANOVA)結果如表 5 顯示： 
 
表5. 空間認知知識中俯瞰知識正確度之雙因子變異數分析結果 
  尋路輔助設計型式 性別 尋路輔助設計型式*性別
F 值 0.15 0.12 0.33 俯瞰知識正確度評分 
P 值 0.927 0.736 0.801 
N=37, *表 P<0.05，有顯著差異存在 
 
受測者在第一階段不限時間之自我探索任務後，可能對於此虛擬環境均已達一定之
熟悉程度。而對於實驗完成之後之空間認知圖之繪製結果，依雙因子變異數分析結果(如
表 5)，不論是「尋路輔助設計型式」(F 值=0.15，P 值=0.927>0.05)或「性別」(F 值=0.12，
P 值=0.736>0.05)均對於空間認知圖之繪製結果均無顯著差異存在。並且「尋路輔助設計
型式」或「性別」對於空間認知圖之繪製結果亦無產生交互作用之影響(F 值=0.33，P
值=0.801>0.05)。此結果有可能因為受測者有達一定之熟悉程度，即可建立完整的空間
認知知識，故其空間認知圖之繪製均較容易，亦無顯著差異。 
 
4.4 尋路輔助設計代表性討論 
本研究在問卷設計上有針對實驗組 B 虛擬化符號設計輔助與 C 現實寫真照片輔助
兩大組別之受測者，進行所提供的視覺輔助設計之代表性之調查。調查分為兩大部分，
包含輔助設計之代表的正確度與受測者主觀感受之代表程度(如表 6)。 
在正確度方面，僅實驗組 B 有兩位受測者在特殊地標：南北橋樑上答錯。實驗組 C
則全部受測者全部題目均正確回答。虛擬化符號設計的實驗組 B，有可能因其簡化的代
表性設計反到使南北標示不甚明顯，而實驗組 C 則因真實照片輔助則使得南北標示很明
確(如圖 8 與圖 9)。 
 
  
圖 8.北橋之虛擬化符號設計輔助 圖 9.北橋之現實寫真照片輔助 
 
 
 12
參考文獻 
1. 陳建雄、張文智、張文德(2007)。”尋路績效自我評鑑量表”之發展。測驗學刊，54
卷 2 期，355-376。 
2. 張天鳳 (2005). 3D 虛擬環境中地標輔助與尋路策略傾向對空間知識之影響，國立交
通大學傳播研究所碩士論文。 
3. 蔡佳穎，(2004)，使用者介面愉悅性之研究—以兒童藝術類學習網站為例，國立台灣
科技大學設計所碩士論文。 
4. Chen, C.-H., Chang, H.-M., & Tsai, C.-Y. (2008). An investigation on user's spatial 
knowledge and wayfinding strategy in virtual environment - A case study of Geotag and 
Earcon. Proceedings of the 2008 Applied Human Factors and Ergonomics International 
Conference, July14-17, Las Vegas, Nevada, USA, p.1-8. (in CD-ROM form) 
5. Darken, R. P. (1993). Navigation and Orientation in Virtual Space. Master's thesis, 
Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, The George Washington 
University. 
6. Darken, R. P. (1995). Wayfinding in Large-Scale Virtual Worlds. Conference Companion 
of ACM SIGCHI 95, 45-46. 
7. Darken, R. P. & Peterson, B. (1999). Spatial Orientation, Wayfinding, and Representation. 
Lawrence, FL: Erlbaum. 
8. Hacker, D. J. (2005). Metacognition: Definition and Empirical Foundations. University of 
Memphis. 
9. Kato, Y. & Takeuchi, Y. (2003). Individual differences in wayfinding strategies. Journal of 
Environmental Psychology, 23, 171-188. 
10. Lynch, K. (1960). The Image of the City. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 
11. Miller, G. A. (1956). The Magical Number Seven, Plus or Minus Two: Some Limits on our 
Capacity for Processing Information. Psychological Review, 63, 81-97. 
12. O’Neill, M. (1991). Effects of Signage and Floor Plan Configuration on Wayfinding 
Accuracy. Environment and Behavior, 23(5), 553-574. 
knowledge. These are the two purposes of this study: (1) One is to explore the 
influence of the metadata regarding Geotag and Earcon adopted in the virtual 
environment pertinent to users’ strategy, performance, and metacognition for spatial 
knowledge and wayfinding behavior. (2) The other is to investigate human cognitive 
process of constructing spatial knowledge and wayfinding behavior while navigating in 
the VE, including performance, strategy, metacognition as well as metal models built 
based on the wayfinding tasks. 
 
REVIEW OF RELEVANT LITERATURE  
There are many ways to investigate human spatial knowledge. One of which is to ask 
the human to represent his/her perceptions of a certain environment by producing a 
cognitive map (Lynch, 1960; Kaplan and Kaplan, 1982; Saarinen, 1976). The major 
purpose of constructing a cognitive map is to explore the human cognitive 
representation in terms of our spatial environment; that is, cognitive maps are 
concerned about human mental images in relating environmental behavior to mental 
perception. Lynch (1960) suggests that the contents of city images, which are 
referable to physical forms, can be classified into five types of elements as follows: 
(1) Paths: Paths are the channels along which the observer customarily, occasionally, 
or potentially moves. They can be streets, walkways, transit lines, canals, railroads, 
etc. For many people, these are the predominant elements in their images.  
(2) Edges: Edges are the linear elements which are not used or considered as paths by 
the observer. They are the boundaries between two phases, linear breaks in 
continuity, such as shores, railroad cuts, edges of development, and walls. They 
are lateral references rather than coordinate axes. 
(3) Districts: Districts are the medium-to-large sections of the city, conceived of as 
having two-dimensional extent, which the observer mentally enters “inside of,” and 
which are recognizable as having some common, identifying character. 
(4) Nodes: Nodes are points, the strategic spots in a city into which an observer can 
enter, and which are the intensive foci to and from which he is traveling. They may 
be primarily junctions, places of a break in transportation, a crossing or 
convergence of paths, and moments of shift from one structure to another. 
(5) Landmarks: Landmarks are another type of point-reference, but in this case the 
observer does not enter within them, they are external. They are usually a rather 
simply defined physical object, such as building, sign, store, or mountain. 
It is important to investigate participants’ spatial knowledge regarding their wayfinding 
processes and how they construct their mental maps. Three types of spatial knowledge 
were discussed in this study, i.e., landmark knowledge, route knowledge, and survey 
knowledge. In a study conducted by Kato and Takeuchi (2003), turns, directions, and 
landmarks were used for investigating participants’ strategy use. The concepts of 
directions include both relative direction and absolute direction.  
In addition, the concept of metacognition refers to one’s perception of his/her own 
cognitive process adopted for self-controlling of these processes (Hacker, 2005). 
Johnson (1992) suggests that the design of a user interface has to be considered from 
a number of cognitive perspectives, each of which affects the quality of the overall VE 
design. Eberts (1994) stresses that an interaction designer must try to understand the 
user’s cognitive activities in order to design an effective and easy-to-use user interface 
for a VE. He also emphasized three important concepts: (1) The conceptual model is a 
design model maintained by the interaction designer of an interactive computer system 
so that it is accurate, consistent, and complete. Norman (2004) also refers to this as 
the “design model” which can be held by an interaction designer only. (2) The mental 
model is the model that a user creates to explain how an interactive computer system 
works. It facilitates the user to perform an interaction task. Norman argues this as the 
 The Experimental Processes  
There were two experimental stages planned in this study. In the first stage, the 
participants were asked to interact with the VE constructed especially for the 
experiment. Figure 1 and 2 revealed the design of this VE. The participants were 
required to accept the testing of their route and survey knowledge pertinent to their 
wayfinding task performance.   
 
  
Figure 1. The top view of the VE Figure 2. One perspective scene in the VE 
 
In the second stage, participants were required to fill out a questionnaire regarding the 
strategy of how they construct their spatial knowledge and the self-evaluation of their 
wayfinding task performance. The questionnaire was created by a 7-point Likert scale. 
After that, participants were also asked to draw a mental map pertaining to their 
perceptions of the VE and accepted a post-event interview from the researchers. By so 
doing could the researchers understand how well the participants understand the VE 
and how they modified their wayfinding strategy when they encountered obstacles.   
 
RESEARCH RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
The results generated from participants’ self-evaluation questionnaire, wayfinding task 
performance and mental map drawings were analyzed and discussed as follows: 
 
The Results of Self-Evaluation Questionnaire  
Based on the review of relevant literature, five wayfinding strategies were identified in 
this study. They are path, decision point, relative direction, absolute direction, and 
landmark strategies. These five strategies were adopted in the self-evaluation 
questionnaire design. Moreover, these five strategies were also used to facilitate the 
design of wayfinding tasks for the experimental purpose and help design the 
questionnaire regarding how they adopted particular wayfinding strategy in certain VE 
contexts. The results of two-way ANOVA of self-evaluation questionnaire were shown 
in Table 2.  
 
The strategy use and metacognition of path, relative direction and absolute direction  
From Table 2, the results of two-way ANOVA of self-evaluation questionnaire regarding 
the strategy use and metacognition of path, relative direction and absolute direction 
showed no statistically significant difference. None significant interaction existed either. 
This can be due to the fact that Path is a series of roadway combinations that cannot 
attract participants’ attention. The adoption of Geotag and Earcon in the VE does not 
affect their wayfinding processes. Similarly, based on the post-event interview, the use 
of Geotag and Earcon does not help participants produce association towards the 
wayfinding goal regarding relative direction. Most of them were relied on the decision 
influence participants’ adoption of decision points regarding their wayfinding strategy 
and self evaluation (i.e., metacognition) of wayfinding processes. However, the use of 
Earcon could not facilitate participants’ wayfinding process in terms of decision points. 
This can be because the nature of Earcon can not be memorized easily. Participants 
will need to use other means to help them reach the destinations.  
 
The strategy use and metacognition of landmark  
Table 2 also illustrates that the results of two-way ANOVA of self-evaluation 
questionnaire pertaining to the strategy use of landmark revealed significant 
differences. More specifically, the main effect of Geotag did not show significant 
difference (F=1.122, P=0.293>0.05). However, the main effect of Earcon did reveal 
significant difference (F=5.002, P=0.029<0.05). According to the descriptive statistics, 
the mean of With Geotag group is (M=6.28, Sd=1.00) significantly larger than the 
Without Geotag group (M=5.75, Sd=1.11). This means that participants adopted 
certain landmarks for reference during their wayfinding processes. That is, the addition 
of Earcon will enhance participants to use landmark strategy. Furthermore, there also 
existed significant interaction effect between Geotag and Earcon (F=8.659, 
P=0.004<0.05). We may infer that when the VE is supported with both Geotag and 
Earcon, the degree of landmark strategy is used more frequently than the control 
group (i.e., Without Geotag and Earcon group). However, this situation is lower than 
the VEs that is supported with only Geotag or Earcon individually. Therefore, providing 
participants with too much or unsuitable wayfinding information may not enhance 
participants’ wayfinding processes. It may decrease their confidence in using landmark 
strategy.   
The results of two-way ANOVA of self-evaluation questionnaire pertaining to the 
metacognition of landmark revealed no significant difference. That is, the main effects 
of both Geotag (F=0.215, P=0.645>0.05) and Earcon (F=0.095, P=0.758>0.05) did 
not reveal any significant difference. Nonetheless, the interaction effect of Geotag and 
Earcon did reveal significant difference (F=6.895, P=0.011<0.05). Similar explanations 
have been mentioned above.   
 
The Results of Wayfinding Task Performance  
From Table 3, the results of two-way ANOVA of participants’ wayfinding task 
performance regarding route knowledge indicated that the main effect of Geotag did 
not revealed significant difference (F=0.026, P=0.872>0.05). However, the main effect 
of Earcon did reveal significant difference (F=5.245, P=0.025<0.05). Based on the 
descriptive statistics, the mean of With Earcon group (M=26.86, Sd=14.00) is 
significantly faster than the Without Geotag group (M=35.49, Sd=17.39). This means 
that participants can effectively adopt more Earcon for reference to enhance their 
route knowledge during their wayfinding processes than those without using the 
Earcon. No significant interaction effect was found between Geotag and Earcon in 
terms of participants’ wayfinding task performance regarding route knowledge 
(F=0.191, P=0.664>0.05).  
 
Table 3. Results of two-way ANOVA of participants’ wayfinding task performance 
 Geotag Earcon Geotag by Earcon 
F Value 0.026 5.245 0.191 Task performance regarding 
route knowledge P Value 0.872 0.025* 0.664 
F Value 0.385 11.960 0.088 Task performance regarding 
survey knowledge P Value 0.537 0.001* 0.767 
Note: N=72, Unit=second, * means P<0.05, significant difference exists. 
 
prototypes were created for the experiment. The following findings were generated in 
this research study:  
(1) The design of Geotag can enhance participants’ use of decision point strategy as 
well as their metacognition. This is because the Geotag is the most obvious visual 
stimulus that can catch participants’ attention. Therefore, participants’ use of 
certain decision points and self-correction of their wayfinding processes can be 
affected by the Geotag.  
(2) The design of Earcon can also affect participants’ landmark strategy use. This is 
because a landmark is the first visual stimulus that the participant can perceive. It 
is a type of high level visual information that the participant not only needs to 
sense its existence, but also need to transform this type of information into 
understandable data. If a participant perceives both Geotag and Earcon at the 
same time, s/he may not have enough time to process these two types of 
information. His/Her wayfinding task performance cannot be improved either.  
(3) Based on the experiment results and post-event interview, the use of Earcon can 
enhance participants’ spatial knowledge, wayfinding performance and pleasure 
perceptions. That is, participants are able to gain more understandings of the VE if 
they are provided with Earcon. In addition, participants’ route and survey 
knowledge during a wayfinding task can also be enhanced which results in good 
wayfinding performance. Therefore, providing participants with Earcon in a VE can 
help them construct better spatial knowledge and enhance their wayfinding 
performance.  
 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
Financial support of this research study by National Science Council under the grant 
NSC 95-2221-E-011-046 is gratefully acknowledged.  
 
REFERENCES 
Chen, C.-H.; Tsai, C.-Y.; Chiu, B.-C., 2004, The comparison of adults' and young 
children's perceptions of website user interface pleasure based on their metacognitive 
awareness, Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on Working with Computer 
Systems, June 29-July 2, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, 547-552.  
Eberts, R. E., 1994, User Interface Design, Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall. 
Hacker, D. J., 2005, Metacognition: Definition and Empirical Foundations, University of 
Memphis. 
Johnson, P., 1992, Human-Computer Interaction: Psychology, Task Analysis, and 
Software Engineering, London, UK: McGraw-Hill. 
Kaplan, S.; Kaplan, R., 1982, Cognition and Environment: Functioning in an Uncertain 
World, New York: Praeger. 
Kato, Y.; Takeuchi, Y., 2003, Individual differences in wayfinding strategies, Journal of 
Environmental Psychology, 23, 171–188. 
Lynch, K., 1960, The Image of the City, Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press. 
Norman, D. A., 2004, Emotional Design: Why We Love (or Hate) Everyday Things, New 
York: Basic Books. 
Saarinen, T. F., 1976, Environmental Planning, Boston, MA: Houghton Mifflin. 
 
 
 
