From these points, finite element analysis is a suitable choice to simplify the modeling processes 
and to reduce the complicated derivation, since the analysis can be executed in a commercial code. 
The problem of time consuming is trivial nowadays because of the high calculation capacity of 
personal computers. Also it can be extended to three-dimensional problems and can easily handle 
complex shapes and boundary conditions. Hence, finite element analysis is adopted to model the 
vibration of a plate in the present work. Instead of a least-square method, a hybrid genetic 
algorithm, in which a simulated annealing mutation process and adaptive mechanisms are added to 
the real-parameter genetic algorithm, is used to search the possible elastic constants. Thus this 
method is very helpful for technicians because they can obtain the elastic constants without 
considering the complicated derivation and calculation. 
Experimental Procedures 
Impulse technique is adopted to do vibration testing, and modal analysis is used to extract the 
natural frequencies and mode shapes of the plates tested. The plate tested is put on a soft cotton pad 
to approximate the boundary conditions of all edges free. The impulse excitation is accomplished 
by a PCB impulse hammer. The response is detected by an accelerometer, whose mass is less than 
2 g  such that its effect could be negligible. Both the input and output signals are converted to 
frequency domains by fast Fourier transformation, and then the frequency response functions are 
created. Totally, 35 points uniformly distributed on the plate are excited under this fixed response 
technique. After that, those frequency response functions are exported to a modal analysis program, 
SMS STARModal, in a personal computer. A polynomial function is curve fitted to the frequency 
response function data within a band under the assumption of single degree of freedom. After curve 
fitting all frequency response functions, one can obtain the natural frequencies, damping ratios, and 
mode shapes by the SMS STARModal. The materials tested are carbon/epoxy composites. To 
fabricate the carbon/epoxy plates, a bag molding process and a two-stage curing cycle are used. 
Plate Vibration Model 
A commercially available finite element code (ANSYS 9.0) is utilized to model the undamped free 
vibration of a plate. The natural frequencies and mode shapes of the plates are determined by modal 
analysis in the ANSYS program. The whole domain is meshed by the shell elements, SHELL93, 
that have eight nodes with six degrees of freedom at each node. This element can be applied to 
isotropic, orthotropic, or anisotropic materials. In order to perform a quicker and cheaper analysis, 
the direction perpendicular to the plane of the plate is assigned as master degrees of freedom that 
are significant degrees of freedom characterizing the dynamic behavior of the structure. 
Hybrid Genetic Algorithm 
A novel hybrid algorithm is used as an optimum design method. This algorithm maintains the 
merit of both genetic algorithm (GA) and simulated annealing (SA) [7]. Also adaptive mechanisms 
are included to adjust the probabilities of the crossover and mutation operators for improving the 
hill-climbing ability. The steps of this algorithm are as follows. Step 1: Set the parameters including 
the population size and generation number. Step 2: Generate two populations. Use tournament 
criterion to select the initial population. Step 3: Calculate the objective function value and find the 
fitness of each solution. Step 4: Apply the roulette wheel criterion for the reproduction process. Step 
5: Apply crossover process to half of the population obtained after step 4. Step 6: Population 
obtained after step 5 is mutated by SA mutation. Step 7: Half of the population obtained after the 
reproduction process and half of the population after step 6 are mutated by the uniform mutation 
process of GA to produce just half of the population. Step 8: Calculate the objective function value 
and find the fitness of all offspring. Step 9: If the best solution is not improved, the elitist strategy is 
adopted. Step 10: If the best solution is the same for some generations, then adaptive mechanisms 
start and SA process is reset. Step 11: If the stop criterion is satisfied, then algorithm ends. 
Otherwise, go to step 4. 
The Mechanical Behavior of Materials X1300
