 1
Abstract 
The ocean tide loading (OTL) is an important factor for the GPS positioning, especially in 
the height direction. The shorter of the distance to the ocean, the larger of the error by the OTL. 
The influence will be changed when we measure in different place and the order of magnitude is 
from few centimeters to ten centimeters. In this study, more than ten kinds of the OTL models 
were collected and applied on the GPS static relative positioning in Taiwan. The GPS 
observations including five stations were obtained from Nov. 9, 2004 to Feb. 23, 2005 and we 
used the Bernese GPS software to execute the data processing. 
In this period, the average amplitudes of the 3-D coordinates are as follows: N is 0.4 cm, E 
is 0.7 cm, h is 1.8 cm at Kinmen station; N is 0.7 cm, E is 1.3 cm, h is 2.3 cm at Lanyu station; N 
is 0.5 cm, E is 0.7 cm, h is 2.0 cm at Matsu station; N is 0.6 cm, E is 0.6 cm, h is 2.0 cm at 
Penghu station and N is 0.5 cm, E is 1.2 cm, h is 1.7 cm at Hsinchu station. Moreover, we will 
analyze the advantage and disadvantage of every kind of the OTL models in different 
environments to offer some information to the GPS users and enhance the precision of the GPS 
positioning. 
Keywords: GPS, ocean tide loading, positioning precision, correction parameter 
 
1. Introduction 
By collecting ocean tide loading (OTL) effect models and observations and apply them to 
the error corrections of GPS static relative positioning, we develop theories from this research 
and analyze its accuracy as well as reliability. Although there are already dozens of famous global 
OTL effect correction models in the international community, such as GOT00.2, FES99, CSR4.0, 
NAO.99b, TPXO.6.2, Schwiderski, etc, they are not necessarily suitable for researches conducted 
in coastal areas in Taiwan. Therefore, we hope utilize GPS data obtained on the Taiwan Island 
and its off-shore islands and adopt different models to get a picture of how OTL effects influence 
the accuracy of GPS static relative positioning, in the hope that we provide GPS users with useful 
information for their reference. 
When it comes to related international studies, according to the studies of Baker, in Newlyn, 
the UK, the vertical error of OTL can be as high as 12 cm (Baker et al., 1995). Dragert indicates 
that in Holberg, which is located in the coast of Canada, the influence of OTL on vertical error 
can result in a figure as high as 8 cm (Dragert et al., 2000). Penna and Baker take the coastal area 
in north-west Australia as their research subject and find out that the influence of OTL on vertical 
error can bring about a figure as high as about 10 cm, its oscillation cycle is about 6 hours (Penna 
and Baker, 2002). According to our estimation, this is due to the influence of semidiurnal tide. 
Khan and Scherneck take the coastal areas in Alaska, the United States, as their concentration and 
conduct their analysis on a baseline which is approximately 500 km long. They use gravity 
measurement and GPS to verify its OTL model (Khan and Scherneck, 2003). Zahran analyzes the 
influence of OTL on the displacement of inland tide gauge stations in a global viewpoint: the 
displacement can be as high as 2 cm, with a baseline variation as high as 2 mm. In addition, he 
has also found out that the nearer the station is to the shore, the more influence it suffers from 
OTL (Zahran et al., 2005). 
Bos and Scherneck, two Swedish scientists, provide a webpage where users can calculate 
OTL for free. The webpage automatically calculates the parameters of partialtide for the users to 
conduct corrections (Bos and Scherneck, 2006). Physical Oceanography Data Center, JPL, NASA, 
also provides its online visitors with relative tidal correction data obtained by using 
 3
research. This is mostly because east Taiwan lies near to the Pacific Ocean, and the depth of the 
Pacific Ocean is far greater than that of the Taiwan Strait next to the west Taiwan coast. Therefore, 
it is under less influence of OTL effect and is suitable to serve as a GPS base station to perform 
successive data processing. Our observations come from the period between November 9th, 2004 
and February 23rd, 2005. We obtain GPS data from Kinmen station with a consecutive six-day 
observation, Lanyu station with a consecutive three-day observation, Matsu station with a 
seven-day observation, Penghu station with a six-day observation, and Hsinchu with a 
consecutive four-day observation. The locations of these stations are shown as in Figure 1. When 
conducting the calculation, one unit equals to three hours. As for the data processing, we use 
Bernese, which is developed by University of Bern, Switzerland, as our calculation software. In 
addition, partialtide parameter figures obtained from OTL models are used to conduct 
comparative analysis of positioning accuracy. 
The calculation of partialtide parameters is conducted through free calculation webpage 
http://www.oso.chalmers.se/%7Eloading/index.html provided by two Swedish scientists, Bos and 
Schernck. Its merely requires users to key in approximate coordinates and choose to correct the 
model online. Then, it will automatically calculate partialtide parameters for its users to conduct 
correction. The goal of this research is to testify the level of influence OTL has on GPS 
positioning accuracy. Therefore, NAO.99b is adopted to conduct the correction, and with many 
other tide models we will skip shallow sea areas when conducting calculation. Figure 2 shows the 
areas from which no corrected data is produced in each model. This is mostly because the 
influence of OTL is small in areas such as the Mediterranean Sea, the Black Sea, and the Baltic 
Sea; therefore, even when we skip these areas and do not conduct corrections, the result will not 
be much different. Taiwan is located on the west side of the Pacific Ocean that belongs to deep 
ocean areas. Moreover, oceanic areas around Taiwan are included in the ocean tide model 
calculation under discussion here in this research. 
 
Figure 1.  The locations of these stations 
 5
 
Figure 3.  The N coordinates at Kinmen, Lanyu, Matsu, Penghu, and Hsinchu 
 
Likewise, the variation figures of the E coordinates are shown in Figure 4. The maximum 
and average vertical amplitude figures are as follow: Kinmen station, 6.3 cm and 0.7 cm, Lanyu 
station, 9.4 cm and 1.3 cm, Matsu station, 4.6 cm and 0.7 cm, Penghu station, 4.3 cm and 0.6 cm, 
and Hsinchu station, 10.4 cm and 1.2 cm. 
 
 
 
Figure 4.  The E coordinates at Kinmen, Lanyu, Matsu, Penghu, and Hsinchu 
 
 
 7
cm, and 2.3 cm; at Matsu station, the maximum amplitude figures of N, E, and h are respectively 
2.2 cm, 4.6 cm and 11.7 cm, while its average amplitude figures are 0.5 cm, 0.7 cm, and 2.0 cm; 
at Penghu station, the maximum amplitude figures of N, E, and h are respectively 3.0 cm, 4.3 cm 
and 9.7 cm, while its average amplitude figures are 0.6 cm, 0.6 cm, and 2.0 cm; at Hsinchu 
station, the maximum amplitude figures of N, E, and h are respectively 3.2 cm, 10.4 cm and 12.1 
cm, while its average amplitude figures are 0.5 cm, 1.2 cm, and 1.7 cm. 
Judging from the research result, we find out that, without ocean tide corrections, the errors 
caused by OTL effects range from several centimeters to ten meters. In addition, Kinmen station 
is away from the coast for about 1.5 km, Lanyu station about 0.1 km, Matsu station away from 
the coast for about 1.3 km, Penghu station away from the coast for about 0.3 km, and Hsinchu 
station away from the coast for about 12 km. As a result, we can infer from the research that the 
nearer the station is to the coast, the greater influence OTL has on it. When conducting 
high-accuracy GPS measurement tasks, we should take ocean tide models into account to conduct 
corrections. In this way, we will be able to improve the accuracy and reliability of GPS relative 
positioning. What’s more, since the phase lags resulted from the OTL effect has not yet been 
taken into consideration in this research, in future studies, this can also be a subject under 
discussion. As for whether this will be able to improve the accuracy of GPS positioning, we will 
leave it for successive studies to testify the supposition. 
 
6. References 
Baker, T. F., D. J. Curtis, A. H. Dodson, 1995. Ocean Tide Loading and GPS, GPS World, pp. 
54-59. 
Bos, M. S. and H. G. Scherneck, 2006. Ocean Tide Loading Provider, Onsala Space Observatory, 
http://www.oso.chalmers.se/~loading/. 
Dam, T. V., H. P. Plag, O. Francis, P. Gegout, 2003. GGFC Special Bureau Loading: Current 
Status and Plans, IERS Technical Note 30, International Earth Rotation and Reference 
System Service, pp. 180-198. 
Dragert, H., T. S. James, A. Lambert, 2000. Ocean Loading Corrections for Continuous GPS: A 
Case Study at the Canadian Coastal Site Holberg, Geophysical Research Letter, Vol. 27, No. 
14, pp. 2045-2048. 
Khan, S. A. and H. G. Scherneck, 2003. The M2 Ocean Tide Loading Wave in Alaska: Vertical 
and Horizontal Displacement, Modelled and Observed, Journal of Geodesy, Vol. 77, pp. 
117-127. 
Penna, N. T. and T. F. Baker, 2002. Ocean Tide Loading Considerations for GPS Processing 
Around Australia, Geomatics Research Australasia, No. 77, pp. 1-26. 
PO.DAAC, 2006. TOPEX/POSEIDON Tides Models,Physical Oceanography Distributed Active 
Archive Center, http://podaac.jpl.nasa.gov/toppos/toppos_tides.html. 
Yang, Z., S. Manabe, K. Yokoyama, T. Jike, K. Heki, 1996. Comprehensive Ocean Tide Loading 
Parameters of Sites in East Asia with Spherical Harmonic Method, Gravity, Geoid and 
Marine Geodesy, pp. 343-350. 
Zahran, K. H., G. Jentzsch, G. Seeber, 2005. World-Wide Synthetic Tide Parameters for Gravity 
and Vertical and Horizontal Displacements, Journal of Geodesy, Vol. 79, pp. 293-299. 
 
 
 
