 2
中文摘要 
許多公司已經體認到在高度競爭環境中，加速
R&D 與創新活動是攸關企業存活的重要關鍵因素。成
功的 R&D 與創新活動能增加廠商的的銷售、利潤以及
競爭優勢。然而，先前相關的研究幾乎很少利用存活
函數和危險率在研究廠商 R&D 與創新活動決策上。在
本研究之中，利用存活函數和危險率進行實證調查分
析在持持續時間內，廠商的 R&D 與創新活動所提供之
訊息與對於 R&D 與創新活動之訊息揭露。此外，本研
究資料來源將利用台灣高科技產業中之廠商所出版之
正式營運報告與報表，進行實證研究與分析。本研究
發現，高科技廠商沒有充分的資金與規模在競爭的高
科技產業環境終將難以生存。我們也進一步發現高科
技廠商從事高科技研發活動時，必須投入大量研發資
金與資源支出以求長期生存。最後藉由迴歸模式也發
現高科技廠商的年齡也會影響其營運之成敗。 
關鍵詞：研究與發展；存活函數；危險率；研發與創
新活動 
Abstract 
There are many firms have realized that accelerated 
R&D with innovation activities is crucial for their 
survival and winning of competitive battles. Successful 
R&D with innovation activities can provide increased 
sales, profits, and competitive advantage for most firms. 
However, previous studies seldom incorporated the 
survival function and hazard rate to analysis firms’ R&D 
with innovation activities decision-making. The focus of 
this research is to consider utilize survival function and 
hazard rate to survey and empirical analysis firm R&D 
with innovation activities that can provide additional 
information and information discovery during the 
duration time. Furthermore, this study used to real case 
proceeding empirical analysis based on the formal 
corporation report in Taiwan hi-tech firms. The results of 
this research found that high-tech firms without have 
sufficient capital and size tends to have easiest survival 
in a competitive high-the industry environment. We also 
found that high-tech firms engaged in high-tech R&D 
activities must to invest in vast R&D funds and resource 
expenditure to long-tern survival. By using a regression 
model based on duration time, it is found that the 
high-tech firm’s age has been related to business failure.  
Key Words：R&D; Survival function; Hazard rates; 
R&D with innovation activities 
 
1. Introduction  
In the increasingly competitive global environment, 
innovation is crucial to the survival of corporation. Thus 
many firms spend numerous resources on research and 
development (R&D) and tremendous growth in R&D 
expenditure in order to increase the market competitive 
of firm. Firms realized that accelerated R&D activity is 
crucial for their survival and winning of competitive 
battles. Successful R&D activity can provide increased 
sales, profits, and competitive advantage for most firms. 
R&D plays a vital role in many successful organizations, 
as long as the R&D resources are focused on the right 
activities. The quality of the R& D process is one of the 
critical success factors influencing the performance and 
success of a firm’s R&D activities. The effective 
management of R&D requires appropriate metrics for 
assessing the quality of the process. Firm’s performance 
as well as R&D performance can be measured by various 
variables. There are many various variables influences 
R&D project performance these variables should be 
clarified in order to understand the significance of single 
projects for the entire R& D. The performance shouldbe 
assessed in different factor of R&D projects during the 
firms R&D born within a start-up R&D programming.  
Although survival analysis have widely applied in 
other research fields, such as firm survival (Audretsch, 
1991; Meta and Portugal, 1994; Meta, et. al., 1995; 
Audretsch and Mmahmood, 1995; Audretsch, et. al., 
2000), technology and Innovation (Audretsch, 1995; 
Agarwal, 1996), commercial banks (Carree, 2003). 
However, none one of any studies provide insight as to 
whether the ability of firms’ R&D to survival varies, and 
if so, to which factors such variation in firms’ R&D 
survival can be attributes. The purpose of this study is to 
fill this gap in the literature by identifying the extent to 
which firm’s R&D survival varies. Particularly, this 
study is, as far a we know, the first that attempts to study 
the survival of firm R&D with innovation activities 
utilizing survival function and hazard rate to survey and 
empirical analysis. 
 
2. The Survival Analysis with Hazard Rate in Firm 
Survival 
The main aim of survival analysis is to represent the 
observed distribution of durations by the means of 
hazard models. Survival analysis and especially hazard 
models are employed for forecasting the transition from 
one state to another or in other words, the occurrence of 
a certain event following a period of time observed. 
Survival analysis has widely and successful applied in 
many research fields. Audretsch, (1991) studies 11,000 
US manufacture firms over a ten-year period using Small 
Business Administration data. His research result found 
that the variation in a ten-year survival rates across 
industries was hypothesized to be the result of 
differences in the underlying technological regime and 
industry-specific characteristics, especially the extent of 
scale economies and capital intensity. Based on 295 
four-digit standard industrial classification industries, 
new-firm survival was found to be promoting by the 
extent of small-firm innovative activity. The existence of 
 4
analysis survival of new firms, survival of new product, 
bank activities, and so on. However, in the antecedent 
research don’t utilize survival function or hazard rate to 
study in firms R&D with innovation activities. Previous 
studies seldom incorporated the survival function and 
hazard rate to analysis firms’ R&D with innovation 
activities decision-making. The survival function and 
hazard rate cannot only additional information, as well as 
that can provide additional information during the 
various times. Particularly, this study is, as far as we 
know, the first that attempts to study the survival of firm 
R&D with innovation activities. Throughout the study 
we have used the analogy between the survival of firm 
R&D and innovation activities of firms. Indeed, the 
hazard rates of new firms can be directly related to the 
uncertainty involved in launching an R&D on the hi-tech 
firms industry. 
 
4. Methodology  
Survival analysis examines and models the time it 
takes for events to occur. The prototypical such event is 
death, from which the name ‘survival analysis’ and much 
of its terminology derives, but the ambit of application of 
survival analysis is much broader. Essentially the same 
methods are employed in a variety of disciplines under 
various rubrics –for example, “event-history analysis” in 
sociology. Survival analysis focuses on the distribution 
of survival times. Although there are well known 
methods for estimating unconditional survival 
distributions, most interesting survival modeling 
examines the relationship between survival and one or 
more predictors, usually termed covariates in the 
survival-analysis literature. The subject of this appendix 
is the Cox proportional-hazards regression model 
(introduced in a seminal paper by Cox, 1972), a broadly 
applicable and the most widely used method of survival 
analysis.  
   The distribution of the survival time T is from 
starting pint to the event of interest. We regard T as a 
random variable with cumulative distribution function 
and the survival function, denoted )(tS is defined as the 
probability that an individual survives longer than t  
units of times )(P)( tTtS r ≤=  and probability density 
function dttdSts /)()( = . The more optimistic survival 
function )(tS  is the complement of the distribution 
function, )(1)(P)( tStTtS r −=>= . A fourth representation of 
the distribution of survival times is the hazard function, 
which assesses the instantaneous risk of demise at time t , 
conditional on survival to that time: 
     
t
tTttTtp
th
t d
]d[
lim)(
0d
>+≤≤= →  
          )(/)( tstf=  (1) 
In other words, the hazard or risk function 
)(th approximates the proportion of subjects dying or 
having events per unit time around time t . The hazard 
function may increase or decrease with time for 
long-time and short-term risks, respectively, or remain 
constant, or even indicate a more complicated process 
(Le, 1997). When we discuss the survival of the R&D 
that survival function and hazard function more meaning 
than probability density function. Since we want to 
understand the high technology firms initial invested in 
R&D activities and competitive environment how to 
affect their R&D activities. However, there are many 
various covariates could be effect the firms’ R&D 
activities survival. Thus, we should consider these 
factors and include in the survival function and hazard 
function. Then survival function and hazard function will 
become )( xtS  and )( xth , respectively.  Since the 
primary interest of this study is to investigate the 
influences of high tech firms on the probability of failure, 
a multivariate model of the high-tech’s life duration shall 
be implemented. The Cox proportional regression model 
is using in this study. The Cox proportional regression 
model is the hazard function of which takes the form 
of )exp()()( '0 Χ−= βthth . The effect of covariates is to 
multiply the baseline hazard )(0 th , which is an individual 
specific constant, by a factor )exp( 'Χ−β . 
 
5. Data collection and analysis 
Data for this study was obtained from multi-source, 
namely, the Taiwan market observation post system data 
based (TMOPSD) (available online), technology and 
science report (2000-2005, national science council), 
Taiwan business directories (TBD) and general 
corporation financial analysis in Taiwan (GCFAT) based 
on the survey being published by China credit 
information service (CCIS), and annual report of 
industrial production (MOEA). The TMOPSD consists 
of the general records of more 1000 firms who were 
build date, employees, R&D funding, return on 
investment (ROI), and return on assets (ROA) so on. The 
CCIS consists of the Taiwan enterprise lists and their age, 
managers, employees, and growth rate of revenue. 
Since we are interested in the survival rate of R&D 
activities and further, the single database is difficult to 
collect complete data, it was necessary to rely on 
cross-sectional data for high tech firms R&D termination. 
The multi-source data demonstrates that cases with 
start-date between 2000 and 2005 were included in the 
analysis. All high-tech firms are considered to have been 
terminated when it has disappeared from the listing, and: 
(1) not appearing again in a later enterprise listing; and 
(2) the carrier has not gone bankrupt (cross-check with 
CCIS’s (2000-2005), Taiwan market observation post 
system data based). The available follow-up information 
comes either from TBD to GCFAT, which have been 
