  
Fig. 1 Design conception of intelligent energy-saving system 
 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW AND RELATED WORKS 
The initialization of development for wireless sensor 
networks was first applied in the monitoring assignments in 
the battle fields [9]. The development of wireless 
communication technique was proceeding faster and faster 
nowadays more and more wireless sensor networks were 
implemented in daily life such as environmental monitoring 
and controlling, automation in home-appliance, biomedical 
technologies, traffic control system etc[5]. The spec and 
standard of ZigBee, which is the most popular and important 
wireless sensor networks, was broadly used in many 
intelligent systems. Therefore, we used ZigBee in our wireless 
control and monitoring system on account of its lower cost, 
less power consumption, longer communication distance, and 
higher reliability[8]. Some of the researchers have proposed 
general-purposed remote controller designed with ZigBee 
modules combining with infrared rays to control some 
traditional consumer electronic devices [16]. But the 
controlled codes encoded in the infrared rays communication 
system had much difference in compatibility and it’s difficult 
for venders to solve the related problems to unite different 
coding of all venders, so we used the method that we designed 
the Bluetooth wireless control for power on/off function 
directly mounting on the outlets[3]; therefore, not only could 
we control on/off of electrical facilities but also we could 
calculate the total power consumption by receiving the 
transmitted data through ZigBee wireless web-net and 
displayed on the server computer to warn the users to save the 
energy[10]. In addition, we learned that to save the electrical 
energy we must handle all running parameters and the 
environmental factors such as the number of people, 
temperature, humidity, luminance, quality of air in the living 
space and probably adjust all the parameters dynamically, for 
example, if the temperature in the living space were lower 
than 28℃, the air conditioner would keep closed, and if 
there were none in the space all the facilities ought not be 
opened. From the description above, we need to design a 
decision mechanism to proceed data mining, events analysis, 
and quickly response system—Intelligent Agent technique[6], 
in this paper we used PC-based agent that would display all 
the sensor information and running parameters of the 
intelligent energy-saving system on the server computer 
screen, and through the comparison between the real-time 
received data with database to proceed calculate the decisive 
parameters and proceed feedback control to all facilities. In 
addition, the system designed an embedded system or PDA 
(middle-way) to connect the server computer so that energy 
managers could remote control and monitor power 
consumption environment any time and anywhere with cloud-
computing conception [15] to get to the real-time response for 
the energy-saving and the optima energy-saving effect.  
III. SYSTEM STRUCTURE DESIGN AND ITS OPERATING 
FUNCTIONS 
The energy-saving system structure was shown in Fig. 2 
and relationship between collected parameters in space and 
energy-saving system was described as follow: 
A. Luminance management 
We would first calculate the area of a space and decide the 
maximum number of people , after then we detected the real 
people number and the luminance parameters and sent back to 
servo-computer and middle-way to feedback control how 
many lights in the space should be turn off and the luminance 
still meet with the regular luminance 550Lux, the decisive 
procedure could be in two ways, one is calculated the factor 
which was maximum entered people divided by entered 
people, and used this factor to multiply the total lights number, 
so we got the desired turned on lights, and then we used the 
detected light luminance to decide whether the luminance was 
enough or not, and then feedback control the lights according 
the judge of intelligent agent system built in servo-computer. 
We could directly and dynamically decide the lights turned on 
or off according to the luminance sensor signals.  
B. Air-conditioning management 
The CO2 density would decide whether the people inner the 
space were comfortable or not, if the density was over the 
standard and made people not feel well then the air-
conditioning would proceed to winding function rather than 
cooling to release the condition. If there were no people in the 
space, then the air-conditioning would be turned off. If the 
number of people was more than threshold we set, then the 
air-conditioning would be turned on. If the temperature was 
higher than 28°C, then the cooling function would be turned 
on. As for central control air-conditioning with cool-water 
machines, which consumption the most electricity power, we 
could use time-interval method and temperature sensor to take 
turns turning off some cool-water machines with certain 
period so as to achieve the attempt to save energy. 
C. Management of Computer Lab. or computers in big office 
(Affairs machines) 
Since one computer power consumption is almost near to 
300 W, many a computers in an office or in school lab would 
result in waste of power especially in endless open condition 
without using it. Hence, we need to detect the number of 
 divided into two formats; one was Asynchronous Connection-
Less (ACL) and Synchronous Connection-Oriented (SCO), in 
which ACL was used to send general data with the highest 
speed of 723.2 Kbps while SCO was used to send audio data 
(speech). 
 
Fig. 5 The information package frame of BT  
 
The topology of BT can be defined three modes such as 
Point-to-Point, Star or Tree, and Scatter net as shown in Fig. 6 
In this paper we used Point-to-Point mode as our system 
communication network structure.  
 
 
Fig. 6 Topology of BT communication network 
 
2. The Basic Architecture and software design of Bluetooth 
Network 
 
If two Bluetooth devices want to link together in 
communicated range, they must link under the defined spec as 
inquiry and page procedures as shown in Fig. 6 This 
procedure was called Link formation [1] Inquiry procedure is 
used to discover each other while page procedure is used to 
construct real linking. The device send out inquiry signals is 
called master and the device receives the signals is called 
slave. They can connect each other by page procedure. When 
one master device connected with more than two slaves, they 
formed a Pico-net, in which all Bluetooth devices formed a net 
system and shared the same one channel. Each Pico-net has 
only one master and at most 7 slaves in active status. The net-
system connected by several Pico-nets is called Scatter-net, 
and the processes constructing Scatter-net is called scatter-net 
formation. Slave device has four working modes in linking 
status described [4, 12] as following: 
(1) Active Mode: Slave and Master would send data to 
each other in this mode. Slave possessed AM_ADDR 
and jumped frequency queue in Pico-net. That is 
because there were at most 7 slaves in active status in 
one Pico-net; hence, the slave linking in this Pico-net 
and out of the original linked 7 slaves must enter the 
Park status and is not able to send any data in the 
system-net. 
(2) Sniff Mode: to save consuming power, Slave device 
could enter Sniff Mode. Slave would extend the signal-
intervals on jumping-frequency when receiving 
master’s signals. But, Slave still kept AM_ADDR and 
jumped-frequency queue in the Pico-net. 
(3) Hold Mode: when Slave entered Hold mode, it would 
ceases to support ACL Linking, but still support SCO 
Linking. 
(4) Park Mode: if slave need not send out data without 
departing from the Pico-net and wish to save 
consuming power, it could select to enter Park Mode. 
Meantime, the slave would desert AM_ADDR and get   
PM_ADDR and AR_ADDR from master. One Pico-net 
can own at most 256 slaves in Park status. Master 
could keep in touch with slave in Park status through 
period broadcasting signals sent on Master-to-Slave BC 
(Beacon Channel). Master could wake up the slave in 
Park status in Pico- net by sending PM_ADDR in BC 
and AM_ADDR after assigning Slave to enter Active 
status. In the same, the slave in Park status in the Pico-
net could request Master to wake up the slave through 
BC. 
Bluetooth device defines four different device-addresses [4, 
7, 12]. They are BD_ADDR, AM_ADDR, PM_ADDR, and 
AR_ADDR. 
(1) BD_ADDR (Bluetooth Device Address): All blue-
tooth devices own one unique 48 bits BD_ADDR, 
security key, jumping-frequency queue, and access 
code etc. Those parameters were figured by   
BD_ADDR, which could be regarded as hardware 
serial- number when out of the company. 
(2) AM_ADDR (Active Member Address): It was 
composed to be eight different numbers by 3 bits, and 
this is why one Pico-net was constrained at most 8 
active devices. The AM-AD by 3 bits DR of Master 
was fixed as 000. Master would assign one 
AM_ADDR to every active Slave in the Pico-net, and 
then distinguish each different Slave in the Pico-net by 
AM_ADDR. 
(3) PM_ADDR (Park Member Address): when Slave enter 
Park status, It would get one PM_ADDR composed by 
8 bits, and that’s why there are at most 256 blue-tooth 
devices in park status in one Pico-net. 
(4) AR_ADDR (Access Request Address): All blue-tooth 
devices in park status in Pico-net would get one 
AR_ADDR. It was possible that some devices would 
have the same   AR_ADDR and the Slave wishing to 
become Active mode needs this AR_ADDR to request 
Master to wake up the Slave. 
 17] .ZigBee Alliance was responsible for configure logic net, 
security coding for data transmission, and specification for 
application interfaces and linking constrains of system 
products.  
 
Fig. 12 Protocol of software &hardware 
 
PHY (Physical Layer) mainly conducted items as following 
[19]: 
(1) To start and close the radio transmitter and receiver. 
(2) To detect the transmission power of radio channel 
signals (ED, Energy Detection).  
(3) To list the linking quality of received information 
package (LQI, Link Quality Indication).  
(4) To judge whether (CSMA-CA, Carrier Sense Multiple 
Access-Collision Avoidance) channel was cleared or 
not (CCA, Clear Channel Assessment).  
(5) To select proper channel and frequency. 
(6) To receive and transmit data. 
The frame structure of PHY [17] is consisted of (SHR, 
Synchronization Header), (PHR, PHY Header), (PSDU, PHY 
Service Data Unit) which form a PHY Protocol Data Unit as 
shown in Fig. 13, in which includes: 
Synchronization Header: it can be divided into Preamble 
Sequence Field, which was used as detected data for 
guaranteeing synchronized receiving terminal chip or symbol 
and Start of Frame Delimiter Field, which was used to indicate 
the start of information package and end of Preamble 
Sequence Field.  
PHY Header [18]: It included 7 bits of Frame Length Field 
and one reserved bit. 
 
Fig. 13 Frame structure of PHY 
 
MAC (Medium Access Control Layer) was responsible of 
following works in addition to connecting with PHY [2]:  
(1) It was responsible for produce beacon that would 
synchronize with beacon of coordinator when device 
itself was configured as Coordinator. 
(2) To support association and disassociation of individual 
network.  
(3) To use (CSMA-CA, Carrier Sense Multiple Access-
Collision Avoidance) mechanism [17] to decide which 
channel is proper for communication and to control and 
maintain Guarantee-Time Slots mechanism (GTS, 
Guaranteed Time Slots). 
The stack structure of IEEE 802.15.4 was shown in Fig. 14 
[13], in which the application program interact with stack 
layer through stack API of 802.15.4, and this interaction is 
used to accomplish the request and acknowledge of (MCPS, 
MAC Data Services)/(MLME, MAC Management Services) 
that is the symbols and response of information. Finally, the 
IEEE 802.15.4 stack layer will interact with the bottom layer 
hardware through registers. 
 
Fig. 14 Software structure of API 
 
Beacon cab divided into Beacon-Enable-Network and Non- 
Beacon-Enable-Network [17], and the former is used to let 
coordinator synchronize its attached device and clarify the 
individual local network of the device. In this study, the 
Beacon-Enable-Network was adapted in which if the attached 
devices wanted to transmit data or controlled signals, then 
those devices must wait for a while randomly and then check 
whether the channel were idle, if it were, then the data could 
be transmitted. 
As indicated in Fig. 15, every net must have only one PAN-
Coordinator, and the first step for constructing net is to 
initialize Coordinator [13]. 
 
 
The temperature sensor circuit of AD590 was shown in Fig. 
20, in which power supply was used LM7805 module to 
supply the circuit power and designed negative and positive 
power for OP1 and OP2. The main design was used branch 
current, in which one output current source of fixed value for 
OP1 is 273.2 mA as reference current of AD590 under 0℃. 
By principle of branch current, we could get  
 
T2OP1 III OP   (4) 
 
, and when temperature changed 
 
∵ 2OP1CC0T /1 OPIITCuAII      (5) 
∴ 
CIuAI 0OP1 2.273   
 
So we got 
 
)(/1OP2 uATTCuAI C               (6) 
 
According to the formula above, we could get Iop2 is the 
present temperature value, and we could use Ohm’s Law to 
decide the output voltage of OP2 as 
    VRRI OPOP 8722V            (7) 
 
in which V- must be grounded, so equation 
  872 )(V RRuATOP              (8) 
 
, could be expressed as line passing through origin in linear 
change. 
Because 2OP1T OPIII  , through D1 providing a stable 
reference voltage, if we adjusted the value of R3, R4, and R9, 
and OP1 offered a fixed amplified rate with positive feedback 
as in  
    D1943OP1 V1V  RRR            (10) 
 
, and the output voltage of OP1 was 2.732V, afterwards, we 
adjusted the resistance value of R5 and R6 to let Iop1 was equal 
to 2.732 Ma, finally we used branch-current principle to get  
     265943D1T 1V- OPIRRRRRI     (11) 
 
, and then Iop2 was expressed as the present temperature, 
furthermore, owing to  
 
87OP22 V RRIOP   ,               (12) 
 
, we could decide the maximum value of Iop2 in AD converter 
circuit by adjusting R7 and R8. 
 
 
Fig. 20 Temperature sensor circuit of AD590  
 
2. Sensor of humidity  
The sensor of humidity in intelligent energy-saving system 
was used HS-1101 capacitor-type sensor module as shown in 
Fig. 21. HS-1101 used liquid polymer with features of fast 
response time, high reliability, and long-period stability. HS-
1101 was equal to a capacitor, of which the value of capacity 
would enlarge directly proportion    to the humidity in the air. 
The capacity of HS-1101 would change from 160pF to 200pF 
while relative humidity (RH) from 0% to 100%. Within 
inaccuracy of less than ±2%RH, response time less than 5s, 
and temperature constancy is 0.04pF/ .℃  
 
Fig. 21 HS-1101 (Humidity sensor of capacitor-type) 
 
The circuit structure of sensor of humidity is shown in Fig 4. 
The theory of the circuits is: 
Humidity sensor HS-1101 is capacitor-type, if we laid it in 
555 oscillate circuit, and the humidity would change the 
capacity value with the signal of frequency that could be 
collected by microprocessor, the formula was as below 
  
  22%@1    
1
24 

RRRHC
ttf lowhigh
      (13) 
 
With different No. of 555 oscillate IC, the designed value 
of R1 and R2 would change as table 1. 
 designed for one non-inverse amplifier which would amplify 
the luminance to certain factor, and then we put sensor in 
place without any light, finally, we adjust R2 to let the output 
of OP2 as 0V, that means the luminance was in the 0 Lux 
condition. The amplified factor of the differential amplifier 
OP2 depended on the full-scale of analog voltage converting 
to digital. 
 
 
Fig. 25. Circuit design of Luminance sensor S1133 
 
4. Co2 sensor 
Co2 sensor module design was shown in Fig. 26, which is 
used CDM4161A module manufactured by Japan FIGARO 
Corp. In addition it posses mini-size, long-period, optional, 
and stable features, it has anti-high humidity and anti-low 
temperature, so it was broadly used in occasion of auto-air 
conditioning or Co2 detecting. Since the warm-up time of 
CDM4161A is about two hours, it’s better to use it under 
fixed UPS. The Co2 sensor component of CDM4161A is solid 
-state   electrolyte, which is full of positive ion between two 
electrical polar, the cathode was made of Li- sodium 
carbonate and anode was made of gilding material. Inner part 
is fixed with glass fiber and phenyl-ester polythene and fixed 
the bottom with high stress glue. At the top part was covered 
with 60 meshes stainless metal lid and filled with zeolite, 
which would decrease air agitating and do ham to sensor. 
 
 
Fig. 26. CO2 sensor module TGS4161A  
 
When CO2 passes through the sensor, the chemistry 
reaction would be as follow equations: 
 
Cathode: 
 
322 22424 COLieOCOLi     (17) 
 
Anode: 
 
ONaeONa 2244 2     (18) 
 
Total reaction: 
 
23 2222 COLiONaNaCOLi     (19) 
 
According to Equation Nernst, there would generate 
potential EMF as follow 
 
)2ln()2/()( PCONFRFEcEMF       (20) 
 
In above equation, PCON2 is the divided voltage of CO2, 
Ec is constancy, R is air constancy, and T is temperature, 
Faraday constancy. It’s obvious that by the generated EMF 
measured between S(+) and S(-) it’s easy to measure CO2 
density. To keep the sensor be the most sensitive temperature, 
it is necessary to heat the sensor with heater, but the heat 
voltage would influence the stability of sensor, we must keep 
the heat voltage stable range as 5.0±0.2VDC. In addition to 
keeping the stability of heat voltage and surrounding 
temperature, the most importance is to measure ΔEMF 
between two polar instead of electrical potential itself because 
there exists a better linear relation between ΔEMF and CO2 
density. If the temperature is at the range of -10ºC ~ +50 ºC, 
the ΔEMF won’t be influenced by temperature and we can 
gain it as equation below: 
 
EMF2-EMF1EMF       (21) 
 
EMF1 is EMF value while CO2 density is 350ppm, and 
EMF2 is the measured EMF value in the CO2. In the 
condition temperature is 20 ºC±2 ºC, humidity is 65±5％RH, 
heating voltage is 5.0±0.05VDC and heating period is 7 days, 
we measured the sensed value of EMF is 220~490mV in the 
350ppm CO2 density,  and  ΔEMF is 44~72mV in the 
350~3500ppm CO2 density 在 350~3500ppm. Hence, in the 
practically applied measure circuit we must consider the 
features of sensor to adopt operation-amplifier with higher 
input impedance (≥100 GΩ) and low offset current (≤1pA). 
There is a microprocessor in the CDM4161A module, 
which would sample and manage to the collected data. The 
output signal of CDM4161A has linear relation with CO2 
density and its voltage signal ranged from 0.4V~4V and equal 
to 400ppm~4000ppm CO2 density value. We could directly 
proceed to sample the output voltage without correction. 
Furthermore, the microprocessor has output signal pins of pre-
heat status, trouble-shooting, and high-level status when CO2 
density is higher than 1000ppm. 
 
5. Design of power sensor module and smart-web-meter  
 
5.1. Power sensor for power consumption of home-
appliance of facilities 
One important module of active energy-saving system is 
 sensor network in the different campus buildings to detect the 
temperature, humidity, luminance, density of CO2, and 
consumption power of every electrical facility as the running 
parameters of the intelligent energy-saving system. The 
sensors placement should consider whether the place we laid 
is full of people or not, because the more people would get the 
higher sensor temperature than average, and the number of 
sensors ought to estimate by the space area. In the target 
building we totally placed 40 sensor nodes scatted in 3 ZigBee 
domains including one Coordinator which need to receive the 
sensor information from simple nodes anytime, so the power 
supply of coordinator was using commercial electricity. End 
Device which was mounted on facilities would transmit the 
sensor data every 80 seconds, and then they would fall into 
idle state mode, so we supplied the power with 3 No. 3 
batteries. After 8 months experiment, the whole energy-saving 
system could function successfully and the displayed screen of 
collected data and running condition on the server could be 
shown in both historical-mode and curve-mode. 
After practically layout the intelligent energy-saving system 
into the campus building mentioned above, we run the system 
for whole 4 months, the energy consumption data was shown 
in table III. From the table, we could easily compare the 
electricity power consumption outcomes, in which one 
condition was running without the energy-saving system and 
the other was with the system. There was obviously different 
and with the help of intelligent energy-saving system, we 
could save 22.44% electricity power consumption. The 
experimental outcomes was now duplicating into all of the 
other buildings, and we hope we could offer the further data 
of total power consumption after we establish the wireless 
communication network and related sensors networks. At this 
moment, we at least could definitely be sure of the efficiency 
of the intelligent energy-saving system. 
Table III the efficiency analysis of energy-saving system 
          Condition    
Device 
Before using energy-
saving system 
After using energy-
saving system 
Lighting 
40w * 232Group= 
9.280kw/hr 
7.424kw/hr 
Air conditioning 
10kw * 19 
Group=190kw/hr 
142.5kw/hr 
Computers 
400w*153 
Group=61.2kw/hr 
52k w/hr 
 
VI. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
This research was originally creative works and sponsored 
by The National Science Council of Taiwan Government 
under the Research Project Grant No. NSC-97-2221-E-129-
019, NSC-98-26221-E-129-003-CC3, NSC 99-2623-E-129-
002-ET, and NSC-99-2221-E-129-011 as well as sponsored 
by The Education Minister Department of Taiwan 
Government under the project “Creating Superiority in 
Teaching Strategies in Colleges of Taiwan--The Co-operation 
Project of Constructing Green-Energy and Intelligent Energy-
Saving Technologies Among Campus and Industry”    And 
this project has won the first prize of “The Contest of 
Students＇ Creativity in Practical Works＂ in addition to 
achieving the Taiwan Patent authorized by Patent Bureau of 
Economy Ministry Department of Taiwan.  
REFERENCES 
[1] C.B. Chuang, Digital and analog IC Lab. Chuan-hwa Bookstore, Taipei, 
2007 
[2] Chen Gin. “The Role Switching Mechanism of Mobile Random-net in 
IEEE 802.15.4.” Master Degree Thesis of Communication and 
Computer Engineering Dept., National Cheng-koung University, 2005 
[3] Chia-Hung Lien, Ying-Wen Bai and Ming-Bo Lin, “Remotecontrollable 
power outlet system for home power management,” IEEE Trans Consum 
Electron, Vol. 53, No. 4, pp. 1634-1641, 2007. 
[4] C.J. Huang, “Hierarchical Grown Blue-trees—An Effective Topology 
for Bluetooth Scatter-nets,” Master thesis, E.E. Department of National 
Chung-Sun University, 2003. 
[5] Guangming Song, Fei Ding, Weijuan Zhang and Aiguo Song “A 
wireless power outlet system for smart homes,” Consumer Electronics, 
IEEE Transactions on, Vol. 54, Issue 4, pp 1688 – 1691,Nov 2008 
[6] Guiling Wang, Guohong Cao, and Tom La Porta “Proxy-Based Sensor 
Deployment for Mobile Sensor Networks,” Mobile Ad-hoc and Sensor 
Systems, 2004 IEEE International Conference on, Oct.25-27 2004, pp 
493 – 502 
[7] H.Y. Cheng, “Design and Practical project of Linking BT with 
Microprocessor, Master thesis,” E.E. Department of National Cheng-
Kung University, 2005 
[8] J.Y. Jung and J.W. Lee, “ZigBee device access control and reliable data 
transmission in ZigBee based health monitoring system,” in Proceedings 
- 10th International Conference on Advanced Communication 
Technology, ICACT 2008, Phoenix Park, South Korea, Feb 17-20 2008, 
pp. 795-797. 
[9] K. Romer and F. Mattern, “The design space of wireless sensor 
networks,” IEEE Wireless Communications, vol. 11, n 6, pp. 54-61, Dec 
2004. 
[10] Noriyuki Kushiro, Shigeki Suzuki, Masanori Nakata, Hideki Takahara, 
and Masahiro Inoue, “Integrated Residential Gateway Controller for 
Home Energy Management System”, IEEE Transactions on Consumer 
Electronics, Vol. 49, Issue 3, pp. 629–636, Sep. 2003. 
[11] Ray-Ti International Communication Ltd. Corp. “Experiment Data-book 
of BT EVAL LAB,” 2007. 
[12] S.C. Lin, “Communication Protocol of Message Package of BT Net,” 
Master thesis of Electronic Engineering Dept. of Fen-Kai University, 
2003. 
[13] Sun-Tec Technology Ltd. Corp.”ZigBee Module Experiment Data 
Sheet.” 2007. 
[14] Taiwan Ministry of Economic Affairs Bureau of Energy. Energy 
Technology Research and Development White Paper on the first chapter 
Senate, 2007. 
http://www.moeaec.gov.tw/Policy/PoMain.aspx?PageId=energytechwhit
epaper 
[15] Vincenzo D. Cunsolo, Salvatore Distefano, Antonio Puliafito and Marco 
Scarpa “Volunteer Computing and Desktop Cloud: the Cloud @ Home 
Paradigm,” Network Computing and Applications, 2009. NCA 2009. 
Eighth IEEE International Symposium on, July 9-11 2009, pp134-139 
[16] Wan-Ki Park, Intark Han and Kwang-Roh Park, “ZigBee based dynamic 
control scheme for multiple legacy IR controllable digital consumer 
devices”, IEEE Trans Consum Electron, Vol. 53, No. 1, pp. 172-177, 
2007. 
[17] Wen, Z. H. “The Position Tracing System Design with ZigBee.”  Master 
Degree Thesis of Communication Engineering Dept, National Chung-
cheng University, 2005. 
[18] Yang, C. P. “The Net-Timing Synchronization Mechanism of WSN 
Based on ZigBee.” Master Degree Thesis of Communication and 
Computer Engineering Dept., National Cheng-koung University, 2005. 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                 日期： 100  年 8  月 16  日 
一、參加會議經過 
The 2011 International Conference on Electric Information and Control Engineering (ICEICE) will 
be held from Apr. 15-17, 2011 in Wuhan, China. ICEICE aims to provide a high-level international forum 
for researchers and engineers to present and discuss recent advances, new techniques and applications in 
the field of electric science such as instrument and measurement technology, information processing, as 
well as control and automation engineering, etc. We provided 3papers related with intelligent 
energy-saving system, which matched the developing policy of China Mainland, especially 
Smart-Griding and Artificial Intelligent research field, so some scholars in China requested us to deliver 
related speech in their university in the future and would give some subsidy for us. 
二、與會心得 
The 2011 International Conference on Electric Information and Control Engineering (ICEICE) will 
be held from Apr. 15-17, 2011 in Wuhan, China. ICEICE aims to provide a high-level international forum 
for researchers and engineers to present and discuss recent advances, new techniques and applications in 
the field of electric science such as instrument and measurement technology, information processing, as 
計畫編號 NSC  99－2221－E－129－011 
計畫名稱 以異質無線感測網路設計主動式智慧節能系統之研究-子計畫一：異質網路建構智慧節能感測模組與整合式智慧網路儀表 
出國人員
姓名 徐椿樑 
服務機構
及職稱 聖約翰科技大學電機系/教授 
會議時間 
2011年 4月 15日
至 
2011年 4月 17日 
會議地點 中國大陸/武漢 
會議名稱 
(中文)2011 國際電子資訊與控制工程研討會 
(英文)The 2011 International Conference on Electric Information and Control Engineering 
(ICEICE) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)主動式智慧節能系統之模組化感測模組設計 
(英文) Design of Sensor Modules of Active & Intelligent Energy-saving System  
 
附件四 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一：異質網路建構智慧節能感測模組與整合式智慧網路儀表
計畫主持人: 徐椿樑
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-129-011- 學門領域: 能源科技 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 智慧節能系統與其方法
(英文) The application methods of intelligent energy-saving system
成果歸屬機構
聖約翰科技大學 發明人
(創作人)
徐椿樑
技術說明
(中文) (1) 以層次化、多元化的網路架構建立主動式智慧型能源監控系統； 
(2) 以不同的能源使用情境，規劃模組化的節能子系統； 
(3) 以再生能源做為開源及尖峰用電輔助系統，並以負載管理作為節流之節能策
略； 
(4) 以模組化建立空間能源耗損參數輸入系統，配合後端智慧代理人技術建構之
Content Base，快速建立能源管理決策並提供能源輸出控制模組系統運作參數； 
(5) 以模組化設計輸入參數、決策系統、負載控管及能源管理輸出介面，設計嵌
入式系統核心晶片架構；用戶或設備製造商可以依照不同的能源使用情境，建立
case by case 的節能系統。 
(英文) All those parameters in this system would be automatically detected by web-net digital 
meters which was designed by researchers with DSP, high-speed A/D concerted card so 
as to 
real-time respond to system operation; as to recognition of objective environment such 
persons, facilities, air conditioning, lights in the space would need to use RFID system; 
parameters would be transmitted to servo PC to be judged what’s the best feedback 
control 
parameters so there would develop ZigBee wireless sensor network technique; the 
controlled 
facilities would use Bluetooth modules which was operating with high frequency, 
non-disturbed, low power-consumption, non-direction features; as to long distance far 
away 
main servo PC the transmission mechanism would use embedded system to construct 
middle-way real-time respond system; the rear terminal control would design with power 
PLC.
產業別 其他專業、科學及技術服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 可以應用智慧家電控制與電能管理監控系統業，以及利用IT優勢產業的應用發展相關企業
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
可以轉移技術於智慧家電控制與電能管理監控系統業，以及利用IT優勢產業的綠能科技
應用發展相關企業
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
參加具指標性意義國內專題競賽： 
 
『教育部為電腦系統設計競賽』兩個全國第三名 
『凌揚盃系統晶片創意競賽』第二名優等獎 
『全國新興綠能科技創意競賽』銀獎(第二名) 
『微軟創意 image-cup』佳作獎 
『旺宏盃創意競賽』優等獎 
『青雲盃全國能源科技競賽』兩個佳作獎 
 
榮獲台灣科技大學跨校聯盟產學合作補助 15 萬元 
參與綠色奇蹟專利發明展 
辦理區域性綠能宣導短期訓練課程與觀摩示範教學展 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
