  
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 □ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
應用知識探勘與語義網技術以協調全球分散式 
e-協同製造鏈之研究 
 
計畫類別：□ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2221－E－214－055－ 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1日至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：林小甘 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：杜政欣, 陳相羽 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
□出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
執行單位：義守大學工業工程管理學系 
 
中  華  民  國  9 7  年  7  月  3 1  日
附件一 
  
 
 
Abstracts 
 
 
The global webs of a supply chain offer huge potential for gaining competitive advantages, 
exploiting market opportunities and outsourcing external competencies.  Globally distributed 
inter-manufacturing teamwork aims to enhance and facilitate engineering agility through 
collaboration, sharing information seamlessly between partners to create good designs in short 
time-scales.  One of the major issues in multidiscipline collaborative projects is how best to 
share and simultaneously exploit different types of expertise, without duplicating efforts or 
inadvertently causing conflicts or loss of efficiency through misunderstandings of individual or 
shared goals. 
 
This research proposes an improved framework base on semantic web and knowledge discovery 
for the Manufacturing System Engineering Moderator (MSEM) to enhance the globally 
collaborative e-manufacturing work more interoperability and efficiently.  A Universal 
Knowledge Moderator prototype system, consisting of an Enterprise Metadata Integration 
Module, Knowledge Discovery Module and Moderation Module, will be developed to 
significantly improve the moderation activities and performance of e-collaborative business. 
 
 
Keywords:  Knowledge Discovery, Manufacturing System Engineering Moderator (MSEM), 
Distributed and Collaborative E-Manufacturing, Electronic Data Exchange, 
Semantic Web,.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
2 
 
z Universal Inter-Experts Module 
z Knowledge Discovery Module 
z Moderation Module 
Moderation Agent
Universal
Manufacturing 
Enterprise
SchemaInference 
Engine
Web 
documents
Legacy 
databaseLegacy 
database
Enterprise
Experts
Semantic 
Mapping 
Rules
OWL Schema
Knowledge 
Miner A
Knowledge 
Miner B
Knowledge 
Miner N
Transform
Universal
Inter-Experts
Module
Knowledge 
Discovery 
Module 
Moderation 
Module
Information Manager
Knowledge Manager
?
Expert A  
OWL
Expert B 
OWL
Expert N
OWL?
Repository
UIE database
server
 
Fig 1: The Architecture of Universal Knowledge Moderator (UKM) 
 
 
The methods and tasks applied for the specification and development of the three main modules 
of UKM are listed in Table 1 and briefly described as following sections.  Through the set of 
collaboration knowledge services, UKM provides an active platform for efficient maintenance of 
and access to shared and individual knowledge, and moderation of inter-organizational 
collaboration, including the ability to continually learn from its experience. 
 
Task Name 
1. Universal Inter-Experts Module 
 1.1  Assess Existing Manufacturing System Engineering (MSE) 
Ontology and Metadata infrastructure 
 1.2  Define Universal Manufacturing Enterprise Schema 
  (UMES) Conceptual Model 
 1.3  Develop Formal UMES Ontology Model 
 1.4  Implement UMES Knowledge Formalization using OWL 
 1.5  Refine UMES Knowledge Formalization  
 1.6  Define Mapping Rule-based Systems 
4 
 
Building Stage
The purpose, scope &
common concepts 
identification
Definition of Classes
Definition of Property
Finding Property Values
Manipulating Stage
Semantic 
Mapping 
(SM)
Universal 
Manufacturing 
Enterprise 
Schema
Enterprise
B
Ontology 
Editor
Generation of Classification
Refinement
Semantic Web 
Implementation (OWL)
Metadata 
Generator
 
Fig.2: The steps of defining the UMES - the mediated ontology model 
 
 
3.1 Define UMES Conceptual Model 
 
The initial step in building the UMES conceptual model is to find common concepts for 
collaborative e-Manufacturing knowledge sharing in the global supply chain design and 
operational management.  The UMES conceptual model adopts the semantic web technology in 
an ontology-mediated translation function and provides efficient across all the teams’ members 
within many engineering interdisciplinary collaboration activities, including design and planning. 
This common / mediated ontology model enables a semantic translation to be made from one 
information source into another, Stuckenschmidt, H., & van Harmelen [3], F call it a bridge 
concept.  They also point out that top-level classifications or taxonomies that subsume every 
other possible concept are mainly used to find the bridge concept to enable the definition of all 
terms to be translated.  The common concepts of a manufacturing system in the UMES ontology 
have been well defined, containing the manufacturing taxonomy and axioms of basic 
manufacturing concepts, properties of concepts, relationships and constraints between different 
enterprise’s MSE applications.  Figure 3 illustrates the basic elements of the UMES abstract 
classes’ structure and the relationships between classes, using the ontology editor tool, Protégé 
OWL Plugin http://protege.stanford.edu/plugins/owl/ and its visualization ontology Plugin. 
 
The top-level taxonomy of the UMES ontology model has been captured in three key base classes, 
Virtual_Enterprises(VEs), Enterprise, and VEProject.  The UMES ontology model enables the 
Moderator to operate within a globally distributed and collaborative e-manufacturing teamwork 
which has been designed to support inter-manufacturing system engineering within a VEs 
environment.  Therefore, the UMES ontology model encompasses several independent 
6 
 
be effectively allocated through links from processes to strategies.  
 
In addition, the VEProject class provides the trigger for the formation and operation of a VEs 
MSE process.  The definition of the VEProject class is used to represent the business objects; 
these can be either non-physical items, such as documents, contracts or a program or physical 
items, such as products.  Consequently, the Product MSE class describes a temporary 
collaboration between autonomous partners to conceive, design, manufacture, and deliver a 
specific product (or range of products).  The general engineering components of a MSE process 
are engineering, planning, scheduling and control.  The computer-based equipments and 
activities, together with network connections, provide highest efficiency and visibility ever in 
E-manufacturing.  New functions of E-manufacturing, such as collaborative design, dynamic 
production planning, real-time shop floor monitoring and control, and predictive maintenance 
have been proposed to take advantage of the new features [5]. 
 
The computer for the E-manufacturing system within the Product MSE model is represented in 
figure 3 and these includes CAD (computer-aided design) class which is the computer supported 
in the design, and especially the drafting (geometric drawing, technical drawing and production 
drawing), and engineering calculations of a part or product, CAP (computer-aided planning) class 
describes the planning processes and sequences to make a part or product, and PP&C 
(production, planning and control) class is the organizational activity of CIM.  It is concerned 
with material requirements planning, manufacturing resources planning, machine requirement, 
time phasing, order release and manufacturing control.  Production planning systems have 
evolved from material requirements planning (MRP) through manufacturing resource planning 
(MRPII) into enterprise resource planning (ERP) with simultaneous development of related 
control systems such as just-in-time (JIT).  It involves acquisition and allocation of limited 
resources to production activities so as to satisfy customer demand over a specified time horizon. 
As such, planning and control problems are inherently optimization problems, where the 
objective is to develop a plan that meets demand at minimum cost or that fills the demand that 
maximizes profit.  CAM (computer-aided manufacturing) class defines the functions of a 
computer to control the activities on the manufacturing floor.  The principal documents used for 
scheduling are the bill of materials and the drawing.  The manufacturing equipment 
configuration module allots the parts to be manufactured to the machines on which they are to be 
produced; also the part routes are determined for setting up the manufacturing schedule.  CAQ 
(computer-aided quality control) class combines all ongoing quality control work of a 
manufacturing system. 
 
The UMES Ontology Model has been encoded in Resource Description Framework (RDF) / RDF 
Schema http://www.w3.org/RDF/, and Web Ontology Language (OWL) http://www.w3.org/ 
2004/OWL/, which is the W3C standard semantic markup language for publishing, sharing and 
reuse of semantic data on the World Wide Web.  The top-level classifications of the UMES 
metadata shown in figure 3 are all abstract classes, so each represents a hierarchy of subclasses 
8 
 
4. Knowledge Discovery Module 
 
The aim of the MSE Moderation was to raise awareness within the MSE team of problems that 
were arising which required the involvement of particular Design Experts (DEs). This was 
referred to as identifying when a design change might cause conflict. The moderator therefore 
needed to retain and apply knowledge about the knowledge used by each of the MSE design 
teams. The Knowledge Acquisition Module (KAM) provides the MSE with the knowledge 
database that it requires for creating, updating and removing knowledge during the course of its 
operation.  The Knowledge Discovery Module of the UKM, as shown in figure 1, incorporates 
features of a knowledge based methodology designed for cooperative learning, knowledge reuse 
and the corresponding update of knowledge databases within the UKM.  It makes use of 
knowledge discovery[8] and data mining [9] tools to resolve the challenges of identifying and 
incorporating new knowledge.  
 
 
5. Moderation Module 
 
The Moderation Module, as shown in figure 5, is used to identify and detect the potential project 
conflicts and to perform moderation activities.  
Categorise Decision
Retrieve Related Information
Compare to Relevant Thresholds  
Stop
Trigger 
Response
Detection of New Decision from a particular Design Expert (DE)
Interested Design Experts Informed of Conflict
Interested DEs Identified
Inform 
DE
1
Inform 
DE
2
Inform 
DE
3
UIE database server
Repository in the 
Knowledge Discovery 
Module
 
Fig 5: The Generic Moderation Process 
 
 
The moderation process is activated whenever a change is made by particular Design Experts to 
the information held in the shared UIE database server which is administered by the Information 
Manager.  When the Moderator has been notified of a change, it is connected to the repository in 
10 
 
 
 
Figure 6: The mediated MSE Metadata 
 
 
OWL provides built-in ontology mapping support, that is, a particular class or property in one 
ontology is the same as a class or property in another ontology (owl:sameClassAs, 
owl:samePropertyAs): the individuals therefore have the same “identity”.  Table 2 illustrates 
how the OWL’s equality statements perform the semantic match manipulation between the 
common UMES metadata, AVO’s e-SCM and LU’s CAD systems. 
 
In this case, the concepts from avo: Product have the same meaning as the concepts from umes: 
Assembly II. Moreover, the concepts from lu:Product also have the same meaning as the concepts 
from umes: Production Model. The axioms should ensure that when someone queries the avo’s 
Product for the instances of the TFT LCD, the result include all the instances of one of the main 
components from the lu’s notebook PC through mapping to the umes: Production Model. 
Therefore, when the Production Model (quantity　100) information changes, the moderator 
should identify that LU’s CAD quantity attribute of the Production Model class will be affected 
and may cause conflict. Therefore the Moderator should issue an appropriate warning message to 
the VE group, for example, by an e-mail saying that the required minimum quantity level 1,000 
has been changed to all sub-level of the Production Model class. 
 
12 
 
 
References 
 
[1]  Choudhary, A.K., J.A. Harding, and K. Popplewell., 2006, "Knowledge Discovery for 
Moderating Collaborative Projects". in Proceedings of the 4th IEEE International 
Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN '06). Singapore, pp. 519-524. 
 
[2]  Lin, H.K., J.A. Harding, and P.C. Teoh, 2005, "An inter-enterprise semantic web system to 
support information autonomy and conflict moderation". Proceedings of the Institution of 
Mechanical Engineers Part B: Journal of Engineering Manufacture, Vol 219(Issue12): pp. 
903-911. 
 
[3]  Stuckenschmidt, H., & van Harmelen, F. (2004). Information sharing on the semantic Web. 
Berlin; Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag/GmbH & Co. 
 
[4]  Prahalad, C. K., & Hamel, G. (1990, May/June). The core competence of the corporation. 
Harvard Business Review 
 
[5]  Huang, G. Q. and K. L. Mak, (2001) “Web-integrated manufacturing: recent developments 
and emerging issues,” International Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 14(1), 
3-13. 
 
[6]  Bai-Sheng, S., S. Xia-Jiong, and L. Zong-Tian. 2003, "A knowledge discovery technique for 
heterogeneous data sources". in 2003 International Conference on Machine Learning and 
Cybernetics, pp. 293-298 
 
[7]  Braha, D., editor. 2001, "Data mining for design and Manufacturing methods and 
Applications". Kluwer Academic Publisher, ISBN: 1402000340 
 
 
  
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
計畫編號 96-2221-E-214-055- 
計畫名稱 應用知識探勘與語義網技術以協調全球分散式e-協同製造鏈之研究
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
林小甘 
義守大學 工業工程與管理學系 助理教授 
會議時間地點 2008 年7 月13-16 日, 韓國, 大田 
會議名稱 6th IEEE International Conference on Industrial Informatics 
(IEEE-INDIN 2008), 
發表論文題目 The Universal Knowledge Moderator for Globally Distributed and 
Collaborative e-Manufacturing 
 
（一） 研習心得 
IEEE INDIN 2008是IEEE工業電子學會支持,每年舉辦一次的重要國際會議,本屆大會共有3
場Keynote Speakers (Prof. Richard Zurawski, ISA Group, USA; Prof. Peter Palensky, University 
of Pretoria / Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory; Prof. Young Im Cho, Dept. of Computer 
Science, University of Suwon, Korea), 2 場Invited Talks (Prof. Hajime Asama, The University 
of Tokyo; Prof. Dong Il Kim, Samsung, Korea). 本次與會有兩大收穫： 
 
1. 與國際級大師Prof. Richard Zurawski面對面研討的機會, 聆聽演講主題“Networked 
Embedded Systems in Industrial Automation”,了解促進在現代自動化工業環境中網路, 
無線網路及網路嵌入式系統之前瞻性方向與遠景. Prof. Hajime Asama的演講主題 
"Mobiligence: Emergence of Adaptive Motor Function through Interaction among the Body, 
Brain and Environment”是計算機,機器,人與環境間的和諧共存，促進在自動化工業環
境中對人的活動的重要性的認識. 
 
2. 本次大會有許多傑出的國際級學者與會，聆聽與觀摩其成果發表後，讓自己更能充分
了解相關研究之進展. 
 
 
（二） 會議（任務）執行情形 
2008年第六屆IEEE工業資訊學國際會議(IEEE the 6th International Conference on Industrial 
Informatics , INDIN 2008),  美國工業電子工程師學會(http://www.ieee.org)是所有電氣
電子工程領域中最大的國際專業學會，擁有全球350,000多會員。IEEE INDIN是IEEE支持
的一項重要國際會議，每年定期舉辦，今年是第六屆,由韓舉辦. IEEE INDIN是與工業和
商業密切相關的，瞄準工業資訊技術(工業IT)的現狀和未來前途的重要學術會議，來自世
界各地的工業專家、研究人員和學者共同分享各自的有關資訊科學與系統科學, 電子、通
附件三 
 可用於工業部門和企業功能層的橫向和縱向整合，從而將傳統自動化領域轉變為更為整合
的企業，以更好的適應市場競爭的需求。特別是現在一些大的跨國公司正致力於利用 IT 技
術獲得跨網路,跨平臺的資料獲取. 基於 Internet 和 web 的遠端診斷與維護，以及電子訂單
和電子交易,通過電子商務，B2B，遠端資料訪問，監視與控制將工業企業的運作範圍擴展
到他們的客戶、供應商，以及管理和技術人員。 
 
本人此次發表之論文為國科會96年專題計畫之研究成果，論文旨趣為探討e-Learning, 
e-Manufacturing, Semantic Web之研究.藉由參與此會議可以瞭解全球關於智慧型製造, 電
子語意網路研究的最新發展趨勢,因此獲益良多. 
 
 
（三） 返（回）國後需要處理之工作要項 
目前工作進度正在儘速匯整理於大會期間所蒐集之各方寶貴建議，依此審度該專題論文 
可再進一步提升品質之空間,並著手投稿可於國際SCI/SSCI 等級期刊發表之論文. 
