Using Agent Technology to Study Human Action and
Perception through a Virtual Street Simulator
Chiung-Hui Chen1, Mao-Lin Chiu2
1 Department of Information and Design, Asia University
No.500,Lioufeng Road,Wufeng Shiang, Taichung, Taiwan
chchen@asia.edu.tw
2 Department of Architecture, National Cheng Kung University
No.1, University Road, Tainan, Taiwan
mc2p@mail.ncku.edu.tw
Abstract. Human activities are the foundation of the social processes that drive
the urban system. The emergence of information technology provides
opportunities to extend the transformation of the physical city into the digital
city or virtual city. As navigation in virtual environments is evidently difficult
and as many virtual worlds have been designed to be used by untrained users
that explore the environment, navigation supports are critically needed.
Furthermore, users or participants within the digital cities are often foreign to
the environment without navigational aids. Therefore, this paper is aimed to
build an agent-based system in a virtual environment to study user behaviors
and interactions. The study aims to indirectly collect information about the
user’s desires in order to build a model of user preference and produce 
simulative scenarios that more closely match it.
Keywords: agent, behavior, simulation, virtual environment, street design
1 Introduction
The emergence of the internet and information technologies clearly influences how
people live and gradually extend their life and activities from the physical space to the
cyberspace. It provides the opportunity to extend the transformation of the physical
city into the digital city. Currently, most 3D digital cities are often created by a
collection of huge spatial information to represent the real world and less concern
about the interactions between the users and the created virtual world. In other words,
the creation of a digital city that can accommodate the social interactions between the
users and the created virtual world becomes an essential issue. Furthermore, agent-
based computing started in the 1970s and recently has become important for internet
applications. An agent is a computer program that is situated in some environment,
and an agent is capable of autonomous action in the environment to meet its design
objectives (Wooldridge, 2002). Therefore, the purpose of this paper is to build an
agent-based system for participatory simulation. The methodology undertaken in this
environment of a digital street about its background; (2) the proactive agent: it pro-
acts to undefined behaviors with scene-driven interaction derived from people to
people and people to place activities.
2.2 The Architecture of the Participatory Simulation System
The participatory simulation is an agent-based simulation. This paper focuses on the
area which humans control some of the avatar agents. The humans observe the virtual
space from the view of their avatar agents, and operate their avatars by using
controllers such as 3D interfaces. The coexistence in virtual space of agents controlled
by humans can realize indirect interactions between agents and humans. In order to
clarify the relations between the problem domains in this research, we provide the
architecture in terms of four perspectives: avatar agent, user interface, digital street
model, and scenario-based model. The relations are shown in Fig 1.
Fig. 1. The architecture of the participatory simulation system
3 Design of the Experiment
An important recent development in the agent techniques was the changes in the
mode of presentation: from passive mode to active one. This active mode of visual
perception is essential in environmental perception, because active attention is
necessary to manipulate from the enormous information in the environment. Imagine
a virtual city where people can visit plenty of artifact objects and sightseeing that can
be enjoyed only in the city. Thus, the present study attempts to make clear some
physical features which are influential for changing atmosphere based on the
experiments conducted in existing and simulated spaces.
Virtual Space
Real Space
Scenario
Avatar Agent
Monitor control
Human
Subject
Simulated
User
Fig. 2. A hierarchy of individual behavior at each level and levels of behavioral organization
3.2 Design of the Virtual Behavior
Avatars in street are a basic element and it is needed to analyze the relationship
between characters based on these avatars’ behavior category. A qualitative analysis 
was performed on the Table 1. Each of these behaviors needs both signals from
external perception and internal state to drive them to move around and react to their
environment. External or internal stimulus conditions pay attention as an inborn
exploratory drive. In our study, exploration refers to all activities concerned with
gathering information about the street environment. Motivation is defined as the
direction and persistence of behavior (Franken, 1994), such as a need, thirst or desire
for knowledge.
Table 1. Behavior category.
4.1 Virtual Street Simulator
As shown in Fig 3, the simulator as a set of the following individual elements: user
behaviors, space-tags and environments. We have identified four underlying
properties which are described by the quadruplet: (1) where user behaviors are
properties of avatar agent, for example, an avatar walks, stops, seats and talks; (2)
space-tags are the set of all represented passive entities that do not react to stimulus
(e.g., street furniture in urban spaces); (3) environments are the urban street where
agents and space-tags are located, where they can move and act, and (4) where signals
propagate, such as sounds, smell, etc. The avatar agent perceives these stimuli and act
upon them. These properties were derived from empirical studies of observing
pedestrians walking in a popular shopping street in Taiwan. The user can change the
information displayed by touching the menu on the screen.
Fig. 3. The 3D interface of the virtual street simulator
4.2 Social Interaction in a Virtual Street Simulator
Forty students participated in the experiment, including twenty males and twenty
females. The age of the participants varied between 19 and 25.We made the following
observations during walking in the virtual street environment:
1. Asked them to exchange remarks on what they saw and what they thought, just
as they would if they were walking in the virtual street environment.
2D map: the avatar’s 
movement history
avatar
agent
space-tags :
information resource
(X,Y,Z): the avatar’s
current location
and present position
The use of participatory simulation in the process brings the following four benefits:
1. It enables user to capture a subject’sscreen, which is then shown to the subject
at the interview stage to acquire user operation rules effectively.
2. It enables user to employ scenario-controlled agents in order to compensate for
the lack of participants.
3. A user is shown as an avatar; space-tags are shown with icons around the user.
4. List up all the space-tags that can be accessed and these space-tags are detected
by the user behaviors.
5. Conclusions and Future Studies
The study indicates the importance of people to people and people to place
interactions in the transformation from the physical into the virtual environment. By
observing human behaviors, the interaction in the virtual environment can be
enhanced through agent. The navigational patterns generated from this experiment,
and the trace of movement pattern is a useful technique for graphically recording the
dynamic quality of behavior and environment relationships. In addition, in this study
process, we find humans interact in various ways and at many levels. For instance,
they observe and model one another, they request and provide information, they
negotiate and discuss, they develop shared views of their environments. In other
words, if agent can learn to access people’s experiences (past, current and potential), 
and make inferences about what they do, then can make user experience the source of
inspiration and ideation for design.
In brief, the above simulation suggests that quality of visual information observed
has an important influence in guiding users and the space-tags can be used to provide
navigational information and supplemented with additional details about the tags in
the environment. In other words, virtual maps are social tags, they are there to give
information and help people explore, understand and find their interests. Thus, a
virtual environment with multi-purpose space tags and navigational aids such as guide
agents will be useful for interesting navigation.
An important further step of this research will concern the degree of changeability
that is desirable or acceptable for users. As indicated, agents may become more
adaptive, the virtual environment itself tends to become more complex, and
consequently multiple agents as needed may be present at same time. As more
humans and agents coexist, the need for describing interaction scenarios becomes
essential. If we allow agents to be completely autonomous, the whole system becomes
hard to control. Thus, it is necessary to give social constraints as scenarios so that the
behaviors of agents are reasonable.
Acknowledgments. The author is grateful for the assistance by Ya-Wen Lo and
Chun-Jen Wu. This study is supported by the Taiwan National Science Council,
grant-NSC 95-2221-E-468-010.
