   2  
3 times the fundamental frequency with a level about 40 dB lower than that of the fundamental passband. 
The non-TEM resonance, which was not considered in designing these filters, can also be found in the 
measurement results. 
Similar filters consist of SIRs and UIRs were also designed and compared in [7]. By inspecting the 
field distribution inside a resonator, the authors briefly addressed the possibility of designing a coupling 
structure to minimize the coupling of the first high-order mode and provide the required coupling of the 
dominant mode simultaneously. In tuning a real filter, the authors suppressed the first high-order mode 
by deeply tuning the coupling screws. 
This paper tempts to go over more deeply on the researches of [6] and [7]. An equivalent circuit is 
proposed to study the fundamental and the first high-order TEM resonances of an SIR with a tuning 
screw. As the fundamental resonance frequency or the radiuses of a coaxial resonator increase, the first 
high-order resonant mode of an SIR is somewhat uncertain. This is because both the TEM and TE11 
modes may above cutoff in the low-impedance section of the SIR for the first-high order mode. The 
resonant mode involves the TE11 in the low-impedance section and the TEM in the high-impedance 
section is named as the hybrid resonant mode hereafter. In order to suppress the spurious passband, the 
resonant frequencies and couplings of the pure TEM and hybrid modes must be considered together. 
These resonances and couplings were carefully investigated in terms of the physical dimensions of the 
resonators and coupling structures by the HFSS full-wave simulator [9]. Finally, two five-pole combline 
Chebyshev bandpass filters were designed and compared according these investigations. 
This paper is organized as follows. An equivalent circuit for easily analyzing the frequencies of the 
pure TEM resonant modes of an SIR with a tuning screw is presented in Section IV. The full-wave 
simulator is used for verification, and it further analyzes the frequency of the hybrid resonance mode. 
The variations of these resonant frequencies over the length ratio of the SIR for different physical 
dimensions, like the impedance ratios, open-end gaps and lengths of the tuning screw respectively, are 
also compared in this Section. Three coupling structures between two identical SIRs are studied in 
Section V. The variations of the coupling coefficients of the fundamental and high-order TEM 
resonance modes are analyzed for different aperture sizes and positions. The resonances and couplings 
of the hybrid mode are also discussed in this Section. The investigations presented in Sections IV and V 
suggest a new coupling scheme for suppressing the high-order modes and passing the fundamental 
mode simultaneously. Two five-pole combline Chebyshev filters were designed using these 
investigations. The details of designing these filters in the full-wave simulator are presented in Section 
VI. One of the designed filters was fabricated and tested for verification. Excellent experimental results 
are also shown in this Section. Finally, conclusions are drawn in Section V. 
 
三、 步階阻抗諧振子諧振頻率 (The Resonant Frequency of an SIR) 
Fig. 1 shows a coaxial combline SIR and its equivalent circuit used to construct the bandpass filter 
having good spurious performance. The cylindrical resonator consists of two cascaded air-filled coaxial 
transmission line segments, which have characteristic impedances Z1 and Z2 respectively, and a tuning 
screw modeled by the other transmission line segment of the characteristic impedance Z3. For achieving 
good spurious performance and the practical tuning purposes, the value of Z2 is always smaller than Z1 
and Z3 in this research. Both physical and electric lengths of these segments are defined in the figure. 
These lines have the same outer radius b, and their inner radiuses are denoted as ai. The symbol g 
denotes the gap between the open-end of the Z2 line and the top of the outer conductor. In designing a 
filter, these sizes are mainly determined by the resonant frequencies of the fundamental and high-order 
modes of the resonator.  
   4  
wave simulator [9]. 
It is well known that the harmonic resonant frequencies of an SIR can be controlled by the impedance 
ratio K= Z2/ Z1 [1, 2]. For the purpose of good spurious performance, the value of K should be smaller 
than one. In the following analysis, the value K=0.4 is assumed, and the resonant frequencies of the 
fundamental, the first high-order (pure TEM) and the second high-order (hybrid) modes are denoted as 
f0, f1 and f2, respectively.  
Fig. 2. shows the analysis results regarding the variation of f1/f0 and f2/f0 over the length ratio u for 
different values of g. The length ratio is defined as u=L2/( L1+ L2). The physical sizes of the analyzed 
SIR can be found in the caption of this figure. The results of both the full-wave simulation and the 
equivalent circuit indicate the maximum ratio of f1/f0 is about 4.5 and it occurs around u=0.4 for g=2mm. 
As the height of the top grounded wall is reduced (g=0.5), the peak of f1/f0 move to a smaller value of u 
and the peak value is increased to 4.7 for the simulation result. Similar phenomenon has also appeared 
in [7]. To get a good convergence in the full-wave simulation, it is very time-consuming to obtain the 
data of the simulation curves. The results from the equivalent circuit are acceptable because of the 
efficiency and predictability of this method. 
The simulation results in Fig. 2 also indicate that f2/f0 is greater than f1/f0 for this SIR structure. 
Furthermore, the resonant frequency of the hybrid high-order mode will move away relative to the 
fundamental mode, i.e. the increasing of  f2/f0, as g is reduced from 2mm to 0.5mm. The peak values of 
the f2/f0 curves occurs around a smaller value of u (0.2 to 0.3), which means in a range of shorter length 
of the low-impedance line (L2), the hybrid mode will has a maximum resonant frequency relative to the 
fundamental mode. 
 
 
Next, let’s examine the effects of the radius of the outer conductor, that is b, while maintaining a 
constant impedance ratio K. Defining a symbol r1=b/a1, increasing r1 means the increase of b. The 
radius of the low-impedance section, that is a2 must increase proportionally to keep the constant K value. 
Fig. 3 draws the variation of f1/f0 and f2/f0 over the length ratio u for different values of r1. The peak 
value of f1/f0 will increase and its occurring is at a smaller value of u as r1 increases. This is not 
0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9
u
3
4
5
6
7
8
f 1 
/ f
0 
 , 
  f
2 /
 f 0
Simulation
Equivalent Circuit
g=2mm
g=0.5mm
g=2mm
g=0.5mm
g=1mm
f1/f0
f2/f0
Fig. 2. The ratios of f1/f0 and f2/f0 over the length ratio u. The 
symbols f0, f1 and  f2  are the resonant frequencies of the 
fundamental, the first high-order TEM and the second high-
order hybrid modes of the SIR resonator. Resonator’s 
parameters: a1=2mm, b=5mm, LT=22mm, K=0.4, L3=0. 
   6  
increase and results in the peak of f1/f0 moves to a smaller value of u and the peak value is decreased to 
about 4.4 for the simulation result. By comparing the results of Fig 2 and 4, it is clear that the decrease 
of the peak value is due to the existence of the Z3 line, which introduces a series inductance to the 
equivalent circuit. The equivalent circuit dose predicts these effects successfully and they are new to the 
filter design society. However, similar results for f2/f0 can be observed in Fig. 4 and 2. The value of f2/f0 
increases as the length L3 increases and the peak value of the f2/f0 curves occurs around a smaller value 
of u. This effect is good for suppressing the second high-order mode of the filter using the tuning screw. 
 
四、 一對 SIRs 間的耦合 (The Couplings Between a Pair of SIRs) 
A specific amount of coupling between a pair of resonators is also very important in designing a filter 
with a good passband response. Following the researches shown in [11], two types of coupling schemes, 
see Fig. 5, are used to study the couplings of the fundamental and high-order modes, respectively. In Fig. 
5(a), the electric type coupling is coming from the opening near the open-circuit ends of the SIRs, while 
the magnetic coupling in Fig. 5(b) is coming from the slot near the short-circuit ends of the SIRs. The 
geometric dimensions, which can be found in the caption of this figure, of the two SIRs, including the 
tuning screws, are identical. For the parameters K=0.3 and u=0.4, the frequency ratio f1/f0 for an 
individual SIR is greater than five. The separation between the centers of these two SIRs is 11mm. The 
width and thickness of the coupling slot are 8 and 1mm, respectively. The height of the slot is varied to 
achieve the desired coupling value. 
 
The coupling coefficient can be calculated from the eigen-frequencies, which in terms can be obtained 
from the HFSS full-wave simulator [9]. To expedite the calculations, a perfect electric conductor (PEC) 
and a perfect magnetic conductor (PMC) can be placed alternatively in the symmetric, e.g. the T-T’, 
plane in Fig. 5. The first three eigen-frequencies, corresponding to the fundamental and the first two 
high-order modes, of the resulting single SIR circuits are used to calculate the coupling coefficients for 
the three modes, respectively. The coupling coefficient is calculated by the conventional method [12], 
           
22
22
me
me
ff
ffk +
−=                                (3) 
, where ef  and mf  are the eigen-frequencies of a particular mode when a PEC and a PMC are 
respectively placed on the T-T＇ plane.  
The coupling coefficients of the fundamental mode are drawn in Fig. 6 for different screw length L3. 
In this figure, the magnetic coupling, e.g. Fig. 5(b), is positive and the electric coupling, e.g. Fig. 5(a), is 
negative. Both types of coupling reach their maximums when the height of the slot is about a half of the 
LT
h
g
w
s
a1
L2 a2
b
L1 h
w
s
T
T＇ T＇
T
L3 L3a3
sep  
(a) (b) 
 
Fig. 5. Two coupling schemes of a pair of SIRs. (a) Coupling 
from the open-circuit end. (b) Coupling from the short-circuit
end.  Parameters: a1= a3=2mm, g=2.5mm, LT=21.5mm, 
K=0.3, u=0.4, r1=2.5, w=8mm, s=1mm, sep=11mm. 
   8  
as the coupling scheme, and the value of h should be as small as possible. 
 
According the eigen-frequencies plotted in Fig. 7, the coupling coefficient of the first TEM high-order 
mode can be calculated and drawn in Fig. 8. The influences of the tuning screw are also compared in the 
same figure. The variation of the coupling coefficients over h dose match the descriptions discussed in 
the beginning of Fig. 7. The value of k for the scheme Fig. 5 (a) is noticeably increased as the screw 
depth L3 increases. For the preferred scheme Fig. 5 (b), the screw depth L3 has a little effect on it. 
Furthermore, the coupling is almost vanishing when h is in the range of 10 to 12 mm. This is good for 
suppressing the coupling of the first high-order TEM mode. 
 
 
 
0 4 8 12 16 20 24
h (mm)
8
9
10
11
12
13
Fr
eq
ue
nc
y 
(G
H
z)
f1m
f1e
f2m
f2e
Fig. 5(a)
Fig. 5(b)
 
Fig. 7.  The eigen-frequencies of the first two high-order modes, which are the pure TEM and the hybrid 
modes over the slot height h for the two coupling schemes in Fig. 5. The symbols f1e and f1m represent the 
eigen-frequencies of the TEM high-order mode when the PEC and PMC are placed respectively in the 
symmetric T-T’ plane in Fig.5. Similarly, the symbols f2e and f2m represent the eigen-frequencies of the 
hybrid high-order mode when the PEC and PMC are placed respectively in the symmetric plane. The screw 
depth is L3=0. 
0 4 8 12 16 20 24
h (mm)
-10
0
10
20
30
40
co
up
lin
g 
co
ef
fic
ie
nt
 k
 (1
0-
3 )
L3=0mm
L3=1mm
L3=1.5mm
Fig. 5 (b)
Fig. 5 (a)
 
 
Fig. 8. The variations of the coupling coefficient k for the first high-order TEM 
mode over the slot height h for different screw length L3 of the two coupling 
schemes in Fig. 5. 
   10  
Experiments have been conducted to verify the simulation results of the proposed coupling scheme. In 
the experiment, two coaxial connectors are loosely coupled to the two SIRs respectively. The 
frequencies of the two transmission peaks for each mode are measured. The coupling coefficient is 
calculated using these two frequencies. The experimental and simulation results agree to a reasonable 
degree for the couplings of the fundamental mode. For the first high-order TEM mode, the two 
transmission peaks merge together when d is in the ranges of 2 to 8 mm for the case h =4mm and 2 to 6 
mm for the case h=5mm. These result in a vanishing coupling in these ranges. The experimental results 
agree with those of simulation outside these ranges. In the following, the proposed coupling scheme is 
adopted to design a five-pole Chebyshev bandpass filter.  
 
五、 帶通濾波器設計 (The Design of Bandpass Filter) 
Two five-pole Chebyshev bandpass filters are designed using the coupling schemes in Fig. 9 and 5(a), 
respectively. The filters have the same center frequency f0=2GHz, fractional bandwidth Δ=0.02 and 
ripple value 0.01dB.  The coupling matrix of these two direct-coupled filters can be easily calculated by 
the formulas given in [12]. Fig. 11 shows the structures of these two filters. The resonators in this figure 
have the same parameters as those shown in the caption of Fig. 9. This means the frequency ratios of the 
high-order modes to the fundamental mode are f1/ f0=5.08 and f2/ f0=6.06, respectively. The couplings in 
Fig. 11(a) are dominated by the magnetic field. Therefore, this filter is called the magnetic coupling 
filter hereafter. Similarly, the filter in Fig. 11(b) is named as the electric coupling filter because of its 
coupling characteristic. Only a half for each of the two filters needs design because there is a symmetric 
plane at the geometric center of each filter. The depth, sLi, of the ith tuning screw can vary the resonant 
frequency of the ith resonator. Two coaxial cables feed the first and last resonators at the position p, as 
indicated in the figure, for each filter. The coupling is designed by varying the slot height h and offset d 
in Fig. 11(a). Only the parameter h is used in Fig. 11(b). Also shown in Fig. 11 (a) are four cylindrical 
cavities for installing springs, which are not shown here. This design makes the offset d and hence the 
coupling mechanically adjustable by a coupling screw, not shown here, above the slot. 
 
 
p
Port 1 Port 2
sL1 sL2 sL3
Symmetric  Plane
1 2 3 4 5
h1
d1 h2
Spring Cavity  
(a) 
 
 
p
Port 1 Port 2
sL1 sL2 sL3
Symmetric Plane
1 2 3 4 5
h1 h2
 
 
(b) 
Fig. 11. Two five-pole direct-coupled combline bandpass filters with different coupling 
schemes. (a) magnetic coupling scheme. (b) electric coupling scheme. Filter parameters: 
f0=2GHz, fractional bandwidth=0.02, ripple=0.01dB.  
   12  
of the coupling slots for the electric coupling filter are much larger than those of the magnetic coupling 
filter. This may lower the resonant frequency and increase the coupling of the first high-order TEM 
mode, as indicated in Fig. 7. The full-wave simulated frequency responses of the sequentially designed 
filters are compared in Fig. 13. Fig. 13(a) compares the passband responses of the two sequentially 
designed filters with those of the equivalent circuit. The center frequency of the designed filters is 
2.009GHz, which is slightly higher than the target f0=2 GHz. Three reflection zeros for either designed 
filter can be easily identified on the reflection curve. This implies the sequentially designed filters are 
closed to the optimally designed filters [13]. However, it needs no further numerical optimization 
procedure for the current case. The tuning screws of the two filters can tune the filters to have the 
optimal response experimentally. This will be shown later. 
 
 
Fig. 13 (b) compares the full-wave simulated transmission coefficients of the two designed filters over 
the frequency range covering the fundamental and spurious passbands. As described above, the center 
frequency of the fundamental passband is f0=2.009GHz.  The peaks of the spurious passband are marked 
by the symbols A, B and C for the magnetic coupling filter (Fig. 11(a). The symbols a,b,c and d mark 
the spurious peaks of the electric coupling filter (Fig. 11(b)). From the simulation results and the 
electromagnetic field distributions inside the filter, it shows that the marks A and B have frequencies 
f1(1)=9.747 (f1(1)/ f0=4.85) and f1(2)=9.993 GHz (f1(2)/f0=4.97), respectively, and the resonators operate at 
the TEM high-order mode at these two frequencies. The mark C operates at the hybrid TE11 and TEM 
mode at frequency f2=12.158GHz (f2/f0=6.05). These data are closed to those of the individual resonator. 
For the electric coupling filter, the peaks a, b and c operate at the TEM high-order mode and have 
frequencies f1(1)=8.537 (f1(1)/ f0=4.25), f1(2)=8.694 (f1(2)/ f0=4.33) and f1(3)=9.069 GHz (f1(3)/ f0=4.51). The 
peak d resonates at the hybrid mode with frequency f2=12.041GHz (f2/f0=5.99). It is clear that the 
spurious performance of the magnetic coupling filter is better than the electric coupling filter in the 
occurrence of the spurious frequencies and levels. The magnetic coupling filter was thus fabricated and 
tested to verify these design results. 
Fig. 14 draws the mechanical design of the five-pole coaxial combline filter which was fabricated and 
tested. Showing in the upper right corner is the design of the inner conductor of an SIR. The radius of 
the outer conductor is b=5mm. The mechanical design of one of the coupling slot is shown in the same 
1.9 1.95 2 2.05 2.1
Frequency (GHz)
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
S-
pa
ra
m
et
er
s (
dB
)
Equivalent Circuit
Simulation-Fig. 11 (a)
Simulation-Fig. 11 (b)
S11
S21
1 3 5 7 9 11 13
Frequency (GHz)
-200
-160
-120
-80
-40
0
S 2
1 (
dB
)
Fig. 11 (a)
Fig. 11 (b)
A
B
C
abc d
 
(a)                                                                                      (b) 
Fig. 13.  (a) The simulated scattering parameters of the sequentially designed filters in Fig. 11 (a) and (b) are compared 
with those of the equivalent circuit. (b) The simulated transmission coefficients of the sequentially designed filters are 
compared over the frequency range covering the fundamental and spurious passbands.   
   14  
  
. 
 
六、 結論  (Conclusions) 
A series of investigations was underwent to study the resonant frequencies of a stepped-impedance 
resonator (SIR) and the coupling among a pair of SIRs. Both pure TEM and hybrid TEM-TE11 high-
order modes are concerned in these investigations. A simple transmission line model can be used to 
predict the resonant frequencies of the fundamental and the first TEM high-order mode. The effect of 
tuning screw can also be included. Full-wave simulations are used to analyze the resonance of the 
second hybrid high-order mode. Two coupling schemes between a pair of identical SIRs are also 
investigated and compared in terms of the coupling coefficients of the fundamental and high-order 
modes. A coupling scheme is proposed to design a filter with an improved spurious response. Finally, 
two filters are designed using these investigations. It turns out that the filter using the proposed coupling 
scheme will have a better spurious response. Experimental measurements validate these investigations 
and design concept. 
1.9 1.95 2 2.05 2.1
Frequency (GHz)
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
S-
pa
ra
m
et
er
s (
dB
)
Measurement
Equivalent Circuit
S21
S11
1 3 5 7 9 11 13
Frequency (GHz)
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
S 2
1 (
dB
)
Measurement
Mark 2
10.61 GHz
-48.79 dB
Mark 1
10.23 GHz
-45.36 dB
Simulation
Mark B
9.99 GHz
-0.73 dB
Mark A
9.75 GHz
-21.92 dB
A
B
1 2
C
3
Mark C
12.16 GHz
-31.71 dB
Mark 3
11.95 GHz
-28.47 dB
 
(a)                     (b) 
Fig. 15. (a) The measured passband responses of the babricated filter are compared with those of the equivalent 
ciruit. (b) The measured and simulated transmission coefficients of the fabricated filters are compared over the 
frequency range covering the fundamental and spurious passbands. 
 
   16  
    以往學術界研究很少探討同軸梳型諧振子的高階諧振頻率及耦合，本計劃將它們做了一
系列研究，得到有用的資料，並依據這些資料成功設計出具諧波抑制能力的同軸梳型濾波器，
其抑制能力已經達到產業界的要求。 
