1 Introduction
Wireless Sensor Networks (WSNs) bring
many new applications for surveillance and
target tracking. However, the main challenge
in applying WSN is the requirement for long-
lived operation under limited battery capac-
ity [1, 2]. The requirement also implies a sim-
plified sensor hardware that can perform only
simple functions. Such hardware may contain
only a sensing unit, a low bandwidth wire-
less transceiver, and a little amount of mem-
ory. In many real world applications, sensors
are deployed randomly in a sensing area, and
sensor nodes have no preliminary knowledge
about the topology of the network and their
own positions. Due to these constrains, sen-
sor nodes in a WSN have to adopt some self-
organization strategies to achieve the over-
all functions of the network. In our defini-
tion, similar to that of some related works
[7, 9], self-organization means that the macro-
scopic goals of a system are accomplished via
very simple interactions among microscopic
elements in the system.
Besides, to achieve energy-saving, sensor
nodes are usually designed to operate in an
on-off fashion. So sensor may stay in sleep
mode most of the time and perform the sens-
ing, transmission, listening functions period-
ically. Many researches (such as Ye [11])
prolong the life time of WSNs in this way.
In addition to that, Ye et al [11] identified
four major sources of energy waste: collision,
overhearing, control overhead and idle listen-
ing. Suppose a sensor node has no prelimi-
nary knowledge about their location as they
are initially deployed randomly in the sens-
ing area, the first function of the sensor nodes
may be calculating their position in the WSN.
Niculescu [5] mentioned that positioning is in-
dispensable because it enables more efficient
protocols and applications. An important ad-
vantage of positioning is that it makes routing
simple. Position-centric routing has many ad-
vantages: no routing tables are maintained, it
has good resilience for mobility, and the over-
head is low.
However, positioning is a complicated
problem to WSNs due to the hardware and
power limitations on sensor nodes. There
are many researches in developing position-
ing mechanisms [3, 4, 5, 6, 8]. Some of the
solutions are based on powerful landmarks or
satellite like GPS. Several solutions are based
on more powerful landmarks that provide an-
gle or range readings to individual nodes. An-
other solution uses the all-pair shortest path
to initialize a distance matrix and uses the
matrix and the positions of three or more
landmarks to obtain the absolute map of the
sensor nodes. To obtain an accurate position
for each sensor node, using one of these tech-
niques seems indispensable. However, im-
plementing these functions in sensor nodes
may lead to a complex and energy-consuming
hardware that violates the WSN design ide-
ologies. However, the most basic method,
named DV-hop, that uses only connectivity
to estimate the ranges of nodes to landmarks
(sinks) is applicable in determine approxi-
mated coordinates of sensor nodes.
To model the self-organization strategies
of the on-off sensor nodes, we define a state
machine for sensor nodes in the first phase.
The state machine depicts the possible state
transition sequences of each sensor node [10].
Under the states, sensor nodes will take cor-
responding actions. The on-off behavior of
sensor nodes can also be modeled by the
state machine. From this model, we pro-
pose an asynchronous self-organization mech-
anism for each sensor node to determine a
sleep schedule dynamically by itself. Using
the model defined in the first phase, we adopt
the DV-hop concept for obtaining the logical
addresses of sensor nodes. Hop count mes-
sages are exchanged among neighbor nodes
and finally all nodes knows the minimal hop
number to the predefined landmarks (sinks).
The hop counts are transformed to a logical
address for each node. The logical address
has a meaning like“relative distances” to the
(three or more) landmarks (sinks). When
logical addresses of nodes are known, rout-
ing of information is based on the logical ad-
dresses. Such routing strategy can be classi-
fied as position-centric routing which has the
advantages stated above.
2 State Diagram and
Sleep Schedule
In this section, we illustrate the state diagram
that defines the behaviors of sensor nodes
first, and then we will explain the dynamic
sleep schedule strategy performed in sensor
nodes according to the state diagram. The
actions of sensor nodes are asynchronous, i.e.
all sensor nodes transit from one state to an-
other independently.
the new expected active ratio is defined as γe,
which is obtained by
γe =
µ
n
(2)
From the equation, we can see that when the
node density is higher, a lower γ value can be
obtained.
There is another consideration in defining
the value of γ. If the γ values of different
nodes have large variation, the life time of
the sensor nodes will vary significantly. This
will make a WSN become unstable soon. So
we hope the variation of γ values for all sen-
sor nodes to be small. For this reason, each
sensor has to broadcasts their γ value to its
neighbors in the transmitting state, and then
all sensors can adjust their active ration to
a roughly even value according the message.
We apply an exponentially-weighted-moving-
average mechanism to adjust the γ value as
follows:
γn = γo × 0.8 + γe × 0.1 + γa × 0.1 (3)
in which γn denotes γ’s new value, γo repre-
sents its old value, γe is the γe in Equation 2,
and γa is the average active ratio of neighbor
nodes.
3 Positioning and Rout-
ing
In a WSN environment, each node does not
have an absolute address like IP. When sensor
node senses an event, it should find a route to
transmit the message to sink. In this project,
we propose a scheme which defines a logical
address for each node. In the transmission
mode, each node exchanges node-to-sink hop
count with neighbors. To obtain a logical ad-
dress, there should be three or more sinks in
a wireless sensor network area. So each node
has at least three hop count values which are
h1, h2 and h3 showing the hop count from the
node to sink1, sink2 and sink3 respectively.
When nodes enter the receive state, it will
calculate its logical address according to the
following formulation:
(v1, v2, v3) =
(
h1
h1+h2+h3
, h2h1+h2+h3 ,
h3
h1+h2+h3
)
in which vi denotes the relative distance to
sinki (i = 1, 2, 3) and hi denotes the hop
counts to sinki (i = 1, 2, 3). In this way,
we get a three dimensions distance vector
(v1, v2, v3) as the node’s logical address. For
example, if the node-to-sink hop counts of
some node to sink1, sink2, and sink3 are 1, 3
and 6 respectively, its logical address is then
(0.1, 0.3, 0.6). It indicates that the node is
closer to sink1. The definition of the logical
address is used to identify the relative loca-
tion of a sensor node and to route messages
from sensor to sinks.
When a node has sensed an unusual event,
it broadcast an event message to neighbors.
When the neighbors have received the mes-
sage, they will identify whether they are in
the downstream from the message source to
its nearest sink according to its logical ad-
dress. If that’s true, it will deliver (broad-
cast) the message to its downstream nodes.
Message routing is accomplished in this self-
organization manner.
4 Experimental Results
Simulation Environment
A JAVA program is developed in the research
to simulate a wireless sensor network. In our
simulation, each node is in one of the five
working states: transmitting, listening, sleep-
ing, dead and event happening, and in these
states, its power consumptions are 24mW ,
13mW , 0mW , 0mW and 24mW respectively.
The sensing area is defined as a 100m×100m
square. Sensor nodes are scattered in this
area randomly and sinks are placed in the
north margin, south-west margin, and south-
east margin of the region. The transmitting
range of the nodes is 15 meter. The dynamic
sleep schedule mechanism is employed in all
experiments.
In the section, we will show the following
experimental results:
• the automatic adaptation of sensor
nodes’ active ratio during the lifetime of
a sensor network.
• the average active ratio of all nodes un-
der different node densities and different
µ values,
• the lifetime of a sensor network under
different node densities and different µ
values,
• the average propagation delay in trans-
mitting event messages under different
node densities and different µ values,
Figure 5: Propagation delay under different
node densities and different µ values.
Propagation Delay
In our simulations, sensor density is tested
from 64 nodes to 225 nodes in a 100m×100m
square region. In order to study the propa-
gation delay in delivering the event messages,
we fire some events near the center of the re-
gion periodically. When a sensor node detects
an event, it will enter the Event Mode, and
sending an event message to the nearest sink.
As that observed in our experiments, 100% of
the event messages are transmitted success-
fully in all node densities. Besides, Figure 5
depicts the propagation delays of the event
messages in different node densities and µ val-
ues. From the figure, it seems that propaga-
tion delay is relatively irrelevant to µ, and the
delay will become a little smaller as the node
density is higher. However, in all cases, the
propagation delay is no longer than 160ms.
We can see that our dynamic sleep schedule
strategy can always report the events to sinks
in short time.
5 Conclusions and Future
Works
The research employees a dynamic and auto-
matic sleep schedule mechanism that is also
very energy-efficient. Under the mechanism,
a simple positioning and routing strategy is
also proposed. From experimental results,
we can see that the active ratio of sensor
nodes can be adjusted properly according to
the sensor density in a purely self-organizing
manner. When events happen, sensors can re-
port the events to the sinks without any loss
even when all the sensors may sleep 80% of
the time. Besides, propagation delay in de-
livering the messages is very low all the time.
In future researches, we will develop simi-
lar self-organization strategies for a dynamic
sensor network environment in which sensor
nodes can move around in some area. Un-
der such environments, the logical addresses
of sensor nodes may be always changing and
the delivery of event messages become com-
plicated. Applications of the strategies may
include animal monitoring and target track-
ing.
References
[1] I. F. Akyildiz, W. Su, Y. Sankarasub-
ramaniam, and E. Cayirci, “A Survey
on Sensor Networks”, IEEE Communi-
cations Magazine, pp. 102–114, August
2002.
[2] T. C. Collier and C. E. Taylor, “Self-
organization in sensor networks”, Jour-
nal of Parallel and Distributed Comput-
ing, vol. 64, no. 7, pp. 866–873, 2004.
[3] J. Jobin, S. V. Krishnamurthy, and S. K.
Tripathi, “A Scheme for the Assignment
of Unique Addresses to Support Self-
Organization in Wireless Sensor Net-
works”, in IEEE 60th Vehicular Tech-
nology Conference, VTC2004-Fall, Sept.
2004, vol. 6, pp. 4578 – 4582.
[4] D. Niculescu and B. Nath, “Local-
ized Positioning in Ad Hoc Networks”,
in Proceedings of the First IEEE Inter-
national Workshop on Sensor Network
Protocols and Applications, May 2003,
pp. 42 – 50.
[5] D. Niculescu and B. Nath, “DV
Based Positioning in Ad hoc Networks”,
Telecommunication Systems, vol. 22, no.
1-4, pp. 267–280, 2003.
[6] D. Niculescu, “Positioning in Ad Hoc
Sensor Networks”, IEEE Network, vol.
18, no. 4, pp. 24 – 29, July-Aug. 2004.
[7] S. Olariu, Q. Xu, and A. Y. Zomaya,
“An Energy-Efficient Self-Organization
Protocol for Wireless Sensor Networks”,
in Proceedings of the Intelligent Sensors,
Sensor Networks and Information Pro-
cessing Conference, December 2004, pp.
55 – 60.
