 2 
our previous studies, SP-QW coupling was confirmed by observing the reduction of PL decay time in a 
time-resolved PL measurement. However, the reduction of PL decay time cannot directly reflect the decay of 
carrier density. A direct monitor of carrier decay time with the four-wave mixing spectroscopy can help in 
confirming the effects of SP-QW coupling, in which carriers are annihilated nonradiatively through 
transferring energy into SP modes. Also, by comparing the carrier decay times between a sample of SP-QW 
coupling and a control sample, one can obtain the information of SP-QW coupling strength. Meanwhile, the 
four-wave mixing experiment can provide us with the information of the effects of propagating SPP or 
localized LSP on carrier diffusion in the QW. 
 
3. 文獻探討 
It has been estimated that by replacing the conventional lighting devices globally with highly efficient 
InGaN/GaN QW LED, the overall electrical power consumption can be reduced by 10 to 20 %. Although in 
the past several years, many progresses of LED technology development have been made, particularly Nichia 
Chemical Co. has achieved 250 lm/W white-light LED in the laboratory based on the technique of yellow 
phosphor on blue LED, there are still several problems to be solved before the practical use of white-light 
LED canbe widely accepted. A major problem is the droop effect of a high-power LED, in which theexternal 
quantum efficiency (EQE) of such an LED decreases significantly with increasing injection current density 
beyond a maximum level. Although this effect may be related toseveral physical mechanisms (to be reviewed 
in following), the high carrier density is the key issue for solving this problem. Several methods have been 
proved to be useful for more or less reducing the droop effect. However, they are either complicated such that 
the cost may be raised or lead to side effects of deteriorating other LED parameters. The efficiency droop of 
an LED means that its EQE monotonically decreases with injection current density after it reaches its peak at 
a current density lower than 50 A/cm
-2
 [1]. The droop effect is a crucial issue in developing high-power LED. 
The underlying mechanisms of efficiency droop are still controversial. It was proposed that efficiency droop 
might be caused by the tunneling processes due to the screening of the carrier localization potentials in an 
InGaN/GaN QW and the local heating during carrier transport along the dislocations [2]. It was also suggested 
that the droop effect might be produced by the injected carriers overflow from localized states and hence 
recombination at nonradiative recombination centers [3]. Recently, a few groups proposed a carrier density 
dependent mechanism, including the Auger recombination process [4-6] and carrier leakage due to the 
polarization fields [7-9]. A band-to-band Auger process was suggested as the limiting mechanism, which can 
be overcome by using a design of a double heterostructure or wide-QW active region, leading to a reduction 
in carrier density [4,7]. Fully microscopic many-body models were used to study the importance of radiative 
and Auger carrier losses in InGaN/GaN QWs. It was found that density-activated defect-related mechanisms, 
such as defect-assisted Auger recombinations, or phonon-assisted Auger recombinations might be the two 
possible major causes for the efficiency droop in these devices [5]. Also, the photoluminescence technique has 
been used to determine the Auger coefficient of (0001) InxGa1−xN (x = 9-15%) to give the range of 
1.4–2.0×10−30 cm6 s−1. This value is large enough to decrease the IQE of an InGaN/GaN QW LED at its 
standard operating current level [6]. On the other hand, the use of quaternary alloys for enabling an 
independent control over interface polarization charges and band gap to reduce electron leakage from the 
active region was demonstrated. Their fabricated GaInN/AlGaInN LEDs showed reduced forward voltage, 
reduced efficiency droop, and increased light-output power at high injection currents, compared to 
 4 
light emitting diodes and its reduction with p-doped quantum well barriers,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 93, 121107 (2008). 
 
4. 研究方法 
In this project, we report and interpret the observed temperature dependence of carrier dynamics in an 
InGaN multiple quantum well sample with SP coupling, in which light emission enhancement has been 
identified from transmission ratio spectrum and PL results. We use a non-degenerate ps four-wave-mixing 
(FWM) setup to monitor the carrier diffusion process. A FWM scheme with a diffraction optical element as a 
beam splitter and a ps parametric generator at 420 nm was used to record the transient free-carrier grating in 
the multiple quantum wells (MQWs) and avoid optical absorption by the GaN layers. The carriers were 
generated in a submicron-thick surface layer and their dynamics were monitored by the delayed probe beam at 
wavelength (λ) =1064 nm. The period of transient grating was changed in a range from 3 to 7 μm by varying 
the angle θ, thus providing a unique advantage to measure in-plane carrier diffusion and lifetime. The 
temperature in the time-resolved FWM experiments was varied using a closed-cycle He-gas cryostat. 
 
5. 結果與討論 
A. Sample preparation and optical measurements 
The InGaN/GaN MQW structures were grown by metalorganic chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) on a 
c-plane sapphire substrate. The epitaxial structure consisted of a low temperature GaN nucleation layer, a 3 
μm thick GaN epilayer, five pairs of InGaN/GaN MQWs, and a 10 nm thick GaN cap layer. For MQWs, the 
well and the barrier, with thicknesses of 3 nm and 10 nm respectively, were deposited, leading to an emission 
wavelength around 490 nm. Such a sample is called the bare MQW sample. The other sample, called the 
Ag-coated sample, is produced by 60 min of thermal annealing at 200
0
C, followed by a 10 nm-thickness Ag 
coating on the top of a bare MQW sample. Both the PL and TRPL (Time-Resolved Photoluminescence) 
measurements were excited by the second harmonic of a femtosecond Ti:Sapphire laser at 790 nm. The 
excitation and PL signal collection were performed from the polished backside of the sample. The TRPL 
profiles were recorded with a streak camera of 30 ps temporal resolution. The picosecond non-degenerate 
FWM technique has been demonstrated in InGaN green emission samples [1,2]. Fig. 1 shows the scanning 
electron microscopy (SEM) image of the metal surface of the Ag-coated sample. Fig. 2(a) shows a 0.75 μm × 
0.75 μm atomic-force microscopy (AFM) image of the same sample. Fig. 2(b) shows a line-scan profile in an 
AFM measurement of the same sample along the straight line in Fig. 2(a). One can see that after thermal 
annealing of the Ag-coated sample, the Ag nanocrystals become aggregated to form nanodots of 80-100 nm in 
width and 15-20 nm in height. This result implies that Ag was coated in a morphology similar to nanoparticles. 
The existence of LSP in a nanograting structure has been numerically predicated, with the LSP resonance 
energies higher than those of SPP [3]. Therefore, the LSP modes can exist in the Ag-coated sample with a 
rough surface. Fig. 3(a) shows the PL spectra of the bare MQW sample and Ag-coated sample at room 
temperature. One can see that with Ag-coating, the PL intensity is about three times that of the bare MQW 
sample and the PL peak shows a blue-shift compared with the bare MQW sample.  
 6 
easily obtained for free carriers. However, for a trapped carrier, only a fraction of spatial-frequency 
components can satisfy such a momentum mismatch. Assuming that a trapped carrier has a Gaussian shaped 
wave function with 5 nm in width (standard deviation), we can evaluate the mean value and standard 
deviation of the wave function in the k space to be around 0 and 0.1 nm
−1
, respectively. The probability of 
finding a carrier with the wave number larger than 0.1 nm
−1
 is less than 0.5 in a two-dimensional structure. 
Hence, at a certain temperature, although a pair of trapped carriers can couple with a SP mode, its probabilit y 
is significantly lower than that of a pair of free carriers. In other words, the delocalization of carriers with 
increasing temperature can enhance the SP-MQW coupling rate. Nevertheless, the increasing coupling rate 
cannot be completely attributed to the delocalization process; other possibilities, such as the increase of the 
SP density of state with temperature, must also be considered. 
 
Fig. 3(a) Room temperature PL spectra (right ordinate) of the two samples showing their relative intensities. Transmission ratio spectrum of the samples (left 
ordinate). (b) Temperature-dependent PL peak position of the bare MQW sample (green square) and Ag-coated sample (red circle). 
B. Time-resolved optical measurement and simulation results 
To clearly investigate the coupling dynamics between excitons of the MQWs and the SPs of Ag nano-particles, 
temperature-dependent TRPL and FWM measurements were performed. In order to identify the significant 
differences between the bare MQW and Ag-coated samples, we show the decay profiles of the two kinds of 
measurements only at the room temperature. Fig. 5(a) shows the TRPL decay profiles of the two samples at 
room temperature. The more fluctuating green and red lines represent the measured results of the bare MQW 
and Ag-coated samples, respectively. The smooth lines represent the results of fitting. They show a faster 
decay profile for the Ag-coated sample than for the bare MQW sample. This is because, when the plasmon 
mode of the Ag nano-particles is coupled to MQWs, they allow scattering due to the momentum relaxation of 
SPs and thus couple to the radiated light, resulting in this spontaneous emission rate much faster than that of 
the bare MQW sample [4]. Fig. 5(b) shows the FWM decay profiles of the two samples at room temperature. 
For both samples, the double-exponential decay traces describe nonlinear processes in the InGaN MQWs and 
can be attributed to the radiative bimolecular recombination of carriers in InGaN [8]. With such fitting, the 
fast- and slow-decay times were obtained, as plotted in Fig. 5 (b). One can see that in both temporal traces, 
after the pump pulse, decay traces with time first quite fast in the several tens of ps range, followed by a 
slower range from several hundred ps to 1 ns. Traces in Fig. 5 (b) show the temperature-independent 
variations of the fast decay speed. For the slow-decay traces, the FWM measurements show the opposite 
result compared to the TRPL measurements. In the FWM measurements, the Ag-coated sample showed a 
slower decay profile than the bare MQW sample. That means plasmon mode coupling to MQWs will suppress 
the exciton diffusion to defects, thus decreasing the rate of non-radiative recombination. 
 
Fig. 5(a) Time-resolved PL decay profiles of the two samples at room temperature. (b) Time-resolved FWM decay profiles of the two samples at room 
temperature. 
 8 
180K, the S values of the Ag-coated sample are slower than those of the bare MQW sample, meaning excitons 
were constrained from surface recombination by the SP-modes. 
 
Fig. 7 Carrier diffusion coefficient (left ordinate) and surface recombination velocity (right ordinate) as functions of temperature from FWM measurements and 
Monte Carlo calculations, respectively. 
References: 
001 K. Jarasiunas, R. Aleksiejunas, T. Malinauskas, V. Gudelis, T. Tamulevicius, S. Tamulevicius, A. Guobiene, A. Usikov and V. 
Dmitriev, and H. J. Gerritsen, “Implementation of diffractive optical element in four-wave mixing scheme for ex situ 
characterization of hydride vapor phase epitaxy-grown GaN layers,” Rev. Sci. Inst. 78 (2007) 033901. 
002 H. C. Wang, T. Malinauskas , K. Jarasiunas, S. W. Feng, C. C. Ting, S. Liu, “Carrier dynamics in InGaN/GaN multiple 
quantum wells based on different polishing processes of sapphire substrate,” Thin Solid Films 518, 7291 (2010). 
003 W. C. Liu, and D. P. Tsai, “Optical tunneling effect of surface plasmon polaritons and localized surface plasmon resonance,” 
Phys. Rev. B 65, 155423 (2002). 
004 T. S. Oh, H. Jeong, Y. S. Lee, J. D. Kim, T. H. Seo, H. Kim, A. H. Park, K. J. Lee, and E. –K. Suh, “Coupling of InGaN/GaN 
multiquantum-wells photoluminescence to surface plasmons in platinum nanocluster,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 95, 111112 (2009). 
005 D. B. Tran Thoai, R. Zimmerman, M. Grundmann, D. Bimberg, “Image charges in semiconductor quantum wells eﬀect on 
exciton binding energy,” Phys. Rev. B 42, 5906-5910 (1990). 
006 D. M. Yeh, C. F. Huang, C. Y. Chen, Y. C. Lu, and C. C. Yang, “Localized surface plasmon-induced emission enhancement 
of a green light-emitting diode,” Nanotechnology 19, 345201 (2008). 
007 H. C. Wang, S. J. Lin, Y. C. Lu, Y. C. Cheng, C. C. Yang, and K. J. Ma, “Carrier relaxation in InGaN∕GaN quantum wells 
with nanometer-scale cluster structures,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 85, 1371 (2004) 
008 M. Syvajarvi, and R. Yakimova, Wide Band Gap Materials and New Developments (Research Signpost, 2007) 
009 H. C. Wang, Y. C. Lu, C. Y. Chen, and C. C. Yang, “Carrier capture times of the localized states in an InGaN thin film with 
indium-rich nanocluster structures,” Appl. Phys. Lett. 89, 011906 (2006). 
010 S. Nargelas, T. Malinauskas, A. Kadys, E. Dimakis, T. D. Moustakas, and K. Jarasiunas, “Nonlinear carrier recombination 
and transport features in highly excited InN layer,”  Phys. Stat. Sol. C 6, S735 (2009). 
011 T. Malinauskas, K. Jarasiunas, S. Miasojedovas, S. Jursenas, B. Beaumont, and P. Gibart, “Optical monitoring of 
nonequilibrium carrier lifetime in freestanding GaN by time-resolved four-wave mixing and photoluminescence techniques,” 
Appl. Phys. Lett. 88, 202109 (2006). 
012  T. Malinauskas, K. Jarasiunas, M. Heuken, F. Scholz, and P. Bruckner, “Diffusion and recombination of degenerate carrier 
plasma in GaN,” Phys. Stat. Sol. C 6, S743 (2009). 
 
6. 計畫成果自評部分 
In this year, our project has technical and physical breakthroughs. In the MQW sample with SP coupling, 
Ag-coated sample, is produced by 60 min of thermal annealing at 200
0
C, followed by a 10 nm-thickness Ag 
coating on the top of a bare MQW sample. One can see that with Ag-coating, the PL intensity is about three 
times that of the bare MQW sample and the PL peak shows a blue-shift compared with the bare MQW sample. 
In the time-resolved optical measurement and simulation, the coupling dynamics between excitons of the 
MQWs and the SPs of Ag nano-particles, temperature-dependent TRPL and FWM measurements were 
performed. In particular, we extracted the carrier lifetimes, grating decay times, carrier diffusion coefficients, 
and surface recombination velocities of both samples as functions of temperature. In the 
temperature-dependent TRPL measurements, the sample with SP-mode coupling had faster decay traces than 
the bare MQW sample. In the temperature-dependent FWM measurements, the decay traces show the 
opposite trend to the TRPL results. Beyond 150 K, the sample with SP-mode coupling had the lower carrier 
 10 
Biomedical Optics. (SCI: 3.880) 
014 Hsiang-Chen Wang*, T. Malinauskas , K. Jarasiunas, Shih-Wei Feng, Chu-Chi Ting , Sean Liu, “Carrier dynamics in 
InGaN/GaN multiple quantum wells based on different polishing processes of sapphire substrate” Thin Solid Films 518, 7291 
(2010).(SCI: 1.909) 
015 Chu-Chi Ting*, Chang-Hung Li, Chih-You Kuo, Chia-Chen Hsu, Hsiang-Chen Wang, Ming-Hsun Yang, “Compact and 
vertically-aligned ZnO nanorod thin films by the low-temperature solution method,” Thin Solid Films, 518, 4156 (2010).(SCI: 
1.909) 
 
(C) 會議論文 Conference Paper 
國際會議： 
001 Yung-Tsan Chen, Chun-Ming Yeh, Chun-Ping Chiang, Fang-Hsuan Cheng and Hsiang-Chen Wang*, “Optimal illumination 
for the direct visualization of oral cavity”, Photonics West 2011, San Francisco, US, January 2011 (Oral).  
002 Yung-Tsan Chen, Chun-Ming Yeh, Chun-Ping Chiang, Meng-Tsan Tsai, and Hsiang-Chen Wang*, “Reflectance 
spectroscopy analysis of oral cavity for mucosal lesions detection”, Photonics West 2011, San Francisco, US, January 2011. 
003 Chun-Ming Yeh, Yung-Tsan Chen, Shih-Wei Feng, Chu-Chi Ting, Fang-Hsuan Cheng, and Hsiang-Chen Wang*, “Glare 
effect of LED indoor illumination”, Photonics West 2011, San Francisco, US, January 2011 (Oral). 
004 Chin-Ming Chen, Hsiang-ChenWang*, Ping-HanWu, Chung-Wei Cheng,“Femto-second laser ablation dynamics of fused 
silica”, LPM 2010, Stuttgart, Germany (2010). 
005 Hao-Ye Zih, Fu-Jie Hsu, Chun-Ping Chiang, Fang-Hsuan Cheng and Hsiang-Chen Wang*, “Color image reconstruction of 
oral cavity for abnormal tissue detection”, Photonics West 2010, San Francisco, US, January 2010. 
006 Chin-Ming Chen , Jian-Sheng Wu , Shih-Wei Feng, Sean Liu and Hsiang-Chen Wang*, “Finite Difference Time Domain 
Analysis of Ultra-broadband Enhanced Absorption of Silicon Surface with Nanostructures”, Photonics West 2010, San 
Francisco, US, January 2010 (Oral). 
 
國內會議： 
001 Ta-Wei Chien, Yung-Tsan Chen, Hsiang-Chen Wang, Fang-Hsuan Cheng, Meng-Tsan Tsai, Chun-Ping Chiang, “Mucosal 
lesion detection in the oral cavity by multi-spectral imaging,” International Conference on Physics Education and Frontier 
Physics, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, August 2011. 
002 Po-Ju Chen, Po-Ching Chou, Hsiang-Chen Wang, Shao-Ying Ting, Wen-Ming Chang, C. C. Yang, “Study on MgO and GaN 
buffer in ZnO layers grown by molecular beam epitaxy on sapphire,” International Conference on Physics Education and 
Frontier Physics, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, August 2011. 
003 Hsin-wei Lu, Xusn-Yu Yu, Hsiang-Chen Wang, Pei-chang Tsai, Jian-hung Lin, Chia-Chen Hsu, Raymond Chien-Chao 
Tsiang, “Efficiency enhancement of CIGS solar cell with nano-fabrication technique,” International Conference on Physics 
Education and Frontier Physics, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, August 2011. 
004 Chia-Yin Chen, Guan-Huang Wu, Hsiang-Chen Wang, Pei-chang Tsai, Jian-hung Lin, and Chia-Chen Hsu, “Synthesis of 
CIGS absorber layer by solvothermal route,” International Conference on Physics Education and Frontier Physics, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan, August 2011. 
005 Hsin-Chia Chen, Chao-Chi Wang, Hsiang-Chen Wang, Wen-Chun Yen, Yu-Lun Chueh, “Growth and characteristic analysis 
of molybdenum electrode on various substrates by e-gun evaporation,” International Conference on Physics Education and 
Frontier Physics, Kaohsiung, Taiwan, August 2011. 
006 Yung-Tsan Chen, Hsiang-Chen Wang, Ping-Han Wu, Chung-Wei Cheng, “Investigation of ablation dynamics in fused silica 
by using femto-second pump-probe technique” OPT 2010, Tainan, Taiwan, December 2010. 
007 Chun-Ming Yeh, Yung-Tsan Chen, Shih-Wei Feng, Chu-Chi Ting, Fang-Hsuan Cheng, and Hsiang-Chen Wang, “Optical 
simulation and measurement of LED indoor illumination” OPT 2010, Tainan, Taiwan, December 2010. 
008 Yung-Tsan Chen, Chun-Ming Yeh, Chun-Ping Chiang, Fang-Hsuan Cheng and Hsiang-Chen Wang, “Study of illuminations 
for oral disease detection” OPT 2010, Tainan, Taiwan, December 2010. 
009 Jheng-Yi Lin, Hsiang-Chen Wang, Tsung-Yi Tang, T. Malinauskas, K. Jarasiunas, Shih-Wei Feng, C. C. Yang, “Study of 
optical and electrical properties of wide bandgap semiconductors with the time-resolved four-wave mixing technique“ The 
Second Cross-Strait Workshop on Wide Band Gap Semiconductor CSWBS2010）, Guangdong, China. (2010). 
                                 
 
 2 
告)、Optimal illumination for the direct visualization of oral cavity (口
頭報告)、Reflectance spectroscopy analysis of oral cavity for mucosal lesions 
detection (壁報)。 
   在五天的議程中，在 23~25 日我們參加與我們比較相關的兩天議程，會議在 1 月
24 日上午 8 點，我們參與了 Prof.Manoru 所發表的”Growth of bulk GaN crystal 
by Na flux method”與 Prof. Raffaella 所發表的”Growth and optoelectrical 
properties of single III-nitride nanowires” 兩場受邀演講都非常精采，雖然
和筆者研究領域不同，深入淺出的演講內容仍令人獲益良多。 
在 25 日的會議中，其中有一個會程為”High current performance and Droop effect 
in LEDs”中討論 Efficient droop behavior of LEDs，其中由 Prof. Schubert 所
發表的”The efficiency droop in GalnN light-emitting diodes”最為精彩，完
全而清楚的說明 LED 的 Efficient droop 問題。此外，在氮化鎵的磊晶上，現在著
重於 Non-polar GaN 的磊晶，由於 Non-polar 的磊晶方法，使得材料本身不易產生
壓電場使得磊晶品質提昇，故 Non-polar GaN 的磊晶方法為現今學術界研究的主流。 
   除了磊晶發法外，本人也注意到一些光學的分析方法，由 University- Regensburg
的 Schwarz 發表一些利用μ-PL 的方法，分析奈米材料的應力變化，μ-PL 方法使用
一組共焦顯微鏡、低溫系統﹑及掃描反射鏡組，此方法本人甚感有趣，未來可能利
用此方法來分析 GaN 相關材料。 
   此外，在 1 月 24 日有 post section，大會提供不錯的環境，讓我們能很舒適的
跟作者討論，除了口頭報告外，在 post section 中的討論也讓我們不只在英文能
力上有所精進，在研究上也收穫良多。且大會在建築物的地下室，有邀請廠商參展，
 4 
    會議中有固定幾段時間是壁報時間，部分成果是用壁報的方式發表，雖然是用紙來
呈現，效果較差，但是壁報前會站著研究者，藉由直接面對面的討論，可以很快的解除
自己有疑問的地方。整個壁報時間是一小時半，若對某個主題很有興趣，甚至可以跟研
究者直接討論半個小時以上，可以了解他們所做的實驗，但是，藉由介紹自己實驗室的
成果給別人，與別人討論及回答一些問題，自己也更清楚研究的主題。討論過程中還能
交到朋友。討論往往能激發新法，跟相似領域的人討論，幫助更大。在這次會議中，我
也認識了幾個新朋友，雖然後來只是互相留下聯絡方法，也許回國後就沒聯絡，但在研
究過程中若遇到瓶頸，藉由大家的討論，有助於突破。 
   會議中，各大廠商也會來參展，好的實驗儀器能使實驗作的更好，每個廠商齊聚一
堂，我們只要在裡面走走，就能大概了解實驗儀器好的什麼程度了。雖然對於廠商的產
品，我沒有看的那麼仔細，但是在書商的攤位倒是停留了不少時間，像是 Oxford、
Springer、Cambridge、Wiley 等大書商。在台灣，比較難接觸到專業的書籍，台灣書商
大部分是進許多學生會買的教科書，但非教科書的部分就很難看到。但是到了書商的展
區，可以看到近幾年的新書，還可以翻翻看裡面的內容適不適合自己。雖然網路的發達，
使我們在台灣一樣可以透過亞馬遜等網站來買書，但是無法翻翻內文，看看是不是自己
喜歡的敘述風格。因此趁這次參加會議的機會，我也看了不少新書，也買了幾本書。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
2011 Photonics West Technical Program (會議議程冊) 
 
 6 
 If you have changes to your title, abstract, or list of authors for the conference program, please send changes directly 
to me at kristinah@spie.org by *8 November 2010*. Changes submitted with your manuscript will not automatically 
be reflected in the conference program. 
Dear Prof. Hsiang-chen Wang,  
 
Congratulations! The chairs for the upcoming "Light-Emitting Diodes: Materials, Devices, and Applications for Solid State 
Lighting XV" conference have accepted your paper, "Glare effect of LED indoor illumination," as a Oral presentation to be 
presented 25 Jan 2011. This conference is part of OPTO which will be held 22-27 January 2011 in San Francisco, California 
United States.  
 
PLEASE SAVE OR PRINT THIS MESSAGE FOR FUTURE REFERENCE AS IT PROVIDES IMPORTANT DETAILS FOR 
THIS EVENT.  
 
PAPER NUMBER: 7954-12  
 Please include your SPIE Paper Number in the subject line of all Email correspondence. 
 
PAPER TITLE: Glare effect of LED indoor illumination  
 If you have changes to your title, abstract, or list of authors for the conference program, please send changes directly 
to me, mattn@spie.org by 15 November 2010. Changes submitted with your manuscript will not automatically be 
reflected in the conference program. 
五、所發表論文摘要 
Optimal illumination for the direct visualization of oral cavity  
 
 
Yung-Tsan Chen 
1
, Chun-Ming Yeh
1
, Chun-Ping Chiang
2
, Fang-Hsuan Cheng
3
 
and Hsiang-Chen Wang
1
 
1
 Graduate Institute of Opto-Mechatronics, National Chung Cheng University 
2
Department of Dentistry, National Taiwan University 
3
Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, Chung Hua University  
168, University Rd., Min-Hsiung, Chia_Yi, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
(Phone) 886-5-2720411#33601 (Fax) 886-5-2724036  (E-mail) hcwang@ccu.edu.tw 
 
ABSTRACT 
 
Oral diseases are significant worldwide health problems, and the way to diagnose these diseases more early has been 
concerned by researchers. Detection of the traditional biopsy procedure is invasive, and it will not only destroy the tissue 
structure, may also lead to other side effects, such as taking high cost and time to complete the pathological diagnosis. We 
demonstrate a multispectral-based approach with image processing, which can simulate presents of the same image under 
different light sources. Also we investigate the visual effect caused by wavelength and color temperature of light sources to 
identify the most suitable illumination for detection of oral diseases. The main purpose of this study is to enhance the color 
difference between lesion and normal tissue, so that doctors can diagnose symptoms directly by naked eye and make early 
treatment in time. 
Keywords: Illumination design; (170.3010) Image reconstruction techniques; (170.6280) Spectroscopy, fluorescence and luminescence. 
 8 
日期： 99 年 9 月 20 日 
一、參加會議經過 
此會議最主要是在討論大功率 LED的 droop問題以及半導體固態照明的發展趨勢和
動態等。在六天的議程中安排了 32 篇的邀請演講，其中以南京大學陸海教授的
〝Efficient droop behavior of GaN-based LEDs under aging and low-temperature 
tests〞的演講最為重要且深入研究氮化鎵的在低溫測試上材料特性及元件應用。 
    此外，在氮化鎵的磊晶上，現在著重於 Non-polar GaN 的磊晶，由於 Non-polar 的
磊晶方法，使得材料本身不易產生壓電場使得磊晶品質提昇，故 Non-polar GaN 的磊晶
方法為現今學術界研究的主流。 
除了磊晶發法外，本人也注意到一些光學的分析方法，由 University- Regensburg 的
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－194－020－ 
計畫名稱 表面電漿子耦合效應的發光二極體內之超快載子動態研究 
出國人員
姓名 
王祥辰 
服務機構
及職稱 
國立中正大學光機電整合工程研
究所 副教授 
會議時間 
99 年 9 月 4 日至 
99 年 9 月 10 日 
會議地點 中國廣東省東莞市 
會議名稱 
(中文)第二屆海峽兩岸寬能隙半導體研討會 
(英文) The Second Cross-Straight Workshop on Wide Band Gap 
Semiconductors (CSWBS2010) 
發表論文
題目 
(中文)  
應用時間解析四波混頻技術研究寬能隙半導體的光電材料特性 
(英文)  
Study of Optical and Electrical Properties of Wide Bandgap Semiconductors with the 
Time-resolved four-wave Mixing Technique 
 10 
3 
Institute of Applied Research, Vilnius University, LT-10222 Vilnius, Lithuania 
4
 Department of Applied Physics, National University of Kaohsiung, Kaohsiung 
高雄大學應用物理系 
 
(phone) 886-5-2720411#33601  (fax) 886-5-2724036  (e-mail) hcwang@ccu.edu.tw 
 
The nonlinear four-wave mixing (FWM) technique is becoming a versatile tool for characterization of bulk 
crystals as well as semiconductor micro- and nano-structures, as it allows fast and reliable evaluation of novel 
optoelectronic materials and related technologies. The technique opens possibility to measure a number of 
electrical parameters of semiconductors in an “all-optical” way, using well-established correlations between 
electrical and optical processes. The unique advantage of this technique is a possibility of direct analysis of 
carrier transport by varying a spacing of light interference pattern. In this paper, two kinds of samples are 
demonstrated. One is the coalescence overgrowth of pattern-grown GaN nanocolumns (NC) and the other one 
is InGaN/GaN multiple quantum wells based on different polishing processes of sapphire substrate. In the 
GaN nanocolumns samples, we present further growth optimization and innovative characterization of MOCVD layers, 
overgrown on the columnar structure with varying diameter of colums. Nanoimprint lithography was applied to open 
circular holes of 250, 300, 450, 600 nm in diameter on the SiO2 layer, deposited on the GaN layer on c-plane sapphire 
template. After growth of ~ 1 m height GaN nanocolumns, the further coalescence conditions led to an overgrown 
layer of ~ 2 m thickness. We note 3-4 fold increase of carrier lifetime in the overgrown epilayers when the diameter of 
colums varied from 250 to 450 nm. This feature is a clear indication of a ~ 4-fold reduced defect density. Less efficient 
electron trapping in the overgrown GaN is supported by the D=1.6 cm
2
/s value, typical for bipolar plasma in GaN (while 
the D value  is twice faster in the tamplate, as n<p).  Increasing lifetime value with excitation is typical for saturation of 
electron trapping centers  by excess carriers  in GaN with dislocation density of ~ 10
9 
cm
-2
 . In InGaN/GaN MQWs 
samples, Two LEDs with the same structures grown on pattern sapphire substrates with different surface 
roughness were prepared for comparisons (samples A and B). The sample A had the smoother sapphire surface 
than the sample B. Temperature-dependent photoluminescence results revealed that the emitting efficiency of 
the sample B is higher than that of the sample A. In addition, time-resolved four-wave mixing has been 
performed at room temperature using 351 and 420 nm picosecond pulses for excitation. Decay times of free 
carrier gratings with various spatial periods allowed determination of carrier diffusion coefficient and lifetime 
at carrier injection directly to the QW structure or via the front cap layer. The determined diffusion coefficient 
in the upper InGaN QWs of sample B was twice smaller than that in the sample A. The latter observation of 
better carrier confinement in the sample B correlated with higher light emission efficiency in it. 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：王祥辰 計畫編號：99-2221-E-194-020- 
計畫名稱：表面電漿子耦合效應的發光二極體內之超快載子動態研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備註（質化說明：
如數個計畫共同
成果、成果列為
該期刊之封面故
事...等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100% 國科會計畫結案報告 
研討會論文 9 9 100% 
篇 光電年會 3篇、海峽
兩岸寬能隙半導體
會議 1篇、全球華人
物理大會 5篇 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 5 5 100% 
Optics Express 3 
篇 、 Thin Solid 
Films 2 篇 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
Photonics West 6 
篇 論文著作 
專書 1 1 100% 章/本 
第五章:’Organic 
Light Emitting 
Diode ’ (ISBN 
978-953-307-140-4 
in Sciyo.com) 
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
With the awareness of environmental issues rise today, using energy efficiently 
and developing alternative energy have been most problems concerned by human. LED 
is currently the most favored new generation product to replace the existing 
lighting equipment, and their application widely around our life. So how to 
effectively improve its luminous efficiency will be an important key. The LED 
luminous efficiency called external quantum efficiency is the product of internal 
quantum efficiency and light extraction efficiency. The early studies on 
improvement of the LED luminous efficiency are focused on the internal quantum 
efficiency, mostly by improving the epitaxial quality or structure, so that 
electrical energy is not easy to be heat loss, but this approach has moved towards 
the limit. In order to further enhance the luminous efficiency, light extraction 
efficiency is the next bound to deal with. Using the Surface Plasmon Resonance 
Effect to increase the LED luminous efficiency is one of methods attracting 
researchers’ attention, and there are quite a number of academic researches. We 
combine spectroscopy measurement and the Surface Plasmon Resonance Effect 
technology by using femtosecond laser with very short pulse duration to observe 
the micro-structure coupling between photons and surface plasmons, which can help 
the studies of surface plasmon considerably. Once the LED luminous efficiency can 
