 
中 文 摘 要 ： 在許多最佳化問題中，追求單一目標函數所得到的解答可能
不被所有參與者同時接受。主要問題是解答的不公平性滿足
了其中一位參與者的目標函數，但其它參與者可能對該解答
不滿意。因此，須要採用多個目標函數以精準的描繪每位參
與者的需求，稱之為多目標最佳化問題(Multi-objective 
Optimization)。關鍵字拍賣(Sponsored Search Auction)屬
於多目標最佳化問題一種。因此，在關鍵字拍賣中考量單一
目標函數可能滿足了廣告商(Advertisers)或是搜尋引擎
(Search Engine Provider, SEP)，但卻造成另一方的不滿。
本計畫針對非遞減式關鍵字拍賣(Non-decreasing Sponsored 
Search Auction, NDSSA)，首先定義多目標最佳化的目標函
數向量。接著兩種利用降維技術(cosine similarity, 
Euclidean distance)正規化解答的品質。以找出能夠讓廣告
商與搜尋引擎都能最大化滿意度(Satisfaction 
Maximization)的解答。 
中文關鍵詞： 多目標最佳化、關鍵字拍賣、滿意度最大化 
英 文 摘 要 ： We focus on finding out the parameter setting of the 
non-decreasing sponsored 
search auction (NDSSA) such that the produced outcome 
is satisfied by both the 
search engine provider (SEP) and advertisers. Six 
satisfaction factors are included in 
our problem formulation. The outcome satisfactions of 
the SEP and advertisers are 
modeled as the multi-objective optimization problem 
based on the satisfaction factors. 
The weighted versions cosine similarity and Euclidean 
distance are proposed to solve 
the multi-objective problem. We observe the outcome 
without bias for both 
participants in our simulation. Both cosine 
similarity and Euclidean distance show 
that SEP and advertisers prefer fixed-MIP to AIMD. 
Moreover, the initial MIP value 
should be set as small enough such that each 
advertiser has at least one opportunity to 
update his/her bid price. 
英文關鍵詞： Multi-objective Optimization, Sponsored Search 
Auction, Satisfaction Maximization 
 
  
 
1 
 
中文摘要 
在許多最佳化問題中，追求單一目標函數所得到的解答可能不被所有參與者
同時接受。主要問題是解答的不公平性滿足了其中一位參與者的目標函數，但其
它參與者可能對該解答不滿意。因此，須要採用多個目標函數以精準的描繪每位
參與者的需求，稱之為多目標最佳化問題(Multi-objective Optimization)。關鍵字
拍賣(Sponsored Search Auction)屬於多目標最佳化問題一種。因此，在關鍵字拍
賣中考量單一目標函數可能滿足了廣告商(Advertisers)或是搜尋引擎(Search 
Engine Provider, SEP)，但卻造成另一方的不滿。本計畫針對非遞減式關鍵字拍賣
(Non-decreasing Sponsored Search Auction, NDSSA)，首先定義多目標最佳化的目
標函數向量。接著兩種利用降維技術(cosine similarity, Euclidean distance)正規化
解答的品質。以找出能夠讓廣告商與搜尋引擎都能最大化滿意度(Satisfaction 
Maximization)的解答。 
關鍵字詞：多目標最佳化、關鍵字拍賣、滿意度最大化 
英文摘要 
We focus on finding out the parameter setting of the non-decreasing sponsored 
search auction (NDSSA) such that the produced outcome is satisfied by both the 
search engine provider (SEP) and advertisers. Six satisfaction factors are included in 
our problem formulation. The outcome satisfactions of the SEP and advertisers are 
modeled as the multi-objective optimization problem based on the satisfaction factors. 
The weighted versions cosine similarity and Euclidean distance are proposed to solve 
the multi-objective problem. We observe the outcome without bias for both 
participants in our simulation. Both cosine similarity and Euclidean distance show 
that SEP and advertisers prefer fixed-MIP to AIMD. Moreover, the initial MIP value 
should be set as small enough such that each advertiser has at least one opportunity to 
update his/her bid price. 
Keywords: Multi-objective Optimization, Sponsored Search Auction, Satisfaction 
Maximization 
 
2 Problem Formulation and Solutions
2.1 Satisfaction Factors
We study six satisfaction factors, and each one is treated as an objective function
in our multi-objective model. The initial value of minimum increasing price (MIP)
is denoted by m0 ∈ R, and MS ∈ {Fixed,AIMD}. For each satisfaction factor,
we use the labels SEP and AD to indicate the perspective in the superscript. Each
satisfaction factor is formulated as the maximization format.
2.1.1 Search Engine Provider’s Revenue (R)
SEP’s revenue comes from advertisers’ payments, and that is formulated in eq. (3).
fSEP1 = −fAD1 =
k∑
s=1
psθs =
k∑
s=1
bs+1θs (3)
2.1.2 Advertiser’s Profit (P)
Each advertiser desires to maximize the profit. We use the sum of all advertisers’
profits to stand for advertiser’s satisfaction.
−fSEP2 = fAD2 =
k∑
s=1
(vs − bs+1)θs (4)
2.1.3 Auction Efficiency (E)
An auction is efficient if the social welfare is maximized. The social welfare, shown
in eq. (5), is the sum of advertiser’s profit and SEP’s revenue.
fSEP3 = f
AD
3 = (
k∑
s=1
bs+1θs) + (
k∑
s=1
(vs − bs+1)θs)
=
k∑
s=1
vsθs (5)
3
We want to transform vectors ~F SEPMS,m0 and
~FADMS,m0 to a single value fˆ
SEP
MS,m0 and
fˆADMS,m0 respectively. Then, computing the pair of MS and m
0 that the produced
outcome with minimum fˆSEPMS,m0 − fˆADMS,m0 in Eq. (9) is our goal. Eqs. (10) and (11)
are the bidding constraints in the NDSSA.
2.3 Solutions
2.3.1 Cosine Similarity
Given ~F SEPMS,m0 and
~FADMS,m0 , cosine similarity cos(
~F SEPMS,m0 ,
~FADMS,m0) measures the cosine
of the angle between them [3].
cos(~F SEPMS,m0 ,
~FADMS,m0) =
∑6
s=1 ωsf
SEP
s f
AD
s√∑6
s=1 ωs(f
SEP
s )
2 ×
√∑6
s=1 ωs(f
AD
s )
2
(12)
The outcome with larger value of cos(~F SEPMS,m0 ,
~FADMS,m0) specifies the less satisfac-
tion gap between SEP and advertisers. So, arg maxMS,m0 cos(~F
SEP
MS,m0 ,
~FADMS,m0) is
preferred.
2.3.2 Euclidean Distance
Given ~F SEPMS,m0 and
~FADMS,m0 , the Euclidean distance [4] of them is defined as follows.
ED(~F SEPMS,m0 ,
~FADMS,m0) =
√√√√ 6∑
s=1
ωs(fSEPs − fADs )2 (13)
For ~F SEPMS,m0 and
~FADMS,m0 , one vector is close to the other one induces a small value
of ED(~F SEPMS,m0 ,
~FADMS,m0). Therefore, minimizing ED(
~F SEPMS,m0 ,
~FADMS,m0) is the goal of
Euclidean distance.
5
3.2 Optimal Parameter Setting
The satisfaction measurements in the uniform and the exponential weights are shown
in figure 1 and 2 respectively. The horizontal axis is the initial MIP value, and the
vertical axis shows the satisfaction gaps captured by cosine similarity and Euclidean
distance. Given an initial MIP value, the satisfaction is optimized by the minimum
value for Euclidean distance and the maximum value for cosine similarity.
In figure 1(a) and 2(a), the outcome satisfied by both SEP and advertisers is under
Fixed and m0 = 5. Even if applying different weight functions, the parameter which
produces minimum satisfaction distance between SEP and advertisers is identical.
In figure 1(b) and 2(b), the optimal parameter setting is Fixed with m0 = 4 and
m0 = 5 respectively. Various weight functions only impact on the overall trend but
do not vary the optimal parameter.
The optimal MIP adjusting strategy is Fixed, and the optimal initial MIP values
are four and five. In [2], the average available bidding amounts, the values between
the initial bid value and the valuation, are (21.06, 23.87, 17.22, 17.35, 7.68, 4.66)
for all advertisers. If the initial MIP value is set to be higher than 4.66, the last ad-
vertiser has no idea to update his/her bid value throughout the auction. Therefore,
the optimal initial MIP setting is four or five. In other words, the optimal initial
MIP value should be set as small enough such that every advertiser has the ability
to update bids at least once.
7
9 
 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■ 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明： 
 
 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
 
 
 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
本計畫針對關鍵字拍賣中參與者雙方滿意度的定義與評估，並以多目標最佳
化型式描述問題。多目標問題是常見的最佳化問題之一，每當需要在多個最
佳化目標間決定追求解答時，如何平衡是重要的研究方向。本計畫評估拍賣
機制，其得到的解答能讓參與拍賣的雙方都能滿意。因此，不會有參與者偏
離得到的解答。市場上需要的是穩定的結果，在此條件下才能預估每位參與
者的收入。透過賽局理論(Game Theory)的分析，穩定的解答才是現實生活中
要追求的目標。 
 
cussing the benefit conflict in the NDSSA will help us to
find the outcome without bias for the SEP and advertisers
easily.
The raised amount of each bid should be higher than the bid
increment restriction in English auction. For the NDSSA,
the bid increment restriction is extended to the minimum in-
creasing price (MIP). The main difference between the bid
increment restriction and the MIP is that proposing the bid
with a non-decreasing price is also valid. Except for increas-
ing the bids, the advertisers in the NDSSA also can propose
the price identical to that in the previous round.
The NDSSA includes two mechanism parameters: the MIP
adjusting strategy and the initial MIP value. The MIP ad-
justing strategy is used to determine the MIP value in each
round to response to different bid profile. Before bidding in
the first round, the initial MIP value should be notified each
advertiser that how much should be raised at least in the
second round. So, the MIP adjusting strategy impacts the
bidding process for the advertisers, and the various initial
MIP values result in different first bid prices.
In [3], fixed-MIP and AIMD are proposed as the MIP adjust-
ing strategies to determine the MIP value. The MIP value
in each round is identical to the initial MIP value through-
out the auction in the fixed-MIP. As the initial MIP value
is announced, the NDSSA with fixed-MIP adopts invariant
MIP value until resetting parameters. For AIMD, the MIP
value is calculated in each round according to the principle
of additive-increase/multiplicative-decrease. If no bid is up-
dated, the MIP value is reduced to a half and increased by
one otherwise. According to the simulation results in [3],
AIMD performs better than fixed-MIP in terms of SEP’s
revenue because the MIP value is adjusted dynamically in
response to the bid variation. So the MIP adjusting strategy
will vary the convergent bid profile.
The convergence speed and SEP’s revenue are discussed in
[3], and the optimal parameters are different for these cri-
teria. This means that one participant’s satisfaction of the
convergent bid profile is opposite to the other one’s. The
question left in [3] is: which parameter setting including
the MIP adjusting strategy and the initial MIP value will
produce the outcome which is accepted by both SEP and
advertisers. We focus on this problem to compute the bal-
ance auction setting where both SEP and advertisers satisfy
the derived outcome simultaneously.
Six auction parameters that are concerned by either SEP or
advertisers are discussed in our problem. They are SEP’s
revenue, advertiser’s profit, auction efficiency, convergence
speed, the computation cost of the mechanism setting, and
the locally envy-free achievement. Each of above considera-
tions is formulated as a satisfaction factor. Then, we build a
multi-objective model to quantify the satisfactions for SEP
and advertisers, and each satisfaction factor is modeled as a
goal of the multi-objective problem. For the consistency, all
problem models are illustrated as the maximization form.
In the end, we use three similarity analysis skills to eval-
uate both participants’ experiences for all possible auction
parameter settings.
In our simulation, we firstly evaluate the satisfaction fac-
tors individually. To show the interest-conflict between SEP
and advertisers, we first maximize the satisfaction factors for
both participants separately. This shows that the best pa-
rameter setting for SEP may not be accepted by advertisers,
and vice versa. In the second simulation, we compute the
optimized auction parameter by solving the multi-objective
problem. We consider L2-norm [6], cosine similarity [4], and
Euclidean distance [9] to evaluate the parameter settings.
Fixed-MIP performs better than AIMD for the satisfaction
maximization consideration. The initial MIP value should
be set as small enough such that each advertiser have the
ability to update his/her bid at least once. In summary, the
fixed-MIP with small initial MIP value produces the out-
come without bias for all participants in the NDSSA.
1.1 Non-decreasing Sponsored Search Auction
English auction is a well-known mechanism. Babaioff and
Roughgarden introduce the English auction implementation
in the SSA and discuss the lower bound of SEP’s revenue [7].
Moreover, the convergence speed 1 is additionally discussed
in [3]. Applying English auction to the SSA is close to the
real world behaviors, and users are easy to understand how
the mechanism works.
The ascending bidding principle is the major property of En-
glish auction. Bidders survive in the auction by continuously
raising bid prices, otherwise, they will drop out the auction.
The NDSSA applies the non-decreasing bidding rule which
is similar to the ascending bidding in English auction. Ex-
cept for raising the bid, proposing the price which is equal
to that in the previous round is also available in the NDSSA.
So bidding in the NDSSA is more flexible than in English
auction due to the non-decreasing bidding rule.
In English auction, the lower bound of proposing a new bid
is restricted by the bid increment. The MIP of the NDSSA
is similar to the bid increment restriction of English auction.
If the bid is updated, the raised amount must be higher than
the MIP value. On the other hand, the MIP constraint is
ignored for the advertisers proposing the same bid price.
Thus, the convergence speed of the NDSSA is controlled by
the MIP setting.
The auction parameter, including the MIP adjusting strat-
egy and the initial MIP value, is the most critical issue in
the NDSSA. Different parameter settings not only vary the
outcome but also affect the experiences of SEP and advertis-
ers. To derive the outcome without bias for any participant,
the MIP adjusting strategy and the initial MIP value should
be determined carefully.
1.2 Multi-objective Optimization
In this paper, the goal of the satisfaction maximization in
the NDSSA is to find a parameter setting that the derived
outcome is satisfied by both SEP and advertisers. We for-
mulate the satisfaction maximization as the multi-objective
1Based on [8], the SSA converges as meeting the stable bid
profile that no bid will be updated in the future. So, the
convergence speed proposed in [3] represents the number of
rounds that the mechanism required to reach the stable bid
profile.
otherwise m is increased by one. The MIP value in (x+ 1)-
th round, denoted by mx+1, is calculated according to eq.(3)
where bx is the bid profile in x-th round.
mx+1 =
{
mx + 1, if bx 6= bx−1
dmx/2e, otherwise. (3)
Obviously, m results in the outcomes with different satisfac-
tions for SEP and advertisers. Smaller m results in higher
SEP’s revenue, but the auction requires more rounds to con-
verge, and vice versa. In [3], AIMD is better for SEP’s rev-
enue consideration, but advertisers prefer fixed-MIP due to
less payment. If the SEP only focuses on one aspect for
measuring the mechanism, the outcome may bias one par-
ticipant. We firstly aim at studying the satisfaction factors.
Then, maximizing both participants’ satisfactions simulta-
neously is formulated as the multi-objective problem by the
satisfaction factors. Our goal is to find out a parameter
setting, including mf(b, b′,m) and an initial m, that the de-
rived outcome is satisfied by both SEP and advertisers.
3. PROBLEMFORMULATIONANDSOLU-
TIONS
3.1 Satisfaction Factors
We study six satisfaction factors, and each one is treated
as an objective function in our multi-objective model. In
the following context, the initial MIP value is denoted by
m0 ∈ R, and MS ∈ {AIMD, fixed-MIP} represents the MIP
adjusting strategy. For each satisfaction factor, we use SEP
and AD to indicate the perspective in the superscript. For
example, fAD1 is advertiser’s first satisfaction factor. More-
over, each satisfaction factor is formulated as the maximiza-
tion format.
3.1.1 Search Engine Provider’s Revenue (R)
The major concern of the SEP is the revenue. SEP’s revenue
comes from advertisers’ payments, and that is formulated in
eq.(4).
fSEP1 = −fAD1 =
k∑
s=1
psθs =
k∑
s=1
bs+1θs (4)
The (k + 1)-th advertiser is not a winner, so he/she is ex-
cluded from eq.(4). SEP prefers higher SEP’s revenue, and
advertisers prefer the opposite outcome.
3.1.2 Advertiser’s Profit (P)
The primal goal of each advertiser is to maximize the profit
(also called utility). We use the sum of all advertisers’ util-
ities to stand for advertiser’s satisfaction, and the formal
definition is shown in eq.(5). Similar to (R), fSEP2 and f
AD
2
are reverse.
−fSEP2 = fAD2 =
k∑
s=1
(vs − bs+1)θs (5)
3.1.3 Auction Efficiency (E)
An auction is efficient if the social welfare is maximized. The
social welfare, shown in eq. (6), is the sum of advertiser’s
profit and SEP’s revenue. In other words, the advertiser
with higher valuation should be ranked before who has the
smaller one. Both SEP and advertisers would like to maxi-
mize the social welfare.
fSEP3 = f
AD
3
= (
k∑
s=1
bs+1θs) + (
k∑
s=1
(vs − bs+1)θs)
=
k∑
s=1
vsθs (6)
3.1.4 Convergence Speed (CR)
The number of rounds that the NDSSA requires to converge,
denoted by crMS,m
0
, is applied to measure the convergence
speed. After converging, each advertiser reaches the highest
bid value. So, advertisers prefer the outcome with larger
crMS,m
0
, and SEP favors the smaller one.
−fSEP4 = fAD4 = crMS,m
0
(7)
3.1.5 Turnaround Time (T)
In each round, the time consumed from sending the bid price
to receiving the rank result is defined as the turnaround
time, termed ttMS,m
0
. For the mechanism with smaller
ttMS,m
0
, advertisers have more time to calculate next bid
price. When SEP receives keywords frequently, smaller ttMS,m
0
is better for both participants to prepare next bidding. The
mechanism requires higher ttMS,m
0
implies that SEP needs
more computation cost to handle the auction. So, both SEP
and advertisers desire the NDSSA with small ttMS,m
0
.
−fSEP5 = −fAD5 = ttMS,m
0
(8)
3.1.6 Locally Envy-free Achievement (LEE)
Based on the mechanism definition in section 2, the adver-
tisers in the NDSSA are interested in the current and the
previous slots. If each advertiser accepts the outcome and
does not update his/her bid price to compete for the pre-
vious slot in the future, the bid profile is envy-free. We
extend this idea to define the locally envy-free condition in
the NDSSA. When the NDSSA converges, the bid prices are
classified as following cases.
1. Local envy-free, bi−1 ≥ vi − (vi − bi+1)θi/θi−1 [1],
2. valuation limitation, bi−1 > vi, and
3. MIP limitation, bi +MIP > vi.
The first case is the formal definition of the locally envy-free
price. If the bid price is increased in the second case, the
profit will be hurt, and the current bid profile maximizes
the utility. The advertiser in the third case may still have
the ability to update bids if the MIP value is relaxed. Thus,
the advertisers in the first and the second case are locally
envy-free in the NDSSA.
85%
90%
95%
100%
105%
W
o
r
th
SEP's Revenue
Fixed
AIMD
70%
75%
80%
1 11 21 31 41
Initial MIP Values
Figure 1: SEP’s revenue.
88%
92%
96%
100%
104%
W
o
r
th
Advertiser's Profit
Fixed
AIMD
80%
84%
1 11 21 31 41
Initial MIP Values
Figure 2: Advertiser’s profit.
participants do not accept at the same time are met in the
considerations of SEP’s revenue, advertiser’s profit, and con-
vergence speed.
For SEP’s revenue and advertiser’s profit, shown in figure 1
and 2 respectively, no parameter setting meets both partic-
ipants’ goal at the same time. As increasing the initial MIP
value, the bias is getting worse. Both participants aim at
opposite requirements, so no MIP strategy and initial MIP
value will maximize their satisfactions at the same time.
Figure 3 exhibits the performance of the social welfare. Both
participants prefer high social welfare, so finding out the pa-
rameter setting with maximum social welfare is the objec-
tive. Fixed-MIP performs slightly better than AIMD in the
setting of initial MIP 1. In the fixed-MIP with very small
initial MIP value, advertisers almost have no restriction for
proposing a new bid price. So they can easily get the target
slot. Therefore, fixed-MIP with small initial MIP value can
satisfy both participants’ requirements.
SEP prefers fast convergence speed, but advertisers favor the
outcome with contrary goal. Finding the parameter setting
without bias is not easy. The intersection of the curves of
fixed-MIP and AIMD indicates the initial MIP value is three.
Expect for this parameter setting, each of fixed-MIP and
AIMD does not produce the outcome without bias.
The performance of the turnaround time shown in figure
5 is captured by the real CPU time. Each value is calcu-
lated by the average of ten runs. The highest CPU time
is 70 nanoseconds, and the lowest one is 38 nanoseconds.
The gap between the highest and the lowest CPU time is
98%
99%
100%
101%
W
o
r
th
Social Welfare
Fixed
AIMD
96%
97%
1 11 21 31 41
Initial MIP Values
Figure 3: Social welfare.
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
#
 o
f 
R
o
u
n
d
s
Convergence Speed
Fixed
AIMD
0%
20%
1 11 21 31 41
#
 o
f 
R
o
u
n
d
s
Initial MIP Values
Figure 4: Convergence rounds.
32 nanoseconds. This implies that the computation cost is
quite low. So the burst points can be treated as the noise.
Different parameter settings of the NDSSA only slightly af-
fect on the turnaround time. Even if the MIP adjustability
is considered in AIMD, the turnaround time is not increased
too much.
Both SEP and advertisers prefer the outcome with high lo-
cally envy-free achievement, and the simulation result is
shown in figure 6. The locally envy-free achievement of
fixed-MIP is getting worse as the initial MIP value is in-
creased. On the other hand, the performance of AIMD
maintains the achievement rate as 80%. So, AIMD performs
more robust than fixed-MIP given different initial MIP val-
ues. However, the fixed-MIP with initial MIP 2 optimizes
the satisfactions of SEP and advertisers. So, the fixed-MIP
with small initial MIP value is the best parameter setting.
Based on above results, fixed-MIP with small initial MIP
value achieves the objectives of SEP and advertisers for
auction efficiency, turnaround time, and locally envy-free
achievement at the same time. For SEP’s revenue, adver-
tiser’s profit, and convergence speed, we do not easily find
the optimal parameter setting for both participants. This
concludes that considering single satisfaction factor sepa-
rately will bias some participant. Therefore, taking into
account the multi-objective model is essential.
4.3 Optimal Parameter Setting
The weight distribution applied in L2-Norm, Cosine simi-
larity, and Euclidean distance is built as follows. Firstly,
we rank (R,P,E,CR, TT, LEE) as (5, 5, 4, 3, 1, 2) for
both SEP and advertisers. We consider two functions of
The optimal MIP adjusting strategy is fixed-MIP, and the
optimal initial MIP values are four and five. In [3], the
average available bidding amounts, the values between the
initial bid value and the valuation, are (21.06, 23.87, 17.22,
17.35, 7.68, 4.66) for all advertisers. If the initial MIP value
is set to be higher than 4.66, the last advertiser has no idea to
update his/her bid value throughout the auction. Therefore,
the optimal initial MIP setting is four or five. In other words,
the optimal initial MIP value should be set as small enough
such that every advertiser has the ability to update bids at
least once.
5. CONCLUSION
We study the satisfaction factors and analyze the optimal
parameter setting of the NDSSA by solving the multi-objective
problem. Both cosine similarity and Euclidean distance in-
duce the same parameter setting such that the derived out-
come is satisfied by SEP and advertiser simultaneously. The
optimal MIP adjusting strategy is fixed-MIP, and the opti-
mal initial MIP value must be set as small enough that each
advertiser has at least one opportunity to update his/her
bid. As the satisfactions of SEP and advertiser are maxi-
mized at the same time, the NDSSA does not bias any par-
ticipant.
The major advantage of our methods applied in this paper
to evaluate the satisfaction distance is low computation cost.
Both cosine similarity and Euclidean distance require a few
simple operations. So, the SEP can apply one of them in
his/her SSA service, and the computation cost will not be
increased too much.
The auction parameters are determined by the SEP in the
NDSSA. If the SEP adjusts the auction setting to maximize
his/her utility, the advertisers may not accept the outcome.
The SEP may follow our proposed method to analyze the
auction bias in every round. Tracing the variation of the
satisfaction distance is efficient to determine the parameter
setting without bias. Thus, the SEP has enough information
to adjust the auction parameter of the next round.
Acknowledgement
This work was supported in part by Taiwan NSC under
grant no. NSC 100-2221-E-274-006- and NSC 100-2221-E-
194-062-. The author would like to thank the reviewers for
their insightful comments which helped to significantly im-
prove the paper.
6. REFERENCES
[1] B. Edelman, M. Ostrovsky, and M. Schwarz, Internet
Advertising and the Generalized Second Price Auction:
Selling Billions of Dollars Worth of Keywords,
American Economic Review, Vol. 97(1), pp. 242-259,
March 2007.
[2] C.A.C. Coello, D.A.V. Veldhuizen, and G.B. Lamount,
Evolutionary Algorithms for Solving Multi-Objective
Problems, Springer, 2007.
[3] C. Tsung, H. Ho, and S. Lee, Analysis of Stable Prices
in Non-decreasing Sponsored Search Auction, Twelfth
International Workshop on Agent-Mediated Electronic
Commerce (AMEC 2011), pp. 84-96, 2011.
[4] G. Salton and M. J. McGill, Introduction to Modern
Retrieval, McGraw-Hill, 1983.
[5] H. R. Varian, Position Auction, International Journal
of Industrial Organization, Vol. 25(6), pp. 1163-1178,
December 2007.
[6] I. K. Fodor, A survey of dimension reduction
techniques, LLNL technical report, 2002,
UCRL-ID-148494.
[7] M. Babaioff and T. Roughgarden, Equilibrium
Efficiency and Price Complexity in Sponsored Search
Auctions, Workshop on Ad Auctions, 2010.
[8] M. Cary, A. Das, B. Edelman, I. Giotis, K. Heimerl, A.
R. Karlin, C. Mathieu, and M. Schwarz, Greedy
Bidding Strategies for Keyword Auctions, Proceedings
of the 8th ACM conference on Electronic Commerce
(EC), pp. 262-271, 2007.
[9] P.-N. Tan, M. Steinbach, and V. Kumar, Introduction
to Data Mining, Addison-Wesley, 2005.
[10] R.T. Marler and J.S. Aror, Survey of multi-objective
optimization methods for engineering, Structural and
Multidisciplinary Optimization, Vol. 26 (6), pp.
369-395, 2004.
[11] R. E. Steuer, Multiple Criteria Optimization: Theory,
Computations, and Application, John Wiley & Sons,
1986.
[12] T. M. Bu, X. Deng, and Q. Qi, Forward looking Nash
equilibrium for keyword auction, Information
Processing Letters, Vol. 105, pp. 41-46, 2008.
[13] Y. Narahari, D. Garg, R. Narayanam, and H. Prakash,
Game Theoretic Problems in Network Economics and
Mechanism Design Solutions, Springer, 2009.
[14] Z. Abrams and A. Ghosh, Auctions with Revenue
Guarantees for Sponsored Search, Proceedings of the
3rd international workshop on Internet and network
economics (WINE), pp. 143-154, 2007.
2 
 
二、與會心得 
今年 ICEC的主辦單位是 SMU，其商學院是全球評比百名之內，所以關於商務主題方
面的研究能夠在國際間領先群雄。因此，ICEC在 SMU的統籌下，不論是會議主題的
決定、論文的審閱或是議程的安排，都以高品質呈現。在資訊爆炸的網路年代，分
析得到的大量資訊並進一步處理，是目前最急迫的需求，所以會議主題訂為
“Competing on Real-Time Data Analytics – Connecting the Virtual and 
Physical Worlds of Social-Commerce”相當符合現實生活的需要。今年會議的論
文接受率約 42%，較往過去的平均接受率 36%稍高一些。資料處理需求會因為不同的
商務應用而有所差異，所以主辦單位提高了論文接受的比率，讓不同領域的學者了
解資料處理在不同應用方面的研究成果。主辦單位以嚴謹的態度把關每篇在會議上
發表論文的品質與主題的關連性。因此，每篇論文都具有相當有意義的結果並適合
今年的主題。有了嚴謹的論文篩選，會議兩天的議程安排就顯得相當順暢。每個
session中的研究結果相互關連，讓相同研究主題的學者透過討論能夠激發出新的思
考與解決問題方法。參與整個 ICEC會議後便能了解 SMU在主辦會議時的用心與付出。 
 
ICEC今年主題是真實世界的資料分析，該主題比較偏向資訊管理的範疇。而資訊工
程研究人員面對電子商務議題是最缺乏的就是以人為主的觀點以分析問題，只有透
過人的觀點才能以較接近生活的角度來討論與設計問題模型，得到的研究成果才能
實做於系統中。所以在本次會議參與中，除了解各國學者對於電子商務的最新看法
之外，也能增加經濟或是資訊管理學者對於真實使用者所喜好的現象所做出的定
義。讓我們未來面對電子商務議題時也能設計出更接近真實世界所採用的解決方法。 
4 
 
不同目的時，應考量的滿意度因素也會有所不同。因此，滿意度因素會隨著不同問
題而變動，拍賣機制設計者應該就其需求訂定適當的問題模型。最三個問題是有沒
有加入底價的考量？底價是用來確保拍賣物品質的一個技巧，確實有其存在的必要
性，未來的研究中加入底價確實是一個有價值的建議。 
 
跨領域科學是目前最重要的學術研究方向之一，結合兩種不同的研究學者重新審視
與解決真實問題，得到的結果才能實做於相關應用。很多具有不同學術領域背景的
學者參與今年的 ICEC，例如經濟或是資訊管理，是這些學者大多已長時間投入實做
方面的研究。因此，參與 ICEC使我了解面對問題所應有的新思維。此外，與不同研
究領域的學者交談讓我了解問題目前的主流考慮因素，且知道未來可能的發展方
向。ICEC提供了相當優秀的交流平台，相信眾多的與會學者也一定能在會議中獲益
良多。 
 
6 
 
四、建議 
ICEC會議在過去 14年來致力於提供一個國際交流平台，以提供學者討論、定義與發
表電子商務相關議題的研究成果，是一個專注於特定研究領域的優秀研討會。期盼
國科會能夠繼續支持相關學者前往參加學術研討，不論是對於研究問題的定義或是
問題的解決方法上，對於研究生的未來研究將有很大的助益。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
研討會論文集隨身碟、研討會會議議程、研討會公事包 
 
六、其他 
非常感謝國科會提供的經費補助，才能使得本次學術研討成行。本次會議收獲良多，
感謝國科會的幫忙與協助。 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：李新林 計畫編號：100-2221-E-194-062- 
計畫名稱：多回合關鍵字拍賣之機制設計與參與者滿意度分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 9 9 100%  
博士生 3 3 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
