information with hidden Markov model (HMM) methods, 
SNP-SNP interactions are identified for molecular 
subtypes by data-mining method of multifactor 
dimensionality reduction (MDR). Interactions based on 
clustering molecular subtypes are more significant 
than those without clustering, and better than 
interactions based on disease subtypes. Some novel 
interacting loci are identified in our study and they 
may be potential candidates for further research. Our 
finding suggests that it is proper to detect gene-
gene interactions with considering molecular 
subtypes. Furthermore, it is feasible for different 
clustering methods associated with advanced data 
mining approaches to study molecular-subtype 
interacting. 
英文關鍵詞： genome-wide association study (GWAS), gene-gene 
interaction, molecular subtype, single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs), copy number variations (CNVs), 
hidden Markov model (HMM), multifactor dimensionality 
reduction (MDR), lymphoma 
 
 2 
目  錄 
 
報告內容 ……………………………………………………………………………… 3 
參考文獻 ……………………………………………………………………………… 11 
計畫成果自評 ………………………………………………………………………… 13 
附錄 …………………………………………………………………………………… 15 
 
 4 
genome information (Lander and Shrock, 1994). At the same time, microarray technologies have been applied 
to detect differentially expressed genes simultaneously. Once the microarray bears thousands or more of 
probes, the whole genome information can be measured. Instead of gene expression probes, proxy probes 
corresponded to the physical map of genomic sequence are designed on the microarray platform. In this 
section, we review some prior works in GWA studies, and applications in genome variation studies shed light 
on how these variations impact on traits or diseases as well as new avenues for exploring the pathophysiology 
of these diseases. 
A huge work collaborated by many research centers has been published by the Wellcome Trust Case 
Control Consortium in 2007. Seven complex diseases, such as bipolar disorder, coronary disease, Crohn’s 
disease, hypertension, rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, and type 2 diabetes, were analyzed with the SNP 
data (Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium, 2007). There were 14,000 cases and 3,000 shared controls in 
the GWA study. Case-control comparisons identified 24 independent association signals at the significance 
level less than 5×10-7, including 1 in bipolar disorder, 1 in coronary disease, 9 in Crohn’s disease, 3 in 
rheumatoid arthritis, 7 in type 1 diabetes, and 3 in type 2 diabetes. Based on prior findings and replication 
studies thus-far completed, almost all of these signals seemed to reflect genuine susceptibility effects. 
In 2008, a comprehensive review article of the international HapMap project explored a genome-wide 
database of patterns of human genetic variation, with the expectation that these patterns are useful for genetic 
association studies of complex diseases (Manolio et al., 2008). In the GWA studies, more than 100 loci for 
nearly 40 complex diseases have been revealed, including eye diseases, diabetes, cancers, gastrointestinal 
disorders, cardiovascular conditions and lipid metabolism, neuropsychiatric conditions, autoimmune and 
infectious diseases, and even various traits (height, body mass index, …, etc.) (Easton et al., 2007; Frayling et 
al, 2007; Plenge et al., 2007; Fellay et al., 2007). These associations provided new insights into 
pathophysiology, suggesting previously unsuspected etiologic pathways for new therapeutic targets and 
targeted interventions based on genetically defined risk. In addition, HapMap-based discoveries have 
suggested multiple loci important for adapting to diseases-causing pathogens and new environments. 
 
4. Materials and Methods 
Traditional regression-based methods are not suited to dealing with nonlinear models and with 
high-dimensional data (Ritchie et al., 2001; Culverhouse et al., 2002; McKinney et al., 2006). Many 
potentially interacting predictors may lead to sparse contingency tables with lots of empty cells. 
Machine-learning or data-mining methods developed in the field of computer science are addressed in these 
issues. Many data-mining approaches use a sequence of regression models including potentially large 
numbers of main effects and multi-way interactions, and attempt to find the model that best fits the data in a 
computationally efficient way. Data-mining approaches do not fit a single pre-specified model, nor do they 
attempt an exhaustive search, but they typically have problems in dealing with incomplete and unbalance data 
sets (Velez et al., 2007), as well as colinearity issues among predictors (Hastie et al., 2001; Park and Hastie, 
2008). In addition, overfitting is the key problem and the cross-validation is often used to avoid overfitting 
issues. Several methods have become popular or show promise for detection of gene-gene interactions, 
including single classification tree (Zhang and Bonney, 2000; Nelson et al., 2001), random forests (Breiman, 
 6 
CGH data’ (WECCA). It represents the first clustering approach to be tailored specifically to the aCGH data 
and is a specialized implementation of hierarchical agglomerative clustering. They define a weighted form of 
similarity, although the weights are expected to be provided by the user, rather than automatically calculated. 
HMMs were applied in clustering molecular subtype of aCGH data by Shah et al. in 2006. The HMMs 
method is a statistical approach designed for describing a system with unknown parameters. They extended 
this method to HMM-Mix by defining multiple HMMs, one per cluster and automatically assigning samples 
to clusters while simultaneously inferring the profile of each cluster (Shah et al., 2009). 
In this study of detecting gene-gene interactions of complex diseases, a strategy of clustering molecular 
subtypes plus data-mining method is proposed. It initializes with clustering case-only data to discover 
clinically relevant molecular subtypes, then subsequently applies MDR in comparing each subtype with the 
control data to identify potential interacting loci within molecular subtypes. The flow chart is illustrated as 
figure 1. 
 
 
Figure 1. The work-flow of this study. 
 
In the data input step, we use datasets of SNPs and CNVs from case and control groups. We discrete the 
case data into several clusters which represent molecular subtypes. Case-only analysis describes that an 
interaction term corresponds to the dependency or correlation between the predictor variables within the 
population of cases. The null hypothesis of the interactions for case-only test is that there is no interaction 
between alleles or genotypes at the two loci in a sample. HMM-Mix is to cluster several interaction patterns 
reside in different cases. Once different clusters are revealed, we can compare each cluster with the control 
data to find out disease subtype-associated interacting loci.  
 
5. Results and Discussions 
 8 
groups (whole data, CNA, and CNR). For example, NEGR1 and PDIA5 showed one identical SNP in 
without-clustering and CNR groups. In STXBP5L, the identical SNP (rs9834891) was found after clustering. 
Indentified SNPs in HMGCLL1 show group-specific property that interacting loci in each group are different. 
We use the proportion test to examine whether our identified SNPs have main or marginal effects. The 
proportions of cases and controls with a particular genotype in an indentified locus are tested whether the 
difference between case and control is significant. If the difference is significant, then the genotype of the 
indentified SNP has main or marginal effects; otherwise, it is without main or marginal effects. The result 
indicates that our methods are able to identify interacting loci when they display no main or marginal effects. 
According to the statistics of the gene-gene interaction study, after MDR implementation, we obtained 
several statistics such as sensitivity, specificity, recall, precision, accuracy, F-measure, and Kappa statistic. It 
seemed that candidate interactions identified from the CNA cluster might be more accurate than those from 
the CNR cluster. Usually, a ROC curve is a plot of the sensitivity versus (1 – specificity) of a screening test, 
where the different points on the curve correspond to the different cutoff points used to designate test positive 
(Rosner, 2006). The area under curve (AUC) is a reasonable summary of the overall accuracy of the test. In 
general, the test with higher area under its ROC curve is considered the better test. We plotted the sensitivities 
and specificities of gene-gene interaction by MDR (tables 2 and 3). The AUC of the CNA cluster was higher 
than that of the whole data (figure 2 and table 4). The area of the CNR cluster is not easily distinguished from 
that of the whole data. It suggests that clustering by copy number alteration performed better than copy 
number retention. 
 
Table 2. Sensitivity of MDR with and without clustering for affected genes. The highest values are shown in 
bold form. 
Sensitivity Gene name 
Total CNR CAN 
PEX14 0.7336 0.7000 0.8667 
NEGR1 0.8692 0.6684 0.7778 
MAN1A2 0.8738 0.9158 0.9111 
FHIT 0.7336 0.6461 0.7333 
STXBP5L 0.5000 0.6685 0.8000 
PDIA5 0.5374 0.5787 0.9556 
TBL1XR1 0.6028 0.6629 0.7111 
LPP 0.9019 0.8820 0.8222 
HMGCLL1 0.7430 0.7273 0.7778 
MAP3K7 0.4252 0.5607 0.6000 
MAP3K7IP2 0.7850 0.6629 0.7778 
RPS6KA2 0.8364 0.8235 0.7222 
SOX5 0.8271 0.8235 0.8444 
TCF4 0.8364 0.8529 0.8444 
 
 
Table 3. Specificity of MDR with and without clustering for affected genes. The highest values are shown in 
bold form. 
Specificity Gene name 
Total CNR CAN 
PEX14 0.5654 0.5789 0.5778 
NEGR1 0.5047 0.6947 0.8222 
MAN1A2 0.4019 0.3684 0.5556 
FHIT 0.8411 0.8820 0.9111 
 10
identify disease-association loci. Intuitively, interacting loci which belong to disease types could be candidates 
for association studies. Our findings suggest that loci which are associated with molecular subtypes might 
play a potential role in disease associations. 
Causal variants in copy number play a pivotal role in etiology of complex disease. Different types of 
copy number variations have been discovered in different types of lymphomas. Current studies focused on 
disease-associated CNVs which affect gene functions. Rare studies worked on CNV-SNP interaction. 
Promoter hypermethylation of a protocadherin family gene, PCDH10, was associated with down-regulation of 
gene expression in cases with cervical cancer (Narayan et al., 2009). In this study, monosomy in chromosome 
4 represented deletion of chromosome 4 in 47％ cases, and 91％ cases were methylated in the promoter 
region of the PCDH10 gene. The CpG island polymorphism at promoter region was involved in methylation. 
Some cases showed simultaneous loss of 4q and PCDH10 methylation. It suggested that genomic deletion 
combined with SNP which were contributed to the gene inactivation might give a new molecular insight into 
cervical cancer pathogenesis. Recently, researchers provided evidence that a genetic variant in the dopamine-2 
receptor (DRD2) and possible interaction between the dopamine-3 receptor (DRD3) and the dopamine 
transporter (SLC6A3) are associated with schizophrenia (Sáiz et al., 2010). Surprisingly, combining the 
DRD3 non-synonymous polymorphism with the SLC6A3 VNTR polymorphism showed improved odds ratio. 
It suggested that CNV-SNP interaction might increase the risk of disease. In summary, those findings raised 
the possibility that detecting disease-associated interactions with considering genomic aberration. 
In our study, most interacting loci in the CNA cluster are intronic SNPs, one in 3’ un-translated region, 
and some with unknown function. Intronic SNPs might not alter codons in the coding region, but probably 
influence the process of protein synthesis at the transcription level. Many SNPs are located in sequences of 
splicing relevance, such as the canonical splice site consensus sequences, and exonic and intronic splice 
enhancer or silencer. However, rare reports address those issues. SNPs at 3’ un-translated region might affect 
the processes of gene regulation. Surprisingly, our finding indicates that potentially functional polymorphism 
(rs11209875) might be associated with molecular subtypes. It suggests that more candidate interactions could 
be found while considering molecular subtypes. Even though evaluating functions of polymorphisms await, 
our proposed strategy show an avenue for detecting candidate SNP interactions. 
To evaluate the reliability of disease-associated interacting loci, candidate interactions with molecular 
subtypes should be confirmed by using large replication cohorts. Potential roles of the CNA-specific 
interacting loci can be evaluated biochemically or biomedically. Mini-gene can be constructed in the transient 
expression system to evaluate the function of introns (McAlinden et al., 2005). For example, rs150125 in the 
gene MAP3K7 is mapped to the first intron. A MAP3K7 mini-gene containing the first intron can be cloned 
into the plasmid vector, and different alleles (A or G) in this intron are designed into the mini-gene construct. 
Subsequently it is transfected into the cell line and expressed by using cellular machinery. Total RNA is 
harvested to determine which allele might affect the gene splicing and/or the level of gene expression. 
Recently, researchers found that microRNA (miRNA) which interacted with SNPs in 3’ un-translated region 
affected gene expression (Nicoloso et al., 2010). Accordingly, rs11209875 in our finding can be constructed 
into the vector which was used in the luciferase assay. The reporter gene activity is detected to determine if 
the SNP might influence miRNA binding. Detecting interactions according to phenotypes (complex diseases) 
provides some information in disease associations. Therefore, identifying interactions combining with 
molecular subtypes shows another aspect of the story. 
 12
a weak 5’ splice site and adjacent intronic stem-loop cis element. Journal of Biological Chemistry, 280, 
32700-32711. 
McKinney, B.A., et al. (2006) Machine learning for detecting gene-gene interactions: a review. Applied 
Bioinformatics, 5, 77-88. 
Moore, J.H. (2004) Computational analysis of gene-gene interactions using multifactor dimensionality 
reduction. Expert Review of Molecular Diagnostics, 4, 795-803. 
Moore, J.H. and White, B.C. (2007) Tuning ReliefF for genome-wide genetic analysis. Lecture Notes of 
Computer Science, 4447, 166-175. 
Narayan, G., et al. (2009) Protocadherin PCDH10, involved in tumor progression, is a frequent and early 
target of promoter hypermethylation in cervical cancer. Genes, Chromosomes, and Cancer, 48, 983-992. 
Nelson, M.R., et al. (2001) A combinational partitioning method to identify multilocus genotypic partitions 
that predict quantitative trait variation. Genome Research, 11, 458-470. 
Nicoloso, M.S., et al. (2010) Single-nucleotide polymorphisms inside microRNA target sites influence tumor 
susceptibility. Cancer Research, 70, 2789-2798. 
Park, M.Y. and Hastie, T. (2008) Penalized logistic regression for detecting gene interactions. Biostatistics, 9, 
30-50. 
Plenge, R.M., et al. (2007) TRAF-C5as a risk locus for rheumatoid arthritis – a genome-wide study. New 
England Journal of Medicine, 357, 1199-1209. 
Ritchie, M.D., et al. (2001) Multifactor-dimensionality reduction reveals high-order interactions among 
estrogen-metabolism genes in sporadic breast cancer. American Journal of Human Genetics, 69, 138-147. 
Robnik-Sikonja, M. and Kononenko, I. (2003) Theoretical and empirical analysis of ReliefF and RReliefF. 
Machine Learning, 53, 23-69. 
Rosner, B. (2006) Fundamentals of Biostatistics, the 6th edition, Thomson, Belmont, CA. 
Sáiz, P.A., et al. (2010) Genetic polymorphisms in the dopamine-2 receptor (DRD2), dopamine-3 receptor 
(DRD3), and dopamine transporter (SLC6A3) genes in schizophrenia: Data from an association study. 
Progress in Neuro-Psychopharmacology & Biological Psychiatry, 34, 26-31. 
Shah, S.P., et al. (2006) Integrating copy number polymorphisms into array CGH analysis using a robust 
HMM. Bioinformatics, 22, 431-439. 
Shah, S.P., et al (2009) Model-based clustering of array CGH data. Bioinformatics, 25, i30-i38. 
van der Laan, M.J., et al. (2003) A new partitioning around medoids algorithm. Journal of Statistical 
Computational Simulation, 73, 575-584. 
van Wieringin, W.N. and van de Wiel, M.A. (2008) Nonparametric testing for DNA copy number induced 
differential mRNA gene expression. Biometrics, 9, 484-500. 
Velez, D.R., et al. (2007) A balance accuracy function for epistasis modeling in imbalance datasets using 
multifactor dimensionality reduction. Genetic Epidemiology, 31, 306-315. 
Wellcome Trust Case Control Consortium. (2007) Genome-wide study of 14,000 cases of seven common 
diseases and 3,000 shared controls. Nature, 447, 661-678. 
Zhang, H. and Bonney, G. (2000) Use of classification trees for association studies. Genetic Epidemiology, 19, 
323-332. 
 
 14
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價值（簡要敘述
成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以 500字為限） 
The disease-associated loci underlying complex diseases have been reported in the 
genome-wide association study (GWAS). However, gene-gene interactions in complex diseases 
are too complicated to be identified due to absence of main effect or marginal effect. In addition, 
considering molecular subtypes in dealing with gene-gene interaction study has not yet been 
reported. The aim of this study is not only to uncover interacting loci on the basis of disease 
molecular subtype, but also to identify candidate loci for further investigation. A strategy of 
combining clustering approach and data-mining method is proposed in the study of gene-gene 
interactions of complex diseases, and lymphoma data consisting of four subtypes are used to 
carry out the proposed strategy. The dataset contains information of single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) and copy number variations (CNVs) are inferred by CNAG 3.0 via 
observed SNP probes. After clustering samples by CNV information with hidden Markov model 
(HMM) methods, SNP-SNP interactions are identified for molecular subtypes by data-mining 
method of multifactor dimensionality reduction (MDR). Interactions based on clustering 
molecular subtypes are more significant than those without clustering, and better than 
interactions based on disease subtypes. Some novel interacting loci are identified in our study 
and they may be potential candidates for further research. Our finding suggests that it is proper 
to detect gene-gene interactions with considering molecular subtypes. Furthermore, it is feasible 
for different clustering methods associated with advanced data mining approaches to study 
molecular-subtype interacting. 
 
 
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：100 年 12 月 12 日 
一、參加會議經過 
InCoB/ISCB-Asia Joint Conference 2011 is the official conference of the Asia-Pacific Bioinformatics 
Network (APBioNet). The main aim of InCoB is to provide a platform for experts and 
budding bioinformaticians to discuss and exchange ideas and thoughts on the development of bioinformatics 
in the Asia Pacific region. The event showcases the latest research, technologies and innovation in all areas 
of bioinformatics in Asia. InCoB/ISCB-Asia Joint Conference 2011 was held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and 
was organized in close collaboration with the Malaysian Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation 
(MOSTI), the Malaysia Genome Institute (MGI) along with key institutions and companies within the country. 
This international forum focused on conceptual and practical issues in cutting-edge Bioinformatics 
applications and findings from sequence and structure analysis, molecular evolution, healthcare, 
agriculture, environment and diseases to next generation sequencing technology platform and data analysis. 
The first two days (11/28 – 11/29) were tutorials and workshop, and the last three (11/30 – 12/2) were joint 
conference. Plenary and keynote speakers in  InCoB/ISCB-Asia Joint Conference 2011 comprises of experts 
in the various disciplines of bioinformatics were invited to present the latest innovations, technologies, ideas 
and research findings in their respective areas of expertise. They invited Professor Minoru Kanehisa 
(Bioinformatics Center, Kyoto University; Human Genome Center, University of Tokyo, Japan), Dr. Alex 
Bateman (Director of graduate studies, Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, UK), Professor Wang Jun 
計畫編號 NSC 99－2221－E－320－006－ 
計畫名稱 應用分群模式及一般化多因子降維法辨識基因間交互作用之癌症研究 
出國人員
姓名 陳光琦 
服務機構
及職稱 慈濟大學 醫學資訊學系 
會議時間 100 年 11 月 28 日至 100 年 12 月 2 日 會議地點 馬來西亞 吉隆坡 
會議名稱 
(中文) 第十屆亞太地區生物資訊與第一屆亞洲計算生物學聯合會議 
(英文) Asia Pacific Bioinformatics Network's 10th InCoB - 1st ISCB Asia Joint 
Conference 2011 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 基因交互作用網路單調性之量化分析 
(英文) A quantitative analysis of monochromaticity in genetic interaction networks 
附件四 
 3 
Title: Interacting with Protein Interactions 
Abstract: Biology has become accessible to an understanding of processes that span from atom to organism. 
As such we now have the opportunity to build a spatio-temporal picture of living systems at the molecular 
level. Recent work in my laboratory addresses some of the issues that we confront in our attempts to create, 
interact with, and communicate physical representations of complex molecular environments. 
In this talk I will discuss and demonstrate three levels of interaction with protein interactions: 
1) human perceptual and cognitive interaction with complex structural information; 
2) interaction and integration of disparate data sources to construct cellular environments at the molecular 
level; and 
3) interaction of software tools that can bridge the disparate disciplines needed to explore, analyze  and 
communicate the emergent holistic molecular view of living systems. 
In order to increase the understanding and interaction with complex molecular structural information we have 
combined two evolving computational technologies: computer autofabrication, known as solid printing and 
augmented reality, the technology that combines real-world object with computer generated information. We 
create tangible models utilizing computer autofabrication. Each molecular model can be custom made, with 
an ease similar to that of printing an image on a piece of paper. Specific model assembly kits can be made 
with this technology to create molecular Legos” that go well beyond the chemical models of the nineteenth 
and twentieth centuries. Augmented reality is used to combine computer-generated information with the 
physical models in the same perceptual space. By real-time video tracking of the models as they are 
manipulated we can superimpose text and graphics onto the models to enhance the information content and 
drive interactive computation. We have recently developed AutoFill and AutoCell, automated technologies to 
construct the crowded molecular environment of living cells from structural information at multiple levels as 
well as bioinformatics information on levels of protein expression and other data. Utilizing a 
multi-algorithmic approach we can populate cytoplasm, membranes, organelles and multi-protein complexes 
within the same structural volume, resulting in three-dimensional representations of cellular environments that 
synthesize our current best knowledge of such systems, and which can become “community models” that 
evolve with new information and knowledge. Such environments can be used for multi-scale simulations of 
complex cellular molecular phenomena. The communication of such complex structural information requires 
both extensive scientific knowledge as well as expertise in creating clear visualizations and interactive 
environments. To this end we have developed a method of combining our existing molecular modeling 
environment with several professional grade 3D modeling and animation programs such as Maya, Cinema4D 
and Blender. This gives both molecular scientists and professional scientific illustrators access to the best 
capabilities of both the science and art of molecular communication. In doing so it brings new, expanded 
capabilities to both communities. 
 
Attending an international conference was an excellent experience for my research and teaching. It provided 
me a great view in Bioinformatics field and inspired me in teaching Bioinformatics. 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動 省略) 
 
四、建議 
 5 
所發表之論文摘要 
A quantitative analysis of monochromaticity in genetic interaction networks 
Chien-Hsiang Hsu1, #, Tse-Yi Wang2, #, Hsueh-Ting Chu3, Cheng-Yan Kao1, 4,*, Kuang-Chi Chen 5,*  
1Graduate Institute of Biomedical Electronics and Bioinformatics, National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan 
2Institute of Information Science, Academia Sinica, Taipei, 115, Taiwan 
3Department of Computer Science and  Information Engineering, Asia University, Taichung, Taiwan 
4Department of Computer Science and Information Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei 106, Taiwan 
5Department of Medical Informatics, Tzu Chi University, Hualien 970, Taiwan 
 
#Equal contribution 
*Corresponding author 
 
Abstract 
 
Background: A genetic interaction refers to the deviation of phenotypes from the expected when 
perturbing two genes simultaneously. Studying genetic interactions help clarify relationships between 
genes, such as compensation and masking, and identify gene groups of functional modules. Recently, 
several genome-scale experiments for measuring quantitative (positive and negative) genetic interactions 
have been conducted. The results revealed that genes in the same module usually interact with each other in 
a consistent way (pure positive or negative); this phenomenon was designated as monochromaticity. 
Monochromaticity might be the underlying principle that can be utilized to unveil the modularity of 
cellular networks. However, no appropriate quantitative measurement for this phenomenon has been 
proposed. 
 
Results: In this study, we propose the monochromatic index (MCI), which is able to quantitatively evaluate 
the monochromaticity of potential functional modules of genes, and the MCI was used to study genetic 
landscapes in different cellular subsystems. We demonstrated that MCI not only amend the deficiencies of 
MP-score but also properly incorporate the background effect. The results showed that not only 
within-complex but also between-complex connections present significant monochromatic tendency. 
Furthermore, we also found that significantly higher proportion of protein complexes are connected by 
negative genetic interactions in metabolic network, while transcription and translation system adopts 
relatively even number of positive and negative genetic interactions to link protein complexes. 
 
Conclusion: In summary, we demonstrate that MCI improves deficiencies suffered by MP-score, and can 
be used to evaluate monochromaticity in a quantitative manner. In addition, it also helps to unveil features 
of genetic landscapes in different cellular subsystems. Moreover, MCI can be easily applied to data 
produced by different types of genetic interaction methodologies such as Synthetic Genetic Array (SGA), 
and epistatic miniarray profile (E-MAP) 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/02/10
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 應用分群模型及一般化多因子降維法辨識基因間交互作用之癌症研究
計畫主持人: 陳光琦
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-320-006- 學門領域: 生物資訊
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
