 行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
仿生人形機器人之發展- 子計畫一: 
可撓式壓剪應力感測陣列系統之開發 
Development of flexible capacitive tactile  
and shear-stress sensor arrays 
計 畫 編 號：NSC-97-2628-E-002-049-MY3 
執 行 期 限：2010 年 08 月 01 日至 2011 年 07 月 31 日 
主 持 人：楊燿州 台灣大學機械工程學系 
共同主持人：  
計畫參與人員：賴昱澤、陳永明、蘇晏立   
一、中文摘要 
本研究利用創新的電容式感測機制，配
合設計特殊造型的可撓性電路軟板，將觸覺
感測陣列應用於人形機器人，能夠適切的符
合感測部位之形狀，而達成最佳的感測效果。
此感測元件能簡易的利用微加工技術與軟性
印刷電路板製程製作而成。其感測陣列元件
利用聚二甲基矽氧烷(PDMS)為主要結構和
聚亞醯胺 (Polyimide, PI) 可撓性基材構成。
每單一個電容式觸覺感測單元，包含 1 個上
層浮動電極與 2 個下層感測電極。將金屬蒸
鍍於可撓性 PDMS 結構層上，可製作上層浮
動電極，而感測電極與金屬導線線路利用軟
性電路板印刷技術製作完成，本設計可有效
的降低電容式感測器複雜的結構與製程。本
研究亦針對不同尺寸大小的感測元件特性進
行量測與討論。並已設計開發電容式掃瞄電
路，做為感測訊號之擷取。本感測元件最高
的敏感度為 14.5%/kPa。本研究亦開發感測陣
列專用之掃描電路與機器人整合，成功的量
測與擷取此感測陣列於機器手臂上的觸覺感
測力量分佈之結果。  
關鍵詞：觸覺感測陣列、人工皮膚、電容感
測機制、可撓式電路 
 
ABSTRACT 
 This work presents the development of a 
reliable capacitive tactile sensing array which 
will be tailored as the artificial skins for a 
humanoid robot.  The proposed capacitive 
sensing element include of two sensing 
electrodes and a common floating electrode.  
The sensing electrodes as well as the metal 
interconnect for signal scanning are 
implemented on the FPCB, while the floating 
electrode is patterned on one of the PDMS 
structures.  This special design can effectively 
reduce the complexity of device structure and 
thus makes the device highly manufacturable.  
The measured maximum sensitivity is about 
14.5%/kPa.  Pressure distribution is captured 
using a scanning circuit.  The deployment of 
the skin on a humanoid robot is also 
demonstrated. 
KEYWORDS: Tactile sensing array; Shear 
force sensing array; Capacitive sensing 
mechanism; Flexible electronics. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 Flexible artificial skins integrated with 
tactile array sensing capability are essential for 
robots to effectively interact with humans and 
environment.  Flexible substrates of various 
polymer-based materials, such as polyester, 
parylene, polyimide (PI), or 
polydimethlysiloxane (PDMS), were proposed 
[1]-[9].  In general, the implementation of 
conductive-polymer-based mechanism is quite 
simple and straightforward.  The typical 
approach is to sandwich conductive polymer 
materials, such as conductive gel or conductive 
elastomer, by two flexible sheets patterned with 
sensing electrodes [1]-[4].  However, the 
cross-talks between adjacent sensing elements 
 chamber, the prepared PDMS mixture is poured 
onto a patterned SU-8 master (GM 1070, 
Gersteltec Sarl).  After cured at 90°C for 60 
min, the cured PDMS layer is peeled from the 
master substrate.  
 
Figure 3. (a) Fabrication process of the PDMS 
structure layer.  (b) The FPCB fabricated by a 
foundry.  (c) The assembled device  
 As shown in Figure 3(a), chromium (200Å) 
and gold (1600Å) are deposited on Layer-I by 
using an E-beam evaporator.  During the 
evaporation process, a steel shadow mask is 
placed on the top of Layer-I to pattern the 
floating electrodes for each sensing element.  
The chromium film serves as an adhesion layer.  
Also, the gold film is the main material of 
floating electrodes.  The shadow mask is 
created by laser machining on a steel plate of 
1.5mm in thickness. 
 The detailed fabrication process of FPCB 
can be found in [13].  Note that the solder 
resist on the FPCB layer serves as the insulator 
layer between the floating electrode and the 
sensing electrodes.  The row and column 
interconnects are implemented on both sides of 
the FPCB layer with a total thickness of 100μm.  
Layer-II and PDMS structure are aligned each 
other using a microscope.  Layer-II (FPCB) is 
glued to the PDMS structure by applying 
PDMS prepolymer (mixed with curing agent) 
on the perimeters of the layers using a syringe.  
And the device is cured at room temperature 
for 24 hours.  The PDMS structure is firmly 
bonded on Layer-II under normal operation.  
The assembled schematic of the device is 
shown in Figure 3(c). 
 The fabricated tactile sensing array is 
shown in Figure 4.  The sizes of the sensing 
electrodes of arm skin are shown in Figure 4(a). 
The deposited metal patterns on this layer are 
large square shapes without connecting to each 
other.  Figure 4(b) shows the pictures of the 
fabricated tactile sensing array for robot arms.  
The size of device is 200×100 mm2 including 
interconnects for scanning circuitry.  The 
fabricated sensor arrays for robot face are 
shown in Figure 5.  The special tailoring 
shapes are designed for to cover the face. 
Figure 4. The fabricated structure layers of 
tactile sensing array. (a) the size of the sensing 
electrode (b) the fabricated tactile sensing array 
on the robot arm. 
 
Figure 5. The fabricated artificial skin for robot 
face: (a) the left cheek skin (b) the right cheek 
skin (c) the forehead skin (d) the chin skin. 
 
MEASUREMENT AND DISCUSSION 
 Figure 6 is the schematics of the 
experimental setup for measuring normal force 
(a) (b) 
(d) (c)
15×10 mm2
18×10 mm2
(b)(a)
Tactile sensor 26×5.7 mm2 
:PDMS 
(a) 
(c) 
:PI-film 
:Au :Copper 
:Si wafer 
:SU-8 
(b) 
 are also compatible with the battery installed on 
the robot.  Figure 9(b) also shows the sensing 
arrays connected with scanning circuit by 
flexible flat cable. 
 
Figure 9. The schematic of the sensing-array 
system with scanning circuitry. 
 Figures 10 shows the sensing arrays which 
have been tailored to cover the arm and face of 
a humanoid robot.  Furthermore, Figure 11 
also shows the measured pressure distributions 
by using a scanning circuit.  
 
Figure 10. Pictures of the artificial skins 
installed on the head and arm of a humanoid 
robot. 
 
Figure 11. The measured pressure distributions 
by touching. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 The development of tactile sensing arrays, 
which are tailored as the skins for a humanoid 
robot, was presented.  The proposed sensing 
array, which employs a novel capacitive 
sensing mechanism, consists of a 
micromachined PDMS structure and a flexible 
printed circuit board (FPCB).  The 
corresponding scanning circuit was designed 
and implemented.  The characteristics of the 
devices with different dimensions were 
measured and discussed.  The measured 
maximum sensitivity is 14.5%/kPa.  By using 
the fabricated 8x8 sensing array, tactile images 
induced different shapes were also 
demonstrated. 
REFERENCES 
1. M. Shimojo, A. Namiki, M. Ishikawa, R. 
Makino, and K. Mabuchi, "A tactile 
sensor sheet using pressure conductive 
rubber with electrical-wires stitched 
method," IEEE Sensors Journal, vol. 4, pp. 
589-596, Oct 2004. 
2. O. Kerpa, K. Weiss, and H. Worn, 
"Development of a Flexible Tactile Sensor 
System for a Humanoid Robot," IEEE 
International Conference on Intelligent 
Robots and Systems, pp. 1-6, 2003.  
3. M.-Y. Cheng, C.-M. Tsao, and Y.-J. Yang, 
"A Novel Highly-twistable Tactile 
Sensing Array Using Extendable Spiral 
Electrodes," in 22nd IEEE International 
Conference on Micro Electro Mechanical 
Systems (MEMS 2009), 2009, pp. 92-95. 
4. T. V. Papakostas, J. Lima, and M. Lowe, 
"A Large Area Force Sensor for Smart 
Skin Applications," Proceedings of IEEE 
Sensors, pp. 1620-1624, 2002. 
5. Y. J. Yang, M. Y. Cheng, W. Y. Chang, L. 
C. Tsao, S. A. Yang, W. P. Shih, F. Y. 
Chang, S. H. Chang, and K. C. Fan, "An 
integrated flexible temperature and tactile 
sensing array using PI-copper films," 
Sensors and Actuators a-Physical, vol. 143, 
pp. 143-153, May 2008. 
Robot forehead 
Robot chin 
Robot arm 
(a) (b) 
 「IEEE 第二十四屆 微機電系統國際會議」 
 
會議期間及地點 
2011年 1月 23日至 2011年 1月 27日 
墨西哥/坎昆 
會議名稱 
國際電器電子工程師協會 第二十四屆 微機電系統國際會議 
The 24th International Conference on Micro Electro Mechanical Systems (IEEE MEMS2011) 
發表論文之題目 
 A tactile sensing array with tunable sensing ranges using liquid crystal and carbon nanotubes 
composites. 
液晶與奈米碳管複合物開發具可調整力量感測範圍之觸覺感測陣列 
 A novel tactile sensing array with image retaining and erasing capabilities using CNT-PDMS 
polymer mixed by dielectrophoresis. 
介電泳技術應於 CNT-PDMS複合物開發具影像記錄與清除能力之新式觸覺感測器 
 
一、 前言 
由電機與電子工程師學會(Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, IEEE)主辦的第
二十四屆微機電系統國際會議(MEMS2011)，於 2011年 1月23日至 27日在墨西哥坎昆(Maxico, 
Cancun)，希爾頓飯店(Hilton Cancun Golf & Spa Resort)舉行。此次會議的主席是美國華盛頓大
學的 Karl Böhringer與美國加州柏克萊大學的 Liwei Lin。此會議已舉辦多年，是微機電領域
中最受關注與代表性的會議，能夠於此會議被接受與發表的研究，都是具相當水準的作品。
本研究團隊於此次會議發表二篇與壓力感測器相關之研究，題目分別為 A tactile sensing array 
with tunable sensing ranges using liquid crystal and carbon nanotubes composites與 A novel tactile 
sensing array with image retaining and erasing capabilities using CNT-PDMS polymer mixed by 
dielectrophoresis。 
 
二、參加會議經過 
IEEE MEMS conference會議所收錄的論文含蓋領域相當廣泛，分別有各種物理性質感測
器與系統(Mechanical, thermal, and magnetic sensors and actuators, and system)、光學元件與系統
(Opto-mechanical microdevices and microsystems)、微型流體元件(Fluidic microcomponents and 
microsystems)、微型儲存元件(Microdevices for data storage)、微生醫工程(Microdevices for 
biomedical engineering)、微型化學分析系統(Micro chemical analysis systems)、無線通訊元件與
系統(Microdevices and systems for wireless communication)、電源與能源擷取元件(Microdevices 
 
圖三、機械破壞測試結果 
 
圖四、針陣列製作與實驗測試 
  
美國 Georgia科技學院 Allen等人，發表一種利用 SU-8所製作的微型內中空針頭，利用
控制 UV光的曝光時間，完成所需要的結構。圖五為此研究的製程流程，圖五(c)中，利用第
一層光罩，製作出針筒，圖五(d)利用較短的曝光時間，使表面的 SU-8硬化，而不會全部硬
化。由圖六中可知，圖五(c)中光罩圖型不同，將製做出不一樣的針筒。圖七，所製作的針陣
列經由注射流體的試驗，證明其針頭的可使用性。 
 
圖五、製程流程圖 
 
圖九、針尖 SEM照片 
 
圖十、成品實體照片 
 
 
 日本 Sugiyama團隊利用奈米碳管，做為微鏡面制動器的的連接軸(Hinge)，能夠降低制動
器的驅動電壓，圖十一為此結構的設計，如圖十二所示，利用特殊方法，使碳管長成薄膜，
取下後貼附於結構上，利用電漿的方式將結構蝕刻出來。此制動器的特性如圖十三所示。 
 
圖十一、結構示意圖 
 
圖十四、感測器結構示意圖 
 
圖十五、感測器結構實體圖 (a)3×3感測陣列 (b)感測單元 
 
日本慶應義塾大學 Y. Hotta等人提出一種可撓式、高敏感度的電容式壓力感測器。圖十
六為感測器的示意圖，他們將鐵電溶液-去離子水封裝製作成感測器，去離子水為一種液態介
電材料，其相對介電常數為 80，可提高感測器的電容值以及敏感度。圖十七為其量測結果，
有鐵電溶液與無鐵電溶液的放大比率達 80以上。 
 
圖十六、感測器結構示意圖 
 
圖十九、原理示意圖(a)傳統可變電容器(b)新式可變電容器 
 
圖二十、可變電容器 SEM圖 
 
英屬哥倫比亞大學M.Dahmardeh等人利用微放電的方式對奈米碳管層進行加工，製作出
高深寬比、三維奈米碳管微結構。圖二十一為實驗的示意圖。圖二十二為奈米碳管加工後實
體圖。圖二十三為使用錐狀電極至做出針狀的奈米碳管陣列。 
 
圖二十一、實驗設備示意圖 
其能量的擷取。此設計可用一非線性的模型描述，其模擬與實驗結果皆顯示有非常大的可用
頻寬。圖二十四為共振器的結構示意圖。圖二十五為所製作的實體圖。圖二十六為量測結果。 
 
圖二十四、共振器結構示意圖 
 
圖二十五、共振器實體圖 
 
圖二十六、實驗結果 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/07/17
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫一：可撓式壓剪應力感測陣列系統之開發
計畫主持人: 楊燿州
計畫編號: 97-2628-E-002-049-MY3 學門領域: 機器人學及應用
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
