based on our CGBCD and CRGD. This tool will let 
researchers or physicians retrieve the bladder 
cancer-related biomarkers, genes with gene regulation 
and miRNA easily and quickly. 
 
A text mining program, BioRAT, was used to retrieve 
reports that describe cancer-related biomarkers, 
genes and gene regulation and its miRNA. If a report 
of cancer-related gene with up regulation is found, 
the gene will be annotated as ’gene name(u)’. If a 
report of cancer-related gene with down regulation is 
found, the gene will be annotated as ’gene 
name(d)’. With the same idea, the gene will be 
annotated as ’gene name(b)’ for both up and down 
regulations reported, and ’gene name(e)’ for 
equivocal regulation. 
 
After cancer-related genes with gene regulation and 
miRNA were identified, we created a tool using the 
HTML (HyperText Markup Language) to display the 
cancer-related genes with gene regulation and miRNA 
on web pages for researchers. After a user select a 
cancer name, e.g. bladder cancer, on the tool, the 
information of bladder cancer-related biomarkers, 
genes with gene regulation and miRNA were displayed 
on the web page.  
 
In the first year, we have created a tool to display 
the bladder cancer-related genes with gene regulation 
and miRNA. In the 2nd year, we created the tool for 
another 16 cancers using the same model，including 
bone cancer、brain cancer、breast cancer、cervical 
cancer、 cholangiocarcinoma、colon cancer、esophageal 
cancer、gastric cancer、hepatoma、Hodgkin‘s 
disease、intestinal cancer、Kaposi‘s sarcoma、
laryngeal cancer、lung cancer、lymphoid leukemia and 
lymphosarcoma。In the 3rd year, we will complete 
cancer-related genes with gene regulation and miRNA 
for another 15 cancers. Using this tool, biological 
researches or clinical physicians can retrieve the 
cancer-related genes with gene regulation and miRNA 
quickly. It can help researchers and clinical 
 1
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 5 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
※ 計畫名稱:                                                ※ 
※  建立一個顯示癌症(膀胱癌)相關基因及基因調控的研究工具(II)※ 
※   Creating a tool to display the (bladder) cancer-related genes     ※ 
※   with gene regulation (II)                                   ※ 
※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※※ 
 
計畫類別：5個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100－2221－E－182A－001 
執行期間：100 年 08 月 01 日至 101 年 07 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：林口長庚醫院泌尿科及長庚大學資訊管理學系 
 
計畫主持人：張慧朗 
共同主持人：陳春賢 
計畫參與人員：林偉勳、林昀志、徐國超 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：5精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
 
 
中   華   民   國  101 年 10 月 01 日 
 
 3
into NCBI's Entrez system as “Cancer Chromosomes”. The Genes and Disease database has been created 
at NCBI. “Genes and Disease” is a collection of articles that discuss genes and the diseases that they 
cause. These genetic disorders are organized by the parts of the body that they affect. 
 
The Pharmacogenetics and Pharmacogenomics Knowledge Base (PharmGKB) has been created by 
Stanford University. PharmGKB curates information that establishes knowledge about the relationships 
among drugs, diseases and genes, including their variations and gene products. Their mission is to 
catalyze pharmacogenomics research. No similar study has been reported in Taiwan. 
 
研究方法: 
The cancer-related genes will be retrieved from a cancer-related genes database. The information 
stored in the database is extracted by a text mining program, BioRAT [Corney 2003-05], by analyzing 
biological and medical publications listed in PubMed to extract genes and gene regulation information 
related to a given cancer. BioRAT is a powerful information extraction (IE) system designed to perform 
biomedical IE. It is able to locate and analyze both abstracts and full-length papers listed in PubMed 
database. Natural language processing techniques and domain-specific knowledge are used by BioRAT to 
extract information of particular patterns in PubMed documents. BioRAT contains three main 
components as web spidering, information extraction engine and template design tool. We used this tool 
to design our templates for collecting cancer related genes and gene regulation. 
 
BioRAT contains three main components: 
1. Web spidering 
We used this function to automatically locate and acquire full-length papers wherever possible. 
BioRAT starts with a URL web access in PubMed and recursively follows the hyperlinks until it 
finds the target PDF-format paper which is downloaded and converted into plain text for later 
analysis. 
2. Information extraction engine 
This engine was used to extract from a set of documents the key facts about pre-specified types of 
events, objects and relationships. It is the heart of BioRAT which is based on GATE toolbox 
(General Architecture for Text Engineering) [Cunningham et al., 2002]. Two components of 
GATE were modified for biomedical application by BioRAT to label words according to their 
parts of speech and to filter determinants verbs. 
3. Template design tool 
A template in BioRAT was a representation of a text pattern that allows a user to extract 
biomedical information automatically. Developing a set of templates for a particular information 
extraction task was often a time-consuming process that requires expertise in both text mining and 
the problem domain. The template design tool allows non-expert users to develop templates 
easily by using a graphical user interface. We will use this tool to design our templates for 
collecting cancer related genes. 
 
In the 1st year, we have created a website to set up the text mining program, GATE and BioRAT. Using 
Fig. 3 Cancer related genes and gene regulation, e.g. breast cancer 
（u: up-regulation; d: down-regulation; b: up- and down-regulation; e: equivocal） 
 
 
Fig. 4 The breast cancer-related gene (ABCB1) and its summary are shown in a new window. The 
references can be linked to the PubMed directly. 
 
Fig. 5 The gene regulation of ABCB1 is equivocal to breast cancer. The related references are shown 
in a new window and can be linked to the PubMed directly. 
 
 5
 7
susceptible to errors and so validation of data is essential, especially before the information is applied to 
the clinic. BioRAT is a powerful information extraction system. It can locate and analyze both abstracts 
and full-length papers listed in PubMed database, using the Natural language processing techniques and 
domain-specific knowledge. We also used BioRAT to design our specific templates for collecting cancer 
related genes and gene regulation. However, some new full-length papers are required to be purchased 
from the publisher. It caused us much inconvenient. 
Combining different data sources into a database can result in novel associations and apply insight into 
gene-gene and gene-disease interactions. One group created a gene-disease network by combining the 
diseases and associated genes available in OMIM (Goh, et al., 2007). Analyzing this network showed that 
disease genes are often non-essential and not necessarily hub-genes. The same group created a 
Drug-Target network and integrated that network with a protein-protein interaction (PPI) network. The 
network shows that similar drugs cluster together, etiological drugs show different topologies, and newer 
and experimental drugs tend towards polypharmacology (Yildirim, et al., 2007). A global mapping of 
pharmacological space can be made using chemical structure, disease indication, and protein sequence 
and can be used to make predictions of polypharmacology (Paolini, et al., 2006). Many groups 
hypothesize that the integrative approach will successfully link genomic measurements with clinical 
applications (Atkinson and Lyster, 2010). Indeed, one group has integrated chemical similarity metrics, 
pharmacogenomic interactions, and protein-protein interaction to predictive method for pharmacogenes 
(Hansen, et al., 2009). Another group has used similarity of drug ligand sets to predict and validate novel 
“off-target” interactions (Keiser, et al., 2007). In our database we also include cancer related genes and 
gene regulation, proteins, SNPs and some metabolic pathways. 
Gene regulation drives the processes of cellular differentiation and morphogenesis, leading to the creation 
of different cell types in multicellular organisms where the different types of cells may possess different 
gene expression profiles though they all possess the same genome sequence. Up-regulation is a process 
that occurs within a cell triggered by a signal, which results in increased expression of one or more genes 
and as a result the protein encoded by those genes. On the converse, down-regulation is a process 
resulting in decreased gene and corresponding protein expression. Gene regulation is very important in 
cancer research including tumor growth and suppression. PhenoPred detects gene-disease associations 
using the human protein-protein interaction network, known gene-disease associations, protein sequences, 
and protein functional information at the molecular level (Radivojac, et al., 2008). GeneMANIA 
(Andersen, et al., 2008) generates hypotheses about gene function, analyzing gene lists and prioritizing 
genes for functional assays. The method takes in input genes from six organisms and analyzes them using 
information from different general and organism-specific functional genomics data sets. Therefore, we 
provided the information of cancer-related gene regulation on a bioinformatics website for physicians’ 
research and practice. 
Finally, there are challenges and opportunities for bioinformatics to integrate with the electronic medical 
record (EMR) (Busis, 2010). For example, the BioBank system at Vanderbilt links patient DNA with a 
de-identified EMRs to provide a rich research database for additional translational research in 
 9
Neurology, 75, S60-64. 
18. Denny, J.C., et al. (2010) PheWAS: demonstrating the feasibility of a phenome-wide scan to discover 
gene-disease associations. Bioinformatics. pp. 1205-1210. 
19. Schaefer, A., Jung, M., Kristiansen, G., Lein, M., Schrader, M., Miller, K., Stephan, C., Jung, K. (2010) 
MicroRNAs and cancer: current state and future perspectives in urologic oncology. Urol Oncol. 
Jan-Feb;28(1):4-13. Epub 2008 Dec 30. 
20. Catto, J.W., Alcaraz, A., Bjartell, A.S., De Vere White, R., Evans, C.P., Fussel, S., Hamdy, F.C., 
Kallioniemi, O., Mengual, L., Schlomm, T., Visakorpi, T. (2011) MicroRNA in prostate, bladder, and 
kidney cancer: a systematic review. Eur Urol. May;59(5):671-81. Epub 2011 Feb 1. 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張慧朗 計畫編號：100-2221-E-182A-001- 
計畫名稱：建立一個顯示癌症相關基因及基因調控的研究工具(II) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
