through simulations and the results of the proposed
scheme are compared with the scheme proposed in [4].
And, finally, conclusions of this paper and future
researches are provided.
2: Overview of 802.16e Mobility and Fast
Mobile IPv6
Performance of handoff is the most important issue
discussed in mobile environment. As traditional
communication technology is constructed in layered
approach, to handoff an existing connection or service
stream is a complex procedure. The main functions of
layer 2 layer 3 are to deal with hop-by hop link and
end-to-end connection issues, respectively. Hence the
objectives and procedures of handoff at different layers
are different. IP service is the most popular layer-3
protocol, however, it may run over various kinds of
layer-2 protocols. In this paper we consider the mobility
issue of IP over 802.16e environment. The basic
mobility scenarios of 802.16e and fast mobile IPv6 are
briefly described in the following.
2.1 802.16e Mobility
The mobility supported in 802.16e can be divided
into the following steps:
- Cell reselection
- Handoff decision and initiation
- Synchronization to target BS
- Handoff ranging
- Termination of MS context
In order to speedup the handoff delay, in 802.16e, the
mobile station is allowed to issue scan request for target
BSs. Three kinds of associations are defined to assist
the scan procedure of MS. Level 0 association is the
most straightforward scheme where no coordination
process between serving BS and target BS is performed.
After get the permission for scan by the serving BS, the
mobile station shall contend with the MS of the target
BS, which it is going to scan, for sending ranging
request message to the target BS. Level 1 and 2
association were proposed with the coordination of the
serving BS. That is the serving BS will negotiate with
the target BSs in advance so that the MS can avoid the
contention procedure. And the main difference between
level 1 and 2 is that the ranging results replied by the
target BSs (through BS-to-BS interface) will be
collected by the serving BS in level 2 association. This
arrangement has the advantage that there is no need for
the target BS to allocate additional downlink sub-carrier
and bandwidth for the MS.
After obtaining the ranging results, the decision of
which BS the MS is going to handoff can be made by
either the MS or the serving BS. The basic procedure of
handoff is illustrated in Figure 1. It shows that the
serving BS sends “handoff (HO) notification”to two
target BSs after receiving the handoff request initiated
by MS. And the serving BS selects a target BS and
sends the“HO response”to MS after receiving the “HO
notification response”messages sent by target BSs.
MOB_MSHO-REQ
HO notification
HO notification
HO notification-RSP
HO notification-RSP
MOB_HO-RSP
MOB_HO-IND
DL Sync parameters (DL and UL parameters with DCD/UCD)
HO-confirm
Contention resolution
RNG_RSP (Success)
RNG_REQ (Serving BSID)
Figure 1 The message sequence chart of handoff in 802.16e
2.2 Fast Mobile IPv6
The basic idea of fast mobile IPv6 is to allow some
procedure of IP mobility to be processed in an earlier
stage. Mainly, the mobility procedure of IP layer can be
divided into two steps: The first step is to obtain the
care of address (CoA) and the second step is to register
the obtained CoA at home agent and correspondent
node (CN) (if route optimization is required). The fast
mobile IPv6 is to assist the mobile node to obtain its
CoA before the initiation of handoff. In the proposed
fast mobile IPv6, there are two possible scenarios,
named as predictive mode and reactive mode, as shown
in Figure 2 and 3, depending on whether the MS can
connect to its previous access router (PAR) or not when
sending the fast binding update (FBU) message. The
reactive mode (i.e. the FBU message can not be reached
PAR and shall be tunneled to the next access router
(NAR)) happened when MS is moving fast. It is noted
that the disconnection interval existed when the mobile
node is disconnected by the PAR and is waiting for the
connection from NAR as shown in Figure 2 and 3.
Figure 2 The predictive mode fast MIPv6
Figure 4 Predictive CLHS with separated BS/AR
Figure 5 Predictive CLHS with integrated BS/AR
4: Performance Simulations
The performance of the proposed scheme is
examined through exhaustive simulations. A network
topology with 7 base stations, as shown in Figure 6, is
applied for simulation. In Figure 6, each base station has
4 circles, which denote different channel conditions.
From the inner circle to the most outside circle, the
channel condition is assumed to be getting worse. We
assume that each MS will always select the BS with the
channel with the best condition. For example, if a MS is
moving as shown in Figure 6, the MS will decide to
handoff from BS 3 to BS 7 because the MS will be in
the second circle of BS 7 after movement and the
channel condition with BS 7 will be better than that of
BS 3, which is located at the forth circle. The mobility
model of each MS is assumed to be with random way
point [6]. The speed of each MS is uniformly distributed
between 0~120 KM/hour. If the speed is 0, it means that
the MS stops within that interval (halt duration). And
the halt time is exponentially distributed with mean 15
seconds while within the ranges of 3 seconds and 30
seconds. The transmission delay between base stations
is 5 ms. It is assumed that the moving area of mobile
station is confined by the outer rectangular and only the
handoff behaviors occurred inside the inner rectangular
are taken into consideration for simulation results.
MS
Figure 6 Simulation topology
The simulation results are divided into two parts.
The first part is mainly related to the handoff latency
and the second part is related to the blocking rates of
handoff for the proposed scheme and the scheme
proposed in [4].
Figure 7 compares the handoff delay of the proposed
CLHS and the fast handoff for 802.16e (FH802.16e)
scheme proposed in [4]. It is noted that the delay time is
mainly dependent on the number of messages to be
processed in our simulation and the message shall be
processed within the duration of an 802.16e frame and
will be response to its peer in the following frame. It is
found that the delay time is insensitive to the number of
mobile stations. However, the handoff latency of our
scheme is less than that of FH802.16e. The reason is
that our scheme needs less number of messages than
that of FH802.16e when performing handoff.
Handoff Delay
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160
MS Number
Handoff Delay
(ms)
CLHS Predictive CLHS Reactive
FH802.16e Predictive FH802.16e Reactive
Figure 7 Handoff delay v.s. number of MS
