This paper was be accepted by 2nd Annual International Conference on Mobile Communications, 
Networking and Applications 
Service Location Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Network 
 
Min-Xiou Chen 
Department of Computer Science and Information 
Engineering,  
National Dong Hwa University,  
Hualien, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
E-mail:mxchen@mail.ndhu.edu.tw  
Fu-Hsing Sung   
Department of Computer Science and Information 
Engineering,  
National Dong Hwa University, Hualien, Taiwan, 
R.O.C. 
E-mail: m9821008@ems.ndhu.edu.tw 
 
Abstract—Discovery and management of desired network 
services is a great challenge in the vehicular ad-hoc networks. 
In this paper, we propose some service discovery architectures 
based on Service Location Protocol for vehicular ad-hoc 
networks. We introduce a substitute query technique into 
Service Location Protocol to discover the service information 
in vehicle ad hoc networks, to improve the request hit ratio. A 
cache mechanism is introduced to reduce the message 
overhead of the substitute query, and a backup mechanism is 
introduced to improve the request hit ratio. Finally, we 
implement the proposed mechanisms in NS2, and the 
simulation results show that the proposed architecture 
provides a high average data hit ratio. 
Keywords- Service Discovery, Service Location Protocol, 
Vehicular Ad hoc Network. 
I.  INTRODUCTION  
In recent years, with the advances in embedded 
technologies and wireless communication technology 
integration, vehicle ad hoc networks (VANETs) have 
received increasing attention from the research community. 
VANET is a technology that uses moving vehicles as nodes 
in a network to create a mobile ad hoc network. Each node in 
VANET will be equipped with an embedded computer 
system, and the hands-free devices, digital map database, and 
position device will be integrated into the embedded 
computer system. The IEEE and ASTM (American Society 
for Testing and Materials) have proposed designated DSRC 
(Dedicated Short Range Communication) to be used for 
inter-vehicle and vehicle to roadside communication. Thus, 
by integrating DSRC interface into vehicle embedded 
computer system, future cars could communicate with other 
vehicles and numerous network services could be provided 
in VANETs. 
These network services can be grouped into security 
services and convenience services. The security services 
enhance the vehicle safety on roads, and the convenience 
services provide services to passengers in the vehicles. 
However, how to discover and manage the desired network 
services becomes a great challenge in such VANETs. 
Service discovery protocols allow devices to advertise 
service and find specific services on the network [1][2]. 
There have been many research efforts on service discovery 
problem. Some of the proposed service discovery protocols 
are designed on the network layer, and the others are 
designed on the application layer. According to the proposed 
architecture, these research results can be divided into a 
centralized directory based service discovery architecture 
[3]-[5], distributed directory based service discovery 
architecture[6]-[8], and directory-less based service 
discovery architecture[9]-[11]. 
It is a critical issue how to design a service discovery 
mechanism with lower network overhead, faster service 
response time, higher service hit ratio, and better network 
scalability. To the best of our knowledge, most currently 
service discovery protocols are designed for infrastructure 
networks or for mobile ad hoc networks (MANETs). 
However, there are some differences between VANETs and 
MANETs. In VANET, the nodes are moving in a random but 
predictable manner at much higher speeds compared to 
traditional MANET, and their trails aren't too complicated. 
High speed vehicles form quick dynamic network topology, 
and the amount of node in VANETs is larger than in 
MANETs. Thus, the service discovery protocols designed for 
MANETs may not be worked at VANETs. 
In the paper, we propose our service discovery 
architecture derived from the Service Location Protocol 
(SLP) [3][4]. In original SLP architecture, the SLP Directory 
Agents (DAs) are used to manage the services registered 
from the service provide, and the users can use service 
discovery message to find the SLP DAs. However, when 
SLP works as VANETs, the SLP DAs could move from a 
road to another road, and the users may not find any one SLP 
DA. In [12], they divide a VANET into several logical zone, 
and each zone could select a vehicle node to work as a zone 
leader. Based on the architecture proposed in [12], a 
multicast service can be provided in VANET. However, the 
service discovery problem does not considered in [12]. Thus, 
in the paper, we modified the SLP architecture based on the 
architecture proposed in [12] to provide service discovery 
service in VANET.  
In our proposed architecture, the zone leader will work as 
the SLP DA to manage the registered services. When the 
zone leader wants to leave the logical zone, it will select a 
vehicle node in the zone to be a new zone leader. Thus, we 
need propose a zone leader exchange procedure. Moreover, 
we introduce the Substitute Request Message proposed in 
[13] and a cache mechanism into the SLP directory agent in 
order to improve the service hit ratio. The SLP directory 
the other ZDAs from its ZDA, the SLP UA can send a 
Substitute Request Message to the ZDA, and the Substitute 
Request Message can contain the address of the desired 
ZDAs and the desired service. When the ZDA receives this 
Substitute Request Message, it uses the <DA add> string to 
retrieve the IP address of the desired ZDAs and forwards the 
Substitute Request message to the desired ZDAs. The 
desired ZDAs return their reply to the original ZDA. A 
caching mechanism could be implemented into the ZDA so 
that this ZDA can cache the search results for use in the 
subsequent service discovery.  
The detailed procedures are shown in Figure 2. A media 
server registers its service with the right ZDA. When the 
SLP UA wants to discover a media server and sends a 
Service Request message to the left ZDA, the Service Reply 
message will not contain any service information because 
there is no local media server in the zone. However, the 
Service Reply message contains the address of the right ZDA. 
The SLP UA then sends a Substitute Request Message with 
the right ZDA address to the left ZDA. The left ZDA will 
resolve the right ZDA’s IP address and forward the 
Substitute Request message to the right ZDA.  
 
Figure 2. Substitute Request flows 
Because the right ZDA contains the service information 
registered by the media server, a Service Reply message with 
the service information is sent from the right ZDA. When the 
left ZDA receives the Service Reply message, the service 
information will be extracted from the Service Reply 
message and registered by the left ZDA, and a copy of the 
Service Reply message will be sent to the SLP UA. Later, 
when a new Service Request is sent to the left ZDA, the 
Service Reply message will contain the media server 
information. 
C. Extended Service Discovery Architecture  
Based on the Substitute Request Message and the cache 
mechanism, a hierarchical directory agent architecture or 
Peer-to-Peer service directory agent architecture can be 
proposed. For example, the hierarchical directory agent 
architecture can be constructed as the DNS system. When a 
lower level ZDA cannot find the desired service, a SLP UA 
can send the Substitute Request Message with the higher 
level ZDA address to the lower level ZDA. The lower level 
ZDA will send a Service Request message to the higher level 
ZDA, and store the search results in its data base. 
Moreover, when the SLP SA registers its service to a 
ZDA, the ZDA can register the service to some ZDAs. The 
ZDA can use the Distributed Hash Table (DHT) function to 
get the target ZDAs of the register service, and register the 
service into the target ZDAs. When a ZDA cannot find the 
desired service in local database, the ZDA also can use the 
DHT function to get the target ZDAs, and send the service 
discovery message to these ZDAs. Thus, based on the DHT 
function, a Peer-to-Peer service directory agent architecture 
can be proposed. 
The target ZDAs may not be near the original ZDA and 
the ZDAs near the original ZDA should forward the service 
discovery message to these target ZDAs. The response 
messages may send to the original ZDA through the reverse 
path, and the ZDAs on the path can cache these service 
results. Moreover, when the ZDA wants to leave the zone 
and no new ZDA can be selected, the ZDA should send the 
service information registered in the ZDA to the near ZDAs 
to backup. We propose the Zone Directory Agent Backup 
and Restore procedures, as shown in Figure 3 and 4, 
respectively. Therefore, the request hit ratio may be greatly 
improved in the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture. 
III. PERFORMANCE EVALUATIONS  
We performed a simulation on NS2 to evaluate the 
performance of our architectures. We conducted simulations 
to compare the differences between the original SLP 
architecture, the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture without DHT mechanism, and the Peer-to-Peer 
service directory agent architecture with DHT mechanism. 
The performance of the proposed architecture with backup 
mechanism and with cache mechanism was also compared in 
the simulations. The number of vehicle nodes is 800, which 
are randomly and uniformly deployed in a 2000m*2000m 
city field, and the mobility model is the Manhattan mobility 
model. To ensure the stable results, each simulation ran 20 
mobility profiles.  
In our simulation, 200 of 800 vehicle nodes could 
provide service and work as a SLP SA. Each SLP SA could 
provide one service, and registers its service into the ZDA. 
When the SLP SA enters a new zone, it will register its 
service to the new ZDA. When there is at least one vehicle 
node in a zone, one of the group members will be the zone 
leader and ZDA. In the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture without DHT mechanism, the ZDA will 
randomly select one, two or three ZDAs to register its 
service. In the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture with DHT mechanism, the ZDA will use DHT 
function to select one, two or three ZDAs to register its 
service. The other parameters are described in Table 1. 
We only consider the performance of request hit ratio 
between these service discovery architectures. The request 
hit ratio is the ratio of successful service request to the total 
service request. In Figures 5, the results show that the hit 
ratio of the original SLP architecture is very low, and the hit 
ratio of the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent architecture 
without DHT mechanism are about 0.1. Although the hit 
ratio of the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent architecture 
Communications Surveys & Tutorials, Vol.10, No.3, pp.30-45, Third 
Quarter 2008.  
[2] A.N. Mian, R. Baldoni, and R. Beraldi, "A Survey of Service 
Discovery Protocols in Multihop Mobile Ad Hoc Networks", IEEE 
Pervasive Computing, Vol.8, No.1, pp.66-74, Jan.-March 2009. 
[3] E. Guttman, C. Perkins, J. Veizades, and M. Day, “Service Location 
Protocol, Version 2”, RFC 2608, IETF June, 1999.  
[4] J. Veizades, E. Guttman, C. Perkins, and S. Kaplan, “Service 
Location Protocol”, RFC 2165, IETF July, 1997.  
[5] K. Arnold, R. Scheifler, J, Waldo, B, O'Sullivan, and A. Wollrath, 
“Jini Specification”. 1st. Addison-Wesley Longman Publishing Co., 
Inc, 1999.  
[6] D. Chakraborty, A. Joshi, Y. Yesha, and T. Finin, "Toward 
Distributed Service Discovery in Pervasive Computing 
Environments", IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, Vol.5, 
No.2, pp. 97- 112, Feb. 2006. 
[7] Z. Gao, L. Wang, M. Yang, and X. Yang, “CNPGSDP: An Efficient 
Group-based Service Discovery Protocol for MANETs”, Computer 
Networks, No. 50, Vo. 16, pp. 3165-3182, Nov., 2006. 
[8] H. Artail, K.M. Mershad, and H. Hamze, "DSDM: A Distributed 
Service Discovery Model for Manets", IEEE Transactions on Parallel 
and Distributed Systems, Vol.19, No.9, pp.1224-1236, Sept. 2008. 
[9] Universal Plug and Play, http://www.upnp.org/. 
[10] R. Hermann, D. Husemann, M. Moser, M. Nidd, C. Rohner, and A. 
Schade,  “DEAPspace: Transient Ad-hoc Networking of Pervasive 
Devices”, In Proceedings of the 1st ACM international Symposium 
on Mobile Ad Hoc Networking & Computing, pp. 133-134. 2000. 
[11] S. Helal, N. Desai, V. Verma, and C. Lee, " Konark - A Service 
Discovery and Delivery Protocol for Ad-hoc Networks", in 
Proceedings of the Third IEEE Conference on Wireless 
Communication Networks, pp.2107-2133, 2003. 
[12] X.J. Xiang, X. Wang, and Y.Y. Yang, “stateless multicasting in 
mobile ad hoc networks”, IEEE Transactions on Computers, Vol. 59, 
No. 8, pp. 1076-1090, Aug. 2010. 
[13] M.X. Chen, and B.L. Lin, “Design Remote Monitor System Based on 
OSGi Platform in Vehicle Gateway for Vehicle Network”, The 2nd 
International Conference on Next Generation Information 
Technology (ICNIT), pp. 12-17, 2011. 
 Figure 8. Hit Ratio of Different Architectures with Cache and Backup Mechanism. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. The 
proposed architecture, Substitute Request Message, and a 
cache mechanism of SLP directory agent are proposed in 
Section 2. Section 3 presents the performance evaluation for 
the proposed architecture. Finally, our conclusions and future 
works are given in Section 4. 
II. SYSTEM ARCHITECTURE  
A. Basic System Environment  
Consider a VANET that consists of a set of vehicle nodes 
deployed in a field. Each vehicle node will be equipped a 
vehicle embedded computer system. A digital map database, 
position device, and DSRC interface will be integrated into 
the vehicle embedded computer system. Based on these 
kinds of vehicle nodes, a special VANET environment 
proposed in [12] divides the network into several zones. The 
zone structure is formed virtually and is built based on 
position information. The position information of each zone 
can be stored in the digital map database. Thus, the zone 
where a node is located can be calculated based on the node 
position and the digital map database. According to the 
architecture proposed in [12], these vehicle nodes can be 
divided into two types of components: zone leader and group 
member. The zone leader is elected on demand when a zone 
has group members. A zone leader will collect the positions 
of the group member and manage the group membership. 
When a zone leader will leave the zone, one of the group 
members will be elected as the new zone leader. The 
positions information of the group member stored in the old 
zone leader will be transferred to the new zone leader. The 
routing protocol was also proposed in [12].  
According to the definition of SLP, three network 
components are proposed to efficiently manage services. 
They are Service Agents (SAs), Directory Agents (DAs), and 
User Agents (UAs). The SLP SA provides one or more 
services, and the SLP DA works as a directory server to 
manage the services registered from the SLP SAs. The SLP 
UA is a software entity attached on a specific device, and 
issues a service discovery request for desired service. SLP 
has the ability to manage the network scale from small, 
unmanaged networks to large enterprise networks. 
According to the definition of SLP, the scope is a set of 
network devices or services, and can be described as a 
simple string and is denoted as the domain name in a large 
network.  
In our proposed architecture, a scope is a zone, and each 
zone leader should provide the functions of SLP DA, and is 
named as zone DA (ZDA). When a ZDA will leave the zone, 
the new zone leader will become the new ZDA, and the 
registered service information stored in the old ZDA will be 
transferred to the new ZDA. Thus, we propose the Zone 
Directory Agent Exchange procedure, as shown in the Figure 
1. The group members which can provide one or more 
services will work as the SLP SAs, and register services to 
the ZDA. When the group member invokes a service 
discovery request for desired service, it will work as the SLP 
UA, and the service discovery request will be received by the 
ZDA or SLP SA, and the SLP SA or the ZDA returns the 
response with the service information for the desired service. 
When the ZDA has no service information for the desired 
service, the response message will contain no service 
information. When the SLP UA gets the service information 
for the desired service from the ZDA or SLP SA, the service 
discovery request is a hit request. When the SLP UA cannot 
get the desired service information from the ZDA or SLP SA, 
the service discovery request is a miss request. The request 
hit ratio is the percentage indicating how well the ZDA or 
SLP SA can provide desired service information. 
 
Figure 1. Zone Directory Agent Exchange Procedure 
B. Substitute Request Message 
It is obviously that a ZDA only can store the registered 
service information in a zone area. The amount of service 
information is very limited, and the request hit ratio will be 
very low. In the paper, we introduce a Substitute Request 
Message and cache policy into the proposed architecture to 
improve the request hit ratio. The Substitute Request 
Message format is a derived form of the Service Request 
message. The Function ID in the header of SLP message is 
used to define the message type, and the ID of Substitute 
Request Message is 13. The major differences between the 
Substitute Request Message and Service Request message 
are the <DA add> string length field and the <DA add> 
string. The <DA add> string length field indicates the 
number of bytes in the <DA add> string, and the <DA add> 
string field contains the target DA address.  
The ZDA and SLP UA should add the Substitute Request 
function. Thus, when the ZDA has no service information for 
the desired service, the response message will contain some 
other ZDAs’ address. When a SLP UA gets the address of 
the other ZDAs from its ZDA, the SLP UA can send a 
Substitute Request Message to the ZDA, and the Substitute 
Request Message can contain the address of the desired 
ZDAs and the desired service. When the ZDA receives this 
Substitute Request Message, it uses the <DA add> string to 
to compare the differences between the original SLP 
architecture, the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture without DHT mechanism, and the Peer-to-Peer 
service directory agent architecture with DHT mechanism. 
The performance of the proposed architecture with backup 
mechanism and with cache mechanism was also compared in 
the simulations. The number of vehicle nodes is 800, which 
are randomly and uniformly deployed in a 2000m*2000m 
city field, and the mobility model is the Manhattan mobility 
model. To ensure the stable results, each simulation ran 20 
mobility profiles.  
In our simulation, 200 of 800 vehicle nodes could 
provide service and work as a SLP SA. Each SLP SA could 
provide one service, and registers its service into the ZDA. 
When the SLP SA enters a new zone, it will register its 
service to the new ZDA. When there is at least one vehicle 
node in a zone, one of the group members will be the zone 
leader and ZDA. In the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture without DHT mechanism, the ZDA will 
randomly select one, two or three ZDAs to register its 
service. In the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture with DHT mechanism, the ZDA will use DHT 
function to select one, two or three ZDAs to register its 
service. The other parameters are described in Table 1. 
We only consider the performance of request hit ratio 
between these service discovery architectures. The request 
hit ratio is the ratio of successful service request to the total 
service request. In Figures 5, the results show that the hit 
ratio of the original SLP architecture is very low, and the hit 
ratio of the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent architecture 
without DHT mechanism are about 0.1. Although the hit 
ratio of the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent architecture 
with DHT mechanism are better than that of the others, but 
the best hit ratio is lower than 0.3. Figure 6 shows the result 
of hit ratio of these architectures with the backup mechanism. 
From the results shown in Figures 5 and 6, the backup 
mechanism can slight improve the hit ratio of these proposed 
architectures.  
Figure 7 shows the result of hit ratio of these 
architectures with the cache mechanism. From the results 
shown in Figures 5 and 7, the cache mechanism can 
significant improve the hit ratio of these proposed 
architectures. Moreover, the hit ratio of the Peer-to-Peer 
service directory agent architecture without DHT mechanism 
is better than that of the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture with DHT mechanism. It is because that when a 
ZDA forwards the Substitute Request message to the desired 
ZDAs and receives the discovery results, the intermediate 
ZDAs between the original ZDA and the desired ZDAs 
would cache these discovery results. Thus, when these 
intermediate ZDAs receive a new Substitute Request 
message from another ZDA and find the desired in its cache, 
these ZDAs can return these discovery results to the original 
ZDA.  
In the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent architecture 
with DHT mechanism, the original ZDA uses DHT function 
to select one, two or three ZDAs to register its service. It 
means that the same kind services always select the same 
ZDAs to register. In the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture without DHT mechanism, the original ZDA 
randomly selects one, two or three ZDAs to register its 
service. It means that the same kind services could select 
different ZDAs to register. Therefore, the service 
information publishing and dissemination of the Peer-to-Peer 
service directory agent architecture without DHT mechanism 
is much better than that of the Peer-to-Peer service directory 
agent architecture with DHT mechanism. Thus, the hit ratio 
of the Peer-to-Peer service directory agent architecture 
without DHT mechanism can be better than that of the Peer-
to-Peer service directory agent architecture with DHT 
mechanism. Figure 8 shows the result of hit ratio of these 
architectures with the cache and backup mechanism. These 
results also show that the Peer-to-Peer service directory 
agent architecture without DHT mechanism can provide 
better hit ratio. 
Table 1. Simulation Parameters 
Parameter Value 
MAP Size 2000m × 2000m 
Transmission Range 450m 
MAC Protocol IEEE 802.11 
Speed Limit 40、60、80 km/h 
Advertisement Frequency 2/s 
Service Type 20 
Service Number 100 
Group Size 200m × 200m 
IV. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORKS  
How to manage and discover the desired network 
services in the vehicular ad-hoc networks has become a great 
challenge in recent years. Most currently service discovery 
protocols are designed for fixed network or only for MANET, 
and are unsuitable for vehicular ad-hoc networks. In the 
paper, we proposed a Peer-to-Peer service directory agent 
architecture based on SLP for vehicular ad-hoc networks. 
We introduced the Substitute Request Message to provide a 
substitute query technique between the SLP DAs. The cache 
mechanism and backup mechanism are also implemented 
into the SLP DA to improve the request hit ratio. Numerical 
results indicate that the proposed architecture can provide 
high average data hit ratio. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
This work was supported by the National Science 
Council of Taiwan, R.O.C. under Grant NSC99-2221-E-259-
006 and NSC100-2221-E-259-029. 
REFERENCES 
[1] C.N Ververidis, and G.C. Polyzos, "Service Discovery for Mobile Ad 
Hoc Networks: A Survey of Issues and Techniques", IEEE 
Communications Surveys & Tutorials, Vol.10, No.3, pp.30-45, Third 
Quarter 2008.  
[2] A.N. Mian, R. Baldoni, and R. Beraldi, "A Survey of Service 
Discovery Protocols in Multihop Mobile Ad Hoc Networks", IEEE 
Pervasive Computing, Vol.8, No.1, pp.66-74, Jan.-March 2009. 
[3] E. Guttman, C. Perkins, J. Veizades, and M. Day, “Service Location 
Protocol, Version 2”, RFC 2608, IETF June, 1999.  
 Figure 7. Hit Ratio of Different Architectures with Cache Mechanism. 
 
Figure 8. Hit Ratio of Different Architectures with Cache and Backup Mechanism. 
Dear Min-Xiou Chen, 
  
We are pleased to inform you that your full paper has been accepted for oral presentation at MOBICONA 2012. 
Congratulations! 
  
In order for your paper to be published, you are required to complete the registration where the instructions are 
available at conference website (visit http://www.mobile-conf.org/ and click on "Registration" on the left panel). 
Kindly note that the Early Registration Deadline is April 20, 2012. 
  
Kindly ensure that your final version is in accordance with the paper format attached and re-upload by March 30, 
2012, to be included in the print proceedings. 
  
Please be informed that if the final version of your full paper exceeds the limit of 6 pages, charges will be 
incurred at SGD$80 per page. Hence, it is recommended that your paper is kept brief and succinct as possible. 
  
Kindly take note that we shall be providing you a formal letter of acceptance on the day of the conference. 
  
  
Should you require any clarifications or assistance, please do not hesitate to contact us at info@mobile-conf.org. 
  
  
Briefly about the MobiCONA 2012 Conference: 
• The Conference Proceedings (Print ISSN: 2251-225X, E-Periodical ISSN: 2251-2268) will be indexed 
by EBSCO, CrossRef, Proquest and will be submitted to Scopus,ScienceDirect and amongst others,where 
applicable.  
• Depending on their importance, originality, quality, relevance and other editorial considerations, eligible 
research articles will be invited for publication in the GSTF International Journal on Computing (JoC). 
(ISSN: 2010-2283)  
• Best Paper Awards and Best Student Paper Awards will be conferred at the conference (in order to 
qualify for the award, the paper must be presented at the conference).  
Should you have other questions, please feel free to contact us. 
  
Warm Regards, 
Jurise Athena Oliveros 
Programme Manager 
Global Science and Technology Forum (GSTF) 
10 Anson Road, International Plaza, 
Singapore 079903 
Phone: + +65 6327 0166 | Fax: +65 6327 0162 | http://www.mobile-conf.org/ 
Co. Reg. No. 200923362W 
  
 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳旻秀 計畫編號：100-2221-E-259-029- 
計畫名稱：車載網路環境之行動管理架構與選徑策略研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 6 6 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
