Monte Carlo simulations of light propagation in full 
segmented three-dimensional MRI based anatomical 
models of the human head have been reported in many 
articles. To our knowledge, there is no patient-
oriented simulation for individualized calibration 
with NIRS measurement. Our results indicate that the 
three-dimensional time-resolved brain modeling method 
approaches the realistic human brain that provides 
useful information for NIRS systematic design and 
calibration for individualized case with prior MRI 
data. For investigation of individual difference in 
brain structure with spatial sensitivity profiles by 
NIRS measurement, two brain models from an adult and 
an aged volunteer were modeling to implement Monte 
Carlo simulated with various source-detector 
separations. The results also indicate that NIRS 
measurement is a feasibility and sensitivity approach 
to structural signals generated in the ＇brain 
atrophy＇ that are considered as useful information 
in the neuroimaging studies. Thus, we proposed a 
novel approach that uses near-infrared brain 
volumetric imaging to detect brain volumetric 
changes. The healthy, aged, and typical Alzheimer＇s 
disease (AD) brains were modeled with different 
characterization of brain volumetric changes and to 
investigate the related features among these three 
brains with Monte Carlo simulation. Our study shows 
that the near-infrared brain volumetric imaging (BVI) 
can be an indicator of brain atrophy for clinical 
application of neurodegenerative diseases with 
patient-oriented measurement. 
英文關鍵詞： Brain volumetric imaging (BVI), diffuse optical 
imaging (DOI), Monte Carlo simulation 
 
以擴散光學影像量測阿茲海默患者大腦結構性改變研究 
Detection of structural change with Alzheimer’s disease based on diffuse optical 
imaging  
 
計畫編號：NSC 100－2221－E－009－154－  
執行期限：2011 年 08 月 01 日至 2012 年 10 月 31 日  
主持人：孫家偉國立交通大學光電工程學系(所)  
 
中文摘要  
    近紅外擴散光學造影是一種非侵入式的量測技術，被廣泛地用來做為量測組
織生理資訊的研究工具，包含組織血氧與血液動力學等生理參數，特別是應用在
大腦的功能性造影方面。雖然許多的研究團隊已開發出不少的光學造影系統，但
仍然有許多的問題存在，包含訊號雜訊比的評估、複雜的影像重建演算法簡化、
光源與檢測器間距最佳化的選擇、大腦結構對光子遷徙的影響以及大腦體積造影
的瞭解及應用仍然不足。在本計畫中，我們透過蒙地卡羅的模擬來研究大腦結構
性資訊對於近紅外擴散光學造影技術的影響。 
    在大腦結構性造影研究方面，我們首先藉由臨床 MRI T1 影像透過影像處理
技術重建出來的三維大腦光學結構模型來進行近紅外光量測的個體化校正研
究，並藉由蒙地卡羅進行模擬分析。雖然透過蒙地卡羅模擬方法進行光子在基於
三維 MRI 影像所重建出來的大腦模型中傳播情形的研究在許多的文章中已被提
出。但就我們所知，沒有任何研究提出以病人導向式的模擬來進行近紅外光學量
測的個體化校正研究。在我們的研究結果中顯示出透過三維 MRI 時間解析的大
腦結構重建模擬方法以幾乎接近真實的情況來提供近紅外光學系統設計以及個
體化校正的相關有用的參數分析。在近紅外光量測個體上結構性差異對於空間敏
感度分布方面的研究中，我們建立正常人與老年人兩種不同結構的三維大腦模型
並藉由不同光源與檢測器的間距來進行蒙地卡羅模擬。研究結果指出，近紅外光
造影技術在大腦萎縮而產生的結構性訊號的檢測上，是一個可行並且是夠靈敏的
一種量測方法，這樣的結構性資訊將可為神經造影研究方面帶來相當有用的資
訊。因此，接著我們提出了一個嶄新的近紅外光大腦體積造影方法來量測大腦體
積結構的變化。我們建立正常人、老年人以及典型的阿茲海默症患者的大腦模型
來做為不同大腦結構所造成不同的大腦體積變化，並利用蒙地卡羅法模擬光子在
這三種不同大腦結構中分布的相關特性。研究結果中顯示出近紅外光大腦體積造
影技術在神經退化性疾病之臨床應用上將可提供大腦萎縮程度分析的新指標，並
能完全以病人導向的方式進行量測。 
 
關鍵字：大腦體積造影，擴散光學造影，蒙地卡羅模擬。 
 
1. Background  
Brain atrophy is an irreversible brain disease that causes problems with cognitive 
and memory functions in many diseases, such as mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 
Alzheimer disease (AD), multiple sclerosis, schizophrenia, alcoholism and dementia, 
etc [1-6]. The neuropathological process of brain atrophy involves progressive 
biochemical and structural changes which begin at the cellular and synaptic level, and 
ultimately culminate in neuronal death, white matter (WM) and gray matter (GM) 
degeneration [2]. The loss of neurons and synapses in the cerebral cortex and 
subcortical regions results in gross atrophy of the affected regions, including 
degeneration in the hippocampus, temporal lobe, parietal lobe, and frontal cortex 
[7-12].  
The quantitative assessment of brain volumetric changes is becoming an important 
consideration in monitoring the clinical outcome and treatment effects. The reason is 
because recent considerable advances in neuroimaging and computer technology have 
allowed the study of brain volumetric changes in vivo, which could provide an 
accurate, reproducible, and quantitative measure for assessing brain volumetric 
changes. Although several neuroimaging modalities, such as magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI), computed tomography (CT) and positron emission tomography (PET), 
could be used to provide the noninvasive investigation for human brain imaging and 
then to identify regional atrophy characteristics with their particular advantages [2, 3, 
6, 13, 14]. However, the limitation of huge size of instruments cannot provide 
diagnosis with patient-oriented measurement. Contrarily, near-infrared spectroscopy 
(NIRS) or diffuse optical imaging (DOI) has several benefits as non-invasive, less 
expensive, non-ionizing radiation imaging, real-time measurement, compact 
implementation, long time monitoring and easy operation with high temporal 
resolution (~ms) and adequate spatial resolution (~cm) for continuously recording 
oxy- and deoxy-hemoglobin changes of brain. Furthermore, the optical method offers 
completely patient-oriented measurement. Recently, the NIRS technique has been 
shown to be a noninvasive functional neuroimaging technique for measuring local 
changes in concentrations of oxy-hemoglobin and deoxy-hemoglobin with 
dual-wavelength near-infrared illumination [15-19].  
The most significant symptom of neurodegenerative diseases that can be imaged by 
MRI is the volumetric changes with brain atrophy, especially for early diagnosis of 
brain atrophy [20, 21]. Brain atrophy causes the volume of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 
layer to expand. The previous studies show that the light guiding effect occurs in the 
CSF layer of human brain with near-infrared light illumination [22-24]. For 
investigation of individual difference in brain volumetric changes with NIRS, three 
brain models from different stages of brain atrophy were modeling to implement 
First, the clinical MRI T1 scan offers 92 axial slices as in Fig. 1 (a). The images were 
segmented into five layers of brain tissue as scalp, skull, CSF, gray matter, and white 
matter. The 3D brain image contains 256×256×92 voxels and each voxel size is 
1×1×1 mm3 that corresponds to the resolution of 3D MRI image. First, the scalp and 
skull layers were segmented by means of edge detection and region growing as shown 
in Fig. 2 (b) [26-28]. Then, the probabilistic framework was applied to classify CSF, 
gray matter and white matter layers with unified segmentation, which was performed 
by fitting a mixture of Gaussians (MOG) model with prior information of deformable 
tissue probability maps [29] (as shown in Fig. 1 (c), (d) and (e), respectively). Figure 
1 (f) demonstrates a 2D five-layer brain structure after segmentation processes. 
Finally, figure 1 (g) and (h) show the 3D MRI image and the corresponding optical 
brain model which was performed in Monte Carlo simulation. In the simulations, 800 
nm wavelength light source was applied for illumination of healthy, aged and typical 
AD brains. The reduced scattering coefficient μs’, absorption coefficient μa, scatters’ 
radius, refractive indices of background and scatters of brain tissues are presented in 
Table 1 [30-32].  
 
 
Fig. 1. The modeling process of three-dimensional human brain from in vivo MRI T1 
images: (a) two-dimensional anatomical MRI slice, (b) segmentation of scalp and 
skull, (c) segmentation of CSF layer, (d) segmentation of gray matter, and (e) 
segmentation of white matter, (f) two-dimensional optical brain model in five-layer 
brain structure, (g) 3D MRI T1 image, (h) 3D optical brain model.  
 
 
 Fig. 2. The flowchart of brain modeling process by means of Monte Carlo algorithm 
with MRI data.  
 
In the simulation, the light source and detectors were placed on the surface with 
three cross-section arrangements as transverse, sagittal and coronal views (as shown 
in Fig. 3). The source-detector separations of the transverse and sagittal views were 1 
- 5 cm with 1 cm intervals. In the coronal view, the source was put on the top of the 
middle head and the detectors were located on right sides of the source.  The 
source-detector separations were also placed from 1 to 5 cm with 1 cm intervals. In 
Fig. 3, the red point indicates the light source positions and the yellow stars represent 
the positions of detectors.  
For quantitative analysis, the ratios of tissue volume in three brain models are 
presented in Fig. 5. Apparently, the AD brain reveals the biggest volume of CSF and 
the smallest volume of gray and white matter in the group. The comparison illustrates 
the structural difference of atrophy status among healthy, aged and AD brains.  
 
 
Fig. 5. The ratios of tissue volume in healthy, aged and AD brains. 
 
Figure 6 demonstrates the trajectories of all 2×107 penetrated diffuse photons in the 
transverse, sagittal and coronal cases of both brain structures. In the healthy brain, the 
light can reach to white matter layer (~3 cm depth) after 100 psec in transverse and 
coronal views. The deeper penetration can be seen in aged and AD brains because of 
the atrophy structure. The result implies the traveling channel of CSF volume guides 
photon, and therefore the BVI can catch the structural information of brain atrophy.  
 
 
Fig. 7. The detected intensities via various source-detector separations in healthy, 
aged and AD brains. (a) One dimensional imaging of healthy brain in transverse, 
sagittal and coronal cross sections; (b) one dimensional imaging of aged brain in 
transverse, sagittal and coronal cross sections; (c) one dimensional imaging of AD 
brain in transverse, sagittal and coronal cross sections; (d) the detected intensity via 
source-detector separation in transverse view; (e) the detected intensity via 
source-detector separation in sagittal view; (f) the detected intensity via 
source-detector separation in coronal view.  
 
The sagittal view presents significant differences among three brains. In our 
previous study, the source-detector separation is usually optimally set as ~3 cm for 
NIRS measurement [30]. Figure 8 shows the normalized intensity curves via 
source-detector separations from 1cm to 3 cm in sagittal view. Id1, Id2, and Id3 are the 
detected intensities with separations 1 cm, 2 cm and 3 cm, respectively. Because the 
detector 1 (with separation 1 cm) receives the major backscattered intensity from 
scalp and skull layers, Id1 is treated as the baseline signal for individual variation 
reduction. Figure 8 shows the normalized attenuation in all brain models. The 
significant difference can be seen among three brains. Furthermore, we define an 
index of attenuation to quantitatively classify the atrophy degree in Fig. 9. The index 
strongly corresponds to the volume ratio of CSF layer in Fig. 5. In this result, the 
index of attenuation can be used for characterization of brain atrophy.  
 
4. Discussions and Conclusion  
Optical brain imaging continues to provide new and remarkable insights on how 
diseases cause impact on the human brain. Although the medical imaging systems 
such as MRI and PET can provide the diagnosis with structural imaging of human 
brain, the techniques have the main drawback of requiring large apparatus with space 
constraint of operation that caused difficulties for patient-oriented and bedside 
diagnosis and treatment. In addition, MRI chamber causes it difficult or impossible to 
apply to neonates, children, old persons, and claustrophobia patients. Our result 
indicates that the BVI technique may offer a solution for brain structure detecting. In 
previous studies, the optical techniques were all used to measure the cortex 
oxygenation for functional brain imaging. Our result points out that the brain atrophy 
can be structurally detected by using BVI.  
In Fig. 4, the 3D geometries show the structural characteristics in all cross sections 
among healthy, aged and AD brain, especially in the region of the interhemispheric 
fissure and the CSF volume. The result indicated that this optical measurement offers 
a good potential to detect the structural change of brain atrophy in clinical 
applications. In video 1, we can observe that the diffuse photons are partially guided 
along the CSF layer, especially in interhemispheric fissure of prefrontal cortex. Thus, 
the mean free path of diffuse photon in atrophy brains is deeper than in healthy brains. 
However, the mean free path of photon propagation in the tissue depends on 
source-detector separations in diffuse optics. Although the geometries of brain vary 
considerably, the source-detector separations were fixed as 1-5 cm with 1 cm interval 
on all heads in this study. The results indicated that the geometries of brain bring little 
effect on the light propagation in brains. In the previous studies, the source-detector 
separation was usually optimized between 2 and 3 cm with optical measurement 
because the range of distance allows more photons to pass through the scalp and skull 
and then carry more information from the cortex. The individual variation of brain 
geometry could be ignored with the distance. To eliminate the individual difference 
and standardize the protocol, the intensity via source-detector separations in sagittal 
view was normalized for data calibration.  
The brain atrophy is usually asymmetric and reveals the expanded CSF volume 
[36-38]. Figure 5 shows the ratio of brain volume of CSF, gray and white matter. In 
this result, the AD brain contains bigger CSF and smaller gray and white matters than 
the other cases. In Fig. 7, the brain atrophy reveals the expended of CSF volume for 
light guiding, which also caused the light to decrease slowly via source-detector 
separation in the coronal view. In other words, the bigger volume of gray and white 
matters generates stronger absorption and scattering that causes lower penetration in 
clinician in neurology and nerve internal medicine. In our study, neurodegenerative 
diseases could not be diagnosed with only brain structural monitoring by using 
near-infrared BVI. However, the optical method has several benefits, as mentioned 
above. Besides, the functional near-infrared optical topography offers oxygenation 
imaging that can be combined for clinical applications.  
Although there are only three MRI brain images for healthy, aged and AD brains 
modeling, these results quite show the various atrophy statuses. This study 
demonstrates the feasibility of structural detection by using BVI for clinical 
applications of neurodegenerative disease. As aforementioned, brain atrophy is 
identifiable in asymptomatic individuals nearly a decade before dementia. Thus, this 
optical method is a potiental tool for prevention medicine. In future research, we will 
develop a near-infrared BVI system as our simulation scheme for the clinical study. 
More subjects will be recruited with different stages of brain atrophy. Also, the 
functional near-infrared spectroscopic imaging will be applied to both structural and 
functional imaging simultaneously and it is expected in application to patient-oriented 
diagnosis. We hope that the proposed method can be applied to not only 
neurodegenerative diseases but also depression and schizophrenia diagnosis.  
 
5. References  
[1] D. T. Chard, C. M. Griffn,G. J. M. Parker, R. Kapoor, A. J. Thompson and D. H. 
Miller, “Brain atrophy in clinically early relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis,” 
Brain vol.125, pp. 327-337, 2002.  
[2] M. Pievani, F. Agosta, E. Pagani, E. Canu, S. Sala, M. Absinta, C. Geroldi, R. 
Ganzola, G. B. Frisoni, and M. Filippi, “Assessment of white matter tract damage 
in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer’s disease,” Human Brain Mapping, 
vol. 31, pp. 1862-1875, 2010.  
[3] G. Chételat, B. Landeau, F. Eustache, F. Mézenge, F. Viader, V. de la Sayette, B. 
Desgranges, and J. C. Baron, “Using voxel-based morphometry to map the 
structural changes associated with rapid conversion in MCI: A longitudinal MRI 
study,” NeuroImage, vol. 27, pp. 934-946, 2005.  
[4] L. E. DeLisi, “The Concept of Progressive Brain Change in Schizophrenia: 
Implications for Understanding Schizophrenia,” Schizophrenia Bulletin, vol. 34, 
pp. 312-321, 2008.  
[5] J. M. Bjork, S. J. Grant, D. W. Hommer, “Cross-sectional volumetric analysis of 
brain atrophy in alcohol dependence: Effects of drinking history and comorbid 
substance use disorder,” Am. J. Psychiatry, vol.160, pp. 2038-2045, 2003.  
[17] M. J. Herrmann, A. C. Ehlis, A. Wagener, C. P. Jacob, and A. J. Fallgatter, 
“Near-infrared optical topography to assess activation of the parietal cortex during 
a visuo-spatial task,”  Neuropsychologia, vol. 43, pp. 1713-1720, 2005.  
[18] H. Arai, M. Takano, K. Miyakawa, T. Ota, T. Takahashi, H. Asaka, and T. 
Kawaguchi, “A quantitative near-infrared spectroscopy study: A decrease in 
cerebral hemoglobin oxygenation in Alzheimer’s disease and mild cognitive 
impairment,” Brain and Cognition, vol. 61, pp. 189-194, 2006.  
[19] S. G. Diamond, T. J. Huppert, V. Kolehmainen,M. A. Franceschini, J. P. Kaipio, S. 
R. Arridge, and D. A. Boas, “Dynamic physiological modeling for functional 
diffuse optical tomography,” NeuroImage, vol. 30, pp. 88-101, 2006.  
[20] Y. Fan, N. Batmanghelich, C. M. Clark and C. Davatzikosa, “Spatial patterns of 
brain atrophy in MCI patients, identified via high-dimensional pattern 
classification, predict subsequent cognitive decline,” NeuroImage, vol. 39, pp. 
1731-1743, 2008.  
[21] B. C. Dickerson, T. R. Stoub, R. C. Shah, R. A. Sperling, R. J. Killiany, M. S. 
Albert, B. T. Hyman, D. Blacker and L. de T. -Morrell, “Alzheimer-signature MRI 
biomarker predicts AD dementia in cognitively normal adults,” Neurology, vol. 76, 
pp. 1395-1402, 2011.  
[22] M. Firbanky, S. R Arridgez, M. Schweigery, and D. T. Delpy, “An investigation 
of light transport through scattering bodies with non-scattering regions,” Phys. 
Med. Biol., vol. 41, pp.767-783, 1996.  
[23] M. Wolf, M. Keel, V. Dietz, K. von Siebenthal, H. U. Bucher and O. Baenziger, 
“The influence of a clear layer on near-infrared spectrophotometry measurements 
using a liquid neonatal head phantom,” Phys. Med. Biol., vol. 44, pp. 1743-1753, 
1999.  
[24] E. Okada and D. T. Delpy, “Near-infrared light propagation in an adult head 
model. I. Modeling of low-level scattering in the cerebrospinal fluid layer,” Appl. 
Opt., vol. 42, no. 16, pp. 2906-2914, 2003.  
[25] H Dehghani, D. T. Delpy and S. R. Arridge, “Photon migration in non-scattering 
tissue and the effects on image reconstruction,” Phys. Med. Biol., vol. 44, pp. 
2897-2906, 1999.  
[26] P. G. van Dokkum, “Cosmic-Ray Rejection by Laplacian Edge Detection,” PASP., 
vol. 113, pp. 1420-1429, 2001.  
[27] S. A. Hojjatoleslami, and J. Kittler, “Region growing: A new approach,” IEEE 
trans. image process., vol. 7, pp. 1079-1084, 1998.  
[28] A. Tremeau, and N. Borel, “A region growing and merging algorithm to color 
segmentation,” Pattern Recognition, vol. 30, pp. 1191-1203, 1997.  
[40] S. M. Resnick, A. F. Goldszal, C. Davatzikos, S. Golski, M. A. Kraut, E. J. 
Metter, R. N. Bryan and A. B. Zonderman, “One-year Age Changes in MRI Brain 
Volumes in Older Adults,” Cereb. Cortex., vol. 10, pp. 464-472, 2000.  
[41] R. I. Scahill, C. Frost, R. Jenkins, J. L. Whitwell, M. N. Rossor, N. C. Fox, “A 
Longitudinal Study of Brain Volume Changes in Normal Aging Using Serial 
Registered Magnetic Resonance Imaging,” Arch. Neurol., vol. 60, pp. 989-994, 
2003.  
[42] S. Burgmansa, M.P.J. van Boxtel, F. Smeets , E.F.P.M. Vuurman, E.H.B.M. 
Gronenschild, F.R.J. Verhey, H.B.M. Uylings, J. Jolles, “Prefrontal cortex atrophy 
predicts dementia over a six-year period,” Neurobiology of Aging, vol. 30, pp. 
1413-1419, 2009.  
[43] D. H. Salat, J. A. Kaye, J. S. Janowsky, “Prefrontal Gray and White Matter 
Volumes in Healthy Aging and Alzheimer Disease,” Arch Neurol., vol. 56, pp. 
338-344, 1999.  
 
 2
法都有很大的幫助。接下來幾天的會議中，除了帶領本研究室團隊的成果發表，本人並積極的參加與
本人研究領域相似的研討會場次進行研究心得交換，對於本人往後的研究會產生相當大的助益。 
 
二、與會心得 
  此次 SPIE 所舉辦之 BiOS 2012 PhotonicWest，該會議為世界最大規模的生醫光電研討會，現場有非
常眾多頂尖學術巨擘參與此議程，本人能在此次與會和世界一流研究人才進行相關領域研究成果討
論，實在是一次相當重要的研究學習過程。此次 SPIE 所舉辦之 BiOS 2012 PhotonicWest，該會議為世
界最大規模的生醫光電研討會，現場有非常眾多頂尖學術巨擘參與此議程，本團隊在此次會議中發表
的兩篇文章皆被接受，其中一篇將進行口頭報告(Oral presentation)，另一篇為 Post 形式，該會議文章
並非 100% 接受，因此本團隊所發表之兩篇文章能被接受為 Oral presentation 以及 Post presentation 表
示其研究結果相當受會議重視，實為一難得之機會，本團隊亦在此次與會和世界一流研究人才進行相
關領域研究成果討論，對於本團隊而言是一次相當重要的研究學習過程。在口頭報告過程中，相關領
域醫療器材公司派來參與的人員表示對本團隊研究內容相當感興趣，此次的研究成果可以受到企業界
的重視的確讓本團隊感到欣慰，顯示出我們前一年的努力研究成果沒有白費，本團隊也會將這份熱誠
繼續投入在生醫光電的研究，希望將來可以真正地與臨床以及產業界結合，此次的會議也拓展了本團
隊的世界觀，也體認到中西文化以及生活習慣上的差異，相信這對本團隊未來的學術研究發展將會產
生相當大的助益。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
"Technical Program" Photonics West , SPIE conference in January 21 - 26, 2012 , Moscone Center, San 
Francisco, California, USA.  
以及廠商型錄、名片 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：孫家偉 計畫編號：100-2221-E-009-154- 
計畫名稱：以擴散光學影像量測阿茲海默患者大腦結構性改變研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 3 3 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 1 1 100%  
博士生 2 2 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 5 5 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 6 6 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 2 2 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 ■洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
專利申請中:中華民國, 美國, 中國 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
目前常見的大腦近紅外擴散光學影像造影技術大都在求得大腦組織功能性血氧濃度訊
號，然而本技術最大不同點是利用光學造影技術對大腦萎縮所造成體積結構性改變進而影
響光在大腦中分佈的特性來對萎縮程度做造影以及量化分析，這也是本產品最大的一項特
點，此透過光學造影技術所得到之大腦萎縮結構性的資訊目前為止並無其他產品提供相關
結果，本發明除了可提供大腦萎縮結構性資訊外，並可同時計算大腦組織血氧濃度達到更
精確的腦神經臨床診斷。本產品由發光元件和光偵測元件等模組化光電元件組成，有助於
產品微小化以及發展為居家監控產品；且可即時呈現大腦萎縮造成的體積結構變化影像以
及大腦皮質血氧濃度變化影像，更有利於臨床醫師進行數據判讀；透過標準的數據分析流
程，同時提供有效量化指標，進而作為大腦萎縮疾病程度的辨別和病情監控的輔助工具。
就我們所知，目前沒有任何研究使用近紅外光造影技術來針對大腦的結構變化做探討，因
此本研究團隊先期研究中所開發出來之大腦 BVI 造影技術實為獨步全球之創新技術，本研
發成果具有完全之原創性。在近紅外光腦造影系統研究中，我們以蒙地卡羅模擬法的 BVI
研究經驗，進行近紅外光腦結構資訊前額葉兩切面之量測，並且對光學系統探光源-光偵
測器排列之最佳化設計，得到高訊雜比的生理訊號及影像品質，系統也將以半導體光學元
件和光纖光學做系統微小化設計便於臨床使用。除了光學技術的開發和影像重建演算法研
究之外，針對我們目前進行的臨床研究，我們將探討近紅外光擴散光學在大腦前額葉臨床
量測能夠提供的生理資訊，包括阿茲海默症及精神分裂症等相關之大腦神經退化性疾病的
