 3 
Anomaly Detection for Traveling Individuals with Cognitive 
Impairments 
 
                                                     Yao-Jen Chang
            Department of Electronic Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, Taiwan
                                                          yjchang@cycu.edu.tw  
 
. 
INTRODUCTION 
Persons with mental impairments tend to be viewed as unemployable and 
systematically excluded from labor markets. However, this assumption has been 
challenged recently after the development of community rehabilitation, and 
supported employment services in particular. With sufficient and appropriate support 
on the job, many people with mental illness are capable of participating in the world of 
work to various levels, which not only provides them with financial support but also 
opportunity for social integration. Social integration includes community-based living, 
recreation and leisure pursuits, use of community services, and independent movement 
in and around the community through the use of public transportation. Coupled with 
this increased independence and integration is risk. 
With repeated training continued with daily practice, the individuals usually have 
no problems of getting lost or disoriented. However, there are occasions that individuals 
do forget how to travel to and from work. For example, part-timers with fewer shifts 
have more chances of running into transportation problems because they forget the 
routes. For places with many distractions, few landmarks that can help remain oriented, 
or surroundings that look similar, the situations can become worse. To decrease the risk 
for victimization of individuals with disabilities as they increasingly participate in their 
communities and seek social inclusion, mobile technology in used with a focus on 
increased autonomous functioning. 
Because individuals with disabilities are frequently dependent on others for support 
across environments, strategies and skills must be introduced that directly lead to 
access of those supports. Care providers are at the center of the support they have. 
Unfortunately, their care providers are often overloaded by too much work that results 
from pre-service training, coaching, escorting them to workplaces, and so on. To relieve 
their care providers from labor-intensive aids with traveling back and forth from work, 
we propose a PDA that is carried by the individual who has cognitive impairments. The 
PDA enables individuals to respond to unexpected situations such as being lost by 
 5 
as well as those with working knowledge in the cognitive deficits is organized for 
designing cognitive aids. The latter are required not only for their knowledge of how a 
particular design might work for the target users, but also for their skills in working with 
the target user population. The proposed solution draws upon the usability studies of 
interfaces by people with cognitive impairments,   requirements based on interviews 
with job coaches at rehabilitation institutes, and interventions through action 
engagement of researchers with cognitively impaired trainees in their workplaces. 
A norm is considered as an expected pattern of trajectories for pedestrians or 
individuals travelling by vehicle. In reality, travel patterns result in multiple norms 
because of the noise such as mobile clients’ motion behavior, the road network 
topology complication, and other potential interference such as mobile density and 
hot mobility spots. To deal with multiple norms, we propose a novel statistical method, 
called RADTI (Real-time Anomaly Detection for Traveling Individuals), which creates 
box-based trajectories and computes similarities between the current incoming box 
and the norms.  
A box is started with a data-point. Incoming data-points update the box-based 
representations in the order of their arrival times. Therefore, the bound of a box is 
extended until the maximal bounds of that box reach segmentation thresholds. When a 
threshold is exceeded in at least one of the dimensions, a new box is created [7]. The 
process is depicted in Figure 2. 
 
 
Figure 2.  A box is enlarged or a new box is created  
 
Deviation is determined by incrementally computing similarities between the 
current incoming box and the norms, To do so, a weighted trajectory is constructed 
ahead of time from history with N norms. Multiple norms result in overlapping trajectory 
boxes. For each overlapping region, an integer weight from 1 to N is assigned 
according to the number of trajectory boxes overlapping with each other, as shown in 
Figure 3. A weighted trajectory with N norms, denoted as WT(N) for short, is shown in 
Figure 4 with color coding. 
 
 7 
patients as opposed to high functioning and very low functioning ones.  Moreover, 
assessment on individual capabilities also took into account the ability to operate the PDA 
and understand its feedback. We recruited eight volunteers. Al has TBI after a car accident. 
He has received very good rehabilitation and has been able to remain employed on a paid 
job as a janitor. For more demanding jobs with higher pay such as kitchen assistance and 
gas station management, Al has been always looking but not yet succeeded. Ben has IDD 
and he has mild difficulties in memorizing routine procedures in his workplace. He 
occasionally gets lost and has to call for help by cellular phones. Craig has schizophrenia 
and currently he is unemployed although he really wants a job. Doug has dementia and is 
forgetful about the routes or work procedures. He has been under unemployment since a 
car accident happened to him some years ago. However, he works very hard in the 
occupational rehabilitation center in order to get employed in the future. Ed has 
schizophrenia. Fiona has organic brain syndromes and exhibits exercise fatigue. Her family 
hires a caregiver to accompany her all day long. However, she was found to become 
playful with the PDA in hand and enthusiastic in the experiment. Helen has both IDD and 
schizophrenia, which makes her unable to distinguish ambient sounds from those imagined 
from within. Gordon had a car accident two years ago and remained hospitalized in an ICU 
for 11 months until earlier this year. Now he is receiving occupational therapy. Getting a 
paid job is one of his wishes. Helen has both IDD and schizophrenia. The participants, except 
Fiona, were receiving pre-training programs in community-based employment projects 
sponsored by Affirmative Actions Initiatives, Labor Affaires Bureau, Taipei. Our proposed 
system was developed to help them become more qualified for job positions such as mail 
courier and parking patrollers. 
 
Settings 
Throughout the years of 2007-2008, each subject participated in 20 independent sessions, 
resulting in a total of 160 sessions as a whole. Each session was a trip with an individual 
returning home from community-based training in the afternoon.  The travel time ranged 
from 0.5 ~1.5 hours or so, including transits for some. Public transportation was used 
throughout the experiments. For each user, the first 10 trips followed norms built earlier while 
in the other 10 trips we let the test subjects take the bus at will, some of the trips resulting in 
deviations in the middle of the trips. In such cases, the test subjects used the system in a 
natural setting to see how well the system could detect different types of deviations. In 
each session, a shadow team of three always followed the subject during the trip for the 
purpose of maintaining security, observing, and recording. We tested the functions of the 
RADTI system and evaluated its performance with regard to its ability to identify the 
anomaly in real time. In order to receive quality satellite signals for positioning, subjects were 
reminded to sit on the window seat of the vehicles while on board. Note that not all previous 
trajectories are equally probable -- for example, a likely trajectory on a weekend may be 
very different from that on weekdays. Therefore, experiments were conducted only on 
weekdays. Each weighted trajectory was composed by N=10 norms.  
 9 
 
Figure 6. Trajectories with anomalies after epoch 55 
The experimental results showed that recall was 95.0% and precision was 90.9% on average 
without false alarm suppression. False alarms and false negatives dropped when axis 
rotation was applied. The precision with axis rotation was 97.6% and the recall was 98.8%. 
The average time used for sending locations, running anomaly detection, and issuing 
warnings was in the range of 15.1 to 22.7 seconds. In case anomalies were detected, a SMS 
notice was issued to the shadow team and the PDA alerted its user by vibrating and 
sounding voice-over alarms. 
FINAL REMARKS 
This article considers how to accurately detect disabled people that diverge from their 
normal trajectories. We design a statistical method of anomaly detection that transforms a 
user's previous trajectory into a series of boxes and compare similarity against these boxes. 
The method evaluates the effectiveness using 8 disabled people and shows good 
performance. Despite a small number of subjects, such evaluation is very valuable and hard 
to conduct. Our data provide preliminary evidence that the system is able to identify the 
anomalies in real time. The system has enhanced previous work on location-based services 
and added care providing interactions. Therefore, the system may be helpful for reducing 
risk while increasing independence in the process of community integration. Our study 
suggests a promising avenue for further research in providing ambient intelligence to 
people with cognitive deficits.  
REFERENCES 
[1] Anagnostopoulos, A., Vlachos, M., Hadjieleftheriou, M., Keogh, E., Yu, P. "Global 
Distance-Based Segmentation of Trajectories". Proc. ACM KDD, 2006, pp. 34-43. 
[2] Ashbrook, D. and Starner, T. “Using GPS To Learn Significant Locations and Predict 
Movement Across Multiple Users.” Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, 2003. 7(5): p. 
275-286. 
[3] Baeza-Yates, Ricardo A. and Berthier A. Ribeiro-Neto. Modern Information Retrieval. ACM 
Press / Addison-Wesley, 1999.  
 5 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期： 99  年 8  月 30  
日 
一、參加會議經過 
會場碰到一些美英國教授，像是有位來自 London，一位來是 Maryland，她們很喜歡我们的研究，特別指出能跟 NGO
合作是很棒的，因為她們也認為真的不知道要跟誰聯繫，找誰合作，況且呆在實驗室不出門比較舒服，所以真的給我
們很高的評價。 
 
有位教授非常想知道如何篩選出合適學員進行輔具實驗，她對這個題目非常有興趣，我告知挑選中度功能且被職場拒
絕過學員，就是臨界線附近的學員，至於方法，那就是淑芳麗凰就服員的專業，直接推薦學員來進行實驗。這位教授
大概也希望能夠在美國找到像淑芳麗凰的專業人員吧! 
計畫編號 NSC98-2221-E-033-024 
計畫名稱 一個具常模路徑比對功能的精障者迷走偵測系統 
出國人員
姓名 張耀仁 
服務機構
及職稱 中原大學電子系副教授 
會議時間 
2009 年 10 月 26
日至 
2009 年 10 月 28
日 
會議地點 
Pittsburgh, USA 
會議名稱 
(中文) 
(英文) ACM ASSETS 2009 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 
(英文)  Context-Aware Prompting to Transition Autonomously 
Through Vocational Tasks for Individuals with Cognitive 
Impairments 
附件四 
 7 
四、建議 
2009 年四月收到 IEEE 發給所有會員的公開信，其中指出 IEEE 未來三大重要挑戰，我將它翻譯如下，
並列出其中原文。 
 
IEEE 未來三大重要挑戰 
1. 研究人道關懷組織所需的各種科技 
2. 協助非營利組織(NGO)運用現有的先進科技以解決他們迫切的需要 
3. 天災人禍時提供志願協助 
 
過去有些人認為從事無障礙科技研究不是一門好的領域，不過從 IEEE 的未來方向來看，無障礙科技研
究反而是走在時代願景的前端。 
 
2010 年三月 CACM 提到 2009 年美國國科會 NSF 贊助的一個研討會 Workshop on Ethics Education in 
Scientific and Engineering Research，參加此會議的 Kevin Passino 提到教育工程學生參與志願性工作是工
程教授的責任，要實現這個責任需要進行以下三件事情: 
• 在學校課程中融入更多倫理與專業議題 
• 透過學生組織實際參與志工服務 
• 鼓勵學生在社區中進行服務學習計畫 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
Proceedings of ACM ASSETS 2009 
六、其他 
無 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：張耀仁 計畫編號：98-2221-E-033-024- 
計畫名稱：一個具常模路徑比對功能的精障者迷走偵測系統 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 1 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
