行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫年度報告 
題目：應用於無線感測網路之超低耗能無線微感測模組的設計與製作 
-總計畫(I) 
“The design and fabrication of an ultra low power micro-sensing module 
 for wireless sensor networks” 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-009-332 
執行期限：95 年 8 月 1 日至 96 年 7 月 31 日 
主  持  人：邱俊誠 
共同主持人：蘇朝琴 
         參與人員：洪浩喬、邱一、陳科宏、謝禮忠、侯冠州 
 
一、中文摘要 
由於國內、外微機電與無線傳輸技術的迅
速發展，無線感測網路的應用範圍越來越廣
泛，其不僅有許多諸如醫療保健、家庭、軍事、
環境等應用有待開發，也有許多技術上如微小
化、低耗能等問題需要克服。本計畫提出一整
合型的架構包含感測器、信號處理、類比/數
位轉換器、電源管理與電源產生器，主要利用
CMOS-MEMS 及覆晶封裝等技術來達成目
的。在這一年的研究當中，主要進行各個區塊
的設計與製作，並完成區塊間的溝通連結與整
合。 
關鍵詞：無線感測網路、低耗能、CMOS-MEMS
製程。 
Abstract 
Wireless sensor network systems are being 
the important issue for community, healthcare, 
security and military. A novel integration 
architecture which including sensors, signal 
amplifier, analog to digital converter, power 
management and power generation is proposed 
in this project. The main targets are 
implementation and which kind fabrication 
process is the most suitable solution in our 
specifics. CMOS-MEMS and flip chip 
technology are the main solutions to implement 
the system in our consideration. 
Keywords : sensor network; ultra low power; 
CMOS-MEMS  process. 
 
二、計畫緣由與目的 
A network of wireless sensors consists of a 
large number of energy-autonomous 
micro-sensors distributed in an area of interest. 
Extending this technology by integrating it with 
sensors and actuators is now beginning to open a 
variety of applications for remotely queried, 
smart, embedded micro-systems. Sensor node 
architectures include sensing, signal 
conditioning, and wireless networking 
components. Each node monitors its local 
environment, locally processes and stores the 
collected data so it can be used by other nodes. 
Cooperative signal processing among neighbor 
nodes may contribute both sensitivity and 
specificity to environmental event detection. 
Locally processed information may be conveyed 
to users through energy-efficient wireless 
communication [1,2]. An interesting example of 
If the fixed fingers are divided into several 
sets as multiple fixed electrodes, the resonator 
can be driven in many kinds combination of 
electrodes. By applying driving voltage in 
different electrodes, the resonator will exhibit 
different frequency response. In other words, it 
can achieve frequency tuning capability. Fig. 3 
displays the fabricated resonator device 
produced by 0.35μm 2P4M CMOS process and 
post-CMOS micromachining. There are three 
sets of fixed electrodes of the resonator. 
Preliminary measurement results indicated that 
the initial resonant frequency of the device is 
18.6 kHz, and the maximum frequency tuning 
range up to 28.5% is obtained. 
 
3.2 Signal Conditioning 
The signal conditioning proposes smart 
low-voltage low-power analog and mixed signal 
sensor circuits. It amplifies the small signal from 
MEMS and chemical sensors and sends to ADC 
to convert to digital signal for digital signal 
processing. The low-power and low-voltage 
requirement is to meet the critical power 
requirement in invasive environment. The smart 
feature is to activate or shut down certain 
modules depending on the signal level. With 
which, the power can be further reduced. 
Smart mixed signal circuit is a 
distinguishing feature of this project. The 
function is to use a simple mechanism to detect 
the signal level to determine the activated 
modules and the biasing current within the 
module to reduce the power consumption. It can 
be regarded as a combination of macro and 
micro power management mechanisms. After 
detail study and evaluation, the project proposes 
the sensor interface including those for 
resistance and capacitance measurement. 
We present an ultra low-power sigma-delta 
modulator for humidity sensors and chopper 
amplifier for thermopile sensor in this section, 
respectively. For solving low-voltage and 
low-power issues, we design MOS amplifier 
working in weak inversion and clock switch 
working at low supply voltage. 
 
3.2.1 low-voltage and low-power sigma-delta 
modulator for humidity senor 
Fig. 4 shows the proposed second-order 
sigma-delta modulator. The second-order 
modulator is obtained by including a second 
stage which has the transfer function as shown  
( ) 3 44 22 1
2 1 1f
z C CC zH z K
C z z
− −⎛ ⎞ ⎛= − = − ⎜⎜ ⎟− −⎝ ⎠⎝ ⎠
K ⎞⎟    (1) 
Fig. 5 shows the layout of the low power 
sigma-delta modulator using TSMC 1P6M 
0.18 μ m CMOS process with active die area of 
mm μμ 37.063.0 ×  for humidity sensors. The 
peak SNDR is 52.75 dB, and the DR is 52.39 dB 
at a sampling rate of 6.4 kHz and signal 
bandwidth of 50 Hz under single 1.0V supply 
voltage. The total power consumption of the 
proposed modulator is 1.5 μW. 
 
3.2.2 A low-power low-voltage front-end 
circuit for thermopile sensor 
Because the output signal of the thermopile 
is very small, a chopper amplifier is needed in 
the front-end circuits to improve the SNR. The 
system block diagram of the chopper amplifier is 
shown as Fig 6. Also, a switch-capacitor 
low-pass filter will be implemented following 
the chopper amplifier. To reduce the effects of 
process variation of amplifiers, a 
offset-cancellation technique is introduced. 
Dummy switches are used to reduce the clock 
feed-through noise in our design. 
A second-order double-feedback loop 
topology is implemented using switched 
-capacitor circuits with amplifier operating in 
weak inversion. To decrease the non-ideal 
effects of an amplifier, the technique of 
correlated double sampling is introduced. Fig. 7 
shows the layout of the low power chopper 
amplifier using TSMC CMOS 0.18 mμ  for 
thermopile sensors. It includes chopper amplifier, 
filter, and post amplifier. The core area is 
0.78 mμ X 0.78 mμ . The clock is 6.4 kHz, the 
power is 5.6 Wμ , the signal bandwidth is 50 Hz. 
 3.5 Power Management 
In order to transfer a stable voltage for other 
circuit, an integrated power management block 
is presented in Fig. 13. The power management 
unit includes a DC-DC buck converter, a charger, 
and a low dropout regulator (LDO). The buck 
converter is a step-down converter that provides 
the low supply voltage efficiently. Due to the 
power consumption the overall system is not 
always full load and the power from the 
generator is not constant, the power management 
circuit needs the rechargeable battery to store the 
power. LDO supplies a stable supply voltage to 
other circuit. 
The operation flow of the overall power 
structure is: 
1. When the output voltage of the MEMS 
generator is enough, the DC-DC buck 
converter regulates the low supply voltage 
for the charging circuit. The charging circuit 
charges the rechargeable battery during this 
period. LDO provides a stable and low 
ripple supply voltage from the rechargeable 
battery. 
2. When the output voltage of the MEMS 
generator is not enough, the DC-DC buck 
converter will not provide the enough 
voltage for the charging circuit. The 
under-voltage lockout function in the 
charging circuit will turn on and the battery 
charging will be stopped. During this period, 
the overall system fully depends on the 
battery. 
In order to transfer power efficiently, the 
hybrid mode buck converter is used in this 
power management block. The hybrid buck 
converter is shown in Fig. 14. The hybrid buck 
converter can output the current following the 
change of load, and keep a stable output voltage. 
The peak transfer efficiency is 95%. There are 
three control modes in this buck converter. 
These are Pulse-width modulation (PWM), 
Pulse-frequency modulation (PFM), and 
Dithering skip modulation (DSM). In different 
load conditions, the different control mode can 
improve the transfer efficiency. 
A popular technique to improve the 
efficiency over a wide load range is the hybrid 
mode, which is composed of PWM and PFM. 
Hybrid mode achieves a high efficiency for the 
load current region A and B in Fig. 15. However, 
there exists an efficiency dropping region C in 
Fig. 15. It means that the efficiency curve is not 
smooth at the transition between PWM mode 
and PFM mode. It is a matter of efficiency and 
current load range for hybrid-mode modulation 
technique. The hybrid-mode modulation can 
maintain a high efficiency by closing the two 
peak efficiency values to reduce the efficiency 
drop at the sacrifice of load range. Therefore, a 
dithering skip modulator is proposed to raise the 
efficiency between PWM and PFM curves in Fig. 
15. In other words, the efficiency drop between 
PWM and PFM modes can be raised by the 
novel DSM mode. Besides, the improved result 
is expected as the smooth efficiency curve from 
PWM mode curve to DSM mode curve and 
further extending to PFM mode without 
increasing the output voltage ripple. 
 
3.6 System integration 
In general, each component is connected by 
using wire bonding, but it needs more area to 
design. This research emphasis on scale down 
and low power consumption, so it must be 
smaller as possible as we could. Thus, flip chip 
technology is one of solution to package all the 
components. As shown in Fig. 16, for example, 
all sensors and circuits could be integrated in one 
chip, and the power generator component made 
by MEMS process could be integrated by flip 
chip technology. Advantages of flip chip are 
connection each component and saving area to 
package. There can be two more layers to 
package, in other words, we can design two 
layers chip to combine these components and do 
not need the whole area, just need half area. 
Besides, fabrication process is also an important 
issue in the research. We will combine all 
components in the same kind fabrication process 
 
Fig. 5 The layout of the low power sigma-delta modulator. 
 
 
Fig. 6 The system block diagram of the chopper amplifier. 
 
OP-AmpOP-AmpSwitch
C
lock-G
enerator
Decouple Capacitor
 
Capacitor 
 
Capacitor 
C
lock-G
enerator
 
Fig. 7 The layout of the low power chopper amplifier. 
 
 
Fig. 8 SA ADC architecture. 
0 50 100 150 200 250
1.55
1.6
1.65
1.7
1.75
1.8
1.85
1.9
1.95
2
Output code
P
ow
er
 (μ
W
)
Total Power
Mean Power
 
Fig. 9 Total Power dissipation of SAR ADC. 
 
 
Fig. 10 Operation of the electrostatic energy converter. 
 
Fig. 11 In-plane gap-closing variable capacitor with 
sidewall nitride coating and bumps on fingers. 
 
Fig. 12 Device SEM photo, including comb fingers (left), 
SW1 (lower) and SW2 (upper) with node configuration. 
