 II
 
 
移動網路環境下協議及容錯多代理人機制之研究(3/3) 
 
計畫主持人：嚴國慶 
共同主持人：王淑卿 
計畫參與人員：黃禹翔、柯欣慧 
 
 
摘 要 
近年來，無線網路的興起衝擊人們的生活，而無線網路的架構分為「有基礎建設」與「無
基礎建設」兩類，「無基礎建設」主要是探討在最少固定中繼站的環境下，仍保持行動設備
（Mobile Host，MH）的連線，其中最具代表性的網路為隨意式網路（Mobile Ad-Hoc Network，
MANET）。在 MANET 的環境下，由於 MH 電池電力小和頻寛不足的限制，易導致網路線
路中斷，故本研究於蜂巢式階層管理架構下導入模擬理論技術，透過推理引擎選派合適的管
理者。為延續網路的生命週期，亦透過推理引擎於恰當時機來觸發行動代理人(Mobile Agent，
MA)，藉由行動代理人來協助管理者管理範圍中的行動設備，藉以減輕管理者負載並加強
MANET 的拓樸生命週期。 
關鍵字：隨意式無線網路、無基礎建設的網路結構、蜂巢式階層管理架構、行動代理人、行
動設備 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
In recent years, people are more rely on wireless network services so that they may obtain 
latest information at any time anywhere. Of wireless networks, to effectively allow several or more 
mobile devices to send data with one another has become an important research topic. In our 
research, the Mobile Agent is adapted to assists Mobile Host within the working area, and takes 
advantage of Active Route-Maintenance Protocol to ensure the stability of routing path. 
Keywords: Ad-Hoc Network; Hierarchical Cellular-Based Management; Mobile Agent; Active 
Route-Maintenance Protocol 
 
 1
 
I. Introduction 
Owning to the impact to our living behaviors by the vigorous and healthy growth of wireless 
networks, when two mobile devices communicate with each other, a fixed medium is required as a 
relay station in order to send data. Such media are commonly seen in base station, receiver, etc. The 
biggest advantage of the relay station is it can monitor and control the position of Mobile Host (MH) 
such as router. These devices may be susceptible to human-initiated wars or natural disasters such 
that MHs cannot communicate with one another therefore traditional wireless networks may not 
meet our needs anymore. Recently a number of scholars have begun to place emphasis on 
“non-fixed infrastructure mobile network.” Our research carries the topic discussion under Mobile 
Ad-Hoc Network (MANET). MANET is one type of non-fixed infrastructure mobile networks and 
consists of many MHs in which those can be cellular phones, notebook computers, personal digital 
assistant, etc. 
Since May 1973, US Department of National Defense has developed a timed, positioning and 
navigating system known as Global Positioning System (GPS) for military purposes. This system is 
based on satellite navigation - a radio navigating system that assists in obtaining the user’s position, 
thus it is mostly applied to automobile navigation. In MANET where there is no relay station, one 
MH cannot obtain the position of another MH so they cannot communicate with each other. Our 
research assumes that all MHs are equipped with GPS capability that one MH is able to obtain the 
position of another MH in order for the establishment of routing path. 
There are quite a few MHs in MANET and these MHs are mobile. If no action is made to take 
care of such problem, routing paths may become unstable or sending message may encounter an 
error. To solve the problem, many scholars have proposed related researches; one example is the 
“Hierarchical Cellular-Based Management (HCBM)” by C. Y Chang and C. T Chang [1]. For easier 
management, it partitions the area and selects an MH as a manager from these smaller areas. The 
selected manager is responsible for all MHs within that area. Since MH is a low-power and 
low-capacity device, a single MH that is chosen to be the manager cannot be responsible for too 
many MHs for the specified area, or the job may not be done satisfactorily. In this case, our 
research is proposed using more Mobile Agents (MAs) to assist in the management. For enhancing 
the routing stability, Chang et al. [2] propose Active Route-Maintenance Protocol (ARMP) that is 
used to discern the stability of routing paths through signal detection and predict the possibility of 
routing offline so as to determine the new path in advance when going offline. 
In short, our research introduces GPS in MANET, HCBM concept, MA for management 
optimization, and ARMP to detect signal intensity for enhancing the stability. 
Section 2 is related works discussion including current works in MANET. Section 3 is the 
explanation of our methods and architecture. Section 4 is our conclusion and future works. 
 3
 
III. Research Methods and Architecture 
This Section explains how an introduction of MA mechanism assists in reducing a manager’s 
workload in addition to the introduction of GPS in MANET, the hierarchical cellular-based 
management concept, the mobile agent for management optimization, and the ARMP that detects 
signal intensity for enhancing networking stability. Our research is based on three assumptions: 
¾ H1: All MHs have an identifiable ID. 
¾ H2: Signal radius of each MH is the same. 
¾ H3: Signal intensity launched by each MH is the same. 
 
In this paper, ARMP is responsible for recording the signal intensity between two adjacent 
MHs. Because the original ARMP cannot be completely in accordance with our method, the routing 
table of original ARMP has been modified to work for our case. Section 3.1 is the explanation of 
how ARMP is applied to our method. Section 3.2 is the explanation of our method and architecture.  
 
3.1 Active Route-Maintenance Protocol (ARMP) 
The purpose of proposing ARMP is mentioned previously in Section 2. To accurately 
introduce ARMP, our method makes some proper adjustments on the ARMP table proposed by 
Chang et al. [2]. 
ARMP states that each MH must be stored in ARMP table. There are two types of ARMP 
table: Connective Information Table and Signal Strength Table. Connective Information Table 
literarily records the path information and consists of Source ID, Destination ID, Previous ID, and 
Successive ID. Signal Strength Table records the signal intensity of connection between two 
adjacent nodes and consists of Neighboring Host ID, Signal Strength, and Variation per tick. In it, 
Signal Strength records the signal intensity of connection between two adjacent nodes. Variation 
per tick is the signal intensity of displacement between two time points. Let MH D be represented 
as MHD, Figure 1 is the linking figure of MHD path, Table 1 is the Connection Information Table of 
MHD, and Table 2 is the explanation on Signal Strength Table of MHD. 
 
D
C
F
E
B
H
GA
 
Figure 1 The linking figure of MHD path 
 5
 
Table 3 The Member Table of Manager 
MH Level ID MH Speed 
Manager I 3 
B 5 
D 5 MA 
G 6 
C 40 
E 30 
F 20 
MH 
H 40 
 
Table 4 The Signal Strength Table of MHD 
Neighboring host ID Signal Strength Variation per tick 
B SAB VAB 
D SAD VAD 
G SAG VAG 
… 
 
Take Figure 2, A is the manager for one cell. Within A’s working area which includes B, C, D, 
E, F, G, and H. B, D, and G are the MA of each triangle area. C, E, F and H are MHs. In adjacent 
cells, I is manager, J is MA, and K is MH. 
 
I
 
E F
G
H
D
A
B
C
J
K
 
Figure 2 The linking figure of MHA path 
In Figure 2, the Member Table for manager A records all nodes within the manager’s working 
area as well as its class and records the managers in adjacent cells as shown in Table 3. Table 3 
shows that manager A records all nodes information within its working area through the Member 
Table and records signal information with which it connects through the Signal Strength Table of 
MHD. 
 7
(NMEA). The data transfer is Global Position Recommended Minimum Specific (GPRMC), which 
is the smallest transfer format of GPS, and its output code is ASCII. Besides, it updates the 
positioning data every second. This specification provides identity characters, receive time, status, 
longitude and latitude, vector, and receive date [6,7,13,16,17]. The data format of GPRMC is shown 
in Table 7 where the gray items are paid special attention in our case; these are longitude and 
latitude, and vector. 
Table 7 Data Format of GPRMC 
Format Explanation Remarks 
$--RMC Tag  
hhmmss.ss Receive time  
A Receive status A is normal/V is warning 
Llll.ll Latitude DegMin.Min 
a Latitude N (North Hemisphere)/S (South Hemisphere) 
yyyyy.yy Longitude DegMin.Min 
a Longitude E (Eastern Hemisphere)/W (Western Hemisphere) 
x.x Navigating path (Deg)  
x.x Speed Knot 
xxxxxx Receive date  
x.x Magnetic azimuth 0~180° 
a Magnetic azimuth West; East 
*hh <CR><LF> Change space  
 
B. Hierarchical Cellular-Based Management (HCBM) 
Literally speaking, cellular-based management, with the help of GPS which provides the 
longitude and latitude data, divides MANET into hexagonal area. A manager is selected in each cell 
to control in sending packets and record MH position. There are three advantages of cellular-based 
management:  
1. It bears the Grid advantage in which the routing cost is minimized [4,8]. This is because 
adopting cellular-based management only has to search for MH in specified areas, so it is 
easier for the manager to deal with the management [1]. Compared with other routing 
protocols, this is a more economical way. 
2. In cellular-based management, the distance between managers is equal as shown in Figure 
3 (a). The distance between managers is not equal in Grid as shown in Figure 3 (b). Thus, 
the cellular-based management has a more consistent length of signal launch than Grid. 
 
 9
Figure 4 Manager Selections through the geographic information supported by GPS 
 
MH is low-power and low-capacity device. If a manager is overloaded with too much work, its 
working efficiency will be relatively affected in a negative way. This is why MA steps in because 
MA is equipped with a capability of sharing the task. The MA assignment and related tasks are 
discussed in Second Phase. 
 
Second Phase: Mobile Agent Assignment Phase 
The main task of MA is to reduce manager’s workload. The process of how an MA is assigned 
and its main tasks are explained as follows: 
A. Mobile Agent 
MA is a concept that arises as a result of request by remote program. It is invented especially 
Step 1: Partition the area into many cellular shapes through GPS. Each cellular shape is called 
a cell and each cell contains many MHs. 
Step 2: Each MH obtains through GPS receiver the current location information about which 
its current longitude, latitude, and speed are. 
Step 3: Each MH sends a packet BID(get_manager_id, cell_id) out regularly to monitor the 
current status of MA in its cell. If MA does no response, then the MH closest to the 
midst of the cell will be assigned as a sender to broadcast the packet CHOICE to all 
its adjacent MHs. The packet CHOICE(host_id, cell_id, host_speed) contains its own 
ID and speed. 
Step 4: When the adjacent MHs receive the CHOICE packets, they will send back their ID 
and speed to the sender. 
Step 5: Upon receiving by the sender, the speed at which each MH moved will be compared.
Step 6: Upon completion of comparison, the one moving slowest will be selected as the 
manager. The sender will then send ISMANAGER(host_id, manager_id) to the 
manager. 
Step 7: After the manager comes into being, broadcast the packet MANAGER (host_id, 
cell_id) to all MHs in the cell. 
Step 8: The MH in the cell receives the packets from the new manager and replies the packet 
MYID(host_id, manager_id) to the manager. 
Step 9: When the manager receives the packets from the MHs in the cell, it will then obtain 
all MHs information within its working area. 
 11
 
 
Figure 6 The manager selects the MA by Triangle Center Theory. 
 
Next is to discuss the tasks of MA for its three characteristics: automatic detection and sending 
packets, duplicability, and mobility. 
1. Characteristics of Automatic Detection and Sending Packets 
MA is able to automatically detect that it sends out a signal, detects and stores all MHs 
information in its working area. The way it works is when the source host requests from MA, 
MA first searches its own routing table to determine whether the destination host is within its 
working area. If so, the data packets from the source host will be directly sent to the 
destination host; if not, the data packets will be sent to the adjacent MA and that the adjacent 
MA will deliver the packets to the destination host. There are three types of transferring: 
¾ First Type: The source host and destination host are located within the working area of the 
same MA (S1→MA1→D1) as shown in Figure 7. 
 
 
manager1
S1
MA1
D1
 
 
Figure 7 The source host and destination host are located within the working area of the same MA 
 
is manager 
is MA 
 13
¾ Third Type: The source host and destination host are located in adjacent cell but outside 
the working area of MA (S1→MA1→manager1→manager2→D3) as shown in Figure 9. 
 
S1
MA1
D1
MA3
D3
manager1
manager2
 
Figure 9 The source host and destination host are located in adjacent cell but outside the working area of MA 
The process of delivery is as follows: 
 
Step 1: S1 requests delivery to D3. 
Step 2: The message is sent to MA1. 
Step 3: MA1 detects that D3 is not within its working area and sends the packets to the 
adjacent MA. 
Step 4: For some idle time during which MA1 has not received any message “Received,” MA1 
will notify adjacent MA with the message “Packets Lost” so the adjacent MA will not 
need to search for the destination host. 
Step 5: The adjacent MA will stop the searching when receiving the packets. 
Step 6: MA1 sends the packets from S1 to manager1. 
Step 7: When manager1 receives the packets, it will find from Member Table the MH_Level 
being “manager” and broadcast to the adjacent manager. 
Step 8: When manager2 receives the packets, it will find the position of D3. 
Step 9: Deliver the packets directly to D3 without the assistance of any MA in the way that the 
path of sending packets will not move on to MA3. 
Step 10: Similarly, D3 will, after receiving the packets, reply with the message “Received” to 
manager2. 
Step 11: The message will be sent to manager1 through manager2. 
Step 12: The job is completed after manager1 delivers directly to MA1 and MA1 delivers to S1.
 
2. Characteristics of Duplicability 
On another hand, MA can be duplicated. It will not be an easy task for a few MAs and 
managers as there are more and more MHs within the working area. MA will detect the MHs 
is manager 
is MA 
is MH
 15
 
¾ When there are no other MAs within the working area, the succeeding steps are as 
follows: 
Step 1: The leaving MA must find the closest MA with the strongest signal to be the 
successor. 
Step 2: Copy its own information to the generated successor. 
Step 3: The successor must send its own ID information to the manager and leaving MA to 
indicate the ending of succeeding. 
Step 4: The manager sends the message “Exit Permitted” to the leaving MA. 
Step 5: When the old MA receives the ID packets, it will release all information in its 
memory before leaving. 
 
The introduction of MA makes it possible to automatically detect as well as control all MHs 
within the working area, send message, search for new MA to share the workload, and select a 
successor upon leaving. That MA can select a successor by itself relieves the manager of saving the 
hassle of selecting a new agent. In short, MA can reduce the manager’s workload. 
 
IV. Conclusion 
Our method uses GPS receiver to monitor and control the position of mobile device and 
mobile agent to reduce the manager’s workload in the hierarchical cellular-based management. 
When the source host and destination host are in the same cell, any transferring action is taken care 
of by the mobile agent. When the source host and destination host are not in the same cell, any 
transferring action is taken care of by the manager. It is this way that the manager’s workload is 
reduced. In addition, in increasing the path linking stability, ARMP is introduced to predict the 
linking instability to enhance the quality of network service. 
In MANET, the number of mobile agents required for a specified area is a worthwhile topic for 
research. More than needed mobile agents are not easily monitored and controlled by the manager 
thus lead to the interactive failure. To effectively enhance the efficiency of MANET from 
considering the characteristics of mobile agent is our future subject of research. 
 17
[17]  Toh, C.K., “Maximum Battery Life Routing to Support Ubiquitous Mobile Computing in 
MANET”, IEEE Communications Magazine, 2001, pp. 138-147. 
[18]  Tsudaka, K., Kawahara, M., Matsumoto, A., and Okada, H., “Power Control Routing for 
Multi Hop Wireless Ad-hoc Network”, IEEE Global Telecommunications Conference, Vol. 
5, 2001, pp. 2819-2824. 
[19]  Tu, S.C, Chang, C.Y., Chang, C.T., and Hsieh, T.T., “Active Route Maintenance Protocol 
for Signal Based Communication Path in Ad-hoc Networks”, Networks Proceedings on 
Ninth IEEE International Conference, 2001, pp. 25-30. 
[20]  Wang, Y.T.,“A Fuzzy-based Dynamic Channel Borrowing Scheme for Wireless Cellular 
Networks”, the 57th IEEE Semiannual Vehicular Technology Conference, Vol. 3, 2003, pp. 
1517-1521. 
[21]  Yeh, D.Y., Lee, M.C., Wang, T.I., “Mobile Agents for Distributed Transactions of a 
Distributed Heterogeneous Database System,” Proceedings of the 13th International 
Conference on Database and Expert Systems Applications, 2002, pp. 403-412. 
[22]  “GIS Tutorials: Global Positioning System,” http://www.gisdevelopment. 
net/tutorials/tuman004.htm, Jan 2004. 
 
 19
 
International Journal 
 
S.C. Wang and K.Q. Yan “Byzantine Agreement under Dual Failure Mobile Network,” in 
Computer Standards & Interfaces, Vol. 28/4, April 2006, pp. 475-492.      [SCI]  (字數：
8913)  
 
 
 21
 
 
 
 23
 
 
 25
 
 
 27
 
 
 
