- 2 - 
 
Abstract 
Electronic voting has been in development for more than 20 years, during which it has 
produced outstanding results both in theory and in practice. However, bribery and coercion remain 
an open problem, as there is still no suitable manner to prevent or fight them. Publications 
emphasizing practicality has not been able to achieve effective protection, probably due to their 
overtly simple protection method, while publications emphasizing theories are difficult to put into 
practice due to the complicated protection method devised by them. Thus, how to design a scheme 
that can flawlessly prevent problems of bribery and coercion as well as put into practice easily 
becomes a significant issue. In this paper, we suggest that designers apply two indispensable design 
components, invisible channel and biometrics receipts, to design a prevention e-voting scheme, and 
also to introduce several feasible technology to help with its implementation. Followingly, a 
prevention electronic voting scheme that matches our ideal is proposed. We expect this study to 
arouse the interest of more researchers regarding the subject.  
 
Keywords: Electronic Election, Bribery, Coercion, Invisible Channel, Biometrics Receipts 
- 4 - 
The security requirements for e-voting schemes are born of the special features in traditional 
elections. The requirements mainly include the following.  
1. Anonymity: No one can connect a ballot to its voter.  
2. Eligibility: Only those members who are eligible to vote can take part in the 
election.  
3. Fairness: The number of votes obtained by each candidate cannot be known 
before the announcement of the election result.  
4. Mobility: Voters can cast their votes from anywhere instead of being confined to a 
specific location.  
5. Uniqueness: Each eligible voter can cast a vote only once in each election.  
6. Verifiability: Voters can find out from the election result whether their votes have 
been counted.  
7. Uncoercibility: Voters can still freely choose their desired candidate under bribery 
and coercion conditions.  
The first six requirements are satisfied in most e-voting schemes. The last requirement, 
uncoercibility, is however never completely met. The reason lies in the ability of bribers and coercers 
to verify the contents of a voter’s ballot through various means of verification. Therefore, previous 
e-voting schemes were only able to avoid certain verification behaviors and not all. Therefore, to 
design a complete e-voting scheme that can totally guard against bribery and coercion, we must first 
understand some common coercer’s or briber’s verification behaviors [2-4], as listed below. 
1. Checking election results: Generally, most e-voting schemes give voters receipts 
so that voters can verify that their votes have been counted. When voters are 
coerced or bribed to vote for a particular candidate and then their receipts are taken 
as the exhibit that the votes have been cast accordingly, such a behavior is called 
checking election results. 
2. Comparing ballots transmitted: Some e-voting schemes do not give voters a 
receipt for verifying whether their vote has been counted. They choose to trust the 
TC in the counting of votes or use other methods that have no relevance to receipts 
to verify the votes. At this time, a coercer’s or briber’s verification behavior for 
checking election results has in fact no effect. To verify that a voter has followed 
the instructions in casting the vote, a coercer or briber usually intercepts the ballot 
during transmission and compares it with the expected value, for which this 
behavior is called comparing ballots transmitted. In this situation, coercers and 
bribers need not to wait for the final result to know whether or not a voter has cast 
the vote accordingly to their instructions. 
3. Acquiring ballot parameters: The value of a ballot transmitted may be encrypted 
using random numbers or it could be mixed with nonpublic parameters, so 
- 6 - 
1.1 Contributions of Proposed Scheme 
Having introduced coercers’ or bribers’ potential verification behaviors, we explore how to 
design an e-voting scheme that can completely prevent all verification behaviors; this is also going 
to be one of the contributions in the proposed scheme. We suggest that a prevention scheme should 
have the two significant design components, an invisible channel and biometrics receipts. To help 
designers to conceive how to implement a voting system that holds the two components, we also list 
a few practicable techniques, including steganography, trapdoor hash function, biometrics, blind 
signature, and smart card . Then, we explain why a well designed scheme should have a friendly user 
interface and satisfies high practicality. Finally, a novel e-voting scheme which conforms to the 
above goals is proposed. 
1.2 Outline of the Paper 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 introduces the essential design 
components, assistance techniques and requirements of a well designed scheme. Section 3 illustrates 
the proposed scheme. A security analysis of the proposed scheme is given in Section 4. Finally, the 
conclusion is drawn and future goals are discussed in Section 5. 
 
2. Tools for Well Designed E-voting Scheme 
2.1 Design Components 
The above-mentioned problems of bribery and coercion may exist wholly or partially in 
already published e-voting systems. In designing a system or a scheme to defend against these 
problems, designers are suggested to not leave out two essential design components, as explained 
below.  
2.1.1 Invisible Channel 
A well designed coercion-free and bribery-free e-voting scheme should have an invisible 
channel for the EC to allow voters to confidentially and securely express their own will under the 
cases that coercers or bribers are watching over the election. By confidentially, we mean that voters 
can freely express what they want through such a channel; by securely, we mean that either bribers 
or coercers cannot notice or verify easily whether or not voters in fact follow their intention, even 
under the situation that the bribers or coercers are also aware of the possible existence of that 
invisible channel. 
2.1.2 Biometrics Receipts 
Biometrics is a kind of vote receipt that combines biological features with technology, so that it 
only allows those voters whose biometrics completely match to verify whether or not their votes 
have been included in the election result. As aforementioned, voters may use the invisible channel to 
- 8 - 
We suggest that designers extend the above-mentioned technologies to construct an e-voting 
scheme. The e-voting system shall have an invisible channel as one of the design components. 
Accordingly, voters can transmit information through a concealed information method, and then 
coercers and bribers cannot detect secret messages. 
2.2.2 Trapdoor Hash Function 
Trapdoor hash function [7] is an application in cryptography associated with a pair of public 
and private keys; the public key is also called hashing key, and the private one is called trapdoor key. 
It has three special properties that make it ideal for use in designing a bribery-free and coercion-free 
e-voting scheme with an invisible channel. The three properties are as follows. 
1. The associated hash function can be computed by anyone who knows the public 
key. 
2. Anyone who do not know the private key will meet with resistance during 
computing the function, for it is infeasible to find two inputs that are mapped to 
the same output, i.e., there exist no (m1, r1) and (m2, r2) where  m1 ≠ m2 such that 
h(m1, r1) = h(m2, r2). 
3. Only the owner of the private key can find collisions for each given input. 
In other words, people possessing the trapdoor information can easily change the received 
message (input) to a message that conforms to their expectation. We can apply this same idea to an 
e-voting system so that under coercion or bribery conditions, a voter owning the trapdoor key shall 
be able to alter the content of ballot as desired.  
For instance, assume that the ballot of some e-voting system is generated using the equation 
below. 
h(mc, r1) = gr1xT gmc mod p 
In the equation, p is a large prime, g is a generator from Z*p, mc is the candidate number 
designated by coercers or bribers, r1 is a random parameter, and xT is the trapdoor key of a voter. 
With xT, the voter can easily compute the secret parameter r2, as follows.  
r2 = xT-1 (mc- mv) + r1 mod (p-1) 
To alter the content of the ballot as desired, the voter then creates h(mc, r1) using r2 so that the 
ballot is in fact being cast in favor of the voter’s desired candidate mv , as follows. 
h(mc, r1) = gr1xT gmc = gr2xT gmv = h(mv, r2) 
2.2.3 Biometrics 
Biometrics is a technology that can identify individuals based on one or more intrinsic physical 
or behavioral characteristics [8, 9]. Traits related to the shape of the body, such as fingerprints, face, 
hand, and iris recognition are termed physical; features related to a person’s behavior are termed 
behavioral. For example, the manual signature can be widely used in the study of personal dynamics 
- 10 - 
dS the private key of signer S 
eS the public key of signer S, eSdS = 1 mod Φ(N)  
m the message to be signed 
 
 
【Blind Signature Generation Phase】 
Step 1: The SR computes a blind message m', as follows. 
m' = r es m mod N, where r ∈ [1, N-1] 
Step 2: The SR sends m' to the S. 
Step 3: The S then computes the blind signature s' on m', as follows. 
s' = m' ds = r es ds m ds = r m ds mod N 
Step 4: The SR computes the signature s of message m using s', as follows. 
s = r -1 r m ds = m ds mod N 
【Blind Signature Verification Phase】 
Step 1: The SR sends the message m and the signature s to the V. 
Step 2: The V verifies s by checking whether or not the equation below holds; this 
is because s es = m ds es = m mod N. 
Nsm se mod?  
2.2.5 Smart Card 
Smart Card is a plastic card that is similar in size to the credit card or the ATM card. The 
difference being there is an additional IC chip on smart card. Besides memory function, this IC chip 
can compute and process data, and it also has statistical function. Therefore, this card can store the 
personal information of the cardholder, like password, key or bank balance and various other 
personal transaction records; in paired with the system operation, it can even possess statistical 
function. The IC chip can be divided into many domains, each domain in charge of a different 
function. It has multiple uses, and can be widely applied [11].  
If we aptly integrate smart card into an e-voting system, not only will the card bring to the 
election process convenience, efficiency, and mobility, the computation and processing ability of the 
card can even automatically generate votes, eliminating the need for human intervention, such as 
generating election parameters, determining the content of a ballot, signing a valid signature, and so 
on. Smart card can protect against malicious attempts by coercers or bribers to alter a ballot during 
voting period, making problems of bribery and coercion faced by designers much simpler.  
- 12 - 
voter to login to the election system and to prepare to cast the ballot. PWnormal is used when there is 
no bribery or coercion. On the contrary, PWspecial is used in case of bribery and coercion. All of them 
will be embedded in the election smart card. 
Following, voters execute the authentication and voting phases where they will have to interact 
with the AC and TC. During authentication phase, the AC authenticates the legitimacy of voters by 
checking their certificates Certv and then blind signs the contents of their votes, i.e., the AC validly 
signs without knowledge to the content of a ballot. Then, voters cast their votes Bs which will be 
received by the TC. 
Finally, there is the announcing phase. After voting is closed, the TC decrypts the contents of 
all ballots, verifies their correctness and legitimacy, counts the vote, and then finally announces the 
election result. However, a voter may conceal the Mdesired in the ballot under bribery or coercive 
condition. The TC thus must examine each Bs carefully for any abnormality. If an abnormality is 
found, the TC re-counts the vote and revises the final result. Figure 3 illustrates the flowchart of the 
proposed scheme. 
 
Figure 3: Flowchart of Proposed Scheme 
3.2 Procedure of Proposed Scheme 
3.2.1 Setup Phase  
This phase is carried out before the start of an election. It is performed by each voter under the 
protection of security. The term “before” here means few days or few weeks before the formal 
casting of vote during an election. Therefore, actions performed during this phase will neither affect 
the smoothness of the voting process nor destroy the mobility of e-voting during voting on the day of 
the election. “Protection of security” means all actions performed in this phase will be protected, 
thus the information that has been set up cannot be revealed.  
S1: Voter obtains the new election smart card from the AC, and selects one desired 
Select 
Mdesired, PWnormal, PWspecial 
Cast the ballot Bs 
Verify if Bs is unusual 
(Hidden Mdesired) 
Announcing final result 
Verify CertV 
Issue valid ballot 
Authentication phase 
Setup phase
Announcing phase 
Tally Center
Authentication Center 
Voter 
Voting phase 
- 14 - 
3.2.3 Voting Phase 
On receiving the blind signature, s', and bh(Nv) dAC from the AC, each voter obtains the personal 
legitimate ballot Bs generated automatically by the election smart card. The Bs is then sent to the 
TC. 
V1: Voter’s smart card automatically calculates the signature s of m(briber) through the 
function (r-1s'), as follows. 
s = r-1 r m(briber) dAC = m(briber) dAC mod NAC 
V2: The smart card continually calculates signature SigAC(h(Nv)) of bh(Nv) dAC through 
the function (b-1 bh(Nv) dAC), which is equal to h(Nv) dAC mod NAC. 
 
V3: In case of being bribed or coerced, voter’s ballot Bs would be composed of the 
two meaningful numbers, rspecial1 and rspecial2, the coerced vote mbriber with its 
signature mbriberdAC, and the unique number Nv and its signature SigAC(h(Nv)) 
generated automatically through the owned smart card. The Bs shall be as shown 
as below. 
Bs = (rspecial1 || rspecial2 || mbriber || mbriber
dAC || Nv || SigAC(h(Nv))) 
It is worth noting that the four values of rspecial1, rspecial2, Mdesired, and mbriber will 
satisfy the following equation. 
rspecial1+ Mdesired = rspecial2+ mbriber 
V4: In case of no bribery or coercion, step V3 is skipped, and voter’s ballot Bs would 
be combined with the two random number, r1 and r2, the normal election vote m 
with its signature mdAC, and the unique number Nv and its signature SigAC(h(Nv)) 
through the owned smart card. Bs shall be as shown as below. 
Bs = (r1 || r2 || m || m
dAC|| Nv || SigAC(h(Nv))) 
V5: Voter’s smart card encrypts the Bs using the TC’s temporal public key eTCS, and 
then transmits it through Mixnet to the TC.  
(Mixnet was first proposed by Chaum [1] in 1981. The main function of Mixnet 
is to allow a set of senders to send their message anonymously. The structure 
composes of senders, receiver, and mixer. After the senders send out the 
encrypted messages (using the public keys of receiver and mixer orderly) to 
mixer, the mixer uses its private key to decrypt the received messages and 
jumbles up their order, and then outputs them simultaneously. Thus, it prevents 
the receiver from determining the source of the message. Applied to e-voting 
scheme, the mixer can mix up the IP addresses of the different voters. On 
receiving the ballots, TC will not be able to identify the relation between ballots 
and IP addresses. Naturally, it does not know which ballot belongs to which voter. 
In the era of fast developing science and technology, various types of Mixnet are 
- 16 - 
Table 2: Election Result 
Candidates m1 m2 m3 … mn 
Voter receipts 
Es(r1v1) 
Es(r1v8) 
… 
Es(r1v3) 
Es(rspecial1v2) 
… 
Es(rspecial1v9) 
Es(r1v4) 
… 
… 
Es(r1v6) 
Es(r1v5) 
… 
Number of votes x1 x2 x3 … xn 
Total votes: niNxx i
n
i ≤≤∈∑ 1,,)(
1
 Percentage vote: votersallx
n
i /)(
1
∑  
 
4. Analysis of Security  
This e-voting scheme can satisfy the requirements of anonymity, eligibility, fairness, mobility, 
uniqueness, verifiability, and uncoercibility. This system focuses on achieving uncoercibility, and we 
would explain in the following how it can bypass the bribery and coercive verification behaviors 
defined at Section 1. 
4.1 Anonymity 
Anonymity means the relation between a voter and his or her ballot cannot be traced by anyone 
including the AC, the TC, and other voters. Firstly, we consider the possibility of the AC tracing the 
relation. Due to the unlinkability characteristic in the RSA-like blind signature [10], the AC can 
determine the parameters, (IDv, m'v, s'v), related to each voter v and stored in the database of AC, it 
also can obtain (mv, sv) from the TC, which possibly tends to successfully derive the relation between 
IDv and mv from the equation below. 
v
e
v
v
v ms
s
m AC ⋅)'(?'  
However, the AC fails to determine which (mi, si) corresponds to this (IDv, m'v, s'v). We shall 
prove that (mi, si) of each voter i can pass the verification equation. Take each obtained (mi, si) into 
the equation below. 
v
e
v
v
v ms
s
m AC ⋅)'(?'
 
Below has shown that the derivation of the equation is always equivalent. 
vv
e
vi
i
v
e
v
i
e
d
i
d
vv
i
e
i
v mmrm
m
mr
m
m
mr
m
s
s
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC
AC ')()()
'
( =⋅=⋅⋅=⋅⋅=⋅  
A similar proof can be used for (IDv, beAC h(Nv), b h(Nv)dAC) and (h(Nv), SigAC(h(Nv))). Hence, 
- 18 - 
designed to run on the current Internet, voters only require basic equipments such as modem or 
Ethernet device, and card reader to help them login into the e-voting system. Voters can then cast 
their votes from anywhere. Therefore, the proposal achieves the ability of mobility. 
4.5 Uniqueness 
Uniqueness means each eligible voter can vote only once. Our proposed scheme ensures in two 
ways that this property is achieved. One is that the TC checks for repeated Nv. Since each legitimate 
voter has a unique Nv and signature SigAC(h(Nv)), any voter attempting to vote twice must send the 
same Nv again. This is easily detected by the TC during verification of votes after decryption. The 
other is that the based blind signature can not be forged unless the private key of the AC is shared 
with voters. To compute the signature s' for a voter the factorization problem must be solved to get 
the key. This is a difficult mathematical problem. Consequently, we conclude that it is impossible for 
anyone to forge a signature for a different Nv to vote twice. 
4.6 Verifiability 
Verifiability means the ability of voters to verify that their ballots have been counted. In our 
proposed scheme, the TC announces the election result, thus voters can easily verify their ballots.  
Generally, it is taken for granted that an e-voting scheme already meets this requirement. 
However, there is a defect; coercers and bribers can easily verify that their order had been followed 
by the coerced or bribed voter via the election result. To prevent this, some schemes choose to only 
announce the total number of votes received by each candidate and thus voters cannot verify their 
ballots. The approach to announcing election result combines biometrics and cryptography. It not 
only meets verifiability, but also prevents bribery and coercion.  
4.7 Uncoercibibility 
Uncoercibility is the ability to prevent bribery and coercion. Bribery and coercion are two 
common problems with elections and occur easily with an electronic voting system. Thus, it is 
important that we eliminate this problem.  
This study proposes a new e-voting system that can solve bribery and coercion problems 
mentioned in Section 1, i.e., four passive verifications and two active behaviors by coercers or 
bribers: checking election results, comparing ballots transmitted, acquiring ballot parameters, 
watching over election process, blending in randomization factors, and substitute voting. In the 
following, we show, in detail, how to successfully get past these deliberate verifications.  
4.7.1 HOW TO PASS VERIFICATION BEHAVIOR OF CHECKING ELECTION 
RESULTS  
Checking election results refers to voters providing the election receipt to the coercer or briber 
to show that they obeyed the voting instructions. In this proposal, we only allow the voter himself or 
- 20 - 
4.7.5 HOW TO AVOID BEHAVIOR OF BLENDING IN RANDOMIZATION 
FACTORS  
Blending in randomization factors refers to coercers and bribers randomly including a random 
number that makes the content of a voter’s ballot meaningless and unreadable by the election 
committee, so that the final election result is as appeared as what coercers and bribers desires. In this 
scheme, a voter needs only to key in the number of the desired candidate, and the smart card will 
automatically generate all critical parameters and encrypt them to form a ballot. Hence, coercers and 
bribers fail to insert random numbers to corrupt the ballot. As a result, the behavior of blending in 
randomization factors will be avoided. 
4.7.6 HOW TO AVOID BEHAVIOR OF SUBSTITUTE VOTING 
Substitute voting refers to coercers and bribers being offered the major key of a voter so that 
they can take the place of the voter at voting. In this scheme, because of the use of the meaningful 
PIN, PWspecial, which activates the smart card for voting, the real volition of a voter can be hidden in 
the ballot and delivered with special parameters rspecial1 and rspecial2. All actions of coercers and 
bribers in relation to this election are rendered meaningless. Consequently, the behavior of substitute 
voting is resisted. 
It is worth noting that here Voter can through setting up of multiple sets of PWspecial and a set 
of PWnormal in setup phase reduce the success rate of coercion and bribery. For example, if voter sets 
up only one set of PWspecial and one set of PWnormal, then coercion or bribery has a 50% success rate 
(namely, the coercers or bribers guesses PWnormal from the gathered information); however, if three 
sets of PWspecial and one set of PWnormal are set up, then coercion or bribery will have a success rate 
of only 25%. Similarly, if n sets of PWspecial and one set of PWnormal were set up, then coercion or 
bribery will have a success rate of 1/n+1. Thus, the bigger n is, the closer is the success rate to 0, 
which to a voter means greater protection.  
Having discussed the passive verification and the active behaviors of bribers and coercers, 
whether or previously proposed electronic voting schemes achieved coercion and bribery prevention 
is examined in Table 3, where (1), (2), (3), (4), (5), and (6) correspond to checking election results, 
comparing ballots transmitted, acquiring ballot parameters, watching over election process, blending 
in randomization factors, and substitute voting, respectively. 
Table 3: Existing E-voting Schemes on Coercion and Bribery Prevention 
Scheme              
Behavior (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) 
Fujioka, 1992 [13] Χ Χ Χ Χ Χ Χ 
Cramer et al., 1997 [14] Χ Χ Χ Χ Χ Χ 
Jan-Chen-Chen, 2001 [15] Χ Χ Χ Χ Χ Χ 
- 22 - 
[4] T. Hwang and Z. Y. Wu, “A novel bribery and coercion prevention e-voting scheme,” 
Technique Report Produced by Information Security Laboratory of NCKU, 2007. 
[5] G. J. Simmons, “Subliminal channel: Past and present,” European Transactions on 
Telecommunication, No. 4, Vol. 4, pp. 459-473, 1994. 
[6] G. J. Simmons, “Subliminal communication is easy using the DSA,” Advances in Cryptology: 
Proceedings of EUROCRYPT'93, Workshop on the Theory and Application of Cryptographic 
Techniques, 23-27 May 1993, Lofthus, Norway, Springer-Verlag, pp. 218-232, 1994.  
[7] M. Mehta and L. Harn, “Efficient one-time proxy signatures,” IEE 
Proceedings—Communications, Vol. 152, Issue. 2, pp. 129-133, April 2005. 
[8] A. K. Jain, “Biometric recognition: how do I know who you are?” Proceedings of the IEEE 
12th Signal Processing and Communications Applications Conference, 28-30 April 2004, pp. 
3-5, 2004.  
[9] A. K. Jain, A. Ross, and S. Pankanti, “Biometrics: a tool for information security,” IEEE 
Transactions on Information Forensics and Security, Vol. 1, Issue. 2, pp. 125-143, June 2006. 
[10] D. Chaum, “Blind signatures for untraceable payments,” Advances in Cryptology: Proceedings 
of CRYPTO'82, Aug. 1982, Santa Barbara, California, USA, Springer-Verlag, pp. 199-203, 
1983. 
[11] B. Schneier and A. Shostack, “Breaking up is hard to do: Modeling security threats for smart 
cards,” Proceedings of USENIX Workshop on Smart Card Technology, 10-11 May 1999, 
Chicago, Illinois, USA, pp. 175-185, 1999. 
[12] J. Benaloh and D. Tuinstra, “Receipt-free secret-ballot elections,” Proceedings of the 26th 
Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, 23-25 May 1994, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada, pp. 544-553, 1994. 
[13] A. Fujioka, T. Okamoto, and K. Ohta, “A practical secret voting scheme for large scale 
elections,”  Advances in Cryptology: Proceedings of AUCRYPT'92, Workshop on the Theory 
and Application of Cryptographic Techniques, LNCS 718, Springer-Verlag, pp. 244-251, 1992. 
[14] R. Cramer, R. Gennaro, and B. Schoemakers, “A secure and optimally efficient multi-authority 
election scheme,” Advances in Cryptology: Proceedings of EUROCRYPT'97, LNCS 1233, 
1997, Springer-Verlag, pp.103-118. Also in European Transactions on Telecommunications, pp. 
481-489, 1997. 
[15] Y. Y. Chen, J. K. Jan, and C. L. Chen, “The design of a secure anonymous Internet voting 
system,” Computers and Security, Vol. 23, Issue 4, pp. 330-337, June 2001. 
[16] G. H. Cui, L. Su, M. X. Yang, and Y. Wang, “A secure e-voting system based on list signature 
for large scale,” Proceedings of the First International Conference on Communications and 
Networking in China (ChinaCom '06), 25-27 Oct. 2006, Beijing, China, pp. 1-5, 2006.  
[17] O. Cetinkaya and A. Doganaksoy, “Pseudo-Voter Identity (PVID) scheme for e-voting 
protocols,” Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Availability, Reliability and 
- 24 - 
近五年已發表之相關期刊及研討會論文 
(A) 期刊論文 
1. C. H. Liu, Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, and S. D. Wang, "An ID-based access 
control in a hierarchical key management for mobile agent," accepted by the 
International Journal of Innovative Computing, Information and Control, 2010. 
(SCI, EI) (Impact Factor: 2.932)  
2. C. H. Liu, Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, and S. D. Wang, "Mobile agent application 
and integration in electronic anamnesis system," accepted by the Journal of 
Medical Systems. (SCI, EI) (Impact Factor: 0.654) 
3. Y. F. Chung, Z. Y. Wu, and T. S. Chen, "Ring signature scheme for ECC-based 
anonymous signcryption," Computer Standards and Interfaces, Vol. 31, No.4, 
pp. 669-674, June 2009. (SCI, EI) (Impact Factor: 1.373) 
4. Y. F. Chung, Z. Y. Wu, and T. S. Chen, "Unconditionally secure cryptosystems based 
on quantum cryptography," Information Sciences, Vol. 178, No. 8, April 2008, pp. 
2044-2058. (SSCI, SCI, EI) ( Impact Factor：3.095) 
5. Y. F. Chung, H. H. Lee, F. P. Lai, and T. S. Chen, "Access control in user hierarchy 
based on elliptic curve cryptosystem," Information Sciences, Vol. 178, No. 1, Jan. 
2008, pp. 230-243. (SSCI, SCI, EI) ( Impact Factor：3.095) 
6. Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, and M. W. Lai, "Efficient Migration Access Control for 
Mobile Agents," Computer Standards and Interfaces, In Press, Corrected Proof, 
Available online 3 Jan. 2009. (SCI, EI) ( Impact Factor：1.074) 
7. K. H. Huang, Y. F. Chung, C. H. Liu, F. P. Lai, and T. S. Chen, "A Conference Key 
Agreement Protocol with Fault-tolerant Capability," Computer Standards and 
Interfaces, Vol. 31, No. 2, Feb. 2009, pp. 401-405. (SCI, EI) ( Impact Factor：1.074) 
8. Y. F. Chung, K. H. Huang, and T. S. Chen, "Threshold Authenticated Encryption 
Scheme using Labor-division Signature," Computer Standards and Interfaces, Vol. 31, 
No. 2, Feb. 2009, pp. 300-304. (SCI, EI) ( Impact Factor：1.074) 
9. R. L. Shen, Y. F. Chung, and T. S. Chen, "A Novel Application of Grey System 
Theory to Information Security," Computer Standards and Interfaces, Vol. 31, No. 2, 
Feb. 2009, pp. 277-281. (SCI, EI) ( Impact Factor：1.074) 
10. K. H. Huang, Y. F. Chung, C. H. Liu, F. P. Lai, and T. S. Chen, "Efficient Migration 
- 26 - 
(B) 研討會論文 
1. Y. F. Chung, M. H. Kao, T. L. Chen, and T. S. Chen, "Efficient 
date-constraint access control and key management scheme for mobile 
agents," IMECS 2010, pp. 252-257 , Hong Kong, China, March 17-19, 2010. 
2. C. H. Liu, Y. F. Chung, J. D. Jhuo, T. S. Chen, S. D. Wang, "A novel 
time-bound hierarchical key assignment scheme for mobile agent," IMECS 
2010, pp. 258-263 , HongKong, China, March 17-19, 2010. 
3. C. H. Liu, Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, S. D. Wang, "Access control and key 
management scheme based on bilinear pairings over elliptic curves for mobile 
agent," MUE 2009, pp. 1699-1709, Qingdao, China, June 4-6, 2009 
4. F. G. Jeng, T. L. Chen, and T. S. Chen, "A Blind Signature Scheme Based on 
Elliptic Curve Cryptosystem," 2009 Fifth International Joint Conference on 
INC, IMS and IDC, Seoul, Korea, 25-27 August 2009, pp. 2044-2049. 
5. Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, Y. T. Chen, C. C. Lee, and S. W. Wang, "An 
Agent-Based English Auction Protocol Using Elliptic Curve Cryptosystem for 
Mobile Commerce, " ICA3PP’09, LNCS 5574, pp. 214-225, 2009.(EI) 
6. Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, C. C. Ho, Y. H. Yeh, and H. C. Ko, "Hierarchical 
Time-Bound Key Management for Mobile Agents, " ICA3PP’09, LNCS 5574, pp. 
242-253, 2009.(EI) 
7. C. H. Liu, Y. F. Chung, T. S. Chen, and S. D. Wang, "Access Control and Key 
Management Scheme based on Bilinear Pairings over Elliptic Curves for Mobile 
Agent," The 3rd International Conference on Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering, 
Qingdao, China, 4-6 June 2009, pp. 189-196. 
8. Y. F. Chung, C. H. Liu, and T. S. Chen, "Efficient Hierarchical Key Management 
Scheme for Access Control in the Mobile Agent," Proceedings of the IEEE 22nd 
International Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications, 
Gino Wan, Okinawa, Japan, 25-28 March 2008. (EI) 
9. Y. F. Chung, C. H. Liu, F. P. Lai, and T. S. Chen, "Threshold Signature Scheme 
Resistible for Conspiracy Attack," Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on 
Parallel and Distributed Computing, Applications and Technologies, Taipei, Taiwan, 
4-7 Dec. 2006, pp. 479-483. (EI) 
出席國際會議報告 
2010 年 03 月 17~19 日 
報告人姓名 陳澤雄 職稱 資管系教授 
會議期間 2010.03.17 至 2010.03.19 
會議地點 香港 
會議名稱 The International MultiConference of Engineers and Computer Scientists 
2010( (IMECS 2010) 
發表論文題目 A Novel Method of Grey Data Generating Techniques in Cryptosystem 
與會心得 
今年(2010)參與國際工程師與電腦科學家年會（The International MultiConference of 
Engineers and Computer Scientists 2010,IMECS 2010），係於2010年3月17-19日在香港帝苑酒
店舉行。研討會的焦點是針對在理論和應用的工程學和電腦科學為主題，提供國際各界的研
究專家學者門共同聚會發表新知及交換想法。本次吸引400多位專家學者參加亦是來自30多
個國家- 如台灣、香港、大陸、澳洲、印度、泰國、美國、新加坡、韓國、日本…等國家的
學者專家共計400多篇論文。 
我發表論文的時段是 2010 年 03 月 18 日上午 9 點 00 分至 10 點 45 分，場次為 ICCS IV，
發表主題是有關於 The 2010 IAENG International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and 
Applications(ICAIA)，由 National Taipei University of Technology 教授 Trong-Yen Lee 擔任主
持人，該場次總共安排 7 篇 paper 發表，我發表論文順序為第七位，報告時間約 15 分鐘，論
文發表完畢後，會中主持人、與會學者士提出許多問題討論，會場之討論氣氛相當的熱烈，
大家也彼此交換研究心得，增廣見聞並獲取新知。 
在此次的研討會議中，邀請到各國際知名專家學者與會並發表專題演講，分享最先進的
研究成果，除了參加自己的ICCS那一場發表會外，亦選擇參加幾場其他主要議題分享學者們
的研究成果，如人工智慧的應用、控制與自動化、資訊採礦與應用、作業研究、軟體工程等
相關領域。此次研討會讓我受益良多，使個人得到很多新的教學方法與技巧之啟發，相信這
些寶貴之技法將可做為今後推動所內教學改善及方法精進與參考，除此之外，透過學術交流
的國際會議，在研究的方向上也有很大助益，藉由認識各方領域的研究同好，不但開拓了新
的視野也能瞭解未來研究的方向，更有助於引導我國與世界接軌。 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳澤雄 計畫編號：98-2221-E-029-023- 
計畫名稱：可免於賄選與脅迫的電子投票機制之設計 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 2 2 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
