 
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ■ 成 果 報 告   
□期中進度報告 
 
以資料為中心之合作式傳輸技術在大型無線感測網路之應用 
 
 
計畫類別：■ 個別型計畫  □ 整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 95－2221－E－007－043－MY3 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 1 日 至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
 
計畫主持人：洪樂文 
共同計畫主持人：祁忠勇 
計畫參與人員：張則堯、李景裕、張博裕、王淑賢、廖彥宇、許登程、
林志勳、阮成專 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：□精簡報告  ■完整報告 
 
本成果報告包括以下應繳交之附件： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告一份 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告一份 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告及發表之論文各一份 
■國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告書一份 
 
 
處理方式：除產學合作研究計畫、提升產業技術及人才培育研究計畫、
列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
          ■涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年■二年後可公開查詢 
          
執行單位：國立清華大學通訊工程研究所 
 
中   華   民   國  98  年  1  月  31  日
 II 
English Abstract 
Wireless sensor networks (WSNs) consist of a large population of interconnected sensor 
devices that have the ability to sense, to compute, and to communicate. When considering 
large-scale WSNs, the scalability of current communication systems are often insufficient to 
support many sensor network applications. In this 3-year project, we devise data-dependent 
transmission policies for sensor networks, targeting the applications of data reconstruction, 
distributed estimation, and distributed detection. 
In year 1, we consider the case where all sensors data is to be reconstructed at the data 
gathering node. The concept of group testing is generalized to applications with correlated 
sources and scheduling policies are derived for sensors’ adopting cooperative transmissions. We 
show that it is desirable to allocate the same channel to sensors that have the same data to 
transmit. By considering the binary Markov data model, we analyze two group testing algorithms, 
i.e., the recursive and the tree-based algorithms. We show that the total number of group queries 
needed for the gathering of all sensors’ data scales in the order of the joint entropy. 
In year 2, we propose a data-dependent slotted ALOHA protocol for distributed estimation in 
sensor networks. We devise a transmission control policy where the transmission probability of 
each sensor is chosen according to the data quality and channel reliability. Two transmission 
control strategies are proposed, namely, the MMR and the TMMR schemes. The MMR scheme 
maximizes the MSE-reduction of the estimate after each time slot while the TMMR scheme 
allows sensors to switch among two predetermined transmission policies without instantaneous 
knowledge of the estimation performance and the number of active sensors in each time slot.  
In year 3, we devise a data-dependent transmission control policy for distributed detection 
applications and show how MAC timing information can be exploited to enhance detection. 
When the observations are i.i.d. over time, we show that the optimal transmission control takes 
on the form of a threshold function. When observations are made only every several time slots, 
the message arrival time at the fusion center will embed the reliability of the received sensors’ 
decisions and can be accounted for in the fusion rule to further enhance performance.  
 1 
I. BACKGROUND AND MOTIVATION 
Wireless sensor networks (WSN) typically consist of a large population of low-power low-cost 
sensor devices that are deployed to collect information from the physical environment, to process 
the observed measurements, and to coordinate application-dependent responses. In many sensor 
network applications, sensors are deployed in large scale over wide areas or hostile environments 
making it prohibitive to perform human maintenance or battery replacement. The dense 
deployment of sensors increases network congestion and reduces the per-user throughput in 
wireless networks [1]. These issues pose strict constraints on both energy and bandwidth 
utilization and, thus, efficient data gathering schemes must be devised to achieve many sensor 
network applications. Interestingly, in WSN, sensors are often deployed to measure highly 
correlated physical quantities or are linked through a common application. In this case, the 
statistical dependencies among sensors can be utilized to devise efficient data gathering 
algorithms [2]. In this project, we study three specific scenarios: (i) data gathering for the 
reconstruction of highly correlated sensor data, (ii) data gathering for distributed estimation 
applications, and (iii) data gathering for distributed detection applications. 
In the first subproject, data gathering for the reconstruction of sensors’ data is considered. By 
assuming that sensors’ observations are highly correlated, we argue that it is more efficient to 
allocate transmission channels to sensors that contain the same data to transmit. This is in contrast 
to conventional medium access control (MAC) policies that allocate separate channels to each 
individual sensor. In this case, different groups of sensors will be scheduled to transmit 
simultaneously in each time slot. The transmission schedule can be determined adaptively based 
on the data received in previous slots and coordination among simultaneously transmitting 
sensors can be achieved through queries sent by the data gathering node. The system takes on a 
(group) query and (group) response (Q&R) architecture that is reminiscent to the conventional 
group testing methodology. Specifically, group testing was first introduced by Dorfman [3] in 
1943 to improve the efficiency of blood tests on a large population of blood samples. Over the 
past few decades, the methodology has been applied to different data retrieval or classification 
applications such as DNA library screening [4], random access in computer networks [5], [6], 
image compression [7], and industrial quality control [8]. The Q&R strategies proposed for these 
applications exploit the knowledge of the data statistics as well as the ability to test groups of 
objects in unison to reduce the cost of data retrieval. Despite the large number of applications, 
most of the techniques developed in the literature consider only the case where the states of the 
tested items are modeled as independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) Bernoulli random 
variables. Different from these works, we consider in this project the sensor network application 
where data is assumed to be highly correlated and devise Q&R strategies for this scenario. 
In the second and third years, we recognize the fact that in many sensor applications, such as 
positioning, temperature control, fire detection, intrusion detection etc., sensors are deployed to 
estimate a common unknown parameter or to detect the occurrence of a common event. In these 
cases, one need not to reconstruct the entire set of sensors’ observations at the fusion center, but 
 3 
In the first year, we extended the group testing methodology beyond the i.i.d. Bernoulli model 
and derived Q&R strategies for the retrieval of correlated data in sensor networks. Our 
contribution differs from most data gathering methods proposed in the literature where the 
sensors are queried individually and their responses are sent through separate channels [27], [28]. 
Specifically, we consider the case where the sensors’ data are modeled as a sequence of spatially 
Markov random variables. As in the conventional i.i.d. Bernoulli case, there is no general 
approach to obtain the optimal group testing strategy (i.e., one that requires the minimum number 
of tests) and, thus, two suboptimal algorithms, i.e., the recursive algorithm and the tree-based 
algorithm, are proposed and analyzed in this project. The analysis of these two strategies is 
sufficient to show the effectiveness of collaborative group transmissions of correlated data. The 
former scheme derives the queries through a set of recursive equations that are shown to achieve 
near-optimal performance for systems with finite number of sensors. The dependence of the 
performance on the data statistics cannot be derived explicitly in this scheme but can be obtained 
from the analysis of the tree-based algorithm. More specifically, by analyzing the tree-based 
algorithm, we obtain an upper-bound on the performance of the optimal group testing strategy 
with respect to the parameters of the stochastic data model. It is further shown that, as the number 
of sensors  increases, the expected number of queries scales in the same order as the entropy.  
 
Subproject 2: Channel-Aware Random Access Control for Distributed Estimation in Sensor 
Networks 
In the second year, we devise a cross-layered sensor network MAC protocol to efficiently 
retrieve data from the sensors and to rapidly improve the quality of the estimates. We propose a 
channel-aware slotted ALOHA protocol where the transmission probability of each sensor is 
assigned according to both the reliability of the local observation and the quality of the local 
transmission channel. In addition, we adopt the distributed estimation model studied in [29] and 
[30] where each sensor transmits an amplified version of its analog measurements to the fusion 
center through a noisy fading channel. The model is similar to the amplify-and-forward (AF) 
cooperative transmission scheme described in [31]–[33]. Based on this model and given a fixed 
set of transmission probabilities, we first compute the expressions for the mean-square-error 
(MSE) distortion of the estimate. A channel-aware slotted ALOHA protocol referred to as the 
maximum MSE-reduction (MMR) method is then derived to maximize the reduction of MSE after 
each transmission. Two sensor systems namely the repeated transmission (RT) and the transmit 
once (TO) systems are considered on top of the MMR method. 
The computation in the MMR method requires instantaneous knowledge of the number of 
active sensors and the estimation performance (i.e., MSE) achieved up to that point, which may 
not be available in practice. To cope with this problem, we also introduce the suboptimal 
two-mode MSE-reduction (TMMR) method to approximate the performance of MMR without 
explicit information of aforementioned system parameters. In the TMMR method, the sensors 
switch between two predetermined transmission control functions based only on the local 
estimates of the system parameters. We show that both the MMR and TMMR methods 
 5 
the redundancy of the transmissions. Three main approaches have been taken in the literature: (1) 
data aggregation [38]–[40]; (2) distributed source coding [41], [42]; and (3) spatial sampling [43], 
[44]. Data aggregation reduces the communication cost by allowing sensors to compress their 
local messages with the messages that they are relaying, but requires that the sensors exchange 
their local data with each other enroute to the destination. Distributed source coding (DSC), 
however, can achieve the optimal centralized compression efficiency without explicit data 
exchange among sensors. Data sampling, on the other hand, gathers data only from sensors that 
are sufficiently uncorrelated. This technique reduces significantly the energy consumption for 
moderate distortion constraints in data retrieval applications. However, the energy consumption 
increases rapidly under strict distortion constraints. 
The group testing strategies proposed in the first year exploit the correlation through the 
queries and utilize these queries to coordinate the cooperative transmissions at the sensors. The 
key intuition is to have highly correlated sensors transmit cooperatively in the same channel or 
time slot, instead of transmitting separately. The works most relevant to ours were proposed in the 
context of distributed detection and estimation problems [45], [46], [47]. In these works, all the 
sensors observe measurements of a common event and, thus, are highly correlated. The sensors 
act as the relay in cooperative networks that forward the information of the source to the 
destination [48]. In fact, as shown in [46], [47], it is sufficient to allocate a single channel to the 
sensors with the same measurement, similar to that in the group testing case. Therefore, the total 
number of channel uses becomes independent of the network size. This strategy is referred to as 
the type-based multiple access (TBMA) in the literature on distributed statistical inference. 
In the second and third years, we derive data-dependent transmission control policies based on 
the fundamental slotted ALOHA protocol. In the proposed scheme, the transmission probabilities 
of sensors are modeled as functions of the data reliability as well as the channel quality. In the 
past, channel-aware transmission control policies have been proposed for conventional slotted 
ALOHA systems in [49] and [50] to maximize the system throughput. However, in the distributed 
estimation problem, the sensors are transmitting information about a common event and the 
objective is to obtain an accurate estimate of the physical quantity of interest in the sensor field. 
In this case, conventional MAC protocols that maximize system throughput may not necessarily 
lead to accurate estimates since the observations that are delivered to the fusion center may not be 
reliable. For distributed detection problems, similar techniques can also be employed to gather 
information from reliable sensors. The performance of distributed detection over slotted ALOHA 
random access channels has also been studied in [51]. However, in [51], the transmission 
probabilities do not depend on the reliability of the sensors’ decisions and no timing information 
is extracted from the received sequence of decisions to enhance performance. More interestingly, 
as mentioned above, we show that the optimal transmission control function for K = 1 is 
equivalent to a thresholding function, where only sufficiently reliable sensors are allowed to 
transmit. This is consistent with the behavior of censoring sensors [52], which transmits its data 
to the fusion center only if its local log-likelihood ratio exceeds a certain threshold. Although the 
operations of censoring sensors show similarities with our proposed strategy, the objective is 
 7 
 
Fig. 1.  Illustration of the binary Markov data model. (a) The two-state Markov chain. (b) The line network. 
and, thus, increases the correlation among neighboring sensors. We further assume that the 
process is stationary with 
   
and 
   
The correlation coefficient between adjacent nodes is given by 
   
where  is the variance of  and  
 is the covariance between  and . We note that each set of  
uniquely specifies a pair of transition probabilities . In this work, we consider the cases 
where  takes on values within the interval . When , the problem reduces to the case 
of i.i.d. Bernoulli random variables, which was the model considered in most classical group 
testing problems [6], [8]. 
To efficiently retrieve sensors’ data, we propose the Query-and-Response (Q&R) 
communication architecture where the sensors’ transmissions are triggered by queries sent by the 
data gathering node. Borrowing from the concept of group testing and considering the distributed 
source model, we choose in each query a group of sensors that are likely to contain the same 
binary data. For example, when the sensors in a group  are likely to contain the bit , 
the receiver polls the sensors in  along with a query asking whether or not the sensors actually 
contain the bit 0. This query is denoted by  (where  in this 
example). In fact, this is a generalization to the classical group testing, e.g., blood testing, where 
the queries are restricted to asking only one question “Is the blood sample infected?”. In our case, 
the two questions  and  can be used arbitrarily and selected with respect to the data 
statistics. Suppose that each sensor is equipped with a simple transmitter that responds only with 
an on–off keying signal. Specifically, as the response to the query , sensor  transmits 
a pulse, , if and only if  and  (i.e., a pulse is emitted in protest of the wrong 
guess imposed by the data gathering node); otherwise, the sensor remains silent. To focus on the 
efficiency of the methodology, we assume the idealized scenario where the sensors’ reception is 
 9 
is selected by solving a set of recursive equations and (2) the tree splitting algorithm, where the 
group of sensors are chosen through a series of binary partitions of the network. The first scheme 
allows us to illustrate the effectiveness of this strategy with finite number of sensors while the 
second strategy provides an analytical study on the scaling of the performances as  increases.  
 
1. Optimized Recursive Group Testing Algorithm 
As described in the previous sections, the total number of queries can be reduced if we select a 
group of sensors that are likely to contain the same data in each query. Under the binary Markov 
model, this event is most likely to occur among contiguous sensors if the transition probabilities 
 or that . Therefore, in this algorithm, we reduce the complexity of the 
search for optimal queries by imposing two restrictions on the group selection. First of all, we 
only allow groups of contiguous sensors, i.e., the sensors with continuous labels, to be queried 
simultaneously. Secondly, a node must be included in the current query if it contains the smallest 
index among the set of unresolved sensors. The method is suboptimal due to the restrictions on 
the group selection but the computational complexity is reduced since we now only need to 
determine the number of contiguous sensors in each group (i.e., the cardinality of  for the 
-th query) and the best question to ask (i.e., ) in each query.  
 
2. Binary Tree-Splitting Algorithm 
In this section, we consider a specific group selection strategy that chooses the queried groups 
through a binary tree splitting algorithm. In this strategy, we initially split the network into two 
subgroups of equal size and query each group individually. If the group is resolved through the 
query, then no further action is needed on the sensors in that group; however, if the group is not 
resolved through the query, we again partition the group into two groups with equal size and 
query them in the subsequent time slots. The process continues until all the sensors are resolved. 
For simplicity of our illustration, we consider the case where  for some positive integer 
. In practice, the network size need not be a power of  and the partitioning can be done based 
on the location of the sensors rather than the index, c.f. [57]. This method can be applied to 
sensor network architectures such as those proposed in [58], [59]. Also in this case we assume 
that the queried groups contain contiguous sensors. 
To simplify our analysis, we adopt a suboptimal querying scheme where each group of sensors 
chosen through the tree splitting algorithm are queried twice in consecutive time slots asking two 
different questions. More specifically, suppose that , , is the -th group that is chosen. 
In this case, we impose the two queries  and  on the same 
group in consecutive time slots. This approach yields a pair of outputs  and 
provides us with the ternary information on , namely, 
 
where  indicates that all sensors in  contain the bit  since no sensor responded (i.e., 
 11 
 
Fig. 2 System model 
 
  
 
where  is the transmission channel coefficient of sensor  and  is 
the AWGN at the fusion center. We assume that  are i.i.d. over time and across 
sensors as well. The SNR of the received signal  is given by 
 
 
This is referred to as the effective local SNR of sensor , which is the SNR of the signal received 
at the fusion center given that sensor  is the only one transmitting. 
Suppose that  is the probability that sensor  transmits in the mth time slot. Under the 
collision channel model, the signal transmitted by a sensor is successfully received by the fusion 
center if and only if no other sensor is transmitting in the same time slot, i.e., there is no 
interference from other sensors. The probability that sensor  successfully transmits in the m-th 
time slot is 
  
Suppose that, in the first M time slots, the fusion center successfully receives I packets from 
the sensors  at time  instants, where 
. For convenience, we define  as the sequence of 
SNRs of the received signals, i.e., 
  
Based on the messages successfully received in the previous time slots, the fusion center 
computes the linear minimum MSE (MMSE) estimate of , which is given by 
 13 
 
Fig. 3 Illustration of distributed detection 
both the statistics of the sensors’ local decisions as well as knowledge of the data-dependent 
transmission control policy. Specifically, let us consider a binary hypothesis testing problem: 
  
where  is the observation made by sensor  at the beginning of the m-th observation period, 
and ,  are the conditional density functions given the hypotheses  and , 
respectively. The sensors’ observations are assumed to be conditionally independent among each 
other but may not be identically distributed since, for example, the distance of each sensor to the 
observed event may differ. However, we assume that the observations are independent and 
identically distributed (i.i.d.) over time. 
Based on the observation , sensor  will make the optimal local decision 
  
where  is the log-likelihood ratio of  and  is the decision threshold based on 
 and . For notational simplicity, we shall hereon denote  by  
whenever the dependence on  is clear from the context. Moreover, we shall assume that 
 and  are chosen such that the density function of  is continuous and 
sufficiently regular and smooth whenever needed. Suppose that the observation  yields the 
log-likelihood ratio , which means that the decision  is made. Then, the 
probability that a correct decision was made is given by 
  
which increases with . Similarly, if the observation  yields ¸ which means 
that the decision  is made, then the probability that a correct decision was made is  
  
 15 
, which varies in each time slot. If sensor i is the only one transmitting in the 
m-th time slot, the m  received by the fusion center and we will have essage will be successfully
. Since t e y one slot in each observation pe
tim dex in 
her is onl time riod, we shall omit the 
, e-slot in  and , and represent them as , , and rm, 
respectively. 
Given , the optimal fusion rule can be expressed as 
  
wh owich foll s from the fact that  are independent since i.i.d. observations are made in 
each time slot. We shall omit the dependence of  in  whenever it is clear from the context. 
Given , the probability that  can be derived as 
  
where 
   
is the average probability that sensor i transmits decision , given that  is the true 
hypothesis, and  is the ind .icator function  Similarly, we have  and 
. Fur ore, we consider the special case whertherm e 
(A1)  and, thus  
 and  are symmetric about the origin, i.e., (A2) . 
Based on these assumptions, we then derive the optimal fusion rule, presented in Proposition 
3.1, and the optimal transmission control function given the average transmission probabilities 
 for all sensors, which is presented proposition 3.2. All the propositions are described 
in the Research Results section, i.e., Section V. The remaining task is then to allocate the average 
transmission probabilities, which is achieved by solving the following optimization problem: 
   
 is the probability of error at the fusion center, and  where is the total traffic load which can 
be viewed as a scale of the total power constraint. 
 
CASE: K>1 
For the case K > 1, each sensor, say sensor i, makes an observation  at the beginning of 
 17 
 
Fig. 4 For  and  to , we show the performance of the optimized recursive 
algorithm (solid line) and the entropy lower bound of (1) (dashed line). 
 (1) 
where ,  
  (2)   
where , and 
 (3)           
 
ctions in 
where 
The fun (1), (2) and (3) can be evaluated recursively with the initial conditions that 
and   
 
In Fig. 5, we show the performance of the optimized recursive algorithm for a network of 
 sensors and for various values of . The dashed lines represent the entropy lower bound 
of (1) for each case of  and the solid lines represent the performance of the proposed algorithm. 
We observe that the proposed querying strategy closely approximates the optimal performance 
(i.e., the entropy lower bound that can be achieved asympt tically with Huffman coding). More 
importantly, the expected number of channel accesses varies with the entr
o
opy of the data as 
pposed to consuming a fixed number of channel accesses that are proportional to the number of 
otocols such as conventional TDMA schemes. 
Th
o
sensors, which is the case for user-oriented MAC pr
e advantage of group queries is most promising when  is close to  or  and when  is 
close to , i.e., the cases where sensors' data  have low aggregate entropy. 
 19 
. The binary partitioning of the groups continues independently in each subgroup. When 
the network is partitioned initially into  groups, we have e uivalently q  subgroups that 
ee splitting algorithm described in the previous subsection, where the network 
is initially split into only two subgroups. This is illustrated in Fig. 6. 
 in [62], we optimal 
follow the binary tr
  Following the approach given  find the  that minimizes the expected 
number of queries for each value of . This value of  is denoted by . Let 
 be the expected number of queries with  
 as introdu
initial partitions. The expected 
number of queries for the binary tree splitting algorithm, ced in the previous section, is 
. To derive , we first prove the following properties 
on the continuity and the behavior of  and  with respect to 
the parameters . 
  
Theorem 1.2: 
 
Fig. 5 The network is tially split into ini  groups where each functions as the original binary tree algorithm. 
Case I: For fixed  and an arbitrary value of , it is optimal to split the root node 
immediately into  branches where 
  (6) 
Case II: For  close to , 
              
 
From (6), we can see that the optimal splitting of the network for  is 
equivalent to querying each individual sensor separately, since  in this case. In the 
sensor model, the information lower bound  increases 
linearly with  when the transition probability are fixed. However, when we do not optimize 
ver the initial partitioning of the network, the average number of tests of the binary tree splitting o
algorithm may increase faster than . Interestingly, with the optimal splitting, the worst case 
scenario is to choose an initial partitioning of , which then achieves an increase 
consistent with the entropy, i.e., the increase of .  
 
C. Optimal Scaling Performances  
 21 
hese strategies capitalize on the statistical knowledge of the sensors' data to design 
gr
number of transmissions necessary for the sensors to convey the information to a central 
processor. T
oup queries that are able to retrieve the data from multiple sensors simultaneously.  
 
Subproject 2: Channel-Aware Random Access Control for Distributed Estimation in Sensor 
Networks 
In this following, we describe the two proposed transmission control methods: the maximum 
SE-reduction (MMR) method and the two-mode MSE-reduction (TMMR) method are 
ese two methods, the enhanced MMR with selective combining 
m
In posed M thod, the transmission probabilities, e.g., 
M
presented. An improvement to th
ethod (EMMR-SC), is also covered. These schemes are presented under both the RT and TO 
systems. 
 
A. Maximum MSE-reduction 
 the pro MR me , are derived 
to maximize the MSE reduction in each time slot. The method relies o e n the knowledge of th
accumulated SNR before the current transmission takes place (i.e., ) and the effective 
local SNR of the current time slot (i.e., ). Therefore,  can be written as a function of 
 and , i.e.,  
  
Since the sensors are identical, the MMR transmission control function  is common for 
all sensors. To simplify the notations, we shall omit the time index m since the policy depends 
nly on the actual values of o  and . Therefore, the transmission probability is expressed as 
. The value of  can be computed at sensor , since we assume that local CSI 
is available, but the value of  must be sent to the sensors from the fusion center through 
feedback at the beginning of each time slot. 
 
a) Maximum MSE-reduction for Repeated Transmission System 
  In RT systems, due to lack of knowledge of other users’ effective local SNR values, we obtain 
the transmission function  by minimizing the average MSE conditioned on . The 
result is given in the following lemma.  
t Lemma 2.1  Suppose tha  is a continuous random variable with distribution function . 
For a fixed value of , the conditional MSE given  is given by 
  
and can be minimized if  
  
where  and .  
Lemma 2.1 shows that, to m ize the MSE-reduction after each taxim ime slot, the sensors should 
 23 
the transmission probability of sensor  in the mth time slot is given by . 
Specifically, instead of computing the MMR transmission control threshold (i.e., ) at the 
beginning of each time slot, all sensors initiate transmission with the tran ission control 
th
sm
reshold  and switch to  for .  Notice t t ha  can be computed 
T and TO sys w. 
 
offline as described for both R tems belo
a) Two-mode MSE-reduction for Repeated Transmission System 
Intuitively, we should be able to find a value  for which  closely approximates 
 for . However,  
v
is not available and we obtain the average 
accumulated SNR that the fusion center obtains o er the first  as  
 
We can then determine the switching value as 
 
and utilize the transmission control function  
  
It 
 is an advantage gained from offline computation. 
 
b) Two-mode MSE-reduction for the Transmit Once System
is worthwhile to note that computational requirements are reduced at the sensors as compared 
with the MMR method, which
 
 the TO systems, the number of active sensors varies and we have the following bounds 
according to Proposition 2.1: 
In
  
and 
  
Suppose that  is the estimated number of active sensors at the beginning of the mth time 
slot. Before the switch occurs, each sensor will transmit using the threshold  and the 
ginning of the mth time slot is 
 
probability that n sensors remain active at the be
 
The estimated number of active sensors is then 
  
The probability  (and, thus, ) corresponding to the mth time slot is computed 
recursively since the average transmission probabilities , ,  , 
 25 
and  
  
To evaluate  using the fixed point equation in (8), we must utilize the fact that the 
distribution function  of  converges to 
  (11) 
for m sufficiently large, where  and  
  
with
An approximated value to  can then be obtained by substituting (11) into (8). 
 
b) Enhanced MMR with Selective Combining for Transmit Once System 
In the TO system, the sensors become inactive once a transmission occurs. Therefore, if the 
sensor remains to be active at the beginning of the mth time slot, the number of recorded 
observations will be equal to either the time index or the window size W (whichever is smaller). 
Consequently, given that sensor  is active in the mth time slot, the distribution of  is 
given by 
  (12) 
Similarly, by substituting (12) into (8) and by replacing N with , we can find the optimum 
value of . 
 
D. Estimation performance evaluations by computer simulations 
We show the estimation performance by using the proposed transmission control policies with 
computer simulations below. In simulations, we let N = 20 and let  be a circularly symmetric 
complex Gaussian random variable with zero mean and unit variance, i.e., . The 
results shown are obtained by averaging over 1500 independent trials and considering in the 
following two cases: 
 
1) Example I - Exponentially distributed local SNRs 
 27 
                    (a) RT system                                   (b) TO system 
Fig. 8  MSE performance of EMMR-SC for the RT and TO systems. 
More interestingly, the two schemes also outperform TDMA where sensors transmit in the order 
of their indices regardless of their local SNRs. This shows that the advantage of 
channel-awareness more than compensates for the loss due to collision in random access 
networks. In both the RT and the TO systems, the TMMR is clearly inferior to the MMR method, 
which is not the case in Example I. 
The MSE performance of EMMR-SC is shown in Fig. 9(a) and Fig. 9(b) for the RT and the TO 
systems, respectively. In Fig. 9(a), the performance of EMMR-SC for W = 2, 5, 8 is compared 
with the MMR method. The MMR method is equivalent to the EMMR-SC method when W = 1. 
In the RT system, shown in Fig. 9(a), the EMMR-SC schemes do not perform as well as the 
MMR in the early time slots because the distribution function given in (11) holds only when m is 
sufficiently large. Nonetheless, the EMMR-SC method eventually outperforms the MMR in later 
time slots since the diversity order increases due to the selective combining performed on the 
buffered set of observations. The MSE decreases faster as W increases but the improvement is 
limited for large W. In Fig. 9(b), the performance of the EMMR-SC for W = 2, 5, 8 is also 
compared with the MMR method in the TO system. We notice that, in the TO system, the 
EMMR-SC schemes outperform the MMR method even in early time slots since the actual 
distribution in (12) is used instead of the asymptotic approximation. Similarly, the gain improves 
as W increases, but is limited for large W. 
 
Subproject 3: Exploiting Data-Dependent Transmission Control and MAC Timing 
Information for Distributed Detection in Sensor Networks 
In this subproject, we derive data-dependent transmission control functions for the distributed 
detection application. Given the transmission scheme, the fusion center makes the optimal 
decision based on the received data vector  where  
and . The optimal fusion rule can be expressed as 
 29 
  
and 
 
 
(13) is the theoretical error probability and is used to plot in Fig. 11. 
To find the optimal transmission control functions that minimize the error probability, we first 
find the optimal transmission control functions for any given set of average transmission 
probabilities , which is described below by Proposition 3.2. 
Proposition 3.2 . Given the average transmission probabilities  and 
 
the error probability  is minimized if 
 
where  is chosen such that  
This proposition shows that, to minimize the error probability, only the sensors with 
sufficiently reliable observations should be allowed to transmit (and in fact transmit with 
probability 1) while the other sensors should remain silent. The function  is plotted in Fig. 10. 
To determine the allocation of the average transmission probabilities  of sensors, 
we find that for a fixed total traffic load, minimizing the error probability is approximately equal 
to minimizing the sum of each sensor’s probability of transmitting a wrong decision to the fusion 
center (i.e., ). Additionally, from Proposition 3.1, we know that the optimal 
transmission control function takes on the form of a thresholding function. Therefore, this 
problem is equivalent to finding the optimal thresholds, i.e.  (  is the threshold for 
sensor i), subject to a constraint on the total traffic load. That is, (3) is equivalent to 
  (14) 
where  and . 
Therefore, given the total traffic load  and the density functions  and , the optimal 
transmission probability  of sensors can be allocated by solving (14) e choose the 
case of Gaussian shift-in- process, that is, 
. W
the-mean  and , in 
 31 
 
Fig. 11 Comparison between the cases with optimal and with uniform transmission probability allocation policies.
and . The curves in Fig. 12 are plotted for path loss exponents  
correspond to free space and indoor environments [63], respectively. The results were averaged 
over 50 different realizations of sensor deployment. In Fig. 12, the error probability achieved 
with the optimal transmission probability allocation scheme is compared with the uniform 
allocation scheme where the total traffic load is equally allocated to all sensors. Both schemes a 
Pre subject to the same constraints on the total traffic, namely, 
= 2 and 3, which 
.We can see that the 
optimal allocation of average transmission probabilities signif
performance. The theoretical curves coincide with those obtained via Monte Carlo simulations, 
and, thereby, validate the results of our simulations. 
 
icantly improves the detection 
ASE: K>1C  
the intuitions obtained in the previous K = 1 scenario, we propose a similar 
th
Following 
resholding policy for K > 1 which allows each sensor to transmit only if its local loglikelihood 
ratio exceeds a given threshold. Let  be the sequence of thresholds 
corresponding to the K time slots in an ob ordering of the thresholds ensures 
that the sensor’s local decisions are received at the fusion center in the order of their reliability. 
To avoid repeated collision between sensors, we assume that each sensor remains silent after it 
has attempted a transmission, regardless of whether or not it was successful. Therefore, the 
transmission control function is given by 
 
servation period. The 
 
for , with . The transmission control function  is illustrated in 
 13. 
ing this transmission control function with further assuming
Fig.
By us , the 
log-likelihood ratio can be written as  
 33 
(a)                                             (b) 
Fig. 13.  BER v.s. (a) number of observation periods and (b) number of sensors with slotted ALOHA and
conventional TDMA for different thresholds for K=2 and 4. 
transmit in a round-robin fashion. The curves are shown for SNR= -3dB. We can see that the 
proposed data-dependent transmission control outperforms both slotted ALOHA and TDMA, 
which are non-data-dependent transmission schemes. Interestingly, as for the case with K = 1, the 
proposed scheme can outperform TDMA (where there is no collision) even with the lack of 
coordination in the proposed random access system. This advantage is enjoyed by the 
exploitation of multiuser diversity and is more evident as K and M increases. 
 
VI. SELF EVALUATION 
In the first year, the group testing methodology is extended to the case with correlation among 
the distributed samples and generalized as a query-and-response data retrieval strategy. The 
optimized recursive scheme is shown to closely approximate the performance of the optimal 
scheme, but the dependence on the data statistics cannot be derived explicitly. With the 
tree-splitting algorithm, we are able to derive the relation between the statistical parameters of the 
data and the number of queries needed for the Q&R scheme. We also derived the asymptotic 
scaling of the expected number of queries with respect to N. The data dependence of the queries 
and the cooperative transmission between sensors provides significant improvements over 
strategies that impose a separation between source and channel coding. The Q&R methodology is 
also generalized to include different source models and transmission channels. 
In the second year, we studied the performance of the distributed estimation problem in a 
cooperative slotted ALOHA system with channel-aware sensors. We found that the optimal 
transmission control function takes on the form of a thresholding function where the sensors 
transmit only if their effective local SNR values exceed a certain threshold. Two methods were 
proposed to derive the transmission control thresholds: the MMR and the suboptimal TMMR 
methods. Additionally, to improve upon the MMR and TMMR methods, the EMMR-SC method 
 35 
[J3] ***Y.-W. Peter Hong, Keng-U Lei and Chong-Yung Chi, Channel-Aware Random Access 
Control for Distributed Estimation in Sensor Networks, IEEE Transactions on Signal 
Processing, Vol. 56, No. 7, Part I, pp. 2967-2980, July 2008. 
[J4] ***Y.-W. Peter Hong and Anna Scaglione, Group Testing for Binary Markov Sources: 
Data-Driven Group Queries for Cooperative Sensor Networks, IEEE Transactions on 
Information Theory, Vol. 54, No. 8, pp. 3538-3551, August 2008. 
[J5] Wan-Jen Huang, Y.-W. Peter Hong and C.-C. Jay Kuo, Lifetime Maximization for 
Amplify-and-Forward Cooperative Networks, IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, Vol. 7, No. 5, pp. 1800-1805, May 2008 (Correspondence). 
[J6] Wan-Jen Huang, Y.-W. Peter Hong and C.-C. Jay Kuo, Relay-Assisted Decorrelating 
Multiuser Detector (RAD-MUD) for Cooperative CDMA Networks, IEEE Journal on 
Selected Areas in Communications, Special Issue on Multiuser Detection for Advanced 
Communication Systems and Networks, Vol. 26, No. 3, pp. 550-560, April 2008. 
[J7] Yao-Win Hong and Anna Scaglione, Energy-Efficient Broadcasting with Cooperative 
Transmission in Wireless Sensor Networks, IEEE Transactions on Wireless 
Communications, Vol. 5, No. 10, pp. 2844-2855, October 2006. 
Journal Submissions: 
[JS1] Y.-W. Peter Hong, Yuh-Ren Tsai, Yan-Yu Liao, Chih-Hsun Lin, and Kai-Jie Yang, On the 
Throughput, Delay, and Energy Efficiency of Distributed Source Coding in Random 
Access Sensor Networks, submitted to IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communications 
(submitted March 2009). 
Conference Publications: 
[C1] Roberto Pagliari, Anna Scaglione, and Y.-W. Peter Hong, Adaptive Wireless Networking 
Primitives for Distributed Scheduling: Can Radios Swarm?, to be presented at The Third 
International Workshop on Computational Advances in Multi-Sensor Adaptive Processing 
(CAMSAP) 2009. 
[C2] Shu-Hsien Wang and Y.-W. Peter Hong, Channel-Aware Reservation-Based MAC 
Protocol for Cognitive Radio Networks, to be presented at APSIPA Annual Summit and 
Conference 2009. 
[C3] Shu-Hsien Wang and Y.-W. Peter Hong, Transmission Control with Imperfect CSI in 
Channel-Aware Slotted ALOHA Networks, IEEE International Conference on 
Communications (ICC) 2009. 
[C4] Y.-W. Peter Hong, Anna Scaglione, and Roberto Pagliari, Pulse Coupled Oscillators' 
Primitive for Low Complexity Scheduling, IEEE International Conference on Acoustics, 
Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) 2009. 
[C5] Hao-Jie Yang, Wan-Jen Huang, Yung-Shun Wang, and Y.-W. Peter Hong, Reduced-Rank 
Multiuser Relaying (RR-MUR) Scheme for Uplink CDMA Networks, IEEE International 
Conference on Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing (ICASSP) 2009. 
 37 
[C19] Wan-Jen Huang, Yao-Win Hong and C.-C. Jay Kuo, Lifetime Maximization for 
Amplify-and-Forward Cooperative Networks, IEEE Wireless Communications and 
Networking Conference (WCNC) 2007. 
Book Chapter: 
[BC1] Yao-Win Hong and Pramod K. Varshney, Advanced Signal Processing for Sensor MAC 
Protocols, in "Wireless Sensor Networks: Signal Processing and Communications 
Perspectives", Editors: A. Swami, Z. Qing, Y.-W. Hong and L. Tong, Publisher: John 
Wiley & Sons, 2007. 
Master Thesis: 
[M1] Tse-Yao Chang, “Exploiting Data-depend Transmission Control and MAC Timing 
Information for Distributed Detection in Sensor Networks,” National Tsing Hua 
University, Master Thesis, 2008. 
[M2] Po-Yu Chang, “Data-Driven Communications for Consensus Decision-Making in 
Wireless Sensor Networks,” National Tsing Hua University, Master Thesis, 2008. 
[M3] Chih-Hsin Lin, “On the Efficiency of Distributed Source Coding in Random Access 
Networks,” National Tsing Hua University, Master Thesis, 2009. 
 
VIII. REFERENCES 
[1] P. Gupta and P. R. Kumar, “The capacity of wireless networks,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 
IT-46, no. 3, pp. 388–404, Mar. 2000. 
[2] A. Swami, Q. Zhao, Y.-W. Hong, and L. Tong, Eds., Wireless Sensor Networks: Signal 
Processing and Communications Perspectives. New York: Wiley, 2007. 
[3] R. Dorfman, “The detection of defective members of large population,” Ann. Math. Statist., 
vol. 14, no. 4, pp. 436–440, Dec. 1943. 
[4] W. Bruno, E. Knill, D. Balding, W. Bruno, N. Doggett, W. Sawhill, R. Staltings, C. Whittaker, 
and D. C. Torney, “Efficient probing designs for library screening,” Genomics, vol. 26, pp. 
21–30, 1995. 
[5] J. K. Wolf, “Born again group testing: Multiaccess communications,” IEEE Trans. Inf. 
Theory, vol. IT-31, no. 2, pp. 185–191, Mar. 1985. 
[6] T. Berger, N. Mehravari, D. Towsley, and J. Wolf, “Random multipleaccess communication 
and group testing,” IEEE Trans. Commun., vol. COM-32, no. 7, pp. 769–779, Jul. 1984. 
[7] E. Hong and R. Ladner, “Group testing for image compression,” IEEE Trans. Image Process., 
vol. 11, no. 8, pp. 901–911, Aug. 2002. 
[8] M. Sobel and P. A. Groll, “Group testing to eliminate efficiently all defectives in a binomial 
sample,” Bell Syst. Tech. J., vol. 38, pp.1179–1253, Sep. 1959. 
 39 
[26] S. Thomopoulos, R. Viswanathan, and D. Bougoulias, “Optimal distributed decision fusion,” 
IEEE Trans. Aerosp. Electron. Syst., vol. 25, pp. 761-765, Sept. 1989. 
[27] C. Fragouli and A. Orlitsky, “Silence is golden and time is money: Power-aware 
communications for sensor networks,” in Proc. Allerton Conf. Communications, Control and 
Computing, Monticello, IL, Sep. 2005. 
[28] R. Cristescu, B. Beferull-Lozano, and M. Vetterli, “On network correlated data gathering,” in 
Proc. INFOCOM 2004, Hong Kong, Mar. 2004, vol. 4, pp. 2571–2582. 
[29] M. Gastpar and M. Vetterli, L. J. Guibas and F. Zhao, Eds., “Source channel communication 
in sensor networks,” in Proc. 2nd International Workshop on Information Processing in 
Sensor Networks (IPSN 2003), Palo Alto, CA, Apr. 2003, vol. 2634, Lecture Notes in 
Computer Science, pp. 162–177. 
[30] M. Gastpar, “Uncoded transmission is exactly optimal for a simple Gaussian “sensor” 
network,” presented at the Inf. Theory Appl.Workshop, San Diego, CA, 2007. 
[31] J. Laneman, D. Tse, and G.Wornell, “Cooperative diversity in wireless networks: Efficient 
protocols and outage behavior,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 50, no. 2, pp. 3062–3080, Dec. 
2004. 
[32] A. Nosratinia, T. E. Hunter, and A. Hedayat, “Cooperative communication in wireless 
networks,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 42, no. 10, pp. 74–80, Oct. 2004. 
[33] Y.-W. Hong, W.-J. Huang, F.-H. Chiu, and C.-C. J. Kuo, “Cooperative communications in 
resource-constrained wireless networks,” IEEE Signal Process. Mag., vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 
47–57, May 2007. 
[34] M. T. Ozsu and P. Valduriez, Principles of Distributed Database Systems, 2nd ed. Upper 
Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1999. 
[35] BitTorrent Protocol [Online]. Available: http://bitconjurer.org/BitTorrent [Online]. Available 
[36] S. Lindsey, C. Raghavendra, and K. M. Sivalingam, “Data gathering algorithms in sensor 
networks using energy metrics,” IEEE Trans. Parallel Distrib. Syst, vol. 13, no. 9, pp. 
924–935, Sep. 2002. 
[37] D. Marco and D. L. Neuhoff, “Reliability vs. efficiency in distributed source coding for 
field-gathering sensor networks,” in Proc. 3rd Int. Symp. Information Processing in Sensor 
Networks (IPSN), Berkeley,CA, Apr. 2004, pp. 161–168. 
[38] W. R. Heinzelman, J. Kulik, and H. Balakrishnan, “Adaptive protocols for information 
dissemination in wireless sensor networks,” in Proc. 5th Annu. ACM/IEEE Int. Conf. Mobile 
Computing and Networking (MobiCom), 1999, pp. 174–185. 
[39] B. Krishanamachari, D. Estrin, and S. Wicker, “The impact of data aggregation in wireless 
sensor networks,” in Proc. Int. Workshop on Distributed Event Based Systems (DEBS), 
Vienna, Austria, Jul. 2002. 
[40] C. Intanagonwiwat, R. Govindan, D. Estrin, J. Heidemann, and F. Silva, “Directed diffusion 
for wireless sensor networking,” IEEE/ACM Trans. Netw., vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 2–16, Feb. 
2003. 
[41] S. Pradhan, J. Kusuma, and K. Ramchandran, “Distributed compression in a dense 
 41 
Wireless Communications (SPAWC), New York, Jun. 2005, pp. 226–230. 
[58] Y.-W. Hong, A. Scaglione, R. Manohar, and B. Sirkeci-Mergen, “Dense sensor networks that 
are also energy efficient: When ‘more’ is ‘less’,” in Proc. IEEE Military Communications 
Conf. (MILCOM), Atlantic City, NJ, Oct. 2005, vol. 5, pp. 3127–3133. 
[59] P. Venkitasubramaniam, S. Adireddy, and L. Tong, “Sensor networks with mobile access: 
Optimal random access and coding,” IEEE J. Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 22, no. 6, pp. 
1058–1068, Aug. 2004. 
[60] H. Stark and J. W. Woods, Probability and Random Processes with Applications to Signal 
Processing, 3rd ed. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 2002. 
[61] A. Papoulis and S. U. Pillai, Probability, Random Variables and Stochastic Processes, 4th ed. 
New York: McGraw-Hill, 2001. 
[62] J. Capetanakis, “Generalized TDMA: The multi-accessing tree protocol,” IEEE Trans. 
Commun., vol. COM-27, no. 10, pp. 1476–1484, Oct. 1979. 
[63] J. B. Andersen, T. Rappaport, and S. Yoshida, “Propagation measurements and models for 
wireless communications channels,” IEEE Commun. Mag., Vol. 33, pp. 42-49, January 1995. 
3538 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, VOL. 54, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
Group Testing for Binary Markov Sources:
Data-Driven Group Queries for
Cooperative Sensor Networks
Yao-Win Peter Hong, Member, IEEE, and Anna Scaglione, Member, IEEE
Abstract—Group testing has been used in many applications to
efficiently identify rare events in a large population. In this paper,
the concept of group testing is generalized to applications with
correlated source models to derive scheduling policies for sensors’
adopting cooperative transmissions. The tenet of our work is that
in a wireless sensor network it is advantageous to allocate the same
channel dimensions to all sensor sources that have the same re-
sponse to a sequence of queries or tests. That is, nodes that have
the same data attributes should transmit as a cooperative super-
source. Specifically, we consider the case where sensors’ data are
modeled spatially as a one-dimensional Markov chain. Two strate-
gies are considered: the recursive algorithm and the tree-based al-
gorithm. The recursive scheme allows us to illustrate the perfor-
mance of group testing for finite populations while the tree-based
algorithm is used to derive the achievable scaling performances
of the class of group testing strategies as the number of sensors
increases. We show that the total number of queries required to
gather all sensors’ data scales in the order of the joint entropy. A
further generalization of this concept provides the basis of deriving
efficient data-gathering algorithms for correlated sources.
Index Terms—Cooperative communications, data gathering in
sensor networks, distributed source coding, group testing, multiple
access.
I. INTRODUCTION
G ROUP testing was first introduced by Dorfman [1] to im-prove the efficiency of blood tests on a large population
of blood samples. The idea is to pool together multiple blood
samples and test them simultaneously instead of performing the
test separately on each sample. If the collective outcome of the
group test is positive, we gain the knowledge that at least one
blood sample in the group is infected and additional tests must
be performed on smaller subgroups to single out the infected
samples. On the other hand, if the test is negative, we know that
all samples in the group are clear of infection and the states of
all these samples are identified with only one test. Consequently,
the expected number of tests required to classify a large popu-
lation of blood samples is significantly reduced if the event of
an infection is rare.
Manuscript received December 4, 2006; revised December 19, 2007. This
work was supported in part by the National Science Council (Taiwan) under
Grant NSC-95-2221-E-007-043-MY3 and the National Science Foundation
under Grant CCF-0514243.
Y.-W. P. Hong is with the Institute of Communications Engineering, Na-
tional Tsing Hua University, 30013 Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C. (e-mail: ywhong@
ee.nthu.edu.tw).
A. Scaglione is with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering,
Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14853 USA (e-mail: anna@ece.cornell.edu).
Communicated by A. Høst-Madsen, Associate Editor for Detection and Es-
timation.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TIT.2008.926363
The (group) query and (group) response (Q&R) architec-
ture of the group testing methodology serves as the basis of
numerous data-dependent retrieval or classification strategies.
Specifically, it has been applied to areas such as DNA library
screening [2], random access in computer networks [3], [4],
image compression [5], and industrial quality control [6]. The
Q&R strategies proposed for these applications exploit the
knowledge of the data statistics as well as the ability to test
groups of data at unison to reduce the cost of data retrieval.
Despite the large number of applications, these works consider
solely the case where the states of the tested items can be mod-
eled as independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) Bernoulli
random variables and numerous strategies have been derived
for this specific source model.
In this paper, we consider the Q&R data retrieval structure
for sensor networks and adopt the group testing methodologies
to derive transmission scheduling policies for correlated sen-
sors. The key observation that leads to our proposed strategy
is that, in dense sensor networks, closely located sensors often
contain the same data to transmit due to the high spatial corre-
lation of the measurements. Therefore, it would be inefficient
to allocate individual channels for each sensor since the local
data is redundant and/or contains a quantity of information that
may be much less than the capacity of the channel. In fact,
under the Q&R architecture, sensors that contain the same data
should be queried simultaneously and, then, respond coopera-
tively through a single channel use. Following the ideas of clas-
sical group testing, we devise data-dependent scheduling poli-
cies for the cooperative transmission of highly redundant sen-
sors. However, our strategy differs from the classical schemes
in two aspects: 1) we assume a correlated data model among
sensors as opposed to the i.i.d. Bernoulli data model consid-
ered in the literature; and 2) we exploit the sensors’ ability to
respond to different types of queries. (In blood testing appli-
cations, the blood samples are passively tested objects and the
series of queries are of the same type that can only test the ex-
istence of an infected sample in the group.)
Our main contribution is to extend the group testing method-
ology beyond the i.i.d. Bernoulli model and to derive Q&R
strategies for the retrieval of correlated data in sensor networks.
This work differs from most data gathering methods proposed
in the literature where the sensors are queried individually and
their responses are sent through separate channels [7], [8].
Specifically, we consider the case where the sensors’ data are
modeled as a sequence of spatially Markov random variables.
As in the conventional i.i.d. Bernoulli case, there is no general
0018-9448/$25.00 © 2008 IEEE
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3540 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, VOL. 54, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
same binary data. For example, when the sensors in a group
are likely to contain the bit , the receiver polls
the sensors in along with a query asking whether or not the
sensors actually contain the bit . This query is denoted by
(where in this example). In
fact, this is a generalization to the classical group testing, e.g.,
blood testing, where the queries are restricted to asking only one
question “Is the blood sample infected?”. In our case, the two
questions and can be used arbitrarily and selected
with respect to the data statistics. A generalization of the queries
are discussed in Section VII and in [13], [15].
Suppose that each sensor is equipped with a simple trans-
mitter that responds only with an on–off keying signal. Specif-
ically, as the response to the query , sensor trans-
mits a pulse, , if and only if and (i.e., a
pulse is emitted in protest of the wrong guess imposed by the
data gathering node); otherwise, the sensor remains silent. Let
us partition the group into two distinct subgroups
and such that
. The signal arriving at the receiver is denoted
by
(4)
where is the pulse emitted when the guess was incorrect,
is the channel response between sensor and the data gath-
ering node, and is the additive white Gaussian noise.
Let us also consider a simple receiver structure where the
receiver only detects for the existence of a pulse, i.e., the receiver
decides between the two hypotheses
for
(5)
Let represent the collective response to the query, which takes
on the value if is detected and , otherwise. The
optimum pulse design and the optimum maximum a posteriori
probability (MAP) receiver for this binary test can be derived
through standard approaches [16], [17] based on the available
knowledge of the channel state at either the transmitter or the
receiver. Even though more complicated receivers can be used
to acquire more information from each query, such as to estimate
the number of pulses embedded in the aggregate response, the
increase of the alphabet size of makes the system more sus-
ceptible to noise and, thus, may not necessarily result in a more
efficient data gathering method. In addition, to further improve
the reliability of the responses, beamforming gains can also be
utilized with group transmissions by adopting the cooperative
time-reversal communications proposed in [18], [19]. While it
is important to discuss the optimal physical layer design and/or
the cooperative channel coding problem, we do not concentrate
on these issues in this paper. Instead, we focus on optimizing
the Q&R procedure to schedule the channel access for corre-
lated sources while considering only the simple physical layer
model proposed above to support the Q&R methodology.
To focus on the efficiency of the methodology, we assume
that the response from the sensors are noiseless.2 In the absence
of noise, the sensors determine the existence of a pulse with
no error. When , the receiver knows that all the sensors
specified in the query contain the same bit and, therefore, has
resolved the set using only one query. On the other hand, when
, the receiver knows that there exists at least one sensor
in the group that does not possess the bit but no information
is given on the specific identity or the total number of these
sensors. In this case, smaller subsets of the group must be
queried in subsequent time slots in order to identify the sensors
possessing the opposite message. By choosing appropriately the
sequence of queries, one can eventually resolve the entire set of
sensors’ data .
III. QUERY-AND-RESPONSE (Q&R) STRATEGIES
Based on the data model and transceiver assumptions given
above, our goal is to design Q&R strategies that reduce the total
number of queries needed to obtain a lossless reconstruction of
at the data gathering node. To achieve this task, the group
and the question chosen for each query must depend on the
statistics of the data, which is assumed to be known at the data
gathering node. Since the sensors’ observations are correlated,
the data not yet retrieved can be inferred by the data gathered via
the previous queries. Hence, the statistics of the data are updated
dynamically as more information is collected from the sensors.
Suppose that is the total number of queries needed to re-
construct the data . Let be the sequence
of queries and let be the se-
quence of responses, where is the response corresponding
to the th query, i.e., . Each response gives way to for-
mulate the subsequent queries in an adaptive fashion. Initially,
the query may depend only on the prior distribution
but, as more data is gathered from the sensors, later queries can
be generated by exploiting the information provided by the pre-
vious responses, e.g., the th query can be formulated
based on the conditional distribution . By
saying that is the total number of queries needed to reconstruct
, we mean that the data gathering node is able to identify the
value of with probability after queries. That is, after ob-
taining the responses , we have
if is the actual value of . Notice that always exists and
is upper-bounded by , which is obtained by querying the sen-
sors one-by-one. In the absence of noise, can be viewed
as a binary data representation that uniquely identifies and,
thus, the expected length is lower-bounded by the entropy
of [20], i.e.,
(6)
Conventionally, the communication of the sensors’ data are
achieved with a separation between the source and channel
coding, in which case the communication cost scales linearly
with the number of sensors (since each sensor must commu-
nicate through a separate channel). In the following, we show
2When noise is present one must optimize the queries to take into considera-
tion the statistics of the noise. The treatment of noise is beyond the scope of this
paper and it is the subject of our future work. Preliminary studies can be found
in [13], [15].
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3542 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, VOL. 54, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
which follows from the Markov property. On the other hand,
if there exists a sensor that does not contain (but contains
instead, where is the complement of ), the sensor will re-
spond in protest to the question. In this case, we are not yet
able to resolve the data , but we gain knowledge
of the fact that there exists such that (s.t.)
. Therefore, the expected number of remaining queries
needed becomes
s.t . Hence, we have
where is the -dimensional vector with all- entries. Hence,
the number of sensors and the question is chosen to minimize
the number of queries needed to resolve the remaining sensors’
data.
More generally
s.t. (9)
for , be the expected number of queries needed to gather
the data given that and that there
exists such that . With (9), we
can also express more generally as
(10)
where .
To solve for in (9), let us start by querying data
from the next sensors with the question . Since we know that
and that there exists such that
, therefore, if we choose and that all sensors
indeed contain the bit (i.e., ), the
expected number of queries remaining will become
s.t.
Please note that, for , it is only meaningful to have
since we know that there exists such that
. On the other hand, if a sensor responds in protest to
the query, then we know that there exists
such that and the expected number of queries remaining
becomes
s.t.
If we instead choose and that all sensors contain the
bit , i.e., , the expected number of
queries remaining becomes
If a sensor responds in protest to the query, then we know that
at least one sensor among the set contain the
bit and the expected number of queries remaining becomes
(11)
which is the expected number of queries needed to gather the
data given that: i) , ii) there exists
such that , and iii) there ex-
ists such that . Notice that
by definition. Similarly, and
are chosen to minimize the expected number of remaining
queries. Therefore, can be solved as (12), shown
at the bottom of the page, where
s.t.
Given that i) , ii) there exists
such that , and iii) there exists such
that , we can also derive following similar
procedures as before. Suppose we choose to query the next
sensors and ask the question . If (which is meaningful
only when ) and that all sensors indeed contain the
bit , then the expected number of remaining queries becomes
s.t.
If a sensor responds in protest to the question, the expected
number of remaining queries becomes
s.t. s.t.
for
for
(12)
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3544 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, VOL. 54, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
Fig. 3. Example of the realization of a sensor field with the binary sequence
         .
us with the ternary information on , namely,
where indicates that all sensors in contain the bit since
no sensor responded (i.e., protested) to the question and,
similarly, indicates that all sensors in contain the bit . In
both of these cases, the group of sensors are resolved and there
is no need to partition the groups any further. When occurs, the
data gathering node knows that both and are possessed by
some sensor in the group but it is not able to identify the sensors
that contain the bit nor those that contain the bit . This is
referred to as the erasure case. When is received, the group is
partitioned into two subgroups of equal size as specified by the
binary tree-splitting algorithm.
For example, we consider a network of 16 nodes that are
partitioned into a binary tree, as shown in Fig. 3. For a network
of nodes, there are levels in the binary tree, i.e.,
levels . In the th level of the tree, the network is
partitioned into groups of size equal to . The group
denotes the th group in the th level of the tree (where
), which consists of all sensors within its
subtree, i.e., .
In the binary tree-splitting algorithm, the sequence of queries
starts from the subgroups of , i.e., and , and continues
splitting and querying the smaller subgroups each time the larger
group results in . If the query on , for , results in either
or , the process will go on to query the smallest group that is
not yet resolved. However, if the test results in an erasure, the
vertex branches into two subgroups where the group
is queried next. For the data vector shown at the bottom of the
tree in Fig. 3, the sequence of queries are done in the order of the
following groups:
and . Even though
the value of the data in can be inferred from the result of
to (since we know that and contain different
bits from the erasure resulting from the query on ), we do not
consider this improvement in our analysis.
As a result of the binary splitting and the use of two queries
on each group, the performance of this algorithm yields a loose
upper bound to the optimal achievable performance of the Q&R
strategy. However, the simple structure allows us to derive the
explicit relations with and the asymptotic scaling of the per-
formances with respect to .
A. Performance Evaluation of the Tree-Splitting Algorithm
Considering the Markov model in Section II, we can compute
the minimum number of queries needed to resolve the sensors’
data using the binary tree-splitting algorithm, i.e., .
The proof is provided in Appendix A.
Theorem 1: Consider a network of sensors and the
binary observations modeled by the two-state Markov chain
with the parameters . The expected number of queries
needed to retrieve the data with the binary tree splitting
algorithm is given by
(14)
where
and .
When the correlation is high, i.e., , the proba-
bility can be approximated as
(15)
By using the approximation in (15), we can show that
(16)
Notice from (16) that the expected number of queries reduces
as or decreases to and as increases to , which are also
the cases where the entropy of decreases. The relation with
and are consistent with that observed in the optimized
recursive scheme (see Fig. 2). Consider the case where sensors
are increasingly correlated with respect to the sensor density in
the sense that for some constant
and large. This occurs, for example, when the sensors are
deployed in a fixed interval as shown in Fig. 1(b) and
that each sensor takes a binary quantization of a continuous
random field that has zero crossings at Poisson points on the
line (see random telegraph signal in [23], [24]). In this case, it
is easy to show that the expected number of queries scales as
. In contrast, the number of trans-
missions increases linearly with if each sensor transmits sepa-
rately in different channels, such as that in TDMA. Even though
the scaling of the binary tree-splitting algorithm may exceed that
of when is fixed, the Q&R strategies can produce
gains that depend on the data structure and, therefore, achieving
a better performance in certain regimes of for finite .
This advantage is not enjoyed by the conventional transmission
protocols.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3546 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, VOL. 54, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
statistics on the fly. As proposed in [12], the estimated statistics
can then be used to choose the optimal splitting of the initial
group. This results in an adaptive strategy to efficiently retrieve
distributed data without the initial knowledge of the sensor field
statistics. Interested readers should refer to [12] for further de-
tails.
VI. OPTIMAL SCALING PERFORMANCES
In the preceding sections, we introduced and analyzed two
suboptimal algorithms: 1) the optimized recursive algorithm and
2) the tree-splitting algorithm. For finite values of , we are able
to show through numerical evaluation that the optimized recur-
sive algorithm closely approximates the optimal Q&R strategy
since there is little difference between the expected number of
queries and the entropy lower bound. However, the relationship
between and the parameters and are not
explicit. Although the tree-splitting algorithm is a loose upper
bound on the optimal scheme, the dependence with respect to
and is explicitly shown and it is consistent with what we
observe in the optimal recursive scheme. With the tree split-
ting as the upper bound and the entropy as the lower bound,
we are able to derive the asymptotic behavior of the optimal
group-testing-based Q&R strategy as increases, even though
the construction of the optimal Q&R strategy is still unknown.
Let be the number of queries needed for the optimal
Q&R strategy to resolve the data set . Since the tree-splitting
algorithms are special cases of the Q&R strategies, they are ob-
vious upper bounds to the optimal scheme. Therefore, we have
(19)
The entropy serves as a lower bound since the binary channel
outputs uniquely represent the observation , similar to the
source coding problem. Using these bounds, we derive the
asymptotic performances of the optimal scheme for two cases:
i) the case where the number of sensors increases while the
density remains constant and ii) the case where the density
increases linearly with the number of sensors. As mentioned
previously, the binary data at each sensor can be viewed as the
binary quantization of a spatially continuous random process,5
similar to the sampling of a Random Telegraph process [24]. In
the first scenario, where the distance between sensors remains
the same, the correlation coefficient remains constant as the
size of the network increases. In the second case, the distance
between sensors decreases as the number of sensors increases
and, thus, increases the correlation between sensors. Suppose
that the sensors are placed uniformly in a fixed interval ,
as shown in Fig. 1(b). The distance between sensors will then
5Suppose that we have a continuous one-dimensional random process that
crosses the value   at Poisson points on the line with parameter  . Assume that
sensor  is located at position  and the data at sensor  is a binary quantized
value of the continuous random process such that    if the sample of the
process is greater than   and    , otherwise. In this case, we can treat the
transitions between the binary quantized states as a Markov chain, similar to
the sampling of the standard Random Telegraph Signal [24]. The correlation
coefficient between adjacent sensors can be computed as
 
     
  
  
 
  



	
Therefore, we can model the correlation coefficient as    
  , for some
positive constant 
 .
be . It is easy to show that the correlation coefficient
between adjacent sensors satisfies , for some
constant .
We first prove the following lemma on the scaling of the en-
tropy lower bound of (19). The proof is given in Appendix D.
Lemma 2:
1) For fixed , we have
(20)
2) for , for some , and a fixed value
of , we have
(21)
Secondly, we show the scaling of the upper bound as follows
(the proof is given in Appendix E).
Lemma 3:
1) For any , we have
(22)
2) for , for some , and a fixed value of
(23)
From Lemmas 2 and 3, we have shown that the upper and
lower bounds of (19) scale in the same order. Therefore, it fol-
lows that the best group-testing-based Q&R strategy is asymp-
totically optimal in the sense that it achieves the same scaling as
the entropy of .
Theorem 3: Let be the expected number of
queries needed by the optimal Q&R strategy.
1) For fixed
(24)
2) for fixed and for some ,
(25)
From this result, we have shown that the Q&R methods can
significantly reduce the total number of transmissions necessary
for the sensors to convey their information to a central processor.
These strategies capitalize on the statistical knowledge of the
sensors’ data to design group queries that are able to retrieve the
data from multiple sensors simultaneously. This method com-
presses the distributed sensors’ information while scheduling
the cooperative transmission of multiple sensor. However, we
note that the class of Q&R strategies are not restricted to binary
sources. A trivial extension to -ary sources is given in [10],
where each query is to ask questions corresponding to the
symbols in the -ary alphabet. In fact, the Q&R strategy can
be generalized for different data statistics and for more sophis-
ticated receiver structures, e.g., a receiver that gives an estimate
of the number of sensors transmitting in response to each query.
In the following section, we provide a generalized formulation
of the Q&R problem.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3548 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, VOL. 54, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
located sensors to eliminate the redundancy of the transmissions.
Three main approaches have been taken in the literature: 1) data
aggregation [33]–[35]; 2) distributed source coding [36], [37];
and 3) spatial sampling [38], [39]. Data aggregation reduces
the communication cost by allowing sensors to compress their
local messages with the messages that they are relaying and,
thereby, reducing the length of the messages enroute to its
destination. Since the aggregation can only be performed by the
relaying sensors, the cooperating sensors must be assigned to a
single route toward the destination. Distributed source coding
(DSC), however, exploits the Slepian–Wolf theory to derive
compression schemes for distributed terminals. In fact, the
Slepian–Wolf DSC theory shows that the optimal centralized
compression efficiency can be achieved even when the sensors
do not communicate explicitly their local data. Both of these
schemes possess a sequential encoding structure that results in
a tradeoff in reliability and efficiency [32]. Another data-gath-
ering method for correlated sources is proposed based on spatial
sampling. In this scheme, data is only gathered from sensors that
are sufficiently uncorrelated, which is similar to sampling the
data at sufficiently close points in space. This technique reduces
significantly the energy consumption for moderate distortion
constraints in data retrieval applications. However, the energy
consumption increases rapidly under strict distortion constraints.
In the limit where the lossless reconstruction of the sensors data
is desired, data from all sensors must be collected and the cost
increases linearly with the total number of sensors .
B. Joint Source and Channel Coding for Sensor Networks
The strategies introduced above perform compression in
the application layer and considers separately the source
and channel coding. However, the separation between these
two operations is well known to be suboptimal in multiuser
systems [20]. This is due to the fact that source coding elim-
inates the correlation that could be utilized to improve the
performance through cooperative transmissions. The method-
ology given in this paper also falls in the general area of
joint source-and-channel coding since the cooperative channel
coding at the sensors depends on their local data content.
However, the approach is different from those proposed in the
literature [40], [41], which focus on the use of turbo codes or
low-definition parity-check (LDPC) codes.
The strategy proposed in this paper exploits the correlation
through the queries and utilize these queries to coordinate the
cooperative transmissions at the sensors. The key intuition is
to have highly correlated sensors transmit cooperatively in the
same channel or time slot, instead of transmitting separately.
The works most relevant to ours were proposed in the context of
distributed detection and estimation problems [28], [42], [43]. In
these works, all the sensors observe measurements of a common
event and, thus, are highly correlated. The sensors act as the
relay in cooperative networks that forward the information of
the source to the destination [44]. In fact, as shown in [42],
[43], it is sufficient to allocate a single channel to the sensors
with the same measurement, similar to that in the group testing
case. Therefore, the total number of channel uses becomes in-
dependent of the network size. This strategy is referred to as
the type-based multiple access (TBMA) in the literature on dis-
tributed statistical inference.
C. Guessing and Entropy
In general, the Q&R methodology shown in Section VII is
similar to the formulation of a guessing game [45], [46]. Specif-
ically, the query is like imposing a guess on the sensors data and
the collective response is the answer to that guess. For example,
in blood-testing applications, we group multiple blood samples
together because we guess that these samples are all clear of in-
fection. If the statistics imply otherwise, we can then make the
reverse guess (if the test is available) or reduce the number of
samples in the group.
The guessing game has been studied in the information theory
literature where the goal is to compute the minimum number
of guesses required before the correct guess is made on an un-
known random value. This problem was considered by Massey
[47] for the guessing of encoding keys in security applications.
Performance bounds on this problem have been derived in terms
of the entropy and the alphabet of the random variable. Further
research on this subject can be found in [45], [46] and refer-
ences therein and thereof. Our proposed strategy differs from
this problem in two ways. In our scheme, the sensors’ data are
guessed or queried in groups and the queries are constructed se-
quentially. Although the sensors data can be treated as a single
random vector which draws relations to the guessing problem,
separating the data at distributed terminals makes the problem
significantly different.
IX. CONCLUSION
The group testing methodology is extended to the case with
correlation among the distributed samples and generalized as a
query-and-response data retrieval strategy. Although there is no
tractable approach to derive the optimal Q&R strategy in gen-
eral, we are able to demonstrate the effectiveness of these strate-
gies with two suboptimal algorithms, i.e., the optimized recur-
sive algorithm and the tree-splitting algorithm. The optimized
recursive scheme is shown to closely approximate the perfor-
mance of the optimal scheme, but the dependence on the data
statistics cannot be derived explicitly. With the tree-splitting al-
gorithm, we are able to derive the relation between the statistical
parameters of the data and the number of queries needed for the
Q&R scheme. We also derived the asymptotic scaling of the ex-
pected number of queries with respect to . The data depen-
dence of the queries and the cooperative transmission between
sensors provides significant improvements over strategies that
impose a separation between source and channel coding. The
Q&R methodology is generalized to include different source
models and transmission channels.
APPENDIX A
PROOF OF THEOREM 1
Proof: Following the approach given by Capetanakis in
[21], we can compute the expected number of queries needed to
identify the values of . Specifically, for , the number
of queries is expressed as follows:
(26)
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3550 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION THEORY, VOL. 54, NO. 8, AUGUST 2008
. However, (32) contradicts the fact that yields the
minimum expected number of queries when the correlation co-
efficient is . Hence, we have proven that is mono-
tonically nonincreasing with respect to , for a fixed value of .
Similarly, we can prove that is symmetric with re-
spect to around . More specifically, we can show that
monotonically increases with
respect to for .
APPENDIX C
PROOF OF THEOREM 2
Proof: Let the interval be the values of for
which is optimal. From the properties of Lemma 1, we can
solve for and by
(33)
and
(34)
From (14) and (28), we have
(35)
Similarly, we can solve for through
(36)
For , we can derive from (35) and (36) that
and , i.e., the initial
splitting of branches is optimal for such that
Equivalently, we can say that is optimal for
Similar to that shown in (15), we can approximate (35) and
(36) for and obtain the optimal splitting for
as
APPENDIX D
PROOF OF LEMMA 2
Proof:
1) This property follows from the fact that
.
2) We first derive the scale of as follows:
Therefore
Hence, we have shown that .
APPENDIX E
PROOF OF LEMMA 3
Proof:
1) Since the worst case is to partition the network into
initial groups, i.e., querying each sensor individually, the op-
timal tree-splitting algorithm must achieve performance such
that .
2) The optimal tree-splitting algorithm is bounded by the per-
formance of the binary tree-splitting algorithm. In fact, the bi-
nary tree-splitting is optimal for and sufficiently
large. Therefore, we derive the scaling of the binary tree-split-
ting algorithm for the case where . From (14), we
have
(37)
where (37) follows from the Stirling’s formula [20].
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
We would like to thank Prof. Toby Berger and Prof. Pramod
K. Varshney for the helpful discussions on group testing.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
 APPENDIX B: 
Y.-W. Peter Hong, Keng-U Lei and Chong-Yung Chi, Channel-Aware 
Random Access Control for Distributed Estimation in Sensor Networks, 
IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, Vol. 56, No. 7, Part I, pp. 
2967-2980, July 2008.  
 
2968 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 56, NO. 7, JULY 2008
transmission (RT) system and 2) the transmit once (TO) system.
In the RT system, the sensors are allowed to transmit repeatedly
in each time slot as long as the observations and transmission
channels are sufficiently reliable. In the TO system, each sensor
is only allowed to transmit once regardless of whether or not
the transmission was successful, i.e., whether or not a collision
occurred. The RT system yields better estimation performance,
but the TO system is more energy efficient.
In the MMR method, a channel-aware transmission control
function is computed at the beginning of each time slot based on
the instantaneous knowledge of the number of active sensors and
the estimation performance (i.e., MSE) achieved up to that point.
Yet, this real-time information may not be attainable in practice.
Therefore, we propose a suboptimal two-mode MSE-reduction
(TMMR) method to approximate the performance of MMR
without explicit knowledge of the system parameters mentioned
before. In the TMMR method, the sensors switch between two
predetermined transmission control functions based only on the
local estimates of the system parameters. It is interesting to note
that the channel-aware transmission control policies are in the
form of a thresholding function where a sensor transmits if and
only if the effective local signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) (which is
a function of the observation and transmission channel gains)
reaches a certain threshold (see Section III). Both the MMR and
TMMR methods outperform MAC protocols that do not exploit
the advantages of cross-layered channel-awareness, e.g., con-
ventional slotted ALOHA or TDMA. Certainly, channel-aware
transmission control policies can also be derived under other
estimation criteria, such as the maximum likelihood estimation
or the Bayes estimation, etc. It is reasonable for the resultant
transmission policy to also take on the form of a thresholding
function but the optimal threshold may differ from the solutions
obtained in this paper.
In the MMR and TMMR methods, we assume that each
sensor transmits their most recent observation when it gains
access to the channel. However, since the sensors are allowed
to make independent measurements of the sensor field in each
time slot, local processing can be performed to exploit the
diversity of these independent observations while awaiting for
transmission. Many diversity combining techniques [18], [19]
can be employed in this case, such as selective combining,
threshold combining, maximal-ratio combining or equal-gain
combining. In this paper, we consider the selective combining
as an example to illustrate the effectiveness of the proposed
strategy. Here, each sensor is allowed to record the most
recent observations and chooses the most reliable observation
to transmit when it has access to the channel. This method
is referred to as the Enhanced MMR Method with Selective
Combining (EMMR-SC).
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. In
Section II, we describe the distributed estimation model that
we consider and introduce the RT and TO transmission sys-
tems in detail. In Sections III and IV, we utilize the MMR
and the TMMR methods to derive the proposed transmission
control functions. The EMMR-SC method is then described
in Section V. Numerical simulations and performance com-
parisons are given in Section VI. Finally, we conclude in
Section VII.
Fig. 1. System model.
II. SYSTEM MODEL
Consider a wireless sensor network with sensors, denoted
by the set , that are deployed to estimate a
common parameter , as shown in Fig. 1. Suppose that each
sensor observes a local measurement of and reports it to the
fusion center through direct transmission links, similar to the
model given in [13] and [14]. Instead of assuming the avail-
ability of centralized scheduling, we adopt a slotted ALOHA
random access protocol where time is divided into time slots of
equal length and the sensors transmit in each time slot with in-
dependent probabilities.
Suppose that is a complex random variable with mean 0
and variance . The observation made by sensor during the
th time slot is modeled as
(1)
where is the observation channel coefficient at sensor
that models the reliability of sensor observations and
is the additive white Gaussian noise
(AWGN). are independent and identically
distributed (i.i.d.) over time and across sensors. If sensor
transmits in the th time slot, it will emit an amplified version
of its local measurement to the fusion center, i.e., ,
where is the amplification gain. The amplify-and-for-
ward scheme is similar to that considered in the literature
on cooperative communications, e.g., [15]–[17], and is also
considered for the distributed estimation problem in [13]. With
the knowledge of at sensor , the gain is given by
(2)
which is chosen to satisfy the individual power constraints
(3)
for all . Without loss of generality, we assume that . In
this paper, we fix the average transmission power of each sensor
and focus on deriving transmission control policies to improve
the estimation performance. Although power control can also
be considered to further improve energy efficiency, it will not
be discussed in this paper.
Let us consider the collision channel model where the trans-
mission from a sensor to the fusion center is successful only
when no other sensors are transmitting in the same time slot.
If more than one sensor is transmitting, the transmissions will
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2970 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 56, NO. 7, JULY 2008
local SNR of the current time slot (i.e., ). Therefore,
can be written as a function of and , i.e.,
(9)
Since the sensors are identical, the MMR transmission control
function is common for all sensors. To simplify the
notations, we shall omit the time index since the policy de-
pends only on the actual values of and . Therefore, the
transmission probability is expressed as .
The value of can be computed at sensor , since we assume
that local CSI is available, but the value of must be sent to
the sensors from the fusion center through feedback at the be-
ginning of each time slot. In the following, we derive the MMR
method for both the RT and the TO systems.
A. MMR for the RT System
From (7), the MSE of the estimate after the current time slot
will become if sensor succeeds in trans-
mission and remains equal to if no sensor suc-
ceeds. Therefore, given and , the average MSE can
be written as
(10)
where is the probability that sensor transmits success-
fully, as given in (6). Since the sensors do not have knowledge
of the other sensors’ effective local SNR values, the transmis-
sion control function is derived by minimizing the
average MSE conditioned on . Suppose we are given an ar-
bitrary transmission control function . From (9), (10), and
the fact that are i.i.d., the average MSE achieved with
is given by
(11)
where and
, for all . We remove the user
index from and since are i.i.d. random variables
and, thus, the averages and are identical for all . It is
worthwhile to notice that, since
(12)
is equal to the MSE reduction when sensor ’s message is suc-
cessfully received at the fusion center, the parameter can be
viewed as the average MSE-reduction given that this occurs.
Lemma 1: Suppose that is a continuous random variable
with distribution function . For a fixed value of , the MSE in
(11) is minimized if
if
otherwise (13)
where and .
Lemma 1 follows directly from the fact that (12) increases
monotonically with and, thus, is maximized for fixed if
takes on the form in (13). This shows that, to maximize
the MSE-reduction after each time slot, the sensors should adopt
a transmission control that takes on the form of a thresholding
function. That is, a sensor transmits with probability 1 if the
effective local SNR (e.g., ) exceeds a certain threshold and
remains silent otherwise. This result is intuitive and is consistent
with the transmission control policies derived in [11], [12] for
throughput maximization.
Given the optimal form of for a fixed value of , as
shown in Lemma 1, our search for is reduced to
finding the average transmission probability or, in other
words, the optimal threshold that maximizes the average
MSE-reduction. Notice that the value of affects two parame-
ters in (11), namely, and . In fact, the increase of will cause
to decrease while causing to increase. The minimum
value of (11) is obtained by setting the derivative to 0, i.e.,
 
 
    

 
 
    	
   
     
 
    	
 
where is the density function of . By Leibnitz’s rule, it
follows that
(14)
where, by (13)
(15)
and
(16)
The value of is found by solving the fixed point equation
in (14) and is computed at the beginning of each time slot since
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2972 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 56, NO. 7, JULY 2008
IV. TMMR METHOD
In this section, we propose the suboptimal TMMR method
where the transmission control at each sensor depends only on
the local effective SNR. In other words, the transmission prob-
ability of sensor in the th time slot is given by
. Specifically, instead of computing the MMR
transmission control threshold (i.e., ) at the begin-
ning of each time slot, the sensors switch between two threshold
values (namely, the upper and lower bounds of ) de-
pending on the estimated values of and . Since
the estimated values of and do not depend on
any real-time channel information or system state, the time for
which the sensors switch from one threshold value to the other
can be computed offline. The method is also derived for both RT
and TO systems, respectively, and is detailed in the following.
A. TMMR for the RT System
From Proposition 1, we know that is monotoni-
cally non-decreasing with respect to and . In fact,
as illustrated in Fig. 2, the value of starts initially at
a value close to and converges towards a value that is close
to as time progresses. In the TMMR method, we assume
that the sensors do not have explicit knowledge of
and, thereby, are not able to compute the values of
in each time slot. Instead, each sensor first assigns the trans-
mission control threshold as and switches to
after a certain number of time slots. That is,
for a switching time , we set , for ,
and set , for . The values of
and do not depend on the time index and can be ob-
tained analytically [or numerically for a tighter upper bound (see
Appendix A)] without knowing the value of . How-
ever, the problem remains as to when we should switch from
one value to the other, i.e., the value of .
Interestingly, by observing the relation between
and (see, e.g., Fig. 2), we can find a value for which
is closely approximated by when .
In this case, the TMMR method should apply the switch from
to when exceeds . However, the value of
is not known explicitly in this case and, therefore,
the average value is used instead. This average value can be
computed as follows.
Notice that, before the switch occurs (i.e., for ),
all sensors apply the threshold
. In this case, the transmission probability
of sensor is
if
otherwise
and the average transmission probability is .
For , the average accumulated SNR that the fusion
center obtains over the first time slots is computed as
(23)
where [given by (6)] is the probability that sensor trans-
mits successfully in the th time slot. With as the switching
threshold, the switch occurs when reaches the value
That is, we set when . To summa-
rize, in the TMMR method, the transmission control function is
given by
if
otherwise
where
if
if .
It is worthwhile to notice that the switching time can be
computed offline without real-time information of .
This reduces considerably the computational requirements at
the sensors as compared with the MMR method.
B. TMMR for the TO System
The TMMR method can be applied to the TO system as well.
Similarly, we start out by having all sensors transmit using the
lower bound in (17) as the transmission threshold and switch to
the upper bound after a certain number of time slots. However, it
is important to note that the bounds given in Propositions 1 and
2 are derived for a fixed number of sensors . Therefore, in the
TO system, where the number of active sensors varies in
each time slot, the upper and lower bounds will also vary with
. Let and be the upper and lower bounds
of when there are sensors active. That is, from (17),
we have
and
Following the procedures in the RT system and assuming that
is known in each time slot, the TMMR method should set
, when , and
, when . Unfortunately, without feedback
from the fusion center, the actual value of cannot be ob-
tained by the sensors and, therefore, must be estimated locally
at the beginning of each time slot in addition to computing
.
Suppose that is the estimated number of active sen-
sors at the beginning of the th time slot. Before the switch
occurs, i.e., when , each sensor will transmit using
the threshold , which results in the average trans-
mission probability . When ,
the threshold then switches to , which is an upper
bound of when we assume that sensors are ac-
tive and the average transmission probability becomes
.
Initially, we assume that all sensors are informed of the initial
number of active sensors and let . In the th time
slot, the estimated number of active sensors, i.e., , is ob-
tained by maximizing the probability that this number of sensors
is still active. Specifically, before the switch occurs, each sensor
will transmit using the threshold and the probability
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2974 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 56, NO. 7, JULY 2008
If the maximum channel gain is achieved by more than one
sensor, a sensor will be chosen randomly out of this set. How-
ever, this occurs with probability zero when the channel is
assumed to be a continuous random variable. If
is transmitted without collision, the fusion center receives the
signal
where
is chosen to satisfy the power constraint in (3). Here, we also set
without loss of generality. Similar to (5), the SNR of the
received signal is given by
(26)
Following the same approach as in Section III, we can show
that the transmission control function, which is now a function
of and , also takes on the form of a thresh-
olding function, i.e., the transmission probability is given by
if
if .
(27)
To evaluate using the fixed point equation in (14),
we must first obtain the distribution function and the den-
sity function of . Notice that the sensor index
is omitted from and but the time index is preserved
since is now time-dependent. The distribution func-
tion of is computed as follows:
(28)
where is the probability that obser-
vations are recorded in slot and
(29)
is the conditional distribution function of given
. Please note that, when given , the
distribution of no longer depends on the time index
since the observations made in each time slot are i.i.d..
Therefore, the time index is omitted in (29).
It is worthwhile to notice that, given , we have
if sensor transmits in time slot (regardless
Fig. 3. Finite-state Markov chain of      for sufficiently large .
of whether or not it was successful), and
if sensor remains silent. The average probability that
sensor transmits, given , is denoted by
Since is monotonically increasing and bounded,
which can be shown by following the proof in Proposition
1, the sequence will converge to a con-
stant and, thus, will also converge to the
constant . Consequently, given that and
for sufficiently large, the probability that
can be approximated as and the probability that
as . Hence, the
sequence of random variables , for large , can
be approximated as a finite-state Markov chain as shown in
Fig. 3. The set of probabilities converges
to the steady-state distribution of the Markov chain. The set of
steady-state probabilities is denoted by and is
computed from the following set of equations [22]:
and
for (30)
Hence, as time increases, the distribution function con-
verges to
(31)
An approximated value of is obtained by substi-
tuting (31) into (14). However, the approximation is less ac-
curate when is small, resulting in performance degradation
during the early time slots, which can be observed from the sim-
ulations in Section VI. This is eventually overcome by the in-
crease of diversity gains in later time slots.
B. EMMR-SC in the TO System
In the TO system, the sensors become inactive once a trans-
mission occurs. Therefore, if the sensor remains to be active at
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2976 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 56, NO. 7, JULY 2008
This can be viewed as an approximation for both the MMR and
TMMR performance curves for large and is plotted in Fig. 4
as a reference. We can see, from (33), that the MSE is inversely
proportional to when is sufficiently large.
2) Example II—(Rayleigh Distributed Channel Gains):
In this example, we assume that the observation channel
coefficients and the transmission channel
coefficients are both i.i.d. random processes
with distributions and , respectively.
The distribution of is given in the following Lemma, with
the proof provided in Appendix C.
Lemma 2:
(34)
and
(35)
where is the th order modified Bessel function of second
kind.
The threshold in the MMR method can be eval-
uated numerically by substituting (34) and (35) into the fixed
point equation given by (14). The upper and lower bounds of
, which are used in the TMMR method, can be ob-
tained similarly from Proposition 1. The simulation results are
shown in Figs. 6 and 7 for . Similarly,
both the MMR and the TMMR methods outperform the conven-
tional slotted ALOHA system but lose to the one with optimal
scheduling. More interestingly, the two schemes also outper-
form TDMA where sensors transmit in the order of their indices
regardless of their local SNRs. This shows that the advantage
of channel-awareness more than compensates for the loss due
to collision in random access networks. In both the RT and the
TO systems, the TMMR is clearly inferior to the MMR method,
which is not the case in Example I. This is because, in this ex-
ample, the upper bound of given in Proposition 1 is
used instead of the tighter upper bound given in Proposition 2.
Recall that the latter bound is applicable only to the model of
Example I.
To further improve the estimation performance, we employ
the EMMR-SC method that combines the observations recorded
in the buffer to exploit temporal diversity. To obtain the trans-
mission threshold, we first compute the asymptotic distribu-
tion function , where the values
of follow from (30) and is given in the
following.
Fig. 6. Performance of the proposed MMR and TMMR methods for Example II
in the RT system.
Fig. 7. Performance of the proposed MMR and TMMR methods for Example II
in the TO system.
Lemma 3: The conditional distribution function of
given is
(36)
The proof is given in Appendix D.
The MSE performance of EMMR-SC is shown in Figs. 8 and
9 for the RT and the TO systems, respectively. In Fig. 8, the
performance of EMMR-SC for 2, 5, 8 is compared with
the MMR method proposed in Section III. The MMR method
is equivalent to the EMMR-SC method when . In the
RT system, shown in Fig. 8, the EMMR-SC schemes do not
perform as well as the MMR in the early time slots because
the distribution function given in (31) holds only when is
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2978 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 56, NO. 7, JULY 2008
Since is monotonically non-decreasing, the largest
value is obtained when . Therefore, it is sufficient to
obtain an upper bound on as . To obtain the
upper bound on , we first recognize the fact that
(37)
Then, for sufficiently large, such that
it follows from (14), (15), and (37) that
By taking , we have
(38)
where the last inequality is obtained by substituting with
. Notice that . The upper bound is thus
obtained.
Remark 1: Please note that a tighter upper bound, de-
noted by , can be found numerically by solving the fixed point
equation
(39)
instead of replacing with as done in (38). The rea-
soning is that, by restating the first inequality in (38) as
we can see that, as increases, the left-hand-side (LHS)
increases while the RHS decreases. Therefore, the largest value
of that satisfies the above inequality is the solution
that is obtained from the fixed point equation in (39).
APPENDIX B
PROOF OF PROPOSITION 2
In Proposition 2, we provide lower and upper bounds for
for the case where the local SNRs are exponentially
distributed with mean . The lower bound follows directly
from Proposition 1 while the upper bound is derived as
follows.
First of all, by reorganizing the terms in (14), the fixed point
equation becomes
(40)
Then, by substituting (37) into (40), we have
where follows the fact that
and holds since
is smaller for larger .
By substituting (19) into (40) and with , we have
(41)
which leads to the upper bound that
This completes the proof.
APPENDIX C
PROOF OF LEMMA 2
From (5), we have
(42)
where . For convenience, we
shall omit the time index . Then, by letting ,
and from the fact that
the distribution function can be computed as
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
2980 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING, VOL. 56, NO. 7, JULY 2008
[7] A. Ribeiro and G. Giannakis, “Bandwidth-constrained distributed es-
timation for wireless sensor networks, Part II: Unknown pdf,” IEEE
Trans. Signal Process., vol. 54, no. 7, pp. 2784–2796, Jul. 2006.
[8] P. Ishwar, R. Puri, K. Ramchadran, and S. Pradhan, “On rate-con-
strained distributed estimation in unreliable sensor networks,” IEEE J.
Sel. Areas Commun., vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 765–775, Apr. 2005.
[9] J.-J. Xiao, A. Ribeiro, Z.-Q. Luo, and G. Giannakis, “Distributed
compression-estimation using wireless sensor networks,” IEEE Signal
Process. Mag., vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 27–41, Jul. 2006.
[10] J.-J. Xiao, S. Cui, Z.-Q. Luo, and A. J. Goldsmith, “Power scheduling
of universal decentralized estimation in sensor networks,” IEEE Trans.
Signal Process., vol. 54, no. 2, pp. 413–422, Feb. 2006.
[11] S. Adireddy and L. Tong, “Exploiting decentralized channel state in-
formation for random access,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 51, no. 2,
pp. 537–561, Feb. 2005.
[12] X. Qin and R. Berry, “Distributed approaches for exploiting multiuser
diversity in wireless networks,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 52, no. 2,
pp. 392–413, Feb. 2006.
[13] M. Gastpar and M. Vetterli, L. J. Guibas and F. Zhao, Eds., “Source-
channel communication in sensor networks,” in Proc. 2nd International
Workshop on Information Processing in Sensor Networks (IPSN 2003),
Palo Alto, CA, Apr. 2003, vol. 2634, Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-
ence, pp. 162–177.
[14] M. Gastpar, “Uncoded transmission is exactly optimal for a simple
Gaussian “sensor” network,” presented at the Inf. Theory Appl. Work-
shop, San Diego, CA, 2007.
[15] J. Laneman, D. Tse, and G. Wornell, “Cooperative diversity in wireless
networks: Efficient protocols and outage behavior,” IEEE Trans. Inf.
Theory, vol. 50, no. 12, pp. 3062–3080, Dec. 2004.
[16] A. Nosratinia, T. E. Hunter, and A. Hedayat, “Cooperative communi-
cation in wireless networks,” IEEE Commun. Mag., vol. 42, no. 10, pp.
74–80, Oct. 2004.
[17] Y.-W. Hong, W.-J. Huang, F.-H. Chiu, and C.-C. J. Kuo, “Coopera-
tive communications in resource-constrained wireless networks,” IEEE
Signal Process. Mag., vol. 24, no. 3, pp. 47–57, May 2007.
[18] A. Goldsmith, Wireless Communications. Cambridge, U.K.: Cam-
bridge Univ. Press, 2005.
[19] G. L. Stüber, Principles of Mobile Communications, 2nd ed. Norwell,
MA: Kluwer Academic, 2001.
[20] S. M. Kay, Fundamentals of Statistical Signal Processing: Estimation
Theory. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice-Hall, 1993.
[21] L. Kleinrock, Queueing Systems, Volume II: Computer Applications.
New York: Wiley-Interscience, 1976.
[22] A. Papoulis and S. U. Pillai, Probability, Random Variables and Sto-
chastic Processes, 4th ed. New York: McGraw-Hill, 2001.
Y.-W. Peter Hong (S’02–M’05) received the B.S.
degree from National Taiwan University, Taipei,
Taiwan, in 1999, and the Ph.D. degree from Cornell
University, Ithaca, NY, in 2005, both in electrical
engineering.
In Fall 2005, he joined the Institute of Commu-
nications Engineering/Department of Electrical En-
gineering, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu,
Taiwan, where he is currently an Assistant Professor.
His research interests include cooperative communi-
cations, distributed signal processing for sensor net-
works, and PHY-MAC cross-layer designs for next generation wireless net-
works. He is a coeditor (along with A. Swami, Q. Zhao, and L. Tong) of the
book entitled Wireless Sensor Networks: Signal Processing and Communica-
tions Perspectives (Wiley, 2007).
Prof. Hong was a recipient of the Best Paper Award among unclassified papers
in MILCOM 2005 and the Best Paper Award for Young Authors from the IEEE
IT/COM Society Taipei/Tainan Chapter in 2005.
Keng-U Lei was born in Macau, China, on February
11, 1983. He received the B.S. degree in computer
science and the M.S. degree in communications
engineering from National Tsing Hua University,
Hsinchu, Taiwan, in 2005 and 2007, respectively.
Chong-Yung Chi (S’83–M’83–SM’89) received the
Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the Uni-
versity of Southern California, Los Angeles, in 1983.
From 1983 to 1988, he was with the Jet Propul-
sion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA. Since 1989, he
has been a Professor with the Department of Elec-
trical Engineering and, since 1999, the Institute
of Communications Engineering (ICE) (also the
Chairman of ICE for 2002-2005), National Tsing
Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan. He coauthored
a technical book Blind Equalization and System
Identification, (Springer, 2006) and published more than 140 technical (journal
and conference) papers. His current research interests include signal processing
for wireless communications and statistical signal processing.
Dr. Chi has been a Technical Program Committee member for many IEEE
sponsored workshops, symposiums, and conferences on signal processing and
wireless communications, including co-organizer and general co-chairman of
IEEE SPAWC 2001, and Co-Chair of Signal Processing for Communications
Symposium, ChinaCOM 2008. He was an Associate Editor of the IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING (May, 2001–April, 2006), the IEEE
TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—PART II: BRIEF PAPERS (January,
2006–December, 2007), an editor (July, 2003–December, 2005), and a Guest
Editor (2006) of EURASIP Journal on Applied Signal Processing. Currently, he
is an Associate Editor for the IEEE SIGNAL PROCESSING LETTERS, an Associate
Editor for the IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—PART I:
REGULAR PAPERS, and a member of Editorial Board of EURASIP Signal
Processing Journal, and a member of IEEE Signal Processing Committee on
Signal Processing Theory and Methods.
Authorized licensed use limited to: National Tsing Hua University. Downloaded on January 23, 2010 at 08:32 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 1
Exploiting Data-Dependent Transmission
Control and MAC Timing Information for
Distributed Detection in Sensor Networks
Tse-Yao Chang, Teng-Cheng Hsu, and Y.-W. Peter Hong
Abstract
In this work, we propose a data-dependent transmission control policy over the slotted ALOHA MAC
protocol and a cross-layered fusion rule that exploits MAC timing information for distributed detection
in sensor networks. In this system, each sensor first makes a local decision at the beginning of each
observation period and transmits the decision to the fusion center over a random access channel. Based on
the slotted ALOHA random access protocol, we propose a class of data-dependent transmission control
policies that assign to sensors their transmission probabilities according to the reliability of their local
decisions. For the case with i.i.d. observations in each time slot, we show that the optimal transmission
control function takes on the form of a thresholding function. That is, a sensor will transmit in a given
time slot if and only if its local log-likelihood ratio exceeds a certain threshold. When observations are
made only every several time slots, the message arrival time at the fusion center, which is spread over
the observation period of duration K > 1, will embed the reliability of the received sensors’ decisions as
a result of the data-dependent transmission control. This timing information can be accounted for in the
fusion rule to further enhance performance. Finally, we extend the proposed strategies to multi-cluster
sensor network scenarios, where the sensors’ local decisions are transmitted to the fusion center in a
two-hop fashion. We show, through numerical simulations, that the proposed schemes outperform both
conventional slotted ALOHA and TDMA-based schemes that do not adopt cross-layered transmission
and fusion strategies.
Copyright (c) 2008 IEEE. Personal use of this material is permitted. However, permission to use this material for any other
purposes must be obtained from the IEEE by sending a request to pubs-permissions@ieee.org.
Y.-W. Peter Hong is the corresponding author. The authors are with the Institute of Communications Engineering, National
Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan. Emails: tchsu@erdos.ee.nthu.edu.tw and ywhong@ee.nthu.edu.tw. This work was
supported in part by the National Science Council, Taiwan, under the grants NSC-96-2628-E-007-012-MY2, NSC-95-2221-E-
007-043-MY3 and NSC-97-3114-E-007-002.
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 3
To study this problem, we first consider the single-hop scenario where each sensor is directly connected
to the fusion center. Two cases associated with different observation periods are studied. In the first case,
we assume that a new observation is made by the sensors at the beginning of each time slot. That is,
the observation period K is equal to 1. In this scenario, we show that the optimal transmission control
takes on the form of a thresholding function. That is, each sensor transmits if and only if its local
log-likelihood ratio exceeds a certain threshold. The optimal fusion rule is shown to be the majority-
vote fusion rule. Additionally, in the case of non-i.i.d. sensors, we further derive the optimal allocation
of transmission probabilities according to the average reliability of the sensors. In the second case, we
assume that the observation period K is greater than 1 so that multiple time slots are available in between
observations for the sensors to transmit their local decisions. Motivated by the results obtained for K = 1,
we propose a transmission control policy where a sequence of K transmission thresholds are defined,
one for each time slot, and a sensor transmits in a given time slot only if its local log-likelihood ratio
exceeds the corresponding threshold. By choosing different thresholds over time, the reliability of the
decisions received at the fusion center will then be embedded in the arrival time of the packet and the
timing information can then be incorporated into the fusion rule to enhance detection performance. With
the intuitions gained by the single-hop solution, we then extend the proposed strategy to the two-hop
multi-cluster scenario where sensors first transmit their local decisions to their respective cluster-heads
while the cluster-heads then pass on aggregated decisions to the fusion center. Similar advantages can
be obtained for this scenario by employing the proposed data-dependent transmission control.
The performance of distributed detection over slotted ALOHA random access channels has also been
studied in [11]. However, in [11], the transmission probabilities do not depend on the reliability of the
sensors’ decisions and no timing information is extracted from the received sequence of decisions to
enhance performance. More interestingly, as mentioned above, we show that the optimal transmission
control function for K = 1 is equivalent to a thresholding function, where only sufficiently reliable sensors
are allowed to transmit. This is consistent with the behavior of censoring sensors [12], which transmits
its data to the fusion center only if its local log-likelihood ratio exceeds a certain threshold. Although
the operations of censoring sensors show similarities with our proposed strategy, the objective is rather
different in that the former aims at reducing sensors’ energy consumption while our goal is to derive
MAC policies that minimize error probability under given bandwidth constraints. Furthermore, the works
in [13]–[16] proposed the type-based decentralized detection and estimation schemes where local sensors
first quantize their observations and send the “type” of each quantization level (i.e., the relative frequency
for which each quantized symbol occurs over a sequence of observations) to the fusion center. The types
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 5
immediately computes a local decision based on this observation. The sensors then utilize the following
K time slots to transmit their local decisions to the fusion center. To compete for transmission over the
K time slots, each sensor will adopt a data-dependent transmission control policy (to be proposed in the
following), where its transmission probability is assigned according to the reliability of its local decision.
Let us consider a collision channel model where a sensor is able to transmit successfully if and only if
no other sensor is transmitting in the same time slot. After the fusion center receives over M observation
periods (or K ·M time slots in total), it will then make a final decision by exploiting both the statistics
of the sensors’ local decisions as well as knowledge of the data-dependent transmission control policy1.
Specifically, let us consider a binary hypothesis testing problem:
H0 : xi,m ∼ f (i)0 (x) and H1 : xi,m ∼ f (i)1 (x) ,
where xi,m is the observation made by sensor i at the beginning of the m-th observation period, and
f
(i)
0 (x), f
(i)
1 (x) are the conditional density functions given the hypotheses H0 and H1, respectively. The
sensors’ observations are assumed to be conditionally independent among each other but may not be
identically distributed since, for example, the distance of each sensor to the observed event may differ.
However, we assume that the observations are independent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) over time.
Based on the observation xi,m, sensor i will make the optimal local decision
ui,m =
 1, if λi,m , log
f
(i)
1 (xi,m)
f
(i)
0 (xi,m)
≥ log P (H0)P (H1) , τ ,
0, if λi,m < τ ,
where λi,m(xi,m) is the log-likelihood ratio of xi,m and τ is the decision threshold based on P (H1) and
P (H0). For notational simplicity, we shall hereon denote λi,m(xi,m) by λi,m whenever the dependence
on xi,m is clear from the context. Moreover, we shall assume that f
(i)
0 (x) and f
(i)
1 (x) are chosen such
that the density function of λi,m is continuous and sufficiently regular and smooth whenever needed.
Suppose that the observation xi,m yields the log-likelihood ratio λi,m ≥ τ , which means that the decision
ui,m = 1 is made. Then, the probability that a correct decision was made is given by
P (H1|xi,m) = P (H1)f1(xi,m)
P (H1)f1(xi,m) + P (H0)f0(xi,m)
=
1
1 + e−(λi,m−τ)
,
1Here, we focus only on how the reliability of the sensor’s observations can be incorporated into the MAC design to enhance
detection performance. The collision channel is used to model the contention among users. Intuitively, channel quality can also
be incorporated into the MAC, as studied in [19], [20], but is beyond the scope of this paper.
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 7
III. OBSERVATION PERIOD K = 1
Let us consider the case where the observation period K is equal to 1, i.e., each sensor makes a new
observation and updates its local decision at the beginning of each time slot. In this case, each sensor,
say sensor i, will transmit its local decision to the fusion center with probability p[1]i,m = g
[1]
i (λi,m), which
varies in each time slot. If sensor i is the only one transmitting in the m-th time slot, the message will
be successfully received by the fusion center and we will have rm[1] = ui,m. Since there is only one
time slot in each observation period, we shall omit the time-slot index in p[1]i,m, g
[1]
i (·), and rm[1], and
represent them as pi,m, gi(·), and rm, respectively.
Given r = [r1, . . . , rM ], the optimal fusion rule can be expressed as
Λ(r) = log
P (r|H1)
P (r|H0) =
M∑
m=1
log
P (rm|H1)
P (rm|H0)
H1
≷
H0
τ, (1)
which follows from the fact that r1, . . . , rM are independent since i.i.d. observations are made in each
time slot. We shall omit the dependence on r in Λ(r) whenever it is clear from the context.
Given H1, the probability that rm = 1 can be derived as
P (rm = 1|H1) = E [P (rm = 1|λ1,m, . . . , λN,m,H1)|H1]
= E
 N∑
i=1
pi,m1{ui,m=1} ·
N∏
j=1
j 6=i
(1− pj,m)
∣∣∣∣H1

=
N∑
i=1
E
[
gi(λi,m)1{λi,m≥τ}
∣∣H1] ·∏
j 6=i
(
1− E [gj(λj,m)∣∣H1])
=
N∑
i=1
α
(i)
11 ·
∏
j 6=i
(1− α(j)01 − α(j)11 ), (2)
where
α
(i)
ab = E
[
gi(λi,m)1{ui,m=a}|Hb
]
(3)
is the average probability that sensor i transmits decision ui,m = a, given that Hb is the true hypothesis,
and 1{·} is the indicator function. Similarly, we have
P (rm = 0|H1) =
N∑
i=1
α
(i)
01
∏
j 6=i
(1− α(j)01 − α(j)11 ) (4)
and
P (rm = e|H1) = 1− P (rm = 1|H1)− P (rm = 0|H1). (5)
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 9
Proposition 1. Suppose that P (H0) = P (H1) and that f
(i)
1 (x) = f
(i)
0 (−x), for all x. For transmission
control functions, {gi(·), ∀i}, such that gi(λ) = gi(−λ) for all λ, the optimal fusion rule reduces to the
majority vote fusion rule, i.e.
|Ω1|
H1
≷
H0
|Ω0|. (7)
The proof is given in Appendix A. Given the optimality of the majority-vote fusion rule, the error
probability at the fusion center can be computed as
β =
1
2
· P (|Ω1| = |Ω0|) + P (|Ω0| > |Ω1||H1)
= βsame + βdiff , (8)
where βsame is the error probability caused by the random guessing when |Ω1| = |Ω0| and βdiff is the
error probability obtained when |Ω1| 6= |Ω0|. By defining Pa|Hb , P (rm = a|Hb), we have
βsame =
1
2
M
2∑
n=0
(
M
2n
)(
M − 2n
M−2n
2
)
P
M−2n
2
1|H1 P
M−2n
2
0|H1 P
2n
e|H1 ,
if M is even
1
2
bM
2
c+1∑
n=1
(
M
2n−1
)(
M−2n+1
M−2n+1
2
)
P
M−2n+1
2
1|H1 P
M−2n+1
2
0|H1 P
2n−1
e|H1 ,
if M is odd
(9)
and
βdiff =
M−1∑
n=0
(
M
n
)
Pne|H1
dM−n
2
e−1∑
k=0
(
M − n
k
)
P k1|H1P
M−n−k
0|H1 . (10)
To find the optimal transmission control functions that minimize the error probability, we first find the
optimal transmission control functions for any given set of average transmission probabilities p¯1, . . . , p¯N .
Then, we find the optimal allocation of average transmission probabilities subject to a constraint on the
total traffic load c =
∑N
i=1 p¯i. We would like to remark that, in systems with limited energy resources,
the given set of average transmission probabilities can also be viewed as the average per-user power
constraint for each sensor, i.e., E[gi(λ)Pw] = p¯iPw, where Pw is the transmission power of each sensor.
Similarly, the constraint on the total traffic load in (14) can be viewed as the total average power constraint
c · Pw =
∑N
i=1 p¯i · Pw. The solutions to these two subproblems are given below.
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 11
and, thus, obtain the following approximations:
P1|H1 =
N∑
i=1
α
(i)
11
N∏
j=1,j 6=i
(1− p¯j) ≈
(
N∑
i=1
α
(i)
11
)
· e−
∑N
j=1 p¯j , (15)
P0|H1 =
N∑
i=1
α
(i)
01
N∏
j=1,j 6=i
(1− p¯j) ≈
(
N∑
i=1
α
(i)
01
)
· e−
∑N
j=1 p¯j , (16)
and
Pe|H1 = 1− P1|H1 − P0|H1 ≈ 1−
(
N∑
i=1
p¯i
)
· e−
∑N
j=1 p¯j . (17)
Notice that, for a given total traffic load
∑N
i=1 p¯i = c, the probability Pe|H1 is approximately a constant.
Therefore, similar to the proof of Proposition 1, the total error probability (which is given by (39) for
M even) monotonically increases with respect to q for q < 1/2, where q is defined as in (11). With the
above approximations, it follows that
q ,
P0|H1
P0|H1 + P1|H1
≈
∑N
i=1 α
(i)
01 × e−
∑N
i=1 p¯i∑N
i=1 p¯i × e−
∑N
i=1 p¯i
=
∑N
i=1 α
(i)
01∑N
i=1 p¯i
.
Hence, the error probability is minimized if
∑N
i=1 α
(i)
01 is minimized.
From Proposition 1, we know that the optimal transmission control function takes on the form of
a thresholding function. Therefore, this problem is equivalent to finding the optimal thresholds, i.e.
{γi}Ni=1, subject to a constraint on the total traffic load. Suppose that γi is the threshold for sensor i. The
optimization problem can be reformulated as
min
γi,∀i
N∑
i=1
α
(i)
01 = min
γi,∀i
N∑
i=1
(∫
Υ−i
f
(i)
1 (x)dx
)
(18)
subject to
N∑
i=1
p¯i =
N∑
i=1
(∫
Υ−i
f
(i)
1 (x)dx+
∫
Υ+i
f
(i)
1 (x)dx
)
= c,
where Υ+i ,
{
x : log f
(i)
1 (x)
f
(i)
0 (x)
> γi
}
and Υ−i ,
{
x : log f
(i)
1 (x)
f
(i)
0 (x)
< −γi
}
.
For example, let us consider the Gaussian shift-in-mean process where
f
(i)
0 ∼ N (−µi, σ2i ) and f (i)1 ∼ N (µi, σ2i ) , (19)
Notice that this problem satisfies the condition that f (i)0 (x) = f
(i)
1 (−x). The Gaussian shift-in-mean
process is often considered in the statistical signal processing literature (e.g., in [16]–[18]) to model the
detection of signal in noise, which is suitable for a large number of applications. Under this model, the
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 13
scenarios. More specifically, as discussed in Section II, the transmission control function gi(λ) in general
should be symmetric about τ since the reliability of the decision depends only on |λ− τ |. Therefore, the
transmission control can be designed as gi(λ) = 1{|λ−τ |≥γi}, where γi is chosen such that E[gi(λ)] = p¯i.
IV. OBSERVATION PERIOD K > 1
In this section, we extend the proposed data-dependent transmission control policy to the case with
K > 1. Here, each sensor, say sensor i, makes an observation xi,m at the beginning of the m-th observation
period, and computes the local decision ui,m that is to be transmitted to the fusion center in one of the K
subsequent time slots. The transmission probability of sensor i in the k-th time slot of the m-th observation
period is given by p
[k]
i,m = g
[k]
(λi,m). Since the transmission probability of each sensor depends on its
local log-likelihood ratio, the arrival time of packets will embed information regarding the reliability of
the received decisions and the timing information can be exploited in the fusion rule to further enhance
detection performance. In the following, we shall consider, for simplicity, systems with i.i.d. sensors,
where f (i)0 (x) = f0(x) and f
(i)
1 (x) = f1(x) , ∀i, and assume that f1(x) = f0(−x). The transmission
control functions are thus identical for all sensors, i.e., g[k]i (·) = g[k](·), for all i.
Following the intuitions obtained in the previous K = 1 scenario, we propose a similar thresholding
policy for K > 1 which allows each sensor to transmit only if its local log-likelihood ratio exceeds a
given threshold. Let γ[1] > γ[2] > . . . > γ[K] be the sequence of thresholds corresponding to the K time
slots in an observation period. The ordering of the thresholds ensures that the sensor’s local decisions are
received at the fusion center in the order of their reliability. To avoid repeated collision between sensors,
we assume that each sensor remains silent after it has attempted a transmission, regardless of whether or
not it was successful. Therefore, the transmission control function is given by
g[k](λi,m) =
 1, γ[k] ≤ |λi,m| < γ[k−1]0, otherwise, (23)
for k = 1, . . . ,K, with γ0 ,∞. An example of the transmission control g[k](λi,m) is illustrated in Fig.
3. The average transmission probability in each time slot is then given by
p¯[k] = E[g[k](λi,m)] = (α
[k]
01 + α
[k]
11 ) · P (H1) + (α[k]00 + α[k]10 ) · P (H0), for k = 1, . . . ,K, (24)
where, similar to that defined in (3),
α
[k]
1j =E
[
g[k](λi,m)1{ui,m=1}|Hj
]
=Pr(γ[k] ≤ λi,m < γ[k−1]|Hj)
and
α
[k]
0j =E
[
g[k](λi,m)1{ui,m=0}|Hj
]
=Pr(−γ[k−1] < λi,m ≤ −γ[k]|Hj)
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 15
qth cluster
cluster head
sensor in cluster
Fusion Center
Fig. 4. An illustration of the multi-cluster sensor network is given above. Here, the sensors’ local decisions are first gathered
by their respective cluster-heads where new decisions are made and forwarded to the fusion center.
(25) can be written as
Λm(rm) = log
 ∏
k∈Ξ(1)rm
α
[k]
11
α
[k]
10
·
∏
`∈Ξ(0)rm
α
[`]
01
α
[`]
00
 . (27)
The optimal decision at the fusion center is then obtained by comparing Λ in (25) with threshold 0,
assuming that H0 and H1 are equally probable. We would like to remark that, if the fusion rule does not
exploit the timing information, the decisions received in different time slots of the observation period
will be treated equally and thereby the optimal fusion rule is simply the majority-vote fusion rule.
V. EXTENSIONS TO THE MULTI-CLUSTER SCENARIO
In this section, we extend the proposed strategies to the multi-cluster scenario. Here, we assume that
the sensors’ local decisions are first gathered by their respective cluster-heads using the proposed data-
dependent strategy and fusion rule. Then, the decisions made by the cluster heads are again forwarded
to the fusion center by applying a similar strategy.
Suppose that the sensors, denoted by the set S = {S1, . . . , SN}, are randomly deployed in the
environment and are self-organized into Q disjoint clusters as illustrated in Fig 4. Let C1, . . . , CQ be
the set of clusters, where Cq ∩ C` = ∅, for all q 6= `, and S = C1 ∪ C2 ∪ · · · ∪ CQ. Let Nq be the size of
the q-th cluster, i.e., Nq = |Cq|. We assume that the sensors in each cluster are i.i.d. conditioned on the
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 17
Specifically, the mean is derived as
E [Wm|H1] =
∑
{rq,m=1,0,e}
P (rq,m|H1) log P (rq,m|H1)
P (rq,m|H0)
(a)
= P (rq,m = 1|H1) · log
P (rq,m = 1|H1)
P (rq,m = 1|H0) + P (rq,m = 0|H1) · log
P (rq,m = 0|H1)
P (rq,m = 0|H0)
=
(
Nq · α(q)11 (1− p¯q)Nq−1
)
· log α
(q)
11
α
(q)
01
+
(
Nq · α(q)01 (1− p¯q)Nq−1
)
· log α
(q)
01
α
(q)
11
= Nq(1− p¯q)Nq−1
(
α
(q)
11 − α(q)01
)
· log α
(q)
11
α
(q)
01
,
where (a) follows by assuming that P (H1) = P (H0) and that f
(q)
1 (x) = f
(q)
0 (−x), and the variance is
computed as
Var [Wm|H1] =E
[
W 2m|H1
]− (E [Wm|H1])2
=P (rq,m = 1|H1) ·
(
log
P (rq,m = 1|H1)
P (rq,m = 1|H0)
)2
+ P (rq,m = 0|H1) ·
(
log
P (rq,m = 0|H1)
P (rq,m = 0|H0)
)2
− (E [Wm|H1])2
=Nq · p¯q(1− p¯q)Nq−1 ·
(
log
α
(q)
11
α
(q)
01
)2
− (E [Wm|H1])2
=Nq(1− p¯q)Nq−1 ·
(
log
α
(q)
11
α
(q)
01
)2 [
p¯q −Nq(1− p¯q)Nq−1 ·
(
α
(q)
11 − α(q)01
)2]
.
Finally, since Λq = Λq,1 + Λq,2, then, by (30) and (32), we have under hypothesis H1 that
Λq ∼ N
(
µλq , σ
2
Λq
)
,
where µλq = M1E [Wm|H1] + 2M1µ
2
q
σ2w
and σ2Λq = M1Var [Wm|H1] +
4M1µ2q
σ2w
. Similarly, under H0, we
have
Λq∼N
(
−µλq , σ2Λq
)
since E[Wm|H0] = −E[Wm|H1] and Var[Wm|H0] = Var[Wm|H1].
The fusion center may now derive the fusion rule based on the approximated density functions given
above and the optimal transmission control function can also be derived for each cluster head. More
specifically, after the cluster head collects information over M1 time slots, it will then contend for the
channel and transmit its local decision to the fusion center over a single time slot. This process is
continued for M2 number of times. In fact, we can view the second hop as a similar single hop problem
with K = 1 except that a “time slot” viewed by the cluster heads is M1 times the duration of the time
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 19
5 10 15 20 25 30
10−7
10−6
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
Number of Observation Periods (M)
Er
ro
r P
ro
ba
bi
lity
 (β
)
 
 
DD Tx Control
DD Tx Control (theoretical)
Slotted ALOHA
TDMA, κ=0
TDMA, κ=0.5
TDMA, κ=3
Fig. 5. With K = 1, N = 20, p¯ = 1
N
, and observation SNR= 0dB, we compare the error probability β with respect to the
number of observation periods M for 3 transmission schemes: the proposed scheme (i.e., DD Tx Control), the conventional
slotted ALOHA scheme, and TDMA with transmission thresholds κ = 0, 0.5, and 3.
it will send its local decision to the fusion center only if the magnitude of the local log-likelihood ratio,
say λi,m, exceeds a certain threshold, κ. That is, sensor i sends the decision 1 if λi,m > κ, sends 0 if
λi,m < −κ, and remains silent if |λi,m| < κ. With κ = 0, the sensor will always transmit a message
whenever it is schedule to do so. However, by choosing larger threshold values, say κ = 0.5 or 3, the
sensors will transmit only when their local decisions are sufficiently reliable, exploiting the so called
censoring gains [12]. In Fig. 5, we observe that the proposed data-dependent transmission control policy
outperforms both the conventional slotted ALOHA and the TDMA schemes with κ = 0 and 3. The bad
performance observed in the case of TDMA with κ = 3 is due to the low probability of transmissions
by the sensors in each time slot. By imposing a smaller threshold, say κ = 0.5, the TDMA scheme is
able to outperform the proposed scheme for small to moderate values of M . However, for M sufficiently
large, the proposed scheme still is able to outperform the TDMA schemes due to the additional multiuser
diversity gains that our scheme exploits. More specifically, in the proposed data-dependent transmission
control policy, one can set, for example, the average transmission probability of each sensor to 1/N (i.e.,
set p¯i = 1/N, ∀i) so that the probability that a message is successfully received by the fusion center in
each time slot is given by
∑N
i=1
1
N (1− 1N )N−1. As N increases, this probability converges to the constant
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 21
8 10 12 14 16 18 20
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
Number of Observation Periods (M)
Er
ro
r P
ro
ba
bi
lity
 (β
)
 
 
α=2, optimal
α=2, optimal (theoretical)
α=2, uniform
α=3, optimal
α=3, optimal (theoretical)
α=3, uniform
Fig. 7. For a network of N = 20 non-i.i.d. sensors and total traffic load of
∑
i p¯i = 1, the error probability β versus the number
of observation periods M is compared between the cases with optimal and with uniform transmission probability allocation
policies. The mean of the sensors are chosen according to the path loss model where µi = max{1/dαi , 1} with α = 2 and 3.
for path loss exponents α = 2 and 3, which correspond to free space and indoor environments [23],
respectively. The results were averaged over 50 different realizations of sensor deployment. In Fig.7,
the error probability achieved with the optimal transmission probability allocation scheme is compared
with the uniform allocation scheme where the total traffic load is equally allocated to all sensors. Both
schemes are subject to the same constraints on the total traffic, namely,
∑N
i=1 p¯i = 1. We can see that the
optimal allocation of average transmission probabilities significantly improves the detection performance.
The theoretical curves plotted using (8) coincides with those obtained via Monte Carlo simulations and,
thereby, validates the results of our simulations.
In the previous experiments, we set the total traffic load c = 1 for the proposed scheme so that it
is comparable with the conventional slotted ALOHA and TDMA schemes (whose traffic loads are also
equal to 1). However, setting c = 1 (e.g., p¯i = 1/N , for all i, in the i.i.d. scenario) does not necessarily
result in the minimum error probability. In Fig. 8, we plot the error probability for different values of
the total traffic load c for the case with K = 1, N = 20, and M = 20. We can see that the optimal value
of c is in fact close to 1 in the i.i.d. case, but becomes smaller in the case of non-i.i.d. sensors.
In Fig. 9, we compare the error probability achieved with the transmission control scheme derived in
Section IV for K = 2, 4 and observation SNR = 0,−3 dB. The error probability is compared between
two different fusion rules: the optimal fusion rule, where the decision is made by comparing the log-
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 23
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8
10−7
10−6
10−5
10−4
10−3
10−2
10−1
100
Number of Observation Periods (M)
Er
ro
r P
ro
ba
bi
lity
 (β
)
 
 
K=2, 0dB, Optimal Fusion
K=2, −3dB, Optimal Fusion
K=2, −3dB, Majority Vote
K=2, Error Prob by all Erasure
K=4, 0dB, Optimal Fusion
K=4, −3dB, Optimal Fusion
K=4, −3dB, Majority Vote
K=4, Error Prob by all Erasure
Fig. 9. For N = 20 and p¯[k] = 1
N
, for all k, we compare the total error probability β of the data-dependent transmission
control scheme under the optimal fusion rule and the majority vote fusion rule, respectively. The error probability caused by
receiving erasures over all time slots is shown as a performance lower-bound.
performance is limited by the error due to having all erasures in the received vector as shown in Fig.
9. This is because, with data-dependent transmission control, the data received at the fusion center will
be sufficiently reliable when the SNR is high and, thus, little error will occur aside from receiving the
all-erasure vector. However, this is not the case with conventional (non-data-dependent) slotted ALOHA,
where the received data is not guaranteed to be reliable. Furthermore, it is interesting to observe that,
when K ·M is fixed, the error probability β decreases as K increases since more independent observations
are made. This is observed by comparing the cases (K,M) = (2, 4) and (4, 2) in Fig. 9. This phenomena
is less evident for SNR= 0dB since the error probability is dominated by the case of all erasures.
In Fig. 10, we compare the error probability of the proposed data-dependent transmission control
scheme (see “DD Tx Control” in figure) with that of conventional (non-data-dependent) slotted ALOHA
and TDMA. In conventional slotted ALOHA, we assume that each user transmits with probability 1/N
in each time slot while, in TDMA, the sensors transmit in a round-robin fashion. The curves are shown
for SNR= −3dB. We can see that the proposed data-dependent transmission control outperforms both
slotted ALOHA and TDMA, which are non-data-dependent transmission schemes. Interestingly, as for
the case with K = 1, the proposed scheme can outperform TDMA (where there is no collision) even
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 25
2 3 4 5 6 7 8
10−3
10−2
10−1
Number of Clusters (Q)
Er
ro
r P
ro
ba
bi
lity
 (β
)
 
 
M1=4, M2=20
M1=9, M2=10
M1=19, M2=5
Fig. 11. For N = 40, we compare the error probability β versus Q with different M1 and M2 in the multi-cluster scenario.
Notice that β decreases with Q when M2 is sufficiently large but increases with Q in the opposite case.
next M2 time slots. Here, we assume that each observation period consists of only one time slot, i.e.,
K = 1. Moreover, let us assume that sensors in the same cluster are conditionally independent given the
hypothesis. For sensor i, the binary hypothesis testing problem is given by
H0 : f
(i)
0 (x) ∼ N (−µi, σ2i ) and H1 : f (i)1 (x) ∼ N (µi, σ2i ) .
We set σ2i = 1 , ∀i and µi = min{1/dαi , 1}, where di is the distance from sensor to source of the event
and α is equal to 1.5.
In Fig. 11, we show the error probability versus the average number of clusters in the network
for various values of M1 and M2. The curves are obtained by averaging over 100 different sensors’
deployments. We find that if M2 is not large enough, the error probability β increases as Q increasing.
The reason is that if M2 is small, less data will be successfully sent from the cluster-heads to the fusion
center. However, if M2 is large enough, β decreases when Q increases. This is due to the fact that local
fusion at the cluster heads in some sense loses information compared to directly forwarding the received
data to the fusion center. Smaller cluster sizes will reduce the loss due to data aggregation but requires
larger number of time slots in the second phase, i.e., larger M2, to convey information from the cluster
heads to the fusion center.
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 27
Then, the average transmission probability of sensor i, i.e. p¯i, can be written as
p¯i = P (H0) · E [gi(λi,m)|H0] + P (H1) · E [gi(λi,m)|H1]
= P (H0)
(
α
(i)
00 + α
(i)
10
)
+ P (H1)
(
α
(i)
01 + α
(i)
11
)
= α(i)10 + α
(i)
00 = α
(i)
11 + α
(i)
01 . (36)
By substituting (34)-(36) into (6), we have
log
∑N
i=1
α
(i)
11
1−p¯i∑N
i=1
α
(i)
10
1−p¯i
· |Ω1|+ log
∑N
i=1
α
(i)
01
1−p¯i∑N
i=1
α
(i)
00
1−p¯i
· |Ω0|
H1
≷
H0
0. (37)
From (36) and the fact that
α
(i)
11 − α(i)10 =
∫
{
log
f1(x)
f0(x)
>0
} g
(
log
f1(x)
f0(x)
)
· [f1(x)− f0(x)] dx > 0,
it follows that log
∑N
i=1
α
(i)
11
1−p¯i − log
∑N
i=1
α
(i)
10
1−p¯i = log
∑N
i=1
α
(i)
00
1−p¯i − log
∑N
i=1
α
(i)
01
1−p¯i > 0. Hence, the optimal
fusion rule in (37) can be reduced to the majority vote rule, i.e.
|Ω1|
H1
≷
H0
|Ω0|. (38)
APPENDIX B
PROOF OF PROPOSITION 2
Proof: From (2), (4) and the definition of q given in (11), we can write
q =
P0|H1
P1|H1 + P0|H1
=
∑N
i=1
(
α
(i)
01 ·
∏
j 6=i(1− α(j)01 − α(j)11 )
)
∑N
i=1
((
α
(i)
11 + α
(i)
01
)
·∏j 6=i(1− α(j)01 − α(j)11 ))
(a)
=
∑N
i=1
α
(i)
01
1−p¯i∑N
i=1
p¯i
1−p¯i
=
N∑
i=1
α
(i)
01
1−p¯i∑N
j=1
p¯j
1−p¯j
=
N∑
i=1
qi ,
where (a) follows from (36) and qi =
α
(i)
01
1−p¯i∑N
j=1
p¯j
1−p¯j
. By assuming that M is even, we can rewrite the error
probability β as
β =
1
2
M/2∑
n=0
(
M
2n
)(
M − 2n
M−2n
2
)
(1− Pe|H1)M−2nP 2ne|H1 [q(1− q)]
M−2n
2
+
M−1∑
n=0
dM−n
2
e−1∑
k=0
(
M
n
)(
M − n
k
)
(1− Pe|H1)M−nPne|H1(1− q)kqM−n−k. (39)
(The case where M is odd can be proved similarly.) From (2)-(5) and (36), we can see that, when {p¯i}Ni=1
is given, the probabilities P0|H1 + P1|H1 =
∑N
i=1 p¯i
∏
j 6=i(1 − p¯j) and Pe|H1 = 1 − P0|H1 − P1|H1 =
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 29
δ δ
−λ'−γ−λ'' λ' γ λ''i i
gi'(λ)
(a) g′i(λ)
ε
−λ'−γ−λ'' λ' γ λ''i i
gi''(λ)
ε
(b) g′′i (λ)
Fig. 12. Example of transmission control functions g′i(λ) and g
′′
i (λ).
such that, for δ sufficiently small, we have
δ · g′i
(
log
f
(i)
1 (x
′)
f
(i)
0 (x′)
)[
f
(i)
1 (x
′) + f (i)0 (x
′)
]
= ε ·
[
1− g′′i
(
log
f
(i)
1 (x
′′)
f
(i)
0 (x′′)
)][
f
(i)
1 (x
′′) + f (i)0 (x
′′)
]
⇒ ε =
δg′i
(
log f
(i)
1 (x
′)
f
(i)
0 (x
′)
) [
f
(i)
1 (x
′) + f (i)0 (x
′)
]
[
1− g′′i
(
log f
(i)
1 (x
′′)
f
(i)
0 (x
′′)
)] [
f
(i)
1 (x′′) + f
(i)
0 (x′′)
] .
With this, we can show that
α
(i)′
01 − α(i)
′′
01 =
∫
{x:log f
(i)
1 (x)
f
(i)
0 (x)
<0}
[
g′i
(
log
f
(i)
1 (x)
f
(i)
0 (x)
)
− g′′i
(
log
f
(i)
1 (x)
f
(i)
0 (x)
)]
f
(i)
1 (x)dx
= δg′i
(
log
f
(i)
1 (x
′)
f
(i)
0 (x′)
)
f
(i)
1 (x
′)− ε
[
1− g′′i
(
log
f
(i)
1 (x
′′)
f
(i)
0 (x′′)
)]
f
(i)
1 (x
′′)
=
δg′i
(
log f
(i)
1 (x
′)
f
(i)
0 (x
′)
)
f
(i)
1 (x
′)
[
f
(i)
0 (x
′′)
f
(i)
1 (x
′′)
− f (i)0 (x′)
f
(i)
1 (x
′)
]
1 + f
(i)
0 (x
′′)
f
(i)
1 (x
′′)
> 0,
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
SUBMITTED TO IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON SIGNAL PROCESSING 31
[18] P. Willett, P. F. Swaszek, and R. S. Blum, “The good, bad and ugly: distributed detection of a known signal in dependent
Gaussian noise,” IEEE Trans. Signal Process., vol. 48, no. 2, pp. 3266-3279, Dec. 2000.
[19] S.-H. Wang and Y.-W. P. Hong, “Transmission Control with Imperfect CSI in Channel-Aware Slotted ALOHA Networks”,
to appear in IEEE Transactions on Wireless Communication.
[20] S. Adireddy and L. Tong, “Exploiting decentralized channel state information for random access,” IEEE Trans. Inform.
Theory, vol. 51, no. 2, pp. 537-561, Feb. 2005.
[21] W. R. Heinzelman, A. Chandrakasan, and H. Balakrishnan, “Energy-efficient communication protocol for wireless
microsensor networks,” in Proc. of the 33rd Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Jan. 2000.
[22] S. Boyd and L. Vandenberghe, “Convex Optimization,” Cambridge University Press, pp.136-137, 2004.
[23] J. B. Andersen, T. Rappaport, and S. Yoshida, “Propagation measurements and models for wireless communications
channels,” IEEE Commun. Mag., Vol. 33, pp. 42-49, January 1995.
Tse-Yao Chang received his B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from National Tsing Hua University,
Hsinchu, Taiwan, in 2006, and his M.S degree from the Institute of Communications Engineering at
National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, in 2008. His research interests focus on cross-layered
design for wireless sensor networks.
Teng-Cheng Hsu received his B.S. degree in Communication Engineering from National Central Uni-
versity, Jhongli City, Taoyuan County, Taiwan, in 2007, and is currently pursuing his Ph.D. degree in the
Institute of Communications Engineering at National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan. His research
interests include distributed detection in wireless sensor networks and change detection in cognitive radio
networks.
Y.-W. Peter Hong received his B.S. degree in Electrical Engineering from National Taiwan University,
Taipei, Taiwan, in 1999, and his Ph.D. degree in Electrical Engineering from Cornell University, Ithaca,
NY, in 2005. He joined the Institute of Communications Engineering and the Department of Electrical
Engineering at National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan, in Fall 2005, where he is now an Associate
Professor. He was also a visiting scholar at the University of Southern California during June-August of
2008. His research interests include cooperative communications, distributed signal processing for sensor
networks, and PHY-MAC cross-layer designs for next generation wireless networks. Dr. Hong received the best paper award for
young authors from the IEEE IT/COM Society Taipei/Tainan chapter in 2005, the best paper award among unclassified papers
in MILCOM 2005, and also the Junior Faculty Research Award from the College of EECS at National Tsing Hua University
in 2009. He is a co-editor (along with A. Swami, Q. Zhao, and L. Tong) of the book entitled ”Wireless Sensor Networks:
Signal Processing and Communications Perspectives” published by John-Wiley & Sons in 2007. Dr. Hong is currently serving
as the Publication Chair and the TPC Track Co-Chair of VTC2010-Spring for the track on ”Cognitive Radio and Cooperative
Communications”. He is also the Publicity Chair of ISITA/ISSSTA 2010 and the TPC Co-Chair of WASN 2009.
October 14, 2009 DRAFT
報告此次發表的論文，其名為：「On the Impact of Quantized Channel Feedback in 
Guaranteeing Secrecy with Artificial Noise」。在報告完後，本人便前往飯店整理行理，
並於下午前後機場搭乘 19:15的班機回台。 
 
二、與會心得 
本次參與在韓國首爾舉辦的 ISIT 2009，收穫非常的多，遇到許多國際上的老朋友，
例如：McMaster University的 Prof. Jun Chen、Syracuse Universit的 Prof. Biao Chen、 
Shannon Lab的 Dr. Chao Tian、KAIST University的 Prof. Youngchul Sung、McMaster 
University的 Prof. Max Wong等，也認識了許多新的朋友，例如：日本…、Cornell University
的 Prof. …、MIT的 Prof. Lizhong Zheng等，期待未來能有更進一步的互訪或者是合作的
機會。在參與會議的過程中，對於目前熱門的研究領域有更深入的了解，也有機會與許
多國際學者面對面的接觸，討論本人的研究興趣以及最近的研究成果。本次參與會議特
別感受到，通訊網路領域的研究，已經從傳統點對點通訊的探討，轉而著重通訊節點間
的交互作用。特別是一些新興的研究議題有如：interference alignment、physical layer 
secrecy、information theoretic view of statistical inference problems都愈來愈受到矚目。建
議台灣學者未來也能朝此方向投入更多的心力。 
在本次報告的論文“On the Impact of Quantized Channel Feedback in Guaranteeing 
Secrecy with Artificial Noise”裡，我們分析在有限反饋的通道中利用 artificial noise所達到
的保密傳輸速率，並推導特定速率要求所需用到之反饋位元數。在報告後，美國 Rutgers 
University的 Prof. Roy Yates以及 University of Southern California的 Prof. Giusseppe Cair
提出關於 ergodic和 non-ergodic假設下所需的不同道道資訊。此篇會議論文雖然是以
non-ergodic capacity為出發點，但是在我們正在準備的期刊論文中，已經延伸至 ergodic 
channel的情境。 
ISIT是本人經常參加的會議。會議的論文品質非常的高，總是能激發我許多想法。
然而，這次是本人第一次訪問韓國，深深感受到韓國的進步。過去台灣與韓國的科技發
展齊鼓相當，然而這次所見，感覺韓國有迅速超越我國的可能，特別是在產業發展方面。
比如說，ISIT會議中討論的議題，經常被台灣的產業界視為過於理論，因而不予理會。
然而，經韓國友人告知，韓國三星以投入許多經費，要求學界進行相關的研究，令我非
常佩服韓國產業界的長遠眼光和對新興科技的掌握能力，很值得台灣產業界的學習。 
 
Transmitter
Legitimate receiver
Eavesdropper
CDI feedback
hr
he
Figure 1. A network diagram consisting of a multi-antenna trans-
mitter, a single-antenna legitimate receiver and eavesdropper. With
the feedback CDI of the legitimate receiver, the transmitter transmits
the secrecy message along this channel direction together with some
artificial noise in its null space.
B decreases.
II. SYSTEM MODEL AND BACKGROUND
Consider a network that consists of a multiple-antenna
transmitter and a single-antenna legitimate receiver and eaves-
dropper, as shown in Figure 1. We assume that there are
nt antennas at the transmitter which transmits a data vector
x[m] ∈ Cnt at time m. The signals observed at the receiver
and the eavesdropper are respectively given by
yr[m] = h
T
r x[m] + zr[m], (1)
ye[m] = h
T
e x[m] + ze[m], (2)
where hr,he ∈ Cnt denote the channel vectors at the receiver
and eavesdropper, respectively, and zr[m] and ze[m] are inde-
pendent and identically distributed (i.i.d.) complex Gaussian
noise with zero mean and unit variance, i.e., zr[m], ze[m] ∼
CN(0, 1). The transmitted signal x[m] satisfies the average
power constraint
E
[
||x[m]||2
]
≤ P, (3)
where E[·] stands for the statistical expectation.
Suppose that the transmitter transmits a secret message
w with rate R using a length-n codeword. The transmitted
message w is assumed to be uniformly distributed within
the index set Wn = {1, 2, . . . , 2nR}. Each message is en-
coded into a length-n codeword {x[m]}nm=1 and decoded
at the legitimate receiver based on the observed sequence
{yr[m]}
n
m=1. With wˆ ∈ Wn being the decoded message, the
error event can be defined as En = {wˆ 6= w}. The information
obtained by the eavesdropper is measured by the equivocation
I(w; {ye[m]}
n
m=1).
Definition 1 (Secrecy Capacity [3], [11]) A secrecy rate, R,
is achievable if there exists a sequence of (2nR, n) codes such
that Pr(En) → 0 and I(w; {ye[m]}nm=1)/n → 0 as n → ∞.
The secrecy capacity, denoted by Csec, is the supremum of all
achievable secrecy rates, and is lower bounded by
Csec ≥ Csec,L , I(w; {yr[m]}
n
m=1)− I(w; {ye[m]}
n
m=1).
(4)
In [5], Goel and Negi proposed the use of artificial noise
(AN) as a method to guarantee secrecy without knowledge of
the eavesdropper’s channel he at the transmitter. Specifically,
this scheme proposes to transmit the signal along the direction
of the legitimate receiver’s channel hr while imposing AN in
the associated null space in order to corrupt the eavesdropper’s
reception. To illustrate this method, let us define
gr = hr/‖hr‖ (5)
as the channel direction information (CDI) of the legitimate
receiver. Suppose that the transmitter has perfect knowledge
of gr. In [5], the transmitted signal x[m] is proposed to be
x[m] = g∗ru[m] +w[m], (6)
where {u[m]}nm=1 is the transmitted codeword with u[m] ∼
CN(0, σ2u), and w[m] is the imposed AN. Let column vectors
of Ng ∈ Cnt×(nt−1) be an orthonormal basis of the null space
of g∗r , i.e., gTr Ng = 0T . The AN is generated by taking
w[m] = Ngv[m], (7)
where v[m] is an (nt − 1) vector of i.i.d. complex Gaussian
random variables with distribution CN(0, σ2v). As a result, the
signals observed at the legitimate receiver and the eavesdrop-
per can be expressed respectively as
yr[m] = h
T
r g
∗
ru[m] + zr[m], (8)
ye[m] = h
T
e g
∗
ru[m] + h
T
e w[m] + ze[m]. (9)
According to (4), the secrecy capacity lower bound of (8)
and (9) can be obtained as
Csec,L = I(u; yr)− I(u; ye)
= log(1+E[
∣∣hTr g∗ru[m]∣∣2])− log
(
1+
E[
∣∣hTe g∗ru[m]∣∣2]
E[|hTe w[m]|
2
]+1
)
= log(1 + ‖hr‖
2σ2u)−log
(
1+
|hTe g
∗
r |
2σ2u
‖hTe Ng‖
2σ2v+1
)
. (10)
Notice that, since
E[‖x[m]‖2] = E[‖g∗ru[m] +w[m]‖
2]
= σ2u + (nt − 1)σ
2
v ≤ P, (11)
one can set σ2u = αP , and σ2v =
(1−α)P
nt−1
. By maximizing over
the value of 0 < α ≤ 1, the average secrecy capacity can be
lower bounded as
E[Csec] ≥ max
0<α≤1
E[Csec,L] = max
0<α≤1
E
[
log(1 + ‖hr‖
2αP )
− log
(
1 +
|hTe g
∗
r |
2αP
‖hTe Ng‖
2(1− α)/(nt − 1)P + 1
)]
. (12)
Taking P →∞, one can see that
lim
P→∞
E[Csec] =∞, (13)
implying that high secrecy capacity can be achieved if the
transmit power P is large.
and isotropically distributed in Cnt , we have in the second
term in (10) that
|hTe gˆ
∗
r |
2 = ‖he‖
2β(1, nt − 1). (22)
Similarly, with he being independent of each column of Nˆg,
we can write that∥∥∥hTe Nˆg∥∥∥2 = ‖he‖2 nt−1∑
j=1
β(1, nt − 1). (23)
The above arguments hold also for the second term in (19).
Therefore, we observe that the second term in (10) and that
in (19) are identically distributed. Thus we obtain the average
secrecy capacity loss in (21) as
E[∆Csec,L] = E[log(1 + ‖hr‖
2 · αP )]−
E
[
log
1+ ‖hr‖2(cos θ)2 · αP
‖hr‖2
∥∥∥g˜Tr Nˆg∥∥∥2 (sin θ)2 ( 1−αnt−1)P + 1
],
which implies that the secrecy capacity degradation is caused
only by the decrease in signal power and the increase in
noise leakage at the legitimate receiver. We therefore define
the performance degradation as the average ratio between the
legitimate receiver’s SINR under perfect CDI and that under
quantized CDI, i.e.,
∆SINR = E
‖hr‖2
∥∥∥g˜Tr Nˆg∥∥∥2 (sin θ)2 ( 1−αnt−1)P + 1
(cos θ)2

≥ E
‖hr‖2
∥∥∥g˜Tr Nˆg∥∥∥2 ( 1−αnt−1)P
(cot θ)2
 . (24)
To further analyze (24), let us consider the quantization cell
approximation model used in [8]–[10], where it is assumed
that each quantization cell is a Voronoi region of a spherical
cap with surface area approximately equal to 2−B of the total
surface area of the nt-dimensional unit sphere. For a given
codebook C , {c1, c2, ..., c2B}, the quantization cell for each
vector, say ci, is given by
Ri = {gr : |g
H
r ci|
2 ≥ |gHr cj |
2, ∀j 6= i}. (25)
In the quantization cell approximation model, Ri is instead
approximated with
Ri ≈ {gr : |g
H
r ci|
2 ≥ 1− δ}, (26)
where δ = 2−
B
nt−1 so that Pr(Ri) = 2−B . With this approx-
imation model, the ‖hr‖2, ‖g˜Tr Nˆg‖2 and cot θ in (24) are
statistically independent [9], and thus the SINR degradation
∆SINR can be lower bounded as
∆SINR ≥ E
[
‖hr‖
2
]
· E
[∥∥∥g˜Tr Nˆg∥∥∥2]
·
1
E [(cot θ)2]
·
(
(1 − α)P
nt − 1
)
, (27)
where we have applied Jensen’s inequality to the third term.
In addition, the probability density function of cot2 θ can be
shown to be [9]
fcot2 θ(x) =
{
2B(nt−1)
(x+1)nt , x > δ
−1 − 1,
0, 0 < x < δ−1 − 1,
(28)
and, for nt > 2, its expectation can be computed as
E[cot2 θ] =
[(
3− nt
2− nt
)
· 2
B
nt−1
]
− 1. (29)
Since both g˜r and each column of Nˆg are isotropically
distributed in the (nt − 1)-dimensional null space of gˆr, we
have as in [10] that∥∥∥g˜Tr Nˆg∥∥∥2 = nt−1∑
j=1
β(1, nt − 2) (30)
(i.e., sum of Beta-distribution random variables each with
parameters (1, nt − 2)), and hence
E
[∥∥∥g˜Tr Nˆg∥∥∥2] = 1. (31)
Substituting (29) and (31) into (27) gives rise to
∆SINR ≥
E
[
‖hr‖
2
] (
1−α
nt−1
)
P[(
3−nt
2−nt
)
· 2
B
nt−1
]
− 1
. (32)
By reordering the terms, we obtain for nt > 2,
B ≥ (nt −1)
[
log2
(
(1−α)P
nt − 1
·
E
[
‖hr‖
2
]
∆SINR
+1
)
− log2
(
3−nt
2−nt
)]
. (33)
Remark 3 Equation (33) shows that the number of feedback
bits B must increase with the order of O(log2 P ) in order
to maintian a constant SINR degradation. Moreover, since
E
[
‖hr‖
2
]
is proportional to nt, with fixed P and ∆SINR,
B must scale linearly with nt.
IV. SIMULATION RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
In this section, we present simulation results to illustrate the
impact of quantized CDI feedback on the secrecy capacity. We
set the number of transmit antennas nt to 4, and the channel
vectors hr and he as i.i.d. complex Gaussian random variables
with zero mean and unit variance. The secrecy capacity lower
bound with perfect CDI and that with quantized CDI were
evaluated by (10) and (19), respectively. Given a number of
feedback bits B, the quantization code book proposed in [12]
was used in our simulation. The SNR was defined as the
transmit power P (SNR = P ), and each simulation result
was obtained by averaging over 1500 channel realizations.
Figures 2 and 3 present the simulation results of average
secrecy capacity lower bound (bits/pcu) versus α for SNR=
20 dB, and versus SNR for α = 0.9, respectively. The
average secrecy capacity loss due to imperfect CDI can be
  
 
國際合作研究計畫 
國外研究報告書 
 
 
 
 
 
出  國  地  點︰ 美國加州大學戴維斯分校 
出  差  學  生︰ 王淑賢 
職  稱  /單  位︰ 清華大學通訊工程研究所博士班三年級學生 
出  國  期  間︰ 民國 95 年 6 月 28 日至民國 96 年 8 月 31 日 
報  告  日  期︰ 民國 96 年 9 月 23 日 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 1
 
二、訪問心得： 
 
本次短期交流分別與 Anna 與 Qing 教授碰面，也與她們的實驗室學生交流，
這是一個觀察國外研究環境特色的好機會。 
 Anna 老師與學生們討論研究進度或是學生們互相討論所閱讀的 paper 時，
通常都利用黑板(白板)來解說內容，所有的一切研究問題、系統假設、推導等等，
都是當場寫出來給大家看，這跟台灣很多研究生的 Meeting 模式差非常多。台灣
一般的 Meeting 都是使用投影片解說，想要講解的內容可以事先準備好，在
Meeting 時不需要重新用手寫過，非常的省時，但是也會造成聽眾的理解速度沒
有跟上台上演講者而使得後段的解說變得十分模糊與乏味，而台上的演講者其實
也沒有對其講解內容有很完整的了解。學生發現，如果一個研究生可以很簡單的
在黑板上輕鬆寫出自己的研究內容架構與簡單的重點分析方法的話，多少就代表
這個研究生對其研究內容有一定程度的了解。Anna 老師也會在 Meeting 時隨機
抽取台下學生重複剛剛台上報告者的講解內容，或是要求台下學生對台上報告者
提出問題，這也是一種能使聽眾與講者互相了解的好方法。 
 Qing 老師帶學生的方式與 Anna 老師比較不一樣的是，Anna 老師的學生研究
方向比較分岐，甚至有些學生不是很了解別的學生的研究內容，而 Qing 老師實
驗室的研究方向比較一致，大家研究的內容或是研究的方法很相像，所以學生們
可以互相討論或幫助，研究的進度可以比較快的推進。但總體來說，學生這次參
訪的兩個實驗室都擁有滿多的博士班學生，大家平常時間聚在一起常常互相討論
研究進度，而假日也會一起相約出去玩，無論在學業上或是生活上都有很融洽的
感覺。 
 
 這次學生在 Davis 的兩個月參訪過程中，對自己的研究方向有兩大收穫。第
一個是 Qing 教授針對學生在 2009 年 APSIPA Annual Summit and Conference
所發表的論文提出還可以再延伸討論的方向。第二是 Qing 教授提到，可以考慮
具移動性的無線電感知網路(Cognitive Radio Networks)中的路由問題。學生並
針對第二項新的研究方向設計了一些簡單的實驗。 
 關於具移動性的無線電感知網路(Cognitive Radio Networks)中的路由問
題，我們著重於討論一個因網路節點不夠多或是移動性大的 Ad-Hoc secondary 
network 討論其最有效的路由方式。我們根據以下兩篇在 2008 年對傳統 Mobile 
Ad-Hoc Network 所發表的新路由方式 
1. Efficient Routing in Intermittently Connected Mobile Networks Part 
I: The single-copy case 
2. Efficient Routing in Intermittently Connected Mobile Networks Part 
II: The multiple-copy case 
Authors: Thrasyvoulos Spyropoulos,Konstantinos Psounis and Cauligi 
 3
法，我們針對一個有兩對或三對 primary transmitter/receiver pairs 的網路模擬
secondary network 的路由延遲與平均傳送一個訊息至目的地需經多少次傳送，模
擬結果如圖 3-4。其中 SU and PU-Utility-Based Routing 是我們主要的想法，我們
可以發現我們所提出的新路由方法比其他非 Flooding 暴力路由法可獲得較低的
時間延遲，而傳第每則訊息所需的平均傳輸次數也可以壓在可容忍的範圍內。實
屬一個不錯的新路由方法。 
 
0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 0.14 0.16
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
Tx Range
Av
er
ag
e 
De
la
y
 
 
Direct Tx
Randomized Routing
SU−Utility−Based Routing
PU−Utility−based Routing
SU&PU−Utility−based Routing
Flooding
0.04 0.06 0.08 0.1 0.12 0.14 0.16
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Tx Range
Av
er
ag
e 
Nu
m
be
r o
f T
ra
ns
m
iss
io
n 
pe
r O
ne
 M
es
sa
ge
 
 
Direct Tx
Randomized Routing
SU−Utility−Based Routing
PU−Utility−based Routing
SU&PU−Utility−based Routing
Flooding
 
Fig. 3. Delay and required number of transmission per one message in a 
network with two PUs 
 
 5
