 2
 
中文摘要 
 本研究計畫以開發超低介電的高分子奈米複合材料為目標，已成功以形成奈米結構，開發
出介電常數約為 1.5 的超低介電高分子奈米複合材料，並具有優異的加工與材料性質。研究結
果發現，以 POSS 為低介電的奈米添加材，配合奈米材料的規則排列行為，是合成具有超低介
電的高分子奈米複合材料的有效方法，此 POSS 結構的排列行為，初期係以合成方法達到層間
排列，後期則開發出材料自組裝行為的成果，在材料合成的過程中則形成層狀排列而達到降低
介電常數的目標。本計畫研究成果成功發展出一種可靠、方便且有效率的方法，以形成超低介
電的高分子奈米複合材料，不僅已發表多篇論文於期刊中，並已獲得一件美國專利。 
關鍵詞：超低介電、聚倍半矽氧烷、奈米複合材料 
 4
一、 前言 
高分子材料在電子產品的主要應用之一是作為導體間的介電絕緣材料，從印刷電路板所用
的雙酚-A 型環氧樹脂、IC 封裝材料所用的甲酚-醛型環氧樹脂，以及作為 IC 介電絕緣層的高
性能高分子如聚亞醯胺、聚四氟乙烯等等。電子產品線路的高度積層化和輕薄短小的趨勢，要
求更小的線寬和線距，再加上電子產品使用頻率往高頻區發展，於是用來絕緣的高分子材料便
需要擁有更好的介電性質，也就是更低的介電常數。因此，低介電高分子材料成為這些年來高
分子材料開發的重要領域。因為氟原子的的強陰電性，使得碳氟鍵結較緊密，電子不易受外界
影響產生極化效應，且氟團基形成立體障礙，增加了分子間的空隙，破壞聚合物排列規則性，
又因為水的存在會增加電導與極化程度，-CF3 為一疏水取代基，加入之後吸水性變小，介電
常數隨之減少。因此，一般來說，導入含氟原子的化學團基於高分子結構之中可以有效地降低
高分子材料的介電常數，聚四氟乙烯本質上的低介電性質即基於此。以往也已研究很多的研究
專注在這方面，不管是環氧樹脂或是聚亞醯胺這些慣用的介電高分子材料，或是新發展的一些
高分子或是樹脂，例如 benzoxazine，導入含氟原子基團在降低介電常數上都有不錯的效果。
然而，導入含氟原子基團除了價格昂貴和犧牲部分高分子的熱性質之外，基於化學結構的限
制，所得到的高分子的介電常數有其本質上的限制，至少難以低於聚四氟乙烯的介電常數。因
為空氣的介電常數等於 1.0 或是接近 1.0，因此在材料的結構之中導入空氣，是一個降低材料
介電常數有效的方法。但這樣的方法無法應用於高分子化學結構的設計之中，必應用於材料的
塊狀結構之中。已有的報導利用生成具有封閉性多孔的材料來將空氣導入高分子材料塊狀結構
之中，使其自然保有空氣於材料之中而達到降低介電常數的目的。這樣的做法可以有效地得到
低介電的高分子材料，但引入空氣所造成的多孔結構通常會造成材料機械性質的大幅下降。多
面體聚矽氧烷寡聚物，(Polyhedral Oligomeric Silsesquioxane)簡稱為 POSS，化學結構式可簡寫
為(RSiO1.5)n，是近年來受到熱烈研究的奈米結構材料。POSS 結構上的特徵是具有立體籠狀的
外型，且粒徑大小均一，大小約為 1 nm，在每個端點可引入有機官能基，如環氧基、氨基、
異丁基等，形成多臂或是星形的單體，增加對溶劑的可溶性，適用於各種化學合成方法，透過
化學鍵結與高分子共聚後均勻的分布在聚合物中，不會造成無機粒子的聚集。在構造上 POSS
球核的部分(Si8O12)由無機 Si-O-Si 組成，擁有優異的抗氧化性和耐熱性，熱穩定溫度可高達
400 oC。POSS 是近年來受到熱烈研究的奈米結構材料。POSS 的 1 nm 大小的立體籠狀結構裡
面中空且包含空氣，因此導入 POSS 於高分子材料之中也自然地同時導入還有空氣的奈米孔
洞，因此能有效地降低高分子材料的介電常數且同時提升高分子的各種性質，相當吸引人。然
而，POSS 應用於超低介電材料（k < 2.0）的開發仍有其限制，由於受添加量的影響，目前仍
無法得到 k < 2.0 的 POSS/高分子奈米複合材料。因此，如何利用 POSS 以及先進的奈米結構
設計，開發高性能的超低介電材料，非常具有研究吸引力與應用潛力。 
 
二、 研究目的 
我國高科技電子工業經過十多年來的發展，不論是已發展接近成熟的印刷電路板（PCB）
與 IC 載板事業，半導體製造事業，包括晶圓代工、記憶體生產、半導體封裝等，或是近年來
積極投入發展的平面顯示器事業，包括大尺寸薄膜電晶體液晶顯示器（TFT-LCD）、有機電致
發光顯示器（OLED），已成為我國最重要之經濟體，產值規模與技術層級都居於國際領先地
位。然而，在這些電子工業中，原材料的供應卻大部分仰賴外商，是我國極為弱勢甚至尚無介
入的一個領域，為加速國內在此領域的發展，建立完整的垂直整合電子工業體系，國內學術機
構與研究單位無不投入大量人物力，以期建立本土化之電子工業原物料供應者。就高分子材料
 6
OG-POSS
R
SiO
Si O
Si
OSi
O
OSi
O
Si O
R
R
O
Si O
R
O
Si
O O
R
R
R
R
R = CH2 CH2 CH2 OCH2 CHCH2
O
Silicon wafer
OH OH OH OH OH OH OH OH
Si-POSS
POSS Cage
Polyamic acid solution
casting
Si-POSS
Heat curing
POSS Cage
Polyimide film
C
CF3
CF3
NH2H2N
C
CF3
CF3
O
O
O
O
O
O
+
圖一、在矽晶圓表面成長單一分子層 POSS 奈米結構作為低介電層。 
圖二、以 AFM 觀察到 POSS 結構存在於矽晶圓表面。 
 
0% 5% 10% 15% 20%
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
3.0
3.1
3.2
 
 
D
ie
le
ct
ric
 c
on
st
an
ts
AI-POSS contents in polyimides 
 polyimides on OG-POSS modified silicon
 polyimides on un-modified silicon
圖三、聚亞醯胺塗佈於矽晶圓表念的介電常數。 
 
進一步地，如果想要再降低材料的介電常數值，則只存單一層的 POSS 結構是不夠的，
應該要導入多層的 POSS 結構才是。此部分的研究方法如圖五所示，我們利用雙胺化合物取代
聚亞醯胺反應於 POSS 改質的矽晶圓表面，雙胺化合物的胺基和 POSS 的環氧基進行化學反應
而鍵結於矽晶圓表面，形成一層類似交聯環氧樹脂化合物結構的有機層，此有機層並因雙胺化
 8
圖五、具有甲基丙烯酸甲酯團基的 POSS 單體 MMA-POSS。 
 
圖六、MMA-POSS 熱聚合後所得到的產物之照片。 
 
 
 
圖七、TP-MMA-POSS 的 AFM (a)與 SEM(b)圖像。 
 
 
圖八為 TP-MMA-POSS 的 TEM 圖像，可以明顯觀察到有機高分子部分與無機 POSS 部分
形成層狀的規則排列結構，其中 POSS 區塊大小約 200 nm，而高分子區塊則小得多約為 30 nm，
POSS 區塊大小比文獻中所報導的其他 POSS/高分子奈米複合材料大得多，這是因為
 10
左右，但層狀結構較之 TP-MMA-POSS 更為完整，顯示 MMA-POSS/TF-220 應會有更低的介
電常數值。 
 
 
圖十、MMA-POSS/TF-200 的照片以及 TEM 圖像。 
 
實驗結果顯示 MMA-POSS/TF-220 的介電常數值為 1.47，相當吸引人；這樣低的介電常數無
法全無 POSS 的結構所提供，所以應該是 POSS/高分子的層狀結構所貢獻；我們發現
MMA-POSS/TF-150 並沒有形成 POSS 與高分子交替的層狀結構，而其介電常數值也只有約
2.04 左右。既然兩個高分子奈米材料具有相同的化學結構，則更進一步證明
MMA-POSS/TF-220 的超低介電常數值來自於 POSS/高分子的層狀結構所貢獻。 
  
熱固性超低介電 polybenzoxazine 奈米複合材料 
 使用 TF 雖可以製備出超低介電材料，但 TF 結構熱性質與機械性質仍有改善空間，因此我
們進一步使用熱固性的樹脂 benzoxazine 作為基材，開發超低介電的高性能奈米複合材料。圖
十一是所使用的 benzoxazine 材料，具有 furan 官能基的 benzoxazine 化合物可以取代 TF，
與 MMA-POSS 進行反應開發超低介電材料。 
 
 
圖十一、具有 furan 官能基的 benzoxazine 化合物 
 
 12
 圖十四是 benzoxazine 化合物與 MMA-POSS 進行共聚合後所產生的奈米複合材料的介電常
數值，我們發現奈米複合材料的介電常數值隨添加 POSS 量的增加而降低；值得注意的是，自
組裝形成 POSS 層狀奈米結構的奈米複合材料有更低的介電常數，顯示 POSS 層狀奈米結構的確
可以降低 POSS 奈米複合材料的介電常數，也證實含有 furan 官能基的 benzoxzaine 化合物與
MMA-POSS 進行共聚合時，可以誘導 POSS 結構排列，形成 POSS 層狀奈米結構。由圖十四可知，
所開發的 polybenzoxazine/POSS 奈米複合材料，可以表現出低到 1.8 左右的超低介電常數。 
 
 
 
四、 研究成果發表 
期刊論文 
1. Y.L. Liu* , C.S. Liu, C.I. Cho, M.J. Hwu. (2007)“Polyhedral oligomeric silsequioxane (POSS) 
monolayer as a nanoporous interlayer for preparation of low-k dielectric films”, Nanotechnology 
18(22), 225701. [SCI, IF=3.137] 
2. Y.L. Liu*, M.C. Tseng, M.H. Fanchiang (2008) “Polymerization and nanocomposites properties 
of multi-functional methylmethacrylate POSS”, J. Polym. Sci. Part A: Polym. Chem. 46(16), 
5157-5166. [SCI, IF=3.971] 
3. Y.L. Liu*, C.S. Liu, W.H. Chen, S.Y. Chen, K.S. Wang, M.J. Hwu (2009) “Ultra-low-k thin films 
of polyhedral oligometric silsesquioxane nanocomposites via covalent layer-by-layer assembly”, 
J. Nanosci. Nanotechnol. 9(3),1839-1843. [SCI, IF=1.453] 
4. Y.L. Liu*, M.H. Fanchiang (2009) “Polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane nanocomposites 
exhibiting ultra-low dielectric constants through POSS orientation into lamellar structures”, J. 
Mater. Chem. 19(22), 3643-3647. [SCI, IF=4.795] 
5. M.C. Tseng, Y.L. Liu* (2010) “Preparation, morphology, and ultra-low dielectric constants of 
benzoxazine-based polymers/polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) nanocomposites”, 
Polymer 51(23), 5567-5575. 
專利 
1. Thermally reversible composite materials. US Patent, Allowed to issue as a 
patent, 2010.10.13。 
Nanotechnology 18 (2007) 225701 Y-L Liu et al
study, we explore a new approach to fabricate low-k
materials. POSS monomers were attached to a silicon surface
by reacting octakis(glycidyldimethylsiloxy)octasilsesquioxane
(OG-POSS) with the OH-terminated silicon surface. The
POSS nanoporous layers formed on the silicon surfaces were
used for fabricating low-k materials. Then, a dielectric
polyimide is cast on the POSS-modified silicon surface. The
nanoporous POSS layer between the silicon surface and
the polyimide reduces the dielectric constants of the entire
interconnect materials.
2. Experimental details
2.1. Materials
Octakis(glycidyldimethylsiloxy)octasilsesquioxane (OG-
POSS) and 1-aminopropyl-heptaisobutyloctasilsesquioxane
(AI-POSS) purchased from Hybrid Plastics Inc. (Fountain Val-
ley, CA) were used as received. (100)-oriented single-crystal
silicon, or Si(100), wafers, with a thickness of about 1.5 mm
and a diameter of 150 mm, were purchased from Unisil Co.
of Santa Clara, CA. The as-received wafers were polished on
one side and doped lightly as n-type. The silicon wafers were
cut into square chips of about 1.0 cm × 1.0 cm in size. Af-
ter rinsing with copious amounts of acetone and distilled wa-
ter, the silicon chips were dried at 70 ◦C in a vacuum oven
for 2 h. 4,4′-(hexafluoroisopropylidene) dianiline (6FDAn)
and 4,4′-(hexafluoroisopropylidene) diphthalic anhydride (6F-
DPA) were received from Aldrich Chemical Co. and used as
received.
2.2. Modification of silicon surface with OG-POSS
Silicon samples were placed in a vial charged with a solution
of OG-POSS in methylethylketone (0.5 g in 5 ml) containing
1000 ppm of SnCl2·2H2O as a reaction promoter [25]. After
reaction at 110 ◦C for 12 h, silicon was draw out, washed with
acetone and distilled water, and dried under vacuum to give the
OG-POSS modified silicon Si-POSS.
2.3. Preparation of polyimide dielectric layer on Si-POSS
Poly(amic acid) solutions were prepared from 4,4′-(hexafluor-
oisopropylidene) dianiline (6FDAn) and 4,4′-(hexafluoroisopr-
opylidene) diphthalic anhydride (6F-DPA) reacting in 1-
methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP). To prepare POSS containing
poly(amic acid)s, AI-POSS was added in the polymerization
systems at various loadings. The moles of amino and anhydride
groups in the polymerization compositions were kept equal.
Samples with Y values (Y is the AI-POSS weight ratios
charged in the monomers for polyamic acid preparation) of 5,
10, 15 and 20 wt% were prepared. Poly(amic acid) solutions
was then spin-coated on the Si-POSS surface. The sample was
then thermally treated (100 ◦C 1 h, 200 ◦C 1 h and 280 ◦C 2 h)
to convert poly(amic acid) to polyimide through a dehydration
reaction.
2.4. Characterization
2.4.1. X-ray photospectroscopy (XPS) analysis. XPS
analysis was conducted with using a Thermo VG-Scientific
Sigma Probe ESCA (British) using a Al Kα line as a radiation
source. The background pressure of the analytical chamber
was 2.0 × 10−8 Torr and the take-off angle of photoelectrons
was 90◦ with respect to sample surface. Curve fitting was
performed with XPS-PEAK software using the Gaussian–
Lorentzian mixture function (mixture ratio: 80/20). All
binding energies were referenced to the C 1s hydrocarbon peak
at 284.6 eV.
2.4.2. Infrared spectroscopic analysis. Infrared spectra
were recorded with a Perkin-Elmer spectrum one FTIR. The
reflection spectra of the film surfaces were obtained with a
multiple internal reflectance apparatus and a ZnSe prism as an
internal reflection element. Each spectrum was collected by
cumulating 16 scans at a resolution of 8 cm−1.
2.4.3. Surface contact angle measurements. Water contact
angles were measured with an angle-meter (Automatic Contact
Angle Meter, Model CA-VP, Kyowa Interface Science Co., Ltd
Japan) at room temperature. Distilled water (5 μl) was dropped
on the sample surface at ten different sites. The average of ten
measured values for a sample was taken as its water contact
angle.
2.4.4. Scanning microelectronic microscopy. Field-emission
scanning electron micrographs (FE-SEM) were recorded with
a JEOL JSM-6500F SEM. Energy-dispersive x-ray (EDX)
analysis was conducted with a Horiba ES-320 EDX micro-
analyser equipped on a Hitachi S-3000N SEM. The films were
fractured under liquid nitrogen for the cross-sectional study. A
thin layer of platinum was sputtered onto the cross-sectional
surfaces prior to SEM measurements.
2.4.5. Dielectric constant. The capacitance of the films
(dried at 120 ◦C under vacuum for 8 h prior to measurements)
were measured on a Hewlett-Packard model 4280A material
analyser at a frequency of 1 MHz. The dielectric constants of
the films can be calculated from their capacitances.
3. Results and discussion
The major objective of this study is to incorporate a POSS
layer onto a silicon surface. The nanoporous POSS layer
can reduce the dielectric constants of the dielectric interlayers
fabricated on the POSS-modified silicon surface. The strategy
used for this purpose is shown schematically in figure 1.
Initially, a POSS cage layer is attached to a silicon surface
by reacting OG-POSS with the OH-terminated silicon surface.
The incorporation of POSS onto the silicon surface is brought
about by means of the addition reaction between the oxirane
groups of OG-POSS and the silanol groups of the silicon
surface in the presence of tin (II) chloride as a catalyst [25].
In principle, the oxirane groups of OG-POSS react with the
silanol groups to form tethered linkages with the silicon surface
and the un-reacted oxirane groups are retained on the OG-
POSS-modified silicon (Si-POSS) surface.
The Si-POSS surface can be considered as being function-
alized with oxirane groups. These oxirane groups are reactive
toward some chemical groups such as acid groups [19, 26, 27]
2
Nanotechnology 18 (2007) 225701 Y-L Liu et al
Figure 3. FTIR spectra of PI and PI-POSS nanocomposite films.
nanoporous interstitial layer to reduce the dielectric constants
of polyimides, as some air is included between the silicon and
the polyimide layer.
To further examine the effects of the OG-POSS layer
on reduction of dielectric constants, POSS cages were also
incorporated to polyimide layers. POSS-containing poly(amic
acid) was prepared from 6F-DAn and 6F-DPA with the
addition of some amount of AI-POSS. The resulting POSS-
containing poly(amic acid) solutions were spin-coated on
unmodified silicon and the Si-POSS surfaces, and then
thermally cured, resulting in the formation of POSS-containing
polyimide films (PI-POSS-Y , where Y denotes the weight per
cent of AI-POSS in the monomer).
The incorporation of POSS in the polyimide was demon-
strated by FTIR and SEM measurements. Figure 3 shows
the FTIR spectra of the polyimide-POSS nanocomposites
films. The imide groups were characterized by absorptions at
1786 cm−1 (C=O, asymmetric stretch) and 1722 cm−1 (C=O,
symmetric stretch). The incorporated POSS exhibited broad
absorptions at around 1050–1100 cm−1 (Si–O stretch). The
SEM micrographs of the polyimide and PI-POSS-10 (sam-
ple containing 10 wt% AI-POSS in the monomer) films are
shown in figure 4. The pristine PI film exhibited a dense and
homogeneous appearance in the cross-sectional SEM micro-
graph. After the incorporation of POSS, PI-POSS-10 showed
a microphase separation between the polyimide and the POSS
domains. POSS was aggregated to form grains with sizes
of approximately 60 nm. The homogeneous dispersion of
POSS in the polyimide domain was observed by SEM-EDX
Si-mapping (figure not shown) to further demonstrate the for-
mation of nanocomposite PI-POSS films. Similar results
were reported by Wang et al [19]. However, Laine et al
[30, 31] reported that the polyimide/POSS nanocomposites
prepared from octa(aminophenyl)silsesquioxane (OA-POSS)
showed high POSS loadings and good thermal and mechani-
cal properties. The utilization of OA-POSS might prevent the
formation of POSS aggregates and can be examined in a future
study.
The incorporation of AI-POSS to the polyimide structures
decrease the dielectric constants of the polymers, and the
decrease in the amplitude increased with the AI-POSS content
in the polyimides (figure 5). While coating PI-POSS on
Figure 4. FE-SEM micrographs of the cross sections of PI and
PI-POSS-10 film.
Figure 5. The dielectric constants of polyimides on OG-POSS
modified and unmodified silicon surfaces.
OG-POSS modified silicon surface, their dielectric constants
are further reduced. Each PI-POSS coated on Si-POSS
led to a reduction in dielectric constant in comparison with
the dielectric constant of the same PI-POSS layer coated
on unmodified silicon surfaces. For example, PI-POSS-20
on unmodified-silicon and on Si-POSS exhibits a dielectric
constant of 2.58 ± 0.02 and 2.47 ± 0.02, respectively.
4. Conclusion
In this paper, we demonstrate that the incorporation of a POSS
layer for use as a coupling layer is an effective approach that
4
Polymerization and Nanocomposites Properties of
Multifunctional Methylmethacrylate POSS
YING-LING LIU, MIN-CHI TSENG, MENG-HAN FANGCHIANG
Department of Chemical Engineering and R&D Center for Membrane Technology,
Chung Yuan Christian University, Chungli, Taoyuan 32023, Taiwan
Received 26 March 2008; accepted 28 April 2008
DOI: 10.1002/pola.22843
Published online in Wiley InterScience (www.interscience.wiley.com).
ABSTRACT: Thermally induced polymerization of multifunctional methylmethacrylate
POSS (MMA-POSS) was studied in this work for preparation of polymer/POSS nano-
composites. The polymerization of MMA-POSS could be promoted with benzoyl perox-
ide (BPO). Self-assembly of POSS into a layer-by-layer structure in the MMA-POSS
polymer (TP-MMA-POSS) is observed with a transmission electron microscopy. An
ultra-low-k value of about 1.85 is measured with TP-MMA-POSS. In addition, polyi-
mide-POSS nanocomposites are also prepared. These nanocomposites demonstrate
good homogeneity and enhanced mechanical properties. VC 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. J
Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 46: 5157–5166, 2008
Keywords: crosslinking; nanocomposites; polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane;
polyimide; POSS
INTRODUCTION
Polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) has
monodispersed size, low density, high thermal
stability, and controlled functionalities, to make
it be one of the most utilized nano-building
blocks in constructing nanomaterials.1–3 POSS
derivatives also exhibit wide chemical versatility
and good compatibility with organic materials
as they possess organic substituents.4–8 Mono-
functional POSS could be utilized as a polymer
modiﬁer to be directly incorporated onto polymer
chains by polymer reactions.9 Monofunctional
POSS derivatives with a polymerizable substitu-
tent, such as methacrylate groups, can also be
as a monomer in copolymerization with other ac-
rylate monomers.10 Polymer/POSS hybrids are
also prepared through ring-opening metathesis
polymerization using a norbornene-POSS com-
pound as a monomer.11 Polymer/POSS hybrid
materials with pendent POSS groups are
obtained by these routes. Semitelechelic polymer
with one POSS terminal group was also pre-
pared using POSS derivatives as an initiator
through thiol-mediated controlled radical poly-
merization.12 Difunctional POSS derivatives
could serve as monomers in polycondensations
to prepare polymers possessing POSS pendent
groups. One example is preparation of polyi-
mide/POSS hybrids using a diamine-POSS as a
comonomer.13 A difunctional POSS-containing
triﬂuorovinyl ether was also utilized in a [2 þ 2]
thermal polymerization to prepare POSS-per-
ﬂuorocyclobutyl aryl ether copolymers.14 On the
other hand, multifunctional POSS derivatives
are widely used in preparation of crosslinked
polymer/POSS nanocomposites. Introduction of
thermally curable pendants to the organic sub-
stitutents of POSS units makes the POSS deriv-
atives being able to be used as reactive additives
to conventional thermosetting resins for prepa-
ration of thermosetting nanocomposites.15–22 In
Correspondence to: Y.-L. Liu (E-mail: ylliu@cycu.edu.tw)
Journal of Polymer Science: Part A: Polymer Chemistry, Vol. 46, 5157–5166 (2008)
VC 2008 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.
5157
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
MMA-POSS exhibits an exothermic peak in
DSC heating scan to indicate the methacrylate
groups of MMA-POSS might perform thermally
induced polymerization (Fig. 1). At a heating
rate of 10 8C/min, the exothermic peak exhibits
a temperature of onset (Tonset) and temperature
of maximum (Tmax) at about 200 and 225 8C,
respectively. The reaction enthalpy is also read
to be 102 J/g. According to the Kissinger’s
method,31 the activation energy of the MMA-
POSS polymerization is 138 kJ/mol. Figure 2
shows the FTIR spectra of MMA-POSS before
and after thermally induced polymerization at
220 8C for 2 h. The SiOSi linkages of POSS
cages exhibit a signiﬁcant absorption peak at
1113 cm1. The C¼O and C¼C groups of
methacrylate groups of MMA-POSS are
observed with the absorption peaks at 1722 and
1635 cm1, respectively. After heating, the rela-
tive absorption intensity of the C¼C groups
decreased, demonstrating the performance of
the polymerization reaction of methacrylate
groups. However, the intensities of absorption
peaks of C¼O and CH groups also decreased
with heating, implying thermal degradation
occurred accompanied with the methacrylate po-
Scheme 1. Chemical structures of MMA-POSS and polyimide.
PROPERTIES OF MULTIFUNCTIONAL METHYLMETHACRYLATE POSS 5159
Journal of Polymer Science: Part A: Polymer Chemistry
DOI 10.1002/pola
191 8C was observed with TP-MMA-POSS in
DSC analysis [Fig. 5(a)]. The high Tg of TP-
MMA-POSS might be attributed to the presence
of POSS cages, which seriously restrict the or-
ganic chain motions. On the other hand, the
highly crosslinked structure of TP-MMA-POSS
might also contribute to Tg enhancement. The
crosslinking density of TP-MMA-POSS was
measured with its swelling ratio in NMP. An av-
erage molecular weight between crosslinked
points (Mc) of 28.7 g/mol, corresponding to a
crosslinking density of 49 mmol/cm3, is found
with TP-MMA-POSS. However, this value is rel-
atively low because the molecular weight of
MMA-POSS is of about 1434 g/mol. As the cross-
linking density of TP-MMA-POSS is measured
with the ‘‘degree of swelling’’ technique, the low
value could be due to the high content of the
inorganic POSS cages of the TP-MMA-POSS.
The presence of POSS cages inhibit the molecu-
lar chain motions and reduce the degree of swel-
ling of TP-MMA-POSS in NMP.
The TGA thermogram of TP-MMA-POSS
heating in nitrogen is shown in Figure 5(b). TP-
MMA-POSS exhibits good thermal stability with
a degradation temperature (Td5, temperature at
5 wt % weight loss) of 340 8C and a char yield of
47 wt % at 800 8C. Moreover, the surface hard-
ness of the nanocomposite is tested with a pencil
test. The hardness found with TP-MMA-POSS is
4 H. As pure crosslinked PMMA usually exhibits
a hardness of about 2 H, the presence of POSS
contributes to enhance the hardness of TP-
MMA-POSS hybrid material. On the other
hand, dielectric insulators with ultra-low dielec-
tric constants (ultra-low-k) for microelectronics
continue receiving attentions, as semiconductor
manufacturers try to produce high-performance
chips containing as many transistors as possible
Figure 3. DSC thermograms of MMA-POSS with
1 wt % of BPO: (a) heating scan at a heating rate of
10 8C/min; (b) isothermal scans at various tempera-
tures; (c) the plots of conversions versus reaction time
for MMA-POSS (with 1 wt % of BPO) polymerization.
[Color ﬁgure can be viewed in the online issue, which
is available at www.interscience.wiley.com.]
Figure 4. Photograph of TP-MMA-POSS from
MMA-POSS (with 1 wt % of BPO) thermal polymer-
ization at 120 8C. [Color ﬁgure can be viewed in the
online issue, which is available at www.interscience.
wiley.com.]
PROPERTIES OF MULTIFUNCTIONAL METHYLMETHACRYLATE POSS 5161
Journal of Polymer Science: Part A: Polymer Chemistry
DOI 10.1002/pola
microgram of TP-MMA-POSS. The POSS-rich
domain is gathered with POSS granular clusters
in the size of 50–80 nm. The average rough-
ness and root mean square roughness were
found to be 2.3 and 2.9 A˚, respectively. The low
values, even might associate with certain error
due to the sensitivity limit of the instrument,
indicate the low surface roughness of the pre-
pared TP-MMA-POSS ﬁlm. Because surface
roughness of about 10–30 A˚ was reported for
PMMA/silica nanocomposites,36,37 the low sur-
face roughness of the prepared TP-MMA-POSS
ﬁlm was noteworthy. The extremely high surface
planarity of the TP-MMA-POSS ﬁlm suggests
its application potentials in optical coatings. Fig-
ure 6(b) shows the FE-SEM micrographs of TP-
MMA-POSS. No obvious boundary between or-
ganic and inorganic phases is observed for TP-
MMA-POSS in its cross-sectional micrograph.
However, layer-by-layer POSS self-assembly
structure is observed in the TEM micrograph of
TP-MMA-POSS (Fig. 7). The POSS-rich domains
in a thickness of about 200 nm are separated
with the PMMA-rich domains in a thickness of
about 30 nm. Self-assembly of POSS into layer
structures has been reported with polyimides
possessing pendent and terminal POSS groups
(PI-POSS) by Wei and coworkers.13 Lamellar
morphology in nanoscale was also reported to
polybutadiene-POSS copolymers which possess
high POSS contents.38 For the poly(butadiene)-
POSS copolymers (PBD-POSS) with low POSS
concentrations, only random POSS aggregates
in the polymer matrix was observed. On the
other hand, the self-assembly behavior and or-
dered structures of POSS were not reported to
crosslinked polymer-POSS hybrids. The self-as-
sembly POSS morphology observed in this work
is somewhat different from the previous studies.
The high content of POSS cages in TP-MMA-
POSS might contribute to the self-assembly
behavior. On the other hand, the lamellar thick-
Scheme 2. A sketch representing the formation of assembly structure in TP-MMA-
POSS.
PROPERTIES OF MULTIFUNCTIONAL METHYLMETHACRYLATE POSS 5163
Journal of Polymer Science: Part A: Polymer Chemistry
DOI 10.1002/pola
sites with MMA-POSS (Fig. 10). In addition,
pristine PI shows a dielectric constant of about
3.99. The dielectric constants of the PI ﬁlms
were signiﬁcantly reduced by formation semi-
IPN PI/POSS nanocomposites as PI-POSS-10
and PI-POSS-20 exhibit a dielectric constant of
2.75 and 2.38, respectively. Here we demon-
strated that the thermally induced polymeriza-
tion of MMA-POSS is an effective approach to
prepare semi-IPN polymer/POSS nanocompo-
sites.
CONCLUSIONS
In this work, we demonstrated the thermally
induced polymerization of MMA-POSS and its
applications in preparation of low-k materials
and polymer-POSS semi-IPN nanocomposites.
BPO could be an effective reaction promoter for
MMA-POSS polymerization. The MMA-POSS
polymer exhibits high transparency, an ultra-
low dielectric constant of 1.85, and self-assembly
structures in nanometer scale. The results
shown in this work also provide a convenient
approach to prepare polymer/POSS nanocompo-
sites and to extend the scopes of their applica-
tions. Moreover, this MMA-POSS polymerization
can be further applied to thermally curable poly-
mers for preparation of IPN polymer/POSS
nanocomposites. Some work on this topic is
under studies.
Financial support on this work from the National Sci-
ence Council of Taiwan (Grant NSC 96-2628-E-033-
001-MY3) is highly appreciated.
REFERENCES AND NOTES
1. Tamaki, R.; Tanaka, Y.; Asuncion, M. Z.; Choi, J.;
Laine, R. M. J Am Chem Soc 2001, 123, 12416.
2. Laine, R. M. J Mater Chem 2005, 15, 3725.
3. Roll, M. F.; Asuncion, M. Z.; Kampf, J.; Laine, R. M.
ACS Nano 2008, 2, 320.
4. Froehlich, J. D.; Young, R.; Nakamura, T.;
Ohmori, Y.; Li, S.; Mochizuki, A.; Lauters, M.;
Jabbour, G. E. Chem Mater 2007, 19, 4991.
5. Iacono, S. T.; Vij, A.; Grabow, W.; Smith, D. W.,
Jr.; Mabry, J. M. Chem Commun 2007, 4992.
6. Miyake, J.; Chujo, Y. Macromol Rapid Commun
2008, 29, 86.
7. Zhang, Y.; Ye, Z. Chem Commun 2008, 1178.
8. Chen, G. X.; Shimizi, H. Polymer 2008, 49, 943.
9. Liu, Y. L.; Lee, H. C. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym
Chem 2006, 44, 4632.
10. Amir, N.; Levina, A.; Silverstein, M. S. J Polym
Sci Part A: Polym Chem 2007, 45, 4264.
11. Xu, W.; Chung, C.; Kwon, Y. Polymer 2007, 48,
6286.
12. Kotal, A.; Si, S.; Paira, T. K.; Mandal, T. K. J
Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 2008, 46, 1111.
13. Leu, C. M.; Chang, Y. T.; Wei, K. H. Chem Mater
2003, 15, 3721.
14. Iacono, S. T.; Budy, S. M.; Mabry, J. M.; Smith,
D. W., Jr. Macromolecules 2007, 40, 9517.
15. Teo, J. K. H.; Teo, K. C.; Pan, B.; Xiao, Y.; Lu, X.
Polymer 2007, 48, 5671.
16. Liu, Y.; Zheng, S. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym
Chem 2006, 44, 1168.
17. Liu, Y. L.; Chang, G. P. J Polym Sci Part A:
Polym Chem 2006, 44, 1869.
18. Liu, Y. L.; Chang, G. P.; Wu, C. S.; Chiu, Y. S. J
Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 2005, 43, 5787.
19. Jothibasu, S.; Premkumar, S.; Alagar, M. High
Perform Polym 2008, 20, 5787.
20. Lee, Y. J.; Kuo, S. W.; Su, Y. C.; Chen, J. K.; Tu,
C. W.; Chang, F. C. Polymer 2004, 44, 6321.
21. Lee, L. H.; Chen, W. C. Polymer 2005, 46, 2163.
22. Mariani, A.; Alzari, V.; Monticelli, O.; Pojman, J. A.;
Caria, G. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 2007,
45, 4514.
23. Sulaiman, S.; Brick, C. M.; Sana, C. M. D.; Kat-
zenstein, J. M.; Laine, R. M.; Basheer, R. A. Mac-
romolecules 2006, 39, 5167.
24. Liu, Y. L.; Liu, C. S.; Cho, C. I.; Hwu, M. I. Nano-
technology 2007, 18, 225701.
25. Chen, Y.; Chen, L.; Nie, H.; Kang, E. T. J Appl
Polym Sci 2006, 99, 2226.
26. Ye, Y. S.; Chen, W. Y.; Wang, Y. Z. J Polym Sci
Part A: Polym Chem 2006, 44, 5391.
Figure 10. Stress–strain curves of PI-POSS nano-
composites. [Color ﬁgure can be viewed in the online
issue, which is available at www.interscience.wiley.
com.]
PROPERTIES OF MULTIFUNCTIONAL METHYLMETHACRYLATE POSS 5165
Journal of Polymer Science: Part A: Polymer Chemistry
DOI 10.1002/pola
Polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane nanocomposites exhibiting ultra-low
dielectric constants through POSS orientation into lamellar structures
Ying-Ling Liu* and Meng-Han Fangchiang
Received 8th January 2009, Accepted 4th March 2009
First published as an Advance Article on the web 17th April 2009
DOI: 10.1039/b900141g
Polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) nanocomposite, which is prepared from two liquid
monomers and can be processed under the ‘‘spinning on’’ process, exhibits an ultra-low dielectric
constant (k) of 1.47. The ultra-low k value of the POSS nanocomposite material is attributed to the
formation of a POSS lamellar structure. The nanocomposite material also shows good thermal
stability, high glass transition temperature, and re-workable characteristics, warranting its high
potential for uses in modern and future microelectronics.
Introduction
Moore’s law forecasts the progresses of the microelectronics. As
semiconductor manufacturers continue their efforts of produc-
tion of high-performance chips, which possess as many
transistors as possible on a single chip, the demands of ultra-low-
dielectric (ultra-low-k, k < 2.0) materials to replace silicon
dioxide as well as other currently used insulators are obvious.1
For the up coming IC-technology nodes below 65 nm, it is
necessary to have the ultra-low-k materials (k < 1.7) be employed
in the chip-fabrication processes.1 One major class of the ultra-
low-k candidates are SiO2-based materials. For example, some
silsesquioxane (SSQ) based materials have been reported to
exhibit dielectric constants as low as 2.0.2–4 Mesoporous silicate
films prepared from a ‘‘spinning-on’’ process showed k values of
about 1.8.5 The dielectric constants of SSQ derivatives could be
lowered to 1.7 with the incorporation of porous structures.6
Another class of low-k materials is organic polymers. One major
approach to reduce the dielectric constants of polymeric mate-
rials is the incorporation of fluoride to the chemical structures of
the polymers. Fluorinated polyimides having dielectric constants
below 3.0 were reported.7–9 Some highly fluorinated alkane
derivatives exhibited low dielectric constants of less than 2.0.10
However, the highly fluorinated alkanes were soft and not
thermally stable. Their applications in microelectronics are
therefore limited. On the other hand, incorporation of air, which
has a dielectric constant of about 1.0, into polymeric materials is
another effective approach to significantly reduce their k values
below 2.0.11–14 However, most of the reported low-k polymers
required complicated synthesis routes and could not be applied
to the continuous methodology of polymer processing. Recently,
the research attentions on the low-k materials turn to the
organic–inorganic hybrid materials, as they combine both
attractive properties of organic and inorganic materials. One
attractive inorganic nano-building block for preparation of low-
k materials is polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS), as
POSS molecules inherently possess air in their cubic cages. The
preparation and properties of the POSS/polymer nanocomposite
materials have been widely studied.15–20 The dielectric constants
of the POSS/polymer nanocomposites usually decrease with
increasing in their POSS contents. Due to the upper limit of
POSS contents in the nanocomposites, the k values reported to
the POSS-based nanocomposites are still above 2.0. To increase
the POSS contents, POSS/polymer thin films were prepared via
layer-by-layer assembly processes.21,22 However, lay-by-layer
assembly process is complicated and not convenient in prepa-
ration and processing. Therefore, it is of interest to search for
a facile method to reduce the dielectric constants of POSS/
polymer nanocomposites without increases in their POSS
contents.
Besides the POSS contents, the dielectric constants of POSS/
polymer nanocomposites are also influenced by the POSS
distribution in the polymer matrix, as described with the power-
law relationship:23
kc
b ¼ 4k1b + (1  4)k2b (1)
where kc, k1, and k2 are the dielectric constants of the nano-
composite, POSS filler, and polymer matrix, respectively, 4 is the
volume fraction of POSS filler and b is a parameter representing
the shape and orientation of the POSS filler. b approaches 1.0
for the cases of the dispersed POSS components orienting
perpendicular to the applied electrical field,23 then eqn (1)
becomes:
1/kc ¼ 4/k1 + (1  4)/k2 (2)
The dielectric constant of nanocomposite kc would be close to
the dielectric constant of POSS filler k1 over a wide range of 4.
Therefore, orientation of POSS into lamellar layers, which is
perpendicular to the applied electrical field, in the POSS/polymer
nanocomposite would reduce the dielectric constant of the
nanocomposite close to the k value of POSS filler. Basing on the
above, in this work the POSS/polymer nanocomposite possessing
lamellar POSS structures is prepared. The nanocomposite
exhibits an ultra-low k value of about 1.47, demonstrating the
effect of lamellar structure on conducting ultra-low dielectric
Department of Chemical Engineering and R&D Center for Membrane
Technology, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chungli, Taoyuan 320,
Taiwan. E-mail: ylliu@cycu.edu.tw; Fax: +886-3-2654199; Tel: +886-3-
2654130
This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2009 J. Mater. Chem., 2009, 19, 3643–3647 | 3643
PAPER www.rsc.org/materials | Journal of Materials Chemistry
the radical addition reaction of the methacrylate groups of
MMA-POSS, as similar behaviour was also observed in the DSC
thermogram of MMA-POSS.29 However, the reaction tempera-
ture is a little higher than that observed with the MMA-POSS
homopolymerization,29 due to the network formed with the DA
reaction restricts the molecular mobility of MMA-POSS in the
curing reaction. Some retro-DA reaction (the reverse reaction of
DA reaction) might occur at the temperatures for MMA-POSS
polymerization. However, the endothermic retro-DA reaction is
not clearly observed in the DSC thermograms due to overlapping
with the second exothermic peak.
Based on the DSC results discussed above, while curing the
mixture of TF and MMA-POSS at 150 C, a cross-linked
nanocomposite could be obtained through the Diels–Alder (DA)
reaction between the furan groups of TF and the methacrylate
groups of MMA-POSS. The obtained product is named as
MMA-POSS/TF-150. MMA-POSS/TF-150 could be further
thermally treated at 220 C. At this reaction temperature, the
linkages between MMA-POSS and TF (the DA adducts) might
break via the retro-DA reaction to regenerate the furan and
MMA groups.30,31 Meanwhile, MMA-POSS formed cross-linked
network via the radical polymerization of methacrylate groups of
MMA-POSS.29 The final product is coded as MMA-POSS/TF-
220. It was noteworthy that both MMA-POSS and TF are liquid
at room temperature. Therefore, the mixture of MMA-POSS/TF
could be processed with the ‘‘spinning-on to silicon’’ technique in
IC fabrication. The epoxy linkages in the TF molecular structure
also bring some characteristics of epoxy reins to the MMA-
POSS/TF-220 nanocomposite.
MMA-POSS/TF-220 is a hard and rigid solid due to its highly
cross-linked structure (Fig. 3a). The lamellar POSS structure in
MMA-POSS/TF-220 nanocomposite was observed with TEM
(Fig. 3b). The stripe pattern due to the layer structure in the TEM
micrograph indicates that MMA-POSS/TF-220 nanocomposite
has a multilayer structure.31 The dark regions are attributed to
the POSS-rich layers as the silicon elements of POSS has a higher
mass contrast than does carbon in the polymer-rich regions.28
The lamellar thicknesses of the POSS and polymer layers are of
about 150 and 30 nm, respectively. According to the power-law
relationship23 described in the Introduction section, the b factor
in eqn (1) should be close to 1.0 for the case of MMA-POSS/
TF-220. Therefore, the dielectric constant of MMA-POSS/TF-
220 nanocomposite would be close to the dielectric constant of
the POSS portion in the nanocomposites within high to medium
POSS contents. Three samples of MMA-POSS/TF-220 were
prepared. The average k value of the samples (3 tests for each
sample) is of about 1.48 with a stand derivation of 0.04. The k
Fig. 3 (a) Photograph and (b) TEM micrograph of MMA-POSS/TF-
220.
Fig. 4 (a)TGA thermogram of MMA-POSS and its nanocomposites
MMA-POSS/TF-150 and MMA-POSS/TF-220; (b) TMA thermogram
of nanocomposite MMA-POSS/TF-220.
This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2009 J. Mater. Chem., 2009, 19, 3643–3647 | 3645
14 G. D. Fu, Z. Yuan, E. T. Kang, K. G. Neoh, D. M. Lai and
A. C. H. Huan, Adv. Funct. Mater., 2005, 15, 315.
15 C. M. Leu, G. M. Reddy, K. H. Wei and C. F. Shu, Chem. Mater.,
2003, 15, 2261.
16 C. M. Leu, Y. T. Chang and K. H. Wei, Macromolecules, 2003, 36,
9122.
17 Y. Chen and E. T. Kang, Mater. Lett., 2004, 58, 3716.
18 Y. J. Lee, J. M. Huang, S. W. Kuo, J. S. Lu and F. C. Chang,Polymer,
2005, 46, 173.
19 Y. Chen, L. Chen, H. Nie and E. T. Kang, J. Appl. Polym. Sci., 2006,
99, 2226.
20 Y. S. Ye, W. Y. Chen and Y. Z. Wang, J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym.
Chem., 2006, 44, 5391.
21 G. Wu and Z. Su, Chem. Mater., 2006, 18, 3726.
22 Y. L. Liu, C. S. Liu, W. H. Chen, S. Y. Chen, K. S. Wang and
M. J. Hwu, J. Nanosci. Nanotechnol., 2009, 9, 1839.
23 M. G. Todd and F. G. Shi, IEEE Trans. Dielectrics and Electrical
Insulation, 2005, 12, 601.
24 Y. L. Liu and C. Y. Hsieh, J. Polym. Sci., Part A: Polym. Chem.,
2006, 44, 905.
25 A. Romo-Uribe, P. T. Mather, T. S. Haddad and J. D. Lichtenhan,
J. Polym. Sci., Part B: Polym. Phys., 1998, 36, 1857.
26 P. T. Mather, H. G. Jeon, A. Romo-Uribe, T. S. Haddad and
J. D. Lichtenhan, Macromolecules, 1999, 32, 1194.
27 L. Zheng, A. J. Waddon, R. J. Farris and E. B. Coughlin,
Macromolecules, 2002, 35, 2375.
28 L. Zheng, S. Hong, G. Cardoen, E. Burgaz, S. P. Gido and
E. B. Coughlin, Macromolecules, 2004, 37, 8606.
29 Y. L. Liu, M. C. Tseng and M. H. Fangchiang, J. Polym. Sci., Part A:
Polym. Chem., 2008, 46, 5157.
30 Y. L. Liu, C. Y. Hsieh and Y. W. Chen, Polymer, 2006, 47, 2581.
31 Y. L. Liu and Y. W. Chen, Macromol. Chem. Phys., 2007, 208, 224.
This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2009 J. Mater. Chem., 2009, 19, 3643–3647 | 3647
Multifunctional methylmethacrylate-POSS (MMA-POSS) pos-
sesses reactive methylmethacrylate groups which could undergo
thermo-induced radical self-polymerization and DielseAlder
addition reaction with diene groups [37,38]. The features make
MMA-POSS be a suitable reactive-additive for preparation of
polymer/POSS nanocomposites. In our previous work [38], poly-
mer/POSS nanocomposites have been prepared from MMA-POSS
(as a dienophile) and a tri-functional furan compound (as a diene)
through DielseAlder reaction. Thermally curing the nanocomposite
resulted in a highly cross-linked material, which showed
a surprisingly low dielectric constant of 1.47. In the present study,
furan-containing benzoxazine compounds have been utilized to
react with MMA-POSS for the preparation of low-k poly(benzox-
azine)/POSS nanocomposites. The morphologies and dielectric
constants of the poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites are
studied. POSS-rich domains could self-assemble into lamellar
structures in the poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites. The
POSS cages and their self-assembled lamellar structures result in
a reduction of dielectric constant to about 2.0. The low dielec-
tric constants of the prepared poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nano-
composites warrant their potential of applications for advanced
microelectronics electrical products.
2. Experimental
2.1. Materials
Furan-containing benzoxazine compounds, 3-furfuryl-3,4-
dihydro-2H-1,3-benzoxazine (Ph-FBz) and bis(3-furfuryl-3,4-dihy-
dro-2H-1,3-benzoxazinyl)isopropane (BPA-FBz), were prepared
according to the reported method [8]. Bismaleimide (BMI) was
purchased from Aldrich Chemical Co. Poly(benzoxazine) (PBz)
containing benzoxazine groups in the main chain has been
prepared in the Lab. using BPA-FBz and BMI asmonomers bymeans
of DielseAlder reaction. The preparation and characterization of
PBz polymer has been reported in our previous paper [14]. MMA-
POSS was purchased from Hybrid Plastics Co. (Fountain valley, CA).
Tetrahydrofuran (THF) from TEDIA Chem. Co. and 1-methyl-2-pyr-
rolidinone (NMP) from Aldrich Chemical Co. were used as received.
2.2. Characterization
Scanning electron micrographs (SEM) were obtained using
a Hitachi S-4800 ﬁeld-emission SEM. Transmission electron
micrographs were recorded using a Hitachi H-7500 TEM. Cross-
linked samples were encapsulated with epoxy resin and then the
samples were cured at 70 C for 24 h in a vacuum oven. The samples
were then microtoned (Leica Ultracut Uct) into slices with a thick-
ness of about 80 nm. The slices were then placed on 200-mesh
copper grids for TEM observation. Dielectric constants were
measured according to the method described below. The capaci-
tance of the ﬁlms (dried at 120 C under vacuum for 8 h prior to
measurements) was measured on a HewlettePackardmodel 4280A
material analyzer at a frequencyof 1MHz. Thedielectric constants of
the ﬁlms can be calculated from their capacitances and thicknesses.
Poly(tetraﬂuoroethylene) ﬁlm has been taken as a reference for
dielectric constant measurements. Refractive index was measured
with an Abbe 5 Refractometer (at 589 nm) from the Bellingham and
Stanley Company (UK). Thermal stability of samples was measured
with a thermogravimetric analyzer (TGA, Thermal Analysis TGA-
Q500) at a heating rate of 10 C/min in nitrogen. The glass transition
temperatures (Tg) of samples were measured with a dynamic
mechanical analyzer (DMA, Thermal Analysis DMA-Q800). The peak
temperature of the tan d plot was taken as Tg of the sample.
2.3. Preparation of poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites
Various series of poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites have
been prepared in this work using furan-containing benzoxazines
and MMA-POSS as precursors. The method and reactions for the
preparation of poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites are shown
in Table 1 and Fig. 1.
The method to prepare the nanocomposites of Ph-FBz and
MMA-POSS is described below. Ph-FBz and MMA-POSS in various
weight ratios were dissolved in THF (4.0 g in 20 mL). While the
solutes completely dissolved, the solutionwas poured into a Teﬂon-
coated stainless mold. The samplewas heated at 80 C for 30min to
remove the solvent. The residual was thermally cured at 160 C for
1 h, 180 C for 2 h, and 240 C for 2 h. In the curing process, Ph-FBz
and MMA-POSS polymerized by means of the ring-opening addi-
tion reaction of benzoxazine groups and the radical addition reac-
tion of methylmethacrylate groups, respectively. The obtained
products were coded as PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS-X, where X denotes
the weight fraction of MMA-POSS of the sample. Samples with
X¼ 0, 0.3, 0.5, and 0.7 have been prepared. Nanocomposites of BPA-
FBz and MMA-POSS have been prepared using the same method.
The products were coded as PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS-Y, where Y
denotes the weight fraction of MMA-POSS. Samples with Y ¼ 0, 0.3,
0.5, and 0.7 have been prepared.
Moreover, another series of poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nano-
composite samples have also been prepared using the same
precursors but different curing processes. First, the mixtures of
benzoxazine and MMA-POSS were left to react at 160 C for 36 h. In
this stage, Ph-FBz (or BPA-FBz) reacted with MMA-POSS through
DielseAlder (DA) reaction between the furan (diene) groups of
benzoxazines and the methylmethacrylate (dienophile) groups of
MMA-POSS. After the DA reaction, the products were not taken out
and were further cured at 180 C for 2 h and 240 C for another 2 h.
At this stage, DA adducts of Ph-FBZ (or BPA-FBz) and MMA-POSS
might break down to regenerate furan and methylmethacrylate
groups through retro-DA reaction. Meanwhile, polymerization of
benzoxazine and methylmethacrylate groups carried out to result
in highly cross-linked samples. A preﬁx “DA-” has been added to
code the nanocomposites prepared with this DA reaction method.
Table 1
Methods and reactions for preparation of poly(benzoxazine)/MMA-POSS nanocomposites.
Nanocomposite samples Preparation method Reactions
PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS or
PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS
Co-curing Ph-FBz (or BPA-FBz) and MMA-POSS at 160 C
for 1 h, 180 C for 2 h, and 240 C for 2 h.
Ring-opening addition reaction of benzoxazine ring of Ph-FBz (or BPA-FBz);
Radical polymerization of MMA groups of MMA-POSS.
DA-PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS or
DA-PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS
DielseAlder (DA) reaction between Ph-FBz (or BPA-FBz)
and MMA-POSS at 160 C for 36 h; Further curing the
DA adducts at 180 C for 2 h and 240 C for another 2 h.
DielseAlder (DA) reaction between Ph-FBz (or BPA-FBz) and MMA-POSS to
result in DA adduct; Ring-opening addition reaction of benzoxazine ring of
BPA-FBz; Radical polymerization of MMA groups of MMA-POSS.
PPBz/MMA-POSS Co-curing PBz and MMA-POSS at 160 C for 1 h, 180 C
for 2 h, and 240 C for 2 h.
Ring-opening addition reaction of benzoxazine ring of BPA-FBz; Addition
polymerization of maleimide groups; Radical polymerization of MMA groups
of MMA-POSS.
M.-C. Tseng, Y.-L. Liu / Polymer 51 (2010) 5567e55755568
3. Results and discussion
3.1. Morphology and dielectric constants of poly(benzoxazine)/POSS
nanocomposites
Poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites have been prepared
using furan-containing benzoxazines (Ph-FBz and BPA-FBz) and
MMA-POSS as precursors (Table 1, Fig. 1). Both benzoxazine
compounds and MMA-POSS could undergo thermally induced
cross-linking reactions. Fig. 2 shows the DSC thermogram of the
mixture of Ph-FBz/MMA-POSS. Only one exothermic peak appears
in the thermogram. Hence, thermo-polymerizations of benzox-
azine and MMA-POSS could simultaneously carry out in the
temperatures of about 200e240 C. Cross-linked poly(benzox-
azine)/POSS nanocomposites have been obtained from thermally
curing the mixtures of the precursors.
Fig. 3 shows the photographs of poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nano-
composites. All samples are highly transparent. As a result, macro-
phase separations do not occur between the poly(benzoxazine) and
POSS domains of the nanocomposites. Neat poly(benzoxazines)s
shows deep brown color. The colors of the poly(benzoxazine)/POSS
nanocomposites are relatively light. Addition of MMA-POSS to poly
(benzoxazines)s lightens their colors, as the color of neat MMA-
POSS-based resin is light yellow [37]. Moreover, cracks do not
happen to the nanocomposites containing MMA-POSS as high as
70 wt%, indicating their acceptable mechanical property.
The morphologies of the nanocomposites have been ﬁrst
investigated using SEM (Fig. 4). For poly(benzoxazine)/POSS
nanocomposites, the POSS-rich domains has higher hardness
compared to that of the polymer-rich domains. Hence, the POSS-
rich domains display bright areas in the SEM micrographs of poly
(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites [29,33,36,38,39]. POSS-rich
phases (the relatively bright areas) in various sizes and shapes
appear in the SEM micrographs of PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS nano-
composites. The POSS-rich phases of PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.3 are in
round shapes and in sizes of about 60e80 nm. They homoge-
neously disperse in polymer-rich matrix without gathering
together. The portions of the POSS-rich domains increase with
increasing the MMA-POSS contents of the nanocomposites. While
the nanocomposite contains 70 wt% of MMA-POSS, the POSS-rich
phases become the major matrix of the nanocomposite. As it can be
seen in the SEM image of PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.7, the POSS-rich
phases form pillar-like structures with somewhat regularity. The
SEM micrographs of PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS samples are also shown
in Fig. 4. Pristine PBPA-FBz shows a dense and homogeneous
structure. POSS-rich phases appear in the SEM images of PBPA-FBz/
MMA-POSS nanocomposites. The fractions and sizes of the POSS-
rich domains increase with increasing the MMA-POSS contents of
the nanocomposites. Like PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.7, the POSS-rich
domains become the major matrix of PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.7.
Nevertheless, the dispersion patterns of the POSS-rich domains in
PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS samples are different fromwhat in PPh-FBz/
MMA-POSS nanocomposites. PBPA-FBz has higher cross-linking
density compared to PPh-FBz [8]. As a result, PBPA-FBz is relatively
rigid. The rigid structure of PBPA-FBz depresses POSS agglomera-
tion in the preparation process of the PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS nano-
composites. As a result, the POSS-rich domains in PBPA-FBz/
MMA-POSS nanocomposites are relatively small and hazy.
Fig. 5 shows the dielectric constants of the samples measured at
1 MHz and 25 C. The dielectric constants of PPh-FBz and PBPA-FBz
are 3.2 and 3.4, respectively. The dielectric constants are close to the
values reported in our previous paper [8]. Formation of nano-
composites with MMA-POSS results in a reduction of the dielectric
constants of PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.7 andPBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.7
to be 2.4 and 2.3, respectively. Loading of MMA-POSS to poly(ben-
zoxazine)s also reduces their refractive index from 1.58 to 1.51. The
dielectric constants are comparable to the values reported to highly
ﬂuorinated poly(benzoxazine)s [16e19]. The reduction in the
dielectric constants of the poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites
has been attributed to the presence of air captured in the POSS cages.
Themore POSS fraction the nanocomposite has, the lower dielectric
constant it displays.
Some papers on poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites have
been reported [33e36]. Nevertheless, the dielectric constants of
the prepared poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites were not
studied and reported in the papers because of the low POSS
contents (below 10 wt%) of the nanocomposites [33e35]. Liu and
Zheng [36] prepared poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocompositesFig. 2. DSC thermogram of Ph-FBz/MMA-POSS mixture.
Fig. 3. Photographs of poly(benzoxazine)/MMA-POSS nanocomposites. The fractions
of MMA-POSS of the nanocomposites are (a) 0, (b) 0.3, (c) 0.5, (d) 0.7, and (e) 1.0.
M.-C. Tseng, Y.-L. Liu / Polymer 51 (2010) 5567e55755570
shape effect of inorganic ﬁllers on the dielectric constants of
composite materials could be described with the power-law rela-
tionship [40]:
kcb ¼ 4kb1 þ ð1 4Þkb2 (1)
where kc, k1, and k2 are the dielectric constants of the nano-
composite, inorganic ﬁller, and polymer matrix respectively, 4 is
the volume fraction of inorganic ﬁller and b is a parameter repre-
senting the shape and orientation of the inorganic ﬁller.
b approaches to 1.0 for the cases of the inorganic ﬁller orienting
perpendicular to the applied electrical ﬁeld [40]. In this case Eq. (1)
becomes
1=kc ¼ 4=k1 þ ð1 4Þ=k2 (2)
BasingonEq. (2), orientationof POSS into lamellar layers,which is
perpendicular to the applied electrical ﬁeld, would result in the
dielectric constant of nanocomposite (kc) being close to the dielectric
constant of POSS ﬁller (k1, which is much lower than k2) over a wide
range of POSS fraction (4). Hence, with low POSS contents, orienta-
tion of POSS into lamellar layers could further reduce the dielectric
constants of the POSS/polymer nanocomposites.
The dielectric constants of PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.7 and PBPA-
FBz/MMA-POSS-0.7 are 2.4 and 2.3, respectively. Nevertheless, the
values are higher than the dielectric constants of MMA-POSS
polymer (TP-MMA-POSS, 1.85) [37] and MMA-POSS/tri-furan
nanocomposites (MMA-POSS/TF, 1.47) [41]. The ultra-low-k values
of TP-MMA-POSS and MMA-POSS/TF have been attributed to the
lamellar structures of POSS-rich domains oriented in the nano-
composites [37,41]. However, orientation and lamellar structures of
POSS-rich domains are not observed in the TEM micrographs of
PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.7 and PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.7, as shown
in Fig. 6.
Basing on the above discussion, the curing process for
the preparation of poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites have
been modiﬁed to introduce POSS orientation and lamellar
structures to the obtained nanocomposites. The mixtures of
benzoxazine (Ph-FBz or BPA-FBz) and MMA-POSS were ﬁrst to
react at 160 C for 36 h. In this stage of reaction, benzoxazine
reacted with MMA-POSS through the DielseAlder reaction
between the furan groups of benzoxazine compounds and the
methylmethacrylate groups of MMA-POSS [41]. Treatments of the
DA product at higher temperatures carry out the polymerization
of benzoxazines and MMA-POSS to result in highly cross-linked
nanocomposite samples [14,41]. As it can be seen in Fig. 6,
Fig. 5. Dielectric constants of poly(benzoxazine)/MMA-POSS nanocomposites.
Fig. 6. TEM micrographs (50 k) of poly(benzoxazine)/MMA-POSS-0.7 nanocomposites. The samples were prepared with different curing processes.
M.-C. Tseng, Y.-L. Liu / Polymer 51 (2010) 5567e55755572
The dielectric constants of PPBz/MMA-POSS nanocomposites
are collected in Fig. 5. Incorporation of MMA-POSS signiﬁcantly
reduces the dielectric constants of PPBz. PPBz/MMA-POSS-0.3 to
a dielectric constant of 2.2, which is lower than the values found for
PPh-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.3 (2.8) and PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.3 (3.0).
Among the nanocomposite samples having the same fractions of
MMA-POSS, PPBz/MMA-POSS has displayed the lowest dielectric
constants. Moreover, the dielectric constant of PPBz/MMA-POSS-
0.5 is 2.0, which is comparable to the k values of DA-Ph-FBz/MMA-
POSS-0.5 and DA-PBPA-FBz/MMA-POSS-0.5. The low-k value
implies that PPBz/MMA-POSS-0.5 might possess POSS orientation
and lamellar structures. This has been examined with TEM obser-
vation. Fig. 8 shows the TEM images of PPBz/MMA-POSS nano-
composites. Neat PPBz resin exhibits a dense and homogeneous
structure. Nevertheless, lamellar structures of POSS orientation
have been observed for PPBz/MMA-POSS-0.15, PPBz/MMA-POSS-
0.3, and PPBz/MMA-POSS-0.5. However, the lamellar structures of
the three samples are different. The amount of MMA-POSS has
a signiﬁcant effect on POSS orientation.
The lamellar structures in PPBz/MMA-POSS samples are
worthy of notice. We have prepared the nanocomposites of pol-
yimide and MMA-POSS and not observed POSS orientation in the
nanocomposites [37]. The strong interactions between polyimide
chains prevent POSS orientation and push POSS moving together.
Loading too much MMA-POSS to polyimide makes POSS gathering
together to result in phase-separation. Nevertheless, in this work
PBz chains act a different role in formation of PPBz/MMA-POSS
nanocomposites. PBz chains break down under heat through
retro-DA reaction to generate furan and maleimide groups. The
furan groups could react toward methylmethacrylate groups of
MMA-POSS by means of DielseAlder reaction. The maleimide
groups could copolymerize with methylmethacrylate groups by
means of radical addition reaction. These reactions establish
chemical linkages between PPBz and MMA-POSS networks. As
a result, the chemical linkages increase the compatibility of the
polymer and POSS domains, consequently contributing to POSS
orientation.
Self-assembled structures from POSS-containing block copoly-
mers have been studied [42,43]. The polymer-rich and POSS-rich
domains in the self-assembled structures have different etching
characteristics, and the materials could be applied to the prepara-
tion of nano-structured silica [44]. The materials reported in this
work could have potentials of application in this issue, as they show
self-assembled long-range order [42]. The lamellar structures
should not be negative characteristics to PPBz/MMA-POSS nano-
composites for their application in lithographic patterning, as the
lamellae are parallel to the surface of the nanocomposite ﬁlms. On
the other hand, the POSS-rich domain sizes (30e50 nm) might
bring some limit to the applications of PPBz/MMA-POSS nano-
composites to silicon-base integrated circuits (ICs). The low-k PPBz/
MMA-POSS nanocomposites still have potential use as encapsu-
lants of ICs, interlayer of printed circuit boards, and structural
materials for electronics.
3.4. Thermal properties of poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nanocomposites
The thermal properties of some poly(benzoxazine)/POSS nano-
composites havebeen studied. Thermally curedMMA-POSSdisplays
5%weight loss at about 340 C (Td5, measuredwith TGA at a heating
rate of 10 C/min under nitrogen) [37]. The Td5 of PPh-FBz and PBPA-
FBz are 336 and 347 C, respectively [8]. Hence, addition of MMA-
POSS to poly(benzoxazine)s should not reduce their thermal
Fig. 8. TEM micrographs (10 k) of PPBz/MMA-POSS nanocomposites.
M.-C. Tseng, Y.-L. Liu / Polymer 51 (2010) 5567e55755574

2 
 
過許多學者的研究努力，因為越來越多的新穎高分子薄膜材料超越了 upper 
bound，其後有 2007年的修正 upper bound，而近幾年來，thermal-rearrangement 
polymers、mixed-matrix polymers、以及 polymers with inherent porosity等的
研究，也都大舉突破了 upper bound。薄膜氣體分離技術因為與節能省碳中的
氫氣生產與二氧化碳分離捕捉之技術息息相關，期研究近年來又日益受到重
視；J. E. McGrath教授主講「Structure-property relationships of ion containing 
prorotn exchange membranes」，主要是氫氣燃料電池的關鍵材料，McGrath教
授是這方面研究的大家，他從水的狀態以及 morphology來解析 proton 
conducting membrane的結構與效能的關聯，對此方面研究的分子設計很有助
益，McGrath教授的研究主要由兩性共聚合高分子的微相分離來調控高分子
薄膜的 morphology，而往的研究則主要利用奈米粒子的存在來調控高分子膜
的微相分離行為，都是希望在薄膜中形成容易導通質子的離子通道，他並提
出透水區域與水透過係數的觀念，強調水得透過和質子傳導有直接的關聯。
22日下午主要參加 ACS Award in Polymer Chemistry: Winner Honor 
Symposium，演講者也都是重要的研究學者。日本京都大學的M. Sawamoto
教授主講「Precision polymer synthesis by metal-mediated living radical 
polymerization」，找要為他利用過度金屬觸媒進行的類似原子轉移自由基聚
合反應的研究，有與Majewski教授互別苗頭之意味，他在演講中談到了他
的系統的許多好處，特別是精準聚合物的合成，比起原子轉移自由基聚合法
更方便有效，我雖讀過他 2001年與 2007分別發表在 Chemical Review上的
文章，但此次聽講始對他的系統有更進一步的了解，演講中他也提到他與此
次獲獎者 T.P. Lodge教授超過三十年的交誼，國際上的學者自年輕時即互相
交流合作，隨歲月的成長都成為國際知名重要的研究學者，是值得學習的地
方；M.A. Hillmayer教授主講「Polylactide block copolymers for templating and 
toughening」，polylactide是我及有興趣切入的高分子材料，特別是和目前所
研究的碳奈米管和碳簇材料得混成結合，Hillmayer教授得氧講內容給了我一
些觀此此高分子材料在應用和性質上的啟發；得獎人 T.P. Lodge教授主講
「Block polymer micelles」，雖然與我的研究無直接相關，但演講中得知 Lodge
教授大學讀的是數學，其後一質進行高分子物理相關的研究，近幾年來因為
研究自組裝和型態學的需要，也跨如高分子合成領域進行精準合成的研究，
我發現高分子物理學者往高分子化學跨界的情形很普遍，但我學高分子化學
者，卻自我設限不去探討自己所合成出來的特殊的高分子的一些應該會有趣
的物理現象，並以所學不多和儀器分析受限來自我設限和逃避，似乎不太
對。 
23日上午在會場碰到台灣大學化工系的邱文英教授和材料系的趙基揚教授，並
在coffee break以及中午用餐時間一起談話，也由趙教授的引介認識美國Penn. 
State U.的 Q. Wang教授，Wang教授主要從事高分子電解質和高介電材料的
研究，年紀輕輕，研究成績相當突出。23日聽到的幾場有興趣或是有趣的演
4 
 
側鏈上，Takeichi教授的研究重點則在於性質突破，以共聚合和混成的方法
期待突破 benzoxazine高分子在玻璃轉移溫度以及 brittleness上的限制。我的
發表安排於 24日上午，除了對自己的 benzoxazine高分子的研究論文作一簡
單的回顧介紹外，也發表最近在表現超低介電值的 benzoxazine高分子上的
研究成果。此一論文最主要的成果為達到 2.0的低介電常數，且此低介電常
數是利用奈米添加物的自組裝而達成，可廣泛應用於多樣的 benzoxazine高
分子系統且無需合成新的 benzoxazine單體。中午休息時間，此次會議的兩
個贊助廠商的與會人員都來與我討論，Huntman公司的全球科技研發主任 P/ 
Michaud與我約定他將指示上海研發部的人員與我聯繫，而 Henkel公司的技
術主任 Helen W. Li博士與我在傍晚進一步討論後，邀請於我會議結束後到
他公司參觀，可惜我回程時間已排定，也挪不出時間，只好萬謝並約定回台
灣後再以網路會議的方式聯繫。其他我覺得比較感興的研究論文發表包括：
英國 I. Hammerton教授對商業化的幾種 benzoxazine單體進行性質分析，我
也從中認知到 Huntsman公司對商業化 benzoxazine高分子的高度企圖，而晚
餐時四川大學的Y. Gu教授也提到他在四川有一個benzoxazine單體的工廠，
主要供貨給大陸的煞車系統廠，他也在 25日的演講中報告了此一工廠的情
形。日本積水化學公司的M. Nakamura討論了一種基於 benzoxazine反應化
學所開發出來的新熱固性樹脂單體，並對此單體的合成、性質、儲存、運送
等各方面都作了詳細的研究，日本公司研發態度之嚴謹與仔細，不得教人不
佩服。中興大學的林慶炫教授的博士生張慶隆所發表的「synthesis of 
benzoxazines based on aromatic diamines」，式麟教授自行開發出來的新穎
benzoxazine單體的合成法，並特別適用於合成 aromatic diamine的
benzoxazine，也相當有應用的潛力。Huntsman公司的 Y. Li發表該公司關於
商業化生產 benzoxazine單體的情況，並期待與與會的人都有進一步的合作，
以期將 benzoxazine材料的應用潛力和能力再往上提升。韓國 Sansung公司
的 S.W. Choi則介紹了該公司將 benzoxazine高分子與 polybenzoimidazole高
分子結合開發高溫型質子交換膜燃料電池的成果，並分別對 proton exchange 
membrane、electrodese以及雙極版都有深入的研究，他提及 Sansung公司的
燃料電池中心共有數十位博士級研究人員，已能量產 benzoxazine/PBI質子交
換模以及燃料電池系統。泰國的 S. Chirachanchai教授則從化學的觀點討論他
在 benzoxazine dimer以及 supermolecules上面的研究成果，基礎研究的解析
非常清楚透徹而深入。韓國的 H. Kim教授則討論製作 benzoxazine高分子的
纖維的可能性，他的演講內容雖未有令人意外的成果，但也激發了我對自己
的高分子系統延伸於奈米先為的想法。 
Ishida教授和贊助廠商於 24日晚間邀請所有與會的演講人餐敘，非常熱絡，我
也和四川大學的Gu教授以及日本豐橋大學的Takeichi教授約定訪問的計畫。
兩天的會議中也遇成功大學畢業後留美工作的陳渙林博士，他現在在康乃狄
克州，主要從事礦冶用特用高分子的研究；25日中午休息時間則遇到參加
無研發成果推廣資料 
國外 論文著作 期刊論文 5 6 100% 篇 
1. Y.L. Liu* , C.S. Liu, 
C.I. Cho, M.J. Hwu. 
(2007)＇Polyhedral 
oligomeric 
silsequioxane (POSS) 
monolayer as a 
nanoporous interlayer 
for preparation of low-k 
dielectric films＇, 
Nanotechnology 18(22), 
225701. [SCI, IF=3.137]
2. Y.L. Liu*, M.C. Tseng, 
M.H. Fanchiang 
(2008) ＇Polymerization 
and nanocomposites
properties of 
multi-functional 
methylmethacrylate 
POSS＇, J. Polym. Sci. 
Part A: Polym. Chem. 
46(16), 5157-5166. [SCI, 
IF=3.971] 
3. Y.L. Liu*, C.S. Liu, 
W.H. Chen, S.Y. Chen, 
K.S. Wang, M.J. Hwu 
(2009) ＇Ultra-low-k 
thin films of polyhedral 
oligometric 
silsesquioxane 
nanocomposites via 
covalent layer-by-layer 
assembly＇, J. Nanosci. 
Nanotechnol. 
9(3),1839-1843. [SCI, 
IF=1.453] 
4. Y.L. Liu*, M.H. 
Fanchiang 
(2009) ＇Polyhedral 
oligomeric 
silsesquioxane 
nanocomposites 
exhibiting ultra-low 
dielectric constants 
through POSS orientation 
into lamellar 
structures＇, J. Mater. 
Chem. 19(22), 3643-3647. 
[SCI, IF=4.795] 
5. M.C. Tseng, Y.L. Liu* 
(2010) ＇Preparation, 
morphology, and 
ultra-low dielectric 
t t f
 
