central auditory cortex. It consists of two computational 
modules which transform the time waveform into an 
auditory spectrogram (a time-logarithmic frequency pattern 
of the auditory nerve activity), then into a scale-rate 
representation (a pattern of the cortical neural activity).  
The first module mimics observed functions of the 
peripheral auditory processing. As shown in the Figure 2 of 
[4], this module is implemented by a bank of 128 
overlapping asymmetric constant-Q bandpass filters equally 
spaced on the log-frequency axis covering a total of 5.3 
octaves (which simulates the frequency selectivity of the 
cochlea), followed by a non-linear compression and a lateral 
inhibitory network (which are pertaining to well-known 
psycho-acoustical properties of amplitude compression and 
frequency masking), and ended with an envelope extractor 
(which simulates the further leakage of current and the 
reduced temporal sensitivity of the auditory nerve). In this 
study, we use a simplified linear version of this module. The 
output of this first module represents a time-frequency 
energy distribution along a log-frequency axis, in a very 
rough sense similar to the traditional spectrogram plotted 
along the bark or mel scale. 
The second module mimics the spectro-temporal 
selectivity of neurons in the primary auditory cortex (A1). 
Briefly, the output of the previous module, the auditory 
spectrogram, is then analyzed by a family of neurons which 
are modeled by two-dimensional filters tuned to different 
spectro-temporal modulation parameters. One of the 
parameter is referred to as scale or density (in cycle/octave), 
which defines how broad the signal energy distributed along 
the log. frequency axis. Another parameters is called rate or 
velocity (in hertz), which defines how fast the signal energy 
varies along the temporal axis. In addition to the scale and 
rate, directional selectivity for FM sweep of cortical neurons 
is also encoded in this module and is represented by the sign 
of the rate (negative for upward sweeping; positive for 
downward sweeping). In other words, this module performs 
a joint spectro-temporal multi-resolution analysis on the 
input auditory spectrogram. Fig.1. demonstrates the multi-
resolution analysis by eight neurons which tune to different 
combinations of scale and rate. The top panel shows the 
input auditory spectrogram from the first module. The eight 
larger panels at the bottom are the outputs of the cortical 
neurons, whose impulse responses are depicted in the eight 
smaller panels respectively. We then compute the average 
excited power of each neuron by collapsing its two-
dimensional output into a single value. Such diagram of 
average excited power, labeled by each neuron’s {scale, rate} 
tuning characteristic, is referred to as the scale-rate 
representation. Much more extensive details of the 
description, mathematic formulation and output examples of 
the model can be found in [4].  
 
3. PERCEPTUAL PARAMETERS AND SPEECH 
QUALITY ASSESSMENT 
Fr
eq
ue
nc
y 
(H
z)
Time (ms)
Auditory Spectrogram
100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 1000
 125
 250
 500
1000
2000
Multiresolution Cortical Filters and Outputs
Upward Downward
Slow  Rate
Coarse Scale
Slow  Rate
Fine Scale
Fast Rate
Coarse Scale
Fast Rate
Fine Scale
Slow  Rate
Coarse Scale
Slow  Rate
Fine Scale
Fast Rate
Coarse Scale
Fast Rate
Fine Scale
 
Fig. 1. Multi-resolution analysis by the auditory cortex. 
 
The scale-rate representation mentioned in section 2 has 
been used to quantify the speech intelligibility with great 
success [5][6]. In this paper, we extend the measurement to 
assess another two important percepts: clarity and 
naturalness, and combine three percepts to estimate the 
speech quality. 
 
3.1. Intelligibility 
 
Intelligibility is defined by the ISO 9921 standard as a 
measure of effectiveness of understanding speech. 
Generally speaking, intelligibility refers to “what” a speaker 
has said, while speech quality refers to “how” an utterance 
was spoke. Usually, unintelligible speech is judged to be 
low quality, however, the converse needs not to be true. 
We have shown that the spectro-temporal modulations 
between 4~8 Hz in rate and < 4 cycle/octave in scale are 
dominated in speech signals [6]. These very slow temporal 
modulations reflect the speed of the articulatory motions, 
and hence the phonetic and syllabic rates of speech [4]. 
Therefore, these slow temporal modulations are critical for 
speech intelligibility (or speech recognition) as suggested in 
[8]. We have further shown that speech reconstructed from 
scale-rate modulations up to 32 Hz and 4 cycle/octave does 
not suffer from loss of intelligibility [4]. To sum up, the 
modulations below 32 Hz in rate and 4cycle/octave in scale 
are measured to quantify the speech intelligibility in this 
paper. 
 
3.2. Clarity 
 
Although reconstructed speech from only low rate and low 
scale modulations well preserves speech intelligibility [4], 
listeners often report a “dull” sensation. On the other hand, 
original speech with full ranges of modulations gives a 
relatively “bright” sensation. Therefore, we assume that 
modulations of high rates and high scales, which provide 
more fine structures of the speech [4], would enhance 
speech clarity. Here, we use joint spectro-temporal 
modulations (32~128 Hz; 2~8 cycle/octave) to measure the  
 2
0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
PESQ__MOS
S
TM
I  
ρ
Intelligibility and Clarity as functions of estimated MOS 
Intelligibility
Naturalness
0 dB
10 dB
15 dB
30 dB 45 dB
 
Fig. 4. Intelligibility and clarity as functions of estimated 
MOS by PESQ under AWGN conditions. 
 
MOS by PESQ. It shows the intelligibility and clarity 
saturate around MOS:2.5 and MOS:3.5, respectively. These 
results clearly show the intelligibility and clarity are only 
partial aspect of speech quality. Moreover, these results are 
consistent with our informal listening tests that sentences 
with PESQ_MOS: 2.5 are all intelligible (recognizable), and 
are with higher and higher clarity when PESQ_MOS 
increasing to 4.5. The ρ does not approach to the unity in 
Fig. 4 due to the fact that we use a generic template (i.e., 
template and testing speech are not from the same speaker). 
See [5] for more discussions on using a generic template. 
 The long-term template of naturalness (128~512 Hz; 
0.25~8 cyc/oct) of a speaker is generated by averaging his 
speech samples. From our observations, all long-term 
templates of naturalness are alike among different speakers 
except the shift on the rate axis due to different pitches. The 
ρ of three percepts: intelligibility, clarity and naturalness are 
each mapped through a sigmoid function and then are 
combined by using a multiple linear regression to estimate 
the subjective MOS. Our speech quality estimate is referred 
to as PB_MOS (Perception-Based estimate of MOS). 
Speech samples in Exp. I of the ITU-T Supp. 23 database 
are processed by cascades of various kinds of codecs 
including G.729, G.726, G.728, GSM-FR, IS-54, and JDC-
HR. The correlation coefficients between our PB_MOS and 
the subjective MOS are given in Table 1. The results show 
that our algorithm has a comparable performance as the 
P.563 in estimating MOS of the codec-distorted speech. 
This work is now further extended to account for frame 
drop distortions as in Exp. III of the ITU-T Supp. 23 
database. 
 
5. CONCLUSIONS 
 
An objective speech quality assessment based on three 
percepts is proposed and shown to perform comparably to 
P.563 in estimating MOS of the codec-distorted speech. We 
show pitch distortions are the most significant degradations 
produced by speech codecs and are well captured by our 
defined “naturalness” percept, which weights the most in 
this work in estimating subjective MOS. This work 
demonstrates high rate (>100 Hz) temporal modulations are   
 P.563 PB_MOS 
Female 1 0.742 0.683 
Female 2 0.759 0.780 
Male 1 0.769 0.849 
Male 2 0.810 0.840 
Average 0.770 0.788 
Table 1. Correlation coefficient between estimated MOS 
and subjective MOS. 
 
highly correlated with quality of codec-distorted speech. 
 
6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 
 
This research is partially supported by the National Science 
Council, Taiwan and partially by the Chunghwa Telecom 
Co., Ltd. with contract R977047. 
 
7. REFERENCES 
 
[1] “Perceptual evaluation of speech quality (PESQ), an objective 
method for end-to-end speech quality assessment of narrow-band 
telephone networks and speech codecs,” ITU-T Recommendation 
P.862, 2001. 
[2] A.W. Rix, J.G. Beerends, D.-S. Kim, P. Kroon and O. Ghitza, 
“Objective assessment of speech and audio quality-Technology 
and applications,” IEEE Trans. Audio, Speech and Lang. Process., 
vol. 14, no.6, pp.1890-1901, 2006. 
[3] “Single Ended Method for Objective Speech Quality 
Assessment in Narrow-Band Telephony Applications,” ITU-T 
Recommendation P.563, 2004. 
[4] T. Chi, P. Ru, and S.A. Shamma, “Multi-resolution spectro-
temporal analysis of complex sounds,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol. 
118, no. 2, pp. 887-906, 2005. 
[5] M. Elhilali, T. Chi, and S.A. Shamma, “A spectro-temporal 
modulation index for assessment of speech intelligibility,” Speech 
Communication, vol. 41, no. 2-3, pp.331-348, 2003. 
[6] T. Chi, Y. Gao, C.G. Guyton, P. Ru, and S. Shamma, “Spectro-
temporal modulation transfer functions and speech intelligibility,” 
J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol. 106, no. 5, pp.2719-2732, 1999. 
[7] “ITU-T coded-speech database,” 1998, Supp. 23 to P 
series rec., ITU-T. 
[8] R. Drullman, J. Festen, and R. Rlomp, “Effect of envelope 
smearing on speech reception,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am. vol. 95, 
pp.1053–1064, 1994. 
[9] D.-S. Kim, “ANIQUE: An auditory model for single-ended 
speech quality estimation,” IEEE Trans. Speech Audio Process., 
vol. 13, no.5, pp.821-831, 2005. 
[10] W.M. Parrish, “The concept of naturalness,” Quarterly 
Journal of Speech, vol. 37, pp.448-450, 1951. 
[11] W. Sanders, C. Gramlich and A. Levine, “The sensitivity of 
LPC synthesized speech quality to the imposition of artificial pitch, 
duration, loudness, and spectral contours,” J. Acoust. Soc. Am., vol. 
64, no. S1, pp.S159, 1978. 
[12] A. Ratcliff, S. Coughlin, and M. Lehman, “Factors 
influencing ratings of speech naturalness in augmentative and 
alternative communication,” Augmentative and Alternative 
Communication, vol. 18, no.1, pp.11-19, Mar. 2002.  
 4
2009 ARO (Association for Research in Otolaryngology) MidWinter Research 
Meeting 
 
冀泰石 (Tai-Shih Chi) 
國立交通大學電信工程系 
（一）主要任務 
The 2009 ARO Mid-Winter Research Meeting was held from Feb. 14 to Feb. 19 
at Baltimore, Maryland, USA. There were more than thousands of researchers around 
the world attending this annual meeting and demonstrating about one thousand of 
lectures and posters. This ARO annual meeting covers the research areas of 
biophysics, bio-chemistry, psycho-physics, psycho-acoustics and neuro-physiology of 
the auditory system of the normal hearing or the hearing impaired people. This 
meeting provides a good chance for me to have contacts with famous international 
researchers, learn their newest researches and developments, exchange ideas and 
explore possibilities for future international collaborations. The outcomes of me 
attending this research meeting will definitely provide insights in my current or future 
researches, especially in the development of the next generation hearing aids, which is 
one of my current projects collaborating with other EE professors in Taiwan. 
（二）學術交流及與會經過 
(1) The most important gain from this meeting is to establish contacts with 
international researchers and familiar with their newest researches. For 
example, the Symposium “Importance of Temporal vs Spectral Fine 
Structure for Pitch and Speech” in the second day presented many insightful 
ideas to my current research on speech quality. Bob Shannon introduced 
three ranges of temporal envelopes well perceived by cochlear implants in 
the first introductory lecture of the symposium: (1) 2~20 Hz for speech 
prosody and rhythm; (2) 20~50 Hz for envelope fluctuations; (3) 50~500 Hz 
for periodicity pitch. These ranges are consistent with our defined temporal 
modulations conveying three percepts, intelligibility, clarity and naturalness, 
for speech quality. Bob Carlyon further indicated that pitch coding in 
normal hearing people is dominated by resolved harmonics while people 
with cochlear hearing loss have poor reception of the fine structure, hence, 
impair the temporal integration and the perceived speech quality. Fan-Gang 
Zeng echoed Bob Shannon with further definition of the “fine structure” as 
500~10000 Hz temporal components. He suggested envelopes (5~50 Hz) 
convey intelligibility and fine structures convey auditory “object” sensation. 
These lectures support our ideas of investigating speech quality from 
different regions of temporal envelopes which convey different sensations. 
