  — 2 — 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫精簡報告  
無線感測網路中設計有效率的熱點儲存管理策略  
計畫編號：NSC 97-2221-E-036-037 
執行期限：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
計畫主持人：廖文華  大同大學 資訊經營學系 
計畫參與人員: 劉蓁、楊鴻鈞、黃志堅  大同大學 資訊經營學系 
 
(一) 中文摘要 
無線感測網路是由一些 sink以及大量感測器密
集的散佈在要感測的環境中，感測器網路最主要
的問題是如何有效率地存取大量的資料。有許多
的 data-centric 用以儲存及取得資料儲存的機制被
提出，但是由於不均勻的感測器分佈與資料分
散，產生熱點的問題，而使得這些方法沒辦法有
效率地執行。在本計畫中，我們提出有效率的熱
點存取管理機制解決有關熱點的儲存問題。我們
的方法包含了掩飾手段多重標準的機制；掩飾手
段是指當一個儲存點空間用完時，能夠動態的調
整儲存至其他的儲存點，與多重標準機制合併使
用，更能夠將資料分散儲存至其他的儲存點，使
得感測器節點能夠負載均衡。實驗數據顯示我們
的熱點儲存機制在無線感測網路中，能夠減少電
力消耗、增加資料量，並且避免因為量的資料熱
點儲存的問題。 
 
 (二) 英文摘要 
A wireless sensor network is composed of a few 
sink nodes and a large number of sensor nodes that 
are densely deployed in a sensing environment. One 
critical problem in sensor networks is how to make 
the effective use of the vast amount of data by 
providing sensor and sink nodes with efficient data 
storing and retrieving, respectively. Several 
data-centric storage techniques had been proposed to 
exploit data storing and retrieving, but all of them 
failed to effectively deal with hotspot storage due to 
irregular sensor deployments or data distribution. In 
this project, we propose effective hotspot storage 
management schemes to solve the hotspot storage 
problem. Our schemes include the cover-up and 
multi-threshold mechanisms. The cover-up 
mechanism can adjust to another storage node 
dynamically when a storage node is full, while the 
multi-threshold mechanism can spread the data into 
several storage nodes for load balancing of the sensor 
nodes. Simulations have shown that our hotspot 
storage management schemes can reduce the energy 
consumption, increase the quality of data, and avoid 
the hotspot storage in the presence of a vast number 
of data in wireless sensor networks. 
 
(三) 簡介 
A typical sensor network consists of a large 
number of tiny sensors which are stationary and 
deployed randomly [1][3][4]. However, a sensor 
node has limited resources since it runs on battery 
power and usually has a very small memory. In 
typical sensor network applications, sensors are 
deployed to monitor one or more phenomena in an 
unattended environment such as disaster management, 
habitat monitoring, industrial process control, object 
tracking, etc. A vast number of the event data will be 
generated for a long sensing time in a wireless sensor 
network. Hence, it is crucial to effectively use of the 
vast amount of data by providing sensor and sink 
nodes with efficient data storing and retrieving, 
respectively. 
Both energy efficiency and load balancing of 
storage are critical considerations in the design of 
wireless sensor networks. There are several previous 
works for data storage in wireless sensor networks 
[2][5][6][7]. In [5], they proposed a data-centric 
storage model based on a geographic hash table 
(GHT). GHT employs a structured replication to 
achieve load balancing. Structured replication uses a 
hierarchical decomposition of the geographic space 
which divides the network into multiple regions and 
creates an image point for each event in each region.  
 —   — 4 
the perimeter abc). According to the Face_Node table, 
node a(50, 51) is the closest to L(47, 53) and serves 
as the storage node. When a node detects the same 
event type, it will send the data to the same node until 
the node storage is full. 
In GHT, if node storage is full, it will drop the 
coming data. We propose a cover-up scheme to solve 
the problem of quality of data. If a node storage is 
full, it will set its LV = (∞,  ∞) to cover-up the 
original coordinate in its Face_Node table, called 
cover-up node. Next, this storage node will send a 
Storage_Full packet to the nodes on the same face. A 
node receiving a Storage_Full packet will modify the 
LV = Storage_Full packet’s LV in its Face_Node 
table according to the ID of Storage_Full packet. 
Each node on the face, which encloses the hash 
location L, receives a Put packet to compute its LV 
and neighbors’ LV on the same face which is the 
closest the destination of Put packet. If the node’s LV 
is not the closest node to the destination of Put packet, 
it will deliver the packet to its neighbor, which is 
closest to the destination of Put packet. The 
procedure will stop until there is no node closer to 
the destination of Put packet than itself. The node, 
which is closest to the destination stores the event 
data and becomes the new storage node. The old 
storage node doesn’t store the event data because its 
LV is farther than the new storage node to the 
destination of Put packet. In our cover-up scheme, a 
closer node will become the new storage node and 
store the event data to avoid dropping data. Since the 
old storage node has two sets of coordinates, a 
realistic coordinate and a virtual coordinate, the latter 
is set to (∞, ∞) to avoid the node becoming the 
storage node again. Note that the realistic coordinate 
LR delivers the packet of any type to the neighbors. 
 
Retrieve the events. Under our cover-up scheme, 
each node on the face which encloses the hash 
location L may store the event data for each event by 
adjusting LV. Hence, any node on the face can 
possibly stores the event data. When a sink wants to 
retrieve data, it sends a Get packet to all nodes on the 
face enclosing the hash location L. When a node 
receives the Get packet, it first checks if the Get 
packet was actually received or not. If not, then the 
node checks its event data if it corresponds to the Get 
packet or not. If the event data corresponds to the ET 
of the Get packet, the node sends its event data to the 
sink. The node continues to send the Get packet to its 
neighbor. If a node receives the Get packet, it 
discards the Get packet and stops to forward the Get 
packet to its neighbors on the same face. 
We will describe how to store the event data using 
the cover-up scheme based on the face with 
multi-threshold levels. Assume that all the nodes in a 
sensor network have the same initial storage and 
divided into multi-threshold levels. The number of 
storage levels is dependent on the tradeoff between 
energy consumption and load balancing. The higher 
the number of multi-threshold levels of storage, the 
greater the need for load balancing. Since the number 
of multi-threshold levels storage increases, the 
difference in storage among the sensors is small. On 
the contrary, the sensor will consume more energy as 
the number of multi-threshold levels storage 
increases. The reason is that the number of routing on 
a face will increase with the number of 
multi-threshold levels storage. Initially, each node 
has the information of the multi-threshold levels. 
When a storage node achieves the threshold of each 
level, the node will modify its LV = (∞, ∞) to 
cover-up the original coordinates. In this condition, 
the storage node will not store any event data. When 
the last storage node achieves the threshold in the 
same level (the threshold is not the highest level) 
with the other nodes in its Face_Node table, the node 
sends a Change_Threshold packet to all the nodes of 
the same face.  Then it modifies the LV of all the 
neighbors to be equal to the realistic coordinates (the 
same with LR). In every Change_Threshold 
procedure, the threshold level is increased by one 
(TL= TL+1). Upon receiving a Change_Threshold 
packet, each node changes its threshold level and 
then modifies its Face_Node table and all of the 
neighbors’LV =LR. This mechanism provides the 
 —   — 6 
reason is that the number of nodes belonging to a 
face is more than that of a grid. 
 
D. The standard deviation of storage space 
Figure 7 presents the standard deviation of the 
storage space with varying number of events. It 
shows that the smaller standard deviation of the 
storage space has more load balancing for storage 
nodes. When the number of events is 500, standard 
deviation of the storage spaces of Cover-Up-Face, 
Cover-Up-Grid, and GHT are similar. The reason is 
that the storage spaces of the nodes do not achieve 
the threshold of the first level. When the number of 
events varies from 1000 to 3000, the curves of 
standard deviation of the storage space of 
Cover-Up-Face and Cover-Up-Grid are stable. Our 
schemes which use the mechanism of multi-threshold 
can reduce the standard deviation of the storage 
space. The curve of standard deviation of storage 
space of the GHT increases gradually due to irregular 
data distribution. GHT cannot find another node to 
become the new storage node to spread the event data. 
The standard deviation of the storage space of the 
Cover-Up-Face is lower than that of the 
Cover-Up-Grid, although it is not obvious. The 
reason is that the number of nodes belonging to a 
face is more than that of a grid. 
 
E. The quality of data 
Figure 8 presents the quality of data with varying 
number of events. When the number of events varies 
from 500 to 1500, there are no events dropped in the 
Cover-Up-Face, Cover-Up-Grid, and GHT. In the 
GHT, there are 50 to 500 events which are dropped 
due to storage space constraints and irregular data 
distribution when the number of events is higher than 
2000. It is clear that our schemes can improve the 
quality of data by dropping fewer events. In our 
schemes, the number of dropped events is almost 
equal to 0 in a sensor network with 500 to 2000 
events. The number of dropped events is less than 5 
only at 3000 events. 
 
(六) 結論 
In this project, we presented the cover-up and 
multi-threshold mechanisms, which are hotspot 
storage management schemes for decomposing 
storage load of hotspot storage in data-centric storage 
wireless sensor networks. The cover-up and 
multi-threshold mechanisms are based on the face 
and grid network architectures, which adjust the 
storage node dynamically and spread the data into 
several storage nodes to obtain load balancing among 
the sensor nodes. We have shown experimentally that 
the applications our cover-up and multi-threshold 
hotspot storage management schemes to the face and 
grid structures are able to achieve good performances. 
The cover-up is able to adjust the storage nodes 
dynamically in order to reduce energy consumption. 
In addition, the multi-threshold is able to distribute 
the data to the storage nodes and leads to better load 
balancing and quality of data.  
 
(七) 參考資料 
 
[1] I. F. Akyildiz, W. Su, Y. Sankarasubramaniam, and 
E. Cayirci, “A Survey on Sensor Networks,” IEEE 
Communications Magazine, Vol. 40, No. 8, pp. 
102-114, August 2002. 
[2] M. Aly, N. Morsillo, P. K. Chrysanthis, and K. 
Pruhs, “Zone Sharing: A Hotspots Decomposition 
Scheme for Data-Centric Storage in Sensor 
Networks,” International Conference on Very Large 
Data Bases (VLDB) Workshop on Data 
Management for Sensor Networks (DMSN 2005), 
August 2005. 
[3] T. Arampatzis, J. Lygeros and S. Manesis, “A 
Survey of Applications of Wireless Sensors and 
Wireless Sensor Networks,” Mediterranean 
Conference on Control and Automation, June 2005. 
[4] D. Culler, D. Estrin, and M. Srivastava, “Overview 
of Sensor Networks,” IEEE Computer, Vol. 37, No. 
8, pp. 41-49, August 2004. 
[5] S. Ratnasamy, B. Karp, L. Yin, F. Yu, D. Estrin, R. 
Govindan, and S. Shenker, “A Geographic Hash 
Table for Data-Centric Storage,” ACM International 
Workshop on Wireless Sensor Networks and 
Applications (WSNA 2002), September 2002. 
[6] T. N. Le, W. Yu, X. Bai, and D. Xuan, “A Dynamic 
Geographic Hash Table for Data Centric Storage in 
Sensor Networks,” IEEE Wireless Communications 
and Networking Conference (WCNC 2006), April 
2006. 
[7] R. Tamishetty, L. H. Ngoh, and P. H. Keng, “An 
Efficient Resiliency Scheme for Data Centric 
Storage in Wireless Sensor Networks,” IEEE 
Vehicular Technology Conference, September 2004. 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 97-2221-E-036-037 
計畫名稱 無線感測網路中設計有效率的熱點儲存管理策略 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
廖文華 副教授 大同大學資訊經營系 
會議時間地點 Jan. 6-8, 2009, Kunming, Yunnan, China 
會議名稱 International Conference on Communications and Mobile Computing (CMC 2009) 
發表論文題目 An Efficient Multi-Channel MAC Protocol for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
此會議共有 361 篇論文發表，與會者來自全球學者與專家，發表對於 communication and 
mobile computing 的最新研究成果。會議的主題包括 Wireless Communications Symposium, 
Wireless Networking Symposium, Optical Communications and Networking Symposium, Mobile 
Computing and Internet Symposium, Computer and Network Security Symposium. 此外還包含三場 
keynote speech. 第一場是由 Khaled Ben Letaief, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, 
Hong Kong, China. 演講的題目是  “Pathways towards Next Generation Cognitive Ubiquitous 
Networks”. 這場演講主要是簡介最近在無線系統上發展的演進, 也討論到 XG 寬頻系統面對
cognitive ubiquitous communications networks, cooperative communications, dynamic resource 
allocation 的挑戰 , 還有跨層和最佳化的設計 . 第二場是由 Ivan Andonovic, University of 
Strathclyde, UK. 演講的題目是 “Evolution and Applications of Wireless Sensor Networks”. 這場演
講主要是簡介無線感測網路的基本特性和一些應用的解決策略. 他也探討到關於一些可以加強
的研究議題, 像是 network management, mobility support, secure and high quality data delivery. 第
三 場 是 由 Ping Shum, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore. 演 講 的 題 目 是 
“Microstructured Optical Fibers and Their Use in Communications and Sensing Applications”. 這場
演講主要是簡介無線感測網路的基本特性和一些應用的解決策略. 他也探討到關於一些可以加
強的研究議題, 像是 network management, mobility support, secure and high quality data delivery. 
在會場中還與許多世界知名的學者相互交換研究的心得，討論最新的研究趨勢，是一個很好
的學術交流機會，希望多多參加這類的國際學術會議. 
 
二、 與會心得 
近年來, 許多重要的國際會議都在大陸舉辦, 大陸的研究水準也急起直追. 在這次的會議中與許
多的大陸學者交換研究心得, 發覺大陸在無線網路具有高水準的研究. 但是國內的研究還是具
有相當的競爭力. 只是大陸聘請許多優秀的世界知名學者, 確實有效地帶動他們的研究品質. 台
灣也應該多辦一些重要的國際會議. 隨著無線通訊、可攜式計算設備的普及，「無所不在的通
訊｣已不是遙不可及的事。一般而言，現今的行動計算應用中，節點需要在一步的範圍內與有
線網路連結。此即為典型的蜂窩式網路，它藉由佈置基地台來支援節點間的通訊。因此節點
間的通訊可以完全依賴有線網路的骨幹和基地台來達成。然而，有時有線網路的骨幹並不適
用於行動節點，例如：在偏遠地區、節慶場地、戶外展覽場，佈置基地台的成本不符效益。
  
An Efficient Multi-Channel MAC Protocol for Mobile Ad Hoc Networks 
 
 
Wen-Hwa Liao      Wen-Chin Chung 
Department of Information Management 
Tatung University, Taiwan 
whliao@ttu.edu.tw 
 
 
Abstract 
 
This paper proposes a novel multi-channel MAC 
protocol for mobile ad hoc networks that enables the 
nodes to transmit packets in distributed channels. In 
our protocol, the ATIM window is divided into two 
windows. The first window is called deciding channel 
window (DCW). The source nodes and destination 
nodes can negotiate to decide a channel that can be 
used to compete the final data channel in the DCW. The 
second window is called exchanging packet window 
(EPW). The pair source node and destination node can 
compete to get a channel to transfer packets in the 
EPW. This mechanism can distribute pair source node 
and destination node to compete data channel. Hence, 
the collisions can be avoided greatly and throughput 
can be increased. The simulation results show that our 
protocol successfully exploits to use bandwidth of 
multiple channels effectively.  
 
1. Introduction 
 
IEEE 802.11 standard for wireless LAN [1] 
provides multiple channels available for use. By 
exploiting multiple channels, we can achieve higher 
network throughput than using one channel, because 
multiple transmissions can take place without 
interfering. It is not an easy problem to design a MAC 
protocol to exploit the multiple channels, because each 
device is equipped with one half-duplex transceiver. 
The transceiver can switch channels dynamically, but it 
can only transmit or listen on one channel at a time. 
Thus, when a node is listening on a particular channel, it 
can not hear other nodes communication on a different 
channel currently.  Due to this, the new type of hidden 
terminal problem occurs in this multi-channel 
environment [4]. So a single channel MAC protocol 
does not fit for the multiple channels environment. 
In this paper, we propose a multi-channel MAC 
protocol with channel distribution that enables nodes to 
transmit packets on multiple channels without collisions. 
The main idea is to divide time into fixed-time intervals 
using beacons, and have a small window at the start of 
each interval. Each node uses beacons to obtain 
neighbors’ information in its transmission range. 
Moreover, our scheme divides the small window into 
two phases. The first divided small window of the fixed-
time interval is used for source and destination to decide 
which the second divided small window of the fixed-
time interval in. After the previous process, the pair 
source and destination nodes compete to use the 
channel to transfer packets during the second divided 
small window of the fixed-time interval. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. 
Section 2 reviews the related work. Our proposed MAC 
protocol present in section 3. Section 4 describes the 
simulation model we use as well as discusses the 
simulation results. Finally, section 5 concludes the 
paper. 
 
2. Related work 
 
Some distributed contention-based CSMA multi-
channel protocols have been proposed [2][3][4][5][6]. 
Furthermore, the works in [2] and [3] assume nodes can 
receive packets on all channels simultaneously. 
However, current hardware does not support listening 
on an arbitrary number of channels. We will briefly 
illustrate several multiple channels MAC protocols: 
DCA [6], MMAC [4], and AMCP [5]. 
In DCA [6], the overall bandwidth is divided into 
one control channel and n data channels. Each data 
channel has the equivalent bandwidth. The purpose of 
the control channel is to resolve the contention on data 
channels and assign different data channels to different 
mobile pair source and destination nodes. Data channels 
are used to transmit data packets and acknowledgements. 
Each mobile node has two half-duplex transceivers. One 
of the transceivers is called control transceiver which 
Figure 2. An example to illustrate channel utilization 
of CD-MAC. 
 
Before describing our protocol in detail, we show 
the channel utilization of our CD-MAC in Figure 2. We 
divide each channel into two parts: ATIM window and 
data channel. Furthermore, ATIM window is divided 
into two parts: Decide Channel Window (DCW) and 
Exchange Packet Window (EPW). We assume a 
channel as default channel, say channel 0. All nodes 
broadcast their beacon frames on channel 0 which is 
mainly used for collecting neighbor nodes’ information 
and global synchronization. In the DCW period, all 
nodes listen to channel 0 and wait for a backoff time to 
broadcast their DCW packets that is used for source and 
destination to decide which the second divided small 
window of the fixed-time interval. In the EPW period, 
the pair source and destination nodes compete to use the 
channel to transfer packets. After competing in the 
EPW period, the successful pair source and destination 
nodes will use the data channel which the EPW period 
winning pair source and destination nodes. In wireless 
ad hoc networks the numbers of nodes are usually much 
more than the numbers of channels. Thus, in EPW 
period, maybe there are many pairs source and 
destination nodes to compete the rights to access the 
data channel. 
In our proposed protocol, we can observe that the 
channel utilization of CD-MAC is higher than MMAC. 
Furthermore, we can decrease the control packets 
collisions by distributing pair source and destination 
nodes to compete the right to access data channel. 
Therefore, not only channel utilization is increased but 
also pair source and destination nodes control packets 
collisions are decreased. 
 
3.2. Protocol description 
 
In this section, we will describe our proposed 
protocol in detail as below. First, we summarize our 
assumptions. Additionally, we will describe the three 
steps of our protocol completely. Finally, we will 
illustrate the different scenarios in our protocol. Before 
discussing how to operate our proposed protocol, we 
state our environmental assumptions: 
1. The overall bandwidth is divided into n (index 
form 0 to n-1) channels and all of them have the 
same bandwidth. Besides, none of the channels 
overlap, so the packets transmitted on different 
channels do not interfere with each other. 
2. Nodes are synchronized, so all nodes begin their 
beacon interval at the same time. In our model, 
we operate beaconing mechanism similar to IEEE 
802.11 timing synchronization function (TSF) [1]. 
3. Each node is equipped with a single half-duplex 
transceiver. A node can either transmit or listen, 
but it can not do both simultaneously. A node can 
listen or transmit on only one channel at a time, 
thus, when a node listens to one channel, it can 
not carrier sense on other channels. 
 
In the ATIM window, every node must listen to the 
default channel (channel 0). The default channel is one 
of the multiple channels, which is predefined so that 
every node knows which channel is the default channel. 
In Figure 2, ATIM window is divided into two parts. 
The one part is Decide Channel Window (DCW) and 
the other is Exchange Packet Window (EPW). In the 
DCW period, all nodes listen to channel 0 and use hash 
function for each node to broadcast its DCW packet. 
The DCW packet includes three fields. The first field is 
source node’s id (S_id), the second field is destination 
node’s id (D_id), and the third field is channel’s id 
(CH_id) that is allocated for EPW contention. Each 
node maintains two tables. One is DCW table and the 
other is Channel List (CL) table. The DCW table stores 
any receiving DCW packet from the other nodes. The 
CL indicates which channel is preferable to use for the 
node. CL includes two fields. The first field is channel’s 
id (CH_id), and the second field is used to record the 
number of selected channel by source node, defined as 
counter.  
As the source node broadcasts the DCW to its 
neighboring node, it will set the value CH_id of DCW 
by two rules as follows. First, the source node will 
check the destination node whether is in the D_id field 
or S_id field of the DCW table. If the destination node 
is not in D_id field or S_id field, the source node will 
select the smallest counter among the counter field of 
CL table. The CH_id of CL table respects to the counter 
is set to the CH_id of DCW packet. Otherwise, the 
source node will select the CH_id as the same as CH_id 
of the destination node. When the node receives the 
DCW, it will use the CH_id of DCW to search the 
counter of the same CH_id. The counter of CL table 
will update by adding one to counter. Second, if a node 
is neither the sender nor the other nodes’ receiver, the 
node will select the smallest CL’s counter as its CH_id 
and broadcast its DCW packet as S_id is null, D_id is 
itself, and the counter will not add one. When a node 
receives DCW packets inside its transmission range, the 
node will update its CL table and DCW table. This 
channel selection rule attempts to balance the channel 
load as much as possible, so that bandwidth waste 
caused by contention and backoff is reduced. 
Maybe only one pair nodes compete data channel 
