一、研究計畫中英文摘要： 
（一） 計畫中文摘要。 
關鍵詞：居家照護系統，數位家庭，遠距診療，老
人照護 
在網際網路及數位家庭(digital home)的推波助瀾
下，許多與居家相關的生活資訊及生活機能，正
逐漸的產生變化。而其中一項重要的應用，就是
如何使老人居家生活及照護有更高的品質，並降
低醫護人員或家人之負擔。例如遠距診療
（telemedicine）就是使用視訊會議的技術，使一
般性的例診或家庭醫師之諮詢，無須親臨醫院，
對行動不便者的醫療品質提升，有莫大助益。其
次，電子資訊技術的發達，使得計算（computing）
與資訊儲存 (information storage)的成本日益下
降。而數位家庭的推廣，將進一步促使低成本的
計算與儲存媒體，以各種型式進入家庭，這其中
並包含與這些計算單元所結合的感測及驅動界
面。因此，未來如何運用這些可見的資源，強化
老人居家照護之功能，是十分前瞻卻又實際的研
究課題。其次，在運用這些科技於老人照護時最
重要的是是否可有效照護到其需求，或是可為其
接受。舉例而言，複雜的的人機界面或操作環境，
將導致老人使用上的障礙。或者面對生理機能有
障礙者（如弱視），照護之裝置就必須採用其所能
接受之界面來溝通。例如近來十分受到歡迎的服
藥提醒裝置（pill reminder），需提供語音界面使弱
視者瞭解其該服的藥種等。本計畫整合生理訊
號、機器人、語音訊號及影像處理，與網路的專
家學者探討數位化居家照護系統之諸項創新之應
用及整合技術，使老人居家照護藉由適當的科技
運用與科技市場發展的協助得以更加落實。 
（二） 計畫英文摘要。 
Keywords: Homecare System, Digital Home, 
Telemedicine, Elderly Care 
The advent of internet and digital home has gradually 
changed our daily activities. One of the important 
applications using these technologies is quality 
enhancement of elderly homecare and reducing the 
burden of caregivers. For example, telemedicine using 
video conference technology is able to avoid the 
transportation problems for routine hospital visit or 
home physician consultation. It greatly improves the 
quality of care for disabled elderly. Further, the 
technology progress of electronics and information push 
down the cost of computing and information storage 
rapidly. Through the effort of digital home promotion, 
low-cost computing and storage media will enter home 
in different shapes and forms. Therefore, how to utilize 
the foreseeable resources at home to enhance the quality 
of homecare is a very practical research topic. Secondly, 
sophisticated user interface or operating environment 
usually creates carriers for elderly people. Friendlier user 
interface should be designed for those who are disabled 
(e.g., amblyopia). For example, the popular pill reminder 
needs to have voice interface for those who have weak 
vision to remind her/him about the pills to take. This 
proposal invites experts from fields of bio-signal, 
robotics, speech and image processing, and networking 
to jointly explore innovative applications and integration 
techniques involved in digital homecare system. It is 
expected that elderly care can benefit from appropriate 
adoption of technology and the high-tech market 
development. 
二、計畫背景、目的及重要性：  
當歐美日等先進國家正快速的利用資訊、網路、
控制與醫療科技等研究與實現居家照護系統，以降低
老人居家照護之社會成本以及提升照護品質時，根據
工研院 2003 年 12 月的報告[1]，我國目前仍停留於偏
重於勞力提供照護的模式，與歐、美、日相較落後甚
多。而早在 1999 年美國能源部(US DOE)委託美國
Sandia國家實驗室對科技如何協助居家照護系統研究
中，Warren 等人即已指出 Smart Devices and Collective 
Intelligence 對未來居家照護的重要性[2]。以下為
Warren 等人對這個字眼的詮釋： 
The word “smart” implies the ability to process 
information within context. Intelligence can exist on a 
stand-alone device given that the knowledge set 
required to make decisions is maintained in the memory 
of the device. However, more flexible implementations 
of intelligent devices should accommodate a modular 
design that allows access to geographically distributed 
knowledge (information) and the software capable of 
processing those data. 
由以上的說明，我們可以了解數位化及網路化的技術
與研究，對於未來的居家照護勢必造成重要的影響，
同時，如何將各種居家裝置數位化的資訊作適當的處
理，使該裝置具備智慧性，以及如何將各個智慧型裝
置資訊透過網路整合協調，來達成各種居家照護的功
能需求，將是研究的重點。 
本計畫提出一個整合數位家庭網路，生理訊號，
語音辨識與合成，照護機器人，以及影像聲音處理技
術的研究，其目的就是希望透過學界的研究，對數位
化及網路化的科技如何協助居家照護系統的發展，提
出先導性的成果。本計畫的重要性可由下列幾方面來
說明。就產業及學術發展而言，近年來由於寬頻及無
線網路的普及，已驅動了許多應用面的產業發展及學
術研究，例如數位家庭（Digital Home）的推廣等。
目前大部分的目光均著重於娛樂（如網路化多媒體、
數位電視等）、通訊系統整合與個人化方面的應用，
這些應用有大部分屬於取代性（如視訊之無線化）。
若著眼於創新性（即非取代性）的應用，則需從人類
的基本需求來探討，其中一項是如何切入人類安全與
安心的需求，而老人居家照護藉由網路與數位化技術
而增加照護品質及減輕照護人員的負擔，勢必成為網
路基本建設蓬勃發展後的一項重要的應用。 
就整個社會資源的運用而言，在高齡化的社會
下，老人相對於工作人口的比例逐漸升高，如果不運
用科技來減輕照護者的負擔，勢必對整體的產生力造
成影響。其次，囿於有限的醫療資源，家庭已慢慢成
為醫護中心，醫院針對慢性病患者（尤其老人），均
建議及早退院居家療養。如果沒有良好的配套措施，
將造成各家庭沈重的負擔。 
而本計畫基於家庭網路的架構，探討數位化居家
照護的內容及核心技術，除了符合上述的產業發展以
及社會資源的有效運用外，也與國際間對未來家庭
the password authentication, the proposed protocol 
reduces the costs in computation, storage and 
communication when authenticate users in the homecare 
systems.  
 
4.1.2 INTRODUCTION  
Concerning the elderly people and their aging issue 
many governments set forth various projects [1-5] 
espe-cially in promoting the homecare quality with the 
appli-cation of the modern advanced enhancements in 
Home-care systems. There are many special purpose 
digital homecare systems in existence. These include 
bio-medical signal monitoring systems, caring robot 
equipped with monitoring system, speech monitoring 
system, digital home appliance control system and 
digital home library system. In order to integrate all 
these sys-tems, we need to build an enhanced hybrid 
network which would be performing multipurpose 
operations such as Data exchange and storing, data 
sharing, supporting re-mote access thru internet like 
remote medical assistance providing, patient’s 
emergency situation notification and remote monitoring.  
The hybrid network can be structured with wireless 
technologies, such as 802.11 a/b/g, Bluetooth, Zigbee, 
and wired technology, i.e., Powerline (HmePlug). These 
features provide an effective way to have 
communication within the home network. Under this 
scheme, the Home Server will function in collecting all 
the data arriving from individual devices in the network 
and store them in the local database. The system will 
process these data and then notify the doctor, nurses or 
any of the family mem-bers if there is a need of an 
emergency medication, as shown in Fig. 4.1. 
 
Fig. 1 A Hybrid Network for Digital Home Care 
In such a network, access control plays an important role 
in providing information to nursing people and 
protecting user privacy. To verify the credentials of the 
supplicant, the authenticator uses an authentication 
server. The authentication server checks the credentials 
of the supplicant on behalf of the authenticator, then 
responds to the authenticator indicating whether or not 
the supplicant is authorized to access the authenticator's 
services. 
During authentication the access point forwards the 
credentials of the wireless connection attempt to the 
au-thentication server. The wireless AP uses the Remote 
Authentication Dial-In User Service (RADIUS) protocol 
[6-8] to send the connection attempt parameters to a 
RADIUS server. The major drawback in this 
authentication scheme is ―User’s Password∥, which is 
sent to the server for authentication purpose. User 
provides his credentials – in the form of a user name and 
password – when making a request. The server verifies 
the user and grants access if the user credentials are 
matching else it denies the user. 
Although this scheme is easily implemented, it relies on 
the assumption that the connection between the client 
and server computers is secure and can be trusted. 
Specifically, the credentials are sent across the network 
as plaintext and could be intercepted easily and 
subsequently used by eavesdroppers to impersonate the 
user. Password based authentication is inconvenient; 
users do not want to enter a password each time they 
access a network service. 
Hence, Password based authentication is not suitable for 
use on computer networks. To overcome this plaintext 
password problem, we have proposed a general approach 
of design and analysis, of an authentication protocol, 
which functions by using One Time Password (OTP) 
scheme [10-14, 16] along with RADIUS protocol. In this 
paper, we present our proposed authentication protocol 
in section 2. Section 3 gives a formal security analysis of 
the proposed protocol. We describe the performance 
analysis of the protocol in section 4. Finally, future work 
and conclusion of this paper is given in section 5.  
 
4.1.3 PROPOSED PROTOCOL  
Owing the limitations of the security protocols given in 
detail in our related work, we have framed a protocol 
which could be able to overcome these limitations and 
could perform better compared to these protocols. Our 
design would be well suited for intra domain wireless 
networks.  
A. Assumptions  
We consider some assumptions for our protocol which 
are mentioned below:  
z This protocol is designed to provide secure and fast 
OTP authentication for a homecare network 
environment.  
z This protocol is aimed in providing client 
authentication only.  
z We assume that the AAA server and the POTP 
server are mutually trusting each other and a se-cure 
tunnel is being established in between these two 
servers with EAP FAST(Extensible Authentication 
Protocol Fast and Secure Tunneling) protocol before 
the authentication process is started. This secure 
channel ensures a trusted and secure communication 
channel between the two servers.  
z The Pre-shared key KAP between AAA server and 
POTP server is chosen to be highly secure and it is 
16 bit hex/decimal string.  
z The Pre-shared key KAA between AAA server and 
Access point is chosen to be highly secure and it is 
also 16 bit hex/decimal string.  
The username and physical details like user registration 
date and time, type of user registration, etc, those 
regarding the user are stored in the AAA server. This 
process is done offline when the token generator is 
pur-chased.  
(iii) AAA server and POTP server  
As ÅÆP : KAP  
AAA server and the POTP server are mutually trusting 
each other and a secure tunnel is being established in 
between these two servers with EAP FAST(Extensible 
Authentication Protocol Fast and Secure Tunneling) 
protocol before the authentication process is started. This 
secure channel ensures a trusted and secure 
communication channel between the two servers. Note 
that KAP is the Pre-shared key between AAA server and 
POTP server and this key chosen to be highly secure and 
it is 16 bit hexa decimal string. This key forms a 
relationship be-tween the AAA server and POTP server 
thru the trusted EAP FAST tunnel.  
(iv) AAA server and Access Point  
As ÅÆAp : KAA  
In this message, KAA is the Pre-shared key between AAA 
server and Access point and this key is chosen to be 
highly secure and it is also 16 bit hexa decimal string. 
This key forms a relationship between the AAA server 
and Access Point.  
 
D.2 Login Phase 
 
M1 : UÆAP: U, P, {H(U, Pin, Tno), Nu}Tno  
 
The User attempts to login by entering his Username, 
POTP server name, with a hash of of Username, 
PIN(memorized by the user) along with the Token 
number(generated by the token generator) and Nonce, all 
encrypted by the token number. This encrypted message 
is sent to the Access Point thru wired or wireless 
channel.  
 
M2 : ApÆAs: U, P, {H(U, Pin, Tno), Nu}Tno  
 
The Access point receives the encrypted message from 
the User and then forwards the received message to the 
AAA server.  
 
M3 : As Æ P: U, {H(U, Pin, Tno), Nu}Tno  
 
The AAA server receives the encrypted messages from 
the Access point, identifies that it is a POTP server 
re-quest message and then it checks the username in its 
da-tabase and the details. Then the message is forwarded 
to the POTP server. The POTP server gets the message 
from the AAA server, then using the token number it 
verifies the user database and confirms the user for 
Authentica-tion. The Token number verification process 
of the POTP server is detailed below,  
 
POTP Server Token Number Verification  
 
This mechanism is based on Counter based One Time 
Password Authentication scheme. When a token is first 
initialized, the internal counter is set to zero. Each time 
an event occurs, as when the user requests a new 
password, the counter is incremented and the 
incremented value is used as the input value. This value 
is then encrypted with the seed using a Proprietary 
Encryption Algorithm and the result becomes the 
one-time dynamic password. Likewise, the user's 
account on the server also has a counter. It is initialized 
to zero when the account is created, and is incremented 
each time the user is authen-ticated.  
 
During authentication, when the POTP server receives 
this message U, {H(U, Pin, Tno), Nu}Tno from the 
AAA server, the POTP server first checks the username 
and for the corresponding seed in its database. If the 
username is identified, the counter is incremented and 
the incremented value is used as the input value, which 
is encrypted with the seed of the server and the result is 
the token number.  
 
Using this token number the server decrypts the message 
from the AAA server. If the user is the real us-er(token 
numbers are same) then the POTP server could do the 
decryption else it cannot .After decryption the POTP 
server checks the PIN value in the message with that of 
the PIN value in its database and then confirms that the 
user is the real user.  
 
The Counter based One Time Password Authentica-tion 
scheme .is obviously much easier to have 
synchro-nization between User and POTP server, but if 
necessary, the server may maintain synchronization 
between the two counters by adjusting its counter to 
match the counter in the user's token.  
 
M4 : P Æ As: {H(U, Tno), Nu, Ns}KAP  
 
After POTP confirms that the user is the real user it 
in-cludes the Nonce Ns and encrypts the message with 
KAP then sends the message to the AAA server to 
perform further process of Authentication. AAA server 
receives the message from the POTP server and decrypts 
using KAP which is the pre-shared between AAA server 
and POTP server. Then the AAA server sends two parts 
(part 1 is the subset of part 2) of the same message to the 
Ap.  
 
M5 : As ÆAp: {{U, SID, As, H(Kss, Nu, Ns), Ts}Tno}KAA, 
{U, SID, H(Kss, Nu, Ns)  
 
This message is the part 1, to be stored in the Access 
Point for subsequent authentication purpose. Kss is the 
session key included in the message which is used for 
the forth coming session management. The expiration 
time of the session key is solely decided and set by the 
AAA server, depending on the user’s requirement. SID 
is the session ID, which is a unique number that an AAA 
server assigns to the user for the duration of that user's 
visit and used along with the session key for session 
encrypted by shared keys which are hard enough to 
break in.  
 
(vii) User Impersonation attack prevention  
 
Since the seed, PIN and the Token numbers are known 
only to the User and the POTP server, the impersonation 
attack could be highly succumbed. For in-stance if an 
intruder disguises himself as the real user and enters his 
username, the POTP server will identify the illegal user, 
since the seed, PIN and the Token number all should be 
matched for an Authorized user, else the user will be 
treated as an illegal user.  
 
(viii) Ensuring Data confidentiality  
 
In the Login phase from UÆP, when U sends the 
message to AP, AP to AS, AS to P all are encrypted by 
Token number itself, which the One Time Password, 
seed value , PIN values(sent together with token number, 
PIN is not sent separately) is not sent during the message 
de-livery. Next, when P sends the message to U does not 
carry any seed or PIN values, and the two shared keys 
KAP, KAA are used for encryption, which are suitably 
long enough to ensure security .So user data privacy is 
main-tained and Data confidentiality is achieved.  
 
(ix) Providing Data integrity  
 
In our protocol, modification of data could be blocked. 
Since the messages are encrypted using One Time 
Password it is impossible to retrieve it and use it again to 
hack into the data. In case of any data loss due to DoS 
attacks, the POTP server is well equipped with back end 
data base along with data recovery software, which 
pro-vides a good back –up for the dats within the 
system.  
 
(x) Enabling Mutual authentication  
 
In Our design, though the User authentication is our 
main focus, both User and POTP server could mutually 
authenticate each other. The seed value forms the key 
between the two components and the Token Number 
(One Time Password) proves each other’s identity. So 
Mutual Authentication is achieved between the User and 
the POTP server in our protocol.  
 
(xi) Forward Secrecy achievement  
 
Our protocol can be suited to handle, the forward 
secrecy issue, which says that, ―the disclosure of the 
long-term secret keying material that is used to derive an 
agreed key does not compromise the secrecy of agreed 
keys from earlier runs [15]. In Our protocol no key is ∥
derived from other key, and One Time Password itself is 
used as a key which changes every time gives a 
guarantee that forward secrecy is maintained. For 
example, if an attacker retrieves any message encrypted 
by OTP is useless to him, next if the attacker hacks any 
message encrypted by the Shared Keys, it is not possible 
for him to decrypt, since the keys are pre shared and 
considered to be with strong encryption standards.  
 
4.1.5. PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS  
Table 2 shows a comparison of Our Proposed Protocol 
with other existing security protocols on the basis of 
their security properties. Our protocol’s security features 
are mentioned in the final column. 
Table 2 Security Properties 
 
 
4.1.6 CONCLUSION  
 
In this paper, we have presented a simple, robust, 
ef-ficient, secure and fast One time Password 
authentication protocol which could effectively handle 
some of the most common wireless attacks. Our protocol 
is easy to im-plement and could be employed in both 
Intra domain, Inter domain and cross realm wireless 
architectures as well. In the proposed protocol the total 
number of au-thentication steps is 6, which means that 
fast authentica-tion is ensured and thus makes our 
protocol efficient. The OTP scheme used in the protocol 
helps to maintain high security. The security analysis 
and performance com-parison are done to test the overall 
protocol flow. The security proof determines that our 
protocol is highly se-cure and fast in nature with OTP 
authentication, for dig-ital homecare wireless networks.  
 
4.1.7. REFERENCES  
 
[1] Telecommunications-based Home-Care Services for European 
Citizens (TEN-CARE Project), Work Research Centre, (WRC), 
http://www.wrc-research.ie/proj/tencare.html  
[2] Horgas, Ann L. and Gregory D. Abowd, ―The Impact of 
Tech-nology on Living Environments for Elderly Adults,∥ Chapter 
ap-pearing in NRC commissioned report based on workshop in 
Jan-uary 2003.  
 
Fig. 1. Block diagram of the BCI system. 
 
Signal Acquisition and Amplifying Unit 
The signal acquisition and amplifying unit is used to 
measure the EEG signal and filter out the noise. The 
amplification unit is applied to filter out the artifacts as 
shown in part (a) of Fig. 2. The EEG amplifying circuit 
consists of a pre-amplifier with the gain of 100, an 
isolated amplifier to protect subject, a band-pass filter 
that was composed of a low-pass filter and a high-pass 
filter to reserve 1-100Hz signals, a differential amplifier 
which had the gain of 10 or 50 (that can be chosen by a 
switch), and a 60Hz notch filter to eliminate the effect of 
the line noise. 
Wireless Data Transmission Unit 
Part (b) of Fig. 2 shows the wireless data transmission 
unit. The acquired signal is first converted from analog 
to digital, and then transmitted through the wireless 
modules. The ALTERA FLEX10K EPF10K10TC144-3 
CPLD (Complex Programmable Logic Device) is 
employed to control the A/D converter and encode the 
data for the wireless modules. 
Two different transmission methods can be selected 
according to the transmission distance in applications. 
Bluetooth modules are a frequently choice in medical 
devices with short transmission distance. Thus we 
combined the radio frequency (RF) module 
(RF3100/3105) in the system for longer operational 
distance. 
Dual- core processing and storage/display 
unit 
The dual-core processing unit is the main part of the 
wireless portable BCI. The operating core is Texas 
Instruments (TI) Open Multimedia Architecture Platform 
(OMAP) 1510, which is composed of an ARM925 
processor and a TMS320C55x DSP processor. The DSP 
core was used to process EEG data and the ARM925 
was used to communicate with other devices such as 
wireless transmission modules and TCP/IP network. The 
DSP Gateway is used as the cooperation structure for the 
communication between the two cores since these two 
cores have different functions as shown in part (c) of Fig. 
2. DSP gateway is software that makes ARM core 
possible to use resource of DSP core by Application 
Program Interface (API), and works like a small 
real-time kernel which manages the resource and data 
flow in the DSP core. With this mechanism, the DSP 
processor is on only when the system needs to process 
the EEG data. The Linux operating system (OS) is built 
to manage the resource of ARM core. The functions of 
ARM core can be divided into three parts: (1) wireless 
module control, (2) TCP/IP control, and (3) DSP 
gateway driver. A host system for data storage and 
real-time display module is designed to store the data 
and display the analysis output and the original EEG 
wave signals on PC as shown in part (d) of Fig. 2. 
 
 Fig. 2. The detail architecture of the BCI system. 
 
Warning Device 
The warning device is combined in our system as shown 
in part (e) of Fig. 2. The audio signals are more effective 
for driver drowsiness warning and the audio signal of 
1750Hz achieves the best results. The triggering signals 
are sending from the dual-core EEG signal processing 
unit to the warning device through wireless transmission 
modules. The RF3100/3105 modules cannot transfer and 
receive signals at the same time, so a package of 
warning signal is transmitted in the time period between 
two packages of the acquired EEG signals. The 
transmission frequency is set lower to leave some time 
duration for the data transmission from the other end. 
 
4.2.4 Analysis Algorithm 
 
In this study, the proposed system was used to acquire 
the driver’s EEG signals and drowsiness condition of the 
driver was to be estimated via automatic EEG analysis. 
In order to test and verify our analysis algorithm, we 
built an experiment environment first. Recently, driving 
safely has received increasing attention of the publics 
due to the growing number of traffic accidents. Drivers’ 
fatigue has been implicated as a causal factor in many 
accidents because of the marked decline in the drivers’ 
abilities of perception, recognition and vehicle control 
rest with eye-closed for the occurrence of α wave. The α 
wave with frequency of 8-12Hz was measured and 
shown in Fig. 7.  
 
Fig. 6. The EOG signal. 
 
Fig. 7. α wave 
Wireless Data Transmission Unit Test 
We used two PCs to control the Bluetooth devices. 
Host device was going to search another Bluetooth 
device automatically. Client device waited until host 
device had found it, and then the connection and data 
transmission were started. The CPLD was used to 
control the client device while OMAP 1510 was 
controlling sever device, and then test continued. 
Analysis Algorithm 
According to the description in section II, we apply 
our system to estimate the driver’s cognitive state. 
Before performing the estimation algorithm on the 
OMAP, we must train an estimation model, test and 
verify it off-line by PC. We used C code to implement 
our estimation algorithm and then evaluated its 
performance by a Matlab program. Fig. 8 shows the 
estimation of the training data and Fig. 9 shows the 
estimation of the testing data. The blue line is the real 
driving error and the red line is the driving error 
estimation. In Fig. 8, the correlation coefficient of the 
two time series in the training data is 0.94. In Fig. 9, the 
correlation coefficient of the two time series in the 
testing data is 0.8. According to the result, we could use 
the model which was trained off-line to estimate the 
driving error online. This demonstrates that it was 
feasible to estimate driving error as the index of 
drowsiness by using EEG signals. 
 
Fig. 8. The estimation of the training data. 
 
Fig. 9. The estimation of the testing data. 
Overall System Test 
After the subsystems were tested and verified, we 
integrated the subsystems and tested online. In order to 
show the estimation results of our system, we employed 
a Java program to receive estimation results by network 
and drawn a graph. The Java display screen are shown in 
Fig. 10 and 11, the left two frames are row data of EEG 
signals of two channels, and the right side are the results 
of estimation, respectively. Frame C shows the result of 
estimation every two seconds and zero when the DSP 
core calculating. Frame D shows the result of estimation 
continuously. If the driver is alert, the display screen is 
show as Fig. 10. Because the driver is alert, there are no 
peaks in frame C. Fig. 11 shows the display screen when 
driver is drowsiness, there are peaks in frame C. Te 
result demonstrates that the system we developed is 
feasible. 
 
[8] J. Hendrix, “Fatal crash rates for tractor-trailers by 
time of day,” in Proc. 
Int. Truck and Bus Safety Res. Policy Symp., 2002, 
pp. 237–250. 
H. Ueno, M. Kaneda, and M. Tsukino, “Development of 
drowsiness detection system,” in Proc. 1994 Vehicle 
Navigation and Information Systems Conf., vol. 31, Sep. 
1994, pp. 15–20 
 
子計畫三：The Embedded Mandarin Speech 
Recognition System in a Mobile Device 
 
4.3.1 Abstract 
 
One of the important issues for elderly homecare is to 
provide elderly people a universal and convenient 
human-machine interface to access various services and 
equipments. Among all possible interfaces, the 
friendliest way is through the speech technology. 
This goal of the sub-project is to build a spoken dialogue 
interface. It will focus on integrating four core speech 
techniques, including (1) speech recognition, (2) spoken 
dialogue, (3) speaker identification/verification and (4) 
text-to-speech system. Beside, the core techniques can 
also support other sub-projects. 
Finally, an elderly speech database including speech 
signal and spoken dialogue behavior will be collected to 
assist the research and system development. 
In the first year, a embedded automatic speech 
recognition system (eASR) was built, in order to 
satisfied the application needed in home-care 
environment. Besides, the kernel of Mandarin 
corpus-based TTS system was also been developed. 
 
4.3.2 INTRODUCTION 
 
Automatic speech recognition system (ASR) in 
embedded systems is expected to be a major product 
differentiator in the upcoming decade. The embedded 
automatic speech recognition system (eASR) can be 
used in lots of valuable applications, such as home 
entertainment, in-vehicle information systems, personal 
communication, and elder-care environment. In last 
century, due to the computation and memory capabilities 
of a mobile device, usually a simple speech recognition 
algorithm, dynamic time warping (DTW), was used in 
mobile device. Thus, the eASR system will be 
speaker-dependent and the performance was not good 
enough. So, the eASR could only be treated as a toy. In 
the past decade, the capability of the portal smart device 
likes a mobile phone/PDA makes the ASR system using 
the hidden Markov model (HMM) became possible. And 
the performance of the ASR system using HMM 
technique such as isolated Mandarin-word recognition 
system was better enough for the real application. Due to 
the speed and size constraint for the mobile device such 
as a mobile phone, the development of an eASR system 
was still a big challenge for engineers. 
A HMM-based eASR for Mandarin isolated word 
recognition was implemented. Beside to change the 
computation intensive algorithm into fixed point 
programming, lots of simplifications were made in order 
to reduce the computation and memory usages without 
degenerate the system performance. 
In section 2, the structure of an eASR will be 
introduced.And, some algorithms which can reduce the 
computational perplexity in HMM recognizer will be 
discussed. In section 3, experiments were done to 
evaluate the performance degeneration when different 
algorithms mentioned in section 2 were applied to the 
eASR system. Finally, the conclusion was given in the 
last section. 
 
4.3.3 THE EMBEDDED MANDARIN ISOLATED 
WORD SPEECH RECOGNITION SYSTEM 
 
1. 在嵌入式系統上建立一套語音辨認系統 
Automatic speech recognition system (ASR) in embedded systems is 
expected to be a major product differentiator in the upcoming decade. 
The embedded automatic speech recognition system (eASR) can be 
used in lots of valuable applications, such as home entertainment, 
in-vehicle information systems, personal communication, and 
elder-care environment. In last century, due to the computation and 
memory capabilities of a mobile device, usually a simple speech 
recognition algorithm, dynamic time warping (DTW), was used in 
mobile device. Thus, the eASR system will be speaker-dependent and 
the performance was not good enough. So, the eASR could only be 
treated as a toy. In the past decade, the capability of the portal smart 
device likes a mobile phone/PDA makes the ASR system using the 
hidden Markov model (HMM) became possible. And the performance 
of the ASR system using HMM technique such as isolated 
Mandarin-word recognition system was better enough for the real 
application. Due to the speed and size constraint for the mobile device 
such as a mobile phone, the development of an eASR system was still 
a big challenge for engineers. 
In this project, an isolated Mandarin word eASR 
system was implemented in the PDA-based device. The 
system specifications or development environment are 
listed below: 
 
 OS: WinCE platform 
 Speech signal sampling rate : 8KHz 
 Memory: ROM 1.2M bytes, RAM 2M bytes 
And, the target was to build an isolated Mandarin 
word eASR system which can recognize 1000 words. 
The system response time will be less than two times of 
real time. And the recognition rate will be higher than 
95% for clean speech and 90% fro in-car environment. 
The basic block diagram of the HMM-based eASR 
system is displayed in Fig. 1. It consists of four modules. 
Input speech signal is firstly pre-processed to extract 
some spectral features. Then a beam-search algorithm is 
applied to generate top-N recognized words. The 
acoustic modeling adopts 100 right-dependent initial 
HMM models and 39 final HMM models. A simple 
lexicon tree is formed from all the words to be 
recognized and used to guide the recognition search. 
Some experiments were made to measure the 
computational perplexity and recognition precision of 
the eASR system when different simplification strategies 
mentioned above was applied to the HMM decoding. In 
our experiment, the testing speech corpus consist 1268 
isolated word pronounced by 10 male and 10 female.  
 
 
    由上表的統計值可看出老人聲道的確會隨著年
齡的增長而變短，針對母音/a/而言，Formant 1 也會變
得較低，而 Formant 2 與 Formant 3 的統計資料中老人
的標準差(SD)與範圍(Range)都比年輕人來的寬廣，而
平均值卻相去無幾，這顯示了老人語音特性中 F2、F3
是無法明確去做計算的。以下是已被語言學家證實的
老人語音現象： 
    ◆聲門變長，老人語音較低沉，尤其是男性 
    ◆聲道長度變短，First Formant 下降，其他
Formant 變異量極大 
    ◆說話速率(speech rate)較緩慢 
在計畫中，我們蒐集了一個老人語料庫，其語
料錄音者是由台北市與新竹市市民所構成，並限定錄
音者的年紀必須在六十歲以上，當中包含了十九名女
性和三十五名男性，總共有五十四名錄音者。此錄音
的語料屬於朗讀式語音(read speech)，而我們取用的文
字轉寫(transcription)源自於 MAT-2000 及 MAT-2500
中四個音節(syllable)以上的句子，使得每位語者皆具
有六十句，並將其文字轉寫修正為每句中只包含十個
音節左右或十個音節以內，希望以此來減少因年紀增
長導致記憶力下降的因素，以提高老人錄音的品質，
因此每位語者所錄的句數將變成六十句至八十多句
不等。表 4 為訓練老人語音辨認器時所使用之訓練及
測試語料中的音節數，而 filler 為語音中一些呼吸聲
等非語音之聲音信號。我們使用上述語料所建立之老
人語音辨認器之辨識率為 44.72%，則如表 5 示。 
 
表 4、訓練及測試語料中的音節數、filler 的統計 
 
411 音節數 
訓練/測試 
Filler 
音節數 
訓練/測試 
女性語者 8841/1901 29/13 
男性語者 16145/3619 33/7 
全部語者 24986/5520 62/20 
 
表 5、老人語音辨識系統之辨識率 
%Del %Sub %Ins %Acc 
4.4 47.72 3.2 44.72 
 
3. 使用聲道正規化技術(VTLN)及最大可能性線性回
歸(MLLR)調適技術製作老人語音辨認器 
    因為老人語料蒐集之不易，所以在計畫中我們利
用使用MLLR的方法來將TCC-300語料所建立之辨認
器對進行老人語料的調適，並且利用聲道正規化技術
(VTLN)來把老人語料的頻率warping至符合TCC-300 
acoustic model的一般年齡層音高。我們再使用最大可
能性線性回歸(MLLR)之語者調適技術來進一步改善
老人語音辨識率。表6中即使用多組MLLR線性回歸來
調適TCC-300語料所訓練之HMM辨認模型。在實驗
中，我們發現同時調適HMM觀察機率中各高斯分佈
之平均值及covariance會獲得更加之辨認結果，這結果
與一般做語者調適時有些不同，一般調適HMM觀察
機率中各高斯分佈之covariance辨認率並不會有太大
改善。這應該是老人語音與一般年紀人之語音有明顯
不同。表6中我們使用不同組的線性回歸，最後可獲
得48.9%之音節辨識率。 
 
表 6、 老人語料以 MLLR 調適的結果 
MLLR with mean vector transform 
Regression
Classes %Del %Sub %Ins %Corr %Acc
32 3.55 52.17 6.24 44.28 38.04
64 3.69 50.12 5.92 46.19 40.28
128 3.61 48.92 5.68 47.47 41.79
256 3.67 46.89 5.68 49.44 43.76
MLLR with mean vector plus diagonal variance 
transform 
32 5.06 49.34 2.67 45.6 42.93
64 5.06 47.81 2.55 47.09 44.54
128 5.06 45.91 2.45 49.02 46.57
256 5.16 43.5 2.45 51.34 48.88
 
經過使用MLLR語者調適技術改進後，我們再使
用聲道正規化技術(VTLN)來調適因語者聲道改變而
造成辨認模型不匹配之現象。圖2為VTLN之示意圖，
它將可補償老人聲道變短之效應。以下先採用VTLN
對老人調適與測試語料做frequency warping，在圖3中
為各語者之調適參數。結果中顯示男女之平均值都小
於1，可看出老人聲道的確會變短。獲得最佳frequency 
warping參數後，重新搜取語音辨認參數。 
利用新的語音辨認參數，我們再使用MLLR語者
調適技術來再做一次模型調適，進一步改善老人語音
辨識率。再進行MLLR的調適過程，並以此觀察VTLN
與MLLR是否有相輔相成的效果。表7中為其辨認結
果，其辨識率可達51.5%。 
 
表7、 加入VTLN後的MLLR調適 
Regression %Del %Sub %Ins %Acc
 
Fig. 1: The block diagram of the proposed embedded ASR. 
 
Table 1. Performance for Mandarin isolated word recognition, the lexicon was the 1059  
company name in Hsinchu science-park. (The notation in HMM model type was (1) 
(I,F) : number of state for initial and final, (2)(n1,n2,n3) means the number of mixture 
for initial state, final and silence, (3) DS s : the down sampling factor for recognizer)  
HMM model type Total Sentence 
Top1 
Correct 
number(recog. rate 
in %) 
Top5 
Correct 
number(recog. rate 
in %) 
System 
response 
time 
Gaussian (Floating) 
(I3,F5)(32,32,64) 1268 1241(97.9%) 1257(99.1%) - 
Laplacian (Fixed-point) 
(I2,F4)(8,8,16) 1268 1211(95.5%) 1264(99.7%) 1.5RT 
Laplacian (Fixed-point) 
(I2,F4)(8,8,16) DS 2.5 1268 1214(95.8%) 1260(99.4%) 1.1RT 
Laplacian (Fixed-point) 
(Trained by noised data) 
(I2,F4)(8,8,16) DS 2.5 
1268 1190(93.9%) 1254(98.9%) 1.1RT 
 
Table 2. Performance for Mandarin isolated word recognition under different SNR level with real car 
environment noise corruption. 
HMM model type Total Sentence SNR 
Top1 
Correct number
Top5 
Correct 
number 
CLaplacian (Fixed-point) 
(I2,F4)(8,8,16) DS 2.5 1268 18db 1220(96.2%) 1259(99.3%) 
CLaplacian (Fixed-point) 
(I2,F4)(8,8,16)  DS 2.5 1268 12db 1212(95.6%) 1260(99.4%) 
CLaplacian (Fixed-point) 
L(I2,F4)(8,8,16) DS 2.5 1268 6db 1158(91.3%) 1237(97.6%) 
CLaplacian (Fixed-point) 
L(I2,F4)(8,8,16) DS 2.5 1268 0db   848(66.8%) 1045(82.4%) 
子計畫四：Development of a Robot to Help Elderly 
People at Home 
 
4.4.1 Abstract 
 
With increasing number of aging people, taking care of 
the elderly will become more and more important in the 
near future, especially for those elders living alone. This 
paper presents an autonomous robot Rola, which can 
handle certain emergency conditions in a home setting to 
help elderly people through multi-modal sensing and 
control functions. The implemented functions include 
visual tracking, video transmission, location aware, 
navigation, elder pose estimation and emergency call out. 
Rola can accommodate smoothly the movement of the 
elder through face tracking while the elder uses 
robot-assisted video conferencing. Further, Rola follows 
the elder smartly in the living room using the developed 
Zigbee-based location aware system. It avoids obstacles 
in a narrow space using laser range finder. Rola also can 
help the elder as he/she falls down carelessly at home. 
This abnormal motion can be estimated with an 
accelerometer mounted on the waist of the elder. In the 
meanwhile, she approaches to the elder through location 
aware system and provides emergency help through 
automatic call out and wireless video transmission. 
 
4.4.2 INTRODUCTION 
With increasing number of aging people, taking care of the elderly 
people will become more and more important in the near future, 
especially for those elders who live alone. Researchers have been 
working on some forms of elder-care robots to provide assistance in 
daily life of human beings through physical interaction such as 
surveillance, alarms, monitoring and treatment. Situations such as 
accidentally fall of an elder people might cause extreme danger if 
he/she is living alone. In order to handle situations where the elder is 
unable to inform her/his family or doctor immediately, a robot will help. 
An elder-care robot, Rola (Robot of Living Aid) has been developed to 
provide assistance to the elderly and handle these dangerous situations.  
Figure 1.shows a recent picture of Rola, developed in the intelligent 
system control integration (ISCI) Lab, NCTU. On top of the robot, a 
pan-tilt USB camera is equipped to track a human face. A touch panel 
provides a convenient interface between the robot and a user. A laser 
ranger finder is put onboard the robot for obstacle  
 
 
avoidance. The motion platform has two independent-derive wheel 
and a free caster for balance.A user cancommunicate with Rola by a 
smart phone or PDA via 3G or WLAN. 
In order to handle emergency situations in homer-care, several useful 
functions have been provided for Rola. The architecture of the 
elder-care system is shown in Fig. 2. The system consists of 
Zigbee-based location-aware system, pose estimation module, visual 
tracking and video transmission module, and a navigation system. A 
Zigbee sensor network composed of several Zigbee modules has been 
deployed in the environment to locate the position of the elder. The 
elder, who carries a Zigbee module, can be localized by Rola in the 
room. Further, a pose estimation device (PED) is connected to the 
Zigbee-network module. The complete miniature device is mounted on 
the waist of the elder. The robot is connected to wireless LAN and can 
automatic call out to contact with everyone with preset phone numbers. 
Thus Rola can notify a doctor or family members for emergency help. 
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In section II, the main 
functions of the elder-care system are introduced. Sections III presents 
and discusses the experimental results of locate aware system and pose 
estimation. Finally, section IV gives the conclusions and the directions 
of future researches. 
 
 
Fig. 1.   A recent picture of Rola. 
 
ROI Adaptive Skin Color Thresholding
Face 
Segmentation 
Face 
Detecting
  Web Camera
Tracking Success ?
Pan-Tilt Motion 
Platform
YES
NO
YES
Tracking Control 
Algorithm
Robot Servo 
Controller
Video 
Transmission
 
Fig. 3.  The flowchart of the face tracking system. 
 
 
Fig. 4.  Face tracking experiment under light variation. 
 
As shown in Fig. 5, the procedure of Zigbee-based 
localization is divided into two parts [4]. The first part is 
the building up of a location database; and the second 
part is the estimation of position of an interested object 
carrying a Zigbee tag. Uniform-distributed reference 
points were chosen in the environment for building up 
the database. We collected the received signal 
strength(RSS) between the Zigbee module on a test user 
and each Zigbee module distributed in the environment 
at chosen reference points and recorded the average RSS 
value using 100 samples at each reference point. A 
feature in the database is a RSS vector 
(xi,yi,ss1i,ss2i,……,ss8i); where (xi , yi) is the location of 
the ith reference point and (ss1i,ss2i,……,ss8i) is the RSS 
of node 1 to node 8, respectively, at the ith  reference 
point.  
When an elder is in the environment, the robot 
receives the RSS between the elder and Zigbee modules 
distributed in the environment all the time. Each Zigbee 
module deployed in the environment measures the RSS 
from the Zigbee module on the elder and transmits the  
環境中的環境中的環境中的
Location database
…
The location of the 
elder 
機器人身上
Zigbee 
module_8
in the 
environment
Zigbee 
module_2
in the 
environment
Zigbee 
module_1
in the 
environment
Location 
matching
Zigbee module
on the
robot
Zigbee module
on the elder
Estimate 
SS1 SS2 SS8
 
Fig. 5.  Block diagram of Zigbee location aware system. 
 
RSS to the robot; where the location of the elder is 
determined. Our method picks up three shortest distances 
between the observed signal strength and all the entries 
in the database. Below is the formula to determine the 
distance L between observed signal strength (ss1’ ss2’… 
ss8’) and an entry in the database (ss1 ss2… ss8) ： 
1
28 2j j
j 1
L SS ' SS
=
⎡ ⎤= −⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦∑                     
(1) 
 
 
Fig. 8.  The developed pose estimation device (PED). 
 
 
3-axis
accelerolation
Signal 
preprocessing
Distinguish the user in 
action or rest
Gait detection
and gait classification 
preprocessing 
Wavelet transform
Calculate 
eigenparameter
Classification
from tilt angle
1. falling 3. sitting 6. going 
upstairs
ActionRest
Falling or not
Fall Is not 
detected
4. lying2. standing 7. going 
downstairs
5. walking
 
Fig. 9.  The flow chart of pose estimation algorithm. 
 
 
Fig. 10.  Separation of static and dynamic acceleration from original 
acceleration 
 
user is in rest state or in action state. If the user is in rest  
state, the pose of the user is classified into standing, 
sitting, and lying. 
Otherwise, the pose will be classified into walking, 
going upstairs, going downstairs by parameter calculated 
after wavelet transform. 
 
 
Fig.11.  Experimental results of SMV
 E. System Integration 
Fig.12 shows the state diagram implemented on Rola to 
handle an emergency situation when the elder falls down 
in a home setting. When the elder falls down accidentally, 
the PED mounted on his/her waist detects the accident by 
using the criteria presented in previous paragraph. When 
PED detects the accidental fall, it notifies Rola through 
Zigbee wireless network. As Rola knows that the elder 
falls down, it will send a warning message automatically 
to the elder’s family members and the home doctor as 
assigned. Then Rola localizes the elder by the location 
aware system and starts to move towards the elder. The 
robot tracks the elder through the face tracking system 
and sends the real-time imagery taken by the onboard 
camera to the remote site of the elder’s family members. 
The elder’s family can be informed the condition of the 
elder once she/he falls. Therefore, the safety of the 
elderly people living alone can be improved by the 
elder-care robot---Rola. 
 
4.4.4 The experimental results 
The section presents the experimental results of 
Zigbee locate aware system and pose estimation of the 
proposed elder-care system. 
A. The Experimental Results of Zigbee Localization 
In a corridor environment, we built the location 
database using 39 reference points. All reference points 
are 80 cm apart. We took the location of five nearest 
neighbors to estimate the elder’s position. The 
experimental results is shown in Table I. M is the number 
of the nearest location to estimate the elder’s position. 
The second column of Table I shows the error of the 
position estimation result from averaging the location of 
three nearest neighbors to estimate the elder’s position. 
The third and fourth column of Table I, respectively, 
show the errors of the position result from averaging the 
location of four and five nearest neighbors for estimating 
the elder’s position. 
In this implementation, the average error of Zigbee 
localization is 1.26 m. This is acceptable for the vision 
system to initialize tracking of a person. 
Chipcon CC2420 
ZigBee Chip 
Atmel Atmega128L 
microcontroller 
Freescale MMA7260
3- axis accelerometer
TABLE II THE EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS OF POSE ESTIMATION 
actual pose 
 
estimated 
pose 
Sit Stand Walking Moving upstairs
Moving 
downsta
irs 
Fall Lying 
Sit 89 0 0 0 0 0 0 
Stand 11 100 0 0 0 0 0 
Walking 0 0 91 10 14 0 0 
Moving upstairs 0 0 5 85 3 0 0 
Moving downstairs 0 0 4 0 79 0 0 
Fall 0 0 0 0 1 94 0 
Lying 0 0 0 0 0 0 100 
Default 0 0 0 5 3 6 0 
Accurate Rate 89% 100% 91% 85% 79% 94% 100% 
 
子計畫五： Occluded Objective Recognition and 
Speaker Direction Estimation System for Home-Care 
Applications 
 
4.5.1 Abstract 
This work proposes an occluded objective recognition 
and speaker direction estimation system for home-care 
applications. In occluded objective recognition, this work 
overcomes the occluded problem using 2D images and 
tries to detect the occluded part of an object. The global 
information is extracted for combining local information 
to overcome the occluded problem. A GMM background 
removal system is employed to extract the foreground 
object and then the contour of the foreground object is 
extracted using morphological operation. A split process 
is proposed to detect the dominant points of an object 
using the extracted contour information. In speaker 
direction estimation, a real-time speaker direction 
estimation system using eight microphones has been 
developed to estimate two-dimensional direction of 
speaker. This system which contains a microphone array 
platform, principal frequencies selection mechanism, 
voice activity detection and direction of arrival 
estimation system can estimate speaker direction 
automatically. The effectiveness of the proposed system 
is demonstrated by the experiments in indoor 
environment. 
 
4.5.2 INTRODUCTION 
 
In the digital homecare system, human posture is an 
important factor. Vision information is useful for 
deciding human posture. However, the occlusion affects 
the shape of object and the extracted features. It is 
difficult to establish a database by using all kinds of 
occluded objects. In this work, using perfect objects to 
establish a database is proposed to overcome the effect 
about occlusion.  
In the occluded object recognition, the global 
information is separated for combing local information. 
The occlusion only affects local features and the other 
features can be matched when the system adopts local 
features. 
In the speaker direction estimation, the idea of using 
multiple microphones to localize sound sources has been 
developed for a long time. In the noisy environment, the 
conventional delay estimation methods in time domain [1] 
or in frequency domain [2-3] can’t obtain satisfied 
results. In this paper, a real-time speaker direction 
estimation system using eight microphones has been 
proposed and implemented in this paper. The objective of 
the speaker direction estimation system is to estimate the 
speaker’s direction automatically for home-care 
applications (e.g., posture recognition). The speaker 
direction estimation system consists of a self-designed 
microphone array platform and an automatic Direction of 
Arrival (DOA) estimation system. The microphone array 
acquisition system is an USB based platform with low 
cost and flexible advantages. A customized wide band 
eigenstructure based DOA estimation algorithm is 
proposed in this system. This method is based on a blind 
DOA estimation algorithm called MUSIC [4] with 
modification to decrease computing cost. Since the major 
target of the speaker direction estimation is human, Voice 
Activity Detection (VAD) process [5] is implemented 
before the MUSIC algorithm to ensure an appropriate 
time for estimating sound source. 
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. 
Section II illustrates occluded objective recognition. 
Section III presents the speaker direction estimation 
system. Section IV shows the experimental results of  
the proposed system. The conclusion is made in the last 
section. 
 
4.5.3 Occluded Objective Recognition 
A. Extract the contour of object 
1. Background Removal 
The background removal system establishes the 
background model by using GMM (Gaussian mixture 
model). The parameters of the background model are 
updated by using the motion of the successive images. 
The system combines the GMM of the color and gradient 
information to determine the foreground parts of the 
input image with the consideration of highlight and 
shadow effects. 
2. Edge and Contour Extraction 
A simple and fast edge detection method is applied to 
 
 
Fig. 3 shows the results of Tec-Chin[7], Ray-Ray[8], 
Wu[9], M-Pepe[6] and the proposed method. It shows 
that the proposed method detects less dominant points 
than other methods and still represents the entire shape 
well. 
C. Extract the local features: Angle and Length ratio 
Assume that the dominant points of an object are 
included in a set D, which is composed of n   points id , 
and is described as (3).  
}  ,    ,  , { 21 ndddD ⋅⋅⋅⋅=                                                                  
(3) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Angle and length ratio are extracted as features. They are 
efficient and representative information and independent 
from translation, rotation and scale. The features extract 
from the neighbor of dominant points are represented in 
(4). 
1−
=
=
m
m
m
mm
l
lRatio
Angle θ
                                    
(4) 
Fig. 4 shows the example to extract the features. The 
angle is extracted from count-clockwise between 
neighbor dominant points. The sign ml is distance 
between neighbor dominant points. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The features of an entire object are represented as (5), 
where n denotes the number of dominant points. 
nmRatioAnglef
fffF
mmm
n
≤≤=
⋅⋅⋅⋅=
1    },   , {
 }   ,  ,  , { 21                 (5) 
D. Recognition system 
The recognition process contains two stages: segment 
matching and group matching. The segment matching 
stage finds all the matching features between the 
unknown object and the candidate object. The group 
matching finds the correct matching parts and detects the 
occluded part of the object of the segment matching 
table. 
1. Segment matching 
The segment matching compares the unknown object 
and the candidate object according to (6) 
where θT and 1T are threshold values. In the experiment, 
3.1  ,30 1 == TTθ . 
         1       
    ||       
1
1
T
Ratio
Ratio
T
and
TAngleAngle
D
i
O
j
O
j
D
i
≤≤
≤− θ                         
(6) 
2. Group matching 
  The group matching stage finds the correct 
matching parts by detecting the successive matching 
parts, and detects the occluded part of the unknown 
object by detecting the unmatched parts of the segment 
matching table.     
3. Detect the occluded parts 
After group matching, the best matching result of the 
database is determined. The system detects the 
unmatched parts of the two objects. If the number of 
unmatched parts is more than a threshold, then the 
system marks the occluded parts of the contour of 
unknown object. Fig. 5 shows an example of detected 
occluded part of an object.  
  
(a) unknown object (b)best matching result 
Fig. 5. Mark the occluded parts (blue points) 
 
4.5.4 Speaker Direction Estimation 
 
The overall speaker direction estimation system 
architecture is illustrated in Fig. 6.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The speaker direction estimation system can be 
  
Teh-Chi algorithm[7] Ray-Ray algorithm[8] 
  
Wu algorithm[9] M-Pepe algorithm[6] 
 
The proposed algorithm 
Fig. 3. The comparison among the proposed and other methods. 
 
Fig. 4. The example of feature extraction 
)(1 nx
)(2 nx
)(nxM
M
Fig. 6. Speaker direction estimation system  
PQLwXwXww
QLsQs
>>= )}(ˆ,),(ˆ{}ˆ,,ˆ{ 11 KK                   
(19) 
However, the principal frequencies of speech stage 
may overlap those of silent stage. Hence, the new 
 
Fig. 7. The flowchart of the proposed method. 
significant frequencies can be written as (20) to be more 
representative for speech stage.    
}ˆ,,ˆ{}ˆ,,ˆ{}ˆ,,ˆ{ 111 nPnsQsvRv wwwwww KKK −=                                     
(20) 
Hence, the computational complexity of (18) can be 
reduced by considering only R  significant frequencies 
from (20) and the speakers’ directions are determined by 
finding the peaks of MUSIC spectrum: 
∑
=
= R
r
vrivrNvr
H
i
i
wAwwA
R
J
1
)ˆ()ˆ()ˆ(1
1)(
P
θ   
 
4.5.5 Experimental Results 
 
A. Occluded Objective Recognition 
Fig. 7 shows the flowchart of occluded object 
recognition system. It divides into database construction 
and object recognition stages. In the experiment, object 
database contains 8 objects which are shown in Fig. 8 
and the dominant points of the objects are shown in Fig. 
9. The database has been constructed by using the 
complete object images. In the occluded test, the shape 
of object has been occluded by user’s hand. The 
experiment tries to test the tolerance of the occluded 
object. The 20% and 40% occluded objects have been 
used to test the tolerance of the system. Fig. 10 shows an 
example of detected dominant points of occluded objects. 
Fig. 11 displays the results of occluded part detection, 
where the blue points represent the detected occluded 
parts of the objects. In Table 2, the recognition rate of the 
40% occluded images is around 75%.  
B. Speaker Direction Estimation 
In the speaker direction estimation system, the 
experiment was performed in a room approximately of 
the size 10.5 m x 7.2 m and height of 3.6 m. A uniform 
circular array of 8 microphones with 17.5 cm radius is 
constructed for the experiment. The uniform circular 
array geometry can provide 360° azimuthal coverage and 
information on source elevation angles. Ten major 
frequencies, ranging from 0.1 KHz to 2.8 KHz, were 
adopted for the proposed DOA estimation system and the 
sampling rate is 16 KHz, 16 bit. The experimental 
conditions of DOA estimation are shown in Fig. 12, 
where the signals from speech 1 to speech 9 are speech 
signals; noise 1 is an air conditioning noise. Two cases, 
single source and double sources, were tested in this 
experiment to evaluate the performance of the proposed 
system. 
 
1. bear 2. funnel 3.container 4. cup 
 
5. phone 6. adhesive 7. base 8. dinosaur 
Fig. 8. The database contains 8 object. 
  
 
1. bear 2. funnel 3.container 4. cup 
   
5. phone 6. adhesive 7. base 8. dinosaur 
Fig. 9. The dominant points (red points) of the 8 objects shown in Fig. 
8. 
 
1. bear 2. funnel 3.container 4. cup 
 
5. phone 6. adhesive 7. base 8. dinosaur 
Fig.10.The dominant points (red points) of the occluded objects 
Table 1. The recognition rate with 20% occlusion 
The Index of Object Recognition 
Result 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Total
# of Database 3 3 3 2 3 2 4 5 
1 34 3 7 4 2 0 8 2 
2 3 35 0 1 1 0 0 0 
3 1 0 32 1 0 2 1 0 
4 2 2 1 33 0 0 0 0 
5 0 0 0 0 36 0 1 0 
6 0 0 0 0 0 36 0 0 
7 0 0 0 0 0 0 30 0 
 
 
Categor
y 
of  
Result 
(#) 
8 0 0 0 1 1 2 0 38
25 
Recognition 
rate (%) 
85 87
.5
80 82
.5 
90 90 75 95 85.6
3 
Table 2. The recognition rate with 40% occlusion 
The Index of Object Recognition 
Result 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Total
# of Database 3 3 3 2 3 2 4 5 
1 31 6 8 9 3 2 10 5 
2 6 32 0 0 4 1 0 1 
3 1 0 28 1 0 0 3 0 
4 0 0 3 27 0 1 0 1 
5 0 0 0 0 31 1 0 0 
6 0 0 0 0 1 32 0 0 
7 0 2 1 1 1 0 26 0 
 
 
Categor
y 
of  
Result 
(#) 
8 2 0 0 2 0 3 1 33
25 
Recognition 
rate (%) 
77
.5
80 70 67
.5 
77
.5 
80 65 82
.5
75 
