    附件一為運用 RFID 在大眾運輸工具上，如此即可在大眾運輸工具服務的期間辨別及追蹤增
加資訊透通性，亦能確保其沿著路線行駛並準確地估計到達時間；對於顧客而言也可縮短等待
時間增加顧客滿意度，車輛的派遣上也可減少班次。 
    附件二相關於逆物流，其對於電子產品最終廢棄物提出了一種回收網絡，是多產品逆向物
流體系之成本的最小化模型。此模型考慮了成本收集、處理、運輸以及銷售收入亦可幫助確認
最佳的設施和物資流動網絡。 
 
附件一: 
Abstract. Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) has been heralded as one of the technologies that 
will fundamentally transform the industries. After years of hype, the adoption of RFID remains weak. 
This is due in part to the technology itself but also the economy and the overall strategy of the 
applications. In this research, the conditions in which RFID adoption is applicable are first synthesized. 
The merit of RFID is then further exploited for the public transportation applications. By employing 
RFID along with other communication technologies, public transportation vehicles can be identified 
and tracked during their services. With the ability to “calibrate” where exactly such vehicles are along 
their routes, the arrival time for the vehicles to the stops can be estimated more accurately. Customers 
can then keep shorter lead time to meet the vehicle schedule; service providers may on the other hand 
provide the same level of customer service with less frequent vehicle services. 
Keywords: Radio Frequency Identification, Information Visibility, Intelligent Transportation Systems, 
Cost and Benefit Analysis, Headway 
1 Introduction 
 
Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) has been one the most anticipated emerging technologies 
during the past ten years. However, many companies are still questioning if RFID is really a 
transformational technology or just an expensive bar code in disguise. In 2003, Wal-Mart notified its 
top suppliers to start using RFID for managing its supplies (RFID Journal, 2003). In 2004, the US 
Department of Defense announced a similar RFID mandate for its suppliers (Wyld, 2006). These 
mandates by important customers have resulted in the booming of RFID technology adoption, where 
many companies simply follow the mandates and „slap‟ the RFID tags on the goods right before they 
were delivered, without changing business processes nor fully exploiting the true benefit of the 
implementation. To gain beyond this slap-and-ship process, the capability of RFID in the enhancement 
of business processes need to be better understood. Without such justification, companies will remain 
reluctant in the investment and employment of RFID technologies.  
 The main focus of this paper is to discuss the justification of RFID application in public 
transportation systems by analyzing its benefit and cost. Empirical studies showed that the time 
passengers spend outside the transportation vehicle of choice is more onerous than the time they spend 
inside the vehicle in motion to the destination (Ben-Akiva et al, 1985). The waiting time is therefore 
equally important to transportation time in the public transportation business process. The expected 
waiting time can be measured and treated as the service level of public transportation.  
Mishalani et al. (2006) quantified the relationship between perceived and actual waiting times 
experienced by passengers waiting for the arrival of a bus at a bus stop. Through the observation of 83 
prospective bus passengers, it was found that the passengers perceived waiting time is greater than 
actual waiting time. Real-time bus location information could potentially reduce the waiting time for 
the passengers by facilitating better estimation of bus arrival time. Passengers can then plan on their 
travel more effectively. Furthermore, they may also be able to select a different bus line or an 
alternative mode of transportation to better manage the travel time. The reduction in waiting time and 
thus perceived waiting times could potentially be translated to that of operating costs or the increase of 
passenger satisfaction.  
 Gentile et al. proposed a general framework for determining the probability of boarding a 
particular line at a stop (whether to board the arriving bus or to wait for a faster one) when real-time 
Internet / wireless
Database
 
 
RFID tag
RFID reader
Servers
Middleware 
system layer
Back-end 
Application 
Layer
Data 
Capturing 
Front-end
layer
Workstations
Bus station Bus stops
Passengers’
PDA
Passengers’
notebook
Information display
 in bus stops / stations
RFID 
reader
 
Figure 1. RFID application framework in public transportation system  
 
This proposed information system would provide benefits for both the passengers and the bus 
operators. For passengers, the system will enable better prediction on bus arrival schedule, and 
subsequently reducing the waiting time and travel time. In addition, although the perceived waiting 
time is greater than the actual waiting time, the real-time location information of the buses can 
instigate the perceived to be equal to the actual one, which in turn increases the level of satisfaction 
from passengers.  
For the bus operators, the objective is to manage the dispatch of buses effectively to meet the 
passenger service requirement reflected by the length of the headway. With the real-time bus location 
information, bus operators will be able to improve their operation by varying bus schedules to meet 
unexpected situations. More importantly, as passengers can learn more accurately the arrival time of 
the buses, the frequency of the buses will not need to be as high to meet the same level of passenger 
service requirement. In other words, with the real-time bus location information, it is possible that a 
longer headway can still result in the same average waiting time and the same satisfaction level for the 
passengers. Therefore, the information acquisition and distribution system will either enhance the 
customer service level and/or reduce the operation cost for the bus operator. These benefits can be 
illustrated in Figure 2 below. 
 
 
 
Figure 2. RFID application benefits in public transportation 
Table 1. Estimation result of perceived and actual waiting time 
 
 The passenger waiting cost can be estimated by wage rate per unit time. Based on a previous 
research, the value of bus waiting time was estimated between US$8.5 and US$18. Furthermore, most 
studies reported that passengers value their waiting time at half of their wage rate per hour (Avineri, 
2004). However, the function of the waiting cost with respect to time is not that certain, as occupation, 
travel time to destination, and many other social aspects of the passenger will affect the value of 
waiting time. (Utility function.) 
 
Basic assumptions of the model are as follows: 
1. Arrival of passenger at a bus stop is assumed to be random 
2. For the system with the information, perceived waiting time is assumed to be the same as the 
actual one.  
3. Every bus will experience the same condition during the trip, the running time is stochastic; and 
as soon as the bus arrives at the terminal station, it will return to the starting station along the 
same route. 
4. No limit on bus capacity and bus fleet size. For any optimal headway decision, the buses are 
ready to be operated. 
 
For the passengers arriving randomly at a stop, the probability density function (p.d.f.) of the 
waiting time can be estimated by the p.d.f. of the headway on a specific bus route; and the relationship 
is given as below (Larson et al. 1981): 
      (5) 
where  is the probability density function of the waiting time, is the probability density 
function of the headway, FH(t) is its cumulative distribution function,  = 1-FH(t),  
E[h] is the mean headway, and  is the bus frequency where . 
Furthermore, the mean of the waiting time can be calculated as: 
        (6) 
Marguier et al. (1984) gave the direct result of the mean waiting time as:     
  (7) 
where varH is the variance of the buses headway. 
Each trip is a stochastic process with the p.d.f. of the bus service time in one route being r(t). Therefore, 
the mean running time per trip will be given as: 
        (9) 
The system total cost can then be obtained by putting together operator costs and passenger costs, and 
with h as a decision variable, it can be formulated as follows. 
  min E[Tc│h] = . T             (10) 
 Value Without RFID With RFID 
Cost 
(NT/day) 
Headway 
(minutes) 
Cost 
(NT/day) 
Headway  
(minutes) 
Cw 150  
264275.5 
10 186839.6 14 
450 458459.1 6 323594.3 8 
Cp 300 264275.5 5 186839.6 7 
900 458391.5 8 323594.3 12 
λa 75 264275.5 10 186839.6 14 
300 528550.9 5 373679.2 7 
μ 1.25 295514.4 9  
264275.5 
 
10 1.5 323594.3 8 
1.75 350054.2 7 
 
It is shown that although we change the parameter to the lower or higher value, the system with RFID 
always have lower system cost and longer headway. Furthermore, when we change the perceived 
waiting time coefficient, the system with RFID also performs better.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2010; Jang and Kim, 2010) are rare or still limited to some specific areas of WEEPs reverse logistics. 
In view of lack of in-depth with respect to WEEPs reverse logistics operations in the literatures, 
this paper presents a recycling network for multi-products reverse logistic system as well as to analyze 
the material and component flows of returned products at treatment and final stage particularly so that 
the cost of the recycling can be achieved effectively. The factors considered in the proposed model 
include the cost of collection, treatment, sales income as well as transportation cost with different 
fractions of returned products. The proposed model is solved by an algebraic modeling package AMPL 
(A Mathematical Programming Language).  
2. Reverse Logistic Model 
Reverse logistics is the collection and transportation of used products and packages [24]. Various 
researchers categorize and classify the reverse logistic process differently. Fleischmann et al. (2000) 
categorized recovery into collection, inspection/separation, re-processing, disposal and re-distribution. 
Liu et al. (2002) and He et al. (2006) defined recovery process as a combination of re-use, service, 
re-manufacture, recycle, and disposal, where as Thierry et al. (1995) divided recovery into repair, 
refurbish, remanufacture, cannibalize, and recycle. Bereketli et al. (2010) showed that re-use, recycling, 
and disposal are generally three different ways of treating WEE. These alternatives can be explained as 
follows: 
Re-use is the second-hand trading of products for use as originally designed. Re-useable parts can 
be removed from the product, returned to a manufacturer where they can be reconditioned and 
assembled into new products [2]; Recycling (with or without disassembly) includes the treatment, 
recovery, and reprocessing of materials contained in the used products or component in order to 
replace the virgin materials in the production of new goods [10]; Re-manufacturing is the process of 
removing specific parts of the waste product for further reuse in new products [10]; Disposal is the 
processes of incineration (with or without energy recovery) or landfill [10]. 
In this paper, the proposed model is a formulation for the reverse logistics network design 
problems. The network is a multi-period multi-echelon, where it consists of collection sites, 
disassembly sites, treatment sites (recycling centre and repairing centre), final sites (disposal facility, 
primary and secondary market), as shown in Fig. 1. The objective of the proposed model is to 
minimize the total cost of the system including transportation cost, processing, operation cost, and 
disposal costs. Locations of each site are collection, disassembly, treatment, and final sites.  
DisassemblyCollection
Recycling
Repairing 
Disposal
Primary 
Market
Secondary 
Market
        
   Waste/disposal items
Directly reuse 
components
Sub-assembly
Faulty 
components
Hazardous/non-
recyclable 
materials 
Recovery 
materials
Renewable 
components
          
Returned 
products
 
Component 
C1($20,1)
Product 
P1 ($20,1)
Component 
C2 ($4,1)
Sub-assembly
S1($4,2)
Disposal 
D1($2,1)
Faulty 
component
C3 ($3,1)
Renewable 
component
R2( $3,1)
Hazardous /non-
recyclable
R1($2,2)
Recovery 
material
M1($2,3)
 
Figure 2. Disassembly tree for product P1 
 
The mathematical model with provides all of the above mentioned decisions and its formulation 
are presented below. 
3. Formulation of the model 
The various assumptions considered in the proposed model are described below: 
1. The model is a multi-echelon multi-returned products;  
2. The collection and final sites are fixed in this model; 
3. The capabilities of disassembly, repairing, recycling facilities are limited; 
4. The unit of transportation cost is linearly related to distance; 
5. Cost parameters (fixed, material, operation, transportation, recycling, disassembly, and disposal costs) are 
known for each location.  
6. The holding cost, storage cost and shortage cost are not considered. 
The indices used in the proposed model are described as follows: 
 :  index of collection sites , 1,... ;c c C  
 :  index of disassembly sites ,  1,... ;d d D  
 : index of recycling facilities, 1,... ;l l L  
 : index of repair facilities, 1,... ;f f F  
 : index of disposal facilities, 1,... ;k k K  
 : index of secondary market facilities, 1,... ;r r R  
 : index of primary market facilities , 1,.... ;p p P  
:  number of product types;dm  
: number of sub-assembly components;lm  
: number of faulty  components;fm  
   1.... ;h pm M M   
 : maximum capacity of handing product  at disassembly site ,  ,  1... ;dm dG m d d D m M   
 : maximum capacity of handing product  at recycling facility ,  L,  1.. ;lm d lG m l l m M M    
 : maximum capacity of handing product  at repair facility , ,  1... ;fm k fG m f f F m M M    
:  The unit cost of disposal component and non-recyclabe  material formU  
   p  1... 1... ;r k qm M M M M     
 : the operation cost of product  at disassembly site ,  ,  1... ;dm dO m d d D m M   
 : the operation cost of product  at  recycling facility ,  ,  1.. ;lm d lO m l l L m M M    
 
     f
: the operation cost of product  at repair facility ,  ,  1...
and the revenues from directly reusable component, recycled or repaired type 
1...  M 1... 1.... ;
fm k f
l r h h p
O m f f F m M M
m
m M M M M M
  
     
 
:  the demand at collection site c for returned product , , .cm vb m c C m S    
The decision variables involved in this paper are described below:
 
cdmX : the amount of products m at collection site c is transported to disassembly site d,
 
dkmX : the amount of components m at disassembly site d is transported to disposal facilities k, 
dlmX : the amount of components m at disassembly site d is transported to recycling facilities l, 
dfmX : the amount of components m at disassembly site d is transported to repair facilities f, 
drmX : the amount of components m at disassembly site d is transported to secondary market facilities r, 
frmX : the amount of components m at repair facilities f is transported to secondary market facilities r, 
lpmX : the amount of components m at recycling facilities l is transported to primary market facilities p, 
lkmX : the amount of components m at recycling facilities l is transported to disposal facilities k, 
dY  : 0-1 variable, dY =1 represents building disassembly facility at d otherwise dY = 0,  
lY : 0-1 variable, lY =1 represents building recycling facility at l otherwise lY = 0, 
fY : 0-1 variable, fY =1 represents building repair facility at f otherwise fY = 0. 
The objective function of the model is to minimize the total cost of the entire recycling network. 
Total cost = Transportation cost + operation cost +fixed cost + disposal cost – revenue of sell reclaimable and 
renewable materials and components. 
 
1 1
 for , 1....                                     (12)
L L
lpm lpm pm h p
l l
X X D p P m M M
 
      
Constraints (10), (11), (12) make sure that the amount of components and recovery materials can not exceed the 
demand for primary market and secondary market. 
 
C
c 1
 for , 1....                                               (13)cdm dm dX G d D m M

    
 
D
d 1
 for , 1....                                       (14)dlm lm d lX G l L m M M

     
 
D
d 1
 for  , 1....                                 (15)dfm fm k fX G f F m M M

     
,, , , , , ,  0   , , , , , , ,            (16)cdm dkm dlm drm frm lpm dfm lkmX X X X X X X X c d k l r p m f   
, , , , , , , , , , , , , ,   integers                                   (17)c d l f k p r m C D L F K P R  
, , :  binary  , ,                                                                    (18)d l fY Y Y d l f
 
Constraint (13) means the amount of returned products sent from collection site c to disassembly site d cannot exceed 
its maximum capacity; Constraint (14) ensures that the units received by recycling facilities l from disassembly site d 
cannot exceed its maximum capacity; Constraint (15) limits the unit which is sent from disassembly site d to repairing 
facilities f to the capacity of repairing facilities f; Constraint (16) means all decision variables are non-negative; 
Constraint (17) ensures all indices of returned products, collection site, disassembly site, recycling facilities, repairing 
facilities, and final sites are integer; Constraint (18) means whether the disassembly facility at point d, recycling 
facility at point l, repairing facility at point f is built or not.
 
 
率，茲將其效益整理如下： 
（一）大副降低棧板、外箱辨識比對以及人工等待處理的時間與人力成本； 
（二）有效提升資訊的準確性以及即時性； 
（三）杜絕管理上的人為錯誤與弊端； 
（四）降低缺貨發生的機率，有效提升庫存周轉；對物流中心的營運效率將產生
莫大的裨益。 
    此外，RFID 亦有助於提高物流市場流通效率，規範物流市場秩序。針對目
前我國農村農產品、糧食物流和農民消費品物流、應急物流等缺乏有效監管的現
狀，通過 RFID 技術的應用能夠快速、準確地採集相關數據，在企業及供應鏈範
圍內保證數據資訊的及時性、安全性、可靠性和有效性，全程監控各類數據資訊。
同時，應用 RFID技術結合感測器技術及無線技術，可以實現物品在途狀態監控，
幫助相關部門在存儲和運輸過程中對重要物品(食品、藥品、危險品、重要物資
等)進行管理和監督。預期隨著成本的降低以及各種應用軟硬體的日趨成熟，RFID 
於物流中心廣泛應用的時代已經近在咫尺。另外，導入 RFID 的技術，除了作業
的效率提昇外，也可以帶來許多新的應用，如：貨品的即時追蹤、位置偵測等應
用。 
    此次研討會中談論到許多相關的主題如: Supply Chain Control Using a RFID 
Proxy Re-Signature Scheme、Privacy-preserving Clone Detection for RFID-enabled 
Supply Chains、Cryptographic Puzzles and Distance-bounding Protocols: Practical 
Tools for RFID Security、Privacy Protection for RFID-based Tracking Systems 等皆
對近日於RFID在物流的運用研究上有相當大的幫助，不僅了解到現今趨勢，為
本研究注入新概念及新想法，相信也會帶來新的啟發並創造出卓越的研究。 
本校亦設有台灣 RFID 教育暨研發實驗資源中心，此次前往，擬與國際學者
交流，並爭取於台灣舉辦該會議的可能性。 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：周碩彥 計畫編號：98-2221-E-011-050- 
計畫名稱：資訊透通性對運籌管理效益提升之研究(I) 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 2 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 3 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
