Figure 1. Time-division multiple-access relay channel (MARC) topology
combinations to D in time-slot two. In this scenario, the
relay node is not just a receive-and-forward station. Instead,
it integrates distributed channel coding into cooperative
communication.
B. Joint Network-Channel coding system
The proposed system model is a joint channel and network
coding based on soft decision fusion for the time-division
MARC as shown in Fig. 2(a). It is an expanded version of
Fig. 1, where more details are provided. At each source node,
the information packets are protected against transmission
errors by the same channel coding scheme. In this paper,
we use the Universal Mobile Telephone Systems (UMTS)
turbo encoder to generate the output packets as shown in
Fig. 2(b) [12]. The code bits sent by V1 and V2 are denoted
as x1 and x2, respectively. The code bits are either 0 or 1.
By assuming that BPSK modulation is adopted, the code
bits 0 and 1 are converted to signal symbols −1 and +1,
respectively. All channels in this model are assumed to be
quasi-static Rayleigh fading, which means that the fading
gain in each channel remains constant during one packet
duration and changes independently between packets. We
also assume that perfect channel state information (CSI)
is available when a node receives signals. So, the received
signals at node R and D from node V1 or V2 at time-slot
one are
x˜i,R = hi,R · (2 · xi − 1) + ni,R, (1)
x˜i,D = hi,D · (2 · xi − 1) + ni,D, (2)
for i = 1, 2. In the two equations above, hi,R and hi,D are
the channel gain between source node Vi and node R or
D, respectively; ni,R and ni,D are the additive Gaussian
white noise (AWGN) with zero mean and variance σ2V R
and σ2V D, respectively. Similarly, let s denote the signal
delivered from node R in time-slot two. The received
signal s˜R,D at node D from node R can be modelled as
s˜R,D = hR,D · (2 ·s−1)+nR,D, where hR,D is the channel
gain between node R and D, and nR,D is the AWGN noise
with zero mean and variance σ2RD. The channel gain hi,j
are modelled as a statistically independent Rayleigh random
variable constrained by E[h2i,j ] = 1 for i ∈ {1, 2, R} and
j ∈ {R,D}.
We adopt identical turbo coding scheme in the source
nodes. At the receiver, the turbo decoder outputs the prob-
abilities of the received bits being 0 or 1. In particular, in
Fig. 2(a), the turbo decoder at the destination node D outputs
the probabilities Pr(m1,D = 0), Pr(m2,D = 0), and
Pr(mR,D = 0). With the decision fusion scheme, then, the
destination node tries to combine those three probabilities
to produce an improved estimates for Pr(m1 = 0) and
Pr(m2 = 0), where m1 and m2 are the message bits sent by
source nodes V1 and V2, respectively. Since this kind of de-
cision fusion is probability-oriented (more exactly speaking,
both input and output are probabilities), we call this scheme
by the name of probabilistic decision fusion. The exact
computation procedure to fulfil this probabilistic decision
fusion will be described in the next section. In Fig. 2(a), we
see that there is a network encoder in the relay node R. It is a
mapping that combines the decoded bits mˆ1,R and mˆ2,R into
another bit mR = f(mˆ1,R, mˆ2,R). In general, this function
can take any form. To simplify relevant discussion in this
paper, however, we adopt f(mˆ1,R, mˆ2,R) = mˆ1,R ⊕ mˆ2,R,
as shown in Fig. 2(c). Due to the puncturing in the turbo
encoders in V1, V2, and R (see Fig. 2(b)), the code bits x1,
x2, and s can be complementary or redundant. When those
code bits are complementary, we need all of them to make
unambiguous decoding in the destination node. When those
code bits are redundant, we can regard the situation as a
scheme of cooperative diversity.
For the wireless MARC network shown in Fig. 1, we
define the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) as the ratio of the
average power per message bit arriving at the receiver to
the spectral density of the noise. The paths from the source
nodes V1 and V2 to the destination node D are assumed
to have the same SNR, which is denoted by Eb/N0 =
1/(Rsys ·2σ2V D) = γV D, where Rsys is the overall code rate
of the system (i.e. the ratio of the total number of message
bits sent out by V1 and V2 to the total number of code bits
sent out by V1, V2, and R). Similarly, we assume that the
SNRs of the path from both source nodes to the relay node
are the same and are denoted by γV R. Generally speaking, in
the MARC scenario, γV R is larger than γV D. In other words,
γV R = γV D + γδ (measured in terms of dB), where γδ
is a positive number. For practical wireless communication
environment, we refer to the Okumura-Hata model [13]
and some radio wave propagation parameters from Third-
Generation Partnership Project (3GPP) [12] standards to
calculate γδ . If it is assumed that the distance between both
source nodes and the relay node is one-fourth of the distance
between both source nodes and the destination node, then
the value of γδ is 21.2 dB. By similar reasoning, we have
γRD = γV D + γ
′
δ. Depending on the relative positions
between the nodes in the network, γ′δ can take different
321
Pr
(0)
fu (mˆ1,D) =
Pr
(0)
ch (mˆ1,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆR,D) + Pr(0)ch (mˆ1,D) · Pr(1)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(1)ch (mˆR,D)
Δch(mˆD)
,
P r
(0)
fu (mˆ2,D) =
Pr
(0)
ch (mˆ1,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆR,D) + Pr(1)ch (mˆ1,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(1)ch (mˆR,D)
Δch(mˆD)
,
P r
(0)
fu (mˆR,D) =
Pr
(0)
ch (mˆ1,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆR,D) + Pr(1)ch (mˆ1,D) · Pr(1)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆR,D)
Δch(mˆD)
,
Δch(mˆD) = Pr
(0)
ch (mˆ1,D · Pr(0)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆR,D) + Pr(0)ch (mˆ1,D) · Pr(1)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(1)ch (mˆR,D)
+ Pr(1)ch (mˆ1,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(1)ch (mˆR,D) + Pr(1)ch (mˆ1,D) · Pr(1)ch (mˆ2,D) · Pr(0)ch (mˆR,D), (4)
probabilistic-decision-fusion-aided joint channel and net-
work decoding over three reference schemes are shown in
this section.
A. Reference Schemes for Comparison
In addition to the simulation on our proposed scheme,
simulations were also performed on three reference schemes
for the purpose of comparison. They are briefly described
below.
(1) Point-to-point scheme
This reference scheme simply uses UMTS turbo encoder
at each source node. The source node then sends its data
via a point-to-point link connected to the destination node.
Network coding is not incorporated in this scheme.
(2) Separate network channel coding (SNCC)
This is a conventional network and channel coding
scheme [3]. In it, hard decisions, rather than soft decisions,
are used as the input to both the channel decoding and the
network decoding. Effectively, it is exactly Fig. 3 with the
“Probabilistic decision fusion” block being removed.
(3) Hausl’s joint network-channel coding (Hausl’s JNCC)
Hausl and Dupraz [4] proposed a joint iterative network-
channel decoding scheme. In it, the relay node alternatively
encodes, punctures and selects data bits from the two
source codes. At the destination node, the signals received
from the relay and the sources are then combined and fed
into turbo decoding.
B. Experimental results
In our simulation, the massage block length was 1500
bits in each source node so that total number of message
bits was 3000 for the MARC system in Fig. 1. In the point-
to-point scheme, we adopted a code rate of 1/2 for each
source node so that the total number of the delivered code
bits was 6000 and the system code rate was Rsys = 1/2.
All the other schemes with relay nodes adopted a code rate
of 3/4 at each source node and relay node to obtain an
overall system code rate of Rsys = 1/2. Each of V1 and
V2 sent out a large number of data packets (in the order
of tens of thousands, more for higher SNR’s). Each packet
was faded by a normalized Rayleigh random gain, where
the word “normalized” preceding Rayleigh emphasizes that
the second moment (physically interpreted, the average
power gain) of this Rayleigh random variable is 1. The
Rayleigh-faded packets were then corrupted with AWGN,
under various SNR conditions. The received signals at the
relay and the destination were then processed as described
previously in Sec. III and Sec. IV-A.
The experimental results are shown in Fig. 4 and Fig. 5,
with the relevant SNR parameters described in the captions.
Both figures show a common trend: (1) the proposed scheme
outperforms Hausl’s JNCC, (2) JNCC outperforms SNCC,
(3) SNCC outperforms the point-to-point scheme. Further
investigation (both by theoretical derivation and by checking
the experimentally-obtained curves carefully) shows that the
BER of the point-to-point scheme is inversely proportional
to the SNR, while the BER’s of the other three schemes are
inversely proportional to the square of the SNR. The reason
is that all the schemes except the point-to-point scheme pro-
vide diversity against Rayleigh fading. In network topologies
where a destination node can receive signals from even more
paths (note that in Fig. 1 it is just three), the effect of
BER improvement by diversity is expected to be even more
obvious.
V. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we have proposed the method of probabilis-
tic decision fusion and incorporate it into network coding. It
is a scheme that combines the probabilities regarding several
received bits (or symbols, in general) into the probabilities
regarding some data bits (or symbols) of interest (usually
the ones sent by source nodes). We apply this method to a
multiple-access relay channel, where joint channel coding
(by turbo codes) and network coding (by the proposed
scheme, or SNCC, or Hausl’s JNCC, etc.) are performed.
Experimental results show that the probabilistic decision
fusion scheme improves the BER performance indeed. The
323
 1 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                              日期：2010年 10月 27日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
   本人於 2010年 4月 11日下午抵達大會會場所在地之飯店(深圳迎賓館),隨即向     
    大會報到並領取開會資料。4月 12日一早我參加了 keynote speakers的 talks,       
    講的是 fountain code 及 green communication(亦即節能的通訊技術); 接著  
    一天之中便是各個作者分別發表他們的文章, 我選了自己有興趣的題目仔細的       
    去聽講。我自己的論文發表是安排在第二天(亦即 4月 13日)的早上,我順利作了 
    演講,並在當場與事後和一些學者作了一些討論。在第二天下午及第三天會議持 
計畫編號 NSC 98－2221－E－011－054－ 
計畫名稱 基於軟式決策熔合之較佳網路編碼機制 
出國人員
姓名 
賴坤財 
服務機構
及職稱 
台科大電子系副教授 
會議時間 
2010年4 月12 日
至 
2010年 4月 14 日 
會議地點 
Shenzhen, China 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2010年世界研究協會通訊與行動計算國際研討會 
(英文) 2010 WRI International Conference on Communications and Mobile 
Computing 
發表論文
題目 
(中文) 機率式決策熔合於渦輪編碼多重存取中繼通道中之網路編碼
機制之應用 
(英文) Application of probabilistic decision fusion to network coding 
over turbo-coded multiple-access relay channels 
附件四 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2010/12/20
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 基於軟式決策熔合之較佳網路編碼機制
計畫主持人: 賴坤財
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-011-054- 學門領域: 通訊
無研發成果推廣資料
研討會論文 2 2 80% 
(1) K. T. Lay and H. 
H. 
Chen, ＇Diversified 
turbo equalization 
for mitigating 
multipath Rayleigh 
fading,＇ in Proc. 
Intelligent 
Buildings and Smart 
Homes Conf. 
(IBASH2009), Taipei 
Taiwan, pp. 131-133, 
Nov. 2009. 14.  
(2) L. C. Peng, B. N. 
Zeng and K. T. 
Lay, ＇Power 
Allocation for 
LDPC-Coded OFDM 
Systems＇ in Proc. 
of 2010 the 6th 
National Workshop on 
Internet and 
Communication 
Technology, Taipei, 
Taiwan, pp. 117-122, 
April 2010. 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  國外 論文著作 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
