2中文摘要
A型流感病毒是一種negative-stranded RNA病毒，包含8段基因，依據病毒表面的基因紅
血球凝集素 (hemagglutinin；HA)及神經胺酸酶 (neuraminidase；NA)分成不同的亞型
(subtype)，目前HA、NA個別已有16、9種亞型被發現。上個世紀A型流感病毒共有三次大
爆發，總共造成大概四千多萬人的死亡，近期2003到2007年A型流感病毒H5N1也有零星的
病例。
傳統用在A型流感病毒診斷及分類上的方法大多為利用血球凝集抑制試驗
(hemagglutinin inhibition test)配合基因序列比對(sequence comparison)之分子診斷(molecular
typing)。生物實驗是以化學反應為基礎，當中可能因為病毒的突變造成實驗的失敗，加上
生物實驗本身就是比較昂貴、費時和費力，所需試劑的更新與取得也常是個問題。基因序
列比對中用來預測亞型的方法是跟已知的病毒來做比對，相對而言既直接又簡單，但是必
須選取具代表性的序列作為比對之參考，因此選定之參考序列不同時，即可能造成結果判
讀之差異。以profile為基礎的基因序列比對改善了傳統的方法，其統計及機率之基礎可使得
眾多同一亞型之序列整合成一個單一profile，免去了必須選取具代表性的序列作為比對參考
之難處，故本研究以統計方法隱藏式馬可夫模型(profile hidden Markov model)為基礎，對統
計模組HMMER version 2.2的預測結果做探勘與分析，以期找到最適合作為A型流感病毒分
類之分子標的，以利分子診斷。
本研究的分析對象為曾感染過人的 HA 亞型，研究目的為找出鑑別度高的 HA 基因區
段以分類各種不同的 A 型流感病毒，並探討亞型之間的關係，特別是對新興 A 型流感病毒
之分析，希望利用計算的方法讓生物學者可以知道較為有利分子診斷之基因片段，以減少
實作生物實驗。
關鍵字：流感病毒、亞型、分子診斷、隱藏式馬可夫模型
4Introduction
Influenza A virus is a negative-stranded RNA virus, consists of eight genomic segments.
Influenza A virus can be divided into subtypes based on major differences of surface proteins
hemagglutinin (HA) and neuraminidase (NA), among them 16 HA antigenic subtypes and 9 NA
antigenic subtypes have been categorized.
Traditional ways of classifying influenza A viruses are primarily based on binding assay.
These web lab diagnostic techniques can often reach in negative result if HA mutation occurs that
leads to antigenic changes. These experiments are also labor-intensive and time-consuming. With
the advancement of molecular sequencing technologies, sequence analysis is alternatively used in
molecular typing of influenza viruses. In those dry-lab methods, however, it is necessary to select
appropriate known representative strains to compare with the unknown one, and therefore the
outcome is very much dependent on the choice of these reference strains. Due to the availability
of massive amount of influenza sequence data, it is now feasible to generate a subtype-specific
‘profile’that is a consensus of all available sequences of this subtype. In this work we analyze the
statistical bit scores computed from the package HMMER based on profile hidden Markov
models, or HMMs. We chose to diagnose, HA subtypes that once infected humans. Our focus is
to identify signature-rich segments for classifying influenza viruses into different subtypes, to
investigate the relationship of influenza viruses among various subtypes, and to identify newly
emerging influenza viruses. Computationally identified HA segments for differentiating one
subtype from the others may also help biologists in better designing their experiments for
diagnosis among other experiments.
Materials and Methods
We have downloaded all available influenza A viral protein sequences from GenBank. Only
HA sequences were retrieved since viral subtypes are directly correlated to this surface gene.
Together there were 8,681 sequences available as of March 2007, including all 16 HA subtypes.
At this moment we have determined to investigate those subtypes that once infected human, that
is, H1, H2, H3, H5, H8 and H9. As a result, six ‘profiles’were each constructed based on those
sequences of the same subtype. Sequences with redundancy were removed to reduce
computational costs. For each subtype (one of six mentioned ones that once infected human) of
collected sequences, we further divided them into training sequences for constructing the profile,
and testing sequences for validating how the profile can be used in differentiating one subtype
from the others. Testing sequences were chosen such that each of them exhibited a minimum sum
of pairwise percentage of similarity (using program needle in EMBOSS package [1]) with respect
to all the other sequences of the same subtype. Ten testing sequences were used for each subtype.
For subtypes that contain less sequence counts, 1/4~1/3 of the total (non-redundant) sequence
counts were used. Table 1 lists the sequences used in this study.
Profile hidden Markov model (HMM) is both statistically and probabilistically intrinsic,
which allows making a quantitative comparison straightforward. Profile HMMs have been
extensively used in Pfam database [2], which offers the search and classification for protein
families. We presented profile HMM method for HA subtypes using the package HMMER
6so on. Or in simple formula, the nth segment contains amino acid positions from 10n9 to
10n+90.
Results & Discussion
Length-specific HMMER bit score distribution for the entire-length HA sequences of
various subtypes with respect to H3 profile HMM is analyzed and shown in Figure 1. In general it
was found that the raw scores are proportionally to the sequence length. There is a clear
separation of H3 (dark blue) and non-H3 sequences, in which H4 strains are found a close
relative to H3.
We further transformed Figure 1 into its slope representation as shown in Figure 2a, in
which all HMMER bit-scores were firstly normalized by their respective sequence length,
followed by being converted to Z-scores. Now the separation between H3 sequences (blue circles)
and non-H3 sequences (red circles) can be easily determined. For finding the HA region that may
yield a better separation between H3 and non-H3 sequences than in Figure 2a, we performed the
segment-based analysis described earlier. Figure 2b and 2c each represents a 100-aa HA segment.
Apparently Figure 2b (#24 segment, or amino acid positions of 231~330) gives a stronger
separation and Figure 2c (#29 segment, or amino acid positions of 281~380) completely loses the
capability for such differentiation.
For evaluating the qualitative performance for standing out the H3 subtype among these
100-aa segments, we proposed two types of distances in Figure 2. The first one is an “internal
distance”–the difference of top H3 score from bottom H3 score (i.e., the span of blue circles),
and an “external distance”– the difference of top non-H3 score from the bottom H3 score.
Subtracting internal distance from external distance gives the“subtraction-distance”, which is an
indication of how far those top-scoring non-H3 strains are away from an H3 consensus.
Segment-based analysis was performed on 6 influenza A viruses that once infected
human – H1, H2, H3, H5, H7 and H9. A graph of segment number vs the previously defined
“subtraction-distance” was each presented in Figure 3. Taking H3 for example, we utilized 970
sequences to build 48 H3-specific models, and found approximately the first 2/3 (equivalent to
HA1 domain) of the HA gene capable of unambiguously differentiating H3 from non-H3 strains.
This observation is inline with wet-lab findings that HA1 is an antigenicity-rich segment for H3
to stand out to the others, and can be used in detecting the association of an unknown influenza A
strain to a given subtype.
Our analysis shows that the first 2/3 of HA is characteristic to H3 subtype, which agrees well
with wet-lab findings that HA1 is more an antigenicity determinant than HA2. Biologists can
make diagnosis of influenza subtype by sequencing the HA fragments that are most suitable for
making differentiation among subtypes. The analysis may also provide locations for molecular
targets that are characteristic to a specific subtype. This method can be easily expanded NA
subtyping, as well as in lineage (strain-like)-based detection.
8Figure 1 Length-specific HMMER bit score distribution with respect to an H3-based profile
HMM
Figure 2 (a) Z-score distribution for H3 and non-H3 strains for the entire HA, (b) for #24
segment (or amino acid positions of 231~330) with boosted differentiation power, and (c) for #29
segment (or amino acid positions of 281~380) of no power of differentiation at all.
10
附錄 – 出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-182-038
計畫名稱 搜尋流感病毒診斷與分類之分子標的
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
陳光武（長庚大學資訊工程系助理教授）
會議時間地點 June 17-23, 2007, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
會議名稱 Options for the Control of Influenza VI
發表論文題目 Searching of Molecular Targets for Influenza A Virus Subtyping Using ProfileHidden Markov Models (poster presentation)
一、參加會議經過
This convention,“Options for the Control of Influenza VI”, is the 6th meeting that was held
every 3 to 4 years in the past since the first meeting at Keystone, Colorado 22 years ago. Nancy
Cox, Ph.D., head of the influenza research division of CDC, USA, has been the conference chair
for every past meeting. This is the only international meeting that focuses on influenza viruses.
Topics range from basic research in virus replication and assembly, to vaccination and policy
making. I have personally participated Options IV at Crete, Greece in 2000, as well as Options V
at Okinawa, Japan in 2003.
One of a novel feature of this particular convention is a number of“Translational Sessions”
that have been arranged in fostering interdisciplinary conversations among all participants,
including scientific members and media. I have attended a few of them. For example, in“The Art
of Messaging: Communicating Science to the Public”, two interesting talks have been given by
David Salisbury, DOH of UK, and Helen Branswell of Canadian Press. This session is dedicated
to the general delivery of effective and useful scientific knowledge. David, in particular, talked
about historic use of TV and films advertising for infectious disease related topics, such as
immunization, pandemic, etc. Ms. Branswell utilized the title“What is a Clade? And Why Should
I Care?”to emphasize how a journalist should educate him/herself well, in order to correctly
translate the terminology used for influenza researchers and successfully and effectively deliver it
to the general public. She illustrated this with a vivid example. One day a new avian influenza
virus was found, and lab test confirmed it as an H7N2. In interviewing a virologist for knowing
this virus better (so that she may write a column that the general public may learn this new virus
from it), she got the answer“This H7N2 has nothing in common with those H7N2 we have
already known, except that they both reacted to the same H7N2 reagent”. The answer, apparently,
had greatly puzzled her.“H7N2”=”H7N2”?“H7N2””H7N2”? I myself, as a bioinformatician
who had no biology background whatsoever, had suffered from this interdisciplinary barrier for
years in the beginning. For example, I can see a virus which is physically a“particle”. However
some people also call a virus a“strain”. And later I was told that a virus strain is a collection of
viruses that have similar behavior. For example, they all reacted to the same reagent (as Helen
said in her example). Later in studying molecular epidemiology and viral evolution, more terms
12
one thing that did ring the bell is the mentioning of certain amino acid residues that are associated
with host range or host adaptation between human and avian species. A new technology called
FRAP (Fluorescent Recovery After Photobleaching) was introduced to do live cell imaging.
FRAP utilizes extensive image capturing/processing and math formula in quantifying the
dynamic mobility of viral RNPs or RNA polymerase, and can be used in recording such activities
within approximately 30 seconds. A diffusion coefficient was then computed. This work was
presented by a group of collaborators from Cambridge and Oxford, primarily led by Ervin Fodor
and Paul Digard. Some other works utilized extensive amino acid substitutions in studying such
interaction, mainly trying to find host adaptation determinants between human and avian species.
In these works they did mention a number of species-associated residues, once changed, would
affect either human or avian flu replication. We have also reported in an earlier paper (Chen et. al.,
Emerging Infectious Disease, 2006) for 52 species-associated residues between human and avian
flu. In that work we mimicked PB2 627, in that position the avian viruses contain mostly Glu
while in human they are mostly Lys. This position has been reported in other papers that, once
K627 was changed to L in avian flu virus, it can then grow very well in a mammalian cell.
Following this scenario, we have identified a total 52 so-called species-associated residues. In the
presentation by Guelsah Gabriel from Germany, however, they have“spotted”a number of
residues that are common in both avian and human. They then mutated those residues and found
that the resulting mutants performed differently for human and avian viruses. They thus
concluded that those residues play an important role in host adaptation. I am not quite sure about
their rationale for finding these reported residues at this moment. There are a huge number of
common residues between human and avian flu. Based on what they have chosen these targets for
performing wet-lab experiments? These may require further understanding of their previous
works. In another talk by Katherine Graef of Oxford, they have located PB2 position 9 exhibiting
different functions between human and avian. They have further searched GenBank and noticed
that most avian flu at this position have residue D, while most human have N. This is in
accordance to our findings in EID 2006. However in our work we did not flag it as a
species-associated residue since the amino acid composition for human is N(227) and T(76),
which did not pass our threshold of entropy 0.4 for conserveness based on PB2 627. There might
be a need for us to adjust the threshold for better portraying such signatures.
Two talks were arranged for the translational session“Molecular targets for novel antiviral
strategies”. Even the session title says“antiviral strategies”, the two scheduled presentations
talked very much of basic virology, in particular, structural biology such as molecular binding site
or pocket for the antivirals. In Robert Krug’s talk, he elaborated in details about how various
segments of NS1 protein can function as an antiviral target. A binding site
(K110-I113-Q121-G183-G184-W187) was found to function in this matter. Also two other
residues–F103 and M106, were found stabilizing the binding pocket, although they were not
part of the pocket. It would be interesting if we can search database for such domain, and
understand whether this domain is common in many influenza viruses, or only in some particular
groups. In the second talk given by Alan Hay from UK, he spent majority of the time in
discussing NA inhibitors such as Tamiflu. A great number of efforts have been put to NA
14
The two temperatures used in this investigation were apparently chosen for the two natural or
controlled temperature settings in New York area. It would be interesting to see, if under our
subtropical climate settings in Taiwan, how would the transmissibility go. The second one was
given by Terry Tumpey of CDC/USA, who investigated how and why the 1918 pandemic strain
was so lethal. He reconstructed the 8-gene 1918 virus and used the combination of the 1918 strain
and one 2001 strain via reverse genetics, and concluded that PB1, HA and NA are the molecular
determinant for the lethality. Yoshi Kawaoka also used reverse genetics in investigating how and
why those recent H5N1 strains were lethal, and discussed their infectivity to human and yet to be
efficiently transmissible in human. He discussed such lethality and transmission based on the
virus replication efficiently at different macaque in the upper and lower respiratory tract, as well
as the subtle temperature difference (33C vs 37C) that dictated such activities. Ron Fouchier
from Erasmus Medical School, the Netherlands, discussed in details about this findings in highly
pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H7N7, which caused a pandemic in the Netherlands in 2003.
Ron’s talk has been more focusing on amino acid positions that are directly related to virulence,
in particular, to PB2 627.
2. Computational analysis of influenza viruses
Two major sessions were primarily focusing on viral bioinformatics–“Genetic and
Antigenic Evolution”workshop and“Mathematical Modeling”workshop. There is a separate
“Mathematical Modeling”translational session too, which was more focusing on interdisciplinary
conversation.
In the“Genetic and Antigenic Evolution”workshop, there were 8 excellent talks given by
experts in this field. Quite interestingly is that, 5 out of these 8 presentations have been given by
Chinese groups from China, among those 5 there are 4 from University of Hong Kong (HKU) of
Hong Kong SAR. These 4 presented by HKU are basically done by the same team, including
JSM Peiris and Y Guan as major players. The advantage of this team, of course, is that they have
first-hand access to many of the materials (in particular H5N1 high pathogenic avian flu) from
mainland China, and people in the influenza research community are especially interested in
knowing these. These 4 talks cover from diagnosis (“Antigenic Profiling of Avian H5N1
Influenza Virus With a Panel of H5-Specific Monoclonal Antibodies”), surveillance (“Ecology
and Evolution of Influenza A (H5N1) Virus in Asia: Evidence From Systematic Influenza
Surveillance”), to evolution (“Evolution of H9N2 Influenza A Viruses in Quail From Southern
China”,“Characterization of Low pathogenic H5 Subtype Influenza Viruses From Eurasia:
Implications for the Origin of Highly Pathogenic H5N1 Viruses”). One thing in common for
these talks, despite of various resource of sequence data, is the use of phylogenetic analysis. In
fact phylogenetic analysis has become a standard tool in investigating viral evolution. This is not
quite the same as studying the so-called“bioinformatics”from genomics or proteomics point of
view. In fact, the“viral bioinformatics”I have been involving should be more precisely termed
“Infectious Disease Informatics”,or “Infectious Disease Dynamics”. Other than those reports
from HKU (and the 5th one from CDC/China, and 6th one from CDC/USA), the remaining two
talks especially caught my attention. One was presented by Colin Russell, who is a colleague of
16
specifically mentioned that one of his models have predicted very different outcome in terms of
disease spreading. Viewing at different prediction outcomes and trying to make decision out of
them is often not trivial. Derek talked about some general concepts for modeling. There is one
common joke in this field saying that“all mathematical models are wrong”. The question is–
how wrong they are. If they are not so wrong, how useful they can be. He used a simple example
in the talk for illustration. Imagine that you were told that, when the presentation is over (that will
be around 10:30 am local Toronto time) and you walk out of the building, one model predicts that
you will see sunshine. This would be no big deal, since a model cannot simply predict things that
are apparently normal. So in this case the model is correct yet not is useful. In order for the model
to be useful, it must be tested extensively. A must-do is do bootstrapping analysis. In his building
of antigenic map, he inferred the model from a huge table containing HI data. He then randomly
“blinded”some of these HI entries and checked if these entries can be recovered using his model.
Until this is justified, then he can use his model in helping WHO to select vaccine strains based
on recorded antigenicity data. He also encouraged the audience, when submitting scientific
manuscript; try to also include as many supplementary data as possible. These data may seem
useless to the author in some sense, but they are very useful when a model is built and data are
required for validation.
二、與會心得
From this conference, we may see that more and more people are getting ahead of
investigating infectious diseases through computation, data analysis and mathematical modeling.
A number of newly emerged affiliations (in addition to those we have already known, such as the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, or NIAID of NIH, USA) may tell the story.
For example, Neil Ferguson of MRC Center for Outbreak Analysis and Modeling, Imperial
College London, UK. Another example is Peter Palese of the Emerging Pathogens Institute,
Mount Sinai School of Medicine of New York. In particular we have seen that people in this field
are collaborating extensively from center to center (for example, NCBI of NIH, Center for
Infectious Disease Dynamics of Penn State University, TIGR, etc.), or using international joint
appointment in linking different organization together (for example, Yoshi Kawaoka of U of
Tokyo and U of Wisconsin-Madison, Derek Smith of Cambridge, UK and Erasmus Medical
School, The Netherlands).
This is a beautiful meeting that brought scientists (including biotech vendors and policy
makers) together to learn–as it says in its conference title- the options for the control of
influenza. In this meeting we have met many old friends and new friends, with specialties
covering virologists, veterinarians, physicians, pathologists, computer scientists, epidemiologists,
etc, which have further strengthened our existing collaboration or resulted in new discussion. In
particular we will follow the lead to Derek Smith and Ron Fouchier, to materialize the
collaboration between our Research Center for Emerging Viral Infections with them.
As a participant with some limited knowledge of biology, I feel that there is a lot to learn to
really be able to master in this“infectious disease informatics”field. For example, I am pretty
出席國際學術會議心得報告
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-182-038
計畫名稱 搜尋流感病毒診斷與分類之分子標的
出國人員姓名
服務機關及職稱
陳光武（長庚大學資訊工程系助理教授）
會議時間地點 June 17-23, 2007, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
會議名稱 Options for the Control of Influenza VI
發表論文題目 Searching of Molecular Targets for Influenza A Virus Subtyping Using ProfileHidden Markov Models (poster presentation)
一、參加會議經過
This convention,“Options for the Control of Influenza VI”, is the 6th meeting that was held
every 3 to 4 years in the past since the first meeting at Keystone, Colorado 22 years ago. Nancy Cox,
Ph.D., head of the influenza research division of CDC, USA, has been the conference chair for
every past meeting. This is the only international meeting that focuses on influenza viruses. Topics
range from basic research in virus replication and assembly, to vaccination and policy making. I
have personally participated Options IV at Crete, Greece in 2000, as well as Options V at Okinawa,
Japan in 2003.
One of a novel feature of this particular convention is a number of“Translational Sessions”
that have been arranged in fostering interdisciplinary conversations among all participants,
including scientific members and media. I have attended a few of them. For example, in“The Art of
Messaging: Communicating Science to the Public”, two interesting talks have been given by David
Salisbury, DOH of UK, and Helen Branswell of Canadian Press. This session is dedicated to the
general delivery of effective and useful scientific knowledge. David, in particular, talked about
historic use of TV and films advertising for infectious disease related topics, such as immunization,
pandemic, etc. Ms. Branswell utilized the title“What is a Clade? And Why Should I Care?”to
emphasize how a journalist should educate him/herself well, in order to correctly translate the
terminology used for influenza researchers and successfully and effectively deliver it to the general
public. She illustrated this with a vivid example. One day a new avian influenza virus was found,
and lab test confirmed it as an H7N2. In interviewing a virologist for knowing this virus better (so
that she may write a column that the general public may learn this new virus from it), she got the
answer“This H7N2 has nothing in common with those H7N2 we have already known, except that
they both reacted to the same H7N2 reagent”. The answer, apparently, had greatly puzzled her.
“H7N2”=”H7N2”?“H7N2””H7N2”? I myself, as a bioinformatician who had no biology
background whatsoever, had suffered from this interdisciplinary barrier for years in the beginning.
For example, I can see a virus which is physically a“particle”. However some people also call a
virus a“strain”. And later I was told that a virus strain is a collection of viruses that have similar
Although it is rather difficult for me to understand these very basic virology things, one thing that
did ring the bell is the mentioning of certain amino acid residues that are associated with host range
or host adaptation between human and avian species. A new technology called FRAP (Fluorescent
Recovery After Photobleaching) was introduced to do live cell imaging. FRAP utilizes extensive
image capturing/processing and math formula in quantifying the dynamic mobility of viral RNPs or
RNA polymerase, and can be used in recording such activities within approximately 30 seconds. A
diffusion coefficient was then computed. This work was presented by a group of collaborators from
Cambridge and Oxford, primarily led by Ervin Fodor and Paul Digard. Some other works utilized
extensive amino acid substitutions in studying such interaction, mainly trying to find host
adaptation determinants between human and avian species. In these works they did mention a
number of species-associated residues, once changed, would affect either human or avian flu
replication. We have also reported in an earlier paper (Chen et. al., Emerging Infectious Disease,
2006) for 52 species-associated residues between human and avian flu. In that work we mimicked
PB2 627, in that position the avian viruses contain mostly Glu while in human they are mostly Lys.
This position has been reported in other papers that, once K627 was changed to L in avian flu virus,
it can then grow very well in a mammalian cell. Following this scenario, we have identified a total
52 so-called species-associated residues. In the presentation by Guelsah Gabriel from Germany,
however, they have“spotted”a number of residues that are common in both avian and human. They
then mutated those residues and found that the resulting mutants performed differently for human
and avian viruses. They thus concluded that those residues play an important role in host adaptation.
I am not quite sure about their rationale for finding these reported residues at this moment. There
are a huge number of common residues between human and avian flu. Based on what they have
chosen these targets for performing wet-lab experiments? These may require further understanding
of their previous works. In another talk by Katherine Graef of Oxford, they have located PB2
position 9 exhibiting different functions between human and avian. They have further searched
GenBank and noticed that most avian flu at this position have residue D, while most human have N.
This is in accordance to our findings in EID 2006. However in our work we did not flag it as a
species-associated residue since the amino acid composition for human is N(227) and T(76), which
did not pass our threshold of entropy 0.4 for conserveness based on PB2 627. There might be a need
for us to adjust the threshold for better portraying such signatures.
Two talks were arranged for the translational session“Molecular targets for novel antiviral
strategies”. Even the session title says“antiviral strategies”, the two scheduled presentations talked
very much of basic virology, in particular, structural biology such as molecular binding site or
pocket for the antivirals. In Robert Krug’s talk, he elaborated in details about how various segments
of NS1 protein can function as an antiviral target. A binding site
(K110-I113-Q121-G183-G184-W187) was found to function in this matter. Also two other
residues–F103 and M106, were found stabilizing the binding pocket, although they were not part
of the pocket. It would be interesting if we can search database for such domain, and understand
whether this domain is common in many influenza viruses, or only in some particular groups. In the
second talk given by Alan Hay from UK, he spent majority of the time in discussing NA inhibitors
such as Tamiflu. A great number of efforts have been put to NA inhibitors, due to its special role in
climate settings in Taiwan, how would the transmissibility go. The second one was given by Terry
Tumpey of CDC/USA, who investigated how and why the 1918 pandemic strain was so lethal. He
reconstructed the 8-gene 1918 virus and used the combination of the 1918 strain and one 2001
strain via reverse genetics, and concluded that PB1, HA and NA are the molecular determinant for
the lethality. Yoshi Kawaoka also used reverse genetics in investigating how and why those recent
H5N1 strains were lethal, and discussed their infectivity to human and yet to be efficiently
transmissible in human. He discussed such lethality and transmission based on the virus replication
efficiently at different macaque in the upper and lower respiratory tract, as well as the subtle
temperature difference (33C vs 37C) that dictated such activities. Ron Fouchier from Erasmus
Medical School, the Netherlands, discussed in details about this findings in highly pathogenic avian
influenza (HPAI) H7N7, which caused a pandemic in the Netherlands in 2003. Ron’s talk has been
more focusing on amino acid positions that are directly related to virulence, in particular, to PB2
627.
2. Computational analysis of influenza viruses
Two major sessions were primarily focusing on viral bioinformatics–“Genetic and Antigenic
Evolution”workshop and“Mathematical Modeling”workshop. There is a separate“Mathematical
Modeling”translational session too, which was more focusing on interdisciplinary conversation.
In the“Genetic and Antigenic Evolution”workshop, there were 8 excellent talks given by
experts in this field. Quite interestingly is that, 5 out of these 8 presentations have been given by
Chinese groups from China, among those 5 there are 4 from University of Hong Kong (HKU) of
Hong Kong SAR. These 4 presented by HKU are basically done by the same team, including JSM
Peiris and Y Guan as major players. The advantage of this team, of course, is that they have
first-hand access to many of the materials (in particular H5N1 high pathogenic avian flu) from
mainland China, and people in the influenza research community are especially interested in
knowing these. These 4 talks cover from diagnosis (“Antigenic Profiling of Avian H5N1 Influenza
Virus With a Panel of H5-Specific Monoclonal Antibodies”), surveillance (“Ecology and Evolution
of Influenza A (H5N1) Virus in Asia: Evidence From Systematic Influenza Surveillance”), to
evolution (“Evolution of H9N2 Influenza A Viruses in Quail From Southern China”,
“Characterization of Low pathogenic H5 Subtype Influenza Viruses From Eurasia: Implications for
the Origin of Highly Pathogenic H5N1 Viruses”). One thing in common for these talks, despite of
various resource of sequence data, is the use of phylogenetic analysis. In fact phylogenetic analysis
has become a standard tool in investigating viral evolution. This is not quite the same as studying
the so-called“bioinformatics”from genomics or proteomics point of view. In fact, the“viral
bioinformatics”I have been involving should be more precisely termed“Infectious Disease
Informatics”,or “Infectious Disease Dynamics”. Other than those reports from HKU (and the 5th
one from CDC/China, and 6th one from CDC/USA), the remaining two talks especially caught my
attention. One was presented by Colin Russell, who is a colleague of Derek Smith in his Antigenic
Cartography Group at Cambridge. His presentation title is“Global Patterns in the Evolution and
Epidemiology of Influenza A(H3N2) Virus from 2002 to 2007”. One important question they have
asked is–for many influenza epidemics occurred in the winter of temperate region, are the viruses
they are. If they are not so wrong, how useful they can be. He used a simple example in the talk for
illustration. Imagine that you were told that, when the presentation is over (that will be around
10:30 am local Toronto time) and you walk out of the building, one model predicts that you will see
sunshine. This would be no big deal, since a model cannot simply predict things that are apparently
normal. So in this case the model is correct yet not is useful. In order for the model to be useful, it
must be tested extensively. A must-do is do bootstrapping analysis. In his building of antigenic map,
he inferred the model from a huge table containing HI data. He then randomly“blinded”some of
these HI entries and checked if these entries can be recovered using his model. Until this is justified,
then he can use his model in helping WHO to select vaccine strains based on recorded antigenicity
data. He also encouraged the audience, when submitting scientific manuscript; try to also include as
many supplementary data as possible. These data may seem useless to the author in some sense, but
they are very useful when a model is built and data are required for validation.
二、與會心得
From this conference, we may see that more and more people are getting ahead of
investigating infectious diseases through computation, data analysis and mathematical modeling. A
number of newly emerged affiliations (in addition to those we have already known, such as the
National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, or NIAID of NIH, USA) may tell the story.
For example, Neil Ferguson of MRC Center for Outbreak Analysis and Modeling, Imperial College
London, UK. Another example is Peter Palese of the Emerging Pathogens Institute, Mount Sinai
School of Medicine of New York. In particular we have seen that people in this field are
collaborating extensively from center to center (for example, NCBI of NIH, Center for Infectious
Disease Dynamics of Penn State University, TIGR, etc.), or using international joint appointment in
linking different organization together (for example, Yoshi Kawaoka of U of Tokyo and U of
Wisconsin-Madison, Derek Smith of Cambridge, UK and Erasmus Medical School, The
Netherlands).
This is a beautiful meeting that brought scientists (including biotech vendors and policy
makers) together to learn–as it says in its conference title- the options for the control of influenza.
In this meeting we have met many old friends and new friends, with specialties covering virologists,
veterinarians, physicians, pathologists, computer scientists, epidemiologists, etc, which have further
strengthened our existing collaboration or resulted in new discussion. In particular we will follow
the lead to Derek Smith and Ron Fouchier, to materialize the collaboration between our Research
Center for Emerging Viral Infections with them.
As a participant with some limited knowledge of biology, I feel that there is a lot to learn to
really be able to master in this“infectious disease informatics”field. For example, I am pretty
confident that I have known viral sequence analysis pretty well. However there are a lot functional
aspects of virus are related to protein structures and metabolism, which requires me to learn
structural biology and biochemistry. The challenge is that, constrained (of suffered, in a sense) by so
many overwhelming loads from teaching and administrative responsibilities at the department, how
much time I may spare for learning new things is always a big question mark. That, unfortunately,
