P3HT-H/Br, which was then converted to the 
P3HT-CHO/CHO by postpolymerization formylation 
(Scheme 1). The aldehyde groups were found to be very 
reactive towards various polymeric anions to allow a 
wide range of chemical structures and molecular weights 
in the non-P3HT segments (Scheme 2). The 
morphologies and the photophysical properties of the 
spin-coated thin films of the resulted block copolymers 
were found to be affected by the chemical structure of the 
non-P3HT segment as well as the spin-coating condition. 
 
 
Scheme 1. End functionalization of P3HT. 
 
 
Scheme 2. Synthesis of P3HT triblock copolymers. 
 
II. Experimental 
Synthesis of aldehyde terminated bi-end 
functionalized P3HT (P3HT-CHO/CHO): 
2,5-dibromo-3-hexylthiophene was synthesized 
according to literature [10]. P3HT was synthesized by 
Grignard Methathesis (GRIM) method. Br/H terminated 
P3HT (P3HT-Br/H), the majority of the product, was then 
converted to H/H terminated P3HT (P3HT-H/H) by 
refluxing in THF with tert-butyl magnesium chloride (2.0 
M) for 3 h. End-group functionalization of P3HT-H/H to 
introduce aldehyde end-group was carried out using 
POCl3 and n-methylformanilide at 75oC for 24 h to 
obtain P3HT-CHO/CHO. [11] The reaction mixture was 
precipitated in methanol, followed by Soxhlet extraction 
with methanol, acetone and then extracted with 
chloroform. The purified products were characterized by 
MALDI-TOF analysis and 1H-NMR  
General procedure for synthesis of P3HT triblock 
copolymer: All the following procedures were carried 
out under moisture free and oxygen free environment. 
The P3HT-CHO/CHO was charged into a Rotaflo flask 
and dried by applying vacuum at 40oC overnight. Dry 
toluene was transferred using a double-tip needle into the 
flask under nitrogen to dissolve the P3HT-CHO/CHO. 
Anionic polymerization of styrene/isoprene/methyl 
methacrylate was carried out in dry toluene (or THF) 
using sec-BuLi (115.4 µl, 0.15 mmol) as initiator. Living 
polymeric anions were then transferred into the 
P3HT-CHO/CHO solution under nitrogen. The mixture 
was then allowed to react for 2 h at room temperature 
before termination with anhydrous methanol. The 
reaction mixture was then poured into methanol and the 
precipitate was the crude product. Purified P3HT triblock 
copolymers were then obtained after reprecipitate and/or 
chromatography.  
 
III. Result and Discussion 
Synthesis of P3HT-CHO/CHO: GRIM method was 
employed to synthesize highly regioregular P3HT with 
narrow polydispersity. In general, two different forms of 
the P3HT were obtained as catagorized by the structure 
of the terminal thiophenes: the majority has a hydrogen at 
2 or 5 position of one terminal thiophene and a bromine 
at the other, denoted as P3HT-H/Br; while the minority 
has hydrogens at both terminal thiophenes, denoted as 
P3HT-H/H. Conversion of P3HT-H/Br to P3HT-H/H is 
critical for the synthesis of pure triblock copolymers 
since the formylation can only be performed on the 
hydrogen at the terminal thiophene. The conversion was 
done through a magnesium halogen exchange reaction 
between tert-butyl magnesium chloride and the Br at the 
terminal thiophene of P3HT, which was confirmed by 1H 
NMR and MALDI-TOF spectra. The Vilsmeier 
formylation of  P3HT-H/H was then carried out to 
afford bi-end functionalized, aldehyde terminated 
P3HT-CHO/CHO, whose 1H NMR spectrum was 
illustrated in Figure 1 showing two sharp peaks at 10.02 
ppm and 9.99 ppm corresponding to CHO at 2-position 
and 5-position of the terminal thiophene.respectively. The 
chemical shift of the CH2 in the hexyl side chain attached 
to the terminal thiophenes moves from 2.62 ppm in the 
P3HT-H/H to 2.95 ppm in the P3HT-CHO/CHO. In the 
MALDI-TOF spectra as illustrated in Figure 2, the mass 
(m/z) representing a certain P3HT chain was close to the 
theoretical formula weight of a P3HT-CHO/CHO; for 
example, m/z = 4048.86 is close to (166.3 x n) + 29 + 29 
as n = 24. The above results suggested the completion of 
the formylation of P3HT-H/H to P3HT-CHO/CHO with a 
yield of 95%. 
 
 
Figure 1. 1H NMR of P3HT-CHO/CHO in CDCl3. 
 
 
Figure 5. AFM images of (a) pristine P3HT, (b) 
PS-b-P3HT-b-PS_2, (c) PI-b-P3HT-b-PI_1 and (d) 
PMMA-b-P3HT-b-PMMA. 
 
Figure 6. UV-Vis spectrum of P3HT triblock copolymers 
in (a) CHCl3 solution, and (b) solid state. 
 
Figure 6(a) shows UV-Vis absorption spectra of 
PS-b-P3HT-b-PS_2, PI-b-P3HT-b-PI_1 and 
PMMA-b-P3HT-b-PMMA dissolved in chloroform in a 
very diluted concentration (less than 10-2 mg/ml) to avoid 
aggregation. The P3HT segments of these three block 
copolymers were identical while the non-P3HT segments 
have similar molecular weights. The UV-Vis absorptions 
of these copolymers were very similar to that of the 
pristine P3HT, indicating the presence of coil PS, PI or 
PMMA segment has very little effect on the optical 
properties of P3HT as isolated molecules. For UV-Vis 
spectra of the spin-coated thin films of these triblock 
copolymers, differences were observed depending on the 
non-P3HT segment (Figure 6(b)). Generally, all thin 
films showed similar absorption pattern with three 
maxima located at 525 nm, 555 nm and 603 nm, but with 
different intensity ratios. More pronounced absorptions at 
555 nm and 603 nm for P3HT with either PI or PMMA 
attachment. The increased absorptions at longer 
wavelengthes should be attributed to a more enhanced 
π-π stacking of P3HT segment. This result was in 
accordance with longer fibrils and more ordered 
morphologies observed from AFM for PI-b-P3HT-b-PI 
and PMMA-b-P3HT-b-PMMA. 
 
IV. Conclusion 
 A series of poly(3-hexylthiophene) ABA triblock 
copolymers containing highly regioregular P3HT as the 
center block have been synthesized based on coupling 
reaction between aldehyde teminated bi-end 
functionalized with designated polymeric anions. High 
yield of coupling reactions were achieved for polystyrene 
anion at room temperature and for polyisoprene anion at 
either room temperature or -78oC. 
Poly(methylmethacrylate) anion with less reactivity was 
coupled to P3HT with a moderate yield. Attachment of 
non-P3HT coil segment did not alter the optical 
absorption of P3HT in solution while affected the 
absorption of P3HT in spin-coated thin films. The 
flexibility of the non-P3HT segment and the χ value 
between the non-P3HT segment and the P3HT are the 
key factors to determine the morphologies of the 
spin-coated thin films and the photophysical properties of 
the block copolymers. 
 
V. Reference  
1. Iovu, M. C.; Jeffries-El, M.; Sheina, E. E.; Cooper, J.  
R.; McCullough, R. D. Polymer 2005, 46, 
8582–8586. 
2. Liu, J.; Sheina, E.; Kowalewski, T.; McCullough, R. 
D. Angew Chem Int Ed 2002, 41, 329–332. 
3. Lee, Y.; Fukukawa, K.-I.; Bang, J.; Hawker, C. J.; 
Kim, J. K. J Polym Sci Part A: Polym Chem 2008, 46, 
8200–8205. 
4. Iovu, M. C.; Craley, C. R.; Jeffries-El, M.; 
Krankowski, A. B.; Zhang, R.; Kowalewski, T.; 
McCullough, R. D. Macromolecules 2007, 40, 
4733–4735. 
5. Radano, C. P.; Scherman, O. A.; Stingelin-Stutzmann,  
N.; Muller, C.; Breiby, D. W.; Smith, P.; Janssen, R. A. 
J.; Meijer, E. W. J Am Chem Soc 2005, 127, 
12502–12503. 
6. Dai, C.-A.; Yen, W.-C.; Lee, Y.-H.; Ho, C.-C.; Su, 
W.-F. J Am Chem Soc 2007, 129, 11036–11038. 
7. Higashihara, T.; Ohshimizu, K.; Hirao, A.; Ueda, M. 
Macromolecules 2008, 41, 9505–9507. 
8. Tao, Y.; McCulloch, B.; Kim, S.; Segalman, R. A. 
Soft Matter 2009, 5, 4219–4230. 
9. Urien, M.; Erothu, H.; Cloutet, E.; Hiorns, R. C.; 
Vignau, L.; Cramail, H. Macromolecules 2008, 41, 
7033–704. 
10. Pal, B.; Yen, W.-C.; Yang, J.-S.; Su, W.-F.  
Macromolecules 2007, 40, 8189–8194. 
11. Liu, J.; Loewe, R. S.; McCullough, R. D.  
Macromolecules 1999, 32, 5777–5785. 
(a) 
(b) 
(a) (b) 
(c) (d) 
 目的：參加 2010 ACS Fall Meeting 並發表論文。 
ACS Annual Meeting is one of the most important conferences in the field of 
materials chemistry and polymer science which offers a great opportunity for 
researchers in the field to present their research works, to learn about the state-of-art 
development, to smell the future trends, and to communicate with the best researchers 
in the world. We presented the work, “Novel proton exchange membranes for DMFC 
based on block polyelectrolytes with high degree of sulfonation” in the conference as 
an oral presentation. The two page paper in the proceeding is attached in the 
appendix. 
 
會議過程： 
The conference was held from 03/20 (Saturday) to 03/25 (Thursday). Saturday 
afternoon was for registration. From 3/21 to 3/25, there were over 200 symposiums 
through out the meeting and over 50 oral sessions were held in parallel in the 
Moscone Center and several hotels in downtown San Francisco. The symposiums 
cover all the aspects in chemistry from inorganic, organic, analytical and 
computational chemistry to material chemistry and polymeric materials. The theme 
for this conference is “Chemistry for a sustainable world” and issues discussed 
sustainability initiatives including alternative energy, environmental benign materials 
and so on as well as the use of chemistry to improve our global environment. There 
were also several poster sessions held everyday. In addition, the conference also had 
exhibitions including the newest facilities for materials synthesis, characterization and 
processing as well as the publications. 
 
心得及建議： 
I spent most of the time in the sessions discussing self-assembly of polymeric 
materials, polymer/organic semiconductors and proton exchange membranes for fuel 
cells, which closely related to the ongoing researches in my group. These symposiums 
were: “ACS Award in Applied Polymer Science: Symposium in Honor of Andrew J. 
Lovinger” (mainly discussing the self-assembly behaviors of polymers), “Cooperative 
Research Award: Symposium in Honor of David J. Lohse and Nikos Hadjichristidis” 
(focus on the syntheses and applications of complex polymer architectures), “Polymer 
Membranes and Thin Films for Energy Applications”, and “Nanostructured Materials 
for Photovoltaics and Solar Electric Power: Synthesis, Characterization and Device 
Fabrication”.  
The self-assembly behaviors and the morphologies of polymeric materials have been 
the mostly addressed topics within the last decade as a potiential approach for 
nanotechnology. Many applications and device performances are closely related to the 
 embedded in a hard insulating matrix. The width of the channels can be readily 
controlled in the 5-50 nm range. The ionic conductivity of the electrolyte increased 
with increasing molecular weight, thus enabling optimization of both its electrical and 
mechanical properties.  
 
“Self-assembly of Bulk Heterojunction Materials for “Plastic” Solar Cells: Phase 
Contrast TEM Studies of the Nanoscale Morphology” presented by Alan Heeger 
from UC, Santa Barbara. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) data obtained 
with the beam passing through the film thickness and through thin crosssections cut 
from films of bulk heterojunction (BHJ) materials were presented. Phase Contract 
TEM images are used to provide information on the nano-scale morphology. Through 
analysis of the TEM images, the power spectral density and the autocorrelation 
function of the phase separated BHJ material could be calculated. In the Phase 
Contract TEM cross-sectional TEM images of P3HT:PCBT, “column-like” structures 
were observed, which could provide the required pathways for charge transport across 
the film thickness. For PCDTBT, the morphology features have the same length scale, 
but the column-like structures are not observed. Nevertheless, the PCDTBT:PCBM 
cells yield significantly higher power conversion efficiency. Understanding 
and controlling the nano-scale phase separation is critical to improving the 
performance of BHJ solar cells. 
 
“Ordered and Functional Supramolecular Polymers” presented by Sam Stupp 
from Northwestern University. The concept of polymers assembled through 
noncovalent interactions among monomers, thus providing the potential for classical 
polymer properties in systems could reversibly depolymerize into monomers. The 
supramolecular nature of polymers offers the potential to create ordered aggregates of 
monomers that can emulate the shape persistence of proteins and many other ordered 
fibrillar structures in biological systems. This lecture described monomers and their 
polymeric assemblies which can expand significantly the functional space of 
polymers, including conducting nanowires and bioactive fibrils that can signal cells 
with unprecedented efficiency in regenerative medicine. The lecture also described 
hierarchical systems of supramolecular and covalent polymers that can be crafted into 
useful systems such as membranes and artificial cells for a broad range of 
applications.  
 
“Goal of Sub-30 nm Resolution: Harnessing Directed and Self Assembly in 
Pattern Formation” presented by Christopher Ober from Cornell University. 
One of the great challenges in lithography today is to create reliable, reproducible 
  
 
“ENERGY GAP AND FUNCTIONAL GROUP ENGINEERING OF 
CPOLYMER BLOCKS” presented by Sam-Shajing Sun from Norfolk State 
University. In this work, a series of novel sulfone (SF)-containing 
polythienylenetetravinylene repeating unit [P(C6OTV-SFTV) as shown in Scheme 1] 
has been developed. These new polymers can be considered as a PTV with the sulfur 
in every other thiophene ring being oxidized to sulfone (-SO2-). By using 
co-monomers with different aromatic resonance energy and with/without electron 
donating side groups, a series of sulfone-containing conjugated polymers with a wide 
range of energy gaps were obtained. The sulfone group greatly lowers both 
HOMO/LUMO levels, making these polymers potential electron acceptors (n-type) 
for polymeric electronic/optoelectronic applications. 
 
 
 Molecular Engineering of Conjugated Copolymers  
for Photoactive Layer in Polymer Solar Cells 
 
Chi-Yang Chao*, Herman Lim  and Chung-Hsiang Chao 
 
Department of Materials Science and Engineering,  
National Taiwan University, Taipei, TAIWAN 
 
Introduction  
Polymer solar cells have recently attracted considerable attention 
because of their potentials to substantially reduce the cost through large scale 
printing process as well as to fabricate flexible devices. According to a 
theoretical calculation, the power conversion efficiency (PCE) could reach 
10%, the level desired for commercialization when optimized opto-electronic 
properties of polymer and device structure are achieved. Nevertheless, the 
PCE of state-of-art PVs based on bulk heterojunction photoactive thin layer 
containing P3HT/PCBM blends is still limited to ~5%. Three major reasons 
for the unsatisfactory low power conversion efficiency are (1) large band gaps 
of photoactive conjugated polymers leading to insufficient light harvesting, (2) 
short diffusion length (10-100nm) of excitons resulting in low efficiency of 
exciton dissociation, as well as (3) low charge mobility and sub-optimal 
morphologies to increase the possibility of recombination of electrons and 
holes before reaching the electrodes. 
To enhance the solar photon absorption, the development of low band 
gap conjugated polymers has been a vigorous research area recently. 
Nevertheless, these low band gap conjugated polymers usually have high 
coplanarity to limit their solubility in organic solvents, which could result in 
poor film quality and difficulty in film processing.1,2 Our group synthesized 
low band gap copolymers through the introduction of strong electron-
withdrawing 2,3-dialkylthieno[3,4-b]pyrazine(ATP) units to achieve 
intramolecular donor-acceptor arrangement to lower the band gap. Each unit 
of the copolymer contains a long alkyl side chain to increase solubility and 
molecular weight of the copolymer. 
Both the insufficiency of exciton dissociation and the deficiency of 
charge carrier transportation generally associate with the random dispersed 
electron donor/acceptor regions in a BHJ PV device since the domain sizes 
might be too large for exciton diffusion and isolated domains might give rise 
to additional traps for non-radiative recombination. Block copolymers have 
been the most studied molecular structure for the morphology enhancement 
because they could self-assemble into well-defined microphase separated 
morphologies which can provide excitons with large donor/acceptor interfaces 
for charge separation and interconnected pathways for charge carrier 
transportation. Several researches on block copolymers consisting of P3HT 
and partially fullerene functionalized coil segment did show these copolymers 
could enhance the exciton dissociation suggested by PL quenching.3,4  
To obtain well-defined conjugated block copolymers, we developed a 
new, facile method to synthesize block copolymers containing poly (3-
hexylthiophene) based on the coupling reaction between reactive aldehyde 
end-groups on P3HT and living polymer anions. Through this method, each 
segment of block copolymer is well characterized and the composition could 
be accurately controlled. Through the variation of the coil segment of P3HT 
block copolymers, the morphology control and the adjustment on optical 
absorbance could be achieved to open a window for the improvement on 
photovoltaic devices. In addition, with suitable selection of the coil segment 
and following chemistry, the electron accepting moieties could be attached to 
the polymer backbone to afford donor-acceptor block copolymers. 
 
Experimental 
Synthesis of low band gap copolymers. The copolymers were 
synthesized through Suzuki coupling of dibromo end-functionalized monomer 
(1) (denoted as 1-Br/Br) and di-boron ester end-capped 3HT and fluorene unit 
as shown in Scheme 1.  
Synthesis of P3HT block copolymers. The synthetic route is illustrated 
in Scheme 2. Highly regioregular P3HT with various molecular weights were 
synthesized using GRIM method with methanol quenching. The resulted 
P3HT-Br/H was then converted to P3HT-H/H and aldehyde terminated P3HT-
CHO/CHO was then obtained through the formylation of P3HT-H/H. Living 
polystyrene and polyisoprene anions were prepared from anionic 
polymerizatioin in designated solvents and temperatures under nitrogen 
atmosphere. Triblock copolymers were obtained from the coupling reaction 
between end aldehyde groups of P3HT and polymeric anions. 
Scheme 1 Synthesis of copolymers containing ETP units 
 
Scheme 2.  Synthesis route of PI-P3HT-PI triblock copolymer  
 
Characterization. GPC measurements were carried out using 
VISCOTEK HT-GPC module 350 with THF as eluting solvent and 
polystyrene as standard. 1H NMR spectra of all the polymers were obtained 
using BRUKER NRX-400Mhz spectrometer. UV-Vis spectra were recorded 
using JASCO V-570 UV/Vis Spectrometer. AFM images of thin films on 
glass substrate from spin-coating were taken using Digital Instruments 
Nanoscope III  
 
Results and Discussion  
Synthesis and characterization of low band gap copolymers. In order 
to successful incorporate ETP in the copolymer, we synthesized monomer (1) 
with two 3HT units at the ends which could undergo further bromination and 
Suzuki coupling to afford corresponding copolymers. Table 1 lists the 
molecular weights obtained from GPC and the photophysical properties of the 
copolymers synthesized. PBF and low molecular weight P3HTETP-3/1-1 
exhibited good solubility in many common organic solvents such as THF and 
chloroform while high molecular weight P3HTETP-3/1-2 could dissolve well 
in certain solvents with high boiling points such as trichlorobenzene.  
 
Table 1 Photophysical properties of low band gap copolymers  
Polymer MW from GPC 
λmax (nm, 
in TCB) 
λmax (nm, 
thin film)
Optical Eg 
(eV) 
P3HT ~30000 465 550 2.23 
PBF ~20000 590 610 1.78 
P3HTETP-3/1-1 ~2000 580 610 1.67 
P3HTETP-3/1-2 ~28000 627 690 1.34 
 
Figure 1 shows the UV-Vis absorption spectra of the copolymers in 
TCB solution and in thin films. All the copolymers exhibited bimodal 
absorptions with one of the peaks showing red absorption around 600nm. 
Their optical band gaps are smaller than that of P3HT by at least 0.4eV. 
P3HTETP-3/1-2 has the lowest band gap (~1.34eV) due to the highly 
coplanarity and the long conjugation length. The thin films of all the 
copolymers show red-shifts in UV-Vis absorption in comparison with the 
corresponding solutions. PBF has the smallest red-shift (~20nm) while 
P3HTETP-3/1-2 gives the largest shift (~65nm). This could be explained by 
the less coplanarity resulted from fluorene units in PBF as well as better 
coplanarity and high molecular weight of  P3HTETP-3/1-2. 
 
S
S S
N N
C2H5C2H5
C6H13C6H13 C8H17 C8H17
m
S
S S
N N
C2H5C2H5
C6H13 C6H13
S
C6H13
n
S
S S
N N
C2H5C2H5
C6H13 C6H13
BrBr
S
C6H13
B B
O
OO
O
C8H17 C8H17
B
O
O
B
O
O
Suzuki coupling
+
3HT-B/B
P3HTETP-3/1
PBF
1-Br/Br
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 含有高度位置規則性的側鍊烷基聚吩鍊段的團鍊共聚高分子之簡易合成方
法研究
計畫主持人: 趙基揚
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-002-012- 學門領域: 高分子合成
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
