sensor-vehicular-networks. 
2. 文獻探討 
2.1   Geocasting 
Geographical routing requires no routing information exchange except the discovery of the 
positions of the neighbors within a single hop. Geographical routing has been applied to geocast 
and becomes a promising routing method for wireless sensor networks due to its simplicity. 
Geocast protocols can be mainly categorized based on flooding the network or on forwarding a 
geocast packet on a particular routing path [1]. In [2], Ko and Vaidya present two different 
location-based multicast schemes to decrease delivery overhead of geocasting packets. The 
proposed algorithms limit the forwarding space for transmitting packets to the forwarding zone. 
Simulation results show that the proposed schemes can reduce the message overhead signiﬁcantly. 
Meanwhile, it is possible to achieve accuracy of multicast delivery comparable with multicast 
ﬂooding. In [3], two location-aided routing (LAR) protocols are proposed to decrease overhead of 
route discovery by utilizing location information for mobile hosts. The LAR protocols use 
location information to reduce the search space for a desired route, which results in fewer route 
discovery messages. In [4], Stojmenovic et al. propose geocasting algorithms using Voronoi 
diagram to forward messages to neighbors who may be the best choices for a possible position of 
destination. The V-GEDIR routing method is based on determining those neighbors of current 
that may be closest to a possible location of the destination. The CH-MFR is based on the convex 
hull on neighboring node. The proposed V-GEDIR and CH-MFR algorithms are loop-free, and 
have smaller flooding rate compared to other directional geocasting methods. 
In [5], Boleng et al. propose three mesh approaches for delivering packets to the geocast 
group: FLOOD, BOX, and CONE. The mesh provides redundant paths between the source and 
the destination region against host mobility and link failures. In the proposed mesh approaches, 
the mesh is created in initial step for discovering redundant paths. Nodes inside the destination 
region will join the mesh when receiving the initial packet. After a unicast reply is sent back to 
the sender according to the reverse path, the flooding is stopped. The FLOOD approach has the 
highest control overhead and network-wide data load, but provides the highest level of reliability. 
The CONE approach has the smallest control overhead and network-wide data load, but provides 
the smallest level of reliability. The BOX approach fall between the FLOOD and CONE 
approaches. In [6, 7], Ko and Vaidya present a novel protocol called GeoTORA for geocasting 
packets in ad hoc networks. The GeoTORA protocol is obtained using a small variation on the 
TORA anycasting protocol. In GeoTORA, flooding is limited to nodes within a small region. 
GeoTORA can significantly reduce the overhead of geocast delivery. In [8], Seada and Helmy 
propose two novel geocasting protocols for achieving high delivery rate and low overhead by 
utilizing the local location information of nodes with region flooding: 
minimum number of decodings. In comparison with COPE, CAPO with its opportunistic 
attaching and lazy decoding feature reduces the number of transmissions noticeably. 
 
3. 研究方法及系統架構 
In urban areas, VANET may suffer from greatly high node density. To increase the 
throughput of geocast packets that reached at the geocast region with high node density, we 
propose a geocasting mechanism using the multi-forwarding zone concept. The proposed 
multi-forwarding zone (MFZ) geocasting mechanism splits the original forwarding zone in to two 
or more small forwarding zones. The simplest way is to draw a virtual cutting line from the center 
of the geocast region to the source node. The virtual cutting line splits the original forwarding 
zone into two small forwarding zones: upper forwarding zone (UFZ) and lower forwarding zone 
(LFZ). The size of upper forwarding zone (UFZ) and lower forwarding zone (LFZ) are the same. 
For nodes that are equipped antennas with multi-input multi-output (MIMO), geocast packets can 
be forwarded simultaneously using the upper forwarding zone (UFZ) and lower forwarding zone 
(LFZ). For nodes with single antenna, geocast packets can be interleave forwarded using the 
upper forwarding zone (UFZ) and lower forwarding zone (LFZ). 
 In case of no enough nodes exist in the extended multi-forwarding zone (MFZ), forwarding 
zone adaptation policy is adopted to increase the possibility that packets can be relayed to the 
destined geocast region. In a CONE multi-forwarding zone, the multi-forwarding zone can be 
expanded into a BOX multi-forwarding zone to avoid packet loss caused by the small angle made 
by the cone. In a BOX multi-forwarding zone, we adopt the parameter δ to extend the 
multi-forwarding zone as listed in [2]. Figure 1 shows an example of delivering geocast packets 
using a BOX multi-forwarding zone (MFZ). If there still no node exists in the extended 
multi-forwarding zone (MFZ), the source node will use the simplest flooding mechanism to flood 
A
Network  Space
D
C
Pb
Pa
P
a
Pa
Pb
H
I
F
E
G
Geocast Region
Forwarding Zone
B
Pb
Pa
P
b
S
 
Figure 1. An example of delivering geocast packets using a BOX multi-forwarding zone (MFZ). 
packets that will probably collide. In order to recover packet loss caused by broadcast storm 
within the geocast region, we adopted network coding technique to reduce the number of 
retransmissions using the minimum number of network coded packets. Figure 2 illustrates the 
flowchart of the proposed network coding algorithm. Each node generates a new packet, which is 
a linear combination of the earlier received packets on the link, by coefficients in the finite field. 
A Galois field GF(q), i.e.,  field with a finite number of elements q, is adopted to encode packets. 
We will use Galois fields for q=2m, where m is 5 in our algorithm. Each packet is represented as 
a binary string of m bits and will perform XOR operations (multiplications and additions). All the 
coefficients used are randomly selected and will be embedded in the header of the network coded 
packet. 
5.  結果與討論 
To evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithms, we use the NS2 network simulator 
to simulate the geocast environment. There are 19 mobile nodes in a 5000 meter by 5000 meter 
grid in the simulation environment; 9 mobile nodes are within the forwarding zone; 10 mobile 
nodes are within the geocast region. We generated a scenario file with 1 source node, which 
sends out a 512 bytes packet per 10ms using constants bit rate (CBR) generator. The parameters 
in the simulated IEEE802.11b WLAN environment are based on Orinoco 802.11b Card [14]. The 
simulation runs with durations of 30 seconds. To simulate the mobility of mobile nodes, two 
nodes will move inside the geocasting region at time 10 and 15. A node will move out the geocast 
region during time 13 to 20. Nodes within geocast region will perform network coding if the 
nodes receive the packet recover request from its neighbors; the packet recover request will be 
put into a recover request queue. A node will perform the network coding after 0.3 seconds, 
which can gather more recover requests. The node then codes as many request packets as the 
recipients can recover the lost packets. Comparisons of multi-forwarding zone (MFZ) 
mechanisms with/without network coding are performed. Figure 3 shows the topology of the 
simulated geocast environment.  
Geocast Region
18
13
9
14
10
15
11
16
12
17
54
3
6
0
87
Forwarding Zone
2
1
 
Figure 3. The topology of the simulated geocast environment.  
multi-forwarding zone (MFZ) with network coding can have higher average packet throughput. 
In the proposed multi-forwarding zone (MFZ) with network coding scheme, nodes will send the 
network coded packet with maximum recover rate for packet recovery. As a result, the average 
packet throughput can be increased.  
Figure 5 shows the results of delivering geocast packets using multi-forwarding zone (MFZ) 
mechanisms with 30 nodes within geocasting region. In Figure 5, the source node sends geocast 
packets to the geocast region. When nodes in the geocast region receive the geocast packets, 
these nodes then re-broadcast the geocast packets to its neighbors. Blindly flooding induces the 
broadcast storm, which wastes precious bandwidth by sending redundant packets that will 
probably collide. The packet throughput increases rapidly at beginning and then drops at time 5 
due to packet loss that caused by severe contention on the radio channel. In the proposed 
multi-forwarding zone (MFZ) with network coding scheme, nodes will send the network coded 
packet with maximum recover rate for packet recovery. As a result, the average packet 
throughput can be increased. 
6. 結論 
Geocasting can be used to perform regional broadcast to deliver geographic-related safety, 
commercials, and advertisements messages. The challenging problem in geocasting is how to 
deliver packets to all the nodes within the geocast region with high efficiency but low overhead. 
In this project, a network coding based transmission architecture for delivering geocast packets 
over hybrid sensor-vehicular-networks is proposed to increase packet delivered quality with 
network coding requirement at each vehicle. By equipping network coding technique for geocast 
packets according to network status, the proposed architecture can enhance the utilization of 
packet transmission, and can satisfy the requirement of adaptive telematic services over hybrid 
sensor-vehicular-networks. Simulation results show that the proposed multi-forwarding zone 
(MFZ) mechanism with network coding can have higher average packet throughput.  
參考文獻 
1.  Maihofer, C.: A Survey of Geocast Routing Protocols. IEEE Communications, vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 
32--42, (2004) 
2.  Ko, Y.-B., Vaidya, N.H.: Geocasting in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks: Location-Based Multicast 
Algorithms. In: 2nd IEEE Workshop on Mobile Computing Systems and Applications, pp. 
101 – 110, New Orleans (1999) 
3  Ko, Y.-B., Vaidya, N.H.: Location-Aided Routing (LAR) in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks. 
Wireless Networks, vol. 6, no. 4, pp. 307--321, Kluwer Academic Publishers (2000) 
4.  Stojmenovic, I., Ruhil, A.P., Lobiyal, D.K. : Voronoi diagram and convex hull based 
geocasting and routing in wireless networks. In: 8th IEEE International Symposium o 
Computers and Communication, pp. 51--56, Canada (2003) 
計畫成果自評 
 
地域性廣播(Geocasting)的需求帶來許多具有挑戰性的問題。許多學者發表了各種不同
的地域性廣播網路架構，主要可分成三類:氾濫路由(Flooding)、指向性氾濫路由(Directed 
Flooding)及無氾濫路由(Without Flooding)方式；其中有些地域性廣播協定應用於無線隨意網
路，有些則需要基礎網路設施(Infrastructure)來支援封包轉送 [40]。氾濫路由(Flooding)是最
簡單的地域性廣播(Geocasting)方法，網路封包採用氾濫(Flooding)的方式廣播到相鄰的節點
後，一直重覆步驟，直到封包到達目的區域。氾濫路由的缺點是大量的封包在網路上傳遞，
造成網路負戴(Overhead)和網路擁塞。指向性氾濫路由(Directed Flooding)與傳統氾濫路由不
同的地方在於定義了轉送區(Forwarding Zone)的機制，用來限制及避免不必要的封包轉送，
降低網路負戴和擁塞。當一個節點的地理位置屬於轉送區中，它會檢查並負責轉送資料封
包。無氾濫路由(Without Flooding)則是不採用氾濫路由方法，而是使用其他路由協定來轉
送封包到達目標區域後，再進行地域性廣播。 
在本計劃中，利用網路編碼(Network Coding)技術，發展出車輛隨意通訊網路(VANET)
環境下具有網路編碼能力的地域性廣播(Geocasting)傳輸運算架構。計劃成果為：提出針對
車輛隨意通訊網路(VANET)環境特性設計基植於網路編碼技術(Network Coding)的地域性
廣播(Geocasting)傳輸架構，有效地將地域性廣播(Geocasting)資料封包散播給特定範圍內所
有車輛，降低傳送延遲，給使用者良好的服務品質。在所提出基植於網路編碼(Network 
Coding)的車戴隨意行動網路地域性廣播傳輸架構中，同時會有多個分割轉送區 MSFZ 
(Multi-Split-Forwarding Zone)傳送不同的資料給不同的車戴節點。因此，相鄰不同資料轉送
區 MSFZ的節點可以同時傳送不同的資料。同時，利用在相交區域所同時收到的地域性廣
播資料，在特定節點進行線性網路編碼(Linear Network Coding)，送出經網路編碼後的封包
來加強地域性廣播封包在網路上傳輸的容錯能力。 
基植於網路編碼(Network Coding)技術的車戴隨意行動網路地域性廣播(Geocasting)傳
輸架構具理論上的研討，適合學術論文之發表。此外，本計劃所發表之網路編碼(Network 
Coding)技術的地域性廣播(Geocasting)傳輸架構，其設計分析後的系統架構及相關參考成
果，可供業界發展車戴隨意行動網路(VANET)應用上之重要依據，並可協助開發車戴隨意
行動網路(VANET)的網路編碼(Network Coding)運算應用，提升產業界競爭力。 
 
計劃論文發表成果 
1. Tz-Heng Hsu, Ying-Chen Lo and Meng-Shu Chiang, " A Network Coding Based 
Geocasting Mechanism in Vehicle Ad Hoc Networks," Proceedings of the 2011 
International Conference Ubiquitous Computing and Multimedia Applications 
(UCMA2011), pp. 223-232, Daejeon, Korea, April 13-15, 2011. (Best Paper Award) 
2. Tz-Heng Hsu and Ying-Chen Lo, "A Multi-Forwarding Zone Geocasting in Mobile Ad 
Hoc Networks", WCE 2010年民生電子研討會(Proceedings of 2010 Workshop on 
Consumer Electronics), pp. 490-496, Tainan, ROC., November 5, 2010. (優良論文獎) 
 
來改善在無線綱路的環境中地域性廣播區域(Geocast Region)因其特性所造成的封包遺
失問題。本次報告的論文很榮幸獲得大會選為最佳論文(Best Paper Award)，對本人所
進行的研究是一大激勵。最後，感謝國科會補助，可以參加 UCMA2011這樣的國際學
術會議，透過交換研究心得，獲益良多。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
UCMA 2011 Conference論文集一份 
四、論文發表資料 
五、Tz-Heng Hsu, You-Sheng Liang, and Meng-Shu Chian, "A BitTorrent-based Dynamic 
Bandwidth Adaptation Algorithm for Video Streaming," Proceedings of the 2010 
International Conference Ubiquitous Computing and Multimedia Applications 
(UCMA2010), pp. 51-62, Miyazaki, Japan, June 23-25, 2010. 
 
五、會議相關影像 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
UCMA 2011論文報告 適逢漢南大學校慶 
UCMA 2011 晚會 Best Paper Award 
2UCMA 2011 IPS PC chairs 
 
224 T.-H. Hsu, Y.-C. Lo, and M.-S. Chiang 
 
may send out packets that are linear combinations of previously received information. 
The main benefits of network coding are: (1) network throughput improvements and 
(2) robustness enhancement on data transmission.  
In this paper, a network coding based transmission architecture for delivering  
geocast packets over VANET is proposed to increase packet delivered quality with 
network coding requirement at each vehicle. By equipping network coding technique 
for geocast packets according to network status, the proposed architecture can  
enhance the utilization of packet transmission, and can satisfy the requirement of 
adaptive telematic services over VANETs. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section 2 introduces related works 
about geocasting. Section 3 depicts the proposed network coding based transmission 
architecture for delivering geocast packets over VANETs. Section 4 shows the  
experimental results. Section 5 concludes the proposed transmission scheme. 
2   Related Works 
In this section, works related to geocasting are presented.  
2.1   Geocasting  
Geocast protocols can be mainly categorized based on flooding the network or on 
forwarding a geocast packet on a particular routing path [3]. In [4], Ko and Vaidya 
present two different location-based multicast schemes to decrease delivery overhead 
of geocasting packets. The proposed algorithms limit the forwarding space for trans-
mitting packets to the forwarding zone. Simulation results show that the proposed 
schemes can reduce the message overhead significantly. Meanwhile, it is possible to 
achieve accuracy of multicast delivery comparable with multicast flooding. In [5], two 
location-aided routing (LAR) protocols are proposed to decrease overhead of route 
discovery by utilizing location information for mobile hosts. The LAR protocols use 
location information to reduce the search space for a desired route, which results in 
fewer route discovery messages. In [6], Stojmenovic et al. propose geocasting algo-
rithms using Voronoi diagram to forward messages to neighbors who may be the best 
choices for a possible position of destination. The V-GEDIR routing method is based 
on determining those neighbors of current that may be closest to a possible location of 
the destination. The CH-MFR is based on the convex hull on neighboring node. The 
proposed V-GEDIR and CH-MFR algorithms are loop-free, and have smaller  
flooding rate compared to other directional geocasting methods. 
In [7], Boleng et al. propose three mesh approaches for delivering packets to the 
geocast group: FLOOD, BOX, and CONE. The mesh provides redundant paths be-
tween the source and the destination region against host mobility and link failures. In 
the proposed mesh approaches, the mesh is created in initial step for discovering re-
dundant paths. Nodes inside the destination region will join the mesh when receiving 
the initial packet. After a unicast reply is sent back to the sender according to the 
reverse path, the flooding is stopped. The FLOOD approach has the highest control 
overhead and network-wide data load, but provides the highest level of reliability. 
The CONE approach has the smallest control overhead and network-wide data load, 
226 T.-H. Hsu, Y.-C. Lo, and M.-S. Chiang 
 
 
Fig. 1. An example of packet loss caused by no enough nodes in the forwarding zone (FZ) 
forwarding zone (FZ). In Figure 1, node A, B, and C cannot receive the geocast pack-
ets from Server due to no enough nodes can forward packet to them. Although node D 
and E can receive packets from Server, however, node D and E drop the received 
packets and will not forward the packets to other nodes, e.g., B and C, because of 
node D and E are not belonging to the forwarding zone.  
Forwarding zone adaptation can solve the above mentioned issues. In a CONE  
forwarding zone, the forwarding zone can be expanded into a BOX forwarding zone 
to avoid packet loss caused by the small angle made by the cone. In a BOX for-
warding zone, a parameter δcan be used to extend the forwarding zone [4]. When 
δis positive, the rectangular forwarding zone is extended. Figure 1 illustrates an 
example of transmitting geocast packets using extended forwarding zone. In  
Figure 2, node A cannot receive the geocast packets from Server due to no nodes 
can forward packet to it. However, node B and C can receive geocast packets from 
node D and E because of node D and E are belonging to extended forwarding zone 
in this case. Node B and C then broadcast the geocast packets to all nodes within 
the geocast region.  
In case of still no node exists in the extended forwarding zone, the source node 
can use the simplest flooding mechanism to flood geocast packets to the destined 
geographical region. Source node broadcasts the geocast packet to all its neighbors. 
When a node receives the packet, compares the geocast region's coordinates with its 
own location. If the node’s location is within the geocast region, the node will ac-
cept the packet. The node will also broadcast the packet to its neighbors, if it has 
not received the packet before. If the node is located outside the geocast region and 
the packet was not received previously, it just broadcasts the packet to its neigh-
bors. The flooding mechanism can increase the possibility that packets can be re-
layed to the destined geocast region. Meanwhile, the flooding mechanism is simple 
and easy to implement. However, it will increase the transmission overhead and 
network-wide data load as a trade-off between transmission efficiency and packet 
reachability. 
 
 
228 T.-H. Hsu, Y.-C. Lo, and M.-S. Chiang 
 
A
Network  Space
D
C
Pb
Pa
Pa
Pa
Pb
H
I
F
E
G
Geocast Region
Forwarding Zone
B
Pb
Pa
Pb
Server
 
Fig. 3. An example of delivering geocast packets using a BOX multi-forwarding zone (MFZ) 
flood geocast packets to the destined geographical region. The flooding mechanism 
can increase the possibility of packets that can be relayed to the destined geocast 
region.  
3.3   Network Coding with Multi-Forwarding Zone (MFZ) Geocasting 
Mechanism 
Using the multi-forwarding zone (MFZ) geocasting mechanism can transmit packets 
to the geocast region quickly and efficiently. However, it will cause the broadcast 
storm when too many geocast packets are arrived at the destined geocast region in a 
certain period. In the geocast region, when multiple nodes receive a geocast packet, 
these nodes will all re-broadcast the packet to its neighbors if the packet has not been 
received before. When multiple nodes re-broadcast the packet to its neighbors simul-
taneously, it will make severe contention on the channel. Blindly flooding induces the 
broadcast storm, which wastes precious bandwidth by sending redundant packets that 
will probably collide.  
Table 1. The estimated number of recoverable packets using network coding in node A 
1HWZRUN&RGHG3DFNHW 0D[LPXP5HFRYHU1XPEHU 
 
 
 
У 
У 
У 
УУ 
 
 
 
230 T.-H. Hsu, Y.-C. Lo, and M.-S. Chiang 
 

 
Fig. 5. The topology of the simulated geocast environment 
In order to recover packet loss caused by broadcast storm within the geocast re-
gion, we adopted network coding technique to reduce the number of retransmissions 
using the minimum number of network coded packets. Figure 4 illustrates an example 
of packet recover using network coding for nodes within the geocast region. In Figure 
4 (a), node A and B broadcast packet 1 to its neighbors simultaneously, which makes 
severe contention on the radio channel. Only nodes C and D can receive the packet 1 
due to collisions. In Figure 4 (b), Node A then broadcasts packet 2 to its neighbors, 
however, the hidden node problem occurs when node E is receiving packets from 
other nodes outside the geocast region. Node E does not receive the packet 2 from 
node A. In Figure 4 (c), node A continues to broadcasts packet 3 to its neighbors. A 
packet collision occurred due to node C is sending a geocast packet at the same time. 
Only node B and E receive the packet 3. In Figure 4 (d), node A snoops on the  
medium, obtains the status of its neighbors, and detects coding opportunities. In such 
a case, node A have 7 combinations to recover the lost packets: single packet 1, 2, and 
3; network coded packet 1У2, 2⊕3, 1У3, and 1У2У3. If node A broadcasts a single 
packet to recover lost packets, the estimated number of recoverable packets using 
network coding is listed in Table 1. According to Table 1, node A will code as many 
packets as the recipients can recover the lost packets, i.e., network coded packet 1У3. 
Node A then broadcasts network coded packet 1У3 to its neighbors, node B and E 
can recover packet 1, node C and node D can recover packet 3 after receiving the 
network coded packet 1У3. If node A snoops on the medium and find that other 
nodes broadcast the network coded packet 1У3 before its scheduled sending time, 
node A will select the network coded packet with 2nd maximum recover number as 
the next coded recover packet. If the network coded packets in queue all have the 
same maximum recover number, the node will select a network coded packet in a 
random manner and then broadcasts the network coded packet to recover lost geocast 
packets.  
4   Performance Evaluations 
To evaluate the performance of the proposed algorithms, we use the NS2 network 
simulator to simulate the geocast environment. There are 19 mobile nodes in a 5000 
meter by 5000 meter grid in the simulation environment; 9 mobile nodes are within 
the forwarding zone; 10 mobile nodes are within the geocast region. We generated a 
scenario file with 1 source node, which sends out a 512 bytes packet per 10ms using 
 
232 T.-H. Hsu, Y.-C. Lo, and M.-S. Chiang 
 
5   Conclusion 
By equipping network coding technique for geocast packets according to network 
status, the proposed architecture can enhance the utilization of packet transmissions. 
Simulation results show that the proposed multi-forwarding zone (MFZ) mechanism 
with network coding can have higher average packet throughput. 
 
Acknowledgments. This research is supported by the National Science Council of the 
Republic of China under the grant NSC 99-2221-E-218 -018. 
References 
1. Ahlswede, R., Cai, N., Li, S.-Y.R., Yeung, R.W.: Network information flow. IEEE  
Transactions on Information Theory 46(4), 1204–1216 (2000) 
2. Li, S.-Y.R., Yeung, R.W., Cai, N.: Linear network coding. IEEE Transactions on  
Information Theory 49(2), 371–381 (2003) 
3. Maihofer, C.: A Survey of Geocast Routing Protocols. IEEE Communications 6(2), 32–42 
(2004) 
4. Ko, Y.-B., Vaidya, N.H.: Geocasting in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks: Location-Based Multi-
cast Algorithms. In: 2nd IEEE Workshop on Mobile Computing Systems and Applica-
tions, New Orleans, pp. 101 – 110 (1999)  
5. Ko, Y.-B., Vaidya, N.H.: Location-Aided Routing (LAR) in Mobile Ad Hoc Networks. 
Wireless Networks 6(4), 307–321 (2000) 
6. Stojmenovic, I., Ruhil, A.P., Lobiyal, D.K.: Voronoi diagram and convex hull based  
geocasting and routing in wireless networks. In: 8th IEEE International Symposium o  
Computers and Communication, Canada, pp. 51–56 (2003)  
7. Boleng, J., Camp, T., Tolety, V.: Mesh-based geocast routing protocols in an ad hoc  
network. In: 15th International Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium, San  
Francisco, pp. 1924–1933 (2001)  
8. Ko, Y.-B., Vaidya, N.H.: GeoTORA A Protocol for Geocasting in Mobile Ad Hoc Net-
works. In: 8th International Conference on Network Protocols (ICNP), Osaka, Japan, pp. 
240–250 (2000)  
9. Ko, Y.-B., Vaidya, N.H.: Anycasting-Based Protocol for Geocast Service in Mobile Ad 
Hoc Networks. Computer Networks Journal 41(6), 743–760 (2003) 
10. Xiuchao, W.: Simulate 802.11b Channel within NS2 (2004), 
http://www.comp.nus.edu.sg/~wuxiucha/research/reactive/ 
report/80211ChannelinNS2_new.pdf 
 
99 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：許子衡 計畫編號：99-2221-E-218-018- 
計畫名稱：車戴網路環境下基植於網路編碼技術之同儕地域性廣播傳輸架構研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 WCE 2010年民生電
子研討會 優良論
文獎 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
Proceedings of 
the 2011 
International 
Conference 
Ubiquitous 
Computing and 
Multimedia 
Applications 
(UCMA2011), 
Korea, Best 
Paper Award 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
國外 
參與計畫人力 碩士生 0 0 100% 人次  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：□已發表 ■未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
Tz-Heng Hsu, Ying-Chen Lo and Meng-Shu Chiang, A Network Coding Based Geocasting 
Mechanism in Vehicle Ad Hoc Networks,’’Proceedings of the 2011 International 
Conference Ubiquitous Computing and Multimedia Applications (UCMA2011), pp. 223-232, 
Daejeon, Korea, April 13-15, 2011. (Best Paper Award) 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500 字為限） 
在本計劃中，利用網路編碼(Network Coding)技術，發展出車輛隨意通訊網路(VANET)環
境下具有網路編碼能力的地域性廣播(Geocasting)傳輸運算架構。計劃成果為：提出針對
車輛隨意通訊網路(VANET)環境特性設計基植於網路編碼技術(Network Coding)的地域性
廣播(Geocasting)傳輸架構，有效地將地域性廣播(Geocasting)資料封包散播給特定範圍
內所有車輛，降低傳送延遲，給使用者良好的服務品質。在所提出基植於網路編碼(Network 
Coding)的車戴隨意行動網路地域性廣播傳輸架構中，同時會有多個分割轉送區 MSFZ 
(Multi-Split-Forwarding Zone)傳送不同的資料給不同的車戴節點。因此，相鄰不同資
料轉送區 MSFZ 的節點可以同時傳送不同的資料。同時，利用在相交區域所同時收到的地
域性廣播資料，在特定節點進行線性網路編碼(Linear Network Coding)，送出經網路編
碼後的封包來加強地域性廣播封包在網路上傳輸的容錯能力。 
基植於網路編碼(Network Coding)技術的車戴隨意行動網路地域性廣播(Geocasting)傳輸
架構具理論上的研討，適合學術論文之發表。此外，本計劃所發表之網路編碼(Network 
Coding)技術的地域性廣播(Geocasting)傳輸架構，其設計分析後的系統架構及相關參考
成果，可供業界發展車戴隨意行動網路(VANET)應用上之重要依據，並可協助開發車戴隨
意行動網路(VANET)的網路編碼(Network Coding)運算應用，提升產業界競爭力。 
