      行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
事故現場輪胎印痕自動識別系統之建立(II) 
Establishing an automatic identification system of tire imprints at accident scene(II)  
計畫編號：NSC 97-2211-E-346-003- 
執行期限：97 年 8 月 1 日至 98 年 7 月 31 日 
        主持人：王瑩瑋 國立澎湖科技大學行銷與物流管理學系 
              計畫參與人員：陳永勝 國立澎湖科技大學服務業經營管理研究所研究生 
 
一、中文摘要 
事故現場輪胎印痕是重要之事故現場調查
項目之一，其可用以了解可能產生之輪胎
種類及其使用之車型，進而得知其行駛之
位置、方向，以及碰撞後可能運行之軌跡，
乃為事故重建及事故逃逸偵查上之重要依
據。為有效解決輪胎印痕鑑別上採人工作
業方式不僅耗時且成本高之缺點，發展胎
痕自動定位、特徵擷取、比對及匹配之方
法，以建立胎痕自動識別之系統，加速後
續胎痕跡證鑑識及其車輛歸屬判定工作之
進行。本計劃首先利用影像處理之方法，
發展一輪胎印痕之定位擷取模式，有效決
定印痕之實際範圍後，發展一特徵擷取之
演算法(Gabor Filter)，擷取其紋理型態
特 徵 ， 再 由 取 得 之 特 徵 量 (Gabor 
features），以適當之匹配方法(歐式距
離、餘弦距離及支持向量機分類器)，進行
比對匹配，以確認輪胎印痕是否為某一胎
紋所生或其相似程度，再結合建立之輪胎
胎紋影像資料庫，建立一完整之事故現場
輪胎印痕自動識別系統，以落實本土化事
故現場胎痕跡證鑑識技術之發展，進一步
提高國內事故鑑定之品質。 
關鍵詞：事故現場、輪胎印痕、胎痕識別、
匹配 
英文摘要 
Tire imprint is one of the important data in 
accident investigation. It can be used to 
identify the printed tires and further verify 
the suspected vehicle or the possible types 
of vehicles. Furthermore, the driving 
positions, directions and the post-impact 
trajectories from the discerned vehicle can 
be identified. It is the basic data for the 
accident reconstruction and suspected 
vehicles verification and identification. To 
effectively solve the shortcomings of 
manual operation and high cost in tire 
imprint identification, an automatic tire 
imprint identification system will be 
established for accelerating the task of mark 
identification. The study firstly employ the 
image-processing methods to develop a 
mark location model for determining the 
area of the mark in the image. Then, to 
effectively extract the features of the mark, a 
feature extraction model based on Gabor 
filter will be developed. After the (Gabor) 
features extracted from a tire tread and tire 
imprint, a appropriate matching method, 
such as Euclidean distance, Cosine distance, 
and Support vector machine classifier, will 
be used to compare and match them to 
verify the printed tires or identify the 
possible tires. Finally, combined with the 
tire treads database, an entire automatic tire 
imprint identification system will be 
established. This system will not only 
accomplish the development of tire-mark 
 2
{ 5/,4/,5/2,5/,4/,5/2,2/,0 }πππππππθ −−−=
，與 { 5,34,2,1= }σ 。由於 Gabor Feature 維
度相當的高，這對於訓練是非常大的負
擔，因此我們使用主分量分析(PCA)作為
特徵降維的方式，降低維度以提升辨識的
速度，最後再使用歐式距離分類器
(Euclidean Distance；ED Classifier)、餘弦
距離分類器(Cosine Distance；CD Classifier)
與支持向量機分類器 (Support Vector 
Machine Classifier；SVM Classifier)，將胎
痕所代表的廠牌規格辨識出來。另印痕之
定位已發展一定位之方法進行自動之定位
工作。 
而案例之實驗操作步驟及初步成果簡述如
下： 
實驗開始前先將所有胎痕影像平滑化且均
轉換為大小 45×30 像素的 BMP 檔，再進行
以下實驗步驟： 
(1)首先我們將胎痕資料庫內的胎痕資料
分離為訓練資料和辨識資料。我們將 15
類胎痕中，在每類各隨機選出 2 張胎痕作
為訓練資料，另外剩餘的 2 張胎痕則做為
辨識資料。因此總共會有 15×2=30 張為訓
練資料，而辨識資料也會有 15×2=30 張。 
(2)接著我們將訓練資料和測試資料與
Gabor Filter 進行迴旋積(Convolution)計
算，其中我們使用 8 種旋轉角度、5 種尺
度大小的 Gabor Filter 而產生的 Gabor 
Feature，由於胎痕影像的維度為 45×30 像
素，因此產生的 Gabor Features 影像輸出
維度為 45*30*40=54,000 像素；為了加快
訓練和辨識的效率所以我們利用主分量分
析方法。將高維度之影像空間透過適當之
轉換或投影過程，以取得較低之特徵空
間，同時保留大部份之原影像資訊，這種
過程又稱為特徵降維或特徵擷取。 
 (3)將訓練資料與測試資料來進行分類辨
識，此時可以選擇三種不同的分類器，分
別為歐式距離、餘弦距離和支持向量機。 
由實驗結果可知以 PCA 加上餘弦距離分
類器之分類結果較佳，約 46.7%，另 PCA
加上支持向量機分類器之識別率分別為
26.7%及 37.9%。 
 
四、計劃成果自評 
由上述之研究結果可知，本計劃之研究成果
完全符合原計劃中預定完成之工作項目及
內容，而主要完成之計劃目的有一、發展自
動擷取及識別輪胎印痕之模式或演算法。
二、建立輪胎印痕資料庫。三、建立一特徵
匹配之模式。 
該成果目前已投搞國際期刊審查中乙篇、擬
申請專利「影像式輪胎印痕識別方法」乙
件。而針對上述之研究結果，後續應再加強
之方向及實務應用之建議，列述如下： 
1.再增加接地胎紋資料之搜集，更完整地建
立胎紋比對資料庫。 
2.未來可再就輪胎壓地之變形行為再做一
系統性之觀察，以建立較正確之預測模
式，以提高自動比對工作之正確性。 
3.提高自動識別之比率，朝空間域方向改
進。 
 
五、參考文獻 
1.關松申，道路交通事故現場輪胎痕跡智
能鑑別系統的研究，長春吉林大學交通
學院，2003。 
2.陳強，李江，吳想，關松申，輪胎印痕
識別算法及實例分析，吉林大學學報（工
學版），第35卷，第1期，2005，頁39-43。 
3. Chen, Q., Li, J., Wu, X., and Yan, S.T., 
imprint discernment algorithm and 
example analysis, Journal of Jilin 
University (Engineering and Technology 
Edition), Vol. 35, No. 1, pp.39-43. 
4. Jung, S.W., Bae, S.W., and Park, G.T., A 
design scheme for a hierarchical fuzzy 
 4
 
圖１ 輪胎印痕擷取及識別系統運作流程 
 6
行政院國家科學委員會補助團隊參與國際學術組織會議報告 
                                            98 年 6 月 10 日 
報告人姓名 王瑩瑋 服務機構 國立澎湖科技大學 行銷與物流管理系 職稱 教授 
中文：第 8 屆夏威夷社會科學國際學術研討會 
會議正式名稱 
英文：2009 Hawaii International Conference on Social Science 
會 議 時 間       自 98 年 6 月 4 日至 98
年 6 月 7 日 
地點（國、州、城市） 美國夏威夷檀香山
 
一、 參加會議經過 
此次國際會議期間共四天(6/4、5、6、7)，本人報告場次在 6/4 日，6/4 日搭乘班機起
程，6/4 日到達美國華夏威夷檀香山，6/4、6/5、 6/6 及 6/7 進行論文之報告並參與其它
相關場次論文之發表活動，6/7 日搭機回國。 
二、 與會心得 
參與此次第 8 屆夏威夷社會科學國際學術研討會，有下列幾點心得： 
(一)夏威夷以觀光發展為導向，因受限於島嶼面積、人口(集中於歐胡島約 90 萬)、及
地質地形，交通設施規劃以公路運輸為主，尤其公車四通八達相當便利，而且承
載率相當高，值得借鏡。 
(二)採用 poster 方式報告，有更多之機會與其他研究人員溝通及交換意見，對於論文
之改進幫助很大。另得知替代能源在各國氣候變遷政策上均扮演著重要之角色，
故該領域相當值得投入研究。又因該研討會包括社會科學各個領域（含教育、政
治、經濟、地理、心理、社會工作、永續都市、人類學、歷史、都市與區域規劃
等），可增廣研究之思維、深度及觸角，充分掌握研究之脈動。 
(三)國內在電動運具或替代能源運具相關之研究明顯不足（雖國外也處於起步階段，
然近年來大規模投入研究，已漸有成績）。另跨領域整合研究之深度及廣度也明顯
不夠。 
(四)在論文 poster 報告中，明顯了解英語溝通能力尚待加強，未來尚需多方面提升並
多參與國際會議活動，有效提昇英語溝通及報告的能力。 
三、 考察參觀活動（無是項活動者省略） 
無。 
四、 建議事項 
(一)應鼓勵取得國內博士學位教師多參與國際研討會，強化外語溝通表達能力，充分
掌握主流研究之趨勢，增進研究之廣度及深度。 
(二)有鑑於台灣整體購買力已大不如前，參與國際學術研討會費用相形沉重，為保有
學術競爭能力，希望貴會能持續提供出席國際會議的經費補助。 
五、 其他 
 
 
 
Locating Slow-Recharging Stations to Serve Tourism Transport 
Ying-Wei Wang 
Professor 
Department of Marketing and Logistics Management 
National Penghu University 
300 Liu-Ho Rd., Makung, Penghu, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Abstract   
Some governments are promoting the use of electric vehicles such as electric scooters to effectively reduce the 
impact of tourism transport on local environments; however, these vehicles have only a limited range, and the 
establishment of recharging facilities is important in encouraging their use. Given that electric scooters are most 
commonly used for recreational trips over short distances due to their range limitation, locating recharging 
stations is important if their use is to become more widespread. The present study develops a model based on 
the concept of the location planning of recreation-oriented facilities, with the locations and numbers of 
recharging stations determined using an integer program, accompanied by a case study for validation. 
Sensitivity analyses are performed to determine the recharging speed of batteries and the facility-locating 
capacity of each site. The results show that a high level of recharging speed or a rapid recharging method for 
replenishing battery energy would significantly reduce the number of required recharge stations. 
 
energy or capacity at each attraction must be appropriately considered by the location model. Therefore, the 
purpose of the present study is to develop a slow-recharging location model for addressing the issues of battery 
recharge time and facility location in the context of a tourist setting in which locations are known and length of 
visit can be estimated. 
The present study also introduces the concept of location planning for recreation-oriented facilities and 
proposes a slow-recharging location model for the placement of recharging stations at various attractions. A 
practical case study of the Penghu Islands in Taiwan was included to apply the model and identify the important 
inputs and parameters. The final section provides a discussion of the results and the conclusion. 
 
CONCEPTUALIZATION OF LOCATION PLANNING FOR RECREATION-ORIENTED 
FACILITIES 
In conventional facility-location planning, demands (customers) are expressed as a weight at the nodes that are 
served/covered by the spatial facilities being located. In many location contexts, the services available to the 
customer depend on the traveling distance between the customer and the facility to which the customer is 
assigned. Customers are generally, though not always, assigned to the nearest facility. Examples include the set 
cover, maximum cover, p-center, and p-median models; however, the demands for some types of business are in 
the form of traffic flows that pass by the facility, as argued by Hodgson (9). That is, the trip demands constitute 
a traffic flow along the path or route from an origin to a destination. The traffic flow will be served by facilities 
en route in daily activities, such as customers served by a convenience store, automatic teller machines (ATM), 
and gasoline stations. Thus, facility-location planning must consider the flow-type demand to effectively locate 
the facilities. The well-known flow-capturing location model proposed by Hodgson (9), and Berman et al. (10) 
are the typical examples. In fact, the service demands in commonplace daily trips originate from either the 
given nodes or the links. That is, the demand is probably covered by the nearest facility or facilities en route. It 
is for this reason that the hybrid model developed by Hodgson et al. (11) later was able to solve the problem.  
In terms of tourist travel, the hybrid model largely solves the problems of vehicle refueling requirements 
from the departure points to the destinations. For example, a car or bus can fill its tank with petroleum at the 
point of origin and then refuel along the way if the traveling distance exceeds the vehicle’s fuel capacity. An 
interesting problem emerges if the journey is undertaken using an environmentally friendly electric vehicle with 
a limited travel distance. Given that one-stop refueling will not satisfy the demand for long-distance travel in 
this case, Kuby et al. (6) developed the flow-refueling location model. Long distance journeys will be 
achievable using electric vehicles when multi-stop refueling replaces one-stop refueling along a travel path; 
however, Kuby’s model applies to alternative-fuel vehicles such as electric vehicles powered by hydrogen fuel 
or battery, refueling via the exchange of hydrogen fuel cells or batteries, or by rapid refueling at the refueling 
stations. The model cannot solve the location problems of recharging stations for light electric vehicles (ESs or 
electric motorcycles) because of the low recharging speed rate of lead–acid battery recharging (‘refueling’ is not 
achieved via battery exchange). Wang (7,8) proposed a location model for recreation-oriented ES recharge 
stations (as opposed to battery exchange stations). The model can be used to locate recharging stations along 
recreational routes or paths, thereby facilitating the recharging of batteries while enjoying the attractions on 
long-distance journeys. 
Wang’s model is based on the flow-capturing concept, which intrinsically differs from the concept of 
maximum flow-capturing or flow-refueling employed by Hodgson (9), Bermon et al. (10), and Kuby et al. (6). 
With regard to the owners of rental ESs, the recharging stations must be located in sufficient numbers at the 
destination area to satisfy the recharging requirements of electric-scooter travelers on their long-distance 
Inputs 
          set of all nodes ( potential station locations)  N
          set of all arcs  A
     M      set of ESs traveling on a path                                   
          cost of locating a station at the node  ic i
          electrical energy (equating to a range) being recharged at node for an ES on a path  imr i m
          remained electrical energy at node i  for an ES on a path imb m
iu      capacity of locating stations at site i  
         a distance between node i  and nodeijd j  
         if arc ij  is on a path used by an ES , , otherwise  ijmδ m 1=ijmδ 0=ijmδ
         length of visit (also possible recharging time) at node  for an ES  imt i m
     α      a range using battery’s level of charge at point of origin  
     β      recharging speed; speed of battery energy returned if recharging ( equating to the extended range 
per min recharging (km/min)) 
     γ      maximal electrical energy of a battery  
 
Decision Variables 
      if there are stations located on the node , 0, otherwise =0 iX i iX ≥ iX
 
imY   if an ES m  is recharged at node on a path, =1, otherwise =0 i imY imY 
imI   an adjustment coefficient for an ES  being recharged at node on a path m i
With these notations, the location choice modeling problem can be formulated as described below. 
     ∑
∈Ni
ii XcMinimize                                                        (1) 
 
 
 
 
Subject to 
α + ∑
∈Ni
imr ≥ ∑
∈
×
Aij
ijmijd δ        Mm∈∀ ,                         ( 2 ) 
jimjijmjmim drbb δ×−+= )(       Aji∈∀ , Mm∈∀ ,                    ( 3 ) 
number of recharging stations available for energy recharging; this is not greater than the number of recharging 
stations to be located. Constraint (7) shows that the number of recharging stations located at a site must not 
exceed the capacity of facility-locating (maximum number of stations being located there). Constraint (8) 
indicates  is a 0 or 1 integral. Constraints (9) and (10) dictates that the decision variables  and 
must be not less then zero. Further, if we enforce the integrality constraint on the location variable , then 
, the location variable, will automatically become an integer. 
imY imI iX  
imY
iX
 
CASE STUDY 
A refined model of the locating of recharging stations for recreational ESs has been developed using an integer 
program; we now present a case study for application. 
Penghu, an archipelago located in the Taiwan Strait and with beautiful landscapes and rich ocean 
resources, is an area popular with international/domestic island tourism and recreation. Most of the popular 
sites are located in Baisha and Siyu townships and the continuous line in Figure 1 shows main routes used by 
travelers visiting them. The distance from Magong City to the farthest scenic spot (Wai-an) is 38 km; a return 
trip thus 76 km; a distance requiring an electric scooter to recharge. Touring is also difficult because there is a 
lack of recharging stations other main attractions including Citou aquarium, Tongliang great-banyan, Chuwan 
dayi temple, Siaomen whale cave, Erkan traditional village, and Wai-an western fort.  
 
According to one survey (Wang et al., 2002), tourists’ average length of stay at Citou, Tongliang, Chuwan, 
Siaomen, Erkan, and Wai-an are 56, 19, 22, 28, 33, and 30 minutes, respectively. The trip distributions for 
recreational travel along the popular routes are shown in Table 1. Besides, lead–acid batteries are commonly 
used for ESs, but their energy is limited and they can only power the ES for short distances (approximately 50 
km per charge). Increasing the number of recharging stations could compensate for this particular limitation of 
the ES. In general, each ES would be equipped with a recharger, and the recharger plug could be inserted into a 
110 V power point for daily use; therefore, recharging stations with a common 110 V power point is a simple 
solution. The goal is to offer convenient recharging stations to tourists. One way of facilitating this is to locate 
recharging stations at scenic or historical sites where tourists can recharge their batteries. 
In addition, with regard to the slow recharging of batteries, the total recharging time, based on the average 
length of stay at sites, is not long enough to recharge for long-distance travel; thus, it is necessary to extend the 
length of time at some sites. In the present study, the additional visiting time is supposed to occur at the final 
site in the trip. For example, in trip no. 10, the length of stay at Wan-an is increased from 30 to 85 minutes. The 
data were used as input parameters to solve the minimization problem. 
Given that the location model was established using an integer program, LINGO’s branch and bound 
method was used to obtain solutions (13). On the assumption that the locating cost and capacity at each 
destination were equal, the solutions listed in Table 2 were obtained using the following parameters: the range 
with the battery’s level of charge at the point of origin (fully charged α =50), recharging speed (0.1667, 0.208, 
0.417, 0.833), capacity of locating facilities at each site (15, 14, 13, 12, 11, 10, 9, 8, 7), and the length of stay at 
sites (as mentioned above). Table 3 shows the location and number of recharging stations to be located, and the 
recharging time at each attraction for ESs along the routes, where the recharging speeds are 0.167 and 0.417 
and the locating capacity is 15. When the recharging speed and locating capacity were 0.167 and 15, 
speed of 0.167 and capacity of 15, 68 recharging stations are located; in contrast, an efficiency of 0.833 
results in 38 recharging-station locations. There is a slight negative influence on station location of locating 
capacity under constant recharging speed. 
(2) The location and number of recharging stations depends on the number of ESs, the frequency with which 
the attractions are visited, the length of stay at each site, and locating costs. The locating cost of each site is 
the main factor in deciding the locations and the number of recharging stations, but the required recharging 
time for ESs along each route must also be met. The transfer of facilities may not occur due to the tradeoff 
between locating costs and the length of stay (also the possible recharging time) at an attraction. 
(3) The actual recharging time commonly differs to the length of stay at each attraction. This variation can be 
adjusted by using the  value. In addition, adjustment of the recharging time commonly occurred in 
situations of higher recharging speed, such as 0.417 and 0.833. 
imI
 
CONCLUSIONS 
With regard to traveler utility and environmental protection, the development and promotion of alternative-fuel 
vehicles to replace traditional vehicles with internal combustion engines has become the most urgent and 
appropriate solution to effectively reduce the local environmental impacts of tourism transport. Given that the 
use of ESs is primarily recreational, a new recreation-oriented location model for the locations of recharge 
facilities seems appropriate. The location model used here considers the speed of energy recharging, multiple 
routes (O–D pairs), ES fleet sizes (under peak hour), locating capacity, cost, and mean length of stay at 
attractions under rational assumptions to economically determine the optimal locations and the number of 
stations to be located at the attractions. The replenishing of battery energy while visiting attractions can extend 
the travel range of ESs. This model, formulated using an integer program, is applied via a case study of Penghu 
County, Taiwan, with the results showing that the proposed model is capable of identifying the critical 
parameters that impact on the locations of recharge facilities. Sensitivity analysis suggests that high recharging 
speed or rapid recharging methods for replenishing battery energy could significantly reduce the number of 
recharging stations required at attractions, which in turn would result in significant costs savings if locating cost 
being equal. 
 
REFERENCES 
1. Pearce, P. L., Fundamentals of Tourist Motivation, D.G. Pearce and R. Butler (eds) Tourism Research: 
Critiques and Challenges, London: Routledge, 1992, pp. 113-134. 
2. Middleton, V.T.C. (1998). Marketing in Travel and Tourism, London: Heinemann. 
3. Tourism Society (1990). Tourism and the Environment: A Memorandum to the Department of Employment 
Task Force, London: The UK Tourism Society. 
4. Banister, D. and Button, K.J. (eds) (1992) Transport, the Environment and Sustainable Development, 
London: E and FN Spon. 
5. Page, S. J., Transport and Tourism, Prentice Hall, Singapore, 1999. 
6. Kuby, M., Lim, S., The flow-refueling Location Problem for Alternative-Fuel Vehicles, Socio-Economic 
Planning Sciences, Vol. 39, 2005, pp. 125-145. 
7. Wang, Y. W., “A Recharge Station Location Model for Electric Scooter Recreation/tourism”, Transportation 
 
 
 
Baisha Township 
Chihkan
T
Siaomen 
(whale cave) ongliang 
(great-banyan) 
Citou 
(aquarium) 
Siyu Township Chuwan 
(dayi-temple) 
Erkan  
(traditional-village) 
Husi 
Magong Airport 
Magong 
Dongwei
Wai-an 
(western-fort) Husi Township 
Fongguei 
Magong City 
Shanshuei 
: Boundaries of Townships 
: Candidate recharging T 
 
Figure 1. Map of Magong Islands 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1. Trip distributions along popular routes 
No. Type of routes (length of stay (minutes)) Distance(km) 
Maximum flow 
volume 
(no. of 
scooters/hour) 
1 
Magong Citou (56) Tongliang (19)→Chuwan 
(22) Siaomen (28) Erkan (33) Wai-an (30)  
Magong  
→ →
→ → → → 76 3 
2 
Magong Citou (56) Tongliang (19)→Chuwan 
(22) Siaomen (28) Erkan (33) Magong 
→ →
→ → → 64 3 
3 
Magong Citou (56) Tongliang (19)→Chuwan 
(22) Magong 
→ →
→ 59 3 
4 
Magong Tongliang (19)→Siaomen (28)→Erkan 
(43) Magong 
→
→ 64 3 
5 
Magong Chuwan (30) Siaomen (28) Wai-an 
(100) Magong 
→ → →
→ 76 3 
6 Magong Siaomen (28) Wai-an (132)→Magong → → 76 4 
7 Magong Citou (56) Siaomen (28) Magong → → → 61 2 
8 Magong Tongliang (19)→Chuwan (40)→Magong → 59 2 
9 Magong Citou (56) Wai-an (104) Magong → → → 76 2 
10 
Magong Citou (56) Tongliang (19)→Wan-an (85) 
Magong 
→ →
→ 76 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
