報告內容 
Introduction 
 Recently, the Coherent Diffractive Imaging (CDI), novel technique of the phase recovery,  
has been proposed  to offers “lensless” path toward the aberration-free ultrahigh-resolution 
microscopy. The CDI or “lensless imaging” has been demonstrate to determine complicate 
non-periodic or defected structures from a single far-field diffraction pattern using iterative 
computational algorithms with soft x-ray. Spatial resolution of the reconstructed information 
image is limited only by wavelength, coherence properties of the incident radiation and by the 
maximum scattering vectors of the recorded intensities. The projected crystal potential 
distribution of the non-periodic and near-periodic isolated objects can be iteratively recovered 
from an over-sampled electron diffraction pattern. 
  
Goal 
The main purpose of this project is to develop an accurate experimental technique and 
computational algorithm for two- and three-dimensional characterization of physical and 
bio-materials using coherent X-ray and electron diffraction imaging. The first aim of the project 
looks at the experimental application of the phase retrieval method to the electron microscopy 
and synchrotron radiation. We aim to discover achievable resolution and limits of the 
applicability of the CDI technique in the material and life science. The second aim of the project 
includes analysis of the current retrieval algorithms and developing practical methodology for 
fast and adequate reconstruction from experimental data.  
 
Paper review 
The idea of this new type of microscopy, first proposed by Sayre (1952) is to determine 
the electron density distribution of the isolated crystalline or noncrystalline sample by measuring 
its far-field diffraction intensity pattern[1]. If the diffraction intensity can be sampled at the 
spacing finer than the Bragg peak spatial frequency (oversampled), a nontrivial unique phase can 
be, in principle, retrieved using error-reduction (ER) (Gerchberg & Saxton, 1972) [2] and/or 
hybrid input-output (HIO) (Fienup, 1982) iterative algorithms[3]. To solve phase problem, 
algorithms iterate between Fourier and real space, where intensity and support constraints are 
applied. Recently Elser has developed more general difference map (DM) algorithm (Elser, 
2003)[4], which was applied to a wide variety of problems (Thibault et al., 2006; Elser & 
Rankenburg, 2006) [5-6]. 
 
In X-ray science Jianwei Miao in 1999 successfully demonstrated the complete procedure 
of pattern recording, phasing and imaging at 75 nm resolution on a 2-dimensional 
radiation-resistant specimen (Miao et al,. 1999)[7]. Later Miao and coworkers for the first time 
have experimentally determined the three-dimensional structure of a manufactured noncrystalline 
material at sub-10-nm resolution (Miao et al., 2002)[8]. Since than, the method was used to 
Diffraction pattern were recorded on the Fuji Imaging plate (FDL UR-V 81x100mm) with 
25x25µm2 pixel size and the area of 3000x3760 pixels. Then in IP Reader (FDL 5000) output 
signal was logarithmically amplified and digitized into 14bits (16384 counts). The electron beam 
intensity can be recovered by the transformation : 
           ,where N is digitized signal and c is the calibration constant which defines 
highest reading sensitivity [22].  
  
The Difference Map (DM) algorithm developed by Elser (Elser, 2003) [4] has been 
realized on the personal Windows PC using C++ programming language. Initially, the complex 
Fourier space distribution assembles from the square root of the measured intensity and randomly 
generated phases. Two projections FS and SF are generated as shown on flowchart. Here S and F 
are real and Fourier space constraints correspondingly. F constraint performs Fourier 
transformation, than replacing magnitude with the measured but phase is retained, and, finally, 
applies inverse Fourier transform. S constraint pushes pixels outside support to zero and inside 
remains unchanged. Next the new distribution is obtained as shows third step. Where β is a 
constant between 0.5 and 1. Instead of one feedback parameter β in HIO the difference map 
algorithm has three parameters and therefore more degrees of freedom. Error is defined by the 
difference between projections. The HIO method can be obtained from DM with the choices γ1 = 
- 1 and γ2 = β-1 (McBride , 2004)[23]. The charge-flipping algorithm is similar to Fienup’s 
input-output algorithm with β=2 (Wu & Spence, 2004). Therefore, DM with the choices γ1 = - 1, 
γ2 = 0.5 and β=2 is mathematically same as charge-flipping. 
      
Results and discussing 
We used JOEL 2010F field emission gun TEM to observe the MgO sample. We have 
recorded the isolated MgO nano size particle which was square shape with the length about 25 
nm in nano beam diffraction mode (Fig.1.a). Moreover, diffraction pattern of the nano size 
particle was recorded in camera length 100cm and 2.8 seconds for the image plate exposure. 
(Fig.1.b) Then the diffraction pattern was cropped into the size of 2048x2048 pixels with the 
center in the direct beam which is zero position in angular space.(Fig2.a) The nano size MgO 
particles were dispersed on the carbon grids. Therefore, it was very obvious that there were 
background diffraction from amorphous carbon in the center of the diffraction pattern. The 
diffraction intensities contribution from the substrate led to a problem on phase reconstruction. 
Due to the low exposure time (2.8 seconds) the diffraction from carbon substrate were confined 
into local area. There is no strong carbon diffraction interference with the MgO diffraction Bragg 
peaks except the central peak (intensities from direct beam). Different color was used to show 
different meaning in diffraction pattern.(Fig2.b) Black shows the area with zero values. Blue 
shows the Bragg peak diffraction area from MgO crystalline particle, while red shows the area 
intensities from background (carbon grid). So we made an MgO mask (Fig3.a) to allow MgO 
diffraction signals passing through but blocked the background signals. Moreover, Signals of 
directly incident beam was also blocked by the filter. For non-crystalline material with X-ray CDI, 
central missing data corresponding to low frequencies of the electron density of sample, and 
)
4096
8192(
10
−
⋅=
N
cI
our research. However, due to noise on the diffraction images, there is still no quantification tool 
to define the quality of the reconstruction results. We applied random initial phase and the idea 
“successful rate” to describe the reproductive behavior with our approach. Still, unique solution 
will be an important issue for the phase problem.     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. (a) Measured nano-area electron diffraction pattern of the 25 nm MgO particle. (c) Electron probe with a 
diameter about 150 nm. 
 
a) b)
 
Figure 2: (a) Recorded on the IP diffraction pattern after centering and cropping to 2048 x 2048 
pixels array. Inset shows the intensity profile along the line. (b) Location of the zero-valued 
signal (black color), diffracted intensity around Bragg peaks (blue color). Central area labeled by 
the red color contains scattering from the transmitted central beam, scattering from the carbon 
film and condenser aperture artifacts. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5(A) Phase of the reconstruction results after 500 iterations (B) enlarge view of the 
reconstruction results in 5(A) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. The R factor of reconstruction of the MgO nanoparticle as a function of iteration 
number. 
100 200 300 400 500
0.04
0.06
0.08
0.10
0.12
0.14
0.16
0.18
0.20
 
 
R
 fa
ct
or
Iteration number
參加「coherence 2007」研討會心得報告 
國立清華大學工程與系統科學系 
研究生 馮祺凱 
 
 
    「Coherence 2007」國際同調性繞射影像研討會議在美國加州 Pacific Grove
舉行，自 2007 年六月二十五日至二十八日止，今年為第四屆的研討會。國際同
調性繞射影像研討會主要是在探討現今在先進光學領域逐漸熱門的同調性繞射
影像 CDI（Coherent Diffraction Imaging）技術的最新發展情況。我與一位本系所
博士班研究生 Dronyak Roman，以及同步輻射中心服務的研究員殷廣鈐先生一行
三人，搭乘台灣時間六月二十四日晚上的班機，前往加州參加大會。本次會議在
加州灣區 Pacific Grove 的 Asilomer 會議中心舉行，雖然不在熱鬧的舊金山市區，
但是風景宜人，可遠眺廣闊的太平洋，令人非常印象深刻。 
 
    在會議第一日註冊當天下午，我們碰到同為台灣來的中研院研究團隊，來自
中研院物理所的李定國博士以及陳建群研究員。李定國博士為奈米科技國家型計
畫主持人，於此次會議李博士的團隊有研究成果的海報展示。美國時間六月二十
五日為大會第一日，主要活動為註冊後有開幕式以及兩個邀訪式的報告，其一為
Henry N. Chapman 先生發表「超快同調性繞射影像在自由電子雷射方面的新發
展」，以及 Ian Robinsion 先生發表「折射同調性 X 光繞射應用於相位結構上」，
Chapman 先生以及 Robinson 先生在同調性 X 光繞射影像都為頗著名的學者，特
別是 Prof. Chapman 在三維同調性 X 光繞射影像有相當顯著的成果。 
 
    第一日晚上用過晚餐後是海報展示的時間，大會此次的投稿相當踴躍，總共
有五十七張海報展示於大會會場，展示題目五花八門，大多集中於 X 光同調性
繞射影像上的技術發展及應用，應用於電子繞射影像的僅有一篇，因此相當顯
目。展示題目為「同調性電子繞射影像在金奈米顆粒表面收縮的研究」，為伊利
諾大學材料系的 Jian Min Zuo 教授的團隊。Zuo 團隊在電子繞射影像的領域有多
篇文章發表，最為著名的是在 Science 期刊發表的「奈米碳管在電子繞射原子級
解析度影像」。同為電子繞射影像研究團隊的我們自然是非常關注的題目。展示
的內容主要是以穿透式電子顯微鏡拍攝金奈米級顆粒的電子繞射圖樣，用以解析
空間中繞射強度的變化與金顆粒表面層缺陷的關係。負責展示的人員是博士後研
究員 Wei-Jin Huang，我們交換電子顯微鏡上奈米級區域繞射技術(Nano-area 
electron diffraction)的心得，我們團隊的 Roman 也與之交流關於相位回復的相關理
論細節。 
