1ABSTRACT
Many studies have worked on embedding silver
nanoparticles into polymer to fabricate antimicrobial
packaging materials, since FDA granted silver as an
antimicrobial agent. However, those antimicrobial
agents entrapped within polymers may not directly
contact with food, which limits antimicrobial activity.
This study aimed to develop an antimicrobial film suing
a technique to link silver nanoparticles onto LDPE
surface by peptide. LDPE was treated by surface
modification process using a UV/TiO2/O3 method, and
polar functional groups (such as–C=O, or–C–O)
introduced on the surface of LDPE were determined by
FT-IR. Silver nanoparticles were then linked on the
LDPE using peptide, and an active antimicrobial film
was completed. IR absorbance at 1297.86 cm-1 (–C–O)
and 1704.76 cm-1 (–C=O) were found on LDPE in
association with duration of UV/TiO2/O3 process,
indicating the surface modification is accomplished.
This modified LDPE (1 cm2) was found to be able to
incorporate with 0.27ppm peptide linker. Antimicrobial
activity of nano–silver incorporated LDPE was then
determined by inhibiting the growth of E. coli and
air–borne microorganism. The significance of this study
is beneficial to fabricate an antimicrobial film which is
reusable and free of migrant.
Keywords: surface modification, UV/TiO2/O3, silver
nanoparticles, FT–IR, antimicrobial film
INTRODUCTION
Developing antimicrobial films intended for food
packaging applications is one of the emerging research
activities in the fields of both applied microbiology and
packaging. The active component of these antimicrobial
systems can be either organic or inorganic. In particular,
the inorganic systems are based on metal or metal ions
such as silver nanoparticles. Silver nanoparticles are
highly toxic to microorganisms showing strong biocidal
affects on as many as 16 species of bacteria including E.
coli. But Silver nanoparticles have low toxicity to
mammalian cells. Many data are available concerning
the safety of silver nanoparticles, and in United States,
FDA has added to the list of food contact substances an
silver-based system as antimicrobial compounds for use
as an additives in food contact polymers. Although,
some study that silver nanoparticles concentrations
higher than 10 ppm may be toxic to human cells,
indicating the silver nanoparticles have toxicity in high
concentration. In fact, the silver nanoparticles are really
safety for human. The mass transfer of an active
substance incorporated into a film or coating, with
different applications. The incorporation of an
antimicrobial substance into a food packaging system
can take some approaches. One is to embed the
antimicrobial agent into the film by adding it in the
extruder when the film or the co-extruded film is
produced. The disadvantage of this system will be
damage mammalian cells since antimicrobial agent
release into the food. Another one is a packaging using
antimicrobial agent immobilized on the surface of
packaging film. The significance of the present report is
that owing to the antimicrobial agent linking with nitrile
group (C≡N). And the functions of this system are 1. 
Antimicrobial agent should be beneficial to enhance
antimicrobial activity due to the greater contact area. 2.
Linker preventing the loss or consumption of
antimicrobial agent. 3. Surface Modification on PE or
PP film to introduce polar functional group on the
surface of polymer, therefore, lead to increase affinity to
linker. 4. This system has more stability in the wet
environment. To sum up, we can realize that those
antimicrobial agents entrapped within polymers may
inhibit microbial growth and extend the shelf life in
traditional packaging industry. However, this system
may not directly contact with food, which limits
antimicrobial activity. The purpose of my study is
fabrication of an antimicrobial film using silver
nanoparticles linked on the surface of packaging film,
and suggest this film would has better antimicrobial
activity and safety.
EXPERIMENTALS
A. Materials and instrument
1. Polyolefins: LDPE (0.017 mm thickness), HDPE
(0.041 mm), PP (0.041mm)
2. TiO2: P-25, Degussa
3. Ozone detector: Kitagawa Precision Gas tube (range
2.5-100 and 50-1000ppm)
4. Ozone generator: 250 mg /hr production (residual O3
in reactor was ca. 150ppm)
5. FT-IR (Horiba FT-730)
6. Contact Angle meter (Kyowa Interface Science
CA-XP 150)
B. Experimental
1. Determination of silver nanoparticles using the
Dynamic Light Scanner(ZetaPlus, Brookhaven
Instruments Corporation, USA)
2. Identification of surface modification on LDPE and
the crosslinkage with peptide using FT-IR (Horiba,
FT-730, Japan)
3. Conformation of peptide linked on surface modified
LDPE using Scanning Electronic Microscopy (JSM
5600, JEOL Ltd., Japan)
4. Peptide linker:
n-Asp-Phe-Pro-Arg-Gly-Phe-Gly-Ala-Gly-Arg-c,
the concept of linker between polymer and active
compound was originated from Suzuki and others
(1998).
5. Surface modification was achieved by a UV/O3/TiO2
process
6. Incorporation of nano Ag on LDPE was completed
through peptide linkage (Fig. 1.)
–C=O H NH2
N C
–C=O H NH2+
H bond
surface
modified
LDPE
–C=O H NH2
N C
–C=O H NH2
+
Ag
peptide
Ag
Fig. 1. Proposed mechanism of silver nanoparticles
linked to surface modified LDPE via peptide.
Peptides are used as the crosslinkers between
silver nanoparticles and LDPE, and linkage is
achieved by H-bonding on modified LDPE and
grabbing silver nanoparticles on the other end.
3Use of propylene glycol resulted in preventing
aggregation (Fig. 5).
Fig. 4. Size distribution of silver nanoparticles (104 ppm)
in deionized water.
500.050.0
36 nm
142 nm
371 nm
Fig. 5. Size distribution of silver nanoparticles (104 ppm)
in propylene glycol.
3. Conformation of peptide linked on LDPE film
Peptides were found to attach on the surface modified
LDPE film using SEM (Fig. 6.), and the amount of
peptide linked to LDPE was associated with the
peptide concentration in incubation.
Fig. 6. Scanning electron microscopic image of modified
LDPE incorporated with (a) blank, (b) 10 ppm, (c)
30 ppm, (d) 50 ppm peptide, after ultrasonication
for 30 minutes.
3. Incorporation of silver nanoparticles on surface
modified LDPE
Nano-Ag incorporated on LDPE film was determined
by FT–IR (Fig 7), the identification of Ag was
achieved by pure chemical analyzed by FT–IR (Fig
8).
NH2
–C–N
nano–Ag
modified LDPE
modified LDPE + 50ppm peptide
modified LDPE + 50 ppm peptide + 10 ppm nano–Ag
Fig. 7. FT-IR spectra of modified LDPE incorporated
with silver nanoparticle using peptide as linker.
IR transmittance at 1590–1650 cm–1 and
1130–1190 cm–1 indicate–NH2 wag and–C–N
functional groups, respectively. Absorption at
400–500 cm–1 range shows the Ag incorporated
on LDPE film.
Fig. 8. FT-IR spectra of silver nanoparticles: (a) blank
(control); (b) 10 ppm; (c) 102 ppm; (d) 103 ppm;
(e) 104 ppm on KBr. Absorption of IR at 400–500
cm–1 was associated with the silver nanopaticle,
therefore the spectra was used to identify Ag.
4. Antimicrobial activities of nano-Ag incorporated
LDPE
Growth of microbes in contact with nano-Ag LDPE
was used to determine the effect of antimicrobial
activity on E. coli (Fig 7), airborne (Fig 8) and the
effect of repeated use (Fig 9)
Fig 7. Growth of E. coli incubated at 37oC for 24 h in
contact with packaging film: (A) Blank, (B)
Control (LDPE film), (C) 10 ppm silver
nanoparticles contained antimicrobial film.
(white spots on agar plates indicated microbial
growth)
Fig 8. Growth of airborne microbes on 3M PetrifilmTM
Aerobic Count Plates incubated in contact with
(A) Blank, (B) Control (LDPE), (C) 10 ppm
silver nanoparticles linked antimicrobial film.
Petrifilms were exposed to air for 30 min and
then incubated at 37oC for 48 h. Each red dot
