Structural and mechanical properties of polymersomes
formed by rod–coil diblock copolymers
Yung-Lung Lin,a Hung-Yu Chang,a Yu-Jane Sheng*a and Heng-Kwong Tsao*b
Polymersomes formed by rod–coil diblock copolymers (RxCy) are fundamentally diﬀerent from those of
coil–coil diblock copolymers. RxCy denotes the polymer comprising of x rod-like beads and y coil-like
beads. The morphological phase diagram of RxCy in selective solvents and the essential physical
properties of the RxCy-polymersomes are explored by using dissipative particle dynamics. Our simulation
results show that small-sized polymersomes can only take shape for short coil-block lengths. Moreover,
the rod-block length cannot be too long and p–p stacking must be weak because anisotropic rod
packing actually resists membrane bending and thus vesicle formation. The detailed membrane
structures of polymersomes are also investigated and it is found that the rods within the membrane are
highly interdigitated which is intrinsically diﬀerent from the ordered bilayer of the liposomes formed by
triblock copolymers (Rx)2Cy. The structural and mechanical properties of RxCy-polymersomes are studied
as well. As the coil-block length is increased, both the thickness and area density of the rod domain
decline. Since the coil stretching in the inner corona is more distinct than that in the outer one,
signiﬁcant interdigitation results due to the outward movement of the inner leaﬂet for relaxing
overcrowded coil-blocks. The membrane tension exhibits a maximum while the stretching and bending
moduli display a minimum at the intermediate coil-block length as y varies from 1 to 3. Fusion between
two polymersomes of R5Cy is investigated and the outcome relates to the membrane tension. R5C2-
polymersomes fuse most easily. However, R5C1-polymersomes do not proceed beyond the hemifusion
stage and R5C3-polymersomes can not even move past the initial kissing stage.
I Introduction
Self-assembly of amphiphilic block copolymers in selective
solvents has been the subject of intensive research during the
past decades.1–4 Various nano-sized structures, such as spher-
ical micelles, vesicles, bers, lamellar sheets, and nanotubes,
have been fabricated depending on the molecular structure,
concentration, block length, solvent selectivity, etc. Among
these morphologies, polymeric vesicles (also called polymer-
somes) receive a lot of attention for their potential use as drug
delivery vehicles, nanoreactors, and articial organelles.5 Poly-
meric vesicles have structures similar to lipid vesicles but are
more stable than liposomes and retain their low immuno-
genicity. Therefore, they represent an excellent candidate as
new nanocarriers for medical applications. In addition, the
application of polymersomes as recyclable nanoreactors for
multicatalyzed cascade reactions allows for the production of a
minimal amount of chemicals to minimize the ecological
footprint.6 By adding surface functionalities for cellular
targeting and uptake, these polymeric nanoreactors can be
taken up by cells, in which they eﬀectively display their catalytic
activity and function as synthetic organelles.7
There are numerous diﬀerent block copolymers that can be
used to form polymersomes. One special type of amphiphilic
block copolymer is the rod–coil diblock molecules (RCs). RCs
consist of a exible and a rigid block. The self-assembly of rod–
coil block copolymers is fundamentally diﬀerent from that of
coil–coil block copolymers due to the eﬀect that the rod block
has limited ability to stretch and to accommodate packing
within self-assembled structures. The rigid chain conforma-
tions can result from p-conjugation along the polymer back-
bone (as in conjugated polymers), helical and b-sheet structures
(as in biomolecules), or mesogenic units (as in liquid crystals).
For example, poly[2,7-(9,9-dihexyluorene)] is a uorene-based
rod-like polymer which possesses p–p interactions.8 Also,
polyisocyanopeptides can be used as the rigid component due
to the fact that they have a very high persistence length which
originates from the well-dened helical b-sheet arrangement of
the polymer side chain.9 Experimental works showed that the
RC-type of amphiphilic block copolymers can be used to form
polymersomes. Polymeric vesicles of PS-b-PIAT (polystyrene-b-3-
(isocyano-L-alanyl-amino-ethyl)-thiophene) were observed to
form in both organic and aqueous solvents. In addition,
aDepartment of Chemical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan
106, R.O.C. E-mail: yjsheng@ntu.edu.tw
bDepartment of Chemical and Materials Engineering, Department of Physics, National
Central University, Jhongli, Taiwan 320, R.O.C. E-mail: hktsao@cc.ncu.edu.tw
Cite this: Soft Matter, 2013, 9, 4802
Received 7th January 2013
Accepted 12th March 2013
DOI: 10.1039/c3sm00051f
www.rsc.org/softmatter
4802 | Soft Matter, 2013, 9, 4802–4814 This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2013
Soft Matter
PAPER
dri
dt
¼ vi; mi dvi
dt
¼ f i; (1)
where ri, vi and fi are the position and velocity of particle i and the
force acting on particle i respectively. In the system, there are
three diﬀerent species of DPD particles, including solvent (S),
solvophobic rod particles (R), and solvophilic coil particles (C).
The force is composed of three diﬀerent pairwise-additive
forces: conservative (FC), dissipative (FD) and random forces
(FR).21–23 For polymer systems, the interactive forces between
bonded beads have to be considered as well. A spring-like
potential is used,
FSij ¼ C(rij  req.)eij (2)
where C is the spring constant and req. denotes the bond
equilibrium length. For the rod blocks, three additional forces
are used to reinforce the stiﬀness of the rod structure.29–31 The
rst one is the angle force, which is given by dening an angle
potential,
Uq ¼ kq(q  p)2, F q ¼ VUq. (3)
This force intends to drive the bond angle between two
consecutive bonds to be close to the value of p. However, the
angle force alone cannot provide satisfactory rod-like forma-
tion. Consequently, two more spring forces are added to the rod
blocks and they are spring force (FR1) for the rst and third
beads in every three neighboring beads and spring force (FR2)
between the head and tail beads of the entire rod blocks. They
take the form of eqn (2),
FR1ij ¼ CR1

rij  rR1eq:

eij; F
R2
ij ¼ CR2

rij  rR2eq:

eij: (4)
In this work, we have chosen C ¼ CR1 ¼ CR2 ¼ 100, req. ¼ 0.7,
kq ¼ 20, rR1eq: ¼ 2req: ¼ 1:4, rR2eq: ¼ ðx 1Þreq:, where x is the rod
length. These choices of C and req. will not aﬀect the qualitative
behavior of the systems studied in our work. It is worth
mentioning that in principle it is possible to provide satisfactory
rod-like formation with only the angular potentials for three
consecutive beads using kq¼ 100 and up. However, the stiﬀness
of the potential oen leads to divergence of the simulation work
unless the time step for performing the simulation is signi-
cantly reduced. By using kq ¼ 20 and adding FR1ij and FR2ij ; the
time step is within a reasonable value.
Except for the intrinsic rigid nature, many of the rod-like
polymers also possess p-conjugated (e.g. poly(p-phenyl-
eneethynylene)) electronic structures. The p-conjugated prop-
erty of the rod–coil copolymers can greatly aﬀect the self-
assembling morphologies and structures of the systems. We
have used an attractive potential to mimic p–p interactions of
rod segments similar to the one proposed by Polimeno et al.,24
Up ¼
(3cos2 qð1 rÞ; r\1
0; r$ 1
; Fp ¼ VUp; (5)
where r and q are the distance between the centers of mass and
the included angle between the two rigid segments, respec-
tively.29 The constant 3 measures the force of the orienting
potential. In this work, 3 > 0 is chosen to demonstrate the
presence of the p–p interactions, while 3 ¼ 0 depicts the
absence of the interaction. We would discuss the resulting
morphologies for systems with various p–p interaction
strengths between the rod blocks. Note that the potential for the
p–p interactions is similar to the Maier–Saupe mean-eld
potential (or the Lebwohl–Lasher model) for nematics.33 The
conjugated rod–coil block copolymers are known to exhibit
smectic or nematic-like morphologies and can be regarded as
replicas of their small molecular mass liquid crystal counter-
parts. Since the Maier–Saupe mean-eld potential has been
successful in analyzing the behavior of small molecular mass
liquid crystals, it is adopted in our work to represent p–p
interactions. However, we do believe that an attractive potential
for each bead of the rod will also lead to similar results in our
work.
In this work, the rod–coil diblock copolymer is designated
RxCy, where Rx and Cy denote solvophobic rod-segments with x
beads and solvophilic coil-segments with y beads, respectively.
The schematic diagram of the rod–coil diblock copolymer (RxCy)
is shown in Fig. 1. The self-assembling behaviors of the rod–coil
diblock copolymers are to be observed for selective solvents S.
The interaction parameters chosen are shown in Table 1. These
repulsive interaction parameters (aij) are not randomly selected.
They are so chosen in an attempt to retain the characteristic
interactions associated with each component of the system
studied. For all the DPD simulations presented here, all the
units are scaled bym, kBT and rc and they are conveniently taken
asm¼ kBT¼ rc¼ 1. As a result, the force acting on a bead equals
its acceleration. All the forces except the bonded spring force
come to zero outside a certain cutoﬀ radius rc. A modied
Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of the model rod–coil RxCy and its interaction with the
solvents (S).
Table 1 Interaction parameters (aij) between rod–coil diblock copolymer RxCy
and solvent
aij
R
(solvophobic rod)
C
(solvophilic coil) S (solvent)
R (solvophobic rod) 25
C (solvophilic coil) 50 25
S (solvent) 80 26 25
4804 | Soft Matter, 2013, 9, 4802–4814 This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2013
Soft Matter Paper
where qij denotes the included angle between two neighboring
rods29 and the number N*i means the total number of neigh-
boring rods around a centered rod i. N*i can be determined by
counting the total number of rods within the cylindrical domain
of a centered rod. As a consequence, the value of the local order
parameter S ¼ 1 represents the fact that the neighboring
solvophobic rods are perfectly aligned in parallel and S ¼
0 indicates an isotropic conformation. Fig. 2(b) shows the short-
ranged order parameter (S) plotted as a function of rod-block
length (x) for RxC2. As one can see, polymersomes can be
formed only if the rod length satises x < 8 and the order
parameter is small, S ( 0.1. When the rod length is increased
further, i.e. x $ 8, the order parameter grows rapidly and only
micellar aggregates like a bilayered oblate can exist.
The smectic–isotropic phase transition has been observed in
a melt of rod-like polymers and solution of rod–coil copolymers
by DPD simulations.28,29 For the latter, it is found that there is a
disorder–order transition taking place at a rough rod-block
length of x ¼ 8 for short coil-block lengths such as y ¼ 6. For
systems with the rod length x < 8, the order parameters are low.
However, for systems with the rod length x $ 9, one has S > 0.5
which indicates an ordered phase for the rod domain. Note that
for a typical liquid crystal sample, S is on the order of 0.3 to 0.8.
The order parameter rises due to the entropy eﬀect associated
with excluded volume interactions. This result reveals that as
the rod length grows, the increment of anisotropic rod packing
will in fact raise the resistance to membrane bending and
thereby hinder the formation of polymeric vesicles composed of
rod–coil block copolymers. Evidently, in the absence of p–p
interactions, the rod-block length is the major factor for
controlling the order parameter and disorder–order transition
in the aggregate formed by rod–coil copolymers.
In addition, we have found that for these polymersomes
formed with diﬀerent rod lengths (x), the thickness of the rod
domain grows as x increases and the permeability of the water
through the membrane decreases accordingly. This conse-
quence indicates that the membrane resistance to water
permeation grows with increasing thickness of the hydrophobic
rod layer.
B Eﬀects of p–p interaction strength on the morphological
phase behavior of RxCy
In addition to the intrinsic rigid nature, many of the rod-like
polymers possess p-conjugated (e.g. poly(p-phenyl-
eneethynylene)) electronic structures as well. Generally, p–p
stacking refers to attractive, noncovalent interactions between
aromatic rings. In spite of intense experimental and theoretical
interest, there is no unied description of the factors that
contribute to p–p interactions. That is, the strengths as well as
the causes of p–p interactions vary strongly. It is generally
accepted that the p–p strength ranges between 0 and 50 kJ
mol1.34 Since the p-conjugated property of the rod–coil
copolymers provides additional attraction between rod blocks,
it is anticipated to inuence the self-assembly structures and
morphologies. A previous study indicates that the extent of
alignment in the rod domain of the aggregate can be enhanced
by increasing the p–p interaction strength.29 As the aligned
order in the rod domain varies, the aggregate morphology may
be changed as well.
Fig. 3 displays the variation of the order parameter versus p–
p strength for R5C3. Note that the degree of rod alignment in the
membrane of the polymersome formed by R5C3 is quite low in
the absence of p–p attraction. Once the p–p interaction force is
introduced, the rod blocks tend to align with each other as can
be seen in the insets. S grows quickly from around zero to
greater than 0.8 as the strength of p–p attraction is increased in
the range of 0# 3# 4. Moreover, the membrane thickness rises
with increasing 3. The foregoing results reveal that p–p attrac-
tions among rod blocks tend to alter the membrane structure
from thinner and disordered (interdigitated) arrangement to
thicker and ordered one with bilayered arrangement. Accom-
panied by the membrane structure change, the morphology of
the aggregate may evolve into another shape. Since the inter-
digitated arrangement leads to a larger interfacial area and
would allow the coil chains to be more relaxed or allow more
solvent to be solubilized into the coronal regions, it is the
preferred membrane conformation for polymersomes formed
by rod–coil diblock copolymers. As the rod blocks become
orderly aligned, they tend to adopt the bilayered arrangement
and hence the polymersomes cease to exist. Instead, disk-like
aggregates are developed for high order parameter. This
outcome is consistent with the result shown in Fig. 2(a) in which
only micellar aggregates with an oblate shape are observed
when S > 0.5. In the latter case, the increment of the order
parameter is enhanced by increasing the length of the rod-
block. Evidently, the growth of S facilitates the diﬃculty of
membrane bending and this consequence impedes the forma-
tion of vesicles and favors the formation of planar membranes,
i.e. disk shaped aggregates.
Fig. 3 The order parameter of polymersomes formed by R5C3 at diﬀerent p–p
strengths.
4806 | Soft Matter, 2013, 9, 4802–4814 This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2013
Soft Matter Paper
denotes the number of rods forming a polymersome and each
(R5)2C3 has two rods. The larger the vesicle, the smaller the
value of 1/Nrod.
Our simulation results of polymersomes formed by rod–coil
diblock copolymers indicate that they possess strongly interdigi-
tated membrane structures, which are consistent with the
ndings of previous experimental works of poly(L-arginine)-b-
poly(L-leucine) vesicles14–16 and PDMAEMA85-b-PBLG41.18 The
formation of a highly interdigitated structure may be due to the
competition between lowering the interaction energy among rods
and increasing the entropy of stretched coils. A nice bilayer
conformation has higher ordered rod alignments and can cause a
decrease in interactionenergybetweenanisotropic rods.However,
at the same time coil blocks are highly stretched because of the
close proximity of neighboring coils. In order to relieve the over-
crowded arrangement of the coils and to reduce the signicant
entropy loss due to coil stretching, a strongly interdigitated
structure thus results. At the sameNrod, the coil density of R5C3 is
higher than that of (R5)2C3. Therefore, the energy contribution
associated with rod–rod interactions dominates for (R5)2C3 poly-
mersomes while the entropy contribution associated with coil
stretching prevails for R5C3 polymersomes. The former tends to
form a nice bilayered conformation but the latter prefers the
interdigitated structure for large vesicles.
D Manipulation of the membrane properties of RC-
polymersomes by adjusting the coil-block length
Our previous result indicated that the rod-block length is the
major factor which leads to the disorder–order transition in
rod–coil copolymer systems. As a consequence, polymersomes
can only form for rod–coils with short enough rod length.
Fig. 6 (a) The overall membrane thickness, rod domain thickness, and thick-
nesses of the inner and outer layers of R5Cy plotted as a function of the coil length.
(b) The area densities of the inner and outer layers of RxCy plotted as a function of
the coil length.
Fig. 5 (a) The variation of the membrane thicknesses of polymersomes formed
by R5C3 and (R5)2C3 plotted as a function of total number of rods in the poly-
mersome (Nrod). (b) The variation of the order parameters of polymersomes
formed by R5C3 and (R5)2C3 plotted as a function of total number of rods in the
polymersome (Nrod).
4808 | Soft Matter, 2013, 9, 4802–4814 This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2013
Soft Matter Paper
increasing y in order to lower the extent of coil stretching.
Moreover, the descending tendency, as shown in Fig. 6(b) where
s  1/r, is more signicant for 1/ri.
As mentioned, to relieve the eﬀect of coil stretching, both the
outer and inner radii (ro and ri) of the polymersomes increase
with the increasing coil-block length (y). However, the thickness
of the rod domain declines with y as shown in Fig. 6(a). The
decrease in the membrane thickness signies the increment of
the extent of interdigitation in the rod domain. Moreover, the
orientation order of the rods is disrupted due to signicant
interdigitation as well. Fig. 7 demonstrates the local order
parameter of the resulting polymersomes of R4Cy, R5Cy, and
R6Cy with y ¼ 1 to 3. This result shows that the increase in the
coil-block length evidently reduces the order parameter of the
systems with the same rod length which is consistent with our
previous study.29 Furthermore, the volume of a single polymer is
examined. The polymer volume on the inner leaet (vi) is greater
than that on the outer leaet (vo) and it grows with increasing y.
The packing shapes of the rod–coil copolymers and the struc-
ture they formed can be described by the dimensionless
packing parameters, dened as Po ¼ vo/aoho and Pi ¼ vi/aihi
based on the geometric packing considerations where ao ¼ 1/so
and ai ¼ 1/si. As illustrated in Fig. 8, the packing parameter of
the outer leaet follows 1/2 < Po < 1 and rises with increasing y.
On the other hand, the packing parameter of the inner leaet
obeys Pi > 1 and decays with increasing y. The former corre-
sponds to the truncated cone while the latter indicates the
inverted truncated cone or wedge as also shown in Fig. 8. Both
Po and Pi change toward unity, indicating the tendency to form a
planar structure with increasing coil-block length.
2 Mechanical properties. The mechanical characteristics
aﬀect how polymersomes function as drug delivery vehicles,
nanoreactors, etc. Some important mechanical properties such
as membrane tension, stretching modulus, and bending
modulus can be obtained by analyzing the simulation results.13
As will be discussed later, the membrane tension has a signif-
icant impact on the fusion process between two vesicles. The
membrane tension (sm) of a polymersome can be estimated
through the Young–Laplace equation
Pi  Po ¼ 2sm

1
ro
þ 1
ri

; (6)
where Pi and Po are pressures estimated in the inner and outer
solvent regions of the polymersome, respectively. The radii of
the curvature of the inner and outer interfaces associated with
the spherical polymersome are represented by ri and ro,
respectively. We assume the pressure in the membrane to be Pm
and the interfacial tensions on both sides are gi and go,
respectively. The combination of the two relationships, Pi 
Pm ¼ 2gi/ri and Pm  Po ¼ 2go/ro, yields eqn (12). Note that the
assumption gi ¼ go ¼ sm has been made.
For a polymersome, the pressures in the interior and exterior
solvent domains can be estimated by the virial theorem.22 The
membrane tension can then be evaluated by eqn (12), once the
pressure diﬀerence and radii are obtained. Fig. 9(a) shows
the variation of membrane tension (s0m) associated with a
spontaneously formed polymersome as a function of the coil-
block length (y) for R4Cy, R5Cy, and R6Cywith y¼ 1 to 3. It can be
Fig. 9 (a) Themembrane tension of the polymersome formed by RxCywith y¼ 1,
2, or 3. (b) The tension increment (Dsm) is plotted against the fractional change in
the polymersome surface area (a). The area stretching modulus can be obtained
from the slope of Dsm against a for large area dilation. The bending modulus can
be extracted from the small area dilation as shown in the inset.
Table 2 The stretching (Ka) and bending (Kb) moduli, and membrane thickness
(h) for polymersomes formed by rod–coils with diﬀerent coil-block lengths, R5Cy
Ka Kb h Kb/(Kah
2)
R5C1 43.8 9.19 4.57 0.010
R5C2 40.9 8.98 4.63 0.010
R5C3 50.1 12.2 4.76 0.011
4810 | Soft Matter, 2013, 9, 4802–4814 This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2013
Soft Matter Paper
numerical constant, b ¼ 102, which is consistent with the
typical value.
E Fusion between polymersomes
Membrane fusion is an essential process in many areas of cell
biology. Tension-induced bilayer fusion has been studied for a
vesicle in contact with a planar membrane by DPD simula-
tions.38 The initial tensions of the membranes were used as
control parameters and were changed by varying the projected
areas per lipid. By introducing a new set of DPD parameters, two
successive tension-dependent energy barriers were reported.
The corresponding fusion time scales grow exponentially with
decreasing membrane tension. Recently, the eﬀect of
membrane tension on the fusion between two swollen vesicles
has been investigated by regulating the tension through the
degree of ination.39 In general, the fusion process consists of
four stages. The evolutionary process is observed and the rate of
fusion is determined. The time scales associated with every
stage is substantially reduced owing to total surface area
increment, particularly for adhesion and hemifusion processes.
Thus, the vesicle fusion process is greatly facilitated by the
increment of tension.39 As demonstrated in the aforementioned
section, the structural properties of vesicle membrane are
signicantly aﬀected by the coil-block length. Consequently, it
is expected that the membrane tension will be inuenced by the
coil-block length (y) as well. Under the condition of the same
Nrod for polymersomes formed by R5Cy, the membrane tension
does not vary monotonically with y. As shown in Fig. 9(a), the
membrane tension of the spontaneously formed polymersome
(s0m) is at its maximum for R5C2. Similar behavior is also
observed for R4Cy and R6Cy. In order to examine whether the
membrane tension is closely related to the kinetics of vesicle
fusion, the evolutionary process of the fusion between two
polymersomes composed of R5Cy with y ¼ 1, 2, or 3 is explored.
Fusion processes of polymersomes formed by R5Cy ( y ¼ 1, 2,
or 3) are studied and illustrated in Fig. 10. For liposomes
formed by (Rx)2Cy, the fusion process is generally divided into
four stages: kissing, adhesion, hemifusion, and fusion. The
kissing stage can be identied as a single lipid with splayed tails
that span between two vesicles and connect the two vesicles.
The adhesion stage is recognized as a few lipids with splayed
tails making connections between the two vesicles. When the
thickness of the contact zone between two vesicles is close to the
membrane thickness of a vesicle, the hemifusion state is
reached. The fusion is completed aer the relaxation of the
fused vesicle back to the spherical shape. The fusion process
between two polymersomes is similar and comprises a few
sequential stages as well. However, it is somewhat diﬀerent
from that of liposomes because it is impossible for a rod–coil
diblock copolymer to splay between two polymersomes. The
kissing stage is now identied at the point when a single RxCy
ips to another polymersome and makes the rst contact. The
adhesion stage is recognized as a few RxCy ipping between the
two polymersomes. As one can clearly see, only polymersomes
of R5C2 complete the fusion process before 200 000 time steps.
Polymersomes of R5C1 do not accomplish the entire fusion
process. They stay at the hemifusion stage since 50 000 time
steps. In general, the hemifusion state is unstable and eventu-
ally a pore is open between the interior water domains.
However, it seems that the two R5C1-polymersomes have no
intention to proceed beyond the hemifusion stage. It is inter-
esting to nd that polymersomes of R5C3 can not even move
past the initial kissing stage.
Vesicle fusion is closely related to membrane tension. When
two polymersomes are in contact with each other, they tend to
overcome energy barriers associated with tension-reduction to
form a larger polymersome so that the membrane tension is
greatly lessened. The polymersomes with higher membrane
tension are less stable against fusion and polymersomes with
lower membrane tension are less likely to fuse. The results
demonstrated in Fig. 10 agree well with the above assertion. As
illustrated in Fig. 9(a), polymersomes of R5C2 have the highest
tension among the R5Cy-polymersomes with y¼ 1, 2, and 3. As a
consequence, they fuse most easily. However, the incapability of
polymersomes of R5C3 to proceed with a normal fusion process
may involve factors other thanmembrane tension. For example,
the long solvophilic coils of R5C3 can form a strong protective
layer which can prevent fusion from taking place. On the other
hand, the short solvophilic coils of R5C1 allow the hemifusion to
occur quite fast. However, polymersomes of R5C1 possess the
lowest membrane tension which precludes the fusion process to
move beyond hemifusion. In experiments, such a fused-dimer
structure may be diﬃcult to distinguish from a fused vesicle.
IV Conclusion
Self-assembly of rod–coil diblock copolymers (RxCy) in a selec-
tive solvent is fundamentally diﬀerent from that of coil–coil
diblock copolymers due to the eﬀect that the rod-block has
limited ability to stretch and to accommodate packing within
self-assembled structures. The simulation studies of aggregates
formed by RxCy are of great importance to supplement experi-
mental observations and advanced biomedical or optoelec-
tronic applications. On the basis of dissipative particle
dynamics, the morphological phase diagram of RxCy is obtained
as a function of the rod-block length (x) and the coil-block
length (y). Five distinct types of aggregates are observed:
spherical micelles, worm-like micelles, polymersomes, oblate
aggregates, and prolate aggregates. The formation of small-
sized polymersomes can only take shape for short coil-block
length and the rod-block length cannot be too long. In other
words, the rod-block length must be short enough so that the
local order parameter remains small. This result indicates that
the increment of anisotropic rod packing in fact raises the
resistance to membrane bending and thus hinders the forma-
tion of polymersomes by RxCy.
The introduction of p–p stacking enhances the degree of rod
alignment in the membrane and the order parameter grows
rapidly with increasing p–p strength. Consequently, the vesicle
formation is impeded and the nite-sized planar membrane
(disk-shaped aggregate) is developed. Vesicles are also formedby
lipids with a molecular structure similar to triblock copolymers
(Rx)2Cy and referred to as liposomes.However, the comparison of
4812 | Soft Matter, 2013, 9, 4802–4814 This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2013
Soft Matter Paper
30 S. H. Chou, D. T. Wu, H. K. Tsao and Y. J. Sheng, SoMatter,
2011, 7, 9119.
31 J. H. Hung, Y. L. Lin, H. K. Tsao and Y. J. Sheng,
Macromolecules, 2012, 45, 2166.
32 Handbook of Materials Modeling, ed. S. Yip, Springer,
Netherlands, 2005, pp. 2503–2512.
33 G. R. Luckhurst and C. Zannoni, Nature, 1977, 267,
412.
34 J. Steed and J. Atwood, Supramolecular Chemistry, Wiley &
Sons, Chichester, 2000.
35 W. Helfrich and R. M. Servuss, Nuovo Cimento Soc. Ital. Fis.,
D, 1984, 3, 137.
36 W. Rawicz, K. C. Olbrich, T. McIntosh, D. Needham and
E. Evans, Biophys. J., 2000, 79, 328.
37 O. G. Mouritsen, Life as a Matter of Fact. The Emerging Science
of Lipidomics, Springer, Berlin, 2005.
38 A. Grafmu¨er, J. Shillcock and R. Lipowsky, Phys. Rev. Lett.,
2007, 98, 218101.
39 C. M. Lin, D. T. Wu, H. K. Tsao and Y. J. Sheng, So Matter,
2012, 8, 6139.
4814 | Soft Matter, 2013, 9, 4802–4814 This journal is ª The Royal Society of Chemistry 2013
Soft Matter Paper
表 Y04 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
澳洲高分子會議為澳洲高分子聯盟的主要活動之一，為澳洲皇家化學協會(Polymer 
Division of The Royal Australian Chemical Society (RACI))所主辦，每年舉辦一
次，至今已舉行 34 屆，有來自世界各國之學者，參與盛會之人高達數百人。此次會議
地點為澳洲北領地之達爾文，會議內容涵蓋高分子科學(science)、工程(engineering)
及技術(technology)在合成(synthesis)、鑑定(characterization)、處理(processing)
及模擬(modeling)方面的最新成果，特別集中於高分子尖端科技應用於保健(health)、
能源(energy)及永續性(sustainability)方面的進展。的是，今年主辦單位特別增加了
高分子在工業(industry)及轉化研究(translational research)上的份量，強調高分子
在人類健康(human health)及福樂(well-being)上的實際應用。 
四天的會議共有 8位 plenary speakers、280位口頭報告及 46個海報展示。在會
議進行的四天中，每天均有 12個會場在進行報告，陣容十分龐大。海報展示則在每天
晚上進行。除此之外，主辦單位並提供空間供與會學者討論，會議大廳亦有業界及廠商
展示解說多項儀器設備。另外，主辦單位亦在會議空檔準備點心及提供午晚餐，大家一
邊用餐一邊討論聯誼，氣氛熱絡融洽，達到國際交流的目的。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
會議每天均有相當多場的論文發表，僅能選擇與個人研究領域有關或有興趣的題目
來參加。其中，Bio-functional and Responsive Polymers、Networks, Blends and 
Physical Properties、Polymeric Composites and Nanocomposites、Surfaces and 
Interfaces 和 Bio and Natural Polymers and the Environment 與本人研究領域最相
關。有數位學者如匹茲堡大學的 Prof. A.C. Balazs、科羅拉多大學的 Prof.K. Anseth
及 Australian National University 的 Prof. T. Castle等的工作引起我極大的興趣。
如 Prof. A.C. Balazs 在 Reconfigurable assemblies of active, auto-chemotactic 
gels方面的工作，她利用電腦模擬顯示 self-oscillating Belousov-Zhabotinsky (BZ)
膠可以釋放及感應化學信號，進而造成附近的物質自發性的聚集，也就是所謂的化學向
性 (chemotaxis)。此研究有助於我們發展具有重組性的材料 (reconfigurable 
materials)，它可以藉由自推動元素(self-propelled elements)之間的溝通，建立出 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/12/03
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 以耗散粒子動力學法研究共軛嵌段硬桿-柔軟共聚高分子於選擇性溶劑中之自
組裝行為
計畫主持人: 諶玉真
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-002-144-MY3 學門領域: 熱力及界面工程
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
梁祐恩同學 (諶玉真教授指導) 2012 第 14 屆第二次中華民國界面科學學會年
會暨論文發表會海報競賽傑出海報獎 
張弘郁同學 (諶玉真教授指導) 2012 台灣化學工程學會 59 週年年會暨國科會
化學工程學門成果發表會博士班研究生英語專題報告競賽優等獎 
張正忠同學 (諶玉真教授指導) 2012 台灣化學工程學會 59 周年年會暨國科會
化工學門成果發表會壁報論文傑出海報獎 
張弘郁同學 (諶玉真教授指導) 2013 台灣化學工程學會 60 週年年會暨國科會
化學工程學門成果發表會博士班研究生英語專題報告競賽佳作獎 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
