力，第二組學員將主要在把關聯資料庫的正規化並
依廠商的需求，為未來的垂直整合時的資料庫能夠
先備妥。換言之人員成功地解決任務並完成交付任
務與訓練。大四同學完成階段任務後，維護的部分
就轉交學弟接手，相關邏輯、網頁、伺服器部分技
術則由一信同學繼續支援。 
技術研發成果說明 
研發成果主要來自兩大項目：前者是對外爭取國際
訂單與網路行銷之用，而後者則是強化企業體質，
進行產業自動化與電子化的基礎。所以前者就是是
電子商務網站的正式上線，而後者就是夠進行明齊
供應鏈的垂直整合關聯資料庫的建立。 
 
1 跨國際的電子商務網站(International Web Site) 
本合作案明齊業主要拓展東洋以及歐美訂單，因此
目前的網站需要Overhaul 的大翻修。學界目前的人
員在程式、美工、以及資料庫三才聚合的情況下，
有足夠的研發能量協助企業在外銷訂單的拓展。 
2 提昇企業產品的附加價值(Product Value Added) 
如之前在專利布局中談到，本合作案可以為企業創
造出極具潛力的附加價值，目前明齊的產品賺的利
差十分的微薄，使用創新思維就能為明齊企業東山
再起。 
3 垂直整合的資料庫建置(Database for Vertical 
Integration) 
為了永續經營，企業不能沒有「朋友」，這就是經
營夥伴，由於認知到下游顧客與上游的供應商都應
該進行整合，而與夥伴進行也策略聯盟時更需要自
身的虛實，因此能夠建置資料庫對公司長久的競爭
力十分的重要，而本合作案就會有這個成果的建置。 
4 線上批發(On-Line Wholesaling) 
研發成果著重的是線上的B2C，而其中資料庫模組的
建置則是為大中盤商等級的B2B 舖路，本合作案在
B2B 的成果方面則是完成線上批發模組，為了完成
這個模組就要開發訂單、下單、發票、收款、安全
等相關的配合機制。這個部分的安全、發票模組還
沒設計。 
5 商業交換管線(Commerce Interchange Pipeline) 
畢竟EDI 的時代已漸過去，全廠的電子化準備，在
本合作案中企業體目前的程序、標準與資料、將由
XML 的文件重新編寫並取代。CIP 名詞由微軟的
Commerce Site 軟體中使用，本合作案以為商業交換
管線這個概念，說明本研究案與真實的世界沒有脫
勾。我們期待這個努力的研發成果可以快速的與世
界有心推動企業電子化的企業快速達成資訊交換與
互通的準備。 
技術特點說明 
 
我在本研究計畫中是架站、寫PHP程式、建構明齊未
來SCM文件的標準XML交換格式、製作表單與報
表、與業主了解他要的購物流程，並在有限的資源
下，完成電子商務實作的平台。 
可利用之產業及可開發之產品 
雖然本案以塑膠模具業為例來架電子商務的網站，
但有心發展電子商務的傳統製造產業都可以參考本
網站的產業電子化模式。 
推廣及運用的價值 
因為大老板的客製化很殷切，本研究的規劃、分析、
設計、構建、測試、上線的每一個步驟都在推廣產
業電子化時，可以反覆運用在不同的產業別，在肯
定這個方法論的價值時，我們也提一些建議：因為
客製化的過程中，業主會在看到半成品時，又想到
新的需求，多加功能時就會造成時程、人員、調度
等等發生困難，這些因子如果能讓業主提早知道，
對於未來的合作案是有利的。 
發表的論文 
本研究案在今年六月26日參加大同大學所舉辦
的＂2009資訊科技與應用產學研討會＂中，作者以
「A Practice on Plastic Molding Globalization on 
Promotion and Management: An EC Realization」
發表本研究案執行過程中的經驗分享並談到一些不
為人知的辛酸血淚，與會的專家無不動容，當然也
提供不少有價值的建議，值得未來繼續往這個方向
來前進。以下就把這論文附在精簡報告之後，至於
與原計畫相近的程度以及更完整的報告，請參考完
整報告。
2009 資訊科技與應用產學研討會論文集 
 
founded as Ming-Qi Metal-Plastic Molding Co., 
Ltd. [1]. in Tong-Kuang, Kwung Dong County of 
Mainland China earlier in 2004.  Ming-Qi is a 
typical medium small sized enterprise (MSE).  
It has its advantageous expertise and limited 
capitals from several Taiwanese molding experts 
and his friends.  They specialized in 
manufacturing plastic molders and metal 
products. Due to limited human resources in 
information management, Ming-Qi faced with 
great pressure from his opponents. In this paper, 
we are trying to enhance the 
integration-capability and the 
information-capability for Ming-Qi.  As the era 
of minor-profit has come, enterprises have to 
innovate themselves in order to survive the 
competition in the cruel world.  However, for 
these types of medium small sized enterprise they 
all shared the same feature that they are quite 
specialized in their own technology such as 
manufacturing automation, molding-design 
automation, and other cutting-edge know how.  
As for the Information Technology (IT) and 
research management, they usually skip the 
personnel or technology.  As a result, they 
confronted a situation that they feel hard to 
penetrate or expand their markets into the virtual 
world.  This paper took the view from such 
kinds of MSEs.  We follow the needs detected 
from our analysis to the cooperated company 
(Ming-Qi).  We will use those techniques that 
have been used widely in the academic area but 
are still not familiar to many MSEs.  A 
specialized platform will be developed to satisfy 
the demands of Ming-Qi.  By doing this, we 
have the chance to develop a model to solve 
many similar situations found in Taiwan. 
There are two goals to pursue for in this 
research: The first one is to develop an ad-hoc 
managing platform for the cooperated Ming-Qi 
Co., Ltd. The second one is to train up internal 
employees who will be responsible for the 
website after the project is over  
2. Literature Review  
2.1 A Conceptual Induction on EC  
Web-based marketing and e-commerce is a 
dual-direction communicating process that 
enables an innovative method of trading via 
internet.  Enterprise can post all his products, 
services, and information on the website.  
Potential buyers (browsers on the web) can 
access these websites anywhere around the world.  
After the internet has been value-added and 
commercialized, people found a rapid growth in 
this industry within just few years.  We also 
found that the statistics have been broken every 
now and then.  For example, there is a hottest 
video on the youtube website (broadcast yourself) 
now, which is reaching ten billion times for 
viewing the talent processed by Susan Boyle [2]. 
We were all amazed by the influence brought by 
the internet technology.  Internet is a real time, 
interactive, multi-media, low cost, and influential 
new channel for marketing.  Businesspersons all 
are vigilant to this big trend and most of them are 
aiming and running web-based businesses now. 
 
2-2 Domestic/Foreign Research 
Managers of MSEs in Taiwan are the 
far-seers of the world. They have talents to judge 
the situations and adjust themselves to the 
environmental changes.  For example, they 
might have a plant outside of Taiwan in order to 
lower the manufacturing cost.  The problem is 
how to modify the executive procedures quickly 
in the company such that everybody in the 
company can accustom to this change when a 
 
2009 資訊科技與應用產學研討會論文集 
 
2.3 An Web Developing Tool: osCommerce [8] 
    OsCommerce is a freeware developed and 
maintained by open source league who promote 
open source codes for developed software.  
They were designed to develop EC shops on the 
internet.  The organizer of the project is a young 
Germany Harald Ponce de Leon.  He initialized 
the project on March 2000 by providing free 
databases and powerful applications [8].  Due to 
its highly professional interface and easy to 
maintain, this freeware cause a great impact to 
the charged web-site designers at that time [9]. 
 
Figure 2 the osCommerce trading Mark  
EC-shops developed by OsCommerce has 
the following hard/software requirements  
Table 1-1, Software requirements  
OS Server Programming Language 
Databas
e 
Window
s 
Linux 
Apach
e 
IIS 
PHP MySQL
Table 1-2, Hardware requirements  
CPU Hard Disk Space Memory
Intel Pentium4 
Intel Celeron 
Intel Xeon 
7.71MB 512MB
 
2.4 Dreamweaver [7] 
Software Dreamweaver was developed by 
MACROMEDIA originally. It is an integrate 
web-page developing tool that processes both the 
webpage-making and managing abilities.  The 
latest version CS3 is powered by Adobe, with 
new features added, it is currently the most 
powerful and the friendliest tool ever used for 
developing a website.  There are many scripts 
were supported, including:  CGI, PHP, ASP, 
ASP.NET, and JAVA.  Many critics also have to 
admit they are the best choice for both the 
beginners and webpage-making experts. 
 
3. Remarks on Practice  
3.1 Requirement Analysis  
(1) Members of the Developing Team 
There are three members in the developing 
team: a system analyst, a network programmer 
assistant, and a web-beautify assistant.  
(2) Comparisons of Two Systems  
The comparisons come from two facets: 
i. The overall of the executive environment： the 
proposed new system supports the retrievals and 
storages in a database MySQL, the PHP 
programming scripting language, and a priority 
management. 
ii. The facet of functionality：the proposed new 
system includes a shopping cart, a pushing 
marketing module, a companying strategy, and an 
order management. 
Table 2, A comparison for two systems from 
the Environmental Point of View  
 Original  System  
New Developed 
System  
Privilege No Yes 
Database No MySQL 
Programming 
language HTML PHP 
Language 
supported 
Traditional 
Chinese  
Traditional 
Chinese, 
simplified 
Chinese, 
Japanese, 
English  
 
Table 3, A comparison for two systems from 
the Functionality Point of View 
 Original System  
New 
Developed 
System  
Shopping cart  No Yes 
Pushing mode No Yes 
Accompany sales No Yes 
Order No Yes 
 
2009 資訊科技與應用產學研討會論文集 
 
support as a key upgrade for the website because 
the globalization requirements for Ming-Qi are 
eminent. 
iii Least maintaining cost:  
Every website somehow needs maintaining to 
update the information.  Due to no such 
employee in the company, it becomes a headache 
for the web-site developing team.  For one thing, 
we need to make the interface simple.  Secondly, 
we have to develop many simple forms for 
Ming-Qi to do the maintaining jobs later on.  
Thirdly, we have to train their employees to use 
our system. 
(3) The Architecture of the System  
The architecture of the system composes of 
front end and a backend:  Users enter from the 
front end; while the manager of the website 
process and control from the backend.  There 
are six sub menus directly under the homepage.  
Hyperlinks will connect to the right page when a 
user clicks the sub menu.   These six modules 
include latest news, about us, products, services, 
other language, and contact us. 
Anyone who likes to place an order should 
join the member first.  With a valid membership, 
he can sometimes gain purchasing discount.  
Figure 3 is a sitemap of the proposed new 
website. 
 
Figure 3, The proposed web-site map  
 
3.3 System Development 
(1) A Flowchart for Shopping  
Online shopping is the key feature of the 
developed website.  It has the most important 
functionality for Ming-Qi.  Figure 4 shows a 
flowchart how to realize the web shopping online.  
As you have noticed, the flowchart states that the 
first step is to ensure the customer has the 
membership.  Only registered members are 
allowed to purchase goods on the website.  He 
can browse the web site and keep putting selected 
objects into his shopping cart.  Once he has put 
one product into his shopping cart, he can have 
two options to go on: 1) continue to shopping, 2) 
check out and ready to enter to the payment 
counter.  If he chooses to continue shopping 
then he stays in the products or serves pages; or if 
he chooses to exit, then he is asked to choose 
method/type of payment. 
 
Figure 4, A flowchart of shopping process 
 
(2) Database designing and planning  
The propose system is embedded with a 
backend database which composed of more than 
96tabes and 1500 relevant data fields.  With 
such completeness in design, thanks to the 
osCommerce, it is almost a maintain-free system.  
Figure 5 show the defined fields in a table. 
 
