Fabrication of High Aspect Ratio Microchannels/Microstructures  
by Micro Thermoforming 
Yo-Ze Shi (施佑澤), Ying-Ming Wang(王英名) and Yi-Je Juang (莊怡哲) 
Department of Chemical Engineering 
National Cheng Kung University  
 
Abstract 
In this study, we have investigated the micro thermoforming process for fabrication of 
microstructures with aspect ratio larger than 1.  The molds used for the process were 
fabricated by electrical discharge machining (EDM), and the processing parameters include 
mold temperature, film temperature, applied pressure and pressuring time.  The results 
showed that pre-vacuum is an essential step to the process.  When using the micro-EDM 
mold, the shape of the thermoformed film resembles “saddle” due to the pre-stretch which 
resulted from a silicon pad used to create a vacuum path.  On the other hand, much uniform 
sagging of the thermoformed films were obtained when using wire-EDM mold.  The positive 
proportional relation between sagging of the MT40 film and applied pressure was found at 
temperature 10 to 20oC above Tg.  As to the relationship between the film thickness and film 
sagging distance, the theoretical calculation underpredicts the experimental results, which can 
be justified with an adjustable parameter.  The aspect ratio of the polymeric microstructures 
fabricated in this study can be up to 2.6.          
      
Introduction 
The demand for high-precision 
miniature parts and devices, and efficient 
processing technologies for micro/ 
nanofabrication has been growing rapidly in 
recent years.  For many applications, the 
microstructures or microchannels with high 
aspect ratio (HARMs) provide several 
advantageous features such as greater 
structural strength and rigidity [1], larger 
contact area for rotating shafts or micro gear 
pumps, more effective heat transfer and 
chemical reaction within small area, longer 
detection length in microfluidics, etc.  
Although several techniques can be applied 
to fabricate HARMs such as inductively 
coupled plasma - reactive ion etching (ICP- 
RIE), laser ablation, and electrical discharge 
machining (EDM) [2], there are more or less 
issues associated with the techniques.  For 
example, limitation to working materials, 
finished parts with rough surface, small 
quantity production, and so on.  LIGA and 
LIGA-like techniques are other alternatives 
[2].  Despite the rare and expensive 
facilities and specialized photoresists, the 
polymer molding process in LIGA and 
LIGA-like techniques allows producing 
many replicas with ease, leading to potential 
mass production, selection of various 
materials for finished parts via 
electroforming and reduced cost.  Although 
the polymer molding of microstructures (e.g. 
embossing/imprinting, injection molding, 
  
the temperature.    
4. Procedures for micro thermoforming 
process 
 Figure 2 shows the temperature and 
applied pressure vs. time during micro 
thermoforming process.  First, the vacuum 
is applied inside the vacuum chamber.  The 
whole assembly is then heated above Tg of 
the polymer film, followed by applying the 
pressure inside the pressurizing chamber.  
The whole assembly is then cooled down 
below Tg before turning off vacuum and air 
cylinder.  The operating temperature ranges 
from 10 to 50oC above Tg, the pressure 
exerted on the film is between 1 and 5 atm 
and the isothermal pressurizing time ranges 
from 15 seconds to 18 minutes.    
       
5. Characterization of the thermoformed 
films 
 Polydimethyl siloxane (PDMS) was 
used to cast on the thermoformed films and 
cut through to obtain the cross sectional 
view.  The thickness of the thermoformed 
films vs. the sagging distance was measured 
by SEM pictures as shown in Figure 3.   
 
Results and Discussion 
1. Micro thermoforming process 
 Figure 4 shows the typical temperature 
profiles for the mold insert and the polymer 
film during the micro thermoforming 
process.  One can see that there is a 
substantial temperature difference between 
the mold insert and the polymer film.  As 
the temperature reaches steady state, the 
difference is approximately 10oC.  Table 1 
lists the temperatures of the mold insert and 
film under different processing conditions.  
Figure 5 is an example of the thermoformed 
film under the processing condition 130/1/8, 
i.e. the mold temperature= 130oC, N2 
pressure into the pressurizing chamber= 1 
atm, and the isothermal pressurizing time= 8 
seconds.  In this study, the polymer film 
broke either at the bottom of the 
thermoformed film or near the edge of the 
microchannel before it reached the bottom 
of the microchannel.  This is because the 
film has been stretched so thin that it lacks 
sufficient mechanical strength.  Hence, the 
shape of the thermoformed films at the 
bottom will be hemispherical or like a 
“dome” shape.         
   
2. Micro-EDM mold 
2.1. Deformation of MT40 film 
 At 115oC and 125oC mold temperature, 
we found that film sagging is not uniform 
along the microchannel direction, 
resembling a “saddle” as shown in Figure 6.  
This could attribute to the pre-stretch of the 
polymer film near the edge of the 
microchannels where a silicon pad was used 
to avoid the film from direct contact with the 
mold to create a vacuum path.  Once the 
temperature increases, the pre-stretch leads 
to larger deformation of the film compared 
to that at the center portion, resulting in a 
saddle-like shape.     
 
2.2. Effect of the original thickness of the 
film on film deformation 
 When using the thicker film (70 μm 
VCF film), we found that, at 125oC mold 
temperature and 15 second isothermal 
pressurizing time, the film deformation is 
more uniform but smaller compared to the 
  
⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛ −⎟⎠
⎞⎜⎝
⎛=
R
kzhh ππ exp
2
0      (2) 
 
When k=1, it means that the thermoformed 
film immediately solidifies when contacting 
the wall of the mold insert.  The larger the 
k is, the more the polymer film being 
stretched when contacting the wall of the 
mold insert.  Table 2 lists the k values for 
using different mold inserts and polymer 
films at various processing conditions.  
From the Table, we can see that k is around 
2.3 for MT40 film while around 1.5 for VCF 
film.  Despite the difference in film 
thickness, we believe that the rheological 
properties of the films play an important 
role.     
 
5. Fabrication of high aspect ratio silicon 
mold 
 Although making mold inserts via 
EDM process is relatively easy and 
straightforward, the surface of the finished 
part is not very smooth and it is difficult to 
produce different microchannel widths.  
Hence, we adopt the silicon micromachining 
process and Figure 11 shows the silicon 
molds with aspect ratio ranging from 8 to 
24.   
 
Conclusions 
 In this study, we have demonstrated 
fabrication of microstructures with aspect 
ratio larger than 1, which is different from 
the practice of the conventional 
thermoforming process.  Much uniform 
sagging of the thermoformed films were 
obtained when using wire-EDM mold 
instead of micro-EDM mold.  The positive 
proportional relation between sagging of the 
MT40 film and applied pressure was found 
at temperature 10 to 20oC above Tg.  As to 
the relationship between the film thickness 
and film sagging distance, the theoretical 
calculation underpredicts the experimental 
results, which can be justified with an 
adjustable parameter.  The aspect ratio of 
the polymeric microstructures fabricated in 
this study can be up to 2.6.      
     
Acknowledgment 
 Authors are grateful for the financial 
support from National Science Council in 
Taiwan (95-2221-E-006-405). 
 
References 
1. Skardon, J.and M. Vandenberg, Microsystem 
Technologies, 5, 65 (1998). 
2. Shih, Y.Z., MS thesis and references therein, 
2007. 
3. Becker, H., and Gartner, C., Electrophoresis, 
21, 12 (2000). 
4. Heyderman, L. J., Schift, H., David, C., 
Gobrecht, J., and Schweizer, T., 
Microelectronic Engineering, 54, 229 
(2000). 
5. Hirai, Y., Fujiwara, M., Okuno, T., Tanaka, 
Y., Endo, M., Irie, S., Nakagawa, K., and 
Sasago, M., Journal of Vacuum Science and 
Tchnology B, 19(6), 2811 (2001). 
6. Juang, Y.-J., Lee, J. L. and Koelling, K. W., 
Polymer Engineering and Science, 42(3), 
539 and 551 (2002). 
7. McCormick, R. M., Nelson, R. J., 
AlomsoAmigo, M. G., Benvegnu, J., and 
Hooper, H. H., Analytical Chemistry, 69, 
2626 (1997). 
8. Despa, M. S., Kelly, K.W., and Collier, J.R., 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)  
(b)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Typical temperature profiles of mold insert 
and polymer film during micro thermoforming 
Figure 1. (a) Schematic (b) photo of device assembly 
for micro thermoforming process.   
 
P 
Temp 
Tambient 
Tg 
Pambient (P=1 atm) 
Vacuum (P=0) 
Pthermoforming 
Time 
Time 
Vacuum stage Const. pressure 
stage 
Pressure release 
stage 
Figure 5. Thermoformed film at processing condition 
130/1/8.   
Figure 2. Temperature and pressure profiles during 
micro thermoforming process.   
(a)  
(b)  
Figure 3. (a) The cross sectional view of casted PDMS. (b) 
Measurement of film thickness at different film sagging distances. 
Figure 6. Thermoformed MT40 films at different 
processing conditions using micro-EDM mold.   
  
