原本的 10 %，其效果與銀改質單壁及雙壁二氧化鈦奈米管相
近，推論為大反應面積、多重異質接面結構及銀改質皆能大
幅提升光觸媒效率。 
 
中文關鍵詞： 二氧化鈦,  陽極氧化鋁, 奈米管, 銀, 原子層沉積技術,,光
催化, 亞甲基藍 
英 文 摘 要 ： TiO2 multi-walled nanotube arrays (MWNTAs) were 
synthesized by atomic layer deposition (ALD) using 
anodic aluminum oxide (AAO) as the template. TiO2 and 
Al2O3 layers were alternately deposited into the AAO 
pores by ALD. The tube thickness and the gap span 
were controlled by the ALD cycle numbers of TiO2 and 
Al2O3, respectively. A MWNT composed of two or three 
concentric tubes with different diameters was formed 
after removal of Al2O3. Silver nanoparticles were 
then deposited on both inner and outer surfaces of 
the tubes by photochemical reduction. Degradation of 
methylene blue was carried out to evaluate the 
photocatalytic activity of bare and silver-loaded 
TiO2 MWNTAs. It was found that the amount of TiO2, 
the reaction surface area, the crystalline phase, and 
silver modification were the factors to determine the 
photocatalytic activity. The triple-walled MWNTAs 
showed the best performance, and Ag loading further 
enhanced the activity. 
英文關鍵詞： TiO2, AAO, MWNT, Ag, ALD, photocatalysis, methylene 
blue 
 
deposition (ALD) using anodic aluminum oxide (AAO) as the template. TiO2 and Al2O3 
layers were alternately deposited into the AAO pores by ALD. The tube thickness and the 
gap span were controlled by the ALD cycle numbers of TiO2 and Al2O3, respectively. A 
MWNT composed of two or three concentric tubes with different diameters was formed after 
removal of Al2O3. Silver nanoparticles were then deposited on both inner and outer surfaces 
of the tubes by photochemical reduction. Degradation of methylene blue was carried out to 
evaluate the photocatalytic activity of bare and silver-loaded TiO2 MWNTAs. It was found 
that the amount of TiO2, the reaction surface area, the crystalline phase, and silver 
modification were the factors to determine the photocatalytic activity. The triple-walled 
MWNTAs showed the best performance, and Ag loading further enhanced the activity. 
 
Introduction 
In 1972, Fujishima and Honda reported for the first time light-induced water splitting 
on TiO2 surface.1 It opened a new era of heterogeneous photocatalysis, and extensive 
researches on photocatalytic applications of TiO2 have been carried out. As a material with 
long-term stability, good redox efficiency, low cost, non-toxicity, etc., TiO2 has been utilized 
for photocatalytic applications for a long time. TiO2-based nanotubes have attracted wide 
attention owing to their high specific surface area. Their special geometric structure 
facilitates the charge transfer property. Several studies have reported that TiO2 nanotubes 
possess better properties than other forms of TiO2 in photocatalysis, photoeletrolysis, and 
photovoltaics.2,3 
The initial process for photocatalytic decomposition is the generation of electron-hole 
pairs on the semiconductor surface. During the photocatalytic reaction, the larger reactive 
surface area (i.e., reactive sites), the better activity. For light-induced photocatalyst, the light 
source and the band gap of material are important to the efficiency of separation of 
electron-hole pairs. In general, the band gap of TiO2 is above 3 eV (rutile: 3.0 eV; anatase: 
3.2 eV; and brookite: 3.3-3.4 eV)4. The absorption by pure TiO2 is only limited to UV light 
source, which is a small portion of sunlight. Intensive attempts have been made to improve 
the performance of TiO2 photocatalyst under solar illumination. For example, by narrowing 
the band gap of TiO2 with nonmetal anions (such as N, C, and B)5,6 or transition metal ions 
(such as Cr)7,8 to well utilize the light source and by depressing the recombination rate of 
electrons and holes in TiO2 with noble metal decoration (such as Pt, Pd, Ag, and Au).9-13 
Although the enhancement of photocatalytic activity with Ag deposit is lower than that 
with Pt deposit, silver is most suitable for industrial applications due to its low cost and easy 
preparation. Previously, we have successfully fabricated Ag-loaded TiO2 nanotube arrays by 
using the AAO template and ALD technique14,15. Silver nanoparticles deposited on TiO2 
nanotubes could effectively act as electron trapper to reduce the electron-hole recombination 
rate and improve the photocatalytic activity. Based on those results, this work focused on 
fabricating multi-walled TiO2 structures to increase surface reaction area and decoration with 
Ag to retard the electron-hole recombination rate. Compared with our previous work, the 
photocatalytic activity was further enhanced, and the triple-walled TiO2 MWNTAs showed 
the best photocatalytic activity.  
 
Results and discussion 
Characterization of the TiO2 multi-walled nanotube arrays 
After the ALD process, an overlayer of TiO2 and Al2O3 on the AAO template was 
present. After gentle mechanical polishing, it was discovered that some polishing slurry was 
embedded inside the nanotubes. To avoid this, an additional sacrificial Al2O3 layer was 
deposited inside the TiO2 layer so that the slurry residue would be confined within the 
sacrificial layer. When wet etching was applied to remove the AAO template and the Al2O3 
layers, the confined slurry was also removed, leaving ordered TiO2 MWNTAs on the Si 
substrate.  
The single-walled TiO2 NTAs are shown in Figure 1(a). With 100 cycles of ALD, the 
wall thickness is approximately 5.5 nm. Figures 1(b) and (c) show two double-walled 
samples with the gap spans between the inner and outer TiO2 nanotubes being ~ 10.0 and ~ 
20.0 nm, which were obtained from 100 and 200 cycles of Al2O3, respectively. Similar 
phenomenon can also be seen for triple-walled samples shown in Figures 1(d) and (e). Again, 
the gap spans are ~ 10.0 and ~ 20.0 nm, respectively. Note that in the micrographs the wall 
thickness appears to be larger, while the gap spans look smaller, than the respective actual 
values because a gold coating was made for SEM observation. In addition, the cracked tubes 
within the circle in Figure 1(f) reveal that indeed they are triple-walled. To examine the 
morphology of nanotubes in detail, nanotubes with different number of wall were collected 
and analyzed by TEM. For example, the TEM images of two samples are shown in Figure 2. 
The tube wall thickness is uniform along the tube length. From Figure 2(b) with higher 
magnification for a triple-walled nanotube with the outer and two inner tubes peeled off at the 
opening end, each individual tube can be clearly identified, and the wall thickness could be 
measured. The growth rate of TiO2 is approximately 0.55 Å/cycle, similar to that reported in 
a previous work.14 
The crytstallinity and phase of TiO2 MWNTAs and nanorod arrays (i.e., the AAO pores 
entirely filled with TiO2) were characterized by XRD, as shown in Figure 3. The main 
difference between TiO2 nanorod arrays and MWNTAs is the amount of TiO2, since they 
were all prepared by the same method. Basically, for double- and triple-walled NTAs, both 
anatase and rutile are present, but the amount of anatase appears to be higher than that of 
rutile. Only anatase phase is observed for TiO2 nanorod arrays and single-walled NTAs. The 
intensity of peaks increases with increasing the wall number (i.e., the amount of TiO2). The 
broad peaks of the nanotube samples might be due to the small wall thickness. It is not 
surprising to see the presence of mixed phases in the double- and triple-walled NTAs because 
the confinement of 5.5 nm nanotube wall may assist anatase transforming to rutile.18 
The optical absorption is due to electron transfer from the valence band to conduction 
band of TiO2. To study the effect of number of tube wall on photoabsorption of TiO2, UV-vis 
spectroscopic analysis was made. Compared to the bulk TiO2, whose absorption edge is at 
around 380 nm (i.e., 3.26 eV), the absorption spectra of three tube samples demonstrate a 
blue shift as the wall number is increased, as shown in Figure 4(a). By plotting (αhν)1/2 vs. hν, 
where α is absorbance, h is Planck’s constant, and ν is frequency, the energy gap for indirect 
transition could be determined. From Figure 4(b), the absorption edges of indirect transition 
for these three samples are observed to be 3.48, 3.53, and 3.57 eV for single-, double- and 
TiO2 nanotube arrays was enhanced. Both Ag-loaded TiO2 single- and double-walled 
nanotube arrays decompose methylene blue to less than 10 % of original concentration in 6 h. 
Silver particles served effectively as electron traps in this case.13 A Schottky barrier is formed 
in the contact area of Ag and TiO2, a metal-semiconductor interface. When an electron is 
trapped, its lifetime is prolonged. At the same time, the recombination rate of electron and 
hole pairs decreases and the free holes migrate to the surface of TiO2 to photooxidize 
methylene blue. Thus, the efficiency of photocatalyst is increased. 
It appears that the enhancement by Ag is higher for single-walled TiO2 NTAs at the 
very beginning stage, but becomes lower near the end. The amount or density of silver 
particles should be taken into consideration. Silver particles might be more easily loaded on 
single-walled TiO2 NTAs than on double-walled NTAs. From the ICP-MS analysis, the mass 
ratios of silver to titanium of single- and double-walled samples are 0.131 and 0.108, 
respectively. The amount of Ag loading on single-walled sample is 20 % higher than that on 
double-walled sample, based on the same concentration of Ti. 
At the beginning of decomposition, which is a reaction-controlled stage, both 
Ag-loaded samples behave about the same. This might result from the synergistic effects of 
Ag density and surface area, i.e., higher amount of Ag but smaller surface area for the 
single-walled sample. In the later stage, which is more diffusion-controlled, the 
double-walled TiO2 NTAs appear to be more advantageous because of higher active surface 
area. It is also noted that when the degradation curves of nanorods and triple-walled 
nanotubes are added to Fig. 7, the triple-walled nanotubes, without Ag loading, have the best 
performance among all samples.  It again evidences the advantage of using multi-walled 
nanotubes.  
 
Conclusion 
TiO2 multi-walled nanotube arrays were successfully fabricated by AAO 
template-assisted ALD technique, and Ag loading was made by ultrasound-aided 
photochemical reduction. The tube thickness could be well controlled by ALD cycle number 
of TiO2, and the gap span could be tuned by the layer thickness of Al2O3 that was also formed 
by ALD. Increasing the wall number led to more blue shift in the absorption edge, that might 
affect the light absorption efficiency of TiO2 MWNTAs. The triple-walled TiO2 MWNTAs 
showed the best photocatalytic activity on decomposition of methylene blue. With the 
modification of silver particles, the photocatalytic activity was further enhanced, presumably 
because Ag acts as electron trap to reduce the electron-hole recombination. 
 
References 
1. A. Fujishima and K. Honda, Nature, 1972, 238, 37−38. 
2. X. Chen and S. S. Mao, Chem. Rev., 2007, 107, 2891−2959. 
3. X. Chen, Chinese J. Catal., 2009, 30, 839−851. 
4. M. Landmann, E. Rauls and W. G. Schmidt, J. Phys.: Condens. Matter, 2012, 24, 195503. 
5. S. Livraghi, M. C. Paganini, E. Giamello, A. Selloni, C. Di Valentin and G. Pacchion, J.      
Am. Chem. Soc., 2006, 128, 15666−15671. 
6. J. Li, N. Lu, X. Quan, S. Chen and H. Zhao, Ind. Eng. Chem. Res., 2008, 47, 3804−3808. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. TEM images of TiO2 MWNTs. (a) double-walled and (b) triple-walled with 
individual tubes peeled off at the opening. The walls are all 5.5 nm-thick. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          Figure 3. XRD patterns of TiO2 MWNTAs and nanorod arrays.  
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. (a) UV-vis absorption spectra and (b) absorption edges for TiO2 MWNTAs. The 
inset in (b) shows an enlarged section of the curves from 3.35 to 3.65 eV. 
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下赴國外(或大陸地區)移地研究心得報告 
                                日期： 102  年 7 月 01 日 
                                 
一、 國外(大陸)研究過程 
1. 摘要- 
    美國私立凱斯西儲大學（Case Western Reserve University），位於俄亥俄州的克里夫蘭。
凱斯西儲大學是由凱斯理工學院（由慈善家倫納德·凱斯創立於 1880 年）及 西方儲備大學（在
1826 年由康乃狄克西部儲備區創立）於 1967 年合併而成。歷史上著名的證明光速不變性的
邁克爾遜-莫雷實驗，就是 1887 年在這裡進行的。而邁克爾遜也成為第一個贏得諾貝爾科學
獎的美國人。 
在俄亥俄州，凱斯西儲大學是第一學府也是最大的私立研究型大學。它提供文理、工程、
法律、管理、醫科、牙科、護理及社會科學。該校已有 16 名校友及教授獲諾貝爾獎。 
    本次赴凱斯西儲大學化工所劉炯權教授實驗室進行短期研究，參觀其實驗室設備環境並
與該實驗室研究生交流實驗上的經驗及心得，期間實際參與計畫，進行雙邊合作。 
2. 研究過程- 
於 3 月 15 日晚間抵達克里夫蘭，抵達日隔天，先入校園熟悉環境及系所所在位置，以便
在往後的幾個月能夠在校園內暢行無阻，並辦理各項身分文件及手續。凱斯西儲大學距離克
里夫蘭市區二十分鐘車程，緊鄰美國五大湖之一的伊利湖（Erie Lake）。雖然距離市區有一段
距離，稍有些不便，但是頗有鬧中取靜的氣氛，很適合進行實驗研究。在三月時為當地的春
季，因為緯度高於台灣，所以時至三月仍時常飄雪，圖一為凱斯西儲大學校內的景致。 
 
計畫編號 NSC 99 － 2221 － E － 007 － 066 － MY3 
計畫名稱 利用電漿輔助原子層沉積技術製備及改質二氧化鈦薄膜應用於光電化
學產氫之研究 
出國人員
姓名 
薛仰志 
服務機構
及職稱 
清華大學材料所 
出國時間 
102年 03月 15日
至 
102年 06月 06日 
出國地點 克里夫蘭，美國 
 3 
的現象。其中微型生物感測器如圖三所示，由濺鍍而成的金薄膜 counter及working電極與Ag/AgCl
的 reference 電極組合而成，在其中滴上少量待測溶液(約 5μl)即可開始測量。圖四為偵測腦震盪
發生時所產生變化的酵素反應式，從文獻中可以得知，腦震盪發生時，人體內的酵素 PDH(pyruvate 
dehydrogenase)量會降低，而經由此反應式可以生成可供微型偵測器偵測到的 NADH，因此可以
判斷出 TBI發生與否。 
 
圖三、微型感測器 
 
 
 
 
圖四、偵測腦震盪發生時所產生變化的酵素反應式
  
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/10/30
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 利用電漿輔助原子層沉積技術製備及改質二氧化鈦薄膜應用於光電化學產氫
之研究
計畫主持人: 彭宗平
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-007-066-MY3 學門領域: 能源科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
