2 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
(應用人工類神經網路為基的數據採礦技術 
挖掘人體測計資料開發成衣生產尺碼系統) 
(Using artificial neural network-based data mining 
to mine anthropometric data 
for developing garment production sizing systems) 
計 畫 編 號：NSC 98-2221-E-164 -002 - 
執 行 期 限：98年8月1日至99年7月31日 
主 持 人：徐志宏   修平技術學院工業工程與管理系 
計畫參與人員：李子元   魏振隆  林泰穎  徐佳佑 
 
Abstract 
Standard sizing systems of garment are important 
issue for the garment industry. Data mining, a major 
step of knowledge discovery in database, has been 
successfully applied in many fields. However, little 
research has also been applied to standard sizing 
systems development using artificial neural 
network-based data mining. Accordingly, this study 
attempts to identify body types using the artificial 
neural network-based data mining as obtained from 
anthropometric data for sizing system development. 
Focusing on the anthropometric data in Taiwan, this 
study was to develop standard sizing systems, using a 
data mining cycle to discovery sizing knowledge. 
Certain advantages may be observed when standard 
sizing systems are developed, using the artificial 
neural network-based data mining. The results of this 
study can provide a systematic approach of 
identifying body types for developing sizing systems 
to improve production in the garment industry. 
Keywords: Anthropometry; Artificial neural 
network; Sizing systems 
 
1   Introduction 
With the quick advances in the social and 
economic environment, people’s body dimensions 
and shape are changeable. Each nation requires 
realizing the people’s body types for industrial and 
commercial demand. Human body type 
classifications are very crucial issue, play an even 
important role for physiology, medical treatment, 
sports talent and garment production and logistics. 
Taking the sizing systems used in the garment 
manufacturing industry as an example, garment 
manufacturers have never developed standard sizing 
systems according classified body type, finally 
resulting in heavy stock burden for production and 
logistics.  
Human body types could be accurately 
classified, garment manufacturers can correctly 
predict numbers of items and ratio of sizes to be 
produced, resulting in accurate inventory control and 
production planning according standard sizing 
systems [1]. Thus, the classification of human body 
type is long overdue. 
Human body types can be classified by taking 
various methods. Taking body type classifications for 
sizing systems development as an example, many 
approaches utilize approximate range of the girth 
difference to determine body types for developing 
sizing systems, but these body types could not be 
accurately classified. Moreover, few studies have 
applied the neural network approach to body typing. 
On the other hand, data mining has been successfully 
applied in many fields [7]. The application domain is 
quite broad and plausible in marketing [2], human 
resource management [3], risk prediction [4], 
biomedical technology [5] and health insurance [6]. 
However, research on identifying body type 
classifications using data mining is lacking. 
Accordingly, this study attempts to classify body 
types using the anthropometric data by the neural 
network-based data mining procedure to identify 
unknown rules for body type classifications. By 
applying data mining procedure, body types can be 
classified from an anthropometric database.  
 
2   The Data Mining Procedure 
The data mining procedure involves a series of 
activities, from defining the goal to evaluating the 
results. The previous steps can be served as the 
baseline reference for the next step. 
2.1   Defining the goal 
4 
Therefore, this study defined the body type, 
with large girth anthropometric variables, as type L; 
the body type, with medium girth anthropometric 
variables, were defined as type M; and the body type, 
with small girth anthropometric variables, were 
defined as type S. The means of sizing variables for 
the three body types, used in this study, is shown in 
Table 2.  
2.5   Evaluation of Results 
Having classified the males into three body 
types, the new classified body types were identified 
using the neural network-based data mining 
procedure. Body types could be accurately classified 
for physiology, medical treatment, sports talent and 
garment manufacturing according the newly 
classification rules. Taking the sizing systems used in 
the garment manufacturing industry as an example, 
garment manufacturers can correctly predict numbers 
of items and ratio of sizes to be produced, resulting in 
accurate inventory control and production planning 
according the newly classified body types. 
Furthermore, the sizing systems thus developed 
provide the percentage of males, and the distribution 
of body types, enabling manufacturers to access 
reference points and facilitating garment production 
for specific markets, and supplying effective 
manufacturing information, improving production 
planning and material control. The standard sizing 
systems can then be developed to facilitate garment 
production according to the new classified body types. 
The newly classification rules play an even important 
role for production and logistics. 
 
Table 2. The means of the three body types 
 
 
3   Conclusion 
Human body type classifications are very 
crucial issue, play an even important role for 
physiology, medical treatment, sports talent and 
garment production and logistics. The application 
domain of data mining has been quite broad. 
However, little research has been done in the area of 
identifying the significant rules of human body types, 
using data mining. This study applied the neural 
network-based data mining procedure to identify the 
significant rules of human body types. Certain 
advantages may be observed when the significant 
rules are identified, using the data mining procedure. 
Body types could be accurately classified for 
physiology, medical treatment, sports talent and 
garment manufacturing according the newly 
classification rules. The results of this study can 
provide an effective procedure of identifying the 
significant rules for classifying human body type to 
satisfy various demands. 
References: 
[1] Burns LD, Bryant NO, The Business of Fashion: 
Designing, Marketing, and Manufacturing, Fairchild, 
2000. 
[2] Wong KW, Zhou S, Yang Q and Yeung MS, 
Mining customer value: from association rules to 
direct marketing, Data Mining and Knowledge 
Discovery, 11, 2005, pp.57-79. 
[3] Min H and Emam A, Developing the profiles of 
truck drivers for their successful recruitment and 
retention: a data mining approach, International   
Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics 
Management, 32, 2003, pp.149-162. 
[4] Becerra-Fernandez I, Zanakis SH and alczak S, 
Knowledge discovery techniques for predicting 
country investment risk. Computer and Industrial 
Engineering, 43, 2002, pp.787-800. 
[5] Maddour M and Elloumi M, A data mining 
approach based on machine learning techniques to 
classify biological sequences, Knowledge-Based 
Systems, 15, 2002, pp.217-223. 
[6] Chas YM, Ho SH, Cho KW, Lee DH and Ji SH, 
Data mining approach to policy analysis in a health 
insurance domain, International Journal of Medical 
Informatics, 62, 2001, pp.103-111. 
[7] Berry M, Linoff G, Data Mining Techniques: for 
Marketing, Sales, and Customer Support, Wiley, 
New York, 1997. 
[8] ISO, Garment Construction and Anthropometric 
Surveys – Body Dimensions. International standard, 
ISO 8559, 1989, pp.1-9. 
[9] Pyle D, Data Preparation for Data Mining,   
Morgan Kaufmann, California, 1999. 
無衍生研發成果推廣資料
研討會論文 1 2 100% 
本研究計劃已整
理所得成果以及
所衍生的成果三
到五篇投稿於國
外相關著名期刊
及研討會，以提升
台灣此一領域的
學術研究地位與
貢獻。 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
(1) 本研究計畫「應用人工類神經網路為基的數據採礦技術挖掘人體測計資料
開發成衣生產尺碼系統」的精確方法，已藉由人工類神經網路發現出人體尺寸
有意義的比例與規則，並結合生產廠商及服裝設計等領域專家的判斷與評估來
確定體型，藉由本研究所發現的方法，已經可以從人體測計資料中來精確的分
類體型，藉由所精確分類的體型，進一步來建立新的尺碼系統以促進成衣的生
產，本計劃研究成果所建立的標準尺碼系統已經提供相關產業作為制定成衣尺
碼標準的應用參考，也進一步節省廠商生產與消費 
者選擇的時間與成本，並對台灣成衣產業有所助益。 
 
 
(2) 本研究計畫已將所制定的成果進一步與歐美亞洲各國的標準作比較，除可
以明瞭台灣民眾體型與其他地區人體體型之差異，也可讓成衣廠商進行在外銷
策略規劃時，可以事先瞭解這些差異並採取適當的設計與生產對策，本研究成
果在實務上具有之應用價值，對台灣成衣產業的設計與生產已有所助益。 
 
 
 
(3) 本研究已經將研究成果整理出三篇論文投稿於國外相關著名期刊及研討
會，以提升台灣此一領域的學術研究地位與貢獻。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 研討會/工作坊 0  
 
