國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■  達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明：本計畫所研發出之結合一次簽章技術於對等式網路之事件更新方法，
將滿足相關安全性之特殊需求且在效率上達到一定的水準，使理論與
現行社會環境能更相契合，並能使對等式大型多人線上遊戲所適用的
範圍更為廣泛。本技術具有下列之特點： 
1. 快速認證與加密處理。 
2. 以一次簽章技術為基礎之安全通訊系統。 
3. 以另一種較具安全效率的單向雜湊函數來提升認證安全度。 
4. 可解決對等式網路連結環境之訊息認證問題。另一方面，可以使通
訊資料能安心地在公開網路上傳遞，使其真正具有應用價值。 
5. 應用無線傳輸技術與行動通訊環境，未來勢必能創造更多的利基。
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 ■申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：本研究成果已於 2010 年發表在 International Journal of Innovative 
Computing, Information and Control 國際期刊上，並申請新型專利中。
 I 
中文摘要 
隨著數位時代的來臨，網路逐漸普及化，伴隨而來更豐富的娛樂資訊，遊戲
產業在今時今日已有著極大的改變。從早年的單機版遊戲(PC game)，到近幾年
來的對等式(peer-to-peer)大型多人線上遊戲（Massively Multiplayer Online Games 
MMOGs），超過萬人連線的遊戲平台就像一個社會實體，玩家(player)在虛擬魔
幻或寫實的遊戲空間從事各種現實世界難已成真的交易與冒險。在對等式大型多
人線上遊戲中，玩家藉由與其他玩家即時互動，相互討論、分享遊戲心得，不但
增加遊戲的豐富性也超越以往單獨行動遊戲的樂趣。對等式大型多人線上遊戲已
經成為當今遊戲市場的主流，它不但改善大規模上線人數的擴充性(scalability)，
並且能分散上線人數負載的工作量(workload)讓分散各地玩家能同步進行遊戲。 
在對等式大型多人線上遊戲的研究中，遊戲的公平性和安全性(security)是需要被
考量的因素，遊戲的公平性和安全性的漏洞對於對等式大型多人線上遊戲產業而
言是一個嚴重的致命傷。玩家們花費時間、精力、金錢在遊戲中爭取的虛擬寶物
和虛擬金幣，可以使用現實生活中的金錢透過即時訊息讓玩家與玩家之間進行買
賣，一旦有不公平和不安全的情形產生不但衍生法律問題並且導致玩家不願意再
玩線上遊戲，可能直接衝擊遊戲產業生存問題。以往，在主從式(client-server)架
構下的線上遊戲，主要依靠伺服器(server)週期性的更新並且維護遊戲的狀態(例
如：玩家的狀態、經驗值、虛擬寶物（virtual item）、虛擬金幣…等)，然而，在
對等式架構下，遊戲狀態的維護和更新都是分散在玩家這方來執行，因此，玩家
有機會進行偽裝(masquerade)攻擊騙取資訊，進而欺騙(cheat)或竄改而導致不公
平產生，因此，適當的安全認證機制與加密方法用在對等式大型多人線上遊戲是
必要的。針對以上問題與需求，本計畫之目的在於實作出一具安全性更新事件協
定防止偽裝攻擊於對等式大型多人線上遊戲機制，我們將利用密碼學技術、安全
傳送協定與高效率的計算等技術於對等式大型多人線上遊戲，使未來的對等式大
型多人線上遊戲兼具安全性、可靠性與實用性。 
 
關鍵詞：對等式網路、大型多人線上遊戲、擴充性、安全性。 
 
1The Sutdy and Implementation of Secure
MMOGs Scheme
Project Number: NSC 98-2218-E-165-001
Date: Aug. 1, 2009 - July 31, 2010
Project Leader: Chun-Ta Li
(Deparment of Information Management, Tainan University of Technology)
1 Introduction
An event update is cryptographic protocol by which a
player generates an event message and sends it to the
server for updating the game states. Traditional mas-
sively multiplayer online games (MMOGs) are conven-
tional client-server models that do not scale with the num-
ber of simultaneous clients that need to be supported. To
resolve conflicts in the simulation and act as a central
repository for data, peer-to-peer (P2P) architecture is in-
creasingly being considered as replacement for traditional
client-server architecture in MMOGs. P2P MMOGs have
many advantages over traditional client-server systems
due to their network connectivity and basic network ser-
vices in a self-organizing manner. Whenever a player
wants to play the finger-guessing game, an event mes-
sage is sent to the server and the server processes all the
events and updates the game states to ensure a global or-
dering for game executions and fair plays. However, P2P
MMOGs communicate on the Internet raise the security
issues such as cheating, a dishonest player can get valu-
able virtual items and even be sold for moneymaking.
Recently, there are more and more efforts mounted to
focus on event update protocols for online games in re-
spect to the protection of sensitive communication and
the provision of fair play. In 2004, Dickey et al. [3]
proposed a low latency and cheat-proof event ordering
based on digital signatures and voting mechanism for P2P
games. However, Corman et al. later show that Dickey et
al.’s protocol is unable to prevent all cheats as claimed,
and propose an improvement called secure event agree-
ment protocol [2]. As digital signature requires a large
amount of computations. To reduce heavyweight compu-
tations in every round of a game session, in 2008, Chan
et al. [1] proposed an efficient and secure event signature
(EASES) protocol using one-time signature with hash-
chain key and claimed that their protocol has low com-
putation and bandwidth costs, and is thus applicable to
P2P-based MMOGs. Unfortunately, we find that EASES
protocol is vulnerable to an impersonation attack and we
will suggest a simple countermeasure to enhance the se-
curity of EASES protocol against impersonation attack.
In this paper, we brief review Chan et al. EASES pro-
tocol in Section 2 and show the security flaw in Section
3. We proposed a protocol for P2P-based MMOGs in
Section 4. Finally, Section 5 is our conclusion.
2 Related works
Before describing Chan et al. EASES protocol, we define
some notations which will be utilized in this paper.
• Px: the xth player in the game.
• skx: player x’s private key.
• pkx: player x’s public key.
• (a||b): concatenation of message a and b.
• H(·): a public one-way hashing function.
• Sskx(m): a message m signed by Px’s private key.
• Dpkx(m): a message m decrypted by Px’s public key.
• Krx: one-time signature key of Px in the rth round.
• U rx : an event update of Px in the rth round.
• δrx: a signature signed by Px’s rth one-time signature
key.
• ∆x: a signature signed by Px’s private key.
EASES protocol is composed of four phases namely,
initialization, signing, verification, and re-initialization
phase, which are presented in the following subsections.
2.1 Initialization phase
In the initialization phase, player Px generates a series
of one-time signature keys for a session and performs the
following operations:
1) Px chooses a master key MKx to compute the nth
one-time signature key Knx = h(MKx), where n rep-
resents the maximum number of rounds in a session.
2) Px computes the other rth round one-time signature
keys Kr−1x = H(K
r
x), where r = (n− 1), ..., 0.
Figure 2: Signing phase
Figure 3: Re-initialization phase
3
Figure 4: Signing phase of the proposed protocol
Figure 5: Re-initialization phase of the proposed protocol
5
