  
研製消除蕭特基位障釘住效應之微量氫氣感測電路(I) 
Development and fabrication of micro-hydrogen sensing circuit by eliminating 
Schottky barrier pinning effect 
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-324 -053 - 
執行期間：96 年 8 月 1 日 至 97 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：林坤緯副教授  執行單位:朝陽科技大學資訊工程系 
Email:kwlin@cyut.edu.tw 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫主要目的為製造消除蕭特基位障
釘住效應之化合物半導體氫氣感測器並且研
製其輸出電路，朝向氫氣感測器與輸出電路晶
片整合之目的，原安排為兩年期的計畫內容，
雖然僅獲一年補助，仍然積極達成原先設定之
目標，因此，輸出電路晶片也製作完成，僅因
時間短促無法將電路特性完全展現，因此將作
為來年深入、創新研究的基礎。 
本計畫是在研製一種消除蕭特基位障釘
住效應之化合物半導體氫氣感測器，結合電路
製作成之氫氣偵測器。在半導體感測器元件的
作法為，在磊晶之後接著利用真空蒸鍍的技
術，於n型半導體薄膜表面蒸鍍一層金鍺鎳合
金做為電晶體之汲極以及源極。並且在n型半
導體薄膜表面成長氧化層，並在此氧化層上蒸
鍍鈀金屬，作為電晶體式感測器之蕭特基界
面。由於鈀金屬對氫氣具有良好的觸媒活性，
當氫氣分子吸附於鈀金屬表面時會被解離為
氫原子，而大部分氫原子將會擴散穿透鈀金
屬，並於鈀金屬與氧化層薄膜介面造成極化作
用形成偶極矩層，此一偶極矩層將改變鈀金屬
與氧化層介面之電場，進而降低了金屬-半導
體蕭特基能障高度。因此，當接觸氫氣後，將
改變電流電壓特性。經由實驗結果顯示，本感
測器在含有不同氫氣濃度的空氣環境中，其感
應電流將會隨氫氣含量增加而增加，而在感測
電路上則做到可立即感測不同氫氣濃度並且
藉由後端輸出電路放大，結合前端化合物半導
體感測器可抗雜訊、耐高溫等優點及結合輸出
放大電路，可有效達到輕易偵測氫氣訊號。除
此之外，本氫氣偵測器達到輕薄短小之目的，
並且有效降低製造成本。 
關鍵字：氫氣感測器、讀出電路、偶極距 
 
英文摘要 
The aim of this project is to fabricate a 
compound semiconductor-based hydrogen 
sensor and its readout circuit. The significant 
improvement of barrier height result from the 
Fermi-level pinning weaken is obtained for the 
studied hydrogen sensor. After the expitaxial 
growth, drain and source contacts were 
deposited on the n-GaAs active layer by 
AuGe/Ni metal. An oxide layer were form on the 
active layer. Then, Pd metal alloy is evaporated 
on the surface of the membrane as the gate 
electrodes, by the vacuum evaporation technique. 
Due to the catalytic performance of Pd metal, the 
adsorbed hydrogen molecules on the surface of 
the Pd metal are dissociated into hydrogen atoms. 
The hydrogen atoms diffuse and pass through the 
Pd metal and form a dipole layer at the interface 
between the Pd metal. This dipole layer will 
change the electrical field at Pd/oxide interface   
and further lower the metal-semiconductor 
  
metal on this thin oxide layer. Then the 
hydrogen sensor with metal-oxide 
semiconductor (MOS) structure was fabricated. 
In this research project, the catalytic metals (Pd) 
are fabricated with a thin oxide layer to suppress 
the Fermi-level pinning effect resulting from the 
high-density surface defects In order to 
understand the influence of Fermi-level pinning 
effect, the metal-semiconductor (MS) hydrogen 
sensor based on the same studied structure was 
fabricated, simultaneously. The gate dimension 
is 1.4x100 μm2. Figure1 depicts the schematic 
cross-section of the studied devices. The 
difference of both studied devices is that device 
B has oxide layer beneath the catalytic metal. 
During the hydrogen sensing experiments, 
hydrogen gases with different concentrations of 
15, 200 and 1000ppm H2/air were introduced 
with a continuous and stable flowing rate of 500 
cc/min.  
In order to measure the different hydrogen 
sensing characteristics of the studied devices, 
simultaneously, a multiplexing circuit with two 
input terminal is required. Fig. 2 shows the 
integrated circuit which is connected with the 
studied devices. The integrated circuit includes 
four parts. Part A allows input several hydrogen 
signals/hydrogen sensors, which was fabricated 
as sensor array. Device A and Device B were set 
here. Part B is the switch circuit. Part C is a 
decoder. Part D is the readout circuit. 
 
四、 實驗結果與討論 
The typical common-source output 
current-voltage (I-V) characteristics of the 
studied device under air and 100ppm H2/air 
hydrogen gas at 30℃ are shown in Fig.3. Both 
of studied devices exhibit remarkable hydrogen 
detecting capability at room temperature. The 
current variation of MOS structure is larger than 
that of MS type. This is attributed to the 
reduction of the leakage current resulting from 
the improved interface properties under the 
presence of interfacial oxide layer. The studied 
devices provide a better choice for practical 
integrated circuit (IC). Due to the large variation 
of drain current by introduced hydrogen gas, the 
hydrogen response can be obtained directly.  
Figure 4 shows the transient response curves 
of MS type and MOS type hydrogen upon the 
introduction and removal of 200 and 1000ppm 
H2/air gases of the studied device at room 
temperature. The voltage of VGS=-0.3V and 
VDS=1.2V are applied. The response curves shift 
rapidly from transient state to steady upon 
hydrogen adsorption (point A) and hydrogen 
desorption (point B). The positive temperature 
dependence of adsorption reaction rate can be 
attributed to the increased hydrogen dissociation 
adsorption and diffusion coefficients. 
 
五、結論 
In summary, Pd/AlGaAs hydrogen 
sensors based on the MOS and MS high 
electron mobility field effect 
transistors have been fabricated and 
studied Under the presence of oxide layer 
in device structure, the hydrogen 
detection sensitivity is improved. The 
current variation of MOS structure is 
larger than that of MS HEMT. This is 
attributed to the reduction of the leakage 
current resulting from the improved 
interface properties. From the 
experimental result exhibit that the 
hydrogen sensor based compound 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
0
4
8
12
16
20
VGS=-0.3V/step
 Air
 15ppmH2/air
 1000ppmH2/air
 
 
D
ra
in
 C
ur
re
nt
 I D
(m
A
)
Drain-Source Voltage VDS(V)
VGS=0V
Pd-AlGaAs MOS HEMT 
Fig.3a
Fig.3b
Fig. 3 Common-Source outputI-V 
Characteristics of (a) device and (b) device 
in differential hydrogen concentration at 
room temperature
Fig. 4 Transient response curves upon the 
introduction and removal of 200 and 1010ppm 
Fig.4a
Fig.4b
 筆者研究之重心與發表之論文係歸類於  (4) Other Junction Related 
Technologies，所發表之壁報論文為 Study of GaInP/InGaAs Linear Graded Schottky Barrier 
Double Channel Heterostructure Field-effect Transistors (GDCHFETs) (大會編號為: 7.8)。此
session 係於上海國際貴都大飯店二樓華夏廰舉辦，壁報論文共包含 17 篇，發表
論文之國際單位包括:台灣、中國、德國、日本、美國、加拿大。筆者獲國科會
補助得以參與此盛，於此深表感謝。 
筆者於 Session J 發表之 Study of GaInP/InGaAs Linear Graded Schottky 
Barrier Double Channel Heterostructure Field-effect Transistors 
(GDCHFETs)。在該文中，深入探討 GaInP/InGaAs（磷化鎵銦/砷化銦鎵）具有線
性漸變熱結構蕭特基雙通道場效電晶體的特性研究跟製造，並研究其元件的直
流特性跟 RF 特性，並使用 1 和 0.8μm 的閘極長度去進行元件的相關比較，本
篇論文主要貢獻在改善電晶體處於大的電場下，一般電晶體容易產生之平行傳
導現象造成元件特性中的最大電流值受到限制、電壓增益變小以及易產生崩
潰，並經由理論探討跟實驗分析，可以證明所研究的元件具有高速線性傳導跟
良好的 RF 特性。此元件之開發，若能有效與積體電路結合將有助於提升整體電
路效能。於發表論文過程期間，不少的參觀專家學者對此論文頗感興趣，紛紛
與筆者討論相關細節，其中包括應用以及目前以及未來研究的方向及瓶頸，筆
者除了細加以解說外並與他們討論結合其他領域了可能性，可說獲益匪淺。 
 
二、 與會心得 
由於尖端科技日益精進，許多高科技產業，諸如個人行動電話、衛星通訊
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
