1 
 
 
 
捷運線列車行程調節與速度跡線控制之最佳化研究 
摘要- 自動行程調節是捷運線號誌系統的核心功能，其目的是維持捷運線的運輸規律性，
運輸規律性的優劣與捷運線的運輸容量和準時行車密切關聯，優化捷運線運輸規律性之艱
困點在於無法建立精確的運輸動態模型，以及優化技術受限於只能調整當日運行的列車來
達成目標。本論文提出適應型最佳控制技術的理論做為優化捷運線運輸規律性的根據，並
用類神經網路與強化學習法將適應型最佳控制技術發展成一套求解自動行程調節問題的演
算法。此演算法的核心是一個評論者與行動者結構，特點是評論者無須引用運輸模型，因
此，適應型最佳控制技術僅用粗略的運輸動態模型就可以求得自動行程調節的優化策略；
傳統的線性最佳控制法由於引用不符合事實的假設條件，以致於所求得的優化策略在實際
的環境下表現不佳；用雙啟發動態規劃法求解相同問題則需要精確的運輸動態模型，然而
捷運線的現實條件使精確的運輸動態模型無法建立；用台北捷運站的運輸數據驗證各項技
術，適應型最佳控制技術的優勢非常明顯。 
關鍵詞- 自動行程調節、適應型最佳控制、捷運、強化學習、類神經網路 
Optimization of Metro Traffic Regulation 
Abstract- Automatic train regulation (ATR), a core function of the signaling system, concerns 
traffic regularity that dominates transport capacity and punctuality of metro lines. Main difficulty in 
optimizing traffic regularity is that accurate model of metro traffic is inaccessible, and only finite 
number of train services can be manipulated to minimize the cost. This paper presents the adaptive 
optimal control (AOC) technique to find the optimal policy of ATR through reinforcement learning 
and sequential optimization. The finite-degree-of-freedom infinite-horizon cost function is defined 
to measure traffic regularity in terms of schedule deviation. Optimality conditions for AOC are 
deduced from Pontryagin’s minimum principle. The AOC algorithm implements the critic-actor 
architecture of reinforcement learning with learning structures constructed by multilayer 
perceptrons. The critic predicts the step-ahead derivative values of the cost function without 
consulting the traffic model so that its outcomes are not biased by modeling errors. Thus, ATR with 
the AOC technique is robust to modeling errors. In addition, no backward-in-stage search is needed 
by the AOC algorithm. Experimental results show that ATR with the AOC technique outperforms 
the LQR and DHP techniques in terms of maintaining and recovering traffic regularity. 
Keywords- automatic train regulation, metro, adaptive optimal control, reinforcement learning, 
adaptive critic design. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3 
 
 
where , , 1k kr j dkj jw w w += +  is the total disturbance, and
 
, , 1
k k
r j d
k
j ju u u += +  the time adjustment, i.e., the control. 
Disturbances on the running time and dwell time may 
cause departure delay, classified in primary delay and 
secondary delay. Generally, primary delay is caused by 
independent event; secondary delay is due to interaction 
between trains in order to keeping safe braking distance or 
complying with passenger load fluctuation incurred by 
primary delay. Although disturbances may degrade 
punctuality of train services, it is very difficult to deduce the 
characteristics of disturbances or represent them with 
analytic function. Nevertheless, in normal operations train 
never departs before its scheduled departure instant, thereby 
departure delays are of good exponential fit [3, 8]. 
1j
kt +
k
jt
k
jr
jR ,
k
r ju,
k
r jw 1jS + 1
k
b jt p + , 1
k
d jw + , 1
k
d ju +
1
k
jS +
 
Fig. 1.  Components determining the departure instant of the kth run service 
at station j+1. 
Define the departure instant of a train at a station as a state 
variable, then for a metro line with N stations, the state 
vector can be expressed as  
T
1 2
1 2( ) [ ]k k Nk Nk t t t− − −= …t   
where T denotes transpose. It follows that 
1 T
1 2
1( 1) [ ]k k kN Nk t t t− − ++ = …t . 
The control vector, passenger vector, and disturbance vector 
are defined, in that respective order, by 
1 1
0
T
11( ) [ ]Nk k k Nk u u u −− − += …u , 
T1 1
1 2( ) [ ]k k k NNk p p p− − += …p , 
1 1
0
T
11( ) [ ]Nk k k Nk w w w −− − += …w .  
Using (4), the traffic dynamics of a metro line with N stations 
can be modeled as 
( 1) ( ) ( ) (( ) ( ))b kk k t k k k+ = + + + +t Λt p u w D  (5) 
where [ ]  with 1 for 1ij N N ij i j×= Λ Λ = = +Λ , and ( )kD  
aggregates the scheduled values 
0 ( )( ) ( 1) ( )k k kk= + + +D S R T  (6) 
In (6), 1 2 T[ ]NS S S= …S , 0 1 T1[ ]NRR R −= …R , 
and T0 0( ) [ 0]kHk = …T  is the instant to set sail train k, 
where H is the scheduled headway. 
 
Fig. 2.  Daily passenger flow data at the main station of Taipei metro 
system; the daily operating hours are divided into six durations each 
associated with a specific scheduled headway and averaged passenger load. 
B. TSK Fuzzy Model of Traffic Dynamics 
The characteristic of passenger flow on a metro line is a 
non-stationary process varying from station to station and 
from minute to minute. Figure 2 shows a typical example of 
daily passenger flow data recorded at the main station of 
Taipei metro system. Nevertheless, the peak and off-peak 
hours seem statistically regular. Thereby, it is a common 
practice to operate the metro line with scheduled headways 
corresponding to passenger loads. As shown in Figure 2, the 
daily operating hours of this example can be divided into six 
durations each associated with a specific scheduled headway 
and averaged passenger load (dashed straight line). The 
scheduled headway and averaged passenger flow data 
regarding an individual duration may characterize a linear 
traffic model. Thereby an approximate traffic model 
regarding the daily operating hours of the metro line can be 
expressed as a dynamic Takagi-Sugeno-Kang (TSK) fuzzy 
system [21], constructed from the following rules: 
( )( ) ( ) ( ) ( ),  1, ,
IF  is  THEN
(k+1)=
n
n n
k k k k n
z F
L+ + + =t B u D wt A   (7) 
where z denotes time, nF  denotes a fuzzy set associated with 
the n-th duration, and L is the number of durations dividing 
the daily operating hours. Fuzzy set nF  is defined by a 
membership function, 
1
1
1 if z [z , ),  1, , 1
( ) 1 if z [z , ],  
0 otherwise
n n
n n n
z n L
z z n Lμ
−
−
∈ = −
= ∈ =

 (8) 
where , 0,1, ,iz i L=   are boundaries of durations. With (7) 
and (8), the overall approximate traffic model can be written 
as 
( ){ }
1
( 1) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( ) ( )n n
L
n
n
k z k k k kμ
=
+ = + + +t A t B u D w  (9) 
with  
1
( ) ( ) ( )
L
n n n
n
z z zμ μ μ
=
 , 0[ , ]Lz z z∈ . 
It should be notices that use (8), obtaining ( ) ( )n nz zμ μ=  
for all 0[ , ]Lz z z∈ . The parameters in (9) are as follows: 
[ ]
( )
( )1
1 ;    
 with 1 1 ;      1
0;                     otherwise
n ij ijN N
j j
j
c c i j
a a c i j+×
− − =
= = − = +
A  
[ ] ( )1 1 ;         with 
0;                    otherwise
n ij ijN N
jc i jb b
×
 − =
= = 
B  
,j nb j nHc t p=
 
where nH  denotes the scheduled headway for 
the n-th duration, and 
,j np  is the hourly averaged passenger 
flow of the n-th duration at station j . 
,j np  can be calculated 
from the check-in data recorded by the automatic fare 
collection system. In general, the scheduled headway nH  is 
determined by commercial requirements, capacity of train, 
and passenger load of the corresponding duration. 
With the approximate traffic model in (9), timetable 
denoted by 1 2(( ))n NT Tk T= …T  can be calculated 
with 
{ }
1
( 1) ( ) ( ) ( )
L
n n nn n
n
k z k kμ
=
++ T A T B D , 0[ , ]Lz z z∈  (10) 
where iT  with 1, ,i N=   denotes a scheduled departure 
5 
 
 
function (22) without any constraint. Define the Hamiltonian 
H  as the scalar function 
( ) ( ) ( )T, ( ), ( ) , ( ), ( ) ( 1)k U k k k k k k k+ +x u f x u λH   (23) 
Using definition for the Hamiltonian, (22) can be written as 
( ) ( ){ }1 T
0
, ( ) ( 1) ( 1)
K
k
J K K k k k
−
∗
=
= + − + +x λ xJ H   (24) 
The discrete minimum principle refers to the property that 
the Hamiltonian is a minimum on the optimal trajectory. 
Thereby, minimizing the Hamiltonian by the calculus of 
variations obtains the necessary conditions for optimality as 
follows: 
( )( 1) , ( ), ( )k k k k+ =x f x u   (State equation) (25) 
( ) ( ) T, ( ), ( ) , ( ), ( )( ) ( 1)( ) ( )
U k k k k k k
k k
k k
∂ ∂ 
= + + ∂ ∂ 
x u f x uλ λ
x x
 
 (Costate equation) (26) 
( ) ( ) T, ( ), ( ) , ( ), ( ) ( 1)( ) ( )
U k k k k k k
k
k k
∂ ∂ 
= + + ∂ ∂ 
x u f x u
0 λ
u u
 
  (Stationary condition) (27) 
( ) ( ) TT0, (0), (0) 0, (0), (0) (1) (0) 0(0) (0)
U ∂ ∂  + =  ∂ ∂  
x u f x u λ x
x x

 
 (Initial-point condition)  (28) 
( ) T, ( )( ) ( ) 0( )
J K K
K K
K
∗∂ 
− = ∂ 
xλ x
x

  
 (End-point condition) (29) 
where ( )Kx  and (0)x  are arbitrary vector variables 
corresponding to the variations. Note that (26) is originally 
of the form: 
( ) ( ) T( ) ( 1)( ) ( )
U k k
k k
k k
∂ ∂ 
= + + ∂ ∂ 
fλ λ
x x
 
( ) ( )TT( )
          ( 1)( ) ( ) ( )
k U kk k
k k k
 ∂ ∂  ∂  
+ + +   ∂ ∂ ∂     
fu λ
x u u
   (30) 
where, in optimality, the term embraced by curly brackets is 
cancelled by applying the stationary condition. Proof of the 
necessary conditions may be found in [22-23]. Strictly 
speaking, application of the necessary conditions requires 
the investigation of the condition of convexity of the system. 
In the case of control systems described by differential 
equations, time, by its evolution on a continuum, has a 
“convexifying” effect which does not make necessary the 
addition of some convexity assumptions to the specification 
of the problem [24]. The necessary conditions can be applied 
for a dynamic system which is essentially continuous solved 
by discretizing it with respect to the time. 
B. Boundary Conditions for the Costate Equation 
With finite number of adjustable controls, an optimal 
solution must satisfy the two-point boundary conditions. 
These boundary conditions also impose upon the costate 
equation. The initial-point condition in (28) is considered by 
AOC in two cases as follows: 
Case 1- Initial state (0)x  is free, then (28) shows that 
( ) ( ) T0, (0), (0) 0, (0), (0) (1)(0) (0)
U∂ ∂ 
+ = ∂ ∂ 
x u f x u λ 0
x x
  (31) 
Substituting (31) into (26) for 0k = , the initial-point 
condition for the costate equation is that (0) =λ 0 . 
Case 2- Initial state (0)x  is fixed, then (0) =x 0  and then 
the initial-point condition in (28) holds naturally. Therefore, 
a convenient choice is to satisfy (31), and in this situation the 
initial-point condition for the costate equation is that 
(0) =λ 0 . 
AOC assumes that the final state is free, then the end-point 
condition in (29) attains:  
( )( ),( ) ( )
J K K
K
K
∗∂
=
∂
xλ
x
  (32) 
C. Critic-Actor Architecture for Adaptive Optimal Control 
For nonlinear systems, solving directly the necessary 
conditions for an analytic solution is difficult or even 
impossible, especially as non-stationary process gets 
involved. The AOC algorithm consists of the critic-actor 
architecture of reinforcement learning to search for optimal 
policy by sequential optimization. The critic consists of an 
artificial neural network trained to predict the step-ahead 
optimal costate vector ( 1)k∗ +λ ; thus, the stationary 
condition in (27) can be evaluated for optimal controls. It is 
the critic that enables AOC to attain ( 1)k∗ +λ  without 
invoking on backward-in-stage computation. 
The critic-actor architecture for AOC consists of two 
artificial neural networks referred to as the critic network 
denoted by ˆ ( )⋅λ α , and the actor network denoted by ˆ ( )⋅u β , 
where α  and β  denote the adjustable weights, i.e., 
parameters. Denote l the sequence of weight updating. 
Substitute the networks for the corresponding terms in (27) 
and (30), and consider the variables taking small variations 
on optimal values, obtaining the control-deficiency equation 
and the policy-impact equation as follows:  
( ) ( ) T, ( ), ( ) , ( ), ( )
ˆ( ) ( 1 )( ) ( ) l
U k k k k k k
k k
k k
∂ ∂ 
= + + ∂ ∂ 
x u f x uδ λ α
u u

 (Control-deficiency equation) (33) 
( ) ( ) T, ( ), ( ) , ( ), ( )
ˆ( ) ( 1 )( ) ( ) l
U k k k k k k
k k
k k
∂ ∂ 
= + +  ∂ ∂ 
x u f x uε λ α
x x

{ }
1
T
ˆ( ) ( )
ˆ( ) ( )
( )
ˆ
   ( ) ( )( ) l
l
l
k k
k k
k k k
k
+
=
=
 ∂ 
+ − ∂   u u βu u β
u δ λ α
x

  
 (Policy-impact equation) (34) 
where ( )kδ  is called the control deficiency, and ( )kε  the 
policy impact. The control deficiency is resulted from using 
a control that is not an optimum; the policy impact is a result 
of changing the policy, i.e., the weights of the actor network. 
Any non-zero value in the control deficiency or policy 
impact indicates deficiency in optimality. 
Figure 3 shows a block diagram of the critic-actor 
architecture for AOC. The critic-actor architecture for DHP 
7 
 
 
1
( )
l
l a l a
a kρ μ
−
=
∂Δ = Δ −
∂ β β
β β β
E
 
( )
1
, ( )
l
a l a
J k kρ μ
−
=
∂
= Δ −
∂ β β
β β
x
  (44) 
and where aρ  is the momentum constant, and aμ  a positive 
learning-rate parameter. The cost-to-go function in (17) can 
be written as the recurrence relation: 
( ) ( ) ( ), ( ) , ( ), ( ) 1, ( 1)J k k U k k k J k k= + + +x x u x   (45) 
where ( , ( )) ( , ( ))J K K J K K∗=x x . Differentiate (45) with 
respect to β , obtaining 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )T T ( 1)( ) ( )
U k kJ k k
k
k k
∂ ∂ 
+ + ∂ ∂ 
 ∂ ∂   
=    ∂ ∂    
u f λβ β u u   (46) 
where ( 1)k +λ = ( 1, ( 1)) ( 1)J k k k∂ + + ∂ +x x . Substitute the 
networks for the corresponding terms in (46), obtaining 
( ) ( ) Tˆ ( )kJ k k ∂∂ =   ∂ ∂ 
βu δβ β  
( ) ( ) ( ) TT
ˆ
ˆ
   ( 1 )( )       ( )
U k k
k
k
k
k
∂ ∂ 
+
  ∂  
=     ∂ + ∂ ∂   
β f λ αβ u u
u 
 (47) 
Using (47), (44) is rewritten as, 
( ) T
1
ˆ
( )
l
l a l a
k
kρ μ
−
=
  ∂ Δ = Δ −    ∂   β β
βu δβ β β   (48) 
Actor Network: Since the stationary condition in (27) 
shows that the control is dependent on ( )kx  and ( 1)k +λ , 
the actor network is taken as a forward network in the form 
( )ˆˆ ˆ( ) ( ), ( 1)k k k +u β u x λ β   (49) 
The policy-impact equation (34) shows that ˆ ( 1)k +λ  
responds to the control deficiency ( )kδ . In effect, the actor 
network (49) receives feedbacks for the actor error. Thus, 
the actor network may respond promptly to deficiency in 
optimality. On the other hand, the weight update to β  is a 
slowly channel to respond to the deficiency. 
4. Experimental Results 
The following experiments investigate the efficacy of the 
AOC method for ATR of metro lines. 
Experiment 1: This experiment investigates the AOC 
algorithm for synthesis of nonlinear regulator. The objective 
is to minimize the cost-to-go function 
( ) ( )999 221 1, ( ) (1000) ( ) ( )
2 2 j k
J k x k x x j x j∗
=
= + −   (50) 
subject to constraint imposed by the system model 
3
2
( )( 1) ( )
1 ( )
x k
x k u k
x k
+ = +
+
  (Truth system) (51) 
where ( )x k∗  denotes a desired state. System (51) is 
nonlinear, unstable at ( ) 0x k =  without control, and 
sensitive to the control [28]. While (51) is the truth system, 
the AOC algorithm uses the approximate model 
( 1) ( ) ( )x k x k u k+ = + .  (Approximate model) (52) 
The training set consists of 200 training samples. Each 
sample consists of a sequence of 100 desired states 
[ 4,4]x∗ ∈ − , taken randomly by uniform distribution. 
During pre-training of the AOC algorithm, each desired state 
sustains 10 steps; thus a sample will sustain 1000 steps. A 
complete pre-training process takes 100 epochs. Results are 
examined for the following measures: 
( )Cost to go , ( ), ( )N
i k
U i i i
=
 x u , 21Critic error ( )
x
k
n
ε , 
2
1Actor error ( )
u
k
n
δ , ( )1 2
0
1Tracking error ( ) ( )
N
k
x k x k
N
−
∗
=
−  
where xn  and un  denote dimensionalities for the state and 
the control, respectively, N is the number of steps taking into 
account. The trained system is tested with the desired state 
trajectory 
2 2( ) sin sin , 0 ( 1)
10 25
k k
x k k Nπ π∗    = + ≤ ≤ −         (53) 
A summary of the results is as below.  
1) Figure 5(a) shows that the AOC algorithm succeeds in 
the synthesis (i.e., convergent result). In contrast, the 
DHP algorithm that uses the approximate model in (52)
fails to obtain a useful regulator. 
2) Figure 5(b) shows that the trained system nicely tracks 
the desired state trajectory. 
Evidently, the AOC algorithm is robust to modeling error in 
terms of convergence while the DHP algorithm is worse. 
 
Fig. 5 (a) Convergence of the self-synthesis in pre-training. 
 
Fig. 5 (b) State trajectory in the tracking test of the trained system. 
Experiment 2: This experiment investigates the efficacy 
of the AOC method for synthesis of ATR policy. The results 
are compared with that obtained by the DHP and LQR 
methods. 
This experiment represents truth traffic dynamics with 
traffic data collected from Taipei metro system. Up to year 
2010, the exiting network of Taipei metro system has a scale 
of 76.5 km and 70 stations with about 1 million daily trips. 
The extension of 74.2 km more with 64 new stations is under 
9 
 
 
effect, real system model involves the saturation nonlinearity 
and traffic dynamics; however the approximate traffic model 
provides no information about the saturation nonlinearity. 
The results show that, for AOC, the delay subsides more 
rapidly and the worst case delay at the terminal station is 104 
sec. The smaller delay means more capacity would be 
available, and less trip time would be expected. Since the 
headway assigned to peak hours of Blue line of Taipei metro 
system is 105 sec., the minimum buffer time for a train to 
turn back for next service is 210 sec. Therefore, a worst case 
delay of 104 sec. at the terminal station satisfies the 
requirements. 
In Figure 8, the running-time deviation indexes from large 
to small magnitudes are that of AOC, DHP, then LQR; the 
headway deviation indexes are in the same order. That 
means the nonlinear regulators associated with AOC and 
DHP are more involved in adjusting the running times of 
each individual train to minimize the cost. As a consequence, 
they obtain larger running-time deviations, and in turn larger 
headway deviations. 
 
Fig. 8.  Schedule deviation following an initial delay of 180 sec. occurred at 
the first station; both departure delay and saturation nonlinearity are 
involved: (a) the LQR method; (b) the DHP method; (c) the AOC method 
(Case 4). 
Table I (Case 4) shows that AOC achieves improvements 
against DHP and LQR by 30% and 40%, respectively. On 
the other hand, DHP achieves much smaller improvement 
(15%) against LQR. This confirms that the different 
deviations are more balanced using the AOC method 
especially as the system model is inaccurate. However, this 
could be proven for the examined configuration of the 
cost-to-go function. Taking another configuration of the 
cost-to-go function, other results might be obtained. 
Table I 
Comparison on the overall performance of AOC, DHP and LQR in ATR 
Case 2 
Figure 7 
Case 3 Case 4 
Figure 8 
 
Method 
 (%)  (%)  (%) 
AOC 1.7 7.7 8 35 30 40 
DHP Base 6.2 Base 29 Base 15 
LQR  Base  Base  Base 
5. Conclusion 
The optimality conditions for AOC were deduced from the 
minimum principle that clearly set boundary conditions for 
cost function with finite number of adjustable controls. The 
AOC algorithm implemented the critic-actor architecture of 
reinforcement learning to achieve sequential optimization. 
The critic did not consult the traffic model to predict future 
cost of operations so that its outcomes were not biased by 
modeling error.  Nevertheless, improving the actor relied on 
a traffic model capable of providing correct direction to 
reduce the cost. Thereby, the AOC algorithm is robust to 
modeling error in the sense of convergence if the actor 
improvement is ensured. The robust property of the AOC 
algorithm makes it useful in ATR of metro lines where 
accurate traffic model is inaccessible. In contrast, the DHP 
algorithm was formulated with the Bellman equation, and 
assumed that the cost function was of infinite horizon. In fact, 
number of train services in the daily operating hours was 
finite. In addition, its critic predicted future cost of 
operations by consulting a system model. As a result, 
outcomes of the critic are sensitive to modeling error. The 
LQR method assumes linear model and Gaussian 
distribution that may not be true in real metro environment. 
Evidently, the AOC method outperforms the DHP and LQR 
methods in ATR of metro lines. However, online operations 
of the AOC algorithm have to compute entire cycle of the 
critic-actor architecture, thereby high throughput computing 
power is a necessity of the AOC technique. 
References 
[1] UIC, "UIC Code 406, Capacity," ed: International Union of 
Railways, 2004. 
[2] A. Janelle and M. P. Polis, "Interactive hybrid computer 
design of a signaling system for a Metro network," IEEE 
Trans. on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, vol. SMC-10, pp. 
555-565, 1980. 
[3] M. Vromans, "Reliability of Railway Systems," Ph.D, 
Erasmus Research Institute of Management (ERIM), 
Erasmus University Rotterdam, 2005. 
[4] I. A. Hansen, "Increase of capacity through optimized 
timetabling," in Computers in Railways IX, J. Allan, et al., 
Eds., ed: WIT Press, 2004, pp. 529-538. 
[5] J. Yuan and I. A. Hansen, "Optimizing capacity utilization of 
stations by estimating knock-on train delays," Transportation 
Research Part B: Methodological, vol. 41, pp. 202-217 2007. 
[6] D. C. Gill, "The impact of moving block train control on 
heavy metros," presented at the Developments in Mass 
Transit Systems, 1998. International Conference on (Conf. 
Publ. No. 453), 1998. 
[7] D. C. Gill and S. J. Sadler, "Simulation analysis of 
transmission-based signaling systems for metro 
applications," in Computers in Railways IV, Vol 1 Railway 
Design and Management. vol. 1, C. A. BREBBIA, et al., Eds., 
ed: WIT Press, 1994, pp. 523-539. 
[8] R. M. P. Goverde, "Punctuality of railway operations and 
timetable stability analysis," PhD, Transport & Planning 
Department Delft University of Technology, Netherlands, 
2005. 
[9] J.-D. Schmöcker, et al., "Metro service delay recovery - 
comparison of strategies and constraints across systems," 
  11 
 
 
成果自評 
捷運線列車行程調節與速度跡線控制之最佳化研究 
計畫編號：NSC 98-2221-E-002-145 
執行期間：2009年8月1日 至 2010年7月31日 
執行單位：國立台灣大學電機研究所 
計畫主持人：林巍聳
*
  教授 
捷運線自動行程調節系統主宰運輸量、準時離站、維持規劃的旅客等待時間等服務品質，
而列車的行駛時間、駐站時間、以及旅客的流量和流速等變動因素，隨時可能擾亂列車的
班距和行程，自動行程調節系統的目標便是要維持規劃的班距和行程，更重要的是要使各
列車能夠從擾亂狀態中回復到規劃的班距和行程，以保證服務品質。本研究計畫建立列車
行程調節之適應最佳控制法及對應的自動行程調節演算結構，簡稱「捷運線列車行程優化
系統」。「捷運線列車行程優化系統」按照捷運線的運輸條件和調節策略計算出各列車所
需的行車時間、駐站時間、離站時間後，再估算各列車的速度跡線及其對應的列車操控指
令，有關列車速度跡線和操控指令的估算法已在NSC 97-2221-E-002 -167的成果報告中詳
細說明和驗證。本研究計畫建立「捷運線列車行程優化系統」的適應最佳控制法及對應的
自動行程調節演算結構，適應最佳控制法是主持人開創的技術，為全世界首見，本研究報
告詳述各項技術細節，重點如下： 
(1)  對捷運線之列車運輸程序建立動態模型。 
(2)  對有限班次之行程調節問題建立性能指標。 
(3)  推導與證明適應最佳控制法的理論基礎。 
(4)  用強化學習機制和類神經網路建立自動行程調節系統之適應最佳控制演算結構。 
(5)  用台北車站捷運收費機所記錄的數據驗證「捷運線列車行程優化系統」的性能。 
(6)  用相同的數據檢驗其他方法的性能以突顯「捷運線列車行程優化系統」的優越性。 
「捷運線列車行程優化系統」以適應型最佳控制技術為基礎，用順序優化法和強化學習法
建立演算結構，可應用於機動性的優化捷運線的運輸規律性，達到自動行程調節的目標；
也可以應用於為特定捷運線規劃所需運輸容量之列車操控時程表。 
  13 
 
 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
 
 
 
Abstract—Electric vehicle with brake-by-wire system may 
perform active safety control while keeping the vehicle lithe 
and nimble. Active safety diagnosis of the brake-by-wire 
system may find braking component that is on the brink of 
ceasing effectiveness. The diagnosis relies on using a 
diagnostic observer to continuously monitor disk-pad 
friction coefficient and tire forces; safety flaw is announced 
if any observed value violates some safety requirements. 
This paper presents a design of diagnostic observer with the 
unscented Kalman filter. The unscented Kalman filter 
enforces the parameter observations more adaptive for 
dealing with nonlinear vehicle-tire dynamics. This 
diagnostic observer is verified for active safety diagnosis of 
a vehicle under many operation conditions; simulation 
results show that the design is efficacious. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
lectric vehicle employs a lot of integrated actuators, 
electronic sensors, microcomputers, networks, and 
information processing for motor, suspension and braking 
systems. Mostly, the electronic designs aim at realization of 
active safety control and drive by wire. In the brake-by-wire 
system, the braking system links calipers, sensors, actuators, 
controllers, and driver’s actions via electrical signal instead of 
mechanical or hydraulic linkages. Therefore, effectiveness of 
the brake-by-wire system is as important as active safety control 
of the vehicle dynamics. To attain high reliability, automotive 
manufacturers get used to include in a brake-by-wire system the 
back-up mechanical components. However, the redundant 
design also increases the weight and cost of the vehicle that, to 
some extent, vanish merits of by-wire vehicles. Alternatively, 
active safety diagnosis enables the driver constantly aware of 
effectiveness of the brake-by-wire system so that instant of using 
the mechanical backup may not occur. 
Brake-by-wire systems may use electro-hydraulic brake 
(EHB) or electro-mechanical brake (EMB). In the EHB, by 
 
Manuscript received Feb. 28, 2010. This work was supported in part by the 
National Science Council, Taiwan, under Grant NSC98-2221-E-002-145  
Wei-Song Lin is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, National 
Taiwan University, Taiwan (corresponding author; phone: 886-2-33663638; 
fax: 886-2-23638247; e-mail: weisong@cc.ee.ntu.edu.tw). 
Tao-En Tang is with the Department of Electrical Engineering, National 
Taiwan University, Taiwan (e-mail: b92502090@ntu.edu.tw). 
depressing the brake pedal the appropriate command is 
transmitted electronically to the electronic controller of the 
hydraulic unit. This determines the optimum braking pressure 
and actuates the brake calipers hydraulically. The EMB operates 
in a similar manner but braking force is generated directly at 
each wheel by high-performance electric motors. Effectiveness 
of the brake-by-wire system depends on effectiveness of every 
component in the system. Active safety diagnosis of the 
brake-by-wire system intends to investigate safety flaws 
regarding the braking components; early before the 
brake-by-wire system ceases effectiveness. Basically, active 
safety diagnosis is achieved by checking the parameters or 
conditions of the braking components against the safety 
requirements. Any violation against the safety requirements 
would be announced a safety flaw. Active safety diagnosis is 
distinct from fault diagnosis by that diagnosis is used to infer 
safety flaws before components or subsystems running into 
actual fault or failure. Nevertheless, active safety diagnosis is 
technically similar to fault diagnosis. 
The principle of fault tolerance concerning safety and 
reliability are generally achieved by a combination of fault 
avoidance, fault removal, fault tolerance, fault detection and 
diagnosis, and automatic supervision and protection [1]. Fault 
avoidance and removal have to be accomplished mainly during 
the design and testing phase. However, no matter how well the 
design and testing was done, certain faults and failures still 
cannot be avoided totally. Thus, high-integrity systems must 
have, to the extent possible, the ability for fault tolerance. The 
most normal way to attain this objective is redundancy in 
components, units, or subsystems. However, the overall systems 
then become more complex and costly. To get around 
redundancy as more as possible, active safety diagnosis extends 
fault avoidance into operation phase so that safety issues 
wouldn’t occur in operation of the system. 
Fault diagnosis mainly concerns that a fault is found as any 
kind of malfunction in actual system that leads to an 
unacceptable anomaly in over all system performance. 
Analytical model-based approach of fault diagnosis needs that 
residual generator performs some kind of validation of system, 
using the actual input and measured output. Whenever fault 
occurs, the residual generator generates signal of fault. Then 
signals of fault are used to infer decisions, and even to know 
Active Safety Diagnosis of Brake-by-Wire Systems 
with Unscented Kalman Filter 
Wei-Song Lin, Member, IEEE, and Tao-En Tang 
E 
 
 
1 ( 2 ) 1, , 4i ci bi b w xi
wi
F R r F i
J
        (4) 
where m is the vehicle mass, zI  the moment of inertia in yaw(z) 
direction, and xV  the longitudinal velocity, yV  the lateral 
velocity, r the yaw rate, xiF  the longitudinal tire force at 
individual wheel, f  the steering angle of the front wheel, cF  
the clamping force at the caliper, bR  the effective radius 
between the center of disk rotor and pad, b  the disk-pad 
friction coefficient,   the wheel’s angular velocity, wr  the 
wheel’s radius, wJ  the moment of inertia of wheel, and yrF  and 
yfF  are the mean values of rear/front lateral tire forces. 
3 4 2yr y yF F F  , 1 2 2yf y yF F F   (5) 
 
Fig. 1. Force diagram of vehicle model. 
 
Fig. 2. Force diagram of tire model. 
B. Tire Model of Diagnostic Observer 
Unlike the vehicle model is rigid, tire is deformable. Because 
of deformation, modeling a tire dynamics is very hard. 
Therefore, tire model is frequently taken as a balance between 
empirical data and theoretical formulas [17]. A well-known 
empirical model is the Magic Formula tire model [18]. For rapid 
computations in vehicle simulation models, this paper employs 
the similarity approach to develop the diagnostic observer. In 
the similarity approach, lateral tire force yF  and longitudinal 
tire force xF  are modeled as table functions of two independent 
variables. The data for these table functions are supplied by 2D 
tabular data. Linear interpolation is used to evaluate the table 
functions. The longitudinal force xF  is modeled as a function 
xF  of the vertical tire force ( zF ) and the longitudinal slip ratio 
( ). The lateral force yF  is modeled as a function yF  of the 
vertical tire force ( zF ) and the slip angle (α). Given a tractive 
coefficient   for the tire measurements, and the tractive 
coefficient μ for the simulated condition, xF  and yF  can be 
calculated by 
( , )x x zF F
   


F , ( , )y y zF F
   


F  (6) 
C. Diagnostic Observer 
The diagnostic observer is essentially a UKF dedicated to 
active safety diagnosis of brake-by-wire systems. The diagnostic 
observer consists of a prediction procedure and a measurement 
procedure. The prediction procedure carries out calculations 
regarding the non-linear stochastic state equation 
1( , )k k k k x f x u η  (7) 
where kη  is the process noise, and k indexes the time instant. 
The measurement procedure caries out calculations regarding 
the output equation 
( )k k k y h x n  (8) 
where  kn  is the measurement noise. 
The state equations in (7) with 26x   consist of seven 
degrees for (1) through (4), one degree for the disk-pad friction 
coefficient b , twelve degrees for the longitudinal tire forces 
xiF , xiF , xiF  1, , 4i   , six degrees for the lateral tire forces 
yfF , yfF , yfF , yrF , yrF , yrF . The diagnostic observer intends to 
estimate the longitudinal tire forces xiF  1, , 4i   , the lateral 
tire forces ( yrF , yfF ), and the disk-pad friction coefficient b . 
We assume that the clamping force cF  of the caliper is 
measurable, and the disk-pad friction coefficient b  changes so 
slowly that 
0b  . (9) 
For the longitudinal tire forces xiF  1, , 4i   , and the lateral 
tire forces ( yrF , yfF ), we use random walk model to augment the 
state in case of more changeable variable. 
0 0
1 1
2 2
0 1 0
0 0 1
0 0 0
z
z z
z z
z z
                          
η



 z{ yrF , yfF , 1xF , , 4xF }(10) 
where zη  is a random, white noise 
The measurement procedure assumes that the longitudinal 
acceleration xa , the lateral acceleration ya , the yaw rate r  and 
the wheel angular velocities i , 1, , 4i    are measurable. 
Then, (8) can be written as 
 
 
 
Fig. 3. Architecture graph of active safety diagnosis. 
 
Fig. 4. A snap shoot of the user interface of the simulation system. 
III. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
The diagnostic observer is tested for an E-class SUV; Table I 
lists the data of the vehicle. Parameters for the diagnostic 
observer are 23(3 )L    , 0.5  , 2  . Figure 3 shows 
an architecture graph of the simulation system and Figure 4 is a 
snap shoot of the user interface. The vehicle dynamics including 
(road) surface conditions and active safety controls are 
simulated with CarSim, a professional software package for 
vehicle simulations. The diagnostic observer and decision logic 
is programmed with the Matlab language. As shown in Figure 3, 
the vehicle-tire model calculates target values of tire forces for 
the driver signals. The sensors measure responses of the (real) 
vehicle. The diagnostic observer receives values out of the 
sensors to estimate longitudinal tire forces xiF 1, ,4i   , lateral 
tire forces ( yrF , yfF ), and disk-pad friction coefficient b . The 
residual generator compares the estimated tire forces with the 
target values to find faults. The decision logic checks the flaws 
against the safety requirements. 
TABLE I DATA OF THE VEHICLE 
Weight of vehicle (M)   1862( kg ) 
Yaw inertia ( ZZI ) 2888( 2kg m ) 
Distance from the front axle to the 
(unladen) mass center ( fl ) 
1.18( m ) 
Wheelbase, defined as the distance 
between the centers of the front and 
rear wheels ( rl + fl ) 
2.776( m ) 
Half of the vehicle front tread  ( ft ) 0.7875( m ) 
Half of the vehicle rear tread ( rt ) 0.7875( m ) 
Wheel radius ( bR ) 0.39445( m ) 
Effective radius between the center 
of disk rotor and pad ( wr ) 
0.29( m ) 
Moment of inertia of wheel ( wJ ) 1.1( 2kg m ) 
Brake disk-pad friction ( b ) 0.38 
The active safety diagnostic system has been tested for 
conditions listed in Table II. Results show that the diagnostic 
observer works nicely; three of them for the straight path and 
brake (A1) with  0.85   (B1) are shown below. Case 1 
assumes a normal vehicle, Case 2 assumes abnormal brake pad, 
and Case 3 assumes abnormal front-right tire. 
TABLE II CONDITIONS OF TEST 
Initial velocity 80 ( km hr ) 
Duration 5 (s) 
Driver signals A1. Straight path and brake 
A2. Cornering 
A3. Lane change 
Road friction coefficient (  ) B1. 0.85 
B2. 0.3 
Case 1- Normal vehicle 
A normal vehicle is tested for the case of the straight path and 
brake with 0.85  . Figure 5(a) shows that the estimated 
longitudinal tire forces 1xF  close to target values. 2xF ~ 4xF  are 
similar but not shown. Figures 5(b) and 5(c) show that the 
estimated lateral tire forces close to target values. Figure 5(d) 
shows that the estimated disk-pad friction coefficient is larger 
than 0.2. The decision logic finds no safety flaw is this test. 
Case 2- Abnormal brake pad 
A vehicle with abnormal disk-pad friction ( 0.1b  ) is tested 
for the case of the straight path and brake with  0.85  . Figure 
6 shows that the convergent result of the diagnostic observer is 
ˆ 0.1b  . Since the safety requirement is 0.2b  , the decision 
logic issues a safety flaw. 
Case 3- Abnormal front-right tire 
A vehicle with abnormal front-right tire is tested for the case of 
the straight path and brake with  0.85  . Figure 7 shows the 
estimated tire forces. Figure 7(a) shows estimates to 1xF  are 
appropriate. Figure 7 (b)~(f) show that 2 4~x xF F , yrF , yfF  
significantly deviate from the corresponding target values. Thus, 
the decision logic issues a safety flaw. 
IV. CONCLUSION 
While active safety control assists the driver to retain control 
of the vehicle, active safety diagnosis may assist the driver to 
find possible safety flaws in the vehicle control system. This 
paper presented a design of diagnostic observer to find safety 
flaws in the brake-by-wire system. Efficacy of the diagnostic 
