process. Based on these characteristics, a fundamental formula that predict the transient surface 
roughness during rough superfinishing is proposed. Finally, this surface finish formula is applied to 
enhance process efficiency and control workpiece surface quality. 
  
2. Experimental procedure 
A parametric study of evolution of superfinished surface topography was conducted on a 
production-type superfinishing machine (Seibu Type AN-10) with a stone oscillation amplitude of 
0.5 mm. Fig. 1 shows the machining configuration of the cylindrical superfinishing process. The 
workpiece was mounted on the tailstock of a superfinishing machine and, then, pressed against the 
rotating spindle of the headstock by a pneumatic mechanism. The rotation speed of the spindle can 
be varied up to 3600 r/min (rpm). An abrasive stone was mounted on a 3-component, piezoelectric 
force transducer and oscillated against the outer cylindrical surface of the steel specimen at 
frequencies of up to 2500 cycles/min (cpm). More details of the test rig are given elsewhere [8,9]. 
Fig.1. Machining configuration of the cylindrical superfinishing process. 
 
The workpiece material for this study is the through hardened M50 steel, which is heat-treated 
to a Rockwell C hardness of 58--62 HRC. The geometry of as-ground workpiece is a cylindrical 
tube with 31 mm o.d., 19 mm i.d. and 15 mm length. Further, a small step, 1 mm long and 0.05 mm 
deep, was machined onto its one end. For each test condition, three workpieces were used to 
estimate the variability of surface roughness. 
The superfinishing stones used in this study are 9μm CBN stones in a vitreous bond with wax 
treatment and 50% porosity. Each new stone has a rectangular cross-section, 14.6 mm in width 
(axial direction) and 7 mm in thickness (circumferential direction), corresponding to an area of 
102.2 mm2. Thus, the stone maintains contact with the entire width of the workpiece throughout 
processing. Prior to testing, each new stone was dressed on the superfinishing machine to bring its 
working surface into conformity with the cylindrical specimen by pressing it against the specimen 
surface at a contact pressure of 0.8 MPa, stone oscillation frequency of 2300 cycles/min, and 
workpiece rotation speed of 700 r/min. The contact pressure reported in this paper is estimated as 
the ratio of applied normal force to stone area, where the applied normal force is measured by the 
piezoelectric force transducer [8,10]. A straight mineral seal oil was applied during superfinishing 
and a fine filter paper (10μm) was used to remove the debris before recirculating the fluid. 
After each experiment, the surface finish of the workpiece was measured using a Form 
Talysurf 50 with a cut-off of 0.8 mm and ISO 2CR filtering. The tip radius of the diamond stylus is 
2μm. The surface microprofile on each specimen was taken along the axial direction over a 
sampling length of 9.6 mm and at six equally spaced circumferential locations. Thus, eighteen 
surface microprofiles were evaluated for each test condition to obtain the surface roughness 
parameters including Ra(arithmetic average roughness), Rq (root-mean-square roughness) and Rz 
 2
Otherwise, the material removal will be greatly reduced [11] and the finished surface will be much 
smoother [8]. 
Fig.3. Variation in surface roughness Ra with machining time at different rotational speeds. 
 
Fig. 4 shows the effect of contact pressure on the evolution of surface roughness, Ra, for 
superfinishing of M50 steel with an CBN stone. The experiments were conducted at nw= 700 r/min, 
fs= 2300 cycles/min and Rai = 0.347 ±0.023μm. All experimental surface roughness data in Fig. 4 
can be approximately described by a single curve for pressures ranging from 0.5 to 0.9 MPa. It is 
interesting to note that this contact pressure range corresponds to the rough superfinishing regime 
[9]. This suggests that the evolution of surface roughness, Ra, is insensitive to the contact pressure 
for rough superfinishing. This insensitivity is a consequence of the fact that the material removal 
rate (MRR) in the transient regime is found to be fairly flat over a wide range of contact pressure 
[12]. Furthermore, the contact pressure has no effect on the steady state roughness, as expected. 
Note that the critical contact pressure, above which the contact pressure was observed to have no 
effect on surface roughness, in this case is about 0.5 MPa for M50 steel. 
Fig. 4. Variation in surface roughness Ra with machining time at different contact pressures. 
 
4. Discussion 
Analysis of experimental surface roughness data for external cylindrical superfinishing of M50 
 4
superfinishing in finishing of hardened steel used in precision bearing. 
 
5. Conclusions 
 
A parametric study on evolution of finished surface topography has been performed for 
cylindrical superfinishing of through hardened M50 steels. Through this experimental work, typical 
characteristics of the superfinishing process have been observed and summarized as: 
(1) The superfinished surface has an inherent surface texture with a characteristic surface 
roughness which only depends on the stone type in rough superfinishing. 
(2) The transient surface roughness of workpiece during rough superfinishing can be described 
well by an exponential relationship of the form given by Eq.(1) and the contact pressure has no 
effect on this exponential form. 
Further analysis indicates that optimal performance with higher MRR, fairly fine surface finish and 
less production time in rough superfinishing can be achieved using higher workpiece rotational 
speed and contact pressure. Thus, it is expected that rough superfinishing has a promising capability 
to replace fine hard turning, thereby improving process efficiency in finishing of hardened steel 
used in precision bearing. 
 
6. References 
 
[1] R. D. Knudsen, “Advances in tapered roller bearing design”, Power Transmission, 1988, Vol. 
6, pp. 71-74. 
[2] A. M. Swigert, The Story of Superfinish, Lynn Publishing Company, Detroit, 1940. 
[3] E. L. Hemingway, “Surface finish: Key to bearing life”, Machine Design, 1944, Vol. 16, pp. 
123-128. 
[4] H. Frank, “Superfinishing – the economic fine machining method”, Proceedings of the 
International Grinding Conference, Pittsburgh, 1972, pp. 833-849. 
[5] N. Matsumori, and Y. Onchi, “Advanced superfinishing with CBN and diamond stones”, 
Technical Paper MR93-133, Society of Manufacturing Engineering, Dearborn, Michigan, 
1993. 
[6] I. D. Marinescu, and E. Bordeianu, “Optimization of the parameters in superfinishing of ball 
bearing tracks”, Technical Paper MR94-166, Society of Manufacturing Engineering, 
Dearborn, Michigan, 1994. 
[7] Y. Onchi, N. Matsumori, N. Ikawa, and S. Shimada, “Porous fine cbn stones for high removal 
rate superfinishing”, Ann. CIRP, 1995, Vol. 44, pp. 291-294. 
[8] S. H. Chang, S. Balasubramhanya, S. Chandrasekar, T. N. Farris, and F. Hashimoto, “Forces 
and specific energy in superfinishing of hardened steel”, Ann. CIRP, 1997, Vol. 46, pp. 
257-260. 
[9] S. H. Chang, T. N. Farris, and S. Chandrasekar, “Experimental characterization of 
superfinishing”, Proc. Instn Mech. Engrs. Part B: Journal of Engineering Manufacture, 2003, 
Vol. 217, pp. 941-951. 
[10]  S. H. Chang, T. N. Farris, and S. Chandrasekar, “Contact mechanics of superfinishing”, 
ASME Journal of Tribology, 2000, Vol. 122, pp. 388-393. 
[11] T. K. Puthanangady, and S. Malkin, “Experimental investigation of the superfinishing 
process”, Wear, 1995, Vol. 185, pp. 173-182. 
[12] B. Varghese, and S. Malkin, “Experimental investigation of methods to enhance stock 
removal for superfinishing”, Ann. CIRP, 1998, Vol. 47, pp. 231-234. 
[13] L. Lu, Formation of wear particles in polishing of brittle solid and grinding of metals. Ph.D. 
thesis, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN. 
 6
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
                                                             98 年 10 月 23 日 
報告人姓名  張 世 鄉 
 
服務機構
及職稱 
 
遠東科技大學機械系副教授 
 
     時間 
會議 
     地點 
2009,6,22~2009,6,24 
南韓浦項 
本會核定
補助文號
 
NSC 97-2212-E-269-006 
會議 
名稱 
 (中文) 第七屆微型流管道國際研討會 
 (英文) 7th International Conference on Nanochannels, Microchannels and Minichannels 
發表 
論文 
題目 
 (中文) 內含無鹽溶液之暫態平板微管電滲透流 
 (英文) Transient electroosmotic flow in slit microchannel containing salt-free medium 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
第七屆微型流管道國際研討會（7th International Conference on Nanochannels, 
Microchannels and Minichannels）是由美國機械工程學會（American Society of Mechanical 
Engineering）主辦，於二○○九年六月二十二至二十四日在南韓浦項舉行。本次研討會
共分成生物醫學工程、化學反應、沸騰及凝結、元件及系統整合、電子冷卻、微流體、
電動流、熱傳、 生物晶片、生命科學應用、分子動力學及微奈米工程等三十大主題。
除了南韓本地的學者及工程師外，尚有來自全球十多個國家之學術界及工業界的專家學
者與會。與會者都是研究微流體相關技術及應用的專業人士，藉由參加會議交換研究經
驗，了解目前微流體的最新發展及應用。 
筆者於六月二十二日下午在電動流之研討會中發表一篇題目為「內含無鹽溶液之暫
態平板微管電滲透流」的論文。該論文主要內容是藉由求解非線性 Poisson-Boltzmann
方程式及 Navier Stokes 方程式而得內含無鹽溶液之暫態平板微管電滲透流的解析解，探
討其相關參數對暫態電滲透流的影響。 
二、與會心得 
筆者對此次會議的許多議題皆感興趣，但受限於時間及場次，因此僅能選擇性參加。筆
者共參加了電動流及電子冷卻的分組報告，另外，亦抽空聽了清華大學工程與系統科學
系曾繁根教授在生物醫學工程之研討會的演講，曾教授的演講題目為「From High 
Performance Protein Micro Chip Toward Ultra High Sensitive Single Molecule Nano 
Array」，其主要探討如何藉由目前高效率蛋白質微晶片的成功操作經驗來設計一組能高
靈敏地捕捉單分子的奈米陣列。茲將與會心得整理如下。 
 
(1) 電動流 
本研討會的主要目的為探討微流體之電動現象的最新發展。首先，美國聖母大學暨
國際知名期刊生物微流體(Biomicrofluidics)主編 Chang 教授在會議上介紹了如何利用在
奈米管道中發生之電動現象來設計下一世代的分子及化學感應器，並藉由此種技術將諸
如藥物等物質以膠囊型式來輸送。隨後，德國 Dortmund 理工大學 Ehrhard 教授等人探討
內部電極對矩形微管流場及電動現象的影響，他們發現當內部電極放在適當位置時，就
能在低電壓下運作並提供強度足夠大的電場。德國 IKET 公司 Barz 研究員等人提出一種
附件三
 
表 Y04 
Proceedings of the ASME 2009 7th International Conference on Nanochannels, Microchannels and
Minichannels
ICNMM2009
June 22-24, 2009, Pohang, South Korea
ICNMM2009-82017
TRANSIENT ELECTROOSMOTIC FLOW IN SLIT MICROCHANNEL CONTAINING
SALT-FREE MEDIUM
Shih-Hsiang Chang
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Far East University
Sinshih, Tainan 74448
TAIWAN
Email: shchang@cc.feu.edu.tw
ABSTRACT
A theoretical study on the transient electroosmotic flow
through a slit microchannel containing a salt-free medium
is presented for both constant surface charge density and
constant surface potential. The exact analytical solutions
for the electric potential distribution and the transient elec-
troosmotic flow velocity are derived by solving the nonlinear
Poisson-Boltzmann equation and the Navier-Stokes equa-
tion. Based on these results, a systematic parametric study
on the characteristics of the transient electroosmotic flow is
detailed. The general behavior of electroosmotic flow in a
planar slit is similar to that in a capillary tube; however,
the rate of evolution of the flow in a tube with time is faster
by a factor of about 2.4 than that in a slit with its width
equal to the tube diameter.
INTRODUCTION
Electrokinetic phenomena for colloidal particles such as
electrophoresis [1—9] and electroosmosis [10] in a salt-free
medium containing only counterions are quite diﬀerent from
those in an electrolyte solution. This diﬀerence is caused
by the fact that most of the counterions are condensed in
a very thin layer around the highly charged surface, which
is called the counterion condensation. Typical examples
of salt-free media are the nonaqueous media or electrolyte-
free aqueous media [3]. Aqueous polyelectrolyte dispersion
can also be treated as a salt-free medium when the con-
centrations of hydrogen ions and hydroxide ions are much
lower than the concentration of counterions dissociated from
polyelectrolytes such as proteins, nucleic acids, DNA, and
polyacrylic acid (PAA) [9].
Most of the theoretical studies on electrokinetic flow
in a salt-free medium are limited to the fully developed
steady-state transverse flow and specifically focus on col-
loidal particles. However, in practical situation, the eﬃ-
ciency of electrophoretic separation in an electrolyte solu-
tion has been observed to strongly depend on the duration
of sample injection [11], which in turn is related to the un-
steady electroosmotic flow (EOF) field [12—14]. Recently,
a theoretical framework describing the transient EOF of a
salt-free medium containing only counterions in a circular
capillary has been developed by Chang [15]. It was found
that the general behavior of transient EOF is similar to
that observed in a microchannel containing an electrolyte
solution [13,14,16]. However, the steady-state EOF signifi-
cantly deviates from the typical plug flow at higher surface
charge and the rate of increase in the electroosmotic mo-
bility is strongly suppressed due to the eﬀect of counterion
condensation.
In this paper, the analysis of Chang [15] is extended
to a slit microchannel containing a salt-free medium. An
attempt is made to derive the exact analytical solutions for
the electric potential distribution and the transient EOF ve-
locity for both constant surface charge density and constant
surface potential. No assumption is made about the elec-
1 Copyright cs 2009 by ASME
flow. However, this distribution can be safely assumed to
obey the Boltzmann distribution if the flow is in a fully de-
veloped unsteady state and the frequency of external elec-
tric field is less than 1 MHz [14]. As a result, the local
volumetric charge density in a salt-free medium containing
only counterions with the valence −zc can be expressed as
ρe(x) =−zcen0 exp
w
zce
kbTa
ψ
W
(2)
where n0 is the concentration of counterions at points where
ψ(x) = 0, e is the elementary charge, kb is the Boltzmann
constant, and Ta is the absolute temperature. Combin-
ing Eqn.(1) and Eqn.(2), we obtain the Poisson-Boltzmann
equation
d2ψ
dx2
=
zcen0
εε0
exp
w
zce
kbTa
ψ
W
(3)
Since only diﬀerences in electric potential are physical
meaningful, we may introduce a new function Φ(X) =
Ψ(X)−Ψ0 and nondimensionalize Eqn.(3) as
d2Φ
dX2
= (kh)2eΨ0eΦ (4)
subject to the boundary conditions
Φ(0) = 0,
dΦ
dX
eee
X=0
= 0,
dΦ
dX
eee
X=1
=Q (5)
where Ψ0 is the unknown scaled value of electric potential
at center (X = 0) and
X =
x
h
, Ψ=
zce
kbTa
ψ, k =
w
z2ce
2n0
εε0kbTa
W 1
2
, Q=
hezcσ
εε0kbTa
(6)
Note that k−1 is the Debye length which represents the
characteristic thickness of the EDL and the scaled surface
charge density Q is positive since σ and zc are in the same
sign.
When Ψ0 =0, the solution to Eqn.(4) together with the
first two boundary conditions is [19,20]
Φ(X) = lnsec2
w
kh√
2
X
W
(7)
Based on this fact, the solution to Eqn.(4) with the same
boundary conditions for arbitrary Ψ0 can then be derived
as
Φ(X) = lnsec2
w
kh√
2
e
1
2Ψ0X
W
(8)
By imposing the boundary condition at X = 1 on Eqn.(8),
we obtain
λtanλ=Q (9)
where
λ=
kh√
2
e
1
2Ψ0 (10)
which implies that
Ψ0 = ln
w
2
k2h2
λ2
W
(11)
Note that λ → π2 as Q → ∞. Substitute Eqn.(10) into
Eqn.(8) to yield
Φ(X) = lnsec2 (λX) (12)
from which we find the scaled surface potential
Ψs = ln
w
2λ2
k2h2 cos2λ
W
(13)
Obviously, the potential diﬀerence Φ(X) depends only on λ
(or Q), not on kh. Further, for high surface charge density
(σ( 0 or Q( 0), Eqn.(12) becomes
Φ(X) = lnsec2
pπ
2
X
Q
(14)
which is even not dependent on Q.
As suggested by Ohshima [1—7] for salt-free media, the
zeta potential can be defined as ζ = ψs−ψ0 or the scaled
zeta potential as Φs = Ψs −Ψ0. Thus, it follows from
Eqn.(11) and Eqn.(13) that
Φs = lnsec2λ (15)
3 Copyright cs 2009 by ASME
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
X
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Φ
Q = 150
100
10
5
1
(a)
(X
)
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
X
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Φ
kh = 30
20
2
1
0.25
Ψ
(b)
s =4
(X
)
Figure 2. Spatial distribution of the scaled electrical potential diﬀer-
ence in a slit containing a salt-free medium for (a) constant surface
charge density at diﬀerent scaled densities Q and (b) constant sur-
face potential at diﬀerent electrokinetic radius kh with a fixed scaled
potential Ψs =4.
later. Another interesting result is that this profile will ap-
proach an asymptotic state when Q > 100 (or kh >20 if
Ψs =4), as indicated by Eqn.(14). This behavior is a con-
sequence of the fact that at higher density Q, the more
counterions in the liquid phase are attracted to the region
near the surface owing to the Coulomb attractions and the
counterion condensation occurs. Similar results have also
been predicted theoretically by Chang [15] on studying the
evolution of EOF in a cylindrical tube containing a salt-free
medium.
Figure 3 shows the time evolution of nondimensional
electroosmotic velocity profile in a planar slit containing
a salt-free medium for diﬀerent values of Q. Here, the
reference velocity is chosen as ur = −(εε0/μ)E(kbTa/zce)
so that the eﬀect of zeta potential can be taken into ac-
count. It is observed that the flow is first activated in a
thin layer adjacent to the wall, i.e., the high potential region
and its velocity increases rapidly from zero on the surface
to a maximum within the high potential region, and then
drops gradually to a smaller value as the distance is away
from the surface. Also, this maximum velocity occurs at
a position closer to the surface as Q increases at a given
time. This unique profile is attributed to the fact that the
flow is driven by the electric force arising from the inter-
action of an applied electric field and the EDL and such
driving force is dominate within this boundary layer. As
the time elapses, the flow gradually extends to the center
of the slit due to the viscous drag force originated from
liquid viscosity and the location of the maximum velocity
will also shift toward the center. These transient EOF be-
haviors were also observed in a microchannel containing an
electrolyte solution [13, 14, 16] and a salt-free medium [15].
When the steady state is reached, however, even at higher
Q the fluid velocity distribution strongly deviates from the
typical plug-like flow pattern observed in an electrolyte solu-
tion. This result is expected since the shape of steady-state
EOF is only determined by the electric potential diﬀerence
field, which exhibits a completely diﬀerent behavior on Q
in comparison with that observed in an electrolyte solution
(see Fig. 2). Furthermore, closer examination of Fig. 3 re-
veals that the characteristic time for the EOF to reach the
steady state can be taken as T = μtsss/(ρh2) =2.4. Hence,
we obtain tsss = 2.4ρh2/μ= 2.4h2/ν, where ν is the kinetic
viscosity of the medium. As compared with the characteris-
tic time tcss = a
2/ν obtained in a cylindrical tube containing
a salt-free medium [15], it is found that the time for EOF
to reach the steady state in a slit is around 2.4-fold of that
in a tube with its width equal to the tube diameter.
According to the definition given in Eqn.(23), the quan-
tity G represents the correction factor to the Smoluchowski
equation, and it takes into account contributions due to the
EDL and time. The eﬀects of Q and T on G are shown in
Fig. 4. Obviously, this correction factor increases quickly as
T or Q increases. However, the rate of increase in this cor-
rection factor with Q is considerably suppressed due to the
eﬀect of counterion condensation. Moreover, the steady-
state value of G is only around 0.89 even at such a high
surface charge density Q=1000, corresponding to kh=26 if
Ψs=8 for the case of constant potential surface. These re-
sults suggest that, in most practical situations, the Smolu-
chowski equation must be corrected by a EDL-related factor
when it was used to calculate the average steady-state EOF
velocity in a microchannel containing a salt-free medium.
5 Copyright cs 2009 by ASME
