 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
主動式寬頻圓極化介質共振陣列天線 (II) 
Active wide-band circularly polarized dielectric resonator 
antenna array (II) 
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-130-027- 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：鄧聖明   銘傳大學/電子工程系 
共同主持人：蔡慶龍   銘傳大學/電子工程系 
計畫參與人員：葉佳根 逢甲大學/電機工程系 
      曾喜群  銘傳大學/電子工程系 
              高明煜  大華技術學院/電子工程系 
 
中文摘要 
 
本計畫第二年是提出一主動式寬阻抗頻帶與
高功率之 Notch 介質共振天線，其壓控振盪器之輸
出功率大於 3.6 dBm、可調頻寬為約 500MHz、高階
諧波小於-14 dBc。在主動式 Notch 介質共振天線
之等效均勻輻射功率場型方面,量測之結果為 11.5 
dBm，顯示此主動式天線匹配良好。 
 
 
Abstract 
 
This paper presents a slot-coupled circularly polarized 
rectangular notch dielectric resonator antenna fed by a 
microstrip line and power is come from a voltage 
control oscillator. While the suitable arrangement the 
antenna and VCO, the high EIRP can be obtained. 
The active antenna power in the broadside radiation 
included the antenna gain and VCO power, is near 
11.5 dBm at the frequency of 3.5GHz. Also, other 
performance is analyzed like harmonics, etc. 
 
Keywords: dielectric resonator antenna; DRA, 
wide-band, circularly polarization, 
antenna array, voltage control oscillator; 
VCO, and effective isotropic radiation 
power; RIRP. 
 
I、Introduction: 
 
Over the past years dielectric resonator antenna (DRA) 
[1-4] has become a trend of antenna design for its low 
loss, high efficiency, suitable size, and variable 
impedance bandwidth. In the design of the circularly 
polarized DRA, there exist several antenna 
configurations to result circular polarization 
performance. No matter what nearly-cubic DR for 
dielectric constant = 20 [1], the rectangular DRA with 
a specific length-to-width ratio [2], the cross-shaped 
DRA [3], and cross-aperture coupled DRA [4], there 
seems almost all single fed circularly polarized DRAs 
have 1~4 % 3dB axial ratio bandwidth in the 
measurement. Generally, the bandwidth for 3 dB axial 
ratio in the simulation data is less than that of the 
measured results. So, we can estimate the actually 
measured axial ratio bandwidth is better than the 
simulated data.  
,  
The notch DRA [5] owns a wide band performance 
due to the equivalent low Q value (mixing the DR and 
air). Hence, if it can extend to apply a circularly 
polarized antenna, we hope to achieve a wide 3dB 
axial ratio bandwidth. In this paper, a notch dielectric 
resonator is adopted as the radiator, microstrip line is 
used as the feeding line, and the tilted slot is utilized 
as the coupler. In such configuration, the experimental 
results explain that it really has a wider impedance 
bandwidth and a wider 3dB axial ratio bandwidth. 
Additionally, the antenna gain is higher to be about 7 
dBic in the broadside direction.  
 
The second year, we propose a single active antenna 
element. The antenna part is finished both simulated 
and experimental results. The VCO part is realized in 
this year. Also, the combination of antenna and VCO 
is carried out. The results of such active type antenna 
seem good in the power, harmonics, and other 
parameters. 
 
II. Active Antenna configuration: 
 
Figure 1 shows the schematic diagram of oscillator. 
We use the bipolar transistor as amplifier and its E pin 
connects a capacitor and inductor as parallel to result 
a DC ground and AC capacitively coupling feedback. 
Figure 2 shows the geometric configuration of a active 
microstrip line-fed slot-coupled rectangular notch 
ceramic dielectric resonator antenna. A FR4 substrate 
with dielectric constant = 4.26 is adopted. The 
