主動式 OLED 材料衰減與 Vth 變異之畫素補償電路設計 
“Compensating for OLED degradation and TFT threshold-voltage shift for AMOLED pixel circuit” 
計畫編號：NSC95-2221-E-006-298 
執行期間：95 年 8 月 01 日 至 96 年 10 月 31 日 
主持人：林志隆 成功大學電機工程系 副教授 
 
一、 計畫的緣由與目的 
二十一世紀是一個“ 3C ”的時代，也就是
通訊（Communication）、電腦（Computer）
與消費性電子器材（Consumer Electronics）的
時代，處於這種環境之下，各式各樣的小型電
子設備需求量越來越高，如線上購物、打電
話、電子信件即時傳送、行程規劃等，隨時都
可進行，人與機器之間的接觸越來越頻繁，主
要的溝通介面當然是以平面顯示器為主，相對
的，人們要求也會越高，如輕薄化、無輻射、
省能源、高解析、全彩化之高性能平面顯示器
等，而目前能將所有特點集於一身的材料，就
是有機發光二極體(OLED)[1]-[7]。設計新的畫
素電路，OLED 的特性盡可能的顯示出來，正
是目前致力於的目標。因此，未來跟報紙一樣
薄的顯示螢幕、可捲起來的電子期刊或色彩鮮
豔的手機螢幕等產品將會出現在我們的生活
中，無庸置疑的，這將會使我們未來的生活更
加的豐富燦爛、多采多姿。而主動式有機發光
二極體一直被視為最具前瞻性的顯示器之
一，由於它具備輕薄、高色彩飽和度、自發光、
反應時間快、高對比度及可撓曲等特性受到世
界各地的研究單位關注[8]-[15]，因此，它被認
為有可能成為下一世代顯示器的主流地位。 
但由於在製作面板時會受到製程方面的
影響，面臨到許多問題而降低顯示品質，如以
下所示︰ 
(1)臨界電壓(Threshold voltage)的變異： 
在最原始的 AMOLED 中， IOLED 是由
VDATA利用操作在飽和區之TFT來轉換成的電
流，其公式為 IOLED = K(VGS-VTH)2。其中 VTH
是指 TFT 的臨界電壓，所以若因製程上的差
異或是長時間操作之後 TFT 特性的改變造成
VTH 的變異，便會造成 AMOLED 亮度顯示不
均勻的現象。 
 
(2)畫素開口率問題︰ 
 由於目前 OLED 畫素面板大都採取下發
光方式，因此 OLED 發出的光線受到畫素內
TFT 的阻擋，OLED 的發光效率受限於畫素內
元件的數目與大小，畫素的開口率因而受影
響。 
 
二、 研究方法及成果 
本年度研究計畫的主軸，在於解決薄膜電
晶體臨界電壓的變異性影響與提高畫素面板
之開口率，並將模擬結果投稿於國際期刊
IEEE ELECTRON DEVICE LETTERS 且已被
接受[15]，於 2007 年 6 月刊登出來。接著則針
對本研究提出一新式畫素補償電路的架構做
說明。圖一為此電路的電路架構圖與控制訊號
時序圖和其電路佈線圖。此電路藉由三個 N 型
TFT 所組成，在訊號線方面，與傳統的畫素電
路相同只需要一條訊號線與一條掃描線，可節
省在電路佈線時的面積且增加面板的開口
率。電路操作主要分為兩個階段，分別為資料
輸入與發光階段。以下便針對兩個階段做說
明： 
階段一︰資料輸入 
此階段選擇線(VSEL)由低電位至高電位，
導通TFT3且讓畫素內灰階電壓經由TFT3儲存
在CS電容中。 
階段二︰發光階段 
在前一階段結束後，VSEL由高電位至低電
位， TFT3 關閉且流至 OLED 的電流由 TFT1
與 TFT2 的電流差所決定，此時 OLED 開始發
光。從上述的電路操作可得知，由於 TFT2 之
汲極與閘極相接且 VBIAS≤VA-VTH_T2 動作就像
一個二極體，操作在飽和區。 
 
圖二、在不同的VTH變異時，產生的 1DIΔ 與
BIASIΔ 電流 
 
 
圖三、不同輸入電壓時電路補償的情形 
 
圖四、電路與傳統2T1C的誤差比較 
 
三、 結論與討論 
在模擬中，此次提出的畫素電路首先應假
設 TFT1 與 TFT2 的電子特性均為一致，但在
面板製作時因為製程的影響導致各 TFT 的電
子特性會產生些許誤差時，仍會影響電路操
作，從模擬結果了解此電路對於 VTH變異的誤
差容許範圍約為 0.08V，此時的電流誤差範圍
約為 5％。將式(1)中 TFT1 與 TFT2 的 VTH差
值( DIFFTHV _Δ )帶入式(2)可得式(4)︰ 
( ) ( )[ ] )4(
)(
_1_2
1_1_1
DIFFTHTTHBIASAT
TTHTGST
TH
OLED
VVVVk
VVk
V
I
Δ−−−+
−−=∂
∂
 在面板製作完成後，假設 DIFFTHV _Δ 的值
超過了 0.08V 時，藉由調整 VBIAS的電壓校正
便可使 gm1=gm2 達到此電路的最佳效果，從文
獻中可以了解 DIFFTHV _Δ 的誤差值在最差的情
況下大約為 0.3V，也就是 DIFFTHV _Δ 增加了
0.3V 或者減少 0.3V，此時將 VBIAS也適當得增
加 0.3V 或者減少 0.3V 變可以穩定在 VTH漂移
時通過 OLED 的電流值，然而此調整 VBIAS的
方法只適用於面板一開始製作完成時，因為在
常時間的操作下面板內的各個畫素電路所使
用情況不盡相同，如果還需調整 VBIAS 去做校
正是比較難達成的。 
近年來所發表的相關文獻大多採用電壓
補償與電流補償兩種方法，但其電路架構大部
分都過於複雜，此外，隨著大尺寸面板的應
用，解析度的要求越來越高，掃描時間也相對
地必須越來越快，因此提高開口率與快速掃描
就顯得非常的重要，因此本研究提供一新的電
路設計方法，僅利用三顆N型TFT與一顆電容
完成此畫素電路來提高開口率，所設計的畫素
電路也不同於傳統畫素補償電路的方法，僅利
用TFT的電子特性與額外的電壓調整成功的
設計一新式畫素補償電路，不需要額外的補償
階段來儲存臨界電壓的資訊，即可有效降低掃
描時間與改善面板亮度不均的現象，因此本電
路相當適合未來大尺寸面板的應用。 
 
四、 參考文獻 
[1]. S. Okutsu, T. Onikubo, M. Tamano, and T. 
Enokida, “Molecular design of hole transport 
material with various ionization potential for 
organic light-emitting diode applications,” IEEE 
Transactions on Electron Devices, vol.44, 1997. 
[2]. R. Dawson et al., “A polysilicon active matrix 
organic light emitting diode display with 
integrated drivers,” SID International 
Symposium Proceedings, pp. 438, 1999. 
[3]. S. Forrest, P. Burrow, and M. Thompson, “The 
IEEE ELECTRON DEVICE LETTERS, VOL. 28, NO. 6, JUNE 2007 489
A Novel Voltage Driving Method Using 3-TFT
Pixel Circuit for AMOLED
Chih-Lung Lin and Tsung-Ting Tsai
Abstract—A novel voltage driving method using three thin-film
transistors (TFTs) for active-matrix organic light-emitting diodes
(OLEDs) is presented and verified by Automatic Integrated Cir-
cuit Modeling Spice simulation. The proposed novel 3-TFT pixel
circuit, which successfully compensates for the threshold voltage
variations, uses few TFTs with simplified control signals, and the
current nonuniformity of the proposed circuit is 0.19% to 1.99%
throughout the entire data range. To compensate for variations in
OLED current, the proposed circuit utilizes a novel driving scheme
that uses a diode connection current source with a biased voltage.
Index Terms—Active-matrix organic light-emitting diode
(AMOLED).
I. INTRODUCTION
O RGANIC light-emitting diode (OLED) displays have asimple thin structure, wide viewing angle, fast response
time, high degree of brightness, and high contrast ratio [1],
[2]. Specifically, the threshold voltage VTH variation of driving
thin-film transistor (TFT) for active-matrix OLED (AMOLED)
affects the drain current resulting in nonuniform phenomena.
Numerous compensation methods have been developed such as
voltage modulation [1]–[6] and current programming methods
[2], [7]–[9]. Ashtiani et al. [7] recently presented a 3-TFT
current-programmed pixel circuit and analyzed the impact of
VTH shift on the OLED drive current. Based on their analysis,
circuit degradation was successfully reduced. However, these
current-programmed methods require a long settling time at
a low data current and inconvenient constant current sources
that control submicrometer ampere-level current in peripheral
drivers.
In recent years, AMOLED voltage driving methods based on
2-TFT [1] and 4-TFT [2] pixel circuits have been proposed and
investigated. Clearly, the 2-TFT suffers from a nonnegligible
VTH variation. Although compensating for the VTH variation,
the 4-TFT circuit and some novel pixel circuits with more than
four TFTs [4], [5] use an excessive number of TFTs, resulting
in complex control lines that decrease the aperture ratio. The
proposed 3-TFT pixel circuit successfully compensates for
threshold voltage variations using a voltage driving approach
and, to date, use few TFTs with the simplest control signal.
Manuscript received January 22, 2007; revised March 12, 2007. This work
was supported by the National Science Council of Taiwan, R.O.C., under
Contract NSC 95-2221-E-006-298. The review of this letter was arranged by
Editor J. Yu.
The authors are with the Department of Electrical Engineering, National
Cheng Kung University, Tainan 701-01, Taiwan, R.O.C. (e-mail: cllin@mail.
ncku.edu.tw).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available online
at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/LED.2007.896895
Fig. 1. Schematic circuit, control signal timing diagram, and layout of the
proposed pixel circuit.
This letter presents a novel simple driving scheme for an
AMOLED pixel circuit using three TFTs. Simulation results
demonstrate that the pixel circuit reduces nonuniform bright-
ness. When the VTH of neighboring TFTs, which are widely
assumed to be the same, are different, the proposed circuit can
still compensate for error by adjusting the VBIAS. Compared
with the representative voltage-modulated pixel circuit that
was developed by Dawson et al. [2], the proposed circuit
reduces the number of components in pixel, thereby improving
the aperture ratio.
II. PROPOSED PIXEL CIRCUIT OPERATION
Fig. 1 depicts the equivalent 3-TFT pixel circuit, its control-
ling signals, and the layout of the proposed circuit. TFT1 and
TFT2 determine the OLED output current; TFT2 is a current
source with a diode connection structure; and TFT3 is a row
line selection switch. Additional signal lines are not required in
the proposed pixel circuit.
The pixel circuit operates in two modes, namely program-
ming mode and emission mode, and does not need the time
of VTH generation; thus, the control signal is as simple as
the conventional 2T1C pixel circuit. In programming mode,
the select line VSEL goes to high voltage such that TFT3 is
turned on and the data voltage VDATA is stored in the storage
capacitor CS through TFT3. In the emission mode, VSEL goes
to low voltage such that TFT3 is turned off. The driving current
0741-3106/$25.00 © 2007 IEEE
LIN AND TSAI: NOVEL VOLTAGE DRIVING METHOD USING 3-TFT PIXEL CIRCUIT 491
Fig. 3. Simulation results showing the range of the current flow through
the OLED at different VDATA and threshold voltage variations (∆VTH =
0, −0.33, and + 0.33 V).
Fig. 4. Nonuniformity of the output current due to threshold voltage variation
at different normalized VDATA in the proposed circuit compared with that in
the conventional 2T1C pixel circuit.
data voltage ranges 2–9 V, the error rates in the proposed pixel
circuit are all < 1.5%. Therefore, the OLED current in novel
pixel circuit exhibits better immunity against the VTH variation
of poly-Si TFTs.
Fig. 4 presents the nonuniform output current of an
OLED simulated with combined VTH variation (∆VTH =
−0.33 and + 0.33 V) of poly-Si TFT during programming. The
traditional 2T1C input data voltage is normalized to compare
the nonuniformity of OLED current with that of the proposed
circuit using the same OLED current. Nonuniformity is defined
as the difference between maximum and minimum output cur-
rents divided by the average output current for an input voltage.
Compared with the nonuniformity of a conventional 2T1C pixel
circuit (18% to 66%), the nonuniformity of the proposed pixel
circuit is significantly reduced (< 2%).
The assumption in the proposed pixel circuit is that the elec-
trical characteristics of TFT1 and TFT2 are ideally the same.
If the threshold voltage of neighboring TFTs (∆VTH_DIFF)
varies by 0.08 V, the proposed pixel circuit tolerates 0.08-V
threshold voltage variations between TFT1 and TFT2 with an
output current error rate of < 5%. Substituting VTH_T2 in (4)
into (5), the following equation is obtained:
∂IOLED
∂VTH
= −kT1(VGS_T1 − VTH_T1)
+ kT2 [(VA − VBIAS)− (VTH_T1 −∆VTH_DIFF)] . (7)
Just after the panel is fabricated, although |∆VTH_DIFF| ex-
ceeds 0.08 V, VBIAS can still be adjusted to make gm1 = gm2.
The worst case of ∆VTH_DIFF is set to 0.3 V [10]; thus,
∆VTH_DIFF varies from −0.3 to 0.3 V as VBIAS is adjusted
from −2.7 to −3.3 V. Therefore, the proposed pixel circuit
provides stable OLED current. However, when the VBIAS line is
already set in the panel and after extended operation with VTH
varied, the VBIAS line is difficult to adjust.
V. CONCLUSION
This investigation proposed, simulated, and analyzed a novel
VTH compensation circuit comprising three transistors and
one capacitor with simplified control signals for AMOLED.
The new approach does not need the time of VTH generation
such that the control signal waveform is as simple as the
conventional 2T1C pixel circuit and is much easier to produce.
The simulation result demonstrates that the proposed circuit
compensates for the VTH variation of poly-Si TFTs and the
current nonuniformity is 0.19% to 1.99% over the entire data
range.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors would like to thank AU Optronics Corporation,
Hsinchu, Taiwan, R.O.C., for the technical support.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Stewart, R. S. Howell, L. Pires, M. K. Hatalis, W. Howard, and
O. Parche, “Polysilicon VGA active matrix OLED displays—Technology
and performance,” in IEDM Tech. Dig., 1998, pp. 871–874.
[2] R. M. A. Dawson, Z. Shen, D. A. Furest, S. Connor, J. Hsu, M. G. Kane,
R. G. Stewart, A. Ipri, C. N. King, P. J. Green, R. T. Flegal, S. Pearson,
C. W. Tang, S. Van Slyke, F. Chen, J. Shi, M. H. Lu, and J. C. Sturm,
“The impact of the transient response of organic light emitting diodes on
the design of active matrix OLED displays,” in IEDM Tech. Dig., 1998,
pp. 875–878.
[3] S. H. Jung, W. J. Nam, and M. K. Han, “A new voltage-modulated
AMOLED pixel design compensating for threshold voltage variation in
poly-Si TFTs,” IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 25, no. 10, pp. 690–692,
Oct. 2004.
[4] Y. H. Tai, B. T. Chen, Y. J. Kuo, C. C. Tsai, K. Y. Chiang, Y. J. Wei, and
H. C. Cheng, “A new pixel circuit for driving organic light emitting diodes
with low temperature polycrystalline thin film transistors,” J. Display
Technol., vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 100–104, Sep. 2005.
[5] J. H. Lee, J. H. Kim, and M. K. Han, “A new a-Si:H TFT pixel circuit com-
pensating the threshold voltage shift of a-Si:H TFT and OLED for active
matrix OLED,” IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 26, no. 12, pp. 897–899,
Dec. 2005.
[6] C. L. Lin and Y. C. Chen, “A novel LTPS-TFT pixel circuit compensating
for TFT threshold-voltage shift and OLED degradation for AMOLED,”
IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 28, no. 2, pp. 129–131, Feb. 2007.
[7] S. J. Ashtiani, P. Servati, D. Striakhilev, and A. Nathan, “A 3-TFT current-
programmed pixel circuit for AMOLEDs,” IEEE Trans. Electron Devices,
vol. 52, no. 7, pp. 1514–1518, Jul. 2005.
[8] T. Sasaoka, M. Sekiya, A. Yumoto, J. Yamada, T. Hirano, Y. Iwase,
T. Yamada, T. Ishibashi, T. Mori, M. Asano, S. Tamura, and T. Urabe,
“A 13.0-inch AM-OLED display with top emitting structure and adaptive
current mode programmed pixel circuit (TAC),” in Proc. SID Tech. Dig.,
2001, pp. 384–387.
[9] J. H. Lee, W. J. Nam, S. H. Jung, and M. K. Han, “A new current scaling
pixel circuit for AMOLED,” IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 25, no. 5,
pp. 280–282, May 2004.
[10] H. Y. Lu, P. T. Liu, T. C. Chang, and S. Chi, “Enhancement of bright-
ness uniformity by a new voltage-modulated pixel design for AMOLED
displays,” IEEE Electron Device Lett., vol. 27, no. 9, pp. 743–745,
Sep. 2006.
大會規劃的 Plenary 演講有兩場，分別安排在第一天和第二
天。第一天 Plenary 的主席由友達光電的 Fan Luo 擔任，主要探
討 TFT-LCD 在大陸供應鏈、韓國 Flat Panel Display 技術發展及
未 來 平 面 顯 示 器 挑 戰 和 創 新 價 值 (Philips Consumer 
Electronics)，第二天 Plenary 的主席由中華映管的 Hsing-Yan 
Chen 擔任，主要議題和第一天的差不多，其中也討論到 PDP 未來
的發展以及 AMOLED 相關技術。 
第二天主要的議題著重於 LCD、OLED 和 LED Backlight 等最
新穎的顯示技術，並探討產品的市場發展以及未來走向，其中 OLED
亦為本實驗室發展重點之一，經由這次與會探討，相信 OLED 未來
必定有很大的發展潛力。第三天的議題為 FED、TV、3D Display……
等，以前我們在 Hollywood 影集中看到的高科技，因科技的進步
也已逐漸落實在我們的身邊。第四天主要是在討論 TFT、PDP、
Flexible Display 等相關議題，產業界無不顯示各自最新穎的研
發產品，包括顯示測量技術、視覺應用與三維顯示，在 Flexible 
Display 議題中，也展示出新ㄧ代電子書 E-paper 的研發成果，在
顯示器材料方面的問題也多有著墨。光電顯示技術領域在國內各
大研究型大學及研究機構亦不落人後，在國內外此領域仍大有可
為，亦可為一項發展重點。 
三、 考察參觀活動(無是項活動者省略) 
我們在會議當天到達，從香港轉機到上海，在會議期間參觀上
海著名大學。遊歷之著名景點有:東方明珠電視塔，坐落于浦東黃
埔江畔;外灘觀光隧道，隧道內壁由高科技營造出各種奇特的顏色
變化;上海市區的夜晚，絢麗繽紛的燈光把外灘照耀的格外璀璨，
外灘的美景在全世界可說是遠近馳名，上海國際化的腳步越來越
快，許多外資企業紛紛進駐上海摩天大樓，造就了上海隨處可見
的高樓奇景，台灣確實逐漸邊緣化，在上海到處皆是陌生的西方
臉孔，當所有市場商機都集中在對岸，不禁令人開始憂心台灣的
未來。 
台灣與大陸學術界的交流相當頻繁，近年也和台灣的許多大學
有學術交流的活動，雖然台灣在整體學生素質上，仍優於大陸，
不過台灣的學生處於過度安逸的環境，不了解整個世界的脈動，
相對大陸學生的積極努力，在英文方面更是下了苦工，臺灣學生
沒有好好利用自己所處的優勢，而大陸學生卻不斷迎頭趕上，五
年五百億只是杯水車薪，真正要讓台灣有一流的大學，不僅政策
需要配合，也要培養學生獨立思考、具備國際觀的能力，才能將
台灣推向世界的舞台。 
 
