 2 
Abstract 
Micro-milling is a suitable technique for manufacturing of microstructures characterized by 
high aspect ratios and complex geometries. The application of the micro-milling process in 
cutting hardened tool steel is particularly challenging. The low strength of the miniaturized end 
mills implies reduction and accurate control of the chip load, which requires high positioning 
accuracy. Application of cutting fluids can improve the performance of machining operations 
because of their lubrication, cooling, and chip flushing functions. However, the conventional 
cutting fluids are not suitable for miniature machine tools due to the abundant electronic 
components used to construct micro-scale machine tools. Minimum quantity lubrication (MQL) 
presents itself as a viable alternative for micro-cutting with respect to the minimum impact on the 
electronic components as well as low tool wear, better heat dissipation, and machined surface 
quality in metal cutting. This study compares the mechanical performance of MQL to completely 
dry lubrication for the micro-milling of SKD 61 steel based on experimental measurement of tool 
wears and surface finish. The effect of MQL on the burr formation is also observed. Results 
indicated that the use of MQL leads to reduced tool wears, surface roughness, and burr formation. 
 
Introduction 
 In metal cutting processes, the use of cutting fluids is the most common strategy to 
improve the tool life, the product surface finish and the size accuracy. Cutting fluids also make 
chip-breaking and chip-transport easier. However, the introduction of cutting fluids often 
produces airborne mist, smoke and other particulates in the shop floor air quality. These products 
bring the environmental, health and safety concerns. In addition, the cost of using cutting fluids is 
several times higher than tool costs [1]. The economical and environmental concerns on the use 
of cutting fluids lead to the research of minimum quantity lubrication (MQL) several years ago [1, 
2]. 
 In order to alleviate the economical and environmental impacts, minimum quantity 
lubrication was addressed as an alternative to the traditional flood cooling application a decade 
ago [1, 2]. Minimum quantity lubrication refers to the use of a small amount of cutting fluid, 
typically in the order of 100 ml/hr or less, which is about ten-thousandth of the amount of cutting 
fluid used in flood–cooled machining [3, 4]. The concept of minimum quantity lubrication is 
based on the principle of loss lubrication with dry surface after the machining process. This is the 
minimum quantity lubrication required in the machining process. Therefore, minimum quantity 
lubrication is also recognized as near dry machining (NDM). 
At the same time, the commercial machine tools are in the scale of meters. To obtain high 
accurate product dimensions, ultra-precision machine tools are put into service. Ultra-precision 
macro-machine tools have several advantages including high rigidity, damping and the ability to 
actuate precisely based on precision sensors and actuators [5]. However, the large scale and 
precisely controlled machining environment may add very high costs for the fabrication of 
miniature components. On the other hand, micro-machine tools do not necessarily have to be 
large to achieve the required precision [6]; and, several benefits from this miniaturization include 
reduction in energy, space, materials and cost. The overall size of machine tools is an underlying 
 4 
steel with the use of 17 ml/hr oil and 150 ml/hr water mixture. The use of oil-water combined 
mist could prevent the production of built-up edge (BUE) while BUE was observed when cutting 
dry or with oil mist. BUE is an important factor of workpiece surface roughness. Therefore the 
workpiece surface finish under oil-water combined mist was better than that under dry, oil mist or 
water soluble oil applications. Lower cutting temperatures were also observed with the use of 
oil-water combined mist compared to cutting dry or with oil mist. 
 Diniz et. al. [13] applied 10 ml/hr oil in turning AISI 52100 steel with CBN tools. The 
supplied air pressure was 4.5 bar. According to the experimental data, the following conclusions 
were drawn. (1) Dry and minimum quantity lubrication had similar performance in terms of CBN 
tool flank wear, always better than the tool life under flood cooling. (2) The workpiece surface 
roughness measured in near dry cutting was close to that obtained from dry cutting. 
 Rahman et. al. [4, 14] performed experiments in end milling with the use of lubricant at 
8.5 ml/hr oil flow rate. The oil was supplied by the compressed air at 0.52 MPa. The workpiece 
material was ASSAB 718HH steel. The experimental results showed that: (1) tool wear under 
near dry lubrication was comparable to that under flood cooling when cutting at low feed rates, 
low speeds and low depth of cuts; (2) the surface finish generated by minimum quantity 
lubrication was comparable to that under flood cooling; (3) cutting forces were close in both 
minimum quantity lubrication and flood cooling; (4) fewer burrs formed during minimum 
quantity lubrication compared to dry cutting and flood cooling application; (5) the tool-chip 
interface temperature under near dry lubrication was lower than in dry cutting but higher than that 
in flood cooling. 
 Lopez et. al. [15] studied the effects of cutting fluid on tool wear in high speed milling. 
Both near dry lubrication and flood cooling were applied when cutting aluminum alloys. In 
addition to experiments, they also performed computational fluid dynamics (CFD) simulations 
for estimating the penetration of the cutting fluid to the cutting zone. The oil flow rates of 0.04 
and 0.06 ml/min were studied. The pressurized air was applied at 10 bar. The results showed that 
(1) with the help of compressed air, the oil mist could penetrated the cutting zone and provide 
cooling and lubricating while the CFD simulation showed that the flood coolant was not able to 
reach the tool teeth; (2) the nozzle position relative to feed direction was very important for oil 
flow penetration optimization. 
 Sasahara et al. [11] reported that in the case of helical feed milling for boring aluminum 
alloy, cutting forces, cutting temperature and dimension accuracy under near dry lubrication were 
close to those under flood cooling condition. 
 Kelly and Cotterell [16] employed near dry lubrication to optimum drilling cast aluminum 
alloys. A flow of 20 ml/hr oil was delivered with the compressed air at the gauge pressure of 6 bar. 
The authors observed that the feed force, drill torque and surface roughness under near dry 
lubrication were the lowest compared with those in flood cooling, compressed air or dry cutting. 
However, the experimental results also showed that the hole accuracy for near dry drilling was 
worse than that for flood cooling situation. 
 Heinemann et. al. [17] investigated the effect of minimum quantity lubricant on tool life 
when drilling carbon steels with high speed steel twist drills. The cutting fluid flow rate was 18 
 6 
abovementioned micro-scale machine tools are developed in the laboratories where the electronic 
devices are widely adopted for the construction of machine tool components such as high-speed 
spindles, linear stages and controllers. In that environment, the traditional flood cooling is not an 
appropriate method to supply the cutting fluid. Therefore, the MQL is an alternative choice to 
provide both cooling and lubricating effects in micro-cutting. 
 Minimum quantity lubrication is of great interest in both air quality control and tool life 
extension as discussed in the literature review. Although previous researches showed this 
technology could be an alternative machining process other than dry machining or flood cooling 
machining, those studies are restricted to qualitative experimental results on macro-scale machine 
tools. It is necessary to develop a systematic methodology for minimum quantity lubrication 
study on miniature machine tools. To address the tool performance and product surface quality of 
near dry milling on a micro-scale machine tool as a result of cooling and lubricating effects, this 
study presents the application of minimum quantity lubrication to the micro-milling process 
applied to the cutting hardened steels on a desktop machine tool. The comparison between 
minimum quantity lubrication and completely dry cutting process is also presented. 
 
Experimental setup 
 Figure 1 shows a system developed by National Sun Yat-Sen University (NSYSU) based on 
a 3-axis machining table (linear AC motor with 0.6nm resolution and 25mm2 travel footprint), 
knee-column frame, and spindle (125W, 0.5-50Krpm) along with multiflute tools (solid carbide, 
2 flute, 25~800µm dia). In this research, a 600µm diameter 2-flute flat end mill is used. This 
represents a machine tool 5,000~10,000 times smaller than traditional machines and 1,000 times 
higher in resolution and accuracy than commodity machine tools. The milling is done on the 
square groove and the tool wear and surface roughness are measured. 
 
 
3-axis table 
Spindle 
Nozzle for 
MQL 
Machine frame 
 8 
important because it raises the cutting forces and the related problems. In gradual wear, the tool 
life is assessed by the actual cutting lengths or machining time after which the average value of 
its principal flank wear reaches a limiting value, such as 0.3 mm. Therefore, attempts should be 
made to reduce the rate of growth of flank wear in all possible ways without much sacrifice in 
material removal rate. This study was conducted according to the cutting conditions illustrated in 
Table 1, while the performance of the lubrication modes were evaluated in terms of tool wear, 
surface finish, and burr formation. The last two will be depicted and discussed in the following 
sections 
Figure 3 shows the progressive tool wears of the micro tools under different feed rates for 
both dry and MQL conditions. Figure 3 clearly shows that flank wear, especially the wear rate, 
decreased by the use of MQL. The reduction of tool flank wear may be attributed to the 
lubrication and cooling effects of MQL. However, inadequate lubrication may cause opposite 
effect on the tool wear [4], such as the more serious tool wear under feed rate of 0.75 mm/sec in 
MQL than that of dry cutting, as shown in the figure. Although the use of MQL can improve the 
tool life, the difference between tool wear under dry cutting and MQL does not show significant 
dissimilarity under the selected feed rates. The maximum reduction of tool flank wear of dry 
cutting to MQL is only 11.6% at the end of the 6th cut. 
 
Tool wear (Dry cutting)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
1 2 3 4 5 6
Number of cuts
μ
m
0.5mm/sec
0.75mm/sec
1.0mm/sec
Tool wear (MQL)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
1 2 3 4 5 6
Number of cuts
μ
m
0.5mm/sec
0.75mm/sec
1.0mm/sec
 
Figure 3: Tool wear progressions for different feed rate under dry and MQL conditions (spindle 
rotational speed = 30000 rpm) 
 
Figure 4 shows the progressive tool wears of the micro tools under different spindle 
rotational speed for both dry and MQL conditions. It is shown in the figure that the use of MQL 
in micro-milling does not always lead to lower tool wear growth. For the first three cuts, where 
the tool wear are not serious, the use of MQL does reduce the tool wear compared with that of 
dry cutting. However at the end of 6th cut, it is only effective for the low cutting speed (spindle 
rotational speed = 30000 rpm), but having the negative influence on the tool wear for higher 
cutting speeds. The interaction between tool wear and lubrication should be taken into 
consideration for micro-cutting processes. 
 10
40000 and 50000 rpm, the surface finish in both cutting speeds are close for MQL and dry cutting. 
The reason for the different experimental results may be due to the inefficient lubrication for 
higher cutting speeds. 
Rmax
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
30000 40000 50000
Spindle speed (rpm)
µm
Dry cutting
MQL
 
Figure 6: Surface roughness for different spindle rotational speed under dry and MQL conditions 
(feed rate = 0.5 mm/sec) 
 
Burr formation 
 
Figure 7 shows the burr formation in this study. The burr is observed in all cutting 
conditions. It is clear that the presence of burrs constitutes one of the main limitations of 
micro-milling towards its application in industrial production, as the part needs to be further 
processed for burr removal, which is particularly complicated due to the small size of the 
machined parts or features. In the figure below, it is found that the burr height is higher on the 
side where the down milling occurs. 
 
Figure 7: Burr formation for the 4th cut under the dry cutting for spindle rotational speed = 50000 
rpm, feed rate = 0.5 mm/sec and depth of cut = 0.3 mm. 
 
The burr formation under different feed rates for both dry and MQL conditions is shown in 
Tables 2 and 3. The serious burr formation is observed in both dry and MQL cuttings at the end 
of 6th cut. Nevertheless, the use of MQL in micro-milling does defer the serious burr formation. 
As the feed rate increases, the effect of MQL on the burr formation is more helpful, as shown in 
Workpiece moving 
direction 
Tool rotational direction 
Burr 
formation 
 12
50000 rpm N N S S S S 
Note: N: no burr formation, Y: burr formation observed, S: serious burr formation 
 
Conclusion 
The performance of MQL technique in micro-milling with respect to dry cutting was tested. 
Results clearly indicate that MQL can definitely be regarded as a superior method to dry cutting 
in micro-cutting. The following conclusions can be deduced from the findings of this study. 
MQL presents reduced flank wear for all feed rates and low cutting speed and hence is 
expected to improve tool life. However, at high cutting speeds, MQL is not effective due to 
insufficient lubrication. 
Surface roughness obtained in MQL is better than that of dry cutting although at high cutting 
speeds, surface roughness under both lubricating conditions is comparable. 
Burr formation can be alleviated by the use of MQL. Less burr formation indicates better 
surface quality and no further process is required to remove the burr. 
 
Acknowledgement 
The authors would like to express their appreciation to National Science Council in Taiwan for 
their financial support of this research. 
 
