while Sung and Chiu [8] used the Genetic Algorithm to find the global optimum connection
position, and also used the Hill-climbing Method to improve the solution found with the Genetic
Algorithm.
The Coordinate Search Method, Pattern Search Method, Simplex Method, and Genetic
Algorithm search for the optimum solution in the design space directly, and are non-gradient-based
methods. They do not calculate the search direction and their efficiency will be poor if the design
space is large. If using another solving methodology, namely numerical optimization theory,
optimization becomes an interactive process. The search direction and the step size along the
direction are two key points during each iteration [9]. On the other hand, Swann’s Method, the 
Quadratic Estimation Method, the Gaussian Function Estimation, and the Golden Section Method
described in the literature are used only to calculate the step size without a direction search method,
as in the case of the Steepest Descent Method. Few direction search methods are used for the
alignment problem. This study will introduce some direction search methods that can be used, and
will compare their efficiencies. Another important part of optimization methodologies is the method
for the step size determination. This study introduces and compares the efficiencies of three popular
methods for calculating the step size.
In order to avoid local maxima traps and to reduce costs, various methodologies are used
instead of the expensive hardware mentioned above to accomplish the rough alignment. These
methodologies can be implemented with software programming, and do not need to add additional
costs. Pham and Castellani [10] simulated the searching process by moving on the light intensity
surface to avoid the local maxima traps, and solved the problem with a gradient-based method.
Even though non-gradient-based methods might not be more efficient than gradient-based or
Hessian-based methods, some of them, such as Simplex Method or the Genetic Algorithm, can be
used to avoid the local maxima traps. Chen et al.[11] used a novel Simplex Method to avoid a local
maximum trap, and the two-stage Genetic Algorithm proposed by Sung and Chiu [8] also has
potential for avoiding local maxima traps.
Therefore, the two major purposes of this study were to avoid the local maximum trap and to
increase the search efficiency. A two-stage optimization strategy in this study is proposed to achieve
these requirements. The first stage is to use the Nelder-Mead Simplex Method instead of using
expensive CCD cameras or other rough alignment methods. Then, the Steepest Descent Method
with Polynomial Interpolation is used for accurate searching in the second stage. Compared to the
traditional optimization methodologies, the two-stage method can reduce the search by about 50%.
2. Two-stage Method
The standard optimization model will be formulated as finding the solution with a minimum
objective function value. This formulation can also consider the problem of maximizing the
objective function value by multiplying the objective function with minus one. Therefore, the
standard optimization model can be defined as:
minimize–f(X) (1)
where f(X) is the measured light intensity. In this study, the voltage of the light intensity is used. X is
optimum solution, but these methods require an explicit function relating the objective function and
the design variables. Unfortunately, it is difficult to define an explicit function of the light intensity
on the fiber end-face because the light intensity has to be detected at every position. Therefore, the
indirect methods cannot be used to solve the alignment problem, whereas direct methods can.
Direct methods are also called numerical methods, and they solve an optimization problem by
“searching”. The “searching”includes the “search direction”as well as the “step size”, and the
process can be described by the following equation:
;)()()()1( kkkk dXX  k=0, 1, 2… (4)
where the superscript is the iteration number;αis the step size (scalar); and d is the search direction
in a vector form. The whole solving process is shown in Figure 1. At the beginning, an initial
position X(0) should be selected. There are many methods for determining the search direction d(k),
such as the Steepest Descent Method, the Conjugate Gradient Method, the DFP
(Davidon-Fletcher-Powell) Method, and the BFGS (Broyden-Fletcher-Goldfarb-Shanno) Method
9
.
Before moving along in the search direction, the convergence condition of the process should be
checked. The common convergence condition is that the norm value of the search direction is less
than a predetermined small value.
)(kd (5)
where εis a small value, named the convergence condition. It is similar to the necessary condition
of indirect methods, but the norm is seldom zero when using numerical methods. Therefore, a
predetermined small value is used instead of zero. Another common convergence condition requires
checking the difference of the objective function values between two solutions. The solving process
will stop if the difference is less than a predetermined small value. This means it is no longer
efficient to continue the solving process because of the marginal improvement on the objective
function.
The step size in the search direction has to be calculated if the solving process is to continue. It
is also called a “one-dimensional search” because it searches for the optimum solution “along” a
path in the predetermined search direction d(k). Hence, the problem becomes a one-dimensional
problem for determining the step size, no matter how many dimensions the problem has. There are
also many methods for the one-dimensional search as described in the mentioned literatures, the
most popular being the Equal Interval Search, the Golden Section Search, and Polynomial
Interpolation. This study used and compared all three. After determining the search direction and
the step size, the position can be updated, and the process can continue to the next iteration.
2.2.1 Search Direction
Yu et al.[13] used the Steepest Descent Method to decide on the search direction. It can be
calculated as follows:
finding an α* which minimizes f(α). The methods discussed in this study are the Equal Interval
Search, the Golden Section Search, and Polynomial Interpolation [9]. A comparison of these
methods is listed in Table 1.
As the name implies, the Equal Interval Search evaluates the solutions with the same distance in
the search direction until it finds the step size. The intervalδbetween two adjacent searching points
determines the accuracy and efficiency of finding the optimum point α*. The Golden Section
Search evaluates the solutions with an increased distance until it finds the optimum interval. The
increase ratio is 1.618 (Golden ratio), i.e., the distance between the n and (n+1) solution is 1.618
times the distance between (n-1) and n, as shown in Table 1. The efficiency of the Golden Section
Search will be better than that of the Equal Interval Search because of the increased distance and the
characteristics of the Golden ratio. Polynomial Interpolation evaluates the solutions with an
increased distance until it finds the optimum interval, too. The increase ratio is also 1.618, i.e., the
same as the Golden Section Search. After finding the optimum interval, a quadratic function, as
shown in Table 1, is used to approximate the objective function in the optimum interval. This
approximation will be highly efficiency at finding the solution. The experimental results are
discussed in the next section.
3. Results and Discussion
The real light intensity detected by the equipment is translated into a voltage as shown in Figure
3(a), while Figure 3(b) shows the light intensity contour. The center circles are the light intensity in
the fiber with a 9μm diameter, and there are many local optima in the outer region because of
interference. The light intensity will be multiplied by minus one later because the standard
optimization problem is formulated as finding the minimum objective function values. Before
starting to search for the optimum connection position, fibers will first be aligned roughly. The
rough alignment may be on any side, at any distance from the optimum connection position. If the
rough connection position is far from the optimum connection position, the search process may be
easily trapped by a local optimum, and will therefore be inefficient. Therefore, this study uses a
two-stage method to align fibers. In the first stage, the Nelder-Mead Simplex Method is used to
avoid a local optimum while moving to the global optimum connection position quickly by the long
edge of the triangle. In the second stage, the direction search method and the one-dimensional
search method are used to obtain an accurate result. However, there are many methods for either of
these searches. This study uses four direction search methods and three one-dimensional search
methods to solve the alignment problem, and also compares the efficiency between them. The best
one will be used in the second strategy.
3.1 Nelder-Mead Simplex Method
The results of the Nelder-Mead Simplex Method are shown in Table 2, while the search path is
shown in Figure 4. The objective function value is -4.862, and the search process costs only 74.1
seconds. The solution moves close to the optimum solution quickly. As shown in Figure 4, the edge
lengths of the triangles are large, and this is why the Nelder-Mead Simplex Method can move to the
used as a datum in this section because it is the most stable method. The actual time required for
this process will be used to evaluate the one-dimensional search methods because the search time is
spent not only on receiving the light signal, but also on moving the component to the optimum
points. The results of the Steepest Descent Method with the Equal Interval Search, the Golden
Section Search, and Polynomial Interpolation are shown in Table 5. It is obvious that Polynomial
Interpolation is the most efficient method. It saves about half the search time during the process of
finding the step size.
3.4 Full Searching Process
After discussing the characteristics of the individual processes, the selected methods can be
combined to perform the full search process. The results of the first stage are shown in Table 6(a)
and Figure 6. There are eight triangles in the first stage. The trajectory is a little different from the
previous experiment because of the error inherent in the equipment. The solution is moved very
close to the optimum solution. The point with the minimum objective function value in the first
stage is used as the initial point of the second stage, and the results are shown in Table 6(b).
The full search process requires approximately 57 seconds to find the optimum point, and the
optimum objective function value is -4.924. When comparing these results to the Nelder-Mead
Simplex Method shown in Table 2, the two-stage method can save about 23% of the time, and has a
higher accuracy. When compared to the Steepest Descent Method with Polynomial Interpolation as
shown in Table 5, it can reduce the search time by 32%. Therefore, the proposed two-stage method
fully overcomes previous disadvantages.
4. Conclusions
The optical fiber alignment problem is a typical unconstrained optimization problem. This study
uses different optimization methodologies: the Steepest Descent Method, the Conjugate Gradient
Method, the DFP Method and the BFGS Method for the direction search to find the optimum
position, and compares the efficiency and stability of each. This study also uses the Steepest
Descent Method with the Equal Interval Search, the Golden Section Search and Polynomial
Interpolation to compare the efficiencies. Based on the experimental results, this study presents a
two-stage method to find the optimum position. The first stage uses the Nelder-Mead Simplex
Method, while the second stage uses the Steepest Descent Method with Polynomial Interpolation.
The following conclusions can be drawn:
1. The iteration number when using the Steepest Descent Method is small because the light
intensity distribution is similar to a Gaussian distribution.
2. The Steepest Descent Method is better for the alignment problem because the iteration number
is small and any modification to the search direction will let the search process be far from the
optimum point.
3. A good one-dimensional search method is important during optimization because the iteration
number of the search process is small, and most function calls occur in the one-dimensional
search.
Table 1. Comparisons
Methods Formulation
Equal Interval Search
 ii 
i = 1, 2, 3…
Golden Section Search
j
i
j
i )618.1(
0


 
i = 1, 2, 3…
Polynomial Interpolation
1
2
12
1
1
1
1
1
11
11
1
2
2
1
*
)(
)()(
)()()()(1
a
a
a
ff
a
ffff
a
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii
ii

































Table 2. Results of the Nelder-Mead Simplex Method
Iteration Points (X, Y) Min f(X) Time (sec.)
1 (6, 15) (6.72, 14.81) (6.19, 14.29) -0.542
2 (6.72, 14.81) (6.19, 14.29) (6.91, 14.09) -1.131
3 (6.19, 14.29) (6.22, 12.95) (6.91, 14.09) -1.131
4 (6.22, 12.95) (6.91, 14.09) (6.93, 12.76) -1.941
5 (6.91, 14.09) (8.32, 14.38) (6.93, 12.76) -1.941
6 (8.32, 14.38) (6.93, 12.76) (8.35, 13.04) -3.064
7 (6.93, 12.76) (6.96, 11.43) (8.35, 13.04) -3.064
8 (6.96, 11.43) (8.35, 13.04) (8.37, 11.71) -3.817
9 (8.35, 13.04) (9.77, 13.33) (8.37, 11.71) -3.817
10 (9.77, 13.33) (8.37, 11.71) (9.79, 11.99) -4.396
11 (8.37, 11.71) (8.4, 10.38) (9.79, 11.99) -4.396
12 (8.4, 10.38) (9.79, 11.99) (9.82, 10.66) -4.862
74.1
Table 6. Results of the two-stage strategy
(a) Results of the first stage
Iteration Points (X, Y) Time (sec.)
1 (6, 15) (6.72, 14.81) (6.19, 14.29)
2 (6.72, 14.81) (6.19, 14.29) (6.91, 14.09)
3 (6.19, 14.29) (6.91, 14.09) (6.22, 12.95)
4 (6.91, 14.09) (6.22, 12.95) (6.93, 12.76)
5 (6.22, 12.95) (5.91, 10.38) (6.93, 12.76)
6 (5.91, 10.38) (6.93, 12.76) (6.63, 10.19)
7 (6.93, 12.76) (8.52, 13.66) (6.63, 10.19)
8 (8.52, 13.66) (6.63, 10.19) (8.21, 11.09)
30.9
(b) Results of the second stage
Iteration Point (X, Y) f(X) Time (sec.)
1 (8.21, 11.09) -4.163
2 (9.87, 10.23) -4.924
26.4
Fig. 1. The solving process for the direct method Fig. 2. Step size determination
(a) Shape of light intensity (b)Contour of light intensity
Fig. 3. Distribution of light intensity
計畫成果自評
研究所得成果完全達到當初計畫內容之預期，大致可整理如下：
1. 研究成果部份內容已於 2006/08在美國聖地牙哥所舉行之OPTICS & PHOTONICS 2006研
討會中發表。
2. 研究成果匯整後已刊登於 Optical Engineering期刊。
Lin T. Y., Yu M. T., and Liu W. T., “Novel Opto-mechanical Alignment Method Using a
Numerical Optimization Methodology”, Optical Engineering, Vol. 46, No. 6, pp. 0650041 –
0650049, June 2007.
3. 研究計劃培養 2位碩士班研究生於 2007/06畢業。
4. 成功整合最佳化理論於光通訊產品對位，並可運用於後續研究計劃進行。
5. 研究計劃主要著重於分析工具之開發整合，成果並不適用專利之發表。
6. 研究成果已經可用於多芯光通訊產品，超越當初所預期之單芯光通訊產品。
在言談過程中，與會學者對於國內官方機構，整合學術界與產業界進行雛型品研發已致
量產之過程深感興趣，紛紛詢問筆者相關情形，尤其是國內產業從最初技轉代工，短短幾年
內已具備研發雛型品並量產的能力，產官學三方的努力實值得鼓勵。此機會可使學校研究之
理論在產品上穫得實際之應用，產業界可藉助學校之設備及人員，培養研發能力，最重要的
是政府之參與可真正了解實際經濟發展之需求，訂定適當之方案與政策。
由於筆者是第一次參與最佳化相關之學術會議，對於會議流程、論文之撰寫與發表得到
了許多寶貴經驗。特別感謝國科會提供此項經費補助，使筆者能實際參與。
三、建議
國內應多舉辦此領域之學術會議，使國內從事相關研究之專學者能充分交換意見並加以
整合。且研討會期間若合併展覽會之舉行，對於學術界可了解最新產業發展趨勢及需求，使
研究工作不偏離產業需求，對於業界亦可充分了解學術界之研發能量，是促進產學合作之良
好機會。
由於此次會議地點交通十分方便且機票低廉，但是韓國首爾生活費用近年來逐漸高漲，
故感謝國科會補助金額以減低筆者之負擔。
四、攜回資料
會議論文集CD一片。
會議議程及論文提要一本。
This study presents a dynamic model for the recoil mechanism, and the sensitivity analysis of the model parameters is
also performed. This model can be used to predict the braking force in order to control the recoil travel. The mechanical
parameters, such as bore area, barrel length, projectile weight, fluid density, cylinder/piston dimension, and etc., are
treated as the input factors to the model. Because the energy during firing is lost as the generated heat and vibration, the
conservation of energy principal cannot be used. Therefore, the model was created using the momentum principle. Then,
the optimum braking force during firing can be obtained according to the gun tube elevation and the limited recoil
length. Also, the sensitivity analysis for the parameters in the dynamic model can be performed. The advantage of the
sensitivity analysis is to figure out how these parameters affect the recoil motion, and the suggestions for designs can be
obtained. According to the analysis result, four parameters, the effective area of the recoil position, the barrel length,
the projectile weight, and the effective area of the recuperating cylinder, are the most sensitive parameters during firing.
From the design viewpoint, designers can adjust these parameters and the mechanism can complete the recoil motion in
the pre-determined space. The proposed model improves the fixed recoil length on the current artillery, and the
artillerist can operate the system easily and automatically without complex instructions.
2. Preliminary
A recoil mechanism usually consists of two main modules:
(1) Recoil brake –normally, a recoil brake consists of two stationary pistons attached to the slide of the liquid-filled
cylinder in the housing. As the housing moves backward during recoil, the trapped liquid is forced around the piston
head through metered orifices, slowing the movement of the housing.
(2) Counterrecoil mechanism –the counterrecoil mechanism consists of a piston set in a pressurized cylinder. As the
gun recoils, the piston protrudes further into the cylinder. After the end of the recoil period, the nitrogen gas pressure
acting on the piston pushes the housing back into the original position. The piston may be attached to the slide or set
in a chamber.
The recuperator is a hydropneumatic device having separate chambers for hydraulic fluid and nitrogen gas. During the
recoil stroke, the energy developed by the recoiling gun is absorbed by the recuperator and the recoil cylinder. The
energy absorbed by the recuperator is stored as the compressed nitrogen gas. The energy absorbed by the recoil
cylinders is dissipated by resistance to the flow of hydraulic fluid through throttling grooves between the stationary and
moving parts of the cylinders. During counterrecoil, the energy (gas pressure) provides the gun moving from its
maximum recoil position to the original position. In this phase of counterrecoil, the recoil cylinders act as stroke
regulators and release energy stored by the recuperator at a regulated rate.To achieve the purpose of the recoil brake,
there are many kinds of recoil mechanism, such as hydropneumatic and hydrospring. Moreover, the technical literatures
are confidential in the foreign companies. Also, it is not easy to get the related technical data except from papers and
patents. For this reason, this study will focus the literature review in US patents and Chinese papers from Mainland
China to support the results of simulation. Other available will be explained in the following sections.
Because the recoil mechanism was developing for a long time, there are many available devices using in different kinds
of guns. There is a general classification, hydrospring and hydropneumatic type, such as shown in Figure 2. The
classification of the recoil mechanism is often seen in the national defense industry.These two types of the recoil
mechanism principally differ from their action components, one is the spring and the other is compressed gas. Generally
speaking, recuperator was originally with the spring type [2].
Figure 2 Classification of the recoil mechanism [2]
direction [3].
1 1
( ) ( )
2 2
c c
r p
W Wdv dV
W W
g dt g dt
   (6)
where Wc is the charge weight force, and Wp is the projectile weight force. Because cW2
1 is much smaller than Wr, it
can be neglected. Equation (6) can be written as:
( )
2
c
p
r
W
Wdv dV
dt W dt

 (7)
In addition, the gas force at the breech (or breech force) B and the gas force at the base of the projectile Fp can be
written as follows:
rW dvB
g dt
 (8)
p
P
W dV
F
g dt
 (9)
The projectile travel and projectile velocity in the bore can be expressed as a hyperbolic function which is also called Le
Duc formula [3]:
2( )
dV ab du
dt b u dt


(10)
where
0 0 0
0
aU V U
b
V
 (11)
2 2
0 max 0 max 0 0 max
0
( ) 4
2
U P U P KV U P
a
KV
  (12)
b = 2u (13)
and U0 is barrel length, V0 is the muzzle velocity of the projectile, Pmax is the maximum bore pressure, K is the total
braking force.
By rearranging Equations (3), (8), and (9), the breech force can be expressed as:
2
3
( 0.5 )
( )
p cr
W W a buW dv
B
g dt g b u
 

(14)
3.2 Hydraulic Brake Force and Frictional Force
In the design calculation of the recoil brake, one must start with the total braking force K, while this force is made up of
several components: the recuperator force FR, the sliding track friction RSL, the packing friction Rp, and the hydraulic
braking force H [2],
( )R P SLH K F R R    (12)
and
P c r
R
A
R R R
A
  (13)
1 2( )SLR N N  (14)
1 cos2 2 2
r f f pr
r
r r r
d d d db d
N K W B
a d a d a d
 
  
   
  
(15)
x i xV V V  (21)
x i x R RV V V A X AX     (22)
where AR is the effective area of the recuperating cylinder, XR is the displacement of control rod, and A is the effective
area of the recoil piston. Finally, the recuperator force can be expressed as:
R R xF A P (23)
3.4 Remarks
From the derived equations from mechanics, some conclusions can be made as follows:
1. In this chapter, all forces on the recoil mechanism are mentioned, and their relations are stated clearly.
2. The basic principles and mathematical calculations of each force are introduced. From this, many parameters which
will influence the recoil mechanism are known, as shown in Table 1.
3. In accordance with the theory of each important part, the mathematical model of the recoil mechanism has its
completeness and reliability.
4. When the force relation is obtained, the acceleration of the mechanism can be calculated by Newton’s second law.
The velocity and displacement (the recoil length) of the mechanism can also be obtained by integrating the
acceleration. Following sensitivity analysis uses the recoil length to be a comparing standard.
Table 1 List of all forces and parameters.
Force Item Parameters
Breech force Wp Wc Pmax V0 U0 Ab
Total braking force R P SLK H F R R   
 Hydraulic braking force A X ae g ω
 Recuperator force AR Pi Vi X N
 Packing friction Al Kp Pm μ v
 Sliding track friction Wr X θ μ
Weight force Wr θ
4. Sensitivity Analysis
The recoil length will change when related variables are altered. The benefit of sensitivity analysis can investigate how
the variables affect the recoil length. Eight geometrical parameters are investigated in this sensitivity analysis.
Originally, there are many parameters in this mechanism. But maximum bore pressure, muzzle velocity of the
projectile, and charge weight force are determined by specific kind of ammunition. Therefore, these parameters
seldom change. And the recuperator usually uses the nitrogen gas, and its polytropic exponent is fixed. Because of
these reasons, there are only eight parameters suitable to do sensitivity analysis to decide the more influenced
parameters on the maximum recoil length. Each parameter has its reasonable range, and the comparative standard
regards as the same percentage of the variable range as shown in Table 2. Although many parameters influence the
recoil length, the sensitivity analysis only considers one parameter change at a time.
Figure 6 and 7 show the analysis results. The percentage of variable change is from 0% to 100% in the X-axis, i.e., the
whole data range of each parameter, and the change of maximum recoil length is in Y-axis. In Figure 6, it can be seen
