solution onto a KBr disk and several minutes were needed for the evaporation of 
solvents. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) photographs were taken with a 
JEOL JEM-4000EX apparatus. The surface tension of the solution which is closely 
related to the critical micelle concentration was measured with a digital tensiometer 
(KRUSS K10ST). In order to demonstrate the adsorption of hydrophobic Pd 
nanoparticles on substrates, a polymer-based substratewas postdipped into a diluted 
hydrophobic Pd solution of 10 ppm. 
Results and Discussions 
The in situ alcohol from SDS 
In order to compare quantitatively the effect of reductant concentration on the 
size distribution of Pd nanoparticles, we therefore varied the sequence of adding metal 
salts and SDS in the solution in four cases. In Case A, the Pd salt and SDS were 
mixed simultaneously into the solution and in Cases B–D, the SDS were refluxed first 
for a certain period to generate 1-dodecanol before Pd salt was added. The results are 
shown in Table 1. Obviously, the longer the SDS was refluxed alone before Pd salt 
was added, the more alcohol was generated, and the larger the particle size became. 
This trend is closely related to a complex combination of the nucleation and growth 
rate of the nanoparticles. If the concentration of reductant is fairly high, Pd ions 
should be quickly reduced to Pd atoms, leading to smaller particle size. However, our 
observations were opposite to the conventional concepts. It might be attributed to the 
increasing hydrophobicity caused by self-generated dodecanol. 
The formation of hydrophobic Pd colloids 
In this process, by lengthening the reaction time sufficiently, the solution 
separated into aqueous and oil phases and the hydrophilic Pd nanoparticles 
hydrophobidized, indicating the occurrence of some phase transfer reaction without 
the need for adding phase transfer agent. Fig. 1 shows the TEM images of hydrophilic 
(Pdhy) and hydrophobic (Pdhp) Pd nanoparticles. The prepared Pd particle sizes were 
measured from the magnified TEM images. Comparing Fig. 1a with b shows that the 
mean size of Pdhy (∼3.36±0.56 nm) is almost equal to that of Pdhp (∼3.26±0.64 nm), 
meaning that the transformation in particle property does not involve particle growth. 
In addition, the hydrophobic colloids seem to be dispersed more uniformly. Indeed, 
phase transfer reaction, a common method for preparing hydrophobic colloids [3], 
could make particles well-dispersed instead of aggregated. 
The FT-IR spectrum of the Pdhp nanoparticles and lauric acid are depicted in Fig. 
2. The region which indicates clearly that interactions are induced between the 
carboxylic acid and the surface of Pdhp nanoparticles is that of the C=O stretching 
mode. The strong band, in a, at ca. 1700 cm−1 is attributed to the carboxylic acid 
stretch of the free lauric acid [4]. In Fig. 2b, the shift of the peak at 1740 cm−1 in the 
 2
[5] R.L. Cohen, K.W. West, Chem. Phys. Lett. 16 (1972) 128. 
[6] M. Froment, E. Queau, J.R. Martin, G. Stremsdoerfer, J. Electrochem. Soc. 142 
(1995) 3373. 
[7] C.L. Lee, C.C. Wan, Y.Y. Wang, J. Electrochem. Soc. 150 (3) (2003) 125. 
 
Table 1 
 
 
Fig. 1 The TEM images of: (a) hydrophilic Pd nanoparticles and (b) hydrophobic Pd 
nanoparticles. 
 4
 1
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC － 95 － 2221 － E － 007 － 206 
計畫名稱 奈米鈀及合金粒子作為無電鍍銅活化製程之研究(2/3) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
張淑雅  清華大學化學工程所博士班學生 
萬其超  清華大學化學工程所教授 
會議時間地點 2007 年 5 月 6 日-2007 年 5 月 10 日 美國芝加哥 
會議名稱 
(中文)電化學年會 
(英文) 211th the Electrochemical Society (ECS) meeting 
發表論文題目 
(中文)沈積具選擇性無電鍍鎳合金作為薄膜電晶體顯示器銅極之覆蓋層 
(英文)Selective Electroless Ni-Based Capping Layer on Cu Gate Electrode of 
TFT-LCD 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
本人於 5 月 3 日由台灣搭乘日本亞細亞航空經日本轉機搭乘美國航空至芝加哥，此次的
電化學會議於當地時間 5 月 6 日 15：00 在 hilton 飯店展開，當天只有 5 場另外付費的講習
活動，5 月 7 日 8：30 開始分別在不同的廳開始口頭報告發表及壁報展示，此次投稿的論文
高達 1355 篇，並分成 10 個主題進行（Section A-J），以電化學技術為主軸貫穿內容且涵蓋
能源科技（batteries 和 fuel cell）、生物醫藥技術和有機的結合、薄膜製備、半導體製程
及材料、奈米科技及感測器等議題，除了有個人投稿的論文之外，還有由大會邀請在各領域
的專家演講，此外，除了來自各國的學者專家參還有廠商儀器大展，提供各式各樣的產品諮
詢服務包括儀器、耗材以及各式的技術、價格等等。本人參與的是 F1:Electrochemical 
Processing in ULSI and MEMS 3 中的壁報展示編號 854 於 5 月 8 日 19：00-21：00 發表，
大會提供了相當寬敞的空間及輕鬆的氣氛，可以讓許多人在海報前討論交換心得。 
 
 
二、與會心得 
 
此次前往美國芝加哥參與 ECS meeting 讓我受益良多，我的研究工作目前是著重在利用
電化學（無電鍍）方法在銅導線上沈積擋層來防止銅的擴散，傳統上需要鈀的活化，但從我
的研究研究發現使用鈀活用化會造成銅導線的電阻上升，而且會造成鍍層選擇性喪失，所以
我們採用不需鈀活化的步驟就可以選擇性在銅面上沈積擋層，所以在海報展示時，就有幾位
對這樣的方法感到興趣從基本原理到未來在製程上如何實行，包括如何確保還原劑在銅面上
的效能達到最高、鍍液的穩定性、前處理的重要性等等，有些提問也讓我再度深入思考我的
研究，雖然這次來投稿的論文多在蝕刻和 ECMP(化學機械研磨法)，但是也增進我對其他題目
的了解，比如原本半導體製程中採用 CMP 法來平坦化銅面，由於未來元件尺寸持續縮小，如
