 1
摘要 
本計劃探討團鍊共聚高分子電解質與聚苯胺的複合物的製備與特性。複合物的製備是
將苯胺分子分散於團練共聚高分子電解質的水溶液中以進行苯胺的原位聚合。團鍊共聚高
分子電解質是經由陰離子聚合及相關的化學反應而得。此高分子電解質將同時扮演兩種角
色：當作模版以控制所得的聚苯胺複合物的為結構型態；以及做為摻雜物來增加複合物的
導電度。我們發現影響聚苯胺複合物的微結構型態、組成成分及導電度的因素包含了電解
質的濃度及反應時間等。我們也探討了這些複合物的成長機制。 
 
關鍵詞：聚苯胺、導電高分子、高分子複合物、團鏈共聚高分子電解質、微包、自組裝、
陰離子聚合 
 
ABSTRACT 
In this study, polyaniline (PAni) composites were prepared from in situ polymerization of 
aniline monomers dispersed in block polyelectrolyte aqueous solution. The block polyelectrolyte, 
poly(styrene-block-sulfonated hydroxystyrene) (PS-b-sPHS), was synthesized through anionic 
polymerization and sequential analogous chemistry. The block polyelectrolyte played the role as 
the template to direct the morphology of PAni/block polyelectrolyte composites and they were 
also served as dopants simultaneously to enhance the electric conductivity of the PAni/block 
polyelectrolyte composites. Variables affecting the morphologies, the compositions and the 
conductivities include the concentrations of the block polyelectrolyte aqueous solution and the 
reaction time. The growth mechanism of the PAni/PS-b-sPHS composites was also investigated. 
 
Key words: PANi, conducting polymer, polymer composite, block polyelectrolyte, micelle, 
self-assembly, anionic polymerization. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
Polyaniline (PAni) is one of the most extensively investigated conducting polymers owing to 
their promising electronic conductivity, feasible synthesis and environmental stability for various 
applications. However, the major drawbacks of polyaniline are brittleness, poor solubility in 
common solvents, and difficulty in processing. To solve the above issues, one popular approach 
was the incorporation of PAni into an electrical insulating flexible polymer matrix to combine the 
good processability and mechanical performance of the flexible polymers with the electric 
conductivity of PAni. These PAni/polymer blends are usually obtained through either in situ 
polymerization of aniline in the solutions containing insulating polymers or blending PAni with 
polymers in solution or in melt.[1] The use of PVC[2], thermoplastic[3], polystyrene[4] and 
rubbers[5,6] as the insulating flexible polymer matrix have been studied; and the literatures 
suggested that the compatibility between the insulating polymer and PAni had strong influences 
on the dispersion of PAni, as well as the morphology and the mechanical and electric properties 
of the blends. The homogeneity, the electric conductivity, and the mechanical properties of the 
blends could be substantially improved with increasing compatibility. 
 3
TEM. UV-Vis spectroscope was carried out to evaluate the composition and the doping of PAni 
composites. The electric conductivity was retrieved via four-probe measurement on a tablet of the 
composites with a diameter of 7mm and a thickness of 1mm.  
THF
-78℃
O
O
HCl
Dioxane
Sec-BuLi  +
p-1
THF  ,   -78℃
MeOH 1 2.1
tBu
KH
THF
O
S
O O
HCl
PS-b-PtBS
PS-b-PHS PS-b-sPHS
OH
1 2.1
O
1 2.1
(CH2)3
O
1 2.1
(CH2)3SO3H
SO3K  
Scheme 1. Synthesis route of PS-b-sPHS 
 
RESULT and DISCUSSION 
Synthesis of PS-b-sPHS block polyelectrolyte. The number average molecular weight 
(Mn) and the polydispersity index (PDI) of PS obtained from GPC measurements were 42,639 
g/mole and 1.06 respectivity. The PDI of PS-b-PtBS was 1.09. Both PS and PS-b-PtBS showed 
narrow molecular weight distribution indicating the anionic polymerization was successfully 
carried out. The Mn of PtBS, 148,130g/mole, was calculated from the molar ratio of between the 
repeat units of PS and those of PtBS (~2.05) which were identified from the NMR spectrum of 
PS-b-PtBS. The ratio between the length of sPHS (or PtBS) and the length of PS was around 1:2 
and this ratio was specially designed to improve the solubility of PS-b-sPHS in aqueous solutions 
owing to the longer hydrophilic segment. by deprotecting the tert-butyl groups with HCl. The 
successful conversion of PS-b-PtBS to PS-b-PHS was suggested by the disappearance of the 
characteristic peak of tert-butyl at 1.25ppm from the NMR spectrum and the conversion 
efficiency was more than 90%. PS-b-PHS was then further treated with KH, 1,3-propansultone 
and HCl in sequence to afford PS-b-sPHS. Elemental analysis (EA) was used to identify the 
degree of sulfonation (DS) by comparing the experimental value of the weight ratio between 
sulfur and carbon and the corresponding theoretical value based on 100% DS. The experimental 
value of S/C was 0.168 (C% = 49.37 and S% = 8.31) and the theoretical value was 0.178; 
therefore, the DS was around 94%. Based on the above DS, the molecular weight of sPHS 
segment was calculated to be 197,244g/mole. 
Morphologies of PS-b-sPHS and PAni/PS-b-sPHS composites. Since PS is 
hydrophobic while sPHS is hydrophilic and protic, the block polyelectrolyte acted as 
macromolecular templates and dopants simultaneously during the in situ polymerization of PAni. 
In this study, the concentration of PS-b-sPHS in the aqueous solution was varied while the 
concentration of aniline was fixed to investigate how the structure of PS-b-sPHS micelles 
affecting the morphologies and the electric conductivity of the resulted PAni composites Three 
different PS-b-sPHS aqueous solutions with concentrations of 8.7x10-5M, 1.76x10-4M and 
2.63x10-4M were prepared. The corresponding concentration of SO3H was 0.1M, 0.2M and 0.3M 
 5
a large relative amount of aniline monomers should be adsorbed and polymerized within a shorter 
polymerization time in the batches with high PS-b-sPHS concentrations. Therefore, the diameters 
of the PAni composite beads and the morphologies should be fixed after a certain polymerization 
time. 
 
Figure 2. TEM images of the PAni composites obtained from batch2: (a) before the addition of 
aniline; (b) reaction time = 5hr; (c)10hr; and (d)20hr.  
 
Figure 3(a) is the TEM image of sample3-0 showing large aggregations composed of 
many small spherical micelles with diameters around 50nm. It’s found that different 
morphologies of micelle aggregations could be observed from batches having different 
concentrations of PS-b-sPHS; however, those aggregations were all composed of spherical 
micelles around 50nm. Figure 3(b), (c) and (d) depict the TEM images of sample3-5, sample3-10 
and sample3-20 respectively. The TEM image of sample3-5 clearly shows that the aggregation 
was comprised of several spherical beads coated with PAni. As the reaction going, the 
aggregations of the PAni composites became more dense and larger. Since batch3 had the most 
concentrated PS-b-sPHS in the aqueous solution and the morphology of the block polyelectrolyte 
appeared as large aggregations of spherical micelles, aniline monomers adsorbed only at the 
surface and they might not be able to break the entanglement between sPHS segments inside the 
micelle aggregations for further rearrangement as observed in batch2. As a consequence, the 
adsorbed aniline polymerized at the surface of these large micelle aggregations and the 
PAni-coated aggregations might connect with other during the polymerization to form even larger 
aggregations. 
 
Figure 3. TEM images of the PAni composites obtained from batch3: (a)before the addition of 
aniline; (b)reaction time = 5hr; (c)10hr; and (d)20hr. 
 
Electric conductivity of PAni/PS-b-sPHS composites. The conductivity is a 
complicated function of the conjugation length and the continuity of PAni, the morphology of the 
composites as well as the degree of doping of PAni. Figure 4(a) shows the electric conductivities 
0.5μm
(a), sample3-0
50 nm
(b), sample3-5
0.2μm
(c), sample3-10
0.2μm
(d), sample3-20
(a), sample2-0
0.5μm
(b), sample2-5
50 nm
(c), sample2-10
100 nm
(d), sample2-20
100 nm
 7
REFERENCE 
1. Anand, J.; Palaniappan, S.; Sathyanarayana, D. N. Prog. Polym. Sci. 1998, 23, 993. 
2. Shacklette, L. W.; Han, C. C.; Luly, M.H. Synth. Met.1993, 55-57, 3532. 
3. Davie, S. J.; Ryan, T. G..; Wilde, C. J.; Beyer, G. Synth. Met 1995, 69, 209. 
4. Zilberman, M.; Titelman, G. I.; Siegman, A.; Haba, Y.; Narkis, M.; Alperstein, D. J. Appl. 
Polym. Sci. 1997, 66, 243. 
5. Shiratori,S. S.; Rubner,M.F. Macromolecules 2000, 33, 4213. 
6. Yoo, D.; Shiratori, S. S.; Rubner, M. F. Macromolecules 1998, 31, 4309. 
7. Lin, D. S.;Yang, S. M. J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 2005, 98, 1198. 
8. Ikkala, O. T. ; Laakso, J.; Vakipartb, K.; Virtanen, E.; Ruohonen, H.; Jarvinen, H.; Taka, T.; 
Passiniemi, P.; Osterholm, J.-E. Synth. Met.1995, 69, 97-100. 
 
 目的：參加 2008 MRS Fall Meeting 並發表論文。 
MRS Annual Meeting is one of the most important conferences in the field of 
materials science and engineering which offers a great opportunity for researchers in 
the field to present their research works, to learn about the state-of-art development, 
to smell the future trends, and to communicate with the best researchers in the world. 
We presented the work, “Directing the morphology of polyaniline composites via in 
situ polymerization assisted by block polyelectrolyte”in the conference as a poster. 
 
會議過程： 
The conference was hold on 11/30 (Sunday) to 12/5 (Friday). Sunday afternoon 
was for registration. From 12/1 to 12/5, there were total 46 symposiums through out 
the meeting and over 30 oral sessions were held in parallel in the Hayens Convention 
Center and the Sheraton Hotel at Boston. The symposiums cover all the aspects in 
materials from inorganic materials to organic and composite materials, and they 
discussed most important issues today, such as materials for alternative energy, 
environmental benign materials and bio-related applications. There were also several 
poster sessions were held every evening from Monday to Thursday. In addition, the 
conference also had exhibitions including the newest facilities for materials synthesis, 
characterization and processing as well as the publications. 
 
心得及建議： 
I spent most of the time in the symposiums discussing organic and polymer 
photovoltaics and fuel cells, which closely related to the ongoing researches in my 
group. The symposiums were: “Physics and Technology of Organic Semiconductor 
Devices”, “Energy Harvesting--Molecules and Materials”, “Solid-State Ionics”, 
“Polymer-Based Smart Materials--Process, Properties, and Application”, and 
“Synthesis and Processing of Organic and Polymeric Functional Materials for a 
Sustainable Energy Economy”.  
The presentations discussing polymer and organic opto-electrical devices, 
especially the photovoltaic applications, draw a large number of audiences, which 
indicates the development of flexible photovoltaics is undoubtfully a major future 
trend in materials science and engineering field. The Noble Prize winner, Allen 
Heeger, also gave a lecture in the conference. The works presented include 
opto-electric active materials, electrode materials, interfacial materials, device design 
and structures, materials and device physics, material processing as well as 
simulations. 
For the opto-electric active materials used in the photoactive layer of solar cells, 
several groups reported the synthesis and the optical and electrical properties of their 
