 1
Introduction 
Recently increasing focus on the development of networks of wireless sensor nodes has been found in many literatures.  
Applications for ubiquitous wireless sensor networks range from environmental monitoring and control of industrial 
buildings to military and aerospace fields.  Meanwhile, Advanced in low power VLSI design and CMOS fabrication 
have reduced power requirements for wireless sensor nodes.  Therefore, self-powered nodes is not only a dream [1].  
To realize the self-powered wireless sensor network technology, efficient energy scavenging becomes crucial.  
For numerous energy sources, the energy conversion of mechanical sources is a significant aspect for power generators 
due to its easy available and no hazardous byproduct creation.  Regarding harvesting mechanical energy for electrical 
power generation, piezoelectric materials are the prospective material for energy conversion because they have decent 
electrical-mechanical coupling effect.  Besides, the piezoelectric microgenerator is a good option for small-sized 
apparatus applications (e.g. sensor nodes), particularly for dynamic systems involving mechanical vibration.  Moreover, 
comparing to the solar or electromagnetic generators, the relative simplicity in fabrication of the piezoelectric 
microgenerator is remarkably appealing for use in MEMS [2].    
In existing reported studies on the piezoelectric generators, White et al apply screen printable PZT 5H film on a 
cantilever structure with a proof mass in the front end to form a generator. They obtain a maximum 2µw power output at 
resonant frequency 80Hz [3].  Sharaf et al presented a micro-bubble powered piezoelectric generator used for 
implantable medical devices.  They claim 0.25pW power output in a 4mm x 4mm area with 50Hz bubble generation if 
the efficiency of conversion circuit is 100% [4].  These generators usually need to be operated at a certain frequency to 
achieve its maximum power output.  However, considering a practical mechanical vibration system, due to multi-modes 
of continuum, several resonances occur in a relative wide bandwidth and low frequency range.  Hence, our focus in this 
paper is to design and fabricate a decent micromachined piezoelectric generator to harvest vibration energy in a wide 
bandwidth. 
1 - DESIGN PRINCIPLES 
Figure 1 shows the conceptual diagram of our designed microgenerator.  Two major characteristics involved in the 
generator are described in the following: 
1.1 - Low Young’s Modulus supporting layer  
A packaging tape serves as a supporting layer in the piezoelectric active region to form the structure of silicon nitride / 
bottom electrode / piezoelectric material / insulting layer / top electrode / package tape.  With residue stress free and 
low Young’s Modulus of the supporting layer, the cantilever structure could reach a better displacement, compared to a 
regular SOI wafer made structures [5].  Besides this, low cost and easy fabrication are further advantages of the 
developed process.   
1.2 - Systematically design based on optimal FOM 
In order to collect energy in a wide bandwidth, a systematic design approach is developed (Table 1).  We study three 
different cases with two proof masses on each cantilever structure, which can be implemented by silicon bulk-machining 
and all the cases have the same total lengths.  Case 1: Change the size (weight) ratios of two proof masses but keep the 
two distances between two proof-masses equal, and the sum of the two distances are constant.  The special case is that 
when the second mass vanishes, the length of movable cantilever is one half of the total length.  Case 2: Vary the ratios 
 3
Table 1 –Designed parameters for FOM analysis. 
 
Case No. Controlled parameter (r) Fixed conditions 
Case 1 Wp2/Wp1 L1+L2 = const.；L1 = L2 
Case 2 L2/ L1 Wp1+ Wp2 = const.； 
Wp1 = Wp2 
Case 3 Wp2/ Wp1 L2 = 0；L1 = 1/2 total cantilever 
length 
  
 
Figure 2 Bandwidth vs. the parameter ratio (listed in table 1) for different structures.  The results are derived from FEA 
simulation (FEA model as shown on top of the figure). 
 
 
Figure 3 Figure of Merit (FOM) results (four cantilever structures with FOMs as circled points are selected for the 
design generator). 
 
 
Figure 4 Estimated power generation with the power range of µW to mW in a wide bandwidth. 
 5
following our developed scheme which discussed in the previous section.  To make individual microgenerator devices 
out of the whole wafer, a dicing saw is used.  Figure 7 shows the diced individual devices with each size of 
5mm×3mm×0.45mm.   Figure 8 shows the feasibility of the generator to be integrated with a SMD rectifier and 
capacitor on a circuit board to construct a module and then be implemented on a dual in-line package (DIP). 
 
 
Figure 7 High yields of individual devices after wafer dicing. 
 
 
Figure 8 Integrate the microgenerator module into a DIP. 
 
3 - DEVICE CHARACTERIZATION & DISCUSSIONS  
Due to the small size of devices, the resultant low power level output, along with power consumption in probing and 
noise influence are issues.  Consequently, the weak output signal is predictable.  However, we believe these effects 
could be minimized by efficient power transfer circuit design, even integrated with a power conditioning CMOS 
circuitry [7].  Thus, our major concern is the amount of electric charges generated by the devices.  To evaluate this, we 
use laser vibrometer to measure the center displacement of the membrane when we apply an AC voltage on the device, 
and then find out the piezoelectric constant (Fig. 9).  Hence, the generated power can be estimated.  According to the 
formula [8], the d31 value can be computed (-4.12 pC/N). The value is around one order less than that of the literature 
noted PZT [6]. 
4 - CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORKS 
A micromachined generator scavenging vibration energy in a wide bandwidth is developed.  Different from a common 
single proof mass piezoelectric cantilever-beam-type generator only operated at a certain frequency, our generator is 
aimed at generating microwatt to milliwatt power level in the frequency range of 300-800Hz.   Thus, the generator 
could continuously produce power for storage under a practical mechanical vibration environment.  Once the generator 
integrates with optimized power management CMOS circuit, it will be very useful for many wireless communication 
applications. 
 
 7
計畫成果自評 
1. 研究內容與原計畫相符程度 
達百分之九十以上，另原計畫所提出之利用流體振盪能發電之研究部分
則因受限於時間、人力及經費，成果有限，故不含括於此報告。 
 
2. 達成預期目標情況： 
約和預期值相符（八成左右）。 
 
3. 研究成果之學術或應用價值 
目前已有初步成果，可在相關之學術會議中發表。至於其應用價值亦極
高，然更多的經費與研究的投入，才易於實踐。 
 
4. 是否適合在學術期刊發表或申請專利 
具潛力，將嘗試之。 
 
5. 主要發現或其他有關價值 
可參見報告內容部分。 
