 2 
benchmarking philosophy, namely performance 
ratio suggested by Garver (2003) and Gale (1994), 
is taken into account such that the focal firm’s 
performance can be compared with the best 
competitor’s performance. When the performance 
ratio, i.e., focal firm’s performance divided by best 
competitor’s performance, is greater than one, the 
service quality characteristic would fall in either 
Quadrant I or Quadrant II. In contrast, when the 
performance ratio is less than one, the service 
quality characteristic falls in either Quadrant III or 
Quadrant IV. Therefore, the proposed approached 
can evaluate the focal firm’s service quality 
characteristics or even allows the focal firm to 
compare the performance with the best 
competitor(s). 
 
Keywords: Perceived importance-performance 
analysis, Kano’s model, perceived importance, 
hybrid Kano-questionnaire, benchmark, 
performance ratio, quality item 
 
2. Introduction and Research Objectives 
Importance-performance analysis (IPA) 
depicted in Figure 1 was proposed by Martilla and 
James (1977) to provide management the insights 
to identify the strengths and weaknesses of a 
company. The advantage of IPA is to identify the 
most important characteristics to the customer 
perceived with the highest impact on customer 
satisfaction and, simultaneously, the low 
performance attributes required to be improved 
immediately (Matzler et al., 2003; Deng et al., 
2008). IPA consists of four quadrants and the 
meanings of these four quadrants are as follows 
(Daniels and Marion, 2006; Deng et al., 2008; Wu 
et al., 2008; Wu and Shieh, 2009; Shieh and Wu, 
2009): Characteristics located in Quadrant I (keep 
up the good work) have both high performance and 
high importance, which can be viewed as the major 
strength. Quadrant II (possible overkill) has high 
performance but low importance, and any 
characteristic situated in this quadrant means the 
resources committed are excessive and should be 
deployed elsewhere. Quadrant III (low priority) has 
the characteristics of both low performance and low 
importance, and these characteristics do not require 
additional efforts. Characteristics located in 
Quadrant IV with low performance but high 
importance are viewed as major weaknesses for an 
organization. Immediate attention for improvement 
is required. 
 
 
Figure 1 Importance-Performance Analysis 
 
The most commonly seen approach to 
integrate IPA and Kano’s model is to use separate 
questions to gather the needed information. 
Specifically, two questions (namely importance and 
performance of a particular item) are required for 
each item in order to construct 
importance-performance analysis. A pair of 
questions are also required for each item when 
Kano’s model is used, i.e., with and without a 
particular item. A hybrid Kano-questionnaire 
proposed by Chen and Su (2006) can be integrated 
with IPA. A typical hybrid Kano-questionnaire is 
provided in Table 1. In doing so, three questions 
are required for each item. Therefore, as the 
number of items increases, the number of questions 
can be reduced more significantly. 
 
 4 
When performance ratio is taken into account, 
Table 2 will be changed to Table 3 by adding the 
competitor’s performance. The original Figure 2 for 
simultaneously receiving the information will also 
be changed to Figure 4 by using performance ratio 
to replace performance in Y-axis. Finally, the 
possible results will become Figure 5 when a 
competitor’s performance is taken into 
consideration. 
 
Table 3 A Perceived Importance-Performance Ratio 
Questionnaire 
 
 
Figure 4 Two Types of Information for Each Item 
with Perceived Importance-Performance 
Ratio 
 
Figure 5 The Possible Results of Perceived 
Importance-Performance Ratio 
 
4. The Results 
By this proposed approach, each item can be 
determined to be located in one of the four 
quadrants and, simultaneously, be classified into 
appropriate Kano’s classification along with the 
perceived importance value depicted in Figure 3. 
When performance ratio is considered for 
continuous improvement, the possible results of 
this proposed approach are shown in Figure 4. In 
doing so, each item can be examined from both 
qualitative and quantitative viewpoints with fewer 
questions when the study is conducted. 
 
5. Self-Assessment of This Project 
First, we have completed successfully what we 
addressed in the proposal of this project. Second, 
the proposed approach of integrating IPA, Kano’s 
model, and the hybrid Kano-questionnaire is 
discussed practically and demonstrated briefly in 
the earlier section. Third, the results have been 
published in conferences and journals. Specifically, 
there are one SSCI journal paper, one EI journal 
paper, four international conference papers, and 
 6 
T.-W. and C.-K. Li eds., Proceedings of the 
International Conference on e-Commerce, 
e-Administration, e-Society, e-Education, and 
e-Technology, Vol. 1, 315-323 (2010). (NSC 
98-2221-E-018-003) (ISSN: 2074-5710) 
[18]  Wu, H.-H., Tang, Y.-T., and Shyu, J.-W., “An 
Integrated Approach of Kano’s model and 
Importance-Performance Analysis in 
Identifying Key Success Factors,” African 
Journal of Business Management, 
AJBM-09-140, February 18 (2010). (NSC 
98-2221-E-018-003) 
[19]  Wu, H.-H. and Lu, Y.-M., “A Case Study of 
Using Kano’s Model in Classifying Customer 
Requirements of Taiwan High Speed Rail,” 
2010 INFORMS Service Science Conference, 
240-246 (2010). (NSC 98-2221-E-018-003) 











無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
在學術成就方面，已經被接受或刊登的論文包括：1 篇 SSCI 期刊論文、1 篇 EI 論文、4
篇國際研討會論文與 3篇國內研討會論文，若以一年的時間來衡量，成果還算不錯。在論
文撰寫過程的文獻資料收集中，雖有 IPA 與 Kano 模式的論文早已發表，不過並未有我們
所提出的 Perceived IPA 模式，而且我們在研究當中也清楚的交代如何透過問卷資料收
集、分析、結果與管理意涵。此外於論文發表過程中，例如由中華民國品質學會所主辦的
The 2nd International Symposium of Quality Management 國際研討會，當我們在發表
研究成果時，Kano 模式的創造者 Noriaki Kano 教授本人來聆聽我們所做的論文發表，並
且提出數個問題與勉勵。此外也有兩位新加坡國防部人員對於我們的研究相當感興趣，可
見研究成果的學術或應用價值應有一定的水準。 
