INTRODUCTION 
The phenomenon of a liquid drop impinging on a hot surface occurs in many practical 
systems such as diesel engine combustors, spray cooling systems and fire protection 
systems. In particular, in spacelimited internal combustion engines, because 
of the dense spray region immediately downstream of the fuel injector, the impact of fuel 
drops on internal wall surface of the combustor is expected to be a frequent event.  
The characteristics of the impingement of liquid drops on a hot surface are investigated 
mainly from an experimental aspect. In recent years many detailed experimental 
investigations have been carried out by researchers. Anders et al. [1] used monosized 
drop streams to study the behavior of impinging ethanol drops on hot surfaces. Complete 
wetting, near elastic reflection and formation of secondary drops were observed. Hatta et 
al. [2] found that the time histories of the drop diameter, the height and the distance 
between the bottom of drop and the hot surface after rebounding remained almost 
unchanged regardless of the kind of surface material, if the surface temperature was 
above the Leidenfrost temperature and the Weber number was kept so low that the drop 
did not break up into several parts. Ko and Chung [3] investigated the breakup 
mechanism of an n-decane fuel drop by studying the effects of wall temperature, 
impinging velocity, drop size and impinging angle. They found that the impinging 
velocity decreased linearly with increasing drop diameter for the 50 ％  breakup 
probability and the impinging angle near 80° corresponded to the minimum impinging 
velocity. Kang and Lee [4] focused mainly on the effects of the surface temperature and 
the impinging angle of the drop on impact dynamics. In general, their experimental 
results showed that drop behavior after impact is greatly influenced by the normal 
momentum of the impinging drop. On the other hand, there are two different regimes 
separated by the Leidenfrost temperature for the interaction between drops and a hot 
surface. In the regime above the Leidenfrost temperature the interaction process is 
independent of the surface temperature and is governed by the impact energy (Yao and 
Cai [5]). 
So far, previous researches on liquid drops impinging on a hot surface have been 
conducted for one-component liquid drop, e.g., water drops, ethanol drops, n-decane 
drops, and so on. In fact, in the dense spray region of internal combustion engines, one 
may find fuel drops composed of more than one immiscible liquid fuels. In addition, we 
may encounter compound multiphase drops in processes such as direct-contact heat 
exchange, liquidmembrane technology and melting of ice particles. The understanding of 
interactions between liquid drops and a hot surface is valuable in the design of systems 
mentioned above. 
 For the present work, a detailed experimental investigation on the dynamic behavior of a 
two-component compound drop impinging on a surface well above the Leidenfrost 
temperature is carried out.  
 
 
 2
RESULTS  
In this paper, we conducted a detailed experimental investigation on bouncing and 
breakup of compound drops impinging on a hot surface. The surface temperature was 
maintained at 450 ℃ to ensure that the experiments were performed well above the 
Leidenfrost temperature of diesel (Xiong and Yuen [6]). As stated previously, at surface 
temperature well above the Leidenfrost temperature the interaction processes between 
drop and surface are dominated by the impact energy and are independent of the surface 
temperature. In addition, Kang and Lee [4] showed that drop behavior after impact is 
only controlled by the normal momentum from experimental evidence. Although the 
impingement was conducted on an inclined surface, the collision outcome was seen to 
depend mostly on the normal-component of the impact momentum, but not on the 
tangential component. For these reasons, the dimensionless normal Weber number was 
introduced as the main parameter in the present paper. The normal Weber number for a 
one-component drop impinging on a solid surface is defined by its surface energy and 
normal impact energy as  
 
For a compound drop, as shown in Figure 4, two interfaces should be considered, namely, 
water-diesel and diesel-gas. Because of immiscibility, the surface tension w/ f σ can be 
expressed as follows: 
 
Therefore, the normal Weber number will be modified by inserting the averaged density 
and the total surface energy and then the modified normal Weber number becomes 
  
Figure 5a to 5c shows typical behaviors of a drop, pure or compound, impinging on a hot 
surface. When a drop impinges on a hot surface well above the Leidenfrost temperature a 
vapor film forms immediately between the drop and the surface, therefore the drop is 
completely separated from the hot surface by the vapor cushion. Owing to impact energy, 
the impinging drop deforms from spherical drop to disc-like liquid film and the liquid 
film slips some distances along the oblique surface due to the translational velocity along 
the surface. The radial deformation to disc-like shape is stopped by surface tension and 
then the liquid film starts to contract inward. Because of concentrating of fluids from all 
radial directions to the center of deformed drop, a large mass flux normal to hot surface is 
formed. Subsequently, the drop is elongated longitudinally and rebounds from the hot 
surface. Then, the elongated drop, depending upon the impact energy, either breaks up 
into many drops or retracts to form one drop after oscillating a period of time. Besides, 
the independency of the transverse momentum can be realized from the bowling-pin 
liquid column being perpendicular to the solid surface. The impact phenomena duration 
 4
disintegrate. Obviously, the mass ratio of the compound drop must have resisted the 
deformation and internal flow, so as to increase the dissipation during the deformation 
process. Another phenomenon of interest is the core drop, water, escapes from the 
primary drop conditionally. If the mass ratio is too low or the normal impact energy is not 
high enough, no water-escaping will be observed. On the other hand, as the mass ratio 
increases, the onset of waterescaping takes place for lower normal Weber number.  
CONCLUSIONS 
 A stable stream of compound drops which are composed of core fluid, water, encased 
by a layer of shell fluid, diesel, is achieved and a detailed experimental investigation on 
bouncing and breakup of compound drops impinging on a hot surface above the 
Leidenfrost temperature is conducted. Owing to two interfaces to a compound drop, a 
modified normal Weber number is introduced in the present paper. The impinging 
behavior of compound drops is associated with the normal Weber number and the mass 
ratio. For lower mass ratio, the impinging behavior of compound drops is similar to that 
of one component drops, of which the mass ratio value γ is 0. That is, the normal Weber 
number is the main factor to the impinging behavior. Increasing the mass ratio affects the 
interaction process strongly. The experimental results show that the normal Weber 
number increases with the increase of the mass ratio in the regular reflection regime. Also, 
whether the core liquid, water, escapes from the primary drop or not also depends on the 
normal impact energy and the mass ratio.  
 
LIST OF SYMBOLS 
d drop diameter 
f frequency of drop generation 
L momentum loss 
m liquid mass 
s drop spacing 
V liquid volume 
v drop velocity 
We Weber number 
ρ liquid density 
σ surface tension 
θ angle with respect to the oncoming drop 
stream 
γ mass ratio 
SUBSCRIPTS 
1 Before the impact 
2 after the impact 
f fuel (diesel) 
f/a fuel with respect to the surrounding gas 
n normal to the surface 
o out sided 
w water 
w/f water with respect to fuel 
 6
附圖： 
 
 8
計畫成果自評： 
 
本實驗研究計畫之目的，主要探討油水複合液滴撞擊表面溫度高於Leidenfrost溫度
之平板的動力行為。為描述複合液滴之動力行為，本研究將兩不互容之油水介面的
表面張力係數及油水密度分別加以修正，以此修正所得之正向韋伯數作為研究參
數。實驗顯示，在較小之含水質量比狀況下，複合液滴之動向行為與單一組成之柴
油液滴一致。當含水質量比愈大則產生反彈斷裂之邊界修正韋伯數愈高。撞擊後水
液滴自外圍油滴內逃脫與撞擊能量及含水質量比有關。本研究內容依原計畫進行，
已達成預期目標。初期研究結果已發表於中華民國燃燒學會第十五屆學術研討會，
"Impact of a Compound Drop on a Hot Surface at LowWeber Number"，I00006.民國 94
年，完整之研究成果亦已投稿待審中。而且因應本計劃所開發之油水複合液滴串產
生器可應用於微型燃燒腔中，用以取代乳化燃料，或可將特殊用途之水溶液置於油
水產生諸如CO2減量之效果。此部份亦在發明專利待審中。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10
