2selection scheme automatically determines the
members of relevant gene groups as well as the
optimal group size, and maximizes accuracy of the
MLHD classifier.
In this project, we propose an evolutionary
approach to gene selection from microarray data
which can be combined with the optimal design of
various multiclass classifiers, such as support vector
machine, naïve Bayes, k-nearest neighbor, and
decision tree. The proposed method (named
GeneSelect) consists of three parts which are fully
cooperated: an efficient encoding scheme of
chromosomes, a generalized fitness function, and an
intelligent genetic algorithm (IGA). GeneSelect aims
to determine a minimal number of relevant genes and
identify these genes, while maximizing classification
accuracy simultaneously.
To evaluate the performance of GeneSelect, the
gene selection is combined with the maximum
likelihood classification for convenient comparisons.
The performance of the proposed IGA/MLHD is
evaluated using 11 cancer-related human gene
expression datasets. The simulation results show that
IGA/MLHD is superior to GA/MLHD in terms of the
number of selected genes, classification accuracy, and
robustness of selected genes and accuracy, especially
for the datasets having numerous categories.
III. The results and the discussion
A. The results of study had been presented in the
below which will be show by figures and tables.
3.1 Evaluation of GeneSelect
There are four major differences between the two
methods IGA/MLHD and GA/MLHD, listed in Table
1.
Chromosome encoding
The proposed chromosome encoding scheme
consists of both control genes and parametric genes
where this gene is a commonly-used term of GA. The
max control genes bi are binary variables where the
constant max is pre-defined by designers. The
parametric genes gi[1, N] are serial numbers of
genes in the microarray data. The control gene bi is
used to determine whether the corresponding gene of
gi is selected or not. The advantage of using control
genes rather than the Gmax variable in GA/MLHD is
that each parametric gene has an equal probability to
be evaluated that is beneficial to GA, especially to the
used IGA.
Fitness function
Fitness function is the guide of GA’s operations
to search for optimal solutions. For achieving the two
objectives, maximizing classification accuracy R(%)
and minimizing the number G of relevant genes, the
fitness function f is a weighted sum with a weight w as
follows:
max f(X) = R - wG . (1)
G is the sum of the values of control gene bi and R is
the accuracy of the combined classifier using these G
genes. The penalty term wG is to further minimize G
while maximizing R. In this study, we use the same
accuracy estimations method and maximum likelihood
classification with those of GA/MLHD (Ooi and Tan,
2003). The accuracy R=(RCV + RIT)/2. Therefore, the
used fitness function in the following simulations is as
follows:
max f(X) = RCV+RIT - wG , (2)
where RCV is the correct rate of cross validation and
RIT is the correct rate of independent test. Note that the
fitness function of GA/MLHD is to maximize RCV +
RIT only without using the penalty term wG in (2).
Intelligent genetic algorithm
The simple IGA used is given as follows:
Step 1: Randomly generate an initial population with
Npop individuals.
Step 2: Evaluate fitness values of all individuals.
Step 3: Binary tournament selection without
replacement is adopted.
Step 4: Randomly select Pc∙Npop individuals where Pc
is a crossover probability. Perform intelligent
crossover operations for all selected pairs of
parents.
Step 5: Apply a conventional bit-inverse mutation
operator to the population using a mutation
probability Pm. To prevent the best fitness
value from deteriorating, mutation is not
applied to the best individual.
Step 6: Termination test: If a pre-specified
termination condition is satisfied, stop the
algorithm. Otherwise, go to step 2.
3.2 Implementation
Experimental results of the two encoding
methods are shown in Fig. 1. The results reveal that
the control gene method has better performance.
Fig. 2 shows the performance comparison of
GA/MLHD with and without using the penalty term.
In Fig. 3, GA/MLHD has the mean accuracy 81.2%
with the number 17.09 of selected genes. If the penalty
term is used, the results of accuracy and gene number
are 78.2% and 13.05, respectively. The number of
genes becomes smaller but the accuracy is also
reduced.
Table 1. Major differences between
GA/MLHD and IGA/MLHD.
Differences GA/MLHD IGA/MLHD
Chromosome
encoding Integer
Binary +
Integer
Fitness
function RCV + RIT
RCV + RIT -
wG
Crossover
operation Uniform
Intelligent
crossover
Feasibility
maintenance Repair Reordering
4scheme of chromosomes of genetic algorithms (GAs),
an associated fitness function with a penalty term, and
a powerful intelligent genetic algorithm (IGA) with the
crossover having the ability of maintaining feasibility
without using repair operations. In this study,
GeneSelect is applied to the maximum likelihood
classification (MLHD) for comparisons with an
existing method (GA/MLHD). The proposed
IGA/MLHD method can simultaneously optimize gene
selection and tissue classification for microarray data
analyses. After computer simulation using 11
benchmark datasets, it reveals that IGA/MLHD could
obtain not only higher classification accuracy but also
a smaller number of relevant genes than the existing
method GA/MLHD. In addition, the IGA-based gene
selection method is more robust in both the frequency
of selected relevant genes as well as the classification
accuracy. Therefore, GeneSelect is an efficient method
in designing classifiers for analyses of microarray
data.
3.4. Published paper
The papers have published during executing this
project in follow as:
[1] Hui-Ling Huang, C.-C. Lee, and S.-Y. Ho,
“Selecting a minimal number of relevant genes 
from microarray data to design accurate tissue
classifiers,” accepted by BioSystems, 2006.(SCI)
[2] S.-Y. Ho, C.-C. Lee, H.-M. Chen, and Hui-Ling
Huang, 2005. Efficient gene selection for
classification of microarray data. in Proceedings of
Congress on Evolutionary Computation, UK,
Edinburgh, pp. 642-649.
4. Self estimation of the project results
The project that I propose is finished smoothly
during carrying out in one year, reach goal in the
original plan already, research results contribute the
relevant scientific paper already.
5. References
Armstrong, S.A., Staunton, J.E., Silverman, L.B.,
Pieters R., den Boer, M.L., Minden, M.D., Sallan,
S.E., Lander, E.S., Golub, T.R., and Korsmeyer,
S.J. (2002) MLL translocations specify a distinct
gene expression profile that distinguishes a
unique leukemia. Nature Genetics, 30(1):41-7.
Bhattacharjee, A., Richards, W.G., Staunton, J., Li, C.,
Monti, S., Vasa, P., Ladd, C., Beheshti, J., Bueno,
R., Gillette, M., Loda, M., Weber, G., Mark, E.J.,
Lander, E,S., Wong, W., (2001) Classification of
human lung carcinomas by mRNA expression
profiling reveals distinct adenocarcinoma
subclasses. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A,
98(24):13790-5.
Goldberg, D.E. (1989) Genetic Algorithms in search,
Optimization and Machine Learning:
Addison-Wesley Publishing Company.
Golub, T.R., Slonim, D.K., Tamayo, P., Huard, C.,
Gaasenbeek, M., Mesirov, J.P., Coller, H., M.
Loh, L., Downing, J.R., Caligiuri, M.A.,
Bloomfield, C.D., and Lander, E.S. (1999)
Molecular classification of cancer: class
discovery and class prediction by gene expression
monitoring. Science. 286: 531-7.
Ho, S.-Y. and Chen, Y.-C. (2001) An efficient
evolutionary algorithm for accurate polygonal
approximation. Pattern Recognition. 34(12):
2305-17.
Ho, S.-Y., Liu, C.-C., and Liu, S. (2002) Design of an
optimal nearest neighbor classifier using an
intelligent genetic algorithm. Pattern Recognition
Letters. 23: 1495-503.
Ho, S.-Y., Chen, J.-H., and Huang, M.-H. (2004a)
Inheritable genetic algorithm for bi-objective 0/1
combinatorial optimization problems and its
applications. IEEE Trans. Systems, Man, and
Cybernetics─Part B, 34(1): 609-20.
Ho, S.-Y., Shu, L.-S., and Chen, J.-H. (2004b)
Intelligent evolutionary algorithms for large
parameter optimization problems. IEEE Trans.
Evolutionary Computation, 8(6), 522-41.
Khan, J., Wei, J.S., Ringner, M., Saal, L.H., Ladanyi,
M., Westermann, F., Berthold, F., Schwab, M.,
Antonescu, C.R., Peterson, C., Meltzer, P.S.
(2001) Classification and diagnostic prediction of
cancers using gene expression profiling and
artificial neural networks. Nature Medicine,
7(6):658-9.
Lee, K.E., Sha, N., Dougherty, E.R., Vannucci, M. and
Mallick, B.K. (2003) Gene selection: a Bayesian
variable selection approach. Bioinformatics, 19:
90-7.
Li, L., Weinberg, C.R., Darden, T.A., Pedersen, and
L.G. (2001) Gene selection for sample
classification based on gene expression data:
study of sensitivity to choice of parameters of the
GA/KNN method. Bioinformatics, 17: 1131-42.
Li, T., Zhang, C. and Ogihara, M. (2004) A
comparative study of feature selection and
multiclass classification methods for tissue
classification based on gene expression.
Bioinformatics, 20: 2429-37.
Michalewicz, Z., Dasgupta, D., Le Riche, R. G. and
Schoenauer, M. (1996) Evolutionary algorithms
for constrained engineering problems. Comput
Ind. Eng., 30(4): 851-70.
Nutt,C.L., Mani,D.R., Betensky,R.A., Tamayo, P.,
Cairncross,J.G., Ladd, C., Pohl,U., Hartmann,C.,
McLaughlin,M.E., Batchelor,T.T., Black, P.M.,
and Louis, D.N. (2003) Gene expression-based
classification of malignant gliomas correlates
better with survival than histological
classification. Cancer Res., 63(7):1602-7.
Ooi, C. H. and Tan, P. (2003) Genetic algorithms
applied to multi-class prediction for the analysis
of gene expression data. Bioinformatics, 19:
37-44.
Pomeroy,S.L., Tamayo,P., Gaasenbeek,M.,
Sturla,L.M., Angelo,M., McLaughlin, M.E.,
Goumnerova,L.C., Black,P.M., Lau,C., Allen,J.C.,
