problems related to image inpainting, and including 
wavelet transform, BNM. The details of the MLBNM 
are presented in section 3. In section 4, we compare 
its performance with the best existing methods and 
various types of natural images. Finally, concluding 
remarks are given in section 5. 
 
2   Previous Related Work 
In order to acquire good repair results, the damaged 
block reconstruction needs to address two primary 
areas of concern: the analysis domain of the damaged 
image, and the block repairing reference data. In 
order to obtain faster and better repair results, we 
utilize the multi-layer concept of wavelet transform 
to carry out image decomposition. By this method, a 
complicated image will be decomposed according to 
the veins composition of the different frequenciesy 
and different directions to help repair the image. 
 
2.1 Discrete Wavelet Transform 
 
In wavelet transform[12], with respect to the spatial 
domain Vj+1, the function f(x) can be expressed as 
the base expansion of the layer 1 spatial domain, 
analyzed as the following equation (1):    
 
∑∑
=
+=
j
j
kjkj
k
kjkj xdxcxf
0
,,,, )()()( ψφ                                (1) 
 
Where Φj,k, Ψj,k represents the scaling function and 
the wavelet function respectively, and satisfy the 
following two equations (2)&(3): 
 
)2(2)( 2/, kxx
jj
kj −= φφ   zkj ∈,                             (2) 
)2(2)( ,
2/
, kxx
j
kj
j
kj −= ψψ     zkj ∈,                              (3) 
 
Where cj,k and dj,k represent the expansion 
coefficients of  Vj and Wj spatial domains 
respectively, and can be evaluated by the following 
two equations:  
 
∑ −= +
n
njkj knhcc )2(,1,                                                (4) 
∑ −= +
n
njkj kngcd )2(,1,                                                       (5) 
 
where h(n) and g(n) are called scaling coefficients 
and wavelet coefficients respectively. By observing 
equations (4) and (5), coefficient cj,k  is evaluated 
based on the coefficients of cj+1,k from a prior layer 
in the spatial domain and the scaling coefficient h(n) 
after the execution of the folding evaluation and the 
decreasing of the sampling rate by 2. Similarly, 
coefficient dj,k  is evaluated based on the coefficients 
of cj+1,k from a prior layer in spatial domains and the 
wavelet coefficient g(n) after the execution of the 
folding evaluation and the decreasing of the sampling 
rate by 2. This is the reason that wavelet transform 
and the wave-filtering theory are capable of being 
combined [11].  
 
(a)                  (b)                (c)                 (d) 
Fig. 1 Results of the wavelet transformation analysis 
derived from various layers of a given image (a) 
1-Level DWT image (b) 1-Level DWT Resolution (c) 
2-Level DWT image (d) 2-Level DWT Resolution 
 
 
The original image was processed through a 
secondary-level wavelet transformation analysis, as 
illustrated in Fig. 1(c), where the highlighted image 
in the uppermost left hand corner is represented by 
the section LL2 illustrated in Fig. 1(d). Where 
analysis is concerned, the components of the overall 
image composition are all taken into consideration. 
This procedure can also be utilized as preliminary 
image analysis. The four components LL2, LH2, 
LH2, and HH2 are then processed through reversed 
wavelet transformations to heighten the resolution of 
the image. As shown in Fig. 1(a), where the 
highlighted image in the upper left hand corner is 
represented by the section LL1 illustrated in Fig. 1(b). 
This would result in the increasing of frequency 
components within the image, which would then 
contribute towards the depiction of local area textural 
features. 
 
2.2  BNM 
 
To search for the best similar image block to repair a 
damaged image, Zhang [6],[7] proposed two 
different repair algorithms includes the Best 
Neighborhood Matching (BNM) and the Jump and 
Look around BNM (JLBNM). The main concept of 
these methods is considers information surronding 
the damaged block njmix ++ ,  by one pixel width. 
Moreover, these methods use neighborhood pixel 
information through the 1-order matching function 
( )zv , as Eq. (6), to transform that will compare with 
the same size blocks within the searching range block. 
Through constant comparison, the best neighborhood 
Proceedings of the 6th WSEAS International Conference on Applied Computer Science, Hangzhou, China, April 15-17, 2007      442
)2(1)2(2)2(42 012 cdabscdabscdabswvd ×+×+×=             (11) 
wvdwvdhwvvwvtwv 21 +++=                               (12) 
 
 
Fig. 4 The related position of the directive veins 
coefficient in wavelet resolution layer. 
 
Where vwv , hwv , wvd1 , and wvd 2  are the absolute 
weight values of the neighborhood block of the 
vertical, horizontal, left-top diagonal, and right-top 
diagonal separately; nhc , nvc , ncd1 , and ncd2  are 
the coefficients value of the neighborhood block of 
the vertical, horizontal, left-top diagonal, and 
right-top diagonal separately; and twv  is the total 
weight value. The related position of these 
coefficients is shown in Fig. 4. 
When the repair needs to obtain the contribution of 
the directional vein compositions, the significance of 
the four directional wavelet coefficients are 
calculated via each directional weight value to divide 
the total weight value ( twv ) separately that are the 
weight value. If this method did not consider these 
proportions of the directive information, the repaired 
image would have vein mistakes, as shown in Fig. 5. 
In Fig.5(c), we can clearly find two problems that 
includes around eyes is not continuously and the 
eyeball is out of shape.  
 
    
(a)                   (b)             (c)            (d) 
Fig. 5 Compare the repair results of consider these 
proportion of the directional information: 
(a)Damaged image (b)Zoom-in damaged area 
(c)Direct method (d)Consider directional weight 
value.  
 
After predicting the wavelet veins for different 
directional information, although this method can 
acquire the vein images through the inverse wavelet 
transform, the repaired image will probably lead to 
the block effect, as shown in Fig. 6(b). In order to 
resolve this problem, we propose the adjustable block 
consecution method that is based on the concept that 
continuous blocks have the same pixel values. The 
main idea for this comes from the fractal geometry 
concept of searching for similar blocks to carry out 
the image compression. The adjustable block 
equation is shown in Eq. (13) and the estimate 
equation for the best neighborhood matching is 
shown in Eq. (14).   
   ( ) sxgxv rr +⋅=                                               (13) 
( )2)(∑ −= rnM xvxMSE                               (14) 
 
 Where )( rxv is the adjusted block through the pixel 
value shift and the gradient adjustment and nx is the 
neighboring pixels of the adjusted block. When the 
equation acquires the minimum value, it means the 
adjusted block obtains the best adjustment to connect 
the neighborhood blocks, as shown in Fig. 6(c). 
Through the adjustment method, the repaired image 
can avoid visual discomfort. 
 
   
(a)                      (b)                       (c) 
Fig. 6 The visual adjustment to solve the block effect 
of the reconstructed image: (a)Damaged block (b)not 
adjustment (c)Adjustment 
 
4   Experimental Results 
 
To demonstrate that the proposed method provides 
the most effective repair results, the major 
experimental processes were conducted.  The results 
show a comparison of image repair results with the 
existing Shantau’s method, BNM and JLBNM 
methods.  
In wireless transmission, the image is divided into 
blocks for transmission over a wireless channel. To 
consider different conditions, we have assumed that 
(1) the damage image includes the lost block and (2) 
continuous lost blocks (lines losses) that conform to 
the JPEG compression standard. In experiment, we 
consider only damaged block condition to carry out 
Proceedings of the 6th WSEAS International Conference on Applied Computer Science, Hangzhou, China, April 15-17, 2007      444
will try to determine the better estimation method of 
directive veins to improve the repairing quality of the 
damage image. 
 
Acknowledgements 
 
The research is supported by National Science 
Council, Taiwan, at the contract number NSC 
95-2221-E-032-046. 
 
References: 
 [1] A.N.Skodras, C. Christopoulos, and T. Ebrahimi, 
“Jpeg 2000: The upcoming still image 
compression standard,” Proceedings of the 11th 
Portuguese Conference on Pattern Recognition, 
Porto, Portugal, pp. 359–366, May 2000. 
 
[2] S. S. Hemami, “Digital image coding for robust 
multimedia transmission,” in Symposium on 
Multimedia Communications and Video Coding, 
(New York, NY), 1995. 
 
[3] E. Chang, “An image coding and reconstruction 
scheme for mobile computing,” in Proc. 5th 
IDMS, Oslo, Norway, Sept. 1998, pp. 137–148. 
 
[4] X. Lee, Y. Q. Zhang, and A. Leon-Garcia, 
“Information loss recovery for block-based image 
coding techniques—A fuzzy logic approach,” 
IEEE Trans. Image Process., vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 
259–273, Mar. 1995. 
 
[5] H. Sun andW. Kwok, “Concealment of damaged 
block transform coded images using projections 
onto convex sets,” IEEE Trans. Image Process., 
vol. 4, no. 4, pp. 470–477, Apr. 1995. 
 
[6] Z. Wang, Y.L. Yu, and D. Zhang, “Best 
neighborhood matching: An information loss 
restoration technique for block-based image 
coding systems,” IEEE Trans. Image Process., 
vol. 7, no. 7, pp. 1056–1061, Jul. 1998. 
 
[7] W. Li, D. Zhang, Z. Liu, and X. Qiao, “Fast 
block-based image restoration employing the 
improved best neighbor-hood matching 
approach,” IEEE Trans. Systems, Man, and 
Cybernetics, vol. 35, no. 4, pp. 546–555, Jul. 
2005. 
 
[8] D. Zhang and Z. Wang, “Image information 
restoration based on longrange correlation,” IEEE 
Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 12, no. 
5, pp. 331–341, May 2002. 
[9] C.S. Burrus, R. A. Gopinath, and H.Guo, 
Introduction to Wavelets and Wavelet Transform, 
Prentice-Hall, 1998.  
 
[10] Shantanu D. Rane, J. Remus,and G. Sapiro, 
“Wavelet-domain reconstruction of lost blocks in 
wireless image transmission and packet-switched 
networks,” International Conference on Image 
Processing 2002, vol. 1, pp. 309-312, 2002. 
 
[11] Y.L. CHEN, C.T. HSIEH, and C.H. HSU, 
“Progressive Image Inpainting Based on Wavelet 
Transform”, IEICE Trans. Fundamentals, Vol. 
E88-A, No.10, pp. 2826-2834, Oct.2005 
 
[12] G.M. Davis, “A Wavelet-Based Analysis of 
Fractal Image Compression”, IEEE Trans. Image 
Proc. Vol. 7, No. 2, pp. 141-154, 1997. 
 
[13] Shantanu D. Rane, G. Sapiro, M. Bertalmio, 
“Structure and texture filling-in of missing image 
blocks in wireless transmission and compression 
applications,” IEEE Trans. Image Processing, 
Vol. 12, Issue. 3, pp. 296 -303, March 2003.  
 
 
Proceedings of the 6th WSEAS International Conference on Applied Computer Science, Hangzhou, China, April 15-17, 2007      446
