中文摘要 
    在許多機器學習的問題與實際應用中，目標不再是簡單的將事或物做分類，
而是將事或物依照需求或正確的可能性由大到小排序（Ranking），且近期關於排
序及其相關議題的理論也正在逐漸發展中，這也正說明排序在實際應用與問題上
的需求。在這個兩年的研究計畫中有兩個主要成果，分別為資料點排序以及特徵
量排序（特徵選取的延伸），其中主要工作分別為完成決策樹排序、應用特徵量
排序於銀行資料分析，並利用不同特徵集來達到資料視覺化。在第一年我們對於
決策樹的資料排序則是採用結合不同結構之決策樹之機率估計的方式，第一階段
為針對單一樹實行兩階段資料排序的方式，第二階段則為結合各單一決策樹之機
率估計來達成較佳效率之決策樹資料點排序。第二年的主要工作為利用 1-norm
支撐向量機(1-norm support vector machine)以及 Incremental forward 
variable selection 對特徵量排序以及選取並應用兩種不同特徵集於資料視覺
化，最後於評估階段則針對德國銀行資料設計一漸進式學習模式進行更細緻之分
析。 
Abstract 
In the past years, classification algorithms are evaluated in classification accuracy 
while in many applications, ranking instances based on the class probabilities is more 
desirable for practical usages, for example, ranking the resulting pages returned by a 
search engine. In this two-year project, we investigate ranking issue in machine 
learning research including ranking the instances and ranking the features (attributes). 
In the first year, we will focus on ranking the output of decision trees. The ranking 
results are two folds. We first build several different trees and rank the instances in 
each single tree. Finally we combine the probability estimation of instances in each 
tree and conclude a final ranking for the instances. All results are valuated using ROC 
(Receiver Operating Characteristics) as well as AUC (Area under ROC Curve) 
instead of classification accuracy. In the second year, we focus on ranking the features 
and investigate how important factors such as selection of appropriate accounting 
ratios (predictors), length of training period and structure of the training sample 
influence the precision of prediction. Furthermore we show that oversampling can be 
employed to gear the trade-off between error types and overcome the unbalanced 
problems. Finally, we illustrate graphically how different variants of SSVM can be 
used jointly to support the decision task of loan officers. 
 
German firms observed once in the period of 1997 to 2002.
Selecting the best accounting ratios for executing the task of predicting is an
important issue in practice but has not received appropriate attention in research. We
address this issue of how important the chosen set of predictors is for the outcome. For
this purpose we explore the prediction potential of SSVM within a two step approach.
First, we derive alternative sets of accounting ratios that are used as predictors. The
benchmark set comes from [2]. A second set is defined by a 1-norm SVM [9], and
the third sets is based on the principle of adding only those variables that contain
the most contrary information with respect to an initial set that is a priori chosen.
We call the latter procedure the incremental forward selection of variables [4]. As a
result we are working with three variants of SSVM. In the second step then, these
variants are compared with respect to their prediction power. The analysis is built
on 28 accounting ratios of 20,000 solvent and 1,000 insolvent German firms. Our
finding show that the SSVM-types have an overall good performance with hit ratios
ranging from 59.8 % to 74.1 % (mean). The SSVM on the basis of incremental forward
selection clearly outperforms the SSVM based on predictors selected by the 1-norm
SVM. It is also found that over-sampling influences the trade off between Type I and
Type II errors. Thus, over-sampling can be used to make the relation of the two error
types an issue of bank policy.
2 Ranking of Decision Trees
2.1 Ranking Instances with a Hierarchical Structure
In the first step, we adopt the m-branch smoothing techniques [3] to rank the rules
produced by decision trees. In our proposed method, m-branch smooth is applied to
the pruned trees directly. We then distinguish instances in the same leaf node via
an embedded leaf Na¨ıve Bayes. Distinguishing instances in the same leaf node is an
important part of decision trees ranking. In order to achieve this goal, we adopt the
following strategies in the second step:
• Embedding a Na¨ıve Bayes classifier in each leaf node.
• Combining leaf Na¨ıve Bayes classifier and global Na¨ıve Bayes in estimating
2
probabilities different weights to merge them with a convex combination as follows:
RLabel = αaPrtree a + αbPrtree b + αcPrtree c, (2)
where RLabel denotes the ranking label for a single instance, Prtree a, Prtree b, Prtree c
denote the three different probabilities of a single instance on three trees, αx denotes
the weighted parameter and αa+αb+αc = 1. We give αb a smaller value than αa
because the dataset of tree b missed one attribute than the dataset of tree a. Similarly,
we give αc a smaller value than αb, thus αa>αb>αc. We consider the balance issue,
do not allow one single tree to decide the ranking, we let αb+αc > αa. Thus, we
assign each instance a combined probability as a ranking label then sort them.
3 Feature Selection of Accounting Ratios
In principle any possible combination of accounting ratios (please see Appendix for
more information about 28 accounting ratios) could be used as explanatory variables
in a bankruptcy prognosis model. Therefore, appropriate performance measures are
needed to gear the process of selecting the ratios with the highest separating power.
In [2] Accuracy Ratio (AR) and Conditional Information Entropy Ratio (CIER) de-
termine the selection procedure’s outcome. It turned out that the ratio “accounts
payable divided by sales”, X24 (AP/SALE), has the best performance values for a
univariate SVM model. The second selected variable was the one combined with X24
that had the best performance of a bivariate SVM model. This is the analogue of
forward selection in linear regression modeling. If one keeps on adding new variables
one typically observes a declining change in improvement. This was also the case
in that work where the performance indicators started to decrease after the model
included eight variables. The described selection procedure is quiet lengthy, since
there are at least 216 accounting ratio combinations to be considered. We will not
employ the procedure here but use the chosen set of 8 variables as the benchmark set
V1. Table 1 presents V1 in the first column.
We propose two different approaches for variable selection that will simplify the
selection procedure. The first one is based on 1-norm SVM. The SVM was applied to
the period from 1997 through 1999. We selected the variables according to the size of
the absolute values of the coefficients w from the solution of the 1-norm SVM. Table
4
Table 1: Selected variables
Variable Definition V1 V2 V3
X2+ NI/SALE x x x
X3+ OI/TA x x x
X4 OI/SALE x
X5+ EBIT/TA x x x
X6 (EBIT+AD)/TA x
X7 EBIT/SALE x
X8 EQUITY/TA x
X12 TL/TA x
X13 DEBT/TA x
X15 CASH/TA x x
X21 TA/SALE x
X22 INV/SALE x
X23 AR/SALE x
X24+ AP/SALE x x x
X26 IDINV/INV x
the ranking of decision trees. In fact, our proposed method can rank all instances
more accuracy than the piecewise ranking of H.R.
4.2 Results on Feature Selection of Accounting Ratios
We conduct the experiments in a scenario in which we always train the SVM bank-
ruptcy prognosis model from the data in hand and then use the trained SVM to
predict the next year’s cases. This strategy simulates the real task of prediction
which binds the analyst to use past data for forecasting future outcomes. The ex-
perimental setting is described in Table 3. The number of periods which enter the
training set changes from one year (S1) to five years (S5).
We perform these experiments for the three variable sets, V1 to V3. All exper-
iments are repeated 30 times. Figure 1 illustrates the development (learning curve)
6
Table 3: The scenario of our experiments
Scenario Observation period of Observation period of
Scenario Training Set Testing Set
S1 1997 1998
S2 1997-1998 1999
S3 1997-1999 2000
S4 1997-2000 2001
S5 1997-2001 2002
Table 4: Statistical significance in differences in means (10 percent level) between the
three variable sets - Total error
Sets S1 S2 S3 S4 S5
Over-sampling
V1 vrs. V2 V1* V1* V1* V1* V1*
V1 vrs. V3 V3* V1* V1* V3* V3*
V2 vrs. V3 V3* V3* V3* V3*
Down-sampling
V1 vrs. V2 V2* V1* V1* V1* V1*
V1 vrs. V3 V3* V1* V3*
V2 vrs. V3 V3* V3* V3* V3*
disturbances may have been caused by the reform of the German insolvency code that
came into act in 1999. The most important objective of the reform was to allow for
more restructuring and less liquidation than before. This reform changed consider-
ably the behavior of German companies towards declaring insolvency, and thus most
likely the nature of balance sheets that are associated with insolvent companies.
Table 4 presents the comparison between the sets by focusing on the total error
rate. It indicates via one star whether the differences in means are significant at
the 10 percent level via t-test and, in addition, gives the set which is superior in the
dual comparison. Variable set V2 is nearly absent in Table 4. Thus V2 is clearly
8
−2 −1.5 −1 −0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2
−2
−1.5
−1
−0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
Model one ( SSVM with V3 )
M
od
el
 tw
o 
( S
SV
M 
wi
th 
V1
 )
 
 
insolvent
solvent
insolvent : 7
solvent : 8
insolvent : 90
solvent : 24
insolvent : 24
solvent : 94
insolvent : 11
solvent : 6
Figure 2: Data visualization via model one (generated by SSVM with V3) and model
two (generated by SSVM with V1) in scenario S5
firms that are predicted correctly by both models. Circles and plus points in the lower
right quadrant (upper left quadrant) represent conflicting prognoses. We also report
the number of insolvent firms and the number of solvent firms in each quadrant of
Figure 2. In Figure 2, you can image the two different insolvency prognosis models
generated by V1 and V3 respectively as different experts. Use their output values for
each instance to plot. It provides a visualization tool and help bank officer to make
the decision. That is, the proposed visualization scheme could be used to support
loan officers in their final decision about accepting or rejecting the application of
the client. If the loan application has been classified as solvent, or insolvent, by
alternative machines, most likely the prognosis meets reality (the plus points in the
upper right quadrant and the circle points in the lower left quadrant). Opposing
forecasts, however, should be taken as a hint to evaluate this firm more thoroughly,
for example by employing an expert team, or even by using a third model.
10
• AD (Amortization and Depreciation)
• AP (Accounts Payable)
• AR (Account Receivable)
• CA (Current Assets)
• CASH (Cash and Cash Equivalents)
• CL (Current Liabilities)
• DEBT (Debt)
• EBIT (Earnings before Interest and Tax)
• EQUITY (Equity)
• IDINV (Growth of Inventories)
• IDL (Growth of Liabilities)
• INTE (Interest Expense)
• INV (Inventories)
• ITGA (Intangible Assets)
• LB (Lands and Buildings)
• NI (Net Income)
• OI (Operating Income)
• QA (Quick Assets)
• SALE (Sales)
• TA (Total Assets)
• TL (Total Liabilities)
• WC (Working Capital (=CA-CL))
12
出席國際會議報告書 
報告人姓名 中文：李育杰 
英文：Lee, Yuh-Jye 
係所年級 台科大 資工系 副教授 
會議時間及地點 August 23-27, 2008, Lake Las Vegas, Nevada, USA 
會議正式名稱 PinKDD’08 Second ACM SIGKDD International Workshop on 
Privacy, Security, and Trust in KDD. 
The Fourteenth ACM SIGKDD International Conference on 
Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining 
 
報告內容： 
一、參加會議經過： 
1.行程說明、 
  8 月 23 日由 Pittsburg 出發(因參加 iCAST 計畫的 kickoff meeting, Aug. 
18~23)，往 Lake Las Vegas 於 8 月 23 日抵達會議場地 
 
PinKDD’08 Second ACM SIGKDD International Workshop on Privacy, Security, and 
Trust in KDD 為 14th KDD 的 joint workshop 於 8 月 23 日舉行，8月 24~27 日
接續舉辦 14th KDD。 
 
2.會議參加過程 
第 二 屆  ACM International Workshop on Privacy, Security, and Trust in 
KDD(PinkDD)與 KDD 於 Lake Las Vegas, Loews Hotel 舉行。不同於以往著重
於 Privacy issue 的 data mining workshop，PinkDD 著眼於建構一個平台供從事於 
Privacy-perserving、Security 與 Trust 的研究學者共同討論與交換研究心得與成
果。事實上 Privacy、Security 與 Trust 這三個主題的關係可以是相互衝突或互補
的。舉例來說，美國政府從 911 事件後，國土安全部門即大量使用 Data mining
的技術搜集情資、分析，以監控、防堵，恐怖份子的行為。預防恐怖攻擊事件的
發生。大量搜集各類資料確實能發揮監控、防堵的功能。然而這也無可避免地侵
犯到一般民眾的隱私。對這些資料的保密與隱私權的保護，都成了相伴而生的重
要議題。而許多資料探勘的研究便著眼於如何達到資料探勘的目的而不洩漏出各
個 individual 所對應的資料。例如在過去幾年，Cryptographic 的技術已被應用於
