I 
 
摘要 
 
此三年計畫之目標為整合實驗，統計分析與精密計算於液浸固體球之動力行
為之分析研究。本計劃將致力於研究多石土石流之三個基本力學性質: 1. 顆粒碰
撞 2.主成分分析 3.篩析程序。分析束制自由度之少數球體以及無束制多球體
(10000 或更多)三維液浸球交互作用系統。為探討固體球粒徑大小將對於液體之
流動行為，本計劃將以多尺寸顆粒系統進行統計分析(兩種不同粒徑之球交互作
用)。 欲探究此複雜之動力學行為，本計劃結合實驗，統計分析與數值模式進行
完整分析。實驗上將延伸並應用去年由國科會支持發展之反射因子映像理論分析
固液材料之混合行為。以立體影像結合雷射面回朔三維顆粒之位置與速度。本計
劃導入兩種嶄新的實驗方法:雷射暈測速法(Laser Halo Velocimetry) 和透光性螢
光顆粒材料三維立體追蹤技術將有助於實驗效率。 以統計方法分析實驗結果，
並結合數值模擬進行比較。流固互制的數模將完整分析少數液浸球之流動行為與
碰撞。以統計方法分析單尺寸多球系統及多尺寸多球系統之實驗資料及尤拉與拉
格朗日速度關聯性。 
 
關鍵詞： 浸沒多顆粒動力學；反射因子映像；雷射暈；螢光顆粒追蹤；固液體
運動計算；土石流 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
III 
 
Contents 
摘要 I
Abstract II
Contents III
1. Background and objectives 1
2. Experimental methods 3
2.1 Laboratory apparatus 3
2.2 Refractive index matched (RIM) liquid and solid materials 5
2.3 Laser halo velocimetry (LHV) 6
2.4 Stereoscopic tracking of fluorescent particles (PTV) 9
3. Computational and statistical methods 11
3.1 Dynamics of immersed spheres in irrotational flow 11
3.2 Navier-Stokes computations of immersed spheres in viscous rotational flows 14
3.2.1 Description of the governing equations and operator splitting scheme 14
3.2.2 Interpolation for the desired boundary conditions 15
3.2.3 Evaluation of the forcing function 15
3.3 Statistical analysis of particle distributions and motions 16
3.4 Mesh regeneration algorithm for moving boundary problem 18
3.4.1 Selection of new boundary nodes 18
3.4.2 Generation of the new mesh 19
3.5 Two-dimensional Lagally theorem 22
4. Simulation results 24
4.1 Flow fields induced by the motions of immersed solid bodies 24
4.2 Dynamics of multiple immersed bodies 25
4.3 Interaction between flow free surface and solid bodies 26
4.4 Application for flow fields due to motions and collisions of immersed spheres 28
4.5 Application of generalized Lagally theorem to dynamic interaction of vortex and 
solid bodies 34
4.5.1 Interaction between a cylinder and a vortex 34
4.5.2 Moving Föppl problem 34
4.5.3 Application 35
4.6 Validation of transient drag forces on a moving and a fixed cylinder 40
4.7 Three cylinders interaction problem 44
4.8 Flow of liquid-solid mixture over check dam in a steep slope flume 45
4.9 Internal imaging measurement of immersed granular flows in a rotating drum 48
5. Conclusions 50
6. Paper published for this three-year project (18 papers) 51
 
2 
 
computational and statistical methods will be used. Detailed computations of the coupled 
fluid and solid motions will be performed to reproduce the dynamics of a few immersed 
spheres interacting due to hydrodynamic effects as well as collisional contacts. Statistical 
methods will on the other hand be used to extract information from measurements of systems 
of many interacting spheres. 
 
 
Figure 1: Dynamics of solid spheres immersed in a refractive index matched liquid. Top: 
laser-illuminated isolated sphere; bottom: large system of partly immersed spheres forming 
the front of a laboratory debris surge. 
 
 
 
4 
 
Experiments with large numbers of spheres, on the other hand, will be performed in two 
special-purpose equipments developed in the course of a previous project: a fluidization cell 
apparatus and the special re-circulating flume illustrated in Fig. 3. This flume, developed 
specifically for the laboratory study of debris flows, presents a number of unique features. 
First and foremost, it is equipped with three independent flow driving mechanisms:  
(1) a conveyor belt mounted on two large wheels, which provides a moving floor at the 
bottom of the flume; 
(2) a pump that can be operated and adjusted independently to induce a liquid throughflow 
through the compartment; 
(3) an adjustable slope, that can be used to tune the pull of gravity on the material inside the 
compartment.  
By operating these three mechanisms, both uniform and non-uniform flows of 
liquid-granular mixtures can be obtained, and they can be made stationary in the laboratory 
frame of reference in order to facilitate observations and measurements. Moreover, the flume 
is designed to allow maximum visual access, and to accept liquids of unusual chemical 
properties, as required for refractive index matching (see next subsection). 
 
 
Figure 3: Laboratory flume developed for the laboratory study of transparent solid-liquid 
flows analogue to natural debris surges. 
 
 
 
6 
 
motions in this transparent assembly. Two new methods are considered for this purpose: 1) 
Laser Halo Velocimetry, and 2) 3D stereo tracking of fluorescent marked particles. These two 
methods are described in the next subsections. 
 
2.3 Laser halo velocimetry (LHV)  
Laser Halo Velocimetry (or LHV) involves the illumination of a selected optical 
cross-section of the flow using a laser light sheet. Upon intersecting the surface of the 
immersed spheres, the laser sheet illuminates a circumference within the plane of intersection, 
a circular "halo" that can be retrieved from the digital images. Identification of the centre and 
radius of this halo make it possible to position the illuminated sphere with respect to the light 
plane. The only remaining ambiguity concerns the location of the sphere, to the front or to the 
back of the light sheet. This can be resolved by placing the optical axis of the camera at an 
angle of 45 degrees with respect to the normal to the light plane (instead of 90 degrees), as 
illustrated in Figs. 5 and 6. Instead of being symmetric, the illuminated halo then becomes 
asymmetric, with either the left or right side brighter than the other side depending on whether 
the sphere is to the front or the back of the laser plane.  
A sphere crossing the illuminated plane goes through the following halo shapes as its 
intersection evolves: end cap, left halo, symmetric halo of maximal diameter, right halo, end 
cap. The three-dimensional velocity components of the spheres (and their sign) can then be 
identified by monitoring the halo motion and shape evolution on digital images. This is 
preceded by an image rectification step, in which an image under oblique view is first 
converted back to an orthogonal image in which the halos are perfectly circular (see Fig. 7). 
 
 
Figure 5: Dummy set-up used for preliminary tests of the laser halo velocimetry approach. A 
trapeze-shaped outer tank is used to minimize optical distortion under oblique camera views. 
8 
 
 
Figure 8: Translation of a rigid assembly of liquid-bathed spheres past the laser sheet, as seen 
on a sequence of rectified images, ordered from top to bottom and left to right. 
 
To illustrate the halo evolution, six rectified images from a partial video sequence are 
illustrated on Fig. 8. They were obtained in preliminary trials in which a cylinder filled with a 
rigid assembly of spheres was translated across the laser plane. The laser halo approach is 
found to work even in this densely packed case, allowing a human observer to identify 
crossing spheres and demonstrating the feasibility of the approach. Considerable work 
nevertheless remains to make the ensuing image analysis accurate and automatic. A step in 
this analysis which shows some promise involves the use of a gradient-based Hough 
transform to perform a first round of identification of likely halo centres. This is illustrated in 
Fig. 9. 
 
Figure 9: Automated circular halo identification using gradient-based Hough transform. 
 
10 
 
 
Figure 11: Trajectories of 10 fluorescent spheres in a 3D fluidization of 1000 transparent 
spheres. Left: repeated exposure digital image; right: captured particle positions. 
 
 
Figure 12: Long exposure view of fluorescent particles imaged through a water free surface, 
illustrating the advantages of black lights in avoiding spurious reflections. 
 
12 
 
 
                  
2j ji
u uF p ndA gh ndA
t
 
           
Since we are interested in unsteady flow, a key challenge is to be able to accurately and 
rapidly compute the time derivative of the potential. We do this by first casting it in the form 
                 ( ) ( )j j
j
X
t
       , 
where   satisfies the special potential flow problem 
2 0  ,          in  , 
                 ( )j uX
n n
     ,    along j  
Both the standard and special potential flow problems defined above can be solved 
numerically in a highly efficient way using the method of fundamental solutions. Provided 
that these potentials can be calculated, finally, the immersed dynamics of the system of 
spheres is described by equations 
( ) ( ) ( ) ( )1
2j j
i j j ij
i L i
j j
hM X X n dA u u n dA gN C
x      
   
               
where the mass and immersed mass of sphere i are given by 
            34
3i S i
M R  ,     34
3i S L i
N R     
and where ( )ijC  represents the contact force exerted on sphere i by sphere j. 
Preliminary computational results from this approach are illustrated in Fig. 13, and 
compared with experimental observations. The computation reproduces an immersed collision 
between two tethered spheres, modeling both the dynamics of the spheres and the induced 
flow of tracer particles dispersed in the liquid in the centre plane of the three-dimensional 
flow field. Although the vertical wake which propagates diagonally downwards is missed by 
these irrotational flow computations, the other features of the simulated immersed collision 
compare well with the experimental long exposure image. 
 
14 
 
3.2 Navier-Stokes computations of immersed spheres in viscous rotational 
flows 
To establish such a numerical model for immersed sphere simulations will suffer the 
difficulties from the description of complex objective shape and the treatment of moving 
boundary. A Cartesian based finite-element model is proposed to provide the accurate flow 
predictions so as to describe the stationary and moving boundary problems. The basic concept 
of the method is to modify the entries of the implicit matrix of the discretized momentum 
equations such that the boundary conditions at the solid surface points are obtained after each 
time step. The basic framework will follow the HCIB formulation (immersed boundary 
method with direct forcing) proposed by Mohd-Yusof and adopt the interpolation scheme 
developed by Balaras. Meanwhile, the main features of the developed model include: 1) the 
linear triangular equal order element of structured grids is used in the spatial discretization; 2) 
the second-order operator splitting scheme is employed for the temporal discretization; 3) a 
preconditioned conjugate gradient solver by storing only the nonzero values is implemented 
to accelerate the computation and reduce the memory requirement. 
 
3.2.1 Description of the governing equations and operator splitting scheme 
The Navier-Stokes equations describing the conservation laws of mass and momentum are 
respectively expressed in primitive variable form by 
0u   
In which  , ,u u v w  and p  are the dimensionless velocity vector and pressure 
respectively. The notations of Re represents the Reynolds number. 
A second-order operator splitting scheme is used to advance the solution of the 
Navier-Stokes equations in temporal discretization. This method can accelerate the 
computational process via the operator splitting to uncouple the pressure calculation from that 
of the velocity field. In this study, the operator splitting procedure is summarized in the 
following three steps. 
Step 1: Intermediate velocity 
          * 2 * 2 1 11 1 32 Re 2
n
n n n n nu u u u u u u u f
t
             
Step 2: Pressure calculation 
16 
 
The direct forcing is only imposed on the points close and inside the immersed boundary; on 
the other hands, the f  set to zero in step 1 corresponds to the basic operator splitting 
scheme for the other fluid points. 
 
 
Figure 14: Illustration of immersed boundary treatment. 
 
3.3 Statistical analysis of particle distributions and motions 
For systems of very many particles (more than 10,000), the above detailed computational 
approaches will not be feasible, due to their prohibitive memory and computational time 
requirements. Instead, we will resort to statistical methods to extract physical information 
from the laboratory measurements. The motion descriptors sought will include Eulerian and 
Lagrangian velocity correlations, as illustrated in Figs. 15 and 16. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 
 
 
These statistical tools are widely used in studies of fluid turbulence, and have been applied 
more recently to granular flows. The Lagrangian velocity auto-correlation functions are 
defined and approximated by 
     ( ) ( )'( ) '( ) ' 'm m ni iu t u t t u u   , ( ) ( )'( ) '( ) ' 'm m ni iv t v t t v v    
where /n t t  , and where the brackets denote averages over all relevant data pairs. As 
illustrated in Fig. 15a, these functions quantify the degree of residual correlation of the 
fluctuation velocity of a given particle after a time t  has elapsed. The Eulerian radial 
velocity correlation functions, on the other hand, are defined and approximated by 
( ) ( )
, ,' ( ) ' ( ) ' '
m m
i ju r u r r u u  , ( ) ( ), ,' ( ) ' ( ) ' 'm mi ju r u r r u u      
where r  denotes the relative position vector of two particles at the same time, and where 
             2 2
' '' u x v yu
x y
 
 


,    2 2
' '' u x v yu
x y
 
 
 

 
are parallel and transverse components of the fluctuation velocities of the particles, projected 
onto the line of centres and a normal to this line, respectively (see Fig. 15b). 
 
3.4 Mesh regeneration algorithm for moving boundary problem 
For our investigation, a novel mesh update algorithm is introduced with which a body-fitted 
mesh of regular triangular elements can be efficiently generated according to a specific 
boundary contour. Though the introduction is prepared for a circle, the proposed algorithm 
can be easily extended for body shapes that are convex and smooth (with no sharp tips). 
 
3.4.1 Selection of new boundary nodes 
As shown in Fig. 17, a primary mesh was first generated within the flow outer boundary, 
ext , including the space occupied by the interior solid circle. Given the object contour,  , 
and the immediate location of its G.M.,   is found to overlap with a group of primary mesh 
elements. These elements are shaded in Fig. 17 and referred to as the boundary elements 
hereinafter. A search routine follows to determine which vertex of these boundary elements 
shall be shifted onto   to generate a new body-fitted mesh as follows.  
First, a search annulus was extended from the body G.M—the circle center—with a 0.5R 
and 1.5R inner and outer radii as shown in Fig. 18 (a), where R denotes the circle radius. For 
all mesh elements that fall completely in this search annulus, the distance between each of its 
three vertices to the circle center is calculated. The two vertices that possess the shortest and 
the longest distance, mind  and maxd , are identified. If min maxd R d  , the two vertices fall 
20 
 
adjustment process commences to relocate the N boundary nodes along  . The nodal point 
closest to the point    0,, Rr   is chosen as a reference nodal point marked by N1 in Fig. 
19(c). By marching counter-clockwise along   from N1, the rest nodal points are labeled in 
the order of encounter. Let *1  denote the angular position of N1 and the desired locations of 
the rest nodal points can be specified easily by * *i 1 2 ( 1) /i N     , 2i N  . In analogy 
to the in-plane displacement field, an angle displacement field,  *jX , can be defined as a 
second component of the in-plane membrane deformation that is linearly independent to 
 jX . Subjected to the two Dirichlet boundary conditions,   0extiX   and 
  *i i iX     , a second Laplace equation  *2 0jX    can be solved for all the primary 
vertices after the radial displacement adjustments. 
 
This approach may be interpreted as an in-plane deformation of a virtual mesh membrane 
that satisfies the force balance equation, 0T B   , according to linear elasticity. In this 
equation, T  denotes the virtual stress tensor and the virtual body force B  is set to zero 
since the mesh possesses no physical substance. A simple constitutive relation is then 
employed to describe T  as a linear function of a virtual strain field,  , which quantity is 
further assumed to scale with the divergence of the  general displacement field, ( , )D   , as 
~ D  . The force balance equation can thus be manipulated to give the two Laplace 
equations on   and  . These Laplace equations can be solved readily by the same 
Bi-CGSTAB method employed before. Such a two-step mesh deformation－the radial stretch 
of ~  into   and the angle adjustment from i  to *i －has been implemented and 
employed to adjust ~  and the result is shown in Fig. 19(d), confirming the exact fit and 
0.104meshQ  . 
 
 
 
 
22 
 
 
  
  
Figure 19: Stretch of the underlying primary mesh: (a) the boundary nodes (marked with open 
circles) and the determined approximate object contour, ~ , (b) radial stretch of the boundary 
node from ~ onto  , (c) angular adjustment of the boundary nodes to achieve uniform 
spacing along  , (d) the newly generated body-fitted mesh. 
 
3.5 Two-dimensional Lagally theorem 
The conventional two-dimensional Lagally theorem that considers sources and dipoles is 
revisited here to include free vortices. A Cartesian coordinate ox1x2 fixed on a 
two-dimensional solid body as depicted in Fig. 20 is firstly defined. Let this body translate at 
velocity u=u1+iu2 and rotates with an angular velocity Ω in an unbounded inviscid and 
incompressible fluid with respect to the moving frame ox1x2 and i is the imaginary number. 
The corresponding flow appears irrotational in the inertial frame and can be described with a 
complex velocity potential, w=φ + iψ, whose spatial gradient determines the flow velocity. 
For an use in the moving frame ox1x2, this spatial gradient can be executed with respect to x1 
and x2, giving v=- dw/dz=v1-iv2 with z= x1 + ix2. The hydrodynamic force exerted on the body 
24 
 
 
Figure 20: Schematic sketch of the moving and the inertial frames of reference, ox1x2 and 
OX1X2. P is point of interest with components (x1, x2) referred to ox1x2. 
 
4. Simulation results 
4.1 Flow fields induced by the motions of immersed solid bodies 
For problems involving small numbers of moving solid bodies (one or two) immersed in 
liquids, computational and experimental advances allow us to obtain detailed flow fields 
around the bodies. The computational tools developed for this purpose include techniques 
based on regular meshes, irregular meshes, and meshless approaches. For flows at higher 
Reynolds number, it was found that Cartesian mesh approaches are the most efficient. By 
taking advantage of parallelization, three-dimensional computations on fine meshes have been 
achieved, and applied to the flow field generated by a sphere inside a rectangular cavity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
26 
 
liquid motions in a single plane of an irregular transient flow. Raw experimental footage 
results for this last approach are illustrated in Fig. 22. 
 
 
Figure 22: Sedimentation of solid spheres in a liquid: colorized multiple exposures of two 
distinct segments of a sequence of laser-illuminated image frames, with Blue-Red-Green-Blue 
cycles showing the motions of solid boundaries (circular halos) and liquid tracers (bright 
streaks). 
 
4.3 Interaction between flow free surface and solid bodies 
The third focus involves flows in which solid bodies interact with a free surface. Examples 
examined this year include the free fall of a solid sphere splashing into a liquid container, 
either piercing the free surface or becoming an oscillating floating body; the generation of 
surface waves by a solid body moving below the free surface, and the propagation of a dam 
break wave through an array of upright cylinders. This last example is illustrated in Fig. 23. 
 
 
 
28 
 
 
4.4 Application for flow fields due to motions and collisions of immersed 
spheres 
 
We present and discuss some computational results about the flow fields due to motions 
and collisions of immersed spheres. To elucidate the flow fields due to immersed motions and 
collision, we proposed numerical simulations with both isolated and colliding spheres, and the 
computational domain used in this study is illustrated in Fig. 24 Each pendulum has height H 
= 4.5 and tethered spheres with diameter D =1 immersed in a cubic tank with size equal to 
12×12×12 . The velocities in the  , ,x y z  directions are denoted, respectively, by  , ,u v w . 
The lengths are made dimensionless by the diameter D of the sphere. The velocities are scaled 
by the maximum angular swing velocity maxU  of the sphere. The time is scaled by max/D U . 
The Reynolds number is defined on the maximum angular swing velocity and the diameter of 
the sphere. In order to compare with experiments, the Reynolds number was prescribed to be 
13,500, which corresponds to the Reynolds number measured from experiments. 
The evolution of the flow fields observed in this study is compared with measured velocity 
in Figs. 25 and 26. The right-hand images were obtained from numerical simulations. The 
error bar represents the RMS error between two experimental data with the same 
configurations. It is clearly to observe that the difference between computational and 
experimental results is not exceeding the error bar too much. Therefore, our computational 
results in Figs. 25 and 26 are in good quantitative agreement with experimental results. The 
resulting vortex dynamic could be described as follows. When a single pendulum moved in 
downward direction, at the back of the sphere an upper and lower wake developed in Fig. 25 
(a). Then the pendulum is slowdown when it reaches first perigee (Fig 25 (b)) and gets 
separated from below by its own wake. As the pendulum reaches its apogee (Fig. 25 (c)), the 
separating flow produced two counter-rotating vortices that propagate obliquely downward 
direction and the rear of the separating flow has generated rotational vortices, which is not 
observed in the experiment. For colliding pendulums, Figs. 26 (a) and (b) show the 
instantaneous flow fields before and after the first collision. Before the collision (Fig. 26(a)), 
the flow field produced by the left sphere is similar with the motion of single pendulum. Then 
the striking sphere transfer its impulse to the initially static bob, the intensity of wake has 
suddenly reduced. When the right bob arises to apogee (Fig. 26 (c)), the wake of the 
motionless bob split into downward direction with another counter-clockwise secondary 
30 
 
  
(a) 
  
(b) 
  
(c) 
Figure 25: Measured (left) and simulated (right) flow fields at successive stages in the motion 
of a single pendulum: (a) Downswing, (b) perigee, and (c) apogee. The error bar represents 
the deviation of two experimental data. 
 
32 
 
 
(a) 
 
(b) 
Figure 27: Liquid path lines around single pendulum from release to first apogee.  
(a) Experimental long exposure image of the laser-illuminated symmetry plane.  
(b) Simulated path lines of passive tracers advected by rotational flow around the moving 
sphere. 
 
34 
 
4.5 Application of generalized Lagally theorem to dynamic interaction of 
vortex and solid bodies 
 
The interaction between rigid bodies and their ambient flow has been investigated 
extensively for its common occurrence in engineering applications, industrial processes, and 
natural hazards. When the effect of liquid viscosity is confined in flow regimes which are 
much smaller than the immersed bodies or the flow domain, the fluid motion can be 
approximated by a potential flow governed by the Laplace equation. The solution, which 
gives the potential function of the flow, can thus be constructed by superposing specific 
fundamental solutions chosen to generate the desired motions and to meet the boundary 
conditions. To estimate the hydrodynamic force and torque on the objects, the Blasius 
theorem can be employed that considers the net rate of change of fluid momentum. The 
resulting formulae are often expressed in terms of the flow potential function since its 
gradient gives the relevant velocity field which is required for the surface pressure 
distribution by the use of the Bernoulli equation. However, the surface integral is in general 
troublesome, hence the Lagally theorem provides an alternate way to obtain the 
hydrodynamics forces explicitly. The aim of the present work is to develop a theoretical 
framework on which the dynamics of freely moving objects in an inviscid and incompressible 
fluid can be examined. 
4.5.1 Interaction between a cylinder and a vortex 
To validate the currently derived force formula, we consider an existing potential flow 
problem that the interaction of a solid cylinder with one free vortex. With the current 
generalized Lagally theorem, the equations of motion for both cylinder and vortex can be 
obtained via algebraic calculations. Numerical integration of the equations of motion allows 
us to predict the trajectories of both the vortex and the cylinder centre. In particular, the 
trajectories for the two cases with solid-to-fluid density ratio, 1000 and 130, are produced in 
Fig. 29. 
4.5.2 Moving Föppl problem 
Next, the moving Föppl problem is studied where a pair of vortices with equal but 
opposite circulation move behind a non-rotating cylinder of radius a and density ρ. The 
36 
 
from the literatures, the results of the moving cylinder from Wang do not match the present 
results and the others since he omits the convection term, u⋅׏ϕ, from the extended Blasius 
theorem. 
Then, a forced cylinder with or without tail vortices moving obliquely toward a fixed one 
is studied. The force contours for both cylinders are given with different vortex strength, κ. 
With a given instantaneous position of CA, the forces on both cylinders alone X1 and X2 axes 
can be calculated. The contour plots shown in Figs. 34 (a)−(d) are respectively the forces, 
normalized by ρπau02, on CA and CB alone X1 and X2 axes of the problem with κ=0, i.e. 
without tail vortices. The horizontal and vertical axes denote the position of CA, (D,H), and 
the gray unit quarter circle at origin denotes the stationary cylinder, CB. As shown in Fig. 34 
(a), positive horizontal force acting on CA in the entire plotted region, which will resist the 
motion of the moving cylinder if it is free from forcing. The magnitude of the resistant force 
is in general small during approach. However, a suddenly force augmentation occurs when 
two cylinders are nearly colliding. This phenomenon moderates when the vertical distance 
between cylinders, D, increasing. The maximum resistant force occurs when two cylinders 
approaching normally, and the force becomes zero when CA is located atop CB. Fig. 34 (b) is 
the force on CA alone X2 axis. An attracting force on CA is shown in the domain, which makes 
CA toward CB when free from forcing. The attracting force becomes zero when H=0 and has a 
maximum value at (D,H)=(0, 2), that is, the inline velocity between two cylinders is zero. It is 
shown in Fig. 34 (c) and (d) that the force contours of CB are separated into two areas where 
the forces are respectively positive and negative by the lines with zero horizontal and vertical 
forces. These two lines separate the plotted region into three areas. In the area above F2 = 0, 
where both forces are positive, CB will be attracted to CA if it is free to move. In the area 
between the two lines, where F1 > 0 but F2 < 0, a force that pointing at the fourth quadrant 
will act on CB which assists CB moving past over CA if it is free. Finally, in the area below the 
line F1=0, both force components are negative that gives a repulsive force on the cylinder. 
Figs. 35 (a)−(d) are the force contours of the same problem but a pair of tail vortices with 
unit strength, κ=1, are located at their equilibrium positions moving behind CA as depicted in 
Fig. 32. As shown in Figs. 35 (a) and (b), an apparent differences comparing with the results 
from κ=0 are that an area with negative force which assists CA to move forward is shown atop 
CB in Fig. 34 (a), and a region with positive force that lifts CA is shown in Fig. 35 (b). The 
force contours in Fig. 35 (c) and (d) show that the region with attracting force on CB becomes 
smaller and the regions with assisting and repulsive forces becomes slightly larger in the 
plotted area. Hence the addition of tail vortices gives an additional force that prevents CA 
from colliding CB. 
38 
 
 
Figure 31: The trajectory of the top tail vortex relative to the moving cylinder in a moving 
Föppl system on the upstream side of the cylinder with γ=1.5, κ=1.5 and various L0= (a) 5.0; 
(b) 7.0; (c) 9.0. Föppl saddle and centre equilibrium are marked by Δ and ο in (b). The signs x 
and + in (c) denote normal line saddle and centre. 
 
 
Figur 32: Schematic sketch of a forced cylinder with a pair of tail vortices moving obliquely 
toward a second one. 
 
40 
 
 
 
Figure 35: Contours of the forces in each axis on moving and stationary cylinders. The 
cylinder, CA, moving with unit velocity alone negative X1 axis with tail vortices at their 
equilibrium positions with strength κ=1, toward an identical fixed one, CB. The horizontal and 
vertical axes denote the position of CA, (D,H), and the gray quarter circle denotes CB. (a), (b) 
forces on CA alone X1 and X2 axes; (c), (d) forces on CB alone X1 and X2 axes. 
 
4.6 Validation of transient drag forces on a moving and a fixed cylinder 
The last test case examines the transient drag developed on a circular cylinder in different 
but complementary interactions with its surrounding liquid. The first case considered a 
uniform flow of velocity 0u  impinging on a stationary cylinder; in the other problem, the 
same cylinder was impulsively set into constant motion at 0u  in an otherwise quiescent fluid. 
This latter problem was specially chosen to test the proposed mesh regeneration algorithm on 
a problem that involves large and continuous boundary displacements.  
This dual problem has been simulated by Russell and Wang using a stream 
function-vorticity formulation of the Navier-Stokes equations on a regular Cartesian-grid. 
These authors required the disturbed flow field to return to a potential flow at the boundary 
and two flows at vDuRe /0 = 40 and 100 were considered. For both Re , these authors 
reported seemingly identical )(tCD  profiles for the fixed and the moving cylinders 
throughout an observation period from * 0 / 0t t u D   to 32. 
In the present simulation, the flow geometry and Re were set identical to that employed by 
Russell and Wang (abbreviated by RW hereinafter). Similarly, their outer potential flow 
boundary conditions, specified in terms of stream function and vorticity, were transformed 
here into velocity boundary conditions. The schematic diagram of the dual problems is 
42 
 
specific observation time for 320* t  only covered the transient phase of the long-term 
( )DC t  evolution. Shortly after the flow impingement, a pair of counter-rotating vortices 
formed on the lee side of the cylinder. The size and the structure of these tail vortices evolved 
in time, resulting in continuous and smooth variations in ( )DC t . The vortex remained 
attached in the Re=40 flow and thus ( )DC t monotonically asymptoted to a constant, 
1.539DC , at 31.75* t . When Re was increased to 100, the incident flow possessed 
sufficient momentum to carry away the attached vortices alternatively from the upper and the 
lower cylinder lee-surface. Such a local flow dynamics resulted in an early decline of ( )DC t  
and a temporary settlement between *0 <30t . However, it is interesting to observe that the 
drag coefficient started to increase afterwards and an onset of minute oscillation commenced 
at 72.9* t  as shown by the rugged bold solid line in Fig. 38. Taking time average over an 
oscillation cycle, we obtained 0.0151.33 DC  with an obvious increase from the early 
value 1.164)32( DC . The long-term drag coefficients for Re=40 and 100 agree well with 
the reported literature summarized in RW’s work which data was reproduced in Tab. 2. 
Further, when the transient profiles of )(tCL were examined, nearly zero values were 
observed due to flow fore-apt symmetry at both Re. This zero value remained at Re=40 but 
)(tCL  started to oscillate when the vortices regularly detached from the cylinder in the 
Re=100 flow. Nonetheless, the temporal average over one oscillation cycle gave 0LC , 
indicating an overall flow symmetry about the flow mid-plane. 
 
Table 2: Summary of mean drag coefficient (Russell and Wang) 
Re=40 Re=100 
Author(Year) DC  Author(Year) DC  
Tritton (1959) 1.48 Braza et al. (1986) 1.36 0.015 
Dennis and Chang (1970) 1.52 Liu et al. (1998) 1.35 0.012 
Fornberg (1980) 1.50 Calhoun (2002) 1.33 0.014 
Calhoun (2002) 1.62 Russell and Wang (2003) 1.38 0.007 
Russell and Wang (2003) 1.63 － － 
Present results 1.53 Present results 1.33 0.015 
 
 
 
44 
 
 
0 50 100 150 200
Time, t*
-1
0
1
2
3
Li
ft
 a
nd
 d
ra
g 
co
ef
fic
ie
nt
CD
CL
Re = 40
Re = 100
 
Figure 38: Long-time history of the temporal evolution of the drag and the lift coefficients 
measured on the fixed cylinder at Re = 40 and 100. 
4.7 Three cylinders interaction problem 
Present investigation examines the three cylinders interaction problem to validate the 
feasibility of refinement algorithm that in this problem we expect to capture more non-linear 
effects between cylinders and solid wall except the coupling phenomena happen around the 
cylinders. Fig. 39 shows the geometry dimension for the three cylinders interaction problem. 
The outer boundary was defined as no-slip conditions and the three circular cylinders was 
moved individually toward the orientation of clockwise, counterclockwise and clockwise, 
respectively, with the regular circular motion where the angular velocity denotes 
,/2 ii T   i =1~3, based on the corresponding period with 101 T , 12 2TT   and 
13 3TT  . For this simulation problem we also give the Reynolds number and time increment 
to be 40 and 0.001. Fig. 40 plots the vorticity contours at t=3, 6, 9 and 12, respectively. 
Figure 39: The FEM mesh uses 30,398 computational nodes and 59,998 elements. 
46 
 
experiment, frame rate is 200 fps, Fig. 42 is the long exposure image of the 6 sequent images, 
which shows the trajectories of seeding materials in the fluid and the solid trajectories (circle 
halos). 
Both solid and liquid motions are characterized in a single plane of an irregular transient 
flow, Fig. 43 below are the 2-D mean velocities of solid spheres and the liquid obtained from 
the footages. 
Sheet laser
ca
m
er
a
ca
m
er
a
ca
m
er
a
 
Figure 41: The experimental set-up (left) and refractive index matching materials we adopt 
(right) 
 
 
Figure 42: Dense solid- liquid mixture flows over a check dam: multiple exposures of 6 
sequences laser illuminated image frames, showing the boundaries of solid spheres (circle 
halos) and liquid tracers (bright dots). 
 
 
48 
 
4.9 Internal imaging measurement of immersed granular flows in a rotating 
drum 
Immersed granular avalanches in a rotating drum are studied experimentally using particle 
tracking velocimetry (PTV). The cylindrical drum is 12 centimeters in radius and 8.7 
centimeters in width, the drum is mounted in a tank, connected to the DC motor by a shaft and 
driven by chain. The drum is filled with over 1000 solid spheres which immersed in RIM 
fluid for obtaining the internal image. 
A laser scanning method we adopted is using a rotating mirror cylinder with 24 facets, laser 
sheet rotates with each facet so we acquire the images of illuminated planes through whole 
drum, the experimental layout is shown in Fig. 44. We convert real-world coordinate of each 
image to the image coordinate through tri-linear transformation, and obtain the ortho-rectified 
voxel image (Fig. 45). the dynamics of multiple immersed bodies is characterized by 
obtaining the three-dimensional solid positions which is illustrated in Fig. 46. 
 
 
Figure 44: Experimental set-up: a acrylic drum filled with solid spheres is immersed in 
refractive index matching liquid. The drum would rotates counterclockwise in constant 
velocity. 
 
50 
 
 
Figure 46: Three dimensional arrangements of solid spheres with different drum speed and 
number of solids. The number of spheres is 995 and the drum speed is 3.92 rad/sec in the left 
figure and the number of spheres is 1134 and the drum speed is 0.806 rad/sec in the right 
figure. 
 
5. Conclusions 
Some novel numerical scheme, experimental method and theoretical analysis are developed 
under National Science Council (NSC) financial supports. In numerical method for first and 
second year, the immersed boundary method and the mesh-dependent numerical methods 
were applied for approximating the solutions of the moving boundary problems. In third year, 
the novel mesh regeneration algorithm was developed for the moving boundary problems. 
The fashion experimental techniques were also applied to analyze the debris flows in 
laboratory approach. The Lagally theorem was also applied to analyze the flow field. Some 
results depended on this project can be easily applied for discussing the problems of debris 
flow in science or engineering approaches. According to the proposal of this project, the 
objectives in this three-year search grant are achieved completely. Some good results related 
to this project were published in high-quality journals [1-13] and also international conference 
[14-18]. In addition to those, some ongoing results will be submitted and published later. 
 
52 
 
[12]. Huang, M. Y. F., Huang, A.Y. L., R. H. Chen, and H. Capart, 2010, Automated tracking 
of liquid velocities in a refractive index matched porous medium. Revision submitted, 
Journal of the Chinese Institute of Engineers.  
[13]. Huang, A. Y. L., M. Y. F. Huang, R. H. Chen, and H. Capart, 2010, Influence of aspect 
ratio on the distribution of porosity and velocity in columns of spheres. Journal of the 
Chinese Institute of Engineers (in press). 
[14]. Wu, C.S., Young, D.L., 2010, Hybrid Cartesian/Immersed-Boundary Finite Difference 
Method for Simulating Wave-Structure Interaction Problem, The 34th National 
Conference on Mechanics, November, 219-20, 2010, Touliu, Taiwan. 
[15]. Chen, C.H., Yang, F.-L., Young, D.L., 2010, A Novel Mesh Regeneration Algorithm for 
2D FEM Simulations of Flows with Moving Boundary, The 17th National Computational 
Fluid Dynamics Conference, July 29-31, 2010, Shihmen, Taiwan. (First prize award in 
student paper competition). 
[16]. Yang, F.-L., Chen, C.H., Young, D.L., 2010, Characterization of the Modifying Effects of 
a Micro-structure on the Hindrance and Dynamic Response of a Confined Flow, The 17th 
National Computational Fluid Dynamics Conference, July 29-31, 2010, Shihmen, Taiwan. 
[17]. Wu, J.T. Yang, F.L. Young, D.L., 2009, Interaction of multiple solid objects and vortices 
in a two-dimensional potential flow, 62nd Annual Meeting of the American Physics 
Society (APS) Division of Fluid Dynamics, November 22-24 , Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
USA. 
[18]. Lai, C.Y., Young, D.L., and W.Y. Chen, 2008, Stability Analysis of a Dense Granular 
Lubricant Material Flows, The 32nd National Conference on Mechanics, November, 
28-29, 2008, Chiayi, Taiwan. 
 
 
 
96年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：楊德良 計畫編號：96-2221-E-002-127-MY3 
計畫名稱：液浸固體球之實驗與計算動力模擬分析 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 5 5 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 4 4 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 3 67%  
博士生 8 3 250%  
博士後研究員 1 2 50%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 8 8 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
