  1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
物流服務業之科技採用模式與服務創新系統-以 RFID 應用為例 
Technology Adoption Model and Service Innovation System for RFID 
application of Logistic Service Provider 
 
計 畫 編 號：NSC96-2221-E-155-012 
執 行 期 限：96 年 8 月 1 日 至 97 年 9 月 31 日 
主 持 人：湯玲郎   元智大學企管系 
計畫參與人員：盧明滄、蔡瑋真   元智大學企管系 
 
Abstract 
Although RFID has many advantages, people 
will consider whether the technology has been 
developed well, how the compatibility with original 
system or if there are any other risks before adopting 
RFID. This research investigates the evaluation 
model of RFID adoption by what enterprises consider 
to adopt new technology and viewpoints of diffusion 
of innovation. Because the effect factors of RFID 
adoption are wide, immature, dynamic, and 
non-linear system, this research described the 
complex dynamic behavior of RFID adoption through 
simulating model, and analyzed the dynamic model 
of RFID adopted by enterprises.  From the simulated 
results, we find out that the speed and range of the 
RFID adoption will be affected by the environment, 
technology and organization, etc. Diffusion of market 
and the factors of price, technology, environment, and 
organization will make the volume of purchasing 
RFID increase gradually, reach peak after ten years 
and will be mature step of its life cycle.   
Keywords: RFID, Technology Adoption, System 
Dynamics 
 
1. Objective 
The objective of the research is to investigate the 
evaluation model of RFID adoption in the industry 
when they make a decision to implement RFID 
technology. The overall goal is to use system 
dynamic to investigate the relationship between 
adoption features and performance, so as to improve 
on the system of adopted technology for RFID. 
Specifically, the following objectives are formulated 
to achieve the overall goal of this research: 
(1) Construct the model of system dynamic for RFID 
adoption by enterprises.  
(2) Investigate the evaluation model of RFID 
adoption with the factors and time change by 
making use of the method of system dynamic. 
(3) To predict the situation for RFID adoption in the 
future in order to offer enterprises the reference 
basis for the decision of RFID adoption.  
The research result obtained would enable the 
managers to envisage the dynamics of the RFID 
adoption when implements in scope occur due to 
implements in customer requirements or technology. 
The results provide the conditions for optimum 
performance of RFID adoption initiatives, thus 
contributing to policy scenario and its improvement 
on a continuous basis. 
 
2. Methodology 
2.1 Research framework 
The organization of investigated enterprise will 
be influenced by technology, economy and 
environment directly or indirectly.  RFID product or 
service activity from vendor changed will influence 
the decision of adoption [7, 8].  Besides, it will be 
influenced by the factor of diffusion, and the 
environment of market will also influence the activity 
of other enterprises. Through the impact factors make 
the system of feedback become cause loop. Then, 
using the method of system dynamic simulates the 
adopted model as shown as figure 1. 
 
Figure 1 RFID adoption procedure 
 
2.2 Modelling of RFID adoption  
Base on research methodology and constructed 
simulated model, the whole system covers RFID 
adoptive of impact factors. According to IDTechEx 
report, the sales volume of RFID label is above half 
of the industry, RFID tag influence is critical issues 
[2, 4]. Therefore, the research mainly uses the 
evolution of RFID label as adopt RFID technique of 
decision basis, and with RFID label for inquire into a 
product. 
  3
examination variable connect, and carry on model 
identification and policy sensitivity analysis. The 
scenario of imitating includes: coefficient of imitation, 
regulation implementation degree, systematic 
compatibility, accumulation of patent’s quantity, and 
intensity of top management support. 
3.1 The coefficient of imitation vs. purchase 
quantity 
Imitation is evaluated by public praise and user 
influence of behavior, for the lately technological 
adoption, greatly part of enterprises will be hesitated 
a forerunner first usage performance. They will 
duplicate the successful process to put into their 
enterprise, as a result lead science and technology of 
application performance first, and succeed the sharing 
of case. It will influence the others who haven't 
adopted the RFID. The imitation will influence the 
diffusion velocity of product adoption. Hence, the 
imitation coefficient different is setting; the 
observation emulation coefficient change purchases 
the influence of quantity to the RFID label. At first 
the model, the setting of imitation coefficient is 0.567, 
besides in the observation be imitation coefficient’s 
set is bigger of 0.8, and smaller 0.3, purchase whether 
quantity will have what of discrepancy or not. 
When imitation coefficient is higher, purchasing 
quantity will be increased immediately. It accelerates 
the velocity of product spread over the market when 
the imitation behavior is bigger. Therefore, it induces 
the experience sharing and the success case that raise 
in imitation behavior among enterprises. Thus, the 
RFID adoption make the industry chain exertive 
whole benefit.  
 
Figure 3 The coefficient of imitation vs. purchase 
quantity 
3.2 Regulation implementation degree vs. purchase 
quantity 
The legislation will influence the band of 
frequency to be opened, the unified standard, and 
safety doubts. RFID has many issues to be regulated 
such as frequency’s problems, security and so on. We 
set the regulation implementation degree into three 
levels. Detection from figure 4, higher degree of 
regulation implementation will cause bigger RFID 
label purchase quantity. Therefore, it’s very necessary 
to establish the RFID related regulations to speed up 
RFID market growth. 
 
 
Figure 4 Regulations implementation degree vs. 
purchase quantity  
3.3 Systematic compatibility vs. purchase quantity 
RFID needs to integrate with the system of 
application. Therefore, it will consider original 
systematic compatibility between RFID and the 
company. Even, RFID will influence the company 
internal operation process, this part demand the 
information integrate service operator to help and 
apply system of sustain development. Integrations of 
service are including the integration of B2B, the 
integration of programming of application and the 
integration of data etc. Inquire into system 
compatibility to the influence that purchases quantity, 
as this part of test it observes the compatibility of the 
height system to purchase quantity in the product for 
the fluctuation situation of original compatibility of 
the mode system and higher system compatibility up 
have what different is. 
The result shows when the system compatibility 
is higher; RFID label's purchasing quantity will be 
bigger. So raising the system compatibility can 
accelerate a RFID market development, this also 
representing the importance of system integration 
business will be bigger and bigger. Hence, integrate 
system through the application of continuous 
development, and choose fit and the good information 
service business will make RFID market growth 
velocity speed.  
3.4 Patent’s quantity vs. purchase quantity  
The patents are more which represents technique 
capability to promote, but it opposite also needs to 
put into greater development cost. The change of 
patent’s quantity will influence the volume of RFID 
purchase. Therefore, it is very important to 
understand the importance between the volume of 
patent and RFID purchase.   
With the original model is basis of the patent 
accumulate, set the patent that the more patent 
numbers and less respectively number with observe a 
different patent amount to the influence that 
purchases quantity. And, it shows three kinds of 
patents accumulate a number of the emulation 
situation for changing by time. From the test result 
can be observed along with the patent accumulate 
count more many, RFID label's purchasing quantity 
will be bigger. Therefore, the quality of patent will 
impact RFID market’s development. Keeping 
  5
Reference 
[1] Betz, F., Managing Technology Competing 
Through New Ventures, Innovation, and 
Corporate Research, Prentice Hall, N.J, (1993). 
[2] Curtin, J., Kauffman, R., and Riggins, F., Making 
the ‘most’ out of RFID technology: A research 
agenda for the study of the adoption, usage and 
impact of RFID. Information Technology and 
Management forthcoming, 8(2), 87-110, (2007). 
[3] Forrester, J. W., Industrial Dynamics, Cambridge, 
Mass.: MIT Press, (1961). 
[4] Jones, P., Clarke-Hill, C., Hillier, D., and Comfort, 
D., The benefits, challenges and impacts of radio 
frequency identification (RFID) for retailers in the 
UK. Marketing Intelligence and Planning, 23(4), 
395–402, (2005). 
[5] Lee, Ji-Ren, et al., Planning for dominance: a 
strategic perspective on the emergence of a 
dominant design, R&D Management, 25, pp. 3-15, 
(1995). 
[6] Li, S., Visich, J., Khumawala, B., & Zhang, C., 
Radio frequency identification technology: 
Applications, technical challenges and strategies. 
Sensor Review, 26(3), 193–202, (2006). 
[7] V. Daniel Hunt & Albert B. Puglia, Rfid - A 
Guide To Radio Frequency Identification , 
WILEY-INTERSCIENCE, pp.23, (2007) 
[8] Woods, J., Peterson, K., and Hirst, C., Maturing 
open RFID applications will reshape SCM. 
Available at /http://www4.gartner.com 
/DisplayDocument?doc_cd=112865S. Accessed 
12 September 2005, (2003). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
