 2
installed capacity averagely produces 2,700 kWh per year, 
wind power can totally generate 760 million kWh annually, 
providing enough electricity to 190 thousand households. 
Moreover, projects under construction, being 
consented, and under planning are being added up, with a 
total installed capacity of 467.8 MW (equivalent to 230 sets 
of wind turbines). Besides onshore projects, the Executive 
Yuan has ratified the “The Program of First Stage of 
Offshore Wind Development” proposed by the Ministry of 
Economic Affairs, which targets on developing 300 MW of 
offshore wind power in the first stage, symbolizing that 
Taiwan’s development of wind power has reached a new 
milestone[5-7]. 
The remainder of this paper is structured as follows: 
Section 2 introduces the evaluation of wind cost possibility. 
Section 3 shows the case study of wind cost possibility. 
Section 4 presents the policies for promoting the 
development of wind electricity. Finally, Section 5 presents 
the conclusions of the present study. 
 
2. Wind Electricity Cost Possibility 
 
2.1 Crisp wind cost evaluation 
Wind energy plays a crucial role in the future energy 
supply of the world. According to the forecasts of the 
Global Wind Energy Council, wind energy will supply 
around 16% of worldwide electricity supply in 2020[8]. 
However, selection of an energy option for an application is 
not made merely on the basis of its technical feasibility. 
The economic aspect of energy generation also plays a key 
role in the decision-making[9-11]. Prior to adopting a wind 
electricity project, potential investors must explore the 
soundness of the project by performing a feasibility study 
which investigates all aspects of the project, including its 
anticipated future financial and economic performance. The 
feasibility study mainly concerns the monetary aspects of 
the project and its financial rewards and profitability from 
the investors’ perspectives. That is, an economic 
profitability model should be made available to potential 
investors to enable them to evaluate the benefit-costs of the 
project. In general, the greater the economic effectiveness 
of a project, the greater the degree of its acceptance by 
investor. 
One of the major factors limiting the wide spread 
acceptance of many renewable energy technologies is the 
high generation cost. Economic issues of wind energy 
systems are multidimensional. There are several factors that 
affect the unit cost of wind electricity. These may vary 
from country to country and region to region. Economic 
merit of wind electricity heavily depends on the local 
condition. 
The key parameters that govern wind electricity costs 
are[10]: 
• Capital cost: Wind turbine, foundation, road 
construction and grid connection are the majorities of wind 
power capital costs. Capital cost can be as much as 80% of 
the total cost of the project over its entire lifetime. 
• Variable cost: Operation & maintenance(O&M) cost 
of wind turbine is the significant part of variable costs. 
Other categories such as land rental, insurance and taxes, 
management and administration are minor parts of variable 
cost. The yearly O&M cost can be represented as a fraction 
of the capital investment, m. In Germany, the study carried 
out by the German Wind Energy Institute, DEWI in its 
German acronym[12] looked into the trends and 
distribution of variable costs for German wind turbines 
installed between 1997 to 2001. For the first two years of 
its lifetime, a turbine is usually covered by the 
manufacturer’s warranty. So, 2-3% of the initial investment 
was found for O&M cost over this period. After 6 years, 
the O&M cost increased, accounting for just below 5% of 
the total investment. For simplicity, the fraction of O&M 
cost to the initial investment is assumed has an escalation 
rate, d=2%, annually in this study. 
• Electricity produced: The electricity produced of 
wind plant depends on the local wind resource, wind 
turbine technical specifications, site characteristics and 
power generation reductions. The indicator that best 
characterizes the electricity generating capacity of a wind 
plant is the capacity factor, k, which expresses the 
percentage of time that a wind energy plant produces 
electricity during a representative year. For a built wind 
power, wind resource dominates the capacity factor of wind 
plant. 
The net present total cost, NPC, and equivalent 
uniform annual cost, EUAC, of wind project can be denoted 
as Eqs.(1) and (2), respectively, where GPCF and CRF 
represent the geometric series present cost factor and the 
capital recovery factor, respectively[13,14]. It should be 
noted that r is the inflation-free interest rate (or the so-
called real interest rate), which is given by the difference 
between the market interest rate and the inflation rate if 
either the real interest rate or the inflation rate is relatively 
small. The escalation rate of O&M cost is denoted as d. 
[ ]GPCFm1INPC ×+=                             (1) 
CRFNPCEUAC ×=                                  (2)   
dr
r1d11GPCF
n
−
++−= ))/()((                      (3) 
1r1
r1rCRF n
n
−+
+=
)(
)(                                       (4) 
The levelised cost of wind electricity then denoted as 
Eq.(5), where U represents the unit capital cost of this 
plant($/kW). The annual operation hours of wind project 
assumed 8760 hours. 
kWhcents
687k
dr
r1d11m1CRFU
C
n
/
.
))/()(((
×
⎥⎦
⎤⎢⎣
⎡
−
++−+××
=   (5)  
2.2 Fuzzy wind cost evaluation 
As previous description, the key parameters of wind 
cost vary from case to case. Therefore, the cash flow 
models applied in wind project decision-making problems 
frequently involve some degree of uncertainty. In this 
vague case, most decision-makers tend to rely on an 
 4
 
It should be noted that the conventional crisp cost 
represents one particular case of fuzzy cost evaluation. A 
specific crisp cost can be established by setting all the 
fuzzy parameters to their most promising values. For 
example, crisp cost 8.6 €cent/kWh calculated using Eq.(5) 
is equal to the most promising value, C2 shown in Table 1. 
A possibility analysis can be performed by setting a 
specific confidence level in the fuzzy cost models in order 
to obtain a possible cost value range. For the case of fuzzy 
capacity factor, k=(0.19,0.23,0.35) shown in Table 1, if two 
specific confidence levels of 0.7, and 0.5 are selected, the 
possible cost range then calculated to be [7.72, 9.14] 
€cent/kWh, and [7.13, 9.51] €cent/kWh, respectively. It 
should be noted that a fuzzier (larger interval) cost is 
obtained as the lower confidence level is adopted. 
 
4.  Policies for promoting the development of 
wind electricity  
Now that the risks of climate change have been 
confirmed and Taiwan has declared the willingness to 
pursue ambitious objectives for producing electricity from 
renewable energy sources. It becomes crucial to take a look 
at the relative efficiency of different incentive schemes 
used by other experienced countries. Such schemes may 
focus on quantities, such as competitive bidding processes 
and quota systems providing for green certificate, or they 
may focus on prices, such as feed-in tariffs. However, 
whatever the system  chosen, the role of the public 
authorities is quite specific: to stimulate technical progress 
and speed up the technological learning processes so that 
ultimately renewable energy technologies will be able to 
compete with conventional technologies, once the 
environmental costs have been internalised[15,16].  
Under other experienced countries performed 
resultants, the financial incentive, such as subsidy or higher 
buyback rate, was the most effective schemes to promote 
the development of renewable electricity[15]. In [3], the 
authors presented an updated overview of current 
promotion measures related to the renewable energy 
utilization under the government regulations, industries 
policy, financial incentives and funding supports in Taiwan. 
Among these promotion measures, it is the most 
notable that the procurement charge of electricity from 
renewable energy will be guaranteed at fixed rate of 
NT$2.0/kwh (approximate 4.2€cent/kWh at exchange rate 
1€:NT$48) buyback by Taiwan Power Company. It should 
be noted that the buyback rate of renewable electricity 
should higher than their generation cost in order to given 
financial sustainability of the wind electricity investors. 
 
5. Conclusions 
This study has derived cost possibility model which 
enable project investors to perform cost evaluation of wind 
investment project. The performances of the proposed 
fuzzy cost models are verified by considering their 
application to a simulation case. It should be noted that the 
conventional crisp cost represents one particular case of 
fuzzy cost evaluation. The crisp values are equal to the 
most promising values of fuzzy cost models. It has been 
demonstrated that the results generated using the proposed 
fuzzy models are consistent with those provided by the 
conventional crisp models. This study also shown that more 
driving factors considered, more uncertain result obtained. 
The results of this present study have confirmed that the 
proposed methods provide readily implemented possibility 
analysis tools for use in the arena of uncertain economics. 
Among incentive schemes performed by other 
developed countries, the financial incentive, such as 
reasonable buyback rate of renewable electricity have been 
proved were be the most effective measure to promote the 
development of wind generation. 
 
6. References 
 [1] Bureau of Energy, MOE Taiwan, Framework of 
Taiwan’s sustainable energy policy, available: 
http://www.moeaboe.gov.tw/, June, 2008. 
 [2] W.T. Tsai, Current status and development policies on 
renewable energy technology research in Taiwan, 
Renewable & Sustainable Energy Reviews, 9(2005), 
237-253. 
[3] W.T. Tsai, Y.H. Chou, Overview of environmental 
impacts, prospects and policies for renewable energy in 
Taiwan, Renewable & Sustainable Energy Reviews, 
9(2005), 119-147. 
[4] T.J. Chang, Assessment of wind characteristics and 
wind turbine characteristics in Taiwan, Renewable 
Energy,  28(2003), 851-871. 
[5] T.S. Chang, Y.L. Tu, Evaluation of monthly capacity 
factor of WECS using chronological and probabilistic 
wind speed data: A case study of Taiwan, Renewable 
Energy, 32(2007), 1999-2010. 
[6] Y.H. Huang, J.H. Wu, A transition toward a market 
expansion phase: Policies for promoting wind power in 
Taiwan, Energy, 34(2009), 437-447. 
[7] J.N. Sheen, Applying fuzzy engineering economics to 
evaluate project investment feasibility of wind 
generation, WSEAS Transactions on Systems, 8(2009), 
501-510. 
[8] Global Wind Energy Council, GWEC, Global wind 
energy outlook 2006 report, Avalable at 
http://www.gwec.net, 2006. 
[9] R. H. Wiser, Renewable energy finance and project 
ownership, Energy Policy, 25(1997), 15-27. 
[10] M. I. Blanco, The economics of wind energy, 
Renewable & Sustainable Energy Reviews, 13(2009), 
1372-1382. 
[11] M. Gokcek, M. S. Genc, Evaluation of electricity 
generation and energy cost of wind energy conversion 
systems in central Turkey, Applied Energy, article in 
press(2009), Doi.10.1016/j. apenergy.2009.03.025. 
行政院國家科學委員會補助國內專家學者出席國際學術會議報告 
 
會議名稱: 第八屆國際科學與工程學會儀表量測電路及系統國際研討會 
8th WSEAS International Conference on Instrumentation, Measurement, 
Circuit and Systems (IMCAS ‘09) 
發表論文題目：Economic Feasibility Evaluation of Wind Generation 
Using Fuzzy Mathematics 
 
報告人姓名：沈鎮南 
服務機構及職稱：正修科技大學電機工程系 教授 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
五月十九日搭乘港龍航空班機，由高雄過境香港飛至研討會舉辦城市-杭州，
後驅車入住於會議地點杭州國際貿易中心附近之黃龍酒店。杭州國際貿易中心位於
著名景點西湖畔。 
本次會議由五月二十日起共三天，本會議由國際科學與工程學會 World 
Scientific and Engineering Academy and Society (WSEAS)主辦，中國浙江工業大學
(Zhejiang University of Technology)及中國計量學院(China Jiliang University)協辦。本
研 討 會 共 聯 合 第 八 屆  WSEAS International Conference on Instrumentation, 
Measurement, Circuit and Systems 、  第八屆  WSEAS Int. Conf. on APPLIED 
COMPUTER and APPLIED COMPUTATIONAL SCIENCE (ACACOS '09)、第九屆 
WSEAS Int. Conf. on ROBOTICS, CONTROL and MANUFACTURING 
TECHNOLOGY (ROCOM'08) 及第九屆  WSEAS Int. Conf. on MULTIMEDIA 
SYSTEMS & SIGNAL PROCESSING 之複合型研討會。研討會盛況空前，共有來自
歐、美、亞、非及中東等地共 250 位專家參與。 
在本人參加之 IMCAS’09 研討會中，計有專題四場演講及 62 篇論文發表。典
禮由大會主席浙江工業大學教授 Dr. Libin Zhang 主持，並邀十多位分別來自歐亞專
分析，4.最佳化及分散系統，5.編碼及安全系統，6.人工智慧與電路系統，
7.電路及系統模擬，8.電路及系統應用。每一議程均吸引數十聽眾。由於
有些議程是同時舉行，因此也只能挑幾個參加。我個人在最佳化及分散系
統、人工智慧與電路系統及電路及系統應用，藉由此次與其他專家學者的
討論，讓我收穫良多，相信有助於未來的教學、研究。 
本人在此主題所發表之論文屬於人工智慧相關之議程。模糊理論已被證實
且應用於人工智慧領域，我所發表論文即針對通用模糊數應用於模糊決策
過程之模糊排序理論分析及其應用於財務決策實務分析。論文之實證雖以
財務決策為範例，但其演算邏輯適用於所有之模糊決策過程。本次研討會
將此理論應用於再生風力發電系統之財務評估，目前已有成果產出，也正
是此篇論文所發表的內容。研究結果顯示風力發電方案僅具有微弱之正向
經濟效益，若欲提高社會對風力發電之參與率，除目前政府對購置設備實
質補助外，應再推出更具吸引力之措施，如加速折舊、稅務抵免、貸款利
息補貼、更優惠之收購電價等政策。 
（二）計算機應用科學 
1.計算機之應用於正規教育，2.分散系統與安全性，3.網路服務及協定，
4.演算法之偵錯技術，5.最佳化方法，6.安全系統編碼及資訊理論，7.
網路資料庫系統，8.網路應用與移動計算，9.人工智慧應用，10.網路擁塞
模式，11.電腦科學應用於倫理道德教育。利用五月二十日及二十一日之
空檔本人參加最佳化方法、人工智慧應用兩個議程之部分論文發表，此兩
議程與我的研究內容有所關聯，在他人發表論文中也吸取一些寶貴經驗。 
（三）機器人控制及製造科技 
1.CAD/CAE/CAM 於現代工程設計，2.分析測試及模擬，3.控制及製造技
術，4.製造量測及演算法，5.規劃及排程模式，6.機器人與人工智慧，7.
應用類神經最佳化技術於機器人之發展。此會議主題偏向機械工程與製造
技術，與本人專長不同，且因時間關係，並未參與此主題之討論。 
（四）多媒體系統信號處理 
1.影像處理及應用，2.微波映像及應用，3.映像編碼，4.人工智慧與多媒
