中文摘要 
本研究提出物件導向的系統分析與設計的方法論，有效率及有系統的來有開
發靈巧製造控制軟體。物件導向的靈巧製造控制軟體開發的流程分成三個階段:
系統分析及驗證、軟體的發展及系統的實現，物件導向派翠網(OPN)及統一塑模
語言(UML)中的類別/物件圖與循序圖，依其特性整合至開發的流程的各階段
中。為了快速及有效地發展控制軟體，將建立各階段中使用工具的轉換規則，其
中包括物件導向派翠網及循序圖的轉換規則，同時，系統中類別/物件中的操作
及屬性也將直接由物件導向派翠網模型中加以定義。希望透過本研究所提出的整
合IDEF0/OPN/UML的方法，能有系統的完成物件導向靈巧製造控制軟體的開發。 
關鍵詞：靈巧製造、物件導向派翠網、統一塑模語言、控制軟體 
Abstract 
In this research, an efficient and systematic methodology for developing an agile 
manufacturing control system is proposed. The proposed development process is 
divided into three stages: 1) system analysis and verification, 2) software 
development, and 3) system implementation. The Object-Oriented Petri-Net (OPN) 
and Unified Modeling Language (UML) are integrated into the corresponding stages 
based on their characteristics. In order to develop the system rapidly and efficiently, 
the transformation rules between the OPN and sequence diagram are established. In 
addition, the attributes and operations for each object are also defined directly from 
the OPN model. The results of the integrated OPN/UML systematically lead to an 
object-oriented control software design for manufacturing control systems.  
Keywords: Agile Manufacturing, Object-Oriented Petri-Net, UML, Control Software 
 
1. Introduction 
In general, the manufacturing system consists of a number of physical equipments 
such as processing equipment, handling equipment and storage equipment, etc. The 
combination of different manufacturing equipments can construct a new 
manufacturing system to respond to the demand changes. Therefore, the 
reconfiguration and integration of disparate equipments in the manufacturing system 
is critical to the success of an agile manufacturing system. The software system 
provides the operational logics and functions for controlling and integrating theses 
equipments. Therefore, be facing the increasingly complicated manufacturing system, 
an efficient and systematic methodology for developing a reusable, configurable and 
scalable manufacturing control system becomes an important issue. 
Due to the characteristics of the graphical representation and mathematical 
In this research, an efficient and systematic methodology for developing an 
object-oriented agile manufacturing control system is proposed. The proposed 
development process is divided into three stages: 1) system analysis and verification, 
2) software development and, 3) system implementation. The OPN and UML are 
integrated into the corresponding stages based on their characteristics. In order to 
develop the system rapidly and efficiently, the transformation rules between the OPN 
and sequence diagram are established. In addition, the attributes and operations for 
each object are also defined directly from the OPN model. The results of the 
integrated OPN/UML systematically lead to object-oriented software design for the 
manufacture control system. 
 
2. The integrated OPN/ UML approach 
The proposed integrated OPN/UML for developing objected-oriented 
manufacture control systems includes three stages: 1) system analysis and verification, 
2) software development and, 3) system implementation. The dynamic behavior of the 
system includes the interaction behavior between the objects and the reaction 
behavior inside the objects. In the behavior analysis and verification stage, the OPN is 
used to model these behaviors, and the properties of PN such as safeness, liveness, 
conservativeness, and reversibility are analyzed. After a desirable and correct OPN 
model is guaranteed, it is transferred into the software development stage. The objects, 
including attributes and operations, and sequence diagrams are developed to represent 
the behavior of the message communication and collaborations between the objects in 
the control system. The final stage is the system implementation. Based on the UML 
model, the engineers can write their own control system software by using 
objected-oriented programming languages such as C or Java. The detailed approaches 
are described as the following sections. 
 
3. System analysis and verification stage 
In this stage, the OPN is introduced to model the dynamic behavior of the 
manufacturing system and is extended for designing the object-oriented control 
system. In an OPN approach, a physical object is defined as a PN object. The dynamic 
behavior of a PN object is characterized by external messages communicating with 
other PN objects and its internal behavior transitions reacting to the external message 
passing. The former is represented by a number of message places for sending and 
receiving messages (i.e. tokens) and message gates for transmitting messages with 
other PN objects. The latter is expressed by the state places and activity transitions 
inside its corresponding PN object. Based on the OPN model, the properties of PNs 
such as safeness, liveness, conservativeness, and reversibility are analyzed. The 
4. Software development stage 
After a desirable and correct OPN model is guaranteed, it is transferred into the 
control software development stage. In the object-oriented software, each object and 
its attributes and operations needs to be defined. In addition, the behavior of the 
message communication and collaborations between the objects also needs to be 
specified. The UML sequence diagram is used to represent the sequence of messages 
that are passed between objects in a defined interaction. 
The dynamic behavior of an object is described in the OPN model of a PN object. 
Thus, the attributes and operations related to the object behaviors can be specified 
from its OPN model. In this research, the transformation rules between the OPN 
model of a PN object and its attributes and operations in a UML object are conducted. 
The transformation rules are defined as follows:  
(1) The state places in the PN object represent the statuses of the object. Thus, the 
state places are mapped into the domains of the state attribute of the object.  
(2) The transitions in the PN object represent the actions of the object. Thus, the 
transitions are mapped into the operations of the object. 
(3) The message places for receiving materials/information or control messages are 
mapped into the operations for the receiving messages that are sent from other 
objects. 
(4) The message places for receiving materials/information or control messages are 
additionally mapped into the domains of message attributes of the object. The 
message attributes describe the contents of messages sent from other objects.  
After the operations of each object are specified, the OPN is transferred into the 
sequence diagram to represent the behavior of the message communication and 
collaborations between the objects in the software system. The transformation rules 
are defined as follows: 
(1)  A PN object is mapped into a UML object in the sequence diagram. 
(2)  The message passing between two objects is mapped into invoking the 
corresponding operation of the receiving message object by the sending message 
object. 
(3) The transitions in the OPN model of a PN object are mapped into the 
corresponding operations inside the UML object. 
After the objects and their associated object diagram and sequence diagram are 
specified, the development process proceeds to the object-oriented programming 
design for the manufacturing control system. The engineers can write their own 
control software using objected-oriented programming languages such as C or Java 
based on the contents specified in the UML model.  
 
MI1-1 MO1-1P1-2
P1-1
T1-1 T1-2 MI5-1 MO5-1P5-2
P5-1
T5-1 T5-2
CI5-1
(a) (b)
MI3-1 MO3-1P3-2
P3-1
T3-1 T3-2
CI3-1
CO3-1
MI4-1 MO4-1P4-2
P4-1
T4-1 T4-2
CI4-1
CO4-1
(c) (d)
P2-1
T2-1
CI2-2
CO2-1
CI2-1
CO2-2CO2-3
T2-2
T2-3
T2-5
T2-4
T2-6
P2-2
P2-3
P2-4
MI2-1
MI2-3
MI2-2
MO2-1
MO2-2
MO2-3
 
Figure4: The OPN models for each equipment object 
The OPN model of each PN object is mapped into its attributes and operations. 
The objects and their attributes and operations are shown in Figure 5. After the 
operations of each object are specified, the sequence diagram is constructed to 
represent the behavior of the message passing and cooperation between the objects in 
the control system. The sequence diagram for the assembly and packaging machine is 
shown in Figure 6. 
 
6. Conclusion 
In this research, an integrated OPN and UML approach for developing an 
object-oriented agile manufacturing control system is presented. The proposed 
development process is divided into three stages 1) system analysis and verification, 2) 
software development and, 3) system implementation. The OPN and UML are 
integrated into the first and second stages based on their characteristics.  Forming the 
UML model directly from the OPN model is crucial from the viewpoint of integration.  
Thus, in this research, the transformation rules between the OPN and sequence 
diagram are established. In addition, the attributes and operations for each object are 
also defined directly from the OPN model. The transformation rules provide a 
straightforward mapping from the OPN to UML. In the proposed developing 
approach, as design specifications change, the needs of changing design specifications 
can be specified or modified in the OPN model and then implemented by following 
the rest of development process. The results of the integrated OPN/ UML 
systematically and efficiently lead to an object-oriented software design for the 
manufacture control system.  
Journal of Computer Integrated Manufacturing, 18(2-3), pp. 107-121, 2005. 
[4] Liu, H., Fung, Richaard Y.K., and Jiang, Z., Modelling of semiconductor wafer 
fabrication systems by extended object-oriented Petri nets, International Journal 
of Production Research, 43(3), pp.471-495, 2005. 
[5] Miyagi, P. E., Villani, E., and Maruyama, N., Modeling of hybrid supervisory systems using 
UML and Petri Nets, 8th IEEE International Conference on Emerging Technologies and Factory 
Automation, Antibes-Juan les Pins, 15-18 Oct., Vol.2, pp.149-158, 2001. 
[6] Wang, L. C., Object-oriented Petri Nets for modelling and analysis of automated 
manufacturing system, International Journal of Computer Integrated 
Manufacturing Systems, 26(2), p111 – 125, 1996. 
[7] Young, K.W., Piggin, R., and Rachitrangsan, P., ”An object-oriented approach to 
an agile manufacturing control system design”, The International Journal of 
Advanced Manufacturing Technology, 17, pp. 850-859, 2001. 
 
 2
 
前言 
 第三屆國際建模、計算、模擬、最佳化化及其應用學術研討會為建模與模擬國際研討會
(International Conference on Modeling and Simulation, ICMS)及資訊與計算國際研討會
(International Conference on Information and Computing)的結合研討會。此研討會是由 Journal 
of Information and Computing Science 及 World Journal of Modelling and Simulation 及 World 
Academic Press for publishing 等單位所支助一年一度的年度盛會，迄今已第三屆。第二屆在英國
曼徹斯特大學舉辦，今年則在中國大陸無錫江南大學舉辦。本屆國際會議分為 ICMS 及 ICIC 研討會
進行論文邀稿，其中 ICMS 共收錄論文 100 篇，並由 World Academic Press for publishing 編成論
文集出版。有關 ICMS 收錄論文主題整理如<表 1>。大會會議議程主要包括開幕式、專題演講、主題
報告、論文口頭發表與海報發表、閉幕式等，大會與其他專題討論會議程摘錄如<表 2>。 
 
<表 1>論文主題 
 
論文主題 
應用數學 
數學建模、教學與應用 
優秀建模作品 
計算數學及其應用 
工程數學、生物數學 
模擬與仿真 
生物信息學與生物統計 
科學與工程計算 
離散數學與數理邏輯 
統計概率統計與應用 
金融數學、工程管理 
運籌、規劃與應用 
 
最優化技術與算法 
非線性計算力學 
有限元計算 
系統科學與系統工程 
控制理論與應用 
CAD/CAE/CAM 
計算幾何與計算機圖形
學 
信息安全技術 
遺傳算法與應用 
軟計算 
動態系統 
數值與非數值算法 
 
普適計算 
圖像處理、模式識別 
人工智能 
軟件工程 
虛擬實現 
自動化 
逆向工程 
生態、農林模型與仿真 
紡織服裝建模與仿真 
數學軟件的應用 
仿真軟件的應用 
 
 
 
<表2> 第三屆電腦科技與工程及控制技術多重國際研討會議程 
 
5-Jun-10 
ICIC 2010(Oral Presentation)   Meeting Room 5,Changguangxi Hotel 
Chairman: Dr.Frank Schulz 
08:00-08:15 
(c0147) Design for Axis-angle Virtual Instrument Based on Labwindows/cvi Platform 
Prof. Qichuan Yuan,Jiansu Institute of Automation Jiansu, China 
08:15-08:30 
(C0084SLA_fulfillment) Towards Measuring the Degree of Fulfillment of Service Level Agreements 
Dr.Frank Schulz, SAP Research，Germany 
 4
12:20-13:30 Lunch 
13:30-17:30 Poster Presentation (Changguangxi Hotel) 
18:00 Conference Dinner 
 
參與心得 
一、參加會議經過 
 
ICMS 年會，即國際建模、計算、仿真、優化及其應用學術會議是國際相關學科的系列年會，為科
學技術、工程應用，包括應用數學、計算數學、工程數學及其應用領域的科技人員提供一個學術交流
與建立友誼的平台。會議特別鼓勵來自工程、技術、工業、經濟、管理、金融、農林、工商、教育、
衛生、體育等領域的科研工作者、工程師和研究生交流具有鮮明應用特色的論文和成果（包括優秀數
學建模作品、仿真軟件應用作品）。此行由筆者、本系古東源教授及環球王嘉興老師，於台灣時間 6
月 2號早上 8點由學校出發，搭乘早上 12:30 分前往杭州的飛機，再由杭州轉搭巴士到無錫，隨即搭
乘計程車前往會議舉行地點—江南大學黃廣溪賓館，參加 6月 3日至 6月 6日為期 4天的學術會議。
本次筆者之論文發表場次被安排在會議第一天下午的第二場 (14:30-15:00; Conference Center)，發
表題目為”以模糊多目標理論為基礎之彈性製造系統動態派工策略”，此次發表場地為江南大學會議
中心，當時段只有一場報告，參與的人數有近百人聆聽，增加無形的壓力。報告後有多位學者對論文
內容提出相關的問題討論，收穫良多。 
     此次會議中建模、計算、仿真、優化及其應用相關議題之論文篇數豐富，每天皆有相關議題研究
發表，筆者分別依各人喜好斟酌選取場次進場聆聽，並利用此次機會與中國及國外學者交流，發覺此
一領域研究之多樣與重要性，並期勉自己要更加努力，增加與國際研究學者有更多的研討機會。會議
期間除參與部分議程外，大會於6月6日安排與會的學者參觀上海舉辦的世界博覽會，參觀來自世界各
國的風情文化的介紹，但是唯一遺憾的是，參觀的人數過多，無法一一地參觀每一個國家的展覽館。 
 
二、與會心得 
    本次為筆者第一次出席ICMS年會，此研討會為Journal of Information and Computing Science 及
World Journal of Modelling and Simulation 及World Academic Press for publishing等單位所支
助一年一度的年度盛，故吸引相當多國際學者與相關業界參與，能躬逢其盛，非常榮幸與愉快，加上
此次會議舉辦地點在大陸的無錫及舉辦單位精心安排的上海世界博覽會，更增添參與的吸引力，因為
可以藉此飽覽昔日之古城生活風貌及品味中華文化，更能參觀來自世界各國的風情文化。會議中透過
論文發表與國外學者相互討論與交流，除提升與豐富筆者之研究視野外，也間接感受到國際傑出學者
的研究精神與敬業態度，更重要的是改變筆者原先對兩岸的觀感。參與國際研討會皆能使筆者更加自
我勉勵，明瞭國內外研究方向之差異與優劣勢，這才是參與國際會議最重要的收穫。此次筆者於會議
上發表論文，發表題目為”以模糊多目標理論為基礎之彈性製造系統動態派工策略”，在會議中，不
同國際學者給予正面肯定與相關建議，筆者將其歸納如下：1)分析彈性製造系統中各個決策點的派工
策略，2)並找出影響系統績效的變數，3) 經由模擬的資料，建立各派工法則的模糊歸屬函數，4)推論
出各派工法則在不同變數的狀態下，對於不同目標的影響程度，5)評估各派工法則的優先程度，選擇
出優先權最佳的派工法則，以提升系統的效率及穩定性。 
建模、計算、仿真、優化及其應用相關研究已經是先進國家非常重視的領先議題，透過參加此次
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
