2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
鑽石修整器在化學機械拋光之磨耗腐蝕特性及修整品質之研究
Study of wear-corrosion properties and dressing quality of diamond
dressers in CMP
計畫編號：NSC 96-2221-E-231 -008
執行期限：96 年 8 月 1 日至 97 年 7 月 31 日
主持人： 譚安宏 清雲科技大學機械工程系
共同主持人：
計畫參與人員：
一、摘要
There are three types of conditioners discussed, they
were manufactured as follows: a) bonded by
electroplating nickel (ED), b) brazing Ni-Cr alloy (BD)
and c) DLC film deposition on a brazed conditioner
(BDD). After a wear corrosion test, the brazing
process shows no diamond fall-out when compared with
the electroplating process. The denser distribution of
diamond grits causes a lower coefficient of friction and
a lower weight loss of counterpart, and this in turn
causes the ring rotating but less ploughing action during
the wear-corrosion test. A good clearance between
each diamond grits benefits the penetration against
counterpart, and indeed scrapes (ie conditions) more
efficiently. DLC film deposited on the conditioner
surface of brazed Ni-Cr alloy conditioner BDD exhibits
the best overall performance in terms of a higher
removal rate, a lower wear loss and a better corrosion
resistance when compared with conditioners ED and
BD.
Keywords: Wear, corrosion, diamond conditioner,
CMP
一、摘要
鑽石修整器應用於化學機械拋光中拋光墊的修
整，已有很長的一段時間。當半導體的線寬逐年下
降，相對地，在晶圓表面平整性以及拋光效率的要
求更是嚴苛。然而，在化學機械拋光的過程當中，
鑽石修整器扮演一個維持拋光墊工作效率的重要角
色，在充滿研磨漿的環境下，鑽石修整器必須要有
優良的抗腐蝕能力，以確保不因腐蝕而產生表面剝
離，進而影響受拋光晶圓的平整性。由於類鑽薄膜
良好的化學鈍性及高硬度特性，因此廣泛用於保護
底材的用途。在本文中，我們採用物理氣相沉積法
在修整器上沉積一層類鑽薄膜並且與沒有類鑽薄膜
的修整器，進行動態極化測試、交流阻抗分析以及
掃描式電子顯微鏡觀察腐蝕後的表面型態。 結果指
出，經過動態極化測試，鍍上類鑽薄膜的鑽石修整
器可得到較優良的抗蝕能力； 交流阻抗分析中，可
得到較大的阻抗值，腐蝕後鍍層表面型態也較完整
並無明顯遭受孔蝕與鍍層剝落的跡象。
關鍵詞：磨耗，腐蝕，鑽石修整器，化學機械拋光
二、計畫緣由與目的
Chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) is one of
the important processes in the fabrication of integrated
circuits (IC). The process contains a large number of
variables and interactions between the polishing pad,
slurry and conditioner. In the CMP process, if the
polishing pad is absent of a pad regeneration process (ie
conditioning), the properties of polishing pad will
deteriorate by loading with debris during polishing [1].
This will lower removal rate and increase
nonuniformity of the wafer surface. Conditioners play
a role in CMP process and are used to regenerate the
pad surface by breaking up glazed areas in order to
maintain the surface which optimizes the polishing
ability of the pad.
CMP pad conditioners were typically made by
bonding diamond grits on a flat substrate. Some authors
have been investigating this field for many years [2-4].
Huang et al. [5] reported that the diamond grits were
brazed with different techniques and alloys, which
improved the structure of the bonding interface between
diamond and matrix. Scott et al. [6] indicated that
increasing of the chromium concentration reaching to
0.037 at.% elevate the bonding strength between
diamond and copper-base alloy, this concentration
yields a bonding strength of maximum value. Nothing
has been mentioned about the application effects of
wear-corrosion for diamond conditioners. However,
since the CMP process is a combination of chemical
reaction and mechanical abrasion behaviour, when the
conditioner is used in an in-situ process, the
wear-corrosion behaviour is of concern.
Diamond-like carbon (DLC) films have been
widely used for protective fields for a long time. This
is because of their chemical inertness, low coefficient of
friction and good wear resistance. Kim et al. [7]
deposited DLC film on 316L steel for biomedical
4in and around the open circuit potential (OCP).
This provided more information about corrosion
resistance of diamond conditioners as used in a CMP
process. A graph of real and imaginary impedance
magnitudes for each frequency is called Nyquist plots,
the clear and not intricate semicircle of ED and BD are
shown in Fig. 4. These circle diameters are known as
the charge transfer resistance of the test system; thus,
the bigger the diameter of the semicircle, the higher
charge transfers resistance and the better corrosion
resistance [9]. Based on EIS test result, the ED shows
better corrosion resistance than BD. After DLC
coating on BD, it is also found that the electric charge
did not accumulate on the BDD surface; and therefore
shows the largest charge transfer in Fig. 4. This result
proves that the DLC coating improved the corrosion
resistance of BD over that of one without DLC coating.
4.3 Wear-corrosion properties
From Fig. 5, the potentio-dynamic curve, ED and
BDD show higher Ecorr and lower current density than
BD. This result was identical with the previous
experiment in the EIS test of section 3.2. The lower
current density indicates lower corrosion rates were
found in conditioners ED and BDD compared with BD.
However, the current density increases rapidly when the
BDD curve passes through 0.4 V of potential. It may
be described that, firstly the corrosion occurred in the
loose surface of the BDD which depended on a raised
potential. Above the critical pitting potential of
approximate 0.4 V, the pitting corrosion appeared on
the original loose surface of BDD and enlarged
progressively with raised potential. It is therefore
determined that it is critical for the DLC coating to be
applied in a strict environment. Our subject is to
accelerate the tribo-electrochemical behaviour for
simulating long term service of conditioner. Under
real CMP conditions, the Ecorr maintains for open circuit
potential. However, no pitting occurs as long as the
open circuit potential remains below the critical pitting
potential. Our data provides comprehensive
wear-corrosion properties for process of CMP reference,
but for the CMP process, there is no additional potential
applied on conditioning process so this does not create
a problem, therefore it could be predicted that the
ranking of wear-corrosion resistance of three type
conditioners in the CMP process as BDD = ED > BD.
In wear-corrosion test, coefficient of friction with
time and with the potential of conditioners ED, BD and
BDD were shown in Fig. 6. The average of frictional
coefficients of ED, BD and BDD were 0.058, 0.151 and
0.147, respectively. The weight loss of the counterpart
Al2O3 ring and conditioners is shown in Fig. 7. The
frictional coefficients of the ED conditioner and weight
loss of Al2O3 ring were lower than that obtained with
the BD and BDD conditioners. The diamond grits
distribution of the ED conditioner is denser than that of
the BD and BDD conditioners. In contrast to BD and
BDD, with more diamond grits per unit area, the
clearance between diamond grits is relatively narrow,
causing more contact surface with the Al203 ring.
When the wear test is carried out, the conditioner is
pressed by the applied load; the diamond grits with
denser distribution will block the penetration depth
against the Al2O3 ring which in turn causes the ring
rotating but less ploughing action between the interface
between conditioner and its counterpart. It also
reflects the frictional coefficients and weight loss of the
counterpart; the conventional sliding wear also
appeared on the interface between the ED conditioner
and the Al2O3 ring surface, both frictional coefficients
and weight loss of Al2O3 ring of the ED conditioner are
lower than those of the BD and BDD conditioners. In
other words, the low frictional coefficient caused a
lower weight loss of Al2O3 ring. But since the object
of conditioner is to scrape the debris and texture the
polishing pad; it should demonstrate conditioning
ability, even if the counterpart was the Al2O3 ring.
The frictional coefficients of the BD conditioner and
weight loss of the Al2O3 ring were increased due when
there was appropriate clearance between diamond grits.
This phenomenon indicated that the diamond grits
scraped the counterpart efficiently, and caused a higher
weight loss of the counterpart than ED conditioner. In
the BDD conditioner, although the DLC overlapped the
BD surface, the frictional coefficient and weight loss of
the counterpart were similar to BD. This indicates that
the DLC coating didn’t block the conditioning process,
and moreover acted to form a corrosion barrier on the
BD surface. This is a positive improvement for
brazing conditioner when applied in an in-situ CMP
process. Overall, the conditioners BD and BDD
exhibit a higher frictional coefficient, which results in a
higher weight loss of Al2O3 ring. This in turn means
that the BD and BDD conditioners can scrape and
texture the polishing pad more efficiently in a CMP
process.
4.4 Worn surface observation
Fig.8. shows the worn surface of conditioners after
the wear-corrosion test. In Fig. 8a, a serious diamond
peeling phenomenon was observed on the ED
conditioner surface. Although the pure electroplating
nickel matrix was more corrosion resistant than the
brazed Ni-based matrix, the brazing process was
performed in such a manner so that no diamond grits
were uprooted from the matrix after the wear corrosion
test, as shown in Fig. 8b. Huang et al. [5] indicates
that the Ni-based brazing alloy transformed diamond
into graphite and that took place between the matrix and
diamond grits. The graphite phase could be the
weakest in the bonding structure. In fact, it was also
indicated that, when brazing diamond grits using a
similar Ni-based alloy, the interface bonding strength
was reduced [10]. However, in this study, the bonding
strength of BD was strong enough to hold the diamond
grits, even if violent pitting corrosion caused the
dissolution of Ni-based matrix after the wear-corrosion
test. If there is no matter peeling of diamond grits or
dissolution of metal matrix, it must be reflected in its
weight loss. From Fig. 7, the ED conditioner exhibits
the highest weight loss compared with the BD and BDD
conditioners. The highest wear loss of the ED
conditioner was due to the weak mechanical entrapment
and bonding strength [11], which also caused diamond
grits uprooting and peeling of the entire matrix. In a
CMP process, diamond grit fall out from a metal matrix
may embed itself in the polishing pad and cause deep
6Fig. 2. Typical Raman curve of DLC on conditioner
BDD.
Fig. 3. Surface profile of conditioners: (a) ED, (b) BD
and (c) BDD.
Fig. 4. Nyquist plots of conditioners immersed 50 hours
in CMP slurry.
Fig. 5. Potentio-dynamic curves of conditioners in CMP
slurry.
Fig. 6. Coefficient of friction with time and with the
potential of conditioners ED, BD and BDD.
Fig.7. Weight loss of conditioners and Al2O3 ring after
wear-corrosion test.
出席國際會議心得報告
單位名稱 清雲科技大學
機械工程系
職稱教授 姓名譚安宏
研習名稱 2007歐洲防蝕年會(EUROCORR 2007)
研習時間 2007/09/9~13 地點 德國/飛來堡(Freiburg) 主辦單位
The European
Corrosion
Congress
發表論文題目
(英文) Optimization of wear-corrosion properties of diamond like
carbon films using filtered cathodic arc deposition
一、與會重要心得
歐洲國際腐蝕(Eurocorr)研討會的悠久歷史，會員除了以歐洲盟國外；
包括英、法、德、義、西葡等等，美國及亞洲各國都有學者與會，因此年
度大會規模相當大，本次大會中心所提供的活動相當多，除了技術論文發
表討論外，展覽會場。大會主題主要以腐蝕防制(Corrosion Control)技術為
主，而涵蓋了各種工業的應用；包括核能工業、汽車工業、石化工業、航
太工業、海洋工程等等數十項的腐蝕防蝕議題，每一項議題之下又有很多
講題，因此活動形式也相當多元，包括：一般的口頭報告及討論、海報展
示、及圓桌會議討論等。因此參與此外會議，讓我了解歐洲國家對於腐蝕
科技研究的重視，也牽涉到各種工業的需求，我們雖為海島國家四面環海，
然而國人對於腐蝕的了解往往僅止於鋼鐵的生銹，事實上，經由廣泛的研
究證實腐蝕(Corrosion)所帶來的經濟上損失佔去工業國家總生產值的
3~4%，此重大損失包括建築物、工廠、電子與重機械等的安全與效率的
可靠度的問題。我國工業的發展正是需要注入腐蝕防蝕科技的專業知識，
才能提高製造的品質，節省材料的浪費，增加工程的使用壽命，進而能提
昇國際化的競爭能力，尤其正當我們正在興建核四廠，未來核能材料的腐
蝕破壞更是重要的研究課題。
二、論文發表情形
論文在大會被安排為海報論文發表，此次能在國科會補助部份經費
下，參與2007歐洲防蝕年會，主要除了能獲得腐蝕專業研究知識的拓廣
