 
 
 
中文摘要 
 
由 DVB 計畫所開發的地面數位視訊廣播（DVB-T）(ETSI EN 300 744) 技術，伴隨
著日益成長的數位電視市場，已經成為一重要的地面數位電視系統的標準。DVB-T 採用
了編碼正交分頻多工（COFDM）技術作為核心，使其能在地面嚴峻環境中提供高頻寬使
用效率與韌性，滿足大量視音訊資料傳輸的應用。最近，基於 DVB-T 的 COFDM 核心，
DVB 計畫又新開發了手持式數位視訊廣播（DVB-H）(ETSI EN 302 304) 技術，作為對由
電池提供電源的手持式裝置提供廣播服務的傳輸技術標準。為了降低功率消耗與提升移動
接收性能，DVB-H 的設計中加入了許多新的特色。其中一項被採用以降低功耗的技術，
稱為時間切片（Time-slicing）。在該技術中，資料以突發式（burst mode）型態傳送，並被
接收端週期性地接收。允許接收端只在對應的突發區間接收資料，其餘時間則進入休眠狀
態。與傳統的 DVB-T 系統相比較，這樣基於時間切片的串流技術可以讓 DVB-H 接收機
節省許多功耗。 
快速同步機制與功耗管理機制的發展是目前與 DVB-H 基於服務之時間切片串流有
關的兩項主要的研究議題。每當接收機由休眠狀態準備開始接收即將來到的突發式資料，
接收機就必須執行重新同步的程序以確保資料都能被正確地接收，以致於接收機的實際開
啟時間包含了突發區間的時間長度與同步所需時間。因此，DVB-H 接收機的同步時間必
須被最小化，才能完全地享用時間切片機制所提供的好處。另一方面，我們必須注意到時
間切片機制所提供的是節省功耗而非功耗管理。對一個由電池驅動的裝置而言，其所攜帶
之電力是一直在隨時間變化。大多數的人應該都會同意當欣賞電視節目的途中遇到電池沒
電會是一種惱人的經驗。因此，當要向行動接收一族推廣數位廣播服務時，一種彈性的功
耗管理機制與節省功耗具有同等重要的意義。 
在這份研究成果報告中，我們利用 DVB-H 系統中散佈性響導訊號（Scattered Pilots）
的時-頻相關特性，開發了一種快速且具韌性的同步機制；同時，我們也透過應用層/表現
層、資料鏈結層與實體層之間的跨層設計，研發了一種基於可調性視訊編碼（SVC）的彈
性功耗管理機制。部份研究成果已於國際研討會進行發表。 
 
 
關鍵詞： 解調變、手持式數位視訊廣播（DVB-H）、地面數位視訊廣播（DVB-T）、行動
電視、正交分頻多工（OFDM）、功耗管理、可調性視訊編碼（SVC）、同步、時間切片 
I
1 Introduction
Digital TV (DTV) broadcasting, after many years of development and promotion, has
become a reality in a lot of places of the world. Replacing analog channels and programs
with the corresponding digital renditions is only one feature of DTV broadcasting. As
many other industries such as the internet and mobile communications, DTV broadcasting
is looking for its way to be integrated with other fields of technologies and services. One
of the attempts is to make possible the ability of receiving and decoding DTV signals via
a handheld device so that consumers can enjoy DTV services anytime anywhere. The
new European Digital Video Broadcasting-Handheld (DVB-H) standard [1–4] is exactly
established for this purpose.
There are, of course, many differences between receiving a DTV program from a domes-
tic DTV set and from a personal handheld device. For example, the display of the former
is typically of larger size than that of the latter which is also power-limited. Among others,
power consumption is one big issue to the handheld devices because a handheld device
gets its power from an energy limited battery instead of a wall outlet. Therefore, a power
efficient process is required for DTV broadcasting to handheld devices.
In the case of Digital Video Broadcasting-Terrestrial (DVB-T) system [5] where all
services (or programs) within one channel are uniformly multiplexed based on capacity di-
vision multiplexing (CDM) into a single transport stream (TS) that is then modulated and
transmitted, the receiver has to demodulated the received signal all the time even though
viewers usually choose to watch only one service at a time. Obviously, receivers in the
DVB-T system always suffer from a big waste of power due to the above arrangement for
steaming. To reduce the average receiver power consumption, the DVB-H system intro-
duces a scheme based on time division multiplexing (TDM), known as “time-slicing”, for
multimedia streaming. This time-slicing scheme enables a receiver to stay active only a
fragment of the time, while receiving bursts of a requested service, as sketched in Figure 1.
Each burst carries information only for one single service using a higher system capacity
compared to the static bit rate required for that service. Once the user has chosen a service,
say Service 3, the receiver only processes the data in the corresponding burst duration and
becomes inactive the rest of the time. This time-slicing based streaming thus allows DVB-H
receivers saving much power when compared with the DVB-T system.
Nevertheless, there are two issues associated with the DVB-H’s service-based time-slicing
mechanism. The first one is the synchronization issue. Whenever the receiver prepares to re-
ceive a coming burst of data from an inactive state, it has to perform the re-synchronization
procedure such that the data can be received correctly. As the total on-time includes not
only the burst duration but also the synchronization time, the synchronization time of the
DVB-H receiver has to be minimized in order to fully exploit the benefits of the time-slicing
mechanism. On the other hand, it should be noted that time-slicing provides the solution
of only power saving rather than power management. Thus, the other issue with DVB-H’s
service-based time-slicing mechanism is a lack of flexibility for power management. For a
1
Kmin = 0
Kmax = 1704 for 2K mode
Kmax = 3408 for 4K mode
Kmax = 6816 for 8K mode
Frequency-dimension
T
im
e
-d
im
e
n
s
io
n
Symbol 0
Symbol 1
Symbol 2
Symbol 3
Symbol 4
Symbol 5
Symbol 6
Symbol 7
:
:
TPS Pilots and Continual Pilots between Kmin and Kmax are not indicated
Scattered Pilot
Data Carrier
,l k
R : received signal on the kth subcarrier of the current lth OFDM symbol
FIGURE 1 (PRIOR ART)Figure 2: Positions of SPs defined by DVB-T/H systems.
are SPs, wherein p is an integer that takes all possible values greater than or equal to zero,
provided that the resulting value for k does not exceed the valid range [Kmin, Kmax]. Kmax
is 1704 for the 2K mode, 3408 for the 4K mode and 6816 for the 8K de as defined by
DVB-T/H standards.
The positions of SPs within an OFDM symbol have to be detected by receivers before
performing channel estimation/equalization. Conventionally, receivers detect the positions
of SPs (i.e., SP synchronization) indirectly via Transmission Parameter Signaling (TPS)
decoding based OFDM frame synchronization [6] as the scattered pilot position (SPP) is
directly related to the OFDM symbol number within an OFDM frame. It should be noted
that the TPS decoding is considerably time-consuming and typically takes 68 ∼ 135 OFDM
symbol-time (TOFDM) that is about 50% ∼ 70% of the synchronization time associated
with the total synchronization procedure (where 140 ∼ 200 TOFDM is required for carrier,
timing and frame synchronization). In particular, for DVB-H time-slicing purposes of burst-
mode transmission, the SP synchronization has to be performed repeatedly by receivers
whenever switched on. The receiver may prepare for the required frame synchronization
time even longer than the data burst duration of interest. Thus, the above conventional SP
synchronization scheme is especially inefficient in the sense of power saving for receiving
the time-sliced DVB-H signals.
2.2 Power Management Issue
To give an example of what the power management system would do, let us consider the
following scenario: a user uses a handheld device to tune in to a sport program in the
DVB-H channel. Unfortunately, the device detects that there is not much power left for
showing the whole program if a full demodulation and decoding process is to be performed.
The device then decides to change to a low power mode under which only part of the
3
Correlation Set 1 Correlation Set 2 Correlation Set 4Correlation Set 3
Kmin = 0
Kmax = 1704 for 2K mode
Kmax = 3408 for 4K mode
Kmax = 6816 for 8K mode
Frequency-dimension
T
im
e
-d
im
e
n
s
io
n
Symbol l−4
Symbol l−3
Symbol l−2
Symbol l−1
Symbol l
Symbol l+1
Symbol l+2
Symbol l+3
:
:
1
( )T l
3
( )T l
2
( )T l
4
( )T l
TPS Pilots and Continual Pilots between Kmin and Kmax are not indicated
Scattered Pilot
Data Carrier
FIGURE 3 (PRIOR ART)
Figure 3: Schwoerer and Vesma’s time correlation based SP synchronization scheme.
performed for the four possible SPPs along the time-dimension and both the current and
the last fourth OFDM symbols have to be accessed for each correlation set. That is, this
scheme inherently assumes quasi-static channel condition for 5 OFDM symbols. The four
correlation sets Ti(l), i ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4} are given as follows:
Ti(l) =
∣∣∣∣∣
pmax∑
p=0
Rl,12p+3(i−1) ·R∗l−4,12p+3(i−1)
∣∣∣∣∣ , i ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4}, (1)
where pmax = 141, 283 and 567 for 2K, 4K and 8K modes, respectively [1,5]. Theoretically,
the SPs are correlated, while the data carriers are not. Thus, a correlation magnitude
maximum is found for the sub-position pattern of the current SPP as
SPPT (l) = argmax
i
{Ti(l)}, i ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4}, (2)
and the time needed for SP synchronization is reduced to 5TOFDM.
Part B. Power Based SP Synchronization
Figure 4 illustrates the power based SP synchronization scheme proposed by Schwoerer
[8]. As can be observed from Figure 4, four sets of power-sum are performed for the four
possible SPPs and only the current OFDM symbol needs to be accessed for each set of
power-sum. The four power-sum sets Ei(l), i ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4} are given as follows:
Ei(l) =
pmax∑
p=0
∣∣Rl,12p+3(i−1)∣∣2 , i ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4}. (3)
5
. . .
t
. . . . . .
Source coding
. . .
Pictures
Frame Frame FrameFrame
Bitstream
Figure 5: The pictures from a video service are digitized and coded into frames of informa-
tion bits which are juxtaposed into a bitstream.
which the FGS source coding is combined with synchronized code division multiple access
(S-CDMA) to provide a bandwidth management mechanism for a DOCSIS 2.0 [12] based
cable TV system. In the issue of power management for DVB-H, a similar concept is
employed in power management such that a bitstream of scalable source coded frames can
be appropriately truncated when not much power is left for processing the whole information
in each frame. Consider direct applications of this concept in DVB-H systems. The fact
that DVB-H’s physical layer carries source bitstream in OFDM symbols suggests that the
receiver may save more power just by ignoring the OFDM symbols which carry the part of
information bits in each frame the application layer decides not to process.
Figure 6 shows an example of DVB-H system with the burst of service 3 being further
divided into three time intervals. In a typical DVB-H application, each of the small intervals
will be filled by a number of OFDM symbols. Specifically, the power management becomes
very simple provided one can manage to have the OFDM symbols in different time interval
carrying scalable source coded information bits of different significance. That is, if at one
time the system decides only to process one third of the scalable source coded information
bits, the OFDM symbols coming within the last two time intervals (i.e., carrying least
significant data) will just be ignored. Therefore, the receiver can become inactive earlier at
the end of the first small interval as in Figure 6 with significant power saving throughout
the signal processing parts of radio frequency (RF), demodulation, channel decoding, all
the way up to source decoding.
At a first glance, since the source is coded with FGS coding, each frame and time
interval should be divided into arbitrarily smaller granularity than just one third of the
total. However, by taking the characteristics of OFDM technology into account, the truth
is that the smallest possible granularity is confined to be the amount of data carried in one
OFDM symbol defined by the DVB-H system, that is, one small time interval occupied by
only one OFDM symbol.
7
4 The Proposed Approaches
4.1 Scattered Pilot Synchronization Issue
The proposed time-frequency correlation based scheme is based on the following observa-
tions (see Figure 2):
• The positions of SPs repeat every four OFDM symbols;
• The SPP shifts four subcarriers (along the frequency-dimension) over adjacent OFDM
symbols;
• The closest SPs in the time-frequency dimension have highest correlation.
Inspiringly, to release the requirement on quasi-static channel condition while keeps the
advantage of correlation gain, we would like to exploit the correlation features of the SPs
along the time-frequency dimension. To do this, the pseudo-random values of individual
SPs should be carefully compensated for achieving desired correlation results. Thus, with
two adjacent OFDM symbols, four sets of correlators as shown in Figure 7 are performed
for the four possible SPPs. The four correlations Ci(l), i ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4} are given as follows:
Ci(l) =
∣∣∣∣∣
pmax∑
p=0
(Rl,12p+3iP12p+3i) · (Rl−1,12p+3(i−1)P12p+3(i−1))∗
∣∣∣∣∣ , i ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4}, (5)
where Pj = ±1 with j ∈ SSP = {0, 3, 6, 9, ..., Kmax} (a set of all subcarrier indices associated
with all SPPs) is the sign of the known value of the SP on the jth subcarrier defined by the
DVB-T/H standard. Note that Pj’s required by computing the correlation Ci(l) are used
for SPs compensation such that (Rl,j+3Pj+3) and (Rl−1,jPj) could be positively correlated
if Rl,j+3 carries an SP. Then, a clear distinct correlation magnitude maximum is found for
the sub-position pattern of the current SPP as
SPPC(l) = 1 + (argmax
i
{Ci(l)} mod 4), i ∈ {1, 2, 3, 4}. (6)
Compared to Schwoerer and Vesma’s time correlation based SP synchronization scheme
with a synchronization time equal to 5TOFDM [7], only two adjacent OFDM symbols are
required by the proposed approach which thus benefits not only synchronization speed
but also robustness to Doppler effects (due to less stringent requirements on the channel
coherence time). On the other hand, as compared with Schwoerer’s power based SP syn-
chronization scheme with a synchronization time equal to only one TOFDM [8], the proposed
approach exhibits robustness against noise effects (due to the correlation gain) at the cost
of slightly longer synchronization time (i.e., one additional TOFDM).
Furthermore, another advantage of the proposed scheme over both the time correla-
tion and power based schemes is that the proposed scheme is free from the correlation-
interference caused by Continual Pilots (CPs) defined in DVB-T/H where the CPs are
continuously located at the same subset SCP of subcarriers over all OFDM symbols with
SCP ⊂ SSP.
9
Partition stream 1
Partition stream 2
Partition stream 3
From frame m–1
From frame m
From frame m+1
Partition stream N
Figure 9: Formation of the partition streams.
granularity to be 1/N of a frame, each frame will be partitioned into N equal segments,
with each segment indicated by frame index m and segment index n as p(m,n). To form a
partition stream all segments of the same segment index n are extracted from their frames
and orderly put together to form a partition stream also indexed with the same index
n, as shown in Figure 9. Repeating the process for n = 1, 2, ..., N will therefore end up
with N partition streams. For example, partition stream 3 is composed of all portions
indexed by p(m, 3) from different video frames. Since all frames are FGS coded and equally
partitioned, the index n of a partition stream exactly indicate its significance in this specific
video application, with higher number meaning less significance. Note that, since frames
are equally partitioned, all partition streams will have the boundary of segments of the
same index coinciding in time. This is important to certain aspect of synchronization that
is to be described later.
After the partition streams are formed, each partition stream will be independently
coded by channel coding, interleaved and modulated. This is to ensure that information of
different significance is not mixed together especially by the interleaving process. When it
comes to loading the sub-carriers of the OFDM symbols, a very important rule has to be
followed is that all the complex symbols (such as 16-QAM signals) loaded on sub-carriers
of one OFDM symbol come from the same modulated partition stream so that each OFDM
symbol carries information of the same significance. OFDM symbols of different significance
will then fill up the burst duration assigned for the service, with OFDM symbols of higher
significance placed closer to the beginning of the burst duration.
Furthermore, since OFDM symbols of less significance are used to enhance quality to
the corresponding OFDM symbols of higher significance of the same frame, the numbers
of OFDM symbols associated with different significance within a burst duration should
be the same in order to ensure correct (video) frame synchronization. Assume that the
total number of OFDM symbols to be sent in one burst duration is equal to Y . The burst
duration shall be first equally divided into N time intervals, and then the nth time interval
will be filled up with a group of Y/N OFDM symbols resultant from the nth partition
11
−5 0 5 10 15
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
C/N (dB)
M
PR
Proposed
TCB
PB
Figure 11: Simulation results for the performances of the proposed time-frequency correla-
tion based scheme (‘Proposed’), the time correlation based scheme (‘TCB’) and the power
based scheme (‘PB’), respectively, under static AWGN channel model with various C/N.
in which
i′true =
{
4, for itrue = 1,
itrue − 1, for itrue = 2, 3, and 4. (9)
The MPRs for the time correlation based and power based schemes are defined in a simi-
lar way with (C
(n)
i (l), C
(n)
i′true
(l), i′true) in (8) replaced by (T
(n)
i (l), T
(n)
itrue
(l), itrue) and (E
(n)
i (l),
E
(n)
itrue
(l), itrue), respectively. It should be noted that the higher the MPR value the more
robust the performance of the SP synchronization scheme, wherein MPR < 1 implies at
least one erroneous detection of the SPPs exists over the 1000 independent runs.
Figures 11 and 12 plot the MPRs associated with the time-frequency correlation based
(‘Proposed’), time correlation based (‘TCB’) and power based (‘PB’) schemes for static
AWGN channel model with various carrier-to-noise ratio (C/N) and typical urban channel
model with various Doppler frequencies (with C/N = 5 dB), respectively.
One can observe from Figure 11 that both the proposed scheme and the time correlation
based scheme are uniformly more robust than the power based scheme due to the correlation
gain. In addition, under higher C/N, the proposed scheme outperforms the time correlation
based scheme because the later suffers from the correlation-interference caused by CPs that
dominates the performance for low noise case.
On the other hand, it can be observed from Figure 12 that the power based scheme is
as expected insensitive to Doppler effects and that the proposed scheme is more robust to
Doppler effects than the time correlation based scheme. Specifically, the performance of the
time correlation based scheme is significantly degraded for Doppler frequency larger than
60 Hz due to violation of the quasi-static channel condition.
In summary, the proposed scheme outperforms the time correlation based and power
based schemes in view of robustness against both Doppler and noise effects.
13
References
[1] DVB, Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB); Transmission system for handheld terminals,
ETSI Standard EN 302 304.
[2] J. Henriksson and P. Talmola, “Coach potato: Meet the standard that will take televi-
sion out of the living room and into the mobile phone,” IEE Communications Engineer,
vol. 2, no. 4, pp. 28-32, Aug./Sept. 2004.
[3] D. Lenton, “The small screen: TV to mobile devices,” IEE Review, vol. 49, no. 10, pp.
38-41, Oct. 2003.
[4] M. Kornfeld, “DVB-H - the emerging standard for mobile data communication,” Proc.
IEEE International Symposium on Consumer Electronics, Reading, UK, Sept. 1-3,
2004, pp. 193-198.
[5] DVB, Digital Video Broadcasting (DVB); Framing structure, channel coding and mod-
ulation for digital terrestrial broadcasting, ETSI Standard EN 300 744.
[6] M. Speth, S. Fechtel, G. Fock and H. Meyr, “Optimum receiver design for OFDM-
based broadband transmission-Part II: A case study,” IEEE Trans. Communications,
vol. 49, no. 4, pp. 571-578, Apr. 2001.
[7] L. Schwoerer and J. Vesma, “Fast scattered pilot synchronization for DVB-T and
DVB-H,” Proc. 8th International OFDM Workshop, Hamburg, Germany, Sept. 24-25,
2003.
[8] L. Schwoerer, “Fast pilot synchronization schemes for DVB-H,” Proc. Wireless and
Optical Communications, Banff, Canada, July 8-10, 2004, pp. 420-424.
[9] ISO MPEG, Scalable Video Model 3.0, ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 29/ WG 11 doc. no. n
6716, Oct. 2004, Palma de Mallorca, Spain.
[10] W. Li, “Overview of fine granularity scalability in MPEG-4 video standard,” IEEE
Trans. Circuits and Systems for Video Technology, vol. 11, no. 3, pp. 301-317, Mar.
2001.
[11] F.-C. Chen and S.-C. Ma, “FGS over S-CDMA by Stream-Code Partition,” IEICE
Trans. Communications, vol. E87-B, no. 2, pp. 350-353, Feb. 2004.
[12] CableLab, Data-Over-Cable Service Interface Specifications, Radio Frequency Interface
Specification, SP-RFI v2.0-101-011231, DOCSIS 2.0 standard.
15
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
□ 可申請專利  □ 可技術移轉                                      日期：99年1月14日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：用於手持式數位視訊廣播之快速同步與彈性功耗管理 
計畫主持人：陳慶永 
計畫編號：NSC 97-2218-E-327-003-         學門領域：通訊 
技術/創作名稱 同調 OFDM 解調器之快速同步 
發明人/創作人 陳慶永 
本技術提出同調正交頻率分割多工（OFDM）解調器之快速同步方
法，尤適用於歐規數位視訊廣播-地面（DVB-T）、數位視訊廣播-
手持式（DVB-H）與日規數位視訊廣播-地面（ISDB-T）系統等接收
端之解調器之同步機制設計。所採用的技術是同時藉由前述系統規
格中在時域與頻域上規律性擺置的散佈性響導訊號之相關性解析
出後級通道估計與等化所需的必要參數資訊，無須依賴較耗時的傳
輸參數信息解碼程序，因而縮短同步過程所需時間。 
技術說明 An apparatus for synchronizing pilots contained in symbols received 
by a receiver in a multicarrier transmission system and a method 
thereof are provided. Frequency or Time-frequency correlation-based 
scheme, with exploitation of time-frequency correlation characteristics 
of the pilots, may be used for identifying the positions of the pilots in 
frequency or time and frequency dimensions consisting of received 
symbols. The proposed apparatus is applicable to the receivers in 
coherent OFDM based systems such as DVB-T, DVB-H and ISDB-T. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
本創作之應用領域涵蓋採用同調解調設計的正交頻率分割多工技
術之數位通訊與數位廣播系統之接收端設計。具體的例子如歐規地
面數位視訊廣播與手持式數位視訊廣播以及日規地面數位視訊廣
播接收機等。 
技術特點 
使用同調正交頻率分割多工系統中的散佈性響導訊號在時域與頻
域上之相關性解析出後級通道估計與等化所需的必要參數資訊，使
用此技術可大幅縮短同步時耗並免於習知技藝易受都普勒效應影
響的弊端。 
推廣及運用的價值 
 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
知通訊概念與技術。下午則參加由 Emad Alsousa 所主持的 OFDM I Session，探討 
OFDM 相關的信號處理與其變形結構，特別是當中有關 PAPR reduction 的兩篇論文與
我們正在進行的研究有關。之後，便參與了由 J. Roberto Boisson de Marca 所主持的 
Multimedia Networks II Session，在當中發表了自己的論文 (見所附相片)，揭露可調適源
分割串流用於彈性功耗管理的一個概念，並與在場與會者討論到可能的硬體實現且獲得肯
定。此外，chair man Roberto也表示他感到這份投影片的準備非常用心。 
4月 8日 (週三) 早上參加Mark Flanagan所主持的 Equalization Session，與大家一
起討論低複雜度等化器的各種設計技巧，下午則參加  Anatoli Platonov 所主持的 
Cross-layer Design and Adaptive Communication Systems Session，討論通訊系統中跨層設
計的方法。最後則參加了由 Gunther Auer 所主持的 Interference Mitigation Session，探討
各式利用多天線或利用響導訊號設計的機制消除干擾的技術。 
 
二、與會心得 
與全世界無線通訊與網路的專家齊聚一堂，共同討論最新無線通訊網路技術及其發
展方向，受益良多。除此之外，也認識了許多來自不同國家的學者，交換意見與研究心
得，對於未來的研究方向上，有很大的幫助。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
以下是此行所攜回之資料。 
資料名稱 內容 
IEEE WCNC 2009 Final Program 研討會完整議程 (紙本) 
Tutorial: Mobile-to-Mobile Fading 
Channels 
Mobile-to-Mobile Fading Channels課程講義 (紙本) 
IEEE WCNC 2009 Proceedings 
CD 
研討會會議論文集電子檔 (光碟) 
 
 
  
that the solution be directly applied to the DVB-H system,
the concept provided in this paper can be considered to be
incorporated with little modification, mostly implementation
issues, to enhance maturity of the DVB-H standard.
II. TIME-SLICING FOR POWER SAVING IN DVB-H
Unlike the CDM based DVB-T system, the DVB-H system
uses a time-slicing mechanism over the data-link and physical
layers to put different services on different time slots. As
shown in Figure 1, each time slot is called a burst and carries
information only for one single service using a higher system
capacity compared to the static bit rate required for that
service. Once the user has chosen a service, say Service 3,
the receiver only processes the data in the corresponding burst
duration and becomes inactive the rest of the time. This time-
slicing based streaming thus allows DVB-H receivers saving
much power when compared with the DVB-T system.
However, the problem with DVB-H’s service-based time-
slicing mechanism is a lack of flexibility for power man-
agement. For a battery driven device, the energy it carries
varies over time, implying that it could be able to show a
complete one-hour TV program when the battery is fully
charged, or could have energy left just for showing only half
the program. In the latter case, the battery could be out of
power when the user is only half way into the program.
Most people might agree that this is an annoying experience
for watching TV programs. A flexible power management
mechanism, therefore, is as important as power saving when
it comes to promoting digital broadcasting services for mobile
receptions.
III. PARTITION STREAM BASED POWER MANAGEMENT
To give an example of what the power management system
would do, let us consider the following scenario: a user uses a
handheld device to tune in to a sport program in the DVB-H
channel. The total time period of a scheduled program can
be extracted from such as an electronic program guide or an
electronic service guide. Unfortunately, the device detects that
there is not much power left for showing the whole program if
a full demodulation and decoding process is to be performed.
The device then decides to change to a low power mode
under which only part of the process is performed so that the
user can finish the game without interruption. The price is,
of course, the compromise of the service quality. Certainly,
it is expected that users would be happier this way than
having the program terminated in the middle of the game. The
key belief is that people using handheld devices for enjoying
broadcasting services are interested in getting the real-time
information rather than high quality entertainment. Therefore,
trading service quality for a complete coverage of the service
time is usually acceptable as long as the quality is not degraded
to a point where the information is not legible.
The current time-slicing systems such as the DVB-H system
does not provide a mechanism for such a flexible power
management functionality. Obviously, this flexibility has to
rely on an efficient scalable source coding technology, which
. . .
t
. . . . . .
Source coding
. . .
Pictures
Frame Frame FrameFrame
Bitstream
Fig. 2. The pictures from a video service are digitized and coded into frames
of information bits which are juxtaposed into a bitstream.
happens to be an important ongoing project carried out in the
ISO MPEG organization [6]. It is therefore our objective to
provide such a solution of flexible power management in the
concept of making use of scalable multimedia coding over a
service-based time-slicing scheme.
A. Time-sliced Fine Grain Scalable Coded Services
An analog video generally consists of many motion pictures
occurring consecutive in time. After sampling, digitizing and
source encoding to the video, each picture’s information will
be digitized and compressed into a (video) frame of informa-
tion bits. A bitstream is a stream of information bits consisting
of many frames juxtaposed in time, as shown in Figure
2. A scalable source coding, such as MPEG’s Fine Grain
Scalable (FGS) coding [7], puts more significant (important)
information bits within a frame closer to the beginning of
the frame so that when a frame is truncated from the end the
remaining part can still be decoded to restore a video content to
its best possible quality. This feature has been widely utilized
in bandwidth management. One example is given by Chen
and Ma [8] in which the FGS source coding is combined
with synchronized code division multiple access (S-CDMA) to
provide a bandwidth management mechanism for a DOCSIS
2.0 [9] based cable TV system. In this paper, a similar concept
is employed in power management such that a bitstream of
scalable source coded frames can be appropriately truncated
when not much power is left for processing the whole in-
formation in each frame. Consider direct applications of this
concept in DVB-H systems. The fact that DVB-H’s physical
layer carries source bitstream in orthogonal frequency division
multiplexing (OFDM) symbols suggests that the receiver may
save more power just by ignoring the OFDM symbols which
carry the part of information bits in each frame the application
layer decides not to process.
Figure 3 shows an example of DVB-H system with the burst
of service 3 being further divided into three time intervals. In
a typical DVB-H application, each of the small intervals will
be filled by a number of OFDM symbols. Specifically, the
power management becomes very simple provided one can
This full text paper was peer reviewed at the direction of IEEE Communications Society subject matter experts for publication in the WCNC 2009 proceedings.
Partition stream 1
Partition stream 2
Partition stream 3
From frame m–1
From frame m
From frame m+1
Partition stream N
Fig. 5. Formation of the partition streams.
is composed of all portions indexed by p(m, 3) from different
video frames. Since all frames are FGS coded and equally
partitioned, the index n of a partition stream exactly indicate
its significance in this specific video application, with higher
number meaning less significance. Note that, since frames
are equally partitioned, all partition streams will have the
boundary of segments of the same index coinciding in time.
This is important to certain aspect of synchronization that is
to be described later.
After the partition streams are formed, each partition stream
will be independently coded by channel coding, interleaved
and modulated. This is to ensure that information of different
significance is not mixed together especially by the interleav-
ing process. When it comes to loading the sub-carriers of the
OFDM symbols, a very important rule has to be followed
is that all the complex symbols (such as 16-QAM signals)
loaded on sub-carriers of one OFDM symbol come from
the same modulated partition stream so that each OFDM
symbol carries information of the same significance. OFDM
symbols of different significance will then fill up the burst
duration assigned for the service, with OFDM symbols of
higher significance placed closer to the beginning of the burst
duration.
Furthermore, since OFDM symbols of less significance are
used to enhance quality to the corresponding OFDM symbols
of higher significance of the same frame, the numbers of
OFDM symbols associated with different significance within
a burst duration should be the same in order to ensure correct
(video) frame synchronization. Assume that the total number
of OFDM symbols to be sent in one burst duration is equal
to Y . The burst duration shall be first equally divided into N
time intervals, and then the nth time interval will be filled up
with a group of Y/N OFDM symbols resultant from the nth
partition stream. It is, of course, not difficult to manipulate
the burst duration and choose the value of N so that Y/N
is an integer. Figure 6 illustrates an example in which there
are 21 OFDM symbols taken from three partition streams to
be sent in a burst. (Of course, in a typical case of DVB-H
applications, there could be hundreds of OFDM symbols in
one single burst.) Since there are only three partition streams,
the burst duration is divided into three equal intervals. The first
seven OFDM symbols, in this case, are formed from partition
stream 1 assigned with highest significance level. Similarly,
the next and the last seven OFDM symbols are formed from
partition stream 2 with middle significance level and partition
stream 3 with least significance level, respectively. This simple
example shows that receivers will have three options for power
management. More generally, with a preprocessing of forming
N partition streams, receivers will have N options for power
management.
D. Issue on Delay
With this preprocess of forming partition streams, each
OFDM symbol has to wait for more number of frames than
that of the case without preprocessing in order to fully load
its own data sub-carriers. In a live broadcasting service, this
essentially introduces delay. If OFDM symbols are transmitted
right at the time it is formed, the amount of delay would be
significant as the number of partition streams is considerably
large. Fortunately, in a DVB-H system, OFDM symbols asso-
ciated with a service are sent in bursts which already results
in burst delay. Since the preprocessing is performed on the
data within a burst, there will, therefore, be no extra delay
introduced by the proposed preprocess.
E. Partition Streams with Unequal Protection
In the previous subsections it is assumed that all partition
streams are protected by certain channel coding with an
equal coding rate. However, as each partition stream has been
assigned with a particular significance level, it is possible (and
also expected) that different partition streams can be unequally
protected by the channel coding according to their significance
levels. More specifically, the partition stream with a higher
significance level could have a lower code rate than those
with lower significance levels. If different code rates are to
be employed, it is advised that the length of segments from
each frame shall be decided proportionally to the associated
code rates. For example, if each frame is to be partitioned into
two segments (N = 2), with the first segment using code rate
R1 = 1/2 and the second segment using code rate R2 = 2/3,
then ratio of the length of the two segment may be:
length of segment 1 : length of segment 2
= R1 : R2 =
1
2
:
2
3
= 3 : 4
This will ensure equal length of the partition streams after
channel coding and thus ensure proper timing when it comes
to placing OFDM symbols in a burst.
IV. CONCLUSIONS
The philosophy of scalable source coding based flexible
power management depends on granularity of the information
transmitted for a service of interest. We have presented that
the granularity of the information inherent in direct applica-
tions of FGS coding over time-slicing in a DVB-H system
is actually limited by the features of modulation employed
in the physical layer, such as the OFDM symbol capacity.
This full text paper was peer reviewed at the direction of IEEE Communications Society subject matter experts for publication in the WCNC 2009 proceedings.
