resilience. However, the solutions proposed so far 
still suffer from poor coding efficiency. Therefore, 
in this project, we provide a MDC solution to meet 
the requirements of video streaming applications. 
Hierarchical B-frame prediction structure (called 
hierarchical B) is a technique in which B frames are 
arranged in a hierarchical way with two-way 
prediction so that coding efficiency can be 
increased. In this project, we would like to build 
our MDC method on it. 
There are two goals that we have achieved in this 
project: 1. Design a coding efficient MDC methods 
based on hierarchical B architecture, 2. Design error 
concealment methods based on hierarchical B 
architectures. In the first goal, we focus on the 
design of MDC methods which improve coding efficiency 
by using hierarchical B and hybrid segmentation 
methods, where the hybrid segmentation means to 
combine several segmentation techniques (e.g., 
spatial, temporal, or frequency segmentations) on a 
single video stream. In the second goal, we focus on 
designing error concealment methods which combines 
different techniques and take hierarchical B 
structure, network conditions, and video content 
characteristics into considerations to improve the 
error resilience of the proposed MDC methods. 
英文關鍵詞： Multiple description coding (MDC), hierarchical B 
pictures, spatial splitting, temporal splitting, 
duplication. 
 
1 
 
報告內容 
1.前言 
    Multiple description video coding (MDC) is one of the approaches for reducing the detrimental 
effects caused by transmission over error-prone networks. In this project, a MDC model based on 
hierarchical B pictures is proposed to optimize the tradeoff between coding efficiency and error 
resilience. The model produces two descriptors by applying different MDC techniques such as 
duplication, spatial splitting and temporal splitting on the different frames of video sequences, 
taking into account unequal importance of frames at different hierarchical levels. Duplication (high 
redundancy) is for key frames; spatial splitting (medium redundancy) for reference B frames; and 
temporal splitting (low redundancy) for non-reference B frames. As a consequence, better error 
resilience can be achieved at high coding efficiency.  
2.研究目的 
During data transmission, packets may be dropped or damaged, due to channel errors, congestion, 
and buffer limitation. Moreover, the data may arrive too late to be used in real-time applications. In 
the case of transmission of compressed video, this loss may result in a completely damaged stream 
at the decoder side. For real-time applications, since retransmission is often not acceptable, error 
resilience (ER) and error concealment (EC) techniques are required for displaying a pleasant video 
signal despite the errors and for reducing distortion introduced by error propagation. 
 Several ER methods have been developed, such as forward error correction (FEC), intra/inter 
coding mode selection, layered coding, and multiple description coding (MDC). This project is 
concerned with MDC. Multiple description coding is a technique that encodes a single video stream 
into two or more equally important sub-streams, called descriptions, each of which can be decoded 
independently. Different from the traditional single description coding (SDC) where the entire 
video stream is sent in one channel, in MDC, these multiple descriptions are sent to the destination 
through different channels, resulting in much less probability of losing the entire video stream (all 
the descriptions), where the packet losses of all the channels are assumed to be independently and 
identically distributed. Due to effectiveness in providing error resilience, a variety of researches on 
different MDC approaches had been proposed. These approaches can be intuitively classified 
through the stage where it split the signal, such as, frequency domain [1], spatial domain [2], and 
temporal domain [3]. In our previous works [4], a hybrid MDC method has been proposed, which 
applies MDC first in spatial domain to split motion compensated residual data, and then in 
frequency domain to split quantized coefficients. The results in [4] show that, by properly utilizing 
more than one splitting technique, the hybrid MDC can improve error-resilient performance. 
 Although a variety of MDC approaches have been proposed, most of them were built upon 
3 
 
4 研究方法 
4.1 Hierarchical B-picture Coding 
In hierarchical B-picture prediction framework, the frames at lower hierarchical levels can be 
used as reference for the frames at higher hierarchical levels. Due to this dependency, the decoding 
quality of a frame strongly depends on the quality of the frames at its previous hierarchical level of 
the same GOP. The lower level at which a frame is lost, the more frames that will be corrupted. As 
an example in Fig.1(a), the loss of an I or P picture will directly affect 7 other frames, while the loss 
of a level-1, level-2, and level-3 B-pictures will directly affect 4, 2, and 0 other frames, respectively. 
Based on this observation, the proposed MDC aims at providing unequal redundancy for the 
hierarchical B pictures, taking into account the unequal importance of the frames at different 
hierarchical levels.  
The proposed MDC model is illustrated in Fig.2, where a non-dyadic hierarchical B-picture 
structure with 4 levels is used. We refer to the I/P frames at the  lowest hierarchical level as key 
frames; the B frames at intermediate levels as reference B frames (RB frames) because they are used 
as reference; and the B frames at the highest level as non-reference B frames (NRB frames) because 
they are not used as reference. As the Fig.2(a) shows, we apply duplication (denoted by D) on key 
frames for providing the highest error resilience; spatial-splitting (S) on RB frames for modest error 
resilience; and temporal-splitting (T) on NRB frames for the lowest error resilience. The resulting 
two descriptions are illustrated in Fig.2(b), where the rectangles with a missing corner represent 
incomplete frames (due to spatial splitting). It can be seen that, due to different MDC methods 
applied, the frames at different hierarchical levels have unequal redundancy to provide robustness 
again errors. Assuming that description D0 is lost; the lost key-frames (0 and 12) can be easily 
reconstructed at decoder by using the same frames in description D1; the partially lost level-1 and 
level-2 frames (3, 6 and 9) can be estimated by using the information of their counterparts in 
description D1; while the lost level-3 frames (1, 4, 7 and 10) which are not in D1, can only be 
estimated by using other frames. The estimation methods will be discussed later in next section.  
  
  (a) Original sequence            (b) The resulting two descriptors 
Fig. 2 Proposed MDC based on hierarchical B-picture prediction. 
4.2 Estimation of Loss Description 
Taking advantages of different MDC methods applied on the frames at different hierarchical 
5 
 
whole-frame loss, each block in the lost frame is recovered based on temporal correlation since all 
the neighboring blocks are also lost. We refer to the pictures whose pixels are used to predict the 
missing pixels as the data prediction frame (DF) and the pictures whose block motions are used to 
predict the motion of the missing blocks as the motion prediction frame (MF). In our method, DF 
can be different from MF. Besides, the proposed methods adopt bi-directional motion-compensated 
signal to recover missing pixels. Thus, we need to select two DFs: a backward DF and a forward 
DF (denoted by          and         , respectively); and two MFs: a backward MF and a forward MF 
(denoted by           and          , respectively) for a lost picture. Since the data correlation among pictures 
involved tends to considerably weaken as the temporal distances among these pictures become 
longer, for a lost picture, it is better to choose the nearest pictures in display order to serve as its 
DFs. However, to serve as DFs requires that these pictures are decoded earlier than the lost picture. 
Based on the hierarchical B-picture structure, for a lost picture, we select its reference frames in 
backward and forward directions as its          and         , respectively.  
As for MFs, they are selected differently from DFs. In case of frame loss, even though the frames 
later than the lost frame (in decoding order) cannot be decoded before the lost frame is recovered, 
the motion information of these frames is obtainable. Therefore, the MFs need not to be located 
earlier than the lost picture in decoder order. Instead of using temporal direct mode (TDM) 
technique which adopts reference pictures as MFs, we choose pictures at higher levels because 
these pictures are temporally nearer to the lost picture in display order. As an example in Fig.4(a), if 
the frame 6 is lost, we will select its reference frames (0 and 12) as its DFs, but frames 3 and 9 as its 
MFs. In Fig. 4(a), if frame 3 is lost, we will select its reference frames 0 and 6 as DFs, but frames 2 
and 4 as MFs. This selection policy is applied to all frames except NRB frames which are at the 
highest level within the hierarchical structure. For NRB frames, the MFs are selected from their 
reference frames at the previous level of the lost picture. Fig.4(b) illustrates the case of NRB frame 
loss, where frame 8 is the lost frame. In this case, frames 6 and 9 will serve as the DFs, and frame 9 
(which is at previous level of frame 8) will serve as the MF. Similarly, if frame 10 is lost, its DFs 
will be frames 9 and 12, and its MF will be frame 9. Specifically, for the lost picture Ft
l
 at time 
instant t with hierarchical level l, we select its           and           as 
           
    
                   
     
                       
                     
         (2) 
           
    
                    
     
                        
                     
         (3) 
where lbase denotes the base level (key-frame level) and ltop 
the top level (NRB-frame level).      
    
and     
    denote Ft
l’s nearest backward and forward frames at level l+1, respectively.      
    
denotes the Ft
l’s reference frame at level l-1. 
7 
 
Fig. 5 Temporal estimation using bi-directional predicted signal. 
5 結果與討論 
In this section, the proposed MDC model is examined. To see the effects of different MDC 
techniques adopted in our model, experiments were conducted for three variations of proposed 
MDC model: proposed (S), proposed (S+T), and proposed (S+T+D). The proposed (S) stands for 
the method which adopts spatial splitting only. It applies spatial splitting in the residual domain for 
all frames, regardless of hierarchical levels. The proposed (S+T) stands for the method which 
adopts two kinds of splitting: temporal splitting for top-level frames (i.e., NRB frames) and spatial 
splitting for others. The proposed (S+T+D) stands for the full version of proposed method, which 
adopts temporal splitting for top-level NRB frames, spatial splitting for RB frames, and duplication 
for base-level key frames. We compare our three methods with Zhu et al’s method [6] which 
generates two descriptors by duplicating the original sequence and then coded by hierarchical B 
structure with staggered key frames in the two descriptions. This approach is characterized by that 
each frame at level 0, 1, or 2 of description 1 will be at  level 3 of description 2 and vice versa, 
resulting in two fidelities of each frame in two descriptions. Two variations, default_QP and 
modified_QP, in their literature are adopted in our comparison. The default_QP follows the QP 
assignment rules specified in JSVM11[7] as described in Section II, while the modified_QP 
modifies the QPs of top-level frames to 51 in order to reduce bitrate redundancy. The results in [6] 
show that rate-distortion performance of center decoder can be improved remarkably by 
modified_QP in comparison to default_QP. In this section, their packet-loss performances are also 
examined. Table II lists the error concealment methods used by these MDC methods, where D’ 
means the error concealment method in [6], where in case of one-descriptor loss, the lost frame is 
recovered by the duplicated version in the other description. D’ is distinguished from D because the 
duplicated frame is at the same level in our approach, but at a different level in Zhu et al’s approach. 
Since Zhu et al. did not provide solutions for two-description loss, our temporal estimation method 
is adopted for fair comparison. The five MDC methods are implemented based on H.264 reference 
software, JM 16.0[8]. 
All the methods encode video sequences using hierarchical B-picture structure of four levels to 
generate two descriptors. The three proposed methods adopt a non-dyadic structure which allows 
temporal splitting on NRB frames as depicted in Fig.2; while Zhu et al.’s two methods adopt a 
dyadic structure which ensures that each frame has two different fidelities in the two descriptions.  
 
5.1 Packet Loss Performance 
The five MDC methods were examined in a packet-loss scenario where various packet-loss rates, 
ranging from 0% to 20%, are adopted. We use one packet for each frame of each descriptor. Fig.6 
shows the results for four CIF sequences, Foreman, Coastguard, Mobile, and News. The R2D in 
9 
 
(S+T+D) can be recovered without quality loss once they are lost. Since key- frames have the 
maximum number of frames depending on it, the duplication of key-frame can suppress error 
propagation effectively and improve performance substantially. We will discuss the error 
propagation issue further in later section. To summarize, the overall results demonstrate that, by 
adopting spatial splitting, temporal splitting and duplication for the frames at different levels, the 
proposed (S+T+D) optimizes the trade-off between bit-rate redundancy and error-resilient 
capability and therefore, achieves the best performance among the five MDC methods. 
 
5.2 Error Propagation Effects 
This section presents the frame-by-frame comparison of error propagation effects using different 
MDC methods. The effects of error propagation were examined for a single frame loss occurring at 
different hierarchical levels of Mobile sequence at QP=28. We use one packet for each frame in 
each descriptor and the error propagation results of a single packet loss at different hierarchical 
levels are shown in Fig.7, where we renumber the selected frames according to decoding order. 
Figs.7(a-c) show the results of the frame loss occurring at levels 0, 1 and 2, respectively. In Fig.7, 
y-axis denotes PSNR degradation and x-axis the frame number (in decoding order). From Fig.7(a) it 
is observed that almost all the methods suffer from severe error propagation for the P-frame loss, 
except the proposed (S+T+D). This is due to that the proposed (S+T+D) duplicates key-frames to 
 
(a) Frame loss at level 0 (the 2
nd
 frame is lost) 
 
(b) Frame loss at level 1 (the 3
rd
 frame is lost)  (c) Frame loss at level 2 (the 4
th
 frame is lost) 
Fig.7 Frame-by-frame comparison. 
11 
 
[7] J. Reichel, H. Schwarz, and M. Wien, Joint Scalable Video Model 11 (JSVM 11), Joint Video 
Team, Doc. JVT-X202, Jul. 2007. 
[8] H.264/AVC Ref. Software – JM, http://iphome.hhi.de/ suehring/tml/. 
[9] W. J. Tsai and Hao-Yu You, “Multiple description video coding based on hierarchical B pictures using 
unequal redundancy,” To appear in IEEE Trans. on Circuits and Systems for Video Technology. 
 
計畫成果自評 
 本計畫的目標是設計一架構於 Hierarchical B 上的多重描述演算法，並結合不對等保護
的觀念使整體 rate-distortion 效果能達最好。我們已依計畫目標完成方法的設計及相
關的實驗，而研究成果也已被國際期刊 IEEE Trans. on Circuits and Systems for Video 
Technology 所接受[9]。 
 完成 Hierarchical B 架構上多重描述切割法(MDC)的技術之研究 
Hierarchical B 架構並不同於一般的編碼架構，其 Hierarchical 的特色會影響或限制
各種多重描述切割法的整體表現。本計畫植基於此架構上，依據不同階層的特色與不同
切割法的特性，設計出最佳的混合式 MDC，主要是結合空間域、時間域和複製法的切割
法。其中，「複製法」因能提供最完善的 error resilient，我們將此方法套用在最需
要保護的 key frame level，來減少傳輸錯誤時所帶來嚴重的 error propagation。「空
間域切割」法適用於一般的 reference frame，所以我們將此套用於中間層的 RB-frame，
藉其優越的錯誤補償機制，發揮空間域切割法的最佳效益。「時間域切割」法是套用在
最高層的 frame，因為在傳輸錯誤發生時，位於最高層 frames 可從其他層的 frames 取
得眾多 motion vectors 來做為錯誤補償的估算，更提升了補償之後的視覺品質。實驗結
果顯示，我們所提出的混和式 MDC將不同的切割法對應到 hierarchical B 架構下不同的
層級中，都能發揮他們的最佳效益，因此，和其他的方法比起來都有較好的效果。 
 完成不同 MDC切割法之 redundant bit-rate關係的實驗與分析 
Redundant bit-rate 是用來比較各種 MDC切割法優劣的衡量標準之一，在實驗結果中，
我們發現用於一般編碼方式的 MDC切割法，套用在 Hierarchical B 架構上後，redundant
的比例並不能如同先前未套用在 Hierarchical B 架構上所能達到的比例，甚至有很大
的落差。因此，若只使用單一種切割法(如:時域切割法、空間域切割法、複製法)，在
Hierarchical B 架構上是非常不適用，而混合式的多重描述切割法則能改善此問題，降
低 redundant的比例，達到一般 MDC所要求的標準。  
 完成 hierarchical B 架構上，空間域錯誤隱藏方法之研究 
在經過不同方法的實驗之後，我們選用 Bilinear Interpolation 的方法來補償空間域
(Residual)錯誤的部分，Bilinear Interpolation 方法是取鄰近的資訊做雙向線性預
測，因空間域上鄰近的 Pixel有些許的相關性，以棋盤狀的方式來做雙向線性預測的錯
誤隱藏方式，充分利用了鄰近相關的特性，而預測出較準確的 pixel value。從實驗結
果中發現，此方法不需要過度複雜的運算，運算時間少又能提供不錯的品質。 
 完成 hierarchical B 架構上，時間域錯誤隱藏方法之研究 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/08/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 架構在階層式雙向預測影片上的多重描述編碼法之設計
計畫主持人: 蔡文錦
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-009-139- 學門領域: 影像處理 
研發成果名稱
(中文) 架構於Hierarchical B上的多重描述視訊編碼法
(英文) Multiple description coding method based on Hierarchical B-picture structure for video 
streaming applications
成果歸屬機構
國立交通大學 發明人
(創作人)
蔡文錦,游灝瑜
技術說明
(中文) 本技術的內容主要包含一個架構在階層式視訊編碼(hierarchic B coding) 上的
混合式多重描述編碼法 (hybrid MDC)，其主要是結合複製法、空間域、和時間
域的切割法來產生兩個描述檔(descriptor)。其中，「複製法」是用在最需要保
護的key frame level，把完整的key frame (I or P frame) 複製一份讓兩個描
述檔各自擁有一份以提供最完善的error resilience。「空間域切割」法是用於
hierarchic B 中間層的可作為參考用的 B-frames (稱 RB-frame)，主要是把 
frame 上的點重排後分成兩部份，分別給兩個描述檔，當有一個描述檔遺失時，
可藉由空間域錯誤補償機制，提供中度的error resilience。「時間域切割」法
是套用在hierarchic B 最高層的不作為參考用的 B-frames (稱 NRB-frame)，
主要是交錯地將不同NRB-frame 分給不同描述檔， 因此，當有一個描述檔遺失
時，必須用不同張的 NRB-frame 藉由時間域錯誤補償機制來加以重建資料。
(英文) Based on Hierarchical B-picture prediction structure, our multiple description coding 
(MDC) generates two descriptors by applying duplication for key frames (i.e., I or P-
frame) which require the highest error resilience; apply spatial-splitting for Reference-B 
frames (RB-frame) which require modest error resilience; and apply temporal-splitting 
(T) for non-reference B- frames (NRB-frame) which require the lowest error resilience. 
With the proposed MDC, different estimation methods are designed for different frames. 
In case of one-descriptor loss in key frame level, the lost key frames can be found in the 
other descriptor; in case of one-descriptor loss in RB-frame level, the loss RB-frame can 
be estimated by using spatial estimation method; in case of one-descriptor loss in NRB-
frame, the loss NRB-frame can be estimated by using temporal estimation method.
產業別 資訊服務業
技術/產品應用範圍 視訊串流應用如網路電視
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
可轉移至視訊串流應用如網路電視的產業, 提供其know-how.
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計畫的研究成果已為頂級國際期刊 IEEE Transactions on Circuits and 
Systems for Video Technology 所接受, 因此具國際影響力, 而所設計的方法
可實際用於視訊串流的應用中, 改善錯誤容錯能力, 因此具有產業的應用性. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
