2行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告
細胞電生理微流元件研發
計畫執行起訖: 95.08.01 至 96.07.31
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-002-339
國立台灣大學應用力學研究所
主持人: 胡文聰
中文摘要
本計畫闡述利用二氧化碳雷射作用在玻璃
表面之簡單的程序，藉著玻璃熱回熔的效
應形成ㄧ沙漏狀的孔洞，適合用於細胞電
生理之研究。利用此法製程之微孔洞表面
平順、圓滑、無殘片，且極具活性。此外，
本工作也藉著兩向流的電腦模擬計算來闡
明玻璃熱回熔的效應。由細胞與玻璃間的
緊密電阻值量測之結果顯示，此種二氧化
碳雷射製程之沙漏狀孔洞非常適合用來量
測離子通道之訊號；PC-12 細胞株的電阻
值成功的達到 1.9 G 歐姆，而 CHO 細胞株
的平均電阻值亦可以達到 200M 歐姆。此方
式製作之微孔洞可與微流體系統整合，應
用於單細胞或細胞陣列以片膜箝制技術量
測細胞膜離子通道。
ABSTRACT
This work presents a simple process of
reflow of melted glass by CO2 laser to form
an hourglass-shaped aperture for cellular
electrophysiological study. The fabricated
aperture proves to be smooth, circular,
debris-free, and freshly activated.
Two-phase flow simulation illuminates
details of the reflow process. Resulted seal
resistance quality is well-suited to measure
ion-channel activities; seal resistance for
PC-12 cell of 1.9 GΩ was achieved, and
typical resistance of 200 MΩ for Chinese
hamster ovary cells. This approach can be
integrated with microfluidics in a single cell
patch or array configuration.
INTRODUCTION
Ion channels are protein macromolecules
that modulate specific ions across the cell
membrane. Function disorders of ion
channels are related to various diseases;
hence ion channels serve as significant drug
targets. Neher and Sakmann1,2 performed
seminal work on patch-clamp technique and
set the standard on electrophysiology study
for decades. However, the intensive labor
and low throughput hinder its application on
drug screening purpose.
Recently, chip-based electrophysiological
microfluidic devices have been
demonstrated in several approaches. In all
cases, a tight seal between cell membrane
and substrate of the cell-trapping aperture is
vital to allow measurement of ion channel
current at pico- to nano-ampere range.
Quartz3,4, glass5, and silicon6-11 based
micro-openings were fabricated by standard
FIG. 1 Illustration of laser drilling process
used. Glass substrate is melted and
vaporized due to high intensity, Gaussian
distributed CO2 laser beam (TEM00). The
reflow of melted glass forms the hourglass
feature discussed here.
4To simulate the reflow process,
Navier-Stokes equation (via software from
Comsol Multiphysics Inc.) was coupled with
level set method, which is widely used to
trace the evolution of interface19. Melted
glass and air were treated as two flowing
fluid with zero level set defined the interface.
Both fluid properties were assumed constant
values at 1200oC. Solidification was not
treated for simplicity, but, as will be shown,
the hourglass feature was well captured (but
not at the exact time evolution). Surface
tension was considered but not gravity,
being unimportant. The initial value of the
level set function was a typical Gaussian
drilling profile, with the profile just
penetrated through the glass.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION
Figure 2 presents typical micrographs of the
fabricated hourglass-shaped aperture. The
side (edge) view of the 150 μmglass slide,
Fig. 2a, shows the laser path as
predominately Gaussian and penetrated the
majority of the glass thickness. At the tip of
the Gaussian profile, the hourglass feature is
clearly seen; it bottlenecks at the aperture
followed by an expanding funnel structure
towards the other surface. The diameter of
the funnel is approximately 30 μm on the
glass surface and 20 μm deep (from the
beam exiting surface to the aperture).
Micrographs from the “funnel side”are
shown in Figs. 2b (isometric view) and 2c
(top view). The aperture is shown to be
smooth, circular and debris-free. The first
two characteristics are most likely benefits
of the reflow process; the melted glass aided
by local surface tension resulted in the
desirable features. Debris-free is due to
series of short pulses and just sufficient
energy for penetration. In contrast, a single
long pulse would generate considerable
thermal stress which would cause the brittle
glass to crack around the aperture.
The aperture size (range from 1-30μm) was
predominantly governed by the energy
intensity and density of laser emission.
FIG. 2 Micrographs and SEM images of the
hourglass-shaped aperture fabricated. (a)
Side view of a typical aperture. The smallest
dimension located at the neck of the
hourglass shape, which is suitable for
patch-clamp application. (b) Isometric view of
SEM image taken from the rear (laser exiting)
surface shows smooth and debris-free nature
of the aperture surface. (c) Top view of SEM
image revealed circular and crack-free
aperture.
FIG. 3 Numerical simulation of the reflow
process at different time steps. Navier-Stokes
equation was coupled with level set method
to track the interface between melted glass
and air, both treated as flowing fluids. The
computation was commenced just after the
laser penetrated the glass. Melted glass at
the rear surface gradually reflowed to form
the hourglass-shaped feature. At t*=60 time
step, the hourglass feature is clearly evident
verifying the simulation captures the
dominant physics of glass reflow.
