 1 
Characterization of the fine-structure and the pervaporation performance of 
the novel interfacial polymerized polyamide composite membranes 
新型界面聚合聚醯胺複合膜之微結構鑑定與滲透蒸發分離效能關聯性研究 
 
NSC 97-2218-E-197 -001 - 
97/10/01 ~ 98/07/31 
 
Shu-Hsien Huang(黃書賢)1, Kueir-Rarn Lee(李魁然)2, Yun-Hsuan Huang(黃韻璇)2,  
Yi-Fei Yu(余奕飛)1, Kuan-Liang Liu(劉冠良)1 
 
1 Department of Chemical and Materials Engineering, National Ilan University, I-Lan 26047, 
Taiwan 
2 Department of Chemical Engineering, Chung Yuan University, Chung-Li 32023, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
To improve the pervaporation performance of polyamide membrane, polyamide composite 
membranes were prepared via the interfacial polymerization of various diamine monomers and 
succinyl chloride (SCC) or trans-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarbonyl chloride (tNBDC) on the surface 
of modified asymmetric polyacrylonitrile (mPAN) membrane and were applied in the 
pervaporation separation of 90 wt% aqueous ethanol solutions at 25 oC. The variation in the free 
volume of the active polyamide layer of composite membrane was obtained by positron 
annihilation spectroscopy (PAS) experiments, in which a variable monoenergy slow positron 
beam was used. FTIR-ATR spectroscopy and water contact angle measurements were applied to 
analyze chemical structures and hydrophilicity of the active polyamide layer of composite 
membrane. From the result of PAS experiments, the S parameter (corresponding to the free 
volume) of the tNBDC-based polyamide layers were found to be lower than those of the 
SCC-based polyamide layers. In the aqueous ethanol solution dehydration, based on the diamine 
moieties, tNBDC-based polyamide composite membranes had higher permeation rate and lower 
separation factor compared with SCC-based polyamide composite membranes. This was not in 
agreement with the analysis by positron annihilation spectroscopy, resulting from the swelling 
effect of the feed aqueous ethanol solution on the uncrosslinked polyamide layers in the 
pervaporation operation. 
 
摘要 
為了提升聚醯胺薄膜的滲透蒸發分離效能，利用不同二胺單體與醯氯單體 succinyl 
chloride (SCC)或 trans-5-norbornene-2,3-dicarbonyl chloride (tNBDC)，在改質的聚丙醯腈非
對稱膜表面進行界面聚合反應，製備兩系列聚醯胺複合膜，並將其應用於滲透蒸發分離 90 
wt%乙醇水溶液。利用正子湮滅光譜實驗，以單一能量變化慢速正子束測試儀量測複合膜
表面聚醯胺層的自由體積變化。全反射式傅立葉轉換紅外線光譜儀與接觸角測試儀被用來
分析複合膜表面聚醯胺層的化學結構與親水性。由正子湮滅光譜實驗的結果可知，tNBDC
系列聚醯胺層的 S參數(與自由體積相關聯)較 SCC系列聚醯胺層的 S參數低。在乙醇水溶
液脫水實驗，若以二胺鏈段為基礎，與 SCC系列聚醯胺複合膜相比較，tNBDC系列聚醯胺
複合膜有較高的透過率與較低的選擇比。滲透蒸發與正子湮滅光譜的實驗結果並不一致，
其因可能是在滲透蒸發操作過程中，未交鏈的聚醯胺層受到進料乙醇水溶液膨潤效應的影
響所致。 
 
Keywords: Polyamide; Composite membrane; Interfacial polymerization; Pervaporation; 
Positron annihilation spectroscopy 
 3 
Materials 
Polyacrylonitrile (PAN) polymer, supplied by Tong-Hua Synthesis Fiber Co. Ltd. (Taiwan), 
was used as the membrane support in the interfacial polymerized polyamide composite 
membrane. Reagent grade N-methyl-2-pyrrolidone (NMP) was the solvent used in preparing the 
casting solution of the PAN polymer. Sodium hydroxide, used in the hydrolysis of the PAN 
membrane support, was purchased from SHOWA Chemical Co. Hydrazin monohydrate (HA), 
1,3-diaminopropane (DAPE), 1,3-diamino-2-propanol (DAPL) and succinyl chloride (SCC) were 
purchased from TCI Co. trans-5-Norbornene-2,3-dicarbonyl chloride (tNBDC) was purchased 
from Aldrich Co. Amine monomers (HA, DAPE and DAPL) and acyl chloride monomers (SCC 
and tNBDC) were used in the preparation of the active polyamide layers through interfacial 
polymerization. Distilled water was used in preparing aqueous amine solution. Reagent-grade 
toluene purchased from Mallinckrodt Baker, Inc. was used as the solvent for acyl chloride. 
Ethanol (EtOH) used to mix the feed solution was purchased from Echo Chemical Co., Ltd. in 
Taiwan. The chemical structures of HA, DAPE, DAPL, SCC and tNBDC are shown in Figure 1. 
 
Preparation of porous modified PAN (mPAN) support membrane 
Flat porous support membrane was prepared by casting PAN-NMP solution onto nonwoven 
polyester fabrics. In the preparation process, an NMP solution containing 15 wt% PAN polymers 
was cast onto a polyester nonwoven substrate with the use of a casting knife (200-μm gap) to 
fabricate the flat porous PAN support membrane. The cast membrane was precipitated by 
immersion in a bath of water. The resulting porous PAN membrane was washed in water several 
times for more than one day to remove the remnant of NMP solvent, and it was then stored in 
water. 
The porous modified PAN membrane was prepared by immersing the PAN support membrane 
in a 2M NaOH solution at 50oC. The partial -CN groups of PAN can be converted into -COOH or 
-CONH2 groups after the hydrolysis with NaOH solution [18]. The porous modified PAN support 
membrane was washed in a water bath for several hours, and it was then stored in water before 
use for the interfacial polymerization. 
 
Preparation of interfacial polymerized polyamide composite membrane 
The active polyamide skin layer was polymerized via the interfacial polymerization technique. 
The mPAN support membrane was first immersed in a 1 wt % aqueous amine solution for 3 min. 
Then, the excess amount of aqueous amine solution on the surface of the mPAN support 
membrane was removed using a rubber rod. The mPAN support membrane soaked with the 
aqueous amine solution was contacted with a toluene solution containing 0.5 wt% acyl chloride 
for 3 min to carry out the process of interfacial polymerization. Finally, the resulting polyamide 
composite membrane was washed in methanol and then dried at atmospheric temperature. 
 
Characterization 
FTIR-ATR (Perkin Elmer Spectrum One) spectroscopy was used to examine the chemical 
structures of the composite membranes. In order to understand the surface hydrophilicity of the 
polyamide composite membrane, the water contact angle was estimated with the use of 
Automatic Interfacial Tensiometer (FACE Mode 1 PD-VP). 
 
Positron Annihilation Spectroscopy (PAS) 
To estimate the variation in the free volume in the interfacial polymerized polyamide 
composite membrane, a newly built slow positron beam with variable mono energy at the R&D 
Center for Membrane Technology, Chung Yuan University, Taiwan was used for this study to 
define the mean depth of the membrane between 0 and about 10 μm (the mean depth is converted 
by using an established equation from the positron incident energy from 0~ 30 keV) at 
 5 
layers. This implied that the free volumes in the former layers were higher than those of the latter 
layers. The S parameters of tNBDC-based polyamide layers depending on the diamine moieties 
decreased in the order of DAPE-tNBDC > DAPL-tNBDC > HA-tNBDC, as shown in Figure 3(e), 
(f) and (d). This indicated that the free volumes of tNBDC-based polyamide layers decreased in 
the following order: DAPE-tNBDC > DAPL-tNBDC > HA-tNBDC. In Figure 3(a), (b) and (c), 
the similar result was exhibited in the S parameters of SCC-based polyamide layers.  
 
Pervaporation Performance 
Table 1 shows that the pervaporation performance of 90 wt% aqueous ethanol solution 
through the polyamide composite membranes at 25oC. Based on the diamine moieties, 
tNBDC-based polyamide composite membranes had higher permeation rate and lower separation 
factor compared with SCC-based polyamide composite membranes. This result was not in 
agreement with that of the S parameter (corresponding to the free volume) shown in Figure 3. It 
might be due to the swelling effect of the feed aqueous ethanol solution on the uncrosslinked 
polyamide layers in the pervaporation operation. For example, HA-tNBDC/mPAN composite 
membrane had higher permeation rate and lower separation factor compared with 
HA-SCC/mPAN composite membrane, as shown in Table 1. However, the S parameter 
(corresponding to the free volume) of HA-tNBDC polyamide layer was lower than that of 
HA-SCC polyamide layer. The membrane for PAS experiment stayed in dry condition, but the 
membrane for pervaporation operation stayed in wet condition. Therefore, the uncrosslinked 
polyamide layer was easier to be swollen by the feed aqueous ethanol solution, resulting in a 
variation in the free volume. The water contact angle of the HA-tNBDC/mPAN composite 
membrane was higher than that of HA-SCC/mPAN composite membrane, as shown in Table 2. 
This indicated HA-tNBDC/mPAN composite membrane had higher hydrophobicity, resulting in a 
higher affinity between HA-tNBDC polyamide layer and feed aqueous ethanol solution. As a 
result, HA-tNBDC polyamide layer might be easier to be swollen by the feed aqueous ethanol 
solution, causing an increase in the free volume. Thus, HA-tNBDC/mPAN composite membrane 
had higher permeation rate and lower separation factor. As shown in Table 1, the permeation rate 
of SCC-based polyamide composite membranes decreased in the order of HA-SCC/mPAN > 
DAPE-SCC/mPAN > DAPL-SCC/mPAN, however, the separation factor exhibited the contrary 
trend. The similar result was also shown in the pervaporation performance of tNBDC-based 
polyamide composite membranes. The reason might be also resulted from the swelling effect of 
the feed aqueous ethanol solution on the uncrosslinked polyamide layers in the pervaporation 
operation. 
 
Conclusions 
The polyamide composite membranes were successfully prepared by the interfacial 
polymerization of various diamine monomers and SCC or tNBDC and were applied in the 
dehydration of aqueous ethanol solution. In summing up the above-mentioned experimental 
results, the following several conclusions were obtained: 
1. As a result of PAS experiment, the tNBDC-based polyamide layers of the composite 
membranes had lower S parameters (corresponding to the free volumes) compared with the 
SCC-based polyamide layers. 
2. In the dehydration of aqueous ethanol solution, based on the diamine moieties, the 
tNBDC-based polyamide composite membranes had higher permeation rate and lower 
separation factor compared with the SCC-based polyamide composite membranes. A 
desirable pervaporation performance, a permeation rate of 524 g/m2 h and a separation factor 
of 357, was obtained with the DAPL-SCC/mPAN composite membrane in the dehydration of 
a 90 wt% aqueous ethanol solution at 25oC. 
3. The pervaporation performance results did not correspond with those of positron annihilation 
 7 
[14] P.R. Buch, D.J. Mohan, A.V.R. Reddy, Preparation, characterization and chlorine stability of 
aromatic–cycloaliphatic polyamide thin ﬁlm composite membranes, J. Membr. Sci. 309 
(2008) 36-44. 
[15] K. Yoon, B.S. Hsiao, B. Chu, High flux nanofiltration membranes based on interfacially 
polymerized polyamide barrier layer on polyacrylonitrile nanofibrous scaffolds, J. Membr. 
Sci. 326 (2009) 484-492. 
[16] S.H. Huang, C.L. Li, C.C. Hu, H.A. Tsai, K.R. Lee, J.Y. Lai, Polyamide thin-film composite 
membranes prepared by interfacial polymerization for pervaporation separation, 
Desalination 200 (2006) 387-389. 
[17] C.L. Li, S.H. Huang, D.J. Liaw, K.R. Lee, J.Y. Lai, Interfacial polymerized thin-film 
composite membranes for pervaporation separation of aqueous isopropanol solution, Sep. 
Purif. Technol. 62 (2008) 694-701. 
[18] S.H. Huang, G.J. Jiang, D.J. Liaw, C.L. Li, C.C. Hu, K.R. Lee, J.Y. Lai, Effects of the 
Polymerization and Pervaporation Operating Conditions on the Dehydration Performance of 
Interfacially Polymerized Thin-Film Composite Membranes, J. Appl. Polym. Sci. 114 
(2009) 1511-1522. 
[19] Y. Li, R. Zhang, H. Chen, J. Zhang, R. Suzuki, T. Ohdaira, M.M. Feldstein, Y.C. Jean, 
Depth Profile of Free Volume in a Mixture and Copolymers of Poly(N-vinyl-pyrrolidone) 
and Poly(ethylene glycol) Studied by Positron Annihilation Spectroscopy, 
Biomacromolecules, 4 (2003) 1856-1864. 
[20] C. He, E. Hamada, T. Suzuki, T. Kumaki, H. Kobayashi, K. Kondo, Y. Ito, Pulsed 
slow-positron beam for polymer films, Appl. Surf. Sci., 221 (2004) 444-449. 
[21] J. Algers, R. Suzuki, T. Ohdaira, F.H.J. Maurer, Characterization of free volume and density 
gradients of polystyrene surfaces by low-energy positron lifetime measurements, Polymer, 
45 (2004) 4533-4539. 
[22] Y.C. Jean, J. Zhang, H. Chen, Y. Li, G. Liu, Positron annihilation spectroscopy for surface 
and interface studies in nanoscale polymeric films, Spectrochim. Acta A, 61 (2005) 
1683-1691. 
[23] H.M. Chen, W.S. Hung, C.H. Lo, S.H. Huang, M.L. Cheng, G. Liu, K.R. Lee, J.Y. Lai, Y.M. 
Sun, C.C. Hu, R. Suzuki, T. Ohdaira, N. Oshima, Y.C. Jean, Free-Volume Depth Profile of 
Polymeric Membranes Studied by Positron Annihilation Spectroscopy: Layer Structure 
from Interfacial Polymerization, Macromolecules, 40 (2007) 7542-7557. 
[24] S.H. Huang, W.S. Hung, D.J. Liaw, C.L. Li, S.T. Kao, D.M. Wang, M. De Guzman, C.C. 
Hu, Y.C. Jean, K.R. Lee, J.Y. Lai, Investigation of Multilayer Pervaporation Membrane by 
Positron Annihilation Spectroscopy, Macromolecules, 41 (2008) 6438-6443. 
[25] S.H. Huang, W.L. Lin, D.J. Liaw, C.L. Li, S.T. Kao, D.M. Wang, K.R. Lee, J. Y. Lai, 
Characterization, transport and sorption properties of poly(thiol ester amide) thin-film 
composite pervaporation membranes, J. Membr. Sci., 322 (2008) 139-145. 
 
Figures and tables 
 
H2NNH2∙H2O  
 
(a) HA (b) DAPE (c) DAPL 
 
 
 
(d) SCC (e) tNBDC  
Figure 1 Chemical structures of monomers used in preparing active polyamide 
layers. (a) HA, (b) DAPE, (c) DAPL, (d) SCC, (e) tNBDC. 
 9 
 
Table 1 Pervaporation performance of 90wt% aqueous ethanol solution through the polyamide 
composite membranes at 25oC. 
Composite membranes Permeation rate 
(g/m2 h) 
Separation factor 
(αW/E) 
HA-SCC/mPAN 561 ± 35 143.1 ± 41.5 
DAPE-SCC/mPAN 555 ± 75 217.8 ± 52.4 
DAPL-SCC/mPAN 524 ± 46 356.5 ± 74.8 
HA-tNBDC/mPAN 605 ± 38 83.7 ± 19.8 
DAPE-tNBDC/mPAN 580 ± 48 89.6 ± 8.5 
DAPL-tNBDC/mPAN 537 ± 97 177.5 ± 72.4 
 
 
Table 2 Water contact angle values for the polyamide composite membranes. 
Composite membranes Water contact angle (o) 
HA-SCC/mPAN 78.9 ± 2.2 
DAPE-SCC/mPAN 70.0 ± 1.1 
DAPL-SCC/mPAN 61.8 ± 2.1 
HA-tNBDC/mPAN 86.1 ± 1.6 
DAPE-tNBDC/mPAN 63.1 ± 1.1 
DAPL-tNBDC/mPAN 67.5 ± 1.9 
 
 
 2 
Special Symposium主要討論亞洲地區，包括台灣、日本、新加坡、韓國以及中國等
國家，在水處理研究新領域的發展。Oral Session的主題有 energy applications-fuel cells、
biochemical applications、gas separation and pervaporation與 membrane preparation and 
modification；Poster Session 的主題有 drinking and waste water applications、facilitated 
transport membranes、gas separation and pervaporation、inorganic membranes、membrane 
fouling與 transport mechanism in membrane。本人的論文即在本日採海報展示的方式發表
(圖二為本人與海報)，在口號報告與海報展示期間，吸引本人注意的是大部分滲透蒸發
分離程序的研究著重於生質能源的純化，例如乙醇脫水與丁醇脫水等，氣體分離程序的
研究著重於二氧化碳的分離與回收、氫氣分離與氧氮分離等，薄膜分離程序應用於飲用
水製造與廢水處理亦是亞洲地區薄膜發展的重點。結束白天議程後，晚間舉行大會的晚
宴，透過晚宴的舉行更強化了學者間的互動，在互動中彼此互相分享對方的研究成果。 
 
  
圖一為本人於開幕會場 圖二為本人與海報 
 
7月 14日的議程為 Oral Session 7~14、Poster Session 2、 Plenary Lecture 4~5以及閉
募儀式。Oral Session的主題有 hybrid and novel processes、inorganic membranes、drinking 
and waste water applications、membrane preparation and modification、facilitated transport 
 4 
透過國科會的研究補助，讓本人能在經費毫無後顧之憂的情形下，參與本次日本神
戶的研究探訪之旅，不但增進自身的研究視野，也讓各地的學者進一步了解台灣的研究
成果，這對於台灣在國際學術上的聲望有極大助益。事實上，台灣有不錯的學術研究水
平，但是參與國際研討會的研究生，甚至研究人員卻不多，而亞洲國家，例如中國大陸、
日本、韓國等，甚至歐美國家的學生或研究人員皆非常踴躍的參與，期望能提撥一些經
費，讓優秀的學生或研究人員有機會參與國際學術會議，擴展其視野，提升研究能量。 
 
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
1. AMS-5研討會議程與摘要。 
2. AMS-5研討會論文電子檔光碟片。 
3. 與會薄膜與儀器廠商型錄。 
 
五、 發表之論文 
發表之論文詳見附件一。 
 
 
