 2
the dose-response will be explored. We will 
develop on-chip technology for the on-chip 
functions like immunohistochemistry gradient 
generation, manipulation and orientation of cell 
such as cell aligning and cell caging. We also 
push our study to manipulate individual single 
cell to observe the migration, phagocytosis, 
adhesion, chemotaxis, phagocytosis, 
degranulation and bactericidal activity of 
neutrophil.  
Based on our present research 
experience/development on micro/bio fluidic 
pumping, we will develop microsystem chips in 
three years, which generate on-chip chemotaxis 
gradient, to study neutrophil inflammation 
mechanism, neutrophil’s migration steps, and 
relationship between chemotaxis gradient and 
neutrophil migration. Part of the challenge 
comes from the media nature of high ion, 
complicated plasma and 
non-uniform/varied-shape cells/ neutrophils as 
well as the adhesion problem between cells and 
microchip/microchannel substrate.     
In our original three-year plan, we will also 
develop the microsystem chip with the features 
of the manipulation and orientation of 
individual single cell. Each of different kinds of 
cells might behave differently corresponding to 
different DEP frequency. Therefore, we will 
design geometric figure of electrodes to 
compose the maximum/minimum of electric 
field to trap/manipulate/separate individual 
neutrophils. We will develop the 
capillary-blood-vessel-mimetic tissue on chip, 
based on the cell manipulation development in 
our group, to observe the neutrophil’s 
migration steps under different chemotaxis 
gradients. Besides, the novel embedded MEMS 
micro-pump taking advantage of 
hydrophilic/hydrophobic properties will be 
developed in this project as a key feature of this 
proposal (in three years). Besides the pursuit of 
the academic excellence, we wish to not only 
just approach the application of novel 
microsystem techniques to biomedical needs 
but also meet the coming needs from pharmacy 
and biomedical devices in Taiwan. Presently, 
we only get funded for one year grand. We will 
have the opportunity to get supported from 
NSC to continue this research in near future. 
 
Keywords: Bio-Microsystem Chip； Cell 
Manipulation； Micropump；
Biophysics 
 
二. 研究目的與文獻探討 
 
這一年，本期研究計劃重點為設計一實
驗室晶片以研究細胞在趨化因子(chemotactic)
濃度梯度環境上的相關遷移情形。我們利用
微流體性質來設計微流道的幾何形狀以快速
產生穩定且連續的趨化因子的濃度梯度環
境。本研究的特點在於梯度產生僅藉由微流
道結構的 設計，並非使用主動式元件，因此
製程整合簡單較易亦無損害細胞生理機能之
可能性。  
 
z 梯度晶片 
    化學梯度在生物研究上扮演著很重要
的一個角色。在微尺度下，流體為層流並且
質量傳遞僅靠分子擴散運動所達成，因此，
要達成一個化學梯度並非一件簡單的事。而
微流體元件便是一個很理想的工具來創造與
控制化學梯度變化，微流道的尺寸使得擴散
產生化學梯度需要幾十分鐘甚至更久，而在
流動的連續流體裡，需要夠長的距離已達成
梯度產生。因此，如何縮短形成的時間與尺
寸的大小便是我們主要解決的問題。 
    近年，微流體元件已經被使用於產生線
性的化學濃度梯度並且應用於驗證生物趨向
性的研究。哈佛大學 George M. Whitesides 
(2000)等人提出了一濃度梯度產生器元件 
 
 
圖一 梯度產生器的微流道網絡概念圖[1] 
 
 4
其中Kb為波茲曼常數(Boltzmann-constant)，T
為絕對溫度，η為溶液的黏滯性，r為溶液裡
的球體擴散半徑。因此增加溫度可以改變擴
散係數，使擴散效率提升。由費克定律，可
以 推 導 出 特 徵 擴 散 長 度 (characteristic 
diffusion length, Ld)： 
(3)                                        DtL d =  
由上式可知擴散時間(t)與擴散路徑(Ld)平方
成正比，因此縮短擴散路徑能有效的縮短擴
散時間。因此設計流道使流體受到擠壓、變
形，減少擴散路徑、減短擴散時間、提升傳
遞效率，進而達到化學濃度梯度的產生。 
 
3.2 化學濃度梯度晶片 
    根據質量傳遞理論，在層流裡，質量傳
遞十分困難，欲提升傳遞效率，需減少其擴
散路徑，使流體變形與混合。本計劃提出一
棋盤格型的流道設計，使通入的液體會因為
棋盤格的幾何結構有不同流速的分離與不同
方向的分流；當不同溶液同時通入棋盤格流
道時，會因為棋盤格的位置，於分離點的位
置會使兩種液體產生不同方向的分流與不同
程度的分離，不同方向的分流會增加不同液
體間的擴散效應，不同程度的分離與擴散會
形成不同濃度的梯度，因此借由設計棋盤格
的幾何結構，於棋盤格的出口處可以匯集不
同擴散程度的溶液而形成所需要的化學濃度
梯度。George M. Whitesides等人所設計的化
學濃度梯度產生器[1-3]，將不同液體分離、
分配與混合，其需要設計足夠長的蜿蜒流道
讓分配到某一流道的不同溶液均勻混合，並
設計相對蜿蜒流道間產生的壓力降而決定蜿
蜒流道上游分離點分離的程度，經過好幾次
的分離、分配與混合才能得到設計的化學濃
度梯度。而本計畫所提出之棋盤格設計在很
短的距離內因複雜的流道設計就形成了多次
的分離，也於其有限的流道上擴散形成希望
的 化 學 濃 度 梯 度 ， 相 較 於 George M. 
Whitesides等人所設計，本計畫所提之棋盤格
化學濃度梯度產生器不但擁有較小的空間即
可產生希望的濃度梯度，也擁有較高的效率
分段擴散而非混合在分離、分配再混合。 
400μm
400μm
Inlet
Outlet
Solution A
Solution B
Flow direction
 
圖四 兩種不同液體 A 和液體 B，經過棋盤格
型的流道造成流體經過十字交錯口時產生兩
流體向量使流體壓縮與變形以提高混和效
率，進而形成濃度梯度變化。 
 
3.3 棋盤格型化學濃度梯度產生器理論分析
與數值模擬 
    為了驗證梯度產生器設計概念、討論設
計參數及減少不必要的製程花費，將以計算
流體力學軟體CFDRC模擬設計的晶片。此處
介紹我們目前初期模擬的一小部分相關成
果，為了增加模擬結果的準確性與穩定度，
將CFDRC中棋盤格型梯度產生器之三維立
體模型網格細分為微米尺度，由於此設計用
於連續流體，因此設定出口壓力為一大氣
壓。其中趨化因子IL-8的擴散係數設定為
2.5×10-6 cm2/s[4]，溫度為300K，黏滯系數為
10-6 kg/m·s。經由環境變數的設定後，由
CFDRC模擬軟體所模擬的濃度梯度結果為
圖五，其顯示兩個相異的液體A、B以450μm/s
的流速流入並匯合於400μm寬，高125μm的微
流道裡。在進入棋盤格型流道時，橫向速度
產生於流體分離處，此現象不僅使流體產生
變行增加擴散表面積，也產生壓縮使擴散路
徑縮短，經過多次的分離，相同的現象產生，
使質量傳遞能力提升而以形成濃度梯度。其
中圖六顯示圖五中C區放大的結果。而在梯度
產生器的前端，取一垂直於流向的aa'線段，
 6
 
步驟1: SU-8旋佈在矽晶片上並由第一道光罩
黃光微影出所要的圖形。 
 
 
步驟 2: 用PDMS來做微流道結構。 
 
 
步驟 3: 旋上光阻AZ4620於玻璃基板並由第
二道光罩微影所要的圖形。 
 
 
步驟 4: 在玻璃晶片上鍍上一層鋁。 
 
 
步驟 5: 在掀離的過程中形成我們所要的電
極。 
 
 
步驟6: 利用PE-VCD沉積兩微米厚的氧當作
保護層。 
 
 
步驟7: 旋佈AZ6112並微影形成電極圖形，後
浸置於BOE中以蝕刻圖形。 
 
步驟 8: 將PDMS挖洞與玻璃晶片接合。 
 
圖九棋盤格化學濃度梯度產生器之製作流程
圖 
 
3.5  實驗架設 
    當我們將製作好的晶片，置於顯微鏡平
台上，在顯微鏡下進行實驗，透過一高速影
像擷取介面的彩色CCD攝影機捕捉微管道中
的影像，由電腦螢幕顯示，並以鐵夫龍管將
晶片與注射筒接合，以注射筒幫浦控制我們
所需要的流量，由波形產生器來提供我們所
需要交流電的振幅與頻率，圖十為示意圖，
實際情形為圖十一、圖十二。 
 
圖十 實驗設備架設示意圖。 
 
 
圖十一 實驗設備架設實際情形。 
 8
圖十七 由圖上曲線我們了解隨著梯度產生
器的增加，擴散效率跟著增加。 
 
  
1ul/min 10ul/min 20ul/min 
圖十八 隨著流量的增加，濃度梯度曲線越不
明顯。 
 
十八，速度越快則擴散路徑越短，濃度梯度
越陡峭，速度越慢則擴散路徑長，濃度梯度
越線性。 
 
五. 計畫成果自評 
 
 本階段研究計劃成功實現以純流道結構
的被動式梯度產生器快速產生一線性起穩定
的濃度梯度，結構單純製程簡單，降低製程
上所產生的問題，並減少許多影響濃度變化
的變因，本設計影響濃度最主要的變因即為
流體流速，當流速慢擴散快，濃度梯度產生
快，不過相對的維持時間短暫，反之流速快，
雖然擴散慢卻能維持濃度梯度的分佈長久，
由先前式子 Dtd =L 中，即可瞭解，流速快
擴散時間短，粒子擴散路徑短，流速慢則反。
為了在這之中取得平衡，我們取流量為 1~10 
ul/min，換算流速為 333~3333um/sec 為我們
的工作範圍。 
 
六.誌謝 
 
    本研究感謝國科會給予經費補助，以及
國家奈米元件實驗室、國立交通大學奈米研
究中心、台灣聯合大學系統奈米科技研究中
心給予製程上的協助。計畫編號NSC 
98-2221-E-007 -019 
 
七. 參考文獻 
 
[1] Noo Li Jeon, Stephan K. W. Dertinger, Daniel T. 
Chiu, Insung S. Choi, Abraham D. Stroock, and 
George M. Whitesides, " Generation of Solution 
and Surface Gradients Using Microfluidic 
Systems," Langmuir, Vol. 16, pp. 8311-8316, 
2000. 
[2] Stephan K. W. Dertinger, Daniel T. Chiu, Noo Li 
Jeon, and George M. Whitesides, " Generation of 
Gradients Having Complex Shapes Using 
Microfluidic Networks," Anal. Chem., Vol. 73, pp. 
1240-1246, 2001. 
[3] Noo Li Jeon, Harihara Baskaran, Stephan K.W. 
Dertinger, George M. Whitesides, Livingston Van 
De Water, and Mehmet Toner, "Neutrophil 
chemotaxis in linear and complex gradients of 
interleukin-8 formed in a microfabricated device," 
Nat. Biotechnol., Vol. 20, pp. 826-830, 2002. 
[4] Yung Fong Cheng, Shaole Wu, Da Yong Chen, 
and Norman J. Dovichi, "Interaction of Capillary 
Zone Electrophoresis with a Sheath Flow Cuvette 
Detector," Anal. Chem., 1990, Vol. 62, pp. 
496-503. 
[5] Cheng, Y. F.; Wu, S.; Chen, D. C.; Dovichi, N. J. 
Anal. Chem., 62,496-503.(1990) 
 
八. 此計畫經費支持之相關論文發表 
(論文請見附錄) 
[1]Po-Chen Shih, Chia-Hao Kuo, Jenh-Yih Juang, 
Cheng-Hsien Liu, Long Hsu and Cheng-Tzu Liu, 
“Effects of Garlic Oil on the Migration of 
Neutrophil-Like Cell Studied by Using a Chemotactic 
Gradient Labchip,” Journal of Biomedicine and 
Biotechnology , Vol.2010, 2010. 
[2] Wen-Hao Wu, Tushar H. Punde, Po-Chen Shih, 
Chien-Yu Fu, Tsung-Pao Wang, Cheng-Hsien Liu, Long 
Hsu, Hawn-You Chang, “A 
CAPILLARY-ENDOTHELIUM-MIMETIC 
MICROFLUIC CHIP FOR THE STUDY OF 
CHEMOTACTIC RESPONSE,” accepted and to appear 
in Proceedings of 14th International Conference on 
Miniaturized Chemical and Biochemical Analysis 
Systems, 2010. (MicroTAS 2010) 
2 Journal of Biomedicine and Biotechnology
As to the chemotactic gradient Labchip, based on the
concept of enhancing molecular diﬀusion by gradient gener-
ation, the current gradient generator is designed to achieve
a rapidly generated, steadily maintained, and dynamically
controlled chemotactic environment. In our design, the
gradient slope of chemotactic concentration is controlled by
changing the flow rate of the working fluid and by controlling
the solution inlet in the gradient generator. This has allowed
us to carry out comprehensive experimental studies on the
chemotactic responsiveness of neutrophil-like cells with and
without GO treatment under the conditions of varying flow
rates and concentration gradients of the chemoattractant
(IL-8) solution.
2. Materials and Methods
2.1. Cell Culture. Neutrophil-like cells were diﬀerentiated
from HL-60 cell line. The HL-60 cell line was purchased
from FIRDI (Taiwan, BCRC number: 60273) and maintained
in RPMI-1640 medium (90% RPMI 1640, 10% FBS, 1%
penicillin, 1% HEPES, 1% pyruvate, 1.5 g/L NaHCO3, and
4.5 g/L glucose, pH = 7.4) with 5% CO2 at 37◦C. When in
use, the HL-60 cell line was incubated at a concentration of
5 × 105 cells/mL with 1.3% DMSO for 7 days. This process
would diﬀerentiate the HL-60 cell line into neutrophil-like
cells for use.
2.2. Chemicals
2.2.1. Garlic Oil. Garlic oil is an essential oil, which was
extracted from garlic cloves. A clove of garlic of 1.5 kg
was blended with 3 L of distilled water by using a Waring
blender. The volatile components of the mixture were
extracted by boiling with distilled water for 4 hours. The
garlic essential oil (composed of some volatile molecules of
garlic) that was carried with water vapor was then cooled
down in a glass condenser. Subsequently, the condensed
extract was collected. The water in the extract was then
removed with anhydrous Na2SO4 and filtered through
nitrocellulose acetate membranes [5]. Usually, an average of
3.75 g of GO can be extracted from 1.5 kg of garlic cloves.
The constituents of the obtained GO were analyzed by a
gas chromatography-mass spectrometry system (G1800,
Hewlett Packard, Palo Alto, CA). The major organosulfur
compounds of GO are diallyl sulfide, diallyl disulfide, diallyl
trisulfide, and allyl methyl trisulfide. Their levels are 5, 39,
34, and 10 g/100 g, respectively.
2.2.2. Reagents. The cytochalasin B (CB) powder was
purchased from Sigma. The powder was dissolved in
dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) and diluted in DMSO to yield
stock solutions of 10 times the working concentration.
When in use, the stock CB solution was diluted and
applied at a concentration of 10 μM [6]. The nocoda-
zole (methyl[5-(2-thienylcarbonyl)-1H-benzimidazol-2-yl]-
carbamate) powder was also purchased from Sigma. The
powder was dissolved in DMSO and diluted to final con-
centration of 0.5 μM and 2 μM [4]. The chemokine IL-8 was
purchased from Sigma, as well. The solution was prepared
in RPMI 1640 medium and diluted to the concentrations of
6.25 nM and 12.5 nM.
Finally, the CB-treated, the nocodazole-treated, and the
GO-treated neutrophil-like cells were separately prepared by
culturing the neutrophil-like cells in a 10 μM CB solution,
0.5 μM and 2 μM nocodazole solutions, and in diﬀerent
GO solutions varying from 1 μg/mL∼10 μg/mL at 37◦C for
60 minutes, respectively. On the other hand, the normal
neutrophil-like cells were directly used without any further
treatment. Before injecting the treatment cells into device, we
washed the cells with RPMI-1640 medium.
2.3. Experimental Setup and Cell Migration Analysis. Due to
the dominating laminar flow on the microscale, the mass
transport between adjacent flow streams usually relies mainly
on molecular diﬀusion, which is usually an inherently slow
process. Thus, it needs a very long flow distance and time
to achieve desired concentration gradient distribution by
relying purely on the mechanism of molecular diﬀusion. In
our gradient generator design, we highlighted the concept
that increasing the contact surface between two fluids and
decreasing the diﬀusion path between them improve molec-
ular diﬀusion. The new chessboard-shaped pillar structure
was utilized to alter the laminar flow direction laterally to
enhance the desired mass transport of microfluidics and
approach the nearby downstream experimental zone with a
desired chemotaxis gradient.
The schematic diagram and the dimension details of our
chemotaxis gradient Labchip are shown in Figure 1(a). The
Labchip consists of a cell migration region and a gradient
generator. Cells were introduced into the microfluidic chan-
nel with continuous flow input, and randomly distributed
in the cell migration region. In designing the gradient
generator, the new chessboard-shaped pillar structure was
utilized to alter the laminar flow direction laterally. This
design has proved to enhance the molecular diﬀusion and
has enabled us to achieve desired concentration gradient
distributions. Through repeating the lateral alteration of
the streams of buﬀer and chemoattractant, the chemotaxis
gradient generator could have a desired continuous slope of
concentration gradient in a short flow distance. Besides, it is
evident that with slower inlet velocity, more chemoattractant
is transported laterally. In our chemotaxis gradient Labchip,
up to three diﬀerent solutions could be pumped in with
diﬀerent flow rates from individual inlets. Thus, we can
obtain dynamic gradients by varying the flow rate of each
input stream. Furthermore, we can also change the gradient
from top-bottom to bottom-top by controlling the solution
inlets.
Gradients were characterized by using greenish fluores-
cence dye as shown in Figures 1(b)–1(e). We injected a 5 μM
FITC-Dextran (MW = 10 kDa) solution from one inlet and
injected DI water from the other inlet. This is feasible because
the molecular weight of FITC-Dextran (MW = 10 kDa at
5 μM solution) is close to the molecular weight of chemokine
IL-8 (MW = 8 kDa at 6.25 nM solution). Figure 1(b) shows
the superimposition of a green background and a schematic
diagram. The background was an actual image of a green
gradient made with the greenish fluorescence dye. And
4 Journal of Biomedicine and Biotechnology
the schematic diagram illustrates the working principle
of chemotaxis gradient via the chessboard-shaped pillar
structure. The white dotted lines in the simulation figure
illustrate the contour lines for the flow fields of microfluidics.
The interface between the two input streams was expanded
along the diagonal of each chessboard-shaped pillar unit in a
short distance via the characteristics of enhanced lateral mass
transport.
Figures 1(c)–1(e) show the recorded images of fluo-
rescence intensity for the flow-rate conditions under 0.5,
1.5, and 2.5 μL/min, respectively, at the cell migration
region in our chip. Every fluorescence intensity profile was
normalized to its maximum fluorescence intensity to give
the normalized distribution of gradient concentration, as
shown in Figure 1(f). It can be seen that the gradient slope
of concentration increases when the flow rate increases.
Images of the cells in the experimental zone of neutrophil
migration and chemotactic responsiveness were recorded by
a microscope system with a digital CCD-camera (Mintron,
MTV 62V1N, Taiwan) connected to a laptop computer and
video player (Archos 404, France). A microsyringe pump
(Micro 4, WPI, Florida, U.S.A) was used to pump and
regulate the flow streams of fluidic sample. Fibronectin
(1 μg/mL solution) was injected through the cell inlet
and incubated for 45 minutes at 37◦C. Neutrophil-like
cells at a concentration of 5 × 106 cells/mL were loaded
uniformly across a 400 μm wide main microchannel (cell
migration region) and allowed to adhere within our gradient
Labchip for up to 20 minutes. Adherent neutrophil-like
cells within the Labchip were then exposed to three variant
IL-8 solution concentration gradients: 0–6.25 nM (slope =
0.156 nM/10 μm), 6.25–12.5 nM (slope = 0.156 nM/10 μm),
and 0–12.5 nM (slope = 0.312 nM/10 μm) with four diﬀerent
flow rates, which varied from 1 μL/min–2.5 μL/min (1, 1.5,
2, and 2.5 μL/min). For our chip design, 1 μL/min volume
flow rate was equivalent to about 330 μm/sec flow rate in
the region of cell migration experiments. Cell movement and
gradient verification were constantly monitored at a set point
along the main microchannel for 45 minutes. Figure 1(g)
shows the image of neutrophil-like cells migration in the
microchannel having a linear 0–6.25 nM IL-8 gradient (from
the top to the bottom) under the flow rate of 1.5 μL/min
(flowing from the left to the right). The lines in Figure 1(g)
show the migration trajectories of neutrophil-like cells.
Orientation bias of cells in chemotaxis was quantified
by the chemotactic index (CI) [7], which is defined as the
displacement along the direction of the gradient, x, over the
total migration distance, d (CI = x/d). The motility index
(MI) was defined as the ratio of the displacement from
starting position, r, and the maximum displacement, rmax, to
quantify the random motility of cells (MI = r/rmax) [8]. Here
rmax was the product of the average migration speed of cells
and time. Besides, the eﬀective chemotaxis was quantified by
the eﬀective chemotactic index (ECI), which is a product of
CI and MI (ECI = CI ×MI).
2.4. Statistical Analysis. The data are expressed as mean ±
S.D. and were analyzed by one-way analysis of variance.
Student’s t-test was used to detect diﬀerences in means
between the control group and the CB-, nocodazole-, or GO-
treated group. Tukey’s test was used to detect the diﬀerence
among the means of the GO-treated groups. P values <.05
were considered significant. All statistical analyses were
performed with commercially available software (SAS 9.1 for
Windows; SAS Institute Inc. Cary, NC, USA).
3. Results and Discussions
3.1. Migration of Neutrophil-Like Cells in Diﬀerent Range of
IL-8 Gradients. To investigate the cell migration responding
to diﬀerent IL-8 concentration gradients, we exposed the
neutrophil-like cells to a fixed flow rate of 1.5 μL/min
and observed the migration of neutrophil-like cells in
three variant IL-8 solution concentration gradients: 0–
6.25 nM (slope = 0.156 nM/10 μm), 6.25–12.5 nM (slope =
0.156 nM/10 μm), and 0–12.5 nM (slope = 0.312 nM/10 μm).
Figures 2(a)–2(c) show the average values of CI, MI, and
ECI obtained with the abovementioned conditions for
the neutrophil-like cells with and without GO treatment,
respectively. In Figure 2(a), the average values of CI of the
neutrophil-like cells without GO-treated are larger then that
of the neutrophil-like cells with GO-treated (P < .05). Under
three diﬀerence IL-8 concentration gradients, the average
values of CI of cells in the control group and in GO-
treated group had no significant eﬀect. In Figure 2(b), the
average values of MI among the control group and GO-
treated group had no significant eﬀect except under the 0–
12.5 nM IL-8 concentration gradient (P < .05). However,
the average values of CI, MI, and ECI of neutrophil-like
cells migration under the IL-8 gradient of 0–6.25 nM are
slightly larger than those obtained with higher concentration
gradients, indicating the nearly indiﬀerent influence of IL-8
concentration on the migration activity of the neutrophil-
like cells. Nevertheless, by comparing the results displayed in
Figures 2(a)–2(c), it does indicate the marked eﬀect of GO
treatment in suppressing the locomotion of neutrophil-like
cells. The ECI value is evidently reduced by more than 50%
in the whole range of IL-8 concentration gradients studied
here.
3.2. Migration of Neutrophil-Like Cells under Diﬀerent Con-
tinuous Flow Rates. To examine the eﬀect of flow rate
on the migration of neutrophil-like cells, the cells were
exposed to diﬀerent continuous flow rates of IL-8 solu-
tion. Four diﬀerent flow rates, increased from 1 μL/min
with a 0.5 μL/min incremental step, were used to gener-
ate 0–6.25 nM IL-8 gradient across a 400 μm wide main
microchannel (Neutrophil-like cell migration region). The
slopes of the IL-8 solution concentration gradients for the
flow rates of 1 μL/min, 1.5 μL/min, 2 μL/min, and 2.5 μL/min
are 0.237, 0.172, 0.130, and 0.106 nM/10 μm, respectively.
The slope decreases with increasing flow rate. Figures 3(a)–
3(c) shows the dependences of the average values of CI, MI,
and ECI for the migration of the neutrophil-like cells under
0–6.25 nM IL-8 concentration gradient on flow rates as well
as on GO treatment. In Figure 3(a), the average values of CI
of the neutrophil-like cells without GO treatment are larger
then that of the neutrophil-like cells with GO treatment
6 Journal of Biomedicine and Biotechnology
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1
P = .0006
1.5
P = .0044
2
P = .0771
2.5
P < .0001
Flow rate (μL/min)
C
h
em
ot
ac
ti
c
in
de
x
(C
I)
ANOVA
Concentration P = .0164
GO P = .0615
t-test
ab
a
#
#
b
b
#
(a)
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1
P = .056
1.5
P = .0968
2
P = .0749
2.5
P = .0004
Flow rate (μL/min)
M
ot
ili
ty
in
de
x
(M
I)
t-test
ANOVA
Concentration P = .019
GO P = .1628
b
ab
ab
a
#
(b)
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
1
P = .0083
1.5
P = .002
2
P = .0296
2.5
P < .0001
Flow rate (μL/min)
E
ﬀ
ec
ti
ve
ch
em
ot
ac
ti
c
in
de
x
(E
C
I)
t-test
ANOVA
Concentration P = .1401
GO P = .2161
#
# #
#
(c)
Figure 3: The average values of (a) CI, (b) MI, and (c) ECI of test and control groups of neutrophil-like cell migration in the IL-8
chemoattractant gradients of 0–6.25 nM under diﬀerent flow rates across a 400-μm-wide main microchannel (cell migration region). The
test group of the cells was treated with 3 μg/mL concentration of GO while the control group was not GO-treated for comparison. Data are
given in the form of mean± S.D. (n = 6). #: Significant diﬀerence between the test and the control groups at the same range of IL-8 gradient
(P < .05). a, b mean that the test groups not sharing the same superscript letter are significantly diﬀerent (P < .05).
(P < .05). The average values of CI of the cells migration
under four diﬀerence flow rates had no significant eﬀect.
In Figure 2(b), the average values of MI among the control
group and the GO-treated group had no significant eﬀect.
The experimental results clearly indicate that, although the
average CI value appears to reach maximum value at the
flow rate of 1.5 μL/min, the average MI value does display
a trend of increasing with the flow rate regardless of whether
or not cells were treated with GO. The flow rate dependence
of motility is due primarily to the shear force which might
8 Journal of Biomedicine and Biotechnology
GO concentrations in a 0–6.25 nM IL-8 gradient at a flow
rate of 1.5 μL/min. Figure 4(a) shows the migration speeds
of the neutrophil-like cells treated with CB, nocodazole,
and varied GO concentrations under the same measurement
conditions as described above. The average migration speed
of normal neutrophil-like cells obtained in the current study
is about 13 μm/min. Compared to the previous nonfluidic
experiments [9, 10] performed in a three-dimensional
collagen matrix, in which the maximum migration speed of
15∼20 μm/min for human neutrophil cells was reported, the
present results evidently demonstrate that our microfluidic
chemotaxis gradient Labchip is indeed viable for studying
the cell migration and chemotactic responses. Figure 4(a)
also shows that the average migration speeds of neutrophil-
like cells are reduced from 13 μm/min for the untreated
cells to 6 μm/min, 4 μm/min, and 8 μm/min after being
treated with CB, nocodazole, and GO, respectively. The
results unambiguously demonstrate that CB as well as
nocodazole treatments are more eﬀective than GO treatment
in inhibiting the migration of neutrophil-like cells. It is also
interesting to note that the migration inhibition appears
to be rather insensitive to the GO concentration, which
certainly requires further investigations. In any case, the
present results evidently confirm the fundamental mecha-
nisms practiced in developing the antiinflammatory drugs.
In addition to reducing the migration speed of the
neutrophil-like cells, the CB, nocodazole, and GO treatments
also display very similar eﬀects in reducing the average CI,
MI, and ECI values for the neutrophil-like cells. As shown in
Figure 4(b), the cells treated with CB or nocodazole exhibit
an immediate reduction in the average values of CI, MI, and
ECI. (Note that P < .05 for the diﬀerence between the two
control groups: one with CB treatment and the other without
any treatment. Similarly, P < .05 for the diﬀerence between
the nocodazole-treated group and the group without any
treatment.) On the other hand, for those treated with GO,
significant eﬀects are observed only when the concentration
of GO exceeds 5 μg/mL. (Note that P < .05 for the diﬀerence
between the test groups with GO exceeding 5 μg/mL and the
control group without any treatment.)
According to the generally conceived pathophysiology of
various acute or chronic inflammations described previously,
the activities for neutrophils to transmigrate through the
walls of blood vessels and to infiltrate into the damaged
tissues are primarily relying on the cytoskeleton rearrange-
ment of these cells. This is in excellent agreement with what
has been observed here. Our results are consistent with the
findings by Prager-Khoutorsky et al. [4] who reported that
allicin, the major sulfur-containing composition of garlic
oil, directly aﬀects the activity of cytoskeleton of fibroblast
cells by reaction with tubulin SH groups. Consequently, we
speculated that the inhibitory eﬀect of GO on the migration
of neutrophil-like cells is at least partly due to an eﬀect on
cytoskeleton activity. Nevertheless, the eﬀect of GO on other
mechanisms associated with neutrophil migration may not
be excluded. In addition, the fact that GO treatment displays
similar eﬀects in retarding the migration speed of neutrophil-
like cells further implies that similar mechanisms are pre-
vailing when enough GO is introduced. In other words, GO
might also play a prominent role in interrupting the assembly
and disassembly processes of the cytoskeleton inside the
cell as well, even though direct evidence and detailed
mechanisms are still lacking at present. It is anticipated that,
with the capabilities of obtaining quantitative cell migration
dynamical parameters with the novel Labchip demonstrated
in this study, the development of antiinflammatory drugs can
be realized in a much more eﬃcient manner.
4. Conclusions
In summary, we have designed and fabricated a chemotactic
gradient Labchip which enables us to conduct quantitative
investigations on the eﬀects of garlic oil treatment on
the migration properties of the neutrophil-like cells. The
preliminary results unambiguously demonstrate not only
the capabilities of the present gradient Labchip in generating
desired concentrations gradient and flow rate in a controlled
manner but also in obtaining meaningful quantitative
results consistent with those obtained from nonfluidic
three-dimensional collagen matrix. The experimental data
evidently show that the average migration speed of cells is
reduced after being treated with GO. The results suggest
that garlic oil is a potential inhibitor for neutrophil-like cell
migration which, in turn, could result in antiinflammatory
activities through the inhibition of the assembly and
disassembly of the cytoskeleton inside the cell.
Acknowledgments
This work was financially supported by the Nanotechnology
Research Program of the University System and the National
Science Council of Taiwan, R.O.C. under Grants: 96-2120-
M-009-003 and 97-2120-M-007-011. The authors thank Dr.
Hwei-Ling Peng, Dr. Hwan-You Chang, Dr. Ying-Jung Hung,
Dr. Ke-Ming Chen, and Kou-Chuan Huang for helpful
comments and discussion. The first two authors contributed
equally to this work.
References
[1] K. T. Augusti, “Therapeutic values of onion (Allium cepa L.)
and garlic (Allium sativum L.),” Indian Journal of Experimental
Biology, vol. 34, no. 7, pp. 634–640, 1996.
[2] K. C. Agarwal, “Therapeutic actions of garlic constituents,”
Medicinal Research Reviews, vol. 16, no. 1, pp. 111–124, 1996.
[3] R. Hofbauer, M. Frass, B. Gmeiner, A. D. Kaye, and E. A. Frost,
“Eﬀects of garlic extract (Allium sativum) on neutrophil-like
cell migration at the cellular level,” Heart Disease, vol. 3, pp.
14–17, 2001.
[4] M. Prager-Khoutorsky, I. Goncharov, A. Rabinkov, D.
Mirelman, B. Geiger, and A. D. Bershadsky, “Allicin inhibits
cell polarization, migration and division via its direct eﬀect on
microtubules,” Cell Motility and the Cytoskeleton, vol. 64, no.
5, pp. 321–337, 2007.
[5] L. Y. Sheen, S. Y. Lin, and S. J. Tsai, “Odor assessments
for volatile compounds of garlic and ginger essential oils
by sniﬃng method of gas chromatography,” Journal of the
Chinese Agricultural Chemical Society, vol. 30, pp. 14–24,
1992.
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
計畫主持人獲國際計算實驗工程與科學會議頒「2010年年輕學者實驗科學獎」，
此獎項的英文正式全名為 A. Kobayashi Young Investigator Award in 
Experimental Science，獎勵年輕學者得獎人近十年內實驗科學相關的研究成
果貢獻，此國際獎項的英文描述如下: 
“This award is given to a young investigator, from anywhere in the world, 
for worthy contributions in the category of Experimental Science, in any 
area germane to ICCES conferences (International Conference on 
Computational & Experimental Engineering and Sciences). The recipient 
is expected to present her/his work at the ICCES conference in the year 
in which the award is given. This award is named after Professor Albert 
Kobayashi (of the University of Washington), who made significant 
contributions to research and education in experimental mechanics, for 
over 50 years.＂ 
 
2010年，同時將獲國際計算實驗工程與科學頒年輕學者獎的另兩位國際學者，
一位是北京清華大學的教授 Dr. Haitao Wang 獲 S. Ramanujan Young 
Investigator Award in Computation，獎勵計算相關傑出研究成果貢獻；另一
位是 MIT 材料系的教授 Dr. Christopher A. Schuh 獲 S. Chandrashekar Young 
Investigator Award in Therory，獎勵理論相關傑出研究成果貢獻。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
□未達成目標（請說明，以 100字為限） 
□實驗失敗 
□因故實驗中斷 
□其他原因 
說明： 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 ■無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 ■無 
其他：（以 100字為限） 
1. Journal of Biomedicine and Biotechnology論文發表  2. 國際研討會論文被接受
3. 請依學術成就、技術創新、社會影響等方面，評估研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）（以
500字為限） 
原提出三年連續計畫，但只通過一年研究計畫，本報告針對這一年的研究，提出年度報告，
目前有一篇期刊論文發表、一篇一流國際研討會論文被接受。希望未來還有機會得到國科
會多年期繼續支持，進行更深入的延續研究。 
