calculated from the processor. Experimental 
verification shows that the sensor can provide 
multifunctional measurement and monitoring function 
with the characteristics of simple structure, low 
cost, compact size, low power consumption, noise 
immunity, portability, and flexible installing 
function. Compared with traditional sensor, e.g. 
optical tachometer, which is only applicable to 
measure RPM of a shaft, the multifunctional sensor 
can be used to measure not only RPM, but also 
translational speed and to diagnose any abnormity. 
英文關鍵詞： GMR effect, contactless sensor, multifunctional 
sensor, flexible magnetic stripe, flexible installing 
function 
 
 2
 
摘  要 
本計畫所揭露技術主要突破過去工業用非接觸式感測元件主要透過霍爾(Hall)元件磁通量感應方
式或光學式(optical)接收技術的瓶頸，利用廣泛運用在高容量硬碟機內的巨磁阻效應(GMR)、撓性磁
帶、單晶片及無線傳輸等技術，設計一創新性多功能非接觸式感測器，其具有構造簡單及成本低廉的
優點，可達到具有微型化、低功率、不受雜訊干擾、靈敏度高、易安裝、不佔空間、低成本、可攜性
(portable)、即貼即量(plug-and-play)及可彈性安裝(flexible installing function)等特點，極具未來發展應用
潛力，其主要創新性技術有：(1)運用巨磁阻效應，取代磁場磁通量感應或光學接收技術，(2)量測訊號
同步於外部磁場變化，訊號反應靈敏度高及系統響應頻寬不受影響，(3)不易受外界電子雜訊影響而產
生誤判，(4)相對於傳統感測元件(如光學轉速計)只適合量測轉速單一功能，本感測器除了圓軸轉速外，
亦可量測平板平移速度，並具有低成本、可攜性及彈性安裝等功能，(5)並初步應用至國內具高經濟價
值的智慧型 LCD 面板傳輸機構自動化診斷系統上，當玻璃基板傳送過程發生異常狀況，本系統可立即
自動做出斷電停機的處置，大幅降低現場工作人員的工作量。 
 
關鍵詞：巨磁阻效應、非接觸式感測器、多功能、撓性磁帶、彈性安裝功能 
 
Abstract 
 
The implementation of a novel multifunctional contactless sensor by the giant magneto resistance (GMR) 
effect, instead of the traditional Hall effect or optical technology, is firstly proposed in the project. The sensor 
consists of a flexible magnetic stripe, a GMR detector and a processor. The magnetic stripe has alternatively 
and equally arranged plurality of N- and S-pole blocks. The GMR detector has a fixed magnetic layer, a free 
magnetic layer, and an insulating layer. The processor (HT46) with ADC function can identify as “0” and “1” 
signals, based on a pre-defined threshold. While the test object is moving, the magnetic direction of the free 
magnetic layer influenced by the N- and S-pole blocks becomes parallel or anti-parallel to the fixed magnetic 
layer. The induced change of the magneto resistance results in the obvious change of the output signal to the 
processor, and then the information of the test object is sensed and calculated from the processor. 
Experimental verification shows that the sensor can provide multifunctional measurement and monitoring 
function with the characteristics of simple structure, low cost, compact size, low power consumption, noise 
immunity, portability, and flexible installing function. Compared with traditional sensor, e.g. optical 
tachometer, which is only applicable to measure RPM of a shaft, the multifunctional sensor can be used to 
measure not only RPM, but also translational speed and to diagnose any abnormity. 
 
Keywords: GMR effect, contactless sensor, multifunctional sensor, flexible magnetic stripe, flexible installing 
function 
 
 4
高、易安裝、不佔空間、低成本、可攜性(portable)、即貼即量(plug-and-play)及可彈性安裝(flexible 
installing function)等優點。  
 
表 1 感測器市場類別及其主要應用之量測技術 
感測器市場類別 主要應用之量測技術 
流量感測 
Flow 
柯式力 Coriolis 
壓差感應 Differential pressure 
壓力感測 
Pressure 
流體式壓力計 Liquid-based manometer 
壓電式技術 Piezoelectric 
近接/位移感測裝置
Proximity and Displacement 
磁場感應技術 Magnetic 
光電技術 Photoelectric 
位面感測 
Level 
超音波位移量測技術 Ultrasonic 
機械式位面量測技術 Mechanical 
微波/雷達技術 Microwave/Radar 
溫度感測 
Temperature 
熱電偶感測技術 Thermocouples 
紅外線技術 Infrared 
加速度計 
Acceleration 
陀螺儀 Gyroscope 
加速度計 Accelerometer 
影像感測 
Image 
電荷偶合原件影像感測器 Charge-coupled devices 
互補式金屬氧化半導體影像感測器（CMOS） 
生化感測器 
Biochemical 
表面電槳共振 Surface Plasmon resonance 
電化學 Electrochemical 
化學/瓦斯感測器 
Chemical/gas 
熱導偵測 Thermal conductivity 
電化學 Electrochemical 
其他 質量、力量、負載檢測 Mass, force, and load 
濕度檢測 Humidity and moisture 
                                             資料來源：Global Industry Analysts, Inc 
 6
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 2 雙通道電流模型 (資料來源：參考資料[5]) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 3 巨磁阻讀取頭應用至磁性記錄裝置(資料來源：參考資料[5]) 
 
利用目前廣泛應用在高密度硬碟讀取頭的「巨磁阻效應」技術，透過外加磁場的微小改變，可產
生明顯的電阻變化。當通過某單位記憶元時，其讀取機制示意如圖 4 所示，根據磁阻的狀態不同則所
產生的 Vout 亦不同，其讀取輸出電壓（Vout）(圖 5 所示)，當兩鐵磁性層的磁化方向為順向排列時，
因磁阻低故 Vout 較低；而兩鐵磁性層的磁化方向為反向排列時，磁阻較高所以 Vout 較高，根據 Vout
的高低狀態的不同，便能判斷單位記憶元所儲存的資料為「1」或「0」，圖 6 顯示相對於霍爾元件(Hall)
的振幅呈現無可避免的高低不一致變化(unavoidable nonuniformity)，巨磁阻元件(GMR)所感測出的訊
號波形振幅更顯得平順、穩定及不易受雜訊干擾等特徵，更適合當做感測器訊號處理。 
 
 8
 
(四) 研究方法 
 相對於傳統工業感測器的技術瓶頸，本計畫提出「巨磁阻讀取機構」(如圖 7 所示)，當磁帶經
過巨磁阻下方時，其磁場將會影響巨磁阻下方磁場方向改變而變化，其變化將會影響巨磁阻的阻抗變
化，由於我們給巨磁阻一個固定電流，這將產生一個輸出電壓的高低變化，其變化利用 HT46 的 ADC
功能來處理該訊號計算，並將訊號處理結果傳送到 LCD 板上顯示出感測器所計算後的結果。 
    本感測器動作原理可以分為 3 個部分，首先，利用撓性磁帶已知等距 N、S 磁極交替分佈，進而
產生週期性的磁場變化，其次，該磁場順向或反向的變化，將造成巨磁阻讀取頭的感應電壓為高低電
位變化，進而轉換成「0」與「1」數位訊號讀取，最後，後端訊號處理經由 HT46 晶片的 ADC 功能及
計算，並在 LCD 液晶螢幕上顯示結果，或未來可進一歩結合無線傳輸晶片，達到具遠端監測功能，以
符合目前生產線現場人員手持 PDA 走動式管理模式。 
    本技術主要的功能性與實用性主要可分成三個主軸說明，首先，在硬體的巨磁阻讀取頭設計上，
不同於傳統感測器易受到雜訊影響而誤判的缺點，巨磁電阻多層膜受到微小磁場的變化就會產生極大
的電阻變化(50%以上)，因此不易受外界電子雜訊影響而產生誤判，對於微小的磁區判斷有極高的靈敏
度，因此不但大幅縮小了硬碟的體積，並有效提高其容量，同時也更加省電。成熟巨磁阻感測技術已
廣泛應用在高容量硬碟讀取機構上，其磁軌密度已達分子級精度，故本感測裝置若採用巨磁阻(GMR)
多層膜讀取機構，其精確度、靈敏度及可靠度等性能相對於目前主流感測器，毫不遜色，故此設計亦
具有抗干擾、靈敏度高、低功率、高精度、穩定性高及可靠度等優點。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 7 本計畫所設計巨磁阻讀取機構非接觸式感測器示意圖 
 
 其次，在硬體的撓性磁帶設計上，因為只需微小外加磁場，因此順向及逆向磁極可採用具可繞性
變形之磁帶(或磁條)，若磁條下表面再披覆一層如膠帶沾附性材質，則不管待量測物件外型或材質是否
 10
 
本感測器硬體結構包含有 HT-46 單晶片處理器(CPU)、一個巨磁阻讀取頭及外加一個 LCD 顯示版
來顯示數據整體硬體架構，其系統整體結構電路(如圖 10 所示)。電路上我們將巨磁阻讀取頭的接腳接
到 HT46 的 PB0，運用 PB0 可更改成 ADC 接腳的特性來接收巨磁阻接受外部磁場所改變的電壓變化，
再經由 PA0 到 PA7 將處理後的數據顯示在 LCD 機板上，讓使用者能夠快速掌握感測資料。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 10  系統電路結構圖 
 
為了讓巨磁阻能夠產生電壓變化，需要外加磁場，而為了能夠貼附在任何形狀待測物件的表面，
達到即貼即用的供能，因此選用具撓性、可彎曲且 N、S 極等距相間隔的磁條，因磁條本身的磁場並
不大，不會干擾原先製程的磁場，但其微弱磁場強度還是能夠觸發巨磁阻作用，圖 11 顯示本計畫所採
用巨磁阻讀取頭及自 20GB 報廢硬碟中所拆下來的巨磁阻讀取頭之比較圖。 
相對於傳統感測技術只具單一感測功能(如光學轉速計只能量測轉速)，本感測器不僅可以輕易測
量轉速，亦可偵測平板物件移動速度，具有可攜性及可即貼即用等彈性安裝功能(flexible installing 
function)，說明如下： 
(1)測量轉動速度(RPM) 
      實體架構圖如圖 12 所示，如光學式轉速計需在轉軸上貼一個反光片，本感測裝置在轉軸上貼
附 N-S-N 配置撓性磁性，利用如圖 13 的轉速計算公式，就可即時線上在 LCD 液晶螢幕顯示目前的轉
速(RPM)。 
 12
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 13  RPM 轉速計算公式 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 14 本感測裝置應用於 LCD 基板傳輸機構實體圖 
 
 
 14
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
圖 18 本裝置結合無線傳輸應用於載具傳輸速度控制及異常狀況監控 
 
(五) 結果與討論 
本計畫所提出「多功能」、「可即貼即量」創新性非接觸式感測器設計，係採用巨磁電阻多層膜讀
取機構，具有下列優點及貢獻： 
(1) 抗雜訊干擾且高穩定性：本技術文章採用巨磁電阻多層膜讀取機構，受到微小磁場的變化就會產生
極大且明顯的電阻變化，因此不會因雜訊干擾而誤判，穩定性極高。 
(2) 高精度且高零敏度：儘管磁場很小，巨磁電阻多層膜讀取機構對於微小的磁區判斷有極高的靈敏
度，還是可以產生足夠且明顯的電流(或電壓)變化，已廣泛應用在高容量的硬碟讀取頭上。 
(3) 低功耗且符合綠色科技：儘管磁場很小，巨磁電阻多層膜讀取機構還是可以產生足夠的電阻變化，
整體電源消耗主要在於維持 HT-46 系列中央處理晶片的即時運算系統，因此也更加省電，符合節能
減碳「綠色科技」目標。 
(4) 可彈性安裝功能：本感測裝置採用具可繞性變形之磁帶，不管待量測物件外型，皆可輕易安裝使用，
故具有可即貼即量之彈性安裝功能(flexible installing function)，並進一步達到易安裝、不佔空間及
不影響系統製程磁場分佈等優點。 
(5) 結構簡單且成本低：本感測裝置構造簡單且應用性廣，兼具多種量測及監測功能。此外，巨磁電阻
多層膜成本比霍爾感測元件低，其可操作溫度遠高於霍爾感測元件，符合工作條件更嚴苛的生產現
場。 
(6) 突破國外專利佈局：本技術突破過去主要透過磁場磁通量感應及光學接收技術的瓶頸，設計一種新
型之非接觸式感測器，經初步利用網路資源搜尋國內外專利資料庫，未發現類似設計概念，可突破
國內長久感測技術設計概念及其製造技術受到國外廠商專利保護的困局。 
 
 16
[4]江文中、李尚凡，2008，“2007 諾貝爾物理獎—輕鬆看巨磁阻”， 物理雙月刊(卅卷二期)，2008 年
四月，物理專文，P.116-P.121 
[5]吳品賢，2001，“自旋電子相關研究報告”，中華民國磁性技術學會會訊，Vol. 27，1 卷，P.18-P.26  
[6]鍾華福，2000，“硬式磁碟機的物理技術進展”，物理雙月刊（廿二卷六期），2000 年 12 月，P.547-P.552 
[7]許耿禎、謝明哲，2011，“應用 HT46 系列單晶片製作「即貼即量」非接觸式感測器”，ET 電子技術，
第 301 期，100 年 4 月號，pp.118-127 
[8]T. Uhrmann, L. Bär, T. Dimopoulos, N. Wiese, M. Rührig, and A. Lechner, 2006, "Magnetostrictive GMR 
sensor on flexible polyimide substrates," Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, vol. 307, P.209-P.211 
[9]C. P. O. Treutler, 2001, "Magnetic sensors for automotive applications," Sensors and Actuators A: Physical, 
vol. 91, P.2-P.6 
[10]J. M. Daughton, 1999, "GMR applications," Journal of Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, vol. 192, 
P.334-P.342 
[11]G. J. Sheu and M. J. Sie, 2012, “Design and Application of a Novel Contactless Sensor”, presented at the 
2012 IEEE International Conference on Mechatronics and Automation (ICMA 2012), Chengdu, China (Paper 
ID: 233061) 
[12]謝明哲，2012，“應用巨磁阻效應設計一創新性非接觸式感測器”，修平科技大學電機工程系碩士班
碩士論文 
 
automation, process control, manufacturing process and automation 等相關領域，並分成 65 個 sessions(含
1 個 poster session)同時於 7 間 conference rooms 舉行，本人有 1 篇論文發表於工業感測器設計領域。 
本人於 8/6 日上午抵達會場報到，並聆聽大會所主辦第一場“Plenary Talk 1＂專題演講，由美國
加州大學聖地牙哥分校 Prof. Miroslav Krstic 主講“Source Seeking for Nonholonomic Vehicles Using 
Deterministic and Stochastic Averaging＂，探討具轉向功能之移動機器人在一個只知輸出回饋訊號、
但其他完全未知系統時的空間分佈與穩定性應用(如在水下)，其沒有位置（GPS）測量訊號，首先考
慮兩種訊號型態，分別利用確定性週期擾動法(deterministic periodic perturbations)及隨機擾動法
(stochastic perturbations)，最後提出一整合式確定性和隨機平均控制設計法則。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prof. Miroslav Krstic 發表大會第一場專題論壇演講 
 
本人於 8/6 日下午 MP2-7: Industrial Sensing Session 中，在北京理工大學 Dr. Pan 及日本 Kagawa 
University Dr. Song 兩位會議主持人的引言主持下，第一場口頭發表自己的研究成果，問題討論時
間，並引起日本學者的興趣，頻頻產生互動、激盪及交流。此次參加會議除了聆聽演講及發表論文
外，另外跟與會的美國、新加坡、韓國及日本的專家學者共同會談，討論有關機器人與自動化相關
技術的現況、方向及未來發展的趨勢。 
本人於 8/7 日上午聆聽大會所主辦第二場“Plenary Talk 2＂專題演講，由日本産業技術總合研
究所(AIST) Dr. Kazuhito Yokoi 主講“Have Japanese robots a bright future?＂，日本身為全世界機器人
技術領導國家，該機器人論壇提供日本未來發展方向及遭遇挑戰供大會與會人員參考，尤其日本遭
遇 311 日本東北大地震慘痛的經驗，救援及生命探測機器人更是發展重點之一，以前日本政府心態
認為若同意發展核能電廠之救援機器人相關救難技術，其所代表的意義可能代表政府自己對核電廠
安全性亦抱持懷疑的態度，會影響國民對其核電廠幅射安全的疑慮，因此沒有提供大筆經費供各研
二、與會心得 
因本議程內容充實時間緊湊，並同時於7間conference rooms舉行，而本人選擇個人較有興趣的研究
領域的論文場次如感測器設計、機器人控制法則、機器人運動演算法及影像處理等，穿梭在各個會場
中聆聽，會後覺得收穫與啟思皆相當多，本人覺得此會議非常值得參加，不只其議程主題皆非常重要
而且涵蓋層面廣，參加與會人士包括世界各地學術界、研究機構之各路菁英，本人於此次研討會期間
全程積極投入聽講，本人於會議中報告的論文獲得推薦轉投研討會合作期刊＂International Journal of 
Mechatronics and Automation(IJMA)＂，這是一本較新的國際期刊，除了此會議中挑選的較佳論文，也
接受個別投稿，其期刊內容及文章品質，本人決定回國後將其整理擴充後投稿至該IJMA國際期刊。 
 
三、考察參觀活動(無是項活動者略) 
無 
 
四、建議 
整體來說，IEEE ICMA 是一個品質還不錯的國際研討會，各式各樣的研究主題都有，與會者只也
很認真進行報告，會後討論的風氣也很不錯，對進行機電整合、自動化應用及機器人研究的新進學者
本人來說，可能是一個比傳統ICRA 或是IROS 等研討會更容易親自參與的國際會議。最後感謝國科會
提供經費讓本人有機會能參加此國際學術研討會，對本人是一個年輕學者來說，這是一個很好的學習
機會，也讓本人累積了不少新的國際視野、研究想法與創新能量，明年該會議將邁入10周年，將在日
本高松(Takamatsu Kagawa)舉行，本人回國後將積極準備相關投稿事宜，期望能獲得IEEE ICMA 2013
大會籌備會議審查委員青睞及接受，並親自出席口頭發表本人最新研究成果。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
本次會議中所攜回之資料如下： 
1. IEEE ICMA 20121會議論文集光碟片 
2. “IEEE ICMA 2012 Conference Digest” 論文集一本，內容包含會議中454篇論文的重點摘要。 
3. 此次國際研討會贊助廠商及單位簡介、儀器產品規格及特性等相關資料 
論文接受函: 
 
 
Design and Application of a Novel Contactless Sensor 
 
Geeng-Jen, Sheu Ming-Jhe, Sie 
Department of Electrical Engineering Graduate Institute of Electrical Engineering 
Hsiuping University of Science and Technology Hsiuping University of Science and Technology 
Taichung, Taiwan, ROC Taichung, Taiwan, ROC 
 gjsheu@yahoo.com.tw samkmarck@gmail.com 
 
 Abstract - The paper presents a novel design of the 
contactless sensor by the giant magnetoresistance (GMR) effect, 
instead of the traditional Hall effect or optical technology. The 
contactless sensing device comprises a magnetic stripe fixed on a 
tested object, a GMR detector and a processor. The magnetic 
stripe has arranged plurality of N-pole and S-pole blocks. While 
the object is moving to make the magnetic stripe pass through the 
GMR detector, the magnetic direction of the free magnetic layer 
is influenced by the N-pole and S-pole blocks, such that the 
magnetic direction of the free magnetic layer is parallel or anti-
parallel to the fixed magnetic layer. The induced change of the 
magnetoresistance results in the obvious change of the output 
signal to the processor, and then the information of the tested 
object is calculated. The advantages of the contactless sensor are 
demonstrated in the paper, such as: (1)GMR effect is firstly 
applied to the sensor design, with the advantages of simple 
structure, easy installation, low power consumption, low cost, 
portability, and flexible installing function. (2)The output signal, 
with high sensitivity, noise immunity and bandwidth, is 
synchronous with external magnetic field change. (3)Compared 
with traditional contactless sensor, e.g. optical tachometers, 
which is only applicable to measure RPM, the sensor is 
multifunctional to detect not only the position, but also RPM, 
translational speed and abnormal information. 
 
 Index Terms - GMR effect, contactless sensor, flexible 
installing function, multifunctional. 
 
I.  INTRODUCTION 
The sensor, applied in traditional industries, is mainly used 
to detect the parameters, such as position, speed, rotational 
speed (RPM) and count of the objects.  We usually classify 
types of sensors as contact or contactless. The contact type has 
to directly contact with the tested object to get information, 
such as micro switch or limit switch, but it is not suitable for 
applying to high-tech precision component process because 
the contact area is easy to wear the surface of the object. 
Traditional contactless sensor mainly uses magnetic flux 
induction or optical technique. The magnetic flux induction 
technique is mainly by Hall Effect, such as reed switch, 
proximity switch, or tachometer. But it has the disadvantages 
of being effected by electronic noise easily, being influenced 
by temperature variation, and consuming more power. 
Besides, the weakness of the magnetic field results in small 
variance of flux and it is hard to identify the correct 
information, when the size of sector is reduced. Therefore, the 
sensor by Hall effect is likely to misjudge and inapplicable for 
the trend of microminiaturization for MEMS. Secondly, the 
sensor by optical technique is judging if the light beam 
emitted by a light source is received or not to output signals, 
and the basic elements of the device have to comprise an 
encoder, a light emitter and a light receiver. If the elements 
further comprise a processor or additional optical modules, 
cost will be higher. In addition, the light beam has to emit 
straightly, so that it is not suitable for applying to narrow-
space limitation equipment, such as MEMS. As results, the 
applicable situation is limited.  
Furthermore, the installation of the traditional sensors must 
depend on the shapes or applications of the tested object. It is 
limited to have to be arranged on the tested object in advance, 
such as tachometer. The Hall sensor and the encoder have to 
be mounted on a shaft, in advance, to further measure RPM of 
the shaft. If operators also want to measure the translational 
speed of the glass flat substrate, even diagnose the abnormal 
information of the sequential panels, the tachometer with only 
one function is not applicable. Another position sensor, such 
as micro switch or limit switch, must be further prepared and 
mounted multiplicatively in different locations to achieve the 
function. Therefore, traditional sensor has the disadvantages of 
the rigid installation, so that the portability and application are 
inactive. A novel contactless sensor, consisted of a GMR 
detector, a flexible magnetic stripe, and a processor, is 
proposed to achieve the characteristics of simple structure, 
easy installation, high sensitivity, noise immunity, 
microminiaturization, low cost, portability, and flexible 
installing function. 
  
II. OPERATING PRINCIPLE 
A.  Principle of Giant Magnetoresistance 
The electron has the spin physical characteristic, which 
includes a spin-up electron and a spin-down electron. The 
electrons parallel to the magnetic moment of the magnetic 
layer are scattered less and perform low resistance. But the 
electrons anti-parallel to the magnetic moment of the magnetic 
layer is easily collided with the magnetic moment of the 
magnetic layer and performs high resistance. If the magnetic 
direction of the free magnetic layer is the same as the 
magnetic direction of the fixed magnetic layer, the spin of 
electrons anti-parallel to the magnetic moments of the fixed 
magnetic layer and the free magnetic layer are obstructed to 
scatter, but the electrons with parallel spin are easy to conduct. 
Therefore, the total resistance is relatively lower, and the 
output voltage Vout received by the processor is relatively 
higher. If the magnetic moment direction of the free magnetic 
layer is opposite to the magnetic moment direction of the fixed 
magnetic layer, no matter what the spin-up electrons or spin-
down electrons are obstructed to scatter by the fixed magnetic 
layer or the free magnetic layer. The total resistance is 
relatively higher, and the output voltage Vout received by the 
magnetic stripe pass through the magnetic stripe, the magnetic 
direction of the free magnetic layer is influenced by the N-
pole blocks and the S-pole blocks of the magnetic stripe, so 
that the magnetic direction of the free magnetic layer is 
parallel or anti-parallel to the magnetic direction of the fixed 
magnetic layer. The induced change of the magnetoresistance 
further result in the obvious change of the output signal to the 
processor, and then the information of the moving tested 
object is sensed and calculated from the processor. The “0” 
and “1” digital signals are processed and calculated by HT46 
chip with ADC function. The result is displayed on the LCD. 
The wireless transmission chip may be integrates in the future 
to realize remote monitoring function or SMS system, 
allowing users to use the handheld PDA for portability. 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 Structured diagram of the contactless sensor. 
 
D. Function and Application 
The main function and application of the contactless 
sensor can be described in three parts. First, the design of 
GMR effect is different from the traditional sensor, which is 
likely to be affected by noise and results in misjudgment for 
weak magnetic field. The GMR multilayer film will have 
obvious resistance change under the effect of magnetic field 
change, therefore, it is unlikely to be affected by external 
electronic noise to make misjudgment, and is sensitive to 
identify micro sectors. The hardware space can be 
miniaturization and the portable function can be improved. 
The GMR sensing technology has been widely applied in the 
read mechanism of high capacity hard disk, the track density 
has been minimized to a micro or nano bit formed by 
magnetization. Therefore, the accuracy, sensitivity and 
reliability of this GMR multilayer film read mechanism 
sensing device can be verified. 
 Secondly, only a micro external magnetic field is needed, 
in the design of flexible magnetic stripe, such that it can be 
flexible without effect on the original distribution of magnetic 
field of the factory process. Therefore, the magnetic stripe can 
be a magnetic tape, and the alternatively and equally arranged 
N-pole blocks and S-pole blocks are formed after magnetizing. 
A gum can be arranged at the back of the magnetic stripe, and 
a release film is attached on the gum. Therefore, the magnetic 
stripe can be applied to sense information of a moving tested 
object without the consideration about its shape and material 
as shown in Fig. 6. The novel contactless sensing device has 
the advantages of simple structure and space saving (or 
miniaturization). Even weak external magnetic field resulting 
from the magnetic stripe also can influence effectively the 
magnetic direction of the free magnetic layer of the detector. 
No matter what the shape of the tested object is or if the 
material of the tested object is magnetic or not, it is easy to 
install and has the flexible installing function, such as portable 
and adhere-and-sense (similar to the function of “plug-and-
play”), and further to achieve the advantages of easy 
installation, miniaturization, and lower power consumption. 
 Finally, in the design of software chip, the HT46 chip 
embedded with ADC function is used as the processor of 
sensor. The output voltage variation of GMR is captured by 
the ADC function of HT46. They should be switched on by 
program ADCR at the backend, and then analog signals can be 
received and digitized for identification. The voltage variation 
of GMR is very stable, therefore, the data received by HT46 
chip can be identified precisely, that above a certain value is 
classified as 1, that below a certain value is classified as 0. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 6 Flexible magnetic stripe with portable and flexible installing function 
without consideration about the shape. 
 
 
 
E. Circuit Diagram 
The hardware structure of the sensor contains the HT46 
chip as the CPU processor, a GMR detector, a flexible 
magnetic stripe, and LCD panel to display data. The overall 
circuit diagram of system structure is shown in Fig. 7. The 
pins of GMR read head are connected to PB0 of HT46, the 
PB0 is changed to ADC pin to receive the voltage variation of 
GMR under the effect of external magnetic field. The data 
processed by PA0 to PA7 are displayed on the LCD panel. 
 
III. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
 Because an external magnetic field is needed to make 
voltage variation of GMR detector, the flexible magnetic 
stripe with alternatively and equally arranged plurality of N-
pole block and S-pole block is fixed on the surface of object. 
When the object moves forwardly, the magnetic stripe is 
passing through the GMR detector. When the magnetic field 
produced from the N-pole blocks and the S-pole blocks of the 
magnetic stripe influences on the free magnetic layer, it results 
in the magnetic direction of the free magnetic layer anti-
parallel to the magnetic direction of the fixed magnetic layer, 
formula of the computing translational velocity is shown in 
Fig. 13. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 11 The contactless sensor applied to measure the translational speed of 
LCD panel. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 12 The detail enhancement diagram of magnetic stripe. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 13 Formula of computing translational speed. 
 
 The sensor can be extended to detect slight abnormity 
(e.g. offset, stack or seizing) of the sequential panels online. 
For example, if six sets of N-pole blocks and S-pole blocks are 
arranged on each panel, an abnormal signal, as shown in Fig. 
14, appears continuously and represents two adjacent panels 
so close that they may have stacked together. The next panel is 
slipped or jammed to result in the “0” signal being separated 
to long. The angle of the panel has been slightly shifted to 
result in the number of sensed “0” and “1” signals being 
incomplete (i.e. less than 6). If the abnormal or incomplete 
signals are sensed, it is capable of real-time response to the 
operators to shut down automatically. It can prevent more 
follow-up damages and lost, instead of additional operator 
cost. The diagnosis function is achieved easily by the GMR 
sensor, but hard by prior art of traditional sensor (e.g. micro 
switch or limit switch). Figure 14 shows the schematic 
diagram of normal signal and abnormal signal. The offset is 
identified according to whether the sensor and the panel are in 
a straight relative motion or not, as shown in Fig. 15. When 
the panel has a slight offset, which is hard to be observed and 
judged by the operator, the abnormal alarm will be diagnosed 
and reported to the operator automatically and immediately, if 
the signal is incomplete or the identified “1” signals is less 
than 6.  
 
 The novel contactless sensor by GMR effect can be 
extensively applied to the transmission system of LCD panel 
with multifunction. For example, it can (1) detect current 
position of moving panel, (2) count the total quantity of 
passed moving panels, (3) measure the translational speed of 
moving panel, and (4) diagnose the abnormal information of 
the sequential panels. As compared with traditional contactless 
sensor, for example, the optical tachometer with not only 
single function of RPM but also higher cost, the sensor can 
provide multifunctional measurement and monitoring function 
with the characteristics of simple structure, low cost, compact 
size, low power, noise immunity, high sensitivity, easy 
installation, small space usage, portability, plug-and-play, and 
flexible installing function. 
 
 
 
Fig. 14 Schematic diagram of normal and abnormal signals. 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2013/01/10
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 創新性非接觸式感測器設計暨應用於微型飛行器之轉速量測
計畫主持人: 許耿禎
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-164-007- 學門領域: 航太科技
無研發成果推廣資料
Journal of 
Mechatronics and 
Automation 
(IJMA) 國際期刊
論文(審稿中) 
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100%  
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
1.本設計因極具創新性、實用性及應用性，相關成果榮獲刊登於「國科會工程
科技推展中心」有關特色實驗室專訪文章內容，將優良研發成果向業界及大眾
推廣分享(刊登於 101年 8 月「工程科技通訊」第 129 期「特色實驗室專輯」，
p.36-p.43)。 
2.指導學生參加「第 6屆(2011)盛群盃微控制器創意大賽」(盛群半導體公司主
辦，教育部指導)，榮獲應用控制組佳作佳績(參賽作品「LCD 廠務無線監控系
統」)。 
3.指導學生參加「2011 全國科技創意暨微電腦應用競賽－科技創意實現組(大
專院校組)」(建國科技大學主辦)，榮獲佳作佳績(參賽作品「可即貼即量非接
觸式感測器」)。 
4.指導學生參加「2011 TEMI 單晶片創意暨認證技能國際競賽」(台灣嵌入式暨
單晶片系統發展協會主辦)，榮獲 D1 創意設計組(德州儀器 MCU 應用設計組)佳
作佳績(參賽作品「智慧型 LCD 廠務自動化診斷系統」)。 
5.指導學生參加「第 5屆(2010)盛群盃微控制器創意大賽」(盛群半導體公司主
辦，教育部指導)，榮獲儀器儀表組傑出獎佳績(參賽作品「創新性多功能非接
觸式感測器之研製」)。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
