1ABSTRACT
Incorporation with nano-filler into the polyolefin
structure has been widely used in current packaging
development for better performance, such greater barrier
and mechanical properties. Moreover, biodegradable
packaging materials, e.g. polylactide (PLA), have gained
great interest over the past two decades in the fundamental
research, as well as in the polymer industry; Therefore, use
of nano-filler in biodegradable film to form
nanocomposites may be beneficial to develop novel
packaging materials. The objectives of this study focused
on the preparation and characterization of nanocomposite
made of PLA and chitosan nanoparticles. Particle sizes of
chitosan was ranging 4~8 μm determined using the
Dynamic Light Scanner (DLS), where less coagulation was
found in association with stabilizer TWEEN 80 which led
the particle sizes of chitosan reduced to 10~42 nm.
Moreover, neither tensile strength nor elongation was
affected when 0.1–0.4% chitosan were incorporated into
PLA. Conclusively, incorporation of chitosan nanoparticles
into PLA is beneficial to greater barrier without reducing
mechanical properties. Effect of amount and/or particle size
of chitosan on PLA-Chitosan nanocomposite will be
studies, as well as the application of the food package.
Keywords: nano-filler, biodegradable, polylactic acid,
chitosan, nanocomposite
INTRODUCTION
Nano-scale means the substance size between 1~100
nm, this generally needs an electron microscopy to observe.
The current trends in nanotechnology focus on the use of
nano-particles in foods, nano-biosensors, separation
technology, nano-filtration, nano-capsules and so on (Ivan
and Branka 2004).
Nano-composite materials are relatively new
compounds developed for many applications, such as food
packaging system. The materials are mainly containing at
least one ingredient in nano range in their matrixes, with
the nano-particles in packaging materials demonstrates
better stability and gas barrier. Typical process for
nano-composite materials is adding 2~8% of the nano-filler
in the prime structure, in fact, it is difficult to form
intercalated or exfoliated structure if more than 8% in
presence (Ray and others 2006). With the decreasing size of
dispersed phase particles, mixed-effects are better mixtures
of interface which is also with the increase in force. Those
nano-composite materials include Sol-gel, Intercalation
type, Entrapment type and Electroceramic (Ding and others
2009).
Another substance of great importance is
biodegradable polymer. In biodegradable materials,
polylactic acid gains more attention than natural degradable
aliphatic polymers. Polylactic acid has many advantages,
such as raw renewable ingredients from corn starch, 65%
fuel reduction to petroleum in manufacture, and
biodegradable. Polylactic acid is composted at 58oC and
60% relative humidity for 30 days (Ray and others 2003).
However, the gas barrier property of polylactic acid is poor,
its oxygen permeability is 2.5 times than PET. Polylactic
acid in nature is hard and brittle, this can be modified by
adding fillers for better mechanical properties and shorter
biodegradation time. In addition, adding antibacterial
substances, is to make polylactic acid an antibacterial
package material , and generate a wider range of
applications (Jang and others 2007).
Except polylactic acid, chitosan is also very important
in natural polymer, which is made of amino groups and
hydroxyl groups on its backbone, and the second abundant
biopolymer next to cellulose. It is generally obtained by
alkaline deacetylation of chitin. Chitin content is very high
in nature, from fungal cell walls insect shell, but mainly
comes from a crustacean shells. Because chitosan comes
from nature, is characterized with nature and non-toxic. In
recent years, chitosan has been widely used in
pharmaceutical or biomedical (Wan and others 2007).
EXPERIMENTALS
A. Experimental design
B. Materials and instrument
In preparation of nano chitosan, chitosan was dissolved
in 1% acetic acid for 30 min and the particle sizes
distributed in the aqueous phase were determined by DLS.
The averaged particle size was found greater than 4μm,
what is not characterized for nanocomposite. To prevent the
aggregation of chitosan particles, Tween 80 (0.1%), a
stabilizer, was added in the chitosan aqueous solution.
The PLA/chitosan nanocomposite was prepared by
dissolving PLA in chloroform in ice bath with sonication
for 2 hr, and then added with nano chitosan aqueous
solution. The mixture was continuously sonciated for 10
min, and then plated on glass plate to form a thin at 500μm
thickness. Nanocomposte film was dried in a 40oC oven for
overnight, and stored in a air-tight PS container prior to
use.
C. Procedures
1. Measurement of particle size and distribution
Particle size in suspension was determined by a Dynamic
Light Scattering Analyzer (DLS, Brookhaven Instruments
Corporation, 90Plus Nanoparticle Size Analyser, USA).
Suspension was filtrated by 0.45 μm filter prior to DLS to
avoid interfering from larger size particles.
2. Determination of microstructure
Microstructure of PLA and PLA/chitosan nanocomposite
Nanorization
DLS Solution method
PLA/Chitosan
nanocomposite
PLAChitosan
DSC
Preparation of
nanocompsite
Physical properties
Mechanical properties
POM
SEM
FT-IR
Tensile
Elongation
Permeability
Food Packaging
Characterization
of nanocompsite
Application of
nanocompsite
3Fig. 2. Microstructure of PLA and its composite observed
by POM, (a) PLA; (b) PLA composite with PLA :
chitosan at 1:2; (c) PLA composite with PLA :
chitosan at 100:1 (magnification 1000x).
The composite structure was also identified by FT-IR,
and the IR transmittance between 400–4000 cm-1 was
recorded. A major absorption at 1720 cm-1 (–C= O
stretching) and several absorbance between 1000–1400
cm-1 were observed from PLA alone (Fig. 3. blue line). In
the presence of chitosan, IR spectrogram showed
predominant absorbance at 1382 cm-1 (amide III), and the
absorption was in association with the chitosan content.
Fig. 3. FTIR spectra of PLA/chitosan (ch) membranes.
Blue: PLA alone, red: PLA/ch=100:1, green:
PLA/ch=50:1, brown: PLA/ch=10:1.
3. Thermal properties of PLA nanocomposite
The compatibility of PLA and chitosan nanocomposite
was determined by DSC. Tg and Tm of PLA alone was
determined 57.74oC and 151.64oC, respectively (Fig. 4a).
The higher Tg was found with respect to the nano chitosan
contents in nanocomposite, Tg of 58.33oC and 146.90oC
were determined with 0.1% and 1.0% nanochitosan
impregnated, respectively. However, melting point was not
significantly altered with 0.1% chitosan (151.64 vs.
150.45oC).
(a) Pure PLA:
(b) with 0.1% chitosan:
(c) with 1% chitosan:
Fig. 4. DSC analysis of (a) PLA alone; (b) PLA and 0.1%
nano chitosan; (c) PLA and 1% nano chitosan.
4. Mechanical properties of blend membrane
The effect of chitosan addition on the mechanical
strength was determined by texture analyzer (TA). The
presence of chitosan affected the tensile strength and
elongation yield of PLA, as amount of chitosan increasing,
less tensile strength and elongation were found (Table 1
and Table 2). Significant difference was found 0.4% and
0.1% chitosan on tensile strength and elongation,
respectively.
Table 1. Effect of chitosan concentration on tensile strength
of PLA composite film
Chitosan concentration Tensile strength (MPa)
0 23.14 ± 1.61ab
0.1 23.56 ± 0.67ab
0.15 24.07 ± 2.52a
0.2 23.45 ± 1.29ab
0.4 21.13 ± 0.65b
1.0 16.55 ± 1.07c
2.0 13.81 ± 0.58d
(C)
1可供推廣之研發成果資料表
□ 可申請專利  可技術移轉 日期：98 年 10 月 31 日
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱： 聚乳酸酯奈米複合物在活性包裝的應用
計畫主持人：陳政雄
計畫編號： NSC 97–2221–E–030–002 學門領域：工程處
技術/創作名稱 聚如酸酯奈米複合材質
發明人/創作人 陳政雄
中文：
1. 利用溶劑法混合聚乳酸酯及幾丁寡醣生產生物降解材質應用
於食品包裝。
2. 利用奈米充填物改變包裝才質的物理性質，增強機械強度。
技術說明 英文：
1. A biodegradable material made of polylactic acid and chitosan
was achieved by solvent method, and then applied to food
packaging.
2. Optimization of physicochemical properties of polymer was
accomplished using nanofiller.
可利用之產業及
可開發之產品
1. 高分子製造產業
2. 食品產業
技術特點
1. 製程簡單
2. 生物降解膜
推廣及運用的價值
1. 環保包裝材質
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研
發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
附件二
3
5
