addition, the nonsolvent effect is investigated for 
another polymer, polystyrene (PS). Similar results 
are obtained using PS. This study not only provides a 
simple way to prepare polymer nanomaterials with 
controlled sizes and morphology, but also leads to a 
deeper understanding of the formation of polymer 
nanomaterials in confined nanopores. 
英文關鍵詞： anodic aluminum oxide, confinement, nanorods, 
nanotubes, templates 
 
 2
then breaks into a chain of drops in order to reduce the total surface energy. Later, Rayleigh demonstrated that 
the wavelength of the distortion and the diameter of the drops are determined by the fastest distortion mode.[27] 
Similar studies were further conducted by Nichols and Mullins, who extended Rayleigh’s approach to solid 
cylinders.[28] The Rayleigh-instability-type transformation has been shown for different materials such as 
metals or polymers.[29-31] Here, the polymer solution confined in a nanochannel is isolated by water and forms 
a cylindrical domain, which later changes and breaks into spherical domains, resulting in the formation of 
polymer nanospheres with similar sizes. When little amount of solvent has been evaporated before adding 
water, the transformation process is completed, and intermediate structures can also be observed.  
 
Experimental 
Polystyrene (PS) was obtained from Sigma Aldrich with the weight average molecular weight (Mw) of 35 
kg/mol. Poly (methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) with weight average molecular weights (Mw) of 97 and 557 
kg/mol) were obtained from Sigma Aldrich and Polymer Source, respectively. Dimethylformamide (DMF) 
and sodium hydroxide (NaOH) were purchased from TEDIA. The AAO membranes (pore diameter ~ 150-400 
nm, thickness ~ 60 μm) were bought from Whatman. Polycarbonate filters (VCTP, pore size: 0.1 μm) were 
purchased from Millipore. The wipers (Kimwipes) were obtained from Kimberly-Clark. 
PMMA and PS nanomaterials were made under different but similar conditions. For making PMMA 
nanomaterials, for instance, polymer solutions (PMMA in DMF) with different concentrations (5, 8, 10, 16, 
and 32 wt%) were first made. To parepare PMMA nanotubes, the AAO templates were immersed into the 
PMMA solution for 3 s. After the templates were removed from the solution, the residual solution outside the 
nanopores of the AAO templates was cleaned by wiping with wipers (Kimwipes). Later, the samples were 
dried by a vacuum pump, followed by immersing into NaOH(aq) to selectively remove the AAO template. 
Finally, the samples were filtered and washed with deionized water using polycarbonate filters. To prepare 
PMMA nanospheres or nanorods, similar process were performed, but the AAO templates were dipped into a 
glass bottle of water before the templates were selectively removed by using NaOH(aq).[32]  
A scanning electron microscope (SEM) with an accelerating voltage of 10 kV was used to investigate the 
polymer nanomaterials. Before the SEM studies, the samples were dried in a vacuum oven at 30 oC and were 
coated with 4 nm platinum. Bright-field transmission electron microscopy (TEM) experiments were 
conducted with a JEOL TEM operating at an accelerating voltage of 200 kV. For TEM measurement, the 
samples were placed onto copper grids covered with Formvar and carbon. 
 
Results and Discussion 
In order to investigate the nonsolvent effect on the formation of polymer nanomaterials prepared by porous 
templates, we use water as the nonsolvent. We consider the Hildebrand solubility parameters (δ) of the 
polymers and solvents. The Hildebrand solubility parameter is the square root of the cohesive energy density, 
and is frequently used as an indicator for solvation and swelling.[33] Polymers are soluble in solvents with 
solubility parameters of similar values. The solubility parameters of PMMA, PS, DMF, and water are 19.4, 
18.6, 24.8, and 47.9 MPa1/2, respectively. Therefore, PMMA and PS are soluble in DMF and are insoluble in 
water. It is also critical that DMF and water are miscible, so that water can diffuse into the polymer solution 
confined in the nanochannels. 
     
 4
When water is introduced into the PMMA solution-containing nanopores, it is critical to make sure that the 
solvent is not dried. If the solvent has evaporated completely before introducing water, then polymer 
nanotubes can be obtained, due to the precipitation of the polymers on the pore wall. In this study, the solvent 
for the polymer is DMF, which has a high boiling point (153 oC) and a low vapor pressure (2.6 mmHg at 20 
oC). Consequently, the polymer solution can stay longer in the nanopores of the AAO template before the 
water is added. For solvents such as THF (boiling point: 66 oC, vapor pressure: 129 mmHg at 20 oC) or 
chloroform (boiling point: 61 oC, vapor pressure: 159 mmHg at 20 oC), good solvents for PMMA at room 
temperature, they have higher vapor pressures than that of DMF and evaporate quickly.  
 
Figure 2. Electron microscopy (SEM and TEM) images of PMMA (Mw: 97 kg/mol) nanotubes. (a-b) SEM 
pictures of PMMA nanotubes from 5 wt% (a) and 10 wt% (b) PMMA solution. (c-d) TEM pictures of PMMA 
nanotubes from 10 wt% PMMA solution with low (c) and high (d) magnifications. 
 
Figure 2 is the SEM and TEM pictures of PMMA nanotubes. Without water, PMMA precipitate on the pore 
wall of the AAO template after the solvent evaporates.[36] The diameters (150-400 nm) and length (~ 60 μm) 
of the PMMA nanotubes correspond to the sizes of the nanopores. Branched structures, which indicate the 
branched pores in the AAO templates, can be observed from the side view of the nanotubes (Figure 2a). The 
tubular shape of the structures is observed from the top view shown in Figure 2b. The top parts of the 
nanotubes are observed to be inter-connected, showing that the polymer solution wets the top surface of the 
template and forms a thin polymer film. Figure 2c and d show two typical images of a single PMMA 
nanotube with low and high magnifications, respectively. The tubular structure is clear, and the wall thickness 
of this nanotube is ~ 100 nm with an diameter of ~ 300 nm. The wavy structures with nonuniform thickness 
on the tube wall are caused by the fast evaporation of the solvent by using the vacuum pump. The sample has 
 6
PMMA nanostructures and the concentration of the polymer solution is plotted in Figure 4c. The aspect ratio 
of the nanomaterials increases with the polymer concentration.  
 
 
Figure 4. SEM pictures of PMMA (Mw: 97 kg/mol) nanomaterials prepared from (a) 16 and (b) 32 wt% 
PMMA solution. (c) Plot of the aspect ratio of the nanorods versus the polymer concentration. The closed 
boxes represent the average values of the aspect ratios, and the error bars indicate the standard deviation.  
 
In order to understand the formation mechanism of the polymer nanomaterials induced by nonsolvent and 
the concentration-dependent morphology, we also study the intermediate states of the formation process by 
controlling the amount of solvent in the nanochannels. The above results are obtained by immersing the 
solution-containing templates into water without any drying process. The solution-containing (5 wt% PMMA 
in DMF) templates are dried at room temperatures for different periods of time before immersing into water. 
Figures 5b, 5c, 5d, and 5e are the SEM images of the water-induced PMMA nanomaterials by drying for 30, 
20, 10, and 0 minutes, respectively. Wavy PMMA structures are obtained at longer drying time, while PMMA 
nanospheres are observed without the drying process. From these results, we propose a simple model to 
explain the possible formation mechanism of the water-induced polymer nanomaterials, as demonstrated in 
Figure 5a. When water enters the solution-containing nanopore and wets the pore wall, the polymer solution is 
isolated and forms a cylindrical domain. The cylindrical solution then undulates and breaks into spherical 
domains, caused by the Rayleigh instability.[26, 27]  
 
 
Figure 5. The model and SEM images of the formation mechanism of polymer nanomaterials induced by 
nonsolvent. (b-e) SEM images of PMMA (Mw: 97 kg/mol) nanostructures from 5 wt% PMMA solution under 
different times before immersing into water: (b) 30, (c) 20, (d) 10, and (e) 0 minutes.  
 8
to those from PMMA polymers. Without adding nonsolvent (water), PS nanotubes are observed. By adding 
water, PS nanospheres or nanorods are fabricated. The lengths of the PS nanorods, however, are shorter than 
the lengths of the PMMA nanorods, when the same polymer concentration is used. For instance, the length of 
the PS nanorods from 30 wt% PS (Mw: 35 kg/mol) solution is ~ 1.5 μm, while the length of the PMMA 
nanorods from 30 wt% PMMA (Mw: 97 kg/mol) solution is ~ 3.5 μm. Several factors may cause the length 
difference of the polymer nanorods, including the molecular weight, the solubility of the polymer in DMF, or 
the interaction between the polymer and the pore wall.  
In order to understand the confinement effect of the AAO template on the formation of water-induced 
polymer nanomaterials, we investigate the precipitation of polymers when they are dropped into a beaker of 
water without the presence of the AAO template. PMMA or PS solution is dropped into water under 
sonication using a micropipette. The sonication step is to keep the polymers from forming large aggregates. 
Figure S5 demonstrates the SEM images of PMMA and PS aggregates that are formed by dropping 1 wt% 
polymer solution into water without the presence of the AAO templates. Without the confinement from the 
template, polymer aggregates with irregular shapes are preapred from both PMMA and PS solution in DMF.  
 
Conclusions and Suggestions  
In this report, we have shown the effect of nonsolvent (water) on the formation of polymer nanomaterials 
made by templates using two different polymers, PMMA and PS. Without using the nonsolvent (water), 
polymer precipitate on the pore walls after the evaporation of the solvent, resulting in the formation of 
polymer nanotubes. When water (nonsolvent) is added to the polymer solution confined in the nanopores of 
AAO templates, water forms a wetting layer on the pore walls and causes the polymer solutions to be isolated 
in the central part of the nanopores, resulting in the formation of polymer nanospheres or nanorods. The 
aspect ratios of the nanomaterials induced by nonsolvent can be controlled by the polymer concentration. This 
study shows that the morphology and sizes of polymer nanomaterials can be easily controlled by using 
nonsolvent. In the future, we will apply this simple method to other polymer/solvent systems. This concept 
can also be applied to fabricate nanomaterials from conjugated polymers or inorganic materials.[41]  
 
References  
[1] J. Jang,  V. Springer, "Conducting polymer nanomaterials and their applications", in Emissive Materials: 
Nanomaterials, Springer-Verlag Berlin, Berlin, 2006, p. 189. 
[2] C. Li, H. Bai, G. Q. Shi, Chem. Soc. Rev. 2009, 38, 2397. 
[3] C. S. Brazel, Pharm. Res. 2009, 26, 644. 
[4] J. T. Chen,  C. S. Hsu, Polym. Chem. 2011, 2, 2707. 
[5] C. R. Martin, Accounts Chem. Res. 1995, 28, 61. 
[6] M. Steinhart, J. H. Wendorff, A. Greiner, R. B. Wehrspohn, K. Nielsch, J. Schilling, J. Choi, U. Gosele, 
Science 2002, 296, 1997. 
[7] M. Steinhart, R. B. Wehrspohn, U. Gosele, J. H. Wendorff, Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit. 2004, 43, 1334. 
[8] K. Shin, S. Obukhov, J. T. Chen, J. Huh, Y. Hwang, S. Mok, P. Dobriyal, P. Thiyagarajan, T. P. Russell, 
 10
[42] A. P. Li, F. Muller, A. Birner, K. Nielsch, U. Gosele, J. Appl. Phys. 1998, 84, 6023. 
[43] A. Greiner,  J. H. Wendorff, Angew. Chem.-Int. Edit. 2007, 46, 5670. 
[44] M. M. Hohman, M. Shin, G. Rutledge, M. P. Brenner, Phys. Fluids 2001, 13, 2201. 
[45] H. Fong, I. Chun, D. H. Reneker, Polymer 1999, 40, 4585. 
[46] P. Gupta, C. Elkins, T. E. Long, G. L. Wilkes, Polymer 2005, 46, 4799. 
[47] S. V. Fridrikh, J. H. Yu, M. P. Brenner, G. C. Rutledge, Phys. Rev. Lett. 2003, 90, 4. 
[48] C. Wang, C. H. Hsu, J. H. Lin, Macromolecules 2006, 39, 7662. 
[49] D. Almawlawi, N. Coombs, M. Moskovits, J. Appl. Phys. 1991, 70, 4421. 
[50] V. M. Cepak,  C. R. Martin, Chem. Mat. 1999, 11, 1363. 
[51] E. Kim, Y. N. Xia, G. M. Whitesides, Nature 1995, 376, 581. 
[52] N. Tian,  Q. H. Xu, Adv. Mater. 2007, 19, 1988. 
 
 
 2
自歐洲與美國等的高分子物理學者。 
6/5 (二) 
這是大會正式的第一天，一開始有主辦人 Charles Han 等人的談話，他們提到
了這個會議是每兩年舉辦一次，而今年算是第二十週年的紀念，因此也具有相當特
別的意義。  
這一天聽了不少高分子物理理論計算的報告，其中來自加拿大的 Anchang Shi
教授關於團鏈式共聚高分子的理論計算，他的題目是：Connecting the Dots: 
Transition Pathways between Ordered Phases of Block Copolymers。他報告了
他們這幾年用的新理論計算方式，可以更合理解釋某些團鏈式共聚高分子的相分離
行為。 
另外一個比較特別的報告是由 Gi Xue 教授所報告的 Confine Effect on Glass 
Transition of a Polymer Ligand on Gold Nano-particle。探討的是這十年來高
分子物理界的一直有所爭議的玻璃轉移溫度(glass transition temperature, Tg)
問題，Xue 教授實驗室有配備一台非常靈敏度的 DSC，因此可以對 Tg的測量有更精準
的判斷。 
6/6 (三)  
早上聽取學術專題報告，並在早上 11:30 報告關於 ＂Transformation of 
Polymer Fibers and Rods into Polymer Spheres Driven by The Instability”的
題目， 並回答相關問題。在之後也與 Fudan University 的 WH Lee 教授討論，Lee
教授是作關於理論模擬的方面，在之前也曾做過一些高分子受限效應的模擬理論研
究，因此對於高分子介面問題與受限效應有相當程度的了解。 
 4
關於 “Surface Morphology Diagram for Cylinder-Forming Block Copolymer Thin 
Films”的報告。這個報告與其他從事 Block Copolymer 研究比較不同的是 Zhang 教
授用了很多關於 Scattering 的技術，這也是因為她之前在美國 NIST 研究中心作博
士後研究時有作 Scattering 的背景有關。 
 
6/8 (五)  
離開成都，於晚上抵達桃園機場 
 
二、與會心得 
    這次有機會參加這個國際高分子物理會議，遇到了相當多從事高分子物理領域
的學者。因為我從博士班之後從事的就是跟高分子物理比較有相關的研究，所以與
這些高分子物理學者交流中學到了許多高分子領域最新的研究方向，覺得很有收
穫。我這次參加會議所報告的內容是探討高分子材料的熱退火效應，研究這些材料
因熱退火而產生的外表形變，因此跟這次很多參加研討會學生的興趣相近，在與他
們討論的過程中也產生了一些不錯的想法，希望可以應用在自己未來的研究工作上。 
另外在聽取的學術報告部份，主要發現在高分子物理方面，雖然相關應用的發展
迅速，但是一些基本的高分子物理問題仍然有許多的爭議，例如超薄高分子膜的玻
璃轉移溫度。這次參加這個研討會收穫非常豐富，也有機會與世界各國的高分子學
者討論研究，希望之後能有機會多參加類似的會議。 
 
 6
 
Transformation of Polymer Fibers and Rods into Polymer Spheres 
Driven by the Rayleigh Instability 
Jiun-Tai Chen, Ping-Wen Fan 
Department of Applied Chemistry, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu, Taiwan 30050 
  
Electrospinning is a simple and convenient method to produce polymer fibers with diameters ranging 
from several nanometers to a few micrometers. Various types of polymer fibers have been made by 
electrospinning for different applications. Among different post-treatment methods of electrospun polymer 
fibers, the annealing process plays an important role in controlling the fiber properties. The morphology 
changes of electrospun polymer fibers under annealing, however, have been little investigated. We study the 
annealing effect of electrospun poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) fibers and their transformation into 
PMMA microspheres. The PMMA fibers with the average size of 2.39 μm are first fabricated by 
electrospinning a 35 wt% PMMA solution in DMF. After thermal annealing in ethylene glycol, a non-solvent 
for PMMA, the surfaces of the electrospun PMMA fibers undulate and transform into microspheres driven by 
the Rayleigh instability. The driving force of the transforming process is to minimize the interfacial energy 
between polymer fibers and ethylene glycol. The sizes of the microspheres agree well with the theoretical 
predictions. Longer annealing times are observed to be required at lower temperatures to form the 
microspheres. This approach is also applied to PMMA nanorods made from anodic aluminum oxide templates, 
and similar transformation processes are observed. 
 
                    
 
 
 
100年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：陳俊太 計畫編號：100-2221-E-009-045- 
計畫名稱：團聯式共聚高分子微胞在受限環境中的自組裝行為 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 3 3 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 3 3 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 2 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
