行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 ▓ 成 果 報 告   □期中進度報告 
 
計畫名稱: 
(奈米壓印製程機械與熱變形之數值研究與製程參數最佳化） 
 
 
計畫類別：▓個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC   －    －  －    －   － 
執行期間：  99 年 8 月  1 日至  100 年 7 月 31  日 
 
執行機構及系所：國立高雄應用科技大學 模具工程系 
 
計畫主持人：林香君 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：陳冠宏，陳彥瑋 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：▓精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
▓出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
 
 
 2
deformation process based on Mooney-Rivlin theory, using FEM ANSYS. 
I. Numerical analysis under conventional process conditions 
NIL fabrication technology is acknowledged as a promising approach to produce nano-scaled structure. 
While this technique is simple and less elaborative in process, it always suffers the challenge of distortion 
which specifically needs to be minimized for the fine-dimensional components.  Mechanical distortion can 
be significantly affected by imprint pressure, therefore many works had investigated the relations among the 
imprint loading, process temperature as well as pattern aspect and duty ratios to determine the optimal process 
conditions. Unlike the previous studies concentrating on the operation conditions and pattern geometry, the 
present work emphasizes on optimizing the NIL system by analyzing the substrate topology and polymer 
initial thickness to effectively reduce the mechanical distortion in pressing process. 
Figures 1 show the schematics of NIL analytical models. The pattern studied here is prismatic shaped 
with dimensions of 50 nm wide and 50 nm high. The resist PMMA assumed to be heated about 180°C has an 
initial thickness equal to three times as much as the pattern height. In FEM analysis, the contact boundary is 
assigned to simulate the polymer deformation process in the groove and the substrate is completely 
constrained. Along the top edge of a mold, a uniform compression is applied as obtained in Figs. 1.  
A conventional NIL system is designed consisting of a substrate with a flat surface as shown in Fig. 
1(a). Based on this design, the mechanical deformation of polymer strongly relies on the imprint loading in 
the pressing step. In this study, the substrate is shaped to compromise the groove as can be seen in Fig. 1(b). 
By implanting the pattern feature with even the smaller aspect ratio on the substrate, it helps the polymer 
readily flow into the groove through the pseudo tunnel which is gradually formed between the mold and 
substrate as the resist is compressed. Therefore, the process loading needed in pressing is reduced and that 
results in the decrease of pattern mechanical distortion in NIL fabrication. 
II. Numerical analysis based on ill process conditions 
A. Non-uniform imprint loading 
NIL analysis in previous studies typically assumes that the imprint pressure distributes uniformly 
throughout the area of interest. However, in practical manufactures, the uniform process loading is often 
difficult to be remained. The imperfection of loading condition can potentially induce the pattern defect in 
alternative degrees which is specifically required to be vanished for NIL. Therefore, it is crucial to investigate 
the influence of non-uniform imprint pressure on polymer deformation in the groove and also determine an 
optimal manner to minimize the impact for such ill process loading condition. 
Figure 2 shows the distribution of non-uniform imprint loading acting on the top edge of a mold. The ill 
loading condition analyzed here considers pressure drop linearly from the center to the edge of a mold, as 
expressed in Fig. 2. Due to the pressure drop, the groove can be incompletely filled as the process loading is 
less than the required compression, the minimal imprint pressure to fill up the grooves. Although applying the 
loading compensation helps decreasing the risk of unfilled grooves occurred, it can increase the mechanical 
distortion. Therefore, instead of considering the loading compensation for the pressure drop, the present work 
optimizes the groove design to reduce the effect of non-uniform loading on the pattern formation. 
Figure 3(a) shows an NIL analytical model used to investigate the relationship between imprint 
pressure and pattern width. Fixed the pattern aspect and duty ratios as the same as those obtained in Fig. 1(a), 
the imprint pressure is calculated for the pattern width w varying from 6.25 nm to 50 nm. The pattern aspect 
ratio (AR) related to imprint loading is also studied here as shown in Fig. 3(b). Modeling results of Figs. 3 
 4
such loading requirement which frequently fails due to the pressure drop. In this study, an imprint loading 
with pressure drop throughout is referred to as an ill loading condition and analyzed its effect on the pattern 
mechanical deformation in the groove. An optimal NIL system is also determined based on such ill loading 
condition. 
In this work, the NIL system contains a groove with dimensions of 50 nm width and 50 nm height and is 
loaded by non-uniform compression linearly varying from 3.6 MPa at the center of the mold to 2.88 MPa at 
the end as indicated in Fig. 2. The 20% decrease in imprint pressure throughout mechanically changes PMMA 
deformation mechanism and results in the filling rate decreases comparing with that under uniform loading, as 
obtained in Figs. 6(a). Therefore, in order to compensate the effect of non-uniform loading, reducing the 
imprint pressure needed is necessitated for NIL. Figure 6(b) indicates the relationship between the imprint 
pressure and the pattern width based on the fixed aspect ratio at 1 and it demonstrates the variation of pattern 
width can be independent of the imprint pressure. Contrast with the analysis in Fig. 6(b), fixed the pattern 
width Fig. 6(c) illustrates the imprint compression decreases as the pattern aspect ratio decreases. Therefore, 
decreasing the aspect ratio for the groove can be an optimal design rule for NIL under the non-uniform 
imprint loading condition. Figures 6(d) shows the comparison of PMMA deformations for the pattern aspect 
ratio at 1 and 0.95 under  the uniform imprint pressure of 3.6 MPa and non-uniform loading as described, 
respectively. The result of Figs. 6(d) substantiates the validity of the described design rule for the ill process 
loading condition. 
 (b) Non-flat substrate 
Although the authors are aware that the initial thickness of polymer can advantageously reduce the 
effect of non-flat substrate on pattern deformation process, it is still informative to understand the degree of 
influence for the substrate fluctuation on NIL. Figure 7 shows PMMA deformation in the pressing step based 
on NIL employing the conventional and described substrate in Fig. 4. As can be seen in Fig. 7, the mechanical 
behaviors of PMMA resulting from those two types of substrates are approximately same and that gives the 
effect of non-flat substrate can be omitted for NIL fabrication even the fluctuation is approaching to 0.2h. 
Summary 
Optimizing the system design and process conditions is very crucial for NIL to minimize the pattern 
distortion occurred during the fabrication procedures. The present study emphasizes on providing design rule 
for NIL system to reduce the imprint pressure needed in pressing step and decreases the effect resulting from 
ill process conditions including non-uniform loading and non-flat substrate. By compromising the substrate 
feature with the groove design, the imprint pressure can be effectively reduced. For NIL confronting the 
non-uniform imprint compression, the aspect ratio of groove should be reduced to compensate the effect of 
loading drop in the process area. The effect of non-flat substrate on polymer deformation obtains small 
enough to be neglected due to the polymer thickness employed in NIL much greater than the degree of 
substrate fluctuation. 
Acknowledgements 
Greatly appreciate NSC of Taiwan for providing funds (Grant#99-2218-E-151-005) to support this work. 
Reference 
[1]  Chou, S.Y., Krauss, P.R., Renstrom, P.J., Applied Physics Letter, 67, 3114 (1995) 
[2] Hirai, Yoshihiko, Konishi, Takaaki, Yoshikawa, Takashi and Yoshida, Satoshi, The Journal Vacuum 
Science and Technology, B 22(6), Nov/Dec (2004) 
 6
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1(a) Schematic of typical NIL system Fig. 1(b) NIL model with the analytical 
substrate feature 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2 NIL system subjected to non-uniform imprint pressure 
 
PMMA 
mold 
h 
w 
P 
substrate 
s= w 
PMMA
mold 
h= w 
w
P
substrate 
h1 
s= w 
w
PMMA
h= w
w= 50 nm 
P= 3.6 MPa
s= w 
0.8P 0.8P 
 8
 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
0 0.5 1 1.5
h1/h
im
pr
in
t p
re
ss
ur
e 
(M
Pa
)
 
Fig. 5(a) PMMA deformation under 
NIL compression of 3.6 
MPa 
Fig. 5(b) Imprint pressure related to the 
conventional and described substrates as 
obtained in Figs. 1 
 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
2.5 3 3.5 4
thickness/h
im
pr
in
t p
re
ss
ur
e 
(M
Pa
)
 
Fig. 5(c) Imprint pressure related to the initial thickness of polymer  
 
 
 
 10
 
uniform imprint pressure,  
AR= 1 
 
 
imprint pressure with 20% pressure drop, 
AR= 0.95 
 
Figs. 6(d) PMMA deformation based on pattern aspect ratios of 1 and 0.95, under 
uniform and non-uniform imprint compression, respectively 
 
Fig. 7 PMMA deformation based on considering substrate fluctuations 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2
無。 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容 
研討會目錄與光碟一片。 
六、其他 
無。 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/27
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 奈米壓印製程機械與熱變形之數值研究與製程參數最佳化
計畫主持人: 林香君
計畫編號: 99-2218-E-151-005- 學門領域: 應力應變與成型
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
