-2- 
to analyze the elder’s daily activities at home and automatically classifies the daily habits of the elders. 
Besides classification of elder’s daily habits, the abnormality classifier also monitors the condition of elder’s 
daily routines and detects the abnormality. As soon as abnormal events are detected, the system will sound 
an alarm for immediate attention. Experimental results show that the combination of HMM and SVMs in 
abnormality detection system can effectively distinguish between normal and abnormal behavior. Through 
automatic reminding and detection of abnormal activities, the proposed intelligent RFID system obviously 
enhances the convenience and safety of elder’s life. 
Keyword：RFID, Hidden Markov Model, Support Vector Machine, abnormal daily activity 
1. Introduction 
Since the U.S.A. population aged over 65 is growing rapidly and is going to over 14% of population in 
2010 [1]. Similarly, it has reached 10.63% of Taiwan population in 2009 [2]. As transformed to aging 
society rapidly, the number of old persons who live alone is drastically increased. Therefore, how to support 
the elder who lives alone at home through information techniques has attracted a lot of researchers' interests. 
With the advances in modern medicine and technology, human life expectancy has increased significantly in 
the last century. Gerontechnology, the study of technology in improving daily functionality of the elderly, 
has developed rapidly these years [3]. One of the most important aspects of Gerontechnology is to ensure 
people independent living up to a higher age. 
There are two basic necessities for the elderly residents to live independently in their own houses, one is 
the convenience in ordinary life; another prerequisite is the safety supervising supports during their ADLs 
(Activities of Daily Living). In order to avoid supervised control feelings of monitoring to the senior adults, 
passive RFID (Radio Frequency Identification) were adopted in this study. For the advantages of power-free, 
cost effective, small volume, fast deployment and easily attached to the targets, it is simple to record the 
objects’ traces and analyze the behaviors through intelligent classifying algorithm [4,5]. By wireless sensing 
functions of RFID tags, homecare monitoring and services can be performed in an imperceptive manner. 
The intelligent lifestyle-reminder is used to provide personalized convenience in elders’ daily life. Through 
notifying the elders about the belongings they forgot to carry and informing the schedules of appointments, 
personalized lifestyle convenience can be well-maintained.  
The abnormality classifier is to give the household safety through invisible supervising monitoring. By 
recognizing the activities of older adults and detecting the abnormal events of the elders’ ADLs, the safety 
of residential elders can be guaranteed. Medical professionals believe that one of the best ways to detect 
emerging medical conditions before they become critical is to look for changes in the activities of daily 
living (ADLs), instrumental ADLs (IADLs) [6], and enhanced ADLs (EADLs) [7]. If it is possible to 
develop computational systems that recognize such activities, automatic detection of the elder's abnormal 
activities at home will be greatly beneficial on indicating the declines in health. Due to the importance and 
challenging of the problem, several approaches have been proposed to learn the daily activities of 
individuals based on sensor readings, examples include Hidden Markov models (HMMs) [8] , dynamic 
Bayesian networks (DBNs)[9-11] and neural networks (NN)[12].  
In this project, we propose an intelligent RFID system which consists of two major modules, one is the 
intelligent lifestyle-reminder, and another is the abnormality classifier. The proposed system installs RFID 
antennas to the entrance of rooms in home, and passive tags are attached to users and objects. The intelligent 
-4- 
In order to provide homecare supervision to the elderly residents in an imperceptive manner, this study 
adopts the EPC Gen2 RFID technology as the monitoring system. Good adhesion ability, small size and 
light-weighted facilitates the annoying feelings of monitoring. Quick tag data rate and the ability of sensing 
numerous tags instantaneously also assist the tracking of the elders. Fast deployment and easy installation 
give good choices between other technologies while deploying at home environment. 
2.2 Related Works on Abnormality Detection 
Recently, activity recognition plays an important role in artificial intelligence and ubiquitous computing, 
partly due to the increasing availability of wireless sensor networks. In the past decade, various model-based 
approaches such as Hidden Markov models and dynamic Bayesian networks have been proposed to model 
and recognize users’ activities. 
Patterson et al. applied a dynamic Bayesian network to predict a traveler's location and current mode of 
transportation based on GPS readings in an urban environment [9,10]. Likewise, the work by Yin et al. 
adopted a DBN model to infer a user’s indoor activities from sequences of signal-strength values in a 
wireless local area network (WLAN) environment [11]. 
Hidden Markov model was used to perform activity recognition at an object usage level using a wrist 
worn RFID reader [8]. Hierarchical hidden Markov model was used to perform activity recognition from 
video [18]. Lester et al. proposed a hybrid discriminative/generative approach to recognize human activities, 
in which useful features were first extracted to build an ensemble of static classifiers and HMMs were 
trained thereafter to recognize different activities [19]. In [20], the authors developed a two-layer hidden 
Markov model to estimate hospital-staff activities. Although most researches have dealt with the recognition 
of normal human activity, detecting a user’s abnormal activities is interesting and challenging. 
In the past, several approaches have been proposed to tackle the abnormality detection problem. T.Tam 
et al. developed a health monitoring system with machine vision and pattern analyses to track the occupant, 
learn his/her pattern of activity, and detect significant deviations that may be abnormal activities [21]. S.J. 
McKenna et al. used automated visual tracking and monitoring to support older people within their homes 
by analyzing their activity and raising the alarm when they fall [22-24]. These researches focus to detect the 
specific abnormal activities, such as fall. However, the abnormal behavior is not limited to fall. 
Several approaches have been proposed to detect unusual events in video sequences. The work by Xiang 
and Gong applied DBN to model normal video patterns [25]. If the likelihood of being generated by normal 
models is less than a threshold, an activity is identified as abnormal. This approach is attractive due to its 
simplicity; however, an appropriate threshold is hard to determine in practice. T. Duong selected hidden 
semi-Markov models to represent a user’s activities and perform abnormality detection [18]. However, this 
work only focused on detecting a more subtle form of abnormality, which is the abnormality only in the 
state duration but not in the state order. 
Since the abnormal behavior detection is worth investigating in an aging society. In this study, we 
propose a HMM approach training a normal life pattern to detect abnormality in the state sequence order and 
use SVM to classify the normal and abnormal behavior. Comparing with the traditional analytical methods, 
soft decision with learning function will reasonably shorten the time needed. 
-6- 
For the event-driven reminding function, the RFID antenna near the doorway will periodically sense all 
the tags attached to the predefined objects and the system will determine which objects is disremembered by 
the elders, then remind them. Meanwhile, the solution to help the elders quickly find objects they need is the 
location history of objects. Once the object’s transition between locations is sensed by the RFID antenna, it 
will be recorded as one history entry in the database. In addition, the location history can also provide 
information for advanced behavior classification. 
In order to perform the scheduling function, the design of time-driven is the most suitable option. Since 
the antenna senses specific user’s tag, the system will automatically look up the predefined schedules in the 
database. According to the time sequence of the predefined schedules, the priority of schedules will be 
sorted and stored in the schedule queue. While the system time equals to the first schedule time, the 
reminding message will be sent to inform the elder about the appointment. After then, this schedule will be 
erased from the schedule entry.  
3.2 The Abnormality Classifier 
The abnormality Classifier provides the detection of abnormal activities. Since HMM is an essentially 
dynamic tool in handling the information with sequential characteristics. It can capture the features of 
behavior dynamically. Rigorous mathematical theories like the Viterbi algorithm and Baum-Welch 
algorithm are constructed to support HMM. In the other hand, SVM has shown outstanding performance in 
the limited samples. Compared to other machine learning techniques, it is capable of executive soft decision 
classification, soft decision with learning function, and time needed is reasonably short. The proposed 
approach is able to effectively process the information with sequential characteristics and execute soft 
decision classification in the limited samples. Combining the advantages of HMM in handling sequential 
data and discriminative model of SVM, we propose a two-phase classification model to achieve abnormal 
activity recognition, as shown in Figure 2. 
In the preprocess phase, we apply HMM to extract the significant features from normal traces, where 
these feature vectors are then used to train an SVM classifier. In the detection phase, we use feature vectors 
in training an abnormal detection model to classify activities as normal or abnormal. We intentionally train 
the SVM so that it can identify normal activities with a higher likelihood, under the assumption that 
everything else is abnormal with a lower likelihood. We first briefly describe how to learn a normal activity 
model via HMM. Then, we present how to build abnormal activity detection model using SVM. 
The normal activity model is trained using the information of normal activity by Baum-Welch algorithm. 
The normal activity model uses the input of test sequence to obtain hidden state sequence by Viterbi 
algorithm. Applying the standard forward algorithm, the log-likelihood is calculated by a hidden state 
sequence. Then, the data is preprocessed into vector-form consisting of log-likelihood and time-marked in 
each pair. After transforming the N training traces into a set of feature vectors, we train a SVM classifier 
based upon the vector space. The basic idea is to find a linear decision boundary to distinguish between 
normal and abnormal. 
-8- 
Once an antenna senses a passive tag, the system will record the tag’s unique ID (UID), location 
information, enter time, and the stayed duration. These location information and the duration time are 
directly stored into the database since the reader sensed the tags. The information is significance due to the 
input of abnormality classifier is extracted from here. 
The collected traces over one month, from Monday to Friday are shown in Figure 5. Data preprocess 
procedure will sample location data to be a symbol every five minutes, and make location information of 1 
hour (12 symbols) be an input sequence. By applying the standard forward algorithm, the log-likelihood of 
an input sequence is calculated. Then, the vector-form is generated as two-tuple [log-likelihood, 
time-marked] of variables of log-likelihood, and time-marked, respectively. 
 
Figure 5. Location maps of daily life 
For training a SVM, it needs to transform the training traces into a set of feature vectors. Since such 
traces are generated by a hidden mechanism associated with users’ underlying activities, it is desirable to 
model such data using a generative model. In this work, the idea is to find a linear decision boundary to 
distinguish between normal and abnormal, as shown in Figure 6. The red dot under the linear decision 
boundary represents abnormal behavior; and the green triangle above the linear decision boundary 
represents normal behavior. 
 
Figure 6. The linear decision boundary of SVM classifier 
The test sequence is inputted into the normal activity model to obtain hidden state sequence by using the 
Viterbi algorithm. The log-likelihood is calculated for each sequence. Then, the vector-form data is 
generated. After input the vector-form data into SVM classifier, it can distinguish between normal and 
abnormal behaviors, as shown in Figure 7. The pink square under the linear decision boundary represents 
abnormal behavior; and the blue circle above the linear decision boundary represents normal behavior. 
-10- 
4. K.T. Huang, P.Y. Lin, C.Y. Chiang, J.S. Chang, C.N. Huang, C.T. Chan, “An Intelligent RFID System 
for Improving Elderly Daily Life Independent in Indoor Environment,” Proceedings of the 6th 
international conference on Smart Homes and Health Telematics, Springer LNCS, vol. 5120, pp. 1-8, 
2008. 
5. Ya-Xuan Hung, Chih-Yen Chiang, Steen J. Hsu, and Chia-Tai Chan, “Abnormality Detection for 
Improving Elder’s Daily Life Independent, “Proceedings of the 8th international conference on Smart 
Homes and Health Telematics, Springer LNCS, vol. 6159, pp. 186-194, 2010. 
6. M.P. Lawton and E.M. Brody, “Assessment of older people: self-maintaining and instrumental activities 
of daily living," Gerontologist, pp. 179–186, 1969. 
7. W.A. Rogers, B. Meyer, N. Walker, and A.D. Fisk, “Functional limitations to daily living tasks in the 
aged: a focus groups analysis,” Human Factors, pp. 111–125, 1998. 
8. Donald J. Patterson, Dieter Fox, Henry A. Kautz, and Matthai Philipose, “Fine-grained activity 
recognition by aggregating abstract object usage,” In ISWC, pp. 44–51, 2005. 
9. L.  Liao, D. Fox, and H. Kautz, “Learning and Inferring Transportation Routines,” Proceedings of 
the19th Nat’l Conf. Artificial Intelligence (AAAI ’04), pp. 348-353, July 2004. 
10. D.J. Patterson, L. Liao, L. Fox, and H. Kautz, “Inferring High-Level Behavior from Low-Level 
Sensors,” Proc. Fifth Int’l Conf. Ubiquitous Computing (UbiComp ’03), pp. 73-89, Oct. 2003. 
11. J. Yin, X. Chai, and Q. Yang, “High-Level Goal Recognition in a Wireless LAN,” Proc. 19th Nat’l Conf. 
in Artificial Intelligence (AAAI’04), pp. 578-584, July 2004. 
12. J. Favela, et al., “Activity Recognition for Context-Aware Hospital Applications: Issues and 
Opportunities for the Deployment of Pervasive Networks,” Mobile Networks and Applications, vol. 12, 
nos. 2–3, pp. 155–171, 2007. 
13. P. Fuhrer and D. Guinard, “Building a Smart Hospital using RFID technologies,” 1st European 
Conference on eHealth (ECEH06), Fribourg, Switzerland, pp. 131–142, 2006. 
14. Jeremy Land., “The History of RFID,” the Association of Automatic Identification and Data capture 
Technologies (AIM), pp. 8-11, October 2001. 
15. P. Jaemin, “A Practical Approach for Enhancing Security of EPC global RFID Gen2 Tag,” IEEE Future 
Generation Communication and Networking, pp. 411–436, 2007. 
16. P. Sirivattha, “Issues on patient identification related error,” Technical report, University of Hawaiiat 
Manoa, Information and Computer Sciences Department, 2003. 
17. C.C. Lin, M.J. Chiu, C.C. Hsiao, R.G. Lee, Y.S. Tsai, “Wireless Health Care Service System for Elderly 
With Dementia,” IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IN BIOMEDICINE, 
vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 696–704, Oct. 2006. 
18. T. V. Duong, H. H. Bui, D. Q. Phung, S. Venkatesh, “Activity Recognition and Abnormality Detection 
with the Switching Hidden Semi-Markov Model,” Proc. IEEE Int’l Conf. Computer Vision and Pattern 
Recognition (CVPR ’05), pp. 838-845, June 2005. 
19. L. R. Rabiner, “A tutorial on hidden markov models and selected applications in speech recognition,” 
Proceedings of the IEEE, pp.257–286, 1989. 
20. D Sánchez, M Tentori, J Favela, “Activity Recognition for the Smart Hospital,” IEEE Intelligent 
Systems Volume 23, Issue 2 (March 2008), pp. 50-57, 2008. 
 
報告人姓名 江至彥 服務單位 陽明大學醫學工程研究所 
會議期間及地點 99.6.21-99.6.24
韓國 首爾 
計畫名稱 智慧型RFID系統應用於提升
老人居家生活品質 
NSC  98-2221-E-159-020- 
會議名稱 
 
8th International Conference on Smart Homes and Health 
Telematics (ICOST’10) 
發表論文 Abnormality Detection for Improving Elder’s Daily Life 
Independent 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
本次會議為第八屆 ICOST (International Conference on Smart Homes and 
Health Telematics)是智慧型家庭及居家健康照護領域中一個中型且重要的
國際會議。此次會議由韓國延世大學(Yonsei University)李教授(Yeunsook 
Lee)擔任 大會主席，會議地點於韓國首爾江南區。特別邀請的演講有 7場，
統一由 Springer出版發行，並收錄在 EI。本研討會邀請了美國、日本、法
國、義大利、德國以及中國等超過 20個國家的作者參加。會議的主要內容
包括醫學資訊、智慧型家庭、老年化及老人福祉科技等數十種相關領域。 
二、 與會心得 
本人發表的論文是有關於無線射頻辨識(RFID)應用於偵測老人日常生活異
常以提升居家老人獨立生活能力的研究，屬於研討會中Aging Friendly 
Technology的主題，在會議中用英文發表，並在議程中和與會紐西蘭學者
進行討論。會議的主席於本人報告完的結語中來也建議本研究可以多探討
實際應用於居家的情形。在會議地點首爾市區中所建置的交通資訊系統
(TIS)在韓國相當成熟且完善，透過街道攝影機以及地圖查詢系統建立完整
交通系統的情境感知環境。在台灣其實應該也是很實用的議題，未來或許
是我們可以深度去研究及學習的方向。 
三、 建議 
感謝國科會計畫 NSC 98-2221-E-159-020-補助參加並發表文章於國際會
議，有感於國內參加這種國際會議的人數有日漸降低的趨勢，希望補助之
經費能夠增加與擴充，使國內從事相關研究者能夠除了能夠積極投稿與國
外競爭之外，能與國際專家學者進行合作交流，增加台灣在國際舞台中的
競爭力。  
四、 攜回資料名稱及內容 
國際會議論文著作一本 
會議議程一本 
研討會相關資料 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：許俊萍 計畫編號：98-2221-E-159-020- 
計畫名稱：智慧型 RFID 系統應用於提升老人居家生活品質 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 2 100%  
博士生 1 1 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
