2 
 
of our dynamic system not only depends on the input but also the state information of the system. 
The state can be reconstructed from a sequence of observations of the dynamic system. To model a 
dynamic system, the model needs to be equipped with the memory [13]. By incorporating memory 
architecture into the positioning system, the location information is then exploited in the projected 
embedded dimension which is constructed by the temporal trajectory of a sequence of RSS 
observations of multiple access points (APs).  
Our approach is novel in the sense that the impact of the temporal fluctuations due to multipath 
is taken into consideration. This is motivated by the physical properties of the multipath propagation, 
where a new observation is actually involving the past samples. In other words, the spatial 
correlation is estimated between a states in the embedded dimension reconstructed from a temporal 
trajectory instead from RSS directly. In our positioning system, the kernel-based function is used to 
exploit the correlation. The experiments, performed in a real WLAN environment, demonstrate the 
usefulness of our approach to significant performance improvements. 
 
II. MULTIPATH PROPAGATION AND DYNAMIC SYSTEM 
 In general, the measured RSS in a multipath induced environment can be written as
           10
jNx t h s t e g t
 
    

       , where  x t  means the RSS observation at time t 
and  h   and    , respectively, represent the amplitude and relative phase of the delayed 
multipath components. The total number of delayed paths is equal to N-1.     is a binary function 
that controls the on-off activity of the corresponding multipath filter  h  ,  s t  is the ideal signal in 
a free space and   is the time delay.  g t  is the communication noise, and in general, this noise 
contains everything not included in the summation term representing the multipath model. 
 Clearly, the observation of RSS is in fact involving the past samples with different weights. 
More precisely, each observation at time t is the weighted linear combination of the past  s t   
and the corresponding multipath gain        jH h e      . That is, the location information has 
strong relationship with respect to the temporal sequence of RSSs. Most of current fingerprinting 
solutions are static in the sense that the location is estimated from only a single measurement as 
2D  [3]. Such a solution can be formulated as     t F x t  , where   Dx t   is observed 
RSS from D APs at time t,   2t   represents the 2D Cartesian coordinate of the estimated 
position and F is a RSS-position mapping function. Such characteristic motivates us that the location 
information should be extracted by first applying the inverse function  1H  . In this way, the 
4 
 
 
Where y (d, t) is the filter output at time t and from the dth AP, and adn and bdn are, respectively, the 
filter coefficients weighting the previous outputs and inputs. For the notation convenience, let Y be 
the matrix form representing the reconstructions with N memory depths and D APs. 
 
For probabilistic-based approaches, the positioning in a dynamic system can be formulated as 
follows: 
    
1
,
R
r r
r
p t w Y H P p

                          (3) 
where Y is the reconstructed and spanned states from the online measurements 2
rP   is the 
coordinate of the r-th reference position and the value of R is the number of available reference 
locations. The weighting function w means the probability interpolating the R reference positions, 
 rP  represents the collected fingerprints at rP , and   rH P  means that all the fingerprints 
are passing through the same transfer function.       1 ; ;r rH P y yr L      where L means 
the number of collected fingerprints and D
ry   is RSS from D APs and at location rP . A matrix 
form of   rH P  is defined as: 
 
Since the weighting function w is obtained between the state pattern Y and the fingerprints 
  rH p , the proposed approach is dynamic. A special case of the dynamic approach occurs when 
N=1, which can be viewed as a static fingerprinting solution. That is, only the current observation is 
available for inputs of the estimation module. 
 The system flow of the proposed dynamic fingerprinting system is plotted in Fig. 1. during the 
6 
 
 
where   is an adjustable parameter and the operation    represents the norm function as: 
 
where <> indicates a typical inner product function. After evaluating the kernel-based functions 
through Eq.5 to Eq.8, one may derive the estimated position by Eq.3. 
 
IV. ON-SITE INDOOR EXPERIMENTS 
A. Experimental Setup 
 To evaluate the performance of the proposed technique, we collected realistic WLAN RSS data 
in the fifth floor of the electrical engineering building of National Taiwan University. The dimension 
of the experimentation environment is 30 x 23 meters, as depicted in Fig. 2. There are over 15 
detectable APs in this floor and the number of sensed APs per location is 8 on average. The 
measured WLAN frequencies, following 802.11b standard, range from 2.412 GHz to 2.462 GHz 
with an interval of 5 MHz. Each AP was identified by its unique medium access control address. In 
our test-bed, the average RSS on the reference locations distribute from -37.72 to -94.68 dBm. In 
practice, the measured values varied significantly even at a fixed location where the standard 
deviation ranged from a minimum of 0.57 dBm to a maximum of 16.09 dBm2. We selected the most 
3 stable APs to estimate client locations in the experiment, which is the minimum requirement and 
shows the worst case performance of the proposed algorithm (D=3). The placement of APs cannot be 
controlled and this scenario reflects the randomness of AP locations in a real 802.11 WLAN 
environment. We adopted an IBM ThinkPad T40 laptop as the mobile node, with Red Hat 7.1 Linux 
operating system. A Lucent Waveland/IEEE Wireless Card was installed to gather RSS from nearby 
APs. 
 
 The data collection is performed twice, one for constructing the radio map and the other one for 
testing. The training data is collected from 43 distinct locations, where a 2 m spacing is adopted 
between each reference grid (R=43). There are 50 temporal fingerprints, at a rate of 2 samples/sec, 
recorded for each location in the radio map (L=50). During the training procedure, the state 
information is reconstructed from those 43 fingerprint patterns by incorporating a memory structure 
as: 31 13( )
k
kH z Z

  . Then, those states are, respectively, represented into a sequence of state 
vectors for the kernel-based estimation. We follow the same procedure of to obtain the required 
parameters . During the testing, RSS samples are collected at 90 test points with a 1 m separation 
along the corridors of the environment, as the dot lines shown in Fig. 2. The test points are placed on 
8 
 
our method provides the best positioning performance among all error measures of the compared 
approaches. This can be explained by the ability of the embedded memory to jointly consider the 
spatial correlations with respect to the temporal sequences. In comparison, Kalman filter only 
smoothes the measurements and HMM multiplies the observed probability of each state. Fig. 3 
depicts the accuracy comparison. This figure shows that the dynamic approach obviously enhance 
the kernel function, where the accuracy within 1 meter is improved from 37.14% to 47.61%. Fig. 3 
supports the fact that the proposed algorithm is an effective enhancement to the probabilistic 
approaches by addressing the problems of temporal variations. The findings give credence to the idea 
that the location information is highly related to a sequence of RSS samples because of the multipath 
propagation property. 
 
 Contrary to the traditional approaches, the probability is calculated in the projected embedded 
dimension instead from static RSS only. The state information is reconstructed to more accurately 
capture the spatial correlation in the proposed dynamic approach. By incorporating the memory 
architecture and estimating between states, the performance is significantly enhanced since the 
temporal variation due to multipath is taken into consideration. That is why our approach achieves 
the better performance than the traditional approaches. Note that the testing time for each sample is 
50 ms in our method, based on a Fujitsu S7110 laptop with an Intel 1.66 GHz CPU and 1 GB 
memory. Such computation time can satisfy most location based applications. 
 
C. Performance Impact of the System Parameters 
 Two system parameters are considered here, the number of training fingerprints and the depths 
of memory. First, Fig. 4 shows the effect of different number of training fingerprints L per reference 
location. As can be seen, the dynamic approach improves the accuracy with all values of L. The 
performance is approximately saturated when L is larger than 25. More importantly, Fig. 4 confirms 
the advantages of the dynamic approach over the other methods. From Fig. 4, we learn that our 
approach has the advantage of using the fewest fingerprints to achieve the same accuracy. This is a 
desired property, in terms of the computation and storage, and the time required for site survey. 
10 
 
from a state in the projected embedded dimension instead from RSS directly. In these experiments, 
we use the kernel-based function to exploit the correlation and compare with other state-based 
methods. The experiments are performed by collecting realistic RSS data in an indoor WLAN 
environment. The results show that the positioning accuracy is significantly improved with the use of 
a dynamic system approach. The results support the conclusion that the temporal fluctuation due to 
multipath is taken into consideration in our algorithm. 
 
VI. REFERENCES 
[1] D. Munoz, F. Bouchereau, C. Vargas, and R. Enriquez-Caldera, Position Location Techniques 
and Applications. Academic Press, 2009. 
[2] S. Zafer, G. Sinan, and G. Ismail, Ultra-wideband Positioning Systems: Theoretical Limits, 
Ranging Algorithms, and Protocols. Cambridge, 2008. 
[3] M. Kjærgaard, ―A taxonomy for radio location fingerprinting,‖ Lecture Notes in Computer 
Science, vol. 4718, pp. 139–156, 2007. 
[4] V. Honkavirta, T. Perala, S. Ali-Loytty, and R. Piche, ―A comparative survey of WLAN 
location fingerprinting methods,‖ in Positioning, Navigation and Communication, pp. 243–251, 
2009. 
[5] K. Kaemarungsi and P. Krishnamurthy, ―Properties of indoor received signal strength for 
WLAN location fingerprinting,‖ Mobile and Ubiquitous Systems, Networking and Services, pp. 
14–23, 2004. 
[6] M. Youssef and A. Agrawala, ―Handling samples correlation in the Horus system,‖ in 
INFOCOM, pp. 1023–1031, 2004. 
[7] T. Roos, P. Myllymaki, H. Tirri, P. Misikangas, and J. Sievanen, ―A probabilistic approach to 
WLAN user location estimation,‖ Wireless Information Networks, vol. 9, no. 3, pp. 155–164, 
2002. 
[8] J. Yin, Q. Yang, and L. M. Ni, ―Learning adaptive temporal radio maps for 
signal-strength-based location estimation,‖ IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing, vol. 7, pp. 
869–883, July 2008. 
[9] M. Triki, D. Slock, V. Rigal, and P. Francois, ―Mobile terminal positioning via power delay 
profile fingerprinting: reproducible validation simulations,‖ in Vehicular Technology 
Conference, pp. 1–5, 2006. 
[10] T. Wigren, ―Adaptive enhanced Cell-ID fingerprinting localization by clustering of precise 
position measurements,‖ IEEE Transactions on Vehicular Technology, vol. 56, no. 5, pp. 
3199–3209, 2007. 
[11] M. Simic and P. Pejovic, ―An algorithm for determining mobile station location based on space 
segmentation,‖ IEEE Communications Letters, vol. 12, no. 7, pp. 499–501, 2008. 
[12] F. F. Gene, L. W. Michael, and P. Dave, Digital Control of Dynamic Systems. Boston: 
Addison-Wesley Longman, 1997.  
[13] F. Taken, Detecting strange attractors in turbulence, vol. 898, pp. 366–381. Springer-Verlag, 
1981. 
2 
與參加此次會議的各種 oral 與 poster 的議程，並與各國學者或研究員彼此互相討論，除可通
訊網路方面最新技術的研發與進展，並可了解目前各國在相關技術上的研發情況與進展。 
除了自己本身的報告，此次研討會也聆聽了許多讓我受益良多的演講，包含 ”Localization 
and Tracking for Smart Devices and the Internet of Things” 。這個演講是由 Prof. Kaveh 
PAHLAVAN, WPI, USA 主持與  Dr. Nader MOAYERI, NIST, USA 主講。 Prof. Kaveh 
PAHLAVAN 從更高的角度來看相關產業對於定位技術的發展，也整理了目前學術界與業界最
新的技術情況。對於定位在生醫產業的應用則是我以前沒有想過的，激發了一些研究靈感。這
個演講與我研究方向相當密切，對現在的研究有正面幫助。 
 
二、建議或分享計畫 
 
此會議主要探討在無線通訊與網路等方面課題，只要用心參與都能吸收到不少新知，包括
了各種新的技術、觀念或是應用等等，都讓我受益良多，尤其是這個會議有許多學者與工業界
參加，因此，如何讓理論與實際應用合為一體是我這次主要的收穫。 
另外，此次會議看到許多對岸的學者所發表之論文不論是量或質都相當不錯。雖然目前台
灣相關產業的技術還算領先。但是目前台灣學生多數都去竹科賺股票，缺乏技術深耕的毅力，
實令人警惕與擔心。大陸除了市場龐大，技術發展也非常驚人。如通訊網路領域的頂級演討會
INFOCOM 今年也在上海舉辦。因此，在可預見的將來，更強烈的國際競爭是無可避免。針對
國內的科學研究風氣，我認為加強學生實做與系統整合之能力，以及提升數學與統計訓練是必
須的，才能因應未來更高強度的競爭。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
資料光碟一片。 
四、其他 
無。 
 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：方士豪 計畫編號：98-2218-E-155-003- 
計畫名稱：以無線射頻時間序列為基礎的室內定位技術研究 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 1 1 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 4 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 2 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
