 I
 
中文關鍵字: 微細铣刀，刀具狀態偵測系統，麥克風，麥克風陣列，偉納濾波器 
 
中文摘要: 
為了降低背景噪音對以聲音為感應訊號之刀具狀態偵測系統影響，本研究藉著麥克風
陣列與偉納濾波器(Wiener filter)之整合，發展能去除背景噪音之聲音擷取系統。首先以
comsol 軟體模擬微銑削過程中聲場的分布，探討不同位置麥克風受回音干擾之程度決定麥
克風擺放位置，在訊號處理方面以麥克風陣列整合偉納濾波器降低刀具狀態偵測系統中背
景噪音訊號，並且與偉納濾波處理結果及未整合偉納濾波之陣列系統作比對。於噪音降低
方面，訊號頻率分布在 5kHz 以下及 8~10kHz 區間之麥克風陣列與偉納濾波整合系統，其
降噪處理效果優於單一麥克風 WF 處理結果，且單一麥克風 WF 處理優於 DASB 陣列處理。
麥克風陣列與偉納濾波整合系統與 DASB 陣列之訊號處理在 13~14kHz 的降噪效果相同，
而 WF 無法有效的將干擾訊號去除，仍有高達約 0.2 能量單位的干擾。 
 
Keywords: Micro End-Mill, Tool Condition Monitoring, Microphone, Microphone Array, 
Wiener Filter. 
 
Abstract:  
In order to reduce the noise effect and improve the system performance, a microphone array 
integrated with Wiener filter was designed and implemented to verify its performance.  Before 
collecting the date, the sound field was analyzed by COMSOL to identify the better installation 
location for microphone. The experimental results show that the microphone array integrated 
with Wiener filter provides a better solution than signal microphone integrated with Wiener filter 
for reducing the broadband background noise.  By the way, the Wiener filter also improves the 
performance of microphone array in noise reduction.
 
 2
害前刀具就必須更換，但因為每一支刀具之壽命變異常超過 50%，使用者無法預知刀
具真正的可用時間外，傳統上均以小於刀具最小壽命之時間為換刀基準。其結果除了
在加工條件與材料變動後需增加試機之時間，也造成換刀頻率遠高於刀具本身所能提
供之能力，機台工作效率降低，人力需求增加。 
過去 50 年來，學術界在普通尺寸刀具之狀態偵測系統研究有相當多的論文發表
[10-20]，1970s。聲音是結構振動的一種能量輸出方式，其訊號包含了與振動量測相
當的辨別訊息，因此一位有經驗的工作人員，常能從聲音的變化來判定機械或刀具之
變化狀態。在實務應用上，不同於感應器如動力計、加速規與 AE 感應器等裝設困難
度高(因而造成無法有效的整合進入中小型加工設備)，麥克風因為不需與加工刀具或
工件接觸，裝置彈性度相對高，適合中小型加工設備的安裝。過去學術界在這方面有
一些研究探討[21-23]，但與其他感應器比較起來並不多，因為背景噪音的複雜與容易
受切削液影響，還未能有效的應用到生產線上。但隨著噪音分離的技術在通訊領域飛
快的進步、微機電麥克風的快速發展及在微細切削中切削液的使用限制，以聲學為基
礎的刀具磨耗偵測將會是一項值的發展與期待之技術。 
穩定度不足常是偵測系統無法實用於生產線的原因，特別是刀具磨耗監測更為困
難，除了提升單一感應器與製程之整合能力，適當安裝多軸或多樣之感測器也是提升
系統穩定性的重要方法，以補足單一感應器能力的不足，在訊號處理上也有更廣之應
用空間。多重感應器系統成本過高是常見的問題，配合微機電感應器的發展，應有機
會漸漸改善，應是智慧化刀具偵測與補償系統重要的發展方向。  
雖然對普通刀具狀態偵測系統發展已經有一段時間，但對微細刀具之狀態偵測研
究還在初期發展之階段，投入的研究與成果並不多。微細刀具之破裂或磨耗造成之訊
號變異較傳統刀具切削相對微弱，所取得訊號抗雜訊能力更差，如何獲得可靠的訊號
源便是一個非常重要的課題。美國加州柏克萊大學之 Dornfeld 教授研究群著力於 AE 
訊號在超精密加工的應用，研究領域包含了 AE 感應器在超精密研磨、化學機械研磨
與超精鑽石切削中之狀態偵測[24-25]。Tansel 教授之研究群近幾年也致力於微細切削
加工之研究，在刀具磨耗與斷裂偵測方面，利用動力計量測切削時之切削力，撘配類
神經網路，估算微铣刀之磨耗量[26-27]。另外，也以 AE 訊號配合類神經網路來探討
刀具磨耗與斷裂之偵測能力[28]。AE 訊號因為由材料內之應變產生，在超精密微細加
工時被看好對微細磨耗與斷裂有較好的效果[24]，但除了在微細加工領域需要更多的
研究驗證，在實際生產線之應用，安裝之問題也需要解決。除了 AE 訊號，振動訊號
在切削厚度 0.1 um 為另一個適當的訊號，以麥克風為基礎之微刀具狀態偵測系統是值
的期待的發展方向。 
 4
壓感測器陣列(麥克風陣列)以及訊號擷取卡的使用來擷取切削過程訊號並且外加異音訊
號，最後利用桌上型電腦將所獲得訊號作儲存與分析處理。 
        量測模組主要由兩部分組成，麥克風感測器之架設以及訊號的擷取與儲存。感測
器部分則採用 PCB  Piezotronics 公司生產之電容式全指向麥克風感測器 (Condenser 
Microphone Sensor)搭配前極放大器(preamplifier)以及訊號調節器(Signal conditioner)來量測
加工過程中之聲壓陣列訊號，電容式麥克風感測器之有效頻寬皆為 4Hz-80KHz。如圖三所
示，麥克風陣列之架設其陣列間距為 60mm，切削點位於陣列中心距離為 50mm，方向為
40 度。 
   
圖 三 電容式麥克風感測器之陣列及訊號調節器 
     
   如圖四所示，本研究使用的刀具為協銳機密工業股份有限公司生產的碳化鎢端铣刀，其
刀具直徑為 700 m 。。 
 
 
圖四 微細刀具幾何尺寸 
 
本實驗主要驗證使用麥克風陣列處裡系統對於背景雜訊(即干擾訊號)的去除能力，同時
探討陣列整合偉納濾波效果，聲音訊號用麥克風陣列擷取後，實驗訊號分為三種方式處理，
單一麥克風之 WF 處理系統以偉納濾波器處理、DASB 陣列處理結果和陣列系統。 
表一 實驗條件 
實驗條件 
加工條件 材料 
主軸轉速
(rpm) 
平台進給 
(mm/min) 
切深 
(mm) 
工件 刀具 
50000 30 0.2 高碳鋼 碳化鎢鋼 
 
本實驗條件設定如表一，且每次擷取時間為 5 秒，為了模擬背景訊號因此在開始擷取
 6
 
(a)                                   (b) 
圖七、無防護罩量測軸線為 40 度之聲壓級圖(a)模擬(b)實驗結果 
 
     原始干擾訊號圖，如圖八所示，主要頻域分佈於 0~2kHz、3~5kHz、7~10kHz、13~14kHz
及 16~20kHz 五個部分，未受干擾的切削訊號頻譜圖，如圖九所示、其主要頻率分佈
0~5kHz。無防護罩之切削訊號加入干擾訊號其頻譜分佈，如圖十所示，主要頻域分佈於
0~2kHz、3~5kHz、7~10kHz。 
經不同濾波器濾波後之訊號如下圖所示；圖十一為為無防護罩之 DASB 處理之結果、
圖十二為無防護罩之 WF 處理結果、圖十三為 DASB+WF 處理結果以及未受干擾訊號的切
削訊號頻譜，由圖十一與圖十三兩圖可以得知、於 5kHz 以下及 8~10kHz 區間的降噪效果
DASB+WF 處理大於 WF 處理，且 WF 處理大於 DASB 處理。於 13~14kHz 的降噪效果
DASB+WF 與 DASB 效果相同，而 WF 的處理結果較差。 
     
 
圖八 原始干擾訊號頻譜圖(無防護罩)      圖九 未受干擾的切削訊號頻譜圖(無防護罩) 
 
圖十 切削訊號加入干擾訊號頻譜圖(無防護罩) 圖十一 DASB 處理結果頻譜圖(無防護罩) 
 
    
 8
[7] K. Ehmann D. Bourell, M. Culpepper, T. Hodgson, T. Kurfess, M. Madou, K. Rajurkar, R. 
DeVor, 2005, “International Assessment Of Research And Development In 
Micromanufacturing,” WTEC Final Report. 
[8] G. Robinson, M. Jackson, 2005, “A Review of Micro and Nanomachining from a Materials 
Perspective,” Journal of Materials Processing Technology, Vol. 167, pp. 316-337. 
[9] K. Ehmann, R. DeVor, S. Kapoor, “Micro/Meso-scale Mechanical Manufacturing - 
Opportunities and Challenges", Proceedings, JSME/ASME International Conferencer on 
Materials and Processing, Ocober 15-18, Honolulu, HI, Vol. 1 pp. 6-13, 2002, (Keynote 
presentation). [16] K., Jemielniak, 1999, “Commercial Tool Condition Monitoring Systems,” 
Int. J. Mach. Tools Manufact., Vol. 15., pp.711-721. 
[10] G. Byrne, D. Dornfeld, I. Inasaki, W. Konig, and R. Teti, 1995, “Tool Condition Monitoring 
(TCM)-the status of research and industrial application,” Annals of CIRP, Vol. 44/2, 
pp.24-41 
[11] N. Cook, 1980, “Tool Wear Sensors,” Wear, Vol. 62, pp.49-57. 
[12] L. Dan and J. Mathew, 1990, “Tool Wear and Failure Monitoring Techniques for Turning-A 
review,” Int. J. Mach. Tools Manufact., Vol. 30, No. 4, pp.579-598. 
[13] E. Dimla, Snr. Dimla, 2000, “Sensor Signals for Tool-wear Monitoring in Metal Cutting 
Operations – A Review of Methods,” Int. J. Mach. Tools Manufact., Vol. 40., pp.1073-1098. 
[14] E. Jantunen, 2002, “A Summary of Methods Applied to Tool Condition Monitoring in 
Drilling,” Int. J. Mach. Tools Manufact., Vol. 42., pp.997-1010. 
[15] C. Micheletti, W. Koenig, and H. Victor, 1976, “In Process Tool Wear Sensors for Cutting 
Operations,” Annals of CIRP, Vol. 25, pp.483-496. 
[16] M. Shiraishi, 1988, “Scope of In-Process Measurement, Monitoring and Control Techniques 
in Machining Processes- Part 1: In-Process Techniques for Tools,” Precision Engineering, 
Vol. 10, No. 4, pp.179-188. 
[17] A. Sadat and S. Raman, 1987, “Detection of Tool Flank Wear Using Acoustic Signature 
Analysis,” Wear, Vol. 115, pp.265-272. 
[18] S. Jetly, 1984, “Measuring Cutting Tool Wear On-Line: Some Practical Considerations,” 
Manufacturing Engineering, July, pp.55-60. 
[19] R. Teti, 1995, “A Review of Tool Condition Monitoring Literature Data Base,” Annals of 
CIRP, Vol. 44/2, pp.659-666. 
[20] J. Tlusty and G. Andrews, 1983, “A Critical Review of Sensors for Unmanned Machining,” 
Annals of CIRP, Vol. 32, No. 2, pp.563-572. 
[21] T. Delio, J. Tlusty , and S. Smith, 1992, “Use of Audio Signals for Chatter Detection and 
Control,” ASME Journal of Engineering for Industry, Vol. 114, pp.146-157. 
[22] J. Kopac, and S. Sali, 2001, “Tool Wear Monitoring During the Turning Process,” Journal of 
Materials Processing Technology, Vol. 113, pp. 312-316. 
[23] M. Lu, 2001, “Analysis of Acoustic Signals Due To Tool Wear During Machining,” Ph.D. 
Dissertation, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. 
[24]Y. Lee, A. Chang, D. Dornfeld, 2002, “Acoustic Emission Monitoring for the Diamond 
Machining of Oxygen-free High-conductivity Copper,” Journal of Materials Processing 
Technology, Vol. 127, Pp.199-205. 
[25] I. Tansel, T. Arkan, W. Bao, N. Mahendrakar, B. Shisler, D. Smith, M. McCool, 2000, 
“Tool Wear Estimation in Micro-Machining Part I: Tool Usage-Cutting Force Relationship, 
“International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture, Vol. 40, pp. 599-608. 
[26]I. Tansel, T. Arkan, W. Bao, N. Mahendrakar, B. Shisler, D. Smith, M. McCool, 2000, “Tool 
wear estimation in micro-machining Part II: neural-network-based periodic inspector for 
nonmetals, “International Journal of Machine Tools & Manufacture Vol. 40, pp. 609–620. 
[27] I. Tansel, M. Trujillo, A. Nedbouyan, C. Velez, W. Bao, T. Arkan, and B. Tansel, 
“Micro-end-milling- III Wear Estimation and Tool Breakage Detection Using Acoustic 
Emission Signals,” International Journal of Machine Tools and Manufacture, Vol. 38, pp. 
1449-1466. 
 10
 
可供推廣之研發成果資料表 
■ 可申請專利  ■ 可技術移轉                                      日期：98 年 10 月 30 日 
國科會補助計畫 
計畫名稱：微細切削加工刀具狀態偵測研究(I) 
計畫主持人：盧銘詮 
計畫編號：NSC 97－2221－E－005－011－學門領域：固力 
技術/創作名稱 雜訊移除技術在刀具摩耗偵測之應用 
發明人/創作人 盧銘詮 黃集豐 
中文：以聲音雜訊趣除技術整合以聲音訊號為基礎之刀具狀態偵測
系統，降低雜訊之干擾能力。 
 
 
（100~500 字） 
技術說明 
英文：Develop the technology to reduce the noise effect on 
the sound based tool condition monitoring. 
可利用之產業 
及 
可開發之產品 
工具機、太陽能、加工生產製造業、 
技術特點 
有效降低雜訊對麥克風之影響，提生麥克風在生產線之應用能力。
推廣及運用的價值 
提升生產自動化之能力，進而提升生產之品質與降低成本。 
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位
研發成果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。 
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。 
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。 
 
附件二 
 2
術地位非常高的私立學府，成立於 1851年，在 2009 年工學院將歡度 100週年，工程之排名
在全美前 20年。筆者住宿艾文斯頓西方約 10公里處之摩根葛拉孚(Morton Grove)，每天約花
20分鍾開車前往會場。 
大會內容涵蓋廣泛，主要為學術與技術會議，由十月 8 日至十月 10 日每日由上午 9:00 一
直進行到下五 5:00，議程(Track)包括 
 Track 1: Material 
 Track 2: Processing 
 Track 3:Properties and Applications 
 Track 4: Micro and Nano Technologies 
 Track 5: Biological Technologies 
 Track 6: Other conference events 
每天的議程均有四個主要時段，每個時段均同時有 7~9個場次在不同的會議室進行(圖四至圖
五)，此會議涵蓋領域甚廣，本年度有來自世界各地 336篇國際論文發表，包含 4 篇邀請報告、
192篇口頭報告與 40篇海報。特定時段進行論文海展示說明與討論，展示時作者需在旁說明，
也是相當熱烈，如圖六所示。本年度會議論文內容則涵蓋精密加工（尤其是精微加工）、精密
成型與生醫微機電製造技術相關領域，口頭報告論文均收錄於大會發行的論文集內
(Proceedings of ASME 2008 International Manufacturing Science And Engineering Conference,.)，
並收錄在 EI database供全世界查看。 
筆者此次發表一篇論文，在十月九日的  4-6-2「Symposium of Development and 
Applications of Micro Manufacturing Equipment-2」場次發表(圖七)，除了參與口頭報告以外，
筆者亦擔任「Symposium of Development and Applications of Micro Manufacturing Equipment-2」
場次的主席，主持會議的進行，共有四篇口頭報告於主持的場次發表。 
此次會議國內出席人員除筆者與同行的中原大學王世明教授外，在會場遇見多位製造領
域之知名學者以及海外華人學者(圖八)，包括美國西北大學 (Northwestern University) 的
Kornel Ehmann 教授、MSEC大會主席 Jian Cao教授、 ICM&P大會主席日本名古屋工業大學
堂田邦明(Kuniaki Dohda) 教授、美國密西根大學之 Jin Ni教授、Jack Hu教授、 Albert Shih
 4
通管道，收獲良多，也順利邀請到兩位學者允諾訪問中興大學。建議國科會與各學術單位應
提供必要的經費支援，多鼓勵國內產學研研究人員(尤其學術研究單位資歷較淺的人員)與會，
開展此人際與研究資訊網路，俾便未來數年可擴展其接觸視野以提升研究品質與產業水準。
藉著所建立的人際網路，產官學研等各單位應可多應用此優勢，例如國科會行之有年的邀請
優秀國際學者來台短期講學，或是研發單位或產業界邀其加入顧問團，或是大學以講座教授
邀請回國講學，或是國內重要研討會邀其返國提供卓見等。 
 
五、攜回資料名稱及內容： 
1. Proceedings of 2008 ASME International Manufacturing Science & Engineering Conference 
六、其他： 
 
 
 
 
七、活動照片(具代表性之活動照片 3-6張，並簡述相關內容)： 
編號 1. 攝於 97 年 05 月 18 日, 照片內容簡述：西北大學會場外觀 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 6
 
編號 4. 攝於 97 年 05月 20 日, 照片內容簡述：論文海報張貼展示與討論剪影 
 
 
 
 
編號 5. 攝於 97 年 05月 20 日, 照片內容簡述：論文海報張貼展示與討論剪影 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
編號 8. 攝於 97 年 05月 20 日, 照片內容簡述：論文海報張貼展示與討論剪影 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
報告人簽章：                 
備註： 
一、依教育部 96年 3月 12日台秘管字第 0960035721號書函： 
因公出國報告資訊須於所屬單位網頁上公佈以供查詢，故請審慎、具體填寫。 
二、本表請於經費核銷時填寫紙本兩份送研發處學術發展組。 
【一份做為會計室經費核銷之附件，一份學術發展組存查，另電子檔請存成 pdf檔 
格式並寄至 anna@dragon.nchu.edu.tw，俾利上網刊載。】 
2 Copyright © 2008 by ASME
with concentration on the lower frequency feature lower down
the sensitivity and make both of them very vulnerable to the
environmental impact. Therefore, acoustic emission signal
followed by the vibration signal are generally considered to be
the better solution [8]. AE signal applications in ultra-
precision machining and drilling has bee reported by Dornfeld
[8-9]. Tansel et al. also studied the tool breakage and tool
wear monitoring in the micro cutting processes based on the
AE signal and Neural Network technology [10]. However, the
limit of the space for sensor installation makes the AE and
vibration base system face a challenge while extending it to the
industry applications. In contrast, the microphone system
provides an easy sensor installation advantage and the
environment issues for implementing audible sound base
system are improved due to the limit of cutting fluid used in the
micro cutting and the better temperature control leading to the
lower background noise level. Therefore, the studies of
audible sound signal for micro tool condition monitoring can
provide a better solution to apply the monitoring system on
micro mechanical cutting industry.
Sound monitoring is one technology that has not been
extensively investigated for tool failure monitoring, even
though it is extensively used by machine tool operators for
decision making. In one of the earliest work on the subject,
Weller, Schrier, and Weichbrodt [11] observed that the total
amount of high-frequency vibration energy increases as the
length of the cutting edge wear-land increases. Takata et al.
[12] identified various operational sounds emitted by the
machine, and showed considerably high rate of recognition for
the movement of the machine and various machining
operations including machining with a broken tool. Sadat and
Raman [13] conducted an experiment and indicated that the
effects of tool flank wear could be found in the frequency range
2.75-350 kHz. Delio, Tlusty, and Smith [14] concluded that
audible sound is a good method for detecting chatter during the
milling process. Kopac and Sali [15] also concluded that the
effect of tool wear on the high frequency energy can be
observed by sound signals in the turning process. Lu and
Kannatey-Asibu [16-17] obtained audible sound radiation from
a microphone for tool wear detection in turning. An analytical
model was also developed to establish the relationship between
tool wear and tool/workpiece dynamic system. In the multi-
sensor system development, sound signals are also studied [18-
19], as well as in the predicting the cutting performance [20]
In this study, the sound signals obtained from the micro
milling for the tool breakage and tool wear tests are analyzed to
investigate the relationship between the signals and the tool
conditions. The potential of audible sound on the micro tool
breakage and tool wear monitoring were evaluated not only by
the time domain signals, but also by the frequency domain
signals and the Wavelet coefficients.
NOMENCLATURE
C Number of classes
iC Label of
thi class
i Class identification index
j Pattern vector identification index
k Feature component identification index
iM Number of patterns in class iC
ip A priori probability for class iC
J Feature selection index
cR Scatter between the individual classes
R Frequency domain overall covariance matrix
iR Frequency domain covariance matrix for iC
Y Overall system feature mean
iY Feature mean for each class
ijY Feature space
thj pattern vector of class iC
T Transpose of matrix
SIGNAL TRANSFORMATION
For a sensor base tool wear monitoring system, the time
domain signals usually hold lower sensitivity to the micro tool
wear change and are frequently transformed into the feature
space for the following classifier design. In this study, the
FFT and Wavelet transformation of original time series signals
were conducted to investigate the potential of the audible sound
signal for the micro tool wear monitoring.
FFT analysis
, The audible sound signals can be transformed to the
frequency domain by the FFT and the difference of the energy
distribution over the frequency for the sharp and worn tool can
be analyzed for tool condition monitoring. In order to
investigate the sensitivity of each feature on micro tool wear
monitoring, the class-mean scatter criterion is adopted and the
cost function  
 kkR
kkR
J c
,
, which estimates the between-class
scatter to within-class scatter ratio is used for analysis. The
between-class scatter cR and within-class scatter R are defined
as follows. First, the feature mean for each class, kYi is
obtained from individual features kYij
 


iM
j
ij
i
i kYM
kY
1
1 (1)
where
thii class
thjj  pattern in a class
thkk  feature
ii CM classinpatternsofnumberthe .
The overall system mean,Y , is determined as
 


C
i
ii kYpkY
1
(2)
where
ii Cp classofyprobabilitprioria
classes.ofnumberC
The scatter within each class is obtained by calculating the
covariance for each feature as:
4 Copyright © 2008 by ASME
In the tool breakage test, the signals were collected over a
time span that the tool breakage occurs. The cutting
conditions for the test are shown in Table 2. In the tool wear
test, five micro milling passes were conducted (in Fig. 5) for
each micro end mill and the audible sound signals and
vibration signals were collected simultaneously for each
cutting pass. At the end of each pass, the tool wear was
investigated off-line by the microscope and the image was
recorded. The workpiece, micro tool, and the cutting
condition for this experiment are shown in Table 3.
Fig. 5 Cutting passes for tool wear test
Table 2 Cutting conditions for tool breakage test
Table 3 Cutting conditions for tool wear test
RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS
Tool Breakage Signal Analysis
The sound signal and vibration signal were obtained for the
tool breakage. The broken micro tool is shown in Fig. 6. And
the time domain audible sound signal is shown in Fig. 7. A
small peak of sound signal can be observed for the tool
breakage. However, the magnitude of the peak is only around
2 times higher than the normal signal and the system will be
expected to be easy to be affected by the environment noise.
Compared to the vibration signal obtained at the same test, time
domain vibration signal has shown a better sensitivity than the
time domain sound signal for tool breakage detection. For
further evaluation, the time domain sound signals were
transformed to the frequency domain by the FFT. The results
for the signals collected before and on the tool breakage are
shown in Fig. 8. Unlike the low sensitivity of time domain
signals in detecting tool breakage, the energy of audible sound
signal distributing over the frequency shows significant change
when the tool breakage occurs. By comparing results for the
sound signal to that for the vibration signal, both signals have
shown the similar capability of detecting tool breakage.
These results provide good evidences that the frequency
domain audible sound can be used for the tool breakage
monitoring in the micro milling processes.
Fig. 6 New and broken Tools
Fig. 7 Time domain audible sound and vibration signals in the
tool breakage test.
Fig. 8 Frequency domain audible sound and vibration signals
for the tool breakage test.
6 Copyright © 2008 by ASME
Fig. 13 Vibration signals for sharp and worn tool test in the
frequency domain
In order to evaluate the capability of the feature component
(frequency components) for micro tool condition monitoring,
the cost function J were calculated for each feature component.
The results are shown in Fig. 14. The results show that not
only do the lower frequency features provide good distinguish
capability for micro tool wear monitoring, the higher frequency
features, which can not be obtained by force and vibration
signals, are also the good candidates. Moreover, by
investigating signals in Fig. 14, the amplitudes of the cost
function for most the features increase as the tool wear
increases. This can clearly show that the increase of tool wear
level will lead to the increase of the energy levels over the
features. In comparison to the vibration signals in Fig. 15,
audible sound hold a better capability than vibration signals in
the micro tool wear monitoring.
Fig. 14 Cost function J for the microphone frequency
components (a) first cut and second cut (b) first cut and third
cut (c) first cut and third cut
Fig. 15 Cost function J for the vibration frequency components
(a) first cut and second cut (b) first cut and third cut (c) first cut
and third cut
Fig. 16 Wavelet coefficients of sound signals for sharp and
worn tools
Due to the benefit of efficiency in processing, Wavelet
coefficients had been frequently used as the features in a
number of reports to develop the tool condition monitoring
system [21]. To evaluate the performance of Wavelet
coefficient in the micro tool wear monitoring, the sound signals
discussed above were conducted by the Wavelet Transform and
the amplitudes of Wavelet coefficients were obtained and
shown in Fig. 16. The RMS values of scales for the worn and
