PAPR Reduction with New SFBC Structures for 
MIMO-OFDM Systems 
 
Yuan Ouyang and Wei-Ju Chen 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
Chang Gung University 
Taoyuan, Taiwan 
 
Abstract—Multiple-input multiple-output orthogonal frequency-
division multiplexing (MIMO-OFDM) has become the main 
modulation technique for 4G wireless communications. However, 
like OFDM, MIMO-OFDM systems have one major drawback of 
high peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR) in output signals. 
Previously, we proposed a PAPR reduction method for MIMO-
OFDM systems [1] with the use of four new space-frequency 
block coding (SFBC) structures. This previous proposed method 
has better PAPR reduction performance than the conventional 
polyphase interleaving and inversion (PII) method [2]. In this 
paper, we design a new and systematic method to sufficiently 
utilize the degrees of freedom among the multiple antennas and 
then produce a total of 64 new SFBC structures. With these 
additional SFBC structures, we propose a new PAPR reduction 
scheme for SFBC MIMO-OFDM systems. The simulation results 
show that, even with the same computational complexity, the 
proposed scheme would have better PAPR reduction 
performance than our previous proposed methods. 
Keywords- MIMO-OFDM; PAPR reduction; SFBC; 
 
I. INTRODUCTION 
One major problem in Multiple-input multiple-output 
orthogonal frequency-division multiplexing (MIMO-OFDM) 
systems is the high peak-to-average power ratio (PAPR) of the 
output signals. Many methods are proposed to solve this 
problem. One kind of the solutions is based on using the extra 
freedom of multiple antennas in space-frequency block code 
(SFBC) of the MIMO-OFDM systems [1]-[3]. In [2], Latinović 
et al. proposed a PAPR reduction method termed polyphase 
interleaving and inversion (PII) for MIMO-OFDM systems 
under the use of SFBC. By interchanging and inverting the 
symbols across the transmit antennas, they have four types of 
SFBC structures to use in the SLM-based PAPR reduction. In 
[1], we found more degrees of freedom can be utilized among 
the multiple antennas for the SFBC MIMO-OFDM systems. 
Hence, we proposed four additional cross-antenna SFBC 
structures, and based on these additional structures, we 
designed a PAPR reduction scheme, called CAT method. In 
this paper, we design a systematic method to sufficiently utilize 
the degrees of freedom among the multiple antennas and then 
generate a total of 64 new SFBC structures. Using these SFBC 
structures, we propose a new PAPR reduction scheme for 
SFBC MIMO-OFDM systems. The simulation results show 
that, even with the same computational complexity, the 
proposed scheme would have better PAPR reduction 
performance than our previous proposed methods. 
II. THE PREVIOUS METHODS 
A. PII Methods [2] 
We consider a SFBC MIMO-OFDM system with 2 
transmit and 1 receive antennas. A data symbol vector 
] ,, ,[ 110 -= NXXX KX  is encoded with the Alamouti space-
frequency encoder into two vectors X1 and X2,  
], ,, ,[
], ,,- ,[
*
21
*
012
*
12101
--
--
=
-=
NN
NN
XXXX
XXXX
K
K
X
X
                          (1) 
PII method is an SLM-based PAPR reduction method, 
which first partitions the data vectors into M disjoint carrier 
subblocks X(m), m = 1, 2, …, M. In each subblock, the data are 
translated (interleaved and inversed) across the antennas to 
produce four different SFBC structures for antann1 and 2. 
Table I shows an example of these four patterns, where 
)()(1 mb m
r
mX  and )(
)(
2 mb m
r
mX , bmÎ{±1} rmÎ{0, 1} represent 
the mth subblocks of the candidate transmit signals for antenna 
1 and antenna 2, respectively. A pair of values bm and rm 
represent one SFBC structure from four possible patterns. Fig 
1 shows an example of the PII method for N = 8 and M = 2. 
From this figure, we can know that for each antenna, an 
OFDM symbol is partitioned into two subblocks, and each 
subblock has four space-frequency (SF) coding patterns. 
Therefore, PII method in this case can generate 16 sets of 
candidate signals for antenna 1 and 2, and it selects the best set 
(the best PAPR reduction performance) for transmission. 
B. CAT Methods [1] 
Although four SFBC structures are used for PAPR 
reduction in PII method, more SFBC structures could still be 
produced. CAT methods find another four SFBC structures, 
which can be used in the SLM-based PAPR reduction scheme. 
Table II shows an example of these four additional SFBC 
structures. With a total of 8 types SFBC structures, CAT 
methods have two forms of PAPR reduction methods (methods 
A and B).  
III. THE PROPOSED METHOD 
In our proposed method, we design a systematic method to 
fully utilize the degrees of freedom among the multiple 
antennas and generate a total of 64 new SFBC structures. We 
define six operations P1, P2, …, P6. Each operation represents 
modifying the elements of the Alamouti SFBC structure in one 
This work was supported by the National Science Council of the 
Republic of China under Grant NSC 98-2221-E-182-023. 
 
 
 
研究成果自評 
 
在本計畫中，我們探討了在WiMAX規格中所使用的 MIMO-OFDM系統，所遭遇的峰值對平均功率
比 (PAPR，peak-to-average power ratio) 縮減問題。如我們所知 OFDM系統的一個重大缺點便是傳送
訊號具有較高的 PAPR，此缺點會造成類比-數位 (analog-to-digital) 轉換器與數位-類比 (digital-to-
analog) 轉換器的複雜度增加與需要較大線性區域的功率放大器 (power Amplifier)，並造成 In-band 
distortion與 out-band radiation，如此會造成晶片設計廠商的成本增加，效能降低；而 MIMO系統卻
又是具有多根的傳輸天線，這意味著 MIMO系統需要多個功率放大器，因此 PAPR縮減問題更益顯
得重要。在本計畫中，我們預計利用 MIMO系統特有的時空編碼 (STBC，space-time block code) 或
時頻編碼 (SFBC，space-time block code)所提供的天線間自由度，發展縮減 MIMO-OFDM 系統的
PAPR技術，此技術已有初步的成果發表在 2009 IEEE Vehicular Technology Conference - Spring (VTC 
2009-Spring)與 2010 7th IEEE VTS Asia Pacific Wireless Communications Symposium (APWCS)中，此技
術與傳統 PAPR縮減技術相較，具有較優 PAPR縮減效能且並不影響 MIMO系統的 SFBC編碼。我
們在本計畫期間，發展出適用於 MIMO-OFDM系統的 SFBC PAPR縮減演算法的 general form解決
方案，並進行系統效能的評估與驗證，同時我們亦注意到縮減 PAPR 演算法所需的高計算複雜度問
題，我們將之前發表於 IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing 方法的經驗 [95]，用於研究降低演算
法計算複雜度的可行性。最後，我們亦計畫以整個系統的觀點，完成一簡化 MIMO-OFDM接收機軟
體雛形系統評估。 
98年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：歐陽源 計畫編號：98-2221-E-182-023- 
計畫名稱：適用於 WiMAX 系統之 SFBC MIMO-OFDM 峰值對平均功率比縮減技術的研究與實現 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 2 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 1 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
