智慧型手機圖像辨識率與滿意度之評估研究
The Evaluation of GUI Icons on Recognition Rate and
Satisfaction for Smart Phones
黃啟梧
Chi-Wu Huang
國立臺北科技大學工業設計系/創新設計研究所 副教授
摘 要
智慧型手機具有手機的小巧體積、PDA 的強大功能，但是在這麼小的空間內，要放進這麼多的功能，
其人機介面的研究就顯得相當重要。
本研究旨在探討智慧型手機功能圖像之辨識率，以目前市面上前三大手機作業系統之功能圖像為受
測樣本，依據其視覺設計要素建立形態要素分表，分析現今的圖像設計趨勢，並藉由混淆矩陣測試了解
圖像的辨識率並與建構出的圖像形態分析表進行分析，歸納圖像的優劣所具有之特性。另外，本研究將
受測者分為有設計背景與無設計背景之人員兩大類，主要目的即在評估兩族群間是否存在圖像認知上的
差異，設計師可以根據差異的結果作為往後設計圖像時的參考。
本研究之結論如下：
1. 圖像的設計原則：使用具體的「圖示符號」；使用已「約定俗成」的圖像符號；適當的輔助圖形可以
增加圖像之辨識率；使用「整體的」圖像主體。
2. 造成混淆的原因可以概分成五種：不同功能意義，但圖像類似者；不同圖像，但字面功能意義相似者；
圖像與功能意義沒關係；特定功能的象徵符號；圖像本身有錯誤的暗示性。
3. 設計背景差異方面，辨識率及錯誤率的部分差異不大，無設計背景的受測者混淆情形較為分散；具設
計背景的受測者混淆情形較為集中。在未答率方面，無設計背景的受測者明顯高於具設計背景的受測
者，容易發生混淆的情形。
關鍵詞：智慧型手機、圖像、辨識率、形態分析
Abstract.
This study aims to explore the effect of morphological elements on the icon recognition in smart phone. 42 icons were first
selected and classified in a morphological chart based on its visual design elements. Then, icons were evaluated by a group
of respondents with or without design background through e-mail. Main findings include: 1) Some morphological
elements may affect the recognition rates of icons. Icons imitating real objects and using conventional symbols are better
in recognition rate. In contrast, some particular symbols may be difficult to recognize. 2) Gaps may still exist between
designers and users. The result of this study shows that the un-answered rate of the respondents without design
background is significantly higher than the ones with design background. This may suggests that gaps may still exist
between designers and users. Therefore, it is recommended that a designer should bear user in mind when designing icons
in order to minimize these gaps.
Keywords: Smart phone, Icon, Recognition rate, Morphological elements
一、 前言
手機從早期的撥打電話、收發簡訊等基本功
能，到現在的智慧型手機，幾乎可以包辦生活上
大大小小的瑣事，把手機能運用的空間發揮到極
致。智慧型手機具有手機的小小體積、PDA 的強
形態類目，是用一種系統化的分析方法，藉由既
有的形式與結構，客觀分析產品所有可能達成的
造形。
因此，本研究除了一般常用的圖像辨識率評
估之外，亦嘗試將所收集的圖像依據其視覺要素
建立一形態要素分析表，探討高辨識率及低辨識
率的圖像各有何形態特徵。
另外，根據陳彩虹〔4〕以及李郁桂〔5〕對
行動通訊產品的圖像評估研究中，其受測者主要
針對一般使用者並依其需求、習性區分族群。本
研究將受測者分為有設計背景與無設計背景之人
員兩大類，主要目的即在評估兩族群間是否存在
圖像認知上的差異，設計師可以根據差異的結果
作為往後設計圖像時的參考，避免使用者對人機
介面之間的鴻溝問題。
三、研究方法
本研究步驟共分成五個階段，如下所示：
1. 智慧型手機功能圖像收集：針對前三大智慧型
手機作業系統，收集其功能圖像，圖像選擇以
主要功能選項之大圖示為主。
表 2 圖像形態要素表範例
形態
項目
形態
類目
A.
圖像
類型 A1.圖示符號 A2.指示符號 A3.象徵符號
B.
圖像
風格 B1.平面圖像 B2.傾斜圖像 B3.立體圖像
C.
輔助
圖形 C1. 有 C2. 無
D.
圖像
背景 D1. 有 D2. 無
E.
圖像
呈現
方式
E1.整體的 E2.局部的
2. 功能圖像篩選：利用問卷調查了解使用者認為
重要之智慧型手機功能項目。針對問卷調查的
結果，並參考圖像形態要素分析表，以焦體團
體法篩選出42個最終受測圖像。圖像的篩選原
則有以下兩點：
(1) 名稱類似的功能，根據功能需求調查的得
分結果，將得分低者予以删除。
(2) 圖像之形態要素類似者，經小組投票表決
後，將品質較差的圖像予以删除。
3. 功能圖像初步分析：針對所收集到之功能圖
像，參考黃柏文〔3〕針對行動電話圖像所提的
形態項目與類目以及智慧型機功能圖像的特
徵，進行以視覺設計元素為主的圖像形態分解
並建立形態要素分析表(如表 2 範例所示)，進
行功能圖像之初步分析。
4. 功能圖像評估：利用配對法，對功能圖像做混
淆性的測試，將篩選後的 42 圖像列成表單，以
隨機方式排列於問卷上方，將圖像相對應的文
字意義也以隨機方式排列於問卷下方並予以編
號，讓受測者將其認為適合的文字意義編號填
入對應的圖像空格中，藉此評估受測者對該圖
像所代表的意義是否與文字意義相符。經由測
試結果所得的資料，建立一混淆矩陣予以分
析，若圖像造形與文字意義相符合，則混淆性
低，反之，若受測者認定的文字意義與圖像造
形不符，則其混淆性高，本研究以 ISO 所建議
的合格正確辨識率 66.7%作為圖像評估的標
準。藉由圖像混淆矩陣的結果，可以了解哪些
圖像辨識率高，哪些圖像辨識率低以及被誤認
的原因為何。另外，將問卷測試所得的資料以
獨立樣本 t 檢定進行分析，探討設計背景的有
無對圖像辨識率是否有顯著差異。
由於研究資源的限制，本研究以方便抽樣的
方式利用電子郵件進行問卷的發放，以週遭的學
生族及上班族等年輕族群為主。本研究挑選出 80
位受測者（其中具設計背景的受測者有 40 人，無
設計背景之受測者有 40 人）作為實驗的受測者。
四、結果與討論
本研究總共發放 80 份問卷，問卷回收 68 份，
其中有 9 份問卷因受測者漏答或重覆勾選，導致
部分答案選項出現空白，因此視為廢卷。故實際
有效問卷 59 份，有效回收率 73.8%。
本研究受測者年齡在 19 歲以下有 5 人，佔
8.5%；20～29 歲共計 19 人，佔 32.2%；30～39
歲共計 23 人，佔 39.0%；40～49 歲共計 9 人，佔
15.3%；50 歲以上共計 3 人，佔 5.1%。在受測者
設計背景方面，具有設計背景的共有 31 人，佔
52.5%；無設計背景的共有 28 人，佔 47.5%。
1. 設計背景差異與辨識率之分析
(c) 特定功能的象徵符號不易辨識
圖像H4其代表意義為「媒體播放」功能，為
一特定功能的象徵符號，其圖像辨識率僅59.3%。
最早為個人電腦中一個外掛的媒體播放程式－
「RealPlayer」，並非每個人都使用過此軟體，因
此初次接觸此圖像的受測者無法了解其所代表的
功能意義。
(2) 在輔助圖形方面：
透過適當的圖形輔助圖像主體可以提高圖像
的辨識率。例如「通訊錄」圖像A1，圖像主體「本
子」正面部分有一「電話」的簡單圖形，可以明
顯看出與電話的關係；A2的圖像設計是在一矩形
背景框架中，雖然「電話簿」主體只有一半，但
由於「電話」的圖形很清楚，所以還很容易讓受
測者在腦中產生完整的影像。另外，「行事曆」圖
像G1以及G3也是利用「數字」來扮演適當的輔助
圖形。
圖像輔助圖形不夠顯著，易造成辨識上的困
難。圖像A4其代表意義為「通訊錄」功能，特徵
輔助圖形為一個半身人像造形，雖然其象徵的意
義很明確，但是設計者並未考慮到手機螢幕的特
性，導致輔助圖形太小不易識別，造成辨識上的
困難，圖像B4與I4也是同樣的情形。
(3) 在圖像呈現方式方面：
圖像G2、I2與J2都是使用局部的圖像主體，由
於顯示螢幕的縮小，圖像的呈現亦隨之縮小，若
使用局部的圖像主體，雖然此種表達手法能夠營
造設計上的差異性，但是圖像主體的並沒有呈現
完整的意像，反而影響受測者對圖像的辨識能
力，易造成辨識上的困難。
另外，經由評估的分析結果，不同風格與背
景的圖像均有未達到合格的辨識率，因此推論圖
像風格與圖像背景的有無並不會影響圖像的辨識
率。
3. 圖像混淆矩陣分析
由混淆矩陣結果中，可以很明顯得知受測者
對圖像的混淆情形，此處所謂的混淆，是指大部
分受測者將圖像誤解為某一非原訂的功能意義。
造成圖像混淆的原因可能有以下幾點：
(1) 不同功能意義，但圖像類似者：
圖像C2與C3為「通訊記錄」功能，但有高達
55.9%與59.3%的受測者將其誤認為「資料同步」
功能。相反地，「資料同步」圖像F2則有23.7%的
受測者將其誤認為「通訊記錄」功能。由於圖像
間的造形太過類似，皆是以雙箭頭代表資料的往
返，因此發生嚴重的混淆。「資料同步」圖像F3
也有相同的情況，有27.1%的受測者將其誤認為
「媒體播放」圖像H5，也是由於圖像之造形太過
相似。
(2) 不同圖像，但字面功能意義相似者：
「通訊記錄」圖像C4有37.3%的受測者將其誤
認為「通訊錄」功能，由於兩者字面的意義類似，
加上電話筒和紙張容易使人誤認為「通訊錄」，而
不會直接聯想到「通訊記錄」，因此受測者容易產
生混淆的情況。
(3) 圖像與功能意義完全沒關係：
圖像D4 雖然其意義是「設定」功能，但其圖
像辨識率僅18.6%，是42受測圖像當中辨識率最低
的，因為圖像本身所傳達的功能意義訊息不明
確，會讓受測者無法聯想其功能意義，表示此圖
像設計有問題，容易產生混淆。
(4) 圖像本身具有錯誤的暗示性
圖像B5其代表意義為「訊息」功能，但是有
高達35.6%的受測者將其誤認為「媒體播放」功
能。「媒體播放」功能的音符符號置於此圖像最上
層，由於其特徵最為明顯，而代表「訊息」的信
封置於最下層，受測者很容易發生誤判的情形。
「行事曆」功能圖像G2也有17.0%的受測者將其
誤認為「記事本」功能，因為「筆」的圖形容易
讓人聯想到「記事」的功能，加上「本子」的圖
形，受測者直覺的將其誤認為「記事本」。
五、結論與建議
本研究以智慧型手機之圖像評估為主題，探
討圖像辨識率與形態要素間的關係以及圖像混淆
的原因，本階段將實驗結果分析歸納結果如下：
1. 智慧型手機圖像的評估方法
從過去的相關研究中可以看到採用混淆矩陣
來分析圖像的混淆情形，或是採用圖像語意的觀
點去探討圖像，比較少見將圖像拆解歸納構成元
素，來對圖像傳達做整體的研究。因此，本研究
不僅從混淆的情形來探討圖像，另一方面參考黃
柏文〔3〕針對行動電話圖像所提的形態項目與類
目以及智慧型機功能圖像的特徵，萃取圖像的視
N. Aykin (Ed.): Usability and Internationalization, Part I, HCII 2007, LNCS 4559, pp. 513–522, 2007. 
© Springer-Verlag Berlin Heidelberg 2007 
The Effect of Morphological Elements on the Icon 
Recognition in Smart Phones 
Chiwu Huang and Chieh-Ming Tsai 
Department of Industrial Design and Graduate Institute of Innovation Design 
National Taipei University of Technology 
1 Chung-Hsiao E. Rd., Sec. 3, Taipei 106, Taiwan 
chiwu@ntut.edu.tw 
Abstract. This study aims to explore the effect of morphological elements on 
the icon recognition in smart phone. 42 icons were first selected and classified 
in a morphological chart based on its visual design elements. Then, icons were 
evaluated by a group of respondents with or without design background through 
e-mail.  Main findings include: 1) Some morphological elements may affect the 
recognition rates of icons. Icons imitating real objects and using conventional 
symbols are better in recognition rate. In contrast, some particular symbols may 
be difficult to recognize. 2) Gaps may still exist between designers and users.  
The result of this study shows that the un-answered rate of the respondents 
without design background is significantly higher than the ones with design 
background. This may suggests that gaps may still exist between designers and 
users. Therefore, it is recommended that a designer should bear user in mind 
when designing icons in order to minimize these gaps. 
Keywords: Smart phone, Icon, Recognition rate, Morphological elements. 
1   Introduction 
The functions of mobile phone in the early days were very basic, ranging from 
making or receiving phone calls to sending or receiving messages. Nowadays, a much 
more advanced Smart Phone can deal with almost everything in one’s daily lives. A 
Smart Phone is a mobile phone that incorporates PDA functions in a small handset.  
Therefore, it is a challenge for engineers to keep so many functions in small space.  
As a result, the design of the man-machine interface becomes very important.  Under 
the effort of R&D team, the function of many Smart Phones, in terms of both 
hardware and software, are getting similar. However, differences exist in their 
interface design, especially the way of interaction and graphic icon design. Icon 
design can be considered as the entrance to the interaction of man-machine interface.  
Whether a user can recognize its meaning or not becomes the first step to interact with 
a phone set. 
In an anecdotal observation, however, the recognition rate of icon design in smart 
phones was not very high. According to Norman’s mental models [1], ideally, the 
design model should be identical with the user’s model when designing icons. It leads 
to a hypothesis that the difference of the recognition rate to an icon design between 
 The Effect of Morphological Elements on the Icon Recognition in Smart Phones 515 
Index. Index relates indirectly to the concept of its referent. For example, a trapezium 
icon emitting sound weaves means a “loudspeaker”. 
Symbol. Symbol neither looks alike nor relates to its referent.  It is customary used or 
agreed by most people for a long time.  
Due to the advance of computer technology, graphic icons are developed from two-
dimensional image into three-dimensional image.  Technologies, such as voice 
recognition, multimedia and animation, are used in Smart Phones.  The choice of 
interaction between man and machine becomes much more abundant.   However, the 
acceptance of users regarding the interface design depends largely on the evaluation 
of the icon designs. 
2.3   Studies of the Evaluation of Icons 
The paired-comparison method [5] is most often used in the evaluation of icon design.  
Respondents are asked to pick up the most fitted name from a list to match the icon.  
The recognition rate can be determined through statistical analysis.  The icon with bad 
recognition rate is subjected to redesign by the designer according to the opinion from 
respondents.  However, objective method for the analysis of icon design is lacked.  
Huang [6] uses statistic to analyze the relationship between icon’s image vocabulary 
and its morphological elements for mobile phone.  Morphological analysis is a 
systematic method that breaks down an icon into elements.  The elements are 
classified into items and categories. 
The morphological analysis is used in the study to explore the relationship between 
recognition and morphological elements.  The characteristics of an icon with both 
high and low recognition rates can then be identified. 
Chen [7] and Lee [8] have done researches on the evaluation of icon design for 
mobile electronic products.  However, the respondents were divided into groups 
according to their needs and habits.  The respondents are categorized into people with 
or without design background.  The purpose is to identify the difference between two 
groups on the recognition of icon.  The result can be applied to icon design to avoid 
the gap between designers and users. 
2.4   Morphological Analysis 
Morphological analysis was originally used in engineering design to develop 
solutions for problems [9].  Solutions are classified into main categories and sub-
categories first.  Varies solutions are then proposed through the combination of sub-
categories.  In this way, solutions can be explored systematically.  This method was 
adopted for the study. 
3   Method 
3.1   The Research Process 
The research process is divided into following five steps: 
The Selection of Sample for the Evaluation. 6 smart phones from the top-three 
operation system, i.e. Symbian, Palm and Windows Mobile Smartphone, were selected 
 The Effect of Morphological Elements on the Icon Recognition in Smart Phones 517 
Table 2. An example of morphological chart 
Categories Sub-categories 
 
 
 
A. Types 
A1. icon A2. index A3. symbol 
  
 
B. Styles 
B1.orthographic 
image 
B2.diagonal image B3.3-D image 
  
 C. Auxiliary 
elements 
 
C1. yes C2. no  
 
 
 D. 
Backgrounds 
D1. yes D2. no  
 
 
 E. Ways of 
presentations 
E1. whole image E2. partial image  
4   Results and Discussions 
4.1   Basic Data 
80 questionnaires were distributed through e-mail services.  Consequently, 68 
responds were received.  9 of them were rejected for missing or repeating values.  
Therefore, 59 effective responds were collected.  The responding rate was 73.8%. 
Five (8.5%) respondents are under 19 years old.  19 (32.2%) respondents are 20-29 
years old.  23 (39.0%) respondents are 30-39 years old.  9 (15.3%) respondents are 
40-49 years old.  3 (5.1%) respondents are over 50 years old. 
Regarding background, 31 (52.5%) respondents have design background whereas 
28 (47.5%) do not have design background. 
4.2   Icons Recognition Rate Analysis 
28 icons meet ISO standard with the recognition rate over 66.7% while the rest of 14 
icons, i.e. one third of tested icons, fail to meet the standard. (See Table 3)  This result 
conforms to the anecdotal observation mentioned in the introduction.   
Table 3. The recognition rates of icons 
. No. A1 A2 A3 A4  
Address book 
  
 
 
 
Recognition rate (%) 81.4 78.0 52.5* 47.5*  
No. B1 B2 B3 B4 B5 
message 
     
 The Effect of Morphological Elements on the Icon Recognition in Smart Phones 519 
contrary, the respondents without design background may have difficulties in 
recognizing the icons for the lack of design training.  Therefore, it is recommended 
that a designer should bear users in mind when designing icons.  Characteristics of 
different users should be considered.  To use straightforward designs as much as 
possible may be helpful.  Besides, a user evaluation could be very important for 
improving the design quality. Moreover, recognition errors may happen if the 
designer designs icons based solely on his own experience. 
Table 4. The average of recognition rate, error rate and un-answered rate 
respondents Number Recognition rate 
   s. d. 
Error rate 
  s. d. 
Un-answered 
rate s. d. 
With 
design 
background 
31 77.8 
(22.0) 
17.9 
(18.8) 
4.3 
(6.9) 
Without 
design 
background 
28 70.7 
(23.7) 
19.9 
(18.1) 
9.3 
(10.1) 
total 59 74.2 
(23.0) 
18.9 
(18.4) 
6.8 
(9.0) 
4.4   The Effect of Morphological Elements 
The relationship between the morphological elements of icons and their recognition 
rate is discussed in this section to determine the morphological effects on icon 
recognition. 
Types. The types of morphological elements may affect the recognition of icons. 
Icons are better in expressing meaning.  An icon depicting a real object is much better 
in expressing its meaning and will have a higher recognition rate.  For example, icons 
with the highest recognition rate in the study, E1, E2, E3 and E4 use an image of 
camera to represent the function of taking a picture.  Respondents can easily 
recognize its function is related to a camera.  Other examples, B1, G1 and J1 use the 
image of envelop, calendar and notebook respectively to represent their functions.  
They bear also very high recognition rate. 
Conventional Symbols Have Higher Recognition Rate. A conventional symbol may 
have no direct connection to its meaning.  However, once people get use to it, 
however, its meaning can also be accepted.  For example, H1, H2 and H3 use a music 
note to represent playing music.  H5 uses a triangle shape to represent “playing” just 
like the playing symbol in our disc player. D1, D2 and D3 belong to index category.  
They use a wrench to symbolize “setting-up” something.  They all have higher 
recognition rate than their counterpart. 
Particular Symbols May Be Difficult to Recognize. Symbols for particular usages may 
be difficult to recognize.  For example, H4 means “Real Player”, media player 
software in PC.  However, not every one was familiar with it.  Its recognition rate is 
only 59.3%.  
 The Effect of Morphological Elements on the Icon Recognition in Smart Phones 521 
The icons were first categorized according to their morphological elements.  The 
cognition rate was then calculated.  Finally, the confusion matrix of icons and 
meanings were constructed to determine the cause of confusion. The study concludes:  
The Effects of Morphological Elements on the Icon Recognition. It includes: 
• Icons are better in expressing meaning. 
• Conventional symbols have higher recognition rate. 
• Particular symbols may be difficult to recognize. 
Gaps May Exist between Designers and Users. The result of this study shows that 
the un-answered rate of the respondents without design background is significantly 
higher than the ones with design background.  This suggests that gaps may exist 
between designers and users.  Therefore, it is recommended that a designer designing 
icons should bear user in mind in order to minimize these gaps. 
Some Recommendations for Icon Design 
• “Icons” imitating real objects may be helpful in increasing the recognition rate. 
• Conventional symbols have higher recognition rate. 
• Proper use of auxiliary elements in icons may be helpful in increasing the 
recognition rate. 
• A whole image may be better than a partial image in terms of recognition. 
Causes for Icon Confusion. Causes for icon confusion determined through confusion 
matrix analysis are list below: 
• Similar design  
• Similar wording  
• Not relevant to the meaning 
• Wrong hints 
Acknowledgments. This study is sponsored by the National Science Council of 
Taiwan (NSC95-2221-E-027-027). 
References 
1. Norman, D.A.: The design of everyday things, pp. 189–191. Basic Books, New York 
(1988) 
2. Tsai, C.M.: The Evaluation of GUI Icons on Smart Phones (in Chinese). A thesis of 
Graduate Institute of Innovation and Design, National Taipei University of Technology 
(2006)  
3. Wikipedia: Smartphone (2007) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Smartphone#History  
4. Fiske, J.: Introduction to Communication Studies (Chinese edition, Interpretation by 
Chang, C.H.). Yuan-Liou Publishing, Taipei (1995) 
5. David, H.A.: The Method of Paired Comparisons, 2nd edn. Charles Griffin & Company, 
Limited, London (1988) 
6. Hwang, P.W.: A Study of Perceptual Image and Preference for Mobile Phone Human/ 
Machine Interface (in Chinese). A thesis of Graduate school of Commercial Design, 
Chung Yuan Christian University (2004) 
