2number of available cells for transplantation (1-2) and decrease the period of
myelosuppression resulting from intensive chemotherapy (3).
In vivo hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) grow and differentiate in the
three-dimensional bone marrow microenvironment made up of various stromal cells,
extracellular matrix proteins, and the soluble ECM-bond growth factors. Ex vivo
expansion of these cells in order to reconstitute a functioning bone marrow is rapidly
developing area and has a broad range of biomedical applications (4-5).
Static culture systems such T-flask and gas permeable bags (6) have been the most
widely used culture devices for expanding HSCs. However, these culture systems are
inherently two-dimensional surface and are unable to replicate the vivo BM
microenvironment. These systems have limitations, including: lack of mixing,
resulting in critical concentration gradients for pH, dissolved oxygen, cytokines and
metabolites; difficult online monitoring and control. Perfusion bioreactors offer
several important advantages compared with simple tissue flask and Petri dish culture
systems, such as enhanced mass transfer by convective fluid flow, the ability to
provide mechanical forces influencing tissue development, and better control over
culture condition by transporting nutrients and oxygen to and waste products.
Advanced bioreactors are required when a large number of cells are needed, accessory
cells are used and high cell densities are desired. Accessory cells, such as stroma,
have an important role in conditioning the environment in which expansion takes
place, by producing some of cytokines that regulate hemattopoiesis. It has been
reported that serum-free cultures with pre-established stroma were the most effective
in maintaining the cells in their primitive phenotype, and suggested that direct stroma
contact is beneficial for expansion and is required for conservation of total graft
quality, provided that exogenous cytokines are supplemented to override some
existing stroma contact-mediated proliferation-blocking effects (7).
Perfusion is assumed to improve culture performance by maintaining a
time-invariant environment, and improve the performance of the most metabolically
active cultures. Cultures using a feeder layer of bone marrow stromal have greater
culture longevity and progenitor cell expansion. Stromal layers support hematopoiesis
through the production of growth factors and extracellular matrix compounds, and
through cell-to-cell contact (8-10), frequent feeding (11-12) and continuous perfusion
system enhanced progenitor cell expansion over traditional static cultures (13-14).
Consequently, perfusion cultures of hematopoietic cells may have potentially useful
4Result
Surface Characteristics of Micro-pillar Substrates
The micro-pillar PDMS substrate surface pattern presented 50m diameter and
80m height. Figures 1 display top views of the micro-pillar PDMS substrate. The
sterilization method was performed using autoclave.
Figure 1: The pillar structure of bioreactor with 50m diameter and 80m height.
Cell Nucleus and Cytoskeleton Immunofluorescence Observation
To further evaluate the behavior of fibroblasts on micro-pillar substrates, we
monitored the distributions of actin and the nuclei to describe microfilaments with
respect to cell adherence. For each of the micro-pillar PDMS substrates that we used,
the actin fibers appeared to be elongated around the pillars and the top of pillars and
demonstrated clearly cells could spread whole micro-pillars. This observation
indicates that the alignment of the filaments of the cytoskeleton within the cell reflects
the orientation of the cell as a whole. On 25T flask (data not shown), the fibroblasts
spread fully with many bundles of actin filaments. These immunofluorescence
observations indicate clearly cells spread fully surface, but they retained their
elliptical configurations.
60
1
2
3
4
7 14 21
cultured day
ce
ll
ex
pa
ns
io
n
fo
ld
/fe
ed
er
la
ye
r(
cm
2)
HSC in 25T flask
HSC in micro-
pillar substrate
Figure 3: HSCs cultured onto micro-pillar PDMS substrate for 7d; 14d; and 21d. The
proliferation of HSCs (A) and expansion fold per feeder layer cm2 (B) after various
culture periods.
0
200000
400000
600000
0 7 14 21
cultured day
A
cc
um
ul
at
iv
e
C
FU
s
(c
el
l/m
l)
HSC in 25T flask HSC in micro-pillar substrate
Figure 4: The colony forming of cultured cells on micro-pillar PDMS substrate after
various cultured periods.
Conclusion
After 21d culturing, micro-pillared PDMS substrate had 3.6-fold HSCs expansion,
and 2.1-fold CUF than that on the 25T flask, therefore, feeder layer cells on
micro-pillared PDMS substrate provide a more effective environment for HSCs
expansion.
Reference
B
