 1
ABSTRACT 
This project focuses on the study of mechanical, optical and electrical properties of Zinc 
Oxide (ZnO) and Magnesium Zinc Oxide (MgZnO) thin films, and their applications in thin film 
transistors (TFTs). The thin films are prepared by radio frequency magnetron sputtering on 
various substrates at room-temperature. The elastic moduli of ZnO on polyethylene terephthalate 
(PET) substrate measured by micro-stretching technique are very close to those on glass obtained 
by nano-indentation. The elastic modulus decreases first and then increases with the increase of 
O2/Ar ratio. This is possible due to the defects in films caused by ion bombardment during 
sputtering deposition. The ultraviolet absorption edge moves to a shorter wavelength, 
corresponding to a wider band gap, with the increase of magnesium content. The in-situ 
measurement of the ZnO resistance under mechanical stretching is influenced by the induced 
piezoelectric voltage, leading to the lowering of the electrical resistance of ZnO films when 
uni-axial tensile strain is applied. We further fabricate TFTs with ZnO or Mg0.05Zn0.95O as the 
active channel layer.  
INTORDUCTION 
Flexible electronics attracts much attention due to its wide application, such as E-papers, cell 
phones, roll-up portable displays. One of the core technologies is to fabricate electronic 
components or systems on compliant substrates, so that they can be functioning under flexing 
conditions. People experimented on the optoelectronic materials, which were used on rigid 
substrates, to implement devices on compliant substrates, such as amorphous/nanocrystalline 
silicons [1-2], organic semiconductor materials [3], and transparent semiconducting oxides [4]. 
ZnO-based material is one typical representative for transparent semiconducting oxides [5], 
and it has been applied to a variety of devices, such as solar cells, thin-film gas sensors, 
transparent thin film transistors, transparent conductive contacts, UV lasers, and luminescent 
materials [6-9]. There are various techniques to prepare ZnO-based thin films, such as sputtering 
[10], pulsed laser deposition (PLD) [11], molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) [12], metalorganic 
chemical vapor deposition (MOCVD) [13], and spray pyrolysis [14]. Among these methods, 
magnetron sputtering is a promising technique for large area deposition, because of its low cost, 
its scalability to large area deposition process, and its compatibility for deposition on low melting 
point substrates [15]. 
In this work, we study the mechanical, optical and electrical properties of room-temperature 
sputtered Zinc Oxide (ZnO) and Magnesium Zinc Oxide (MgZnO) thin films, and their 
applications in thin film transistors (TFTs). The film properties are investigated by tensile test, 
nano-indentation, X-ray diffraction technique (XRD), scanning electron microscopy (SEM), 
atomic force microscope (AFM), optical transmittance measurement, and etc. The TFTs are 
fabricated in an inverted staggered bottom-gate structure with various active channel layers, such 
as ZnO and Mg0.05Zn0.95O thin films deposited from different O2/Ar ratios. The entire TFT 
process temperature is kept at room-temperature. Transfer and output characteristics are evaluated 
to study the effect of channel composition and O2/Ar ratio during film deposition.  
 3
 
 
Fig. 2 Scanning electron micrographs of ZnO thin films deposited at O2/Ar flow ratios of (a) 0, (b) 
1:9, (c) 1:6, (d) 1:3, (e) 1:1.   
 
Fig. 3 Elastic moduli of ZnO thin films deposited on PET and glass substrates at various O2/Ar 
flow ratios.  
 5
ZnO on PET measured by micro-stretching technique are very close to those on glass obtained by 
nano-indentation. In general, the elastic modulus decreases first and then increases with the 
increase of O2/Ar ratio. The optical bandgaps of MgxZn1-xO thin films are extracted from the 
optical transmission spectra. As expected, the bandgap increases as the Mg content increases. We 
further demonstrate room temperature processed inverted-staggered bottom-gate thin film 
transistors (TFTs) with ZnO and Mg0.05Zn0.95O as the active layers. The threshold voltages of 
ZnO TFT are ~2 V, the on/off ratio is 107, and mobility of ~5 cm2V-1s-1. The Mg0.05Zn0.95O TFT 
exhibits a threshold voltage of 2.5 V, an on/off ratio of 107, and a higher mobility of ~20 
cm2V-1s-1. 
 
REFERENCES 
1. K. Long, A. Z. Kattamis, I-C. Cheng, H. Gleskova, S. Wagner, and J. C. Sturm, IEEE 
Electron Dev. Lett.,27, (2006) 111. 
2. T. W. Kelley, P. F. Baude, C. Gerlach, D. E. Ender, D. Muyres, M. A. Haase, D. E. Vogel, 
and S. D. Theiss, Chem. Mater. 16 (2004) 4413. 
3. J. H. Cheon, W. G. Lee, T. H. Lim, and J. Jang, Electrochemical and Solid-State Letters, 12 
(2009) 25. 
4. K. Nomura, H. Ohta, A. Takagi, T. Kamiya, M. Hirano, and H. Hosono, Nature 432 (2004) 
488. 
5. Ü. Ozgür, Y. I. Alivov, C. Liu, A. Teke, M. A. Reshchikov, S. Doğan, V. Avrutin, S.-J. Cho, 
and H. Morkoç, J. Appl. Phys. 98 (2005) 041301. 
6. W. W. Wenas, A. Yamada, K. Takahashi, M. Yoshino and M. Konagai, J. Appl. Phys. 70 
(1991) 7119. 
7. H. Ohta, K. Kawamura, M. Orita, M. Hirano, N. Sarukura and H. Hosono, Appl. Phys. Lett. 
77 (2000) 475. 
8. H. S. Kang, J. S. Kang, J. W. Kim and S. Y. Lee, J. Appl. Phys. 95 (2004) 1246. 
9. R. Navamathavan, E. J. Yang, J. H. Lim, D. K. Hwang, J. Y. Oh, J. H. Yang, J. H. Jang, S. J. 
Park, J. Electrochem. Soc. 153 (2006) G385. 
10. A. V. Singh, R. M. Mehra, A. Wakahara, and A. Yoshida, J. Appl. Phys. 93 (2003) 396. 
11. X. W. Sun and H. S. Kwok, J. Appl. Phys., 86 (1999) 408. 
12. K. Nakahara, H. Takasu, P. Fons, A. Yamada, K. Iwata, K. Matsubara, R. Hunger and S. Niki, 
J. Cryst. Growth 237 (2002) 503. 
13. B. P. Zhang, K. Wakatsuki, N. T. Binh, N. Usami and Y. Segawa, Thin Solid Films 449 
(2004) 12. 
14. J.-L. Zhao, X.-M. Bian, W.-D. Yu and C.-Y. Zhang, J. Cryst. Growth 280 (2005) 495. 
15. K. Ellmer, J. Phys. D 33 (2000) R17. 
 
表 Y04 
報告內容應包括下列各項： 
一、參加會議經過 
The 2009 Spring Meeting of Material Research Society (2009 Spring MRS) was held in 
San Francisco USA from Apr 13 to 17, which included five days of research seminars and 
exhibitions. There were one day tutorial, forty-two parallel technical sessions and several 
events held in the conference. During the conference, we presented three technical papers: one 
in the symposium of Amorphous and Polycrystalline Thin-Film Silicon Science and 
Technology: A20.2 “Transient dielectric breakdown stage of on-plastic a-Si:H thin film 
transistors by electromechanical stresses,” and two in the symposium of Material & Devices 
for Flexible & Stretchable Electronics: PP5.1 “Characterization of low-temperature deposited 
p-type transparent conducting Ca-doped Cu-Al-O thin films,” and PP5.3 “Characterization of 
low-temperature laser annealed sol-gel ITO thin films.” 
 
The technical sessions cover from silicon-based thin film technology, packaging & 
interconnection technology, novel materials (including organic and inorganic) and physics for 
memory applications, materials and devices for photovoltaics and thermal-electric energy 
conversion, nano-structured and nanocrystalline materials and devices, oxide-based materials
and interfaces, novel materials and devices for spintronics,  materials for biological 
applications, to flexible and stretchable electronics. In the exhibition, products as well as 
equipments for material-related researches, including fabrication and characterization, were 
demonstrated. The attendees include many experts as well as prospect young researchers from
academia, government laboratories, and industry from all over the world. 
 
二、與會心得 
During the five day conference period, many novel technologies and new applications of 
materials and devices had been presented. The plenary presentation “The power of the sun”
given by 1998 Nobel Prize recipient Prof. Walter Kohn of University of California, Santa 
Barbara gave us a broad and profound overview of the solar energy history and current 
development. It had drawn lots of attention to the attendees. Among various technical 
presentations, the following topics were most interesting to me. 
 
First is the “graphene materials and devices”. Graphene is one-atom-thick planar sheet of 
carbon atoms that are packed in a honeycomb crystal lattice. Remarkable carrier mobility has 
been demonstrated in this material. Several research works have focus on the behavior of 
graphene / metal contact. In addition, many spectrosocpy techniques have been applied to 
investigate the graphene ribbons as well as large-area epitaxial graphene. The application of 
graphene in spintronics is also an important topic. Currently, this field is still in its early stage. 
Making large-area graphene with routine procedure is still the major challenge for practical 
application. 
