  
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
應用半色調技術於影像隱藏之研究 
The Design of Image Hiding Using Halftone Techniques 
 
計畫編號: NSC 97-2221-E-126-005- 
執行期限: 97 年 08 月 01 日 至 98 年 07 月31 日 
主持人: 莊潤洲 助理教授 
E-mail: lzcchung@pu.edu.tw 
執行機構及單位名稱: 靜宜大學資訊傳播工程 
 
摘要 
 
在本計畫針對半色調影像隱藏技術進行探討，
討論影像隱藏的技術層面及安全性分析，設計適用
於半色調影像隱藏術。本方法不需參考原始之灰階
影像或彩色影像，而是將秘密訊息直接藏入半色調
影像，藏入過程採用同位元檢查技術和最佳像素替
代法，每一個影像區塊會被置入一個秘密位元。本
方法採用最佳像素替代法，當區塊內的位元不符合
同位元檢查結果，則需要從本區塊中找一個適當的
像素來更動，使其更動後的視覺破壞降至最少。 
關鍵詞：資訊隱藏，半色調技術，資訊安全 
 
Abstract 
 
In this project, we have proposed an image hiding 
technique for halftone images. The scheme does not 
need referred to the original grayscale or color images. 
We apply the parity check and the replacement scheme 
to embed secrets into a halftone image directly. Here 
one secret bit is embedded into one image block. When 
the embedded block that secret hidden does not meet 
require of the parity check, the replacement scheme 
would select suitable pixels for toggle to minimize the 
image distortion.  
Keywords: data hiding, halftone, information security 
 
1. 前言 
 
資訊安全在於確保資料的秘密性以及完整性，
藉由複雜的運算將原始資料打亂如同亂碼一般，讓
竊取者很難從中找尋規則進而還原資料。傳統加密
法[6,12]的安全性是建立於複雜的數學理論以及相
當繁重的計算量，就目前電腦的速度仍無法在有效
時間內破解，所以仍然算是安全。 
影像偽裝術[4,5,11]是一種資訊安全應用，藉
由將秘密資訊藏入不起眼的數位媒體內，然後利用
網路傳遞給收方，由於第三者並不曉得媒體內容是
有藏入重要資訊，因此可以有效減少被駭客攻擊的
可能性，達到資料偽裝欺敵的效果。就目前影像偽
裝的研究，不同的影像類型 (彩色影像[2]、灰階影
像[1,15,16,17]、黑白影像[3,13]、及半色調影像
[7,8,9,10,11])，所採取的藏入方法也不盡相同。 
在彩色影像隱藏部分，有些學者提出將秘密訊息
藏入 RGB 三個個別的色彩平面，根據專家學者的研
究結果，人眼對於綠色的感知是最為強烈，其次是
紅色最後是藍色。藍色平面是最適合用於資料隱
藏，原因是藍色對於人眼的敏感度比較少。相較於
灰階影像只能藏入一個影像平面，彩色影像有 RGB
三個影像平面，能藏入的資訊容量就相對比較多。 
針對於灰階影像的隱藏方法主要可分成兩大部
分:空間域影像隱藏技術及頻率域影像隱藏技術。空
間域影像隱藏方法直接修改影像像素，最不重要位
元取代法(Least Significant Bits, LSB)[14]、模
運算處理(Module Operation)、人類感知模型 
(Human Vision Model)、及預測藏入法等等。頻率
域影像隱藏技術會首先將空間域影像轉換到頻率域
底下，如利用離散餘旋轉換 DCT (Discrete Cosine 
Transformation)或離散小波轉換 DWT (Discrete 
Wavelet Transformation)，再將秘密位元藏入頻率域底
下較不重要的係數。經由轉換後的頻率係數，能量
會比較集中且相較於空間域較為容易修改。 
利用門檻值(Threshold)調整，可以將一張灰階影
像轉換成一張黑白影像或稱二元影像(Binary image) 
在二元影像每一個像素只表示黑色和白色兩種情
況，例如書法影像便是一種二元影像。因此如果不
考慮黑白影像特性就直接做顏色替換，影像視覺效
果將會非常突兀，原因是相同顏色的區域出現其他
種顏色是相當突兀。為了要減少藏入之後所產生的
突兀，秘密資料最好是藏入黑色和白色顏色交界處
以降低突兀。 
半色調影像和黑白影像在顏色的紀錄都是用黑
色和白色兩種顏色。然而半色調影像所能夠呈現的
視覺效果是遠比黑白影像來的好，原因是半色調影
像會將區域的顏色利用黑白像素的密度描繪，模擬
出類似於灰階漸層效果。因此，利用半色調影像來
藏入資訊將可以有效降低藏入後所造成的突兀。 
本研究計畫主要針對半色調影像，發展出一套
安全有效率的影像隱藏技術。並就目前已發表半色
調資訊隱藏技術加以分類說明，本計畫申請案將利
用半色調影像特性，提出利用半色調影像特性來達
到影像隱藏的技術。本篇研究可分成以下幾個部
份，第二部份介紹半色調技術以及其他學者提出半
色調影像隱藏技術，第三部份說明我們所提出的方
法，第四部份是實驗及結論。 
效應。首先選擇一張 M×N 偽裝半色調影像，將影像
分割成不重疊的影像小區塊，每一個小區塊的大小
為γ×γ像素點，一個影像區塊至多會被置入一個秘
密位元。一張 M×N 大小的半色調影像最大能藏入的
資料量為 ⎣ )()(
),()),(),((
2
2
2
2
jimjyixpyxp
i j
×++′⊕= ∑∑
−= −=
λ        (1) 
 
m(i, j) 表示權重遮罩如圖表 6，p(x, y)表示原始半色
調影像， p′ (x, y)表示更新後的半色調影像，♁表示
Exclusive-OR 符號。 
⎦γγ ××nm  位元。當γ增大可以提升
影像的品質但是藏入的容量就相對比較少，反之亦
然。我們方法的流程圖如下:  
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
10101
01210
12021
01210
10101
 
 
半色調影像 區塊選擇 區塊分割 亂數產生器 種子 
 
資料藏入 
同位元檢查 
通過 加密 
明文 
1011....
 
所有位元都
藏入否? 
是 
藏入完成
否 
最佳像素 
替代 
不通過 
圖 5:資料藏入示意流程圖 
圖表 6: 權重遮罩 
 
秘密位元資料取出程序，只需要計算區塊內位元 1
的個數，如果是 1 的總數是偶數則代表取出的秘密
位元為 0，反之所取出的位元為 1。全部取出後再使
用 DES 解密還原明文。 
  利用一個亂數產生器，陸續產生出要藏入區塊
的編號，當產生出相同的區塊編號則跳過。一般而
言，在藏入資料前會先對資料進行加密程序，以確
保資料的安全性。影像區塊的藏入方式是採用「同
位元檢查技術」和「最佳像素替代法」。在半色調影
像內每一個像素值只有 1 和 0 表示，像素值 0 表示
黑色，1 表示白色。當要藏入的秘密位元為 0，採用
同位元檢查計算區塊內位元為 1 的像素有多少個，
如果是偶數則完成藏入程序，反之為奇數則必須要
調整區塊內的像素值，使區塊內位元 1 的總數為偶
數。 
4. 實驗結果與結論 
在實驗部分選用大小為 513×513 Lena 灰階測試
圖。藏入的資料量分別為 10,000 位元以及 29,241
位元來做測試。比較方法有 DHST、DHPT[7]、
DHSPT[8]、DHST-CS4[9]。實驗結果如圖表 7及 8。 
如圖表 7(a)8(a)，可以發現隨機藏入的方法影像
結果是最差，有很嚴重得雜訊點。DHPT、DHPST、
DHST-CS4 雖然改善很多，但是仍然還是有稍許黑色
雜訊點，利用半色調轉換技術的 DHED 所得到的結果
就機乎看不到有太突兀的雜色點。我們的方法在藏
入後，黑色區域和白色區域有仍然保持暗色區域和
亮色區域，也因此看起沒有那麼突兀。在黑色區域
我們選擇白色的候選像素用於修改，將其更改為黑
色，也因此黑色的區域會顯得更黑；同理白色區域
選用黑色候選像素來更改為白色也會使得白色區域
更顯得白。 
本研究提出了一個半色調影像的資訊隱藏技
術，藉由同位元檢查法以最佳像素的取代，可以有
效降低胡椒鹽效應產生。根據我們所提出的更改辦
法，讓修改後的顏色接近於該區域顏色，也因此本
方法所得到的結果圖比較乾淨且沒有突兀雜色點。 
在本方法中將影像區塊分成三類區域:「暗色區
域」、「亮色區域」、以及「灰階區域」。當區塊內的
黑色點個數大於等於 T2個，稱之為「暗色區域」，當
區塊內黑色點的個數小於 T1 個，稱之為「亮色區
域」，黑色點個數介於 T1個到 T2之間的區塊稱為「灰
階區塊」。 
當同位元檢查的結果不符合要藏入的秘密位
元，則需要調整區塊內的像素值，使其符合藏入後
的結果。採用最佳像素值替代法來調整區塊內的像
素值，像素替代法的概念在於保持原有區域的色
彩，讓原本區域是屬於比較暗色或是亮色的區域仍
然持續保有原本特性。當要藏入的區塊是屬於暗色
區域，則將來要用於替換的是白色像素，將其做位
元反相為黑色像素，也就是說本來區塊就是屬於黑
色區域，如果再讓區塊內的顏色更黑，對人眼而言
將不會有太大影響，同理，如果要藏入的區塊是屬
於亮色區域，則將來要用於替換的是黑色像素，將
其做位元反相為白色像素，如果是落於灰階調的區
域，則隨意選擇黑色或是白色來進行位元反轉。假
使我們在黑色調區域選取黑色像素來做反相，將會
造成原始是屬於比較黑的區塊會變成中間調的區
塊，就可能造成胡椒鹽效應。區塊內可以用於替換
的像素，會個別計算出一個關聯值λ，關聯值最高
的像素將會用於修改，關聯值越高表示此像素值和
其周圍相同像素的關聯性很強，將來替換此數值較
不易造成胡椒鹽效應。關連值λ計算公式如下: 
 
 
     
(a) DHST                (b) DHPT 
       (c) DHPST             (d) DHST-CS4 
 
 
 
 
IITA2008 出國開會報告 
計畫主持人: 莊潤洲 助理教授 
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-126-005- 
靜宜大學資訊傳播工程學系 
 
 
一、參加會議經歷 
在 2008 年 12 月 22 和 23 日在中國大陸上海召開 The International Symposium on 
Intelligent Information Technology Application, 簡稱 IITA2008)，該會議由 Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers,IEEE Circuits and Systems Society,IEEE SMC 
TC on ETT, Intelligent Information Technology Application Research Association, 
Computing and Security Center 共同舉辦。本次會議邀請知名的專家學者 Prof. Chin-Chen 
Chan, Prof. Jun Wang,Prof. Jin Hai,以及 Prof. Gang Feng 來給予四場專題演講。本次
會議主題主要深入探討通訊安全技術發展與經驗交流之機會。會議所涵蓋的主題包括：嵌
入式系統，網路安全，資訊隱藏，數位媒體保護，協定與分析，知識表示法等等。 
 
二、與會心得 
在這次會議中，我們發表了一篇有關於影像驗證的論文，題目為“VQ-Based Oriented 
Image Tamper Proofing Schemes for Digital Grayscale Images＂。在這篇論文中我們
提出了一個非常有效率的影像驗證演算法，利用本方法，使用者可以有效驗證影像的完整
性及秘密性。本方法受到與會學者專家的重視與肯定有多位學者會後向本人請教相關技
術。在這次會議中聽取許多影像處理以及相關保護技術，收益相當良多，對於未來的研究
發展相當有助益。  
 
 
 
images.  In Scheme-1, we apply Wang and Moayeri’s 
partitioning method to partition a VQ codebook into 
two sub-codebooks, namely, sub-codebook 0 and sub-
codebook 1. Sub-codebook 0 is used to imply 
authentication bit 0 and sub-codebook 1 is used to 
imply authentication bit 1.  However, Scheme-1 may 
fail to choose a suitable codeword to replace the input 
block.  To enhance the image quality of Scheme-1, we 
add the concept of multiple codebooks to Scheme-2.  
Both Scheme-1 and Scheme-2 can output acceptable 
image quality after the signing procedure.  There will 
not be any noticeable distortion in the final product, 
namely the resultant image.  Besides, the authentication 
bits can be extracted directly from the VQ-signed 
image without referencing the original image. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows.  In 
Section 2, we shall review Wang and Moayeri’s 
partitioning method.  Then, in Section 3, our two VQ-
based oriented image-tamper-proofing schemes, 
Scheme-1 and Scheme-2, will be presented, followed 
by the experimental results and discussions in Section 
4.  Finally, the conclusions will be in Section 5. 
 
2. Review of the Wang and Moayeri’s 
Partitioning Scheme 
 
Wang and Moayer’s partitioning method partitions a 
codebook Y = {c0, c1, ..., c(N-1)} sized N into two sub-
codebooks, namely, CB0 and CB1, sized (N / 2) each.  
The partitioning scheme works as follows. 
1) Remove two closest codewords from Y.  Put one 
codeword in sub-codebook CB0 and the other one 
in sub-codebook CB1. 
2) Find two codewords Ci∈Y and Cj∈{CB0, CB1} 
that are closest to each other, and remove ci from 
Y.  If we have Cj∈CB0, then put the codeword ci 
into CB1.  Otherwise, put the codeword ci to CB1. 
3) Repeat Step 2 until the size of sub-codebook CB0 
or CB1 becomes (N / 2).  The remaining 
codewords in Y are put into the non-full sub-
codebook. 
 
3. The Proposed Schemes 
 
In this paper, we shall propose two VQ-based 
oriented image-tamper-proofing schemes called 
Scheme-1 and Scheme-2.  In Scheme-1, we apply 
Wang and Moayeri’s partitioning scheme to partition a 
VQ codebook into two sub-codebooks, which are then 
used to imply authentication bits. Wang and Moayeri’s 
partitioning scheme may fail to choose the most 
suitable codeword so as to minimize visual traces in the 
input blocks. To improve the image quality, the concept 
of multiple codebooks is added to Scheme-2. 
 
3.1 Scheme-1  
 
The encoding structure of Scheme-1 is shown in 
Figure 1.  In the codebook partitioning procedure, we 
use Wang and Moayeri’s partitioning scheme to 
partition a VQ codebook sized N into two sub-
codebooks sized N/2 each.  The two sub-codebooks are 
CB0 and CB1. Given a grayscale image, it is first 
partitioned into non-overlapping sub-images of 16×16 
pixels each.  For each sub-image, we randomly 
generate sixteen authentication bits {w0, w1, …, w15} by 
using a pseudo random number generator (PRNG) with 
a secret seed k0.  To embed sixteen authentication bits 
into a sub-image, we further divide a sub-image into 
sixteen blocks of 4×4 pixels each.  This way, one block 
can be used to imply one authentication bit, and the 
implying order is by row-major policy.  Sub-codebook 
CB0 is used to imply 0’s from the string of 
authentication bits, and Sub-codebook CB1 is used to 
imply 1’s from the string of authentication bits.  When 
each block has the closest codeword in it, a signed 
image is generated. 
 
CB0
1 
Host image 
CB1 
0 
0 
Authentication bits 
N 
	
	
bits 16bits 16bits 16
1...01,...,1...11,0...01
 
Figure 1 Encoding structure of Scheme-1 
 
In Scheme-1, two sub-codebooks CB0 and CB1 
should be kept in secrecy for future verification.  The 
advantages of Scheme-1 are that it can detect illegal 
modification and that it can resist reasonable image 
processing.  However, replacing one codeword with 
another codeword for secret bit embedding may 
degrade the image quality of the signed image 
significantly because the replaced codeword is probably 
not the closest to the input block as shown in Figure 2. 
To improve the image quality Scheme-1 offers, we add 
the concept of multiple codebooks to Scheme-2, which 
we will bring up later. 
 
1001
Authorized licensed use limited to: PROVIDENCE UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 21, 2009 at 23:57 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
3.2.4 Verification Procedure of Scheme-2 
 
The verification procedure of Scheme-2 is similar to 
the signing procedure.  The first step is partitioning, 
and the second step is verification.  The input signed 
image is partitioned into sub-images of 16×16 pixels, 
and each sub-image is further divided into sixteen 
blocks of 4×4 pixels.  To verify whether a sub-image 
has been tampered with or not, we check the 
correctness of each block in the sub-image.  If one of 
the blocks fails, then we say the sub-image has been 
illegally modified.  In Scheme-2, any kind of 
modification is considered illegal. 
 
4. Experimental Results and Discussions 
 
Six 512×512 grayscale images, called “Lena”, 
“Pepper”, “F-16”, “Baboon”, “Sailboat”, and “Tiffany”, 
were used as test images.  The first five images, called 
the inside images, were decomposed into blocks of 4×4 
pixels and were used as training sets for LBG codebook 
training.  As for the image “Tiffany,” in this case called 
the outside image, it was not involved in the codebook 
training process.  The codebook sizes N in our 
experiments were 256, 512, and 1024. 
Tables 1-3 show the PSNR values of the signed 
images obtained from different codebook sizes, 256, 
512, and 1024.  As we can see, a large codebook size 
can result in better signed image quality.  Scheme-2 is 
superior to Scheme-1 as far as image quality is 
concerned. 
 
Table 1 PSNR values of signed images (N=256) 
 
 
Table 2 PSNR values of signed images (N=512) 
 
 
Table 3 PSNR values of signed images (N=1024) 
 
 
The results of robustness testing for Scheme-1 are 
shown in tables 4 and 5. We use two image attacks on 
the signed image “Lena”. One is JPEG compression 
and the other is gauss noise. We applied PhotoShop-7 
to carry out the two attacks. The error ratios of false 
alarm by using JPEG compression with different 
compression quality Q are listed in Table 4.  
 
Table 4 Error ratios of false alarm by using JPEG 
compression 
 
 
In the noise experiment, we used the gauss noise.  
Our method turned out to be able to resist slight 
Gaussian noise.  The error ratios of false alarm with 
noise added are listed in Table 5. 
 
Table 5 Error ratios of false alarm by adding Gaussian 
noise 
 
 
Besides, two experimental results for tampering 
detection by Scheme-1 and Scheme-2 are shown in 
Figures 4 and 5. Figure 4(a) shows the signed image 
“Lena” where we added two eyes and one airplane.  
The detected image by using Scheme-1 is shown in 
Figure 4(b).  The black color indicates that the part has 
been tampered with, and the white color means that the 
part is intact.  In the next experiment, we launched the 
VQ-counterfeit attack on the signed image “Lena,” 
where the number of codebooks used in Scheme-2 was 
L=4.   We decomposed the signed image “Lena” into 
16,384 blocks, and then we collected 16, 384 blocks to 
form a forged codebook. Each block contained 4×4 
pixels.  We added a picture of a girl and a picture of a 
toy in the signed image “Lean,” and the result is shown 
in Figure 5(a).  Then, we used the forged codebook to 
encode this tampered image.  For each block in the 
tampered image, the nearest codeword was searched for 
in the forged codebook to replace the input block.  
Finally, a forged image was generated.  According to 
the result, our scheme can still point out the tampered 
places even though this forged image was processed by 
the forged codebook.  The detected image is shown in 
Figure 5(b). 
 
1003
Authorized licensed use limited to: PROVIDENCE UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on September 21, 2009 at 23:57 from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
