 
 
 
摘   要 
本計劃基於二位元編碼之粒子群演算法，提出一有效的方法，用以確定饋線重構之開
關操作策略。此法考量了既有之粒子群演算法的優點與缺點，重新定義了粒子群演算法的
運算子，以適合配電系統領域的應用，所提出之位移運算子即可針對饋線重構問題，建構
二位元編法之粒子群演算法求解。為驗證所提之方法的有效性，本研究採用一典型的台電
配電系統，所得之測試結果顯示出，所提出之方法比既有之粒子群演算法更有效且穩定的
適合應用於饋線重構的問題範疇。 
 
Abstract 
 
This research proposes an effective approach based on binary coding Particle Swarm 
Optimization (PSO) to identify the switching operation plan for feeder reconfiguration. The 
proposed method considers the advantages and disadvantages of existing particle swarm 
optimization method and redefined the operators of PSO algorithm to fit the application field of 
distribution systems. Shift operator is proposed to construct the binary coding particle swarm 
optimization for feeder reconfiguration. A typical distribution system of Taiwan Power Company 
is used in this research to demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method. The test results 
show that the proposed method can apply to feeder reconfiguration problems more effectively 
and stably than existing method. 
 
 
 
I. Origin and Purpose 
 
There are numerous switches on distribution system in general. These switches are divided into 
two types: sectionalizing-switches (normal closed) and tie-switches (normal open). By changing 
the on/off status of distribution feeder switches, or feeder reconfiguration, loads can be 
transferred from one feeder to an adjacent feeder to redistribute loads. Feeder reconfiguration can 
be used to maintain system balance, reduce feeder losses and improve system reliability. 
Many researchers studied the feeder reconfiguration problems using different methods in the 
past decades. For examples: Heuristic methods to minimize power losses and improve the 
searching speed were proposed in [1]. Soft computing approaches were also applied to the 
problem extensively, for example, neural network [2], simulated annealing (SA) [3], genetic 
algorithm (GA) [4-5] and evolutionary programming (EP) [6-7]. Algorithms based on concept of 
mimicking swarm intelligent are popular in recent years. For instance, ant colony optimization 
(ACO) [8-10] and particle swarm optimization (PSO) [11] are the algorithms that can be applied 
to the field of optimization problems. These algorithms are also applied to the problems of power 
distribution system gradually. 
Kennedy and Eberhart [12-13] proposed an approach called PSO (typical PSO) in 1995. There 
are many similarities between PSO and Genetic Algorithm (GA). The major difference between 
GA and PSO is that PSO have no explicit selection, crossover and mutation operations [14]. Due 
to the searching mechanism designed in PSO, the probability of falling into local solution for 
PSO algorithm can be reduced. Also, PSO is simple and is easy to implement than GA. Thus, 
PSO is a powerful algorithm to aid and speed up the decision-making process for feeder 
reconfiguration problem to identify the best switching strategy. 
However, the typical PSO is designed for continuous function optimization problems; it is not 
designed for discrete function optimization problems. Fortunately, Kennedy and Eberhart 
proposed a modified version of PSO called Binary Particle Swarm Optimization (BPSO) that can 
be used to solve discrete function optimization problems [15]. In [11], BPSO is used to solve the 
(s=m+n) is [S1, S2, …, Ss] and it will be called ‘sequence of switch states’, or SSS, in the rest of 
this paper. The shift operator is defined as SO(Biti, DirectionL,R, Stepc) and it means that an action 
will change the position of an N.O. in SSS. Biti is the index of i-th switch in SSS. DirectionL,R 
indicates the direction of left or right shifting on the i-th switch. Stepc is the number of shifting 
steps. The new permutation in SSS is defined as SSS’=SSS 〈+〉 SO. The symbol, ‘ 〈+〉 ’, represents 
the shift operator. It applies SO to SSS to get a new SSS’.  
A simple example is used to explain the operating process of shift operator. A distribution 
system shown in Fig. 1 has three feeders, seven N.C.s. and two N.O.es. The SSS of this system is 
denoted as [1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1]. Supposing a SO(3, R, 1) is applied on this SSS. The process of 
operation is described as Fig. 2. When a N.O. shifts, a ‘1’ (N.C.) needs to be filled-in at its 
original position to maintain system structure. 
2) Shift Operator Set 
A set with at least one or more shift operators is called shift operator set (SOS). An SOS 
represents all actions about how to fill-in or shift normal open switches on distribution systems. 
The definition of shift operator set is as below: 
 { }nSOSOSOSOS ,...,, 21=                       (6) 
 
where n is the number of shift operators. 
Considering two SSSes, SSS1 and SSS2, a set of shift operators which transfers SSS1 to SSS2 
needs to be identified. Two SSSes, SSS1=[1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1] and SSS2=[1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1], are 
used to explain how the shift operators are acquired. By comparing the position of normal open 
switch one by one in these two SSSes, the SOS can be obtained. The determination of the shift 
operator set and the result are shown as Fig. 3. In this example, SOS={SO1, SO2}= SSS2Θ SSS1. 
The symbol, ‘Θ ’, is used to indicate an action to obtain the shift operators from SSS1 to SSS2. 
Base on above process, (pbest - xid) and (gbest - xid) in formula (4) can be rewritten as (pbest 
Θ  xid) and (gbest Θ  xid) respectively. The xid, pbest and gbest represent different SSSes in this 
description. This process will transfer an SSS to a new one which is closer to the best switch plan. 
 
 
Fig. 1. A simple 3-feeders distribution system. 
 
pbest : [1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1] 
gbest : [1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1] 
 
The SOS can be derived from (pbestΘ xid) and (gbestΘ xid) as: 
             (pbestΘ xid) = {(3, L, 1), (7, R, 1)} 
             (gbestΘ xid) = {(3, R, 1), (7, L, 1)} 
 
The three parts in formula (9) can be expressed as following:  
w⊗ vid = {(3, R, 2), (7, R, 2)} 
rand() 〈×〉 (pbestΘ xid) = {(3, L, 1)} 
rand() 〈×〉 (gbestΘ xid) = {(7, L, 1)} 
 
According to formula (7), the newidv contains four SOes, (3, L, 1), (3, R, 2), (7, L, 1) and (7, R, 
2). Combining these four SOes, the final newidv contains two SOes, (3, R, 1) and (7, R, 1). Finally 
the new SSS, newidx , will be [1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1] according to formula (8). 
 
The procedure of proposed binary coding PSO is summarized as following: 
a) Set the size of population and other parameters such as number of iterations and maximum 
shift steps. 
b) Initialize the SSS and shift operator sets randomly to produce particles. 
c) Evaluate the fitness value for each particle. 
d) Compare the present fitness value of i-th particle with its historical best fitness value. If the 
present value is better than pbest, update the information including SSS and fitness value of 
pbest. 
e) Compare present fitness value with the best historical fitness value of any particle in 
population. If the present fitness value is better than gbest, update the information including SSS 
and fitness value for gbest. 
f) Update the shift operation set and generate a new SSS of the particle according to (7) and (8), 
respectively. 
1) If the bit index of an N.O. switch in newidx  equals to the index of an N.O. switch in the 
original xid, then the index of this switch must be shifted right or left few steps randomly. 
2) If the bit index of an N.O. switch in newidx  after shifting exceeds the bit range, then the index 
of this switch will be set to the index of an N.O. switch represented in xid, pbest or gbest 
randomly. 
3) If a generated SSS contains fewer numbers of N.O. switches, then the bit indexes of N.C. 
switches that are in xid, pbest and gbest are chosen and assigned as an N.O. switch. If the 
revised SSS still has fewer numbers of N.O. switches, then any bit index within the legal range 
is assigned randomly until the SSS contains enough number of N.O. switch indexes. 
g) If stop criterion is satisfied then stop, otherwise go to step c). The stop criterion is the count of 
iteration reaches the maximum number of iteration. The stop criterion is the count of iteration 
reaches the maximum number of iteration. 
 
III. Numerical Results and Conclusions 
 
A four-feeder distribution system is used to test the performance of the proposed algorithm. 
This system is taken from Taoyuan division, Taiwan Power Company, Taiwan. The system has 
24 sectionalizing-switches, 8 tie-switches and 28 load-zones, as shown in Fig. 4. The capacity of 
each feeder is shown in Table 1. The objective functions are: minimizing feeder loss and load 
balancing index without violating operation constraints. The proposed method and the algorithms 
described in [15] were implemented using Java language for comparison purposes. Relevant 
parameters are set as follows. The size of population is 10 for both methods. Maximum number 
of iteration is set to 1000 for both methods as well. The inertia weight, learning factor of c1 and c2 
for the methods [15] are set to 0.8, 2.0 and 2.0, respectively. In order to obtain the results and 
calculate the average performance, 10 runs were performed for each method.  
 
Fig. 5. The final feeder configuration found by the proposed method. 
 
 
Fig.6.The final feeder configuration found by the typical BPSO method. 
 
Table 3. The results of switch operations. 
Method Switch Operation Pair 
Binary Coding 
PSO 
{(S4, S31), (S13, S20),  
(S18, S32)} 
Typical BPSO 
[15] 
{(S4, S28), (S6, S7),  
(S10, S16), (S13, S21)} 
 
 
Table 4. The comparison of the feeder loading 
Feeder ID
Method  F1 F2 F3 F4 
Original system 176 146 171 203
Binary Coding 
PSO  193 170 122 211
Typical BPSO 
[15]  151 167 110 268
 
 
 
 
 
 switches can reduce line loss or operate the system more 
reliable. The resulting structure of distribution system must 
maintain radial.  The constraints such as overloading of feeder 
capacity and voltage limitations should not be violated after 
reconfiguration. The problem of feeder reconfiguration can be 
treated as ‘1’ & ‘0’ permutation combinational optimization 
problem. In another word, the position of normal open and 
closed switch of distribution system will be relocated 
according to reconfiguration scheme. For instance, a simple 
system as Fig. 1, assuming that ‘1’ is represented as normal 
closed switch and ‘0’ is represented as normal open switch. 
The order of switch permutation is sw1, sw2, …, sw5 in turn. 
Thus, the status of switch permutation of the system is [1 1 0 1 
1]. Assuming the result of feeder reconfiguration is shown in 
Fig. 2, the switch permutation becomes [1 0 1 1 1]. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1. A simple distribution system. 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 2. Result of feeder reconfiguration. 
 
A primary objective function for feeder reconfiguration is 
to minimize the total line losses during normal operation. By 
doing so, the operation of distribution system will be more 
economic.  The method proposed in this paper will ensure that 
structure is maintained in radial, ampacity of conductors is 
kept within allowable limits while minimizing the total line 
losses. “Concentric load model” is used in this paper for 
calculating branch currents. The problem of minimizing line 
losses can be formulated as follows: 
 
∑
=
⋅=
n
i
iiloss zIP
1
2                           (1) 
 
where Ploss is the total power losses of distribution feeders, n is 
the total numbers of zones in distribution system, Ii is the 
current magnitude of the i-th zone and zi is the line 
impendence of the i-th zone. 
 
 
 
 
III.  PROPOSED APPROACH 
A.  Typical Particle Swarm Optimization 
Original concept of PSO came from the study of simulating 
behavior of bird flocking to look for food. A possible solution 
for each optimal problem is represented as a particle that is 
just like a bird flocking in a D-dimensional searching space. 
Each individual particle has a fitness value evaluated by 
objective function to pick a good experience for itself and 
population respectively. PSO initializes particles of population 
randomly first.  Each particle changed its searching direction 
based on two best values or experiences in each iteration. The 
first one is the best searching experience of individual so far 
and is called pbest. The other one is the best result obtained so 
far by any particle in the population and is called gbest. When 
pbest and gbest are obtained, a particle updates its velocity 
and position based on (2) and (3).  At last, the algorithm will 
check the results every iteration until the best solution is found 
or terminate conditions are satisfied. 
 
( ) ( )idididnewid xgbestrandcxpbestrandcwvv −××+−××+= ()() 21    (2) 
 
new
idid
new
id vxx +=                                                                      (3) 
 
In the above equations, vid is the original velocity of i-th 
particle, newidv is the new velocity of i-th particle, w is the 
inertia weight, c1 and c2 are the acceleration constants, xid is 
the original position of i-th particle, newidx is the new position 
of i-th particle and rand() is the random variable with a range 
of [0, 1]. 
The purpose of updating formula is to lead particles 
moving toward compound vector of pbest and gbest. By doing 
so, the opportunity for particle to reach the target (optimal 
solution) will be enhanced. In addition, there are interferences 
(random variables) in formula to prevent the algorithm falling 
into local optimum. The position of inertia weight in formula 
will adjust searching areas. A larger inertia weight will 
motivate the algorithm toward global search, a smaller one 
will force the PSO toward local search. The searching diagram 
of typical PSO is shown in Fig. 3. 
new
idx
idx
idv pbest
gbest
new
idv
x
y
 
 
Fig. 3. Searching diagram of typical PSO. 
 the simple distribution system as Fig. 4. The shift operator set 
will be represented as SOS = { SO1, SO2, SO3, SO4 } = { SO1’, 
SO2’ }, where SO1’= SO1 ⊙ SO2 =(3, R, 1), SO2’ = SO3 ⊙ 
SO4 =(7, R, 1). The symbol, ‘⊙’, is an operator which merges 
two shift operators. The new SSS’ will be 
SSS’=SSS<+>SOS= [1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1]. The operating 
processes of applying shift operators to SSS are described as 
Fig. 7, Fig. 8 and Fig. 9 respectively.  The Fig. 7 and Fig. 8 
show that the order of SOes in SOS will not affect the result. 
The Fig. 9 shows that merging the SOes which have same bit 
index in advance will obtain the same result and simplify the 
process steps. 
 
1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1SSS
SO1(3, R, 3)
1 1 01 1 1 0 1 1
SO3(7, R, 2)
1 1 01 1 011 1
SO2(3, L, 2)
1 1 0 11 1 0 1 1
SO4(7, L, 1)
1 1 01 1 01 1 SSS’1
 
 
Fig. 7. Description 1 of operating process of shift operators. 
 
1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1SSS
SO1(3, R, 3)
11 01 11 0 1 1
SO3(7, R, 2)
1 1 01 1 0 111
SO2(3, L, 2)
11 01 1 10 1 1
SO4(7, L, 1)
1 1 01 1 0 1 1
SSS’
1
 
 
Fig. 8. Description 2 of operating process of shift operators. 
 
1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1SSS
1 1 01 11 0 1 1
SO2'(7, R, 1)
1 1 01 1 0 11 1
SO1'(3, R, 1)
SSS’
 
 
Fig. 9. Description 3 of operating process of shift operators. 
 
3) Constructing binary coding PSO 
Since the definition of shift operator and shift operator set 
have given in previous sections, the update formulas (2) and 
(3) of PSO can be redefined to solve problem of feeder 
reconfiguration. The new update formula for binary coding 
PSO is as below: 
 
))  (()()( idid
new
id xpbestrandvwv Θ〈×〉⊕⊗=  
))   (()( idxgbestrand Θ〈×〉⊕                        (5) 
 
new
idid
new
id vxx 〈+〉=                                                                   (6) 
 
In the formulas, w is the inertia weight.  The role of w is used 
for adjusting searching areas. The searching areas are 
reducing progressively when the number of iteration increases. 
The definition of inertia weight is shown as (7). 
 
max
max
max ShiftStep
iteration
iterationiterationw now ×−=              (7) 
 
The symbol, ‘ ⊕ ’, shown in (5) is used for combining two 
shift operator sets. The symbol, ‘ ⊗ ’, is the multiply operator 
which is used to shift the number of steps applied to the shift 
operator. The symbol, ‘ 〈×〉 ’, is used to select the number of 
shift operator, SO, in (pbest Θ xid) or (gbest Θ xid) randomly. 
xid is the original SSS of i-th particle; pbest is the best SSS of 
i-th particle; gbest is the best SSS of any particle in the 
population. vid is the original shift operator set of i-th particle, 
new
idv is the new shift operator set of i-th particle. 
new
idx is the 
new SSS of i-th particle. rand() is a random number with a 
range of [0, 1].  
An instance is used to show the working of proposed 
method. Based on simple system as Fig. 4, suppose xid, pbest 
and gbest represent different SSSes as below: 
 
xid        : [1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1] 
pbest : [1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1] 
gbest : [1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1] 
 
The SOS can be derived from (pbest Θ xid) and 
(gbest Θ xid) as below: 
 
(pbest Θ xid) = {(3, L, 1), (7, R, 1)} 
(gbest Θ xid) = {(3, R, 1), (7, L, 1)} 
 
The three portions in formula (5) are expressed as 
following:  
 
w ⊗ vid = {(3, R, 2), (7, R, 2)} 
rand() 〈×〉 (pbest Θ xid) = {(3, L, 1)} 
rand() 〈×〉 (gbest Θ xid) = {(7, L, 1)} 
 
According to formula (5), the newidv  contains four SOes, (3, 
L, 1), (3, R, 2), (7, L, 1) and (7, R, 2). Merging these four 
  
 
V.  CONCLUSIONS 
Feeder reconfiguration problems are non-linear discrete 
optimization problems. Constructing a binary coding particle 
swarm optimization based on typical PSO to solve this 
problem is proposed in this paper. In addition, minimizing 
total line losses without violating operation constraints is the 
objective function in this paper. The simulating results show 
that the proposed method can achieve the goal effectively for 
feeder reconfiguration. A real Tai-Power Company (TPC) 
distribution system will be used in the future study to verify 
the usefulness of the proposed algorithm. 
 
VI.  REFERENCES 
[1] M.E. Baran and F.F. Wu, "Network Reconfiguration in Distribution 
Systems for Loss Reduction and Load Balancing", IEEE Trans. on 
Power Delivery, Vol. 4, No.2, 1989, pp. 1401-1407. 
[2] H. Kim, Y. Ko and K.H. Jung, "Artificial Neural Networks Based Feeder 
Reconfiguration for Loss Reduction in Distribution Systems", IEEE 
Trans. on Power Delivery, Vol. 8, No. 3, 1993, pp. 1356-1366. 
[3] H. C. Chang and C. C. Kuo, “Network reconfiguration in distribution 
system using simulated annealing”, Elect. Power Syst. Res, Vol. 29, 
1994, pp. 227-238. 
[4] K. Nara, A. Shiose, M. Kitagawa and T. Ishihara, "Implementation of 
Genetic Algorithm for Distribution Systems Loss Minimum 
Reconfiguration", IEEE Trans., PWRS-7, 1992, pp. 1044-1051. 
[5] M. Kitayama and K. Matsumoto, "An Optimization Method for 
Distribution System Configuration Based on Genetic Algorithm", 
Proceedings of IEE APSCOM, 1995, pp. 614-619. 
[6] Ying-Tung Hsiao, “Mutiobjective Evolution Programming Method for 
Feeder Reconfiguration,” IEEE Trans. on Power Systems, Vol. 19, No. 1, 
2004, pp. 594-599. 
[7] Fu-Yuan Hsu and Men-Shen Tsai, “A Multi-Objective Evolution 
Programming Method for Feeder Reconfiguration of Power Distribution 
System”, Intelligent Systems Application to Power Systems, 2005, 
pp.55-60. 
[8] Jen-Hao Teng and Yi-Hwa Lui, “A Novel ACS-Based Optimum Switch 
Relocation Method”, IEEE Trans. Power Systems, Vol18, No. 1, Feb. 
2003, pp.113-120. 
[9] E.Carpaneto and G. Chicco, “Ant-Colony Search-Based Minimum 
Losses Reconfiguration of Distribution Systems”, Proc. IEEE Melecon 
2004, Dubrovnik, Croatia (2004) 3, pp.971-974. 
[10] T.Q.D. Khoa and B.T.T. Phan, ”Ant Colony Search-based loss minimum 
for reconfiguration of distribution systems”, 2006 IEEE Power India 
Conference, 10-12 April 2006. Page(s): 6pp. 
[11] R.F. Chang and C.N. Lu, “Feeder Reconfiguration for Load Factor 
Improvement”, IEEE Power Engineering Society Winter Meeting, Vol. 2, 
27-31 Jan. 2002, pp.980-984. 
[12] J. Kennedy and R. C. Eberhart, “Particle Swarm Optimization”, 
Proceedings IEEE Int’l. Conf. on Neural Networks, IV, (1995), pp.1942-
1948. 
[13] Shi, Y. and Eberhart, R.C., “ A modified particle swarm optimizer”, 
IEEE International Conference on Evolutionary Programming, Alaska, 
May 4-9.1998. pp.69-73. 
[14] Eberhart, R.C. and Shi Y., “Comparison between Genetic Algorithms 
and Particle Swarm Optimization.”, The 7th Annual Conference on 
Evolutionary Programming, San Diego, USA, 1998. 
[15] Eberhart, R.C. and Kennedy, J.,“ A Discrete Binary Version of the 
Particle Swarm Algorithm”, In Proceedings of IEEE International 
Conference on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, vol. 5, 1997, pp.4104-
4108. 
[16] Kang-Ping Wang et. al, “Particle Swarm Optimization for Traveling 
Salesman Problem”, Proceedings of the Second International Conference 
on Machine Learning and Cybernetics, 2003, pp.1583-1585. 
[17] X.H. Shi et. al, “A Discrete PSO Method for Generalized TSP Problem”, 
Proceedings of the Second International Conference on Machine 
Learning and Cybernetics, 2004, vol. 3, pp.2378-2383. 
 
VII.  BIOGRAPHIES 
 
Wu-Chang Wu was born in Taiwan in 1975.  In 2002, he received his MS 
degree from the Department of Electrical Engineering, Chung-Yuan Christian 
University.  He is currently a Ph.D. student at the Graduate Institute of 
Automation Technology, National Taipei University of Technology.  His 
research areas include applications of expert system and evolutionary 
techniques to power distribution automation problems.  
 
Men-Shen Tsai (M’86) was born in Taiwan in 1961. In 1993, he received his 
Doctoral degree from the Department of Electrical Engineering, University of 
Washington, Seattle, U.S.A. He is currently an associate professor at the 
Graduate Institute of Automation Technology, National Taipei University of 
Technology, Taipei, Taiwan. His research areas include applications of 
intelligent systems to power systems and applications of distributed systems 
for distribution automation. 
 
Fu Yuan Hsu was born in Taiwan in 1974. He received his B.S. and M.S. 
degrees from the Department of Electrical Engineering, Chung-Yuan 
Christian University, Chung-Li, Taiwan. Presently, he is working toward his 
doctoral degree at the National Taipei University of Technology. 
 
Feeder Reconfiguration Using Binary Coding Particle Swarm Optimization                   489 
 
based on typical PSO for feeder reconfiguration. The 
simulation results will compare the proposed method 
and BPSO to verify the performance and effectiveness. 
 
2. PROBLEM FORMULATION 
 
Feeder reconfiguration is performed by opening/ 
closing of sectionalizing-switches and tie-switches in 
distribution systems. The operation of changing on/off 
status of these switches can reduce line losses or 
increase the system reliability. The constraints should 
be considered during configuration. These constraints 
include: the resulting structure of distribution system 
must maintain radial structure, feeder capacity should 
not exceed and feeder voltage profile should be 
maintained. Since the solution of feeder configuration 
is the combinations of open/closed switches, the 
feeder reconfiguration problems can be treated as ‘1’ 
& ‘0’ permutation combinational optimization 
problems. ‘1’ represents a normal closed switch and 
‘0’ represents a normal open switch. Considering a 
simple system shown in Fig. 1, the order of switch 
permutation is sw1, sw2, …, sw5 in turn. Thus, the 
status of switch permutation of the system in Fig. 1 is 
[1 1 0 1 1]. The result of feeder reconfiguration is 
shown in Fig. 2, and the switch permutation becomes 
[1 0 1 1 1]. 
Two objectives are considered in this paper. The 
first is to minimize the total line losses during normal 
operation. By doing so, the operation of distribution 
system will be more economic. The second objective 
is to distribute loads on feeders evenly. Balanced 
feeder loads can increase the opportunity of load 
transfer during emergency conditions. The method 
proposed in this paper ensures that structure is 
maintained in radial, ampacity of conductors is kept 
within allowable limits while minimizing the total line 
losses and load balancing. “Concentric load model” is 
used in this paper for calculating branch currents. The 
line losses can be formulated as follows: 
2
1
,
n
loss i i
i
F I z
=
= ⋅∑     (1) 
where Floss is the total power losses of distribution 
feeders, n is the total numbers of zones in distribution 
system, Ii is the current magnitude of the i-th zone and 
zi is the line impendence of the i-th zone. The load 
balance index is expressed as following:  
( )2_
1 1
,
k k
load balance m n
m n
F Cap Cap
= =
= −∑∑   (2) 
where k is number of feeder. Capm or Capn represents 
the total load current of a feeder m and n respectively. 
The total feeder loads can be calculated as following: 
, ,i i j
j
Cap Load=∑     (3) 
where Loadi,j ∈  Feederi, i is the feeder number, and j 
is the load zone number within feeder i. 
In order to calculate the fitness value of the system 
represented by a particle, the method proposed in [7] 
is used to integrate the two objective functions.  
 
3. PROPOSE APPROACH 
 
3.1. Typical particle swarm optimization 
Original concept of PSO came from the study of 
simulating behavior of bird flocking to look for food. 
A possible solution for each optimal problem is 
represented as a particle that is just like a bird flocking 
in a D-dimensional searching space. Each individual 
particle has a fitness value evaluated by objective 
function to pick a good experience for itself and 
population respectively. PSO initializes particles of 
population randomly first. Each particle changed its 
searching direction based on two best values or 
experiences in each iteration. The first one is the best 
searching experience of individual so far and is called 
pbest. The other one is the best result obtained so far 
by any particle in the population and is called gbest. 
When pbest and gbest are obtained, a particle updates 
its velocity and position based on (4) and (5). At last, 
the algorithm will check the results every iteration 
until the best solution is found or terminate conditions 
are satisfied. 
( )
( )
1
2
()
() ,
new
id id id
id
v wv c rand pbest x
c rand gbest x
= + × × −
+ × × −
  (4) 
.new newid id idx x v= +     (5) 
In the above equations, vid is the original velocity of 
i-th particle, newidv is the new velocity of i-th particle, 
w is the inertia weight, c1 and c2 are the acceleration 
constants, xid is the original position of i-th particle, 
new
idx is the new position of i-th particle and rand() is a 
random number ranging between 0 and 1. 
The purpose of updating formula is to lead particles 
 
 
Fig. 1. A simple distribution system. 
 
 
Fig. 2. Result of feeder reconfiguration. 
Feeder Reconfiguration Using Binary Coding Particle Swarm Optimization                   491 
 
When a N.O. shifts, a ‘1’ (N.C.) needs to be filled-in 
at its original position to maintain system structure. 
 
3.3.2 Shift operator set 
A set with at least one or more shift operators is 
called shift operator set (SOS). An SOS represents all 
actions about how to fill-in or shift normal open 
switches on distribution systems. The definition of 
shift operator set is as below: 
{ }1 2, ,..., nSOS SO SO SO= ,    (8) 
where n is the number of shift operators. 
Considering two SSSes, SSS1 and SSS2, a set of 
shift operators which transfers SSS1 to SSS2 needs to 
be identified. Two SSSes, SSS1=[1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1] 
and SSS2=[1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1], are used to explain how 
the shift operators are acquired. By comparing the 
position of normal open switch one by one in these 
two SSSes, the SOS can be obtained. The 
determination of the shift operator set and the result 
are shown as Fig. 6. In this example, SOS={SO1, 
SO2}= SSS2 Θ SSS1. The symbol, ‘ Θ ’, is used to 
indicate an action to obtain the shift operators from 
SSS1 to SSS2. 
Base on above process, (pbest - xid) and (gbest - xid) 
in formula (4) can be rewritten as (pbest Θ  xid) and 
(gbest Θ  xid) respectively. The xid, pbest and gbest 
represent different SSSes in this description. This 
process will transfer an SSS to a new one which is 
closer to the best switch plan. 
 
3.3.3 Constructing binary coding PSO 
The definitions of shift operator and shift operator 
set are discussed in previous sections. The update 
formulas (4) and (5) of PSO can be redefined to solve 
the problem of feeder reconfiguration. The new 
update formula for the proposed binary coding PSO is 
as below: 
( ) ( () (   ))
( () (    )),
new
id id id
id
v w v rand pbest x
rand gbest x
= ⊗ ⊕ 〈×〉 Θ
⊕ 〈×〉 Θ   (9) 
.new newid id idx x v= 〈+〉    (10) 
The symbol, ‘ ⊕ ’, shown in (9) is used for 
combining two shift operator sets. The symbol, ‘ ⊗ ’, 
is the operator that is used to shift the number of steps. 
The symbol, ‘ 〈×〉 ’, is used to select the number of 
shift operator, SO, in (pbest Θ xid) or (gbest Θ xid) 
randomly. xid is the original SSS of the i-th particle; 
pbest is the best SSS of the i-th particle; gbest is the 
best SSS of any particle in the population. vid is the 
original shift operator set of the i-th particle, newidv is 
the new shift operator set of the i-th particle. newidx is 
the new SSS of the i-th particle. rand() is a random 
number with a range of [1, n] where n is the number 
of SO in SOS.  
In (9), w is the inertia weight. The role of w is used 
for adjusting searching areas. The searching areas are 
reduced progressively when the number of iteration 
increases. The calculation of inertia weight is shown 
as (11). 
max
max
max
nowiteration iterationw ShiftStep
iteration
−
= ×  (11) 
A simple example is used to show how the 
proposed method works. Based on the system shown 
in Fig. 4, xid, pbest and gbest represent different SSSes 
are given below: 
xid : [1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1], 
pbest : [1 0 1 1 1 1 1 0 1], 
gbest : [1 1 1 0 1 0 1 1 1]. 
The SOS can be derived from (pbest Θ xid) and 
(gbest Θ xid) as: 
(pbest Θ xid) = {(3, L, 1), (7, R, 1)}, 
(gbest Θ xid) = {(3, R, 1), (7, L, 1)}. 
The three parts in formula (9) can be expressed as 
following:  
w ⊗ vid = {(3, R, 2), (7, R, 2)}, 
rand() 〈×〉 (pbest Θ xid) = {(3, L, 1)}, 
rand() 〈×〉 (gbest Θ xid) = {(7, L, 1)}. 
According to (9), the newidv contains four SOes, (3, 
L, 1), (3, R, 2), (7, L, 1) and (7, R, 2). Combining 
these four SOes, the final newidv contains two SOes, (3, 
R, 1) and (7, R, 1). Finally the new SSS, ,newidx  will 
be [1 1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1] according to (10). 
 
1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1SSS1
1 10 1 1 1 01 1SSS2
Comparing position of normal-open switch one by one
=>SO1(3, L, 1)
Bit 3 to Bit 2 Bit 7 to Bit 8
=>SO2(7, R, 1)
Comparing direction
Fig. 6. Decision process of shift operator set.  
1 1 0 1 1 1 0 1 1SSS
SO(3, R, 1)
1 1 01 1 1 0 1 1 SSS’
Filled-in
Fig. 5. Basic operating process of shift operator. 
 
Feeder Reconfiguration Using Binary Coding Particle Swarm Optimization                   493 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 7. A four-feeder distribution system for testing. 
 
 
Fig. 8. The final feeder configuration found by the proposed method. 
 
 
Fig. 9. The final feeder configuration found by the typical BPSO method.  
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-027-126 
計畫名稱 應用多目標離散粒子群集與柏拉圖前緣最佳化於配電系統開關操作策略之研究 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
蔡孟伸 
台北科技大學自動化科技研究所副教授 
會議時間地點 四月 2日~4日 
會議名稱 The Fourth IASTED Asian Conference on Power and Energy Systems, 2008 
發表論文題目 Development of Novel Multi-Agent based Self-Healing Distribution Systems 
 
一、參加會議經過 
 
這是 IASTED 第四次舉辦電力與能源相關的研討會，研討會的主題圍繞在電力相關的議題
上。台灣在此次的研討會共有二十餘篇的論文發表，為本次大會發表論文次多的國家。研討
會參與的除學界的研究人員外，也有許多業界的研究人員如西門子，Alstom 與 ABB 參與，
因此除了理論的探討外，對於實務的運用也有熱烈的討論。此次會議每天都安排一場 Keynote 
Speech與一場 Intensive Oral Session的討論。 
 
筆者發表的論文主要是透過多代理神系統的方式進行配電系統復電的規畫。由於這方面的研
究尚屬萌芽階段，因此筆者希望透過這類的論文發表，加速國內對於多代理人系統的相關研
究。 
 
筆者也受邀請擔任一場會議的主持人。該場共有八篇論文發表，其中來自台灣的論文就占四
篇，另外兩篇是由會議共同主持人，韓國的卜教授(Park)所發表的，還有來自馬來西亞與印度
的論文。本場會議所發表的論文主題均為分散式電源對配電系統的影響以及分散式電源的控
制等相關的議題。由於石油價格高漲，因此再生能源備受重視，也可以自所發表的論文題目
窺知一二。在會議期間與卜教授交換研究心得。得知該大學即將購入第二套 RTDS，真令人
羨慕。一套基本 RTDS的價格約為五十萬美元，國內的研究環境如果購得這樣的模擬系統，
對於研究有相當大的幫助。不知道何時國內的研究機構才有機會購得 RTDS以幫助電力系統
的動態模擬與分析。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
在參加這次的會議過程中，筆者結識了相當多的專家學者，也討論有關智慧型代理人系統的
理論架構與實際發展在電力系統的經驗，對於日後的研究相信會有相當的助益。最後要感謝
國科會在來回機票與註冊費的經費補助。 
 
DEVELOPMENT OF A NOVEL MULTI-AGENT BASED SELF-HEALING 
DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS 
 
Men-Shen Tsai, Petra Piclova and Wu-Chang Wu 
Graduate Institute of Automation Technology 
National Taipei University 
No.1, Sec. 3, Chung-Hsiao E. Road, Taipei, 10608 
TAIWAN 
mstsai@ntut.edu.tw 
 
Chih-Kuei Chan 
Department of Electrical Engineering 
Chung-Yuan Christian University 
No. 200, Chung-Pei Rd., Chung-Li, 32023 
TAIWAN 
ohouch@gmail.com 
 
ABSTRACT 
Power distribution feeders are connected in radial 
structure through many switches.  Because of this, 
Intelligent Agents (IA) can be applied to take advantages 
of it by utilizing the distributed computing capability.  In 
this paper, IA technology is used and a distributed 
restoration planner is developed.  JAVA Agent 
Development Environment (JADE) platform is used 
because it provides distributed characteristics and 
message communication facility.  Agents implemented on 
JADE are used to represent power system components.  
These agents operate autonomously such that they can 
make decision based on their local knowledge and 
information collected from other agents.  Since agents can 
make decision independently, the restoration process can 
be done in parallel to reduce the outage time.  A 
simulation on a distribution system is performed and the 
results show that the proposed system can effectively 
apply to distribution system service restoration planning. 
 
KEY WORDS 
Distribution System, Restoration, Multi-Agent System 
 
 
1. Introduction 
 
The architecture of modern distribution system control 
centers are centralized in general.  The control center 
collects all necessary information in real time through 
communication sub-systems.  During an emergency, the 
decision is made in the control center and the actions are 
taken to remedy the problems.  Many technologies were 
developed in the past for solving power distribution 
system service restoration problems [1-4].  However, 
these approaches were based on centralized control 
concept.  In this paper, an Intelligent Multi-Agent System 
(MAS) [5-6] based restoration planner is developed to 
take advantage of modern computer and communication 
technologies. 
 Java Agent Development Environment (JADE) is 
used to design the proposed intelligent agent system. It 
complies with the Foundation for Intelligent Physical 
Agents (FIPA) standards.  When agents detect the 
occurrence of a fault, they will initiate all the necessary 
communication and actions and propose a restoration plan 
autonomously.   
 In this paper, Intelligent Agents (IAs) are installed 
inside switches on the feeders. Each agent only handles 
the information on the equipment it is installed.  It also 
contains limited topology information, e.g. the locations 
of all adjacent agents.  If an agent wanted to obtain 
information from other agents, this agent must rely on the 
communication channel and search for suitable agents to 
get useful information. Each switch agent maintains local 
information and communicates with other agents to 
interchange information. Through communication 
channel with others, agents can acquire the identity of tie 
switches and load capacity of adjacent feeders.  When the 
necessary information is obtained, agents can make 
appropriate decisions and correct actions to resolve the 
service restoration problems.   
 The restoration plans given by the proposed MAS 
can be categorized to two types: group transfer and zone 
transfer.  All outage zones will be transferred to an 
adjacent support feeder in a single switch operation when 
group transfer is performed. For zone transfer, many 
switch actions are needed in order to transfer outage 
zones to many support feeders through a series of switch 
actions.  During zone transfer, the search of restoration 
plan is done in parallel to reduce the outage period.   
 The control center collects the information from the 
Feeder Terminal Unit (FTU) and Remote Terminal Unit 
(RTU).  The distribution system operators have to make 
decisions based on the collected information.  Decision is 
then implemented.  By utilizing the cooperative feature of 
MAS, the restoration plan can be done by these agents 
autonomously which not only reduce the outage time, it 
also reduces the possibility of human mistakes. 
 A 4-feeder distribution system is used to test the 
proposed MAS. When a fault occurs, agents try to 
identify a suitable restoration plan based on the installed 
rules and communication channel with other agents.  
Final restoration plan will be summarized and proposed 
by a responsible agent. 
 
 
606-037 1
Proceedings of the Fourth IASTED International Conference
April 2-4, 2008  Langkawi, Malaysia
POWER AND ENERGY SYSTEMS (AsiaPES 2008)
ISBN CD: 978-0-88986-732-1
time; 4) Distribution system must maintain radial 
topology after restoration. 
 
Fault Identify the restoration leader agent
Identify the normal open switch agents 
within outage area
Request normal open 
switches to search feeders 
Check the ampacity of adjacent feeders
Zone Restoration Group Restoration
Restoration direction
Outage areas restoring
Load transfer on 
branching point Normal open switches execute restoration plan
Restoration Task 
Completed
Enough?
Done?
Yes No
YesNo
Figure 2. Restoration Process 
 
3.3 Restoration Principles and Procedures 
 
This section discusses the restoration procedure used by 
the proposed restoration planner. The procedure is divided 
to 10 steps and will be discussed in detail. 
 
Step 1: Identifying an appropriate agent to be a restoration 
leader-agent. 
 
Rule: The status of switches adjacent to faulted section 
is set to LOCKED_OPEN after the occurrence of a 
fault. Each LOCKED_OPEN switch agent queries the 
status of its adjacent switch agent(s) separately and 
identifies the leader agent(s).  
 
 If a fault is located at the branch point, more than one 
leader agents will be identified in this step. The agents 
with LOCKED_OPEN status perform self-checking and 
communicate with other adjacent agents to confirm the 
identity of leader agents. A procedure to identify the 
leader agent(s) is discussed below. 
 
1)  If the LOCKED_OPEN agent is also a feeder agent, 
then do nothing. 
2)  A LOCKED_OPEN agent queries the status of switch 
agent located at its upstream. If the status of the 
upstream agent is LOCKED_OPEN, then the agent 
which sends the query message will become a 
restoration leader agent and initiate restoration 
process.  On the other hand, if the status returned from 
its upstream agent is not LOCKED_OPEN, the agent 
will do nothing. This procedure is used to identify all 
leader agents when a fault occurs.  Determination of 
restoration leader agent is based on the location of the 
fault.  Two situations are discussed below. 
 
a) Fault is located at a non-branch section: A faulted 
section is located between two power components.  
Identification of the leader agent depends only on the 
power flow direction. The agent located at the 
downstream of the faulted section will be the 
restoration leader agent. 
b) Fault is located at a branch section: A fault section is 
located between three or more power components. 
All agents adjacent to the faulted section must 
communicate to each other to identify all the 
restoration leader agents.  Since the distribution 
system is in radial structure, every power component 
has only one source side component.  Thus, the 
agents need to find a common upstream agent 
through a conversation with others.  
 
Step 2: As soon as all the restoration leader agents are 
identified, they initiate the restoration process.  Each 
leader agent needs to identify the outage areas in this step 
using the following rule: 
 
Rule: Restoration leader agents will search for normal 
open (N.O.) switches toward its downstream direction.  
If an N.O. switch is queried by a restoration leader 
agent, it replies with its identity to the restoration 
leader agent.  On the other hand, if a normally closed 
(N.C.) switch is queried by a leader agent, it will pass 
the query to its downstream agents. 
 
 A procedure of querying and responding is shown in 
Fig. 3 and 4.  In Fig. 3, the leader agent, SWB, searches 
for the location of any N.O. switch.  Since SWC is not a 
normally open switch, it will pass the query to its 
downstream agent, SWD.  In Fig. 4, a query is passed 
from SWD to SWE.  Since SWE is an N.O. switch, it will 
send a response with its identity to the leader agent, SWB. 
 
Step 3: After a period of time, the leader agent will collate 
a list of N.O. SW identity. 
 
Rule: The leader agent records all identities which 
return during the query period.  It also eliminates all 
redundant ones. 
 
3
Step 9: Zone transfer on branching point. 
 
Rule: If the query in step 6 reaches a switch agent that 
is located at the upstream of a branch point, the switch 
agent will wait for the query from other branches. This 
switch agent will choose a feeder that has largest 
available ampacity for load transfer. 
 
 Fig. 7 shows how a decision is made by the switch 
agent which is located at the upstream of a branch point.  
At time T1, the query from SWX reaches SWB.  Since 
SWB is located at the upstream of a branch point, it will 
wait for a query from SWC and decide which support 
feeder should be chosen for service restoration. 
 
Step 10: Arbitration of decisions 
 
Rule: The loads in the non-restored zones are 
compared with its adjacent feeders.  If the adjacent 
feeder has enough capacity to pickup the loads, Step 7 
to 9 will be repeated to pick up the loads.  This step 
will apply to all adjacent support feeders. 
 
Figure 7. Load Transfer on Branch Point 
 
 
4. Simulation Results  
 
JADE is used in this research to develop the service 
restoration agent system.  A test system shown in Fig. 8 is 
used to evaluate the performance and validate the results 
of the proposed system.  The sample distribution system 
has four feeders, 14 load zones, 3 normal open switches 
and 10 normal close switches.  The numbers next to each 
zone are the load currents.  The numbers shown next to 
the feeders are the available and installed ampacity of the 
feeders respectively.  For example, feeder F001 has 
1000A of ampacity and 950A of available ampacity after 
the occurrence of a fault.. 
 
4.1 JADE Environment Initialization 
 
The JADE Environment which represents the distribution 
system is constructed first based on the topology.  During 
the execution of the MAS, each agent is activated 
according to the topology of the system.  In this paper, all 
agents are installed in the same container which is located 
on a single JADE platform.  This can be easily expanded 
to a distributed computer network environment.  Agents 
are communicating to each other to build the topology 
initially.  When the initialization step finishes, each agent 
will post a message on the console. 
 
4.2 Restoration Simulation 
 
In the simulation, a fault located between SWC and SWD 
is specified. Agents SWC and SWD will detect the fault 
and initialize the restoration process.  The first step during 
the restoration process is to identify the restoration leader 
agent.  In this case, SWD is the restoration leader agent 
since it is located at the downstream side of the fault.  
SWD will identify all the N.O. SW agents as SWG, SWI 
and SWM through conversation with other agents. The 
three N.O. SW agents will be asked by the leader agent to 
find the ampacity of the adjacent support feeders. In this 
simulation, none the support feeders have enough 
ampacity to pick up the outage areas.  Therefore, zone 
restoration is performed by the N.O. SW agents. Since 
SWJ is located at the upstream of a branch point, it will 
wait for the messages from SWI and SWM.  Based on the 
rule at Step 9, SWJ chooses feeder F004 as support feeder 
and transfer 85A of load to feeder F004 through SWM.  
The available capacity of feeder F004 is reduced by 85A 
to 65A.  The decision is also passed to the leader agent 
such that it can keep track of the amount of un-restored 
loads.  At this time, feeder F002 has enough capacity to 
pickup 75A of load.  The upstream switch of SWG is also 
a leader agent, SWG will conclude that it can pickup the 
remaining load by change the status of the switch from 
open to close.  The decision made by SWG is also passed 
to the leader agent, SWD for the final decision. 
 The restoration leader agent, SWD, verifies the 
structure of distribution system based on the messages 
passed from all N.O. SW agents.  The final configuration 
proposed by the system is shown in Fig. 9. 
 
750 (1000) 80(200)
15
0(
20
0)
10
0(
20
0)
SWA
SWB
SWG
SWJ
SWMSWH SWI
20
75
3050 50
85
20
10
10 10
60
30
30
SWC
SWD
SWF
SWE
SWKSWL
F0
04
F0
03
F002F001
50
 
Figure 8. Distribution System for MAS Study 
 
5
