 2
摘要 
模具是製造業重要的基礎，更是在產品生產過程中扮演關鍵角色，隨著塑膠產品的
日益普及，從 3C 產品跨及 6C 領域，客戶提案也趨向少量多樣化的生產模式，如何在
時限內讓產品快速上市一直是模具廠引領期盼的。然而模具與成型技術牽涉甚廣、有經
驗的人才與專家難求，絕非單純投資硬體設備所能達到成效；一般而言模具人才需要具
備相當豐富的模具與成型經驗，不但培養不易又流動快速，如何降低人才流動所造成的
企業資產虧損也是十分迫切的問題；另一方面，隨著我國加入 WTO，象徵產業競爭已
經邁入國際，將模具技術結合知識管理，提升模具技術的成長是勢在必行的。 
基於 CAD/CAM 軟體在模具設計與製造過程的關鍵角色，本計畫目的在於建構一套
以 CAD/CAM 為中心的模具協同估價/設計與製造之數位化整合系統，將模具業的工作
模組化，藉由製造估價模組將模具價格透明化並且能快速訂出合理的報價為訴求，協同
設計模組將產品開發週期大幅縮短，生產製造模組將加工規劃與排程最佳化以加速模具
的後製加工。各模組皆可獨立運行或整合運用，並將知識管理應用在模具知識經驗上，
除了讓設計流程更完善，也能輔助人才快速的培養，並且降低模具人才流失對企業的影
響；經由此系統的開發與典範模具廠實務的結合，能夠大幅降低模具生產週期與加強模
具廠管理的便利性，以提升國內模具產業在全球的競爭力。 
關鍵詞：模具設計/製造、知識管理、系統整合、協同平台、生產週期 
 
Abstract 
Mold technologies have been always the foundation of manufacturing industries; in other 
words, it is the key factor in the production process of good product. A good-quality mold can 
reduce cost, shorten cycle time, improve quality, and increase molding life, as such, related 
technologies has been taken serious attention. However, the technologies and knowledge must 
be accumulated through years of training and experience. Due to the fact that the asset of 
good engineers is very difficult to keep, an e-platform with knowledge management to keep 
and accumulate related technologies is absolutely needed. 
This project is to build a collaborative mold quoting, design and manufacturing 
e-platform by direct integration with the CAD/CAM software. The quoting module should 
provide transparent price for the mold design and manufacturing. The quoting procedure will 
be easy and the related price information should be transparent, reasonable, and profitable. 
The design module should shorten the design process by providing standard components, 
standard procedures, and knowledge management. The manufacturing module will optimize 
the planning and scheduling processes of mold components. The module will accelerate the 
manufacturing process and have fully control of more than 200 components for each mold. 
Three modules will be seamlessly integrated together; however, each one could work 
independently. In addition, the knowledge management module will digitize and accumulate 
the dedicated experiences and technologies to support the platform. The successful of this 
customizable system should promote the competition edge of mold and molding industry. 
Keywords: Mold Design/Manufacturing, Knowledge Management, System Integration, 
Collaborative Platform, Production Cycle 
 
 4
e. 可客製化的設計，可以導入不同廠家的設備與管理流程。 
f. 提供一個與協力和外包廠家之協同工作平台，以確實、有效地管理模具之生產進度。 
三、 研究方法 
A 模組功能規劃 
概念設計模組主要針對客戶的產品提案進行模具設計與製造前的初步分析流程，概
念設計模組包含一切標準化的設計步驟與常用的設計工具，如專用檔的建立、模型品質
的檢測、以及機構位置的標示，模流分析、縮水率的設定。而產品相關的設計問題、塑
料的選用以及縮水的參考皆透過知識庫即時提供有用的資訊來輔佐設計，且最後系統能
在線上報表中自動彙整所有設計過程中使用者給予的相關建議直接回饋給客戶，如圖一
所示。 
拆模設計模組可透過概念設計針對客戶的產品所進行的初步分析協助產品分模位
置的決定，既使複雜圖形也能在最短時間完成，為今後類似零件產品的造型及其分模線
建構提供一個系統化且有效率的方法；且將設計時常遇到的靠破孔方式加以整理出靠破
面知識庫，當設計者在補面遇到困難時，可透過知識庫分類的引導，一層一層地尋找出
類似的靠破面設計，再藉由流程的步驟與功能快速的填補好破孔。如圖二為主要分模面
分類、圖三為靠破分模面分類。 
在製造系統規劃方面，先由模具設計引導系統編製 BOM，製造排程系統再去資料
庫存取 BOM 資料，然後進行零件加工分類，如圖四所示，分為內製加工、標準零件和
外包加工；內製加工表示在廠內製造；內製加工流程分別為製造規劃、製造程序、製造
排程、程式設計、製造量測、製造監控、模具組裝、T1 試模等步驟；標準件表示有標
準零件可套用，而標準件又分為需要再加工修改、不需加工、加工外包；外包加工表示
委外廠商製造，分為程序外包或零件外包，如此一來將可以了解不同加工種類的零件在
製造排程的流程步驟。 
且在零件製造排程系統中可自動抓取同類型零件歷史資料，將加工方法裡直接先顯
示排列出來，使用者可以自行去加入、刪除、上移、下移、互換順序等功能，如果此零
件沒有歷史資料可參考，就需要自己由上面選單加入下面已選取方法裡，由此自選製程
可以快速又彈性的把加工順序排列出來，如圖五所示。 
B 報表輸出 
設計系統報表的輸出會在設計過程的特定步驟中由系統自動處理或提供輔助意見
與產品設計的建議事項，而產品相關的設計問題皆透過知識庫即時提供有用的資訊來輔
佐設計；也可將設計者對產品模型所指定的參數或是設計條件記錄於資料庫中，最後系
統能在線上報表中自動彙整所有設計過程中使用者給予的相關建議以及設計資訊並顯
示於線上報表中，使用者只需再做一次確認的動作即可將線上報表直接回饋給主管及客
戶，如圖六所示。 
四、 研究進度與成果 
A 概念設計 
概念設計模組主要涵蓋三個區塊，引導流程、報表輸出與知識庫的連結；引導流程
包含一切標準化的設計步驟與常用的設計工具，如專用檔的建立、模型品質的檢測、以
及機構位置的標示，如圖七；報表的輸出則在特定步驟中由系統自動處理或提供輔助意
見，如模流分析的數據、縮水率的設定與產品設計的建議事項，如圖八，而產品相關的
設計問題、塑料的選用以及縮水的參考皆透過知識庫即時提供有用的資訊來輔佐設計；
最後系統能在線上報表中自動彙整所有設計過程中使用者給予的相關建議，使用者只需
再做一次確認的動作即可將線上報表直接回饋給客戶。 
 6
[5] R. S. Lee, Y. M. Chen, C. Z. Lee, "Development of A Concurrent Mold Design 
System:A Knowledge-Based Approach", Computer Integrated Manufacturing Systems, 
Vol.10,pp.287-307, 1997. 
[6] http://www.microsoft.com/taiwan/vstudio/ 
[7] G. Q. Huang, S. W. Lee, K. L. Mak, "Collaborative Product Definition on the Internet: A 
Case Study", Journal of Materials Processing Technology, Vol.139, pp.51–57, 2003. 
[8] H. B. Qiu, C. X. Li, "Conceptual Design Support System in A Collaborative 
Environment for Injection Moulding", Int J Adv Manuf Technol, Vol.24, pp.9–15, 2004. 
[9] J. Chung, K. Lee, "A framework of Collaborative Design Environment for 
InjectionMolding", 2002. 
[10] Y. M. Chen, J. J. Liu, "Cost-Effective Design for Injection Molding", Elsevier Science 
Ltd, Exeter, Engl, 1999. 
[11] E. Shehab, H. Abdalla, "An Intelligent Knowledge-Based System for Product Cost 
Modelling", Springer-Verlag London Ltd, 2002. 
[12] H. Wang, X. H. Zhou, X.-Y. Ruan, "Research on Injection Mould Intelligent Cost 
Estimation Systemand Key Technologies", Springer-Verlag London Ltd, 2003. 
[13] K. S. Chin, T. N. Wong, "Knowledge-Based Evaluation for the Conceptual Design 
Development of Injection Molding Parts", Pergamon Press Inc, Tarrytown, NY, USA, 
1996. 
[14] A. P. Sage, "Manufacturing Systems Engineering and Management", Systems, Man, and 
Cybernetics, Vol.1, pp.1-9, 1996. 
[15] C. Jangha, H. Cheng, "Manufacturing-driven Design", Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, 
Vol.5, pp.4436-4441, 1997. 
[16] L. Horvath, J. A. T. Machado, I. J. Rudas, G. P. Hancke, "Application of Part 
Manufacturing Process Model in Virtual Manufacturing", Industrial Electronics, 
Vol.3,pp.1367–1372, 1999. 
[17] E. Muller, P. Dadam, J. Enderle, M. Feltes, "Tuning An SQL-based PDM System in A 
Worldwide Client/Server Environment", Data Engineering, pp.99-108, 2001. 
[18] D. A. Hodges, L. A. Rowe, C. J. Spanos, "Computer Integrated Manufacturing", 
Electronic Manufacturing Technology Symposium, pp.1-3, 1989. 
[19] S. M. Chung, S. B. Jesurajaiah, "Schemaless XML Document Management in 
Object-oriented  
[20] Databases", Information Technology: Coding and Computing, Vol.1, pp.261-266, 2005. 
[21] T. Kondoh, T. Suzuki, "Using 3D-CAD Systems for Mechanical Design Innovation", 
Engineering Management Conference, Vol.3, pp.954–957, 2004. 
[22] N. H. Chao, "The Application of a Knowledge-based System to Design for Manufacture", 
Robotics and Automation, Proceedings, Vol.2, pp.182-185, 1985. 
[23] W. S. Han, K. Y. Whang, Y. S. Moon, "A Formal Framework for Prefetching Based on 
the Type-Level Access Pattern in Object-Relational DBMSs",  Knowledge and Data 
Engineering, Vol.17, pp.1436-1448, 2005. 
[24] R. P. Broadwater, J. C. Thompson, S. Rahman, A. Sargent, "An Expert System for 
Integrated Protection Design with Configurable Distribution Circuits",  Power 
Delivery,Vol.9, pp.1115-1121, 1994. 
[25] R. A. Malloy, "Plastic Part Design for Injection Molding", Hanser, New York, 1994. 
[26] A. Dong, Alice M. Agogino, "Text Analysis for Constructing Design Representations", 
Artificial Intelligence in Engineering, Vol.11, pp.5-75, 1997. 
[27] L. Fahey, L. Prusak, "The Eleven Deadliest Sins of Knowledge Management", California 
Management Review, 1998. 
[28] A. A. Tseng, "Knowledge-Based Mold Design for Injection Molding Processing", 5th 
IEEE Internation symposium, 5-7 Sep, pp.1119-1204, 1990. 
 8
 
圖九  模具設計-自動化分模面 
 
圖十  模具設計-自動化靠破模面 
 
圖十一  分模面知識庫 
 
圖十二  製造規劃系統介面 
 
 
圖十三  甘特圖 
 
圖十四  BOM 表 
 
圖十五  內製流程 
 
圖十六  線上報表-首頁 
 
圖十七  線上報表-分頁資訊 
出席國際會議心得報告 
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-033-016- 
計畫名稱 可客制化之節能節料成型模具估價、設計、製造導引管理系統 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
李泰志 
中原大學機研所 博士班研究生 
會議時間地點 2008/05/04 至 2008/05/07  Milwaukee, WI, U.S.A 
會議名稱 (中文) 2008 國際塑膠工程師年度技術研討會 
(英文) ANTEC 2008(Annual Technical Conference 2008) 
發表論文題目 
(中文)具知識管理智慧型模具設計引導系統 
(英文) Intelligent Core and Moldbase Design with Knowledge-based 
Management 
 
一、 參加會議經過 
塑膠工程師學會成立五十多年，為世界最具影響力的學會之一，尤其在塑膠
工程界中，且其會員最多且歷史最為悠久的學會；舉凡是最新、最重要的塑膠工
程技術，皆發表於此年度技術研討會上。ANTEC(Annual Technical Conference) 國
際塑膠工程師年度技術研討會，今年於美國美國密爾瓦基舉行，起迄時間為 2008
年 5 月 4 日至 2008 年 5 月 7 日，為期共 4 天；有來自全世界各國參與塑膠工程
研究的學者參加。會議所包含的範圍相當地廣泛，且在產品測試方面的研究也有
相當幅度的成長。會議採口頭方式報告、海報張貼與現場交談，並有系列專題發
表及設備展覽。而本著作安排場次主題為 Mold Design & Mold Marking，一場時
間約進行 30 分鐘。 
二、 與會心得 
由於塑膠需要量的增加以及應用領域的開擴，使得各種技術迅速的發展，且
新工程塑膠原料不斷的開發，所以今年在新塑膠化性、物理及開發新塑膠原料的
論文報告較往年成長的許多；今年的論文大約近千篇，可見投入塑膠工業方面的
研究專家也越來越多。其中，在導電式高分子以及相關應用方面的研究也有相當
幅度的成長，可見工業界對於導電性高分子有強烈的需求，預期往後會持續成長。 
在射出成型方面的研究方向大多對於 3D CAE 射出成型製程模擬技術之發
展，而本此參與會議所發表的主題亦屬此範圍；另一方面是微射出成型之研究，
因微量及微尺寸射出成型在機電、光電產品中扮演重要的角色，因此各學術機構
及相關公司都列為重要的研究方向；至於革新性的製程如氣體/液體輔助射出成
型、低壓成型、共射出成型、雙料覆蓋成型新製程，這些都是新興且遠景看好的
Intelligent Core and Moldbase Design with Knowledge-based Management 
 
Wen-Ren Jong
1,2
, Tsung-Lin Yang
1
, Chun-Hsien Wu
1
, Tai-Chih Li
1
, Ming-Yan Li
3
 
1
Department of Mechanical Engineering, Chung Yuan Christian University, Chung-Li, Taiwan 
2
R&D Center for Mold and Molding Technology, Ministry of Education, Taiwan 
3
Taiwan Green Point Enterprise Co., Ltd., Tai-Chung, Taiwan 
 
Abstract 
This study utilizes the CAD tool (Pro/ENGINEER) 
that has the network browser to develop an intelligent core 
and moldbase design with knowledge-based management. 
Core design is the initial stage when the mold is developed. 
Intelligent management system uses information 
technology to arrange the procedure of the core design, 
and utilizes the web-based and customizable navigating 
system to analyze and classify product’s features. Building 
the knowledge management of product’s features is basis 
for improving the core design. The classified features with 
CAD functions in the core design develop automatic 
design programs. It not only increases the development 
speed of product but makes mold design more accurate 
and consistent. In addition, the core design adds the 
function of core knowledge database that provides 
accumulated experience. Users will be able to check 
relevant designs of knowledge database that assists each 
designer rapidly and conveniently. Moldbase design is the 
final stage when the mold is developed. It mainly 
assembles moldbase structures and relevant components. 
The procedure of moldbase design considers the 
manufacturing of relevant components and the assembly 
of relevant knowledge by intelligent core design that 
assists users in moldbase design rapidly and correctly. The 
moldbase design with moldbase database helps users 
quickly select the appropriate moldbase component. 
Building the moldbase database reduces the time and 
manufacturing cost of standard components and makes 
sure the consistency of mold development. It will reduce 
time of the moldbase design procedure time substantially. 
Introduction 
In the past literatures, Chan [1] proposed a mold 
design system based on interactive knowledge (IKB-
MOULD), the knowledge-based mold design system 
includes mold design process and knowledge management.  
With this system, the design process get more standard 
and efficient. Ye [2] described the algorithm of 
preliminary automatic mold design, this algorithm can be 
applied to knowledge-based IMOLD system. The 
preliminary mold design includes the structure of model 
components and experience knowledge of the functions. 
Turng [3] developed a web-based plastics injection 
molding knowledge management system to save the 
knowledge in company, and classified knowledge to 
design, material, process, CAE and resolution. Nee [4] 
developed a three-dimensional mold design system 
(IMOLD) in commercial CAD software. This system 
divides modeling into four major stages: create project, 
create core and cavity, runner design and moldbase design.  
This research studies the knowledge management 
which sets up the product’s features. Building the 
knowledge management of product’s features realizes the 
automatic core design and increases the design speed. And 
the procedure of moldbase design considers the 
manufacturing of relevant components and the assembly 
of relevant knowledge by intelligent core design that 
assists users in moldbase design rapidly and correctly. The 
moldbase design with moldbase database helps users 
quickly select the appropriate moldbase component. The 
system has not only shortened the time to design but also 
accumulated knowledge database. 
Core-Design Navigating System 
Based on CAD software, this system uses project 
management in the sequential designing process. This 
system which provides standard and automatic 
components to shorten the process by the Internet for 
transmitting and linking design information, PDM concept, 
intelligent knowledge base and relational database 
management system. Mistakes of mold design will be 
reduced effectively according to the system. The design of 
functional modules helps the designer to finish 3D mold 
design quickly and correctly. 
As to planning the structure of the system architecture, 
the interface procedures are planned by requirements of 
the enterprises as well as steps and functions of the mold 
design. Four procedures are listed: the concept analysis, 
the pre-modeling, the parting surface and the mold split. 
The plan of the process is integrated with the moldbase 
module and the drawing module. When engineers finish 
the core design, they can continue the moldbase and the 
drawing module by following the procedure. The flow 
chart of the mold design module is shown in Figure 1. 
Moldbase Design Navigating System 
Figure 2, in the aspect of planning structure of the 
system, moldbase design is following the intelligent core 
ANTEC 2008 / 1591
and assemble. The original moldbase designer must 
provide the related moldbase information for lifter 
manufacturing. Through the guidelines of procedure and 
assistance of intelligent knowledge database, the distance 
is automatically calculated and lifter design is completely 
finalized. 
The function of automatic lifter design first uses 
intelligent knowledge database to automatically calculate 
the distance from the bottom of the core to upper ejector 
plate. A datum plane on ejector plate is automatically 
created by the value of distance. Then, engineers just need 
to select reference surfaces and the completed datum plane. 
Lifter block will extend to the indicated plane and 
complete pin tail by automatic design. The procedure of 
automatic lifter design is shown in Figure 6. 
After the detail design of lifer is finished, the design is 
starting to assemble lifter structure. Lifter structure mainly 
guides lifter to move. Engineers quickly get standard 
structure component by moldbase-component database 
and assemble it to correct position by the relative distance 
of moldbase. 
4. Automatic Slider Assembling 
There are different methods of slider structure to deal 
with slider interference. Angular pin is the most used 
slider structure. Its structure is simple, and the 
manufacturing is easy and quick. 
Moldbase-component database includes different 
types of slider group as shown in Figure 7. Engineers not 
only use slider groups in moldbase-component database 
but use the indicated slider group in prior concept analysis. 
Through the procedure of automatic slider assembling, the 
indicated slider group will be automatically assembled to 
the correct position. 
BOM 
After the mould of the products are designed and 
finished, BOM of all components will be output in order 
to manufacture all mold components. The CAD software 
offers to list all components, but the stored file is only 
accessible by software itself. This research automatically 
produces the needed information of each manufacturing 
component through Pro/Web.Link and makes BOM 
available throughout the whole system. The related values 
can be revised before being stored in the database and it is 
basis for mold manufacture as shown in Figure 8. 
Results and Discussions 
This case designs the rear housing of cell phone in 
core design module. Designers compare the differences of 
time according to mold development using core-design 
navigating system and without using navigating system. 
First, engineers check feature knowledge-based 
management as shown in Figure 9. Then engineers design 
parting surfaces according to the classified features as 
shown in Figure 10. Figure 11 is the completed 3D core 
model. 
This case continues the finished core design of rear 
housing of cell phone and designs the moldbase with 
components of core. First, engineers start detail design by 
each split component in the core design as shown in 
Figure 12. Then, engineers assemble the indicated 
moldbase and design each mold plate. Figure 13 is the 
completed 3D moldbase model. 
As a result, the used time of moldbase design is shown 
in Table 1. Using moldbase-design navigating system 
saves about 45% of the entire designing time. Integrating 
the core-design and moldbase-design navigating system 
may save up-to 53% of designing time as shown in Table 
2. 
Conclusions 
In the intense competition environment, completing 
the mold kernel design in a shorter time is the enterprise 
urgent demand.  This research studies the knowledge 
management which sets up the product’s features. 
Building the knowledge management of product’s features 
realizes the automatic core design and increases the design 
speed. Design of intelligent moldbase mainly aims at 
faster assembling moldbase structures and relevant 
components. The procedure of moldbase design considers 
the manufacturing of relevant components and the 
assembly of relevant knowledge by intelligent core design 
that assists users in moldbase design rapidly and correctly. 
The moldbase design with moldbase database helps users 
quickly select the appropriate moldbase components. 
Finally, the whole mold design automatically produces 
BOM for mold manufacturing. 
Acknowledgements 
This work is supported by Taiwan Green Point 
Enterprise Co., Ltd., R&D Center for Mold and Molding 
Technolgy, Ministry of Education, Taiwan, and National 
Science Council in Taiwan (Grant NSC 96- 2627 - E – 
033-001 and 96- 2221 - E – 033-016) 
References 
1. W. M. Chan, L. Yan, W. Xiang, B. T. Cheok, “A 
3D CAD Knowledge-based Assisted Injection 
Mould Design System”, International Journal of 
Advanced Manufacturing Technology, Vol.22, 
Issue 5/6, pp.387-395, (2003). 
2. X.G. Ye, K.S. Lee, J.Y.H. Fuh, Y.F. Zhang, A.Y.C 
Nee, “Automatic initial design of injection mould”, 
ANTEC 2008 / 1593
 Structure 
Analysis ShutOff Extension 
Boundary
Generate Parting 
Surfaces
Parting Surface 
Design
Parting Line Feature
Layer Management
Get Parting 
Line Feature
Define Extension 
Directions
AutoAutoAuto Auto
Engineer
 
Figure 4. Procedure of Automatic Generating of Parting Surfaces 
 
Parting Surface & 
Patching Surface
Side-Cavities for SlidersCavity Cavity & Slider Surfaces
Split
Auto Intersect
Side-Cores for Sliders
Attach
Auto
 
Figure 5. Procedure of Slider Design 
Create a datum plane 
on ejector plate
AutoAutoAuto
Providing reference 
surface to extrude
Assigning 
extended plane
Intelligent knowledge 
database
Lifter Model
Distance
 
Figure 6. The Procedure of Automatic Lifter 
 
Figure 7. Slider Group Components Database 
 
Figure 8. Bill of Material 
 
Figure 9. Feature Knowledge-Based Management 
ANTEC 2008 / 1595
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 96-2221-E-033-016 
計畫名稱 可客制化之節能節料成型模具估價、設計、製造導引管理系統(I) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
李泰志，中原大學機械系，博士研究生 
會議時間地點 美國密爾瓦基，2008 年 5 月 4 日至 2008 年 5 月 7 日 
會議名稱 
(中文) 2008 國際塑膠工程師年度技術研討會 
(英文) ANTEC 2008(Annual Technical Conference 2008) 
發表論文題目 
(中文)具知識管理智慧型模具設計引導系統 
(英文) Intelligent Core and Moldbase Design with Knowledge-based    
Management 
 
一、參加會議經過 
塑膠工程師學會成立五十多年，為世界最具影響力的學會之一，尤其在塑膠工程界中，
且其會員最多且歷史最為悠久的學會；舉凡是最新、最重要的塑膠工程技術，皆發表於此年
度技術研討會上。ANTEC(Annual Technical Conference) 國際塑膠工程師年度技術研討會，今
年於美國密爾瓦基舉行，起迄時間為 2008 年 5 月 4 日至 2008 年 5 月 7 日，為期共 4 天；有
來自全世界各國參與塑膠工程研究的學者參加。會議所包含的範圍相當地廣泛，且在產品測
試方面的研究也有相當幅度的成長。會議採口頭方式報告、海報張貼與現場交談，並有系列
專題發表及設備展覽。而本著作安排場次主題為 Mold Design & Mold Marking，一場時間約進
行 30 分鐘。 
 
二、與會心得 
由於塑膠需要量的增加以及應用領域的開擴，使得各種技術迅速的發展，且新工程塑膠
原料不斷的開發，所以今年在新塑膠化性、物理及開發新塑膠原料的論文報告較往年成長的
許多；今年的論文大約近千篇，可見投入塑膠工業方面的研究專家也越來越多。其中，在導
電式高分子以及相關應用方面的研究也有相當幅度的成長，可見工業界對於導電性高分子有
強烈的需求，預期往後會持續成長。 
在射出成型方面的研究方向大多對於 3D CAE射出成型製程模擬技術之發展，而本此參與
會議所發表的主題亦屬此範圍；另一方面是微射出成型之研究，因微量及微尺寸射出成型在
機電、光電產品中扮演重要的角色，因此各學術機構及相關公司都列為重要的研究方向；至
於革新性的製程如氣體/液體輔助射出成型、低壓成型、共射出成型、雙料覆蓋成型新製程，
這些都是新興且遠景看好的新技術。 
整體而言，此會議提供與會人士了解研究成果與新的研究趨勢外，與會人士也可建立溝
通管道，彼此交換心得與資料，對於研究的交流大有助益。 
design system. Moldbase that are needed to output in a 
whole process of the mold design are divided by the 
function, the kind, and the design. The moldbase 
navigating system is integrated with the knowledge 
management, the core design module, and the drawing 
module. Three parts are planned: the moldbase design, the 
detail design and the moldbase assembly. Sub-modules are 
divided by the split parts in the detailed design module. 
Engineers proceed with the part of detail design in 
different sub-module. 
Product’s Feature with Knowledge-based 
Management 
Based on PDM concept and relational database 
management system, this research first classifies features 
from conceptual design and product design. Then it 
develops needed functions by CAD software and designs 
procedures to manage product’s features.  
1. Parting Line、Parting Surface 
The mold must be split up to the core and the cavity in 
order to release product from the mold. To get the core 
and the cavity, the key technology is building the parting 
surface. 
It can be indicated that the parting lines for parting 
surface is on the proper positions. Then the layers can be 
used to manage and classify the parting lines for parting 
surface. The function of layer management is mainly 
adding feature to assigned layer and controlling feature 
displaying or hiding. Too many features on the screen not 
only makes confusion but also causes interference very 
easily. Layer management can hide feature that is 
temporarily unnecessary to use. Furthermore, it can use 
the classified layer to automatically generate parting 
surfaces as shown in Figure 3. 
2. Slider、Lifter、Insert 
If the products have interfering structure between core 
and cavity, it will be unable to take out the products from 
the mould. So some mold components must be able to 
move and break away in mold design, the products can 
then be released from the mold. This kind of treatment 
method is designed for sliders or lifters. 
In the procedure of conceptual design, this module 
indicates slide, lifter and insert structure of the products 
on the proper positions. According to the analysis of these 
features, the function classifies them through layer 
management. The designer can clearly understand where 
to design through the display of layer. 
Feature-Oriented  Design 
This research proceeds the architecture of core design 
system according to feature of layer management. This 
system mainly includes parting surfaces, patching surfaces, 
slider surfaces, lifter surfaces, insert surfaces and other 
surfaces. This system engages core knowledge bases in the 
procedure of core design. Besides, CAD functions are 
used to develop automatic design program. It makes mold 
design more accurate and efficient. 
1. Automatic Generating of Parting Surfaces 
On the design stage of parting surface in the past, the 
designer clearly knows whether the parting lines for 
parting surface is on proper positions according to the 
analysis of conceptual design, but he can’t use the results 
of the analysis efficiently. Such design is wasting time. 
And the methods of parting surface design usually use 
surface to extend and trim. This not only repeats a lot of 
tedious movements but reduces working efficiency 
substantially.  
The system automatically gets the parting lines 
through the application of layer management, and uses the 
parting lines to proceed automatic generation of parting 
surface. It can be finished in the shortest time even if a 
complicated shape. It not only avoids man-made mistake 
and miscellaneous operation but improves design 
efficiency to reach the fastest result at the same time as 
show in Figure 4. 
2. Automatic Slider Design 
Slider mainly helps to release product from the mold. 
If the product has slider or lifter mechanisms, its mold 
structure is often more complicated. The increase of the 
mold components raises the price of the mold. Although 
these existing questions, the slider design increases the 
integrity of the products, and reduce assembling time of 
the part. 
During the process of designing slider, the designer 
knows slider position to design through the display of 
layer. The program knows that how many sliders need be 
designed. And the function assembles slider surfaces to 
the appropriate position automatically. 
 Because the parting surfaces and the patching 
surfaces have been designed and finished, the mold can be 
directly split up to the core and the cavity. After designing 
the slider surfaces, the module continues the design of 
slider block. The function uses solid and surface to 
intersect the side-cavities for slider which is split from 
cavity and slider surfaces. The side-cores for slider are the 
same. Finally, slider design attaches the two slider 
components as shown in Figure 5. 
3. Automatic Lifter Assembling 
After the lifter design in core design, engineers 
continue the detail design of lifter components. On the 
opening of the mold, the forward action of the ejector 
plate forces the lifter block to move inwards. So the detail 
design of lifter must have the distance from the bottom of 
the core to the upper ejector plate in order to manufacture 
1592 / ANTEC 2008
International Journal of Materials and Product 
Technology, Vol. 15, No.6 , pp. 503-517,( 2000). 
3. S. L. Turng, “A Knowledge Base System for the 
Design and Manufacture of Injection-Molded 
Plastic Products”, Information Technology 
Conference, pp.95-98, (1998). 
4. J. Y. H. Fuh, Y. F. Zhang, A. Y. C. Nee, M. W. Fu, 
“Computer-aided Injection Mold Design and 
Manufacture”, Marcel Dekker, Inc., (2004). 
5. W. R. Jong, C. H. Wu, “A Web-Based Knowledge 
Management for Conceptual Mold Design”, 
International Conference on Computers and 
Industrial Engineering, 36th ICCIE, (2006). 
Key Words 
Knowledge Management、Core Design、Moldbase 
Design、Navigating System
 
Moldbase
Assembly
Moldbase
Design
Parting Surface
Mold Split Detail Design
Component 
Drawing
Plate
Drawing
Moldbase
Drawing
Moldbase
Draft Drawing
Pre-Modeling
Concept Analysis
 
    Figure 1. The Flow Chart of the Mold Design Module 
 
Moldbase
Assembly
Moldbase
Design
Detail Design
Slider 
Design
Sleeve Pin 
Design
Core Pin 
Design
Insert 
Design
Core 
Design
Cavity 
Design
Assemble 
Component
Lifter 
Design
Pro/W
eb.Link
Moldbase
Ejector Pin 
Standard
Supplier
Database
 
Figure 2. The Flow Chart of the Moldbase Design Module 
Mold Split
Feature
Conceptual 
Design
classify
Parting Lines LiftersSlides Other
Layer Management
Automatic
 
    Figure 3. Automatic Procedure 
1594 / ANTEC 2008
