  I 
計畫中文摘要 
[關鍵字]：拉格蘭日鬆弛法、網路攻擊與防禦、最佳化問題、資源配置策略、存活度 
 
從過去學者的研究可知，網際網路的拓撲呈現冪次律分佈（Power-law Degree Distri-
bution）且容易遭致惡意攻擊；因此，資訊安全研究領域在近幾年來獲得更多的關注。網路
存活性是另一個重要的研究領域。最初，研究人員僅著重於網路上隨機失敗所造成的影響，
以測試相關網路的強固性和可靠性。然而，基於不斷改善資訊安全之需求日漸增長，目前
研究人員更注重於防範惡意攻擊之防護能力，並將其概念結合至網路存活性領域共同發展。 
網路營運者(防禦者)必須對其所管控之網路，投資一筆有限的預算(例如：金錢、時間、
人力)，並加以妥善配置；另一方面，攻擊者所擁有的資源亦是有限的，且不可能攻擊那些
所需成本超過自身能負擔的網路。因此，潛在的攻擊者（特別是智慧型攻擊者）也會因應
網路營運者所採用的資源配置策略，調整其攻擊策略，俾便以最少的攻擊成本達成預定之
攻擊目的。 
本研究計畫主要為：針對如何運用數學規劃法等最佳化技巧，對於資訊安全中的網路
攻防問題，從網路營運者的觀點，來探討如何配置有限的資源，以提升網路存活度，並嚇
阻攻擊者之攻擊，進而降低整體網路風險。 
 
計畫英文摘要 
Keywords: Lagrangean Relaxation, Network Attack and Defense, Optimization Problem, Re-
source Allocation Strategy, Survivability 
It has been shown that the Internet's topology can be characterized by a power-law degree dis-
tribution and is consequently highly susceptible to malicious attacks. As a result, the research area 
of information security has attracted increasing attention in recent years. Network survivability is 
another important research domain. Initially, researchers focused on the effect of random failures 
on networks and tested the robustness and dependability of networks. However, given the need to 
constantly improve information security, researchers are now paying more attention to protection 
against malicious attacks and to combining the concept with the field of network survivability. 
To enhance network survivability effectively, a network operator (defender) must invest a fixed 
amount of budget (e.g. money, time, and manpower) and distribute it properly. On the other hand, 
an attacker also has limited resource to launch an attack, so he won't choose to compromise a 
network if the incurred attack cost exceeds his acceptable level. Thus, a potential attacker will 
always adjust his strategies to compromise a network at minimal cost, if he knows the defense 
resource allocation strategy of the network operator.  
However, there has been little research on the issues of defense and attack based on mathemat-
ical programming models. Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, no mathematical model that 
deals with defense and attack behavior in the context of survivability has been proposed before 
our NSC2006 project whose title was "Survivability Quantitative Analysis under Network Attack 
and Defense Scenario". In this project we propose six mathematical models that describe the con-
flict between an attacker and a defender, and show different levels of network survivability for 
given defense resource allocation strategies. To resolve such difficult problems, we adopt the La-
grangean Relaxation method in conjunction with a number of optimization techniques. 
  2 
The remainder of this report is organized as follows. In Section 2, we formulate the budget al-
location problem. Then, in Section 3, we propose a Lagrangean Relaxation-based solution ap-
proach to the problem. The results of computational experiments conducted to evaluate the pro-
posed solution are reported in Section 4. Finally, in Section 5, we present our conclusions and 
indicate possible directions of future research. 
II. PROBLEM FORMULATION 
A.  Problem Description and Assumptions 
An attacker must find a suitable path from the source node s to the core node t and compromise 
all the intermediate nodes on that path to maximize the end-to-end compromise probability in a 
specific time slot (i.e., minimize the network survival time). Meanwhile, a defender must allocate 
limited resources, such as time, money, and man-power, effectively in order to minimize the 
maximized compromise probability (i.e., maximize the minimized network survival time).  
We assume that the target network is at the Autonomous System (AS) level. There may be 
more than one attacker attempting to compromise the network, but we can model a group of at-
tackers in different locations as an omnipresent attacker, and consider defenders similarly [5]. 
Although it is improbable that an attacker would know everything about a network in practice, 
the worst-case scenario must be considered. Therefore, we assume that an attacker can obtain 
complete information about the target network and use it intelligently.  
Based on Fig. 1 and other information from the same source [1], we assume that both the sur-
vival time and the compromise probability follow normal distributions. From a defender’s pers-
pective, he could allocate extra budget to each node to increase the mean and the variance of the 
survival time, and thereby reduce the compromise probability. The end-to-end compromise 
probability distribution from the source node to the core node is calculated by convolution of the 
probability density functions of all the intermediate nodes on the path. 
B. Problem Formulation 
Next, we define the notations used in this report and formulate the problem. 
 
TABLE I   DECISION VARIABLES 
Notation Description 
bi The budget allocated to protect a node i, where i∈N 
μ The mean of the normal distribution, which is the convolution of the probability density 
functions of all nodes on the attack path 
σ2 The variance of the normal distribution, which is the convolution of the probability density 
functions of all nodes on the attack path 
mp The mean of the normal distribution, which is the convolution of the probability density 
functions of all nodes on the path p, where p∈Pw 
sp 2 The variance of the normal distribution, which is the convolution of the probability density 
functions of all nodes on the path p, where p∈Pw 
μi(bi) The mean of the normal distribution, which is the probability density function of a node i 
that is a function of the budget, where i∈N 
σi (bi)2 The variance of the normal distribution, which is the probability density function of a node i 
that is a function of the budget, where i∈N 
yi 1 if the node i is chosen, and 0 otherwise (where i∈N) 
yt 1 if the core node t is chosen, and 0 otherwise 
xp 1 if the path p is selected as the attack path, and 0 otherwise (where p∈ Pw) 
 
  4 
compromise probability by allocating a defense budget to each node. As function P is a tail dis-
tribution of the probability from time T to infinity and we want to cumulate the functions from 
time zero to T, we take one minus function P as the objective function. To simplify the original 
problem, we reformulate it as follows: 
Objective function: 
2
2 ,
min ( , , )
i i
IP b y
Z P T μ σ= −                                                     (IP 2) 
subject to: 
2 2( , , ) ( , , )p pP T P T m sμ σ ≤ wp P∀ ∈ (IP 2.1)
( )μ μ∈=∑ i i ii N b y   (IP 2.2)
2 2( )σ σ∈=∑ i i ii N b y   (IP 2.3)
* *(min{ }) (max{ })μ δ μ μ σ∈ ∈≤ ≤∑ ∑i i ip i i iqi N i NB B (IP 2.4)
2 2 2
* *(min{ }) (max{ })σ δ σ σ σ∈ ∈≤ ≤∑ ∑i i ip i i iqi N i NB B (IP 2.5)
Mμ ∈   (IP 2.6)
2 2σ ∈∑   (IP 2.7)
( )μ δ∈=∑p i i ipi Nm b  wp P∀ ∈ (IP 2.8)
2 2( )σ δ∈=∑p i i ipi Ns b  wp P∀ ∈ (IP 2.9)
(min{ }) (max{ })μ δ μ δ∈ ∈≤ ≤∑ ∑i i ip p i i ipi N i NB m B wp P∀ ∈ (IP 2.10)
2 2 2(min{ }) (max{ })σ δ σ δ∈ ∈≤ ≤∑ ∑i i ip p i i ipi N i NB s B  wp P∀ ∈  (IP 2.11)
p pm M∈  wp P∀ ∈ (IP 2.12)
2 2
p ps S∈  wp P∀ ∈  (IP 2.13)
δ∈ ≤∑ w p ip ip P x y  i N∀ ∈ (IP 2.14)
1∈ =∑ w pp P x   (IP 2.15)
0 1px or=   wp P∀ ∈ (IP 2.16)
0 1iy or=  { }i N t∀ ∈ − (IP 2.17)
1ty =   (IP 2.18)
min{ } max{ }i i iB b B≤ ≤  i N∀ ∈  (IP 2.19)
∈ ≤∑ ii N b B   (IP 2.20)
i ib B∈  i N∀ ∈ . (IP 2.21)
Constraint (IP 2.1) represents the original inner problem, where the end-to-end compromise 
probability of the attack path should always be less than or equal to the compromise probability 
of every other path so that the objective function can be maximized.   
 
III. SOLUTION APPROACH 
A. Lagrangean Relaxation 
By applying the Lagrangean relaxation method [7] with a vector of Lagrangean multipliers, we 
can transform the reformulated problem (IP 2) into the following Lagrangean relaxation problem 
(LR 1), where constraints (IP 2.1), (IP 2.2), (IP 2.3), (IP 2.8), (IP 2.9), (IP 2.14), and (IP 2.20) are 
relaxed.  
  6 
We assume that μi(bi) and σi (bi)2 are equal to the concave functions μ0+λAln(λB bi +1) and 
σ02+λCln(λD bi +1) respectively. This suggests that the marginal effect of the defense capability of 
node i could be reduced by allocating additional budget. If the constant value u7B is ignored, 
(SUB 2) can be decomposed into a series of |N| subproblems that can be solved optimally by an 
exhaustive search. The time complexity is O(|N|¯|Bi|). 
Subproblem 3 (related to decision variable μ, σ2) 
( )21 2 3 1 2 2 3 23 ,( , , ) min 1 ( , , )μ σ μ σ μ σ∈= − + +∑ wsub pp Pz u u u u P T u u  ,          (SUB 3) 
subject to (LR 1.1) – (LR 1.4). 
The mean and variance, μ and σ2, are discrete. Therefore, (SUB 3) can be solved optimally by 
an exhaustive search. The time complexity is O(|M|¯|∑2|). 
Subproblem 4 (related to decision variable mp , sp2) 
2
1 4 5 1 2 4 5 2
4 ,
( , , ) min ( , , )∈ ∈ ∈= − + +∑ ∑ ∑w w wp psub p p p p p p pp P p P p Pm sz u u u u P T m s u m u s  ,        (SUB 4) 
subject to (LR 1.5) – (LR 1.8). 
We are concerned with paths on which one of the multipliers up1, up4, or up5 is at least non-zero. 
Such paths can be considered as possible active paths and added to a list. After marking all possi-
ble active paths, the next step in solving (SUB 4) is to check the list and obtain the value of the 
smallest objective function. The time complexity is O(|Pw| ¯ |Mp| ¯ |Sp2|). 
According to the weak Lagrangean duality theorem [7], the optimal value of the problem (LR 1) 
is, by its nature, the lower bound (for minimization problems) of the objective function’s value in 
the primal problem (IP 2). The tightest Lagrangean lower bound can be derived by tuning the La-
grangean multipliers, i.e., by maximizing the (LR 1) problem. Although there are several methods 
for solving this problem, the subgradient optimization technique [7] is the most popular. 
B. Getting Primal Feasible Solutions 
According to the solutions to (LR 1) and the multipliers, we can obtain some hints about deriv-
ing a heuristic to improve the solution quality of (IP 2). We observe that the multiplier ui6 
represents the importance of each node; therefore, the more important a node i is, the bigger the 
multiplier ui6 it will have. Our proposed heuristic is described below. 
TABLE III    HEURISTIC FOR THE MODEL 
Step Description 
1 Allocate the budget bi derived from (SUB 2) to each node, where i∈N. 
2 Check if the budget allocated to the network fulfills the constraints. 
3 Choose the path xp derived from (SUB 1) as the attack path. 
4 
Move budget ( )6 6 6max( ) ∈− ×∑i i ii Nu u u B  from a node not on the attack path to a node on the attack 
path, where i∈N and node i was allocated budget bi > 0 in step 1 
IV. COMPUTATIONAL EXPERIMENTS 
A. Experiment Environments 
We choose two popular network topologies for our experiments. One is a grid network [8]; the 
other is a random network [8]. Clearly, a network with many nodes that are not allocated any 
budget has a lower defense capability than a network with fewer nodes that are allocated some 
  8 
V. CONCLUSION 
In this report, we use attack-defense scenarios to describe one kind of targeted attack. An at-
tacker tries to maximize the end-to-end compromise probability of a path between the source 
node and the core node, while a defender tries to minimize that probability. Although it is im-
possible to prevent attackers from penetrating networks, by implementing proper defense re-
source allocation strategies, defenders can establish solid defense mechanisms to reduce the 
compromise probability in the event of intelligent and malicious attacks. In other words, the sur-
vival time of the core node can be increased.  
From our experiments, we conclude that, although increasing the total budget is a good way to 
defend grid networks, the compromise probability can also be reduced by adopting a de-
fense-in-depth strategy (i.e., increase the depth of a network) when allocating the defense budget. 
We also note that providing extra budget does not increase the survival time of some networks 
(e.g., random networks); moreover, the survival time of such networks is less than that of grid 
networks.  
The key contribution of this work is that we successfully model the security problem, including 
concepts like the core node, compromise probability, and survival time, as a well-formulated ma-
thematical problem, which is then solved by the proposed heuristic. This is a major step in the 
analysis of network attacks, since previous research seldom modeled real-world attack behavior 
in this way. We believe that the proposed model can be extended to different attack-defense sce-
narios in the context of survivability. In our future work, we will consider the situation where at-
tackers can devise new attack methods based on previous attack experience so that they can com-
promise other nodes more easily. Specifically, it is assumed that, for each node compromised, the 
attacker would obtain a discount coupon, which could be used to increase the compromise proba-
bility of nodes subsequently targeted for attack. 
REFERENCES 
[1] SANS-ISC (SysAdmin, Audit, Network, Security Institute - Internet Storm Center),  
http://isc.sans.org/survivalhistory.php. 
[2] Fred Cohen, “Managing Network Security - Attack and Defense Strategies,” Network Security, Vol. 
1999, No. 7, pp. 7-11, July. 1999.  
[3] F.Y.-S. Lin, P.-H. Tsang, and Y.-L. Lin, "Near Optimal Protection Strategies against Targeted Attacks 
on the Core Node of a Network,", Proceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Availability, 
Reliability and Security (ARES’07), pp. 213-22, April 2007. 
[4] C.-L. Tseng, F.Y.-S. Lin, and P.H. Tsang, "Near Optimal Attack Strategies for the Maximization of 
Information Theft," Proceedings of the 11th World Multiconference on Systemics, Cybernetics and 
Informatics (WMSCI’07), July 2007. 
[5] Kong-wei Lye and Jeannette M. Wing, “Game strategies in network security,” International Journal 
of Information Security , Vol. 4, No. 1-2, pp. 71-86, February. 2005.  
[6] Milton Abramowitz. and Irene A. Stegun, “Normal or Gaussian Probability Function,” Handbook of 
Mathematical Functions with Formulas, Graphs, and Mathematical Tables, p.931, 1964. 
[7] M. L. Fisher, “The Lagrangean Relaxation Method for Solving Integer Programming Problems,” 
Management Science, Volume 27, Number 1, pp. 1-18, January 1981. 
[8] A.-L. Barabasi and R. Albert, “Emergence of Scaling in Random Networks,” Science, Volume 286, 
pp. 509-512, October 1999. 
