specimen in a box furnace at 1100C for 1 h 
in air. The heating rate was 3 C/min and 
cooling rate was 1 C/min.  
 
Effect of alumina particle addition 
 The amount of alumina (TM-DAR, Taimai 
Chem. Co., Japan) was 1-15 vol.%. The zirconia and 
alumina powder was mixed by milling in ethyl 
alcohol. The forming and sintering steps were the 
same as those for zirconia specimens. The sintered 
alumina/zirconia composites were ground with the 
diamond wheel with the same machining conditions.  
 
Functional properties of zirconia properties  
 The ferromagnetic properties of zirconia-
nickel composite were measured. The nickel nitrate 
was used as the starting material for nickel. The Ni 
content is only 1 vol.%. 
 
四. 結果與討論 
 
Effect of surface treatments 
 The microstructure of zirconia specimens 
after sintering is shown in Fig. 1. The size of the 
zirconia grains is 0.5 µm. The Weibull plot for the 
zirconia with various surface treatments is shown in 
Fig. 2. The average strength and Weibull modulus 
for the specimens are shown in Table 1.  
 The strength of the ground specimens is 
around 200 MPa higher than that of the as-sintered 
specimens. The polishing process reduces slightly the 
strength of the ground specimens. Zirconia is capable 
to produce plastic deformation after surface grinding. 
The grinding process can thus introduces residual 
stress into the surface region. To prove such 
argument, an annealing process is applied. The 
strength of the annealed specimens is indeed 
significantly lower than that of the grinding 
specimens. It implies that the residual stress which 
introduced by surface grinding can be as high as 420 
MPa. The subsequent polishing step can only remove 
a small portion of residual stress from the ground 
surface. It is also interesting to note that there are a 
significant amount of residual stress within the 
surface region of the as-sintered specimens.  
 The Weibull modulus of the as-sintered, 
ground and polished zirconia specimens is very close 
to each other, indicating that the flaw size 
distribution with the specimens is not altered by 
grinding or polishing process. However, the Weibull 
modulus of the annealed specimens is significantly 
lower. From the Weibull plot, Fig. 2, there are two 
different groups, with different slopes, within the 
annealed specimens. It suggests that the flaw size is 
changed during the annealing treatment. The slope of 
the specimens with lower strength is more or less the 
same as that of other specimens with different 
surface treatment. Since the slope of the specimens 
with higher strength is much lower than other 
specimens. It implies that crack healing is taken 
place during annealing. However, such crack healing 
process enlarge the flaw size scattering.  
 
Effect of alumina particles addition  
 Fig. 3 the shows typical micrographs of the 
zirconia-alumina composites. The addition of 
alumina can modify the microstructure of zirconia. 
The size of zirconia grains in the composite with a 
small amount of alumina, around 1 vol%, is larger 
than that of zirconia, indicating that a very small 
amount of alumina can dissolve into zirconia. The 
solution of alumina can introduce favourable defects 
into the zirconia, which enhances the grain growth 
rate. The sintering kinetic curves, Fig. 4, further 
support that a small amount of alumina can also 
enhance the densification rate of zirconia. Fig. 5 
shows the strength and toughness of the zirconia-
alumina specimens as a function of alumina content. 
The strength and toughness of zirconia shows little 
dependence of alumina addition. It may be due to 
that the solution of alumina and the size of alumina 
particles affects little to the flaw size, which is 
considerably larger. When the alumina content is 
high, the size of zirconia grains is reduced due to that 
the alumina particles are located at the grain 
boundaries of zirconia.  
 
Functional properties of zirconia matrix 
composites  
 The ferromagnetic properties of zirconia-
nickel composites is shown in Fig. 6. Zirconia is not 
a ferro-magnetic material, the addition of 
ferromagnetic nickel particles introduce an extra 
function into zirconia. As demonstrated by the 
zirconia-nickel composite, suggesting that the 
functional properties of the zirconia can be easily 
tailored by adding a second phase. 
 
五 結論  
 
As demonstrated by the our series studies on 
zirconia matrix composites, many versatile features 
can be incorporated into zirconia. In the present 
study, we have demonstrated that the surface 
machining is a key parameter to manipulate the stress 
state in the surface region. The addition of alumina 
can affect the defect concentration within the 
zirconia. The addition of metallic nickel particles 
introduce an extra function into zirconia. 
 
六. 參考文獻  
 
1. K. Tsukuma, K. Ueda and M. Shimada, ”Strength 
and Fracture Toughness of Isostatically Hot-Pressed 
Composites of Al2O3 and Y2O3-PSZ”, J. Am. Ceram. 
Soc., 68[1] c-4-5 (1985).  
