  
 
 
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
子計畫四: 車載網路之資訊服務與車用網路安全 
Subproject IV: Information Service and Security in Vehicular Ad-Hoc Networks 
 
主持人：金台齡 助理教授 
國立台灣科技大學資訊工程系 
 
1. 中文摘要 
在這個計畫中，首先我們研發改良式廣播路由協定，
並將其推廣至車載網路點對點檔案分享技術，藉由改
良式廣播路由協定，讓車輛能適應於動態拓撲進而傳
送檔案，然而，由於無線傳輸不穩定的特性易於造成
封包遺失，我們採用網路編碼技術來改善檔案傳輸效
能，達到發展車載社群網路檔案分享之方法；另外我
們利用車輛移動建立行動感測網路，藉由行動感測節
點在重要之感測位置收集偵測目標資訊，以提高偵測
機率，至於感測節點移動路徑問題，我們則採用平衡
路徑規劃之方法規劃最短的巡弋路徑，並使每個感測
節點的巡弋負載達到負載平衡。 
關鍵字： 網路編碼、點對點傳輸、車載感測網路、平
衡路徑規劃、負載平衡。 
Abstract 
In this project, we first develop a VANET compliant 
packet delivery protocol and then extend the protocol to a 
peer-to-peer file sharing mechanism in VANETs. To tackle 
the rapid change of network topologies in VANETs, an 
improved location-aided routing protocol is proposed to 
transmit files. The dynamic environment of vehicular 
networks and the unstable property of wireless transmis-
sion can increase probability of packet loss. Network 
coding is thus used with the routing protocol to improve 
file delivery efficiency. Peer-to-peer file sharing method is 
developed to facilitate downloading in VANETs. In addi-
tion, we investigate data collection using mobile sensors 
which collect sensing data at critical sensing locations to 
improve the probability of detecting targets. A balanced 
path planning method is developed to find a patrolling path 
plan which allots patrolling load equally to all the vehicular 
sensors and makes the paths as short as possible.  
Keywords: VANET routing, network coding, peer-to-peer 
file sharing, vehicular sensor networks, balanced route 
planning, load balance. 
2. Introduction 
Communication and networking technologies in vehicular 
ad-hoc networks have attracted extensive attentions in the 
community of wireless communications and networking. 
The highly dynamic nature of the underlying topology and 
intermittent connectivity between vehicles make data de-
livery a difficult challenge in vehicular ad-hoc networks. In 
this project, we first develop a data delivery protocol, 
called Movement-Forecasted Packet Delivery (MFPD). 
MFPD uses Movement-Forecasted Area (MFA) which re-
sembles Location-aided routing (LAR) [18] to predict the 
potential region where the vehicle currently resides. Vehicle 
forwards packets to the MFA without using extra devices or 
increasing network load like broadcasting Hello messages. It 
then finds the destination vehicle in the MFA for packet 
delivery. 
File sharing is an important topic in VANET. People 
may want to retrieve data, listen music, or watching 
movies during a trip in a vehicle. In order to efficiently 
share files among vehicles in VANETs, there are three 
challenges we will face: (1) Due to the rapid change of to-
pology, communications between vehicles are easily dis-
connected. (2) Using redundant devices or mechanisms may 
incur extra overhead in entire network. (3) After a large file 
is divided into several segments, transmitting those seg-
ments by traditional methods may lead to a long delay. 
Based on the MFPD protocol, a peer-to-peer file sharing 
protocol, namely Network Coded File Sharing (NCFS), is 
developed for efficiently downloading files. Network 
coding technology is adopted to deal with the error-prone 
wireless channels and the dynamic environment in vehi-
cular networks.  Simulations are conducted to show the 
performance of NCFS. The results show that the devel-
oped mechanism performs well for file sharing in VA-
NETs. 
In addition, we also investigate an important issue in 
vehicular sensor networks -- path planning for vehicular 
sensors to collect data in a monitored region. A good path 
planning method increases detection probability and 
balances the patrolling path for each vehicular sensor. 
Hence, this project proposes a scheme to plan the routes 
for a number of vehicular sensors to patrol a region of 
interest. The scheme first selects a set of critical sensing 
locations using detection performance as a metric. Then, 
the sensing tasks are allotted to a number of vehicular 
sensors. A balanced path planning method, called Ba-
lanced Route Planning (BRP), is developed to guide the 
mobile sensors‟ patrolling routes. BRP aims to make the 
routes as short as possible and allot the patrolling load 
equally to each vehicular sensor. The load balance con-
dition of BRP is evaluated by simulations and the results 
show that BRP is a fair and effective scheme for allotting 
sensing tasks for vehicular sensors.  
  
 
 
 
assume that a particular vehicle which is called Requesting 
Vehicle (RV) needs a certain file and decides to download 
the file from P2P file sharing. Initially, the RV broadcasts a 
request, which contains the current position of itself, a 
timestamp, a time-to-live (TTL) as well as the file signa-
ture. The purpose of setting TTL is to prevent the request 
packet from infinitely being rebroadcasted over the entire 
network. A vehicle which contains the file may receive the 
request and prepare a data packet for delivering the file to 
the RV. The vehicle is called Resource Provider (RP). 
During the request forwarding interval, the RV may con-
tinuously move to other place. The RP calculates a poten-
tial location area, called Movement-Forecast Area (MFA) 
of the RV using the RV position information and the time-
stamp in the request. MFA limits the region for broadcast 
packets and reduces the load of the network. The MFA is a 
square with length ℓ computed as follows: 
ℓ = 2 × V × (Tj − Ti) 
where V is the speed of the RV. Let Ti be the time the RV 
sent a request. Recall that Ti and the position of RV (xʹ, yʹ) 
were recorded in the request. Assume that at time Tj, cur-
rent location of the RV is denoted as (x, y). The gray region 
in Fig. 1 illustrates the MFA. 
 
Fig. 1: Illustrate the transmission from RP to RV 
 
Fig. 2: Illustrate variables of score function 
Then, RP transmits a data packet to the RV. Besides, the 
RP also continue forwarding the request packet which TTL 
has not expired. If the TTL of the request packet is expired, 
discards it. Since the broadcast nature of wireless com-
munications, the neighbors of the RP will hear the data 
packet. Note that, the data packet contains the MFA of the 
RV and the RV ID.  
Intermediate vehicles which receive the data packet 
examine whether they locate in the MFA. If they locate in 
the MFA, they forward the packet by epidemic ﬂooding. 
Otherwise, they start a back-off timer and wait until the 
timer expires. The duration of the back-off time is based on 
the following score function: 
v
v
R
d
vsorce cos)(   , 
where  dv is  the  distance  from  the  sending  vehicle  to  the 
receiving vehicle v,  R  is  the  transmission  range  and  θv is 
the angle between the line from the sender to the receiver v 
and the line from the sender to the destination RV  as shown 
in  Fig.2. The  priority  of  forwarding  the  packet  among  
the intermediate  vehicles  is  proportional  to  the  score. In 
other words, if a vehicle‟s score is high, its back-off time 
would be short. Therefore, the vehicle with the highest 
score will forward the packet first. Other intermediate 
vehicles hearing the packet will stop their back-off timer 
and drop the packet. Note that only vehicles with positive 
score will join the back-off competition. 
If the sending vehicle hears the packet forwarded by 
other vehicles, it broadcasts an ACK to notify other in-
termediate vehicles in its transmission range for terminat-
ing their back-off timer. Otherwise, it does not hear the 
packet forwarded by other vehicles within a maximum 
back-off duration, it will carry the packet and forward it 
again after a certain time duration t. For example, if the 
vehicle speed is V, the duration t can be R/V, i.e., the time 
the vehicle goes a distance of transmission range. 
Repeat the procedure until the data packet is received 
by an intermediate vehicle which locates in the MFA of the 
RV. Then, the packet is turned to broadcast mode within the 
MFA. Hence, the broadcast storm can be alleviated, since 
MFPD only uses the broadcast mode within the MFA. 
When the RV receives the packet, it broadcasts an ACK to 
notify other intermediate vehicles in its transmission range 
to terminate their back-off timer. 
4.1.2. Network coding 
Dud to the dynamic environment of vehicular networks 
and error-prone wireless channels can increase probability 
of packet loss. Therefore, the NCFS system incorporated 
with network coding technology to improve delivery effi-
ciency. 
Assume that a RV in the network requests for a certain 
file, for example a mp3 or jpeg file. The file is split into n 
generations G1, G2, …, Gn . Each generation Gi is further 
divided into k blocks, bi1, bi2, …, bik , as shown in Fig. 3. A 
RP may own one or more generations of the file. Before 
transmitting the file to the RV, the RP do network coding at 
first. The RP selects a generation Gi with k blocks it has to 
encode by linear coding. That is,  



k
j
ijji bcx
1
 , 
where xi represents an encoded block. Each cj is constant 
coefficient randomly chosen from a finite field F(2
s
) to 
form an encoding vector ci = [c1 … ck ] and s is a positive 
integer by user defined. Until every generation the RP owns 
is chosen to be encoded, an encoded block xi and an en-
  
 
 
 
Table 1: Simulation Parameters 
Parameter  Value 
Simulation Area 1500 m × 1500 m 
File Size 1000 KB 
Generation Size 10 KB 
Block Size  1 KB 
Number of Vehicles 50 - 150 vehicles 
Vehicle Velocity  0 - 20 m/s 
Transmission Range  250 m 
Periodic Broadcast Time of RV 4 s 
We design the 1500m × 1500m grid map. Assume that 
the number of vehicles ranged from 50 to 150 in our sce-
nario. Beside, several RPs and a RV are randomly selected. 
The RV broadcasts a request packet for collecting neces-
sary generations each four seconds. The velocity of each 
vehicle is also chosen randomly between 0 and 20 me-
ter/second. Vehicles move along the roads until they reach 
intersections. They randomly choose continuing straight, 
turning right, or turning left. In network coding, the 1MB 
file is divided into 100 generations and each generation 
size is 10KB. A generation is split into 10 blocks further 
and each block size is 1KB. 
We define the download time to be the required time for 
the RV to collect specific amount of generations. We also 
investigate the performance of the simulation with network 
coding and without network coding.  
Fig. 5 compares the average download time with dif-
ferent number of vehicles. We vary the number of vehicles 
from 50 to 150 in steps of 25. The RV number and the RP 
number are defined as 1 and 20 respectively in this simu-
lation. The ten RPs own total generations and the re-
mainder only have a half of total generations which are 
randomly assigned. As shown in this figure, the average 
download time is shorter as the vehicle number increases, 
because many vehicles can assist others in forwarding 
packets to reduce the carry and forward time. Furthermore, 
generations can be collected quickly by network coding, 
since the RV does not require receiving actual generations. 
Fig. 6 compares the average download time of down-
loading entire file with different RP numbers. The number 
of vehicles and the RV is 100 and 1 respectively in this 
simulation. As shown in this figure, the average download 
time decreases as the number of RPs increases, since more 
vehicles can share files with the requester. Therefore, using 
network coding obvious has better performance as the RP s 
number is little. The reason that the RV only requires col-
lecting sufficient generations to obtain the original file. But 
without network coding, the RPs need to transmit redun-
dant packets in order to satisfy the RV request, result in the 
download entire file time increasing. 
Fig. 7 illustrates the average download time with the 
completion of collecting generations using network coding. 
In this simulation, we define that there is one RV and the 
number of RPs is 50, 100 and 150. In this figure, we can 
observe that the average download time rising with the 
percentage of the completion of collecting generations 
increasing. The reason is that the RP may have higher 
probability to transmit duplicate encoded blocks so that the 
RV always receives unnecessary encoded blocks. The RV 
needs to request many times to acquire encoded blocks 
which it wants that make the average download time be-
come longer. 
 
Fig. 5: Average download time with different number of 
vehicles 
 
Fig. 6: RV receive the fraction of generations 
 
Fig. 7: Average download  time with different number of 
RPs 
4.2. Path Planning for Nodes in Vehicular Sensor 
Networks 
We also investigate target detection problem using 
vehicular sensor networks. Vehicles are assumed to be 
equipped with sensor nodes and take measurements for 
signals emitted from a specific target while moving around 
the city. The target can be a certain pollution substance or a 
chemical attack by terrorists. Vehicular sensors patrol 
  
 
 
 
gi
0 gi
j
gi
1
gi
j+1gi
ni
mi
j
ci
Sensing 
Location
 
Fig 8: BRP clustering. 
 
}...0),(
2
1
|{
)%1(
i
nj
i
j
i
j
i
j
ii njggmmM
i 

. 
Note that % represents mod operation. The candidate ci and 
the corresponding edge middle point ei are given by 
)},({minarg),(
,
esdec
iMeSs
ii

 , 
where d(x, y) is a function for distance from x to y. Assume 
the corresponding edge of e i is ),(
)%1( inj
i
j
i gg

, i.e., 
),(
2
1 )%1( inj
i
j
ii gge

 . 
Now, each cluster has a candidate sensing location. The 
next is to choose one from the candidates and add it to its 
corresponding cluster. The choosing criterion is that if the 
chosen candidate is added to its corresponding cluster, the 
resulting longest path would be shorter than the longest 
path resulting from adding other candidates to their cor-
responding clusters. Specifically, let pi be the length of the 
temporary patrolling path of Gi. If ci is added to Gi , the 
length of the temporary patrolling path of the cluster will 
become 
),(),(),(
)%1()%1( ii nj
iii
j
i
nj
i
j
iii gcdcgdggdpp

 . 
Note that to add one sensing location to the path, say ci in 
Fig.8, the edge ),( 1ji
j
i gg will be removed and edge 
),( i
j
i cg  are ),(
1j
ii gc added to the path. Then, one can get 
the longest path length resulting from adding ci to Gi as 
},...,,,...,max{ 111 kiiii pppppl   . 
The sensing location cz is chosen and added to Gz where 
}{minarg
...1
i
ki
lz

 . 
Then, remove cz from S, update Gz and Mz, and repeat the 
process until S is empty. Finally, Traveling Salesman 
problem (TSP) is employed to refine the temporary pa-
trolling path for each cluster. The procedure is listed in 
Algorithm 2. 
The key point for BRP to make patrolling route ba-
lanced among vehicular sensors is to minimize the longest 
patrolling path when selecting the routes. Meanwhile, the 
patrolling plan will also get good detection performance 
since the sensing locations are selected by maximizing the 
detection probability at the most vulnerable place. 
Algorithm 2 Balanced Route Planning 
S = {s0, .., sn }: The set of critical sensing locations 
k : The number of vehicular sensors 
}...,,,{ 10 i
n
iiii gggG  : An ordered set of sensing loca-
tions 
ni: The number of sensing locations in Gi 
}...0,2/)(|{
)%1(
i
nj
i
j
i
j
i
j
ii njggmmM
i 
 : Middle 
points 
pi: Temporary path length of cluster i 
d(x, y): Distance from x to y 
1) Assume b is the initial location for the vehicular 
sensors. 
Gi = {b}, ∀ i, i = 1…k 
2) For each cluster i, ﬁnd a candidate sensing loca-
tion ci ∈ S such that  
)},,({minarg),(
,
esdec
iMeSs
ii

  
Record the corresponding edge ),(
)%1( inj
i
j
i gg

of 
ei in Gi. 
3) Find sensing location cz that if adding cz to the 
corresponding cluster Gz, the longest path is mi-
nimized. 
For all i such that i = 1..k do 
},...,,,...,max{
),(),(),(
111
)%1()%1(
kiiii
nj
iii
j
i
nj
i
j
iii
pppppl
gcdcgdggdpp ii




end for 
}{minarg
...1
i
ki
lz

  
4) Add cz to Gz 
},...,,,,,...{ 10 z
n
z
j
zz
j
zzz ggcggG
  
zcSS   
1

zz
zz
nn
pp
 
Update Mz accordingly. 
 5) Go to step 2 until the set S is empty. 
6) Run TSP algorithm to ﬁnd the shortest path for 
each cluster.  
 
4.2.3. Simulation 
In our simulation, the proposed BRP method is com-
pared to the traditional mTSP. The mTSP algorithm is a 
greedy algorithm, which intends to arrange m routes for m 
salesmen to visit a given number of cities. It also aims to 
minimize the longest route such that the route plan is ba-
lanced. Given a set of locations, mTSP runs as follows: 
1) A given initial location is assigned as the heads of all 
the routes. 
2) For each route, find a candidate location which has 
not been used in any routes and is closest to the 
head. 
3) Among the candidate locations, find the one which 
minimizes the longest route if adding it to its cor-
responding temporary route. 
4) Add the candidate location picked in step 3 to its 
head of the corresponding temporary route and 
make it as the new head. 
5) Repeat step 2 until all the locations are selected. 
  
 
 
 
difference of the longest and shortest routes over 100 
deployments. Each result is an average of the length dif-
ference over 100 sets of sensing locations. From the fig-
ures, the balance condition of the patrolling paths gener-
ated by BRP is better than those generated by mTSP. In 
addition, the average path differences become larger for 
four vehicular sensors used. This is because the major area 
of a particular vehicular sensor becomes smaller if the 
number of vehicular sensors increases. However, in mTSP, 
some vehicular sensors have to cover a few remote sensing 
locations at the end of the selecting process and result in 
longer routes. This makes the length differences of the 
routes larger. 
 
Fig. 11: minMax v.s. BRP with 2 vehicular sensors 
 
Fig. 12: minMax v.s. BRP with 4 vehicular sensors 
 
5. Conclusion 
In this project, we develop an efficient Peer-to-Peer 
file sharing mechanism tailored for VANETs. The P2P 
mechanism, namely Network Coded File Sharing (NCFS), 
is based on an improved location-aided routing protocol, 
called Movement-Forecasted Packet Delivery (MFPD), 
and incorporated with network coding technology to im-
prove delivery efficiency. Simulation results show that, for 
file sharing, NCFS performs better than data delivery 
without network coding in VANETs. In addition, we also 
investigated path planning for data collection in vehicular 
sensor networks. A balanced path planning method, called 
Balanced Route Planning (BRP), is developed. BRP aims 
to make the routes as short as possible and allot the pa-
trolling load equally to all mobile sensors. Simulation 
results show that BRP is a fair and effective scheme for 
allotting sensing tasks for vehicular sensors. 
6. References 
[1] C. E. Perkins and E. M. Royer, ”Ad-hoc on-Demand  
distance vector routing,” in Proc. WMCSA‟99., pp. 
90, Feb. 1999. 
[2] W. Wang, F. Xie, and M. Chatterjee, ”Small-scale 
and large-scale routing in vehicular ad hoc net-
works,” in IEEE Trans. Veh. Technol., vol. 58(9), pp. 
5200-5213, Nov. 2009. 
[3] M. Jerbi, S.-M. Senouci, T. Rasheed, and Y. Gha-
mri-Doudane, ”Towards efﬁcient geographic routing 
in urban vehicular networks,” in IEEE Trans. Veh. 
Technol., vol. 58(9), pp. 5048-5059, Nov. 2009. 
[4] J. Nzouonta, N. Rajgure; G. Wang, and C. Bor-
cea, ”VANET routing on city roads using real-Time 
vehicular trafﬁc information,” in IEEE Trans. Veh. 
Technol., vol. 58(7), pp. 3609-3626, Sept. 2009. 
[5] K. E. Lee, S.-H Lee, R. Cheung, U. Lee and M. 
Gerla, ”First experience with CarTorrent in a real 
vehicular ad-hoc network testbed,” in Proc. 
MOVE‟07, 2007.  
[6] M. Abuelela and S. Olariu, ”ZIPPER: A ze-
ro-infrastructure peer-to-peer system for VANET,” 
in Proc. WMuNeP‟07, Oct. 2007.  
[7] A. Nandan, S. Das, G. Pau, M. Gerla and M. Y. 
Sanadidi, ”Co-operative downloading in vehicular 
ad-hoc wirelessZIPPER: A zero-infrastructure 
peer-to-peer system for VANET,” in Proc. WMu-
NeP‟07, Oct. 2007. S.  
[8] S. Das, A. Nandan, G. Pau, M. Y. Sanadidi and M. 
Gerla, ”SPAWN: A Swarming Protocol For Vehi-
cular Ad-HocWireless Networks,” in Proc. VA-
NET‟04, Oct. 2004. 
[9] Ahmed and S. S. Kanhere, ”VANETCODE:  Net-
work coding to enhance cooperative downloading in 
vehicular ad-hoc networks,” in Proc. IWSMS‟06, 
2006.  
[10] U. Lee, J.-S Park, J. Yeh, G. Pau and M. Ger-
la, ”CodeTorrent: Content distribution using network 
coding in VANET,” in Proc. MobiShare‟06, 2006. 
[11] R. Shah, S. Roy, S. Jain, and W. Brunette, “Data 
MULEs: Modeling a three-tier architecture for sparse 
sensor networks,” in Proc. of SNPA, Anchorage, 
Alaska, May 2003.  
[12] G. Xing, T. Wang, W. Jia and M. Li, “Rendezvous 
Design Algorithms for Wireless Sensor Networks 
with a Mobile Base Station,” in Proc. Of the 9th 
ACM MobiHoc, 2008.  
[13] S. Gao, H. Zhang, and S. K. Das, “Efﬁcient data 
collection in wireless sensor networks with 
path-constrained mobile sinks,” IEEE Trans. Mobile 
Computing, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 592-608, Apr. 2011.  
[14] J. Luo and J. P. Hubaux, “Joint mobility and routing 
for lifetime elongation in wireless sensor networks,” 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/24
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫三:車載網路之資訊服務與車用網路安全
計畫主持人: 金台齡
計畫編號: 97-2221-E-011-032-MY3 學門領域: 計算機網路與網際網路
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
邀請美國威斯康辛大學胡玉衡教授於 100 年暑假開設短期課程，並計劃未來合
作。 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
