 
Development of Light-addressable Multi-electrode Arrays Chip and 
Multi-channel Recording System 
洪培凱(Pei-Kai Hung)1 梁智恆(Chi-Hang Leong)2 張淵仁(Yuan-Jen Chang)1,3 陳思瑋(Szu-Wei Chen)2 
陳右穎(You-Yin Chen)2,* 李一飛(Yik-Fei Lee)4 
1Institute of Biomedical Engineering and Material Science, Central Taiwan University of Science and Technology 
2Department of Electrical and Control Engineering, National Chiao Tung University 
3Department of Management Information Systems, Central Taiwan University of Science and Technology 
4Department of Biological Science and Technology, National Chiao Tung University 
 
1. Abstract 
 
In this study, a light addressable microelectrode 
array (LA-MEA) chip and multichannel recording 
system has been developed to measure 
electrophysiological signals of neural cells. A 
sputtered indium tin oxide (ITO) film on a glass with 
Hydrogenated amorphous silicon (a-Si:H) deposited 
above, which serves as a photoconductor layer, is 
used to substitute for metal electrodes and leads in 
this LA-MEA chip. Each ITO electrode on the chip 
is addressed by the corresponding vertical cavity 
surface emitting laser (VCSEL) diode. The result 
shows the photoconductor micro-electrode of 
LA-MEA system possesses higher impedance but 
neural signals are accessible in this system. 
 
Keywords: Light-addressable, MEA, VCSEL 
 
中文摘要 
 
本研究研發出一種可光定址的微電極陣列晶
片，並建構出多通道信號記錄系統來量測並記錄
神經細胞的電生理信號。我們使用透明導電物質
銦錫氣化物(ITO)，上面鍍上一層氫化非晶形矽
(a-Si:H)作為光電導層，取代傳統金屬電極和導
線。每個 ITO 電極將由對應的垂直共振腔面射型
電射(VCSEL)作為激發光源進行定址，控制其訊
號量測的開關。最後我們驗證了此一製程的晶片
雖然微電極的阻抗偏高，但仍可擷取並記錄細胞
的電生理訊號。 
 
關鍵詞：光定址、微電極陣列、VCSEL 
 
2. Introduction 
 
Microelectrode array (MEA) has already 
become a popular tool in neuroscience. Especially in 
researches about cell culture and tissue slices [4, 5, 9, 
12]. In this few years, “light-addressable” technique 
is becoming more and more mature. 
Light-addressable microelectrode arrays (LA-MEA) 
had been designed to investigate the cardiac 
myocytes [2, 3]. LA-MEA provides a free selectable 
cell electrode contact with a high signal to noise 
ratio and high spatial resolution. But there are still 
restrictions on such a flexible microelectrode control 
owing to the huge volume of laser device. With the 
reduced microelectrode, to enable specific channels 
has become a laborious work. Various kind of laser 
light source is applied in different LA-MEA system, 
but the huge volume of laser device was unable to 
obtain the flexibility of real-time multichannel 
recording. 
To remove the mechanical restrictions, 
adoption of delicate laser light source is necessary [1, 
8]. Therefore, the semiconductor laser, vertical 
cavity surface emitting laser (VCSEL), is used to 
ameliorate the probable defect of LA-MEA system. 
VCSEL is proven to be a stable experimental 
component for biomedical applications [6, 7, 10]. In 
this article, we combine the LA-MEA chip and 
VCSEL array, to build an extracellular 
multi-switching and recording system. We have 
finished some characteristics test about the system 
and record the neural signals from the cells 
successfully. 
 
 
Fig. 1. Fabrication procedure of LA-MEA chip 
(4) Cell culture 
The cell line we chosen is PC12, which is 
originally cloned from rat adrenal medullary 
pheochromocytoma cell, have already widely been 
used as a cellular model in neuroscience research. 
Cells were kept in the incubator at 37℃ in 5% CO2. 
The medium, which is exchanged every 2 days, 
contain 10% of FBS (Gibco/Brl), 5% of horse serum 
and 85% of growth medium composed of F-12K 
(Invitrogen Corporation). To enhance the cell 
adhesion, poly-L-lysine (Gibco/Brl) coating is added 
on the MEA chip. Also, treat the cells with 50ng/ml 
of NGF (Invitrogen Corporation) on the second day 
to accelerate the cell growth. 
 
(5) Preparation 
Owing to the uncertainty of neural cell firing, a 
stimulus to activate PC-12 is required. Solution with 
20mM potassium chloride is applied as the stimulus 
in this study [11]. After glancing the cell vitality and 
distribution, we start the recording system to retrieve 
the data. 
 
4. Results and discussions 
 
(1) LA-MEA and VCSEL array 
The MEA chip is located above the VCSEL 
array and their correlation is especially interesting. 
To reveal the best setup that causes the lowest 
impedance of microelectrode is the most critical 
issue in this study. 
 
 
Fig. 3 (A) Appearance of LA-MEA chip. (B) Bias 
the VCSEL array. (C) Observed illuminated VCSEL 
array using the CCD microscope. 
 
(2) Verification of LA-MEA chip and VCSEL array 
The chosen of laser wavelength is another 
important issue in our work. Among the three 
wavelengths we had tested, we are convinced that 
the VCSEL with 670nm wavelength brings about the 
best efficiency by fig. 4. 
 
 
Fig. 4. Statistics result of different impedance under 
various a-Si:H thin film thickness and VCSEL 
wavelength. 
 
Next, we stress on the effect between different 
a-Si:H thickness membrane to the impedance of 
photoconductor. In this verification, we focus the 
resistance of a-Si:H rather than the ITO. It’s because 
the impedance of ITO is about thousand of ohms, 
and that of the illuminated a-Si:H is beyond mega 
ohm. In addition, the impedance of un-illuminated 
a-Si:H is over thousand of mega ohm. The minimum 
resistance is acquired as the thickness is approaching 
2200Å. 
It’s inevitable that the contact between 
microelectrode and fluid shows capacitance when 
AC signal flow through it. The a-Si:H deposit 
thickness of the experimental LA-MEA chip for this 
test is 2000Å. In fig. 5, the static impedance of 
illuminated microelectrode is over 50MΩ. At a 
frequency of 1 kHz, the impedance reduced to 
10.911MΩ and the phase shift is -72.231°. 
Frequency (Hz)
10 100 1000 10000
Ph
as
e 
(D
eg
re
e)
-120
-100
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
Im
pe
da
nc
e 
(M
Ω)
0.1
1
10
100
1000
10000
Phase
Impedance
Fig. 5. The impedance and phase of microelectrode 
immersed in saline. 
 
(3) Extracellular signal recording system 
In Fig. 6, we show the software display 
interface written in LabVIEW and perform spike 
(A) 
(B) (C) 
