 
一、 前言、研究目的 
表面形貌量測在半導體及光學元件製造上是一項重要的技術。隨著微奈米科技的發展，對產品的性
能及品質的要求越來越高；因此，如何在生產線上做到快速且精確的檢測產品的 3D 形貌，確保產品製
程的良窳，即成為高科技產業成功發展的一個重要關鍵。在相關的檢測技術中，光學非接觸量測越來越
受歡迎，其原因為量測速度很快，可以直接得到全場的表面貌，精度可達到微米，甚至奈米等級，對一
些現代工業而言已經可以符合需求。在光學干涉量測的方法中，相位移(Phase-Shifting)技術是最廣為使
用的方法之一，通常是利用步進馬達(Stepping Motor)或是壓電致動器(Piezoelectric Actuator)來推動試件或
是參考鏡，或是利用轉動偏光板以得到不同相位值的干涉條紋影像；由於不論是利用步進馬達、壓電致
動器或是轉動偏光板，不同相位移之干涉條紋影像是在不同時間擷取所得，花費的時間較長，容易受到
環境振動或空氣擾動等影響，造成量測較大之誤差及不穩定；同時，其量測精度亦會受到步進馬達或壓
電致動器的位移精度影響，因而不適用於線上量測的狀況。因此，發展瞬時(Instantaneous)或同步
(simultaneous)相位取像技術及分析系統，以同時擷取到不同相位移之干涉條紋圖，減少外在環境振動與
量測時間過長所造成的影響，測得待測物的表面形貌，即成為提升產業發展的重要關鍵之一。 
本研究發展出一套可以瞬時(或同步)擷取不同相位移干涉條紋圖像之量測系統，利用 Jones Matrices 
推導設計一新的偏光相位移干涉系統，建構一四影像鏡組，運用單一 CCD 同步瞬時擷取不同相移之干
涉條紋，經過灰階校正及數位影像相關法自動對正各影像之位置，利用相位移法以及相位展開法，求得
相位值並轉換得到待測物的表面形貌。研發之系統並經平面鏡及晶圓進行實測，以驗證及探討此量測系
統之準確性、誤差及穩定性。 
 
二、 文獻探討 
Kwon[1]於 1984 年首先提出利用具有針孔之光柵基板之點繞射(Point Diffraction)元件可建立多通道
之相位移干涉儀，加快量測速度，並降低干涉儀之元件數及複雜度以及減少成本。1998 年，Helen[2]等
人提出利用消色差旋轉的偏光板(Polaizer)可造成相位變化，可用以建立相位移干涉儀，並說明應用時相
位移與光源波長並無關係。2000 年，Hettwer [3]等人利用繞射光柵(Diffraction Grating)、二分之一波板、
極化分光鏡、四分之一波板及單一 CCD，建立三步相位移干涉儀用於動態及較差環境之量測，探討其主
要誤差有來自各不同相位移干涉條紋影像間像素與像素不對正之問題，以及其各干涉條紋影像間光強不
同的問題。對於繞射光柵而言，需較精確的製造技術，才能使擷取之干涉條紋具有正確的相位移。2001 
年，Ngoi[4]等人設計利用極化分光鏡、四分之一波板、極化分光鏡、分光鏡組及四個 CCD 建立瞬時相
位移干涉系統，其試件面與參考面之分光是利用透明玻璃板鍍上一層雙折射材料來進行；其各不同相位
移之干涉條紋位置之校正，則是以手動的方式來進行，耗時較長，且其各干涉條紋影像像素之位置可能
 
(a)                                  (b) 
圖 2 (a)分光鏡與直角稜鏡組:(b)偏光板組 
  
            
(1) 
其中 a 為試件面反射光強，b 為參考面反射光強，α為光路徑差所造成之相位差值，與試件面與參考面之
高度差有關。同理，在 P90° 、 P(-45°) 、 P0°上所擷取到的干涉光強大小可表示為(2)~(4)式： 
(2) 
 
(3) 
 
(4) 
 
2 四步相位移法及相位展開 
將四張相位移影像相應各像素點之灰階值代入(5)式之計算公式，即可得到條紋影像上各 
像素點的相位值 α。 
 
(5) 
 
因(5)式是以反正切(tan-1)函數為運算基礎，故計算出來之相位值會介於-π/2 與π/2 之間。但相位值理應
介於 0~2π間，故可利用相位象限判別將相位值恢復到 0~2π區間。然而經判斷後得到的相位值，相位
會截斷在 0 到 2π之區間內，因此利用 Macy[9]相位展開法，將被截斷的相位恢復為原來連續的相位；此
過程乃是將相位中相鄰兩相位差超過某一定限度者，加上或減去差值來消除截斷，恢復連續相位。由於
相位值與光程差之關係為 2π=λ，由圖 1 可知，干涉光程差為試件面與參考面高度差 
值之兩倍，故相位值 a 與試件面和參考面之高度差值 h如(6)式: 
 
 (6) 
 
2 2
2
1 πI = (a + b + 2ab cos[α - ])
2 2

2 2
3
1I = (a + b + 2ab cos[α - π]) 
2

2 2
4
1 3πI = (a + b + 2ab cos[α - ]) 
2 2

2 4-1
1 3
I - Iα(x, y) = tan ( ) 
I - I
1
2 21 ( 2 cos[ ])
2
I a b ab    
( , ) ( , )
4
h x y x y
 
                  
圖 3 單一 CCD 系統實驗架設圖                       圖 4 實驗流程圖 
 
四、 結果與討論（含結論與建議） 
 
1 平面鏡量測 
    對於一傾斜之平面鏡，單一 CCD 實驗系統其所擷取之干涉條紋影像如圖 5 所示。同理經相位移與相
位展開之後，可得其相位圖及相位展開圖如圖 6(a)、(b)所示。利用計算出之相位值轉成高度值，可得平
面鏡的表面高度值及其表面形貌圖，其結果如圖 7 所示。重覆做 10 次實驗之後，將相同的位置之量測高
度值與 α-Step 形貌量測儀所量測出之高度值做一比較，其結果如表 1 所示。其平均誤差為 0.089μm，誤
差標準差為 0.048μm，最大誤差為 0.166μm，再現性為 0.013μm。其平均誤差最大與平均誤差最小之兩組
量測結果與 α-Step 形貌量測儀所量測出之數據比較之結果如圖 8(a)與(b)所示。由圖 8 可看出其兩組形貌
相似，也顯示了外在環境對於本實驗系統影響不大。 
 
 
(a)                         (b)                      (c)                       (d) 
圖 5 單一 CCD 實驗系統所擷取傾斜平面鏡不同相位干涉條紋影像：(a)0；(b)π/2；(c) π；(d) 3π/2 
 
 
(a)                         (b) 
圖 6 單一 CCD 實驗系統量測傾斜平面鏡：(a) 相位圖；(b)相位展開圖 
單一 CCD 實驗系統也較不受外在環境因素之影響。 
 
           
(a)                   (b)              (c)                (d) 
圖 9 單一 CCD 系統所擷取晶圓不同相位干涉條紋影像：(a)0；(b)π/2；(c) π；(d) 3π/2 
 
                 
(a)                    (b) 
圖 10 單一 CCD 系統量測晶圓：(a)相位圖；      圖 11 單一 CCD 系統量測晶圓之表面形貌圖 
(b)相位展開圖 
 
 
表 2 單一 CCD 實驗系統晶圓形貌重覆量測十次結果之誤差統計 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)                                         (b) 
圖 12 單一 CCD 系統晶圓量測數據與 α-Step 量測之數據比較：(a)誤差最大時；(b)誤差最小時 
 
  
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
■達成目標 
說明： 本研究已完成四步偏光相移干涉光路設計、理論推導、影像合併鏡組
之製作、建立數位影像相關法影像對正程式，及瞬時偏光干涉影像擷取系統；完
成試件測試、比較及驗證、探討量測之準確性及適用性，與原計畫內容相符程度
達到 98%。 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 ■洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
 
附件二 
 行政院國家科學委員會補助研究計畫參與國際學術會議報告 
                                    九十九年 九 月九日 
 
報告人姓名 
 
陳元方 
 
服務機構
 
國立成功大學
機械系 
 
職稱 
 
教授 
中文：2010 年國際精密工程與測量儀器會議   
會議正式名
稱 英文： 2010 International Symposium on Precision Engineering and 
Measurement Instrumentation  
會 議 時 間       
自 2010 年 8 月 8 日至
2010 年 8 月 11 日 地點（國、州、城市） 
中國 
杭州 
16. Precison Manufacturing - Measurement Integration Technology and System  
17. Stress and Thermal Measurement and Compensation  
18. Vibration Measurement and Isolation Technology  
19. Length, Angle and Geometrical Parameter Measurement  
20. Multi-axial Coordinate Measurement Technology  
21. Laser Measurement Techniques and Instruments  
22. MEMS and Nanometer Measurement  
23. Quality Engineering Theory and Technology  
會議於 8 月 9 日上午開幕後，即進行全天八場的專題演講如下: 
1.  Measurement in Precision Engineering，Dr. Harald Bosse （PTB, Germany）（德
國，聯邦物理研究院）  
2.  Surface measurements for large mirrors，Prof. James Burge （University of 
Arizona, USA）（美國，亞利桑那大學） 
3.  Sensors and Measuring Systems for Ultra-Precision Manufacturing，Prof. Wei 
Gao （Tohoku University. Japan）（日本，東北大學） 
4.  Multi-dimensional optical data storage: from the concept to devices，Prof. Min 
Gu （Swinburne University of Technology. Australia）（澳大利亞，斯溫伯爾尼
理工大學） 
5.  Fabrication and Application of Diffractive Optical Elements，Prof. Alexander 
Poleshchuk（Institute of Automation and Electrometry SB RAS, Russia）（俄羅
斯，俄羅斯科學院西伯利亞分院） 
6.  Photonic Meta Materials, Nano-scale plasmonics and Super Lens，Prof. Xiang 
Zhang （University of California at Berkeley, USA）（美國，伯克利加州分校）
7.  Optical & Confocal Techniques for Dental Hard & Soft Tissue Imaging, Prof. 
Tim Watson （King's College London, U.K.）（英國 倫敦國王學院）  
8.  Technology of Controllable Compliant Tools (CCT) Manufacturing and in situ 
measurement for large aperture aspherical mirror，李聖怡 教授 （National 
University of Defense Technology, China）（中國，國防科技大學） 
oral structures using a variety of systems offers high resolution / contrast imaging；
Confocal fluorescence techniques can be applied to measure the autofluorescence of 
decayed dental tissues or the interfacial penetration of adhesives; The application of 
Raman, multi-photon and FLIM imaging has further refined these techniques. For 
clinical imaging, endoscopic delivery is required and this has been applied to confocal 
reflection and fluorescence techniques intra-orally.這些方法及應用和我目前研究團隊
進行的牙齒材料及醫療技術有些相似之處，值得作為研發之參考。 
在發表的論文之中有下列兩篇值得參考: 
A. Polarization Phase-shifting Interference Microscopy for Ultra-precision Surface 
 Topography, by W. Cheng, X.Chen, L. Zhou*, X. Liu, China 
In this paper, polarization phase-shifting interference microscopy is proposed for 
ultra-precision surface topography measurement. A system based on the principle is 
constructed, and series of experimental testing are conducted on the system. The 
results show that the measurement accuracy is better than 1.5nm, and is verified. 此
等發展提高了 Polarization Phase-shifting Interference 的應用性。 
B. Independent Distortion Correction Algorithm for Machine Vision Systems, by Tang 
 Wei, Ye Dong, China. 
In this paper, an independent distortion correction algorithm based on equidistance 
is proposed. Two different procedures of distortion correction and parameter 
calibration are isolated. Distortion correction is realized to provide the basis for linear 
calibration to improve calibration accuracy. The imaging center point (principal point) 
is the position with the smallest distortion amount in the reference table. The 
experimental results demonstrate that the independent algorithm could effectively 
correct lens distortion and it has benefit for improving the calibration accuracy of 
machine vision systems.其中的一些方法可以作為發展 vision-based 量測之參考。 
(ID 22-785) 
Thin Film Thickness and Refractive Index Measurement by Multiple Beam 
Interferometry and Fast Spectral Correlation Method  
 
Terry Yuan-Fang Chen*, Chien-Chih Chen  
Department of Mechanical Engineering, National Cheng-Kung University  
Tainan, Taiwan 701 
ABSTRACT   
The establishment and use of precision measurement technology and system become an important part to understand and to 
effectively control the materials, structures or installations in nano-scale. In this paper, a system based on the multiple beam 
interferometry, multi-matrix method and fast spectral correlation method is developed to measure the thickness and refractive index 
of thin film. Primary study to analyze the FECO images obtained from symmetrical three-layer (mica-air-mica) with film thickness 
over 200nm and non-symmetrical interference (mica- air- LDPE-mica) was made. The results show that the fast spectral correlation 
formula can be applied to both symmetric and non-symmetric three-layer interference, and the film thickness measurement is 
applicable to over 200nm.  
Keywords: Fast spectral correlation method, Multiple beam interferometry, Fringe of equal chromatic order, Thin film, refractive 
index, Multilayer matrix method. 
 
INTRODUCTION  
Nano-technology is the greatest driving force in technology and industrial development at 21st century. In nano-scale, physical and 
mechanical properties of materials will show a significantly different characteristics and phenomena. The establishment and use of 
precision measurement technology and system become an important part to understand and to effectively control the materials, 
structures or installations in nano-scale. 
In the present, there are several optical techniques can be used to measure film thickness and refractive index, such as ellipsometer, 
optical interferometry and so on. Among them, multi-beam interferometry not only can be used to measure micro-nano-optical film 
thickness and refractive index [1], but also has further become a central body of the surface force apparatus (S.F.A.) [2]. For 
example, the S.F.A. can be applied to measure film thickness and shape at point contact in lubrication study [3]. A measurement 
system [4] to determine the thickness and refractive index of thin film was developed based on the multiple beam interferometry, 
using the symmetric three-layer formula from Israelachvili [5]. However, the thickness determined by the designed software is 
limited to about 200nm and is not suitable to non-symmetric case. In this paper, a software program based on fast spectral 
correlation method is developed to analyze the fringe of equal chromatic order (FECO) images from multiple beam interferometry. 
Primary study to analyze the FECO images obtained from both symmetrical three-layer (mica-air-mica) and non-symmetrical 











)2cos()2sin(
)2sin()2cos(
jjjjj
jj
j
jj
j
TnTnin
Tn
n
iTn
M









j
jMM
     
Figure. 1 Multiple beam interferometry                                         Figure. 2 Typical FECO image 
 
spectrometer. In the spectrograph, one can see the bright fringes which are called the fringe of equal chromatic order (FECO) as 
shown in Fig. 2. The vertical pixel in FECO image corresponds to the actual location of the lateral position of the mica sheets. As 
the mercury light passing through spectrometry, its spectral lines have a fixed wavelength and can be used to correct the horizontal 
direction out of FECO images of the relationship between pixel location and wavelength. The film thickness and the refractive index 
can be obtained by analyzing the FECO images.  
Multi-layer matrix method 
The light intensity of FECO image shown in Fig. 2 is related to the wavelength of light pass through [6]. Consider a white light 
passing through the dielectric material as shown in Fig. 3, the light has a vertical incidence to the dielectric multilayer stack of thin 
film materials from the medium with a index of ni and the final beam injects out to the medium with the index en  Tj and nj are the 
film thickness and refractive index respectively for the first j layers of dielectric materials (or optical coefficient), where j = 1, 2, 3 . 
A particular solution about waves passing through the dielectric film materials of electric and magnetic fields can be solved by 
Maxwell equation as: 
 
                                        （1） 
 
Where jM  is the characteristic matrix of the jth layer, and λ is the optical wavelength. When the multi-layer dielectric films stack, 
its characteristic matrix can be expressed as: 
                                                                  （2） 
 
Suppose A is the amplitude of light before infecting into multi-layer dielectric films, 
aT   is the amplitude of light after penetrating. 
Let 



2221
1211
aa
aa
M  
the transmission coefficient t() can be expressed as a function of wavelength as: 


 M
j
jmatrixInT
1
)(),( 
Assuming that there is only one unknown layer in a multi-layer film and the other layers are known, the thickness T and the 
refractive index n can be determined from the wavelength corresponding to FECO images using multi-layer matrix method. 
Fast spectral correlation method  
As described in previous section, multi-layer matrix method can be used to simulate the light intensity value corresponding to each 
wavelength of light in the FECO image. Therefore, use of mercury spectra to obtain the horizontal resolution of the FECO images 
(nm/pixel) to obtain the relationship between intensity and wavelength is needed to determine the thickness and refractive index of 
the multi-layer. However, use of the whole light intensity and wavelength of the image data would make calculation process too 
complex and time-consuming. Hence, a fast spectral correlation method [7] that uses fewer data points is adopted to determine the 
thickness and refractive index of one level in a multi-layer film. Figure 4(a) shows a simulated FECO image in analog band of 
500nm ~ 600nm. The intensity distribution along a horizontal line across the image in Fig. 4(a) can be given as shown in Fig. 4(b). It 
can be observed that the intensity is very high at and very close to the position of maximum intensity, and is very weak at other 
positions. 
If the thickness and refractive index of one layer only are unknown in a multi-layer film, the penetrating light intensity, Φ, can be 
calculate by multi-layer matrix method as a function of wavelength λ and the thickness T. defined as:   
                               （7） 
 
where M is the number of detected fringes, j is the first j wavelength detected. Since the best set of (T, n) yields the highest 
intensity of Φ. Therefore, by assuming the possible range of T and n, respectively, the unknown film thickness and refractive index 
n that corresponds to a maximum value can be determined through a search process. In experiment, FECO image has 640-pixel 
points in the horizontal direction but only a few fringes are in the visible band. Thus, this method greatly reduces the computational 
complexity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a)                                               (b) 
 
Figure 4.  FECO image light intensity and wavelength diagram: (a) analog band at 500nm ~ 600nm of FECO image; (b) intensity 
distribution along a horizontal line across the center of (a).  
 
636.4nm. Comparing the measured air film thickness and the movement of pizeo-translator, a difference of less than 10% was 
found.  
 
 
 
 
 
（a）separation.                                 （b）contact. 
 
 
 
 
 
(c) FECO image of (b) after 2um sepration                    (d）air film thickness of 636.4nm 
 
Figure 7 Symmetric three-layer experimental FECO images 
 
Table 1 Symmetric interference measurement.            Table 2 Non-symmetric interference measurement 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8 shows the FECO image of the non-symmetric multi-layer interference. Since there is no obvious distortion in image at 
initial contact, judgment of contact or separation of two mica sheets must depend on the change of fringe’s wavelength position as 
described in the symmetric three-layer interference case. The non-symmetric interference measurements are listed in Table 2. Fig. 
8(a) shows the image with piezo＇s position at 13.4 m and the air film thickness measured is 150.9 nm, and Fig. 8(b) with piezo＇
s position at 13m and the measured air film thickness is 625.9 nm. The difference between the measured air film thickness and the 
movement of pizeo-translator is about 10~20%. 
 
 
 
   
 
 
（a）Measured air film thickness of 150.9nm             （b）Measured air film thickness of 625.9nm 
Fig. 8 FECO images of two different separation distances between mica and LDPE.  
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/01/31
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 利用瞬時相位移及數位影像相關法於表面形貌量測之研究
計畫主持人: 陳元方
計畫編號: 98-2221-E-006-042- 學門領域: 其他–機械工程技術
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
部分研發成果已技術輔導(NT$150000)給金屬工業發展中心. 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
