network that to prevent violation of copyrights for 
digital content owners and to provide more attractive 
motivation for users. 
 
With the increase of peer-to-peer (P2P) application, 
there are more and more information spread and shared 
over P2P networks. Although it is convenience, it has 
caused some problems especially intellectual property 
infringement. Many users infringe the owner｀s 
intellectual property in spreading copyright material 
illegally in P2P. In this paper, we design a P2P 
application that combined with digital rights 
management (DRM) to protect the rights of copyright 
holders. In addition, we introduce an incentive 
mechanism to make users were pleased to share 
contents with others, to accelerate the speed of 
content spreading and to create a win-win situation. 
英文關鍵詞： Bit-Torrent, Peer-to-peer network, Digital rights 
management, Free rider, Search 
 
II 
 
4.7.2 Neighbor discovery and maintenance ...................................................... 16 
4.7.3 Replacement strategy of peers in forwarder list ...................................... 16 
4.7.4 Search ....................................................................................................... 17 
4.7.5 Download algorithm ................................................................................ 17 
4.7.6 Contribution evidence .............................................................................. 18 
4.7.7 Allotment of profit ................................................................................... 19 
4.7.8 Security analysis ...................................................................................... 19 
5 Conclusions ......................................................................................................... 20 
6 PDRM System Demo .......................................................................................... 21 
6.1 功能介紹...................................................................................................... 21 
6.2 系統需求...................................................................................................... 21 
6.3 實際操作畫面.............................................................................................. 22 
References .................................................................................................................... 30 
 
  
IV 
 
Abstract 
In recent years, more and more people use Internet and with the improvements of 
communication technology, information-sharing trends has surged over Internet. 
Bit-Torrent is a well-known P2P application used for distributing large amounts of 
data and exchange digital content with high efficiently and scalability. Unfortunately, 
many users do not get authorization but transmit files through Bit-Torrent illegally. 
The piracy problems become a very serious issue because the digital contents can be 
copied and redistributed easily through P2P network without license owners' 
authorized. For this reason, digital rights management (DRM) is considered as a 
general preventive measure to avoid copyright infringement. However, a conventional 
DRM system implementation on distributed P2P network would be quite difficult. 
Therefore, we propose an efficient DRM model on P2P network that to prevent 
violation of copyrights for digital content owners and to provide more attractive 
motivation for users. 
 
With the increase of peer-to-peer (P2P) application, there are more and more 
information spread and shared over P2P networks. Although it is convenience, it has 
caused some problems especially intellectual property infringement. Many users 
infringe the owner's intellectual property in spreading copyright material illegally in 
P2P. In this paper, we design a P2P application that combined with digital rights 
management (DRM) to protect the rights of copyright holders. In addition, we 
introduce an incentive mechanism to make users were pleased to share contents with 
others, to accelerate the speed of content spreading and to create a win-win situation. 
Keywords: Bit-Torrent, Peer-to-peer network, Digital rights management, Free rider, 
Search
 
2 
 
With the development of information technology, more and more users download 
documents, music, software and video by P2P applications. P2P features high 
scalability and high performance of file transmission. These features bring 
convenience but at the same time makes P2P become a criminal platform. Many 
people illegally spread copyright material like copyright reserved music, movies, 
applications, books, and so on by P2P. All of these behaviors infringe the owners’ 
property to cause many lawsuits were filed against the P2P developers such as Kazaa, 
eDonkey2000 and WinNY, some of them even forced shut down the service such as 
Napster and LimeWire. 
The other problem in P2P networks is the free rider problem [8], free rider is called 
those users who just download files from other peers but do not share files they have. 
Such behavior makes content distribution difficult and damaged the environment of 
P2P networks. After all, if users cannot get wanted resources from P2P network that 
will cause no one would like to use the P2P application. 
 
In this report, we present two P2P-based DRM systems to protect unauthorized 
copying usage of digital contents thus prevent illegal distribution on the P2P network. 
To solve the problems that current P2P systems were suffered, such as free rider 
problem, we propose an incentive mechanism to encourage users to share files they 
held with other users. 
  
4 
 
pieces at same time, this DRM mechanism needs to decrease computation cost in its 
operation process. Figure 2 shows the operation of DRM based on P2P networks. The 
content owner needs to encrypt original content to an encrypted content and distribute 
it to the P2P network. If content requesters want to download content, they can search 
the content through the authorized server and download content from P2P network. 
When content requesters pay for the content, they can get license from authorized 
server to play encrypted content. 
2.2 P2P network 
With the growing development of P2P technology, file sharing on the Internet 
becomes easier. In the P2P network, everyone not only be a client to download file, 
but also a server to provide their bandwidth. Regarding the different scheme, P2P 
networks can be divided into centralized P2P system, decentralized P2P system and 
hybrid P2P System. The centralized P2P system must have a central index server to 
manage and record IP address of peer and where the file is, such as Napster [12]. 
Comparing with centralized P2P system, there is no central server in the decentralized 
P2P system and it is based on the distributed hash table (DHT) such as Chord [13] and 
Pastry [14]. Each peer can join and leave freely. When a requester wants to search a 
file, and then sends requests to its neighbor peers, these neighbor peers will determine 
whether it contain the file. Hybrid P2P system is kind of system combines the 
advantage and feature with above two types of P2P system. This system will select 
some peers which have strong computation capability and bandwidth to be a super 
peer. The super peers need to serve the local peers in a range. Each super peer and its 
managed local peers compose a centralized P2P system, and these P2P systems 
compose decentralized P2P system to become a hybrid P2P system, such as eMule 
[15] and BT [16]. 
2.3 Bit-Torrent (BT) File-sharing System 
BT system is a peer-to-peer file sharing protocol used for distributing large 
amounts of data. BT protocol can be used to reduce the server and network impact of 
6 
 
3. A Novel Authorized File-Sharing Protocol for P2P 
networks 
In [17], it presented a secure transaction platform that protects digital content 
copyright and allows all P2P users legally exchange files. In [18], Chen et al. came up 
with a DRM business model for BT system based on Diffie-Hellman key agreement 
protocol [19], and improved Zhang’s mechanism [20]. Although, Chen et al.’s scheme 
can protect every piece of file and license to defense illegal access. Even an attacker 
gets all pieces of file and license; the attacker can’t decrypt and play the file. But 
Yang et al. [21] pointed out there are still some security and commercial issues in 
their scheme and proposed another business model considers copyright protection and 
secure transaction based on P2P networks. In this paper, we proposed a new business 
model that considers copyright protection, secure transaction, technological 
implementation feasibility, and consumer's psychological cognition. We inherit the 
concept of [1] and improve of Yang et al.’s scheme [21], which is more suitable for 
practical P2P environments. 
 
In order to avoid copyright infringement, a well-designed protocol for preventing 
illegal file transmission on P2P network is necessary. P2P networks depend on the 
cooperation of its peers; all peers need to contribute to the file sharing process. But, 
there is no administrator in the system, thus, peers called freerider or leeching are 
sometime to download more data and upload few data to other peers. In P2P networks, 
the leeching behavior is against the nature of P2P network and violation of the health 
from the networks. For preventing leeching behavior, an upload-rewarding 
mechanism is worth to consider. Therefore, we propose a protocol which combines 
illegal transmission protection and reward mechanism for encouraging P2P users keep 
contributing. Fig 1 shows the proposed system architecture. We divided our protocol 
into seven phases: registration, packaging, token generation, transmission, license 
request, decryption and upload-rewarding phase. Table 1 shows the notations used in 
this paper. 
8 
 
private key	 ௜ܺ 	and public key	 ௜ܻ ൌ ݃௑೔݉݋݀	݌. After initial process, the peer needs to 
setup the DRM module. The DRM module is responsible for all digital content issues 
including digital content decryption, license request and parse, digital content delivery 
etc. Furthermore, the HMAC (Hash-based Message Authentication Code) function for 
peer	݅	will embed in the DRM module and the secret key which using for calculating 
the HMAC is shared between peer	݅	and	ܤܭ. 
3.2 Packaging phase 
In this phase, the content owner can generate a protected content and divide it into 
many small pieces. 
The detail process of packaging phase is illustrated as follows. 
(1) ைܲ	generates a content encryption key	ܭ௘ ൌ ைܻ௔	where	ܽ	is a random number. 
(2) ைܲ	encrypts the content as	ܥ ൌ ܧ௄೐ሺ݂݈݅݁ሻ ൌ ݂݈݅݁ ∙ ܭ௘	݉݋݀	݌. 
(3) ைܲ	divides	ܥ	into	ܥଵ	and	ܥଶ. It must to note that we assume the share file is only 
divided into two pieces for the sake of simplicity. 
(4) ைܲ	generates and distributes a torrent file (seed) which includes the URL of the 
tracker, the	ܤܭ’s URL and the file information such as file name, number of bytes 
per piece and hash value of pieces. Everyone can download this torrent file on 
Internet. 
(5) ைܲ	sends the related information about constructing the license to license server 
(ܮܵ). 
3.3 Token generation phase 
In BT system, a peer that wants to download the file must first obtain the seed 
(torrent file). The torrent file includes URL of the specified tracker, which indicates 
the peer from which other peers to download the pieces of the file. The detail process 
of transfer phase is showed as follows. 
(1) ோܲ	downloads the torrent file from Internet. 
(2) ோܲ	connects to the tracker (ܶܵ) specified in the torrent file and gets a list of peers, 
named	 ௌܲଵ	and	 ௦ܲଶ	, currently hold pieces of the file. 
10 
 
3.6 Decryption phase 
When peer	 ோܲ	receives the license, it can perform the following process to decrypt 
the file and enjoy it legally. 
(1) ோܲ	computes the content decryption key	ܭௗ ൌ ఈೃఉ೉ೃ 	݉݋݀	݌. 
(2) ோܲ	decrypts the content as	ܥ ∙ ܭௗ ൌ ܧ௄೐ሺ݂݈݅݁ሻ ∙ ܭௗ ൌ ݂݈݅݁ ∙ ܭ௘ ∙ ܭௗ	݉݋݀	݌ ൌ ݂݈݅݁. 
(3) ோܲ	updates the list of	ܶܵ	and lets ோܲ	as a new seeder. 
3.7 Upload-rewarding phase 
This phase describes a simple upload-rewarding mechanism that using token-based 
mechanism and HMAC technique. When	 ௌܲభobtains the token, it can connect to	ܤܭ 
to get the payment. He needs to provide {ܶܭௌభ,	ܪ௉ೄభሺܶܭௌభ, ௌܲభሻ} and the	ܤܭ	validates 
the above message. If the verifications are hold,	ܤܭ	will pay to	 ௌܲభ. Note that, we will 
discuss the dispute arbitrating process in section 4.2. 
3.8 Related analysis  
 Fair transaction and encourage the contributions 
The free-riding phenomenon will reduce the performance of P2P networks. Thus, it 
is needs to give incentives for resource provisioning. In our proposed protocol, we 
allow not only the content owners can get profits, but also the content senders will get 
rewards from their upload contributions. If the senders keep uploading many files, 
they can get more payment. 
 Check for double spending 
A dispute arises when a content requester double spending a token or a content 
sender share a token to other peers. In the first condition, a malicious peer	 ௠ܲ	has 
received a token that signed by	ܤܭ and transmits the token to	 ௌܲభand	 ௌܲమ. If	 ௌܲభfirst 
12 
 
value of	ܪ௉ೄ೔ሺܶܭௌ೔, ௌܲ೔ሻ	can only be generated by	 ௌܲ೔ 	and	ܤܭ where ܤܭ is a trusted 
party. Thus, we convince that only	 ௌܲ೔ 	can generate the	ܪ௉ೄ೔ሺܶܭௌ೔, ௌܲ೔ሻ. 
4. Design and Implementation of a P2P-Based DRM System 
In order to 1) prevent intellectual property infringement, 2) solve free rider problem, 
and 3) reduce the loading of single server. We propose a P2P-based DRM system. In 
our scheme, we apply DRM to protect digital content from illegally spreading. We 
also provide a bonus system to encourage users to share files with others to solve the 
free rider problem. Furthermore, we utilize P2P network to reduce the burden of 
server. 
4.1  System model 
The model of our system as shown in Fig. 2, it provides a basic overview of the 
system. Participants of the system consist of four entities, we describe as follows: 
 
Fig. 2. System model. 
14 
 
4.2  Initial phase 
In the beginning, all users must register at web server WS with his/her UIDu, PWu, 
personal information, and then download the client application (with DRM module). 
WS will stores UIDu, H(PWu) and other information into database for further 
authentication. 
The content server CS will generate EKi and random numbers Ri1, Ri2, …, Rij, j is 
the number of content pieces. And it will compute RDi = Ri1⊕Ri2⊕…⊕Rij, and 
encrypt the clear content to be protected DRM format by using EKi⊕RDi. CS will 
store (CIDij, Rij) pairs into database and send EKi and (CIDij, Rij) pairs to DS through 
secure channel. CS also provides the protected contents for peers to download. 
4.3  User authentication phase 
A user must be authenticated by DS before any transactions. First, user sends UIDu 
and H(PWu) to DS, DS will check the format of UIDu and verify H(PWu) with the 
value stored in database. If the validation is successful, the user was confirmed as a 
legitimate user. In order to prevent malicious attacks, all connections between user 
(peer) and DS are through secure channel, we using TLS to establish a secure channel. 
4.4  Payment phase 
We use prepayment as the payment instrument. Users have to buy enough points 
via ATM, credit card, etc., then they can pay for contents that they wanted. Fisrt, user 
sends UIDu, PWu, and PIu to DS, DS will check the validty of user and payment 
information. If verification is successful, DS will deposit the equivalent of points into 
user’s account. 
4.5  License issuing phase 
If a user wants to buy a digital content, he/she must send the CIDi of content and 
OIu to DS. DS will confirm this transaction and check whether the points were enough 
or not. If the points were enough, DS deducts the points from user’s account and 
sends the content license Lici to user. Otherwise, DS will leads user to payment phase. 
4.6  Rendering phase 
Once user purchases the corresponding license Lici of content Ci ,user can play the 
content. First, the DRM module will check the format of license and identity of buyer. 
16 
 
4.7.2 Neighbor discovery and maintenance 
The pseudo code of the neighbor list maintenance algorithm is shown as follows: 
 
Algorithm 1 Neighbor list maintenance algorithm 
1: Once peer A searching or downloading from forwarder F has 
succeeded, it will call neighbor_update(IPF) 
  
2: neighbor_update(IPF) 
3: Open file neighbor_list 
4: if IPF not in list, then 
5: Add IPF to the top of list 
6: else 
7: Move IPF to the top of list 
8: Close file 
 
A peer has no neighbors when it just joins to the P2P network. So it has to get 
forwarder list from DRM server before first time search. It chooses neighbors from 
forwarder list, and adds them into neighbor list for further search. The choosing is 
based on least recently used (LRU) [22], i.e. choosing peers that were requested 
recently and successfully downloaded from. The research of interested-based locality 
[23-25] states that if peer A has a part of some contents that B is interested in, then, A 
may have other contents that B is also interested in. Therefore, the peer in the top of 
neighbor list means it returns a search result or file recently as described by lines 2-8. 
Sends requests to such peers may increase the hit ratio of queries. 
4.7.3 Replacement strategy of peers in forwarder list 
The forwarder list of content contains several columns, includes file information 
such as content title, hash value, length of file, number of pieces, and hash values of 
pieces and forwarder information such as forwarders’ UID, IP address, status and 
timestamp. The value of status is either active or offline. The peers of alive are in the 
upper of list, and peers of offline are in lower part. Each peer sends the files that they 
shared to DS every t times (e.g. once every half an hour). DS will arrange these 
information into relative FLs separately. If the peer is not in the list yet, it will be add 
to the bottom of online forwarders, otherwise move its position up by 1. If the 
timestamp of a forwarder is over 2t times, it will be move down to the top of offline 
peers. As a result, peer in the top of the list is online for the longest times. According 
18 
 
The protected content file in our system will be divided into several pieces; the 
size of each piece is 8192 KB. The download speed will be more accelerated if there 
are much more forwarders. 
 
As soon as peer A gets the forwarder list FLk, it starts to request forwarders to 
download content pieces. Peer A first sorts the pieces of content in order of the rarity 
of pieces according to the number of forwarders of piece in FLk. A will send 
download request to forwarders one by one to get content piece Ck,i and FLk* as 
described in lines 1-2, 5-7. 
 
After the downloading of a piece Ck,i is complete, A will merge the forwarder list 
FLk* into FLk as described in line 3; that’s because the forwarder list FLk received 
from DS only contains the peers whose held the whole pieces of content, but the 
forwarder list FLk* received from forwarders additional contains those peers that even 
held part of content. A will also calculate the sha1 hash value of downloaded piece 
H(Ck,i), and compare to the piece hash value CIDk,i in FLkto verify the integrity of 
content piece as described by line 4. 
 
If those forwarders of one piece were not responding to the request, A will 
download that piece from content server CS. In this system, in order to accelerate the 
speed of download, the protected content file will be divided into several pieces. So 
that if there are much more forwarders, the download speed will be accelerated. Peers 
also exchange information each other to increase the information of forwarders. 
4.7.6 Contribution evidence 
In the content packaging phase, CS encrypts a clear content k to be protected by 
using content encryption key EKk and RDk. RDk was computed by Rk1⊕Rk2⊕…⊕Rki, 
i is the number of content pieces. CS stores (CIDki, Rki) pairs into database, and sends 
EKk and (CIDki, Rki) pairs to DS. 
 
After a content requester PR downloads the ith piece of content k is complete, 
forwarder PF will send H(Rki||UIDF) and UIDF to requester PR, PR have to send (H(Rki 
||UIDF), UIDF, CIDk, i) to DS. DS will verify H(Rki || UIDF) by using the UIDF it 
received and Rki that stored in its database. If the verified result is positive, DS saves 
UIDR, UIDF, CIDk, i and current timestamp into its database and sends Rki to PR. So 
that PF can earn profits if PR pays for content license in the future. 
20 
 
5 Conclusions 
In this report, we propose one DRM mechanism for BitTorrent-like P2P Systems 
and one P2P-based DRM system try to solve the intellectual property infringement 
and free rider problems in P2P network.. We employ token-based payment mechanism 
and HMAC technique. The HMAC is used for constructing the evidence which can 
arbitrate the disputes. We also designed a transaction mechanism that protects more 
content owners’ profit but also the rewards for content senders. In our protocol, we 
provide upload-rewarding for senders. It will encourage users to keep sharing their 
own files that can solve the free-riding phenomenon and improve the performance of 
P2P networks. We implement the modules to construct the P2P overlay. Moreover, we 
introduce an incentive mechanism to encourage peers to share files with other peers. 
Our proposed system has the capability to against malicious attacks. 
  
22 
 
 Pentium 4 或更新的處理器 
 64 MB 可用系統記憶體（建議使用 128MB) 
 64 MB 可用硬碟空間 
6.3 實際操作畫面 
1. 註冊帳號 
 
 Step 1：點選「Register」 
 Step 2：填寫帳號、密碼以及個人資訊 
 Step 3：閱讀「使用者條款」後，勾選同意條款 
 Step 4：送出 
 
 
 
 
24 
 
3. 連線至點對點網路 
 
 點選「Connect」連線至點對點網路 
  
26 
 
5. 下載數位內容 
 
 從搜尋結果中選擇欲下載之數位內容，滑鼠雙擊以開始下載 
  
28 
 
7. 購買使用版權 
 
 Step 1：選擇欲購買之數位內容 
 Step 2：滑鼠點擊右鍵開啟功能表，並點擊「Purchase」進行購買 
  
30 
 
References 
[1] Q. Liu, R. Safavi-Naini, and N. S. Sheppard, Digital Rights Management for 
Content Distribution, in Proceedings of the Australasian information security 
workshop conference on ACSW frontiers, January 2003. 
[2] S. H. Kwok, Digital Rights Management for the Online Music Business. ACM 
SIGecom Exchanges, June 2002. 3(3). 
[3] C.T. Yen, H.T. Liaw, N. W. Lo, T. C. Liu, and J. Stu, Transparent Digital Rights 
Management System with Superdistribution, in International Conference on 
Broadband, Wireless Computing, Communication and Applications (BWCCA), 4-6 
Nov. 2010. 
[4] Li Fen, Liu Quan, and Wei Qin, The Application of RBAC in Digital Rights 
Management System, in The Application of RBAC in Digital Rights Management 
System, 10-12 Aug. 2010  
[5] N. Y. Lee and T. Y. Lee, User Friendly Digital Rights Management System Based 
on Smart Cards, in International Conference on Intelligent Information Hiding and 
Multimedia Signal Processing, 12-14 Sept. 2009. 
[6] Weiguo Lin, Naishuai Zhang, and Suiyang Liu, A Metadata-based Interoperable 
Digital Rights Management System Architecture, in 2010 Third International Joint 
Conference on Computational Science and Optimization (CSO), 28-31 May 2010. 
[7] C. C. Yang, J. C. Hsiao, H. W. Yang, and J. Y. Jiang, "Convertible DRM System 
Based on Identity-Based Encryption," International Journal of Computer Networks & 
Communications, 2009, 1(3). 
[8] M. B. Li, W. L. Han, J. H. Park, N. X. Xiong, and Z. H. Li, The effect and strategy 
research of the secure E-commerce by the application of P2P, Mathematical and 
Computer Modelling, vol. 54, pp. 175-183, 2011. 
[9] Jupiter Media Metrix, "Subscriptions will account for almost two-thirds of US 
digital music sales in 2006",  Jupiter Media Metrix, USA, 2004. 
[10] Richard Stern , "Napster: a walking copyright infringement?," IEEE Micro, 
vol.20, no.6, pp.4-5, 2000. 
[11] IFPI, "Commercial Piracy Report 2006", IFPI, Switzerland, 2006. 
32 
 
and Telecommunications, vol. 17, pp. 64-71, 2010. 
[24] L. Guo, S. Jiang, L. Xiao, and X. Zhang, Exploiting content localities for 
efficient search in P2P systems, In Proceeding of the 18th International Symposium on 
Distributed Computing (DISC’04), pp. 349-364, 2004. 
[25] L. Guo, S. Jiang, L. Xiao, and X. Zhang, Fast and low cost search schemes by 
exploiting localities in P2P networks, Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, 
vol. 65, pp. 729-742, 2005. 
[26] F. Bustamante and Y. Qiao, Friendships that last: Peer lifespan and its role in P2P 
protocols, In Proceeding of the 8th International Workshop on Web Content Caching 
and Distribution (WCW'03), September 2003. 
[27] M. Yang and Z. Fei, A novel approach to improving search efficiency in 
unstructured peer-to-peer networks, Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, 
vol. 69, pp. 877-884, 2009. 
 
 2
 Biotechnology 
 Information Science  
 Electronics 
 Control Systems and Robotics 
 Signal Processing 
 Circuits and Systems 
 Electromagnetics 
 Electrical Materials 
 Optoelctronics 
 Mechatronics 
 Sensors and instrumentation 
 Biomedical electronics 
 Micro-electronics and Integrated-circuit Technology 
 Signal and Image Processing 
 Wireless Net Sensors 
 Pattern Recognition 
 Other Related Fields 
 Applied Materials  
 Electronic Materials and Applications 
 Materials behavior  
 Casting and solidification  
 Biobased Materials 
 Biobased Composites and Nanocomposites  
 Powder metallurgy and ceramic forming  
 Electronic packaging technology and materials 
 Smart materials and structures 
 Electronic materials and embedded software  
 Surface, subsurface, and interface phenomena  
 Coatings and surface engineering  
 Composite materials  
 Materials forming  
 Energy Conversion and Storage Materials 
 Nanomaterials  
 Composites and polymer materials  
 Biomaterials 
 Semi-conductor and micro-electronic materials 
 Smart/Intelligent Materials/Intelligent Systems 
 Thin Films  
 New Functional Materials  
 Metal alloy materials  
 Iron and Steel 
 Building Materials 
 4
會錯失很多交流的經驗。 
此次參與的國際研討會其所邀請的演講者為首爾大學(Seoul National University)的 Prof. Takhee 
Lee，其所演講的主題比較偏向於應用材料學，與學生本身的研究領域相關度甚低，而學生對於其
背景知識更是一無所知，所以聽起來格外吃力，所幸演講期間穿插一些實例並輔以照片說明，亦
讓學生對於其主題有粗淺的認識。 
 
三、發表論文全文或摘要 
Recently, wireless sensor networks (WSNs) are widely used to collect data and monitor 
environment. In order to maintain reliability and suitability of deployed WSNs, it is 
important that sensor nodes provide services only to legitimate users. In general, user 
authentication is used as a basic solution for protecting WSNs. In this paper, we propose a 
novel and efficient user authentication scheme for WSNs. Our scheme provides one-time 
password, mutual authentication and resists various known types of attack and is more 
secure and suitable for wireless sensor networks. 
 
四、建議 
希望國科會可以多多補助研究生出席國際會議，研究生參與國際會將可以大大開拓期研究視
野，多多與國外專家學者交流亦可以豐富其研究的深度及啟發其研究廣度。在參與整個研討會活
動後，不但增廣了視野，同時更讓我在這當中學習到許多寶貴經驗。另外，因為在台灣要用英語
的交談的場合相對少很多，對於研究生而言，參與國際會議是最直接可以訓練英文口語能力的場
合，故希望國科會可以多多補助研究生出席國際會議。 
 
 
 1
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                     日期：101 年 10 月 18 日 
一、參加會議經過 
無處不在的感應器(Ubiquitous sensors)、設備、網絡和資訊，為未來的智慧型世界指出了一條明
確的道路。普及智慧(Ubiquitous intelligence)將會改變未來的計算模式，透過加強並賦予智慧之設備
與技術，許多的日常工作、任務及流程皆可以更加簡化，使得人們可以更輕鬆地完成工作，達到其所
需之目標。普及運算(Ubiquitous Computing)為當前電腦應用技術發展的新興領域，具有重要的理論
研究價值和廣泛的應用前景，其所包含的範疇相當廣泛。然而，但要實現普及運算的技術環境，必須
要跨越許許多多的挑戰與障礙，包括網絡裝置的整合、管理性、安全性、對不同平台的支援以及可擴
展性等等課題。UIC 國際學術會議始於 2005 年，已在包括台北、日本長崎、香港及挪威奧斯陸等地舉
行，每一屆會議所發表之學術論文及所舉行的主題演講等，皆為普及運算領域中一大盛事。2012 UIC
作為一個普及運算暨智慧型計算領域中首屈一指的國際學術會議，會為研究人員提供了一個可以發表
研究成果、交換研究心得與經驗的論壇。本人的研究成果論文有幸地被 UIC 2012 接受，得以在此盛會
計畫編號 NSC 100-2221-E-005-067- 
計畫名稱 建構於 P2P 網路之可追蹤式數位內容公平交易機制 
出國人員
姓名 楊朝成 
服務機構
及職稱 中興大學資訊管理系教授 
會議時間 101 年 09 月 04 日至 101 年 09 月 07 日 會議地點 日本 福岡 
會議名稱 
(中文)  2012 IEEE 普及運算暨智慧型與可信賴計算國際會議 
(英文) 2012 IEEE International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing and 
Intelligence/Autonomic and Trusted Computing 
發表題目 
(中文)  
(英文)  A universal lightweight authentication scheme based on delegation mechanism in 
heterogeneous 
 3
 Real/Cyber World Modeling and Semantics 
 User/Object Identity and Activity Recognition 
 Adaptive User Interfaces and Tools 
 Security, Privacy, Safety and Legal Issues 
 Emotional, Ethical and Psychological Factors 
 
本人此次欲發表研究成果論文為”A Universal Lightweight Authentication Scheme Based on 
Delegation Mechanism in Heterogeneous Networks”，大會安排於 9 月 7 日上午 9:00 至上午 10:40 發
表成果論文，故前三天(9/4~9/6)本人參加了與個人研究主題相關(Wireless and Ad-Hoc Network, P2P 
& RFID, Security and Intelligent Systems)之會議，並與與會學者交流研究心得與建議。而在 9 月 7
日當天本人於 Room #12102 發表研究成果論文，本次的會議也在當天中午午膳後，結束為期四天
學術交流活動，期間與眾多外國學者交流分享研究經驗，收穫甚多。本人亦於當天結束研討會的
行程後，前往機場搭乘中華航空下午 4 點 10 分的班機返回台灣桃園機場。 
二、與會心得 
此次 UIC 2012 國際會議與另外兩個國際學術會議 (ATC 2012 及 ICA3PP 2012)一同舉行，主辦單
位邀請三位專家學者進行 Keynote 演講，分別是 Kazuo Iwano (Mitsubishi Corporation, Japan)，Miroslaw 
Malek (Humboldt University of Berlin, Germany)以及 Wanlei Zhou (Deakin University, Australia)，雖然上
述專家學者所主講之主題，並不完全與本人的研究領域相關，但是透過主講者簡單且概要性的介紹，
即便是對於該主題不是非常了解亦可以再聽完演講後，對該主題有相當程度認知與了解。本人這一次
參與為期四天的會議中，除了 Keynote 演講外，主要皆參與無線網路安全主題相關之會議，無線網路
所涵蓋的範圍相當廣，其亦廣泛地應用在目前日常生活中，故安全性是必須要被重視的一環，但由於
無線網路的一些特性，也使得要確保其安全性也有相當程度的挑戰，在會議期間聆聽眾多學者的成果
發表，並與其交流雙方之研究經驗，無論是否貼近於本人的研究主題，本人受益甚多。 
 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/11/07
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 一建構於P2P網路之可追蹤式數位內容公平交易機制
計畫主持人: 楊朝成
計畫編號: 100-2221-E-005-067- 學門領域: 資訊安全
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
