2 
The work done on the film by the applied pressure 
while the blister with radius a growing is  
( )
a
pV
a
Wext
!
!
=
!
!
       (2) 
The expression of G can then be approximated as [3] 
hpCG !!=      (3) 
where C is a dimensionless constant which is a 
function of the residual stress σ0 in film, of film 
biaxial modulus E/(1-ν) and of the geometrical ratio 
h/a. As the blister is taking place, the equilibrium 
shape of the blister contour is circular and its ratio h/a 
is almost constant. The value of C can be taken as a 
constant during test, which is 0.516 for the case of 
high residual stress or 0.645 for the case low residual 
stresses [3,4]. 
 
III. 研究步驟   
 
A barium titanate powder (Product No. 219-6, 
Ferro Co., USA) was used in the present study. The 
purity of the BaTiO3 powder was higher than 99.6%. 
A disc with the diameter of 25 mm and thickness of 
2.5 mm was prepared by die-pressing at 60 MPa. The 
disc was first pre-fired at 1190°C for 1 h to obtain a 
handling strength. A hole with the diameter of 2 mm 
was then machined into the center of the pre-fired 
disc by using a steel drill. The disc was then sintered 
at 1290°C for 2 h. The relative density of BaTiO3 is 
then > 95%. Finally the disks were ground with fine 
SiC particles to achieve a flat smooth surface.  
A silver paste (Ag 8985, Shoei Co., Japan) 
composed of silver particles, binder and a small 
amount of glass particles was used. Screen-printing 
was used to apply the Ag paste onto the flat surface 
of the BaTiO3 disc. Before screen printing, an 
adhesive tape patch was applied to cover the central 
hole of the disc. The BaTiO3 discs with this printed 
first Ag layer were fired at 600°C for 1 h to remove 
the adhesive tape. The discs with electrode including 
the free-standing membrane over the hole were then 
screen printed and fired for several times until the 
desired thickness of Ag layer is achieved.  
The apparatus used for blister test consisted of a 
quadrilateral metal block specimen holder and 
pressurizing stage, and an optical measurement 
equipment. A fringe projection device was used to 
measure the vertical displacement of the specimen 
surface during blister test [5]. The test sample was 
mounted on the top of the blister pressurizing stage. 
An expanded set of parallel fringes, produced by 
interference of two laser beams, was projected under 
a certain angle on the top of the sample. A CCD 
camera was fixed above the blister apparatus to take 
the photo of the top view of the fringes on the 
specimen surface, which was then analyzed by a 
computer. A commercial software (HOLO 3 : Fringe 
Analysis ®) was used to analyze the results. The 
setup of the facilities is illustrated in Figure 2.  
The elastic modulus of porous Ag electrode 
before and after blister test was determined by using 
a nano-indentator (XP, MTS, USA). The specimen 
cross-section microstructure was observed by 
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) on samples 
before and after blister test.  
 
IV. 結果及討論   
 
Figure 3 shows the cross-section of a specimen 
after sintering. The Ag/BaTiO3 interface is relatively 
smooth. The free-standing Ag electrode is porous. 
The relative density of the Ag electrode, as estimated 
by using image analysis, is around 73%. This density 
is slightly higher near the interface due to the fact that 
the electrode near the interface has been fired for 
several times. The thickness of the silver electrode 
has been changed between 80 µm and 170 µm. The 
thickness is measured by micrometer, with reference 
to the initial substrate thickness. Five points have 
been measured and the average was taken as film 
thickness. Because the pores within the Ag electrode 
are interconnected, while the film is pressurized by 
distilled water, water could penetrate through the 
electrode. Therefore, an adhesive film (about 10 µm) 
is applied to cover the electrode to make it 
waterproof. This layer is visible on the top of the 
electrode, Fig. 3. The influence of this adhesive film 
is negligible on the Ag/BaTiO3 interfacial strength as 
long as it is attached firmly on the electrode 
throughout the blister test.  
Figure 4 shows the crack-tip region at the 
electrode/substrate interface on the cross-section of a 
blister tested specimen. The fracture is mainly 
adhesive in nature at the observation scale of SEM. 
Evidence for plastic deformation can only be found at 
the crack tip. Near the crack tip, some pores appear to 
grow and coalesce with each other. Consequently 
some large pores are found at the interface on the 
silver side after debonding.  
Nano-indentation test has been used to determine 
the Young’s modulus of the porous silver electrode. 
The average Young’s modulus of the silver electrode 
before blister test is 40 GPa, and after blister test is 
20 GPa. The elastic modulus of bulk silver reported 
from literature is 76 GPa [6]. The porous structure 
and its modification by the plastic deformation [7,8] 
are the main reasons for this difference.  
For other thin-film-on-substrate systems, it is 
usually assumed that top film deforms elastically. 
Because of its thickness, porous structure and 
annealed microstructure, our silver electrode layer 
