1ㄧ、中文摘要
本研究針對高科技廠商經營策略型態、組織學習程度、組織文化類型、電子商務應用程
度與經營績效之關聯性進行分析探討。採取郵寄發放問卷的方式收集相關之資料，以臺灣三
大科學園區六大產業的高科技廠商為樣本，對公司的高階主管進行問卷發放，研究結果發現
電子商務應用執行程度越高，對於經營績效具有顯著正向的影響。經營策略類型不同，對於
電子商務應用具有顯著不同程度的影響。在組織學習方面，組織學習程度對於電子商務應用
的執行程度具有顯著正向的影響。理性型文化、層級型文化、共識型文化、發展型文化的執
行程度越高均有助於電子商務之應用程度，本研究建議企業要提高經營績效，需要提升組織
學習與電子商務之應用程度，強化理性型文化、層級型文化、共識型文化、發展型文化以及
探勘者策略、防禦者策略的執行。
關鍵詞：經營策略、組織學習、電子商務、經營績效
二、英文摘要
This study probes into the correlation among high-tech firms’types of operational strategy,
organizational learning degree, types of organizational culture, application degree of e-commerce
and operational performance. Data were collected by questionnaires distributed via mails. High-tech
firms in six industries of three Science Parks in Taiwan were treated as the samples, and
questionnaires were distributed to senior supervisors of the companies. The results showed that
higher application degree of e-commerce leads to more significant and positive effect on
operational performance. This study suggested that in order to upgrade operational performance,
firms should enhance application degrees of organizational learning and e-commerce, enhance
rational culture, hierarchical culture, consensual culture and developmental culture and the
execution of prospector strategy and defender strategy.
Keywords: operational strategy, organizational learning, organizational culture, e-commerce,
operational performance
三、前言
Under the environmental pressure of high competition, how high-tech industry selects proper
operational strategy and organizational culture, include organizational learning in e-commerce
application to provide better product service quality to customers and enhance operational
performance is the key of operational strategy in many firms. According to related studies, higher
application degree of e-commerce leads to more significant and positive effect on operational
performance (Girishankar, 1998; Turban et al., 1999; Wu, 2002); different types of operational
strategy significantly and differently influence application degree of e-commerce (Chen, 2007;
Wang, 1999; Lin, 2002), organizational learning degree significantly and positively influences
application degree of e-commerce (Silverstein, 1999; Li, 2002; Shih, 2004). In addition, different
3(2003) as the dimensions of organizational learning activities.
Types of organizational culture
Cristiano and Wazlawick (2008) suggested that organizational culture is the values, beliefs and
regulations had and shared by the organizational members. Jones and George (2007) suggested that
organizational culture is the shared values, regulation, behavioral standard and expectation which
influence the exchange and cooperation among individuals and groups in the process to carry out
the organizational objectives. As to types of organizational culture, Wallach (1983) divided
organizational culture into bureaucratic culture, innovative culture and supportive culture. The
competing values framework proposed by Quinn (1988) includes four types of culture: rational
culture, hierarchical culture, consensual culture and developmental culture. This study treats four
kinds of culture suggested by Quinn (1988) as the categories of organizational culture.
Application degree of e-commerce
Turban et al. (1999) suggested that e-commerce is the process of exchange, purchase, sales and
transfer of products, services and information through internet. Chaston et al. (2001) defined
e-commerce as firms’use of network technology, including e-mails, business websites, internet,
on-line shopping, etc. Kalakota and Whinston (1997) divided e-commerce application into three
dimensions: B-to-B e-commerce, B-to-C e-commerce and internal e-commerce of firms. Rayport
and Jaworski (2001) categorized e-commerce application into firms to firms, firms to consumers,
consumers to firms and consumers to consumers. Chuang (2001) generalized the definitions and
categorization of e-commerce suggested by the scholars, experts and organizations and divided
e-commerce into three types: (1) B-to-B e-commerce, including e-finance transaction, knowledge
sharing and communication, group discussion and work process integration; (2) B-to-C e-commerce,
including announcement of organizational information, online transaction, checking of products or
services, customer service and advertising marketing; (3) internal e-commerce of firms, including
knowledge sharing and communication, group discussion and work process integration. According
to the categorization of Kalakota and Whinston (1997), this study probes into e-commerce
application degree by B-to-B e-commerce, B-to-C e-commerce and internal e-commerce of the
firms.
Operational performance
Croteau and Bergeron (2001) measured corporate performance by profit capacity and growth of
sales. Shrader (2001) measured operational performance by profit rate and sales growth rate. Farrell
(2000) suggested that operational performance means the customer retention rate, success rate of
new products, sales growth rate, rate of return and overall performance, in comparison to the
colleagues. Tippins and Sohi(2003) measured organizational performance by profit rate, rate of
return, customer retention rate and sales growth rate. In the research of Su et al. (2003), operational
performance was measured by profits of the firms and customer satisfaction. Pelham (2000)
measured corporate performance by corporate efficacy, growth, share rate and profit capacity. Based
5products for the customers to enhance the corporate image and reputation. According to Berrill et al.
(2004), e-commerce can enhance corporate competitiveness, communication capability and
performance of products and services. Li (2002) suggested that e-commerce application degree
positively influences operational performance. Based on literature review above, this study
proposes the hypothesis H4: Higher e-commerce application degree leads to more significant and
positive effect on operational performance.
六、研究方法
This study probes into correlation among types of operational strategy, organizational learning,
type of organizational culture, e-commerce application degree, and operational performance in
high-tech industry.
Research Hypotheses
According to literature review, the hypotheses are shown below:
H1: Different types of operational strategy significantly and differently influence e-commerce
application degree.
H2: Higher organizational learning degree leads to most significant and positive effect on
e-commerce application degree.
H3: Different types of organizational culture significantly and positively influence e-commerce
application degree.
H4: Higher e-commerce application degree leads to more significant and positive effect on
operational performance.
Questionnaire collection
This study treated the firms in top three Science Parks as the subjects. The questionnaires were
anonymous and distributed to 658 companies at the beginning of February 2012. The respondents
were senior managers. A total of 63 effective samples were collected by April 2012. The design of
the questionnaire items was based on literature review, and it consisted of six sections. Part 1:
industry type and corporate scale. Industry type includes integrated circuit industry, computer and
peripheral device industry, communication industry, electro-optical industry, precision machinery
industry and bio-technology industry; corporate scale is divided into large-scale and small and
medium scale firms according to number of the employees. Part 2 to 6 are measured by Likert
5-point scale. Part 2: type of operational strategy, including (1) prospector strategy; (2) analyzer
strategy; (3) defender strategy. Part 3: organizational learning degree, including: (1) information
acquisition; (2) information communication; (3) shared interpretation; (4) organizational memory.
Part 4: types of organizational culture, including (1) rational culture; (2) hierarchical culture; (3)
consensual culture; (4) developmental culture. Part 5: e-commerce application degree, including: (1)
B-to-B e-commerce; (2) B-to-C e-commerce; (3) internal e-commerce of firms. Part 6: operational
performance, including profit rate, sales growth rate, product and service quality, customer retention
7designed by Quinn (1988) according to the competing values framework and organizational culture
measurement of Deshpande and Farley (1999) and Parker and Bradley (2000). Organizational
culture includes four types (rational culture, hierarchical culture, group culture, developmental
culture) and 20 measurements. The measurement is based on Likert 5–point scale, where“Strongly
agree” is 5 points, “Agree” is 4 points, “Fair” is 3 points, “Disagree” is 2 points, and “Strongly
disagree” is 1 point.
Measurement of application degree of e-commerce
As to e-commerce application degree, according to the classification of Kalakota and
Whinston (1997), the researcher probes into e-commerce application degree by B-to-B e-commerce,
B-to-C e-commerce and internal e-commerce of the firms. Measures of e-commerce application
degree are shown below:
1. Evaluation on B-to-B e-commerce application degree is based on the related measures adopted
by Wu (2001) and Pan (2000). It includes the followings: (a) the firms offer e-consultation for
upstream and downstream firms or the partners; (b) the firms offer e-catalogue for upstream and
downstream firms or the partners; (c) the firms allow e-orders from upstream and downstream
firms or the partner; (d) the firms exchange e-information with upstream and downstream firms
or the partners; (e) the firms integrate job process with upstream and downstream firms or the
partners by e-business; (f) the firms provide after-sale service by e-business; (g) the firms have
e-transaction with upstream and downstream firms or the partners.
2. Evaluation on B-to-C e-commerce application degree is based on the related measures adopted
by Pan (2000) and Wu (2001). It includes the followings: (a) the firms introduce the firms and
announce the corporate information to the customers by e-process; (b) the firms have online
product and service transaction with the customers by e-process; (c) the firms allow the
customers to check the related products and services by e-process; (d) the firms provide e-service
for the customers and respond tothe customers’questions; (e) the firms implement e-advertising
marketing to the customers.
3. Evaluation on application degree of internal e-commerce of the firms is based on the related
measures adopted by Chen (2000), Wu (2001) and Pan (2000). It includes the followings: (a) the
firms send the related information by e-mails; (b) the firms announce the information by BBS; (c)
the firms integrate internal business process by e-business; (d) the firms manage e-documents; (e)
the firms share the resources with employees with e-process; (f) the firms provide
e-communication channels for the employees; (g) the firms provide video or online conferences.
Measurement of operational performance
According to the literature review and the business characteristics of high-tech industry, this
study treats profit rate, sales growth rate, product and service quality, customer retention rate,
success rate of new product launch and rate of return as the indicators to measure corporate
performance. The indicators are below: (1) profit rate of the firms, in comparison to the rivals, is
higher; (2) sales growth rate of the firms, in comparison to the rivals, is higher; (3) the customers’
9to means of e-commerce application degrees of two groups (B-to-B e-commerce, B-to-C
e-commerce and internal e-commerce of the firms), the researcher tries to find if there is significant
difference. The research finding rejects H3: different types of organizational culture significantly
and differently influence e-commerce application degree. Different types of organizational culture
do not significantly influence e-commerce application degree. Higher executive degrees of rational
culture, hierarchical culture, consensual culture and developmental culture will enhance
e-commerce application degree.
Relationship between application degree of e-commerce and operational performance
This study divides e-commerce application degree (B-to-B e-commerce, B-to-C e-commerce
and internal e-commerce of the firms) into two groups (high and low executive degrees). According
to the means of operational performance of two groups, the researcher tries to find if there is
significant difference. Table 2 is variance analysis of e-commerce application degree on operational
performance. The research finding supports H4: higher e-commerce application degree leads to
more significant and positive effect on operational performance.
Table 2 Variance analysis of e-commerce application degree on operational performance
Operational performance
Low# High# F-value P-value
B-to-B e-commerce 3.15 3.93 43.98 <0.001*
B-to-C e-commerce 3.11 3.90 40.63 <0.001*
Internal e-commerce of
the firms
3.04 3.87 42.72 <0.001*
# Low: e-commerce application degree is lower than 3.50; High: e-commerce application degree is
higher than 3.50; * p < 0.05.
七、結論與建議
Few studies have included operational strategy, organizational learning, and organizational
culture in e-commerce application in exploration of their effects on operational performance. This
study treated high-tech industry as the subjects and explores the correlation among types of
operational strategy, organizational learning degree, types of organizational culture, e-commerce
application degree and operational performance. The results showed that higher e-commerce
application degree leads to more significant and positive effect on operational performance.
Different types of operational strategy significantly and differently influence e-commerce
application. Executive degrees of defender strategy and prospector strategy significantly influence
e-commerce application degree. Executive degree of analyzer strategy does not significantly
influence e-commerce application degree. As to organizational learning, organizational learning
degree significantly and positively influences the executive degree of e-commerce application
degree. In addition, different types of organizational culture do not significantly influence
11
performance’,Journal of Business Venturing, Vol. 16 No.5, pp. 471-494.
Farrel, M.A. (2000) ‘Developing A Market-Oriented Learning Organisation’,Australian Journal
of Management, Vol. 25 No.2, pp. 201-223.
Gibbs, J., Kraemer, K. and Dedrick, J. (2003) ‘Environment and policy factors shaping global 
e-commerce diffusion: A cross-country comparison’,The Information Society, Vol. 19 No.1, pp.
5-18.
Girishankar, S. (1998) ‘Virtual Markets Create New Roles for Distributors’,Internet Week [CWE],
pp. 210-212.
Jones, G. R. and George, J.M. (2007) Essentials of contemporary management, 2nd ed.,
McGraw-Hill, Boston.
Kalakota, R. and. Whinston, A.B. (1997) Electronic Commerce: A Manager Guide,
Addison-Wesley, New Jersey.
Liu, S. and Tang, M. (2007) ‘Culture's Role in E-Commerce Success: A Conceptual Model’,The
First International Symposium on Data, Privacy, and E-Commerce. IEEE Computer Society
Washington, DC, 429-433
Li, S.H. (2002) Effects of Organizational Learning, Core Capability and EC Introduction Motive on
Operational Performance after the Enterprises Introduce EC. Unpublished Master’s thesis, 
Department of Business Administration, National Central University, Taoyuan, Taiwan.
Lin, S.J. (2002) Analysis of Operational Strategy of E-business: Using Textile Industry as an
Example. Unpublished Master’sthesis, Department of Business Administration, National Cheng
Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
Miles, R.E. and Snow, C.C. (1978) Organizational Strategy, Structure and Process, McGraw-Hill,
New York.
Nickels, D. and Kwun, O. (2006) ‘The Relationship between E-Commerce Adoption and
Organizational Culture’,Proceedings of the 12th Americas Conference on Information Systems,
305-310.
Pace, R.W. (2002) ‘TheOrganizational Learning Audit’,Management Communication Quarterly,
Vol. 15 No.3, pp. 458-465.
Parker, R. and Bradley, L. (2000) ‘Organizational culture in the public sector: Evidence from six 
organizations’,International Journal of Public Sector Management, Vol. 13 No.2, pp. 125-141.
Pan, P.S. (2000) Study on Correlation between the Firms’Implementation of Knowledge
Management and E-Commerce. Unpublished Master’s thesis, Department of Management
Information Systems, Da-Yeh University, Changhua, Taiwan.
Pelham, A.M. (2000) ‘Market Orientation and Other Potential Influences on Performancein Small
and Medium-Sized Manufacturing Firms’, Journal of small Business Management, Vol. 38
No.1, pp. 48-67.
Porter M.E. (1980) Competitive Strategy, The Free Press, New York.
Quinn, R.E. (1988) Beyond Rational Management: Mastering paradoxes and competing demands
of high performance, Jossey-Bass, San Francisco.
Rayport J.F. and Jaworski, B.J. (2001) e-Commerce, McGraw-Hill, New York.
13
度對於經營績效的影響；(5) 瞭解高科技產業組織學習與電子商務應用的程度；(6) 藉由研究
所得的結果，提供高科技產業應用電子商務與提升經營績效的建議方案。研究結果發現電子
商務應用執行程度越高，對於經營績效具有顯著正向的影響。經營策略類型不同，對於電子
商務應用具有顯著不同程度的影響，防禦者策略與探勘者策略的執行程度高低顯著的影響電
子商務應用程度，分析者策略執行程度的高低對於電子商務應用程度沒有顯著的影響。在組
織學習方面，組織學習程度對於電子商務應用程度的執行程度具有顯著正向的影響。此外，
組織文化類型不同，對於電子商務應用程度並未造成顯著的影響。理性型文化、層級型文化、
共識型文化、發展型文化的執行程度越高均有助於電子商務之應用程度，因此公司若能結合
並運用此四種文化的特質，將顯著提升電子商務執行程度。本研究建議企業要提高績效，需
要提升組織學習與電子商務之應用程度，強化理性型文化、層級型文化、共識型文化、發展
型文化以及探勘者策略、防禦者策略的執行。研究內容與原計畫內容相符，相關研究成果預
計投稿於國際期刊，本計劃之研究發現可提供相關廠商或政府單位作為應用電子商務與提升
經營績效的參考，避免不必要的資源浪費及摸索時間。
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：鍾宜展 計畫編號：100-2221-E-264-014- 
計畫名稱：高科技產業經營策略、組織學習、組織文化、電子商務應用程度與經營績效關聯性之研究
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 1 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
