 2
were applied for the adhesion study and a 
resistor device has been fabricated by 
lithograph the patterns of metallic thin films 
and the frequency response has been analyzed. 
We analyzed the influence of adhesive 
force, elastic module and hardness of the thin 
film on the deposition temperature. From the 
analyses of SEM and the nano indentation we 
found that except the deposition temperature 
of 120ºC all other thin films have the adhesive 
force between 40-50N。 The adhesive force 
increases with the increasing deposition 
temperature. However, the excellent adhesive 
thin film deposited at 120ºC could be due to a 
meta alloyed structure of Cu and Si during the 
deposition. It disappeared when the deposition 
temperature arises up to 300ºC. 
The high frequency response of the 
multilayered metallic magnetic thin film 
device reveals a stable value for temperature 
and also for high frequency, which exhibit 
this structured multilayer thin film device can 
be applied in the electronic industry for the 
future. 
Keywords: metallic thin film resistor, magnetic 
thin film, adhesion, nanoindentation, critical 
loading, high frequency impedance 
自評 
本計畫依進度完成鍍膜設備修改，進行基板
加熱及旋轉功能之實驗。於 300ºC、200 ºC、
100 ºC 及室温進行 RF 射頻濺鍍金屬銅、鎳
和鉻元素之磁性金屬薄膜的多層膜於矽及
玻璃基板上，並分別以奈米探針作刮痕分析
鍍磁性金屬多層膜的薄膜的附著力與製作
元件後阻抗之影嚮。並利用微影法製作成不
同阻抗之元件 測試其頻率之響應。完成計
畫原定目標，並提出一專利申請案，本計畫
之貢獻為發現了一特殊之鍍膜溫度可達極
佳之鍍膜附著力。另有學術價值之研究結果
將可完成二篇論文，其重要結果謫摘錄於
後。 
1. Introduction 
Magnetic metal exhibits novel properties 
for many applications, s. a. media storage, 
electronic and magnetic sensors. Most 
magnetic thin film devices are in the 
multilayer structures. The new materials with 
magnetic multilayer thin films (MMTF) have 
been extensively studying worldwide. Since 
metallic multilayer device exhibits a part of 
internal inductance or capacitance, that does 
not reveal a good response at high frequency. 
On the other hand, MMTF is required to 
have very low thermal response, some of the 
difficulty remains to overcome for the 
production of MMTF devices. In this project 
we have studied the adhesion property of 
MMTF on substrate Si and glass in 
dependence of deposition temperature and 
characterized the electric property of MMTF 
devices.  
MMTFs can adhere well on to silicon 
substrate, however, above a critical thickness 
the metallic film can be easily peel off. In this 
project we varied the deposition temperature 
to study the adhesive force and temperature 
effect of MMTF. 
Nanoindentation, especially depth sensing 
nanoindentation technique, has become a 
widely accepted method for the extraction of 
mechanical properties of ultra-thin films[1-3]. 
The interpretation of the nanoindentation data 
for very thin films, however, still remains a 
controversial problem. In this project, we 
reported preliminary experimental studies on 
the effect of film thickness of metallic thin 
films prepared by RF magnetron sputtering at 
different temperatures. Further investigations, 
s. a.  the internal stress of MMTF on Si using 
finite element analysis and adhesion effect 
with nano indentation processes [4-7]and 
microscopic observations of the impressions 
have been often applied. 
MMTF, due to the metallic resistive 
property and magnetic property, is sensitive to 
temperature. The characteristics depends on 
the thickness of the MMTF, too. For thinner 
metallic films on substrate, the stress doesn’t 
affect the adhesion too much. However, it 
remains lower current flow through the device. 
MMTF device consists of a certain thickness 
of metallic films for practical use. When the 
temperature increases, the MMTF film often 
 4
temperature the MMTF reveals less in 
Young’s module and also the hardness than 
glass. 
Following analysis of SEM of sizes of 
nanoindentation we determined the young’s 
modul, thin film hardness and the critical load 
of the thin film adhesion in dependence of the 
experimental parameters. Fig. 3 shows the 
SEM photographs of the MMTF on Si 
samples with the nano indentations. Samples 
were deposited at room temperature, 88 ºC, 
122 ºC, and 233℃. Form the scratch pictures  
 
Fig. 3 shows the SEM photographs of the MMTF 
samples with the nano indentations. Samples 
were deposited at room temperature, 88 ºC, 122 
ºC, and 233℃. 
 
Fig. 4 Enlarged SEM micro image of the nano 
indentation and the scratch of the 122 ºC 
MMTF.  
we found that the 122 ºC MMTF adheres on 
the substrate with special good effect. The 
picture reveals a clean scratch curve for a 
good adhesive property. Without any 
significant difference of the scratch for the 
other samples of the RT, 88 ºC, and 233℃. 
Fig. 4 again shows the enlarged SEM micro 
image of the nano indentation and the scratch 
of the 122 ºC MMTF. The picture reveals a 
clean scratch curve for a good adhesive 
property. 
The excellent adhesion of sample deposited 
at 122 ºC could be due to a meta phase of 
the Si-Cu alloyed structure. This structure 
however, doesn’t appear at the sample 
deposited at the other temperature. 
We fabricated the MMTF into a pattern 
resistor device and analyzed its impedance for 
the aims of study the influence of adhesion 
effect on the electrical properties. Fig. 5 shows 
the device of the MMTF 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5. MMTF Device and it’s impedance in 
dependence of the bias. 
CuNiCr multilayer, and Cu on glass and on Si,  
and the impedance in dependence on the DC 
bias, which is the typical measurement for the 
leakage of current in capacitor. The samples 
are deposited at at different temperature. The 
impedance of all samples reveals the stable 
electrical property. Again in fig. 6 shows the 
IV curves of the devices of MMTF on Si. The 
resistance is rather lineally proportional to the 
length of the pattern, reveals stable electrical 
characteristic. 
 
Fig. 6 IV curve of the MMTF deposited at 122C on Si. 
It shows the ideal resistor characteristics. 
Finally, we characterized the high frequency 
response of the device using the equipment of 
