 2
四、 結果與討論 
圖一(a)為佈值 Co 之 ZnO 奈米線的掃描電子顯微鏡圖，實驗中觀察到大部
分的奈米線平躺在基板上，線徑大小約 40 奈米長度可達幾個微米，且觀察到經
過離子佈植有奈米線 bending 的現象，圖一(b)為佈值後未退火之 Co-ZnO奈米線
的 HRTEM 影像，由影像中可觀察到 stacking fault 的面缺陷，又由右下角
diffraction pattern觀察到第二種缺陷，即 orientation variation，主要為奈米線佈植
後造成缺陷分佈不均，而形成 bending的現象，並與電子束垂直之晶格平面間旋
轉所造成的，這兩種缺陷為高能量 Co離子佈值時所產生。 另外為了瞭解 Co 離
子在 ZnO奈米線摻雜的成分比與分佈的情況，進行 EDX與 EELS分析，從圖二
(a)EDX spectrum 可以清楚的觀察到 Co 的 peak，其成分估計為摻雜 Co 量為
6×1016 cm-2換算過後約為 13％，並從圖二(b)EELS Map中觀察到 Co 為均勻分佈，並
未有第二相析出物的存在， 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
圖三(a)為佈值後未退火之 Co-ZnO奈米線磁性量測結果，由倒磁化量隨溫度
變化中，我們只觀察到順磁現象，而磁性的大小有隨著 Co含量的增加而增強，
並從圖三(b) 磁滯曲線並未有鐵磁的訊號產生，主要為順磁的訊號。圖四為退火
後之 Co-ZnO奈米線的 HRTEM圖，圖中顯示佈值所產生之兩種缺陷都已移除，
恢復離子佈值前之結晶結構，其一大氣壓 Ar退火所對應的磁滯曲線為圖四(b)紅
色圓形點，所描繪出之曲線。結果顯示，週期排列之晶格結構，增強 Co離子間
鐵磁性 exchange interaction。而真空退火後其對應的磁滯曲線為圖四(b)綠色圓形
圖一 圖二 
 4
軌域，在 EELS分析退火後 Zn1-xCoxO奈米線的中可以清楚的觀察到 Co的 L2、
L3的特徵峰值，證實 Co 在 ZnO 奈米線中是存在的。為了建立一正比之關係，
須先去除背景之影響以及歸一化。而背景的強度是採用 double arctangent函數，
此一雙重 arctangent 的背景即是 2p 電子被激發到游離態。而在扣除背景後，將
可得到兩個 Loentzian函數的疊加，及分別為 L3與 L2的特徵峰圖五(b)。而 L2吸
收峰強度代表為 2p1/2躍遷到 3d3/2電子個數，而 L3吸收峰強度代表為 2p3/2躍遷
到 3d3/2或 3d5/2電子個數，而這兩個 Loentzian 提供我們在電子躍遷之最終態 d5/2
以及 d3/2的 d hole數目比或其總數目比。之後再各別對 L3、L2兩峰值之面積做積
分，而其 L3/L2 面積積分比約為 3.5，比較實驗數據結果與文獻上各種不同價數
之Co所做L3/L2之結果後，發現Co在ZnO奈米線中之Co其離子態較接近（Co+2）。 
圖六顯示不同條件之 EELS 能譜分析，發現為退火前與 Ar退火後其比值變
化不大，而其真空退火後有其顯著的改變，對應其鐵磁性質明顯的變化，推測其
原因可能是 Co 價數的改變，或是結構中氧缺陷的增加導致其能隙或鍵結的改
變，其原因還不明瞭，為未來的研究工作。 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 圖五 圖六 
INSTITUTE OF PHYSICS PUBLISHING NANOTECHNOLOGY
Nanotechnology 17 (2006) 5511–5518 doi:10.1088/0957-4484/17/21/036
Fabrication, characterization and studies
of annealing effects on ferromagnetism in
Zn1−xCoxO nanowires
Z Y Wu1, F R Chen1, J J Kai1, W B Jian2,4 and J J Lin2,3,4
1 Department of Engineering and System Science, National Tsing Hua University,
Hsinchu 300, Taiwan
2 Department of Electrophysics, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu 300, Taiwan
3 Institute of Physics, National Chiao Tung University, Hsinchu 300, Taiwan
E-mail: wbjian@mail.nctu.edu.tw and jjlin@mail.nctu.edu.tw
Received 9 June 2006, in final form 3 October 2006
Published 20 October 2006
Online at stacks.iop.org/Nano/17/5511
Abstract
Diluted magnetic semiconductor Zn1−x Cox O (x  0.11) nanowires with
average diameter of ∼40 nm were prepared by thermal evaporation, followed
by high-energy Co ion implantation. Bombardment by Co ions produced a
good number of structural defects (stacking faults and orientational
variations) in the nanowires. The as-implanted nanowires were paramagnetic.
We performed two types of thermal annealing, one in 1 atm argon flow and
the other in a high vacuum, at 600 ◦C, and studied the effects of annealing on
the magnetic properties of these nanowires. Argon annealing removed
structural defects in the nanowires and the nanowires then revealed
ferromagnetic ordering. This result suggests that structure defects are harmful
to the occurrence of ferromagnetism in the Co-implanted ZnO. The structure
of the as-implanted and the annealed nanowires was inspected in detail by
using scanning electron microscopy, energy dispersive x-ray spectroscopy,
maps of electron energy loss spectra, x-ray diffraction, and high-resolution
transmission electron microscopy. Taken together, these studies suggested
that no second phase existed on the scale down to the spatial resolution of
∼0.5 nm. Noticeably, the nanowires even displayed largely enhanced
ferromagnetism after annealing in a high vacuum. A subsequent annealing in
oxygen has also been performed on those vacuum-annealed nanowires to
study the roles played by the O vacancies in determining the ferromagnetic
properties of the nanowires. Our results indicate that both the improved
structural quality and the increased number of O vacancies are key factors for
the occurrence of ferromagnetic ordering in the Zn1−x Cox O nanowires.
1. Introduction
Diluted magnetic semiconductors [1] (DMSs) have attracted
much attention because of the possibility of introducing
the spin degree of freedom into the charge controllable
semiconductor devices. The integration of charge and spin
in the existing semiconductor technologies, such as transistor,
memory, and magnetic recording technologies, has evolved
into a new field of fundamental and applied research called
4 Authors to whom any correspondence should be addressed.
‘spintronics’ [2]. A DMS is known to be a good candidate
for the application of spintronic devices and scientists are
searching for room-temperature (RT) ferromagnetic DMSs.
An experimental result of the influence of carrier concentration
on ferromagnetism (FM) of the IV–VI DMS material,
PbSnMnTe, was reported [3] and indirect exchange via
the Ruderman–Kittel–Kasuya–Yosida (RKKY) interaction was
proposed to explain the occurrence of the observed FM.
The transition temperature of the IV–VI DMS material was,
however, too low to be useful in real applications. Munekata
0957-4484/06/215511+08$30.00 © 2006 IOP Publishing Ltd Printed in the UK 5511
Fabrication, characterization and studies of annealing effects on ferromagnetism
Figure 1. (a) Top-view SEM image of as-grown ZnO nanowires.
(b) HRTEM image and its corresponding electron diffraction pattern
(inset) displaying the single-crystalline structure of an as-grown ZnO
nanowire.
and its corresponding diffraction pattern with zone axis of
[112¯0] are shown in figure 1(b). The lattice fringe spacing
of 0.52 nm as indicated corresponds to the separation distance
between the (001) planes and is in agreement with the lattice
constants for the ZnO wurtzite structure. The growth direction
of the ZnO nanowire is [0001], and the whole wire comprises
a single-crystalline structure.
The as-grown ZnO nanowires were implanted by 40 keV
Co ions as depicted in figure 2(a). This implantation process
for producing Zn1−x Cox O nanowires was chosen because it
ensured a random and uniform distribution of Co ions in the
ZnO matrix. In bulk ZnO, the implanted Co ion distribution
estimated from the SRIM simulation [34] predicted a peak at
20 nm and a range of ∼40 nm. The predicted implantation
range, which was near the average diameter of our nanowires,
guaranteed a uniform distribution of Co ions in the bombarding
direction. The Co concentrations in our nanowires were
determined from the EDX results, as will be described below
and in figure 3. Alternatively, the thickness of the resulted
Zn1−x Cox O nanowire layer can be evaluated in the following
manner. We know that the bombardment of a dose of 1 ×
1016 cm−2 Co ions produced the as-implanted Zn0.98Co0.02O
nanowires. By assuming all Co ions were implanted in the ZnO
matrix without loss, we estimated the thickness of this layer to
be ∼120 nm. This evaluated thickness is ∼3 times as large
as the implanted Co ion range inferred from the SRIM code
simulation. Such a discrepancy could readily result from the
geometrical difference between a bulk and a nanowire-formed
layer. The whole layer of the ZnO nanowire with a thickness of
4–5 µm covered with a very thin Zn1−x Cox O nanowire layer of
∼120 nm is shown in the side-view SEM image in figure 2(b).
Figure 2. (a) Schematic illustration of the preparation method for
Co-implanted ZnO nanowires. (b) Side-view SEM image of ZnO
nanowires grown on a glass substrate. The estimated thickness of the
thin, as-implanted Zn1−x Cox O nanowire-formed layer is depicted in
the image.
Figure 3. (a) EDX spectroscopy of the as-implanted Zn0.89Co0.11O
nanowires. (b) Bright-field image of the as-implanted Zn0.89Co0.11O
nanowires with compositional EELS mapping of the O K edge, Co L
edge and Zn L edge.
The Co concentration of the as-implanted Zn1−x Cox O
nanowires was determined from the relative ratio of the
Co element among Zn and O elements by using EDX
spectroscopy. Measurements on more than 20 different
nanowires from the same Co ion-dosed sample were carried
5513
Fabrication, characterization and studies of annealing effects on ferromagnetism
Figure 6. (a) SEM image of as-implanted Zn0.94Co0.06O nanowires.
(b) HRTEM image of as-implanted Zn0.89Co0.11O nanowires with
white triangles indicating one type of structural defect, i.e., stacking
faults. Inset: an electron diffraction pattern revealing another type of
structural defect, i.e., orientational variations.
The appearance of hysteresis loops, a characteristic behaviour
of FM, points to domain wall motion in our 40 nm diameter
Zn1−x Cox O nanowires. Apart from the nonreversible loops
we can see the linear and reversible component in the field-
dependent magnetization. The linear part may originate
from some isolated Co ions without ferromagnetic exchange
interaction with other magnetic cations. To reduce the effect of
the linear component from those paramagnetic impurities we
used the same sample for subsequent thermal treatments and
magnetization measurements.
Bearing in mind investigating the crystal structure effects
on the possible occurrence of FM, the Zn1−x Cox O nanowires,
both before and after annealing in argon, were carefully
examined by HRTEM. We first show the SEM and HRTEM
images of the as-implanted nanowires in figure 6. Right after
ion implantation but before argon annealing, the morphology
and dimensions of the Zn1−x Cox O nanowires did not change
appreciably, except a bending of the nanowires occurred. The
HRTEM image shows a single-crystalline structure with a
[0001] growth direction (which is the growth direction for our
as-grown ZnO nanowires). The bending effect could also be
observed in the [112¯0] electron diffraction pattern, as shown
in the inset of figure 6(b) for the as-implanted Zn0.89Co0.11O
nanowires. A small rotation with respect to the zone axis
generated deviation angles for the (011¯0) and (011¯1) plane
sets. The first type of structural defect (called orientational
variations) exhibited bending in the SEM image and rotation of
plane-set points in the selected area electron diffraction pattern.
A second type of structural defect (called stacking faults) was
also found, as indicated by the many small triangles in the
HRTEM image shown in figure 6(b). The locations of the
Figure 7. (a) Variation of the number of stacking faults per 100 nm
in length along the [0001] growth direction of as-implanted and
annealed Zn1−x Cox O nanowires with the Co concentration.
(b) Variation of the deviation angle of the (011¯0) and (011¯1) plane
sets along the [112¯0] axis with the Co concentration.
small triangles marking stacking faults were determined from
the back and forth fast Fourier transform analysis of the (0001)
plane set.
We have quantitatively analysed these two types of
structural defect in our nanowires as described below. The
numbers of stacking faults in the as-grown ZnO and the as-
implanted Zn1−x Cox O nanowires were counted per 100 nm in
length along the [0001] direction and are plotted as a function
of Co concentration in figure 7(a). The number of stacking
faults for each Co concentration was evaluated and averaged
by counting over 20 Zn1−x Cox O nanowires. For comparison,
the amount of stacking faults in the as-grown ZnO nanowires is
also plotted. We found that the Co ion implantation generates
a good number of stacking faults. Some of the stacking faults
were, however, removed by the thermal annealing process.
After 1 atm argon annealing, the number of stacking faults was
reduced to the level of 6–7 per 100 nm in length, which was
still twice that in the as-grown ZnO nanowires. In particular,
the crystalline structure of the Zn1−x Cox O nanowires was now
greatly recovered.
The slight bending of the as-implanted Zn1−x Cox O
nanowires was quantified by deviation angles representing the
rotation of plane-set points in the electron diffraction pattern.
Figure 7(b) shows the deviation angles in degrees as a function
of the Co concentration for both the as-implanted and annealed
Zn1−x Cox O nanowires. We see that the deviation angles for
the plane sets of (011¯0) and (011¯1) changed by a factor of ∼2
in the as-implanted nanowires, as compared with those in the
5515
Fabrication, characterization and studies of annealing effects on ferromagnetism
Figure 9. (a) Hysteresis loops for argon-annealed and high-vacuum
annealed Zn0.92Co0.08O and Zn0.89Co0.11O nanowires at 2 K. The
magnetization was normalized to that at the field of 1500 Oe for
comparison. (b) Hysteresis loops for the high-vacuum annealed
Zn0.92Co0.08O nanowires at 2, 5, and 10 K as indicated.
greatly diminishes and the magnetization is notably attenuated
(see figure 10). The diminished FM in the vacuum-annealed
Zn1−x Cox O nanowires followed with an oxygen annealing
immediately implies a decisive role being played by O element
in determining the magnetic properties of the nanowires. We
believe that the first high-vacuum annealing results in the
formation of a good number of O vacancies in the nanowires,
while the second annealing in oxygen largely fills those
vacancies up again with O. It is established that ZnO is a native
n-type material with the dopants generating from either O
vacancies or Zn interstitials [41]. Consequently, we may draw
the conclusion that the enhanced FM found in the vacuum-
annealed nanowires is very likely caused by a change in the
electron concentration due to the generation of a large amount
of O vacancies. We cannot inspect point defects of O vacancies
but can observe planar defects of stacking faults through
HRTEM analysis. Taking the results from second annealing
together, we conclude that the effect of argon annealing is
mainly to remove structure defects only, while high-vacuum
annealing causes an extra effect of increasing the number of O
vacancies in ZnO.
To trace the origin of the enhanced FM found in the high-
vacuum annealed nanowires, we carried out measurements of
EELS spectra in the as-implanted, argon-annealed, and high-
vacuum annealed Zn1−x Cox O nanowires. The technique of
L3/L2 intensity ratio correlating the EELS spectra with the
valence states [42, 43] was used to determine the change of
the oxidation state of Co ions in our nanowires. To determine
Figure 10. Hysteresis loops for the same Zn0.89Co0.11O nanowires
after a first annealing in high vacuum and then a second annealing in
oxygen. The data were taken at 2 K.
the numerical ratio of L3/L2, a double arctangent function was
used as a background function for subtracting the background
intensity. The intensity ratios thus determined for the as-
implanted, argon-annealed, and vacuum-annealed Zn1−x Cox O
nanowires are 3.5, 3.4, and 3.1, respectively. We see that the
valence state of Co ions in the argon-annealed nanowires is
barely changed from that in the as-implanted nanowires.
The results of annealing effects, pointing out the important
roles played by defects, are consistent with recent observation
of reversible 300 K FM ordering in Co2+:ZnO thin film [44]
and thin film grown by ultrasonic-assisted solution chemical
vapour deposition [45]. Double-exchange mechanisms [46]
from either Zn interstitials or O vacancies in our observations
are theoretically supported [29, 27], and it will thus provide
adequate description of the FM in the Zn1−x Cox O system.
4. Summary
In this work, we fabricated Zn1−x Cox O nanowires by using
the standard ion implantation technique. The Co ions were
uniformly distributed in nanowires, as was inspected by
using EELS map under a spatial resolution of ∼1.8 nm.
In addition, no second phase of either Co clustering or
CoO nanocrystals was found in the nanowires by using
HRTEM within our spatial resolution of ∼0.5 nm. The c
lattice constant of the Zn1−x Cox O nanowires decreases with
increasing Co concentration x . The as-implanted nanowires
showed no sign of ferromagnetic ordering at 2 K. In the
as-implanted Zn1−x Cox O nanowires, two types of structural
defect (i.e., stacking faults and orientational variations) were
found. After annealing in argon, the removal of structural
defects and the recovery of structure order introduced FM
in the Zn1−x Cox O nanowires, which displayed noticeable
hysteresis loops up to 10 K. We found that the structure defects
due to stacking faults are more detrimental to the occurrence
of FM. For comparison, we performed Co implantation on
carbon-coated ZnO nanowires and found clear Co clusters
in HRTEM images. Most noticeably, thermal annealing in
high vacuum caused a largely enhanced FM ordering in the
Zn1−x Cox O nanowires. A subsequent second annealing on the
vacuum-annealed nanowires was performed to illustrate that O
vacancies play decisive roles in determining the occurrence of
ferromagnetism. EELS spectra revealed a slight shift toward a
5517
教育部補助博士班研究生出席國際會議報告 
        
姓    名 吳忠益 會議期間 2006 年 9 月 3日─2006 年 9 月 8日
中文：第十六屆國際顯微鏡研討會 
會議名稱 
英文：The 16th International Microscopy Congress 
出國報告 
一、參加會議經過 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
