 2
electroplated or brazed onto its flat surface. The diamond grit size, crystalline orientation, 
distribution density, amount of protrusion of the diamond, and the substrate planarity all will affect 
the dressing rate of the conditioner (Rikita et al., 2008). Sung and Pai (2000) pointed out that the 
number of working diamonds is markedly influenced by the levels of the diamond grits. He also 
mentioned that the tip height distribution of conventional CMP pad conditioners is intrinsically 
large due to the variation in grit size and diamond orientation. Tsai et al. (2009) pointed out that 
although the conventional pad conditioner has regular distribution diamond grits bonded by braze, 
the diamond tips are located at different heights. Moreover, with cutting angles oriented in different 
directions, only a small proportion of the diamond grits can penetrate the flexible pad surface; most 
diamond grits are hanging on the disk with no function. Zimmer and Stubbmann (1998) stated that 
the ideal conditioner should have exactly the same shape, size and orientation as the diamond grits, 
and the spacing between the diamond grits should be identical. As ultra-high speed, ultra-fine 
multilevel structures of ULSI circuits are being increasingly demanded, polishing pads and 
polishing machines are becoming larger. A better and more reliable pad conditioner is required for 
the future. 
In this paper, instead of attaching individual diamond grits to a metal substrate, a new design of 
diamond conditioner is made by shaping a sintered matrix of polycrystalline diamond (PCD) to 
form blades with teeth. These blades are arranged and embedded in epoxy resin, and fit to the 
designated tilt angle. The leveling and penetration angle of the blade diamond disk can be 
controlled precisely through wire-electrical discharge machining (WEDM), giving detail that could 
not achieved by a traditional diamond dresser. The dressing characteristics of pad surface textures 
are then studied by comparing to traditional diamond conditioner in experiments. The polishing 
rates of silicon dioxide using the newly designed dresser are also studied. 
2. Traditional Diamond Conditioner 
A traditional diamond pad conditioner or dresser is made by attaching diamond grits onto a metal 
disk. Diamond is difficult to bond with other materials due to its natural properties. The diamond 
industry has developed three distinct methods to hold diamond grits in place: by burying them in 
electroplated nickel, by retaining them in sintered metal powder, or by brazing them with a specialty 
alloy. The first generation of diamond pad conditioners contained chaotically distributed diamond 
grits, typically retained in an electroplated nickel layer. The electroplated metal only holds 
diamonds in place mechanically, so the displacement of diamonds from the matrix is inevitable. The 
loss of diamond particles during the CMP process affects wafer performance. The 
second-generation pad conditioners had clusters of diamond grits that were held by braze. In these 
clusters, the braze layer became thickened. As a consequence, not only does the distribution of 
 4
surface topology was measured using a stylus-type three-dimensional surface roughness 
measurement instrument. The radius of the diamond tip probe, the nose angle and the measuring 
force were 5 μm, 90° and 4 mN, respectively. Each image was made with over 50 scan curves and 
35000 points within the 2mm by 2mm area of the pad. In the figures provided in the next section, 
the values of roughness are the averages of three measured values. The reliability of the measured 
roughness data is approximately equal to the statistically averaged value of 150 measurements. A 
Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) was employed to examine pad morphology such as pores and 
grooves. The pad dressing rate was measured using a linear variable differential transformer (LVDT) 
instrument. The leveling of the diamond grit tips were measured using a non-destructive surface 
profile system (Model Microprof®) manufactured by Fries Research & Technology (FRT). 
The polishing experiments were conducted using a Westech polisher (Model 372M) as shown in 
Fig.6. Its speed is adjustable and the pad was mounted on a polishing plate with a diameter of 24 
inches. During polishing, a power head applies a specific load to the wafer and a dispenser is used 
to supply slurry. The wafer used was an oxide wafer with thickness of 8000 Å, and dimension of 
wafer is 6 inches. The wafer was attached to a holder that was connected to a wafer carrier head 
which rotated at 40 rpm. A polyurethane pad was mounted on a table disk that rotated at 42 rpm. 
The applied pressure was about 4 psi. The polishing slurry used in the experiments was SS25, 
produced by Cobat Company. The thickness of the oxide layer on the wafers was measured before 
and after polishing using a system that is commonly applied to measure the thickness of thin films, 
with a measurement range of 100 to 150,000 Å. The data reported herein are measured at 17 
positions. Details of the polishing experimental condition are shown in Table 3. 
5. Results and Discussion 
The levelling of diamond tips and cutters images for BDD and DG were analyzed using optical 
interference microscopy by Fries Research & Technology and SEM. These are presented in Fig. 7. 
In this figure the height variation of the diamond tips in the BDD is significantly smaller than in the 
DG. Although the DG has been the industry standard for CMP, the levelling variation between 
diamond tips is larger than 50 microns so the diamond-to-diamond distance control becomes less 
meaningful. The diamond tips of BDD can be levelled to within 15 microns. The better levelled 
diamond disk has more cutters that can dress the pad and share the dressing loading simultaneously. 
In addition, BDD contains cutting tips of identical sharpness and penetration angle as shown in Fig. 
7(a), indicating this design can precisely apply the shaped tips and dressing angle to the pad during 
the dressing process.  
  Figure 8 displays representative images of the pad surface measured using stylus-type 
instrument after 60 minutes of dressing generated by BDD and DG, respectively. In the figure 
 6
addition conditioners with a sharper penetration angle provide a higher dressing rate, as expected. 
Based on the observations regarding pad dressing rate and wafer removal rate made herein, the 
BDD can produce a higher wafer removal rate while consuming less pad material, and hence the 
pad life is extended. As a result, a reduction in the cost of CMP is expected.  
6. Conclusions 
A new design of diamond dresser is proposed in this paper, by shaping a sintered matrix of 
polycrystalline diamond (PCD) to form serrated blades. This is in contrast to the conventional 
design where diamond dressers are made by attaching random diamond grits onto metal with braze. 
The dressing characteristics of pad surface textures of the newly-designed dresser are studied by 
comparing with the conventional diamond disk. Based on this investigation, the following 
conclusion can be drawn. The height variation in diamond tips of the blade diamond disk is 
significantly smaller than that of the traditional diamond disk. For traditional diamond disks, the 
variation in diamond tip leveling can be larger than 50 microns. The diamond tips of blade diamond 
disk can be leveled to within 15 microns. The aR  value of pad surface roughness with the blade 
diamond disk is better than that with a traditional diamond disk. The polishing rate of the blade 
diamond disk, at about 1020 Å/min, is higher than that of the traditional diamond disk, which has a 
polishing rate of about 970 Å /min. The dressing rate of the blade diamond disk is approximately 26 
μm/hr, lower than that of the traditional diamond disk, which dresses at approximately 37 μm/hr. 
This leads to the pad being less worn than with the higher wafer removal rate experienced with the 
traditional diamond disk, thereby extending the pad life. As a result, a reduction in the cost of CMP 
is expected.  
 
References    
1. Tsai, M.Y., Chen, S.T., Liao, Y.S., and Sung, J.C., 2009. Dressing characteristics of CMP 
polishing pad using a novel diamond conditioner. Int. J. of Mach. Tool. Manufact. 49, 922-729. 
2. Lu, H., Fookes, B., Obeng, Y., Machmski, S., and Richardson, K.A., 2002. Quantitative analysis 
of physical and chemical changes in CMP polyurethane pad surfaces, Mater. Character. 49, 
35-44. 
3. Rikita, N., Shimizu, A., and Kobayashi, H., 2008. The use of Tagichi to CMP 
conditioner. In: International Conference on Planarization/CMP Technology, Taiwan, 
97-104.. 
 8
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Cutter images measured by optical interference microscopy 
and SEM, (a) BDD and (b) DG 
(a) (b) 
(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
