 2 
 
摘要 
本計劃使用三維 Navier-Stokes 方程式配合 RNG k-ε 紊流模式與 P1 熱輻射模式來計算 HCPV 聚
光型太陽模組的散熱流場。研究中探討 HCPV 散熱的參數有直射日照、大氣溫度、風速與模組的角
度。結果指出當風速增加時，HCPV 的高溫下降，且當風速在小於 1m/s 時，HCPV 最高溫下降的特
別快，當大於 1m/s 時，HCPV 最高溫下降的則較緩和。這結果與一般文獻在太陽能溫度與風速時的
線性迴歸有所不同。在本研究的大氣溫與直射日照的範圍內， HCPV 最高溫與這兩個參數呈現性關
係。本計畫也發現 HCPV 雖然在幾何圖形上是對稱的，但是計算出的流場卻呈現非對稱且非週期性
的特徵。以往有學者假設對稱條件，二維或周期性來計算 HCPV 流場，在物理假設上是有本質的錯
誤。本計畫也架設一組直射日照追蹤平台，並安裝聚光型太陽電池模組，長期分析電池模組實際戶
外測試性能，同時蒐集年度太陽直射日照量分佈資料，以作為建置太陽電池模組測試與應用的參考
依據與 CFD 的驗證工作。 
關鍵字: 計算流體力學；聚光型太陽能；熱管理；流動型態；不對稱 
 
ABSTRACT 
The present project performs a series of simulations based on the Reynolds Averaged Navier-Stokes equations, 
the RNG k-ε turbulence model, and the P1 radiation model to investigate the passive cooling of 
high-concentration photovoltaic (HCPV) solar cell modules. The simulations focus specifically on the effects 
of the direct normal irradiance, the ambient temperature, the module elevation angle and the wind speed on 
the thermal management performance of the HCPV module. The results have shown that the maximum cell 
temperature within the HCPV module reduces as the wind speed increases. Moreover, the heat dissipation 
performance of the HCPV module is significantly dependent upon the wind speed for wind speeds below 1 m/s. 
In addition, the maximum cell temperature is a linear function of the ambient temperature and direct normal 
irradiance.  Finally, the simulations have shown that the temperature distribution and flow-field phenomena in 
the HCPV module possess distinct three-dimensional asymmetrical characteristics. In other words, simulation 
models based on symmetrical boundaries, periodic boundaries, or two-dimensional geometries are insufficient to 
investigate the thermal management performance of real-world HCPV modules.  
 
Keywords: CFD; HCPV; Heat Management; Flow Pattern ; Asymmetrical 
 4 
three-dimensional (3-D) model to predict the maximum cell temperature for any cell array type. However, in 
these studies [11-15], the actual physical phenomena, i.e., the three-dimensional nature of the module 
geometry, the wind speed and wind direction, and so on, were over-simplified [16]. As a result, the 
creditability of the numerical results is uncertain.  
In an attempt to address the limitations described above, this study conducts 3-D CFD simulations based on 
the Reynolds Averaged Navier-Stokes equations, the RNG k-ε turbulence model, and the P1 radiation model 
to investigate the flow patterns and temperature distribution within a typical HCPV module. The simulations 
commence by investigating the relationship between the module temperature and the elevation angle under 
no-wind conditions. The simulations then examine the effect of the wind speed on the temperature distribution 
within the module whose elevation angle is zero degree. The simulations also compare the thermal 
management performance of the module with two different orientations after being installed, namely vertical 
and horizontal. Finally, the effects of ambient temperature and direct normal irradiance on the cell temperature 
are also investigated. 
 
2. Methodology 
 
The 120 W high-concentration photovoltaic (HCPV) module investagated is composed of 40 high-efficiency 
III-V solar cells with an aluminum plate heat sink (thickness=0.2cm) under illumination of 476× (geometric 
ratio) concentration sunlight. The HCPV module with a tracking system is designed and developed in the 
Institute of Nuclear Energy Research (INER)[2], but is currently installed at National Pingtung University of 
Science and Technology(Figure 1) for on-site testing. For the HCPV module, the temperature at its backskin, 
the voltage and current of the PV solar panels, and the AC power output through an inverter were collected. 
K-type thermocouples were used to measure the temperature at various locations at the backskin of the 
module during its operation. The efficiency of the module is 23% while direct normal irradiance (DNI) is 
about 850 W/m
2
.  
To achieve the detailed physical phenomena, the thermal and velocity field for the air inside and outside the 
HCPV module were solved simultaneously. There are three modes of heat transfer, including the heat 
conduction in the module wall; the convective heat transfer of the air inside and outside the module; and the 
radiative heat transfer between the sun and the module. Hence, the three-dimensional Navier-Stokes equations 
along with the heat conduction equation (for solid) were used to predict the HCPV flowfield. Because the 
Rayleigh number was about 5×109, the flow could be assumed to be a turbulent flow[17,18]. The RNG k-ε  
turbulence model was used to simulate the turbulent flow while the P1 radiation model was used to model the 
thermal radiative heat transfer.    
 
2.1 Numerical method 
The simulations were performed using the FLUENT CFD software [18]. FLUENT employed the finite volume 
method through which the conservation principles were applied to a control volume. In this method, the 
governing differential equations were integrated for each control volume to yield a set of algebraic equations 
that ensured all quantities were conserved on a control volume basis. The second order upwind scheme was 
chosen for the spatial discretization of the convection term in each governing equation. The pressure and 
velocity fields were decoupled using the semi-implicit method for a pressure-linked equation (SIMPLE) [19]. 
 6 
the bottom of the module was assumed to be 850 W/m
2
. Observing these two figures, it is seen that for both 
orientations, the local maximum temperature occurs at the top of the HCPV module due to natural convection 
effects. Also, a cell may operate up to 18
o
C higher than the other cells within the HCPV in these simulated cases. 
Figure 6 shows the variation of maximum cell temperature with elevation angle under no-wind condition. The 
finding is that for both installation strategies, the maximum temperature reduces as the elevation angle is 
increased.  In addition, the results of Figures 4-6 illustrate that the maximum cell temperatures in the vertical 
and horizontal oriented module are nearly the same but they are found at different locations on the backskin. 
In the zero elevation angle case, the streamline patterns indicate the occurrence of an asymmetric flow.  The 
flow-field is symmetric in the x direction and asymmetric in the y direction, although the geometry of module is 
symmetric in both the x and y directions. As a result, simplified simulation models based on symmetrical 
boundaries [14], periodic boundaries [15] or two-dimensional geometries [12-14] are insufficient to investigate 
the problem of heat dissipation within HCPV modules. 
 
3.3 Effects of ambient meteorology  
An attempt had been made to analyze how the maximum cell temperature is affected by the ambient 
conditions, such as the ambient temperature, the DNI, and the wind speed. A further understanding of these 
parameters on the HCPV module is essential because they are important to develop the HCPV power/energy 
rating. Figure 7 shows the variations of the maximum cell temperature with the ambient temperature. As the 
ambient temperatures increases from 10 °C to 40 °C, linear increase in the solar cell maximum temperature is 
observed. The variation of the maximum cell temperature with normal irradiance is depicted in Fig. 8. It is 
observed from the predicted values that when the solar direct normal radiance increases from 700 to 1000 
W/m
2
, the maximum cell temperature increases from 84 °C to 104 °C. Clearly, the maximum cell temperature 
is a linear function of the ambient temperature and DNI. The reason for this linear dependence can be 
attributed to the heat losses of solar cell which are directly proportional to the surface temperature both for 
conduction heat loss and natural convection heat loss under weak radiative heat transfer. 
All the results presented above consider a no-wind condition. However, in practice, the HCPV module is 
exposed to winds of various speeds and directions, depending on the local environmental conditions, the time 
of year, and so on. Therefore, a series of simulations was performed to investigate the temperature distribution 
within the HCPV module subjected to wind speeds in the range from 0 m/s to 5 m/s and DNI of 850 W/m
2
. 
For simplicity, the elevation angle was specified as zero degrees in every case. Figure 9 illustrates the 
temperature distribution on the lower surface of the HCPV module under various wind speed conditions (U=0, 
0.25, 3m/s, here U denotes the free stream wind speed). The results show that the maximum cell temperature 
reduces as the wind speed increases. Furthermore, it can be seen that the temperature on the windward surface is 
lower than that on the leeward surface due to the greater forced convection effect. Figure 10 shows the variation 
of the maximum cell temperature with the ambient wind speed. The results confirm that the maximum cell 
temperature reduces with an increasing wind speed. In general, heat is dissipated from the HCPV module 
through natural convection within the module and mixed natural/forced convection around the module as a 
result of the relative motion of the ambient air over the module surface. The results presented in Fig. 10 suggest 
that under low wind speed conditions (< 1 m/s), the maximum cell temperature drops sharply even with a slight 
increase in wind speed. However, the maximum cell temperature begins to reduce very slowly if the wind speed 
is greater than 1 m/s. This is because the heat transfer mechanism is approaching its asymptotic limit associated 
 8 
boundaries, periodic boundaries, or two-dimensional geometries are insufficient to investigate the thermal 
management performance of real-world HCPV modules. 
 
References 
[1] Kuo C T. The project of demonstrating MW high concentration photovoltaic (HCPV) system. Science and 
Technology Yearbook of Taiwan, ROC, 2008. 
[2] Kuo C T, Shin H Y, Hong H F, Wu C H, Lee C D, Lung I T, Hsu Y T. Development of the high 
concentration III-V photovoltaic system at INER, Taiwan. Renewable Energy 2009; 34:1931-1933. 
[3] Bett A W, Burger B, Dimroth F, Siefer G, Lerchenmüller H. High-concentration PV using III -V solar cells. 
In: Proceedings of the 4
th
 World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy Conversion, Waikoloa, Hawaii, USA, 
2002. p. 615-620.  
[4] Mbewe D J, Card H C, Card D C. A model of silicon solar cells for concentrator photovoltaic and 
photovoltaic thermal system design. Solar Energy 1985; 35: 247-258. 
[5] Dalal V L, Moore A R. Design considerations for high-intensity solar cells. Journal of Applied Physics 
1977; 48:1244-1251. 
[6] Royne A, Dey C J, Mills D R. Cooling of photovoltaic cells under concentrated illumination: a critical 
review. Solar Energy Materials and Solar Cells 2005; 86: 451-483. 
[7] Kenny R P, Friesen G, Chianese D, Bernasconi A, Dunlop E D. Energy rating of PV modules: comparison 
of methods and approach. In: Proceedings of the 3
rd
 World Conference on Photovoltaic Energy 
Conversion, Osaka, Japan. 2003. 
[8] Kenny R P, Huld T A, Iglesias S. Energy rating of PV modules based on PVGIS irradiance and 
temperature database. In: Proceedings of the 21
st
 European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, 
Dresden, Germany. 2006. 
[9] Topič M, Brecl K, Kurnik J, Sties J. Effective efficiency and performance ratio as energy rating system for 
PV modules. In: Proceedings of the 21
st
 European Photovoltaic Solar Energy Conference, Dresden, 
Germany. 2006. 
[10] TamizhMani G, Ji L, Tang Y, Petacci L, Osterwald C. Photovoltaic module thermal/wind performance: 
long-term monitoring and model development for energy rating. In: NCPV and Solar Program Review 
Meeting. 2003. 
[11] Chou T L, Shih Z H, Hong H F, Han C N, Chiang K N. Investigation of the thermal performance of 
high-concentration photovoltaic solar cell package. International Conference on Electronic Materials and 
Packaging. 2007. 
[12] Natarajan S K, Mallick T K, Katz M, Weingaertner S. Numerical investigations of solar cell temperature 
for photovoltaic concentrator system with and without passive cooling arrangements. International 
Journal of Thermal Sciences 2011; in press. 
[13] Gray A. Modeling a passive cooling system for photovoltaic cells under concentration. ASME-JSME 
Thermal Engineering Summer Heat Transfer Conference, Vancouver, Canada. 2007. 
[14] Tsay Y L, Cheng J C, Hong H F, Shih Z H. Characteristics of heat dissipation from photovoltaic cells on 
the bottom wall of a horizontal cabinet to ambient natural convective air stream. Energy 2011; 
36:3959-3967. 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3  Temperature distribution and surface 
streamline patterns on the diagonal plane, bottom 
plate and the Fresnel lens for single cell HCPV at 
an elevation angle of θ=0 and no-wind condition 
Figure 4.  Temperature distribution and 
surface streamline patterns for different 
elevation angles at a vertical installation 
of HCPV module. (Units: K.) 
Figure 5.  Temperature distribution and 
surface streamline patterns for different 
elevation angles at a horizontal 
installation of HCPV module. (Units: K.) 
Figure 6.  Variation of maximum 
temperature with elevation angle at 
horizontal and vertical installations of 
HCPV module. 
 12 
 
國科會補助專題研究計畫成果報告自評表 
請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況、研究成果之學術或應用價
值（簡要敘述成果所代表之意義、價值、影響或進一步發展之可能性）、是否適
合在學術期刊發表或申請專利、主要發現或其他有關價值等，作一綜合評估。 
1. 請就研究內容與原計畫相符程度、達成預期目標情況作一綜合評估 
 達成目標 
□ 未達成目標（請說明，以 100 字為限） 
□ 實驗失敗 
□ 因故實驗中斷 
□ 其他原因 
說明：已經完整達成目標、並發表一篇國際會議論文，一篇期刊論文(under 
review ) 
 
2. 研究成果在學術期刊發表或申請專利等情形： 
論文：■已發表 □未發表之文稿 □撰寫中 □無 
專利：□已獲得 □申請中 □無 
技轉：□已技轉 □洽談中 □無 
其他：（以 100 字為限） 
      
(1)論文已經在 100/9/11 投稿至 renewable energy 期刊，投稿 file number 為: 
RENE-D-11-01112   
  
(2)部分結果則已經投稿在國際會議 ISTP-21,(2010/11/2~5; 高雄)。 
C.P. Yeh, T.T.Lin, H.T. Pu, R.J. Yang and C.H. Tsai,”An investigation into the 
passive cooling of photovoltaic cells under concentrated illumination,” The 21st 
International Symposium on Transport Phenomena, 2-5 November, 2010, 
Kaohsiung City, Taiwan 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2011/10/29
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 聚光型太陽能電池模組散熱特性之模擬研究
計畫主持人: 蔡建雄
計畫編號: 99-2221-E-020-030- 學門領域: 能源科技
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
本計劃使用三維 Navier-Stokes 方程式配合 RNG k-ε紊流模式與 P1 熱輻射模
式來計算 HCPV 聚光型太陽模組的散熱流場，計算結果發現 HCPV 雖然在幾何圖
形上是對稱的，但是計算出的流場卻呈現非對稱且非週期性的特徵。以往有學
者假設對稱條件，二維與周期性來計算 HCPV 流場，在物理假設上是有本質的錯
誤。 
本計畫所做的模擬是現在文獻中最完整的研究，在 100/9/11 已經將論文投至
Renewable Energy 期刊了，部份的成果也在 99/11/2 發表在 ISTP-21 的國際研
討會上。本計劃所發展的 HCPV 模擬技術也用來與核能研究所合作探討 solar 
cell 中間的溫度量測與模擬上，並在 100/1/1~100/12/31 期間簽署執行一個產
學計劃。此外，也因為發現 HCPV 內不對稱的流場，所以今年也向國科會申請
100 年度計劃，研究 HCPV 為何會呈現不穩定與不對稱的流場，也已經通過審查，
現正在執行中(NSC 100-2221-E020-032)。 
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
