since it possesses many advantages over nematic displays.  It could be operated in reflective mode 
with no backlight, and the polarizers are not required.  The long-term bistability, on a timescale of 
years, is achieved more easily.  Moreover, the passive multiplexing can be used to address a SmA 
display, exhibiting much potential in the application on low-power and low-cost display device and 
switchable storage device, such like electronic paper [6].  In the conventional SmA LCD, the 
homeotropic alignment and thick cell gap are required, and yet the crossed polarizers are absent [3, 
6, 12, 13].  It can be switched between a light transparent state (homeotropic orientation) and an 
opaque light scattering state (focal-conic texture) resulting from electrohydrodynamic instability by 
using laser or electric addressing [12].  The main shortcoming of the traditional SmA LCD is its 
low contrast ratio (< 200:1 when the collection angle is larger than 5°) [12]. 
To resolve the problems, we try to develop a distinct operation mode of a bistable SmA LCD in 
this two-year project.  In the first-year work of this research, we put our effort to study the basic 
properties of the SmA LC materials unde r various experimental condition, including the influences 
of the aligning agents and the process of the phase transition.  Comparing the electrooptical 
characteristics of the SmA LC cells by applying two different aligning agents, we found that the 
aligning ability of them as well as the anchoring force of them affects the driving voltage seriously.  
The response time becomes slower in the SmA cell with stronger anchoring force by using Teflon.  
Moreover, the phase sequence of the LC materials also plays an important role to obtain a uniform 
alignment.  
2. Experimental 
Two LC materials are investigated in the first year of our research. The phase transition 
sequences of W559 and EKE 84 (From LCMRC, University of Colorado) are shown in the Fig. 1.  
It is clear to see that W559 and EKE84 possess a high and very wide temperature range (~100 °C) 
of the SmA phase.  Comparing the phase transition sequences of them, one can know that the EKE 
84 is the LC material with nematic phase.  It implies that, to obtain a uniform aligning cell, the 
EKE 84 is easier to achieve than W559.  All these LC materials, W559 or EKE 84, are heated over 
the clearing points and then are filled into an empty cell, which is manufactured by two conducting 
glasses with alignment films covered.  The treatment of the alignment layers is rubbed by a brush 
to cause an antiparallel orientation.  In order to obtain a uniform orientation of the LC director, the 
cooling process of the cell from isotropic phase to SmA phase must be controlled well by a 
functional temperature controller and hot stage.  In our project, the cooling rate is 0.2 °C/min for 
all LC materials.  Electro-optical effects, including the driving voltage and response time, are 
detected by the normal electro-optical experimental setup, in which SmA cell is placed between 
two-crossed polarizers and the angle between the rubbing direction of the cell and the polarization 
direction of polarizer is 45 degree to obtain a maximum light transmission.  A 650-nm Diode laser 
  
(a)                   (b) 
  
(c)                  (d) 
  
(e) 
Figure 2. Crossed-polarizers microscope microphoto in the W559 cell with Teflon alignment 
layer (a), (b) under the lower applied voltage, (c) in the high applied voltage at 110 °C.  (d) 
Remove the applied voltage and rotate the cell stage.  The left-landside area with respect 
to white dot line is the electrode area and outside of the electrode area the alignment of the 
molecules is planar. (e) The parabolic focal-conic texture as increasing the temperature to 
140 °C (object lens is 14X). 
It shows the dark state independent of the rotational angle, due to the well-homeotropic alignment 
(Fig. 2 (d)), and also shows that the layer structure is not broken after applying voltage as we tilt the 
cell in the y–z plane.  Moreover, when the temperature is nearby but lower than the clear point, the 
layer spacing of the SmA LCs would like to shrink and the SmA LCs tend to increase the number of 
the layer in the cell.  To prevent this phenomenon, the LC molecules try to tilt for holding the layer 
spacing, which in turn, modulate the layer surface, because the director of the LCs should be 
perpendicular to the layer surface [10–12].  It easily forms parabolic focal-conic defect, as shown 
10 μm 
10 μm 
P 
A 
R 
P 
A 
R 
P 
A 
R 
P 
A 
R 
the lower viscosity and elastic constants near by the isotropic phase, the response time is decreased 
with increasing the temperature at the constant voltage in the both cells of W559.  The response 
time is as low as about 400 μs in the polyimide-aligned cell at 140 °C.  Even in the lower 
temperature regime, they are still lower than 15 ms in both cells.  For a bistable SmA LC display, 
the response speed should be high enough for saving the power energy, even through the higher 
driving electric field is needed.  Compared with the traditional bistable SmA [3, 7] and nematic 
displays [1, 2], it exhibits a very fast response speed to switch the molecules from the planar 
orientation to the homeotropic orientation.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. (a)Dynamical intensity transmission of the W559 cell in the external electric field E 
= 50 V/μm at 130°C. (b) Response times in the W559 cells with various temperatures at E = 
50 V/μm. 
3.2 The influence of the liquid-crystal materials 
According to our experience in the front section, the alignment layer strongly affects the 
driving voltage, response time and bistability of the SmA LCD.  Furthermore, depending on the 
LC material in use, both the aligning agent and rubbing strength vary for optimal device 
performance.  In order to grasp the physical properties of these LC materials, electro-optical 
measurements are firstly conducted with ~2.0-μm-thick standard cells, each composed of two ITO 
glass substrates covered by the planar alignment layers.  Fig. 5 and 6 reveal that the LC material 
with a nematic phase, EKE 84, can be switched at lower voltage and kept dark easily, in that the 
uniform alignment is easily fabricated in its nematic phase.  However, this figure suggests that the 
driving voltage is somewhat high for photonic applications.  To remedy this situation, one could 
add ferroelectric particles to increase the resulting dielectric constant [13].  In the second year of 
this project, we will try to use this way to reduce the driving voltage of the bistable SmA LCD.   
 
0 2 4 6 8 10
0
1
2
3
(a)
 Teflon alignment
 Polyimide alignment
 
 
Tr
an
sm
is
si
on
 (V
)
Time (ms) 90 100 110 120 130 140
0
5
10
15
(b)
 
 
R
es
po
ns
e 
tim
e 
(m
s)
Temperature (OC)
 Teflon
 Polyimide
frequency is high, the migration of the ionic charges cannot follow the polarity-switching speed of 
the external field and the electrohydrodynamic effect is weak, even disappear.  One can expect that, 
now, the orientation of the director is not changed easily, due to the requirement of the larger torque.   
From Fig. 5, one can understand that in order to reach the dark state the frequency is an important 
parameter at a constant voltage.  Because the electrohydrodynamic effect is obvious when the 
frequency is smaller than 1 kHz at constant temperature and applied voltage, the layer plane is 
modulated, in turn; the focal-conic defect is form in the SmA LC cell.  The formation of the defect 
scatters the incident light and reduces the contrast ratio.  More important thing is the defect 
maintaining after removing the applied voltage.  It means that one can control the frequency and 
voltage to obtain the defect points in the cell, instead of the totally homeotropic orientation, to 
exhibits the gray level in the SmA LC cell.  Response-time Characteristics in each cell at various 
temperatures is shown in Fig. 7.  Due to molecular structures similarly of them, the response times 
are almost the same in the both cell.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 7. Temperature-dependent driving electric field at 1 kHz for EKE84 cell. 
4. Summary 
 In the first-year work of this research, the electrooptical properties of SmA LC materials 
affected by aligning agent, phase sequences of the LC materials, temperature, and frequency have 
been study.  Through the microscopic observation, the Teflon film has an ability to make the LC 
director aligning uniformly.  However, the stronger anchoring force of Teflon causes the higher 
driving voltage and slowly response speed.  To obtain a uniform alignment of the LC director, the 
phase sequence of the LC material also plays an important role.  From our experience, the LC 
materials possess nematic phase are easy to make a well-aligning cell.  All the experimental results 
obtained in this project will be helpful for us to develop a new bistable display in the following 
year. 
0 20 40 60 80
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0 (a)V = 60 V
 T = 140 OC
 T = 130 OC
 T = 120 OC
 
 
Tr
an
sm
itt
an
ce
Time (ms)
80 90 100 110 120 130 140
0
2
4
6
8
10
(b)
 
 
R
es
po
ns
e 
tim
e 
(m
s)
Temperature (OC)
 EKE 84
 W559
“Electrohydrodynamic formation of liquid crystal focal conic domains,” Proceeding of SPIE 
3318, 529–531 (1998). 
[14] E. A. Büyüktanir, M. Mitrokhin, B. Holter, A. Glushchenko, and J. West, “Flexible bistable 
Smectic-A polymer dispersed liquid crystal display,” Japanese Journal of Applied Physics 
45(5A), 4146–4151 (2006). 
[15] E. A. Büyüktanir, N. Gheirghiu, J. L. West, M. Mitrokhin, B. Holter, and A. Glushchenko, 
“Field-induced polymer wall formation in a bistable smectic-A liquid crystal display,” Applied 
Physics Letters 89, 031101 (2006) 
[16] M. D. Radcliffe, M. L. Brostrom, K. A. Epsten, A. G. Rappaport, B. N. Thomas, R. Shao, and 
N. A. Clark, “Smectic A and C materials with novel director tilt and layer thickness behavior,” 
Liquid Crystal 26, 789–794 (1999). 
[17] Ch. S. Rosenblatt, R. Pindak, N. A. Clark and R. B. Meyer, “The parabolic focal conic: a new 
smectic A defect,” Le Journal De Physique 38, 1105– 1115 (1977). 
[18] O. Buchnev, E. Ouskova, Y. Reznikov, V. Reshetnyak, H. Kresse, and A. Grabar, “Ehanced 
dielectric response of liquid crystal ferroelectric suspension,” Molecular Crystals and Liquid 
Crystal 422, 317–325 (2004). 
 
 2
精彩的 Keynote speaking；接下來五天，各類議程紛紛展開，本次共有 25 個議程，包括了 148
個口頭發表，7 個大會演講、四個得獎博士論文演講外，還有 854 篇海報發表，其涵蓋領域
相當廣泛，大會出席人數超過上千人，是一場液晶學界的盛事。所有參與發表的人員都熱切
地期盼與來自世界各地的專家學者交換意見，暢談科學。吾人在本次會議以海報的方式發表
近來的研究成果，並被安排在 Dynamic propertie 的議程中，發表的日期與時間為七月四日上
午十點四十分；本次發表的過程中，吾人除了準備有大張海報張貼外，另備有 20 份小張海報
提供其他與會人員參考。在吾人的發報發表開始前，所有的小張海報即被索取完畢。在發表
的過程，有來自英國、美國、德國、法國與香港等的與會人員與我展開相當熱列的討論；本
次發表內容引發許一些團隊的高度注意，並有許多與會人員與我交換名片，希望我能將本研
究團隊發表之相關文獻寄送給他們，提供他們做為參考，除此之外，更希望我能將日後新的
研究成果與他們分享並討論，或許可從中獲得國際合作之機會。我也從這馬拉松式的討論中
獲得了許多寶貴的意見及新的啟發。相當感謝他們不吝嗇地提供我許多建議，相信對日後之
研究必定有很大的幫助。吾人於本次會議中所發表之研究成果，將在日後寫成正式論文並投
稿至國際期刊。藉由閱覽其他研究團隊發表之海報並進一步之詢問討論，讓我有不少的獲益，
並啟發我對於自己研究課題之想法，其中以液晶藍相等相關研究最引起我的興趣，吾人本身
已經開始著手相關研究，並於 2007 年台灣液晶年會中受邀演講；但由於研究經費的短缺，使
的研究中斷，期盼日後國科會可以給與補助繼續吾人在液晶藍相之研究。今年的 SID 上，韓
國三星電子率先展示由液晶藍相為主之顯示器，其具有不用配向與不需補償片等優點，可見
其未來發展將可預期。 
 
二、與會心得 
 
對我國來說，液晶平面顯示元件工業是佔本國經濟發展的重要地位之一，所以培育液晶
材料及元件的基礎研究之相關人才為促進此項工業發展之關鍵。本次會議中雖然偏重液晶領
域的基礎研究，但在海報發表項目中不乏有應用相關之結果被揭示。除此之外，有許多相當
新穎的研究題材及課題也都可以在本次會議中獲取，使吾人看見了先驅研究的發展，擴展自
己的視野。 
 
三、建    議 
 
因應光電產業以及相關研究之發展對國家兩兆雙星目標，培植人材為一刻不容緩之重要
課題。鼓勵相關研究領域之博士生參加國際學術會議，除了可吸收最新的研究資訊，提升學
術發表的能力外，更可與國際間相同領域的學者專家作意見交換，了解目前世界上相關學術
研究的發展現況與趨勢；希望國科會能提供更完善多元的補助方式，以增加參加國際性學術
研討會的機會。 
 
三、攜回資料名稱及內容 
 
研討大會秩序冊及論文摘要集、摘要光碟片、研討大會筆記本、紀念書包等 
 
五、其    他 
 4
    
Banquet                                  Poster: Blue phase 
    
Poster: Blue phase                         With Prof. Noel Clark 
 
