  
 
行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫 
■成果報告   
□期中進度報告 
 
 
以網路編碼提升無線網路傳輸效率 
 
計畫類別：■個別型計畫   □整合型計畫 
計畫編號：NSC 100－2221－E－011－158－ 
執行期間：  2011 年 8 月 1 日至  2012 年 7 月 31 日 
 
執行機構及系所：台灣科技大學 資訊工程系 
 
計畫主持人：金台齡 
共同主持人： 
計畫參與人員：杜信昌、李育姍、莊婉甄 
 
 
 
成果報告類型(依經費核定清單規定繳交)：■精簡報告  □完整報告 
 
本計畫除繳交成果報告外，另須繳交以下出國心得報告： 
□赴國外出差或研習心得報告 
□赴大陸地區出差或研習心得報告 
■出席國際學術會議心得報告 
□國際合作研究計畫國外研究報告 
 
 
處理方式：除列管計畫及下列情形者外，得立即公開查詢 
            □涉及專利或其他智慧財產權，□一年□二年後可公開查詢 
 
中   華   民   國  101 年 7 月 31 日 
A. File sharing in VANETs
In the past decade, many peer-to-peer file sharing studies
have been proposed for VANETs [7], [8], [9]. Lee et. al.
proposed CarTorrent as an extension of BitTorrent protocol [7].
The protocol performs broadcast by using a gossip mechanism
with a forwarder selection scheme. Abuelela and Olariu pro-
posed a non-infrastructure peer to peer system called ZIPPER
to support multimedia streaming for movies and music [8].
The expected number of vehicles needed to download a
file is calculated and used to improve the efficiency for the
downloading. Nandan et. al. proposed a cooperative strategy
for file delivery and sharing called SPAWN for vehicular ad-
hoc networks [9]. An efficient swarming protocol that utilizes
a gossip mechanism to reduce overhead is also proposed. Al-
though all the above studies provide file sharing, transmission
may incur long latency because of the dynamic environment
in VANETs. In this paper, we use network coding to improve
the efficiency for packet delivery.
B. File sharing with network coding
Network coding is a popular approach to maximize through-
put and decrease download time since a user only needs
to collect a sufficient number of coded blocks to recover
the original file [11]. Many researchers have used network
coding technology in different applications [5], [6]. Ahmed
and Kanhere [5] proposed a novel network coding scheme
for cooperative content distribution tailored for VANETs.
They use stationary gateways along freeways to distribute a
file. These gateways split the original file into blocks and
encode the blocks with random coefficients. The coded blocks
are broadcasted through the gateways. Vehicles interested in
the file would collect the corresponding encoded blocks and
recover the file. In [6], a network coding scheme, called
CodeTorrent, based on file swarming protocol for VANETs is
proposed. The design of CodeTorrent utilizes single-hop com-
munication. Assume that a seed node creates the description of
a file to its one-hop neighbor. The file is divided into n frames
and encoded by network coding. If one node is interested in
the file, it broadcasts a request containing the description of
the requested file. As receiving the request, a node which has
original pieces or coded frames of the requested file responds
with a newly generated coded frame. A node collecting n
linearly independent coded frames can decode and recover
the original file. The previous studies use similar concept
of network coding. Nevertheless, using network coding in a
dynamically changing topology is still a challenging problem.
III. MOVEMENT-FORECASTED PACKET DELIVERY
Location-aided routing protocol has been designed for mo-
bile ad-hoc networks [10]. The proposed routing protocol,
namely Movement-Forecasted Packet Delivery (MFPD), is also
a location-aided protocol but tailored for vehicular networks.
A. Packet Delivery
Assume that vehicles in the system are equipped with GPS
devices and are aware of their own positions and speeds.
Fig. 1. Transmission from RP to RV
MFPD intends to deliver packets without control messages,
like Hello. In addition, there is no extra location system to
maintain and provide other vehicles’ location. Without loss of
generality, assume that a particular vehicle, called Requesting
Vehicle (RV ), needs a certain file and decides to download
the file through P2P file sharing. Initially, the RV broadcasts
a request, which contains its current position, a timestamp, and
time-to-live (TTL) duration as well as the file signature. The
purpose of setting TTL is to prevent packets from infinitely
being re-forwarded over the network. A vehicle which has the
file may receive the request and prepare to deliver the file to
the RV . This vehicle is called Resource Provider (RP ). Since
the RV may be moving during the interval of forwarding
the request, a potential region of the RV ’s location, called
Movement-Forecast Area (MFA), is calculated by the RP .
Using the RV ’s position and the timestamp in the request
message, the MFA is calculated as follows. Assume that the
RV sends a request at location (x, y) at time Ti. The MFA
is a 2`× 2` square shown as the gray square in Fig. 1. If the
request is received by a RP at time Tj , the ` is calculated as
follows:
` = 2× V × (Tj − Ti), (1)
where V is the speed of the RV . The MFA is used to predict
the region where the RV may reside when the data packet
reaches the RV .
After calculating the MFA, the RP transmits a data packet
to the RV . The data packet carrying the MFA and the RV ’s
ID is first forwarded to reach the MFA using the following
location aided scheme. It is then forwarded to the RV by
epidemic flooding within the MFA. Any intermediate vehicles
which receive the data packet check whether they are in
the MFA. If they are in the MFA, they forward the packet
by epidemic flooding. Otherwise, a distributed arbitration is
performed to decide who should forward the packet. They first
start a back-off timer and wait until the timer expires. The
duration of the back-off time is derived from the following
score function:
score(v) =
dv
R
cos θv (2)
where dv is the distance from the sending vehicle to the
request which is the same as that at the beginning in MFPD.
There may be more than one vehicles that receive the request
and also carry part or full of the requested file. Obviously,
these vehicles can be the RP s and collaborate to transfer the
requested file using network coding. Each RP has to pick
one generation in the file and starts sending coded blocks
using MFPD to the RV . However, the generation that one
RP picks can affect the efficiency of the file downloading
process. If all the RP s choose the same generation, there may
be too many redundant coded blocks in the network and the
latency of the downloading could be longer. NCFS uses a
demanding vector to guide the decision making at each RP .
Recall that to recover the original data, RV has to collect k
linearly independent coded blocks for each generation. Thus,
when the RV sends the request, it includes a demanding vector
d = [d1, d2, ..., dn] in the request. The demanding vector
defines the number of coded blocks that the RV still needs for
each generation. Specifically, if RV has received mi linearly
independent coded blocks for Gi, then di = k −mi.
When a RP receives the request, it will check whether its
own data can help the RV . Note that the RP may only have
partial data of the file. Let F be the set of generations that the
RP has the whole generation. Further, let S be a set defined
as follows:
S = {Gi|di > 0 and Gi ∈ F}.
The RP will pick one generation in S and the probability of
picking Gi is proportional to the demand, i.e.,
Prob (Gi) =
di∑
i∈I
di
,
where I = {i|Gi ∈ S}. After choosing the generation, the
RP starts making k coded blocks and sending them to the
RV using MFPD.
Finally, the RV sends request messages periodically until
the file is completely received. Since RV is moving, on the
one hand, the request messages can find new RP s on the way,
and on the other hand, the request messages can also keep the
position of the RV updated to the old RP s.
Fig. 1 illustrates the process of data packet forwarding
from RP s to RV . The scenario has one RV and two RP s.
The file is divided into three generations in this example.
Assume that RP1 has G1 and RP2 has G2 and G3. The
RV broadcasts request periodically. In the first period, RV
broadcasts a request for the whole file. After receiving the
request, RP1 can only pick G1 and RP2 can pick G2 or G3
with equal probability. Say, RP2 picks G3. Then, they send
coded blocks for the picked generations using MFPD. In the
second period, RV broadcasts a request based on the current
conditions of its collection. In this period, RP2 will pick G2
with higher probability if the RV has received some coded
blocks for G3. RP2 can also update the location information
of the RV . This is a simple example. Real conditions will be
more complicated.
0 50 100 150 200 250
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1
Vehicle distance [m]
Pr
ob
ab
ilit
y 
fo
r r
ec
ei
vin
g 
a 
pa
ck
et
Fig. 4. Receiving probability based on shadowing model
TABLE I
SIMULATION PARAMETERS
Parameter Value
Simulation Area 1500 m × 1500 m
File Size 1000 KB
Generation Size 10 KB
Block Size 1 KB
Number of Vehicles 50 - 150 vehicles
Vehicle Velocity 0 - 20 m/s
Transmission Range 250 m
Periodic Broadcast Time of RV 4 s
V. SIMULATIONS
The performance of NCFS is evaluated by simulations using
NS2. The simulation area is a 1500m × 1500m region and the
map is a gird with roads equally distant by 500m. Traffic flows
are generated by SUMO [13] and MOVE [12]. To simulate
the dynamic transmission conditions in VANETs, a shadowing
model shown in Fig. 4 is used for wireless communication in
the simulations. Other parameters used in the simulations are
listed in Table I.
Several RP s and one RV are randomly selected from the
vehicles. The period for the RV to broadcast a request packet
is four seconds. The requested file size is 1MB. The block
size for network coding is 1KB and one generation contains
ten blocks. The velocity of each vehicle is chosen randomly
between 0 and 20 m/s. When a vehicle reaches an intersection,
it randomly decides to move straight, turn right, or turn left.
The performance of file downloading using NCFS and not
using NCFS is compared. When NCFS is not used, RP s
just send raw data blocks in the selected generation to the
RV without doing network coding. Therefore, the number
of blocks sent after receiving a request is the same for both
methods. Each sample point is an average of 30 runs.
Fig. 5 shows the average download time of the file that
the RV spends with different number of vehicles in the
simulation area. One RV and 20 RP s are randomly chosen
in the simulations. At the beginning, we assume that ten of
the RP s have the whole file and the other RP s may be still
downloading the file and have only half of the generations,
which are randomly selected, in the file. As shown in the
figure, the average download time decreases as the number
of vehicle increases. This is because if the density of vehicles
increases, more vehicles can help forward packets, and hence
 1 
國科會補助專題研究計畫項下出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                  日期： 100 年 12 月 20 日 
                                 
一、參加會議經過 
今年的 Globecom在美國德州休士頓舉行，此會議是由 IEEE 與 IEEE Communication Society
所主辦，每年發表在網路與統訊方面的尖端研究論文，會議包含技術論文發表、展覽與工業界的
領袖論壇，今年大會收錄了 1072 篇技術論文，並舉辦了 11 個不同的教學會議(tutorial)，超過
20個 workshop，另外還有業界的論壇，吸引了世界各地包含學者、研究人員、專業人士與政府官
員超過兩千人註冊參加，討論的問題包含了所有網路通訊相關議題。 
我由於有一篇論文被大會接受，因此也需註冊參加會議並做論文發表，經過了一天的飛行與
轉機，終於到達目的地，到達時已是 12月 5日晚上 9點多，來不及參加大會於傍晚舉辦的 Welcome 
reception，不過這只是個社交的場合，並不是太重要的聚會，晚餐吃過後就休息了。 
第二天正式進入大會的議程，一早的 Keynote speech是由 AT&T的技術長 John Donovan主講，講
題是 Mobile Innovation: Advancing the Mobile Broadband Experience，講述了一些目前網路
發展的趨勢，例如雲端運算、軟硬體的整合與使用者介面等等，並介紹了 AT&T的技術發展目標與
近況。接下來就是各個主題的論文發表，由於收錄的論文涵蓋了網路與通訊的各項議題，所以也
區分在不同的研討室發表，同時也有一個 Executive Forum 邀請了業界的管理階層討論有關雲端
運算的發展，因為雲端運算是目前相當熱門的議題，且邀請的是業界的執行長級人物，如 NTT 
American的執行長 Kazuhiro Gomi 與 Venture Partners LLC的執行長 Hossein Eslambolchi等，
因此我選擇了去參加這個 Executive Forum 的討論，聽聽業界對於雲端運算的看法，與學術界的
研究差異，業界普遍認為雲端運算是未來網路產業一個重要的發展方向，但目前還需要面對許多
挑戰，如安全問題與使用者需求與成本的考量。下午的議程只有各主題的論文發表，因之前計劃
有關車載網路，因此我參加了車載網路的議程，會議中發表的論文大都是利用感測網路收集資訊，
協助在動態網路中封包或資料的傳遞。 
我的報告在 12 月 7 日早上 8:00，一大早並沒有什麼人來聽演講，大部分的聽眾都是同一時
計畫編號 NSC 100－2221－E－011－158－ 
計畫名稱 以網路編碼提升無線網路傳輸效率 
出國人員
姓名 
金台齡 
服務機構
及職稱 
台灣科技大學資工系助理教授 
會議時間 
100年 12月 5日至 
100年 12月 9日 
會議地點 美國德州休士頓 
會議名稱 IEEE Global Communication Conference (Globecom) 
發表論文
題目 
Optimal Detector Based on Data Fusion for Wireless Sensor Networks 
 3 
發展的現況，對於一個從事科技方面研究的學者有相當大的幫助。 
另外雲端運算也是今年來大家關注的焦點，對於雲端運算目前還存在許多的挑戰，如大量資
料的儲存與交換、寬頻網路技術與資訊安全及法規等等，都還有許多議題待研究，這是一個新興
的領域，充滿了研究機會與挑戰，未來是一個非常值得研究的領域。 
此次會議種也遇到了幾位國內來的學者與研究生來這個會議發表論文，相信這樣的場合也幫
助了國內對這方面人才的培育；不過我們的腳步還需更加快，因為在這樣的國際會議中有越來越
多的東方面孔，很多來自大陸香港等地，看看對岸與香港近幾年飛快的進步，我們真的需要好好
加油，台灣以科技產業聞名，若我們有更堅強的基礎研究實力，相信可以幫助國內產業取得更好
的領先優勢。 
三、建議 
Globecom是網路通訊領域中旗艦級的會議，每年皆會舉辦一次，收錄了許多重要的研究論文，但
由於舉辦地點在美國，國內學者鑑於差旅費的關係，投稿時多有顧忌，建議計畫經費的編列與使
用能更有彈性，讓國內學者也可從容的站上國際舞台，展現對學術研究的影響力。 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
會議論文集電子檔：包含今年會議所有收錄之論文。 
 
100 年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：金台齡 計畫編號：100-2221-E-011-158- 
計畫名稱：以網路編碼提升無線網路傳輸效率 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 0 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 4 4 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 0 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 1 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
