2著 CNT 濃度增加而變大的趨勢；棉織物在紫外光區域之吸光波長為 200nm，加工棉
織物為 330~350nm；加工金屬複合棉織物吸收光波長最大到 600nm 左右，且隨著
CNT 濃度上升其吸光量有少量增加；加工棉織物在可見光下不具抗菌性；加工
金屬複合棉織物雖比原胚具有較高抑菌值，但其值皆低於 2，表示加工金屬複合棉織物不
具有抗菌效果。二種加工織物皆具有良好之耐水洗濯性。
關鍵字: TiO2`、CNT、光電流效應、溶凝膠、金屬複合棉織物
Abstract
In this study, sol-gel technique was employed to hydrolyze and polymerize GOTMS and TTB
with an appropriate catalyst, followed by the addition of carbon nano tube (CNT) to prepare TiO2
sol-gel. The prepared sol-gel was then used in the curing treatment of cotton fabrics and the
cotton fabrics impregnated with metal compounds. The experimental results suggested: Si and Ti
elements appeared on the processed cotton fabrics and metal compound fabrics as shown by EDS
and SEM; surface observation by SEM showed the attachment of sol-gel on the processed cotton
fabrics and metal compound fabrics. Photocurrent effect was observed on the metal compound
fabrics, but no photocurrent effect was detected on the processed cotton fabrics. The effect was
higher as the CNT concentration was higher. The absorbance wavelengths of cotton fabrics and
the processed cotton fabrics within ultraviolet region were respectively 200 nm and 330~350 nm;
the processed metal compound fabrics however had an absorbance wavelength up to 600 nm,
which slightly increased while the CNT concentration was higher. The processed cotton fabrics
under visible light possessed no anti-bacterial property. The processed metal compound fabrics
although had a higher anti-bacterial value as compared with the unprocessed fabrics, this value
was lower than 2, indicating the processed metal compound fabrics had no anti-bacterial effect.
Both types of processed fabrics possessed excellent washing durability.
Keywords: TiO2`、CNT、 photocurrent effect、sol-gel、metal compound cotton fabrics
研究方法：
1.加工步驟 :
織物剪裁→溶凝膠製備二氧化鈦→CNT/TiO2 溶凝膠製備→超音波振盪→
織物於溶凝膠之浸漬→織物於溶凝膠熱處→加工織物檢測（ FT-IR、 NMR、
TGA、SEM、EDS 等）→UV-vis 光譜分析→光電流效應→抗菌檢測→加工物織
物性檢測。
2.加工方法 :
(1)溶凝膠製備二氧化鈦：
a.將不等濃度 (10、 15、 20、 25)之環氧基矽烷 (GOTMS)混合 10%之乙醇
和適量之蒸餾水置於燒杯中，室溫密封攪拌 24 hr。
b.將 4%之鈦酸丁酯 (TTB)混合 2%之二乙醇胺和 4%之無水乙醇胺，室溫
攪拌 2 hr。
c.將上述兩溶液混合再加入蒸餾水，室溫繼續攪拌 1 h，配製成一溶膠液。
(2) CNT/ TiO2 溶凝膠製備：
a.分別取適當的 CNT(0.1%、0.2%、0.3%、0.4%)，加進上述的溶液，持
