 1
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
矽鍺基奈米點之製作及應用性質之研究(I) 
Study on Fabrication and Application of SiGe-based nanodots (I) 
 
計畫編號：NSC 97－2218－E－008－003－ 
執行期限：97年 1月 1日至 97年 10月 31日 
主持人：李勝偉（swlee@ncu.edu.tw） 
執行機構：國立中央大學 材料科學與工程研究所 
 
一、 中文摘要 
本計畫提出以矽基材上高均勻性
的自我組裝鍺奈米點作為虛擬奈米光
罩，利用鍺奈米點相對低於矽基材的化
學蝕刻速率特性與金屬化製程來製作
金屬矽化物奈米點，並進行相關的光電
性質量測。首先利用超高真空化學氣相
沉積法(UHVCVD)系統以乙烯表面處理
技術進行鍺奈米點之相關成長研究，再
結合選擇性化學蝕刻以及金屬化等後
續製程，製作大尺寸面積、高密度、高
均勻性的金字塔型金屬矽化物奈米點
場發射源，並深入探討各類金屬矽化物
奈米點之微結構及功函數與其電子場
發射特性之關係，並尋求金屬矽化物奈
米點之最佳製程參數，以期得到低製造
成本且具備優異電子場發射特性的場
發射顯示器技術。由於此金屬矽化物奈
米點場發射源的製作方式與現有矽製
程技術高度相容，因此相關研究成果將
成為矽基光電元件整合時的重要參考。 
關鍵詞: 超高真空化學氣相沉積法、鍺
奈米點、奈米技術、場發射顯示器。 
 
Abstract 
In this project, by the use of 
comparably low etching-rate of Ge 
nanodots as nano-masks, a method is 
developed to fabricate large-area uniform 
metal-silicide nanodot field-emitters. 
First, the investigation on the growth of 
high-density uniform Ge nanodots using 
C2H4 mediations is carried out by the 
ultra-high vacuum chemical vapor 
deposition (UHV/CVD) system. The 
selective-etching and metallization 
processes are then performed to fabricate 
various pyramidal metal-silicide nanodot 
emitters over large area. The electron 
field-emission properties of these silicide 
nanodot emitters are measured using a 
scanning-probe field-emission system. 
The research will be conducted on 
investigation on the effects of 
microstructures, geometries, and work 
functions of metal-silicide nanodots on 
their field-emission characteristics. 
Finally, the optimal process parameters 
of silicide nanodot arrays for the 
applications on field-emitter display will 
also be established. The technique in this 
project is considerably compatible with 
the existing mature Si-based technology. 
The related results will provide useful 
information to integrate the low-cost 
field-emitter arrays with excellent 
field-emission properties into the 
Si-based electronics. 
Keywords: ultra-high vacuum chemical 
vapor deposition, Ge nanodot, 
field-emitter display. 
 
 
二、 緣由與目的 
近年來，在矽基板成長上自組裝鍺
量子點已被廣泛的研究並應用於矽基
 3
點轉變為半球型鍺量子點且伴隨著部
份的巨大半球型鍺量子點，由圖一(b) 
可見，其巨大半球型鍺量子點可能是由
臨近鍺量子點聚集所造成，而隨著乙烯
通入的時間增加至 1 分鐘，如圖一(c)，
巨大半球型鍺量子點將完全消失，只剩
半球型鍺量子點殘留下來，且尺寸均勻
度也大為提升。此外，通入 1 分鐘乙烯
所成長之锗量子點密度約為 5.4×109/平
方公分，其密度大於圖一(b)之試片，
隨著乙烯通入的時間增加，試片上無碳
鍵區域將被分割至一個個小區域，因此
鍺量子點欲聚集形成巨大半球型鍺量
子點將受限，另一方面，隨著無碳區域
數量的增加，鍺量子點成核的位置也將
增加，量子點密度也隨之提升，圖一(d)
為經 10 分鐘乙烯表面處理之試片，鍺
量子點明顯縮小且均勻度下降。藉由圖
二，我們整理出鍺量子點密度及尺寸隨
乙烯表面處理時間而改變，其指出，在
適當的乙烯表面處理下(約 1 分鐘)將可
有效的改質矽基材表面，而獲得高均勻
之自組裝鍺量子點。 
圖三為兩種典型經乙烯表面處理
過所成長的鍺量子點的 XTEM 圖像，
其分別對應圖一(b)及圖一(c)，在圖三(a)
中，即通 15 秒乙烯之試片，其巨大半
球型鍺量子點中觀察到有穿越差排的
存在，其可能是由於量子點成核及聚集
在受限的區域同時發生所造成。當乙烯 
 
 
 
 
圖二、利用 AFM 所觀察到鍺量子點密度及
尺寸隨乙烯表面處理時間而變化之結果。 
 
圖三、(a)對應圖一(b)之 XTEM 影像圖 (b)
對應圖一(c)之 XTEM 影像圖。 
 
通入達 1 分鐘時，則沒有在鍺量子點上
發現如穿越差排之類的缺陷，這些無缺
陷的量子點其平均直徑與高度分別為
55 奈米及 9 奈米，且與之前在 600℃下
所成長的高晶面指數半球型鍺量子點
有些差異，利用乙烯媒介所成長的鍺量
子點其晶面與基板的夾角約為 25.2 o，
呈現的晶面為 113 面或更小夾角 11.3 o
的 105 面。此外，利用 EDS 分析得知
本研究利用乙烯表面處理所成長的鍺
量子點其中心的鍺濃度約為 83％，遠
大於在 600℃下所成長之半球型鍺量
子點的 63％。藉由 XTEM 及 AFM 的
結果，我們可以發現乙烯確實扮演著修
正鍺量子點成長過程的一個角色。 
    由於碳氫鍵強度比矽氫鍵要高，在
量子點成長前通入乙烯可以使矽表面
具有碳原子，且與表面矽原子結合形成
鍵結，並使鍺原子之沉積形成阻礙，故
鍺量子點將優先於無碳-矽鍵結之表面
開始成核，所以當矽表面在乙烯適當處
 5
  
 
圖六、不同蝕刻時間下矽鍺奈米結構之
XTEM 影像圖。 
 
試片表面高度差開始較明顯增加，故可
得知在蝕刻時間 30 秒至 40 秒之間，其
鍺潤浸層已被消耗完畢，蝕刻溶液已可
向下與基材之矽產生反應，此時，鍺量
子點將扮演著遮罩的角色，蝕刻將發生
在未覆蓋鍺量子點之區域，隨著蝕刻時
間的增加，鍺量子點下方的矽之消耗也
隨之增加，矽之奈米結構將持續增高，
而矽鍺之接觸面積也持續縮小至下方
矽之奈米結構無法支撐鍺量子點時，此
時鍺量子點將脫落，留下具尖端之矽奈
米結構，如圖五(f)及圖六(c)，若再持續
進行蝕刻之試片發現奈米結構高度將
減小，矽基材將與蝕刻液直接接觸，而
在不具有選擇性蝕刻條件下的試片將
趨向平坦化，其尖端結構將隨之消失。 
藉由場發射性質的量測，可進一步
確認其蝕刻前後試片表面形貌的改變
對於場發射性質的影響。在許多文獻中
可發現，矽之奈米結構其場發射驅動電
壓大約在 10 V / μm 左右，近來在相關
研究中奈米結構的驅動電壓有向更低
發展的趨勢，甚至已有驅動電壓在 1 V 
/ μm 左右範圍之成果被發表，本研究
主要將未蝕刻之鍺量子點試片和蝕刻
效果最明顯之蝕刻 50 秒的試片作場發
射性質的比較，藉由 Fowler-Nordheim
公式[13-14]: 
 
)/exp()/( 2/322 EBEAJ βϕϕβ −=     (1) 
 
並代入矽之功函數(3.6eV)將其作圖，而
驅動電壓定在電流密度達 0.1μA/cm 時
之電壓值，圖七的結果指出未蝕刻之鍺
量子點試片[對應圖五(a) 及圖六(a)]，
其電子場發射驅動電壓約為 6 V / 
μm；而蝕刻 50 秒形成矽奈米尖端結構
的試片[對應圖五(f) 及圖六(c)]，其場
發射驅動電壓則低於 2 V / μm，且藉由
換算並可以得到其奈米結構之 β 值(幾
何因子)，其 β 值於低電場至高電場之
分布分別為 2803 及 12690，由以往的
文獻可得知，奈米結構之形貌以及尖端
直徑皆是影響電子場發射性質之因
素，愈陡峭之奈米尖端結構將具有愈佳
的場發射性質，而本研究驗證了矽鍺基
場發射射源在實際應用的可行性。 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
圖七、未蝕刻及蝕刻 50 秒後鍺量子點試片
之電子場發射特性。 
 
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號  NSC97-2218-E-008-003- 
計畫名稱  矽鍺基奈米點之製作及應用性質之研究(I) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
 李勝偉   
 國立中央大學材料科學與工程研究所 助理教授 
會議時間地點  13-16 July, 2008 新加坡 
會議名稱 
(中文) 第四屆先進薄膜與表面鍍膜技術國際研討會 
(英文) ThinFilm 2008, The 4th International Conference on Technological 
Advances of Thin Films & Surface Coatings 
發表論文題目 
(中文) 鍺量子點在矽披覆過程中之成分分佈演變 
(英文) Evolution of composition distribution of Si-capped Ge islands on Si 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本人於 2008 年 7 月 13 日下午搭乘新加坡航空前往新加坡國際機場，於飯店休息一晚，
隔天參加「第四屆先進薄膜與表面鍍膜技術國際研討會」。此次會議由新加坡南洋大學與東亞
材料學會所舉辦，吸引了超過 1200 篇的論文發表在此次盛會，其中口頭演講的場次高達 228
場之多，包含受邀請來演講的專家學者有 7 位，內容涵蓋有生物薄膜、潔淨能源薄膜、鐵電
壓電薄膜、薄膜機械性質、奈米複合薄膜、光電及介電薄膜、規則排列之奈米結構薄膜、高
分子薄膜元件、氧化物薄膜奈米結構、半導體奈米線及元件、抗摩耗及腐蝕鍍膜等範圍： 
* Biological coatings 
* Coating for clean energy  
* Electrochemistry of thin films 
* Ferroelectric and piezoelectric thin film 
* Mechanical properties of thin films 
* Nanostructured and nanocomposite films and coatings 
* Ordered nanostructural thin films 
* Organic/polymer thin films and devices 
* Oxide thin films and nanostructures 
* Semiconductor nanowires and devices 
* Tribological and corrosion resistant coatings 
大會的議程總共四天，除了參與多場演講外，也跟參與此項會議的許多廠商及專家學者互相
討論與交流研究上的心得， 並商討未來共同研究之可行性，收穫相當豐碩。與會人數相當多，
本人聆聽多場有關奈米結構、半導體奈米線及元件的演講，每場演講後都有熱烈的討論，其
中喬治亞理工王中林教授關於氧化鋅奈米線的研究成果令人印象深刻。 
本人的海報展示安排在 7 月 14 日下午，發表論文為「Evolution of composition distribution 
of Si-capped Ge islands on Si」 (圖一)，其間與許多相關領域學者互相交流切磋吸收了許多寶
 1
Evolution of composition distribution of Si-capped Ge islands on Si(001) 
S.W. Leea,*, C.-H. Leeb, H.T. Changa, S.L. Chenga,c, and C.W. Liub 
aInstitute of Materials Science and Engineering, National Central University, Jhong-Li, 32001 
Taiwan, Republic of China 
bDepartment of Electrical Engineering, National Taiwan University, Taipei, 10617 Taiwan, 
Republic of China 
cDepartment of Chemical and Materials Engineering, National Central University, Jhong-Li, 
32001 Taiwan, Republic of China 
 
 
Corresponding author’s name: Sheng-Wei Lee 
Postal address: Institute of Materials Science and Engineering, National Central University, 
No.300, Jhongda Rd., Jhong-li City, Taoyuan County 32001, Taiwan 
Telephone number: 886-3-4227151 ext. 34905 
Fax number: 886-3-2805034 
E-mail address: swlee@ncu.edu.tw 
 
 
 3
1. Introduction 
Recently, self assembled Ge islands have attracted considerable interest for the 
promising applications in future optoelectronic devices compatible with Si technology [1-3]. 
Deposition of Ge onto Si (001) leads to a strain-induced spontaneous formation of the 
three-dimensional islands as soon as the Ge epilayer exceeds a critical thickness of 3-4 
monolayers, which is the well-known Stranski-Krastanow (S-K) growth mode [4]. The 
structural and physical properties of Ge islands strongly depend on growth condition and 
growth process [5,6]. However, for practical applications relying on a quantum confinement, 
the Ge islands usually undergo a Si capping process to be embedded in a semiconductor 
matrix [7]. In our previous investigation of the evolution of the Ge islands during the initial 
stages of Si encapsulation up to 28 equivalent monolayers (eq-MLs, 1 eq-ML = 6.27×1014 
atom/cm2) [8], the uncapped Ge islands were found to change their shapes dramatically from 
bimodal system to truncated pyramids, and eventually to the nanorings [9]. Based on the 
experimental results, the shape transformations of Ge islands during Si capping are attributed 
to alloying and strain relief. Although the Ge compositions have been roughly determined by 
energy dispersion spectrometer (EDS), the composition distribution of Ge in these Si-capped 
islands is still a question. The answer is very important to understand how Ge islands 
transform their microstructures during capping with Si. Recently, it has been shown that 
selective wet etching combined with atomic force microscopy (AFM) can be used to obtained 
 5
stops etching SiGe alloy with Si content of 78% [13]. The surface morphologies of the 
Si-capped Ge islands before and after etching were characterized ex-situ by AFM in tapping 
mode. Both planview and cross-section transmission electron microscopy (XTEM) images 
were used to provide detailed information about microstructures of the Ge-island samples. 
Micro-Raman measurements were also performed to study the strain status of the Ge islands 
during Si capping. Ar+ ion laser, 514.5 nm in wave length, with a power of ~ 10 mW was 
used for excitation. The resolution of Raman spectra was approximately 0.1 cm-1. 
3. Results and Discussion 
Figure 1(a)-(d) illustrates the topographic evolution of the Ge islands during the 
overgrowth with 0 to 5.4 nm of Si. For an uncapped sample, Fig. 1(a) shows the well-known 
bimodal islands, pyramids with shallow {105} facets and domes with higher angle {113} 
facets, which are commonly observed for high temperature deposition [5,6]. After deposition 
of 1.8 nm Si on Ge islands, the pyramids became dominant with a broader island-size 
distribution, as shown in Fig. 1(b). The dome to pyramid shape transition of Ge islands has 
been reported by Rastelli et al [14]. This phenomenon was interpreted in terms of the 
dependence of equilibrium shape of islands on their volume and composition as a result of 
intermixing. Fig. 1(c) shows the surface morphology after deposition of 3.6 nm Si. At this 
stage, the ring-like islands (nanorings) appeared to replace the larger pyramids in the images 
shown. These nanorings have an average height and diameter of 1.2 ± 0.5 and 80 ± 5 nm, 
 7
elongated and exhibits tensile strain. To reduce the accumulated strain energy, the Si-rich 
materials escaped from the severely strained regions to the relatively strain-free regions 
around the Ge-rich cores and then developed the nanorings on the surface. In the meanwhile, 
the Ge-rich cores were exposed on the surface and therefore removed by selective chemical 
etching. For the further deposition of 5.4 nm Si capping layer [Fig. 1(h)], the surface 
morphology of the sample remain almost unchanged after etching, implying that SiGe islands 
have been fully buried in the Si capping layer. 
Figures 2 (a) show XTEM images of the uncapped domes, truncated pyramids, nanorings, 
and buried islands, respectively. It is evident that SiGe islands reduced its heights and aspect 
ratios with the increase of Si coverage. This evolution indicates that the intermixing between 
Si and Ge islands tends to develop the low-angle facets to replace the higher angle ones with 
higher energy. In the case of nanorings, the serious intermixing leads to the relatively poor 
contrast of SiGe islands in the XTEM image. Moreover, for the deposition of 5.4 nm Si 
capping layer, the SiGe islands were found to be fully buried in the Si capping layer. Fig. 2 (b) 
shows the XTEM image of the etched nanoring after removal of the Ge-rich parts. This 
demonstrates that the Ge-rich island is still preserved during the formation of the nanorings. 
The nanorings are also dipped in the TMAH solution for 9 s to remove the Si-rich parts, as 
shown in Fig. 3. The ring-like regions were removed and only the Ge-rich core regions of 
nanorings survive after etching. These results are very consistent with our assumption that the 
 9
capping process. This suggests that the shift to the lower wave number of Ge–Si peak is more 
closely correlated with the formation of nanorings, which is due to strain relief of the Si-rich 
materials above the Ge-rich islands. 
 4. Summary and Conclusions  
In summary, the evolution of the composition distribution and microstructures of Ge 
islands during the Si overgrowth were investigated by AFM combined with selective wet 
etching procedures. With increasing Si coverage to 5.4 nm, the uncapped Ge islands were 
found to change their shapes dramatically from domes to truncated pyramids, nanorings and 
eventually to the fully buried islands. Different atomic composition profiles in SiGe islands 
were observed at different Si coverages. Especially, the nanorings were found to have a 
Ge-rich core with a Si-rich periphery. The AFM and Raman results demonstrate that the Ge 
redistribution in islands during Si capping is not only correlated with the intermixing between 
Si capping layer and Ge islands, but also a strain-relief process. 
 
Acknowledgements 
The research was supported by the National Science Council through a grant No. NSC 
97-2218-E-008-003 and the National Nano Device Laboratories. 
 
 11
[13] T.S. Drake, C.N. Chleirigh, M.L. Lee, A.J. Pitera, E.A. Fitzgerald, D.A. Antoniadis, D.H. 
Anjum, J. Li, R. Hull, N. Klymko, J.L. Hoyt, J. Elec. Mater. 32 (2003) 972. 
[14] A. Rastelli, M. Kummer, H. von Känel, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87 (2001) 256101. 
[15] U. Denker, A. Rastelli, M. Stoffel, J. Tersoff, G. Katsaros, G. Costantini, L. Kern, N.Y. 
Jin-Phillipp, D.E. Jesson, O.G. Schmidt, Phys. Rev. Lett. 94 (2005) 216103. 
[16] F.H. Li, Y.L. Fan, X.J. Yang, Z.M. Jiang, Y.Q. Wu, J. Zou, Appl. Phys. Lett. 89 (2006) 
103108. 
[17] A.V. Kolobov, K. Morita, K.M. Itoh, E.E. Haller, Appl. Phys. Lett. 81 (2002) 3855. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 13
 
 
Figure 1 
 
 
S.W. Lee et al. 
 15
 
 
Figure 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
S.W. Lee et al. 
