 2
can be electroplated using different kinds of co-
deposition methods. It is obvious that the coating 
structure can be significantly influenced on metal 
ion’s concentration of the plating bath. Hence, in 
this study, the nickel chloride concentration of the 
plating bath can be adjusted. The purpose of this 
study is to change the coating structure and to study 
their grinding ability in finishing the CVD diamond 
film surface using the CEPIS method. Moreover, 
the smaller size of diamond particles in the plating 
bath is also employed in this study. 
 
2. Experimental Apparatus and Procedures 
The schematic diagram of the grinding 
apparatus with composite electroplating system 
which has been shown in Fig. 1 and the 
experimental procedure are described in previous 
papers [9-10]. The composition of the electrolyte 
solution are as follows: 10 to 75 g/l nickel chloride 
(NiCl2 ． 6H2O), 38 g/l boric acid (H3BO3). 
Experimental results show that the Ni-Diamond 
composite coating can be electroplated on the 
copper disc surface and will be used as the grinder 
in the CEPIS process. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The CVD diamond film used as the specimen 
is about 25µm in thickness deposited onto the 
surface of silicon carbide with 20mm in diameter 
and 15mm in thickness. The diamond film is 
column and its center-line average roughness Ra is 
about 1.1µm. In our previous study [10], when the 
diamond film is ground using CEPIS method with 
10 µm in diamond particle size, its saturated value 
of surface roughness is about 0.1 to 0.2 µm after the 
grinding time of 20 min. Hence, in order to reduce 
the grinding time, the diamond film is first ground 
using the diamond particles of 10µm to achieve a 
diamond film with the surface roughness of 0.2µm 
and it will be used as the initial specimen. Then, the 
specimen is ground using the diamond particles of 
3µm. 
 
3. Results and Discussion 
3.1.  Coating thickness and coating structure of 
the grinder during the electroplating process 
The coating structure of the grinder is 
significantly influenced by the concentration of the 
nickel chloride in the plating bath during the 
electroplating process. Hence, it is necessary to 
investigate the deposited characteristics of the 
composite coating under different concentrations of 
the nickel chloride in the bath. Fig. 2 shows that 
during the electroplating process under a current 
density of 7.5 ASD and the speed of lower spindle 
50 rpm, the growth rate of the coating decreases 
with increasing concentration of the nickel chloride. 
When the concentration increases from 10 to 75 g/L, 
the growth rate of the coating decreases from 2.56 
µm/min to 1.26 µm/min.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To understand this phenomenon, the coating 
surface of the grinder is examined using a scanning 
electron microscope (SEM). Fig. 3 shows the SEM  
Fig. 2 The deposition rate of the coating 
thickness of the grinder at different NiCl2．
6H2O concentrations of the plating bath during 
the electroplating process 
 
Concentrations of the nickel chloride (g/L)
0
0.25
0.5
0.75
1
1.25
1.5
1.75
2
2.25
2.5
D
ep
o
sit
io
n
 
ra
te
 
o
f t
he
 
co
at
in
g 
th
ic
kn
es
s 
(µ
m
/m
in
)
10 30 75
Fig. 1 Schematic diagram of the grinding 
apparatus with composite electro-plating 
in-process sharpening 
 4
The increment or decrement amount of the 
coating thickness of the grinder is linearly 
proportional to grinding time at each 30 min under 
different NiCl2．6H2O concentrations, as shown in 
Fig. 4. Therefore, the average growth or decrement 
rate of the coating thickness of the grinder under 
different NiCl2 ． 6H2O concentrations can be 
depicted as Fig. 5. Fig. 5 shows that when the 
NiCl2．6H2O concentrations increases from 10 to 
75 g/L, the decrement rate of the coating thickness 
increases from -0.38 µm/min to -0.17µm/min under 
0 ASD, but the growth rate decreases from 2 
µm/min to 1.1µm/min under 7.5 ASD. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.3. Surface roughness of CVD diamond film 
during grinding process 
To understand the grinding characteristics of 
the diamond film under different nickel chloride 
concentrations using CEPIS method, the surface 
profilometer is used to measure the surface 
roughness of the diamond film after the grinding 
process, as shown in Fig. 6. Fig. 6 shows the surface 
roughness (Ra) of the diamond film versus the 
grinding time under a load of 35 N, a lower spindle 
of 50 rpm, an upper spindle of 400 rpm, as shown in 
Table 1. It makes clear that the surface roughness 
decreases from 0.2 to 0.17µm after the grinding 
time of 180 min under 0 ASD at the nickel chloride 
concentration of 10 g/L, to 0.1µm at 30 g/L, and to 
0.08µm at 75 g/L. On the other hand, the surface 
roughness of the diamond film decreases from 0.2 
to 0.14µm under 7.5 ASD at the nickel chloride 
concentration of 10 g/L, to 0.07µm at 30 g/L, and to 
about 0.03µm at 75 g/L. Therefore, the surface 
roughness of diamond film can be reduced 
efficiently and rapidly using CEPIS method in 
which the grinder is sharpened simultaneously by 
composite electroplating during the grinding 
process. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 The rate of variation of the coating 
thickness of the grinder at NiCl2 ． 6H2O 
concentrations during the grinding process 
Fig. 7 The SEM micrographs of the CVD 
diamond film: (a) Before grinding, and (b) 
After grinding 180 min under 7.5 ASD at a 
NiCl2．6H2O concentration of 75 g/L 
 
Fig. 6 The variation for the surface roughness 
of diamond film at different NiCl2．6H2O 
concentrations during the grinding process 
 6
diamond particles increases to maximum in front of 
the area contacted by the diamond film (Figs. 9(2)). 
In general, the coating structures on the grinder  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
surface vary cyclically. This result is in good 
agreement with the sharpening mechanism 
discussed in the previous research [10]. However, 
the land area ratio of the grinder surface is about 
15~25 % under the nickel chloride concentration of 
10 g/L (Figs. 9(a2)) so that the renewed diamond 
particles may be exposed on the sea area of the 
grinder surface (see the marked area A). Therefore, 
only few diamond particles on the coating surface 
become active in grinding the diamond film so that 
the decrement for the surface roughness of the 
diamond film is poorer than that using traditional 
method. As NiCl2 ． 6H2O concentration is 
increased to 30 g/L, the land area ratio of the 
grinder surface increases to about 45~55 % so that 
more diamond particles embedded on the coating 
become active in grinding the diamond film, and the 
grinding ability of the grinder is increased thus. 
Moreover, although some coatings of the grinder 
are worn out during the grinding process (see the 
marked area B), the diamond particles can still be 
deposited simultaneously using electroplating 
method (see the marked area C). Therefore, the 
grinding ability of the grinder can be maintained, 
and the surface roughness of the CVD diamond film 
is much better than that using the traditional method 
(Fig. 6). As the NiCl2 ． 6H2O concentration 
increases to 75 g/L, although the surface of the 
grinder is uneven in the rear area contacted by the 
diamond film (see the marked area D), it becomes 
very smooth without porous area so that the 
diamond particles embedded on the coating is very 
active in grinding the diamond film (see the marked 
area E). Since the nickel substrate can hold the 
diamond particles rigidly, the mirror-like surface of 
the CVD diamond film can be achieved (Fig. 7(b)). 
 
4. Conclusions 
The Composite Electro-Plating In-Process 
Sharpening (CEPIS) method is employed to grind 
the diamond film. The sharpening characteristics of 
the coating of the grinder under different nickel 
chloride concentrations containing 3µm diamond 
particles during CEPIS process have been 
investigated. Based on the experimental results, the 
main results are outlined below:  
(1) In the electroplating process at a lower 
spindle of 50 rpm, and a current density of 7.5 ASD, 
and an electroplating time of 30 min, the structure 
of composites coating varies from “cauliflower” 
particles, through “ball-like” agglomerates, to fine-
grained and “compact” deposits with increasing 
concentration of the nickel chloride. 
(2) The deposited coating structure becomes 
compact with increasing NiCl2 ． 6H2O 
concentration. It indicates that most of diamond 
particles can contact with diamond film and the 
nickel substrate can hold the diamond particles 
rigidly during the grinding process, so that the 
diamond particles embedded on the coating is very 
active in grinding the diamond film. 
 
 
5. References 
[1] K. N. Sun, X. N Hu, J. H. Zhang, and J. R. 
Wang, Electrodeposited  Cr-A12O3  composite 
coating for wear  resistance, Wear, 196 (1996) 
295-297.  
 
Fig. 9 The SEM micrographs of Ni-Diamond 
composite coating of the grinder during grinding 
process under 7.5 ASD at different NiCl2．6H2O 
concentrations: (a) 10 g/L, (b) 30 g/L, and (c) 75 g/L 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期 2010年10月28日
國科會補助計畫
研發成果名稱
發明人
(創作人)
技術說明
技術移轉可行性及
預期效益
技術/產品應用範圍
產業別
計畫名稱:
計畫主持人:
計畫編號: 學門領域:
(中文)
(英文)
成果歸屬機構
(中文)
(英文)
鎳基鑽石磨粒複合電鍍鍍層結構與鑽石膜表面研磨特性的關係之研究
邱源成
98 -2221-E -110 -026 - 潤滑與磨耗
鎳基鑽石磨粒複合電鍍鍍層結構與鑽石膜表面研磨特性的關係之研究
國立中山大學 邱源成,李榮宗,陳泰甲,許豐晏
本研究使用線上複合電鍍銳化（Composite ElectroPlating In-process
Sharpening, CEPIS）法加工CVD鑽石膜。實驗中探討改變鎳鍍液中氯化鎳含量
對磨盤表面特性和鑽石膜材料移除率之影響。實驗結果發現，當鍍液中氯化鎳
含量由10 g/L增加至30 g/L時，複合鍍層的海陸比隨鍍液中氯化鎳含量而增加
。當氯化鎳濃度提升至75g/L時，鍍層表面變得非常平滑且幾乎看不到孔洞，此
時複合鍍層可以緊實地夾持住鑽石顆粒，因此磨盤的研磨能力可以顯著提升，
而得到接近鏡面的CVD鑽石膜表面。
The in-process sharpening mechanism of the grinder during the
grinding process of a CVD diamond film surface is investigated using
the composite electro-plating in-process sharpening (CEPIS)
technique. The bath concentration is employed to investigate the
variation of coating structure deposited on the grinder. Results show
that the land area ratio increases with increasing nickel chloride
concentrations (NiCl2．6H2O) of the plating bath from 10 to 30 g/L,
and the coating structure becomes very smooth without porous area at
the nickel chloride concentration of 75 g/L. Therefore the coating
structure becomes compact to hold the diamond particles rigidly.
Consequently, the grinding ability of the grinder can be
significantly improved, where the mirror-like surface of the CVD
機械製造業；光學及精密器械製造業
鑽石膜表面研磨技術
用於研磨加工鑽石膜表面成為鏡面，其研磨效率高與加工費最低廉
註：本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
