Research on Query Result Estimation Based on Dynamic Sampling 
of Users' Workload＊ 
 
Abstract 
The ability of providing accurate and efficient estimations of result of user queries is 
very important for the query optimizer in database systems. In this proposal, we show 
that the traditional estimation techniques with data reduction point of view does not 
produce satisfactory estimation results if the query patterns are dynamically changing. 
We further show that to reduce query estimation error, in addition to accurately 
capturing the data distribution, it is also necessary to capture the user query patterns. 
In this project, we propose new query estimation techniques that can adapt to user 
query patterns for more accurate estimate of the size of selection or range queries 
over databases. In this project, we explore the potential applications of the proposed 
database estimation framework on different data models; e.g, streaming data, spatial 
data and multidimensional data, etc. 
 
1. Introduction 
 
Query size estimation plays an important role in the query optimizer of a database 
management system. For example, depending on the size of the intermediate results, a particular 
query execution plan may be favored over another. Query estimates can also be used by the 
database system to give user feedback on the possible result sizes and the running time needed 
before queries are executed. A common approach in relational databases is to store, for each 
attribute, summary information that can be used to estimate the resulting size of a query. 
Histogram techniques are widely studied to serve this purpose of summarizing information. Ideal 
histograms should consist of buckets such that the enclosed domain region for each bucket has 
near uniform tuple density distribution to reduce estimation error of selectivity as suggested. 
However, several problems arise with the construction of ideal histograms. First, most histograms 
are static in the sense that once the histogram buckets are built they remained regardless of 
changes in data distribution caused by user updates. Second, most histogram techniques construct 
their buckets only with respect to the data distribution without considering how the histograms 
will be used in estimating user query results. Ignoring user query patterns assumes that user 
queries are uniformly distributed throughout the domain, which is rarely the case in practice. 
 
In this project, we propose novel techniques that can adapt to user query patterns for more 
accurate estimates of the size of selection of range queries in databases. Our proposed techniques 
differ from the previous works in several aspects. First, unlike previous studies which ignore the 
data distributions and build the histogram solely upon user query feedbacks, we try to accurately 
capture the data distribution then tune our estimation with query feedbacks. Second, our proposed 
methods do not assume that the workload distribution is relatively static or that the data 
distribution is relatively static as in previous studies. Third and most importantly, unlike the 
histogram techniques (based on partitioning the frequency distribution function) or the sampling 
techniques (based on tuple sampling of the relation), our estimation techniques are based on 
                                                 
＊This work was partially supported by the National Science Council, Taiwan, under the Grants No. 
97-2211-E-011-090. 
3. Conclusion 
 
Query size estimation is a critical component in DBMS for generating optimal query execution 
plans and feedbacks to the users. Commercially, most DBMSs employ histogram based 
techniques for the approximation of data distributions. Many other techniques for summarizing 
data distributions in database have been proposed. However, while the main objective is to reduce 
the average estimation errors, our results strongly suggest that capturing the query distribution is 
more important than capturing the data distribution. In this project we proposed a new technique 
which can be used for capturing user query patterns in databases that sample the user query 
patterns and use the cdf of the data distribution for more accurate estimate of the size of 
selections or range queries in databases. 
 
