行政院國家科學委員會補助專題研究計畫成果報告 
 
火焰於微管槽中加速與震爆產生機制之實驗分析 
Experimental Analyses on Flame Acceleration and Deflagration-to-Detonation 
Transition in Small Tubes and Channels 
 
計畫編號：NSC 96－2218－E－006－293－ 
執行期間： 2007 年 11 月 1 日至 2008 年 10 月 31 日 
計畫主持人： 吳明勳 
計畫參與人員： 王長禹、王俊凱、王敬文 
 
 
中文摘要 
本計畫中，我們針對乙烯/氧氣與甲烷/氧
氣預混焰於內徑 1 mm 與 2 mm 之長毛細管
內火焰傳遞動態進行研究。實驗觀察發
現，乙烯/氧氣之預混焰在毛細管中引燃
後，火焰由緩燃焰逐漸加速向出口傳遞，
並於點火處下游約 100 倍管徑處完成緩燃
焰轉變至爆燃焰，並以一略低於 Chapmen-
Jouguet (C-J)速度之速度傳遞。甲烷/氧氣
於 2 mm 內徑毛細管內之傳遞現象頗類似於
乙烯/氧氣預混焰。但於 1 mm 微管內，由
於管徑趨近於火焰與爆震臨界直徑，我們
發現反應於起始後，速度首先呈現震盪狀
態加速，可能為文獻中所謂之 galloping 
detonation，並於震盪加速超過 C-J 速度
後，最終以約 0.7 倍 C-J 速度之穩定傳遞模
式向出口傳遞。此外，我們也實驗分析了
管長與火焰傳遞動態之關係，歸納發現於
我們所探討之 0.4-1 m 管長範圍內，管長並
不影響傳遞動態。經改變點火電壓，亦發
現點火電壓並不強烈影響本實驗中火焰之
加速與震爆焰發生。 
Abstract 
Reaction propagation of ethylene/oxygen and 
methane/oxygen mixtures in capillary tubes of 1 
and 2 mm in diameters were experimentally 
studied. Deflagrative flame was initiated in middle 
of the small tube, and the reaction fronts 
accelerated as it propagated downstream towards 
the exits. Lengths of the tubes investigated ranged 
from 0.4 to 1 m (one side), and deflagration-to-
detonation transitions were observed for all 
equivalence ratios with successful initiations. The 
visible reaction front propagates at speeds slightly 
below Chapman-Jouguet speed for 
ethylene/oxygen mixture in the 1 mm and 2 mm 
tubes as well as methane/oxygen mixture in the 2 
mm tube after deflgration-to-detonation transition 
was reached. An overshoot in propagation velocity 
was found during transition process. However, low 
speed detonation and galloping detonation modes 
were the typical propagation modes for 
methane/oxygen mixtures in the 1 mm tube. Run-
up distances were found to be invariant to the 
length of the tube.  
1 Introduction 
With the recent development of microscale power 
and propulsion systems [1, 2], studies on flame 
acceleration and deflagration-to-detonation 
transition (DDT) in small tubes are receiving 
growing research interests. DDT is also among the 
reacting flow phenomena that are relatively less 
understood due to the disparate time scale 
involved. Improved understanding in this area may 
also lead to safer designs for macroscale 
combustion and chemical propulsion systems.  
The overall process of DDT in tubes which the 
characteristic length scale is several orders larger 
than the detonation and the deflagration limits is 
known from experimental observations: flame 
acceleration yields weak compression waves, 
which interacts, strengthen, and adiabatically 
compress the fresh fuel mixture and forms shock, 
eventually leading to thermal explosion 
somewhere between the leading shock and the 
flame front, and detonation is eventually achieved; 
however, details of the flame acceleration in the 
 2
 ignition assembly as shown in Fig. 1(b) was further 
developed to allow tube replacements. The setup 
was utilized to study the effects of tube lengths on 
the reaction propagation.  
 (a) 
 
(b) 
 
Fig. 1 Schematics of the capillary tube(s) (a) with 
ignition electrodes inserted into the holes drilled on 
the borosilicate tube, and (b) inserted into a acrylic 
ignition assembly cube.  
In the first design shown in Fig. 1(a), ignition was 
achieved by applying high voltage across the 
electrodes inserted in the 500 μm diameter through 
holes drilled at the center of 1 m long tubes. 
Platinum wires were used for the electrodes and 
gap between the electrodes and the drill holes were 
sealed using epoxy (Torr-Seal). Figure 1(b) shows 
the design of the ignition assembly for studying the 
effects of length/diameter ratio. Two tiny holes are 
drilled on opposite sides of the acrylic cube where 
the spark electrodes were installed. Larger holes (6 
mm in diameter) were drilled on the other two 
sides and connected with a smaller hole that 
matched the inner diameter of the capillary tube. 
The connecting tunnel intersected with the holes 
for the spark electrodes. The diameter of the larger 
drill holes was approximately 0.1 mm larger than 
the outer diameter of the capillary tubes, so the 
tubes were tightly fastened to the ignition assembly 
as the assembly and the tubes were put together in 
the scheme as shown in Fig. 1(b). Transparent 
borosilicate capillary tubes open at both ends were 
used as the flame propagation channels in both 
designs. With the typical averaged roughness of 
less than 50 nm on the inner surface of a 
borosilicate capillary tube, it offers an extremely 
smooth flow channel. 
Flame acceleration and detonation wave 
propagation were be optically visualized through 
the transparent tubes using a high speed camera 
(IDT, Motionscope X3). An ignition circuit 
(PBK40, Information Unlimited) providing 20 kV 
from a 9V battery was utilized to generate the 
ignition spark across the electrodes. Fuel/oxygen 
mixture was premixed using a tee before feeding 
into the tube. The duration of the filling process 
was fixed at 1 minutes for all tests carried out. 
Flow rates of the oxygen and the fuel (typically at 
a few hundreds cc/min) were controlled using mass 
flow controllers (MKS 1179A). Methane, ethylene 
and oxygen were from gas cylinders, and the 
purities were above 99.9%.      
3 Result and Discussions  
Ethylene and methane are the fuels that were 
investigated in the present study. Pure oxygen was 
utilized as the oxidizer for both fuels. Effects of 
equivalence ratio, ignition energy, and tube length 
on the on the ethlylene/oxygen flame acceleration 
and deflagration-to-detonation process in small 
tubes were characterized. Experiments using 
methane/oxygen were carried out using identical 
experimental setup. Galloping and low speed 
propagation modes were the typical propagation 
mode for methane/air mixtures in 1 mm I.D. 
capillaries. Two galloping cycles were observed in 
the 1 m long tube.  
Capillary tube 
3.1 Propagation characteristics of 
ehtylene/oxygen reaction  
Reaction wave propagations of ethylene/oxygen 
mixture in 2 mm and 1 mm diameter tube were 
characterized using the setup shown in Fig. 1(b). 
The dynamics of the visible reaction fronts were 
captured using the high speed camera with the 
frame rate set at 116509 fps. The exposure time for 
each image in the sequence shown in Fig. 2 was 5 
μs. In the present study, at least three tests were 
performed for every condition investigated. An 
image processing program for analyzing the 
images captured was developed to reduce the huge 
amount of image data, and more importantly, to 
provide a more consistent approach of analyzing 
the data. The location of the reaction front in each 
frame was identified using the program, and the 
propagation velocity could thereby be calculated 
for each image sequence.  
Ignition 
assembly 
 4
 Initiation failures occurred at equivalence ratios 
below 0.5 in the fuel lean region. Detonation 
velocities were also characterized using the 1 mm 
I.D. tube at three equivalence ratios covering 
stoichiometric and fuel rich regime. Velocity 
deficits of detonation wave propagation were as 
large as 200 m/s in the 1 mm tube. We are working 
on the characterization of velocity deficits of 
detonation wave propagation in the 1 mm tube 
using fuel lean mixtures. Results will be compared 
with the correlations proposed in Ref. [8]. 
The relation between tube length and the DDT 
run-up distance was shown in Fig. 5. The run-up 
distance is the distance between the ignition spot 
and the location where the velocity overshoot 
occurs. The run-up distance was constant in the 
range of tube length investigated. DDT occurs at 
locations approximately 0.16 m downstream from 
the ignition spot for stoichiometric 
ethylene/oxygen in the 2 mm tube. Tube lengths 
studied ranged from 0.4 to 1 m on one side. The 
run-up distance was consistent with that reported 
in Ref. [13], which concluded that DDT distance is 
approximately 100 times the tube diameter. 
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1.0
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
 4.5 V
 6.0 V
 9.0 V
 
 
V
el
oc
ity
 (m
/s
)
Distance (m)  
Fig. 6 Relation between DDT run-up and tube 
length. Experiments were carried out in the 2 mm 
I.D. tube filled with stoichiometric ethylene/oxygen 
mixture. 
In addition, the effects of the spark voltage on 
the reaction propagation dynamics were also 
investigated. The spark ignition circuit utilized in 
the experiments was a battery powered high 
voltage DC supply. With a 9 V battery, the voltage 
was first stepped up using a transformer and then 
the secondary voltage was sent through a voltage 
multiplier to provide an output voltage of 
approximately 20 KV. We replaced the 9 V battery 
with 4.5 V and 6 V voltage inputs to alter the 
output voltage at the spark gap. The results show 
little influence of spark voltage on the DDT 
process as well as detonation wave propagation. 
We are currently characterizing the ignition energy 
by direct measurements of the spark gap voltage 
and current. Experiments were also carried out to 
investigate the effect of spark gap distance; 
however, little effect on the reaction propagation 
dynamics was found. 
3.2 Propagation characteristics of 
methane/oxygen reaction 
Reaction propagations in the meso-scale tubes 
were also characterized using methane/oxygen 
mixtures. A typical image sequence of 
methane/oxygen reaction wave propagation in the 
2 mm I.D. tube was shown in Fig. 6. The flame in 
the deflagration regime is much darker than the 
detonation waves. Methane was known to be more 
difficult to detonate. The cell size of the detonation 
front structure was smaller than that of ethylene 
reactions, which results in a larger critical diameter 
for the detonation wave to propagate. 
Figure 7 shows detonation velocity at different 
equivalence ratios in 2 mm I.D. tube. The velocity 
deficit for methane/oxygen mixtures was slightly 
larger compared with that of ethylene/oxygen 
mixtures in the same tube. The reaction could not 
be successfully initiated at equivalence ratios 
below 0.4. 
 
Fig. 6 High speed cinematography sequence showing 
typical reaction propagation of stoichiometric 
methane/oxygen in a 2 mm I.D. and 1 m (one-side) 
tube.  
0.6 0.8 1.0 1.2 1.4 1.6
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
Methane/Oxygen
 C-J velocity
 Reaction propagation velocity, 2 mm I.D.
 
 
V
el
oc
ity
 (m
/s
)
Equivalence ratio
 
Fig. 7 Detonation velocity deficits of methane/oxygen 
mixtures in 2 mm I.D. tubes. The length of the tube 
was 1 m on one side. 
 6
 [11] Kagan, L., and Sivashinsky, G. (2003). The 
transition from deflagration to detonation in thin 
channels. Combust. Flame 134, 389-397. 
[12] Ott, J.D., Oran, E.S., and Jr., J.D.A. (2003). A 
mechanism for flame accerleration in narrow tubes. 
AIAA Journal 41, 1391-1396. 
[13] Wu, M.H., Burke, M.P., Son, S.F., and Yetter, R.A. 
(2007). Flame acceleration and the transition to 
detonation of stoichiometric ethylene/oxygen in 
microscale tubes. Proc. Combust. Inst. 31, 2429-2436. 
[14] Brailovsky, I., and Sivashinsky, G. (2002). Effects 
of momentum and heat losses on the multiplicity of 
detonation regimes. Combustion and Flame 128, 191-
196. 
 8
此行中與邀訪單位人員之互動，除研討本計畫相關之火焰於微管內之傳遞現象後續研究之方
向外，也進一步歸結如利用共燒陶瓷基板技術發展微型固態氧化物燃料電池等未來可能進一
步合作之課題。 
 此行所獲之最大具體成果，為利用此一個月期間完成撰寫與投稿三篇論文於國際著名期
刊。此些論文皆已獲刊登或已獲接受。茲將論文引用資料摘要如下： 
 
1. M.-H. Wu, Y. Wang, R.A. Yetter, and V. Yang, 2009, Liquid monopropellant combustion in 
meso-scale vortex chamber, Journal Propulsion and Power. (accepted)(SCI)(NSC 
97-2221-E-006-058-MY2, NSC 96-2218-E-006-293) 
2. M.-H. Wu & R.A. Yetter, 2009, A novel electrolytic ignition monopropellant microthrusters 
based on low temperature co-fired ceramic tape technology, Lab on a Chip, 
DOI:10.1039/B82737A. (NSC 96-2218-E-006-293) 
3. M.-H. Wu & R.A. Yetter, 2008, Development and analysis of a LTCC micro stagnation point 
flow combustor, J. Micromech. Microeng. 18, pp. 125016. (NSC 96-2218-E-006-293) 
 
 其中發表於 Lab on a Chip 之有關利用低溫共燒陶瓷基板技術發展電解點火之液態單基燃料
微推進器論文，更獲英國 Royal Society of Chemistry 之刊物 Chemical Technology 選為
Highlighted Article 進行專文報導，茲將該報導之部分摘擷如下。 
 
Nozzle & 
Thrust chamberElectrode
ElectrodeElectric pad
 
 
赴國外研究心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號  96-2218-E-006-293- 
計畫名稱  火焰於微管槽中加速與震爆產生機制之實驗分析 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
 吳明勳 
 國立成功大學機械工程學系 助理教授 
出國時間地點  State College, Pennsylvania, U.S.A., Jul 6, 2008 – Aug 2, 2008 
國外研究機構  賓州大學機械暨核子工程學系 (The Pennsylvania State University) 
 
工作記要： 
 此行之緣起為職獲 Prof. Richard Yetter 邀請，於 2008 年暑假期間至美國賓州大學機械暨
核子工程學系(Department of Mechanical and Nuclear Engineering, The Pennsylvania State 
University)進行訪問研究。研究之主題為職所專長之微燃燒相關課題，由於亦與本計畫之研究
主題-微管內火焰傳遞現象與機制高度相關，故利用邀訪單位所贊助之部分經費配合本計畫所
補助之出國經費，前往賓州大學 Prof. Yetter 實驗室進行為期一個月之研究訪問。 
 職於台灣時間 2008 年 7 月 6 日啟程，於美國時間 7 月 6 日傍晚抵達賓州大學所在之賓州
大學城 State College，當晚安頓後旋即於隔日上午前往位於校區東北角之 Research East Bldg
會晤 Prof. Yetter，同時研討此行之主要工作計畫與時程。於當日之討論後，旋即將此為期一
個月之短期研究訪問之具體工作事項，按優先順序歸納如下： 
1. 完成利用低溫共燒陶瓷基板發展電解點火液態微推進器之相關實驗與數據分析，並完
成論文之撰寫與投稿。 
2. 完成有關利用低溫共燒陶瓷機板發展微對沖流燃燒器之論文撰寫與投稿。 
3. 進行火焰於微管槽內加速與震爆產生機制之實驗與後續研究方向探討。 
4. 完成有關液態微燃燒器之論文撰寫與投稿。 
5. 完成利用陶瓷熱鑄法所製作之微對沖流燃燒器之測試與分析報告撰寫。 
6. 完成利用低溫共燒陶瓷基板技術製作微推進器陣列並進行初步測試。 
7. 進行以 nanothermite 作為微推進器燃料之相關測試與研究。 
於一個月期間，透過與 Prof. Yetter 之密集研討與其實驗室成員 Dr. Jongguen Lee 與 Nicholas 
Donadio 在實驗上的配合與幫助，順利完成上列之事項。此外，並於這期間進一步學習有關
nano energetic materials combustion 相關之實驗技術，將可作為職未來研究之參考‧另也透過
