II
摘要 ..
壹、前言…
貳、研究目的 …
參、文獻探討 …
肆、研究方法 …
伍、結果與討論 …
陸、參考文獻 ..
柒、計畫相關發表著作…
捌、計畫成果自評 ..
玖、可供推廣之研發成果資料表
拾、出席國際會議報告書
4壹、前言
1. Introduction of the problem
(1) selectively convertible authenticated encryption scheme
Among the varieties of cryptographic mechanisms, digital signature schemes come in handy especially
when authenticity and non-repudiation are needed, while encryption schemes offer excellent
techniques to provide either privacy in the public key setting or privacy and authenticity (the two-user
case) in the symmetric setting. When both authenticity and privacy are needed (for example, secure
credit card transaction with the bank), we may adopt the authenticated encryption in the symmetric
setting [1, 2] or in the public key setting [3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18]. However, in
addition to authenticity and privacy, the non-repudiation feature is often desirable too because we
need to settle down a possible dispute later. In such cases, the authenticated encryption in the public
key setting may further provide non-repudiation, but the authenticated encryption in the symmetric
setting cannot. In the conventional digital signature schemes, the current convertible authenticated
encryption schemes, and the current signcryption schemes that provides non-repudiation mechanism,
a verified signature provides the information and the non-repudiation of both of the signing event and
the signed content simultaneously. For example, in El Gamal signature scheme [19], the data ( srm ,, )
that satisfies pryg srmh mod)(  releases both the information of the signing event (the entity
corresponding to the public key y really signed something) and the signed content m . In the
remaining parts of this paper, we shall call a signing event a transaction event and the signed message
the transaction content. However, for some secure transactions such as secret contracts or secret
mission assignments, not only the content of the transaction is valuable but also the transaction event
itself. Therefore, our concerns include authenticity, privacy, and non-repudiation of both the
transaction content and the event itself.
(2) Provably Secure Password-Based Three-Party Key Exchange with Optimal Message Steps
6Off-line guessing attack: An attacker iteratively picks up one possible password, and verifies his
guess using some data collected (either information eavesdropped during communication sessions or
encoded password files stolen from the server) in an off-line manner. Since the server is not involved in
the attack scenarios, the attacker can repeatedly launch his attacks without arousing any attention of
the server until he gets a hit.
Even though the various password guessing attacks are widely known and have been well dealt with
in conventional two-party protocol cases, it is still a challenge to design secure and efficient 3PEKE
protocols against the guessing attacks, because the interactions in the three-party case are much more
complicated.
8scheme can make quite a contribution is its application in e-bidding. Initially, each bidder submits
her/his proposal using a selectively convertible authenticated encryption such that the bid holder can
recover and verify the proposal. In this phase, both the bidder’s identity and her/his proposal are kept
secret from coercion. After the submission deadline, the bid holder converts all the encryptions into
publicly verifiable encryptions so that the public can verify whether the number of submitted proposals
has exceeded the pre-defined threshold value (This is important because, in many countries or areas,
such as Taiwan [27] and Hong Kong [28], both the central government and the local governments are
subject to the regulation that no bid session takes legal effect unless at least 3 qualified bidders
participate. If the regulations are satisfied, then the authority steps into the next stage; otherwise, it
closes this bidding process, announces the failure, and may re-start the process some time later). Finally,
the bid holder can convert the winner bid to announce the winner and the winning proposal for the
public to verify.
(2) Provably Secure Password-Based Three-Party Key Exchange with Optimal Message Steps
We shall propose a highly efficient password-based 3PEKE protocol that requires a record
low four message steps, which is the minimum among the published works. And, we will prove
that the number of 4 message steps is the optimal. Our contributions are two-fold: the
proposed protocol is the most compact of them all, and we prove its optimality and its
security in a formal model.
10
the co-operation of any other. However, both the transaction content and the event are released once the
encryption is converted into an ordinary signature in [4, 13], and one can distinguish two distinct
converted encryptions or even verify his/her guess of the content in the scheme [6] because the simple
hashing of the content is released for verification.
Recently, Malone-Lee proposed the signcryption scheme [7, 14] and the ID-based signcryption
scheme [12] with non-interactive non-repudiation that allows the designated receiver to convert the
encryption such that non-repudiation of the signing event and the signed content are provided
simultaneously. Malone-Lee’s schemes [7, 12, 14] behave like a convertible authenticated scheme such
as [3, 4, 13], and Boyen [8] further extended the signcryption with additionall properties–ciphertext
unlinkability and ciphertext anonymity. Both Malone-Lee and Boyen had proved the security of their
schemes, but, once the encrypted signature is decrypted, any one who gets the signature can verify the
signing event and the signed content. Other signcryption schemes with non-interactive non-repudiation
such as [15, 16, 17, 22] also provided security proofs, but Tan [18, 23] has shown the insecurity of the
works [15, 16]. Unfortunately, all these signcryption schemes with security proofs either release the
message content once the non-repudiation is provided [7, 8, 14, 15, 16, scheme 2 of 17, 22] or release
the transaction event initially [scheme 1 of 17].
Other related works include undeniable signatures such as [24, 25] and designated verifier signatures
such as [26], where undeniable signature was first proposed by Chaum and van Antwerpen [24], and
designated verifier signature was first proposed by Jakobsson et al. [26]. Undeniable signatures are like
ordinary signatures, with the only difference that they are not universally verifiable. Instead, there exist
interactive protocols or non-interactive protocols which allow the signer to convince a verifier about
the validity or invalidity of a signature. One possible application of undeniable signatures is that a signer
can sign electronic commercial documents or love letters such that he/she can convince the verifier the
authenticity of the signed documents but the verifier cannot obtain information that could be used to
convince a third party about the correctness of a signature. Boyar et al. [25] further extended the
12
key and the clients use the public key to securely transmit their passwords and content of
communication. This approach is more efficient in terms of the number of message steps and is quite
suitable for those environments with a public key infrastructure (PKI) available. The Wireless Transport
Layer Security (WTLS) protocol in mobile environments and the Extensible Authentication
Protocol-Tunneled TLS Authentication Protocol (EAP-TTLS) protocol in Wireless Local Area Network
(WLAN) environments are examples where this approach is followed. However, this approach incurs an
overhead for public key accessing/verification on the client side, and that is why the other type of
protocols like the Lin-Sun-Steiner-Hwang protocol (called LSSH-3PEKE) [12], the Chang-Chang scheme
(called CC-3PEKE) [9], the Lee-Hwang-Lin scheme (called LHL-3PEKE) [11] and the Lu-Cao scheme (called
LC-3PEKE) [10, 13] focus on eliminating the overhead caused by the public key infra-structure—at the
cost of more message steps. Chien and Wu [15] had proposed a 3PEKE protocol with only 4 steps;
however, they did not formally prove the security and did not prove the optimality.
Even though many works have tried to improve either the security or the communication
performance of 3PEKE protocols, only Gong [16, 17] had studied the communication lower bounds of
3PEKE protocols. He classified 3PEKE protocols into several categories according to the following
properties: time-stamp-based (TB) vs. nonce-based (NB), authentication-only (AO) vs. authentication
with handshake (AH), and server choosing the session key (SO) vs. one client choosing the key (CO) vs.
both clients choosing the key (CC). The authentication-only (AO) means that the clients has properly
received the session key but they are not ensured whether the communicating party has the same key,
and the authentication with handshake (AH) means that the clients are also ensured they share the
same key. To be more descriptive and compatible with the previous works, we would like to use the
terms key distribution (KD), key confirmation (KC) to replace the terms authentication-only (AO),
authentication with handshake (AH) respectively in the rest of this paper. Gong has discussed the lower
bounds under different combinations of the properties. This paper focuses on the NB+KC+CC case
14
肆、研究方法
This project consists of several parts- (1) the study of the selectively convertible authenticated
encryption scheme; (2) further improvement of the selectively convertible authenticated encryption
scheme in terms of the efficiency of the implementation and the security proof reduction); (3) the
extension of cipher-text anonymity and cipher-text unlinkability; (4) the study of e-tender system and
the convertibly verifiable secret trading; (5) the application of the selectively convertible authenticated
encryption scheme in secret trading and e-tender system.
1 st year
2nd year
Figure 1. The process and content of this 2-year project
Part 1: the study of the selectively convertible authenticated
encryption scheme
Part 2: The study of the formal model that captures all the
possible threats and the proof that has tighter reduction
Part 3: The extension of cipher-text anonymity and cipher-text
un-linkability
Part 4: the study of e-tender system and the convertibly
verifiable secret trading
Part 5: the application of the selectively convertible
authenticated encryption scheme in secret trading and e-tender
system
16
18
[10] Zheng, Y. (1997) Digital signcryption or how to achieve cost (signature & encryption) << cost
(signature) + cost (encryption). Proceedings of CRYPTO’97, Santa Barbara, California, USA, August
17-21, pp.~165-179. Springer-Verlag, Berlin.
[11] Menezes, A. J., Okamato, T. and Vanstone, S. A. (1993) Reducing elliptic curve logarithms to
logarithms in a finite field. IEEE Trans. on Info., 39(5), 1639-1646.
[12] Malone-Lee, J. (2002) Identity-based signcryption. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Reports/2002/098,
IACR. http://eprint.iacr.org/2002/098.
[13] Wu, T.-S., and Hsu, C.-L. (2002) Convertible authenticated encryption scheme. The Journal of
Systems and Software 62, 205-209.
[14] Malone-Lee, J. (2005) Signcryption with Non-Interactive Non-Repudiation. Designs, Codes and
Cryptography, 37(1), 81-109.
[15] Libert, B., and Quisquater, J.-J. (2004) Efficient Signcryption with Key Privacy from Gap
Diffie-Hellman Groups. Public Key Cryptography 2004 (PKC'04), Singapore, 1-4 March, LNCS2947,
pp.~187-200, Spinger-Verlag, Berlin.
[16] Libert, B., and Quisquater, J.-J. (2004) Improved Signcryption from q-Diffie-Hellman Problems. 4th
Conference on Security in Communication Networks '04 (SCN'04), Amalfi, Italy, 8-10 September,
LNCS3352, pp.~220-234, Springer-Verlag, Berlin.
[17] Libert, B., and Quisquater, J.-J. (2003) New identity based signcryption schemes from pairings. IEEE
Information Theory Workshop 2003, Paris, France, 31 March ~ 4 April, pp.~155-158.
[18] Tan, C. H. (2006) Security Analysis of Signcryption Scheme from q-Diffie-Hellman Problems. IEICE
Trans. on Fundamentals, E89-A(1), 206-208.
[19] Elgamal, T. (1985) A public key cryptosystem and a signature scheme based on discrete logarithms.
IEEE Trans. on Information Theory, IT-31 (4), 469-472.
[20] An, J. H., Dodis, Y., and Rabin, T. (2002) On the security of joint signature and encryption.
20
Crypto’01, Santa Barbara, California, USA, 19-23 August, LNCS 2139, pp.~213-229. Springer-Verlag,
Berlin.
[32] Bellare, M., Desai, A., Pointcheval, D., and Rogaway, P. (1998) Relations among notations of security
for public key Encryption schemes. Proceedings of CRYPTO’98, Santa Barbara, California, USA, 23-27
August, LNCS 1462, pp.~26-45. Springer-Verlag, Berlin.
[33] Schnorr, C. P. (1990) Efficient Identification and Signatures for Smart Cards. Proceedings of
Crypto'89, Santa Barbara, California, USA, 20-24 August, LNCS 435, pp.~339-351. Springer-Verlag,
Berlin.
[34] Ohta, K. and Okamoto, T. (1998) On concrete security treatment of signatures derived from
identification. Proceedings of CRYPT’98, Santa Barbara, California, USA, 23-27 August, LNCS 1462,
pp.~354-369. Springer-Verlag, Berlin.
[35] NIST FIP PUB 180 (1993) Secure hash standard. National Institute of Standards and Technology, US
department of Commerce, US.
Part B. Provably Secure Password-Based Three-Party Key Exchange with Optimal Message
Steps
[1] Kohl, J., Neuman, C. (1993) The Kerberos network authentication service (V5). 1993, Internet
Request for Comments 1510.
[2] Molva, R., Tsudik, G., Herreweghen, E. V., Zatti, S. (1992) KryptoKnight authentication and key
distribution system. In: Proc. of the 1992 European symposium on research in computer security-
ESORICS, Toulouse, France, 23-25 Nov., pp. 1-16, LNCS648, Springer-Verlag, Berlin.
[3] Bellare, M., Pointcheval, D., and Rogaway, P. (2000) Authenticated key exchange secure against
dictionary attacks. Eurocrypt 2000, Belgium, 14-18 May, pp. 139-155, LNCS 1807, Springer, Berlin.
[4] Ding, Y., Horster, P. (1995) Undetectable on-line password guessing attacks. ACM Operating Systems
22
Berlin.
[16] Gong, L. (1995) Optimal authentication protocols resistant to password guessing attacks. Proc. of
the 8th IEEE workshop on Computer Security Foundations, Ireland, 13-15 June, pp. 24-29, IEEE.
[17] Gong, L. (1993) Lower Bounds on Messages and Rounds for Network Authentication Protocols.
Proc. of the 1st ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security 1993, Fair-fax, Virginia,
3-5 Nov., pp. 26-37, ACM press.
[18] Chien, H.-Y. (2008) Selectively Convertible Authenticated Encryption in The Random Oracle Model.
The Computer Journal, 51, 419-434.
[19] Bellare, M., Desai, A., Pointcheval, D., and Rogaway, P. (1998) Relations among notations of security
for public key Encryption schemes. Proc.of CRYPTO’98, Santa Barbara, California, USA, 23-27 August,
pp.26-45, LNCS 1462, Springer-Verlag, Berlin.
[20] Bellare, M., Rogaway, P. (1995) Provably secure session key distribution: The three party case. Proc.
27th ACM Symposium on the Theory of Computing, Nevada, USA, 29 May ~ 1 June, pp. 57-66, ACM
press.
Part C. Secure Tripartite STS key Agreement Protocol in Random Oracle Model
[1] Al-Riyami, S. S., and K. G. Paterson (2003). Tripartite Authenticated Key Agreement Protocols from
Pairings. IMA Conference on Cryptography and Coding, LNCS 2898, Springer-Verlag, pp. 332-359.
[2] Al-Riyami, S. S., and K. G. Paterson (2002). Authenticated three party key agreement protocols from
pairings. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2002/035.
[3] Bellare, M., and P. Rogaway (1995). Provably secure session key distribution: The three party case.
24
[15] Joux, A., (2000). A one round protocol for tripartite Diffie-Hellman. ANTS IV, LNCS1838,
Spring-Verlag, pp. 385-394.
[16] Lin, C.-H., and H.-H. Lin (2005). Secure One-Round Tripartite Authenticated Key Agreement
Protocol from Weil Pairing.," Proceedings of International Conference on Advanced Information
Networking and Applications (AINA 2005), Vol. 2, March 25-30, 2005 , pp. 135-138.
[17] Lu, R., Cao, Z., Wang, S. B., Bao, H. Y. (2007). A New ID-Based Deniable Authentication Protocol.
Informatica 18 (1), 67-78.
[18] O'Higgins, B., W. Diffie, L. Strawczynski, and R. Hoog (1987). Encryption and ISDN - A Natural Fit.",
1987 International Switching Symposium (ISS87).
[19] Raymond, C. K.-K., Colin, B., and Yvonne, H. (2005) “Examining indistinguishability-based proof
models for key establishment protocols”, ASIACRYPT 2005, LNCS 3788, Springer, pp. 585-604.
[20] Shim, K., (2003). Efficient one round tripartite authenticated key agreement protocol from Weil
pairing. Electron. Lett. 39(2), 208-209.
[21] Shim, K., (2003). Cryptanalysis of Al-Riyami-Paterson's Authenticated Three Party Key Agreement
Protocols.", Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2003/122.
[22] Schnorr, C. P. (1990). Efficient identification and signatures for smart cards. Proc. Of CRYPTO’89,
LNCS 435, Springer-Verlag, pp. 235-251.
[23] Tseng, Y. M., Wu, T.Y., Wu, J. D. (2008). A Pairing-Based User Authentication Scheme for Wireless
Clients with Smart Cards. Informatica 19 (2), 285-302.
26
October 2009, pp. 848-853. [1.148, SCI]
(10) Hung-Yu Chien, Chia-Chuan Yang, Tzong-Chen Wu, Chin-Feng Lee, “Two RFID-based Solutions to
Enhance Inpatient Medication Safety”, Journal of Medical Systems, Springer link 2009年 9月 24日.
(SCI).
(11) Hung-Yu Chien and Chen-Wei Huang,“A Lightweight Authentication Protocol for Low-Cost RFID”,
Journal of Signal Processing Systems, : Volume 59, Issue 1 (April 2010), Page 95-102. Springerlink
2008 年 10 月 9 日[SCI, EI]. NSC 97-2221-E-260 -008 -MY2. [IP: 0.779]
(12) Hung-Yu Chien, Tzong-Chen Wu, “Efficient and Scalable Key Agreement Schemes for Mobile RFID
Readers and Servers”, International Journal of Innovative Computing, Information and Control
(IJICIC). [SCI]
(13) Hung-Yu Chien, “Secure Verifier-based Three-Party Key Exchange in The Random Oracle Model”,
Journal of Information Science and Engineering, (SCI) accept.
(14) Hung-Yu Chien, Chin-Feng Lee, Shih-Bin Liu, Tzong-Chen Wu, “Enhancing Convenience and
Situation-Aware Intelligence of Smart Home Services Using Passive RFID and Intelligent Controls”,
International Journal of Internet Protocol Technology (EI).
(15) Chin-Feng Lee, Hung-Yu Chien, Chi-Sung Laih, “Secure Tripartite STS key Agreement Protocol in
Random Oracle Model”, Journal of Information Management, accept. (TSSCI).
International Conferences
(16) Hung-Yu Chien, “Varying Pseudonyms-Based RFID Authentication Protocols with DOS Attacks
Resistance”, proc. of 2008 IEEE Asia-Pacific Services Computing Conference, IEEE APSCC 2008,
December 9-12, 2008, Yilan, Taiwan. (EI).
(17) 30. Hung-Yu Chien, “Highly Eficient ID-based Ring Signature from Pairings”, proc. of 2008 IEEE
Asia-Pacific Services Computing Conference, IEEE APSCC 2008, December 9-12, 2008, Yilan, Taiwan.
(EI).
(18) 31. An-Ni Shen, Song Guo, Hung-Yu Chien,“An Efficient and Scalable Key Distribution Mechanism
for Hierarchical Wireless Sensor Networks“, IEEE International Workshop on Modeling, Analysis and
28
捌、計畫成果自評 ..
1. 已順利達成兩年計畫目標，相關發表請參考 [柒、計畫相關發表著作]。
2. 大體而言，研究成果豐碩，但有部分成果非當初計畫目標，但由於計畫補助得以研究發表；另
外有些國際合作得以進行，感謝國科會補助。
30
英文：
(1) We have proposed a new selectively convertible authenticated
encryption scheme.
(2) Based on the selectively convertible authenticated encryption
scheme, we have proposed a e-tender system. In an e-tender system,
both the bid casting event and the bid content should be kept secret
from the public in the bid casting phase, but the casting event and the
number of valid bids should be publicly verified. If the number of valid
bids exceeds the pre-defined threshold, then the process goes on to
the next stage; otherwise, the bid should be cancelled and might be
re-started later. Finally, when the winner is chosen, both the winner
and its content should be made public and public verifiable.
可利用之產業
及
可開發之產品
資訊安全、電子商務
技術特點
1. 可滿足電子投標所需的安全需求。
推廣及運用的價值
※ 1.每項研發成果請填寫一式二份，一份隨成果報告送繳本會，一份送 貴單位研發成
果推廣單位（如技術移轉中心）。
※ 2.本項研發成果若尚未申請專利，請勿揭露可申請專利之主要內容。
※ 3.本表若不敷使用，請自行影印使用。
32
一、會議沿起
UIC (International Conference on Ubiquitous Intelligence and Computing)起源於2005年3月，第一
屆UIC是由台灣淡江大學主辦，會議名稱為 “First International Workshop on Ubiquitous Smart World,
USW 2005”，2005年12月於日本長崎舉辦第二屆，而於2006年後，則更名為UIC且沿用自今，
2006~2008則分別於中國三峽、香港、挪威Oslo舉辦。本屆UIC(第六屆)由澳洲昆士蘭大學(University
of Queensland)主辦，且同時舉辦第六屆International Conference on Autonomic and Trusted Computing
(ATC’09)。UIC’09的大會主席為澳洲Prof. Jadwiga Indulska (昆士蘭大學)、澳洲Prof. Chris Scott (NICTA)
以及美國Prof. Sumi Helal (University of Florida)；ATC’09的大會主席為澳洲Prof. Jadwiga Indulska (昆士
蘭大學)以及德國Prof. Hartmut Schmeck (Karlsruhe Institute of Technology)；UIC’09 Workshops Chairs
為台灣中華大學Prof. Robert C. H. Hsu與加拿大Prof. Mieso Denko (University of Guelph)；而ATC’09
Workshop Chairs為澳洲Prof. Willy Susilo (University of Wollongong)與美國Prof. Xiaobo Zhou
(University of Colorado at Colorado Springs)。
二、大會議程
本屆UIC’09共有 26 篇論文接受發表，論文接受率(acceptance rate)為 28%，ATC’09則有 18 篇
論文接受發表，論文接受率為 33%。除此之外，本屆UIC’09/ ATC’09新增加下列 9 個 Symposium /
Workshop，以提供更多有關 Ubiquitous Intelligence and Computing (無所不在計算)之學術研究討論空
間，每個 Symposium / Workshop 的發表論文篇數與接受率整理如下：
 The 2009 International Symposium on UbiCom Frontiers - Innovative Research, Systems and
Technologies，Ufirst 2009：25篇論文接受發表，接受率為40%。
 The 2009 International Symposium on Cyber-Physical Intelligence，CPI 2009：15篇論文接受發表，
接受率為50%。
 The First International Workshop on Wireless and Mobile Network，WiMo 2009：9篇論文接受發
表，接受率為19%。
 The 2009 International Workshop on Ubiquitous Service Systems and Technologies，USST 2009：9
篇論文接受發表，接受率為53%。
 The 2009 International Workshop on Pervasive Media，PerMedia 2009：6篇論文接受發表。
 The 2009 International Symposium on Intelligence, Context-Awareness and Autonomy in Wireless
Networks，ICA 2009：5篇論文接受發表。
 The 2009 International Workshop on Cyber Physical and Social Computing，CPSC 2009：13篇論文
接受發表，接受率為48%。
 The 2009 International Workshop on Cybercrime and Trustworthy Computing，CTC 2009：10篇論
文接受發表，接受率為62%。
34
UIC session 1/7:
Context Awareness
ATC session 1/5:
Organic & Autonomic
Computing
UFirst session 6/6:
Smart Environments
and Autonomous
Systems
ICA session 1/1: PerMedia session 1/1:
CPSC session 1/3:
Cyber Intelligence and Safety
Chair: Stephen Yau
Chair: Hartmut
Schmeck
Chair: Ren-Hung
Hwang
Chair: Dhammika
Jayalath
Chair: Lei Ye Chair: Furong Wang
Inferring Human
Interactions in
Meetings: A
Multimodal Approach
Zhiwen Yu, Zhiyong Yu,
Yusa Ko, Xingshe Zhou,
Yuichi Nakamura
Towards an Organic
Network Control
System
Sven Tomforde, Marcel
Steffen, Jörg Hähner,
Christian
Müller-Schloer
Agenda Driven Home
Automation - Towards
High Level Context
Aware Systems
Fano Ramparany, Yazid
Benazzouz, Marta Bel
Martin
Cooperative Routing
for Wireless Networks
with Multiple Shared
Channels
Xiaoqin Chen,
Dhammika Jayalath,
Leif Hanlen
RFID-Based
Personalized Behavior
Modeling
Hui-Huang Hsu, Zixue
Cheng, Timothy K. Shih,
Chien-Chen
Chen
In silico Consciousness: The
Goal of Ambient Intelligent
Computing
V.K. Murthy, E.V.
Krishnamurthy
Gesture Recognition
with a 3-D
Accelerometer
Jiahui Wu, Gang Pan,
Daqing Zhang, Guande
Qi, Shijian Li
A universal
self-organization
mechanism for
role-based Organic
Computing systems
Florian Nafz, Frank
Ortmeier, Hella
Seebach, Jan-Philipp
Steghöfer, Wolfgang
Reif
User Location
Estimation Based on
Stereo Audio-Vision
Sang-Hyeon Jin,
Dong-Ju Kim,
Chee-Hyun Park,
Kwang-Seok Hong
Node Localisation in
Mobile Ad Hoc
Networks Using Double
Time Difference of
Arrival
HuiYao Zhang, Garry
Einicke, Marek
Bialkowski, John
Homer
Ranking Method for
Optimizing
Precision/Recall of
Content- Based Image
Retrieval
Jun Zhang, Lei Ye
A Novel Relay Encryption
Scheme for Mobile Ad hoc
Networks
Duan Hu, Furong Wang, Chen
Huang, Chunming Rong
Context-Aware Activity
Recognitionthrough a
Combination of
Ontological and
Statistical Reasoning
Daniele Riboni, Claudio
Bettini
Towards
Self-Organization in
Automotive Embedded
Systems
Gereon Weiss, Marc
Zeller, Dirk Eilers, Rudi
Knorr
An Automatic
Algorithm of
Dangerous
Construction
Warning System
Che-Jen Chen, Lee-Kuo
Lin, Wei-Sheng Wu
Distributed WSN Data
Stream Mining Based
on Fuzzy Clustering
Hakilo Sabit, Adnan
Al-Anbuky, Hamid
Gholam-Hosseini
Digital Watermarking
Method Based on
Image Size Invariant
Visual Cryptographic
Scheme
Shu-Fen Tu,
Ching-Sheng Hsu
Underwater Vehicle Noise
Source Recognition Using
Structure Dynamic
Adjustable SVM
Zhihua Gao, Kerong Ben, Lilin
Cui
Context-Aware Path
Planning in Ubiquitous
Network
Chiung-Ying Wang a
Analyzing the Behavior
of an Artificial
Hormone System for
Task Allocation
Using the iDTV for
Managing Services in
the Ubiquitous
Computing
Adaptive
Determination of Data
Granularity for QoS
Constraint Data
CADBA: A
Context-aware
Architecture Based on
Context Database for
36
16:15-17:15
ICA-IN-WIRELESS Invited talk:
Scheduling and Data Management Techniques in Wireless Mesh Networks: A
Cross-layer Approach
Assoc/Prof Mieso Denko, University of Guelph, Canada
Wednesday, July 8, 08:30-10:30 Parallel sessions
UIC session 2/7:
Middleware and
Services
ATC session 2/5:
Organic & Autonomic
Computing
UFirst session 2/6:
Trusted Computing I
USST session 1/2: WiMo session 1/2:
CPSC session 2/3:
Social Computing and
Networking
Chair: Max
Mühlhäuser
Chair: Christian
Müller-Schloer
Chair: Lin-Huang Chang Chair: Shang-Lin Hsieh
Chair: Ahmad S.
Al-Mogren
Chair: Lai Tu
An Efficient Approach
to Situation-Aware
Service Discovery in
Pervasive Service
Computing
Environments
Stephen.S. Yau,
Gautam G. Pohare
A Software Test Case
Automated Generation
Algorithm Based on
Immune Principle
Junmin Ye, Zemei
Zhan, Cong Jin,
Qingguo Zhang
RFID-Based,
Anonymous
Authentication Scheme
Hung-Yu Chien,
Chieh-Shian Tu,
Tzong-Chen Wu
QR Code Data Type
Encoding for
Ubiquitous Information
Transfer Across
Different Platforms
Yo-Ping Huang,
Yueh-Tsun Chang,
Frode Eika Sandnes
The Clustering
Algorithm for
Enhancing Network
Lifetime in Wireless
Sensor Networks
Wibhada Naruephiphat,
Chalermpol
Charnsripinyo
Expression and Analysis of
Emotions: Survey and
Experiment
Changrong Yu, Jiehan Zhou,
Jukka Riekki
Printing in Ubiquitous
Computing
Environments
Athanasios
Karapantelakis, Alisa
Devlic, Mohammad
Zarify, Saltanat Khamit
Management Without
(Detailed) Models
Alva Couch, Mark
Burgess, Marc Chiarini
Trust in Distributed
Small Sized Data
Centers
Nicolai Kuntze, Carsten
Rudolph
Toward a NFC
Phone-Driven Context
Awareness Smart
Environment
Yue-Shan Chang,
Yung-Shuan Hung,
Ching-Lung Chang,
Tong-Ying Juang
On the Use of
Anisotropic Mesh
Technique (AMT) in
Transverse Wave
Approach (TWA) for
the EM Analysis of
Microwave Circuits in
Wireless
Applications
Mohamed Ayari,
Taoufik Aguili, Helmi
Temimi, Henri
Baudrand
Social Behavior Association
and Influence in Social
Networks
Bin Xie, Anup Kumar,
Padmanabhan
Ramaswamy, Laurence T.
Yang, Sanjuli Agrawal
The Å Formal development of An Analysis of Trust Human Activity Using HMAC for Error Hidden Community Mining
38
Multipath Source
Routing Protocol for
Wireless Sensor
Networks
Sutaek Oh, Dongkyun
Kim, Hyunwoo Kang,
Hong-Jong Jeong
Attestation of Software
Configurations
Hua Wang, Yao Guo,
Xiangqun Chen
Swarm-Based
Autonomic Computing
Systems
Wendy M. Maiden,
Jereme N. Haack, Glenn
A. Fink, David
McKinnon, Errin W.
Fulp
Efficiency Clustering
Approach for Wireless
Sensor Networks
Hung-Chi Chu, Ying-
Hsiang Liao, Lin-Huang
Chang, Fang-Lin Chao
Channels through a
Push-Based System
Ahmad S. Al-Mogren
Scheme for CAC in Cellular
Networks
Hao Wang, Zhe Guo, Jialun
Huang, Lai Tu
A Framework to
Calibrate a MEMS
Sensor Network
Kahina Boutoustous,
Eugen Dedu, Julien
Bourgeois
ALOPA: Authorization
Logic for Property
Attestation in Trusted
Platforms
Aarthi Nagarajan, Vijay
Varadharajan and
Michael Hitchens
50 Years of Isolation
Nuwan A.
Goonasekera, William
J. Caelli, Tony Sahama
Mobility Management
of VoIP Services Using
SCTP Handoff
Mechanism
Lin-Huang Chang, Po-
Hsun Huang, Hung-Chi
Chu, Huai-Hsinh Tsai
Effective Top-down
Clustering Algorithms
for Location Database
Systems
Kwang-Jo Lee, Jin-Woo
Song, Sung-Bong Yang
Joint Optimal Congestion
Control and Channel
Assignment for Multi-Radio
Multi-Channel Wireless
Networks in Cyber-Physical
Systems
Kewei Li, Qingwei Liu, Furong
Wang, Xu Xie
Application Domain
Driven Data
Visualisation
Framework for
Wireless Sensor
Networks
Mohammad
Hammoudeh, Robert
Newman, Christopher
Dennett, Sarah Mount
Employed BPN to
multi-sensors data
fusion for environment
monitoring services
Wen-Tsai Sung
Deriving a Good
Trade-off Between
System Availability and
Time Redundancy
Nils Müllner, Abhishek
Dhama Oliver Theel
The Steady Clustering
Scheme for
Heterogeneous
Wireless Sensor
Networks
Jiun-Jian Liaw, Chen-Yi
Dai, Yi-Jie Wang
Comparison of Service
Management
Architectures in
MANETs
Károly Farkas
Mobile Network Optimization
Using Fuzzy Case-Based
Reasoning for GSM
Zeng Ma, Jun Hu, Shi Zhao,
Jialun Huang
Hybrid Bluetooth
Scatternet Routing
Karl E. Persson, D.
Manivannan
Argus: A
Light-Weighted Secure
Localization Scheme for
Sensor Networks
Wen Tao Zhu, Yang
Xiang
Multidimensional
Monitoring of
Computer Systems
Marcin Krol, Janusz
Sosnowski
An Image Copyright
Protection Scheme
with Tamper Detection
Capability
Shang-Lin Hsieh,
Chung-Ping Yeh, I-Ju
Tsai
Wireless Sensor
Networks Performance
Measurements and
Monitoring
Yaqoob J. AL-Raeisi,
Nazar Elfadil
A Distributed IPS Model
Based on Neighbor Distance
Jian Zhang, Wanhua Cao,
Huan Zhang, Li Feng, Duan Hu
On-line Fault Diagnosis
40
Junji Hamada, Akira
Uchiyama, Hirozumi
Yamaguchi, Shinji
Kusumoto, Teruo
Higashino
Niemi Applications
Ugo Barchetti, Alberto
Bucciero, Tania A. De
Benedittis, Francesca
Macchia, Luca
Mainetti, Antonio
Tamborino
Chiung-Ying Wang,
Ren-Hung Hwang
Jakob Salzmann, Ralf
Behnke, Martin Gag,
Dirk Timmermann
McCombie, Ben Reardon,
Paul Watters
MeshVision: An
Adaptive Wireless
Mesh Network Video
Surveillance System
Peizhao Hu, Ryan
Wishart, Jimmy Ti,
Marius Portmann,
Jadwiga Indulska
Formalizing Trust Based
on Usage Behaviours
for Mobile Applications
Zheng Yan, Rong Yan
Ubiquitous Computing
and Time Dimension
Mauro Marcelo Mattos
A Grid-Based
Distributed Computing
Environment for
Automatic Concept
Extraction and Content
Supporting Service
Chih-Ming Wang,
Ming-Chao Chiang,
Chu-Sing Yang
Frontier Research on
Pervasive Emotion
Computing
Jiehan Zhou,
Changrong Yu, Jukka
Riekki
Using Differencing to
Increase Distinctiveness for
Phishing Website Clustering
Robert Layton, Simon
Brown, Paul Watters
SDEC: A P2P Semantic
Distance Embedding
Based on Virtual
Coordinate System
Yufeng Wang, Akihiro
Nakao, Jianhua Ma
Fuzzy Regression
Based Trust Prediction
in Service-Oriented
Applications
Lei Li, Yan Wang,
Vijay Varadharajan
An Open Framework
for Distributed Context
Management in
Ubiquitous
Environment
Jun-Hong Lu,
Chiung-Ying Wang,
Ren-Hung Hwang
Correspondence
Analysis to Screening
the Implementation of
One Village One
Product Programs in
Taiwan
Hua-Kai Chiou,
Gia-Shie Liu, Yen-Wen
Wang, Tse-Jung Chen
A Random Group
Mobility Model for
Mobile Networks
Lai Tu, Fan Zhang,
Furong Wang, Xinmei
Wang
Detecting Phishing Emails
Using Hybrid Features
Liping Ma, Bahadorrezda
Ofoghi, Paul Watters,
Simon Brown
Dynamic Integration of
Zigbee Devices into
Residential Gateways
for Ubiquitous Home
Services
Young-Guk Ha
Theories of Trust for
Communication
Protocols
Ji Ma, Mehmet Orgun,
Abdul Sattar
Context and Adaptivity
in Context-Aware
Pervasive Computing
Environments
Ahmet Soylu, Patrick
De Causmaecker, Piet
Desmet
Multiple Objective
Compromise
Optimization Method
to Analyze the
Strategies of
Nanotechnology in
Taiwan
Hua-Kai Chiou,
Gia-Shie Liu,
Spam and Social Effects
Man Qi, Denis Edgar-Nevill,
Reza Mousoli
42
Sashima, Koichi
Kurumatani
Martin Serrano, John
Strassner, Sven van der
Meer, Stefano De Paoli,
Aphra Kerr, Cristiano
Storni
Lu Zhang, Junzhou
Luo, Ming Yang
NavTag: An
Inter-working
Framework Based on
Tags for Symbolic
Location Coordinates
for Smart Spaces
V. Stirbu
Human Activity
Recognizer for Mobile
Devices with Multiple
Sensors
Kenta Cho, Naoki
Iketani, Hisao
Setoguchi, Masanori
Hattori
Fast Intra/Inter Mode
Decision for
H.264/AVC Using the
Spatial-Temporal
Prediction Scheme
Cheng-Chang Lien,
Chih-Chang Chen,
Yang-Kai Chang
Enhancing Cooperative
Behavior for Online
Reputation Systems by
Group Selection
Yizhi Ren, Mingchu Li,
Yongrui Cui, Cheng
Guo, Kouichi Sakurai
IPGroupRep: A Novel
Reputation Based System for
Anti-Spam
Hong Zhang, Haixin Duan,
Wu Liu, Jianping Wu
Mobile Web
2.0-Oriented Five
Senses Multimedia
Technology with
LBS-Based Intelligent
Agent
Jung-Hyun Kim,
Hyeong-Joon Kwon,
Hyo-Haeng Lee,
Kwang-Seok Hong
An Event-driven
Context Model in
Elderly Health
Monitoring
Yuanyuan Cao, Linmi
Tao, Guangyou Xu
Urban Search and
Rescue Robots in Test
Arenas: Scaled
Modeling of Disasters
to Test Intelligent Robot
Prototyping
Andrew Chiou, Carol
Wynn
H6Proxy: ICMPv6 Weakness
Analysis and Implementation
of IPv6 Attacking Test Proxy
Liu Wu, Duan Hai-xin, Lin
Tao, Li Xing, Wu Jian-ping
Augmented Isometric
Board Games: Linking
the Physical Playing
Field
with Intelligent
Non-Player Feedback
Andrew Chiou
Thursday, July 9, 14:30-16:30 Parallel sessions
44
Context-Aware Service
Yonnim Lee, Debashis
Sarangi, Ohbyung
Kwon, Min-Yong Kim
Qianping Wang, Yan
Zhao, Yu’e Su, 
Hongmei Liao, Ke
Wang
Ling Feng
Energy-Efficient
Structuralized
Clustering for
Sensor-Based Cyber
Physical Systems
Jierui Cao, Huan Li
三、邀請演講摘要
大會此次邀請 4 位專家學者進行專題演講，各個邀請演講題目與內容摘如下：
(1)講 題：Web of Things as a Framework for Ubiquitous Intelligence and Computing
主講人：Professor Tharam S. Dillon, Curtin University of Technology, Australia
內容摘要：Prof. Dillon 首先介紹 Web 的發展與現況，而目前在 ubiquitous computing 中，
感測節點的佈署與個人小型計算裝置是目前最熱門的發展應用。Prof. Dillon 並
介紹兩個有趣的觀點 "Internet of Things"、"Web of Things"，其中，"Internet of
Things"簡單的意思就是可以將感測節點或基地台連結到 Internet，而這也是因
為"Web of Things"的改變，因為使用標準化的 HTTP 協定可以提供感測節點可
以連到 Internet。Prof. Dillon 並展示概念式的框架與參考架構給可用於
Ubiquitous Intelligence and Computing 環境的新的"Web of Things"，而這樣的應
用模型可以應用到：(1)石油、瓦斯等天然資源的製造工業上；(2)運輸工具、馬
路、運輸事業；(3)智慧家庭(Smart homes)；(4)人類空間科技、智慧型應用等
(2)講題：Distributed Computing in Opportunistic Environments
主講人：Professor Mohan Kumar, The University of Texas at Arlington, USA
內容摘要：Prof. Kumar 首先介紹隨機網路(Opportunistic Network)的發展現況，以及如何利
用隨機網路去產生一個可容忍延遲的分散式計算環境，以及其相關的研究挑戰
與議題。再者，對於社群式計算與網路的影響可能衍生的問題，如同步與信賴
亦是未來重要的研究議題。最後，Prof. Kumar 展示一個在隨機網路進行分散式
資訊散播、整合以及可信賴研究成果。
(3) 講題：Design for Trust in Ambient & Ubiquitous Computing
46
機制中，上下文管理(Context management)是重要的第一步。在本論文中，作者提出一個
契約基礎(contract-based)工作流程圖以提供在 AmI 系統中，在設備與人員之間的上下文認
知。本文所提出的工作流程圖提供軟體契約去設計 conscious 軟體以處理這些 ubiquitous
裝置與網路之連結的不確定性質，以及處理在一個不可預期的環境中，用於會互相影響的
裝置與人員之中在過程中的實驗誤差性質。
(2)論文題目：A Novel Relay Encryption Scheme for Mobile Ad hoc Networks
作者：Duan Hu, Furong Wang, Chen Huang, Chunming Rong
內容摘要：在 mobile ad hoc networks(MANET)中，有別於固定式的網路環境，MANET 將面
臨更多的弱點攻擊，例如被動式竊聽(passive eavesdropping)、資料竄改等。因此，將已傳
送的資料進行加密以確保機密性，在 MANET 環境中是必須的。然而，在資源有限的 MANET
環境中，行動裝置的計算能量、儲存量以及電力等都是受限的，因此，單一的節點裝置無
法承擔所有的加密工作。在本篇論文中，作者提出利用門檻式機密分持(threshold secret
sharing)演算法去設計一個具分程傳遞的加密機制(relay encryption)以確保在 MANET 環境
達到機密性、可靠性以及完整性等安全目標。
【UFirst session-Trusted Computing】
(1) 論文題目：RFID-Based, Anonymous Authentication Scheme
作者：Hung-Yu Chien, Chieh-Shian Tu, Tzong-Chen Wu
內容摘要：低成本 RFID (例如，Gen 2)是目前最常用的 RFID 設備，然而，受限於有限的運
算、儲存能力，目前 Gen 2 是不安全的。雖然，有不少學者提出改善的方法，但是卻需增
加運算成本，因此，無法實際應用於低成本的 RFID 系統中。故作者提出一個適用於低成
本 RFID 具匿名性鑑別機制與應用，以確保 RFID 應用的安全性。
(2)論文題目：Trust in Distributed Small Sized Data Centers
作者：Nicolai Kuntze, Carsten Rudolph
內容摘要：點對點(Peer-to-peer, P2P)網路對於改善伺服器基礎(Server-based)網路環境中頻
寬分配的效率與伺服器工作量有很大的幫助，尤其是對於大量資料傳輸，例如多媒體資
料。因此，本論文針對 P2P 應用平台提出一個安全的架構以提供必要的安全功能。其中，
本論文所提出的安全架構最大的特色就是 P2P 網路設備的擁有者不需要實際控制這些設
備。
【ATC session-Trusted Computing and WSNs】
(1) 論文題目：SAConf: Semantic Attestation of Software Configurations
作者：Hua Wang, Yao Guo, Xiangqun Chen
內容摘要：可由可信賴的平台提供遠端證明是一個重要的功能，目前證明機制大部份都是
48
內容摘要：顧客隱私保護隨著電子商務的發展而愈來愈重要，然而，目前的隱私保護系統
常常缺乏彈性而且無法調整使用者的嗜好。因此，服務提供者與使用者之間的協商機制是
目前可行的方案之一。在本論文中，作者使用 concept lattice approach 機制去發展一個協
隱私保護政策的商機制，以達體隱私保護政策調整的彈性。
五、結論
本屆 UIC/ATC 會議相當圓滿，有許多國家在 Ubiquitous Intelligence and Computing、Autonomic
and Trusted Computing 等相關研究領域的學者專家、學生與會，會議內容所探討的議題相當廣泛，
也藉此可以認識不同領域的國外研究學者，瞭解與吸收目前針對 Ubiquitous Computing 之網路架構
設計、通訊協定、資通訊安全以及其相關應用。由於，未來生活發展趨勢將邁入無所不在（Ubiquitous）
的環境；可預見的是，在未來的網路世界中，我們將不再只是單純的用自己的電腦來使用網路，而
是要能夠在這樣的網路世界中儲存所有的資訊、在這樣的環境中應用不同的軟體、買賣服務，大量
的資訊投入網路海中。因此，Ubiquitous Computing 的相關研究亦愈來愈重要，尤其，對於隱私保
護等相關資訊安全議題，更是 Ubiquitous 發展的重要碁石。藉由本次參加 UIC/ATC 會議，對於本人
未來在投入 Ubiquitous Computing 的相關研究有相當大的助益。
50
附件：投稿論文
52
customer satisfaction and to increase gas delivery [13]. Similar applications in product tracking can be
found in [13]. The Dutch Forensic Institute and Taiwan police bureau tried to use Gen2 tags to track
forensic evidences [13].
The security of Gen2
Even though Gen2 has been applied in several applications (some examples as listed above), none of these applications
seriously take security into account. Moreover, it has been pointed out that an attacker can easily derive the passwords and
can access the content of tags [5]. Of course, not all Gen2-based applications demand the same security requirements. But,
none of existing Gen2 applications seriously takes the security into account, and cannot withstand well known attacks and
threats like cloning, privacy disclosure, and impersonation attacks. Therefore, many researchers like [1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9, 11,
18, 20] had devoted their efforts to improve the security of Gen2. But, in addition to that whether these solutions can
withstand possible security threats and attacks is still questionable, the existing solutions modified either the hardware or the
air protocols. They inevitably increase the cost of tags and inevitably modify the standards, which could be no help to the
current Gen2 market and industry.
In this paper, instead of proposing any amendment to the Gen2 standards, we thoroughly analyze the
security properties of Gen2 standards. We focus on Gen2 tag and the air protocol but not the EPC
network, because it is the most challenging part. The result of the analysis could be quite useful to
Gen2 -interested parties. Based on the analysis, we propose an interesting low-cost RFID-based
application. We exploit the integrity protection using the write-lock of low cost RFID tag (like Gen2),
and integrate low cost tag with fingerprint checking system to design an anonymous authentication
scheme, which could be a building primitive for anonymous security services like anonymous voting
scheme. In the proposed scheme, the server equipped with low cost RFID tags reader and fingerprint
scanner can anonymously authenticate its users who carry personalized tags. The system can
authenticate these users without storing any personal information in its database. This arrangement
not only allows anonymously authenticate the users but also eliminate the burden of securely
maintaining private user data from the server. This study could be helpful to low-cost tag-interested
parties.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section 2 first introduces Gen2 memory management and
the air protocols, and then analyzes the security properties. Section 3 discusses related work. In section
4, based on the write-lock property of low-cost tags, we propose an anonymous authenticating scheme,
based on low-cost tags and fingerprint. Finally, conclusions are given in section 5.
2. Security of Gen 2 (ISO-18000-6C) RFID
We briefly review Gen2 in Section 2.1, and then discuss the security properties in Section 2.2.
54
un-writeable but readable except that the reserved memory is un-writeable and unreadable.
The user memory and the reserved memory are optional while the TID and EPC memory are required
and the memory sizes are vendor-defined.
Figure. 1. Logical memory of Gen2 tag [16]
Gen2 communication protocol
Before accessing a tag, a reader first uses the Select command and the Inventory command to singularize a tag, and then
follows the following operations to access the tag. For clarity, the CRC-16 has been omitted from the following sequences
and from Fig.2. We use the scenario of Fig. 2 to demonstrate the access procedure. The scenario is that the tag’s reserved
memory is locked and the reader wants to read the kill password of the tag. Before the reader can read the kill password, the
reader should access to the tag and transmit the access password to unlock the reserved memory bank. The detailed process is
as follows.
The reader first accesses a tag by transmit a Req_RN with the prior random number (RN16_0) as a
command to request the tag for a new 16-bit random number as handle. This handle is used as the
tag-authentication number and should be used in this session only. After that, the reader uses the
command Req_RN with that handle to request a new 16-bit random number (RN16_1 and RN16_2)
from the tag. Then, the reader XORed (exclusive-or) the random numbers with two half-passwords
(access password31:16⊕RN16_1 and access password15:0⊕RN16_2) and forwards this as an access
command to tag. After the tag verifies the access command, the reader can use the read command to
access the kill password.
56
3. Related work
Even though many researchers had devoted to design secure RFID authentications, here we only concern those studies
targeted for Gen2 or applicable to Gen2. Many researchers like [2, 5, 7, 8, 11, 18, 20] had proposed various solutions to
improve the security of Gen2. However, none of them can effectively ensure the security. Moreover, these solutions should
modify either the hardware and the air protocols. It inevitably modifies the standards. Recently, Park et al. tried to improve
the security of Gen 2 without modifying the protocols, and Hitachi corp. [] designed a new Gen 2 tag with additional
write-journal memory, which records the writing activities, to enhance the security of Gen 2. However, we find they can not
effectively secure Gen2-based applications. In the following, we briefly review the Park et al.’s solution and analyze the
security.
3.1 Brief review of Park et al.’s scheme
Park et al. made the following assumptions. All the Gen2 tags implement access password and each tag owns its unique
access password. Before distribution, all the tags’memory banks should be written and locked. The database stores all the
information about tags.
The notations are as follows: iT : the index of Tag i; R: Gen2 reader; S: backend server with database DB;
I: tag issuing system (eg. Tag printer or tools for writing tags); h: one-way hash function: : XOR
operation; iCode : unique code (eg. EPC) of iT ; iPC : PC bits for iT ; iACCESS : ACCESS password of iT ;
iKILL : KILL password for iT ; iPASSWORD : ii KILLACCESS or ; BRANDARAND _,_ : random numbers;
)_,,( iiii ARANDPCCodehmetaCode  (1)
)_,,( iiii BRANDAccessCodehAUTH  1; (2)
iii AUTHKILLKILLAUTH _ (3)
The scheme consists of two phases- the setup phase and the inventory phase. The backend server and
the issuing system initialize tags in the setup phase, and the system authenticates tags in the inventory
phase. They are described as follows.
The setup phase:
The protocol is detailed in Fig. 3. Before a factory distributes tags on the market, the information of tags should be written
into the memory banks and be locked. Initially, the backend server generates iCode , iPC , RAND_A, and RAND_B, and
calculates the )_,,( iiii ARANDPCCodehmetaCode  and iAUTH = ,,( ii PASSWORDCodeh )_ iBRAND for each tag
1 In Park et al.’s scheme, iAceess could be replaced with iKill .
58
Figure. 5. The secure inventory phase
The secure inventory phase:
After the setup phase, the tags are affixed to the items, and are distributed to the markets. The secure inventory phase is
depicted in Fig. 5 and is described as follows.
A reader first initiates the request to the tag, and then the tag sends back its metaCode. After receiving
T SR
Request Code
Response metaCode
Forward metaCode
Response
(ACCESS, metaCode_NEW,
AUTH_KILL_NEW)
Unlock tag memory
and request AUTH_KILL
Authentication of
Reader
Response AUTH_KILL
Forward AUTH_KILL
& request of tag authentication
Request of tag authentication
Write metaCode_NEW
& AUTH_KILL_NEW
and Lock tag memory
Result of tag writing
Update DB
Generate new RAND_A
& RAND_B
Calculate metaCode_NEW
&ATUTH_NEW
Calculate AUTH_KILL_NEW
Recovery of KILL
and authenticate tag
60
authenticating scheme using low-cost tags. This scheme can be used a building primitive for other applications like
anonymous voting.
4.1 The anonymous authenticating scheme
We encrypt users’biometric data like fingerprint features using a system secret key, and then exploit the write-lock feature to
securely store the values in tags. We only store the values in tags, but do not store any user’s personal information in the
server’s database. When a user steps up to an authentication terminal, he or she inserts the low-cost tag and touches the
fingerprint scanner, the tag reader reads the encrypted data while the fingerprint reader scans the user’s fingerprint and
extracts features. The stored encryption and the user’s fingerprint features are sent back to the server, where the server
decrypts the encrypted features and runs feature matching algorithm on the user’s fingerprint feature with the decrypted one
to authenticate the user. If the authentication succeeds, the server assures that the user is authenticated, but it cannot identify
who he or she is. This arrangement not only authenticates the users but also keep users’anonymity from the server. It also
eliminates the heavy overhead of securely maintaining users’private data from the server. The scheme consists of two
phases- registration phase and anonymous authentication phase. Fig. 6, 7 respectively depicts the two phases, and the
protocols are detailed as follows.
Registration phase
The process involves three kinds of entities- users, authentication terminals and a Backend Server (BS). The channel between
the terminal and the server is assumed to be secure. Each potential voter iU should go to the BS to apply for a ticket
iTicket - a low-cost RFID tag. After BS physically validates iU as an authorized users, it issues iU the ticket iTicket
which stores iprhash int_ = h(key||fingerprinti) in the user bank and locks the memory banks, where key is the system secret
key t and fingerprinti is iU ’s fingerprint. This process is performed in the secure BS environment.
Figure. 6. Registration process
User
Gen2 tag
h(key||fingerprint)
Key
Backend Server
fingerprint
62
Anonymity protection. Because the BS does not keep users’identification information in its database,
the BS can only authenticate those authorized users, but cannot identify who they are.
4.3 Performance respects
The proposed anonymous authentication architecture is quite simple and efficient. In the registration phase, the server
only computes one hash operation and issues a simple Gen2-based ticket to each registered user. The terminal needs two
simple devices- one Gen2 reader and one fingerprint scanner. During the anonymous authentication phase, the user just holds
his Gen2 ticket into a well-protected terminal, touches the fingerprint scanner to authenticate himself to the server. If the
authentication succeeds, the user is allowed to access the service. The architecture is simple, the computation is simple, and
the management is simple and efficient.
5. Conclusions
In this paper, we have discussed that existing Gen2-based applications do not seriously take security into account, and have
shown that even though several efforts like Park et al.’s scheme which preserves the Gen2 air protocols failed to enhance the
security. We show that even though Gen2 alone cannot provide the general security properties- privacy, authentication,
unlinkability and non-repudiation, we can still exploit the write-lock feature to design security-awareness applications. In this
paper, we propose an anonymous authentication scheme using Gen2 tags and fingerprints. The architecture, the operations
and the management of the proposed scheme is simple and efficient. This study could be quite helpful to those
Gen2-interested parties like hardware provider, software and service providers, and end users. Now a prototype of the
proposed scheme is under development.
Reference
1. Yamamoto, A., Suzuki, S., Hada, H., Mitsugi, J., Teraoka, F., Nakamura O.: A Temper Detection Method for RFID Data. IEEE
International Conference on RFID, pp. 51--57, April 16-17, (2008).
2. Song, B., Mitchell, C.J.: RFID authentication protocol for low-cost tags. WISEC, pp. 140--147, (2008).
3. Henrici, D., Müller, P.: Hash-based enhancement of location privacy for radio frequency identification devices using varying identifiers.
Proc. 1th Int. Workshop Pervasive Comput. Commun. Sec. (PerSec 2004).
4. Molnar, D., Wagner, D.: Privacy and security in library RFID: Issues, practices, and architectures. Conference on Computer and
Communications Security–CCS’04, ACM press, pp. 210--219, (2004).
5. Duc, D.N., Park, J., Lee, H., Kim, K.: Enhancing Security of EPCglobal Gen-2 RFID Tag against Traceability and Cloning. Proc. Of
SCIS’06, (2006).
64
出國報告書
報告日期：2009/10/10
報 告 人 中文：簡宏宇 外文：Hung-Yu Chien
服務單位及
職稱
國立暨南國際大學資管系, 教授
報告主題
The Fifth International Conference on Intelligent
Information Hiding and Multimedia Signal Processing
(IIHMSP-2009), sponsored by IEEE society.
參訪日期 自 2009 年 9 月 12 日 至 2009 年 9 月 14 日
參訪單位
(國、城市)
日本,京都
出國目標
發表論文，發表之論文名稱 “Comments on Gateway-Oriented
Password-Based Authenticated Key Exchange Protocol”
一、會議沿起
The Fifth International Conference on Intelligent Information Hiding and Multimedia Signal
Processing (IIHMSP2009) will be held on Sep.12-14, 2009 at MIELPARQUE, Kyoto, Japan. The
conference this year is technically co-sponsored by IEEE, KES International, and Ubiquitous
International and hosted by Ritsumeikan University with website
http://www.iipl.is.ritsumei.ac.jp/iihmsp2009/.
Multimedia technologies with an increasing level of intelligence are emerging to enable the
process of creating a global information infrastructure that will interconnect heterogeneous
66
● Advances in multimedia framework: (e.g. MPEG-21)
● Advances in multimedia framework: (e.g. MPEG-21)
● Enabling technologies and emerging standards for multimedia applications
● Multimedia databases and retrievals
● Multimedia hyperlink techniques and applications
● Multimedia networking and communication techniques (wired & wireless)
● Multimedia sensing and sensory systems Steganog 
● Multimedia signal analysis and visualization 
● Multimedia signal mining and data fusion 
● Multimedia source coding and channel coding 
● Systems engineering and development for multimedia systems 
● VLSI/ASIC/FPGA/SOC design and implementations for multimedia systems 
Bio-Inspired Multimedia Technologies and Systems
● Artificial neural networks for multimedia processing: models, learningparadigms, architectures, and
implementations
● Fuzzy systems and evolutionary computing for inteligent multimedia processing
● Human-machine multimodal interaction: e.g. face/speech recognition, facial expression and emotion
categorization, gesture analysis and recognition, etc.
The Conference Proceedings will be published by IEEE Press, which is indexed by EI, ISTP, and
INSPEC.
Extended versions of selected papers will be published in the KES J ournal , and Springer-Verlag
in `Studies in Computational Intelligence' series
一、參加會議經過
1. 行程說明
68
attacks resistance. This letter shows that both Byun et al.’s schemes failed to commit the security
requirements. The improved scheme would be proposed in the extended version.
2.2 參與 speaker 專題演講及其他發表報告與過程
第一天的上午，大會邀請了 Prof. Takshi Matsuyama 進行 Keynote Speech。在此 Speech 中，
演講者的內容著重於 3D Video Technique。而 Prof. Takshi Matsuyama 介紹了現今社會中 3D
Video 的現況及發展的趨勢，且也介紹了他們研究團隊目前的研究情形，包括四大方面，1. PC
cluster system for real-time 3D reconstruction of dynamic object action from multi-view
video images. 2. Deformable 3D mesh model and a graph-cut algorithm for the accurate
3D object shape and motion estimation. 3. High fidelity texture mapping algorithm for
rendering natural-looking color and texture on the 3D object surface. 4. Efficient and
practical coding method of 3D video。而下午的 會議中，較感興趣的一篇為 Multimedia,
Security and Wireless 領域的文章。其文章為“Spatial and Temporal Position Information
Delivery to Mobile Terminals using Audio Watermarking Techniques ”。在此篇文章中是
Audio, Security, and Mobil phone 之結合，作者發展了一種運用在 3G 手機上之 Audio 的浮
水印技術，將浮水印嵌入至手機通話過程中的 transmitting spatial 或 temporal position，
並利用回應訊息的頻率來萃取浮水印。作者進而將此技術應用於小型博物館之手機導覽系統，
雖然此系統並未完全成熟，但作者仍然希望能將此技術拓展至國家級之博物館所使用。
第二天的上午之議程，多為生活上應用之安全議題。第一篇為“A Hybrid RFID Protocol against
Tracking Attacks”。RFID 之安全性考量一直是目前所研究的主軸，但 RFID 會因為其距離或
成本等許多外在因素，因而導致 RFID 會有許多潛在問題，例如：側錄、追蹤等。而此篇文章重
於如 何防止被追蹤的議題上，該作者建構出一種 Protocol，並在 Protocol 中加入了 timestamp
的觀念以防止被追蹤，且該方法又能在短時間內達成授權認證。另一篇為“Novel Efficient
Electronic Voting Mechanism based upon Elliptic Curve”，此篇文章是改善 E-Voting
(Electronic Voting)上的加密技術。E-Voting 技術是近幾年新興的應用，2006 年Chang and Lee
學者提出 了 t-out-of-n 的方式，此方法的加密技術仍須沿用 RSA or DES 加密演算法。又為
達到安全性的要求，金鑰的長度須用 1024 bits 才足以達到安全之IIHMSP2009 Sep. 12-14, 2009
標準，因此該篇作者將加密的演算法改採用 ECC 的方式，可降低運算的複雜度以及減少金鑰的
長度。
第三天的議程中，仍有許多議題，但是因為同一時段有多個 Sessions 在進行所以，我選擇了
Data Hiding Technique for Audio Signal 與 Intelligent Video Processing 的議題。在 Data
Hiding Technique for Audio Signal 的議題中， 有一篇為“Robust Audio Watermarking with
Time and Frequency Division”。此文章為 Audio 上的資訊安全議題，在此篇文章中，作者發
展了一種強韌性的 Audio 浮水印技術，在強韌性的觀點上，利用了 Audio Frequency Division
來達成 Audio Authentication，並且又運用 Psychoactive Analysis 與 Time Division 的方式
70
附件：投稿論文
72
Abstract—A Gateway-oriented Password-based Authenticated Key Exchange (GPAKE) scheme allows a client to
establish an authenticated session key with a gateway via the help of an authentication server, where the client has
pre-shared a password with the server. The desirable security properties of a GPAKE include session key semantic
security, key privacy against the server, and password guessing attacks resistance. This letter shows that both Byun et
al.’s schemes [2] failed to commit the security requirements. The improved scheme would be proposed in the
extended version.
Keywords: security, authentication, password guessing attack, semantic security.
1. Introduction
In Asiacrypt 2005, Abdalla et al. proposed a Gateway-oriented Password-based Authenticated Key
Exchange (GPAKE) scheme [1] for the scenario where a client has pre-shared a password with an
authentication server, and the client wants to establish session keys with a gateway (for example, a firewall)
via the help of an authentication server. The channel between the gateway and the server is assumed to
be authenticated and private, and the goal of the protocol is to establish secure session keys between the
gateway and the clients as in Fig. 1.
For a GPAKE protocol, the security requirements/the threats include (1) the known key attack, the
replay attack, the man-in-the-middle attack, etc [4-7]; (2) the gateway should gain no information about
the password (this is called server password protection against dishonest gateways in [1]); and (3) the
authentication server should not gain any information about the session key (this is called key privacy
against curious servers in [1]). Even though Abdalla et al. had proved the session key semantic security of
their scheme in a formal model, Byun et al. recently reported an undetectable on-line guessing attack on
the GPAKE protocol where a gateway can iteratively guess a password and verify its guess without being
detected by the server [2].
Due to the low entropy of passwords, there are basically three types of threats that might break the
password protection property- online guessing attack, on-line undetectable guessing attack [3], and
off-line guessing attack [4, 6]. In an on-line guessing attack, an attacker impersonates a client by iteratively
picking up a possible password and conducting on-line transactions with the server; it verifies his guess,
using the responses from the server. In off-line guessing attacks, an attacker first gets some
password-related data (either information eavesdropped from the communications or stolen password
files) and then verifies his guess, using the collected data in an off-line manner. Finally, in an on-line
undetectable guessing attack, an attacker guesses the password of a client and then tries to verify his
guess using the responses from the server in an on-line manner; however, the server cannot detect the
on-line undetectable guessing attacks, and the attacker can repeatedly launch the attacks until he gets a
hit.
In addition to pointing out the undetectable on-line guessing attack, Byun et al. also proposed their
improved scheme to conquer the weakness.However, we find that Byun et al.’s scheme stil cannot resist 
the on-line undetectable guessing attack. In this letter, we shall point out the weaknesses of the previous
scheme.
2. Weaknesses of Byun et al.’sscheme
Even though Byun et al. had proposed their improved scheme, we show the on-line undetectable
Client Gateway ServerAuthenticated
channel
Session keys to be
established
Shared passwords
Figure 1. Communication for GPAKE
scheme
74
S will successfully verify the data  and will accept the request, since ( ,, XC ) is a valid message
eavesdropped from the transmissions. It randomly selects an integer *qZs , and computes
s
p PWXX )/( and sp YY  , and responds ( YX , ) to AG .
(4) AG verifies its guess
We can see that if the guesspw’equals the real password pw, then Y should equal tX ; therefore,
AG can test whether the equation
tXY
?
 holds to verify his guesspw’.
It can repeatedly launch the above attack until it gets a hit, without being noticed by the server. The
key point behind the attack is that the dishonest gateway can repeatedly launch the above attacks,
but the server cannot detect the attacks.
3. Conclusions
In this paper, we have shown the on-line undetectable guessing atack Byun et al.’s scheme, and have
highlighted the importance of the authentication and the freshness checking of all the communication
messages. Due to page limitation, a new GPAKE scheme will be proposed in the extended version to
conquer the weaknesses.
References
[1] M. Abdalla, O. Chevassut, P-A, Fouque, and D. Pointcheval, “A simple threshold authenticated key 
exchange from short secrets”, ASIACRYPT2005, LNCS 3788, pp. 566-584, 2005.
[2] J. W. Byun, D. H. Lee, and J. I. Lim, “Security analysis and improvement of a gateway-oriented
password-based authenticated key exchange protocol”, IEEE Communication Letters 10 (9), pp.
683-685, 2006.
[3] Y. Ding and P. Horster, “Undetectable on-line password guessing atacks”, ACM Operating Systems
Review 29, pp. 77-86, Apr. 1995.
[4] M. Bellare, D. Pointcheval, and P. Rogaway, “Authenticated key exchange secure against dictionary 
atacks,” Proc. Eurocrypt’00, LNCS1807, pp. 139-155, Springer, 2000.
[5] N.-Y. Lee and J.-C. Chen, “Improvement of One-Time Password Authentication Scheme Using Smart
Cards”, IEICE Trans Commun. E88-B, pp. 3765-3767, 2005.
[6] H.-Y. Chien, R.-C. Wang, and C.-C. Yang, C.C., “Note on Robust and Simple Authentication Protocol”, 
The Computer Journal 48(1), pp. 27-29, 2005.
[7] C.-C. Chang, Y.-F. Chang, A novel three-party encrypted key exchange protocol. Computer Standards
and Interfaces, 2004; 26(5): 471-6.
[8] H.-Y. Chien, “Selectively Convertible Authenticated Encryption in The Random Oracle Model”, The 
Computer Journal, Jan 17, 2008. doi:10.1093/comjnl/bxm090.
76
General Co-Chairs
Robert H. Deng, SMU, Singapore
Lee Eng Wah, NRC, Singapore
Program Co-Chairs
Yingjiu Li, SMU, Singapore
Jianying Zhou, I2R, Singapore
Local Arrangement
SIS Office, Shaoying Cai, Yan Li, Ge Fu, SMU Singapore
Wei He, SIMTech, Singapore
Program Committee
Manfred Aigner (TU-Graz, Austria)
Mike Burmester (FSU, US)
Colin Boyd (QUT, Australia)
Jingde Cheng (Saitama University, Japan)
Hung-Yu Chien (NCNU, Taiwan)
Shuo-Yan Chou (NTUST, Taiwan)
Chao-Hsien Chu (PSU, US)
Tassos D. Dimitriou (AIT, Greece)
Juan Estevez-Tapiador (York University, UK)
Jinsong Han (HKUST, China)
Julio C. Hernandez-Castro (University of Portsmouth, UK)
Ari Juels (RSA Laboratories, US)
Florian Kerschbaum (SAP Research, Germany)
Kwangjo Kim (KAIST, Korea)
Marek Klonowski (Wroclaw University of Technology, Poland)
Miroslaw Kutylowski (Wroclaw University of Technology, Poland)
Qun Li (College of William and Mary, US)
Tieyan Li (I2R, Singapore)
Nai-Wei Lo (NTUST, Taiwan)
Li Lu (HKUST, China)
Changshe Ma (SMU, Singapore)
Masahiro Mambo (University of Tsukuba, Japan)
Yi Mu (UOW, Australia)
Pedro Peris-Lopez (TU-Delft, Netherlands)
Raphael Phan (Loughborough University, UK)
Reihaneh Safavi-Naini (University of Calgary, Canada)
Kazuo Sakiyama (University of Electro-Communications, Japan)
Kouichi Sakurai (Kyushu University, Japan)
Willy Susilo (UOW, Australia)
Guilin Wang (University of Birmingham, UK)
78
Session 2 Kuo-Hui Yeh, Naiwei Lo and Enrico Winata.
14:45 - 15:30 Tea Break
15:30 - 17:00
Session 3
Faster CRT-RSA Decryption towards RFID applications
Subhamoy Maitra, Santanu Sarkar and Morshed Chowdhury.
Fingerprinting Radio Frequency Identification Tags Using Timing Characteristics
Senthilkumar Chinnappa Gounder Periaswamy, Dale R. Thompson and Henry P. Romero.
Security Flaws in a Recent Ultralightweight RFID Protocol
Pedro Peris-Lopez, Julio C. Hernandez-Castro, Juan E. Tapiador and Jan C. A. van der Lubbe.
18:00 - 19:00 Sightseeing tour on Singapore Flyer
19:00 - 21:00 Workshop Dinner
三、論文發表摘要
1. Towards Securing Low-cost RFID Systems: an Unconditionally Secure Approach
Basel Alomair, Loukas Lazos and Radha Poovendran.
The Case for Dynamic RFID Tag Authentication
Matthew J.B. Robshaw and Axel Poschmann.
本篇主要是以 formal method design low-cost RFID authentication scheme. 本篇是篇不錯作品，
也引起許多討論。
2. Practical RFID Ownership Transfer Scheme (Invited paper)
Ching Yu Ng, Willy Susilo, Yi Mu and Rei Safavi-Naini.
本篇以新的觀點設計所有權移轉議題，可刺激新的思考。
3. An Efficient Ultralightweight Authentication Protocol for RFID Systems (Invited paper)
Kuo-Hui Yeh, Naiwei Lo and Enrico Winata.
本篇首先分析既有 low-cost authentication schemes 的共通弱點，再設計新的機制。
4. Faster CRT-RSA Decryption towards RFID applications
Subhamoy Maitra, Santanu Sarkar and Morshed Chowdhury.
本篇著重在降低 RSA 解密時的計算成本，現場部份學者認為可能引發更多加密成本的疑慮。
5. Fingerprinting Radio Frequency Identification Tags Using Timing Characteristics
Senthilkumar Chinnappa Gounder Periaswamy, Dale R. Thompson and Henry P. Romero.
本篇以類似 physical un-clonable function 的特性來設計 RFID tag identification scheme，目前
看來距離實用仍有一些距離。
6. Security Flaws in a Recent Ultralightweight RFID Protocol
Pedro Peris-Lopez, Julio C. Hernandez-Castro, Juan E. Tapiador and Jan C. A. van der
Lubbe.
本篇首先分析既有 low-cost authentication schemes 的弱點特質，最後強調 formal proof
method 的重要性。
7. Semantic Access Control for RFID-enabled Supply Chains
Zang Li, Chao-Hsien Chu and Wen Yao.
本篇是一個 project 的部份研究成果分享，重點強調在 EPC Global network 上如何強化
security access control and information sharing.
8. Security in the Internet of Things (Invited paper)
Manfred Aigner.
80
附件：投稿論文
82
Anonymous RFID Yoking Protocol Using Error Correction Codes
Chin-Feng Lee Yu-Chang Chen Hung-Yu Chien* Chi-Sung Laih
Department of Information
Management, ChaoYang
University of Technology,
Taiwan, R.O.C.
Department of
Information
Engineering and
Computer Science ,
Feng Chia University.
Department of Information
Management, National
Chi-Nan University, Taiwan,
R.O.C.
Department of Electrical
Engineering at National
Cheng Kung University,
R.O.C.
* Corresponding author: hychien@ncnu.edu.tw
Abstract
A Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) yoking proof protocol allows a verifier to
collect the evidence that two tags are simultaneously present. Yoking proof protocol has
been applied in several potential applications like shipping record checking and medicine
dispensation checking, etc. This paper, based on error correction codes (ECC), designs a
novel yoking proof protocol, which not only protects tag’s anonymity but also requires
only simple operations that can be easily supported on low-cost tags. Compared to its
counterparts, our scheme provides several practical merits: (1) It protects tag’s
anonymity using much easier approach, (2) it requires only simple operations on tags,
and (3) the computational overhead on the server is much lower.
Keywords: security, authentication, Radio Frequency Identification, yoking proof, error
correction codes.
1. Introduction
In 2004, Juels introduced an emerging and interesting RFID application- the yoking
proof [7], in which a verifier would like to collect the evidence of simultaneous presence
of two tags in the communication range of a specified reader. Juels introduced several
applications of yoking proof protocols [7]. Here, we take one example. A pharmacist
would like to ensure whether a specific medicine (say A) is dispensed with another
84
Regarding RFID security, the previous works like [6, 10] have set up the models and defined
the security for RFID authentication protocols, where the verifier validates the authenticity of
one tag on-line. On the contrary, the verifier in yoking proofs is required to validate both the
authenticity and the time-binding of two (or more) related tags off-line or in on-line batch mode.
An RFID yoking proof protocol involves three kinds of entities- tags, the reader and the
verifier. We follow the assumptions of [2] that RFID tags do not own clocks or maintain time;
however, the technique of measuring the discharge rate of capacitors can be used to limit the
time span of a specific activity. The verifier is trusted, and the channel between the readers and
the verifier is secure. The verifier is in off-line mode or in on-line batch mode; that is, the verifier
would not directly interact with a specified tag on-line.
2.1 Security requirements
The security threats to yoking protocols include the following. (1) Replay attacks: An attacker
eavesdrops on the communications and replays them later to violate the correctness of the
protocols. (2) Tag impersonation: Here, we do not consider the hardware cloning or reverse
engineering, but consider an attacker exploits the weaknesses of the protocols to impersonate
tags. (3) Denial-of-service attacks: An attacker causes tags to assume a state from which they
can no longer function properly. The attacker might plot his attack by de-synchronizing the states
between tags or between the verifier and the tags. (4) Privacy, Tracking: For those applications
where anonymity is concerned, an attacker might use the transmissions to identify or track a
specific tag.
Security requirements: Therefore, the security requirements of secure yoking protocols
include authentication of tags, resistance to DOS attack, secure binding of yoked tags to a
specific time span, and desirable anonymity.
2.2 The model and the security definition
Here we define the privacy (anonymity) requirement as the un-traceability (UNT) property.
Our security model for UNT is modified fromAvoine’s RFID privacy model [6] (which concerned
the privacy in terms of un-traceability (UNT) during authentication processes). The differences of
our model and Avoine’s model include: (1) Avoine’s model is targeted for RFID authentication
86
4. Adver chooses I1 and I2, calls Oracles(T1, , I1, O) and Oracles(T2, , I2, O), and receives
),( 11  TI and ),( 22  TI , where |I1|, |I2|≦ chall and  III )( 21 .
5. Adver guesses which one of T1 and T2 is T, and outputs her guessT’.
The advantage of Adver for a given protocol P is defined as
1]'Pr[2)(  TTAdverADV UNTP , where the probability space is over all the random tags
 . If Adver’s advantage is negligible with parameters refl , chall and O, then P is said to be
UNT refl , chall -O secure.
3. The proposed ECC-based yoking scheme
Our scheme is based on ECC. We will give some preliminaries about ECC in Section
3.1, and then propose our scheme in Section 3.2.
3.1 Preliminaries- error correction codes
ECC [26] has been applied in the design of public-key cryptosystems like [21, 22], in
symmetric encryption [23, 24, 25], in authentication [18, 20], and in secret sharing [19].
The McEliece-like public key cryptosystems [21, 22] have been studied to ensure it is
indistinguishable against adaptively chosen cipher text attacks (IND-CCA2) [26], and the
ECC-based symmetric encryption schemes are designed to ensure it is indistinguishable
against chosen plaintext attacks (IND-CPA) [26]. Despite of distinct security strengths, the
common feature of the previous ECC-based schemes is that they all require either matrix
computations or combinatorial functions which are too costly to low-cost tags. In this
paper, we will solve this problem when we design our yoking scheme. In the following,
we give some preliminaries of ECC.
Error correction codes and anonymity
A linear error correction code of length n, dimension k, and minimum distance d is
denoted by C(n, k, d), and the codes can be defined by its k-by-n generator matrix G. As
several previous works [19, 20], this study artificially adds error vectors to the
transmitted data such that both the transmitted data, and the artificial errors can only
88
to various attacks. We follow the assumptions of [2] that RFID tags do not own clocks or
maintain time; however, the technique of measuring the discharge rate of capacitors can
be used to limit the time span of a specific activity. The notation is summarized in Table 1.
The scheme consists of two phases - the initial phase and the yoking phase.
Table 1. Notations
G, G [i], t: G is the server’s secret generator matrix for random chosen linear
codes C(n, k, d), and G[i] denotes the i-th row of G.  2/)1(  dt .
Ti, Ki, l, s: Ti denotes the identity of a tag. Ki is the secret key shared between Ti
and the server S, and |Ki|= gl . l=|{Ti}| denotes the number of tags. We
assume l|k, and let s= k/ l denotes the number of rows of G assigned to each
tag.
GA, GB: GA is defined to be the set of row vectors of G assigned to TA, and GB is
defined to be the set for TB.
g(): a public cryptographic pseudo random number generator- g():
gg l
R
l
}1,0{}1,0{  . In this paper, we do not consider forward secrecy and
backward secrecy, and a standard cryptographic PRNG introduced in [28,
29] that satisfies pre-image resistant is suitable.
S: denotes the backend server who owns the secret parameters C(n, k, d), and
maintains a secret database, which contains the information of each tag; for
example, the identity Ti, the key Ki, the indices of the assigned rows of G to
this tag.
R, NR: R denotes the reader, and NR denotes the random numbers generated by
the reader. | NR |=| Ki |= gl .
)(timestampEch
Vk
 : In order to ensure the authenticity of each challenge from the
verifier, we define the challenge as )(timestampEch
Vk
 , which is an encryption
of theverifier’s timestamp using the key Vk ( Vk is the secret key owned by the
verifier). The proofs corresponding to a specific ch should be returned within a
reasonable time span. The idea of using encrypted timestamp in Yoking schemes was
first proposed by [11].
90
Step 3. The tag sends ( Ac
~ , AV
~ ) to the reader.
Step 4. The reader forwards AV
~ to the responder tag.
Step 5. After receiving AV
~ , TB starts the timer and then generates a non-zero
codeword Bc via a random linear combination of row vectors from GB. TB
randomly chooses error vector e with Hamming weight t , and computes
Bc
~ = Bc +e. It computes ))
~
((
~
BAB KVgegV  . Codeword Bc can be
viewed as Gmc BB * for some k-length vector Bm with the j-th component
of Bm being zero for those vectors not belonging to GB.
Step 6. BT returns ( BB Vc
~
,~ ) to the reader.
Step 7. The reader forwards BV
~ to AT .
Step 8. AT computes )
~
(ˆ ABA KVgV  .
Step 9. AT returns AVˆ to the reader.
The final yoking proof is the set )ˆ,
~
,~,
~
,~,( ABBAAAB VVcVcchP  . When the verifier
receives the proof ABP , it will check the following conditions to verify this proof. If
all the following conditions hold, the proof is valid.
(1) Decrypt )(timestampEch
Vk
 to verify the validity of the timestamp.
(2) Decode Ac
~ to get Ac and the corresponding e, and verify whether the equation-
))((
~ ?
AA KchgegV  - holds.
(3) Decode Bc
~ to get Bc and the corresponding e, and verify whether the equation-
))~((~
?
BAB KVgegV  - holds.
(4) Verify whether the equation- )~(ˆ
?
ABA KVgV  - holds.
92
information from the transmissions (which consists of error-vector-added random codeword and
cryptographic PRNG output on secret key and random vector). Since the data of each interaction
between the tags and reader would depend on the random error vector, the secret key, these
data would seem random and independent to an adversary. The adversary has no way to identify
the tag or to trace a tag. □
In addition to the above proof of Existential-UNT-QSE, we also analyze the other
security properties of the proposed protocols as follows.
Our scheme can be viewed as a secret-key-based authentication scheme where the
secret keys includes the assigned row vectors and the secret key assigned to each tag,
and the attacker can only observes the transmissions or modifies the transmissions to
launch its attacks. We, therefore, exclude those chosen ciphertext attacks (like [22]) on
McEliece-like public key cryptosystems (like [21]) and the chosen plaintext attacks (like
[23, 25]) on ECC-based symmetric encryption schemes [24] in the following analysis. But,
we consider message-resend attacks and related-message attacks similar to [33],
because either genuine readers or attackers may probe the same tag many times. Now
we examine the security and attacks as follows.
Authentication of tags: The verifier can authenticate the yoked tags, because the
authenticity of tags depends on successful verification of the PRNG function applied on
the secret key, the random numbers challenge )(timestampEch
Vk
 , and the artificial
error vector. Because only the genuine tag has the key, the authentication is ensured.
The proposed protocol requires the tags to generate authenticated commitments,
( AV
~ , BV
~ , AVˆ ), based on the verifier’s chalenge )(timestampEch Vk and their secret
keys. Each challenge is random and independent; therefore, only genuine tags can
generate correct commitments. This authenticates the tags.
Anonymity and un-traceability: An attacker may try to trace a tag or even derive the
secret parameters via the observations of eavesdropped sessions. Such attacks are
similar to the message-send attacks or the related-message attacks on the previous
ECC-based public key encryption schemes or ECC-based symmetric encryption schemes.
For example, an attacker may eavesdrop two or more sessions to have several ( 11 ec  ,…,
94
It is noted that, in our scheme, only the servers are required to be equipped with the
decoding algorithms (which involve matrix operations). The functions required on the
tag are cryptographic PRNG function and simple bit operations of XOR and AND.
Compared to the previous schemes (like [2, 8, 11, 12]) where tags are supposed to
equipped with hash functions, the computations on the tags in our scheme are very
simple and efficient. To achieve anonymity, schemes like [2, 11] require server perform
exhaustive searching to identify tags. On contrary, the server of our scheme only
performs one decoding algorithm to identify tags. This ECC-based scheme achieves
excellent performance in terms of security, efficiency, server’s maintenance, cost, and
robustness. A brief comparison of related schemes is summarized in Table 2. Under the
setting of code C(n, k, d) and the number of row vectors per tag being l , the space
requirement per tag is nl+| iK | bits, and the number of supported number of tags is
 lk / .
Table 2. A concise summary of related schemes
Security Tag overheadSever overhead
Bolotnyy and
Robins [8]
Vulnerable to replay attack hashing Exhaustive search to
identify tag
Saito et al. [12] Not consider anonymity,
Vulnerable to replay attack
Hashing, If anonymity is considered
by not sending identity,
Exhaustive search to
identify tag
Peris-Lopes et
al. [11]
Security of genetic
programming is not
verified
Hashing,
genetic
programming
Exhaustive search to
identify tag
Burmester et al.
[2]
The anonymous version is
vulnerable
hashing Exhaustive search to
identify tag
96
2004.
[8] Bolotnyy, L., and Robins, G.,Generalized “yoking-proofs” for a group of RFID tags. In 
MOBIQUITOUS 2006, 2006.
[9] M. Ohkubo, K. Suzki and S. Kinoshita, “Cryptographic Approach to ‘Privacy-Friendly’ 
Tags”, in RFID Privacy Workshop, 2003.
[10] A. Juels and S. Weis. Deﬁning strong privacy for RFID. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 
2006/137, 2005. http://eprint.iacr.org/. .
[11] P. Peris-Lopes, J. Hernandez-Castro, J.M. Estevez-Tapiador, and A. Ribagorda. Solving
the Simultaneous Scanning problem Anonymously: Clumping proofs for RFID Tags.
Unpublished Manuscript, Carlos III University of Madrid, 2007.
[12] J. Saito and K. Sakurai. Grouping proof for RFID tags. In 19th International
Conference on Advanced Information Networking and Applications, AINA 2005.,
volume 2, pages 621–624, March 2005.
[13] S. Piramuthu. On existence proofs for multiple RFID tags. In IEEE International
Conference on Pervasive Services, Workshop on Security, Privacy and Trust in Pervasive
and Ubiquitous Computing SecPerU 2006, Lyon, France, June 2006. IEEE, IEEE
Computer Society Press.
[14] S. Piramuthu, “Protocols for RFID tag/reader authentication”, Decision Support 
Systems, vol. 43, no. 3, pp. 897-914, 2007.
[15] S. A. Weis, “Security and Privacy in Radio-Frequency Identification Devices”, Masters 
Thesis MIT, 2003.2007.
[16] C.-L. Lin and L.-C. Chang, “An Eficient AES-Based RFID Authentication Protocol,” The 
3rd Joint Workshop on Information Security (JWIS 2008), July 10-11, 2008, Hanyang
University, Seoul, Korea.
[17] N.-W. Lo, K.-H. Yeh, C.-Y. Yeun, “New mutual agreement protocol to secure mobile 
RFID-enabled devices”, Information Security Technical Report, pp.151-157, 2008.
[18] R.S. Safavi-Naini, and J.R. Seberry, “Error-correcting codes for authentication and
subliminal channels,” IEEE Transactions on Information Theory, 37(1), pp. 13 –17, Jan.
1991.
98
[31]G. Hancke and M. Kuhn, “An RFID distance bounding protocol”, In Proc. of the IEEE, 
SecureComm 2005, September 2005.
[32] J. Reid, J.M. Gonzlez, T. Tang, B.Senadji, “Detecting Relay Atacks with Timing-Based
Protocols. http://eprints.qut.edu.au/archive/00003264/.
[33] T.A. Berson, Failure of the McEliece public-key cryptosystem under message-resend
and related-message attack, in: Advances in Cryptology––CRYPTO 97, Springer, Berlin,
1997, pp. 213–220.
[34] H.-Y. Chien, “Matched Yoking Protocol with Forward Secrecy”, submitted to Journal
of Internet Technology.
2Robert H. Deng, SMU, Singapore
Lee Eng Wah, NRC, Singapore
Program Co-Chairs
Yingjiu Li, SMU, Singapore
Jianying Zhou, I2R, Singapore
Local Arrangement
SIS Office, Shaoying Cai, Yan Li, Ge Fu, SMU Singapore
Wei He, SIMTech, Singapore
Program Committee
Manfred Aigner (TU-Graz, Austria)
Mike Burmester (FSU, US)
Colin Boyd (QUT, Australia)
Jingde Cheng (Saitama University, Japan)
Hung-Yu Chien (NCNU, Taiwan)
Shuo-Yan Chou (NTUST, Taiwan)
Chao-Hsien Chu (PSU, US)
Tassos D. Dimitriou (AIT, Greece)
Juan Estevez-Tapiador (York University, UK)
Jinsong Han (HKUST, China)
Julio C. Hernandez-Castro (University of Portsmouth, UK)
Ari Juels (RSA Laboratories, US)
Florian Kerschbaum (SAP Research, Germany)
Kwangjo Kim (KAIST, Korea)
Marek Klonowski (Wroclaw University of Technology, Poland)
Miroslaw Kutylowski (Wroclaw University of Technology, Poland)
Qun Li (College of William and Mary, US)
Tieyan Li (I2R, Singapore)
Nai-Wei Lo (NTUST, Taiwan)
Li Lu (HKUST, China)
Changshe Ma (SMU, Singapore)
Masahiro Mambo (University of Tsukuba, Japan)
Yi Mu (UOW, Australia)
Pedro Peris-Lopez (TU-Delft, Netherlands)
Raphael Phan (Loughborough University, UK)
Reihaneh Safavi-Naini (University of Calgary, Canada)
Kazuo Sakiyama (University of Electro-Communications, Japan)
Kouichi Sakurai (Kyushu University, Japan)
Willy Susilo (UOW, Australia)
Guilin Wang (University of Birmingham, UK)
413:45 - 14:45
Session 2
Practical RFID Ownership Transfer Scheme (Invited paper)
Ching Yu Ng, Willy Susilo, Yi Mu and Rei Safavi-Naini.
An Efficient Ultralightweight Authentication Protocol for RFID Systems (Invited
paper)
Kuo-Hui Yeh, Naiwei Lo and Enrico Winata.
14:45 - 15:30 Tea Break
15:30 - 17:00
Session 3
Faster CRT-RSA Decryption towards RFID applications
Subhamoy Maitra, Santanu Sarkar and Morshed Chowdhury.
Fingerprinting Radio Frequency Identification Tags Using Timing Characteristics
Senthilkumar Chinnappa Gounder Periaswamy, Dale R. Thompson and Henry P. Romero.
Security Flaws in a Recent Ultralightweight RFID Protocol
Pedro Peris-Lopez, Julio C. Hernandez-Castro, Juan E. Tapiador and Jan C. A. van der Lubbe.
18:00 - 19:00 Sightseeing tour on Singapore Flyer
19:00 - 21:00 Workshop Dinner
三、論文發表摘要
1. Towards Securing Low-cost RFID Systems: an Unconditionally Secure Approach
Basel Alomair, Loukas Lazos and Radha Poovendran.
The Case for Dynamic RFID Tag Authentication
Matthew J.B. Robshaw and Axel Poschmann.
本篇主要是以 formal method design low-cost RFID authentication scheme. 本篇是篇不錯作品，
也引起許多討論。
2. Practical RFID Ownership Transfer Scheme (Invited paper)
Ching Yu Ng, Willy Susilo, Yi Mu and Rei Safavi-Naini.
本篇以新的觀點設計所有權移轉議題，可刺激新的思考。
3. An Efficient Ultralightweight Authentication Protocol for RFID Systems (Invited paper)
Kuo-Hui Yeh, Naiwei Lo and Enrico Winata.
本篇首先分析既有 low-cost authentication schemes 的共通弱點，再設計新的機制。
4. Faster CRT-RSA Decryption towards RFID applications
Subhamoy Maitra, Santanu Sarkar and Morshed Chowdhury.
本篇著重在降低 RSA 解密時的計算成本，現場部份學者認為可能引發更多加密成本的疑慮。
5. Fingerprinting Radio Frequency Identification Tags Using Timing Characteristics
Senthilkumar Chinnappa Gounder Periaswamy, Dale R. Thompson and Henry P. Romero.
本篇以類似 physical un-clonable function 的特性來設計 RFID tag identification scheme，目前
看來距離實用仍有一些距離。
6. Security Flaws in a Recent Ultralightweight RFID Protocol
Pedro Peris-Lopez, Julio C. Hernandez-Castro, Juan E. Tapiador and Jan C. A. van der
Lubbe.
本篇首先分析既有 low-cost authentication schemes 的弱點特質，最後強調 formal proof method
6
8Anonymous RFID Yoking Protocol Using Error Correction Codes
Chin-Feng Lee Yu-Chang Chen Hung-Yu Chien* Chi-Sung Laih
Department of Information
Management, ChaoYang
University of Technology,
Taiwan, R.O.C.
Department of
Information
Engineering and
Computer Science ,
Feng Chia University.
Department of Information
Management, National
Chi-Nan University, Taiwan,
R.O.C.
Department of Electrical
Engineering at National
Cheng Kung University,
R.O.C.
* Corresponding author: hychien@ncnu.edu.tw
Abstract
A Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) yoking proof protocol allows a verifier to collect the
evidence that two tags are simultaneously present. Yoking proof protocol has been applied in several
applications like shipping record checking and medicine dispensation checking, etc. This paper, based on
error correction codes (ECC), designs a novel yoking proof protocol, which not only protects tag’s
anonymity but also requires only simple operations that can be easily supported on low-cost tags.
Compared to its counterparts, our scheme provides several practical merits: (1) It protects tag’s
anonymity using much easier approach, (2) it requires only simple operations on tags, and (3) the
computational overhead on the server is much lower.
Keywords: security, authentication, Radio Frequency Identification, yoking proof, error correction
codes.
10
medicine A and each medicine B with distinct tags, and then applies the yoking protocol to collect the
evidence of simultaneous presence of the tagged nedicines before the dispensation. Of course, the
pharmacist should learn the identities of the tags (and the identities of the corresponding medicines). But,
he would not let adversaries (or any outsiders) learn the identities of medicines to protect patient’s
privacy.
While Juels called the protocol the yoking protocol, Saito and Sakurai [12] called it the grouping
proof protocol and Lopes et al. [11] called it the clumping protocol. In this paper, we refer to them all as
yoking protocols (or proofs). Folowing Juels’s work, Saito and Sakurai [12] applied the timestamp to 
improve Juels’s scheme to resist replayattacks; however, Piramuthu [13] showed that Saito-Sakurai’s 
scheme failed to resist the replay attack, and proposed an enhanced scheme using random number
chalenges. Lopes et al. [11] showed the weakness of Piramuthu’s scheme that un-correlated random
numbers in the scheme could be exploited to forge valid transcripts. Despite of the security weaknesses
reported, the previous yoking protocols like [2, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13] all require hashing function on tags, and
the server overhead to identify tags is too costly (exhaustive searching) for those anonymous versions in
their schemes. Up to now, hashing function is still too costly to low-cost tags. Contrary to RFID
authentication protocols like [1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 10, 14, 15, 16, 17, 28] where the verifier is on-line, we note
that the verifier in yoking protocol is usually off-line or in on-line batch mode.
This paper, based on error correction codes (ECC), shall propose a novel RFID yoking proof protocol.
Our contributions are two fold: (1) it is the first ECC-based yoking scheme, (2) easily supports tag’s
anonymity, and (3) it requires only simple operations like Pseudo Random Number Generation (PRNG)
and simple bit-wise operations (XOR and AND) on tags. The rest of this paper is organized as follows.
Section 2 introduces the security model, and Section 3 proposes our scheme. Section 4 analyzes security
and evaluates its performance. Finally, Section 5 states our conclusions.
2. The model of secure yoking proof protocols
Regarding RFID security, the previous works like [6, 10] have set up the models and defined the security for
RFID authentication protocols, where the verifier validates the authenticity of one tag on-line. On the contrary, the
12
more flexible: our oracle query Q allows the adversary to adaptively adjust its next move, based on the responses
from T or from R.
An RFID yoking proof system consists of a single reader  and a group of related tags  { 11,..., nTT }. The
adversary is denoted as Adver, and the i-th instance of tag T is denoted as iT . The capacities of the adversary are
defined through the following oracle queries.
- Query( iT , m1): this query models Adver sending m1 to T and receiving the response from T.
- Send( iR , m2): this models Adver sending m2 to , and receiving the response.
- Execute( iT1 ,
k
 , jT2 ): this models Adver executing protocol instance between
i
T1
 , jT2 and
k
 , and
obtaining all the messages exchanged among them.
A protocol is said to be resistant to attacks A-O or it is A-O if it is resistant to an attack A when the adversary
has access to the oracles of O {Q,S,E}*, where Q, S, and E represent the oracles queries Query, Send, and
Execute respectively. An interaction )(Ti denotes the result of the application of an oracle Q, E or S on T, and
}|,*)({}|)({)( JjSendIiTT jiI   , where NJ  . The notation of untraceability (UNT) is defined
as, after having interactions with the target T , its partnered tags  and the reader, and thus obtaining an
interaction )(TI , whose length is less than a pre-defined parameter refl , an adversary Adver needs to find her
target among two tags T1 and T2  (one of them is the target) that are given to her. Adver can query both T1 and
T2, and obtains two interactions )( 11 TI and )( 22 TI whose lengths are less than a given length chall . If
there exists 1I and 2I such that A is able to succeed then it is existential traceability [6].
Existential Un-traceability
Parameters: refl , chall , O, 
1. Adver requests the challenger and receives her target T  .
2. Adver chooses I and calls Oracles(T, , I, O) where |I|≦ refl then receives ),(  TI .
3. Adver requests the challenger and receives her challenge T1 and T2 (T1, T2  , and one of them is T).
4. Adver chooses I1 and I2, calls Oracles(T1, , I1, O) and Oracles(T2, , I2, O), and receives ),( 11  TI and
),( 22  TI , where |I1|, |I2|≦ chall and  III )( 21 .
5. Adver guesses which one of T1 and T2 is T, and outputs her guessT’.
14
as follows. Let S be the server and {Ti} be a set of tags. Let l=|{Ti}| be the number of tags. Initially, S
randomly chooses a secret linear code C(n, k, d) over GF(2), as specified by its generator matrix G, which
is a k by n matrix. Here, we can assume l|k without loss of its generality, and we denote s=k / l as the
number of row vectors assigned to a tag. Here the notation l|k means l can divide k, and k / l means the
quotient for k being divided by l. S assigns G[j]s to Ti for j=(i-1)*s+1,…,i*s, where G[j] denotes the j-th
row of G. Ti later applies linear combinations of rows G[j]j=(i-1)*s+1~i*s to generate a new codeword ci. Then,
ic would equal Gmi * for some k-bit vector im with the j-th component of im being zero for
]*,1*)1[( sisij  . Ti generates ci as above, and adds an error vector e with weight  2/)1(  dt to
derive icˆ . That is, icˆ = eci  . iT sends icˆ to S, which then uses the decoding algorithm [27] to derive
( im ,e) to identify the tag. The above idea can achieve anonymity through the identification process, since
only the designated receiver S, which owns the private generator matrix and private parity check matrix,
can recover ( im , e) to identify the tag. And the transmission in each session looks random to an
eavesdropper. However, the above idea is vulnerable to various attacks, such as replay attacks and
message-resend attacks. In the following, we extend the above idea to propose an ECC-based RFID
yoking scheme with anonymity.
3.2 The proposed scheme
The scheme involves three entities: a backend server (the verifier in the yoking scenarios), a reader,
and a set of tags. The channel between the server and the reader is assumed secure; however, the wireless
channel between readers and tags is vulnerable to various attacks. We follow the assumptions of [2] that
RFID tags do not own clocks or maintain time; however, the technique of measuring the discharge rate of
capacitors can be used to limit the time span of a specific activity. The notation is summarized in Table 1.
The scheme consists of two phases - the initial phase and the yoking phase.
16
secret key Ki, and the indices of the assigned rows of G to each tag. To each tag Ti, S writes the identity Ti,
the key Ki, g(), and the row vectors G[j]s, for j=(i-1)*s+1,…,i*s, into Ti’s memory. For tag TA, the set of
assigned row vectors is denoted as GA.
The yoking phase
The yoking phase of the protocol is described as follows and in Fig. 1. Here, we assume TA be the
initiator tag, and TB be the responder tag. An initiator tag would respond to reader’s yoking proof request
first, and its role can be pre-defined or any tag can be an initiator tag. We would not discuss the
implementation detail here.
Step 1. The reader first acquires an encrypted challenge )(timestampEch
Vk
 from the verifier, and
then broadcasts ch to its nearby tags. This arrangement makes adversaries can forge a valid
challenge with negligible probability.
Step 2. After receiving the challenge ch, TA starts the timer and generates a non-zero codeword Ac
via a random linear combination of row vectors from GA. TA randomly chooses error vector e
with Hamming weight t , and computes Ac
~ = Ac +e. It computes ))((
~
AA KchgegV  .
Here we abuse the notation ))(( AKchgeg  , even if the length of e is distinct from the
output length of g(), and a necessary string expansion or shrinking is applied when the lengths
of two operands are different. Codeword Ac can be viewed as Gmc AA * , where Am is a
k-length vector with the j-th component of Am being zero for those vectors not belonging to
GA. A potential mechanism for implementing timer on low-cost tags has been discussed in [31,
32].
Step 3. The tag sends ( Ac
~ , AV
~ ) to the reader.
Step 4. The reader forwards AV
~ to the responder tag.
Step 5. After receiving AV
~ , TB starts the timer and then generates a non-zero codeword Bc via a
random linear combination of row vectors from GB. TB randomly chooses error vector e with
Hamming weight t , and computes Bc
~ = Bc +e. It computes ))
~((~ BAB KVgegV  .
18
4. Security analysis and performance evaluation
4.1 Security and proof
The anonymity (Existential-UNT-QSE) of the proposed ECC-based yoking scheme protocol is proved in the
following theorem.
Theorem 1. The proposed ECC-based yoking scheme is Existential-UNT-QSE, if we take the cryptographic PRNG
as a random oracle.
Proof:
(1) Existential-UNT-QSE: Without the secret parameters- the generator matrix, the parity matrix, tag’s secret key,
tag’s row vectors and tag’s identity, an adversary cannot derive any tag’s information from the transmissions (which
consists of error-vector-added random codeword and cryptographic PRNG output on secret key and random vector).
TTA(kA, , IDA, GA)
Figure 1. Anonymous yoking proof
Verifier TB(IDB, KB, GB)
Reader
)(timestampEch
Vk

)ˆ,
~
,~,
~
,~,( ABBAAAB VVcVcchP 
));((
~
,~
;weightHammingwithchooserandomly
;vectorsrowassignedthefrom
codewordzero-nonagenerateRandomly.2
AAAA
A
A
KchgegVecc
te
G
c

1. ch
AA Vc
~
,~.3 AV
~
.4
outtime));~((~,~
;weightHammingwithchooserandomly
;vectorsrowassignedthefrom
codewordzero-nonagenerateRandomly.5
BABBB
B
B
KVgegVecc
te
G
c

BB Vc
~
,~.6
Set Timer
Set Timer
BV
~
.7
outtime
))
~
(ˆ.8 ABA KVgV 
AVˆ.9
20
same source. Therefore, the condition ( ii ec  )+( jj ec  )<2t could be used to trace an entity. However,
in our yoking scheme, the code words ji cc , are non-zero code words generated by random linear
combinations of the assigned row vectors. Therefore, the condition ( ii ec  )+( jj ec  )<2t does not
always hold even if they are from the same tag. For each tag with s row vectors, it can generate 12 s
distinct non-zero code words, and there are totally ls )12( distinct code words generated by all the
tags. The distance between two distinct code words either from the same tag or not is at least d. Therefore,
the distance between two transmissions results from the same tag could be d+2t. However, if the same
code word of the same tag is used twice (or more), then the distance of using the same code would be
2t, and an adversary could trace a tag in such conditions. However, the adversary should collect yoking
sessions as many as he could, instead of probing a tag and telling whether this tag being the target tag, to
trace a tag. Therefore, the probability of collecting two sessions from the same tag which uses the same
codeword is very low and the practical damage is, therefore, very limited.
Secure binding to specific time span: Because the challenge ch is random and independent, an attacker
can generate valid challenges in the right time with negligible probability. Both TA and TB would generate
their final commitments ( BV
~ and AVˆ respectively) only when they have successfully verified their
designated partner’s commitments ( AV
~ , BV
~ ), which involve the encrypted timestamp, the random error
vector, the secret key and the chaining commitment. Each activity is limited to the valid time span.
Therefore, the final proof securely binds the data to the specific time span.
4.2 Performance evaluation
It is noted that, in our scheme, only the servers are required to be equipped with the decoding
algorithms (which involve matrix operations). The functions required on the tag are cryptographic PRNG
function and simple bit operations of XOR and AND. Compared to the previous schemes (like [2, 8, 11,
12]) where tags are supposed to equipped with hash functions, the computations on the tags in our scheme
are very simple and efficient. To achieve anonymity, schemes like [2, 11] require server perform
22
References
[1] G. Avoine, E. Dysli, and P. Oechslin, “Reducing time complexity in RFID systems,” The 12th Annual 
Workshop on Selected Areas in Cryptography (SAC), 2005.
[2] M. Burmester, B. de Medeiros, and R. Mota, “Provably secure grouping-proof for RFID tags”, IACR
Eprint, October 2007, http://eprint.iacr.org/2007/407.pdf.
[3] H. Y. Chien, “SASI: A New Ultra-Lightweight RFID Authentication Protocol Providing Strong
Authentication and Strong Integrity”, IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing 4(4), 
pp. 337-340, October, 2007.
[4] H. Y. Chien, and C.-H. Chen, “Mutual Authentication Protocol for RFID Conforming to EPC Class 1 
Generation 2 Standards”, Computers Standards & Interfaces 29(2), pp 254-259, 2007.
[5] D. N. Duc, J. Park, H. Lee and K. Kim, "Enhancing Security of EPCglobal Gen-2 RFID Tag against
Traceability and Cloning", The 2006 Symposium on Cryptography and Information Security, 2006.
[6] G. Avoine, “Radio frequency identification: adversary model and attacks on existing protocols”, Technical
Report LASEC-REPORT-2005-001, September 2005.
[7] A. Juels, “Yoking proofs for RFID tag”, In Proc. of the Second IEEE Annual Conference on Pervasive 
Computing and Communications Workshops, pp. 138-142, DC, USA, 2004.
[8] Bolotnyy, L., and Robins, G., Generalized “yoking-proofs” for a group of RFID tags. In 
MOBIQUITOUS 2006, 2006.
[9] M. Ohkubo, K. Suzki and S. Kinoshita, “Cryptographic Approach to ‘Privacy-Friendly’ Tags”, in 
RFID Privacy Workshop, 2003.
[10] A. Juels and S. Weis. Deﬁning strong privacy for RFID. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2006/137, 2005. 
http://eprint.iacr.org/. .
[11] P. Peris-Lopes, J. Hernandez-Castro, J.M. Estevez-Tapiador, and A. Ribagorda. Solving the
Simultaneous Scanning problem Anonymously: Clumping proofs for RFID Tags. Unpublished
Manuscript, Carlos III University of Madrid, 2007.
[12] J. Saito and K. Sakurai. Grouping proof for RFID tags. In 19th International Conference on
Advanced Information Networking and Applications, AINA 2005., volume 2, pages 621–624, March
2005.
24
[26] M. Belare, A. Desai, D. Pointcheval, and P. Rogaway, “Relations among notations of security for 
public key Encryption schemes”, Proceedings of CRYPTO’98, LNCS 1462, pp.~26-45. Springer-Verlag,
1998.
[27] S. Lin, and D.J. Costello, Jr. Error Control Coding: Fundamentals and Applications, Prentice-Hall,
Englewood Cliffs, NJ, 1983.
[28] Hung-Yu Chien, Chi-Sung Laih, “ ECC-Based Lightweight Authentication Protocol with
Un-traceability for Low-Cost RFIDs“, Journal of Paralel and Distributed Computing 2009, 
http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1016/j.jpdc.2009.07.007.
[29] A.J. Menezes, P.C. van Oorschot and S.A. Vanstone, Handbook of Applied Cryptography, CRC Press,
BocaRaton, 1996.
[30] D.R. Stinson, Cryptography: Theory and Practice, 3rd Edition, Chapman & Hall/CRC, Boca Raton,
2006.
[31]G. Hancke and M. Kuhn, “An RFID distance bounding protocol”, In Proc. of the IEEE, SecureComm 
2005, September 2005.
[32] J. Reid, J.M. Gonzlez, T. Tang, B. Senadji, “Detecting Relay Atacks with Timing-Based Protocols.
http://eprints.qut.edu.au/archive/00003264/.
[33] T.A. Berson, Failure of the McEliece public-key cryptosystem under message-resend and
related-message attack, in: Advances in Cryptology––CRYPTO 97, Springer, Berlin, 1997, pp.
213–220.
[34] H.-Y. Chien, “Matched Yoking Protocol with Forward Secrecy”, submitted to Journal of Internet
Technology.
97年度專題研究計畫研究成果彙整表 
計畫主持人：簡宏宇 計畫編號：97-2221-E-260-008-MY2 
計畫名稱：可證明式,可選擇性轉換鑑別加密及安全投標系統等應用 
量化 
成果項目 實際已達成
數（被接受
或已發表）
預期總達成
數(含實際已
達成數) 
本計畫實
際貢獻百
分比 
單位 
備 註 （ 質 化 說
明：如數個計畫
共同成果、成果
列 為 該 期 刊 之
封 面 故 事 ...
等） 
期刊論文 1 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 8 0 100%  
研討會論文 1 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 0 0 100%   
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 0 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國內 
參與計畫人力 
（本國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
期刊論文 14 0 100%  
研究報告/技術報告 0 0 100%  
研討會論文 8 0 100% 
篇 
 
論文著作 
專書 1 0 100% 章/本  
申請中件數 0 0 100%  專利 已獲得件數 0 0 100% 件  
件數 0 0 100% 件  
技術移轉 
權利金 0 0 100% 千元  
碩士生 10 0 100%  
博士生 0 0 100%  
博士後研究員 0 0 100%  
國外 
參與計畫人力 
（外國籍） 
專任助理 0 0 100% 
人次 
 
 
