fabrication. Recently, demands of low cost 
and high-resolution lithographic technique 
have attracted a considerable interest in the 
pursuit of new ways to create a more efficient 
grating structure. Typical techniques for 
patterning gratings on polymers include 
holographic surface relief grating [7-9], 
electro-beam (e-beam) lithography [10], 
laser-beam direct writing [11], X-ray mask 
technology [12], and phase mask lithography 
[13-14]. Although these tools provide high 
precision in manufacturing, it often limited by 
its size of the device which it can actually be 
manufactured. These mentioned tools are also 
hard to get and relatively expensive. On the 
other hand, the unique capacity of holographic 
lithography for high-resolution and large-area 
pattern transfer offers significant advantages 
over the other techniques. The holographic 
interferometrical technique provides 
flexibility in the grating period and depth by 
changing the incident beam angles and the 
irradiation time. In addition, the theoretical 
limit of the frequency of the interference 
pattern produced by two intersecting beams is 
half of the wavelength of the incident beam. 
Thus, the grating period is only limited by the 
wavelength of the light source. The advanced 
technology of LIGA-like process eliminates 
the problem of tool wear and material 
machine-ability, and can achieve sub-micro 
accuracy. There are many replication 
processes that are simple and involve fairly 
easy fabrication; such as hot-embossing [15], 
UV-embossing [16], and micro-transfer 
molding method [17, 18]. If these molding 
processes are combined with a LIGA-like 
process that can produce a mold for the 
subsequent molding processes, it may have 
great potential for mass production [19]. 
Converting the plastic mold into the metallic 
mold is the basic concept of a LIGA-like 
process. There are two issues of 
electroforming to make micro-molds with 
enough thickness (at least 2 to 3 μm) for 
practical molding process; one is the 
deformation of electroforming molds after a 
length time, the other is the low growth rate in 
electroforming itself. Even thought some 
additives are used to control the deformation 
induced by internal stress in electroforming 
process, real time monitoring the use of this 
additives is no sophisticated, the deformation 
of micro-molds after electroforming is still 
unpredictable [20]. In here, we have used two 
steps to improve the problems. First step is to 
control the electroforming thickness under 
300 μm with less internal stress and no 
deformation. The second step is to apply a 
mold plate enough thick for supporting 
molding pressure. By using the holographic 
interferometry, electroforming and stamping 
process, this work demonstrates a new 
fabricating technique of period structure on 
polycarbonate thin film. Based on the 
preliminary experimental results, it is found 
that it is possible to replicate grating period 
and depth with high precision. The metal mold 
also has the ability to show more reliable and 
reproducible results. 
 
3. Methodology and results： 
The technique of forming grating patterns on 
the polycarbonate thin film involved three 
processing steps: 
First, a grating pattern is holographically 
exposed using two-beam interference pattern 
on a positive photoresist film. This produces a 
master that can be subsequently transferred to 
a Nickel-Cobalt (Ni-Co) metal mold. The 
metal mold then is used to transfer the final 
gratings pattern onto a polycarbonate using a 
hot press process. 
 
3－1. Methodology and results 
surface for continuous electroplating. After 30 
hours, the thick plate bonded onto the Nickel 
mold and formed into a piece. This enables a 5 
mm thick metal mold to be formed. The 
positive photoresist was then stripped away 
using acetone. The metallization process is 
depicted in Fig. 2. Picture taken from the 
scanning electron microscope indicated that 
the grating pattern structure of the metal mold 
was well transferred (see Fig. 3). Based on the 
measurement taken from atomic force 
microscope (AFM) and SEM, the gratings on 
the metal mold transferred from a master 
grating were slightly off from the original 
dimension. For example, the grating period 
was off by 2 nm and the depth was reduced by 
26 nm for a profile of 505 nm period and 333 
nm depth, while the grating period was off by 
2 nm and the depth was reduced by 34 nm for 
a profile of 703 nm period and 399 nm depth. 
 
Fig. 2. Electroplating process for Ni-Co grating mold 
 
Fig. 3. The SEM picture of gratings on Ni-Co mold 
(503nm grating period and 307 nm grating depth). 
 
The patterned metal mold was used as a 
master mold to transfer the grating pattern 
onto a polycarbonate (PC) material thin film 
(supplied by Hsintou Company, Taiwan) using 
typical thermal pressing technique. The PC is 
a suitable material for optical devices due to 
its good physical and optical properties. A 
process similar to injection molding was used. 
Metal mold was placed on a stainless substrate 
in a hot pressing machine. Two processing 
parameters including working temperature and 
pressure were investigated. One test we 
conducted was adjusting pressure in the 
fabrication process between 5 to 20 kg/cm 2 
with a holding time of 180 seconds. However, 
no significant difference was found in the 
gratings formation at different pressures. 
However, the temperature appeared to be 
critical in the process. Our result indicated that 
the grating pattern could not be formed on the 
polymer when the temperature was less than 
130 ℃. When the temperature was over 145 
℃, tiny bubbles started to develop in the 
samples. The out-gassing caused surface 
damage on the sample. Therefore, the idea 
operating temperature was found to be 
between 135 ℃ to 140 ℃. The thickness of 
the PC sample was about 2 mm. The profiles 
of the gratings on PC were measured using an 
