policy to achieve the maximum system throughput with 
strategy which wants to perform interference 
management in the system. IMCC take the whole system 
into consideration while previous work takes 
individual nodes. Therefore, IMCC can manage 
interference better than others. We evaluate the 
proposed algorithm via conscientious and careful 
simulation. The simulation results show that the 
proposed algorithm outperformed the existing one. 
英文關鍵詞： LTE-advanced ,  Carrier aggregation 
 
2 
 
 
 前言    
In recent years, the number of mobile users is increasing dramatically. Therefore, the total mobile 
traffic throughput of the whole world is growing exponentially. Mobile users want the higher data 
rate and lower latency wireless communication quality.  In order to satisfy this increasing 
demand, the Long Term Evolution-Advanced is developed to handle these changes. The 
LTE-advanced should support a wider bandwidth. Therefore, it can support high speed 
requirement for 4G at 100 Mbps for high mobility users (such as user in the train) and 1 Gbps for 
low mobility users. Carrier aggregation is considered as a solution to support a wider bandwidth 
up to 100 MHz. 
 
In carrier aggregation, the basic aggregated unit is called component carrier (CC). Carrier 
aggregation supports a wider bandwidth by aggregating two or more CCs. However, 
LTE-advanced standard hasn't specify the way of CC assignment. Many issues are remained for 
studying in CC assignment. CCs can not only be aggregated to support a wider bandwidth, but 
also shared among many devices. It is inevitable to produce interference in this CC sharing 
scheme. The main purposed of this work is to proposed a component carrier scheduling algorithm. 
The strategy of the proposed algorithm is to manage interference in the system. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                      
4 
 
 文獻探討  
According to [1], the way of spectrum sharing can be roughly categorized into two types: 
horizontal spectrum sharing, and vertical spectrum sharing. In horizontal spectrum sharing scheme, 
the coexisting have the same access right to the shared spectrum. In the vertical spectrum sharing 
scheme, on the other hand, a hierarchy of access right is adopted, known as primary user and 
secondary user in cognitive radio. In this work, the sharing component carrier scheme is a 
horizontal spectrum sharing. The main factor to affect the system performance is interference. 
Therefore, many researche s have been studied about this issue [2]–[9]. There still has some space 
for improvement in these works. In [8], [9], for example, the strategies of the authors are to set a 
static threshold in order to determine the usage of CCs. And both of the works didn’t consider the 
interaction between cells. The problem is that the channel in a metropolitan environment is 
varying dramatically, it can’t adjust with the varying of the channel and the change of other cells. 
 
The technique of carrier aggregation is to aggregate multiple CCs to get a wider bandwidth for 
transmission. Therefore, LTE-advanced environment is an intensive spectrum sharing 
environment since many cells may aggregate the same CCs at the same time. The interference and 
management among these CCs are important issues. In Liu’s work [20], he focus on investigating 
appropriate management of CCs. He proposed component carrier management method in Layer-3 
and the method provides comparable user throughput and lower complexity for implementation. 
And the control information is used for CC management which contain the assignment of CCs to 
users. The transmission of this information may be failed, therefore the performance of the system 
may decrease. The work in [11], [18] proposed a cross-carrier scheduling method to improve the 
performance of the control information. Another important issue in CA is interference 
management. 
 
The carrier aggregation is not only provide wider bandwidth but also achieve spectrum sharing. It 
is inevitable to produce interference in this environment. The work in [21] study uplink CC 
selection problem. The author wants to decrease interference and power consumption in uplink. 
The idea is good in this work, but the author only uses two CCs in the simulation. Since 
LTEadvanced can aggregate five CCs with 20 MHz to get 100 MHz bandwidth for equipments, 
two CCs with small bandwidth is not appropriate for simulation settings. In [9], the author 
proposed an algorithm called ”Autonomous Component Carrier Selection” (AACS). The main 
idea of ACCS is to divide component carrier into two category: primary component carriers and 
secondary component carriers. Each cell has one primary component carrier and several secondary 
component carriers. The selection criterion is according to the carrier-to-interference ratio to 
decide which component carrier would be used. The main steps of ACCS is as following: (1) if 
there exists some component carrier didn’t be chosen for primary or secondary using, choose one 
of them, (2) if all component carriers were chosen by others, select one with no primary using and 
the lowest number for secondary using, (3) if all component carrier were used for primary by 
others, select the one the same as its neighboring eNB’s with the maximum path loss, and (4) if 
6 
 
 研究方法         
A. Particle Swarm Optimization 
 
Particle Swarm Optimization is an optimization algorithm developed by James Kennedy, and 
Russel Eberhart in 1995\cite{PSO}. Originally, PSO is proposed for simulating social behaviors 
such as a stylized representation of the movement of organisms in a bird block or fish school. PSO 
is a simple algorithm and suitable for performing the optimization problem. PSO is a 
computational method to solve optimization problem iteratively. In PSO, each candidate solution 
is seen as a particle. The algorithm is to randomly spread particles in the search space, and assign 
the position and velocity of each particles. Each particles would move in the search-space 
according to its position and velocity, and each particle has its own performance. In this way, local 
and global maximum performance can be defined since we know each particle's performance. The 
movement of each particle is influenced by these two maximum, namely the particle would move 
approach to the particle with maximum performance. The behavior of particles at time $t$ is 
shown as follows:  
 
     
   
 
 
 
 
where Vi(t) is the velocity of particle i at time t, Xi is the position of particle i at time t, and W is the 
inertial weight. C1 and C2 are the positive constant parameters, rand is the random function which 
takes value in range [0,1], Pbest is the best position of the particle, and Gbest is the position of the 
particle with best performance among all particles. The original PSO algorithm is used in 
continuous case, but our problem is a discrete case in this paper. We redefine the definition about 
position and velocity in order to solve our discrete optimization problem. 
 
B. Proposed Algorithm 
 
In our problem, a particle represent a way of carrier components assignment for femto cells. 
Therefore, we suppose there has K users, N FAPs, and L carrier components. Our problem focuses 
on carrier components assignment, so we suppose that each user links to the nearest FAPs or 
macro cell, which the user would receive the largest signal power. Each particle is an N × L 
matrix to represent an assignment method for FAPs. We suppose there are P particles in proposed 
algorithm, denoted by {Particle1, Particle2, ..., Particlep}, and Partcilei(j, k) is the element in row j and 
column k of the particle i.             
 
 
8 
 
RA(P) means to do row-addition on particle P. The row-addition is operated in a random row of P. 
If row j of particle P is chosen, we regards this row as a binary number and add this row by 1 
(modF), where F is equal to 2L −1. Because the maximum value of each row is 2L −1, the mod 
operation is to be sure that this binary number wouldn’t exceed this value. For example, the row j 
of Particlei is [0 1 0 1], which is 5 in binary, and it is changed to [0 1 1 0] by adding 1 to it. 
 
So, the movement of our algorithm is defined. We would repeat these operation, namely 
evaluation, record, and movement, iteratively. The finale solution to the problem is recParticleOpt. 
  
10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this scenario, crowded and sparse distribution of FAPs are considered. In both topology, the BS 
is set up at location (0,0), and there are 20 users in it. The users are randomly distributed in a 40m
×40m square with center (565,565) which is 800m far from the base station. Since the coverage 
range of BS is 800 meters, these users are on the cell edge. The FAPs is distributed circularly with 
the same center as users, the radius of crowded and sparse topology are 5m and 15m respectively. 
 
From the performance results in Fig.2 and Fig.3, we find that the proposed algorithm can increase 
the system performance in the crowded case. But in the sparse case, the proposed didn’t increase 
the performance. This result tells us the performance can decrease the impact the interference by 
using different component carriers. In crowded topology, the interference between FAPs are 
severe, the FAPs are trending to use different carrier components. The colors in the Fig. 4 and Fig. 
5 mean the component carriers. There are five different carrier components, so the number of 
colors is five, too. From Fig. 4, we see that in the stable allocation, the FAPs use the different 
carrier components. We can easily see the performance improvement due to the using of different 
carrier components. However, in the sparse topology, the distance of FAPs is larger than their 
coverage range, so the interference between FAPs is too light to be ignored. So, each FAPs would 
use the whole bandwidth all the time, the proposed algorithm didn’t provide any increment in this 
condition. From Fig. 5, the stable allocation for the FAPs are to use the entire component carriers. 
 
C. The number of FAPs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In this scenario, we adjust the transmission power of FAPs. The transmission power is a key factor 
to impact the interference. We know the a FAP has better performance while using more power to 
transmit. This behavior would cause severe interference to other FAPs, and reduce the system 
performance. This simulation is to discuss the bandwidth used by FAP while the transmission 
power getting higher and higher. In this simulation, there are 40 users and 6 FAPs. The half of 
users are randomly distributed in a 50m×50m square with center at (424m,424m). The other half 
of users are randomly distributed in a 800m×800m square with center at (0m,0m), which is the 
location of the base station. The FAPs are circularly and uniformly distributed with the center 
(424m,424m) and radius 100m. In this topology, some users link to the base station ,  and some 
users are in a crowded condition. We set FAPs in this crowded area to run our simulation, and 
observe the effect of the transmission power on the throughput and utilization of components 
carriers. 
 
From the Fig.7, when the transmission power is low, the FAPs use almost the whole bandwidth. 
This is because the lower transmission power only cause light interference to others. The light 
interference didn’t influence to the performance of FAPs. Therefore, each FAPs can just to use the 
whole bandwidth without thinking about others. On the other hand, when transmission power is 
getting higher, the interference would get severe at the same time. The FAPs would like to use 
only some CCs to avoid the interference. In Fig.7, we see that the average bandwidth used by 
FAPs is reduced to 1.5 CCs. And from Fig.8, to use some CCs instead of full bandwidth access 
can improve the performance when the transmission power is high. The proposed algorithm can 
find the suitable CC assignment way to improve the system performance. 
 
The Fig.9 shows that the average throughput under different condition. The performance of FAPs 
is decreasing while the transmission power is higher than 10 dBm. The FAPs can provide service 
to the far distance users, and SINR of these users is low. So the average throughput is decreased, 
and the average throughput of the BS in increasing at the same time. The BS always uses the full 
14 
 
參考文獻 
 
[1] A. Attar and V. Krishnamurthy, “Interferrence Diversity Gain and its Application in 
Multi-Channel Systems: Capacity maximization and QoS Guarantee Strategies,” IEEE 
Transactions on Communication, vol. 59, January 2011. 
[2] V. Chandrasekhar and J. G. Andrews, “Uplink Capacity and Interference Avoidance for 
Two-Tier Femtocell Networks,” IEEE Transactions on wireless communications, vol. 8, July 
2009. 
[3] H. Holma and A. Toskala, LTE for UMTS-OFDMA and SC-FDMA based Radio Access. Wiley, 
2009. 
[4] K. Son, S. Lee, Y. Yi, and S. Chong, “REFIM: A practical interference management in 
heterogeneous wireless access networks,” IEEE Journal on selected areas in communications, vol. 
29, June 2011. 
[5] W. et al., “Transmission Capacity of Wireless Ad Hoc Networks with Successive Interference 
Cancellation,” IEEE Transactions on Informantion Theory, vol. 53, pp. 2799–2814, August 2007 
[6] J.-H. Yun and K. G. Shin, “Adaptive Interference Management of OFDMA Femtocells for 
Co-Channel Deployment,” IEEE Journal on Selected Areas in Communications, vol. 29, June 
2011. 
[7] H. Boche, S. Naik, and M. Schubert, “Combinatorial Characterization of Interference Coupling 
in Wireless Systems,” IEEE Transactions on Communication, vol. 59, June 2011. 
[8] K. Zheng, F. Hu, L. Lei, and W. Wang, “Interference coordination between femtocells in 
LTE-advanced networks with carrier aggregation,” in CHINACOM, 2010. 
[9] L. G. U. Garcia, K. I. Pedersen, and P. E. Mogensen, “Autonomous Component Carrier 
Selection: Interference Management in Loca Area Environments for LTE,” IEEE Communications 
Magazine, September 2009. 
[10] J. Kennedy and R. Eberhart, “Particle Swarm Optimization,” in Proceedings of IEEE 
International Conference on Neural Networks, 1995. 
[11] 3GPP TR 36.814, “Further Advancements for E-UTRA: Physical Layer Aspects,” Technical 
Specification Group Radio Access Network, June 2009. 
[12] T. Tjelta, A. L. Lillebo, and E. O. Evenstad, “ITU-R World Radiocommunication Conference 
2007,” in Telektronikk 1(2008), 2008. 
[13] A. L. et al., “The LTE Link-Layer Design,” IEEE Communications M, June 2009. 
[14] R. Ratasuk, D. Tolli, and A. Ghosh, “Carrier Aggregation in LTE-Advanced,” in Vehicular 
Technology Conference, 2010. 
[15] 3GPP TS 36.300, “Evolved Universal Terrestrial Radio Access (E-UTRA): Further 
Advancements for E-UTRA Physical Layer Aspects,” Technical Specification Group Radio 
Access Network, April 2010. 
[16] R4-090963, “Prioritized Deployment Scenarios for LTE-Advanced Studies,” tech. rep., 
NTTDoCoMo et al, March 2009. 
[17] Nokia, “R4-091204 study of UE architectures for LTE-Advanced deployment scenarios,” 
國科會補助計畫衍生研發成果推廣資料表
日期:2012/01/18
國科會補助計畫
計畫名稱: 子計畫二:感知無線電環境中的智慧型與可信賴傳輸(3/3)
計畫主持人: 林宗男
計畫編號: 99-2219-E-002-003- 學門領域: 無線通訊(國家型)
無研發成果推廣資料
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
 
