 2
 
1. Introduction  
New product development is closely related to product design activities (Driva, 1997; Pawer 
and Driva, 1999). An effective product development is not only the key to survival of enterprise 
but also the trigger to maintain the competition priority (Baxter, 1995; Cooper, 1984) in that a 
good design can bring benefits to an enterprise and provide consumers with a proper cognition of  
product usage and value of the enterprise image (Olins, 1990). The rapid change in the information 
technology industry market has brought a widespread impact on the typical IT industry in Taiwan. 
For managers of the R&D departments and industrial designers in these enterprises, it is a must for 
them to pay close attention to the competitor’s activity so as to cope with the challenge caused by 
the change in the market environment. They should complete and launch new products according 
to the goals set in the product development strategy in a proper product design procedure (Cooper 
and Kleinschmidt, 1987; Souder and Song, 1997; Ulrich and Person, 1998). Many scholars claim 
that the integration of product development process in an enterprise will enhance the performance 
in new product development (Carlsson, 1991; Griffin and Hauser, 1996; Gupta et al., 1985; 
Ruekert and Walker, 1987; Pinto et al., 1993; Rusinko, 1997; Song et al., 1997; Olson, 1994; 
Sobek et al., 1998). In addition, many researchers point out that design can be an important 
integral resource in an enterprise: it is an important mechanism for the integration of product 
development functions and a crucial loop in the whole value chain of an enterprise (Olins, 1990; 
Fujimoto, 1991; Bruce and Jevanker, 1998; Clark and Starkey, 1988; Twigg, 1997; 1998).  
How should we process the design activity so as to reach the goal of product development? 
According to Chang and Hsu (2004) and Hsu (2006), there indeed exist some strategies and 
approaches for enterprises in terms of product design and development. However, in-depth 
literature regarding the coordination between front end product development strategy and rear end 
product design implementation is rarely seen. That is, case studies about the differences of product 
development strategies in the execution of product design and the coordination in practical 
designing activities are limited. In this study, companies of Taiwan IT industry were interviewed to 
explore the types of product development strategic groups. Products in the market from cases of 
different product development strategic groups were analyzed to investigate the coordination 
between product development strategy and product design issues. 
 
2. Literature review 
2.1 New product development strategy 
After analyzing external environmental opportunities and threats, and evaluating their own 
strengths and weaknesses, enterprises develop new product development strategies with maximum 
benefit to themselves. Based on the condition of various functional departments (R&D, marketing, 
financial management, and human resource), Ansoff and Stewart (1967) induced four new product 
development strategies. (1) First to market, investing heavily in R&D and launching new products 
to become the market leader. This strategy is relatively offensive and high risk. (2) Follow the 
 4
new-to-the-world products, new category entries, additions to product lines, product improvements, 
and repositioning. Likewise, Ulrich and Eppinger (2000) deconstructed new product development 
into four categories: new product platforms, derivatives of existing product platforms, incremental 
improvements to existing products, and fundamentally new products. Creating a new family of 
products for familiar markets and product categories based on a new, common platform requires 
considerable developmental effort. Derivatives of existing product platforms further develop an 
existing product platform to better compete in conventional markets with one or more new 
products. Incremental improvements to existing products may only involve adding or modifying 
certain features of existing products to maintain competitiveness. Fundamentally new products 
involve radically different product or production technologies, attempting to address new and 
unfamiliar markets. In this study, Ulrich and Eppinger’s classification is utilized to categorize new 
product development projects that companies in Taiwan’s information industry adopt are explored 
to see how they conduct product development to cope with challenges in the closely competitive 
market. 
 
2.3 Emphasizing features of new product design 
A principal aim of design strategy is to offer variety to consumers using different product 
features, styles, qualities, sizes, and so on (Kotler 1991). Emphasizing new product features is 
closely related to product design strategy. For example, McGrath (2001) highlighted that many 
high-technology companies typically differentiate new products using product features, since 
technological advances provide numerous opportunities for new and attractive features. Methods 
for defining features of new product design vary. For example, Pugh (1991) considered the 
important issues from the perspective of the following product design specification: performance, 
environment, life in service, maintenance, target product cost, shipping, packaging, quantity of 
products, manufacturing facility, size, weight, aesthetics, appearance and finish, materials, product 
life span, standards and specifications, ergonomics, quality and reliability, shelf life, testing, safety, 
legal responsibility, installation and operation, and recycling and disposal factors. Chang and Hsu 
(2005) utilized four principal characteristics to describe product change: change in function, 
change in use and operation, change in style and change in cost. Hsu (2006), who analyzed 
in-house design activity at various companies, pointed out that design results and characteristics 
can uncover methods for attaining the goal of a design strategy (i.e. possible means for the product 
design strategy). From a case study of products, Hsu identified that such means can include the 
product form (product semantics, concept, finish, texture, shape, etc.), function, use/operation, 
series of products, and so on. These authors’ views are good references when investigating new 
product development projects that firms in Taiwan’s information industry adopt are explored to see 
how they conduct product development to cope with challenges in the closely competitive market. 
 
2.4 Motivations and design appeal of product development projects 
Chang and Hsu (2005) observed that a product design strategy is a product of a company’s 
 6
The literature review was designed to explore the new product development strategy in the 
Taiwanese information industry. The category of new product development strategy proposed by 
Miles and Snow (1978) and Smith et al. (1989) was employed in this investigation for designing 
the questionnaire survey.  
3.1.2. Questionnaire survey 
Criteria of the survey of product development strategy include the product category (narrow - 
wide), stability of their major clients (unstable - stable), monitoring of the market trend (emphasize 
or not), marketing type (maintain the existing market - aggressively develop new market segments), 
new product development type (redesign - innovation), product competition style (low cost - 
variation), company growth type (stable - breakthrough growth), views on technique 
(manufacturing - oriented or product design - oriented), competence of employee’s (single - 
multiple professional skills), and manufacturing sequential schedule (flexible or not flexible).  
The survey was conducted from December 2005 to March 2006. Based on the enterprise 
database from Common Wealth magazine, 500 product development departments of information 
firms were chosen as the subject pool. Ten of these firms were selected for a pilot test, the results 
of which were used as a basis for adjusting the format of the questionnaire survey. 
After initial contact and follow up, 146 questionnaires were gathered, one of which was 
invalid because of incomplete information. Based on the 145 accepted returned questionnaires 
(29% of the total poll), in terms of new product development strategy, the respondent firms could 
be divided into four strategic groups, including 24 in the Prospector strategic group, 12 in the 
Analyzer strategic group, 45 in the Defender strategic group and 64 in the Reactor strategic group, 
as presented in Table 1. 
 
Table 1: New product development strategic groups 
 New product development strategy group 
 Prospector Analyzer Defender Reactor Total 
Number of firms in the group 24 12 45 64 145 
Percentage (%) 16.55 8.29 31.03 44.13 100 
 
3.2. Stage 2 
From each of four product development strategic groups obtained at Stage 1, four companies 
were chosen for further interviews. The managers of product development or design department of 
these 16 companies were asked to offer three current products for an in-depth interview. Totally, 
48 cases of product development were explored. Table 2 shows the titles of the personnel 
interviewed and project names of the companies.  
The projects explored in this study were focused upon the new products developed for the 
global competition and were typical products of these companies. The status of product 
development strategy operation was investigated, in which the following four items are the major 
parts of the interview:(1) types of new product innovation, (2) focus of the new product design 
including product function, operation, and appearance, (3) motivations for the new project; and (4) 
appeals for new product design. 
 
 8
Hamilton (1982). Additions to current product lines and improvements or revisions are practices 
common to almost all firms. According to Cooper (1985), a barrier to introducing entirely new 
products is that risk is very high.  
In terms of the innovation type, all products of new product platform emphasize the product 
function; derivatives of existing product platforms focus on product function and operation; 
products of the incremental improvements to existing ones emphasize features of product 
appearance and operation.  
As far as product functions are concerned, projects of new product platform focus on the 
totally new function, including 3G communication and hand writing touch screen of Okwap PDA 
Mobile Phone (Luo, 2006a), Abico Digital Camera with Incredible Rotate Moniter (Lu, 2006), the 
precise operation and hand-fitting contour in Genius Ergonomic Mouse (Lee, 2006), the Hi-Fi 
digital transmission in Meiloon Bluetooth Wireless Speaker (Zhuo, 2006), the highly efficient 
compact heat dissipation system in iCuteComputer Case for Barebone (Luo, 2006b), the compact 
and portable mechanism in Liteon Stand All-in-one Multifunctional Printer (Weng, 2006). In 
addition, derivatives of existing product platforms focus on the supplementary product functions 
such as the bendable stand in Acer Hanging LCD Monitor (Hsu, 2006c), the metallic slim slider 
design in Benq Business Mobile Phone (Weng, 2006), the motion sensor in ASUS Gaming Mobile 
Phone (Wu, 2006), the extensive connection function to computers in Tatung Individual LCD TV 
(Wang, 2006), the read-aloud function in MSI Language Learning MP3 Player (Zhuo, 2006b), the 
dictionary function in Okwap Digital Dictionary Mobile Phone (Luo, 2006a), the Dolby sound 
effect in Meiloon External Speaker for LCD TV (Zhuo, 2006a), the music playing function in 
Benq MP3 Mobile Phone (Weng, 2006), the horizontal window display system in ASUS 
Multimedia Mobile Phone (Wu, 2006), the anti-striking rubber in MSI Sports MP3 Player (Zhuo, 
2006b), the hidden antenna in Liteon Portable Digital TV Receiver (Chen, 2006), the monocular 
lens operational system in Abico Retro Digital Camera (Lu, 2006), the grouping design in 
Monterey Wireless Desktop Kits (Liu, 2006), the hand-shaped curvature design in Fuden 
Ergonomic Keyboard (Dong, 2006), the high contrast color shine screen in Acer Multimedia LCD 
Monitor (Hsu, 2006c), the exchangeable color shell in Genius Cover Changeable Mouse (Lee, 
2006), the digital AV terminal in Tatung Extra-sized LCD TV (Wang, 2006) and the large heat 
dissipation fan in iCute Master Computer Case (Luo, 2006b).  
For product appearance, those of the incremental improvements to existing products are 
endowed with totally new or redesigned appearances. Projects of this type cover the simplicity 
style of Foreshot PC CD-ROM (Guo, 2006), the pure white hi-tech image in MSI Multifunctional 
MP3 Player (Zhuo, 2006), the metallic stream-lined product form in Toongin Professional 
Handsets (Hsu, 2006a), the simplicity style metallic panel in Meiloon 5.1-Channel Home Theater 
(Zhuo, 2006a), the color curvatured product form in Foreshot Large Capacity Flash Drive (Guo, 
2006), the modern hi-tech image in Liteon Lavalier Bluetooth Handset (Chen, 2006), the white 
stream-lined style in Toongin Earplug Handset (Hsu, 2006a), the color elliptical product form in 
Genius Over-The-Ear Handset (Hsu, 2006a), the illuminated LED decoration shell in Genius 
Fashion Mouse (Lee, 2006), the pure oval shape of ASUS Slider Mobile Phone (Wu, 2006), the 
 10
 
 
iCute Master Computer Case   X     
Foreshot Multifuctional Flash Drive      X  
Benq Cubic Mobile Phone      X  
Monterey Stand Keyboard      X  
Fuden Desktop Gaming Keyboard      X  
Foreshot PC CD-ROM    X    
MSI Multifuctional MP3 Player    X    
Toongin Professional Handsets    X    
Meiloon 5.1-Channel Home Theater     X    
Foreshot Large Capacity Flash Drive    X    
Liteon Lavalier Bluetooth Handset    X    
Toongin Earplug Handset    X    
Toongin Over-The-Ear Handset    X    
Genius Fashion Mouse    X    
ASUS Slider Mobile Phone    X    
Acer Widescreen LCD TV    X    
Tatung Widescreen LCD TV    X    
Abico Compact Digital Camera    X    
iCute Mini Personal Computer Case    X    
Okwap Mobile Phone for Women     X   
Pro-nets Home ADSL Modem     X   
Pro-nets Home Ethernet Switch HUB     X   
Pro-nets Portable Ethernet Switch HUB     X   
Monterey Multimedia Keyboard       X 
Incremental 
improvements to 
existing product 
 
Fuden Slim Keyboard       X 
Note: The mark “X” indicates the change type the product development case belongs to. 
 
4.2 Motivations and design appeals for new product development projects 
The classification of the 48 new product development cases in terms of their motivations for 
new product development, four categories can be obtained for these new product development 
projects in Taiwan’s information industry. They include being the leader in market, entering the 
new target market, customer focus, and market follower (Table 4). Among these product 
development strategic categories, customer focus was most frequently used to trigger new product 
development (16 cases), market follower was the second (13 cases), and entering the new target 
market was the third (10 cases). 
Being the leader in market means that the motivation for new product development project is 
aimed to enhance new product techniques to maintain their leadership in the market, increase the 
relative distances from the competitors and avoid the competitors’ fast chasing (Kotler, 1991). This 
type of new product development projects include Acer Widescreen LCD TV, ASUS Slider Mobile 
Phone, Tatung Widescreen LCD TV, Abico Compact Digital Camera, Fuden Slim keyboard, Acer 
Multimedia LCD Monitor, Benq Business Mobile Phone, Genius Fashion Mouse, and Tatung 
Extra-sized LCD TV. Companies of the products in this category maintain the best marketing 
position through constant innovation of products. 
Entering the new target market indicates that the new product development project is aimed 
at launching into a new market section to separate from the current market segment so as to cope 
with the competition and change in the market. Projects in this category contain ASUS Gaming 
Mobile Phone, MSI Language Learning MP3 Player, Liteon Portable Digital TV Receiver, Okwap 
Mobile Phone for Women, Benq Cubic Mobile Phone, Foreshot Multifunctional Flash Drive, 
Fuden Desktop Gaming Keyboard, Okwap PDA Mobile Phone, Liteon Stand All-in-one 
 12
36 Foreshot Multifunctional Flash Drive Meeting special needs of customers 
43 Fuden Desktop Gaming keyboard Meeting special needs of customers 
23 Okwap PDA MOBILE PHONE Equipped with innovation technology 
20 Liteon Stand All-in-one Multifunctional Printer Equipped with innovation technology 
33 Meiloon Bluetooth Wireless Speaker Equipped with innovation technology 
3 Acer Hanging LCD Monitor Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
5 Benq MP3 Mobile Phone Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
7 ASUS Multimedia Mobile Phone Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
12 Genius Ergonomic Mouse Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
25 Abico Retro Digital Camera Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
41 Monterey Wireless Desktop Kits Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
42 Monterey Multimedia Keyboard Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
44 Fuden Ergonomic Keyboard Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
27 Abico Digital Camera with the rotate lens Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
6 MSI Sports MP3 Player Meeting special needs of customers 
24 Okwap Digital Dictionary Mobile Phone Meeting special needs of customers 
40 Monterey Stand keyboard Meeting special needs of customers 
48 iCute Computer Case for Barebone Meeting special needs of customers 
18 MSI Multifunctional MP3 player High class taste 
28 Toongin Professional Handsets High class taste 
customer focus 
31 Meiloon 5.1-Channel Home Theater  High class taste 
29 Toongin Over-The-Ear Handset Products of excellent quality and reasonable price 
32 Meiloon External Speaker for LCD TV Products of excellent quality and reasonable price 
37 Pro-nets Home ADSL Modem Products of excellent quality and reasonable price 
46 iCute Mini Personal Computer Case Products of excellent quality and reasonable price 
34 Foreshot PC CD-ROM Products of excellent quality and reasonable price 
21 Liteon Lavalier Bluetooth Handset Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
30 Toongin Earplug Handset Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
35 Foreshot Large Capacity Flash Drive Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
39 Pro-nets Portable Ethernet Switch HUB Emphasizing the convenience in operation 
13 Tatung Individual LCD TV Meeting special needs of customers 
38 Pro-nets Home Ethernet Switch HUB Meeting special needs of customers 
10 Genius Cover Changeable Mouse Meeting special needs of customers 
market follower 
47 iCute Master Computer Case Meeting special needs of customers 
Most projects aimed at being the market leader appeal to excellent quality and reasonable 
price; others search for high class tastes. Products of excellent quality and reasonable prices mean 
that companies can offer products of the best price and function to attract customers. Projects of 
this category include Acer Widescreen LCD TV that features a frameless and wide screen (Hsu, 
2006c), ASUS Slider Mobile Phone with a subtle sliding receiver and display Wu, 2006), Tatung 
Wide Screen LCD TV with a broad color shine display and multiple ports (Wang, 2006), Abico 
Compact Digital Camera with metallic texture shell and image stabilizing rapid focus (Lu, 2006), 
Fuden Slim Keyboard that features the nice texture of touch and extra slim body (Dong, 2006). 
High class tastes indicate that product design can offer a high reliability, a good endurance, easy 
maintenance, or possess unique appearance as well as quality texture to attract consumers of 
higher tastes. Projects of this category include Acer Multimedia LCD Monitor that emphasizes 
purely black and color shine screen as well as a metallic texture foot stand (Hsu, 2006c); Benq 
Business Mobile Phone with an advanced user interface, aluminum-magnesium alloy texture, and 
slim body (Weng, 2006); Genius Fashion Mouse that features illuminated LED decoration panel, 
precise operation and fashionable form (Lee, 2006); Tatung Extra-sized LCD TV emphasizing 
extra screen, wide viewing angel, simplicity style, and top quality AV effects (Wang, 2006).  
For products aimed at entering new target markets, most of them appeal to the special needs 
of customers, and innovation technology the second. Products wishing to meet special needs of 
 14
simple but luxurious style and the top quality acoustic performance (Zhuo, 2006a).  
For products of the market follower type, most of them appeal to excellent quality and 
reasonable price; the others emphasize the convenience in operation, and special needs of 
customers. Products of excellent quality and reasonable price include Toongin Over-The-Ear 
Handset of a wide series of colors and quality compact curvatured product form (Hsu, 2006a),  
Meiloon External Speaker for LCD TV with a united form and high output power (Zhuo, 2006a),  
Pro-nets Home ADSL Modem with highly illuminated large display panel (Lin, 2006), iCute Mini 
Personal Computer Case with delicate finish and simple white product form (Luo, 2006b),  
Foreshot PC CD-ROM with compact and hi-tech styles (Guo, 2006). Products emphasizing the 
convenience in operation comprise Liteon Lavalier Bluetooth Handset which is equipped with a 
rapid function key for the switch of audio messages (Chen, 2006), Toongin Earplug Handset that is 
handy and compact because of the ergonomic consideration of operation (Hsu, 2006a), Foreshot  
Large Capacity Flash Drive with a compact form and user friendly operational interface (Guo, 
2006), Pro-nets Portable Ethernet Switch HUB of a compact product form and highly bright LED 
lights (Lin, 2006). Finally, products meeting special needs of customers include Tatung Individual 
LCD TV with multiple I/O ports for TV and other information products (Wang, 2006), Pro-nets 
Home Ethernet Switch HUB for a wireless environment in the household (Lin, 2006), Genius 
Cover Changeable Mouse with shells of different color series (Lee, 2006), and iCute Master 
Computer Case with a specially designed heat dissipation mechanism for the requirement of 
upgrading (Luo, 2006b). This analysis shows that motivation and design appeal are closely related. 
 
4.3 The relations between product development strategy and innovation type, emphasizing features 
of product design, motivation for new product development projects 
 
Table 5 shows the relations between product development strategy and innovation type, 
features of product design, and motivations for new product development projects. In terms of 
innovation types of new product development, most projects belong to derivatives of existing 
product platforms (22 out of 48); incremental improvements to existing products the second (20 
out of 48). For Prospector strategic group and Analyzer strategic group, derivatives of existing 
product platforms hold 58.3% and 50.0% respectively. For Reactor strategic group, projects of 
incremental improvements to existing products occupy 50.0% and derivatives of existing product 
platforms 41.6%. In terms of new product platforms, Prospector strategic group (16.7%) and 
Analyzer strategic group (16.7%) are more common than Defender strategic group (8.3%) and 
Reactor strategic group (8.3%). This demonstrates that the ranges of change in new products are 
larger in Prospector and Analyzer strategic groups than that in Defender and Reactor strategic 
groups.  
In terms of the motivation for new product development projects, the major types belong to 
customer focus (17 cases), and market follower (12 cases). Five cases in Prospector strategic group 
are aimed at being the leader in market (41.7%); five in Analyzer strategic group are aimed at 
entering the new target market (41.7%); five in Defender strategic group can be considered as 
 16
34   X  X     X X     
35   X  X     X   X   
36  X    X  X       X
Subtotal 1 4 7 4 7 1 1 2 4 5 4 2 4 1 1
% 8.3 33.3 58.3 33.3 58.3 8.3 8.3 16.7 33.3 41.7 33.3 16.7 33.3 8.3 8.3
37   X  X     X X     
38   X  X     X     X
39   X  X     X   X   
40  X    X   X      X
41  X  X     X    X   
42   X   X   X    X   
43  X    X  X       X
44  X  X     X    X   
45   X   X X    X     
46   X  X     X X     
47  X  X     X      X
48 X   X     X      X
Subtotal 1 5 6 4 4 4 1 1 6 4 3 0 4 0 5
Reactor strategic group 
% 8.3 41.6 50.0 33.3 33.3 33.3 8.3 8.3 50.0 33.3 25.0 0.0 33.3 0.0 41.7
Total  6 22 20 24 18 6 9 10 17 12 10 7 13 3 15
Note: The mark “X” indicates the type the product development case belongs to. Innovation types include new product platform(I1), derivatives of existing 
product platforms (I2), incremental improvements to existing product(I3); features of product design emphasized cover product function (D1), product 
operation (D2), product appearance (D3); motivations for new product development project are composed of being the leader in market (M1), entering the 
new target market (M2), customer focus (M3), market follower (M4); design appeals for new product are divided into products of excellent quality and 
reasonable price (A1), products of high quality (A2), products of operational convenience (A3), products of innovation technique (A4), and products 
meeting special needs of customers (A5).  
 
In terms of product design features, the major type goes to the change of product function (24 
cases); the change of product appearance the second (18 cases). For the change pf product function, 
more cases can be found in Prospector and Analyzer strategic groups, 66.7% for both groups. More 
cases can be found in Defender strategic group for the change of product appearance, 58.3%. In 
Reactor strategic group, projects emphasize equally the product function, appearance, and 
operation, 33.3% for each type. Furthermore, Table 6 also shows that companies in Prospector 
strategic group lay more emphasis on the supplementary functions, totally new product appearance, 
and totally new ways of operation. Companies in Analyzer strategic group emphasize only the 
supplementary functions and totally new product appearance. On the other hand, companies in 
Defender strategic group totally new and supplementary product functions, totally new product 
appearance, and totally new ways of operation. Moreover, companies in Reactor strategic group 
stress the supplementary function, redesigned product appearance, and adjusted product operation. 
It is clear that companies in different strategic groups adopt different approaches to features of 
product design.  
 
Table 6: Features of product design emphasized in the new product development cases of different 
strategic groups 
   Function aspect Appearance aspect Operation aspect 
   Totally new 
Reinforced accessory Totally new adjusted Totally new adjusted 
1 Acer Widescreen LCD TV    X    
2 Acer Multimedia LCD Monitor   X     
3 Acer Hanging LCD Monitor   X     
4 Benq Business mobile phone 
 
 
  X     
5 Benq MP3 MOBILE PHONE   X     
6 Benq Cubic Mobile Phone      X  
7 ASUS Multimedia Mobile Phone   X     
8 ASUS Slider Mobile Phone    X    
9 ASUS Gaming Mobile Phone   X     
10 Genius Cover Changeable Mouse   X     
Prospector 
strategic group
 
11 Genius Fashion Mouse    X    
 18
those maintaining the leader in market, products of excellent quality and reasonable price are 
highlighted. Products of customer focus emphasize a lot more the convenience in operation. For 
products of the market follower, the operational convenience and special needs of customers are 
also addressed in addition to excellent quality and reasonable price.  
To cope with the competition in the global market, companies in different strategic groups 
deal with new product development in three types of innovation: new product platform, derivatives 
of existing product platforms, and incremental improvements to existing product. No totally new 
types of products have been found. In cases of new product platforms, product functions are the 
most important features of product design. In cases of Derivatives of existing product platforms, 
features of product function and operation are emphasized. In those of Incremental improvements 
to existing products, features of product appearance and operation are stressed. In terms of product 
functions, totally new functions are found in companies of new product platforms; those of 
Derivatives of existing product platforms focus on product supplementary functions. For product 
appearance, companies in Incremental improvements to existing products appeal for totally or 
redesigned product form. As far as product operation is concerned, companies in Derivatives of 
existing product platforms concentrate on the totally new ways of operation while in those of 
Incremental improvements to existing products on the adjusted ways of product operation.  
For motivations in new product development projects, companies in Prospector strategic 
group emphasize to be the leader in market; most companies in Analyzer strategic group are aimed 
at entering the new target market; companies in Defender strategic group choose to be the market 
followers; companies in Reactor strategic group focus on special needs of customers. It is evident 
that companies in different strategic groups have different motivations for new product 
development project to cope with the competition in the market.  
In product innovation types, most companies in Prospector and Analyzer strategic groups 
choose to develop Derivatives of existing product platforms; companies in Defender and Reactor 
strategic groups select the Incremental improvements to existing products. Moreover, more new 
product platforms are found in Prospector and Analyzer strategic groups than in Defender and 
Reactor strategic groups. These findings indicate that the ranges of product innovation in 
companies of Prospector and Analyzer strategic groups are bigger than those of Defender and 
Reactor strategic groups.  
As far as product design appeals are concerned, more companies in Analyzer and Reactor 
strategic groups pay attention to meet the special needs of customers. For the convenience in 
product operation, more companies are found in Prospector and Defender strategic groups. In 
addition, more companies appeal for products of excellent quality and reasonable price in 
Defender strategic group. It clearly shows that companies in Analyzer and Reactor strategic groups 
give more emphasis to meet special needs of customers; those in Prospector strategic group put 
more emphasis on the convenience in operation; companies in Defender strategic group equally 
emphasize the design appeals of convenience in product operation, and products of excellent 
quality and reasonable price.  
For the features of product design emphasized in the product development cases, companies 
 20
marketing, 16, 215–223. 
Cooper, R.G., 1985. Industrial firms’ new product strategies. Journal of business research, 13 (2), 
107–122. 
Cooper, R.G., 1985. Industrial firms’ new product strategies. Journal of business research, 13(2), 
107–122. 
Cooper, R.G., 1998. Product Leadership: Creating and Launching Superior New Products, New 
York: Perseus Books. 
Crawford, C.M., 1987. New products management, 2nd edn, New York: McGraw-Hill Press. 
Dong,W.R., 2006. Senior designer, Fuden. Interview (2006/04/27), Taipei.  
Driva, H., 1997.The role of performance measurement during product design development in a 
manufacturing environment. Thesis (PhD). Department of Manufacturing Engineering and 
Operations Management, University of Nottingham. 
Fujimoto, T., 1991. Product integrity and the role of designer-as-integrator. Design management 
journal, Spring, 29–37. 
Gemser, G. and Leenders, M.A.A.M., 2001. How integrating industrial design in the product 
development process impacts on company performance. Journal of product innovation 
management, 18(1), 28–38. 
Griffin, A. and Hauser, J.R., 1996. Integrating R&D and marketing: a review and analysis of 
literature. The journal of product innovation management, 13, 191–215. 
Guo, S.C., 2006. R&D manager, Foreshot. Interview (2006/04/20), Taipei.  
Gupta, A.K., Raj, S P. and Wilemon, D., 1985. R&D and marketing dialogue in high-tech firms. 
Industrial of marketing management, 14, 289–300. 
Ho, M.C., Sung, T.J., Chen, K.H. and Hung, D.M., 1997. A study of the effecting factors on design 
strategy. Journal of design, 2(1), 79–92. 
Hsu, R.S., 2006a. Project designer, Toongin. Interview (2006/04/19), Taipei.  
Hsu, Y., 2006b. Comparative study of product design strategy and related design issues. Journal of 
engineering design, 17 (4), 357–370.  
Hsu, Y.Z., 2006c. Industrial design director, Acer. Interview (2006/04/28), Taipei. 
Kotler, P., 1991. Marketing Management: Analysis, Planning, Implementation, and Control, NJ, 
Prentice-Hall: Englewood Cliffs. 
Lee, M. and Hsu, T.H., 1998. Advertising: strategy and management, Taipei: Wu-nan book. 
Lee, S.N., 2006. Industrial design manager, Genius. Interview (2006/04/05), Taipei.  
Lin, S.H., 2006. R&D manager, Pro-nets. Interview (2006/04/24), Taipei. 
Liu, S.C., 2006. R&D manager, Monterey. Interview (2006/04/27), Taipei.  
Lu, S.W., 2006. Senior manager, Abico. Interview (2006/04/18), Taipei.  
Luo, G.S., 2006a. Assistant manager, Okwap. Interview (2006/04/14), Taipei. 
Luo, M.S., 2006b. R&D manager, iCute. Interview (2006/04/28), Taipei. 
Marxt, C. and Hacklin, F., 2005. Design, product development, innovation: all the same in the end? 
A short discussion on terminology. Journal of engineering design, 16(4), 413–421. 
McGrath, M.E., 2001. Product Strategy for High-technology Companies, New York: 
 22
Twigg, D., 1998. Managing product development within a design chain. International journal of 
operations & production management, 18 (5), 508–524. 
Ulrich, K.T. and Eppinger, S.D., 2000. Product Design and Development, New York: 
McGraw-Hill. 
Ulrich, K.T. and Pearson, S., 1998. Assessing the importance of design through product 
archaeology. Management science, 44 (3), 352–369. 
Wang, H.D., 2006. R&D manager, Tatung. Interview (2006/04/06), Taipei.  
Weng, R.J., 2006. Design researcher, Benq. Interview (2006/03/30), Taipei.  
Wu, J.S., 2006. Senior industrial designer, ASUS. Interview (2006/04/03), Taipei.  
Zhuo, F., 2006a. Assistant manager, Meiloon. Interview (2006/04/19), Taipei.  
Zhuo, Y.S., 2006b. R&D manager, MSI. Interview (2006/04/10), Taipei. 
 
隨後幾天即是本次大會的發表。此時來自美國、英國、荷蘭、澳大利亞、德國、日本、
韓國、大陸和我國之代表進行 Q & A，討論議題包括研究在人與電腦間各項操作互動之本
質、這些研究與資訊發展以及設計實務之關係、EHAWC、HIMI、HCI、EPCE、UAHCI、
VR、UI、OCSC、AC、DHM 等主題在研究與設計實務所扮演之角色，以及這些研究與設計
實務在未來教育所扮演之角色，這個討論使設計界更加注意到如何融入人機介面研究之功
能，使得設計實務之工作做得更好。 
後續幾天之 Parallel 以及 Poster session 都很精彩，會期當中共有約 370 篇論文以海報形
式發表，發表者與參觀者都有密切之互動，情況熱烈。口頭論文發表，則共有約 2000 篇，
分成 3 個樓層共約 20 多個大小場地同時進行，每個 session 約 5 篇論文發表，因此議程非常
緊湊，發表主題也非常廣泛，包括有： 
Ergonomics and Health Aspects of Work with Computers  
Program Chair: Marvin J. Dainoff  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Human Interface and the Management of Information 
Program Chair: Michael J. Smith  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Human-Computer Interaction 
Program Chair: Julie Jacko  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Engineering Psychology and Cognitive Ergonomics 
Program Chair: Don Harris  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Universal Access in Human-Computer Interaction 
Program Chair: Constantine Stephanidis  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Virtual Reality 
Program Chairs: Randall Shumaker  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Usability and Internationalization 
Program Chair: Nuray Aykin  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Online Communities and Social Computing  
Program Chair: Doug Schuler  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
Augmented Cognition 
Program Chair: Dylan D. Schmorrow  
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
三、建議 
這次活動參與者以美國最多，其次是歐洲、澳洲等，我國則有 30 多位學者參加，其他
國家如日本、韓國、泰國、大陸均有許多學者，馬來西亞、印度等東南亞國際亦有一些人參
加。值得注意的是大陸學者這次出席的也很踴躍，下一屆 2009 年的會議將在北京舉行，顯
示這幾年大陸學界在人因工程領域的積極與企圖心。思考我國政府常常提出所謂「國際化」
的口號，要台灣走出去。由此次的經驗可以知道，透過國際研討會之參與是一個有效、有益
之方式，應該多鼓勵。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
四、攜回資料名稱及內容 
本次研討會之論文集(光碟版)，包含大會議程以及專題討論內容等。 
 
五、其他 
 
4
出席國際學術會議心得報告 
                                                             
計畫編號 NSC 95-2221-E-131 -010  
計畫名稱 產品開發策略、產品設計策略、產品設計定義與產品開發績效之關聯模式研究(II) 
出國人員姓名 
服務機關及職稱 
許言 
明志科技大學 工業設計系 
會議時間地點 中國北京 
會議名稱 第 12 屆國際人機互動年會暨研討會 
發表論文題目 產品開發與產品設計策略之相關性研究 
 
一、參加會議經過 
本次會議日程表如文後。本次會議舉辦的地點位於中國北京市。北京是有著千年歷史的
中國文化名城，自元代以來，一直是中國的文化中心，也是中國四大古都之一，有很多地方
特色的民風習俗。北京市的氣候屬於溫帶季風氣候，夏季高溫多雨，冬季寒冷乾燥。近年來
北京及華北春季多發沙塵暴，空氣品質不佳損害了北京的形象。為了使 2008 年的奧運會創
造更好的環境，中國和北京市政府目前正大力對內蒙古草原、黃土高原和河北相關地區進行
環境治理，因此最近幾年北京的沙塵情況有所好轉。本次研討會的地點在北京市北邊的國際
會議中心(BICC)，是一個可以容納幾千人的大型會議中心。鄰近 2000 年北京亞運的場地，
本區域當中尚包括 2008 年奧運備受注目的建築「水方塊」以及「鳥巢」等體育館均在會場
附近。 
本次研討會的活動很多，從 8 月 22 日的互動活動展開序幕。8 月 24 日大會開幕後之專
題討論主題是"Digital Human Modeling and Quality of Life Technology" 由著名學者 Takeo 
Kanade 發表演說，他以結合不同新技術與應用整合的角度，利用電腦的運算以及新穎的人機
介面裝置，配合實際發生的生活情境，來創造溝通的經驗，整場演說充滿互動，是一種新的
體驗。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1
Digital Human Modeling 
Program Chair: Vincent G. Duffy 
本人之論文(A Study of the Relationship between Product Visual Complexity and User 
Preferences)在 24 日 09:00 – 12:00 之二樓主會場發表，並與來自各地之與會學者互動，獲益
良多。 
在後續的會期當中，我國學者約有 40 多篇論文進行發表，依主題領域分散在各議程當
中。 
 
二、與會心得 
由本次研討會之各討論主題與專題演講大抵都在關注電腦與程式、電子、介面等設計如
何去面對研究與電腦設計實務的問題，有人說電腦與設計若沒有研究做後盾，像是沒有經由
大腦的工作(Brainless works)，而研究如果對電腦與設計工作沒有助益，就如創造出無意義的
理論(Creators of useless theory for real world)，因此如何改善電腦與設計研究，使得研究成果
有助於電腦與設計工作，將是學術與實務界日後不可或忘之工作。 
主辦單位非常用心的規劃這次的年會暨研討會議，他們集中了學術界、企業界、政府的
力量一致想辦好這次活動，雖然在研討會之安排上有些許之失誤，不過在 Welcome 
reception、Congress party 和 Regional party 的安排上可看出他們的用心，特別是安排中國之
民俗技藝、雜耍及音樂等之表演，讓與會者有機會對中國之人文藝術、風土民情有最直接之
感受。這些優點都可作為將來我國學術單位舉辦國際研討會時之借鏡。 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
