以數值模擬與參數研究探討外力下結構系統混沌振動之影響
及其控制
NSC 95－2211－E －366－001－
1.計畫中文摘要：
本計劃旨在使用數值模擬與參數研究來探討非線性結構系統中，當外力的頻率、大小，及
結構系統中的參數介於某些特定範圍下，可能造成調質阻尼的混沌振動及其對於主結構系
統的影響；於此情況下嘗試探討系統穩定性與控制性能，並進ㄧ步藉由本人所設計的平行
分散補償模糊控制器應用到結構控制系統上，計畫中也將考慮 H ∞ 最佳設計及使用強健
性設計來解決系統近似誤差的問題。
關鍵詞：結構系統,振動及控制,模糊模型
The Influence and Control of Chaotic Vibration on Structural
Systems Subjected to External Forces Based on Numerical
Simulations and Parametric Studies
2.Abstract：
Some simulations and parameter amendments are used to solve control problems in this project.
In order to ensure the stability of structural control systems, some control laws are derived.
Generally, the TMD is not working due to the chaotic vibration when the frequency of external
disturbances is in some range. In this situation, a set of model-based fuzzy controllers is then
synthesized via the technique of parallel distributed compensation (PDC) to stabilize the
structural control system and the H ∞ control performance is achieved at the same time.
Keywords：structural systems, vibration and control, fuzzy model
Tanaka et al., 1996; Wang et al., 1996; Hsiao et al., 2005a; Hsiao et al., 2005b; Chen et al.,
2006; Chen, 2006).
Recently, with the increasing research activities in the field of structural control, many control
methods have been proposed. Among these methods are the optimal control, pole placement, and
sliding mode control etc. Moreover, these control methods have successfully accomplished real
applications and structural systems [for example, see Lu et al., 2003; Yeh et al., 1996 and the
references therein]. However, as far as we know, the analysis of the stability and stabilization
problem of structural systems remains an open area. In the present study, the Chi Chi earthquake
with over 1-g gravitational acceleration is used as an input excitation to demonstrate the
effectiveness of the controller design. Therefore, this paper may be viewed as a generalization of
the controller design for reducing the response under representative disturbances and highlights a
newly stability condition for structural systems. For this reason, we proposed here a fuzzy control
technique as well as T-S fuzzy model to deal with structural control problem.
Equations of Motion of Structural Systems
Assume that the equation of motion for a shear-type-building modeled by an
n-degrees-of-freedom system controlled by actuators and subjected to external force )(t can
be characterized by the following differential equation:
)()()()()( trMtUBtXKtXCtXM   (1)
where )(tX nn Rtxtxtx  )]()(),([ 21  is an n-vector; )(),(),( tXtXtX  are
acceleration, velocity, and displacement vectors; matrices M, C, and K are (nn) mass, damping,
and stiffness matrices, respectively; r is an n-vector denoting the influence of the external force;
B is a (nm) matrix denoting the locations of m control forces; )(t is the excitation with a
upper bound )()( ttup   ; U(t) corresponding to the actuator forces (generated via the active
tendon system or an active mass damper, for example); this is only a static model.
For controller design, the standard first-order state equation corresponding to Eq.(1) is
obtained by
)()()()( tEtBUtAXtX  (2)
)(tX )()]())[(()(
1 1
tEtXKBAthth i
r
i
liil
r
l
i 
 
(5)
A stability condition is derived below to guarantee the stability and control performance of
the closed-loop control system (5).
Theorem: The equilibrium point of fuzzy control system (5) is stable in the large if there exist a
common positive definite matrix P such that the following inequality is satisfied:
0
1
)()( 2  QPEPEKBAPPKBA
T
iilii
T
lii 
with 0 TPP , for rli  and ri ,2,,1 
References
Aldemir, U., and Bakioglu, M., “Active structural control based on the prediction and degree of 
stability,” Journal of Sound and Vibration, Vol. 247, pp. 561-576, 2001.
Boyd, S., Ghaoui, L. E., Feron, E., and Balakrishnan, V., “Linear Matrix Inequalities in System
and Control Theory,” Philadelphia, PA: SIAM, 1994.
Chen, B. S., Tseng, C. S., and Uang, H. J., “Robustness design of nonlinear dynamic systems via 
fuzzy linear control,” IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, Vol. 7, pp. 571-585, 1999.
Chen, C.W., Chiang, W. L., and Hsiao, F. H., “Stability analysis of T-S fuzzy models for
nonlinear multiple time-delay interconnected systems,” Mathematics and Computers in 
Simulation, Vol. 66, pp. 523-537, 2004.
Chen, C.W., Chiang, W.L., and Tsai C.H. et al., “Fuzzy Lyapunov method for stability
conditions of nonlinear systems,” International Journal on Artificial Intelligence Tools, Vol.
15, pp. 163-171, 2006.
Chen, C.W., “Stability conditions of fuzzy systems and its application to structural and
mechanical systems,”Advances in Engineering Software, Vol. 37, pp. 624-629, 2006.
Ghaboussi, J., and Joghataie, A., “Active control of structures using neural networks,” Journal of 
Engineering Mechanics, ASCE, Vol. 121, pp. 555-567, 1995.
Horn, R., and Johnson, C., “Topics in Matrix Analysis,” Cambridge University Press, 
Tanaka, K., and Sano, M., "A robust stabilization problem of fuzzy control systems and its
application to backing up control of a truck-trailer," IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems,
Vol. 2, pp. 119-134, 1994.
Tanaka, K., and Sugeno, M., "Stability analysis and design of fuzzy control systems," Fuzzy
Sets and Systems, Vol. 45, pp. 135-156, 1992.
Tanaka, K., and Wang, H. O., “Fuzzy Control Systems Design and Analysis,”John Wiley &
Sons. Inc., New York, NY, 2001.
Tanaka, K., Ikeda, T., and Wang, H. O., “Robust stabilization of a class of uncertain nonlinear
systems via fuzzy control: quadratic stabilizability, H control theory, and linear matrix
inequalities,” IEEE Transactions Fuzzy Systems, Vol. 4, pp. 1-13, 1996.
Wang, H. O., Tanaka, K., and Griffin, M. F., "An approach to fuzzy control of nonlinear systems:
stability and design issues," IEEE Transactions on Fuzzy Systems, Vol. 4, pp. 14-23, 1996.
Wang, H. O., Tanaka, K., and Griffin, M. F., "Parallel distributed compensation of nonlinear
systems by Takagi and Sugeno’s fuzzy model," Proceedings of 4th IEEE International
Conference on Fuzzy Systems, Yokohama, Japan, 1995, pp. 531-538.
Yang, J. N., Wu, J. C., and Agrawal A. K., “Sliding mode control for nonlinear and hysteretic
structures,” Journal of Engineering Mechanics-ASCE, Vol. 121, pp. 1330-1339, 1995a.
Yang, J. N., Wu, J. C., Kawashima, K., and Unjoh, S., “Hybrid control of seismic-excited bridge
structures,” Earthquake Engineering & Structural Dynamics, Vol. 24, pp. 1437-1451, 1995b.
Yeh, K., Chiang, W. L., and Juang, D.S., “Application of fuzzy control theory in active control of 
structures,” International Journal of Uncertainty, Fuzziness and Knowledge-Based Systems,
Vol. 3, pp. 255-274, 1996.
計畫成果自評
The objective of this project is to develop an efficient control algorithm on the influence and
control of chaotic vibration of structural systems subjected to external forces. Based on numerical
simulations and parametric studies, stability problems of the structural systems is first presented
by T-S type fuzzy model and the fuzzy modeling is recalled to represent a structural system and
1Application of Fuzzy Stability Control for Buildings
C.W. Chen1, C.Y. Chen2, C.P. Tseng3, and C.H. Tsai4
1 Department of Logistics Management, Shu-Te University, 59 Hun Shan Rd., Yen Chau, Kaohsiung, Taiwan 824, R.O.C.
2 Department of Management Information System, Yung-Ta Institute of Technology and Commerce, 316 Jong Shan Rd., Lin
Luoh, Ping-Tung County 90941, Taiwan, R.O.C.
3 Department of Civil Engineering, National Central University, Chung-li, Taiwan 320, R.O.C.
4 Center of Tour Geographical Information Systems, Taiwan Hospitality & Tourism College, Hualien, Taiwan, R.O.C.
This work is partially supported by the National Science Council of Republic of China under Grant No. NSC 95-2221-E-366-001 and NSC
95-2218-E-132 -001.
ABSTRACT
This paper considers H control performance for
structural systems using Tagagi-Sugeno (T-S) fuzzy model.
Based on parallel distributed compensation (PDC) schemes,
we design a nonlinear fuzzy controller and the control
problem will be reformulated into linear matrix inequalities
(LMI) problem according to the derivation of Lyapunov
theory. Furthermore, the tuned mass damper will be
designed according to the first mode of frequency of the
control system and and fuzzy-model-based H control is
designed by means of LMI methods.
KEY WORDS:. LMI, PDC.
1. Introduction
In civil engineering, the disturbances such as
earthquake excitations, wind loadings, and system
parameters etc. are always unknown. However, in the
seismic design field of structure systems, researchers
always considers the past representative earthquake records
as an input of controlled systems to demonstrate the
effectiveness of the proposed control methods (for example,
see [1-6] and the references therein). These representative
disturbances included El Centro, Tabas, and Taft
earthquake etc. The peak ground acceleration recorded by
wave profiles almost exceeds the design standard that
structures can bear. Some of the above papers placed
emphasis on a predictive active control for structural
systems. Most of them proposed and demonstrated the
effectiveness of their controller design for reducing the
response of structures with the representative disturbances.
According to the previous reports, if the proposed controller
can readily reduce the structure response subjected to strong
earthquake via the demonstration with numerical
simulations, the control methods were regarded quite robust
and remarkable.
Since Zadeh (1965) proposed a linguistic approach,
many successful works on industrial and academic fields
had been seeking. However, most of them lack
mathematical theory and systematic design. Takagi and
Sugeno [7] proposed a new concept of fuzzy inference
system, called the Takagi–Sugeno (T-S) fuzzy model. This
kind fuzzy model can combine the flexibility of fuzzy logic
theory and the rigorous mathematical analysis tools into a
unified framework. Based on the T-S model, the parallel
distributed compensation (PDC) concept was used to design
the fuzzy controller of nonlinear systems [8]. In the PDC
concept, the fuzzy controller shares the same fuzzy sets
with the fuzzy model in the premise parts and each control
rule is distributively designed for the corresponding rule of
the fuzzy model. The overall nonlinear control system is not
always stable even if all its subsystems are stable. Some
significant stability analysis results have provided design
methodologies that can ensure the overall system stability.
For the reason that it employs linear models in the
consequent parts, using conventional linear system theory
for analysis becomes simple. Since then, some significant
research efforts have been done for stability analysis of
fuzzy system and fuzzy controller design based on T-S
model.
This organization of this paper is presented as follows:
First, in order to model the structural systems, the T-S fuzzy
modeling is briefly presented and the equation of motion of
structural systems with tuned mass damper is constructed.
Then, the
H stability criterion is provided for the
existence of the T-S fuzzy controllers which achieve the
control performance of control system via the Lyapunov
theory. In this section, the control problem can be
reformulated into a problem of solving linear matrix
inequality (LMI). Finally, simulation results show the
utility of the proposed fuzzy control methodology, and the
conclusions are drawn.
2. Recalled Model and Control Methods
As fuzzy logic develops, some mathematical models
using fuzzy theories are elaborated to achieve greater
accuracy, dimensionality and also the desire to simplify the
structure. Compared with conventional mathematical
models, the main advantage of the fuzzy model is the
possibility of elaborating them on the basis of far lesser
amount of information about a real system and the
information can be of an uncertainty, fuzzy or inexact
character. These fuzzy models include Mamdani, relational,
T-S types etc. The most often used type among them is the
T-S model for describing controllers. T-S models were
described in [7] for the first time. Tanaka and Wang [9]
proved that any smooth nonlinear control system can be
approximated by T-S fuzzy model with linear rule
3structural system is described below. First, the four-story
building of real structural system is considered. The mass,
stiffness of each floor mass is 345600kg, 3.1*10^8nt/m, and
damping ratio is 0.02. According to the above system
parameters, we assume mass and stiffness of TMD are
20736dm kg, 2240000dk N/m, and we will have
damping ratio of TMD = 0.02. The E-W component of the
Taiwan Chi Chi earthquake record in 1999 scaled to a
maximum ground acceleration of 1g is used as input
excitation shown in Fig. 1, and its duration is 35 seconds.
The next step is to design a model-based fuzzy
controller via the concept of PDC scheme. The fuzzy
controller shares the same fuzzy sets with the fuzzy model
in the premise parts. In order to guarantee the H infinity
control performance, the optimal values  and Q should
be suitably selected in Theorem 1. The common solutions
W and ilY are obtained via Matlab LMI optimization
toolbox. After transformation, there will exist a positive
definite matrix P (= 1W ) and feedback gain K(= 1WYil )to
satisfy the stability condition in Theorem 1.
Therefore, based on Theorem 1, the structural system with
the TMD equipped under a disturbance is guaranteed to be
stabilized by the proposed T-S fuzzy controllers.
4.Conclusions
The effectiveness and the feasibility of the proposed
controller design method is demonstrated through
numerical simulations on the four-story shear building
under a seismic excitation, Taiwan Chi Chi earthquake
occurred in 1999. This proposed methodology could be
applied in practical structural system from the example.
References
[1] Aldemir, U., and Bakioglu, M., “Active structural 
control based on the prediction and degree of
stability,” Journal of Sound and Vibration, Vol. 247, pp.
561-576, 2001.
[2] Ghaboussi, J., and Joghataie, A., “Active control of 
structures using neural networks,” Journal of 
Engineering Mechanics-ASCE, Vol. 121, pp. 555-567,
1995.
[3] Nagashima, I., Maseki, R., Asami, Y., Hirai, J., and
Abiru, H., “Performance of hybrid mass damper 
system applied to a 36-storey high-rise building,” 
Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics, Vol.
121, pp. 1615-1637, 2001.
[4] Rao, M. M., and Datta, T. K., “Predictive active 
control of building frames with a solo
neurocontroler,” Journal of Vibration and Control, Vol.
11, pp. 627-641, 2005.
[5] Yang, J. N., Wu, J. C., and Agrawal A. K., “Sliding 
mode control for nonlinear and hysteretic structures,” 
Journal of Engineering Mechanics-ASCE, Vol. 121, pp.
1330-1339, 1995a.
[6] Yang, J. N., Wu, J. C., Kawashima, K., and Unjoh, S.,
“Hybrid control of seismic-excited bridge structures,” 
Earthquake Engineering & Structural Dynamics, Vol.
24, pp. 1437-1451, 1995b.
[7] Takagi, T., and Sugeno, M., “Fuzzy identification of 
systems and its applications to modeling and control,” 
IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cybernetics,
Vol. 15, pp. 116-132, 1985.
[8] Wang, H. O., Tanaka, K., and Griffin, M. F., "Parallel
distributed compensation of nonlinear systems by
Takagi and Sugeno’s fuzzy model," Proceedings of 4th 
IEEE International Conference on Fuzzy Systems,
Yokohama, Japan, 1995, pp. 531-538.
[9] Tanaka, K., and Wang, H. O., “Fuzzy Control Systems
Design and Analysis,”John Wiley & Sons. Inc., New
York, NY, 2001.
0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35
-1
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
G
ra
vi
ty
(g
)
Fig. 1. The Chi Chi earthquake.
Time (sec)
2Session 4–Fuzzy Logic (Hall Igls)
14:00 Session 5–Neural Networks I
(Hall Austria)
Session 6–Natural Language
Processing (Hall Strassburg A)
Session 7–Knowledge Representation
(Hall New Orleans)
Session 8–Genetic Algorithms
(Hall Igls)
15:00–15:30 Coffee Break (Kristall Foyer)
15:30 Sessions 5, 6, 7, and 8 Continued
February 13, 2007
08:30 Session 9–Machine Learning (Hall Igls)
Pattern Recognition (Hall New Orleans)
10:00–10:30 Coffee Break (Kristall Foyer)
10:30 Sessions 9, 10, and 11 Continued
14:00 Session 12–Reasoning (Hall Lugger)
Session 13–Special Session–
“Knowledge Presentation, Sharing,
Mining, and Protection 2 (PSMP2)”
(Hall Aalborg)
Tutorial Presentation– “Inteligent
Systems and Neuroscience” (Hall Igls)
15:00–15:30 Coffee Break (Kristall Foyer)
15:30 Sessions 12 and 13 and Tutorial
Continued
19:00–22:00 Dinner Banquet (Hall Dogana)
February 14, 2007
08:30 Session 14–Intelligent Agents II
(Hall Strassburg A)
Session 15–Neural Networks II
(Hall Austria)
10:00–10:30 Coffee Break (Kristall Foyer)
10:30 Sessions 14 and 15 Continued
14:00 Session 16–Data and Text Mining
(Hall Strassburg A)
Session 17–Intelligent Control,
Robotics, and Automation (Hall Austria)
15:00–15:30 Coffee Break (Kristall Foyer)
15:30 Sessions 16 and 17 Continued
18:00 Optional Tour–Innsbruck By Night
4R. Dieng-Kuntz–INRIA, France
R.-J. Dzeng–National Chiao-Tung University,
Taiwan
G.W. Ernst–Case Western Reserve University,
USA
N. Etani–Nara Institute of Science and
Technology, Japan
R. Faglia–State University of Brescia, Italy
K. Fischer–DFKI GmbH, Germany
C. Freksa–University of Bremen, Germany
T. Fruehwirth–University of Ulm, Germany
O. Fuentes–National Institute of Astrophysics,
Mexico
A. Gelbukh–National Polytechnic Institute,
Mexico/Chung-Ang University, Korea
J. Gensel–Laboratoire LSR - IMAG, France
M.P. Georgeff–Monash University, Australia
A. Gerevini–University of Brescia, Italy
C. Giraud-Carrier–ELCA Informatique SA,
Switzerland
F.C.A. Groen–University of Amsterdam, The
Netherlands
R.A. Grupen–University of Massachusetts
Amherst, USA
H. Hanappi–Vienna University of Technology,
Austria
A. Hoffmann–University of New South Wales,
Australia
I. Horrocks–University of Manchester, UK
J. Hsu–National Taiwan University, Taiwan
C.-C. Hung–Southern Polytechnic State
University, USA
C.R. Huyck–Middlesex University, UK
N. Ishii–Aichi Institute of Technology, Japan
J. Kamruzzaman–Monash University, Australia
H. Kawabe–Hiroshima Institute of Technology,
Japan
N. Kemper Valverde–National Autonomous
University of Mexico, Mexico
P.-S. Kim–Daelim College, Korea
M. Klusch–German Research Center for Artificial
6J. Sauer–University of Oldenburg, Germany
U. Schmid–University of Osnabrück, Germany
L.B. Sheremetov–Mexican Oil Institute, Mexico
J.H. Siekmann–German Research Center for
Artificial Intelligence, Germany
D.L. Silver–Acadia University, Canada
R. Tadeusiewicz–AGH University of Science and
Technology, Poland
S. Tano–University of Electro-Communications,
Japan
C.M. Teng–University of West Florida, USA
V. Terziyan–University of Jyväskylä, Finland
P. Tino–University of Birmingham, UK
P. Torasso–University of Torino, Italy
P. Trahanias–University of Crete, Greece
G. Trajkovski–Towson University, USA
D. Tsakiris–Institute of Computer Science -
FORTH, Greece
A. Upal–Opalrock Technologies, USA
Z.A. Vale–Superior Engineering Institute of Porto,
Portugal
S. Vranes–The Mihailo Pupin Institute,
Yugoslavia
A.F.T. Winfield–University of the West of
England, Bristol, UK
W.X. Wu–Middlesex University, UK
X. Wu–University of Vermont, USA
R.R. Yager–Iona College, USA
M.J. Zaki–Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, USA
M.S. Zein-Sabatto–Tennessee State University,
USA
J.F. Zelasco–University of Buenos Aires,
Argentina
M. Zhang–Christopher Newport University, USA
個人於 2月 11日搭乘德航班機至因斯布魯克, 12日至 14月日參加了 fuzzy logic,
computational intelligence, neural network與 GA數個 Session, 包括 2月 12日親自於 fuzzy
logic中擔任會場主持人(如附件)及報告兩篇論文。 於 2月 14日晚上搭乘德航班機返國
