ABSTRACT 
 
This report is a three year research project granted by NSC. The major objective of this 
project is to develop a reliable wireless sensing system for structural health monitoring and 
control purpose. From signal processing point of view, the system identification techniques and 
damage detection algorithms are developed using both ambient and seismic response data of 
building structures. Both hardware and software of structural monitoring and damage detection 
modules are developed and tested from simulation and laboratory test data.  In this research 
period the hardware research is focus on the development of smart control device and upgrades 
the wireless sensing and monitoring module. A 2nd new generation of WiMMS system is 
developed in this fiscal year. As for the software development, structural system identification 
using either input and output measurements or output only measurements is developed. Feature 
extraction techniques are also be developed which can play an important rule on structural 
damage detection. Several nonlinear indicators are also used to identify the degree of damage. 
The research framework is shown below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Structural Health Monitoring 
Data Management Non-destructive 
Evaluation 
System Integration 
and Design 
Damage localization Damage quantification 
Signal Processing Tool Sensor Development Structural Control 
Output only Input/Output 
Equivalent linear system 
    
Adaptive Kalman filter 
   (system with abrupt change modal 
   parameters)  
Subspace Identification (Recursive) 
Time-variant system 
   Time-frequency domain analysis 
   Wavelet Packet analysis 
   Short Time Fourier Transform 
Novelty Detection 
   Neural network 
Stochastic Subspace Identification 
(Recursive) 
 
Chapter 1:  Introduction 
 
Damage identification in health monitoring is accomplished by analyzing measurement 
data. When analyzing raw data, important parameters are extracted, called features, from which 
conclusions can be drawn about the nature of loading and damage in a component. There are 
two basic methods of feature extraction. Model-based methods use models of some kind to 
estimate parameters, which are then processed and used as features. However, model-based 
features are most suitable in application where a priori knowledge of loading and damage are 
required. Signal-based methods extract features directly from signals without applying any sort 
of deterministic component model to the data beforehand. In this report eight topics of research 
results will be summarized, which include: 
(1) Development of a new generation wireless sensing module for structural health monitoring, 
(2) Structural Health Monitoring of Arch Dam from Dynamic Measurements: Application of 
Wireless Sensing System, 
(3) System Identification of Story-isolation Building from Both Ambient and Earthquake 
Response Data, 
(4) System Identification and Damage Evaluation of Degrading Hysteresis of Reinforced 
Concrete Frames, 
(5) Application of Advanced Statistical Methods for Extracting Long-term Trends in Static 
Monitoring Data from An Arch Dam, 
(6) Damage Detection of Building Structure by Using Stochastic Subspace Identification, 
(7) Input/Output versus Output-Only Recursive System Identification – Application to On-line 
Damage Detection, 
(8) Detecting Seismic Response Signals Using Singular Spectrum Analysis, 
 
A detail description on each research topic is described in more detail in each chapter. 
Application of the newly developed wireless sensing system to collect the ambient vibration 
data is demonstrated in different application, and the signal analysis tool and identification 
techniques are developed to analyze different kind of data set. Feature extraction techniques are 
developed for damage detection of structural system. It is concluded that this research proposal 
can provide valuable information on structural system identification and damage detection.       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
verify the compatibility of the unit with the official data acquisition system (SPC51, Tokyo 
Sokushin Co., Ltd). Besides, a practical application is used to verify the performance of the 
proposed system in the field. That is to measure the ambient vibration of Gi-Lu Bridge under 
the severe flood condition. Discussions on the performance of the measurements are also 
presented in this paper. 
SYSTEM INTRODUCTION 
Smart sensing system is defined as an autonomous SHM system which includes the 
capability of continuously or routinely sensing and on-line data processing functions. The 
original concept to demonstrate the integration of wireless sensing system with structural 
health monitoring has been presented [11]. This smart sensing system is used to detect the 
status of structural health condition and present the results of evaluation to engineers and users. 
There are some requirements in the design of this monitoring system. First, it is the routinely 
sensing which means the sensing signal need to measure the structural response from ambient 
excitation. Second, it is the on-line analysis and the system must provide the support to execute 
the structural health monitoring process. Third, it is the data communication and information 
discrimination so that engineers and users can get the health status of the structure through the 
identified results. 
Smart sensing system includes three major components that are: sensors, wireless 
sensing units and host node (Data logger). The overall system organization is presented in 
Figure1. Ambient velocity meters (VSE-15D) sense the structural vibration responses and 
convert the vibration signals into analog voltage signals. These voltage signals are fed into the 
wireless sensing unit (NTU-WSU) and sampled as discrete digitalize data series. Host node can 
acquire these sampled data through the wireless communication from all distributed wireless 
sensing units. After getting the required data, the host node will execute the SHM process and 
generate a report. User can access the host node through File Transfer Protocol (FTP) or 
Internet Explorer (IE) to get the structural responses and on-line analysis results. 
To demonstrate the ability of the newly developed wireless sensing system can detect 
the low level signal of ambient vibration, the high sensitivity VSE-15D sensor is used and 
connected to the smart sensing system. The VSE-15D sensor is a servo velocity meter 
produced by Tokyo Sokushin Co., Ltd. The sensitivity of VSE-15D is shown in Figure2. This 
sensor is very sensitive to detect the low level vibration motion and the linear range 
(0.2Hz~70Hz) is suite for SHM applications. The specifications of VSE-15D are shown in 
Table1. The power requirement of VSE-15D is 15mA @ +/-15V that is about 450mW. This 
sensor will consume the most power provided by the wireless sensing unit. Therefore, a power 
manager is designed to prevent this problem. The detail will be presented in the hardware 
design of NTU-WSU. The detail description of VSE-15D is on the official website 
[www.to-soku.co.jp]. 
Wireless sensing unit is an important component of smart sensing system. At the  
present time, a newly developed wireless sensing unit NTU-WSU-V02a is designed for this 
system. NTU-WSU is evolved from the prototype of WiMMS [2] with the consideration of the 
requirements of smart sensing system and autonomous structural health monitoring. 
NTU-WSU unit is used to access with sensors (or different kind of sensors with voltage output) 
and communicate with host node. The power of the sensor is supplied by NTU-WSU unit and 
the collected signal is sampled and buffered in NTU-WSU unit. The detail is presented in the 
next section. 
The host node is used to coordinate the wireless sensing nodes and to communicate 
with user end. NI cRIO-9022 is selected to play this role. NI cRIO-9022 is a high performance 
real-time controller. This platform includes a Freescale MPC8347 real-time processor for 
deterministic and reliable real-time applications and supports with the interfaces of RS232, 
Ethernet and USB. The RS232 interface is adapted with a wireless receiver (wireless module) 
to communicate with wireless sensing units, the Ethernet port is used to communicate with user 
end via built-in Web (HTTP) and File (FTP) server. The USB port is used to extend the 
external flash memory to store the collected data. The develop environment and hardware 
drivers are integrated in the LabVIEW and RT modules. These RT modules include all user 
needed resources. Especially, MathScript RT Module allows user to embed Matlab script (*.m 
file) into the processor. This is a very friendly interface for researchers to embed the SHM 
analysis tools into smart sensing system. NI cRIO-9022 is shown in Figure3 and its 
specifications are shown in Table2. 
 
Table2. The specification of NI cRIO-9022 (http://www.ni.com/) 
Processor Core Type 533MHz PowerPC 
System Memory 256MB 
Ethernet ports 2 
Serial port 1 
USB port 1 
Input Voltage Range 9 – 35V 
Power Consumption 35W 
Dimension 77.3 x 90.2 x 88.1 mm 
Weight 609 gram 
Operating Temperature -20 - 55℃ 
 
HARDWARE DESIGN OF NTU-WSU-V02a 
Wireless sensing unit is a key component in this smart sensing system. A new 
generation wireless sensing unit (NTU-WSU-V02a) is designed for this smart sensing system. 
Table3. The specification of 24XStream and 9XTend 
 24XStream 9XTend 
RF Frequency 2.4000 – 2.4835GHz 902 – 928 MHz 
Transmit Power Output 50mW Variable 1mW - 1000mW
Throughput Data Rate 19200bps 115200 bps 
RF Data Rate 20000 bps 125000 bps 
Max. Indoor Range 180m 450m 
Max. Outdoor Range 16km (high-gain antenna) 32km (high-gain antenna)
Receiver Sensitivity -102dBm -100dBm 
 
regulators and one switching power module build-in the power design of NTU-WSU. 
According to the specifications of VSE-15D shown in Table1, the power consumption of 
VSE-15D is about 15mA @ +/-15V. And the PGA204 is also required 5mA @ +/-15V. 
NTU-WSU unit can support 4 channels from VSE-15D sensors and the requirement of +/-15V 
power is 2.4W. A power manager is needed to reduce this heavy loading of power of 
NTU-WSU unit. EC3SA-05D15 is used to support these requirements. It is a 3W switching 
power module produced by CINCON ELECTRONICS Co.,. EC3SA-05D15 supports remote 
On/Off control through a logic pin (CTRL). The CTRL pin is controlled by the GPIO of 
ATmega128 (PB.7). The power of sensor can be turned off when system is not recording 
signals so as to improve the efficiency of power. 
In order to prevent the radio noise to influence the embedded system and improve the 
performance of communication range of radio, individual regulator for embedded system and 
radio module is necessary. Two 5V regulators (LP2986 National Semiconductor Co.) are used 
to handle the powering of embedded system and radio module. Figure4 shows the detail 
arrangement of power of NTU-WSU unit. VSE-15D sensor and PGA204 are powering by 
switching power module (EC3SA-05D15) and there is a logic switch to manage the module to 
save power. 5V Regulator_B is used to supply the power of embedded system which includes 
MCU, RAM, LATCH, ADC and INA159. Wireless radio module is powering by an individual 
5V Regulator_A to improve the performance of radio and prevent the radio noise to effect 
embedded system. The power of NTU-WSU unit also supports optional sensors such as LVDT, 
strain type accelerometer (Setra 141A) and MEMS Accelerometer (Crossbow). 
The detail design of hardware is presented in Figure5. The signals of VSE-15D sensors 
are first amplified by Programmable Gain Amplifier (PGA204) and the gain value of PGA204 
is controlled by the GPIO of ATmega128 (PD.6-7). The amplified signal is then scaling and 
shifting into the range of ADC (0-5V) by fixed gain difference amplifier (INA159). The ADC 
(ADS8341EB) digitalizes these voltage signals into discrete digital data series and transmits to 
MCU (ATmega128) through SPI (@ 2MHz) interface. MCU will buffer these data series on the 
external RAM through GPIO with external RAM interface function of ATmega128 and a 
 
Sensor Power
+/-15V
8-bit 
Microcontroller
128KB SRAM
Independent Power
for 9XTend
Regulator for 
system powering
16bits-ADC
Accurate Reference 
Voltage
4 analog input channels for ambient 
sensor with signal conditioning
(PGA : 1X, 10X, 100X, 1000X)
(Difference amplifier : +/-10V Æ 0~5V)
Header for ambient sensor
VSE-15D
Include : sensor powering
Feedback signal
9XTend
 
Figure6. The hardware of NU-WSU-V02a 
 
In Figure7, The Sensing Service Routine is the application software of embedded 
program of NTU-WSU unit. It includes two components, Data Collecting Service (Client) and 
Computing Service. The Data Collecting Service (Client) is work with the Data Collecting 
Service (Host) of Host Service Routine (run at Host node) which is used to convert sensor 
signal into digital data series, buffering these data in RAM and feedback these data series 
through wireless communication. There are two hardware drivers under Sampling Function, 
ADC Driver and Buffering Driver. The ADC Driver is communicating between ADC 
(ADS8341EB) and MCU (ATmega128) through SPI Bus, MCU triggers the ADC sampling 
and ADC feedbacks the sampled data to MCU. MCU can control the gain value of PGA204 
through PGA Driver, this driver is implemented on the GPIO pins of ATmega128 (PD.6-7). 
One hardware driver is under Buffering Function, RAM Driver. The MCU buffers the data 
series to external RAM through this driver, and it is implemented on the build-in External 
Memory Interface of ATmega128. The Wireless Communication Function is used to handle the 
operation of wireless module and there are three drivers, Data I/O, Radio Setting and Time Out 
Controller. Data I/O and Radio Setting are implemented on the UART Bus, Timer 3 Output 
Compare Channel A is used to limit the waiting time of receiving package. Power Manager 
Function is used to remote turn on/off the sensor power through software switch which is 
implemented on the GPIO of ATmega128 (PB.7). Simple, distributed and preprocessed 
computations are integrated in the Computing Service. 
The Host Service Routine is also presented in Figure7 which is the embedded RT 
 Table4. hardware resources of smart sensing system 
 Sensing Node Host Node User End 
Name NTU‐WSU‐V02a cRIO 9022  
System Type Embedded System Embedded System 
w/RTOS 
PC or Laptop 
etc… 
Core 8bit MCU 
16MHz ATmega128 
32 bit Processor 
533MHz Power PC
Optional 
RAM 128kB 256MB DDR2 Optional 
Flash Memory 128KB 2GB Optional 
Extend Memory N USB Disk Optional 
Communication1 9XTend or 24XStream 
w/ Router fun. 
9XTend or 
24XStream 
N 
Communication2 N Ethernet (TCP/IP) Ethernet   
ADC Sampling 16bits (+/‐10V) @ 200Hz N N 
  
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
-0.015
-0.01
-0.005
0
0.005
0.01
0.015
Time (Sec.)
K
in
e
(c
m
/s
e
c)
 
 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
-0.015
-0.01
-0.005
0
0.005
0.01
0.015
Time (Sec.)
K
in
e
(c
m
/s
e
c)
 
 
Ch2a Æ without PGA
Ch1a Æ with PGA (G=100V/V)
K
in
e
(c
m
/s
ec
.)
Ki
ne
(c
/s
ec
.)
Time (sec.)  
Figure8. The effect of Signal Conditioner of NTU-WSU 
 
There are still some further extensions on the NTU-WSU-V02a unit which   include 
the data synchronization and improvement of the resolution of ADC. The 24XStream and 
9XTend support the repeater function by upgrading the firmware of wireless communication 
module. The wireless sensing network is easily to be extended by repeater to cover a complex 
environment or long distance communication. But the measured data series are not guaranteed 
of time synchronization. This research is currently trying to consider the synchronization of all 
data collected from different smart sensing system at different location. NTP (Network Time 
Protocol) [15] is a popular synchronization protocol used in PC, but its heavy network 
communication and without considering the power consumption makes it difficult to be 
implemented into the wireless sensing unit. A Survey of Time Synchronization in Sensor 
Network is proposed by Fikret Sivrikaya etc. [16]. This paper pointed out and compared 
several synchronization protocols for sensor networks, including RBS (Reference Broadcast 
Synchronization), TPSN (Timing-Sync Protocol for Sensor Networks) and LTS (Lightweight 
Tree-Based Synchronization) etc. Recently, Tomonori Nagayama and Billie F. Spencer, Jr. 
discuss the synchronization effect on SHM applications and proposed a re-sampling approach 
to address issue toward synchronization sensing [17]. The time synchronization protocol and 
re-sampling approach are currently under investigation for NTU-WSU unit. 
The other issue is on the resolution of ADC, a 24bits ADC (ADS1256) will be 
considered in the next version of NTU-WSU (Ver.03) to replace the 16bits ADC (ADS8341EB) 
in ver.02a. TI ADS1256 is an extremely low-noise, 24-bit analog-to-digital converter and with 
the low-noise programmable gain amplifier (PGA) provides gains from 1 to 64 in binary steps. 
The detail description of ADS1256 is in the official document [18]. ADS1256 can support 4 
difference channels or 8 single end channels of analog inputs, its sampling rate is 30K – 2.5 
SPS and dynamic range is +/-5V which is very suitable for ambient measurement. In ver.03 of 
NTU-WSU unit, the ADS1256 can communicate with MCU through software SPI Bus which 
is implemented on the GPIO pins of ATmega128 (PE.2-7). 
CONCLUSIONS 
A new wireless sensing system which can provide the requirements of autonomous 
structural health monitoring, which include 1) reliable wireless communication data, 2) 
accurate signal conditioner hardware for ambient vibration sensors (VSE-15D), 3) capable for 
continuous long-term monitoring was developed. This new framework of smart sensing system 
is established and introduced in this study. This new generation wireless sensing unit 
(NTU-WSU-V02a) is also verified through several tests. The sampling performance of ADC in 
the NTU-WSU unit is very close to the official system (SPC51) which is good enough for 
ambient vibration measurement. Two different wireless modules can support the smart sensing 
system which allows more flexibility on automatic structural health monitoring application. In 
Gi-Lu Bridge field test, NTU-WSU unit with 9XTend can successfully handle the long distance 
[12] The datasheet of TI PGA204, <www.ti.com> 
[13] The datasheet of TI INA159, <www.ti.com> 
[14] The datasheet of TI REF5050, <www.ti.com> 
[15] Network Time Protocol, <www.ntp.org> 
[16] Fikret Sivrikaya and Bulent Yener, (2004), “Time Synchronization in Sensor Networks: A Survey”, 
Network,IEEE, Vol. 18, Issue 4,pp. 45-50. 
[17] Tomonori Nagayama and Billie F. Spencer, Jr., (2007), “Structural Health Monitoring Using Smart 
Sensors”, Report of Network Structural Engineering Laboratory, No. NSEL-001. 
[18] The datasheet of TI ADS1256, <www.ti.com> 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
is about 400 million m3 when full for a lake surface of 10.24 km2. The local temperature 
normally varies between 50 ℉ to 86 ℉. According to the previous research, the reservoir level 
is the most important factor to change the dynamic features of the arch dam. Therefore, the 
relationship between reservoir water level and features must be clarified and regressed before 
the structural health monitoring of the arch dam. 
3. SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FROM SEISMIC RESPONSE DATA 
To monitor the dynamic properties of the dam during earthquake, eleven triaxial 
accelerometers were deployed in the Fei-Tsui dam as shown in Figure 1(a). Five of these 
instruments are installed along the abutment (SD1 ~ SD5), three of them (SD6 ~ SD8) are 
installed in the 115 m - level gallery and the rest of them (SDA, SDB and SDC) are deployed 
in the 150 m - level gallery. The strong motion accelerometers in Fei-Tsui dam were upgraded 
in 1998. The strong motion records of 84 earthquakes collected after the upgrade in 1998 (from 
1999 to 2008) were chosen for this study. Figure 2 shows the relationship of the seismic events 
with respect to the reservoir water level. The colour of the circle indicated different PGA level 
recorded from accelerometer SD1. The most intense one of these earthquakes occurred on 
March 31, 2002 and it was called as 331 Earthquake in Taiwan. The recorded PGA of 331 
Earthquake is up 0.028g which is greater than 921 Chi-Chi Earthquake (0.025g). The strong 
motion instrumentation of Fei-Tsui arch dam includes eleven GeoSIG AC-63 triaxial 
accelerometers on the dam body since 1998. All of these instruments are connected together 
and share the same recording system and all the collected data are synchronized. The analogue 
signals were digitized by using a 16-bit analogue-to-digital converter and the corresponding 
sampling rate is 200Hz. The specifications of the accelerometer is shown in Table 1. 
 
Table 1: Specification of tri-axial accelerometer and VSE-15D velocity sensor, 
GeoSIG AC-63 tri-axial accelerometer VSE-15D velocity sensor 
Full-scale ± 2 g   
( 0.5, 1, 3, 4 g 
optional ) 
Full-scale ± 0.1 m/s 
Type Force balanced 
accelerometer 
Type Force balanced 
accelerometer 
Sensitivity 10V/g Sensitivity 1000V/m/s 
Dynamic 
Range 
> 120 dB Dynamic  
Range 
approximately 140 dB
Bandwidth DC ~ 100 Hz   
( 50 Hz or 200 Hz ) 
Bandwidth 0.2 ~ 100 Hz 
Damping 70 % of critical Damping 100.% of critical 
identification algorithm is a time domain method that can effectively extract the system natural 
frequencies and mode shapes through a multi-input and multi-output system identification. 
According to the previous research of Loh et al. [7], the input ground motion for the Fei-Tsui 
arch dam is not uniform along the abutment of the dam and it is suggested that the dam should 
be considered as a multi-input system for system identification. In fact, it is very important to 
define the relationship between input and output when using the subspace identification 
algorithm. As long as the ground motion was measured at finite locations (SD1~SD5), the dam 
was naturally considered as a dynamic system with multiple support excitation [9]. The 
equation of dynamic equilibrium for such a system can be written in partitioned form: 
t t t
g g g
T T T
g gg g g gg g g gg g g
⎡ ⎤⎧ ⎫ ⎡ ⎤⎧ ⎫ ⎡ ⎤⎧ ⎫ ⎧ ⎫+ + =⎨ ⎬ ⎨ ⎬ ⎨ ⎬ ⎨ ⎬⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭ ⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭ ⎣ ⎦⎩ ⎭ ⎩ ⎭
m m u c c u k k u 0
m m u c c u k k u p
&& &
&& &
 
(1)
The total displacement vector now contains two parts: (1) 
g
u  includes the DOFs of the 
supports (such as SD1~SD5); and (2) tu  includes all DOFs of the dam except the DOFs of 
the supports. For earthquake loading it is dbserved that only the support forces 
g
p  are applied 
to the system. Eq.(1) then can be rewritten by focusing on the dynamic displacements u  on 
the DOFs of the dam: 
eff
+ + =mu cu ku p&& &  (2)
where the effective earthquake forces is: 
( ) ( )s seff g g g g= − + − +p m u m u cu c u&& && & &  (3)
where s t= −u u u  is the quasi-static displacements. Eq.(3) can be further simplified by 
considering two “possible” assumptions for real application: (1) small damped system; (2) 
lump mass system. Base on the first assumption the damping force is much small relative to the 
inertia force so that it can be neglected. For the second assumption, the undiagonal term 
g
m  
will be a null matrix and therefore can be dropped. After the simplifications of the effective 
earthquake forces, Eq.(2) is rewritten as: 
g
+ + = −mu cu ku mιu&& & &&  (4)
where 1
g
−= −ι k k  is the influence matrix because it describes the influence of support 
displacements on the structural displacements. Eq.(4) defines a numerical model for a dynamic 
system with multiple support excitations. On the other hand, if the input ground motion is 
assumed to be uniform and one of the records from SD1~SD5 is selected to be the 
representative ground motion. The motion equation will be more simple than Eq.(4) base on 
assumption of uniform input: 
g
u+ + = −mu cu ku m1&& & &&  (5)
influence of noise and extract the observability matrix 
i
Γ : 
/
f
d
f p i f
=
U
Y W Γ X  (8)
After extracting the observability matrix by using singular value decomposition, it is easy to 
compute the system parameters 
c
A  and ′C . Finally, we can identify the natural frequencies 
and mode shapes of the dam. The detail procedure of the subspace identification can be found 
in reference 6. 
To identify the modal properties of Fei-Tsui arch dam, the seismic response data from 
331 Earthquake was firstly used to verify the input/output subspace identification. The 
corresponding reservoir water level is 144.4 m during the earthquake. As mentioned before, the 
theory of subspace identification comes from the motion equations. It is important to make sure 
that all records are in the same direction (orientation) so that the force equilibrium can be 
satisfied. Figure 3 shows the setting directions of each accelerometer, and it is easy to find that 
the setting directions of each accelerometer were all perpendicular to the dam surface. A global 
coordinate system was defined to calibrate all the records to the same direction. The input 
excitations after calibration are shown in Figure 4. It is observed that the canyon phenomenon 
is confirmed from the non-uniform motion along the dam abutment. The record of SD1 is 
similar to SD2 and the record of SD4 is similar to SD5. But the seismic wave forms changed 
after passing through the canyon so that SD2 is different from SD4. For the multi-input case, 
the absolute acceleration records at the stations SD1, SD2, SD3, SD4 and SD5 were defined as 
the input excitations. The absolute acceleration records at SD6, SD7, SD8, SDA, SDB and 
SDC were defined as the outputs. In order to consider the canyon phenomenon we chose SD1 
or SD5 as the uniform input in the single-input case and the outputs are the same as above. The 
identification results of 331 Earthquake are presented as the stability diagrams and shown in 
Figure 5.  
Follow the subspace identification the stability diagram describes the identified modal 
frequencies under different choice of the number of block row. As shown in the Figure 5, the 
multi-input case can identify more structural modes but the modal frequencies are not 
completely consistent with the average of the Fourier spectrum of the dam responses which is 
printed in the back ground. As for the single-input cases, the results using SD1-input are very 
similar to the results using SD5-input. According to the statistic results of the stability diagram, 
the modal frequencies identified from SD1-input are 2.46, 2.58 and 3.40 Hz. Similarly, the 
frequencies from SD5-input are equal to 2.47, 2.58 and 3.45 Hz. The frequencies of multi-input 
case are equal to 2.59, 2.90 and 3.55 which were a little different from single-input cases. 
Including 331 earthquake a total of 84 earthquake events (from 1999 to 2008) were used to 
identify the modal frequencies under different reservoir water level. Finally, the relationships 
between the reservoir water level and modal frequencies were developed and regressed by  
 Figure 5. Stability diagrams of the multi-input case and signal-input cases (SD1 or SD5) 
using seismic data of 331 Earthquake. 
 
using the curve fitting tool. As shown in the Figure 6, the modal frequency can be calculated 
from the reservoir level according to the general power-2 function:  
( ) bf x ax c= +  (9)
where f  is the modal frequency (in Hz) and x  is the corresponding reservoir level. It is 
observed that the modal frequencies of dam decreases when the reservoir level increases. 
4. SYSTEM IDENTIFICATION FROM AMBIENT VIBRATION DATA 
excitation does not always allow the induction of measureable vibration in all of the frequency 
range of interest. For this reason, an ambient vibration test was conducted to the dam on 
October 30, 2009, and the corresponding reservoir water level is 164.0 m. There were 
seventeen positions selected as the measurement locations of the ambient vibration test 
(AT1~AT17 as shown in the Figure 1(a)). Measurement points AT1~AT7 were arranged on the 
top abutment of the dam. Locations of the six strong motion instrumentation were also 
included in this test (AT8~AT10 and AT12~AT14). Because of the limited number of velocity 
sensors to measure all of the stations at the same time, it requires four steps to complete the 
ambient vibration test to cover all the desirable measurement points. Overlap on the 
deployment of sensor notes is required in order to extract the vibration modes.  
For ambient vibration test a total of eight VSE-15D velocity sensors (Tokyo Sokushin 
Corporation) were used at the same time. Table 1 shows the specification of the sensor. The 
ambient vibration data from Step2 is shown in Figure7. For data from Step2 measurement, the 
peak velocity is 0.0054 cm/s at station AT4 and the peak acceleration is 0.00052 g at station 
AT5. It is deserved to be mentioned, the resolution of the sensor for ambient vibration test is 
10-8 g and the resolution of AC-63 accelerometer is about 10-5 g. Procedure to describe the 
number of sensors and its covered range is shown below:  
Step1 : AT1, AT2, AT3, AT4 
Step2 : AT4, AT5, AT6, AT7, AT8, AT9, AT10, AT11 
Step3 : AT8, AT9, AT10, AT11, AT12, AT13, AT14 
Step4 : AT12, AT13, AT14, AT15, AT16, AT17 
4.1 System identification using output-only stochastic subspace identification 
Stochastic subspace identification algorithm was used to the ambient vibration data. This 
method computes the state space model of the stochastic system using output data. A stochastic 
system is similar to the Eq.(6) and (7) but its inputs are  zero mean, white vector sequences 
denoted as w  and v: 
c
= +x A x w&  (10)
t = +u Cx v&&  (11)
The white noise excitation is the most important assumption of this theory which is also the 
difficulty of the ambient vibration test. In order to ensure the quality of signals, the 
measurement frequency range should be consistent with the assumption (as white noise 
assumption). Interference from other source inputs must be minimized (such as dam 
operation-induced vibration). The computation procedures of stochastic subspace identification 
are very similar to the general subspace identification expect for the application of orthogonal 
projection: 
                               ˆ/
f p i i
=Y Y ΓX                                   (12) 
Following the procedure in subspace identification, the stability diagrams of the system 
identification from each step can be attained, as shown in the Figure 8. These stability 
diagrams from each test steps clearly mark out the locations of the dam’s natural frequencies 
and the results are consistent with the dominant frequencies of the Fourier spectrum of the 
responses.  
Follow by the statistical analysis, Table 2 shows the mean and standard deviation of the 
modal parameters for the first eight modes of the dam. High stability for the identified modal 
frequencies was observed from the small value of the calculated standard deviation. The global 
mode shapes can also be determined from the measurement of each data set. Considering there 
is a normalization factor R  between each different experimental step [10]:  
n n
i ik j jk
R Rφ φ=  (13)
where i  or j  denotes the number of the experimental step, k  is the number of the sensor 
station and n  is the number of mode. Eq.(13) shows that k  station is the one to be overlaped 
between step i  and step j . Therefore, there are eight equations available to determine the 
normalization factors in out experiment: 
1 14 2 24
n nR Rφ φ=   ,  
2 28 3 38
n nR Rφ φ=   ,  
2 29 3 39
n nR Rφ φ=   ,  … (14)
Set 
1
1R = , the above equations can be rewritten as the following form: 
14 24
2
28 38
3
29 39
4
0 0
0 0
0 0
n n
n n
n n
R
R
R
φ φ
φ φ
φ φ
⎧ ⎫ ⎡ ⎤ ⎧ ⎫⎪ ⎪ ⎢ ⎥−⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪⎢ ⎥=⎨ ⎬ ⎨ ⎬−⎢ ⎥⎪ ⎪ ⎪ ⎪⎢ ⎥ ⎩ ⎭⎪ ⎪⎩ ⎭ ⎣ ⎦M M M M
 
(15)
The normalization factors can be solved by using pseudo-inverse and the global mode shapes 
were determined. Figure 9 shows the global mode shapes from ambient vibration test and the 
mode shapes estimated using seismic response data of 331 Earthquake are also shown.  
5. CONCLUSION 
In this study, three different approaches were used to identify the modal properties of 
Fei-Tsui arch dam. For input/output subspace identification with multi-input dynamic model, 
the earthquake force is idealized as a multiple support excitation and the dam is considered as a 
lumped mass system with small damping. Different from multi-input model, single-input 
model  the uniform transmission of earthquake force to the dam is assumed. The output-only 
stochastic subspace identification uses the output data which should be generate from the white 
noise excitation. From the study of the three approaches, it is concluded that the results from  
changes in both linear and non-linear structural parameters," Earthq. Engrg. Struc t. 
Dyn. 24,8597. 
2. Safak, E. [1989a] "Adaptive modeling, identification and control of dynamic structural 
system, I: Theory," ASCE, J. Engq. Mech. 115, 2386-2405. 
3. Alves, S.W., and Hall, J.F. (2006) “System identification of a concrete arch dam and 
calibration of its finite element model.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural 
Dynamics, 35, 1321-1337. 
4. Daniell, W.E., and Taylor, C.A. (1999) “Effective ambient vibration testing for validating 
numerical models of concrete dams.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural 
Dynamics, 28, 1327-1344. 
5. Darbre, G.R., de Smet, C.A.M., and Kraemer, C. (2000) “Natural frequencies measured from 
ambient vibration response of the arch dam of Mauvoisin.” Earthquake Engineering 
and Structural Dynamics, 29, 577-586. 
6. Loh, C.H., and Wu, T.S. (1996). “Identification of Fei-Tsui arch dam from both ambient and 
seismic response data.” Soil Dynamics and Earthquake Engineering, 15, 465-483. 
7. Loh, C.H., and Wu, T.C. (2000). “System identification of Fei-Tsui arch dam from forced 
vibration and seismic response data.” J. Earthquake Engineering, 4(4),511-537. 
8. Chopra, A.K. (2001) . Dynamics of structures – Theory and applications to earthquake 
engineering, 2nd ed, Prentice Hall, New Jersey, 384-388. 
9. Van Overschee, P., De Moor, B. (1996) Subspace identification for linear systems : Theory - 
Implementation – Applications, Kluwer, Dordrecht. 
10. Sim, S.H., Spencer, B.F., Jr., Zhang, M., and Xie, H. (2009) “Automated decentralized 
smart sensor network for modal analysis.” Proc. SPIE, 7292, 72920W. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the other is the continuous monitoring system of ambient vibration system for structural health 
monitoring. A building seismic response monitoring system was installed in this building by 
Central Weather Bureau to collect the building responses due to earthquake excitation. Figure 2 
shows the layout of the accelerometers in this building. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1. Location of isolators and viscous dampers in the isolation floor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2. Locations of accelerometer in the story-isolation building. 
 
Different from the building seismic response monitoring system, a continuous monitoring 
system on the ambient vibration measurement of the building was also installed in this building. 
A total of 16 velocity sensors (VSE-15D velocity sensor) were installed in the building. Four 
floor levels, including top floor, intermediate floor, above and below the isolation floor), were 
put four sensors to measure the longitudinal, transverse and torsion ambient vibration. To 
conduct the continuous monitoring of the building ambient vibration, wireless sensing system 
was used. Through the wireless sensing communication unit, each sensor signal was broadcast 
to the server (using 9Xtend communication module). To start monitoring of the building the PC 
 
 
Table 1: Identified system natural frequencies using ambient vibration data  
 1st  
(Trans.) 
1st  
(Long.) 
1st  
(Torsion) 
2nd  
(Trans.) 
2nd  
(Long.) 
2nd  
(Torsion)
System 
Natural Freq. 1.39 Hz 1.66 Hz 1.74 Hz 4.31 Hz 5.13 Hz 5.52 Hz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3. Flowchart of two monitoring systems in the story-isolation building.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 4. Identified the first longitudinal, transverse and torsion mode  
from ambient vibration data (3-D as well as top view). 
 
Ambient Vibration 
(Continuous Monitoring) Velocity Sensors
Signal Converter 
(0 ~ 5 Volt) 
Wireless Measurement Server 
NTU-WSU  
(Broadcast the measurements)  
Analysis Server 
WiFi Wireless Communication 
Display & Monitoring 
System 
Internet 
Earthquake 
(Event Monitoring) Accelerometer Analysis Server 
 
Table 3: Identified system natural frequencies using seismic response data  
 2009/07/1
3 
2009/10/0
3 
2009/12/19 
1st Mode (Trans.) 0.942 Hz 1.26 Hz 1.088 Hz 
2nd Mode (Long.) 1.09 Hz 1.526 Hz 1.27 Hz 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6. Identified mode shapes (top view) at three discrete times from  
earthquake event of 2009-7-17. 
Discussion from the Results of System Identification  
   From the results of identification the following discussions are made: 
a. Comparison on the identified model frequencies using RSSI (for ambient data) and RSI 
(for earthquake data) method. 
b. Two different sensing systems were used to collect the ambient and the seismic response 
data of the mid-story isolation building. For ambient vibration measurement the VSE-15D 
velocity sensor provides resolution of 10-8g and for earthquake monitoring system the 
L_AC-63 accelerometer provides resolution of 10-5g. From the analysis of ambient 
vibration data, due to high resolution data, the second higher modes of the building can be 
clearly identified, as shown in Figure 7a. But for the earthquake response data, because of 
the low level of earthquake excitation (maximum roof acceleration less than 30 gal) and the 
low resolution of the sensor, only the fundamental mode of the building can not be 
identified. In Figures 7b and 7c only the first fundamental model frequencies can be clearly 
identified from the RSSI frequency-time plot. The recursive identification method (either 
RSSI or RSI method) provides clearer picture on identifying the system natural frequency  
linearized for simplify analysis. The initial and the post-yield stiffness may be computed 
considering shear deformation and assuming that there is no bending deformation. The 
effective stiffness effK  of the LRB is defined as the secant modulus joining the extreme 
positive and negative displacement   
max
max
max
max ])/1([)]([
u
uKKKF
u
uuKFK pepyypyeff
+−=−+=         (1)        
   In Eq.1, eK  and pK  are the initial elastic stiffness and post-yield stiffness, respectively. 
Fy is the yield force of the isolator. From earthquake response data it is observed that even 
with small level of ground motion (such as PGA=24.41 gal for event 2009-7-13 earthquake) 
the decreasing of the identified dominant frequency from t=10 sec to t=22.5 sec is obvious 
(using RSI method). This can be explained as the effect of isolation system. From this 
diagram it is observed that the yield deformation of the isolator is very small (less than 1.0 
mm), which means that even under small earthquake loading condition the isolator can 
easily goes into inelastic behavior and the effective stiffness of the isolator may change due 
to different level of earthquake excitation. From the analysis the these three earthquake 
events, it was found that the relative displacement of the isolation floors is larger than 1.0 
mm (both earthquake events of  2009-7-13 and 2009-12-19 are about 3 mm ~ 4 mm), 
therefore, the isolators may goes into inelastic range for these two events. From the 
identification of the system equivalent damping ratio it is also observed at t=22.5 sec the 
damping ratio is much larger than at t=10 sec., for example, in the event of 2009-7-13 the 
identified 1st mode system damping ratio is 14.14% in transverse direction and 8.70% in 
longitudinal direction. This also proofs that the inelastic behavior of the isolator during 
earthquake causes the change of system natural frequency. Discussion on the relative 
deformation of the isolation floor will be presented in the following section. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 8: Force-displacement diagram of the isolator from cyclic loading test. 
(2) Identify the inter-story stiffness of the super structure using the pre-determined 
isolator effective stiffness (from step 1) as a known model parameter. Conduct model 
parameter identification of inter-story stiffness by considering the system natural 
frequencies as the criteria for optimization. The identified inter-story stiffness of the 
building is 7345000 ton/sec/sec.  
(3) Identify the effective stiffness of the isolator from each earthquake excitation. Once 
the inter-story stiffness of the superstructure had been identified from the ambient vibration 
data it will be used as a fix value for study the earthquake response of the building. 
Through optimization by minimizing the error between the identified model frequencies 
from earthquake data and the analytical value, the effective stiffness of the isolator from 
each earthquake excitation can be identified. Because the earthquake responses from these 
three events are all small, the assumption of linear response in the superstructure is 
acceptable. Therefore, the linear theory of the isolation system can be used. Tables 4a and 
4b show the results of the identified effective stiffness of the isolation system of three 
earthquake events. 
(4) Identify the maximum inter-story drift of the isolation floor from during earthquake 
excitation. Once the effective stiffness of the isolator was identified, then using the 
performance test data (hysteresis loop of cyclic loading test), the maximum displacement of 
the isolator can be read from the figure. Using the information identified from ambient 
vibration data and the earthquake data, as shown in Tables 4a and 4b, the relationship 
between system fundamental natural frequency and the deformation of the isolation system 
can be developed. Figure 10 shows the regression curve of the relationship between the 
building fundamental frequency with respect to the deformation of the isolation floor in 
both longitudinal and transverse direction.  
 
CONCLUSIONS 
This paper presents the system identification of a mid-story isolation building using both 
ambient vibration data and the earthquake response data. First, the performance test data (from 
cyclic loading test) of the isolation system (LRB) was used to extract the effective stiffness of 
the isolator with respect to its deformation The ambient vibration data was used to identify the 
reference model of the superstructure which include the stiffness of the superstructure and the 
system natural frequencies. Under the assumption of linear isolation theory, the seismic 
response data of the mid-story isolation structure was used to identify the dynamic 
characteristics of the building including the effectiveness of the isolation floor and the 
inter-story drift of the isolation system. If the superstructure of the building is within linear 
response range, the current analysis can provide reasonable identification results of the 
isolation system. Comparison on the identified mode shape between analytical result and the 
identification result for longitudinal and transverse directions is shown 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10: Plot of building system natural frequency with respect to the inter-story drift of 
isolation floor; (a) Longitudinal direction, (b) Transverse direction. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 11. Comparison on the identified and analytical fundamental mode shape of the mid-story 
isolation building; in longitudinal direction (a) results from ambient vibration and 
earthquake event of 2009-10-03, (b) results from earthquake events of 2009-7-13 and 
2009-12-19.   
 
 
 
(a) (b) 
(a) (b) 
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
H
ei
gh
t (
m
)
 
 
Ambient Vibration Test (Identified)
2009/10/03 (Identified)
Ambient Vibration Test (Model)
2009/10/03 (Model)
0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
 
 
2009/07/13 (Identified)
2009/12/19 (Identified)
2009/07/13 (Model)
2009/12/19 (Model)
 
H
ei
gh
t 
Chapter 5:  System Identification and Damage Evaluation of Degrading 
Hysteresis of Reinforced Concrete Frames 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
Building structures typically exhibit nonlinear and inelastic behavior under severe dynamic 
loading, such as during earthquakes and in severe winds. Earthquake engineering considers 
both the expected performance of structures in an earthquake and the state of the damage after 
seismic events. In practical applications, these have been characterized using indices other than 
stress. The maximum inter-story drift has been shown to be a good measure of the extent of 
nonstructural damage. This measure neglects the effect of cumulative damage. The effect of 
accumulated damage to reinforced concrete members and structures under a seismic load is 
even more important than the maximum inter-story drift. Inelastic behavior commonly 
manifests as a hysteresis loop under cyclic loading. Most important, the performance and 
safety of reinforced concrete structures under severe earthquake loading are determined by 
nonlinear hysteresis. In any assessment of the damage to a reinforced concrete structure, 
nonlinear hysteretic behavior of each member must be considered. The Bouc-Wen model of 
smooth hysteresis [1] is receiving increasing attention as a means of specifying analytically a 
range of shapes of hysteretic cycles. The Bouc-Wen model matches real experimental data 
given a particular input, but does not always match important physical properties. Ikhouane et 
al. characterized various classes of Bouc-Wen model with reference to their bounded 
input-bounded output stability et al.[2]. 
Unlike a theoretical model, a damage identification system that is based on vibration 
measurements is an effective means of detecting damage to whole structures. Vibration-based 
damage detection approaches assume that changes in a structure’s integrity influence the 
measured vibration signals, enabling damage to be detected independently of the modal 
parameters. One important issue in global vibration-based damage assessment approaches 
concerns the choice of damage indices. Doebling et al. [3] summarized the historic 
development of damage assessment approaches. In recent years significant attention has been 
paid to damage detection via vibration-based methods [4,5]. Among these methods the 
monitoring of the condition of dynamic systems based on vibration signatures is conducted 
using the discrete wavelet transform (DWT), which may be regarded as an extension of the 
traditional Fourier Transform with an adjustable window location and size [6-7]. The wavelet 
packet transform (WPT) is one extension of the DWT that provides a complete level-by-level 
SHAKING TABLE TEST OF ONE-STORY TWO-BAY RC FRAME 
 
Description of test frame    Six reinforced single-story two-bay reinforced concrete 
frames were constructed and designed with the same dimensions and the design details. Figure 
1 presents the test frame. The height of each frame structure is 2.0 m and the length of each 
span is 2.0 m. The designed compressive strength of the concrete is 210kg/cm2 and the 
designed strength of the steel is 4200 kg/cm2. The frame comprised a T-beam, with a floor 
dimension of the first story of 4.7 m × 0.7 m, and three columns with cross-sectional  
dimensions of 20 cm × 20 cm. The total mass of each frame is 8490 kg (which includes 4000 
kg of lead ballast). Table 1 presents in detail the dimensions of the test structure. Both a 
shaking table test and a cyclic loading test are performed on the structure following the 
approaches for each frame that are presented in Table 2. Accelerometers and LVDT are  
Table 1: Dimensions of the test reinforced concrete structure 
Floor Height                      2.0 m 
Span Length                      2.0 m 
Center Column                    20cm x 20cm  (8 #4 steel bars) 
Side Column                      20cm x 20cm  (4 #4 steel bars) 
Beam                            20cm x 16cm 
                                (Top 3 #3 steel bars; bottom 2 #3 steel bars) 
Transverse Steel                   #3 with 10cm spacing 
Total weight                      8590 kg 
(Floor weight)                     6454kg (include 4000 kg lead ballistic)  
 
             Table 2: Test procedures on six reinforced concrete frames.  
Test 
Procedure 
Shaking Table 
Test 
(Input Level) 
Ambient Test  
(before shaking 
table test)  
Cyclic Loading
Test 
Ambient Test 
(after shaking 
table test  
RCF1 None Acceleration Velocity 5% Drift Ratio 
Acceleration 
Velocity 
RCF2 840gal Acceleration Velocity 5% Drift Ratio 
Acceleration 
Velocity 
RCF3 1310gal Acceleration Velocity 5% Drift Ratio 
Acceleration 
Velocity 
RCF4 
 
(a) 1186gal 
(b) 668gal 
 
Acceleration 
Velocity 5% Drift Ratio 
Acceleration 
Velocity 
RCF5 
(with 
additional 
dead load) 
 
1249gal Acceleration Velocity 5% Drift Ratio 
Acceleration 
Velocity 
RCF6 
 
649gal 
 
Acceleration 
Velocity 5% Drift Ratio 
Acceleration 
Velocity 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 2a: Input ground motion time history (normalized to 1.0g)    
20 30 40 50 60 70 80
-1
0
1
(g
)
RCF6(600gal): Absolute Acceleration, PA = 0.77g
20 30 40 50 60 70 80
-1
0
1
(g
)
RCF2(800gal): Absolute Acceleration, PA = 1.24g
20 30 40 50 60 70 80
-1
0
1
(g
)
RCF4(1100gal): Absolute Acceleration, PA = 1.31g
20 30 40 50 60 70 80
-1
0
1
(g
)
RCF3(1300gal): Absolute Acceleration, PA = 1.22g
Time (sec)  
Figure 2b: Absolute acceleration response of four specimens from shaking table tests. 
 
parameters of the model of the system by assuming the system is represented as an equivalent 
linear system with time-varying modal parameters. In this case, the moving-time window is set 
to 1.5 second-width (three times of the fundamental period of the specimen), shifting by 150 
data points (i.e. one-half overlap length) and the Tukey window is applied to each moving 
window to estimate the time-varying modal parameters. The optimum parameters are 
determined by minimize the mean square error between the recorded and estimated of 
acceleration response. The least-squared method was applied for this optimization. Observing 
the time-varying natural frequency of the system and damping ratio of the equivalent linear 
single-degree-of-freedom dynamic system yields the nonlinearity of the system. Figure 4b 
plots the fundamental natural frequency of the identified time-varying system. The significant    
change of system natural frequency near t=30. sec is due to the significant change of input 
 
 
A
cc
el
er
at
io
n 
(g
) 
Table 4: Estimated fundamental natural frequency of the test structure (using equivalent 
linear system) at t=28.0 sec and at t=95.0 sec for each specimen.  
 
Specimen Input PGA Estimated Freq. 
(at t = 28.0 sec) 
Estimated Freq. 
(at t = 95.0 sec) 
RCF6 610 gal 5.83 Hz 2.77 Hz 
RCF2 799 gal 6.07 Hz 2.68 Hz 
RCF4 1134 gal 5.71 Hz 2.61 Hz 
RCF3 1261 gal 5.85 Hz 2.29 Hz 
 
excitation at the same time. Table 4 presents the estimated natural frequency of the system 
estimated using the equivalent linear system at t=28.0 s and t=95.0 s for each specimen. The 
variations in the natural frequency with time and the level of excitation are obvious. To explain 
the large variation of the natural frequency with time, the absolute input energy of the system 
was studied the absolute input energy is defined as [25],  
∫= 2
1
)(
t
t gti
vdvmE &&                         (1) 
where tv&&  is the absolute acceleration response and gv  is the ground displacement. Based on 
the recorded acceleration responses of the four test frames and the input ground motions, the 
absolute input energy in the four test cases is evaluated. Figure 4a compares the absolute input  
energies in the four test cases and the identified modal frequencies of the equivalent linear 
system. The absolute input energy dramatically increased during the time window of 30~40 s, 
which finding is consistent with the change in the natural frequency of the equivalent linear 
system. The results from the analysis of using equivalent linear system and the observation of 
absolute input energy provided a preliminary information (or indicator) to detect the system 
nonlinearity. Based on this information the nonlinear inelastic hysteretic model can then be 
used for further study 
Residual Deformation Analysis:  Material nonlinearities that are associated with 
excessive deformation, such as yielding of a reinforced concrete structure, can cause a structure 
to behave in a nonlinear manner, and yielding is accompanied by permanent deformation. 
Singular spectrum analysis (SSA) is applied to the recorded displacement data of the specimen 
under an earthquake excitation to estimate the residual and the permanent deformations of the 
specimen from the seismic response data of the frame structure due to yielding [26]. SSA is 
employed as an alternative to traditional digital filtering. SSA is a novel non-parametric 
approach that is based on the principles of multivariate statistics. The original time series is  
The Wavelet Packet Transform analysis is similar to Discrete Wavelet Transform, but with the 
only difference that, in addition to decomposing the wavelet approximation component at each 
level, a wavelet detail component is also decomposed to yields its own approximation and 
detail component. Wavelet packet decomposition is performed up to the j-th level. Then, the 
structural response is decomposed using wavelet packet analysis (using bior6.8) and the central 
frequency of the i-th component function is obtained. In the j-th level decomposition, the 
distribution of component energy of each decomposed signal can be generated with respect to 
its central frequency. The distribution of the wavelet packet component energy of the 
decomposed response data can be taken as the distribution of energy that is stored in the 
frequency band that is determined by the wavelet function. Since the wavelet coefficients in 
certain bands may be sensitive to degradation in stiffness and thus useful in detecting it. The 
time-frequency characteristics of the response signals can be used to study the effect of system 
nonlinearity of the system. The distribution of component energy obtained from the 
acceleration response data of the four specimens can be used not only to extract the dominant 
frequency component of the response signal but also to determine the distribution of 
component energy in the frequency domain. Based on the wavelet decomposition of the 
acceleration responses of these four specimens, Figure 6 plots the percentage distribution of 
wavelet component energy. Since wavelet transform is a linar transformation similar 
component energy distribution can also be obtained from Fourier transformation. According to 
the date, the distribution of the dominant energy of the wavelet components from the specimen 
subjected to a stronger excitation level is shifted to lower frequency.  
In this section, three nonlinear indices are employed to analyze the system nonlinearity - 
the change in the dominant frequency of the system as determined using an equivalent linear 
system, residual deformation, and wavelet component energy distribution. These indices are all 
obtained by analyzing the response measurements. The test data clearly reveals the variation in 
the nonlinearity among these four test specimens. The aforementioned feature extraction 
methods can only yield the degree of nonlinearity of each system.  
 
IDENTIFICATION OF DAMAGE BY FEATURE EXTRACTIONS 
 
  To evaluate the severity of damage to a reinforced concrete structure, the damage index 
of Park and Ang is used. The Park and Ang damage index gDI  is defined as [27, 28],  
yu
H
u
g F
EDI δβδ
δ +=                            (2) 
signals into two components in each decomposition level: the approximate and the detailed.  
The decomposition is dyadic, and so the detail component contains the upper half frequency 
band of the original signal. Generally, singularities in the signal are present in very high 
frequency bands and the Level-1 detail component can reveal such singularities after relatively 
simple computation. In this work, the level-1 detail component contains information on 
frequency band from 50 Hz to 100 Hz. 
    Based on the analysis of the Holder exponent and the details of the DWT, some 
singularities in the time domain can be identified. These identified singularities are considered 
in the light of the calculated physical indices, such as the inter-story drift ratio and the Park & 
Ang damage index. Figure 9 compares the inter-story drift ratio, the Holder exponent, the 
level-1 detail component of DWT and the residual component obtained by SSA, using data for 
specimen RCF6, specimen RCF2 and specimen RCF4. The estimated singularities in these 
three nonlinear indices clearly occurred at the times of maximal inter-story drift ratio. For 
specimen RCF6, as an example, (Fig. 9a) the singularities revealed the various nonlinear 
indices are all mutually consistent at 30s, 35.0s, 37.5 s, 40 s, and 51.5 s. The singularities 
identified by the analysis of the detail component of DWT, the Holder exponent and the 
residual component determine SSA are consistent with significant inter-story drifts. In cases of 
severe damage, such as evident in specimen RCF4 with a maximum inter-story drift ratio of 
3.29%, the singularities revealed by the Holder Exponent, DWT and the residual determined 
from SSA are more complex because the corresponding structure is severely damaged. In Fig. 
9c, the relationship among the singularities for specimen RCF4 calculated from different 
nonlinear indices is not so clear, but a positive correlation exists among the estimated Holder 
Exponent, the level-1 detail component of DWT and the residuals determined from SSA for 
moderate and minor damage with an inter-story drift under 3.0%.   
   
MODELING HYSTERESIS OF STRUCTURAL SYSTEMS 
The degree of nonlinearity and the times of significant damage can be determined using 
the aforementioned nonlinear indices. However, the results cannot be used to quantify the 
extent of damage to these RC frames. A theoretical model that incorporates stiffness and 
strength degradation, and that can represent the dynamic behavior of a structure under 
earthquake loading must be utilized. To quantify the damage, a physical model must be 
employed to determine the load-displacement relationship, to elucidate the degradation of 
stiffness and strength behavior, their relationship to the severity of damage and the effect of 
degradation ratios, respectively. The pinching function is expressed as 
]/))sgn(exp[0.1)( 22
2
1 ξξ uzquzzh ⋅−⋅−−= &               (7) 
where )sgn(⋅ is the signum function, and uz  is the ultimate value of z, which is given by, 
n
uz
/1]
)(
1[ γβν +=                          (8) 
A total of 13 parameters are employed to control the hysteretic model: 
{ }λδψξδδγβα ψξνη ,,,,,,,,,,,, qpnA               (9) 
In this model, four parameters { nand,,, γβα } determine the shape of the hysteretic model; 
two parameters { νη δδ and } control the system degradation, and six parameters 
{ }λχψξ ψξ andqp ,,,,  control the pinching phenomenon.  
Before the model parameters are evaluated, the physical meaning is considered. Based 
on the experimental finding that a true physical hysteretic element has bounded–input and 
bounded-output (BIBO), such that, for any bounded input signal x(t), the responses must be 
bounded; only the case with A>0 will be considered here. Sensitivity analysis of the model 
parameters yields the following results. 
1. Three constraints on the combination of α  and β  values are considered.     
Case 1: 00 >−<+ γβγβ and , exhibits hardening behavior through the load- displacement 
relationship; Case 2: 00 >−>+ γβγβ and , and Case 3: 00 <−>+ γβγβ and , exhibit 
more realistic physical meaning load-displacement relationships with significant hysteretic 
energy dissipation. 
2. A larger ηδ  value represents more severe stiffness and strength deterioration; a 
larger p value represents more significant pinching effect. 
 
In this study, the differential evolutionary method, proposed by Storn and Pierce [32] and 
Kyprianou et al. [33], was employed to evaluate time-dependent model parameters. The 
advantage of using the differential evolutionary method is that it allows a direct search over a 
continuous parameter space without the need to estimate any derivative. Based on the 
sensitivity study, a two-stage parameter evaluation scheme was proposed. In the first stage, the 
non-sensitive parameters, such as { θψ δδ ,,p }, are assumed to be fixed, and then the remaining 
parameters { λψξδγβα η ,,,,,,,, qn s  } are evaluated. In this study, parameter A is set to 
A=1.0 without affecting the estimates of the other parameters [12]. The second stage uses all of 
individually subjected to different degrees of ground excitation in shaking table tests. Their 
response data are used to determine the pattern of damage to a reinforced concrete structure 
with respect to the degree of ground shaking. Both identification of system nonlinearities and 
feature extraction are developed to investigate the physical parameters that govern the 
degradation of hysteretic behavior and the severity of damage of a reinforced concrete structure. 
First, through this study, the distribution of the wavelet component energy in the response, and 
the time-varying dominant frequency of the equivalent linear system can be employed to detect 
the nonlinearity of the system and provide important message of using nonlinear model for 
further analysis. The permanent deformation of the structure was estimated by using singular 
spectrum analysis which also provide important message on structural safety. Then, the Holder 
exponent and the Level-1 detail component of DWT nonlinear indicators are used which can 
provide information to locate the damage occurrence induced by excitation. Information 
extracted from this study can identify the occurrence of damage. Table 6 summaries the 
nonlinear indices and their constraints to estimate these indices.  
Finally, to quantify the degree of nonlinearity or severity of damage, the general 
Bouc-Wen hysteretic model is employed to evaluate the physical parameters, including 
stiffness degradation, strength deterioration and hysteresis behavior of the reinforced concrete 
frame. From the signal-based identification the nonlinear indicator functions are used to locate 
the occurrence of damage. Follow by the model-based identification the physical-meaning 
model parameters were identified. The relationship among the damage index, the inter-story 
drift ratio, singularities of the nonlinear indices identified from signal-based methods and the 
evaluated stiffness and strength degradation function from model-based method is examined to 
locate and quantify the damage. Figure 12 summarized the procedures on identifying the 
structural damage location and quantification using both signal-based and model-based 
identification methods.  
From the analysis of these seismic response data of these specimens support the following 
conclusions. 
1. The analysis of the shaking table test data for the four RC specimens reveals that under the 
earthquake excitation, the stiffness of the structure was degraded first, and then the strength 
deteriorated. Experimental results indicate that the characteristics of the model are consistent 
with the singularities determined from the nonlinear indices. 
2. If only the seismic response data can be collected, the nonlinear indicators such as: the 
Holder exponent, WPT component energy distribution and the absolute input energy, can 
provide useful information on structural stiffness degradation.     
structures,”, International Journal of Solids and Structures, 2005. 42 (26): p. 6610-6627. 
11. Ghanem, R. and Romeo, F. , “A wavelet based approach for the identification of linear 
time-varying dynamical systems”, J. Sound Vib. , 2000, Vol. 4, pp. 555–576. 
12. Goggins, J., Broderick, B.M., Basu, B. and Elgzhouli, A., “Investigation of the seismic 
response of braced frames using wavelet analysis”, Structural Control and Health 
Monitoring, 2007, 14, 627-648. 
13. Basu, B., Nagarajaiah, S. and Chakraborty, A., “Online Identification of Linear 
Time-Varying Stiffness of Structural Systems by Wavelet Analysis,” International Journal 
of Structural Health Monitoring; 2008, 7(1): 21--36. 
14. Staszewski, W.J., "Identification of Non-Linear System Using Multi-Scale Ridges and 
Skeletons of the Wavelet Transform", Journal of Sound and Vibration, 1998, Vol. 214, No. 
4, pp. 639-658. 
15. Staszewski, W.J. , "Structural and Mechanical Damage Detection Using Wavelets", The 
Shock and Vibration Digest, 1998, Vol. 30, No. 6, pp. 457-472. 
16. Hou Z, Nouri M and Amand R. St, ”Wavelet Based Approach for Structural Damage 
Detection”, ASCE Journal of Engineering Mechanics; 2000, July 677--683. 
17. Ghanem, R. and Romeo, F.,“A wavelet based approach for model and parameter 
identification of nonlinear systems”, International Journal of Nonlinear Mechanics, 2001, 
Vol.5, 2001, pp. 835–859.  
18. Melhem, H and Kim, H., “Damage detection in concrete by Fourier and Wavelet analysis”, 
Amer. Soc. Civ. Eng, J. Eng. Mech., 129(5), 2003, pp. 571-577. 
19. Basu B., “Identification of stiffness degradation in structures using wavelet analysis”, 
Construction and Building Materials; 2005, 19, 713--721. 
20. R. H. Sues, S. T. Mau, and Y. K. Wen, "System identification of degrading hysteretic 
restoring forces,” Journal of Engineering Mechanics, 114:5 (1988), 833-846. 
21. Kunnath, S. K., J. B. Mander and L. Fang, “Parameter Identification for Degrading and 
Pinched Hysteretic Structural Concrete System,” J. of Structures, ASCE, Vol. 19, No. 3, 
1997, p.224-232. 
22. Ma, F., H. Zhang, A. Bockstedte, G. C. Foliente, and P. Paevere, "Parameter analysis of the 
differential model of hysteresis," Journal of Applied Mechanics, Transactions ASME, 71:3, 
2004, p: 342-349. 
23. F. Ma, C. H. Ng, and N. Ajavakom, "On system identification and response prediction of 
degrading structures," Structural Control and Health Monitoring, 13:1 (2006), 347-364. 
24. M. Ye and X. Wang, "Parameter estimation of the Bouc-Wen hysteresis model using 
particle swarm optimization," Smart Materials and Structures, 16:6 (2007), 2341-2349. 
25. Uang, C. M. and Bertero, V. V., “Evaluation of Seismic Energy Structures,” Earthquake 
Engineering and Structural Dynamics, Vol.19, 77-90, 1990. 
26. Alonso, F.J., J.M. Del Castillo, and P. Pintado, “Application of singular spectrum analysis 
Chapter 6:  Application of Advanced Statistical Methods for Extracting 
Long-term Trends in Static Monitoring Data  
 
INTRODUCTION 
Monitoring technology plays an important role in securing integrity of structural system 
and maintaining the longevity of the structure. It consists of three aspects: (1) instrumentation 
with sensors, (2) methodologies for obtaining meaningful information concerning the structural 
health monitoring, (3) early warning from the measured data. Various methods based on the 
dynamic and static test have been applied to address the structural health monitoring and 
damage identification. Due to the complexity of the structures and the importance of 
uncertainties such as environment effects and model uncertainties it is necessary to develop 
some effective and efficient approaches not only to determine damage occurrences and damage 
location for structural health monitoring in practice but also to set an early warning threshold 
before the disaster occurred.  
Generally, the damage of structure may be detected from the variation of structural features; 
however, these features may be affected by the changing environmental conditions such as 
temperature, humidity, loading conditions, and boundary conditions. It is also believed that the 
operational and environmental loads do exist in the monitoring data which can not be separated 
from the damage features. Feature extraction from the long-term data of structural health 
monitoring becomes an important issue. Peeters et al. [1] used a black-box model to describe 
the variations of eigenfrequencies as a function of temperature. The damage can be detected if 
the eignfrequency of the new data exceeds certain confidence intervals of the model. H. Sohn 
et al. employed auto-associate neural networks (AANN) to discriminate system changes on 
structural deterioration and damage from effects of the ambient conditions [2]. Yan et al. [3-4] 
proposed the principal component analysis (PCA) to extract the intrinsic environmental factors, 
and then adopted the novelty analysis to decide whether the structure is damaged or not. Sohn 
et al. [5] proposed to train an auto-associative neural network (AANN) to perform nonlinear 
principal component analysis (NLPCA) if the environmental effect is highly nonlinear. Giraldo 
et al [6] proposed a statistically based analysis to analyze the distribution of identified 
structural parameters over an unknown number of external conditions. Hsu and Loh [9] applied 
the nonlinear principal component analysis by using auto-associative neural network to extract 
the underlying environmental factors and identify the damage features of structure. Besides, the 
neural networks-based approach was also employed as an alternative tool for damage detection. 
Many advanced studies, such as Ko et al 2002 and Lee et al 2005 [8-9], have applied the neural 
network techniques for damage detection. Different from the principal component analysis and 
the neural networks, to extract tendencies and harmonic components of time series, the singular 
spectrum analysis (SSA) can be applied [10]. SSA is a novel non-parametric technique used in 
the analysis of time series and based on principles of multivariate statistics.  
of the dam, the Singular Spectrum Analysis (SSA) is used. SSA is a novel non-parametric 
technique based on multivariate statistics in the time series analysis. This method was firstly 
applied to extract tendencies and harmonic components in meteorological and geophysical time 
series. It was implemented to the displacement signal to improve its derivatives, namely the 
velocity as well as the acceleration, by numerical differentiation processing which showed a 
good tool to eliminate the effect of noise [10]. Besides the extraction of tendency, SSA can be 
applied to smooth a noisy signal, to extract seasonality component, or to detect the singularities. 
Basically, SSA is capable to decompose the original time series into a sum of several principle 
component time series, so that each component in this sum can be identified as a tendency, 
periodic component, or noise.  
Method of Analysis 
   A brief description on the process of SSA is shown below [12]:   
Step1: Embedding   Construct a Hankel matrix from the time series itself by sliding a window 
that is shorter in length than the original series. Firstly, let >=< −1210 ,, Nffff LF  be a vector 
which consists of the time series of length N and each element fi in F, indicates the data point 
at time t= ti . Let L be a specified window length, which is an integer in 1< L<N. The 
trajectory matrix X = [X1, X2, …, XK ], with Xi = < fi-1, fi, … , fi+L-2>T, is constructed and 
defined as a Hankel matrix:  
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎥⎥
⎦
⎤
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎢⎢
⎣
⎡
=
−+−
+
−
111
1432
321
1210
NLLL
K
K
K
ffff
ffff
ffff
ffff
L
MOMMM
L
L
L
X                       (1) 
where K=N-L+1. 
Step2: Conduct SVD of the Hankel matrix   The second step, the SVD step, makes the 
singular value decomposition of the trajectory matrix (Hankel matrix) and represents it as a 
sum of rank-one bi-orthogonal elementary matrices. Denote λ1, . . . , λL as the eigenvalues of 
XX’ in decreasing order of magnitude (λ1 ≥ . . .λL ≥ 0) and U1, . . . , UL be the orthonormal 
system (that is, (Ui, Uj) =0 for i = j (the orthogonality property) and 1=iU  (the unit norm 
property)) of the eigenvectors of the matrix XX’ corresponding to these eigenvalues. If we 
denote iii UXV λ/'=  then the trajectory matrix can be written as:  X = E1 +… + EL . The 
element matrices Ei are given by 'iiii VUλ=E  (i=1~L). Ui (equivalent to the i-th 
eigenvector of XX’ and in SSA literature it is called ‘factor empirical orthogonal functions’ or 
simply EOFs) and Vi (equivalent to the i-th eigenvector of X’X and often called ‘principal 
components’) stand for the left and right eigenvectors of the trajectory matrix. 
since the highly strict demand of the separation from the noise and periodic components. Also, 
the value of L can not be too large (even for a very complex series) for the consideration of 
non-necessary decomposition. In order to ensure the component decomposed by SSA is 
independent to each other, it is suggested to implement an auto-correlation test to decide a 
proper value of L before the SSA procedure [13]. If the signal x with N data points is going to 
be analyzed by SSA, the auto-correlation test is given by: 
                       
∑
∑
=
=
+
−
−−
= N
j
j
N
j
jLj
xx
xxxx
LC
1
2
1
)(
))((
)(                            (4) 
When the auto-correlation coefficient C crosses for the first zeros, the corresponding lag L may 
be the optimal candidate. However, the best L might not exactly correspond to the first zeros, 
but around it.  
To determine the proper value of L in the Hankel matrix, data collected from station 
NPL2Y172.5 was used as an example. First, using Eq.4 the auto-correlation was calculated, as 
shown in Figure 6a. For this set of data L=600 is selected. It is important to point out that 
suitable lag L needs to be determined from the correlation function. If smaller lag L was 
selected, the less eigen-number will be extracted and only a few principal components can 
retain 95% of the norm of the trajectory matrix. Figure 6b plots the retained percentage of each 
eigen-component.             
   Based on extracting the Principle Components (PC) from deformation time series by SSA, 
and fitting an Autoregressive (AR) modeling for each PC, the short term deformation 
forecasting (STDF) at time “t” for a particular PC is shown below: 
)()1()( 10 mtPCatPCaatPC kkmkkkk −++−+= L              (5) 
where “k” is the k-th PC from SSA and “m” is the order of the AR model. Combination of all 
PCs, the short term deformation forecasting at time “t” at a particular location, 
1( ) ( )
M
i kky t PC t== ∑% , can be developed. Coefficients of AR models are estimated separately for 
each group of data by the least square method. Figure 7 shows the diagram of STDF. It consists 
of four steps: (1) The time series is decomposed to principal components via SSA, (2) AR 
modeling of the principal component, (3) multi-step ahead prediction of the principal 
components and (4) Combining the principal components via SSA. It is assumed that the time 
series data for SSA is collected under normal operational condition, i.e. no damage was 
developed in the structure. The residual ( )(~)()( tytytr iii −= ) between the estimate STDF and 
the recorded value can be defined by the uncertainty of the data itself which can be used for 
determining the threshold value of early warning.    
Nonlinear Principal Component Analysis (NPCA)  
Different form the SSA method, AANN is used and trained to reconstruct the original time 
series data and then to extract the underlying nonlinear principal components (NLPC). Based 
on the collected static deformation time series from the plumb line, normalization on the data 
was first conducted. The normalization is defined as: 
μ
μ−= ii yyˆ                                  (7) 
where yi represents the measured time series of the deformation value from one location at a 
specific time “ i ”, and μ is the mean value of the all data set. These intact data sets will be 
used as a reference-based data for training the neural networks (AANN). The trained AANN is 
used to reconstruct the original data and to extract the underlying nonlinear principal 
components. Two different set of inputs are considered: with and without the time series of 
measurement temperature. Based on the trained AANN the underlying nonlinear principal 
components (NLPC) can be extracted. The residual error re  of the data due to the mapping 
and de-mapping of AANN can be generated and will be used to develop the deformation 
threshold for early warning. Figure 9 shows the comparison on the recorded displacement and 
the estimated displacement using both SSA-AR model and AANN-NPCA methods for data 
from location NPL2Y172.5 and for data from location NPL2Y57.5. It is found that, as shown 
in Table 1b, the standard deviation value at 1% and 99% ( upperlower and σσ ) of the cumulative 
probability density function of the residual error is larger for AANN method with considering 
temperature and water level.    
  The statistical distribution of the residual error estimated from both two different methods is 
investigated. Figure 10 shows the comparison of the histogram of residual error from two 
different methods at location of NPL2Y172.5 and NPL2Y57.5. The standard deviation of the 
residual error from SSA and AANN along the measurement line of NPL2Y is shown in Table 1. 
From Figure 9 it is found that the distribution of residual error does not exactly follow the 
normal distribution. Different from the estimation of standard deviation from the residual error 
time series, the deviation value at 1% and 99% ( upperlower and σσ ) of the cumulative probability 
density function of the residual error is also calculated, as shown in Table 1.     
    Both SSA-AR and AANN-NPCA methods are designed to reconstruct the original data 
and to extract the underlying nonlinear principal components simultaneously from different 
view points. The intact data sets are used as a reference-based data for training the neural 
networks as well as for developing the reference AR model. For short time deformation 
prediction the SSA-AR model will be used for one-step prediction and compare with the 
measured data. Different from the SSA-AR method, the well trained pre-determined AANN 
model can be used to estimate the response of each future step. The monitoring data can be 
compared with the estimated one from AANN and the error residual can be generated. Figure 
deformation value from the proposed method larger than the prescribed threshold value, an 
early warning signal can be sent for close inspection of the structure.     
4. Different from using SSA-AR model a similar approach NARXNN (the Nonlinear 
AutoRegressive with eXogenous Neural Network) can also be applied to the static deformation 
of the dam data. The NARXNN is an neural network based multi-variate analysis. The 
input-memory and output-memory orders in NARXNN need to be determined in advance. 
Sensitivity analysis is required to determine the input-memory orders. A different research 
work is now under going using this method. 
5. Based on the proposed AANN and SSA-AR methods, the extracted trends should be provided 
to examine if any false-positive or false-negative alarming will occur. The determination of the 
threshold value for early warning needs to be discussed. A useful inference regarding the 
threshold level of the dam static deformation is the confidence interval (prediction interval). 
Assuming that the error term in the following regression model has a normal distribution 
random variable with mean zero and constant variance 2σ . First, the distributional 
assumptions can be checked by residual plot and normal probability plot of residuals. The 
residuals of AANN model are closer to the normal distribution. The 100(1-α)% prediction 
interval (threshold level) for a single deformation Y can be approximately estimated in the 
following for a large number of regression data (training data) n 
                             stYYstY Y 2/2/ ˆˆ αα +<<−                      (8)            
where Y  and Yˆ  are the measured and predicted deformation; 2/αt  is the t-value with n-1 
degrees of freedom, leaving an area of 2/α  to the right. If the future measured deformation 
data is within the prediction interval, the condition of Fei-Tsui dam is normal. Based on the 
study of the deformation data the normal probability plots of residuals for static deformation 
along the plumb line of NPL2 are closer to a straight line for standard normal quantile between 
-2.0 and 2.0. The estimation of threshold is followed this procedure.  
  
REFERENCES 
[1]  Peeters B., and De Roeck G. (2001) “One-year monitoring of the Z24-Bridge: 
environmental effects versus damage events.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural 
Dynamics, 30, 149-171. 
[2]  Sohn H., Dzwonczyk M., Straser E.G., Kiremidjian A.S., Law K.H., Meng T. (1999) “An 
experimental study of temperature effect on modal parameters of the Alamosa Canyon 
Bridge.” Earthquake Engineering and Structural Dynamics, 28, 879–897. 
[3]  Yan A.M., Kerschen G., De Boe P., Golinval J.C. (2005) “Structural damage diagnosis 
under changing environmental conditions—Part I: A linear analysis.” Mechanical 
Systems and Signal Processing, 19, 847-864. 
Table 1a: List of estimated standard deviation of deformation residual  
using SSA-AR method.   
 
 SSA-method  SSA-AR method 
 σ 
(mm)
No. 
of 
P.C. 
AR 
Order
σlower 
(mm) 
σupper 
(mm) 
NP2Y172.5 1.59 36 20 -4.28 4.34 
NPL2Y150 1.24 32 20 -3.6 3.44 
NPL2Y115 0.72 33 20 -2.12 2.07 
NPL2Y90 0.43 33 20 -1.33 1.226 
NPL2Y57.5 0.14 39 20 -0.41 0.37 
 
Table 1b: List of estimated standard deviation of deformation residual  
using AANN-NPCA method.   
 
 AANN 
Method
(mm) 
AANN-method 
(without “T” and 
“D”) 
(mm) 
AANN-method 
(with “T” and “D”) 
(mm) 
 σ σupper σlower σupper σlower 
NP2Y172.5 1.15 2.58 -3.18 4.86 -3.94 
NPL2Y150 1.20 3.18 -2.76 4.31 -3.45 
NPL2Y115 0.78 1.98 -1.85 2.03 -1.89 
NPL2Y90 0.48 1.43 -1.28 1.64 -1.42 
NPL2Y57.5 0.20 0.55 -0.53 0.86 -0.88 
            Note: “T” indicates temperature and “D” indicates water level. 
 
 
                 Figure 1: Areal photo of Fei-Tsui Arch Dam (Taiwan). 
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000
0
10
20
(m
m
)
Recorded Displacement (1987/1/1~2009/04/30)
 
 
PL2Y057
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000
-50
0
50
(m
m
)
 
 
PL2Y090
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000
-50
0
50
(m
m
)
 
 
PL2Y115
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000
-50
0
50
(m
m
)
 
 
PL2Y150
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000
-50
0
50
Point
(m
m
)
 
 
PL2Y172
 
      Figure 4: Recorded static radial deformation of Fei-Tsui arch dam along plumb line 
NPL2 line at different level. 
 
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Recorded the Lowest Temperature (1987/01/01~2009/04/30)
Point
D
eg
re
es
 C
el
si
us
 
 
T-LO
0 1000 2000 3000 4000 5000 6000 7000 8000
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Recorded the Highest Temperature (1987/01/01~2009/04/30)
Point
D
e
gr
e
es
 C
e
ls
iu
s
 
 
T-HI
 
Figure 5: Recorded lowest and highest temperature at Fei-Tsui arch dam site  
(from1987/01/01 to 2009/04/30). 
 
Figure 9a: Comparison on the recorded displacement and the estimated displacement  
           using data from NPL2Y57.5; (a) using AANN-NPCA (ST method consider 
temperature and water level, (b) using AANN-NPCA method without 
considering temperature and water level, (c) using SSA-AR model a.  
 
Figure 9b: Comparison on the recorded displacement and the estimated displacement  
           using data from NPL2Y172.5; (a) using AANN-NPCA method consider 
temperature and water level, (b) using AANN-NPCA method without 
considering temperature and water level, (c) using SSA-AR model a. 
(a) PDF of residual error (using SSA‐AR method) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) PDF of residual error (using AANN method) 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 10b: Probability density function (histogram) of residual errors at location 
NPL2Y57.5;  
using SSA-AR method, (b) using AANN method. The standard deviation σ, 
upperlower and σσ  from two methods are also shown in the figure. 
-1 -0.8 -0.6 -0.4 -0.2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
Error (mm)
D
en
si
ty
Probability Density Function
 
 
Error
 
σ1%=-0.41 
σ99%=0.37 
-1 -0.8 -0.6 -0.4 -0.2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
Error (mm)
D
en
si
ty
Probability Density Function
 
 
Error
 
σ1%=-0.53 σ99%=0.53 
Chapter 7:  Damage Detection of Building Structure by Using Stochastic 
Subspace Identification 
 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
The detection of damage to structures is important in structural maintenance and the 
prediction of remaining service life. Many techniques for detecting structural damage just 
involve modal analysis because a change of the modal parameters always arises by a change in 
the physical property of the system [1,2]. Many system identification methods have been 
employed to estimate the modal parameters of the system. They include FFT, ARX, the 
subspace identification method and others. Some of the methods can directly identity the 
natural frequencies, damping ratios and mode shapes of the system and some can yield the 
system matrix, the control matrix and the observer matrix of the state space model [3]. The 
results of all these identification methods may be useful in detecting structural damage. 
However the location and quantification of such damage requires more detailed information.  
Model-based damage identification methods have been proposed to provide detailed 
damage information using a physical model. For example, the finite element-based model 
updating method is a well known model-based method that can locate and quantify damage to 
each structural element [4-5]. Although this approach is very powerful, the geometric and 
material properties of all the structural elements must be provided in the system model. This 
requirement may be impossible to satisfy for some structures owing to a lack of structural 
information. Other model-based methods directly use the stiffness and damping matrices to 
construct a physical model of the system and assume that the mass matrix can be obtained and 
remains constant across various instances of damage. To obtain a suitable physical model, an 
optimization is performed by modifying the stiffness and damping matrices until the 
differences between the dynamic characteristics of the physical model and the real structure 
have been minimized [6]. Still other methods are “inverse” methods which determine the 
stiffness and damping matrices from modal properties, which are identified from experimental 
input/output measurements using system identification methods [7-9]. In recent years, the 
subspace identification method has been developed and successfully used [10-11], leading to 
the development of the newest damage detection methods. Xiao and Bruhns adopted the 
transformation matrix to determine the mass, stiffness and damping matrices [12]. Amani and 
Riera identified the changes in the stiffness and damping matrices by considering ambient 
vibrations [13]. Both of these methods were introduced to identify the stiffness and damping 
matrices in this investigation. The goal of this study is to locate and quantify structural damage 
from output-only measurement data. Additionally, for practical purposes, partial measurements 
are considered because measuring the responses of all degrees of freedom of the system 
2 1( )( )
( )
ntt
t
×⎡ ⎤= ∈⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
u
X
u& R                                        (7) 
and      2 2 ,n n×⎡ ⎤= ∈⎢ ⎥− −⎣ ⎦
n
c
0 I
A
K C
R   2 1,n×⎡ ⎤= ∈⎢ ⎥−⎣ ⎦c
0
B
L
R  and  2n n×⎡ ⎤= − − ∈⎣ ⎦cC K C R  (8) 
where cA , cB  and cC  are the system matrix, the control matrix and the observer matrix of 
the continuous-time state space model. Equations (5) and (6) can also be rewritten as the 
discrete-time state space model, 
1 ,k k g ku+ = +d dX A X B &&                                       (9) 
k k= dY C X                                               (10) 
where 
2 2exp( )     or    log( ) /n nt t×= Δ ∈ = Δd c c dA A A AR                          (10a) 
( ) ( ) 11 2 1     or    n −− ×= − ∈ = −d d 2n c c c c d 2n dB A I A B B A A I BR                     (10b) 
=d cC C                                                            (10c) 
dA , dB  and dC  are the system matrix, the control matrix and the observer matrix of the 
equivalent discrete-time state space model. ( )k k t= ΔX X  is the discrete-time state vector, and 
tΔ  is the sample time and k∈N . 
For a linear system with n degrees of freedom, all of the system matrices (system matrix, 
control matrix and observer matrix) of the equivalent discrete-time state space model can be 
extracted directly by the input/output–based system identification algorithm. Equations 
(10a)~(10c) yield the continuous-time state space model. However, determining the equivalent 
damping matrix C  and stiffness matrix K  directly from the system matrix cA  via Eq. (8) is 
impossible because the system parameter matrices are not uniquely determined. Appendix A 
establishes this claim. To solve the problem, two approaches have been proposed to identify the 
system stiffness and damping matrices from full output-only measurements of all 
degrees-of-freedom [12, 13]. These two approaches are described briefly below.  
 
Determination of normalized stiffness and damping matrices – Theory Ⅰ 
Amani et al. (2007) proposed the basic concept that underlies the identification approach. 
Recall the motion equation, Eq. (1), and consider the orthogonal properties of the 
eigen-solution of the system: 
( )2kq kq kqλ λ ϕ+ + =M C K 0                            (11) 
where kqλ  is one of the complex eigenvalues of the kth mode and 1nkqϕ ×∈R  is its 
corresponding eigenvector. The eigen-solution can be obtained from the transformed system 
matrix ′cA  and the observer matrix ′cC  (defined by Eq. (A4) of the appendix) using the 
following relations;  
0T Tkq kr kr kq kr kqλ λ ϕ ϕ ϕ ϕ− =M K                               (18)    
or                           H H− =ΩΦ MΦ Φ KΦ 0                          (18a) 
where 2diag( ) n nkω ×= ∈Ω R .  Base on Equations (17) and (18), the normalized damping and 
stiffness matrices that appear in Eq.(3) are obtained as, 
1 1 1 1( )     and    ( )H H T− − − −= = =CM Φ ΓΦ C M C CM                   (19) 
1 1 1 1( )     and    ( )H H T− − − −= = =KM Φ ΩΦ K M K KM                  (20) 
Equations (19) and (20) yield estimates of normalized stiffness and damping from the 
eigen-solution of the system. The mass matrix is not required to identify the normalized 
stiffness and damping matrices there.  
 
Determination of normalized stiffness and damping matrices – Theory Ⅱ 
The normalized damping and stiffness matrices can be obtained from the model equations 
(5) and (6) if the system parameter matrix cA  or cC  is known. However, for stochastic input, 
if the output-only data-driven SSI method is used, only the transformed ′cA  and ′cC   can be 
identified, because the system parameter matrices are not uniquely determined. Fortunately, a 
transformation matrix R  exists between c cA and A ′ , and between c cC and C ′ (see Appendix):  
1−′=c cA RA R                                 (21) 
1−′=c cC C R                                  (22) 
The second theory supports a very effective approach for determining the transformation 
matrix R  for the corresponding doublet { },′ ′c cA C [Xiao, et.al. 2001]. Firstly, the 
transformation matrix R  is partitioned into four parts: 
11 12
21 22
⎡ ⎤= ⎢ ⎥⎣ ⎦
R R
R
R R
                                  (23) 
where 11 12 21 22, , , n n×∈R R R R R . Then Eq. (23) is substituted into Eq. (21) and both Eqs. (21 and 
(22) can be rewritten: 
11 12 11 12
21 22 21 22
⎡ ⎤ ⎡ ⎤⎡ ⎤ ′=⎢ ⎥ ⎢ ⎥⎢ ⎥− −⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦ ⎣ ⎦
n
c
R R R R0 I
A
R R R RK C
                      (24) 
′⎡ ⎤− − =⎣ ⎦ cK C R C                                  (25) 
The following equations are derived from Eq.(24): 
[ ] [ ]21 22 11 12 c′=R R R R A                          (26) 
[ ]21 22 ′⎡ ⎤− − =⎣ ⎦ cK C R R R A                         (27) 
Substituting Eq. (27) into Eq. (25) yields the lower half of the matrix R  and then substituting 
the lower half of matrix R  into Eq. (26) yields the upper half of matrix R . The main result is 
This condition is difficult to fulfill particularly in a high-rise building. The number of sensors is 
generally much less than the number of floors in the building. The use of insufficient sensors to 
detect structural damage can raise challenges, especially when stochastic measurements of 
ambient vibration responses are used. This section presents a method of damage detection that 
employs only a few measurements (stochastic output data only). 
Consider an incomplete output vector ( )tY%  measured using l  sensors, which provide 
partial measurements of a building structure: 
1( ) ( ) ( ) ( )      ( )lt t t t l n×′ ′′= = = ∈ ≤c cY TY TC Z C Z% R             (31) 
where l n×∈T R  is the output location influence matrix, which corresponds to the sensor 
measurement locations, and ′cC  is the observer matrix (defined in Eq. (A4)) and 
2l n×′′ ′= ∈c cC TC R  is the transformed observer matrix between the incomplete output vector and 
the state vector. When the output-only SSI method was applied to this partial measurement, 
only the doublet { },′ ′′c cA C  could be identified and the doublet { },′ ′d dA C  could not. Similar to 
the relations given in Equations (12) and (13), an orthogonal doublet { }, ′Λ Ψ  can be 
determined from{ },′ ′′c cA C : 
′ ′′= cΨ C Ψ                              (32) 
Based on  Eq. (30), the relationship between ′Ψ  and Ψ  is,  
1 1 2 2q r q r nrϕ ϕ ϕ ϕ ϕ′ ′ ⎡ ⎤= = = ⎣ ⎦cΨ TC Ψ TΨ T T T T TL            (33) 
Equation (33) yields incomplete information on the mode shapes, because n l−  locations are 
lost from one set of measurements. A different set of measurements can generate an equation in 
a similar form to that of Eq. 33 but with different values of T and ϕ . The difference between 
{ }, ′Λ Ψ  and { },Λ Ψ  is in the identified mode shapes. Theoretically, different measurements 
will not yield different estimates of matrix Λ  if the system remains unchanged. However, 
values in each column vector in matrix ′Ψ  are available only at the sensor locations. The 
column vectors of the matrix Ψ  represent the mode shapes. The sensor layout enables the 
complete matrix Ψ  to be reconstructed from different sets of the matrices ′Ψ . Each set of  
′Ψ  matrices is obtained from a limited number of sensors in various arrangements. Hence, 
incomplete measurements must be made several times, each with the sensor locations changed 
to cover all of the degrees of freedom of the system. Accordingly, before the output data can 
measure, a reference location must be chosen. The sensor at the reference location must not be 
moved as each set of measurements are made. Then, the identified ′Ψ  using different 
arrangement of sensors is normalized to the ′Ψ value at the reference location. Finally, all of 
the normalized ′Ψ  are assembled to reconstruct the complete matrix Ψ . After the doublet 
of 50gal along with duration of 120 sec was used as a base excitation of the ambient vibration 
responses of the structure. The acceleration responses of each floor were measured, and the 
proposed output-only stochastic subspace identification technique and the damage index were 
used to locate the damage and determine its severity of the damage (stiffness reduction). To 
obtain reliable stiffness degradation ratios in each case of damage, the input/output subspace 
identification method was also used to identify the damage from both input and output 
earthquake excitation data (from the EL Centro earthquake, normalized to 100gal).  
System identification using both input and output measurements 
First, the input-output subspace identification method was employed to determine the 
continuous-time system parameter matrices ′cA , ′cB  and, based on which the modal properties 
(natural frequencies, damping ratios and mode shapes) in each experiment are determined. 
Table 3 presents the identified natural frequencies and damping ratios in all experimental cases 
and Fig. 4 presents the identified six mode shapes for the undamaged reference case (Case 
A-1). The differences between the identified natural frequencies and damping ratios in the case 
of damage and those in the reference case without damage are insignificant, and determining 
structural damage from the change in modal properties directly is difficult. Figure 5 compares 
the estimated and the measured floor acceleration time histories of 1F, 3F and 6F, respectively, 
for the undamaged reference case. In this figure, the normalized root mean squared error 
(NRMSE) quantifies the fitting of the date between two time histories. In the undamaged 
reference case, the NRMSE values of 1F, 3F and 6F are 4.23%, 3.65% and 3.09%, respectively, 
indicating that the determined matrices C  and K  are reliable. The same verification process 
was used to all experimental cases, and all of the NRMSE values were demonstrated to be 
under 5.0%, acceptably verifying the accuracy of the identification method. 
Output-only damage detection with full measurements 
 Based on the normalized damping and stiffness matrices C  and K , the ratios of 
stiffness degradation in all cases of damage are estimated using the output-only SSI method, as 
described above. In the two aforementioned methods, the dynamic characteristics of the model 
are identified using output only measurements (stochastic output), rather than the both input 
and output data. Based on the proposed methods, the following procedure was employed. 
1. Collect the full-measured output data concerning an ambient vibration. 
2. Identify the transformed system parameter matrices ′cA  and ′cC  using the output-only SSI 
method. 
3-1a Represent the doublet { },′ ′c cA C  in the modal coordinate as { },Λ Ψ , as in Eqs. (12)~(13). 
3-1b Construct the matrices Γ , Ω  and Φ  based on the definitions in Eqs. (17)~(18). 
3-1c Compute the normalized damping and stiffness matrices C  and K , used in Equations. 
(19)~(20). 
3-2a Compute the transformation matrix R , given by Eq.(28). 
and the complete matrix 2n n×∈Ψ R  consists of all normalized incomplete matrix 2l n×′∈Ψ R . 
6. Compute the normalized damping and stiffness matrices C  and K  as in steps 3.1 and 3.2; 
the transformation matrix R  is directly computed by treating { },Λ Ψ  as the doublet 
{ },′ ′c cA C . 
7. Determine the ratio of stiffness degradation mδ . 
Once the normalized stiffness matrix K  is determined, the normalized stiffness 
degradation ratios can be evaluated. The light grey bars in Figs. 6 and 7 represent the stiffness 
degradation ratio obtained using insufficient sensors. The results are similar to those obtained 
using full input/output identification and the full output-only identification. The concept of the 
measurement plan in this section is useful when the sensors are fewer than the degrees of 
freedom of the system. From these two figures, the damage severity can be approximately 
determined as follows.  
• Replacing the connecting plate C3 with C2 may cause 10~20% stiffness degradation. 
• Replacing the connecting plate C3 with C1 may cause 20~25% stiffness degradation. 
• Removing the connecting plate C3 may cause around 50% stiffness degradation. 
• Cutting the column to a length of 60mm and a width of 5mm width cause 3~4% stiffness 
degradation. 
• Cutting the column to a length of 90mm and a width of 5mm may cause 6~7% stiffness 
degradation. 
Since the matrix Λ  implicitly contains the damping ratios and natural frequencies of 
the system, and the column vectors of matrix ′Ψ  contain the incomplete mode shapes, 
because of the loss of the measurements at n l−  locations, the doublet { }, ′Λ Ψ  in each 
arrangement presented in Table 4 can be identified; Fig. 8 presents the statistical results for the 
pole in each mode. In Fig. 8, ω  represents the mean natural frequency among 40 
arrangements and ωσ  represents its standard deviation. The identified pole in each mode looks 
very consistence among different measurement.  
 
CONCLUSIONS 
 
This study describes two methods for determining the normalized damping and stiffness 
matrices of a structural system from the ambient vibration response data using output only 
measurements. Based on the output-only SSI method, the full output-only measurement data 
were initially used to evaluate the system model parameters. The normalized damping and 
stiffness matrices of the structural system were obtained. Finally, the location and severity of 
damage to the structural system are estimated in terms of the normalized stiffness degradation 
Control, Vol 56, 1187-1210. 
15. M. Verhaegen. 1994. Identification of the deterministic part of MIMO state space models given in 
innovations from input-output data, Automatica, Vol 30, 61-74. 
16. J.N. Juang and R.S. Pappa. 1985. An eigensystem realization algorithm for modal parameter 
identification and modal reduction, Journal of Guidance, Control and Dynamics, Vol 8,620-627. 
 
 
APPENDIX A 
 
In the case of only output measurement, the equivalent damping matrix C  and stiffness 
matrix K  cannot be determined directly from the system matrix cA  using Eq. (8), because 
the system parameter matrices are not uniquely determined, as explained below. A non-singular 
matrix 2 2n n×∈R R  is given as a transformation matrix that transforms the state vector:  
( ) ( )t t=X RZ                                 (A1) 
where 2 1( ) nt ×∈Z R  is a new state vector. Substitute Eq. (A1) into Equations (5) and (6) yields, 
( ) ( ) ( )gt t u t′ ′= +c cZ A Z B& &&                             (A2) 
( ) ( )t t′= cY C Z                                 (A3) 
where                   
1−′ =c cA R A R   1−′ =c cB R B    ′ =c cC C R                   (A4) 
The foregoing derivation indicates that for a given input/output data set ,g ku&&  and kY , the 
triplet { }, ,′ ′ ′c c cA B C  is also a solution of system parameter matrices. In fact, a different 
transformation matrix yields different “transformed” system parameter matrices as the results 
of a system identification method. Therefore, the equivalent damping matrix C  and stiffness 
matrix K  can not be directly determined from a transformed system matrix ′cA  unless a 
suitable transformation matrix R  can be determined, to enable the physically meaningful 
system matrix 1−′=c cA RA R  to be computed. This idea is further developed in the second 
theory of this study. Although each of the system parameter matrices is not uniquely 
determined, a common characteristic is evident: 
1 1( )           ( 0,1,2,3 )k k k k− −′ ′ ′ = = =c c c c c c c c cC A B C R R A R R B C A B K      (A5) 
The left-hand side of Eq. (A5) contains the Markov parameters of the models (A3) and (A4) 
[14-15]. This set of Markov parameters remains constant under all model transformations. For 
a discrete-time state space model, as indicated in Eqs. (9) and (10), the Markov parameters 
represent just the impulse response of the system, as can be proven by applying an impulse 
input and assuming that the system is initially relaxed: 
, 0
1     for  0         
     ;     
0     for  1,2,3g k
k
u
k
=⎧= =⎨ =⎩ X 0
&&
K
               (A6) 
Then output response is determined to be 
1k
k
−= d d dY C A B                              (A7) 
a. b. c. 
 
Figure 1. (a) Photo of the six-story steel frame for damage detection, (b) & (c) Dimension of 
the front view and side view of the structure.  
 
 
Figure 2: Three different types of connection plate in the inter-story bracing system.  
      
Figure 3: (a) Locations cuts in the column of the steel structure, (b) Depth of cut in the column. 
 
Figure 6: Estimated percentage of floor stiffness reduction using two different theories for 
Case1-1 ~ Case1-4 damage simulations. 
Table 3: Identified natural frequencies and damping ratios from two different test cases.  
 
Table 4: Ten different types of sensor layout with partial measurement for damage detection, 
and four segments of data are collected for each sensor layout.  
 
 
 
component, or to detect the singularities. Basically, SSA is capable of decomposing the original series 
into a sum of series, so that each component in this sum can be identified as a tendency, periodic 
component, or noise. Formally, SSA can be implemented to arbitrary time series. Different 
considerations should be concerned for different problems in hand. Detail descriptions for the application 
of SSA to various problems can be found in Ref.[5]. The versatility makes SSA a potential technique for 
extracting damage features directly from the time series.  
In this study, the application of SSA to the damage detection and feature extraction on seismic 
response data of reinforced concrete structures is investigated. Consider four 1-story 2-bay reinforced 
concrete frames, designed with Taiwan Building Code, were constructed under exactly the same design 
details and construction quality. Each frame will tested on NCREE shaking table with different intensity 
level of earthquake excitation. After the shaking table test each frame will be tested with cyclic loading to 
estimate the remaining capacity of the frame. Figure 1 shows the dimension of the frame structure.  
Each span is 2.0 m and the height is 2.30 m. Deal load (lead ballistic) of 4 tons was added the top of the 
floor to ensure to have significant inertia force on the frame. The first fundamental frequency of the frame 
in longitudinal direction is designed to have about 5.86 Hz. White noise excitations were also applied to 
these tested structures before and after the earthquake excitation from the shaking table. As shown in 
Table 1 each RC frame was tested with different intensity level of ground excitation. The recorded 
maximum inter-story drift was also identified directly from the measurements, ranging from 1.42% to 
4.69%. Based on FEMA definition on building response, the damage situation of these four specimens 
was ranging from moderate damage to nearly collapse. Application of singular spectrum analysis to the 
seismic response data of these frames is investigated. The significance of this paper is that it presents a 
step by step procedure to implement SSA for structural system identification and damage detection. The 
methodology is presented in Sec. 2.  The details of the implementation of the methodology are presented 
in Sec. 3.    
2. SINGULAR SPECTRUM ANALYSIS 
      The use of singular spectrum analysis is discussed as an alternative to traditional digital filtering 
method. Its usefulness has been proven in the analysis of climate and geophysical time series. A 
description of the method will be given in this session.   SSA procedure consists of four steps: (1) 
embedding, (2) singular value decomposition (SVD), (3) grouping, and (4) reconstruction. The detail 
description of each step is shown in formal terms as follows [4]: 
Step1: Embedding         The method starts to produce a Hankel matrix from the time series itself by 
sliding a window that is shorter in length than the original series. Firstly, let ),,,( 110 −= NfffF K  be 
the time series of length N. And let L be the window length, which is an integer in 1< L<N. Each sliding 
window vector Xj with length of L would then be derived: Xj =( fj-1, fj , …, fj+L-2 )T, j = 1, 2, …, K, where K 
=N-L+1 is the number of columns. The matrix X = [X1, X2, …, XK] is a Hankel matrix (or called 
trajectory matrix): 
 
users. For example, if one intends to derive the tendency of the structural response displacement, by 
which the residual displacement may be clearly indicated, r would be decided as 1, namely the first 
leading eigentriple.   
Step4: Reconstruction           The approximate matrix is no longer a Hankel matrix, but an 
approximated time series may be recovered by taking the average of the diagonals. It is practical to 
recover the elementary time series for each elementary matrix. These elementary time series (g0, g1, …, 
gN-1) is also called the principal component. If yij is used to represent the i-th row and j-th column 
element in any elementary matrix E, the reconstruction algorithm for each principal component can be 
formulated as follows: 
⎪⎪
⎪
⎩
⎪⎪
⎪
⎨
⎧
<≤−
<≤−
−<≤+
=
∑
∑
∑
+−
+−=
+−
=
+−
+
=
+−
NkPfory
kN
PkRfory
R
Rkfory
k
g
PN
Pkm
mkm
R
m
mkm
k
m
mkm
k
1
2
2,
1
2,
1
1
2,
1
11
10
1
1
  (2)
where R=min(L,K), P=max(L,K). The smoothed time series is obtained by adding the first r principal 
components. 
There are mainly two parameters needed to be determined in SSA: the window length L and the 
number of series involved in grouping. The selection of these two parameters depends on the class of 
signal and the analysis required to be performed. Discussion on some basic concepts to select these two 
parameters is shown as follows:  
(a) Grouping effects 
1. The Singular Spectrum can be a reference for selecting proper amounts of eigentriple.  
2. For a simple series, the tendency component would have the largest value of eigenvalue. 
3. For a complex series, the Singular Spectrum may be less useful to provide any information for 
grouping.    
(b) Window length effects  
1. The SVD results of the Hankel matrix, corresponding to window length L and  K = N-L+1, are 
equivalent. Therefore, it is meaningless to do SSA with window length larger than half of the time 
series length. 
2. It is straightforward that the larger the widow length is, the more detail is the decomposition of the 
time series. It is actually a trade-off problem since a larger window length would require a more 
massive computation effort. Furthermore, over decomposed components may occur due to excessive 
decomposition, which may lead to the mixing amongst components interested. It is possible to 
improve the decomposition even with a small variation of the window length. Therefore, it is always 
worthwhile trying several window lengths.   
3. For trend extraction problem, it requires a larger number of L since the highly strict demand of the 
separation from the noise and periodic components. Also, the value of L can not be too large (even 
for a very complex series) for the consideration of non-necessary decomposition. 
concrete frame under shaking table test is demonstrated in this section.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Figure 3: Plot the first decomposed eight principal components time history and its corresponding 
Fourier amplitude using SSA with L=300.  
 
2.1 Act as low-pass filter for signal processing 
     To study the inelastic hysteretic behavior of the structure during earthquake excitation, the 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
-0.5
0
0.5
g
SSA-L=300 (Component5~8)
 
 
Component5
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
-0.5
0
0.5
g
 
 
Component6
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
-0.2
0
0.2
g
 
 
Component7
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
-0.2
0
0.2
Time (sec.)
g
 
 
Component8
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0
50
100
150
 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0
50
100
150
 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0
50
100
 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0
20
40
60
p
 
De
co
m
po
se
d 
tim
e 
Hi
sto
ry 
(g
) 
Fo
ur
ier
 A
m
pli
tu
de
 
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
0.5
0
0.5
SSA-L=300 (Component1~4)
 
 
Component1
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
0.5
0
0.5
 
 
Component2
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
0.5
0
0.5
 
 
Component3
0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100
0.5
0
0.5
Time (sec.)
 
 
Component4
 
De
co
m
po
se
d 
Tim
e 
Hi
sto
ry 
(g
) 0 1 2 3 4 5 60
100
200
300
 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0
100
200
300
 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0
50
100
 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
0
50
100
150
 
Fo
ur
ier
 A
m
pli
tu
de
 
Frequency (Hz)
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 5: Residual deformation of RCF4 and RCF3 which represents the first component is 
extracted as the tendency of the permanent displacement.  
 
2.3 Damage detection using the residual component of SSA     
     As introduced in the previous section, SSA can decompose the signal into three categories of 
components: tendency, oscillation, and noise component. The singularity belongs to neither the 
tendency nor the oscillation; therefore, the information of singularity would be embedded in the noise 
component. The noise component has less eigen-value so that it always belongs to the residual series of 
SSA. Therefore, the application of SSA for singularity identification (or damage detection) will aim to 
extract the residual component instead of the tendency component. Generally, the singularity of 
structural response signals may be induced by the crack or damage of the structure at that instant of 
time. SSA can decompose the signal into three categories of components: tendency, oscillation, and 
noise component. Since the residual component contains both noise and singularity information, one 
main discrepancy is that the singularity shows obvious peaks in residual component whereas the noise 
shows minor and scattered fluctuations. 
 
The singularity signals generally have low contribution to the whole signal. After several test for 
different value of the extraction criterion, it is recommended that to extract the residual component with 
energy contribution less than 0.01%. Consider the acceleration response data of specimen RCF6 and 
RCF2 from the shaking table test. The residual component of SSA is shown in Figure 6. The value of 
‘L’ is chosen as 300. The energy threshold for grouping in SSA is set as 99.99%, i.e. the first leading 
singular components with energy contribution of 99.99% are discarded and the remained component is 
extracted as the residual component. Figure 6 also compares the inter-story drift ratio, the Holder 
exponent [7], the Level-1 detail component of DWT [8] and the residual component obtained by SSA, 
using data for specimen RCF6, specimen RCF2 and specimen RCF4. The estimated singularities in 
these three nonlinear indices clearly occurred at the times of maximal inter-story drift ratio. For 
specimen RCF6, as an example, (Fig. 6a) the singularities revealed the various nonlinear indices are all 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6a and 6b: Comparison on Inter-story drift ratio, Holder exponent, Level-1 detail component 
and residuals estimated from SSA with respect to time from response data of RCF6 
and RCF2. Correlation of singularities is identified among different analysis. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 6c: Comparison on Inter-story drift ratio, Holder exponent, Level-1 detail component and 
residuals estimated from SSA with respect to time from response data of RCF3. 
Correlation of singularities is identified among different analysis. 
 
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
0
2
4
In
te
r-
S
to
ry
 D
rif
t 
(%
)
RCF4
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
0
2
4
H
ol
de
r 
E
xp
on
en
t
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
-0.1
0
0.1
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
-0.05
0
0.05
Time (sec)
R
es
id
ua
l C
om
p.
  
  
  
D
et
ai
l C
om
p.
  
  
  
 H
ol
de
r E
xp
on
en
t 
  
  
  
  
In
te
r-S
to
ry
 
  
  
SS
A
  
  
  
  
  
 (
D
W
T-
Le
ve
l1
) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
D
rif
t R
at
io
 (%
) 
  
 
 
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
0
2
4
H
ol
de
r 
E
xp
on
en
t
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
-0.05
0
0.05
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
-0.05
0
0.05
Time (sec)
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
0
1
2
3
y
(
)
RCF2
R
es
id
ua
l C
om
p.
  
  
  
D
et
ai
l C
om
p.
  
  
  
 H
ol
de
r E
xp
on
en
t 
  
  
  
  
In
te
r-S
to
ry
 
  
  
SS
A
  
  
  
  
  
 (
D
W
T-
Le
ve
l1
) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
D
rif
t R
at
io
 (%
) 
  
 
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
0
2
4
H
ol
de
r 
E
xp
on
en
t
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
0.1
0
0.1
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
.05
0
.05
Time (sec)
25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70
0
0.5
1
1.5
y
(
)
RCF6
R
es
id
ua
l C
om
p.
  
  
  
D
et
ai
l C
om
p.
  
  
  
 H
ol
de
r E
xp
on
en
t 
  
  
  
In
te
r-S
to
ry
 
  
  
SS
A
  
  
  
  
  
 (
D
W
T-
Le
ve
l1
) 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 D
rif
t R
at
io
 (%
) 
  
  (a) (b) 
demonstrate the applicability of this algorithm:  
 
a. Provide an alternative to traditional digital filtering method: High frequency noise can be extracted 
using SSA so as to smooth the restoring force diagram which can provide better data for system 
identification. 
b. Extract permanent deformation (or residual deformation) data from the recorded displacement: 
Because the tendency of permanent deformation is emerged in the recorded displacement, through 
SSA the permanent deformation can be extracted. 
c. Using residual component for detecting the occurrence of damage: Damage due to the crack of 
material can induce high frequency signals. By extracting high frequency signal using SSA (such as 
extracting the residual components) the occurrence of damage can be identified. 
d. Estimate permanent deformation using acceleration data: the advantage of using SSA to the 
displacement data and to obtain the noiseless velocity and acceleration with minimum loss of 
information is one of the major contributions of this technique. On the contrary, using acceleration 
data to retrieve the displacement become a great challenge if the acceleration data contains the 
permanent deformation. Using SSA with principal component analysis (tendency component) and 
residual analysis, the permanent deformation can be extracted from the acceleration data. 
The above mentioned four different applications using SSA are verified using the shaking table test 
of reinforced concrete frames. It is shown that SSA provides one of the nonlinear indicator functions for 
system identification and damage evaluation. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Reda Taha, M.M., A. Noureldin, J.L. Lucero, and T.J. Baca, Wavelet transform for structural health 
monitoring: A compendium of uses and features. Structural Health Monitoring, 2006. 5(3): p. 267-295. 
[2] Yen, G.G. and K.-C. Kuo, Wavelet packet feature extraction for vibration monitoring. IEEE Transactions on 
Industrial Electronics, 2000. 47(3): p. 650-667. 
[3] Han, J.G., W.X. Ren, and Z.S. Sun, Wavelet packet based damage identification of beam structures. 
International Journal of Solids and Structures, 2005. 42(26): p. 6610-6627. 
[4] Alonso, F.J., J.M. Del Castillo, and P. Pintado, Application of singular spectrum analysis to the smoothing of 
raw kinematic signals. Journal of Biomechanics, 2005. 38(5): p. 1085-1092. 
[5] Golyandina, N., Analysis of time series structure: SSA and related techniques. 2001, Boca Raton, Fla. :: 
Chapman & Hall/CRC. 
[6] Tzagkarakis, G., M. Papadopouli, and P. Tsakalides, Trend forecasting based on Singular Spectrum Analysis of 
traffic workload in a large-scale wireless LAN. Performance Evaluation, 2009. 66(3-5): p. 173-190. 
[7] Robertson, A.N., C.R. Farrar, and H. Sohn, Singularity detection for structural health monitoring using Holder 
exponents, Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 2003. 17(6): p. 1163-1184. 
[8] Newland, D.E. An Introduction to Random Vibrations, Spectral and Wavelet Analysis, 
Longman Science & Technical, 3rd Edition, 1994. 
Degrading Hysteresis of Reinforced Concrete Frames,” Proceedings of 7th Int. Conf. on 
Urban Earthquake Eng. (7CUEE) & 5th Int. Conf. on Earthquake Eng. (5ICEE), March 3-5, 
2010, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, Japan  
●  R. Andrew Swartz, Yang Wang, Jerome P. Lynch, Kincho H. Law, and Chin-Hsiung Loh, 
“Experimental Validation of Market-based Control Using Wireless Sensor and Actuator 
Networks,” Proceedings of 7th Int. Conf. on Urban Earthquake Eng. (7CUEE) & 5th Int. 
Conf. on Earthquake Eng. (5ICEE), March 3-5, 2010, Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo, 
Japan  
● Lu, K. C. and Loh, C. H., “Development of Smart Sensing System for Structural Health 
Monitoring,” SPIE Smart Structure/NDE, San Diego, USA, 8-12 March, 2010. 
● Loh, C. H., C. H. Chen and C. H. Mao, “Detecting seismic response signals using Singular 
Spectrum Analysis,” SPIE Smart Structure/NDE, San Diego, USA, 8-12 March, 2010. 
 
► Year of 2009 (Journal Paper) 
● J-H. Weng, C.H. Loh and J.N. Yang, “Experimental Study of Damage Detection by 
Data-Driven Subspace Identification and Finite Element Model Updating," Accept for 
publication to J. of Structural Engineering, ASCE, 2009 (in printing [STENG-225] 
006912QST)’         
● Chao, Shu-Hsien and Loh, C. H., “Develop Biaxial Hysteretic Model for Reinforced 
Concrete Structures,” Int. J. of Nonlinear Mechanics, 44, 2009, 745-756.                    
● Ai-Lun Wu, C. H. Loh and J. N. Yang, “Input Force Identification: Application to Soil-Pile 
Interaction,” J. Structural Control & Health Monitoring, 16, 223-240, 2009           
● Chiun-Lin Wu, Wu-Wei Kuo, Yuan-Sen Yang, Shyh-Jiann Hwang, Kenneth J. Elwood, C. H. 
Loh, Jack P. Moehle, “Collapse of a nonductile concrete frame: Shaking table tests,” 
Earthquake Engineering & Structural Dynamics, 38, 2009, 205-224.                          
● Yu-Cheng Fan, C. H. Loh, Jann N. Yang and Pei-Yang Lin, “ Experimental Performance 
Evaluation of An Equipment Isolation Using MR-Dampers,” Earthquake Engineering & 
Structural Dynamics, 38, 285-305, 2009.                                                     
● David A. Shook, Paul N. Roschke, Pei-Yang Lin, C. H. Loh, “Semi-active control of a 
torsionally-responsive structure,” Engineering Structures, 29, 2009, 57-68.            
● Hae Young Noh, K. Krishnan Nair, Anne S. Kiremidjian and C. H. Loh, “Application of 
time series based damage detection algorithms to the benchmark experiment at the National 
Center for Research on Earthquake Engineering (NCREE) in Taipei, Taiwan,” Smart 
Structures and Systems, Vol. 5, No. 1 (2009) 95-117                                            
► Year of 2009 (Conference paper) 
● Loh, C. H., C. H. Mao and J. R. Huang, “Damage identification of degrading hysteresis of 
reinforced concrete frames,” Proceedings of the 6th National Workshop on Nondestructive 
Evaluation of Civic Infrastructural System (NDECIS’09), National Taiwan University, 
October 2009. 
● Loh, C. H., T. Y. Hsu and C. H. Chen, “Structural Health Monitoring for Fei-Tsui Arch Dam 
Using Both Static and Dynamic Measurements: Uncertainty Analysis,” International 
Symposium on Risk-Based Life-Cycle Engineering, NTUST, Taiwan, Oct. 2009. 
● Chao, S. H. and Loh, C. H., “Identification and Simulation of Reinforced Concrete Frames 
Subjected to Static and Dynamic Load,” Proceedings of the 7th Int. Workshop on SHM, 
Stanford University (Vol.2), Sept. 2009. p.1413.  
● Huang, S. K. Loh, C. H. and P. Y. Lin,”Damping Identification of Cable Vibration with and 
without MR Dampers,” Proceedings of the 7th Int. Workshop on SHM, Stanford University 
(Vol.2), Sept. 2009, p. 1421. 
● Weng, J. H. and Loh, C. H., “Damage Detection Using Stochastic Subspace Identification 
structural control system using wireless sensor networks,” Structural Control & Health 
Monitoring, 15(4), June 2008, 518-539.                                                      
► Year of 2008 (Conference paper) 
● C. H. Loh, A. L. Wu, J. H. Weng, C. H. Chen, T. S. Ueng, “Input Force Identification: 
Numerical and Experimental Studies,” International Symposium on Structural Control and 
Health Monitoring, Tai-Chung, Taiwan, Jan. 10-11, 2008 
● Kung-Chun Lu, Chin-Hsiung Loh, J. N. Yang, Pei-Yang Lin, “Decentralized Sliding Mode 
Control of Building Using MR-Dampers,” The 15th International Symposium on: Smart 
Structures and Materials & Nondestructive Evaluation and Health Monitoring, 9-13 March 
2008 (Paper Number: 6932-34) 
● Yu-Cheng Fan, Pei-Yang Lin, Chin-Hsiung Loh, Jann N. Yang, “Performance Evaluation of 
Semi-Active Equipment Isolation System Using MR-dampers,” The 15th International 
Symposium on: Smart Structures and Materials & Nondestructive Evaluation and Health 
Monitoring, 9-13 March 2008 (Paper Number: 6932-35). 
● Chin-Hsiung Loh, Ai-Lun Wu, Jann N. Yang,Chia-Han Chen, Tzou-Shin Ueng, “Input Force 
Identification Using Kalman Filter Techniques: Application to Soil-Pile Interaction,” The 
15th International Symposium on: Smart Structures and Materials & Nondestructive 
Evaluation and Health Monitoring, 9-13 March 2008 (Paper Number: 6932-73). 
● W.I. Liao, H. Gu, C. Olmi, G. Song, Y. L. Mo, and C.H. Loh, “Structural Health Monitoring 
of a Concrete Column Subjected to Shake Table Excitations Using Smart Aggregates,” 2008 
ASCE Earth & Space Conference on Intelligent Sensors and Actuators Symposium, Long 
Beach, March, 2008 
● Kung-Chun Lu, Chin-Hsiung Loh, Jann. N. Yang, “Building Control Using MR-Dampers: 
Centralized versus Decentralized Control,” 2008 ASCE Earth & Space Conference on 
Intelligent Sensors and Actuators Symposium, Long Beach, March, 2008 
● Chin-Hsiung Loh , Anil K. Agrawal, Jerome P. Lynch and Jann N. Yang, “ Development of 
experimental benchmark problems for international collaboration in structural response 
control,” Fourth International Conference on Bridge Maintenance, Safety and Management, 
IABMAS'08, Seoul, Korea, July 13-17, 2008 
● C.H. Loh, A.K. Agrawal*, J.P. Lynch and J.N. Yang, “Development of Experimental 
Benchmark Problems for International Collaboration in Structural Response Control,” 
Proceedings of The 4th Int. Conf. on Advances in Structural Engineering and Mechanics 
(ASEM’08), South Korea, May 26~28, 2008. 
● Kung-Chun Lu and Chin-Hsiung Loh, „STRUCTURAL CONTROL USING SMART 
CONTROL DEVICES,” Int. Workshop on Structural Health Monitoring (CANSMART-08), 
Montreal, Canada, October 2008. 
● Ting-Yu Hsu and Chin-Hsiung Loh, “Damage Localization and Quantification 
Accommodating Nonlinear Environmental Effects by Nonlinear Principal Component 
Analysis,” 2nd Asia-Pacific Workshop on Structural Health Monitoring, Melbourne, Australia, 
December, 2008. 
● Jian-Huang Weng, Chin-Hsiung Loh and Jann N, Yang, “ Finite Element-Based Damage 
Detection from Experimental Modal Analysis Results,” 2nd Asia-Pacific Workshop on 
Structural Health Monitoring, Melbourne, Australia, December, 2008. 
● Loh, Chin-Hsiung, “Turning the Civil and Mechanical Infrastructures into a “Smart” 
Structures,” Specialist Workshop Structural Health Monitoring: Future Directions, Melbourne, 
Australia, December, 2008. 
 
 
Symposium  15:  New  Development  and  Challenging  Issues  in  21st  Engineering 
Education in Dynamics, Controls, and Structures 
研討會所涵蓋的領域非常廣泛，其中與土木較為相關的專題為＂ Symposium 7: 
Advanced Topics in Offshore Wind Turbine Research＂，近年來綠能源開發是重
要且急迫需求的研究，風力發電為其中一種綠能源，而離岸發電風機則是目前被廣
泛討論的能源取得方案。由於風力發電機必須架設在海洋平台上，必須考量海洋平
台上的特殊環境需求以及不同於陸上的載重形式。 
“Symposium 9: Innovative Techniques in Structural Health Monitoring＂ 
也是非常值得關注的專題，由於近年來天然災害不斷，房屋、建築物在經歷過重大
災害後是否仍保持其安全性，是需要透過先進的檢測技術來檢查，該專題主要就是
探討先進的結構物健康診斷技術理論。本人的論文也在這個研討會中發表參與討
論。於會議中得知其他學校也有與我類似的研究議題，休士頓大學嘗試整合無線感
測系統與壓電感測器於土木結構上的運用，藉由壓電材料可以扮演感測器與致動器
的特質，將其運用於結構損壞的檢測上。會議過程中也獲得許多其他與會人員的批
評與指教，收穫非常多。 
f. 會議心得 
可以參加這次會議要感謝教育部的大力補助，大大減輕旅費的負擔。於研討會
中認識許多相近領域的學者，感受到研究並不孤單，有許多人一起專注在這些研究
的議題上。同時在研討會以外的時間，還可以遊覽旅遊勝地＂夏威夷＂，整體而言
這趟旅程非常充實有收穫，並且感受到行萬里路的重要性。 
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
 
2. Report on Attending IMAC Conference 
Conference Date: Feb. 1 ~ 4, 2010, in Jacksonville, Florida, USA 
 
A. Scheduled paper presentation: Feb. 2, Tuesday evening between 5:30PM ~ 
6:00PM in Session 23 Nonlinear Experimentation. 
Paper title: “Damage Detection of Reinforced Concrete Structures Using Nonlinear 
Indicator Functions,” 
          By: C. H. Loh, C. H. Mao and J. R. Huang 
Abstract:  
In this study, signal processing approaches and nonlinear indicators are used to 
measure seismic responses of reinforced concrete structures. To analyze structural 
nonlinearity, an equivalent linear system with time-varying model parameters, 
singular spectrum analysis to elucidate residual deformation, and wavelet analysis to 
Three different approaches in this paper which differ in the order of the data 
merging, normalization and system identification step: The classical PoSER 
(identification-normalization-merging), the PoGER (merging-identification- 
normalization) and the PreGER (normalization-merging-identification). Special care 
was taken with the PreGER method and its efficiency has been tested with respect to 
the two other methods. The system identification is done with the SSI-cov/ref method. 
[4] L. Mevel, M. Basseville, A. Benveniste, and M. Goursat. Merging sensor data 
from multiple measurement setups for nonstationary subspace-based modal analysis. 
Journal of Sound and Vibration, 249(4):719–741, 2002. 
[5] L. Mevel, A. Benveniste, M. Basseville, and M. Goursat. Blind subspace-based 
eigenstructure identification under nonstationary excitation using moving sensors. 
IEEE Transactions on Signal Processing, SP-50(1):41–48, 2002 
[7] E. Parloo, P. Guillaume, and B. Cauberghe. Maximum likelihood identification of 
non-stationary operational data. Journal of Sound and Vibration, 268(5):971–991, 
2003. 
[8] B. Peeters and G. D. Roeck. Reference-based stochastic subspace identification 
for output-only modal analysis. Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, 13(6): 
855–878, 1999. 
[9] E. Reynders, F. Magalh˜aes, G. D. Roeck, and A. Cunha. Merging strategies for 
multi-setup operational modal analysis: application to the Luiz I steel arch bridge. In 
Proceedings of IMAC 27, the International Modal Analysis Conference, Orlando, FL, 
February 2009. 
[10] E. Reynders, R. Pintelon, and G. De Roeck. Uncertainty bounds on modal 
parameters obtained from stochastic subspace identification. Mechanical Systems and 
Signal Processing, 22(4):948–969, 2008. 
 
♦ Session 13 Modeling and Estimation of Loads on Structural Civil Application 
Kerschen, G., A. F. Vakakis, Y. S. Lee, D. M. McFarland and L. A. Bergman, 
“Toward a Fundamental Understanding of the Hilbert-Huang Transform in Nonlinear 
Structural Dynamics,” Journal of Vibration and Control, 14(12):77105, 2008. 
Paper on “Session 13p007” presents force identification for MDOF system. 
[1] Mas P, Sas P, Wyckaert K., Indirect force identification based on impedance 
matrix inversion: a study on statistical and deterministic accuracy. In: 
Proceedings of 19th international seminar on modal analysis, Leuven, Belgium, 
1994, pp. 1049–65.  
[2] Dobson BJ, Rider E., A review of the indirect calculation of excitation forces from 
measured structural response data, Proc Inst Mech Eng C, 1990, 204, pp. 69–75.  
[3] Thite AN, Thompson DJ., The quantification of structure-borne transmission paths 
by inverse methods. Part 1: improved singular value rejection methods, J Sound 
Vibr 2003, 264, pp. 411–31.  
[4] Thite AN, Thompson DJ., The quantification of structure-borne transmission paths 
by inverse methods. Part 2: use of regularization methods, J Sound Vibr, 2003, 
264, pp. 433–51.  
[5] H.G. Choi, A.N. Thite, D.J. Thompson, A threshold for the use of Tikhonov 
regularization in inverse force determination, Applied Acoustics 67, 2006, pp. 
700–719.  
[6] Jennifer E. Michaels and Yih-Hsing Pao, The inverse source problem for an 
oblique force on an elastic plate, J. Acoust. Soc. Am 77 (6), June 1985, pp. 
2005-2011.  
[7] M. T. MARTIN and J. F. DOYLE, Impact force identification from wave 
Journal for numerical methods in engineering, Vol. 75, pages 440-478, 2008. 
Session 20: Model correlation and updating civil structures 
Session 23 Nonlinear Experimentation 
♦ Session 30 Structural health monitoring 
   “Input Estimation from Measured Structural Response” is one of the research 
topics It is interesting to know the input force (envelop of input force in kN) of a 
MDOF system when subject to different type of earthquake excitation. For a same 
structure, different excitation will have different input force on the structure.  
Session 34: Damage detection and modeling Civil Structures. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
 
3. Attending SPIE/NDE Conference 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
a. 會議期間及地點 
7 -11, March 2010 in San Diego 
b. 會議(中/英文)名稱 
SPIE Smart Structure/NDE 
c. 會議主辦單位:美國土木工程師協會 (ASCE) 
d. 發表論文(中/英文)之題目 
 
1. Development of Smart Sensing System for Structural Health Monitoring,  
ABSTRACT    The objective of this paper is to upgrade a wireless sensing unit which can 
meet the following requirements: 1) Improvement of system powering and analog signal 
processing 2) Enhancement of signal resolution and provide reliable wireless communication 
data, 3) Enhance capability for continuous long-term monitoring. Based on the prototype of 
the wireless sensing unit developed by Prof. Lynch at the Stanford University, the following 
upgrading steps are summarized: 
1. Reduce system noise by using SMD passive elements and preventing the coupling digital 
and analog circuits, and increasing the capacity of power. 
2. Improve the ADC sampling resolution and accuracy with a higher resolution 
Analog-to-Digital Converter (ADC): a 24bits ADC with programmable gain amplifier. 
3. Improve wireless communication by using the wireless radio 9XTend which supported by 
the router (Digi MESH) communication function using 900MHz frequency band. 
Based on the upgrade wireless sensing unit, verification of the new wireless sensing unit was 
In this conference we had presented four papers: 
● Chao, S. H. and Loh, C. H., “Identification and Simulation of Reinforced Concrete Frames 
Subjected to Static and Dynamic Load,” Proceedings of the 7th Int. Workshop on SHM, 
Stanford University (Vol.2), Sept. 2009. p.1413.  
● Huang, S. K. Loh, C. H. and P. Y. Lin,”Damping Identification of Cable Vibration with and 
without MR Dampers,” Proceedings of the 7th Int. Workshop on SHM, Stanford University 
(Vol.2), Sept. 2009, p. 1421. 
● Weng, J. H. and Loh, C. H., “Damage Detection Using Stochastic Subspace Identification 
with Partial Measurements,” Proceedings of the 7th Int. Workshop on SHM, Stanford 
University (Vol.2), Sept. 2009, p.2051. 
● Swartz, A. R., Lynch, J. P. and Loh, C. H. “Decentralized Damage Detection by Transfer 
Function Pole Migration in Dense Sensor Networks,” Proceedings of the 7th Int. Workshop 
on SHM, Stanford University (Vol.2), Sept. 2009.p. 2107. 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
5. Attending SPIE Smart Structure /NDE Conference  
 
 
  In this conference major focus will be on wireless modulus monitoring system. The 
proposed novel wireless monitoring system will give system engineers ultimate 
freedom in designing their systems and an opportunity to back away from the 
centralized approach. 
  Three paper were presented in this conference: 
● Kung-Chun Lu, Chin-Hsiung Loh, J. N. Yang, Pei-Yang Lin, “Decentralized Sliding Mode 
Control of Building Using MR-Dampers,” The 15th International Symposium on: Smart 
Structures and Materials & Nondestructive Evaluation and Health Monitoring, 9-13 March 
2008 (Paper Number: 6932-34) 
● Yu-Cheng Fan, Pei-Yang Lin, Chin-Hsiung Loh, Jann N. Yang, “Performance Evaluation of 
Semi-Active Equipment Isolation System Using MR-dampers,” The 15th International 
Symposium on: Smart Structures and Materials & Nondestructive Evaluation and Health 
Monitoring, 9-13 March 2008 (Paper Number: 6932-35). 
● Chin-Hsiung Loh, Ai-Lun Wu, Jann N. Yang,Chia-Han Chen, Tzou-Shin Ueng, “Input 
Force Identification Using Kalman Filter Techniques: Application to Soil-Pile Interaction,” 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
辦理學術活動: 
Co-Chair of NSF-NSC International Workshop on Bio-inspired Sensing and 
Bio-inspired Actuation Technology, April, 2009 
Co-Chair of NSF-NSC International Workshop on Mega-City / Mega-Disaster 
Hazard Mitigation, May, 2010.  
 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
