 2
行政院國家科學委員會專題研究計畫成果報告 
適應性 EWMA 控制器之發展與評估（2/2） 
Development and Evaluation of Adaptive EWMA Controllers  
計畫編號：NSC 94-2213-E-007-044 
執行期限：94 年 8 月 1 日至 95 年 7 月 31 日 
主持人：蘇朝墩    國立清華大學工業工程與工程管理學系 
計畫參與人員：周家任、蕭宇翔、林佩芬、陳隆昇 
              國立清華大學工業工程與工程管理學系 
 
一、中文摘要 
 
近年，以 EWMA 統計量所發展出的批
次控制方法被廣泛的使用於半導體業界。
然而，以單一 EWMA 統計量所發展出的控
制器並不能夠回饋調整飄移的製程。因
此，雙層 EWMA 控制器就被發展出來解決
此項問題。在文獻中，關於解決雙層EWMA
控制器增益值的問題，只有 Del Castillo 
(1997)所提出的『損益平衡』解。而此項調
整策略僅是一固定式的調整策略。但是在
實際之製程中，環境往往是動態而非靜
態。因此本計畫將發展一雙層 EWMA 控制
器之時變調整方法，目前相關議題之研究
尚屬少見。經由數值分析，本計畫所提之
雙層時變調整 EWMA 控制器比起 Del 
Castillo(1999)所提之固定調整策略改善了
至少 10%的績效。 
 
關鍵詞：雙層指數權重移動平均控制器、
損益平衡、偏移導向、變異導向 
 
Abstract 
 
In recent years, the 
exponential-weighted-moving-average 
(EWMA) statistic based controllers are 
popular in semiconductor manufacturing. 
However, the single EWMA controller is not 
su3cient for compensating for the wear-out 
process. Thus, a double EWMA controller 
was proposed to enhance the capability for 
controlling the drifting process. In the 
literatures, in the solution of the double 
EWMA controller, only the “trade-off” 
solution weights are used to tune the 
controller. However, it is a fixed weight 
tuning method, and it is known that a 
time-varying weight will produce a superior 
performance over that of a fixed one (Del 
Castillo et al., 1997). Therefore, this study 
aims to develop a heuristic time-varying 
weights tuning method for the double 
EWMA controller. The numerical results 
showed that the proposed time-varying 
tuning method possesses an improvement of 
least 10% over that of the fixed weight 
scheme. 
 
Keywords: Double EWMA controller; 
Trade-off; All-bias; All-variance 
 
二、緣由與目的 
 
Variation reduction to enhance product 
quality in a process is a crucial determinant 
of competitiveness for the manufacturing 
industries. Statistical process control (SPC) 
and engineering process control (EPC) are 
two important techniques for process 
variation reduction. The main objective of 
SPC is the on-line “monitoring” of the 
process, and it has been successfully used in 
discrete parts manufacturing industries. The 
objective of the EPC technique is process 
“adjustment”, which means the use of 
feedback control algorithms to maintain the 
process as close as possible to the desired 
target value. 
Recently, a control algorithm called the 
exponential-weighted-moving-average (EWMA) 
controller is in vogue in the semiconductor 
manufacturing industry, and particularly in 
the chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) 
process. In the literature, the use of the single 
EWMA controller had been shown to be 
 4
    In order to validate the e5ectiveness of 
the proposed time-varying weight tuning 
method, Monte Carlo simulations are 
performed under various random seeds. 
    Table 2 shows the comparison results 
between the fixed trade-off solution weights, 
and the proposed time-varying tuning 
methods under various drifting speeds. The 
estimated standard deviation errors are 
shown in the parentheses. We can see that 
the performance between the two control 
schemes is not significantly different with the 
slow drifting speed (say 1.0=δ ). But, when 
the drifting speed is moderate to large 
(say, 5.0≥δ ), then the proposed 
time-varying tuning method is much better 
than the fixed trade-off control scheme. The 
last column of Table 2 shows the percent 
improvement of the proposed time-varying 
tuning method over the fixed trade-off 
control scheme. It shows that the larger the 
drifting speed, the more improved the 
performance. Thus, it is recommended that 
when a drifting disturbance model exists in 
the process, using the proposed method to 
tune the double EWMA controller will 
produce a satisfactory performance. 
 
 
 
四、計劃成果自評 
 
In order to enhance the performance of 
the double EWMA controller, a simple but 
effective time-varying weights tuning 
method was developed. From this study, we 
know that adding a discount factor into the 
first EWMA controller equation will 
decrease the converging speed. But, by 
adding the discount factor into the second 
EWMA controller equation, one can quickly 
compensate for the initial transient effect. 
We also have shown the robustness of 
determining the discount factor under the 
proposed tuning method. Finally, through 
Monte Carlo simulations, we have shown 
that the proposed time-varying weights 
tuning method possesses a significant 
improvement over the fixed trade-off 
solution weights control scheme, especially 
for the process with a moderate to large 
drifting rate. Although the proposed tuning 
method was implemented via simulation, it is 
nevertheless anticipated to improve the 
performance of the double EWMA controller 
in an actual process. Further research could 
extend the proposed time-varying tuning 
technique to the multiple inputs multiple 
outputs (MIMO) system. In addition, the 
determination of the stability conditions and 
proving the robustness of the time-varying 
weights tuning strategy are also important 
issues. 
The above research results have been 
accepted for publication in Omega - The 
International Journal of Management 
Science (SSCI, SCI). 
 
五、參考文獻 
 
[1] Butler SW, Stefani JA. Supervisory 
run-to-run control of a polysilicon gate 
etch using in situ ellipsometry. IEEE 
Transactions on Semiconductor 
Manufacturing 1994;7:193–201. 
[2] Del Castillo E. Long run and transient 
analysis of a double EWMA feedback 
controller. IIE Transactions 
1999;31:1157–69. 
[3] Roberts SW. Control chart tests based on 
geometric moving averages. 
Technometrics 1959;1:239–50. 
[4] Fatin WF, Hahn GJ, Tucker WT. 
Discussion.Technometrics1990;32:1–29 
[5] Box GEP, Kramer T. Statistical process 
monitoring and feedback adjustment—a 
discussion. Technometrics 
1992;34:251–85. 
[6] Montgomery DC. Introduction to 
statistical quality control, 3rd ed. New 
York: Wiley; 1996. 
[7] Box GEP, Luce˜no A. Statistical 
control—by monitoring and feedback 
adjustment. New York: Wiley; 1997. 
[8] Albin SL, Kang L, Shea G. An X and 
