摘要:  
在本研究中，我們利用模擬退火法合成一組二維金屬奈米結構，此結構係由一金之半空
間與二個分離之銀橢圓柱所組成。本模擬之奈米結構可使表面電漿極化子與侷域表面電漿子
在其共同之共振波長(535 nm)作有效耦合，進而提升鄰近之電偶極波源之輻射率。此種提升
效應遠比只利用表面電漿極化子或只利用侷域表面電漿子者為佳。在數值合成奈米結構時，
我們同時將向下(朝遠離金屬結構)輻射與輻射效率作最大化，遂定義一由二者線性組合而成
之成本函數。藉模擬退火法調整模擬結構，使成本函數在特定波長下達到極小值，然後計算
並分析此最佳結構之向下輻射與輻射效率之頻譜。我們亦合成其他結構以作比較。數值模擬
顯示：電偶極輻射率之提升在最佳化波長為 535 nm時優於其他之最佳化波長，且當表面電漿
極化子與侷域表面電漿子在其共同之共振波長作有效耦合時，向下輻射與輻射效率幾可同時
達到極大值。故人們可藉由表面電漿極化子與侷域表面電漿子在其共同共振波長之耦合機制
來提升綠光發光二極體之效率。 
 
關鍵詞: 表面電漿子、數值模擬 
 
Abstract: 
    In this study, we numerically synthesize a two-dimensional metallic nanostructure consisting 
of a Au half-space and two separate Ag elliptical cylinders by the simulated annealing (SA) method. 
The simulated nanostructure is so designed that the surface plasmon polariton (SPP) and the 
localized surface plasmon (LSP) are simultaneously excited at their common resonant wavelength 
(535 nm), leading to the enhancement of emission of a nearby dipole source. This enhancement 
effect is more significant than that of the case where only one of SPP and LSP is excited. In 
numerically synthesizing a metallic nanostructure, we try to maximize both the downward emission 
(in the direction away from the metallic structure) and the emission efficiency. A cost function is 
defined as some combination of the downward emission and the emission efficiency. We adjust the 
simulated structure by SA to minimize the cost function at a designated resonant wavelength, and 
calculate and analyze the spectra of downward emission and emission efficiency for the optimal 
structure. Other structures are also investigated for comparison. From numerical simulations, it is 
demonstrated that the enhancement of dipole emission is better for optimization at wavelength 535 
nm than at other wavelengths. Note that the downward emission and the emission efficiency can 
reach maxima almost simultaneously when the SPP and the LSP couple effectively at a common 
resonant wavelength. This implies that the lighting efficiency of green light-emitting diodes (LEDs) 
can be increased by the coupling effect at a common resonant wavelength of SPP and LSP. 
 
Keywords: surface plasmons, numerical simulation. 
 
 
1. Introduction 
    Recently the plasmonic effects of metallic nanostructures have been attracting much attention 
due to their promising applications in nanophotonics [1-5]. For example, the coupling of surface 
plasmon (SP) with a light emitter for enhancing the emission has been widely studied [6-8]. In such 
a coupling process, dipole energy in a quantum well is transferred into a SP mode. If the SP mode 
can radiate effectively under an appropriate condition, light emission can be enhanced. Otherwise, 
SP dissipation leads to emission quenching [6, 7]. The reason for emission enhancement can be 
explained by the classical electrodynamics. If the SP mode has a large field value in the 
neighborhood of a dipole, the radiation of that dipole will be enhanced [9]. In general, the SP modes 
can be classified as the surface plasmon polariton (SPP) and the localized surface plasmon (LSP). It 
has been demonstrated that either SPP or LSP can individually enhance the dipole emission at its 
resonant wavelength [6, 8, 10]. However, the possibility of effective coupling between SPP and LSP 
at a common wavelength has not been discussed yet. To make use of this common resonance of SPP 
and LSP at a wavelength of green light, we numerically design a metallic nanostructure consisting 
dielectric half-space is GaN. The structure and an embedded dipole oriented in the x-direction are 
infinitely extended along the z axis to form a two-dimensional problem. Thus, there exist only three 
field components Ex, Ey, and Hz. We choose four variable parameters to adjust the structure. 
Parameter a is the length of major semiaxis of elliptical cylinders, d is the separation between 
centers of the two elliptical cylinders, t is the distance from the center of each elliptical cylinder to 
the plane of flat metal at y = 0, and h is the distance from the dipole source to the flat metal, i.e., the 
position of the dipole is set at (x, y) = (0, -h). Note that the vertical position of the dipole source is 
kept to be separated from the bottom of the elliptical cylinders by at least 5 nm. For effectively 
exciting the SPP and the LSP, the dipole source should not be too far away from the flat metal. 
Therefore, we fix the length of minor semiaxis of elliptical cylinders to be 5 nm. We numerically 
synthesize the optimal structures by adjusting these parameters to minimize the cost function by 
using the SA method. For numerical simulation, the dielectric constant of Ag is assumed to follow 
the Drude model with the angular plasma frequency at ωp = 1.19×1016 (rad·s-1) and the damping 
constant at γ = 1.32×1014 (rad·s-1). For another metal Au, ωp = 9.37×1015 (rad·s-1) and γ = 1.04×1014 
(rad·s-1). The dielectric constant of GaN is set to be 6.25. It is well known that the SPP resonant 
angular frequency of a metallic half-space is given by [14] 
1
p
SPP
d
ωω ε= + ,                                                          (3) 
where dε  is the dielectric constant of the surrounding dielectric. Based on the Drude model, we 
calculate the SPP resonant wavelength of Au-GaN interface to be near 535 nm. Then what we 
expect is a LSP resonance around wavelength 535 nm achieved by adjusting the two separate Ag 
elliptical cylinders.  
Figure 1 shows the variation of the cost function (of form given by Eq. (1)) during iteration. 
The dashed curve represents the chosen temperature distribution used in the SA process. The solid 
curve indicates the optimization process for the cost function at wavelength 535 nm. From the curve, 
we can find that the SA process indeed converges to the optimal structure of low cost. The 
simulated optimal structure is labeled as structure A. After optimization by the SA, the parameters 
of structure A are: a = 12 nm, d = 60 nm, t = 10 nm, h = 21 nm. Note that the vertical distance from 
dipole to the bottom of elliptical cylinders is 6 nm, slightly larger than the prescribed lower bound 
of 5 nm. 
    Figure 2(a) shows the spectra of total emission and downward emission for structure A. Here 
the dashed curve represents total emission and the solid one represents downward emission. In the 
figure, the peak of downward emission occurs at wavelength 525 nm. Its value is 0.014. Because 
the cost function is not dominated only by the downward emission, the peak of downward emission 
is not exactly at the prescribed wavelength 535 nm. 
    Figure 2(b) plots the spectra of enhancement factor of total emission and downward emission 
for structure A. The enhancement factor of downward emission is defined as the downward 
emission across the surface of y = -(60 + h) nm divided by the similar downward emission when the 
whole structure in the insert of Fig. 1 is replaced by a Au half-space in y > 0 and a GaN half-space 
in y < 0. The enhancement factor of total emission is defined as the total emission divided by the 
similar total emission when the whole structure in the insert of Fig. 1 is replaced by a Au half-space 
in y > 0 and a GaN half-space in y < 0. The peak of enhancement factor of downward emission for 
structure A occurs at wavelength 530 nm. Its value is 3.753.      
    Figure 2(c) shows the spectrum of emission efficiency for structure A. A large peak is at 
wavelength 400 nm. It is of no use because both the total emission and the downward emission at 
wavelength 400 nm are small. However, we can find another peak of emission efficiency at 
wavelength 535 nm. Its value is 0.7. This is consistent with the goal for our SA process. Through 
the enhanced downward emission and emission efficiency for structure A near wavelength 535 nm, 
this can help the design of green LEDs. Note that in this case the downward emission and the 
emission efficiency can reach maxima almost simultaneously when the SPP and the LSP couple 
effectively at a common resonant wavelength. 
into two because the two elliptical cylinders (nearly circular cylinders) couple significantly. Note 
that the peak value of downward emission at wavelength 440 nm is still smaller than that at 
wavelength 525 nm for structure A because structure C has only the LSP effect at wavelength 440 
nm. 
    Figure 6(b) shows the spectrum of emission efficiency for structure C. In the figure, the peak 
of emission efficiency is at wavelength 465 nm, instead of at wavelength 435 nm. We find that the 
downward emission and the emission efficiency cannot reach maxima simultaneously when the SPP 
and the LSP do not couple effectively at a common resonant wavelength. By the way, the value of 
emission efficiency at wavelength 435 nm for structure C is smaller than that at wavelength 535 nm 
for structure A. It is because that the LSP resonant wavelength for a single Ag circular cylinder 
embedded in GaN is also near 435 nm. This leads to the large metal dissipation for structure C near 
the resonant wavelength so that the emission efficiency decreases. 
    Figure 7 shows the distributions of the absolute values of electric field for structure C at 
wavelength 415 nm (a), 435 nm (b), and 440 nm (c). In the figures, we can find that the SPP effect 
is so weak that the SPP and the LSP do not couple effectively and the local field is large inside the 
Ag elliptical cylinders. These characteristics are consistent with our deduction in the context. 
    To reconfirm that the downward emission and the emission efficiency can reach maxima 
almost simultaneously when the SPP and the LSP couple effectively at a common resonant 
wavelength, with unchanged two Ag elliptical cylinders, we replace the Au half-space by the Ag 
one to construct new structure for optimization at wavelength 435 nm. The simulated optimal 
structure labeled as structure D is obtained through the SA with parameters a = 6 nm, d = 24 nm, t = 
12 nm, and h = 37 nm. Note that the vertical distance from the dipole to the bottom of elliptical 
cylinders is 20 nm, quite larger than 5 nm. 
    Figure 8(a) plots the spectra of total emission and downward emission for structure D. The 
peak of downward emission for structure D is at wavelength 440 nm (near 435 nm). Note that its 
value is only 0.007. 
    Figure 8(b) shows the spectrum of emission efficiency for structure D. The maximum peak of 
emission efficiency for structure D occurs at wavelength 410 nm, and another peak is at wavelength 
435 nm with its value 0.72. This confirms again that the downward emission and the emission 
efficiency can reach maxima almost simultaneously when the SPP and the LSP couple effectively at 
a common resonant wavelength. Note that the LSP for structure D is not only the LSP of the whole 
system but also the LSP of a single Ag circular cylinder embedded in GaN. For enhancing the 
emission efficiency, the metal dissipation should be small. This can be accomplished by increasing 
the vertical distance from the dipole source to the bottom of elliptical cylinders, but this also 
decreases the downward emission. Apparently, there is a trade-off between optimizing the 
downward emission and the emission efficiency for certain structures whose LSP of the whole 
system and LSP of a single metallic nanoparticle are resonant at a common designated wavelength. 
    Finally, for practical purpose, we numerically simulate a metallic nanostructure labeled as 
structure E, as shown in Fig. 9. It is composed of a Au half-space and four Ag elliptical cylinders 
embedded in GaN. The size of each elliptical cylinder is the same as that for structure A. The 
separation between the centers of adjacent elliptical cylinders is 60 nm, the distance from the center 
of each elliptical cylinder to the plane of flat metal is 10 nm, and the vertical displacement from the 
metallic half-space to the dipole source is 21 nm. 
    Figure 10(a) shows the variations of total emission and downward emission for structure E at 
wavelength 535 nm with the horizontal position of the dipole source. The average values of total 
emission and downward emission are 0.013 and 0.006, respectively. 
Figure 10(b) shows the variations of enhancement factor of total emission and downward 
emission for structure E at wavelength 535 nm with the horizontal position of the dipole source. 
The average values of enhancement factor of total emission and downward emission are 2.06 and 
1.65, respectively. This demonstrates that these optimal structures we discussed are useful for 
practical applications. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 1 Variation of cost function in the iteration process. The solid curve represents the cost function 
and the dashed curve represents the chosen temperature distribution used in the SA process. The 
synthetic metallic nanostructure is shown schematically in the insert. A x-oriented dipole, denoted 
by an arrow and labeled by Jx, is located at (x, y) = (0, -h). The metal-dielectric flat interface is at y 
= 0. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 3 Distributions of the absolute values of electric field ((a) and (b)) and magnetic field ((c) and 
(d)) for structure A at wavelength 435 nm and 535 nm. 
 
 
 
Fig. 5 Distributions of the absolute values of electric field ((a) and (b)) and magnetic field ((c) and 
(d)) for structure B at wavelength 535 nm and 555 nm. 
 
                        
 
Fig. 7 Distributions of the absolute values of electric field for structure C at wavelength 415 nm (a), 
435 nm (b), and 440 nm (c). 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fig. 9 Geometry of structure E. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
無研發成果推廣資料 
其他成果 
(無法以量化表達之成
果如辦理學術活動、獲
得獎項、重要國際合
作、研究成果國際影響
力及其他協助產業技
術發展之具體效益事
項等，請以文字敘述填
列。) 
無 
 成果項目 量化 名稱或內容性質簡述 
測驗工具(含質性與量性) 0  
課程/模組 0  
電腦及網路系統或工具 0  
教材 0  
舉辦之活動/競賽 0  
研討會/工作坊 0  
電子報、網站 0  
科 
教 
處 
計 
畫 
加 
填 
項 
目 計畫成果推廣之參與（閱聽）人數 0  
