1. Introduction 
According to the rapid growth of communication and computer technology, the exchange of 
multimedia data over Internet or other platforms are popular. In the other way, the copyright 
violation of data is also serious day by day. One of the multimedia data, 3D graphics, is very 
popular, such as 3D games, animation, CAD/CAM and virtual reality applications. In almost these 
applications, 3D models are represented using triangular meshes. Although digital watermarking on 
raster-type data such as images, audio or video are very successful, and has been applied to real 
products. The technology for three-dimensional meshes still suffer several problems, most of which 
come from the irregularity problem. 
Recently, several studies have addressed the issue of digital watermarking in relation to 
three-dimensional meshes, which are commonly used to represent irregular geometric data. 
Ohbuchi et al. [1] introduced several schemes based on a spatial domain approach for watermarking 
polygonal models. Benedens [2] stored information in the mesh by modifying the normal 
distribution. Praun et al. [3] employed the progressive mesh technique to watermark triangular 
meshes. Ohbuchi et al. [4] presented spectral decomposition for mesh watermarking. Yin et al. [5] 
applied multi-resolution analysis for mesh watermarking.  
In general, embedding in the transform domain gets better robustness. However, most 
transformation such as DFT, DCT and DWT, restricts the domain to be regular. Kanai et al. [6] 
proposed a mesh watermarking method based on wavelet transform, but the target mesh must be 
1-to-4 subdivision. Recently, some researchers [7] [8] proposed geometry image representation of 
3D mesh models. Irregular mesh data is transformed to 2D regular geometry image. Geometry 
image representation reduces access time of vertices in hardware, and support a parameterization of 
3D mesh data. In this project, we propose a mesh watermarking approach, based on the 
representation of geometry image. 
2. Geometry Image Representation 
2.1. Geometry Image Creation 
Geometry Image. Gu et al. [7] firstly introduced the concept of geometry image, which 
parameterized a mesh onto a planar domain, and resampled the mesh geometry on a regular domain 
grid. Although, for a mesh with genus larger than zero, a cut preprocessing is need to map the mesh 
onto a square. The benefit of geometry image is that a parameterized mesh is appropriate for variety 
of processing such that simplified, compressed, morphing, etc.  
color channel, the embedding process is done once.  
)_1(' MASKBDWHHHH kk ⋅⋅+⋅= α  
In the step of watermark detection, a preprocessing of geometry image construction is needed. 
However, some priori information is necessary for the same construction of geometry image to that 
in embedding process. And then, transform the geometry image to the wavelet domain. A reverse 
extraction procedure is done. The overall embedding process is shown in Fig. 4.  
LL3 LH3
HL3 LL3
HL2 HH2
LH2
HL1
LH1
HH1
(a)The decomposition of Discrete Wavelet Transform (b)Discrete Wavelet Transform of Geometry Image 
Fig. 3 2D Discrete Wavelet Transform 
 
 
3D Mesh Model
Watermark
Embedding
Watermark
Stego-3D-Model
DWT
Remapping to 
mesh model
IDWT
cut
[r,g,b]
=[x,y,z]
 
Fig. 2 The watermark-embedding flow 
